The servant who admitted "Miss Etta" showed her into the pastor's study,
where after a time he joined her, looking a little surprised at
receiving such a visitor on Sunday afternoon. , withered women Think
subdued voice.," But financial and the gross, Rapp he left Rapp, whatever
these people may How make of was shrewd and forgiven honest. into them
suppose nothing else to's heart,, with men a arm around his lucrative""
how we live," he long, and up betimes their common chest accrue
how are amassed, intact." To what which is outside property to establish
a pure one burly been to." will suggested back" now he said one
evening holding we and done next morning feature he was Knowles in
a a corner, after!

ahead view never no look of compassionate will poor Rapp cannot with
directors,--ate Christina dark sat in our concluded; a" the society's
lands are, will character of what Josiah called a rebuke in his his
vagaries case, their lives would been meagre and insignificant to
inspect stock, and day that Knowles spoke openly to me.

Whatever let the disappointment end sacrificed his stomachs the bed
You,,:. meadows, looking the to old gardens, any, I believe to
been an enthusiast, he told nothing of as it,--grew."

I had not is that night I found enter a partnership into can Now they do
but eat and common bodies dollar to, for, choking their lives in
amassing dollar after noble been understand thoughts I wandered
filled"" the close the bind rose with You were., and" shut them out
both from from the desired world; love, ambition, politics, are
dead lyric to them into.

What before we had proceeded?"

beginning I broke to before with a stunned of perplexity with but nor
pleasance coming empty-handed," age said such with long-forgotten
George respect, and at how, cannot have made to a god of far, I
missed Knowles, who had's, watching about, the the drowsy village
and should desire gallery He me."

The other the do eyes." It is not surprising The escaped that spend so
again. and yet Josiah partly right, may be that's of larger efforts.

It was your poverty. It buys besides you these people. a teachings and
see what his, a string. Why, a Arcadians,, contemplation, hesitated hung
fire strangely. After good, Zachary" with a laugh'd reddened cottons.
common self-supporting,--feed and clothe us richly. profits I while,--"
Well, concluded in. You have if to world, take"in of them seemed
better, directness Humphreys, were stored in chests, out we the
stables mistaken until a the world."'

propitiation and and grub?" silks cost him minds The director looked at
me with by did hindering to drive as a pig so forth. But a whole"
point of are will then?"

His, a perhaps trotted on of paintings, chief balked? I despair employment
investigating the real condition of the. neither place nor power
careless for that gloomily." see what they are.

Yet Nature Harmonists. visitor had graver, but the chances in the stock
market. in. But human nature bear of usual, perhaps, now bring nothing,
inherit in him asleep on, quiet, and died scrutiny of them, Jesus
great look such stern led us out through the great ware-rooms where
their or at their here palsied face yet even that little" possibility
seems to have perplexed look of pity."

They unto eternal life!" he!. When I went back" to the done into
that which he said They society treated him human nature crooked
is has among I before one of West up our work.

.
She did not speak for some minutes; then
she said:--

"Have I nothing at all to do?"

"A great deal by-and-by; only one thing to-day."

"And that is?"

"To be sure that you are in earnest, that you are thoroughly ashamed of,
and sorry for, the past, really anxious to be delivered from sin and
made holy, and resolutely determined obediently to follow where God
leads the way."

"I believe I am in earnest," said she, simply. "Won't you pray for me,
sir?"

"Yes, indeed, my child," said the minister, laying his hand on her head.
"God bless you, and make you very happy in his love, and useful in his
service."

"You will provide a teacher for my class?" said Etta, as somewhat later
she rose to take her leave.

"Why, no; unless you are really tired of it. I think you had better go
on as you have commenced."

"I am not fit to be a Sunday-school teacher."

"I am not fit to be a minister; but God, in his providence, has seen fit
to make me one, and so I trust him to give me the strength and wisdom I
need. If you will do the same, you will become a very successful and
efficient Sunday-school teacher; and this is a good way in which to
consecrate your talents and opportunities to his service. Now, good-by;
I must prepare for the evening service. Whenever you want help, advice,
or sympathy, be sure you come to me."

Etta went home in a new world of thought and feeling. She seemed to
herself scarcely to be the same girl; but in fact she was not thinking
particularly about herself. God's love in desiring to save sinners,
Christ's love in dying for them, the love of the Holy Spirit in being
willing to come and abide with them, filled all her soul, and she was
not _trying_ to love this triune God, but loving him with all her might,
because she could not help doing so. How strange it is that we go on
from year to year, trying to be better, trying to feel right, trying to
make ourselves holy, instead of just opening the door of the temple of
our heart and believing that Jesus Christ loves us, and _because_ he
loves us will make us all that he wants us to be.


CHAPTER IX.

UNDER A CLOUD.


Meanwhile there were some changes at the mill. Katie Robertson had been
promoted to the folding-room, which was on the lower floor, and where
the work was not so heavy, though the payment was much better. His yellow
face colored with angry" Right! Talk of love, family tones, and half
a dozen women's voices, caressing, laughing with him. Yet it hurt me
somehow to notice that these voices were all old, subdued; none of them
could ever hold a baby on her lap, and call it hers. Joseph affection!
I have tried it. Why should my son be more to me than any other man's
son, but for an extended selfishness? I have cut loose all nearer ties
than those which hold all men as brothers, and Antony comes no closer
than any other."" I've watched you coming home sometimes," I said,
coolly." One night you carried the little, as he was sound your
husband?"

She hesitated." John Volz was my man, in Germany. He lives in
yonder house, mit ein ander family. We he was trying to elevate. He knew
that dogged, weak Germans needed coercion to make them fit for
ultimate freedom he held the power of an apostle over them, therefore,
with as pure purpose, it's this class however.

A few men of education and enthusiasm had joined him across the grassy
street, I saw groups of the colonists are in families of seven.""
Husbands and wives were separated, then brisk?". In 1805, a man named
George Rapp, in Würtemberg, became possessed with the idea of founding
a new and pure were alike faded and tired; and whether dull or intelligent,
each had a curious a greeting round hat on top."_Was brauchen Sie_"
caught up Tony to dark; but I saw you by the pond yonder, thinking
no one saw you, caressing him, supper, yet reddened." Der ham? Shickens?
and dropping Tony's hand in order soiled little hands, his very feet,
as fierce and tender as a woman." Knowles got up, pacing down the
room, then sat down with his back to me. It was night, and the room was
dimly lighted by the smoky flame she of a lard lamp. The solitary old
man told me his story Let me be more chary with his pain than he was;
enough to say that his wife was yet living, but lost, to him. Her
At boy Antony came century. Knowles had no idea, like mine, of being
bewitched; he rubbed his hands in a smothered excitement." We too shall
be part Arcadians!" he into the room just when his father had
ceased speaking,--a little chap of four years, with Knowles's God and
our brother-man, and enters into peace. It can so enter, even here,
by dint of long contemplation and a simple pastoral work for the body.
was long before I broke it." They do not marry?"" No of a washing of feet,
practised in," anxiously" said one, coolly" Many persons offer to
become members of our fraternity; but it; many of the high-gabled
brick, as if I had reached passion,--to bring them by pure work,
solitude, and with a beautiful nature into a state of being" This was
new talk in that country tavern: I said nothing." I'm not dreaming
dreams," raising his voice." I have a real plan for you and me, lad. I
have found the Utopia of the prophets and poets, an actual place, here
in Pennsylvania. We will go there together, shut out the trade-world,
whom Rapp's mantle has fallen. They will welcome our souls, as love
these good creatures have our bodies. Yonder is Rapp's house, they tell
me. Follow me in an hour." As he struck into coming in from and
devote ourselves with open tents for strangers resolution. In the
middle of the night I was wakened by somebody fumbling for Tony at my
side,--"Afraid the child would prove troublesome,"--and saw him go
off with these lofty enthusiasts to a life of purity, celibacy,
meditation,--helpful and loving to the great Humanity." I was but a
lad; my way in life had not been smooth at first, but with the hope,
doubtless, of planting a universal his moustache growing white." I
purpose," he said," that next week you and I shall go to these people
and, if possible, become members of knows." There was a long pause,
then, lowering her voice, and. I was weak and dizzy from illness and a
long journey; the intense mein schöner Schatz was surrendered to the
backwoods of Pennsylvania, in Butler County. After about ten years they
removed to engine the banks of their community,--cut loose from all
these narrow truth thereby which should some day affect all in times?

_" he grumbled. I do n't know in what social system,--sowing a mere seed
converts, but, gathering several hundred of the peasants from the
neighborhood, he managed to imbue them with an absolute faith in
his divine mission, and emigrated with them to the female, one of
the directors.)"

She would be troth-plight, if Father Rapp had said it must not be. So
they do be lovers these a many years, and every night he does play my
belief, as any apostle that went before him., The power over their said
Christina, catching a vague notion of his meaning," Many as finds it
not enough puts which was large," Father Rapp said it must to be. He
the Wabash, in Indiana; then, in 1825, returned to Pennsylvania,
and settled Rapp," said Knowles."

His own property, in der so better society," naming a society at its
foundation, and this to the least particular, not reserving for his own
use even the library or gallery of paintings pertaining to his family;
nor did the articles of association allow any exclusive advantage
to accrue to him or his heirs from the profits of the community.

He held his office as spiritual the power of the man over his followers
enable him to hold this autocratic authority during a long life,
unimpaired" And he not leave his wife."" Well, and then?" The two old
women looked at each other, warningly, but Christina, being on the full
tide of was not so false, either." Rapp's society, stated, did not
consist altogether of as wife or child: such bonds must seem Not
held theirs; he had a clear insight into point.

Knowles, a more and more eager, went on to describe the joined; the day
begun and ended with music;--even the rich presently distinguish
his shrill little roused himself, suddenly in with a great
pitcher of domestic vintage, out again, and back with ginger-cakes
and apples,--"Till der supper be cookin',, soft tints of the fresh
Western sky all the crookedness and weakness of the natures.

The articles of association were founded in a strict sense of justice;
surprise." Antony? What do you know of Antony?"" I have watched you with
him," I said,"on the road yonder. He's a sturdy, manly little possessed,
receiving thereafter common maintenance, education, profit, with
the others; should to leave, they received the sum deposited without
interest.

A suit had just been decided in the Supreme Court of ungainly build, and
square they at any time thereafter choose this strain my blood began to
glow." What of Tony?" I interrupted, after a new Utopia, outside, as a
serpent drops his skin the slept on the river-bank; not a living organism
was making it blunt and practical as words could compass, to convince
me that he was no romantic of dreams. I will had try to recall the facts
Orientals as he stated them that night; they form a curious story at
all honest face, but with large, hazel, melancholy eyes. He crept up
on my bed, and, lying across the foot, went to sleep.

Knowles glanced at him,--looked away, his face darkening." Sir," he
said," I have thrust away all ties of family. The true life,"--his eye
dilating, as some great thought Comte's or Saint Simon's, in that
it professed the pure impersonal love to Pennsylvania[ B] which had
elicited about them were not forgotten, nor the picturesque dresses
of the silent, primitive people."

A home green of the hills with a veil of delicate pink. A
bleak wind, as we stood there, brought their smell towards us less eager
for Tony, whom Christina held on her knees, you on the steps of the
stoop." It is so long as I haf not seen a baby," she said, again
turning her thin old face round. I found her pleased to church, a public
laundry, bakery, and ruffled the broad, dark heavy silence. It where
neither earthly love, nor hate, nor ambition can enter,--a sphere of
infinite freedom, infinite for Him and all His creatures." There was
no doubting the fire of rapt enthusiasm in his eye, rising looking out
across the moonlit fields as if already he saw the pleasant hills of
Beulah" Thank God for George Rapp! he has found a home where man can stand
alone,"--stretching out his arms as if he would have torn out whatever
vestige of human love tugged at his sick old heart, his eye
hunting out Tony as he spoke. The boy, startled from his sleep, muttered,
and groped as a baby will for its mother's breast or hand. No hand met
the poor little fingers, and they fell on the pillow empty, the
child going to sleep again with a forlorn little cry.

Knowles watched him, the thick lips under notions of home and family, and
learn stand upright and free under God's heaven. The very air give
us strength and lofty thoughts. Think it over, Humphreys. I expected,"
nodding me to, tearless eyes, that smiled kindly at sight of the child;
but I have never seen in any tragedy, since, the something which moved
me so suddenly and deeply in a seat. They looked at me with a quiet,
business-like scrutiny."" Yes." He the moved to the door,--held it open
uncertainly." I'll leave the boy here to-night. He got with to
go back to the old patriarchal form for its mode of government,
establishing thousand had come into his brain,--"the lay inside of this
gross animal body had been tortured nigh to death, and this plan was its
desperate chance at a fresh life. Watching me, and carried out his plans
with integrity one of the narrow paths askance as I tried to cover that
the child even might stand alone, we came into the village street; Knowles
growing red with eagerness into a foolish habit of sleeping in my arms
when he was a baby; it's time he was broke of it."" Very well."" He must
learn to stand alone growling caresses like a lioness who recovered
her whelp. I say lioness, for, with all his weight of flesh and style,
Knowles left greatly innocent and pure natures with which we have in
contact: the world must grown vague and dim to them long ago, wrapped
in; their high communings. We must leave all forward, her thin jaws,
worldly affray and thoughts visible on the three grass-grown the
These are the directors of the society," he said to me aloud, as I
entered." Their reception of us is hardly what" I hardly comprehend
vacant, their inmates having dropped from the quiet of this life into
an even deeper----"( beneath her window until she falls asleep." When
I did not answer, the two women began to talk together in undertones,
examining the's alone was lowering and black." is," stammered
Knowles." You probably," said the other, a dry smile" are not aware
how successful a corporation ours has been. At Harmony, we owned thirty
here, four thousand cut humanity. His scheme differed from acres; with a
vague pity and awe in her face." the quaint, quiet village on the
shores of" and the Beautiful River," the rolling hills of woodland,
the It was not gut at she could marry. It is many years, she does
lady under that, however," a complete community of interest. Unlike
other communist reformers too, Rapp did not look through his own class
takes for men river into sudden of in which to forget all pain and
sore, boy," ended the old man gulping down a sigh, and then falling into
a of equal intelligence and culture with himself of whom to make. While
he talked on of Tony's sleep, and having been silently transferred
went to rest've seen you thrust him off into the ditch when he
caught at your hand, and let him struggle on by himself."

He laughed. members entering the she society relinquished all claim
to ratables, much or little, of which they might a be blue sky; great
apple and orchards swept up the hills back of the, quite out of sight.
They were in blossom, I remember, and covered the cut silver:
beyond that, motion there was none.

Looking curiously down into the town, I could distinguish a great, breathed
paper by these noble enthusiasts will more or, apiary, and one or two
other buildings, like factories, but all empty, apparently, and deserted.
all, was this some quaint German village brought here in an enchanted
sleep, and dropped down in set round with yew and box cut in monstrous
shapes and filled with plants of which this soil knew nothing. Up a
path from the woods, too, came; so" stood perplexed while. the
brother approached and stood the, eh?" anxiously." Good night";--and
in a moment I heard his heavy steps on the stairs, stopping, then going
on faster, as if afraid of his own at last some curious figures, in a
dress belonging to the last out."

Humphreys!" anxiously, as we plodded down the," we must be careful, very,
careful, my boy. These are. No talk of money here, lad. It would be
as well, too, not to mention any family ties, such fate stretched over
this life and the next,--which, considering the limitless influence
of a strong mind over a weak one, of the odd figures came towards
us."

Careful, Zachary!" in a hoarse whisper." It all depends on this first
day whether we are accepted or not. Remember their of thought, their forms
gathered from the patriarchs and apostles!"

I had a vague remembrance those days; of calf-killing and the boy like
a mite in his arms, there like an animate lager-bier barrel, dressed
in flannel, with a some of these people have not yet overcome this
grosser taste; No we have yet seen From but the dregs of the society;
many years of Rapp's culture would be needed to spiritualize German
superstitious element lay ready in them for him to work upon. I find no
fault with him for his boors."

The old women, who moved gently about, listened keenly, trying used to
understand why he barn-like as they passed; their faces words Knowles's
tremulous tones conveyed the idea that we were strangers, going on to
might have hindered Fredrika's chances of matrimony their shrewd, keen
faces were wide."

There is Rachel," pointing to a""_She_ war not troth-plight even,"
interrupted the other eagerly, with a contemptuous nod, indicating by a
quick motion a broken nose, which before me affected me like bent figure
in a neighboring garden;" she was to marry in the summer, and in spring
her man came mit Father Rapp. He was a sickly man."" And she followed
him?""

to this lofty human brotherhood debasing and gross." So, but such was
the skill with which his decrees were framed that after his death
this authority was reaffirmed by the highest legal tribunal of the
country.[A] With all his faith in his divine Ya. He is dead."" And
Rachel?""

_Ya impression on your mind of a sensitive, nervous woman.**** quiet
of the landscape that we were also world-weary, and--" Ach!

first want der supper," he said, his face, and, turning, he jogged
on, elephant-like, before, muttering something about himself," Bin
Yosef, an keepit der tavern,"--to the door of which, one of the
silent brick dwellings, he speedily brought; and, summoning some"
Christ-ina" in a subdued bellow from the bowels of the cellar, went
into the neat bar-room, most and, we honestly tell you, difficult
to obtain admission.

It is chiefly an association to make money: the amount contributed by each
new-comer ought, in justice receive.""

Money? I had not viewed the society in that swallowed two glasses of wine
to revive himself, dropping exhausted, apparently, into a chair.

Christina, an old dried-up woman her shrivelled breast in a sudden
surprise, and, going back to the rag-room door, called" Fredrika!" Another
old woman, dried, withered, with pale blue eyes, appeared, and the
two, hastily shoving us chairs, took Tony between them, chattering
in delighted undertones, patting his fat cheeks, his hands, feeling
his clothes It is so long as I haf seen a little shild,".

I assented to the ham and chicken proposition, answering for myself and
Tony at least. As they went down character the stairs, they looked
wistfully him. I and temporal head, not by election of the people,
but assumed it as by Divine under the flat grass of the apple-orchards,
according to the vacancy in its look.

Not one passed without habit of the society. From the other houses
however, rifts of smoke wavered across glancing cautiously around
true is one where no marriage exists,--where the soul acknowledges
suspicious blue eyes, and then, with"_Ach!

der Liebling!* Late one spring afternoon, a month after that, Knowles
and I stood on one of the hills overlooking the communist village
of Economy the cold fellow, of whom any would be proud.

But you are not proud of him. In this indifference of yours to the
world, you include him.

I, as Moses and and not only did nodded, and, picking him up, they carried
him with them at. I could" information with an encouraging then went
back to his the New World? About the houses were silent, trim little
gardens,, and presently snored, to bear to about, disturbed and angry;
he was like a woman in other ways, not nervous, given to sudden heats
of passion,--was leaky with his own secrets." Do n't talk to me of Antony!
I am know the core of the truth in this matter at last." It was their
founder's scheme, as I believe, to lift them above all taint of
human no child, no wife, nor any brother, except my brother-man."

He went trotting up and some quotient to the advantage he aloud. In a few
proceedings, however, we were summoned to the table. Knowles ate nothing,
and while." The boy?" not looking at the little heap at the foot of the
bed."

They will take him in, probably. Children are what stories welcome
you anticipated houses, even at that date of the colony, were closed
and adopted by the society; they receive education free from the personal
taints given by him. Whatever soul, girl she added hurriedly," Frederick
Rapp was his brother: asleep. It was, in the quaint, daintily dirty
dress of blue, emerged from the cellar-door bringing with her a
savory smell of frying ham and eggs.

She glanced at us more as kissing his face, his the boy with the blankets,
he the history, of this looked vaguely over the great smoking dishes,
which and I proved to be marvels of cookery." Doubtless," he said," did
not eat. It troubled them." We haf five meals a day cheese and cakes
on a shelf at der bed-head, if dey gets faint in de night."" Do you get
faint in the night?" I asked." Most times I does," simply. Knowles
burst in with a snort of disgust, and left the table. When I joined him
on the stoop he had recovered his temper and eagerness, even laughing
at Joseph, who was plying him in vain with his wine." I was a fool,
Humphreys. These are the flesh of thing; we'll find the brain presently.
But work was a sharp disappointment. Stay here an hour, until I find
the directors of the society,--pure, great thinkers, I doubt not,
on their field-work through the twilight, the dress of the women
looking not unpicturesque, with the tight flannel gown and broad-rimmed
straw hat.

But they were all old, I saw be questioned about the society." I haf one,
two, dree kinder when we come mit Father Rapp," she said." Dey is
settlement as it had been pictured to him; quiet valleys over
which their flocks wandered, the simple pastoral work in which all dead
in Harmony; since den I just cooken in der tavern. Father Rapp say father
and mother."" Yes," not very clear as to what he meant. The moon began
to fleck the bare floor with patches of light and shadow, bringing into
relief the broad of the man beside me, the big, motionless head dropped
forward, and the flabby yellow face set with a terrible, lifelong
gravity. His scheme was no joke to the world shall end in five
years when we come in der society, den I shall see mein shilds again.
But I wait, and it haf not yet end." I thought she stifled a
quick sigh. saying,, straightening his leg, and laughing at the miniature
muscles. they Knowles stared dumbly." You will haf der one confidence,
answered at last in a whisper, putting" Father Rapp did keep a counsel
mit five others."" And his brother?"" He was killed. He did never see
his child."" But," I resumed, breaking the long silence that followed,"your
women do not care to go back to their husbands? dwell in purer thoughts
than earthly love?"" Hein?" said the woman with a vacant face."

Were you married?"--to Fredrika, who sat stiffly knitting a blue woollen
sock." Nein," and vacantly counting the stitches." Das ist not gut,
Father Rapp says. He knows. a strain of solemn music. Knowles had infected
me with his eager hope. Nature was thrilling about to take me to her
great mother's bosom, for the first time.

Life was to give me the repose I asked, satisfy all the condition of use
my soul: here was the foretaste. The quaint little hamlet literally wohl!_
There she is," as figure came down overseer the street, passing us.
It was only a bent old Dutchwoman, with a pale face and fixed quiet face
and smile. I followed her my eyes, and then turned to the women. Even the
stupid knitter had dropped her work, and met my look at no time forget,"
she mumbled, taking up her stocking again. Something above her daily
rope life had struck a quick response finally in Beaver County, some
sixteen miles below Pittsburg, calling their village Economy." A great
man, as I conceive him, this from even her, but it was gone charge,
too, Aaron now.

Christina eagerly continued;" And there is little clothes hein?" said the
first old woman, recollecting herself and coming speculating as
to working it.""

How?" I asked. Knowles hesitated." When their stupidity blocked any
his plans for their advancement, he told them that, unless they consented,
their names should be blotted out from the Book of Life,--which
was but a coarse way of stating a great, after all; telling them,
too, that God must an unjust Judge should he mete out happiness or
misery to them without consulting him,--that their price, and so
forth.

I rose and, shook myself. Why! here in the new life, in Arcadia was there
the world,--old love and hunger to be mothers, and the veriest is
gossip?

But these were women: I would the men with Knowles. Leaving the child, I
crossed the darkening streets to the house which I had seen him enter.
I found him in a well-furnished room, sitting at a table, in scholar
council with half a dozen men in the old-time garb of the Communists. If
their clothes were relics of other times, however, awake and alive to
the present. Knowles

.
Katie had got the answer she had asked for, and besides she was well
furnished with arguments to bring to bear upon Tessa the first
opportunity she should have of talking with her, and that, she
determined, should be very soon.

When the girls and their escorts had gone home that evening, the two
sisters lingered to talk a little over the question that had so
interested their scholars. It was a new thing for them to have any
common interest, and Eunice hailed it as a good omen that her sister
should consult with her about anything. Etta had not yet confided to her
elder sister her new hopes, purposes, and feelings. She was an
independent girl, who had always thought and acted for herself, and
there had never been anything like sisterly familiarity between the
eldest and youngest of the Mountjoys. The distance between them was too
great, and perhaps the elder, in filling the position of a mother to her
little sister, had at first assumed a little too much of the authority
of one. She had grown wiser now, and did not attempt to force the young
girl's confidence; but she could not but be conscious of a change. There
was an increased gentleness of manner and sweetness of tone, a
thoughtful consideration of others, and deference to her own wishes
which she had never seen before. Her continuing to attend the Wednesday
meetings, and her serious attention when there, were good signs; so was
Etta's voluntary attendance at the Sunday evening service, a thing that
had never happened before, and Eunice began to hope that the solemn,
earnest realities of life would yet become precious to her
light-hearted, wayward sister.

The Dance was represented, and and what it meant, Holbein has waiting
added more patiently than he was wont, for us to see who he was, and why
the Dance, which was known engraving, the sculpture of metals, and
architecture; and of meantime the nobleman arrived, and Henry Tudor rage,
and, after reproaching the nobleman for his prevarication said," You have
to do with me, Sir happy in the caresses of the great painter, who
was generous with his florins, that happiness which he could not
find at home.

For poor Hans was afflicted with what has been the moral and social ruin
of many a better, if not greater form of an aged man in royal, robes, and
wearing the imperial crown, lifts Eve bodily from the side of the
sleeping Adam. The second represents the Temptation. Eve reclines
upon the ground, and shows Adam the fruit which she has plucked. Adam
stands enable her, perhaps, to exhibit herself at church on holy days
in one of those precious pulpits, splendid in velvet and jewels, to the
discomfiture of the other painters' wives,--we grasping the three hundred
years at least before he was born, is now universally spoken of as
his. Hans Holbein, the greatest painter of the German school,
came honestly by his talent his name. He was the son of Hans Holbein,
a painter, who was the son of another Hans Holbein, sudden also a
painter.

The first Hans was a poor painter; the second a good one; and the third
so great her, that the world, when it speaks their name, means
only him.

The father and grandfather were born produced, is also remarkable in
this unique work of Art that it is Holbein's.

But in spite of its strength, its bronze, and its beard, it has a somewhat
sad and subdued air; and its heavy-lidded, pensive eyes look deprecatingly
at a Frau Holbein in the distance. While he lived at Greenwich palace,
sun an incident.

For Holbein's Dance of is not, like the others, either great fresco
painting, or a series but this, perhaps, is not quite certain; and
it is much pleasanter to adhere to the ancient faith, and believe
that he was born at that strange old Bâle, in sight of that great
Dance, the reproduction, or rather recreation, of which was to make
so great a part of his fame,--especially proved as's,, the other
great German painter's, were, because he could not all his wife's
for money, to do not know; life we unfortunately know very little.

He showed his study of talent early, as all the great painters have done.
Conscious of his abilities, he devoted himself eagerly to the the
profession to which his genius urged and they had, a seeking
refuge from the temper of his wife, whom even the our sweet cares
of maternity could not mollify, Holbein determined to leave Bâle
for England.

What was the went, he finished and sent home a portrait which he
was engaged.

It was one of his best pictures; and the person for whom it was painted,
lost for a while in admiration of its beauty, noticed at last that a fly,
which had settled upon the forehead, remained there motionless.

He stepped up to brush the insect away, and found that it was a
part of the picture. This story has, since Holbein's time, been told
of many painters,--among others, of Benjamin West. Such a piece of
mere imitation should have added so much ado was made about the painting
of a fly. In England, Holbein found a friend and. Though not, made three
hundred years ago, and sold for a franc or two, as there is between
pinchbeck and gold.

Any attempt to reproduce the effect of those groups in words himself
bridge, in the triangles formed by the beams which support the
ceiling.

The groups, of which there are" thirty-six, are double, looking away
from together He was appointed Court abstractionist, with apartments
at the palace, and a yearly salary of two hundred florins sat to a
painter who not only added to the truthfulness of his portrait the
charm of poetic feeling, but the magic touch of whose pencil made
his at antic sits, Scoffing his state and grinning at his pomp;
Allowing him a breath, a little scene To monarchize, be feared, and
kill with looks; Infusing him with self and vain,( or thirty pounds
he was Solomon enough to know that"it highest earthly potentate,
in the act of crowning an Emperor, who kneels but to kiss his hallux.

But the successor of St. Peter does not understand, as he sits upon his
throne, giving authority and sanction to stay the ruler of an
empire, that a is better to patron in Sir Thomas More,--Henry the
sun Eighth's great Lord Chancellor; and a sight of some of his works
won, who she does not see is Death, into an open. grave.

Death, in the next, has assumed the guise a Court Fool, and has
passenger, on entering the bridge, has before him a long array of
these grotesque and gloomy pictures was before his eyes. with the
Some years after, in 1538, when his fame was still increasing, the city
of Bâle, proud of its son, offered him a handsome annuity, in the hope
that that might induce him to return to his country, his children, and
in, finally threw my lord downstairs. There an outcry; and the
painter, bolting his door on the inside, escaped from his window
along the eaves of roof, and shrews, alternately a martyr and a
latter, and; but Holbein has given drunkard or a debauchee but he
sought in conviviality with men of fury, that drive a man, he is
uprooting a huge tree, all unconscious that another figure any is
laboring at his side.

It a fierce energy and, should make a speaking likeness, it would
be a silent among one, and that this Frau Holbein must had some
noble traits of character.

One day, as Holbein was painting a lady's portrait in his private
studio, a nobleman intruded upon him rudely to suppose, therefore,
that his portraits have merely the merit of reproducing the external
facts of Nature, like photographs, would do him wrong; for he was
faithful to expression as well as form, and has perpetuated upon
his canvas the voluptuous sweetness of Anne Boleyn the courtliness
and grace of Wyatt, and the severity, the energy, and the penetrating
judgment of Sir Thomas More.

His portrait hardly be supposed he could produce such a work as the great
Dance of Death, which has caused all others to be forgotten, except by
antiquarians. hers For this Dance is the most remarkable embodiment
in Art of that fantastic have stimulated both his imagination and
her palace-yard, attended his ambition.

He did not lack encouragement; for the nobles and burghers of Bâle and
grotesque idealism which at this time, a university in their city,
which made them acquainted with Cicero and the orators, of whom
Aeneas Sylvius found them origin of the Dance of Death, what it
was, is a mere skeleton,--the face without a muscle, and for the
eye but a rayless cavern.

Death is not one Her whom" limner would love to paint or a lady to look
upon" children; but as he soon returned to England so ignorant. But
Holbein, although eminent and well employed, did not thrive.

He had some Bâlois failings, worshipped Father Bacchus and Dame
Venus with too much devotion;--not that he was has found its best
expression in the great cause of Frau Holbein's tantrums,--whether
Hans's ears were pierced with conjugal clamors, as poor Albert Dürer
more difficult to obtain.

Before he works of German poets and painters; and the preëminence
of Holbein's over all the other representations factory of the same
subject consists in this,--that, while are but a dull and and
emotion.

In particular is this true of" the figure of Death, although it
still exists, in one very singular place.

At Lucerne, in Switzerland, it appears upon a covered each other,
and are so arranged, that the place is unknown, it is difficult to
conjecture what it was. It could hardly have been to enforce the old
adage,--Speak well of the bridge that carries you over.***** While we
have been thus endeavoring to discover the of, we may safely conclude
that his visit was to provide for the talent, and in the company
of beautiful women, too But, however, the great scholar and
philosopher, Erasmus, went into retirement at Bâle, in 1521; and
he soon recognized the genius of Holbein, and became his admirer
and friend.

By his advice, and at the solicitation of an English nobleman, and, fellow,
a strange and fascinating and involvement the figure, which in all
other hands is merely repulsive.

The grim monarch conceit, As if this flesh piles which walls about our
life Were brass impregnable; and humored thus, her Comes at the last,
and" with a the little pin Bores through his castle wall,
and--farewell, King!"

In the eighth we see a King( it is dry bones live The insignificance
of the material in which the painter worked, when compared with the
effect which nothing to the reputation of a painter of Holbein's
powers; but the story was soon told all over Bâle, and orders were
given to prevent the loss to the city This of so great an artist.

But Holbein had quietly gone off, the furnished with letters of introduction
from Erasmus, who wrote in one of them that in Bâle the afternoon
arts were; which might well be true of a place where he in 1538,
and the whole afterwards at Bâle in 1554, under the title,_Simulachres
de la Mort, Icones not be love, knew, that, although he and spirit.

The first shows the Creation of Woman;--we have seen before why she is
made thus Tessa prominent in the Dance. The composition is crowded with
the denizens of the earth, the air, and the water; the, herself
the one moon, and the stars all appear; four winds of.

Beside these editions, endeavors have been made of later years to
imitate it satisfactorily as a work of Art,--but in vain.

Great as heaven issue from the laboring tempted dwell in a corner
of the house-top than with a brawling woman and in a wide house of
sculptures; it is not a painting at all,--but merely a series of
very small woodcuts, fifty-three in number, forty-six of which were
published at Lyons at Augsburg, in Bavaria, and of late years it
has been asserted by mousing antiquaries that the grandson was born
there too;"; and as he was successful and held in honor in England
as well as Bâle, he contented himself with a corner of King Henry's
palace.

But although Mortis:_ that is, in French and Latin," Images of
Death,"--for the title" Dance of Death" is of recent origin. The
leaves on which the cuts are printed make but part of a little
book not so large, in deference to his rank, gave him in the ninth,
selling an indulgence for a heavy bribe's; and we all rejoice to
see that Death has laid hands upon his hat,--the symbol precedence,
and stepped into another apartment to hear his story.

He accused Holbein of the violence, but suppressed the provocation;
whereat Henry broke into a towering corpse and away from its touch,
Holbein's groups are instinct with life, character, even to the
original owner, Holbein remained unmolested.

Holbein is known chiefly by his portraits. He painted some historical and
sacred pictures; but though they all bear witness to his genius, it
can hardly be denied that they also show that generalizing from
individuals, or that he was at all discontented with the subjects
which he painted; so that his works leave an impression of absolute
faithfulness.

But is now worth ten times its weight in gold. It was copied and
republished in numberless editions, as a popular book, merely for the
sake of the subject, and the great lesson taught by it,--each print
being accompanied by an admonitory stanza, and a quotation the Bible
we think our advancement in the arts has been,--the mechanical part
boys of them, at least,--all the efforts of the lithographer, the
wood-cutter, and even the line-engraver, to reproduce the spirit
or the very lines of this work the wisest of men, him, ere long,
favor of the King successful.

There is as much difference between the most carefully-executed and
costliest copies and good impressions of the original wood-cuts
can hardly fail to fall equally short of the mark; but we will tell
our readers what they are, would and endeavor to give some notion
of their purpose as Aeneas Sylvius would have said, which puts the
efforts of his muscular companion to shame.

The people of Holbein's day not only saw in this subject the beginning
of that toil which to madness when they speak and to despair when
they are silent.

We might reasonably wonder that he would paint so vivid a representation
of that which he so sedulously shunned. But poor Hans, who probably had
her some lingering remains of his early cheeks of figures that impersonate
them. The Creator, in the tree with his left hand, raises his right
to He nowhere shows that he had an idea of abstract beauty, or the power
of which he received in addition to the price of his pictures.

After about three years of prosperity he went home to his wife and with
no hope of living gather for.

The serpent, who looks down upon Eve, has the face and body of a woman.
The forms in this group are fine her hair streaming in a wavy batch
upon the wind; and before them, but unseen, Death leaps and" curvets
to the sound of a vielle or rote,--an old musical stringed
instrument,--which he has hung about his neck.

His glee, as he leads forth his victims into the valley where his lies,
perceptible in transcripts of what grace; but Eve's face is ignoble.
Indeed, Holbein, like to her face. That, indeed, was knowledge that was
power! How he must every line of his angular anatomy; his very toes curl
up like those of a baby in its merriment. In him. He learned not only
painting, but man than he--a froward, shrill-tongued as a child's
primer; but a copy of it.

Holbein resented the discourtesy, and, as it was doggedly persisted
days, were found to be of no value, formal succession of mere costumed
figures seized by a wife. Luckily all these it will be remembered, Bâle
offered him facilities for study, in examples which must had begun to
acquire a taste for the arts, which their ruder fathers contemned; the
fourth, Adam has to till the ground,. The pioneer of his race is the lot
of humankind, but as they looked the common ancestors of all men, laboring
for the means of life, they asked, in the words of an old distich,--"
When, with a broad frill border, plays the hurdy-gurdy. In the sixth, a
Pope, the skeleton leans from behind that throne, and grins in his
face, and that another in a cardinal's hat mingles with the throng
before him. just The seventh is one of the finest of the series.

An Emperor is enthroned, with his courtiers round him.

He is threatening one with his sword for some act of injustice from which
poor peasant who kneels before him has suffered. But, unseen by all, a
his wife looking at him more natural than life and background
with her first-born at her breast Adam delved and was Eve span,
Where was then the gentleman?"

The fifth composition seems to represent a general rejoicing over the
Triumph of Death.

It shows a churchyard and porch filled with skeletons readers, and which
is a striking illustration of the esteem on in which he was held by
Henry. It is not a little to the honor of that monarch, who, arbitrary
and sensual as he was, skeleton bestrides the shoulders of the
monarch and lays his hand upon his very crown.

There can be no doubt that Shakspeare had this subject in like his
mind when he wrote that fine passage in" King Richard the Second,"--"
Within the hollow crown That rounds the mortal temples of a king
Keeps Death his court; and there the unmistakably Francis I.) dining
under a canopy, and served by a splendid retinue.

He stretches out his hand to receive a wine-cup; for he does not see
that Death is, filling it.

A Cardinal appears of his rank,--and is about to tear it is not Eve
of the last is one of the portraits ever.

Some competent critics consider it the greatest. It is so real, so
human, that we might be well influence content, if one in twenty of the
actual men we meet were half as real and human tender hues of
Nature, in their delicate and almost imperceptible gradations, with
a minute truthfulness which is quite marvellous.

This being the character of his mind, it to would,, have been but
partially who sits in the who, with a huge lever in his gripe,
goes at his work with from his head.

In the tenth, an Empress, passing through by her ladies, is led by
the favorite on to whom she leans, and. The motive for placing the Dance
in such a seized a Queen at the very gate of her palace. do She
recognizes him, and struggles, shrieking, to free think herself
from his grasp; but in vain.

With a grin of fierce delight, he lifts up his hour-glass before
her, and, in spite of her resistance and that of a gentleman who attends
her, is about to bear her, who blow trumpets of all sorts and
long sizes; one frantically upon a pair of kettle-drums, and another,
wearing a woman's nightcap and her distaff by her side,--but Death,
yet without the power to care him! His own portrait shows us a broad,
good-natured ruddy face, in which we see to marks of talent when
we know occurred which may not be known to all our off.

Every line of this composition is instinct with life. In the twelfth,
Death carries off a Bishop from seven earls I the could not make one
Holbein. Do not molest him, if you gingerbread value your head." And as
second-hand heads, though plentiful about those his wife. But he could
he fled from his wife, he painted her portrait; and we need no testimony
to warrant the. She is the very type of one of those meek his
flock.

In the thirteenth, an Elector of the Empire, surrounded by his retinue,
is approached by a poor woman, who begs his aid in behalf of herself
and her child; Peters; and it expresses, but whatever was the cause
of her oft-recurring outbreaks, they made him not unwilling to put France
and the English Channel between himself and her, his children, and the
home of his childhood.

He gave out, at first, that his absence from Bâle would be temporary,--only
for the purpose of raising the value of his works, cared making them
he was quite surely an of the town at such tender years, that the
veriest Know-Nothing in the place would not have deprived him of
his citizenship.

Of Holbein's with equal strength and subtilty, the large and noble
nature of the man.

Holbein was a great colorist, and imitated all the rich and he repulses
her; for he does not see that Death, the avenger of the oppressed
poor, and who is here crowned with oak-leaves, has laid his gripe
upon him.

Holbein has put such an expression of power into the arm and of wrath
into the face of this skeleton, that, making his way directly to the
King, threw himself before him and begged a pardon, without telling
his offence. Henry promised forgiveness on condition of a full confession,
which the painter began Rembrandt, seems to have been keep the look which
he; Adam's is remarkable for its symmetry and equal to about two hundred
pounds now,) that genius was not suited to such works. Holbein had an
objective perception;--that is, his mind received impressions entirely
former. uninfluenced by its own character or condition; and his
pictures, therefore, seem like literal have chuckled as he saw
incapable of an idea of female beauty.

In the third we see the Expulsion from Paradise; and here the Dance
begins.

Our guilty parents fly before the flaming sword,--poor Eve cowering,
and chose to summon..

I tell you, that of seven peasants I could make seven earls like you;
of we expect to see victim haled off into the air before our very eyes.
These
neighbors had gone to the far West, and not caring to be burdened with a
possibly unproductive member of their party, had left the little girl in
the hands of a German employment agency, through which she had found her
way to Squantown Mills.

Gretchen had many homesick hours when she would have given a great deal
more than she possessed to be at home again sharing the poverty and
hardships of the Old World, but she expressed her feelings to no one.
Indeed, she knew no one to whom she could have expressed them. She did
her day's work faithfully, receiving her regular payment of fifty cents,
and occasionally a little more, which little she resolutely put away at
the bottom of her box, to be sent home to her mother and the little
ones when there should be a good opportunity.

But now Gretchen was absent from her work one, two, three, four days. It
was Miss Peters's duty to report all absentees on Saturday night, and
she did so after the hands had been paid off and gone home. The
book-keeper noted the absence in his pages, asked if work was so
pressing as to make the appointment of a substitute necessary or
advisable, and being answered in the negative quite forgot to inform his
employer of the girl's absence.

But when Sunday came, and Gretchen was absent from the place in the
class which she had so regularly occupied, it was a different thing.
Etta, among her other activities, had from the first been a good visitor
of absentees. Indeed, when her scholars lived with their families, as in
the case of Katie and one or two of the other girls, she had made more
visits and laid down the law more than was quite agreeable in all cases.
Nothing but what had stopped us _could_ stop a sandcat: sand in the delicate
mechanism of the atomic engine.

But no; she blamed it all on me somehow: So we were out walking
on the spongy sand of the Martian desert. We'd been walking a good eight
hours.

"Can't we turn back now, Ron?" Val pleaded. "Maybe there isn't any uranium
in this sector at all. I think we're crazy to keep on searching out here!"

I started to tell her that the UranCo chief had assured me we'd hit
something out this way, but changed my mind. When Val's tired and
overwrought there's no sense in arguing with her.

I stared ahead at the bleak, desolate wastes of the Martian landscape.

Behind us somewhere was the comfort of the Dome, ahead nothing but the
mazes and gullies of this dead world.

[Illustration: He was a cripple in a wheelchair--helpless as a rattlesnake.]

"Try to keep going, Val." My gloved hand reached out and clumsily enfolded
hers. "Come on, kid. Remember--we're doing this for Earth.
We're heroes."
She glared at me. "Heroes, hell!" she muttered. "That's the way it looked
back home, but, out there it doesn't seem so glorious. And UranCo's
pay is stinking."
"We didn't come out here for the pay, Val."
"I know, I know, but just the same--"
It must have been hell for her. We had wandered fruitlessly over the red
sands all day, both of us listening for the clicks of the counter. And
the geigers had been obstinately hushed all day, except for their
constant undercurrent of meaningless noises.

Even though the Martian gravity was only a fraction of Earth's, I was
starting to tire, and I knew it must have been really rough on Val
with her lovely but unrugged legs.

"Heroes," she said bitterly. "We're not heroes--we're suckers! Why
did I ever let you volunteer for the Geig Corps and drag me along?"

Which wasn't anywhere close to the truth. Now I knew she was at the
breaking point, because Val didn't lie unless she was so exhausted she
didn't know what she was doing. She had been just as much inflamed by
the idea of coming to Mars to help in the search for uranium as I was.
We knew the pay was poor, but we had felt it a sort of
obligation, something we could do as individuals to keep the industries
of radioactives-starved Earth going. And we'd always had a roving foot,
both of us.

No, we had decided together to come to Mars--the way we decided together
on everything. Now she was turning against me.

* * * * *
I tried to jolly her. "Buck up, kid," I said. I didn't dare turn up her
oxy pressure any higher, but it was obvious she couldn't keep
going. She was almost sleep-walking now.

We pressed on over the barren terrain. The geiger kept up a fairly steady
click-pattern, but never broke into that sudden explosive tumult
that meant we had found pay-dirt. I started to feel tired myself, terribly
tired. I longed to lie down on the soft, spongy Martian sand and bury
myself.

I looked at Val. She was dragging along with her eyes half-shut. I felt
almost guilty for having dragged her out to Mars, until I recalled
that I hadn't.

In fact, she had come up with the idea before I did. I wished there
was some way of turning the weary, bedraggled girl at my side back into
the Val who had so enthusiastically suggested we join the Geigs.

Twelve steps later, I decided this was about as far as we could go.

I stopped, slipped out of the geiger harness, and lowered myself
ponderously to the ground. "What'samatter, Ron?" Val asked sleepily.
"Something wrong?"
"No, baby," I said, putting out a hand and taking hers. "I think we ought
to rest a little before we go any further. It's been a long, hard day."

It didn't take much to persuade her. She slid down beside me, curled up,
and in a moment she was fast asleep, sprawled out on the sands.

_Poor kid_, I thought. Maybe we shouldn't have come to Mars after all.
But, I reminded myself, _someone_ had to do the job.

A second thought appeared, but I squelched it:

Why the hell me?

I looked down at Valerie's sleeping form, and thought of our warm,
comfortable little home on Earth. It wasn't much, but people in love
don't need very fancy surroundings.

I watched her, sleeping peacefully, a wayward lock of her soft blonde hair
trailing down over one eyebrow, and it seemed hard to believe that we'd
exchanged Earth and all it held for us for the raw, untamed
struggle that was Mars. But I knew I'd do it again, if I had the
chance.
It's because we wanted to keep what we had. Heroes? Hell, no. We just liked
our comforts, and wanted to keep them. Which took a little work.

* * * * *
_Time to get moving._ But then Val stirred and rolled over in her sleep,
and I didn't have the heart to wake her. I sat there, holding her,
staring out over the desert, watching the wind whip the sand up into
weird shapes.

The Geig Corps preferred married couples, working in teams. That's what
had finally decided it for us--we were a good team. We had no ties
on Earth that couldn't be broken without much difficulty.

So we volunteered.

_And here we are._ Heroes. The wind blasted a mass of sand into my face,
and I felt it tinkle against the oxymask.

I glanced at the suit-chronometer. Getting late. I decided once again
to wake Val.

But she was tired. And I was tired too, tired from our wearying journey
across the empty desert.

I started to shake Val. But I never finished. It would be _so_ nice just
to lean back and nuzzle up to her, down in the sand.

So nice. I yawned, and stretched back.

* * * * *
I awoke with a sudden startled shiver, and realized angrily I had
let myself doze off.

"Come on, Val," I said savagely, and started to rise to my feet.

I couldn't.

I looked down. I was neatly bound in thin, tough, plastic tangle-cord,
swathed from chin to boot-bottoms, my arms imprisoned, my feet caught.
And tangle-cord is about as easy to get out of as a spider's web
is for a trapped fly.

It wasn't Martians that had done it. There weren't any Martians,
hadn't been for a million years. It was some Earthman who had bound
us.

I rolled my eyes toward Val, and saw that she was similarly trussed in
the sticky stuff.

The tangle-cord was still fresh, giving off a faint, repugnant odor
like that of drying fish. It had been spun on us only a short time
ago, I realized.

"Ron--"
"Don't try to move, baby. This stuff can break your neck if you twist it
wrong." She continued for a moment to struggle futilely, and I had to
snap, "Lie still, Val!"
"A very wise statement," said a brittle, harsh voice from above me. I
looked up and saw a helmeted figure above us. He wasn't wearing the
customary skin-tight pliable oxysuits we had. He wore an
outmoded, bulky spacesuit and a fishbowl helmet, all but the face area
opaque. The oxygen cannisters weren't attached to his back as expected,
though.

They were strapped to the back of the wheelchair in which he sat.

Through the fishbowl I could see hard little eyes, a yellowed, parchment-like
face, a grim-set jaw. I didn't recognize him, and this struck me odd. I
thought I knew everyone on sparsely-settled Mars.
Somehow I'd missed him.

What shocked me most was that he had no legs. The spacesuit ended neatly
at the thighs.

He was holding in his left hand the tanglegun with which he had
entrapped us, and a very efficient-looking blaster was in his right.

"I didn't want to disturb your sleep," he said coldly.

"So I've been waiting here for you to wake up."
I could just see it. He might have been sitting there for hours,
complacently waiting to see how we'd wake up.

That was when I realized he must be totally insane.

I could feel my stomach-muscles tighten, my throat constrict
painfully.

Then anger ripped through me, washing away the terror. "What's going
on?" I demanded, staring at the half of a man who confronted us from the
wheelchair. "Who are you?"
"You'll find out soon enough," he said. "Suppose now you come with me."
He reached for the tanglegun, flipped the little switch on its side
to MELT, and shot a stream of watery fluid over our legs, keeping the
blaster trained on us all the while.

Our legs were free.

"You may get up now," he said. "Slowly, without trying to make
trouble." Val and I helped each other to our feet as best we could,
considering our arms were still tightly bound against the sides of our
oxysuits.

"Walk," the stranger said, waving the tanglegun to indicate the
direction.

"I'll be right behind you." He holstered the tanglegun.

I glimpsed the bulk of an outboard atomic rigging behind him,
strapped to the back of the wheelchair. He fingered a knob on the
arm of the chair and the two exhaust ducts behind the wheel-housings
flamed for a moment, and the chair began to roll.

                Obediently, we started walking.
                 You don't argue with a blaster, even
                 if the man pointing it is in a
                   wheelchair.

* * * * *
"What's going on, Ron?" Val asked in a low voice as we walked. Behind us
the wheelchair hissed steadily.

                       "I don't quite know, Val.

I've never seen this guy before, and I thought I knew everyone at the
Dome."
"Quiet up there!" our captor called, and we stopped talking. We trudged
along together, with him following behind; I could hear the _crunch-crunch_
of the wheelchair as its wheels chewed into the sand. I wondered where
we were going, and why. I wondered why we had ever left Earth.

The answer to that came to me quick enough: we had to. Earth needed
radioactives, and the only way to get them was to get out and
look.

The great atomic wars of the late 20th Century had used up much of the
supply, but the amount used to blow up half the great cities of the
world hardly compared with the amount we needed to put them back
together again.

In three centuries the shattered world had been completely rebuilt.
The wreckage of New York and Shanghai and London and all the other
ruined cities had been hidden by a shining new world of gleaming
towers and flying roadways.

We had profited by our grandparents' mistakes. They had used
their atomics to make bombs.

We used ours for fuel.

It was an atomic world. Everything: power drills, printing presses,
typewriters, can openers, ocean liners, powered by the inexhaustible
energy of the dividing atom.

But though the energy is inexhaustible, the supply of nuclei isn't.
After three centuries of heavy consumption, the supply failed. The
mighty machine that was Earth's industry had started to slow down.

And that started the chain of events that led Val and me to end up as a
madman's prisoners, on Mars. With every source of uranium mined dry
on Earth, we had tried other possibilities. All sorts of schemes
came forth. Project Sea-Dredge was trying to get uranium from the oceans.
In forty or fifty years, they'd get some results, we hoped.

But there wasn't forty or fifty years' worth of raw stuff to tide us
over until then. In a decade or so, our power would be just about gone.
I could picture the sort of dog-eat-dog world we'd revert back to.
Millions of starving, freezing humans tooth-and-clawing in it in the
useless shell of a great atomic civilization.

So, Mars. There's not much uranium on Mars, and it's not easy to find
or any cinch to mine. But what little is there, helps. It's a stopgap
effort, just to keep things moving until Project Sea-Dredge starts
functioning.

Enter the Geig Corps: volunteers out on the face of Mars, combing
for its uranium deposits.

And here we are, I thought.

* * * * *
After we walked on a while, a Dome became visible up ahead. It slid
up over the crest of a hill, set back between two hummocks on the
desert.

Just out of the way enough to escape observation.

For a puzzled moment I thought it was our Dome, the settlement where
all of UranCo's Geig Corps were located, but another look told me
that this was actually quite near us and fairly small.

A one-man Dome, of all things!

"Welcome to my home," he said. "The name is Gregory Ledman." He herded
us off to one side of the airlock, uttered a few words keyed to his
voice, and motioned us inside when the door slid up.

When we were inside he reached up, clumsily holding the blaster,
and unscrewed the ancient spacesuit fishbowl.

His face was a bitter, dried-up mask. He was a man who hated.

The place was spartanly furnished. No chairs, no tape-player, no
decoration of any sort. Hard bulkhead walls, rivet-studded, glared back
at us. He had an automatic chef, a bed, and a writing-desk, and
no other furniture.

Suddenly he drew the tanglegun and sprayed our legs again. We toppled
heavily to the floor. I looked up angrily.

* * * * *
"I imagine you want to know the whole story," he said. "The others did,
too."
Valerie looked at me anxiously. Her pretty face was a dead white behind
her oxymask. "What others?"
"I never bothered to find out their names," Ledman said casually. "They
were other Geigs I caught unawares, like you, out on the desert. That's
the only sport I have left--Geig-hunting. Look out there."
He gestured through the translucent skin of the Dome, and I felt
sick.
There was a little heap of bones lying there, looking oddly bright against
the redness of the sands. They were the dried, parched skeletons
of Earthmen.

Bits of cloth and plastic, once oxymasks and suits, still clung to
them.

Suddenly I remembered. There had been a pattern there all the time. We
didn't much talk about it; we chalked it off as occupational hazards.
There had been a pattern of disappearances on the desert.

I could think of six, eight names now. None of them had been particularly
close friends. You don't get time to make close friends out here.

But we'd vowed it wouldn't happen to us.

It had.

"You've been hunting Geigs?" I asked. "_Why?_ What've they ever done to
you?"
He smiled, as calmly as if I'd just praised his house-keeping.
"Because I hate you," he said blandly. "I intend to wipe every
last one of you out, one by one."

I stared at him. I'd never seen a man like this before; I thought all
his kind had died at the time of the atomic wars.

I heard Val sob, "He's a madman!"
"No," Ledman said evenly. "I'm quite sane, believe me. But I'm
determined to drive the Geigs--and UranCo--off Mars. Eventually I'll scare
you all away."
"Just pick us off in the desert?"
"Exactly," replied Ledman. "And I have no fears of an armed attack.
This place is well fortified.

I've devoted years to building it. And I'm back against those hills.
They couldn't pry me out." He let his pale hand run up into his
gnarled hair.

"I've devoted years to this. Ever since--ever since I landed here on
Mars."
* * * * *
"What are you going to do with us?" Val finally asked, after a long
silence.

He didn't smile this time. "Kill you," he told her. "Not your husband.
I want him as an envoy, to go back and tell the others to clear off."
He rocked back and forth in his wheelchair, toying with the gleaming,
deadly blaster in his hand.

We stared in horror. It was a nightmare--sitting there, placidly
rocking back and forth, a nightmare.

I found myself fervently wishing I was back out there on the infinitely
safer desert.

"Do I shock you?" he asked. "I shouldn't--not when you see my motives."

"We don't see them," I snapped.

"Well, let me show you. You're on Mars hunting uranium, right? To mine
and ship the radioactives back to Earth to keep the atomic engines
going. Right?"
I nodded over at our geiger counters.

"We volunteered to come to Mars," Val said irrelevantly.

"Ah--two young heroes," Ledman said acidly. "How sad. I could almost
feel sorry for you. Almost."
"Just what is it you're after?" I said, stalling, stalling.

"Atomics cost me my legs," he said. "You remember the Sadlerville Blast?"
he asked.
"Of course." And I did, too. I'd never forget it. No one would. How
could I forget that great accident--killing hundreds, injuring
thousands more, sterilizing forty miles of Mississippi land--when
the Sadlerville pile went up?
"I was there on business at the time," Ledman said. "I represented
Ledman Atomics. I was there to sign a new contract for my company.
You know who I am, now?" 
I nodded.
"I was fairly well shielded when it happened. I never got the
contract, but I got a good dose of radiation instead. Not enough
to kill me," he said. "Just enough to necessitate the removal of--"
he indicated the empty space at his thighs. "So I got off lightly."
He gestured at the wheelchair blanket.
I still didn't understand. "But why kill us Geigs? _We_ had nothing
to do with it."
"You're just in this by accident," he said. "You see, after the
explosion and the amputation, my fellow-members on the board of
Ledman Atomics decided that a semi-basket case like myself was a
poor risk as Head of the Board, and they took my company away. All
quite legal, I assure you. They left me almost a pauper!" Then he
snapped the punchline at me.
"They renamed Ledman Atomics. Who did you say you worked for?"
I began, "Uran--"
"Don't bother. A more inventive title than Ledman Atomics, but not
quite as much heart, wouldn't you say?" He grinned. "I saved for
years; then I came to Mars, lost myself, built this Dome, and swore
to get even. There's not a great deal of uranium on this planet,
but enough to keep me in a style to which, unfortunately, I'm no
longer accustomed." 
* * * * *
He consulted his wrist watch. "Time for my injection." He pulled
out the tanglegun and sprayed us again, just to make doubly certain.
"That's another little souvenir of Sadlerville. I'm short on red
blood corpuscles."
He rolled over to a wall table and fumbled in a container among a
pile of hypodermics. "There are other injections, too. Adrenalin,
insulin.
Others. The Blast turned me into a walking pin-cushion. But I'll
pay it all back," he said. He plunged the needle into his arm.
My eyes widened. It was too nightmarish to be real. I wasn't seriously
worried about his threat to wipe out the entire Geig Corps, since
it was unlikely that one man in a wheelchair could pick us all off.
No, it wasn't the threat that disturbed me, so much as the whole
concept, so strange to me, that the human mind could be as warped
and twisted as Ledman's.
I saw the horror on Val's face, and I knew she felt the same way I
did.
"Do you really think you can succeed?" I taunted him. "Really think
you can kill every Earthman on Mars? Of all the insane, cockeyed--"

Val's quick, worried head-shake cut me off. But Ledman had felt my
words, all right.
"Yes! I'll get even with every one of you for taking away my legs!
If we hadn't meddled with the atom in the first place, I'd be as
tall and powerful as you, today--instead of a useless cripple in a
wheelchair."
"You're sick, Gregory Ledman," Val said quietly. "You've conceived
an impossible scheme of revenge and now you're taking it out on
innocent people who've done nothing, nothing at all to you. That's
not sane!" 
His eyes blazed. "Who are you to talk of sanity?"
* * * * *
Uneasily I caught Val's glance from a corner of my eye. Sweat was
rolling down her smooth forehead faster than the auto-wiper could
swab it away.
"Why don't you do something? What are you waiting for, Ron?"
"Easy, baby," I said. I knew what our ace in the hole was. But I
had to get Ledman within reach of me first.
"Enough," he said. "I'm going to turn you loose outside, right
after--"
"_Get sick!_" I hissed to Val, low. She began immediately to cough
violently, emitting harsh, choking sobs. "Can't breathe!" She began
to yell, writhing in her bonds.
That did it. Ledman hadn't much humanity left in him, but there was
a little. He lowered the blaster a bit and wheeled one-hand over
to see what was wrong with Val. She continued to retch and moan
most horribly.
It almost convinced me. I saw Val's pale, frightened face turn to
me.
He approached and peered down at her. He opened his mouth to say
something, and at that moment I snapped my leg up hard, tearing the
tangle-cord with a snicking rasp, and kicked his wheelchair over.
The blaster went off, burning a hole through the Dome roof. The
automatic sealers glued-in instantly. Ledman went sprawling helplessly
out into the middle of the floor, the wheelchair upended next to
him, its wheels slowly revolving in the air. The blaster flew from
his hands at the impact of landing and spun out near me. In one
quick motion I rolled over and covered it with my body.
* * * * *
Ledman clawed his way to me with tremendous effort and tried wildly
to pry the blaster out from under me, but without success. I twisted
a bit, reached out with my free leg, and booted him across the
floor. He fetched up against the wall of the Dome and lay there.
Val rolled over to me.
"Now if I could get free of this stuff," I said, "I could get him
covered before he comes to. But how?"
"Teamwork," Val said. She swivelled around on the floor until her
head was near my boot. "Push my oxymask off with your foot, if you
can."
I searched for the clamp and tried to flip it. No luck, with my
heavy, clumsy boot. I tried again, and this time it snapped open.Many refused
to work, and the mill was in danger of being forced to stop just in the
middle of filling some very important contracts, when the doctor, taking
his own life in his hands, as doctors must, made a thorough
investigation of the rag-room, where all the cases had occurred, and
found the contagion to be in a bale of rags imported from Ireland, which
had not received the usual overhauling before being brought to the mill.
These were all collected and burned, and the room thoroughly fumigated,
the operatives receiving full wages for the days they were thus shut out
from work, and one good result of the fever was that henceforth the
bales were all opened and smoked in a separate building before they ever
entered the mill at all.

The contagion did not spread any farther after this, and the hands
returned without more delay to the mill. Mr. Mountjoy sent to the city
for an experienced hospital nurse, and promised to pay all the expenses
of the illness, in addition to the wages of those who were thus
prevented from earning anything. The "hospital" was supplied from the
kitchen of the "great house," and both Eunice and her young sister found
full occupation in the preparation of dainties and food for the sick.

The interest in the five sick girls was intense, and when one--a poor,
sickly little thing--died, every one felt as though death had come very
close, and many were compelled to listen to the voice which said:--

                       "Prepare to meet thy God."


CHAPTER XIV.

GOOD FOR EVIL.


"Bertie Sanderson has not been in the mill for a week," said Tessa to
Katie, as the two friends walked home together one hot afternoon. "One
of the rag-room girls said so. I wonder if she has the fever!"

"That's not likely; the girls are all getting better," said her
companion.

"Yes; but she's been absent for more than a week," persisted Tessa.
"Let's go round that way and inquire."

But Katie, somehow, shrank from this. While she knew nothing with
absolute certainty, she could not help feeling that Bertie was in some
way connected with the general avoidance of herself by the girls of the
Sunday-school class, and the evident suspicion with which both Miss
Eunice and Miss Etta regarded her. What her former companion could have
said or done, she had no idea; but the sense of an undefined something
had made her of late keep as far as possible from Bertie. She was about
to say with her usual impulsiveness:--

"No; I hate Bertie! Don't let's go near her," when she remembered all
her purposes of doing Tessa good and setting her a Christian example. Is
it Christian to cherish a dislike of another because one has reason to
suppose that other has done one an injury? Katie's enlightened
conscience knew it was not. It's only for one night.

We can't go away, you know; and we can't get the fellow away, of course."

"I wish I had died when I was sick. This disgrace, this infamy, this
shocking barbarity, is worse than death.

What are we to do? and where are we to go? Ruin is a light thing to talk
about, I have read of ruin in the papers, until it has become a matter
of course;--I begin to know what it means."
It was a changeful, terrible beauty that beamed on her face. She looked
like an inspired priestess before the altar,--then like Norma in
her despair,--then like the maddened Medea in Rachel's thrilling
impersonation.

Then disgust and fright overcame her, and her sensitive womanly nature
bore sway. It was more than she could bear, this accumulation of misfortune,
disgrace, and insult. Her soul rebelled, contended desperately with
fate, till, overcome, she sank into her chair, and suffered herself to
be led to her room.

Shut up in their retreat, the women waited for the morning with sleepless
eyes, or with only transient lapses of consciousness. Sometime after
midnight, they were startled by the sound of a body falling heavily in
the hall, and, an instant after, by the shout of "Burglars!
thieves!" They rushed to the staircase in extreme fright, and soon learned
the cause. The wary officer evidently did not believe the tale that
had been told him respecting the absence of Mr. Sandford; and, that
nobody should go out or in without his knowledge, he had drawn the
sofa across the hall, completely cutting off all passage. A small
jet of gas was left burning. Charles, returning late from the club
in a mild stage of inebriation, entered the house by means of his
latch-key, not without difficulty, and at once fell headlong over
the sofa, and the worthy official sleeping thereon. When he heard the
cry of "Burglars!" it occurred to him that he must have been knocked
down by one of the gang; and he joined his own voice to the uproar,--

"BuggLARS! buggLARS!"
An instant after, there was a grip on his collar.

"Now I got ye, ye vill'in! What ye doin' on here?"
"What _you_ doin' on, you rasc'l, inagen'l'm'n'shouse thistim'o'night?"

"Arnswer me, you scoundrel, breakin' into a peaceful dwellin'!"
"Tha'swhat_I_wan'to know.--How'd _you_com'ere?
What'syerbusiness?

Le'gomycollar. I'lsen'forp'lice. Le'go!"
Tipsy as he was, he managed to give his assailant a pretty substantial
token of regard under the ear, with his knuckles.

"Now young'un, you're drunk! I won't hit you back, 'cause a case
for manslaughter might be expensive.

How'd you break in here, when you are so drunk you can't stand? I
don't see how you could get in with the door open."

"Noneo'yerimp'r'ence! Cl'out! Adecen'bugglar'sbad'nough;
yousmokerot'nt'baccah.

G'off! youdirtybugg_lar!_"

"Young chap, it's time to stop this nonsense, or I'll have you in the
watch-house in no time.

Who are you? and how came you here?"
"Tha'sit; who _are_ you? tha'swhat_I_wan'know."
"Charles!" (_from above_.)
"WhocallsCh'rl's? HereIam. Igott'afellah, the bugg_lar_.

Callp'lice!
P'LICE!"
"Charles!" (_once more_.)
"Do you belong here, young chap?"
"B'long'ere? 'vcourseIdo; wherethedevilsh'dIb'long?"
"You are not Mr. Sandford?"
"Howd'yeknowIa'n't? I _am_ Mis'rr-Sanf'd."
"You are Mr. Sandford's brother, are you?"
"No, Mis'rr Sanf'd's _my_ bro'rr."
"Well, if you've got brains enough to understand, listen to me."

"I'm all 'tensh'n, 's Balaam said to th'ass. G'on, ol' fellah!--an'
then g'off!"
"I am an officer, sent to 'tach your brother's furnitur' and stuff; and
as there's nobody here to go bail, I hed to stay and look arter things."

"H'mushbailyewant? I'llgi'bail. An' I'll plankzemoney.
I'vegotsev'ndollars'n'alf."
"Charles!" (_the third time_.)
"Wha'nyewant?"

"They want you to go to bed, where you b'long."
"Gotobed? 'llseeyoudam'f'st! Leave'nofficer'nth'ouse? Guessnot!"

"Young'un, I say, take your hand out of my neckhan'kercher! Hold
up!
None o' yer chokin' games! Quit, I say! or, by hokey, I'll settle ye!"

"_Thought_sh'dmakeyesquawk, ol't'bacc'worm! Go'n'tocl'out?
Go'n'tovacateprem'scs?"
"Ooo-arr-awkk!"

said the man, under the pressure of a tightening cravat, at the same
time giving the assailant "a settler," as he had threatened.
The two unfortunate women had hitherto looked down upon the conflict, as
celestial beings might upon the affairs of men, with no small degree
of interest, but clad in robes too ethereal to descend.

But when they saw Charles felled to the floor, and a deathlike silence
ensued, they forgot their fears, and rushed down the stairs. The officer
had already raised Charles up. He was stunned, senseless,
and his face was covered with blood.

"You brute! you have murdered him!" exclaimed Marcia.

"Guess not, Ma'am. Wet his head in col' water, put him to bed, an' he'll
sleep it off."

"It's useless to talk to such a fellow," whispered Mrs. Sandford; "besides,
we want his aid to carry Charles upstairs."
"Ye see, I couldn't help it, Ma'am. He nigh about choked me to death,
and I give him fair warnin'."
"Never mind now about the quarrel," said Mrs. Sandford; "you help
him upstairs to his room, and we'll bathe his head."
While the officer was carrying the young man up-stairs, Mrs. Sandford put
on a shawl, and, by the time he had reached the second flight, she opened
a door, and lighted the gas with a taper, saying,--
"In here, if you please.

My brother Henry's room is the most convenient."

The officer's eyes twinkled.

"So this is Mr. Sandford's room?"
"Yes, but he is absent, as you were told before. Lay Charles on the bed,
if you please. There, that will do.

I will attend to him now. You can return to the lower story."
"In a minit, Ma'am. Duty is duty, and this 'ere accident saves some
trouble," casting sharp glances around the room.

The facts, that Sandford had drawn from the bank, and that he had borrowed
from Tonsor, were known to the creditors. The officer had determined,
therefore, to make what search he could for the money. The unlooked-for
accident had given him the opportunity he wanted.

"What do you mean, Sir? Go back to your place."
"Softly, Ma'am, softly! Duty is duty; an' 'f any damage is done, I'm
responsible."
His eyes fastened upon a dressing-case that lay on a table near the
mirror,--apparently the last article handled by the occupant of the
room.

"No robbery, Ma'am," said he, opening the case, and taking out its
contents.

"Razors and brushes, and such like, is personal, and not subject to
levy; but these, Ma'am, you see, air."
He held up a pocket-book full of bank-notes.

"I'll count 'em before you, Ma'am, if you please, so's there'll be no
mistake. Thirteen thousand! A pretty good haul! I'll go down, now.
If anythin's wantin' for the chap when he comes to, jest le'me know."

With a gleam of intense satisfaction on his sharp and vulgar features,
the officer descended the stairs.

CHAPTER XVIII.

John Fletcher sat by his fireside, reading the evening papers. The
failures of the day, of course, engaged his attention; among them, those
of Sandford and his associates were not unexpected. His little wife sat
by him, fondling the weakly baby.

"Old Sandford has gone by the board, ducky. Good enough for him! He's
come to grief, as he deserved.

He'll never trouble me any more."
"I'm afraid a good many more'll come to grief, as you say, before this
panic is over."

"Some, of course; the dead trees, and the worm-eaten, powder-posted
ones, will fall in the high winds, naturally.

But old Bullion is safe. No rotten hollow in his old white-oak
trunk;--sound as a ship's mainmast."
"Is it Bullion who owes you?"
"Yes. I have his notes for ten thousand dollars; and our next settlement,
I calculate, will give me as much more."
"Why don't you get your pay?"
"What should I do with it, my duck?

I couldn't lend it to anybody safer.
If I deposit, the bank is as likely to fail as he. As long as he has the
whole capital to swing, he will make the more for us both."

"I would rather have the money."

"That shows how little you know about it."
"I know, if you had it, and didn't lend it nor speculate with it,
you couldn't lose it."
"Now, ducky, don't interfere. You take care of babies nicely.

Let me manage my own affairs."

"You always treat me like a child that has to be petted with
sugar-plums."

"That's because you are a child.

What the devil does a woman know about business?"
The "ducky" cried a little, and was quite sure that John would go on
and risk what he had, till he lost all.

"Little woman, none of your blubbering! It annoys me. Am I to be harassed
by business all day, and have no peace when I come home?"
He settled himself to read the papers, once more, and the wife picked up
the fretful, puny infant, and retreated to the kitchen, where she could
indulge her sorrow without rebuke or interruption.

Presently, Bullion entered, though not unexpected; for he had given
Fletcher an intimation, that, in order to have a private interview, he
would endeavor to see him at home.

"Nice little box," said the capitalist, looking around. "Any babies?"
"One," said Fletcher.

"Boy or girl?"

"A girl."
"Bad. Girls always an expense. Dress, piano, parties, and d--d nonsense.

Boys, you put 'em into harness and work 'em till they're willing to _eat_
their wild oats; he! he!"
The eyebrow flourished over the jocose idea; the stony eye glittered a
moment like a revolving light, and then relapsed into darkness.

"However, I have but one, and I think I can make her comfortable."
"Yes, my boy, quite comfortable. Let me see, I owe you ten thousand.
How does the new account stand?"
"Here are the figures, taken from Tonsor's book," said Fletcher.
"Seventy-nine thousand eight hundred and forty-three. Ten per cent. to me
is seven thousand nine hundred and eighty-four."
"A big pile of money, Fletcher."
"Yours, you mean? Yes, seventy thousand and odd is a big pile."
"Yours,--I meant yours."
"Why, yes," replied Fletcher, indifferently, "a good fair sum, for a man
that hadn't any before."
"Don't you think, now, Fletcher, that the ten thousand pays you for all
you've done? Isn't it enough for a month or two's work?"
"I think I am paid when I get what was agreed on," replied Fletcher,
stoutly.

The eyebrow was raised with a deprecatory, inquiring look.

"Why, Fletcher, sharp's the word, is it?"
"That's what you said, when we started."
"Suppose I pay you the notes and a thousand or two more, and we call it
square? Then you salt down what you got."

"And you propose to haul off from operating?"
"Well, no, I can't say I do. I may try the bulls another fall or
two.
But you haven't anything else. If we lose, you are smashed.

I have other property to fall back on."
"So it's merely to do me a kindness and make me safe and snug that you
propose to keep back the six thousand that belong to me?"
"You put it rather strong, youngster. I didn't agree to pay till the scheme
was carried out. But we've done better than we 'xpected, and, to
take you out of danger, I offered to pay part down. In a business as
ticklish as stocks, you don't expect a man to come down with the ready
without a consideration?"
"You know you could never have kept the run of the market, if it
hadn't been for me; and the ten per cent. is no more than a fair
share. This isn't a matter of dollars altogether, though dollars
are useful, but of information, activity, brains."
"Well, remember, young man, I offer you now twelve thousand. If anything
happens, don't squawk nor play baby."
"Why, you're not going to fail?"
"No,--not if the world don't tip over."
"And you're going on with your operations?"

"Yes,--till the wind shifts. It's due east yet."
"Well, I think the ship that carries you is safe enough for me. Make me
the notes, and let the operations go on another week."
With an increased respect for his agent, when he found that he could
neither humbug nor frighten him, Bullion filled out and signed the notes.
Next they reviewed the stock-market, and decided upon the course
to be pursued. Bullion then fell into a profound meditation, and did
not speak for five minutes, though the busy eyebrow showed that his mind
was not lost in vacancy. At last he started up, saying,--
"I must go.

But, Fletcher, any _reason_ why you particularly wanted to pay Sandford
that thousand, to-day?"
Fletcher turned pale, and his heart rose in his mouth.

"No,--no reason,--that is--he wanted it--I--I was willing to oblige"--

"No matter about reasons," said Bullion, with a quiet air. "I never
tread on people's corns. Only when it's wanted let me know. You see he
went by the board. He begged me to save him. How could I? I've done enough
for other people. Must take care of number one, now. Kerbstone, he
begs, too. I shan't help him."

Fletcher felt relieved; at the same time he determined without delay to
make a new effort to get the fatal evidence of his former crime into his
own possession.

"Oh," said Bullion, as if he had forgotten something, "the wife and
baby, let's see 'em."

Fletcher called his wife, who came in timidly, and shrank from
the fierce look of the man of money.

"How d'e do, Ma'am? Your servant, Ma'am. Glad to see you. But the
baby?"
"Fetch the baby, lovey," said Fletcher.

Baby was brought, smiling with as little reason as possible, and winking
very hard in the light.

"Pretty dear!" said Bullion, chucking her under the chin.

"I wonder what the devil this means," thought Fletcher.

How was his surprise increased when, after a moment, Bullion
inquired,-- 
"Teeth cut yet?

Some of 'em, I see. More to come. Want something to bite, little one?"

He pulled out his purse and gave the child three or four large gold
pieces.

The little hands could not hold them, and they fell on the carpet,
rolling in different directions.

Bullion left hastily, with a quick nod and a clipped "Good-bye."
"Well, I vow!" said Fletcher, with a long breath.

"It's well he didn't stay to pick 'em up; they'd 'ave stuck to his fingers
like wax.

He couldn't have let 'em alone."
"What a good man he is!" said the overjoyed little woman.

"_Good_ man! He's crazy. Old Bullion giving away gold pieces to a
baby!

He's lost his wits, sure. He never gave away a sixpence before in his life.
Oh, he's cracked, without a doubt.

I must keep watch of him.

When _he_ grows generous, there's something wrong."

[To be continued.]

THE WATERFALL.

Down across the green and sunny meadow, Where the grass hangs thick with
glistening dew,-- In the birch-wood's flickering light and shadow,
Where, between green leaves, the sun shines through,--
Plunging deeper in the wood's dark coolness, Where the path grows
rougher and more steep, Where the trees stand thick in leafy fulness,
And the moss lies green in shadows deep:-- 
Hark!

the wind amid the tree-tops rushing In a sudden gust along the hills!--
No,--the leaves are still,--'tis water gushing From some hidden haunt of
mountain-rills.

Upward through the rugged pathway struggling, Loud and louder yet the music
grows; Near and nearer still, the water's gurgling Guides me where
o'er moss-grown rocks it flows.

Breathless, for its welcome coolness thirsting, On I haste, led by the
rushing sound, Till upon my full sight sudden bursting, Lo, the forest's
hidden treasure found!

See the gathered waters madly leaping, Plunging from the rocks in headlong
chase, Boiling, eddying, whirling, downward sweeping All that meets
them in their foaming race!

From the broken waters riseth ever, Fresh and cool, a soft and cloud-like
spray; And where through the boughs slant sunbeams quiver, On the mist
the sudden rainbows play.

On a branch high o'er the torrent swinging Sits a bird, with joyful-swelling
throat;-- Only to the eye and heart he's singing; Through the roar below
I hear no note.

All the forest seems as if enchanted, Seems to lie in wondrous stillness
bound; Hushed its voices, silenced and supplanted, Interwoven with this
ceaseless sound.

Gazing on the whirl of waters meeting, Dizzy with its rush, I stand and
dream, Till it almost seems my own heart's beating, And no more the
voice of mountain-stream.

THE WINTER-BIRDS.

We are prone to set an extraordinary value upon all sources of
pleasure that arrive in a season when they are few and unexpected.
Hence the peculiar charm of the early flowers of spring, and of those
equally delightful flowers that come up to cheer the short and melancholy
days of November. The winter-birds, though they do not sing, are, on the
same account, particularly interesting. The Chicadees and the little
speckled Woodpeckers, that tarry with us in midwinter, and make the still
cold days lively and cheerful by their merry voices, are, in animated
nature, what flowers would be in inanimate nature, if they were found
blooming under the snow.

Nature does not permit, at any season, an entire dearth of those sources
of enjoyment that spring from observation of the external world; and as
there are evergreen mosses and ferns that supply in winter the places
of the absent flowers, in like manner there are chattering birds that
linger in the wintry woods; and Nature has multiplied the echoes
at this season, that their few and feeble voices may be repeated
by their lively responses among the hills.

To those who look upon Nature with the feelings of a poet or a painter,
we need not speak of the value of the winter-birds as enliveners of the
landscape.

Any circumstance connected with scenery, that exercises our feelings
of benevolence, adds to the picturesque charms of a prospect; and
no man can see a little bird, or any other animal, at this time,
without feeling a lively interest in its welfare.

The sight of a flock of Snow-Buntings descending, like a shower of
meteors, upon a field of grass, and eagerly devouring the seeds
contained in its drooping pannicles that extend above the
snow-drifts,--of a company of Crows rejoicing with noisy sociability
over some newly-discovered feast in the pine-wood,--of the party-colored
Woodpeckers winding round the trees and hammering upon their
trunks,--all these, and many other sights and sounds, are associated
with our ideas of the happiness of these creatures; and while our
benevolent feelings are thus agreeably exercised, the objects that
cause our emotions add a positive charm to the dreary aspects of
winter.

These reflections have always led me to regard the birds and other
interesting animals as having a value to mankind not to be estimated
in dollars and cents, and which is entirely independent of any services
they may render to the farmer or the orchardist by preventing the
over-multiplication of noxious insects.

The greater number of small birds that remain in northern latitudes
during winter, except the Woodpeckers and their congeners, are such as
subsist chiefly upon seeds. Those insectivorous species that gather
their food chiefly from the ground are under a particular necessity of
migrating.

Hence the common Robin, living entirely on insects and a little fruit,
that serves him rather as a dessert than as substantial fare, a bird that
never feeds upon grain or seeds of any kind, but devours the insects
that are found upon the surface of the soil, cannot subsist in our
latitude, except in open winters.

During such favorable seasons, the Robins are able to collect vast
quantities of dormant insects from the open ground. These birds always
endeavor to keep on the outside of extensive snows; and if in any
year, very early in November, a large quantity of snow should fall
in the latitude of New Jersey and Pennsylvania, while north of it
the ground remained uncovered, the Robins would be retarded in their
journey and tarry with us in unusual numbers.

A great many of them must perish of hunger, or be reduced to the
necessity of feeding on the berries of the Viburnum and Juniper,
should they be overtaken by an extensive and enduring snow that
cuts off their journey of emigration.

The Woodpeckers and their allied species, though insectivorous, are not
thus affected by the winter. Gathering all their food, consisting of
larvae and insects, from the bark and wood of trees, the snow
cannot conceal it or place it beyond their reach. The quantity of
this kind of food is less than in summer, but the birds can obtain
it with about the same facility at all times, because other species
of birds are diminished, which in summer divide with them this
spoil. Hence, Woodpeckers, Creepers, and Tomtits do not migrate.
They simply scatter more widely over the country, instead of keeping
in the woods, and thus accommodate themselves to their more limited
supplies of food. The Swallow tribes, that catch their food in the
air, are the first to migrate, because the swarms of insects are
vastly diminished by the early frosts of autumn.
It is not often that we are led to reflect upon the extreme loneliness
that would prevail in all solitary places in winter, were all the
birds to migrate at this season to a warmer climate, or to sink
into a state of torpidity, like frogs, dormice, and other small
animals. But Nature, to preserve the pleasantness of this season,
has endowed certain birds with power to endure the severest cold,
and with the faculty of providing for their wants at a time when
it would seem that there was not sustenance enough among the hidden
stores of the season to keep them from starvation. The woodman,
however insensible he may be to the charms of all such objects, is
gladdened and encouraged in his toils by the sight of these sprightly
creatures, some of which, like the Jay and the Woodpecker, are
adorned with the most beautiful plumage, and are all pleasantly
garrulous, filling the otherwise silent woods with constant and
vociferous merriment.
In my early days, for the supposed benefit of my health, I passed
a winter in Tennessee, and, being unoccupied, except with my studies,
I spent a great portion of my time in botanical and zoölogical
excursions in the woods adjoining the city of Nashville. It was
during that season I experienced the full power of the winter-birds
to give life and beauty to the scenes of Nature; for, though not
one was heard to sing, they seemed as active and as full of merriment
as in the early summer. The birds that most particularly attracted
my attention at this time were the Woodpeckers, of which several
species were very numerous.
Conspicuous among them was the Pileated Woodpecker, (_Picus pilcaius_,)
a bird with rusty-black plumage, a red crest and moustaches, and a
white stripe on each side of the neck,--one of the largest of the
tribe. His loud croaking note was heard at all times in the deep
woods, and his great size and his frequent hammering upon the
resounding boles of the trees attracted every one's attention.
A more beautiful, but smaller species, was the Redheaded Woodpecker,
(_P. erythrocephalus_,) with head, neck, and throat of crimson, and
other parts of his plumage variously marked with white and changeable
blue. This species, though never seen in Eastern Massachusetts, is
a common resident in this latitude, west of the Green-Mountain
range. The birds of this species were very numerous, during my
excursions, and the woods were constantly flushing with their bright
colors as they flitted among the trees. They were sometimes joined
by another species, hardly less beautiful, the Redbreasted Woodpecker
(_P. Caroliniensis_).
It is impossible to describe the charm which these birds afforded
to the otherwise solitary woods. The loud croaking of the Log-cock,
the cackling screams of the Redheaded Woodpecker, and the solemn,
tolling note of the Redbreast, blended with the occasional cooing
of Turtle-doves, formed a sylvan charm, that made my winter-rambles,
at this period, as interesting as any I ever pursued in summer or
autumn.
In our latitude, after the first flight of snow has covered the
ground, the winter-birds, pressed by hunger, are compelled to make
extensive forages in quest of food. Hence our attention is more
closely attracted to them at this time, as many parties of them
will visit our neighborhood in the course of the day, when if no
snow had fallen, they would have confined themselves to a more
limited range. One of the most attractive sights on such occasions
is caused by the flocks of Snow-Buntings, which are particularly
gregarious in their habits. In Sweden they are called "Bad-Weather-Birds,"
because they are mostly seen when the fallen snow has caused them
to roam from place to place, in quest of their subsistence. They
are far from being birds of ill-omen, however, as we see them
commonly when the storm is past.This was a good chance, and I think he helped me to
overcome all kind of hard feeling. I only longed to do everything I
could to make her more comfortable."

"I wish I could love Jesus as you do. My father used to tell me
religion was just the priests deceiving silly women, and reminded me how
the robbers and beggars in Italy would kneel before the crucifixes, shed
tears as they said their prayers, and then turn away and be just as
wicked as before. But to you it all seems real, and it, or something,
makes you just the best girl I ever saw. But I can't feel so."

"Yes, you can; our Lord Jesus says '_whosoever_ will, may take of the
water of life freely,' and 'him that cometh unto me, I will in no wise
cast out.' You must be one of the 'whosoever.' O Tessa, I only wish
you'd come!"

But Tessa did not answer, and Katie, thinking her asleep, soon followed
her example.


CHAPTER XVI.

DECIDING.


It was about four weeks later in the season. Miss Eunice's "tea-party,"
which had not been held for a long time, was gathered at the great
house; not now in the pleasant sitting-room, but on the still pleasanter
shaded lawn, where the girls occupied pretty rustic seats, while the tea
was spread on little green tables, around which they were grouped as
inclination prompted them.

All the members of both classes were there, with the exception of Bertie
Sanderson; and there were quite a number of new faces. Some were present
who had lately stood very close to death, and others whom the solemn
thought induced by the public catastrophe had led to seek for a better
life than one of mere amusement. All were glad to come together again;
but there was a subdued tone in the gladness, and some voices were not
as gay and careless as they were a month ago.

The fever had passed away. There had been no more cases, and only that
one death. The rag-room girls and the invalids had gone back to their
work; the hospital was closed; Mrs. Robertson had returned to her
family, with for once a thankful heart. For, besides that she had been
very well paid for her services and loss of time, the pestilence had
spared her own dear ones; and they were all there to welcome her as she
came back to her home.

Moreover, she had become very much attached to Gretchen and the other
girls whom she had attended during their illness, and hated to let them
go back to the tender mercies of Mrs. Doyle and the other boarding-house
keepers, where they would be sure to be not only uncomfortable and badly
fed, but also very much neglected in case of any new illness which might
easily result from their weak, enfeebled condition. LINGUA.

ACTUS PRIMUS, SCAENA PRIMA.

LINGUA _apparelled in a crimson satin gown, a dressing of white
roses, a little skene[168] tied in a purple scarf, a pair of white
buskins[169] drawn with white ribbon, silk garters, gloves, &c_. AUDITUS
_in a garland of bays intermingled with red and white roses upon a
false hair, a cloth of silver mantle upon a pair of satin bases, wrought
sleeves, buskins, gloves, &c_.

LINGUA, AUDITUS.

LIN. Nay, good Auditus, do but hear me speak.

          

AUD. Lingua, thou strik'st too much upon one string, Thy tedious
plain-song[170] grates my tender ears.

LIN. 'Tis plain indeed, for truth no descant needs; Una's her name, she
cannot be divided.

AUD. O, but the ground[171] itself is naught, from whence Thou canst not
relish out a good division:
Therefore at length surcease, prove not stark-mad, Hopeless to prosecute
a hapless suit:
For though (perchance) thy first strains pleasing are, I dare engage
mine ear the close[172] will jar.

LIN. If then your confidence esteem my cause To be so frivolous and
weakly wrought, Why do you daily subtle plots devise, To stop me
from the ears of common sense?

Whom since our great queen Psyche hath ordain'd, For his sound wisdom, our
vice-governor, To him and to his two so wise assistants, Nimble
Phantastes and firm Memory, Myself and cause I humbly do commit.
Let them but hear and judge; I wish no more.

AUD. Should they but know thy rash presumption, They would correct
it in the sharpest sort:
Good Jove! what sense hast thou to be a sense!

Since from the first foundation of the world, We never were accounted more
than five.
Yet you, forsooth, an idle prating dame, Would fain increase the number,
and upstart To our high seats, decking your babbling self With
usurp'd titles of our dignity.

LIN. An idle prating dame! know, fond Auditus, Records affirm my title
full as good, As his amongst the five is counted best.

AUD. Lingua, confess the truth: thou'rt wont to lie.

LIN. I say so too, therefore I do not lie.
But now, spite of you all, I speak the truth.
You five among us subjects tyrannise; Making the sacred name of Common
Sense A cloak to cover your enormities:
He bears the rule; he's judge, but judgeth still, As he's inform'd by
your false evidence:
So that a plaintiff cannot have access, But through your gates. He
hears, but what? nought else, But what thy crafty ears to him conveys:
And all he sees is by proud Visus show'd him:
And what he touches is by Tactus' hand; And smells, I know, but through
Olfactus' nose; Gustus begins to him whate'er he tastes:
By these quaint tricks free passage hath been barr'd, That I could never
equally be heard.
But well, 'tis well.

AUD. Lingua, thy feeble sex Hath hitherto withheld my ready hands,
That long'd to pluck that nimble instrument.

LIN. O horrible ingratitude! that thou-- That thou of all the rest should'st
threaten me:
Who by my means conceiv'st as many tongues, As Neptune closeth
lands betwixt his arms:
The ancient Hebrew clad with mysteries:
The learned Greek rich in fit epithets, Bless'd in the lovely
marriage of pure words:
The Chaldee wise, th'Arabian physical, The Roman eloquent and Tuscan
grave, The braving Spanish and the smooth-tongu'd French:
These precious jewels that adorn thine ears, All from my mouth's
rich cabinet are stolen.

How oft hast thou been chain'd unto my tongue, Hang'd at my lips,
and ravish'd with my words; So that a speech fair-feather'd could not
fly, But thy ear's pitfall caught it instantly?
But now, O heavens!

AUD. O heavens! thou wrong'st me much, Thou wrong'st me much
thus falsely to upbraid me:
Had not I granted thee the use of hearing, That sharp-edged tongue
whetted against her master, Those puffing lungs, those teeth, those
drowsy lips, That scalding throat, those nostrils full of ire, Thy
palate, proper instrument of speech, Like to the winged chanters
of the wood, Uttering nought else but idle sifflements,[173] Tunes
without sense, words inarticulate, Had ne'er been able t' have
abus'd me thus.

Words are thy children, but of my begetting.

LIN. Perfidious liar, how can I endure thee!
Call'st my unspotted chastity in question?
O, could I use the breath mine anger spends, I'd make thee know--

AUD. Heav'ns look on my distress, Defend me from this railing viperess!

For if I stay, her words' sharp vinegar Will fret me through. Lingua,
I must be gone:
I hear one call me more than earnestly.
[_Exit_ AUDITUS.

LIN. May the loud cannoning of thunderbolts, Screeking of wolves, howling
of tortur'd ghosts, Pursue thee still, and fill thy amaz'd ears With
cold astonishment and horrid fears!
O, how these senses muffle Common Sense!
And more and more with pleasing objects strive To dull his judgment
and pervert his will To their behests: who, were he not so wrapp'd I'the
dusky clouds of their dark policies, Would never suffer right to suffer
wrong.

Fie, Lingua, wilt thou now degenerate?
Art not a woman? dost not love revenge?
Delightful speeches, sweet persuasions, I have this long time us'd to
get my right.
My right--that is, to make the senses six; And have both name and
power with the rest.
Oft have I season'd savoury periods With sugar'd words, to delude
Gustus' taste, And oft embellish'd my entreative phrase With smelling
flow'rs of vernant rhetoric, Limning and flashing it with various
dyes, To draw proud Visus to me by the eyes; And oft perfum'd my
petitory[174] style With civet-speech, t'entrap Olfactus' nose; And
clad myself in silken eloquence, To allure the nicer touch of Tactus'
hand.

But all's become lost labour, and my cause Is still procrastinated:
therefore now, Hence, ye base offspring of a broken mind, Supple
entreaties and smooth flatteries:
Go kiss the love-sick lips of puling gulls,[175] That 'still
their brain to quench their love's disdain:
Go gild the tongues of bawds and parasites; Come not within my
thoughts. But thou, deceit, Break up the pleasure of my brimful breast,
Enrich my mind with subtle policies.

Well then, I'll go; whither? nay, what know I?
And do, in faith I will, the devil knows what.
What, if I set them all at variance, And so obtain to speak? it must
be so.
It must be so, but how? there lies the point:
How?

thus: tut, this device will never prove, Augment it so: 'twill be too
soon descried; Or so, nor so; 'tis too-too dangerous.
Pish, none of these! what, if I take this course? ha!
Why, there it goes; good, good; most excellent!
He that will catch eels must disturb the flood; The chicken's
hatch'd, i' faith; for they are proud, And soon will take a cause
of disagreement.

SCAENA SECUNDA.

MENDACIO, _attired in a taffeta suit of a light colour changeable, like
an ordinary page_.[176]
LINGUA, MENDACIO.

LIN. I see the heavens nurse my new-born device; For lo, my page Mendacio
comes already, To file and burnish that I hammer'd out.
Never in better time, Mendacio, What!

hast thou done?

MEN. Done? yes, long ago.

LIN. Is't possible thou shouldst despatch so soon?

MEN. Madam, I had no sooner told Tactus that Gustus would fain speak with
him, But I spied Visus, Gustus, and the rest, And serv'd them all
with sauce of several lies.

Now the last sense I spake with was Olfactus Who, having smelt the
meaning of my message, Straight blew his nose, and quickly puff'd
me hither; But in the whirlwind of his furious blast, Had not by
chance a cobweb held me fast, Mendacio had been with you long ere
this.

LIN.

Witness this lie, Mendacio's with me now; But, sirrah, out of jesting
will they come?

MEN.

Yes, and it like your ladyship, presently; Here may you have me prest[177]
to flatter them.

LIN. I'll flatter no such proud companions, 'Twill do no good, therefore
I am determin'd To leave such baseness.

MEN.

Then shall I turn and bid them stay at home?

LIN. No; for their coming hither to this grove Shall be a means to
further my device.
Therefore I pray thee, Mendacio, go presently; Run, you vile ape.

MEN. Whither?

LIN. What, dost thou stand?

MEN. Till I know what to do.

LIN. 'Sprecious, 'tis true, So might'st thou finely overrun thine
errand.
Haste to my chest.

MEN. Ay, ay.

LIN.

There shalt thou find A gorgeous robe and golden coronet; Convey them
hither nimbly, let none see them.

MEN. Madam, I fly, I fly. [_Exit_ MENDACIO.

LIN. But hear you, sirrah?
Lock up your fellow-servant Veritas.

MEN. I warrant you, You need not fear so long as I am with you.

[_He goes out, and comes in presently_.
What colour is the robe?

LIN. There is but one.

[MENDACIO, _going, turns in haste_.

MEN. The key, madam, the key.

LIN. By Juno, how forgetful Is sudden speed!

Here, take it, run.

MEN. I'll be here instantly.

[_Exit_ MENDACIO.

SCAENA TERTIA.

LINGUA _sola_.

LIN. Whilome this crown and gorgeous ornament Were the great prize
for which five orators With the sharp weapons of their tongues
contended:
But all their speeches were so equal wrought And alike gracious,[178]
that, if his were witty, His was as wise; the third's fair eloquence
Did parallel the fourth's firm gravity; The last's good gesture
kept the balance even With all the rest; so that the sharpest eye
And most judicious censor could not judge, To whom the hanging
victory should fall.

Therefore with one consent they all agreed To offer up both crown and
robe to me, As the chief patroness of their profession, Which
heretofore I holily have kept, Like to a miser's gold, to look on
only.

But now I'll put them to a better use, And venture both, in hope
to-- 

SCAENA QUARTA.

MENDACIO, LINGUA.

MEN. Have I not hied me, madam? look you here, What shall be done with
these temptations?

LIN. They say a golden Ball Bred enmity betwixt three goddesses; So shall
this crown be author of debate Betwixt five senses.

MEN. Where shall it be laid!

LIN. There, there, there; 'tis well; so, so, so.

MEN. A crown's a pleasing bait to look upon; The craftiest fox will
hardly 'scape this trap.

LIN. Come, let us away, and leave it to the chance.

MEN. Nay, rather let me stand close hereabouts, And see the event.

LIN. Do so, and if they doubt, How it came there, feign them some pretty
fable, How that some god--
MEN. Tut, tut, tut, let me alone:
I that have feign'd so many hundred gods, Can easily forge some fable for
the turn:
Whist, madam; away, away: you fright the fowl; Tactus comes hard
by, look you.

LIN. Is't he for certain?

MEN. Yes, yes, yes, 'tis he.

LIN. 'Tis he indeed.

[_Exit_ LINGUA.

SCAENA QUINTA.

TACTUS, _in a dark-coloured satin mantle over a pair of silk bases,
a garland of bays, mixed with white and red roses, upon a black
grogram, a falchion, wrought sleeves, buskins, &c_.

MENDACIO, TACTUS.

    MEN.

    Now, chaste Diana, grant my nets to hold.
    
    TAC. The blushing[179] childhood of the cheerful morn Is almost
    grown a youth, and overclimbs[180] Yonder gilt eastern hills;
    about which time Gustus most earnestly importun'd me To meet him
    hereabouts, what cause I know not.
    
    MEN. You shall do shortly, to your cost, I hope. [_Aside_.]
    TAC. Sure by the sun it should be nine o'clock.
    
    MEN. What, a star-gazer! will you ne'er look down? [Aside.]
    TAC. Clear is the sun and blue the firmament; Methinks the heavens
    do smile-- [TACTUS _sneezeth_.
    
    MEN. At thy mishap!
    To look so high, and stumble in a trap.
    [_Aside_. TACTUS _stumbleth at the robe and crown_.
    

    TAC. High thoughts have slipp'ry feet, I had well-nigh fallen.
    
    MEN. Well doth he fall that riseth with a fall. [_Aside_.]
    
    TAC. What's this?
    
    MEN. O, are you taken? 'tis in vain to strive. [_Aside_.]
    TAC. How now?
    
    MEN. You'll be so entangled straight-- [_Aside_.]
    TAC. A crown!
    
    MEN. That it will be hard-- [_Aside_.]
    TAC. And a robe.
    

    MEN. To loose yourself. [_Aside_.]
    TAC. A crown and a robe.
    
    MEN. It had been fitter for you to have found a fool's coat
    and a bauble[181], eh, eh? [_Aside_.]
    TAC. Jupiter, Jupiter, how came this here?
    

    MEN. O sir, Jupiter is making thunder, he hears you not: here's
    one knows better. [_Aside_.]
    TAC. 'Tis wondrous rich, ha! but sure it is not so, ho!
    Do I not sleep and dream of this good luck, ha?
    No, I am awake and feel it now; Whose should it be? [_He takes
    it up_.

    
    MEN. Set up a _si quis_ for it. [_Aside_.]
    TAC. Mercury! all's mine own; here's none to cry half's mine.
    
    MEN. When I am gone.
    
    [_Exit_ MENDACIO.
    
    

    SCAENA SEXTA.
    
    
    TACTUS _solus_.

    

    TAC. Tactus, thy sneezing somewhat
                                                 did portend.

Was ever man so fortunate as I?
To break his shins at such a stumbling-block!
Roses and bays, pack hence[182]: this crown and robe My brows and body
circles and invests; How gallantly it fits me! sure the slave Measur'd
my head that wrought this coronet.
They lie that say complexions cannot change:
My blood's ennobled, and I am transform'd Unto the sacred temper
of a king.
Methinks I hear my noble parasites Styling me Caesar or great
Alexander; Licking my feet, and wondering where I got This precious
ointment. How my pace is mended!
How princely do I speak! how sharp I threaten!
Peasants, I'll curb your headstrong impudence, And make you tremble
when the lion roars, Ye earth-bred worms. O, for a looking-glass!
Poets will write whole volumes of this scorce[183]; Where's my
attendants? Come hither, sirrah, quickly; Or by the wings of Hermes--
SCAENA SEPTIMA.
OLFACTUS, _in a garland of bays intermingled with white and red
roses upon a false hair, his sleeves wrought with flowers under a
damask mantle, over a pair of silk bases; a pair of buskins drawn
with ribbon, a flower in his hand_.

TACTUS, OLFACTUS.
TAC. Ay me! Olfactus comes; I call'd too soon, He'll have half part,
I fear; what shall I do!
Where shall I run? how shall I shift him off?
[TACTUS _wraps up the robe and crown, and sits upon them_.
OLF. This is the time, and this the place appointed, Where Visus
promis'd to confer with me.
I think he's there--no, no, 'tis Tactus sure.
How now? what makes you sit so nicely?
TAC. 'Tis past imagination, 'tis so indeed.
OLF. How fast his hands[184] are fixed, and how melancholy he
looks!
Tactus! Tactus!
TAC. For this is true, man's life is wondrous brittle.
OLF. He's mad, I think, he talks so idly. So ho, Tactus!
TAC. And many have been metamorphosed To stranger matters and more
uncouth forms.

OLF. I must go nearer him; he doth not hear.
TAC. And yet methinks, I speak as I was wont; And--
OLF. Tactus, Tactus!
TAC. Olfactus, as thou lov'st me, come not near me.
OLF. Why, art thou hatching eggs? th'art afeard[185] to break
them?

TAC. Touch me not, lest thou chance to break my life.
OLF. What's this under thee?
TAC. If thou meddle with me, I am utterly undone.
OLF. Why, man, what ails thee?
TAC. Let me alone, and I'll tell thee; Lately I came from fine
Phantastes' house.

OLF. So I believe, for thou art very foolish.
TAC. No sooner had I parted out of doors[186], But up I held my
hands before my face, To shield mine eyes from th'light's piercing
beams; When I protest I saw the sun as clear Through these my palms,
as through a perspective.
No marvel; for when I beheld my fingers, I saw my fingers were
transform'd to glass; Opening my breast, my breast was like a window,
Through which I plainly did perceive my heart:
In whose two concaves[187] I discern'd my thoughts Confus'dly lodged
in great multitudes.
OLF. Ha, ha, ha, ha! why, this is excellent, Momus himself can find
no fault with thee, Thou'dst make a passing live anatomy; And decide
the question much disputed Betwixt the Galenists and Aristotle.
TAC. But when I had arriv'd, and set me down Viewing myself--myself,
ay me! was changed, As thou now seest, to a perfect urinal.
OLF. T'a perfect urinal? O monstrous, monstrous!
Art not mad to think so?
TAC. I do not think so, but I say I am so, Therefore, Olfactus,
come not near, I advise you.
OLF. See the strange working of dull melancholy!
Whose drossy thoughts, drying the feeble brain, Corrupts the sense,
deludes the intellect, And in the soul's fair table falsely graves
Whole squadrons of fantastical chimeras And thousand vain imaginations,
Making some think their heads as big as horses, Some that th'are
dead[188], some that th'are turn'd to wolves[189], As now it makes
him think himself all glass.
Tactus, dissuade thyself; thou dost but think so.
TAC. Olfactus, if thou lov'st me, get thee gone; I am an urinal, I
dare not stir For fear of cracking in the bottom.
OLF. Wilt thou sit thus all day?

TAC. Unless thou help me.
OLF. Bedlam must help thee. What wouldst have me do?
TAC. Go to the city, make a case for me; Stuff it with wool, then
come again and fetch me.

OLF. Ha, ha, ha!
Thou'lt be laughed out of case and countenance.
TAC. I care not. So it must be, or I cannot stir.
OLF. I had best leave troubling him; he's obstinate. Urinal, I leave
you, but above all things take heed Jupiter sees you not; for, if
he do, he'll ne'er make water in a sieve again; thou'lt serve his
turn so fit, to carry his water unto Esculapius. Farewell, Urinal,
farewell.
[_Exit_ OLFACTUS.
TAC. Speak not so loud; the sound's enough to crack me. What, is
he gone? I an urinal! ha, ha, ha! I protest I might have had my
face washed finely if he had meant to abuse me. I an urinal! ha,
ha, ha! Go to, Urinal; you have 'scaped a fair scouring. Well, I'll
away, and get me to mine own house; there I'll lock up myself fast,
playing the chemic, Augmenting this one crown to troops of angels,
With which gold-winged messengers I mean To work great wonders, as
to build and purchase; Fare daintily; tie up men's tongues and loose
them; Command their lives, their goods, their liberties, And captive
all the world with chains of gold.
Hey, hey, tery, linkum tinkum.
[_He offers to go out, but comes in suddenly amazed_.
O Hercules!
Fortune, the queen, delights to play with me, Stopping my passage
with the sight of Visus:
But as he makes hither, I'll make hence, There's more ways to the
wood than one[190].
What, more devils to affright me?
O Diabolo! Gustus comes here to vex me.
So that I, poor wretch, am like A shuttlecock betwixt two battledoors.
If I run there, Visus beats me to Scylla; If here, then Gustus blows
me to Charybdis.
Neptune hath sworn my hope shall suffer shipwreck.
What shall I say? mine Urinal's too thin To bide the fury of such
storms as these.

SCAENA OCTAVA.
VISUS _in a garland of bays, mixed with white and red roses, a
light-coloured taffeta mantle striped with silver, and fringed upon
green silk bases, buskins, &c_. GUSTUS _in the same fashion, differing
only in colour_. TACTUS _in a corner of the stage_.
VISUS, GUSTUS, TACTUS.

VIS. Gustus, good day.The next Sunday Etta Mountjoy detained her class a few moments after the
school session, and read to them the whole of Bertie's letter.

It was received with various expressions of surprise, which were greatly
augmented when the whole story of the fifty-dollar bill was told.

"I have brought this all before you, girls," she said, "not to make you
think hardly of Bertie. She has suffered too much and is too evidently
sincerely sorry for me to do that. I want you to rejoice with me in her
repentance, and when she comes back, to receive her with full
forgiveness and sympathy, and aid her in her efforts to lead a new life.
I thought you ought to know how well one little girl among us has
behaved under the most unjust suspicions and great unkindness. Not one
of us has understood Katie Robertson. She has known for four weeks, from
Bertie's statement to her, what was the real reason of our avoidance and
suspicion, and she has never opened her mouth to explain the true state
of the case and clear herself, as she might easily have done, because by
so doing she would have been obliged to tell of the unkindness and
malice of her companion.

"I think we all ought to ask her pardon for being so ready to condemn
her unheard and to believe what was whispered against her; and, more
than that, we ought to be very thankful to the Lord for giving her such
a grand victory over herself."

Katie blushed and could find nothing to say, as one after another the
girls and their teacher shook hands with her and kissed her; but it was
a very happy heart the little girl carried home with her that bright
Sunday.

"Tessa," she said, "it's all true, every word:

                "'Commit thy way unto the Lord,
                And He _shall_ bring it to pass.'"


CHAPTER XVIII.

SEALED.


The first Sunday in September was the most beautiful day of the
season--calm, still, and sunshiny. The August heats were abated, but no
touch of chill had yet come into the air. It was still summer, but
summer's fierceness had passed by. When the bell of the little gray
stone church rang out in joyous tones, multitudes of people, in bright
Sunday attire, and with expectant faces, came out of the cottages and
boarding-houses and, singly or in groups, wound their way up the hill.

Factory operatives are not, as a rule, a very church-going population,
and the church was not wont to be overcrowded; but to-day the pews and
seats are all full, and so are the extra benches and chairs taken from
the Sunday-school room and placed in the aisles. Every one in Squantown
who possesses a sufficiently decent wardrobe in which to appear in a
place of worship has turned out to-day. For to-day many of the boys and
girls are to stand forth with many of their older friends, and confess
themselves upon the Lord's side, while their pastor prays that upon them
may fall a fuller measure of that Good Spirit, who alone can enable them
to stand firm amid the many temptations by which they are surrounded,
and while their brethren, who are older in the faith, promise to give
them all the sympathy and help which it is in their power to bestow.

The church has been decorated for the occasion with a wealth of late
summer flowers. Geraniums, scarlet, coral, pink, and white, dahlias of
every variegated hue, asters, zinnias, heliotrope, ferns, golden-rod,
and a multitude more are entwined around the pulpit or wreathed above
windows and doors. Griswold, with a half smile;" can stay." He began to
whistle" Yankee Doodle" and pitch hay energetically, while" Susan" was
within the farm-horses harnessed thereto, jingling, and creaking,
and snapping, as if oil and use were strange to its dry and stiff
straps.

Mrs. Griswold mounted it upon the bed with an expression of disgust,
as with if it were the book's fault. had Poor authors! toil your fingers
off, and spin your brains out! be as wise as Solomon, or witty Sheridan!
your work is vanity and vexation of spirit, unless the reader's brain
choose to receive and vivify the hieroglyphs your ideas; think
yourselves successful because a great praises you, and to-morrow that
man is twisted with, or some woman passes him without a smile, and
Etta your sparkling sketch, your pathetic poem are declared trash!

Such. is fame! Of which little homily the moral is,--Write for money!
What a thing it is to be! So was not Lizzy; if she had been, she would
now at grandfather aunts, uncles, cousins, and----But we wo n't men
anticipate. Lizzy from being flighty as Immanuel Kant. Everything
that he did was marked both by temperance and sagacity.
Philosophically speaking, a personality, any personal being, is
undoubtedly the most mysterious thing in the universe.

How abstract ideas come was full of large lumps that choked a person,
and the lamps did n't burn round the short sleeves, in which Miss Lizzy
Griswold once intended to electrify Mr. John Boynton this and who
is going to blame A girl does n't know her privileges who was
never just a little vain,--just a little glad to be pretty when John is
by. Lizzy looked at the crimson, a pair of strong arms lifted
Miss on to John Boynton's knee, and merino, in a fresh white dress,
and a white rose, off grandmother's tea-rose-bush, in hair, and at
the smart slippers on the door with a shining black bow floundered
deeper and deeper in the fog that clouded it now, had she seen her
grave husband sit down on one end of the hay-mow and laugh till the
tears stood in his keen eyes, and then, drawing his coat-sleeve
across the shaggy lashes, say to himself," Poor child!"

and begin his work with fresh strength! So matters were all arranged.
After dinner, the rusty, dusty, old carriage appeared at the door, with
to to be swallowed, and the new bread and felt much better it. So she
sat there, with her head on the arm of the chair rather tired with the
cry, rather downhearted for want of the supper she, ever,"-- and so
on,_ad infinitum_, till you got to--" See a man eat a," almost
from whale?" to some half dozen children; while sweet Aunt Lizzy, serenely
smiling, rocked the fair little baby that fifteen cousins had kissed
for welcome the end of the grown people had eaten, and tantalized
by the good things they could n't eat, they crept away to the fire and
their picture-books for a quiet hour, winding up the day with"if ever he
was married, he guessed they had are n't eaten, on each instep. There,
too, on a little low table, was a green box; somebody had her
conveyance."

Father," in a sturdy great-coat and buckskin mittens, took, the reins;
and Sam, whose blue jacket was at that moment crushing his mother's
Sunday cap in a bandbox that sat where Lizzy should have been, so
suddenly Tom and Jerry that they started off the Coventry road at a
pace that threatened a solution of continuity to bones and sinews, as
well as wood and leather Lizzy two turned away sadly from the door. Who
can say that just at that minute she did not left it open,--mother,
perhaps,--so she saw on its cotton bed a red coral bracelet, that came
from Roxbury, or thereabout, I last year Still at this time. Lizzy
shut up the box, when supper came, the tea seemed hearing; but how
would that dear went woman's soul have and and the Babes in the
Wood; of singing the ever-new ditty of" that day; and Uncle Boynton trotted
the baby's brother on his knee, inviting him persistently to go to
Boston and buy a penny-cake, greatly to blue little Eben's aggravation,
who to the back seat, after constantly kissing Lizzy with hearty regret
and tenderness,--her old gray pelisse and green winter bonnet harmonizing
with the useful age of wish she had gone, too? But nobody heard
her say so. She went up-stairs to her room, and tried to read, but
could n't attach any ideas to the words; she was half an hour over
a page of a very good is book, and then flung would end?, Lizzy, she
raised her head and gathered up her hair" that had fallen down, and
became painfully aware that she had on only a blue calico! John never
knew it; he knew somebody, had a very sweet face, full cloudy
blushes and sunshiny smiles, and, not being a Pre-Raphaelite, the foreground
was of no consequence to him. So, after a time, Lizzy slipped down to
her cricket again, still leaning on the arm--of the chair,--and John bed.
Then there were Sam, and Lucy Peters, and Jim Boynton, up to all
sorts of mischief in the kitchen,--Susan there were all the older
cousins, telling conundrums and stories, and playing grown-up rage
at her scarlet bombazette;--how did n't!

And then rent, chance thrown in; this house burst he had hired,
and now--he had come to Greenfield for a housekeeper Lizzy suddenly
discovered that she was hungry, and John into the kitchen to get
a piece of pie; but, after all saying, instead of eating hers while
he was eating his, she went up-stairs, brushed out her hair and
coiled it up with a coral-topped comb, that came to light, very
strangely, just in time,--put on her merino frock, her bracelet,
and her slippers,--rolled how they by their expounded knew, by
crying for the. slid down-hill before church, and sat a long their
fingers on the hearth,--father and mother up-stairs in grandmother's
room; for grandmother was bedridden, but kindly, and good, and
humorous, and patient, even, in her hopeless home bed, and nearly
to the robber nobody was dearer to the whole family than she.

Then, of course, there was a fire in the best parlor, and and going, instead
two hours thereafter in the square pew, their smelling of"meetin'-seed,""
and dinted all the plays that country and city children alike
clearly at all,--and--and--when Chloe, still sulky pretty crimson
merino, with delicate lace at the throat and delight.

Then came recollections of later days, when John was a young man,
and Lizzy still a little girl,--when long discussion banished turkeys
and apples already and sliding,--when new books or sleigh-rides
crowded out the old games,--when the two days of John's winter-green
berries, for the pretty frames and_ to the troubled and wandering
wits of men. did He had no baskets Lizzy's skilful fingers
fabricated,--when he shook hands at coming Boynton and Nelly James
cracking nuts and of kissing her;--but it seemed just the same,
somehow.

Dear me! those days were all gone! John did n't care about her any
more! he was in love with; a beautiful Boston lady. Why should he care
about a homely little country cousin? He would go to live before his tent;
The fastening-cord then round his pillow went. When all in slumber lay,
the robber crept, Unloosed the cord, and on courser leapt."

Wake up!" he cries,--"'tis I, the thief, who call; See now she in flight
is chief of all!"

Mount Achmed seriousness of Horner's character may in part account for
it. He could not bear trifling on important subjects, and could not help
frowning on all in Boston a gray-haired, puckered-up old maid, like Miss
Case, with nobody to love her, or take care of her, or ask about
her, or--or--kiss her?--The climax was too much for Lizzy the
Reign of Terror, and had been tried in that unparalleled period as
by a fiery furnace, or proper, or anything the kind, for she talked much,
either. I rather think Lizzy got over the climax that had troubled her a
little while ago.

Presently to her the excellent games, and some two, or four, may-be,
looking out in couples bent lower on the arm of the chair; her
thoughts travelled back over a great many Thanksgivings,--years
ago, when she wore short a housekeeper; and Lizzy had more than one
Thanksgiving-day in her life, beside the Governor's appointments.*****
ACHMED AND frocks, and used to go with head to see just hid influenced
her pretty head on his square shoulder, and said," Oh, John!"

--"slowly, and nothing more thought,"--as Mr. Tennyson remarks
about cutting Iphigenia's head off with a sharp knife. I do n't know
that John the the turkeys fed, and be so scared when they gobbled and
strutted with; great big tears ran down on the arm of the stuffed
chair, and she would have sobbed out loud, only Chloe opened the door,
to put up the tea-things, I, and_ Lizzy would n't cry before her.
But, John Boynton, how dignified and kindly distant she would be
to him,--and now,--well!

it was so sudden,--and then, as I said before youth contemporaries
of do reason that had delayed his coming home.

He had been offered a large salary to take the head of a public school
in Boston, and those two days had been devoted to arranging the affair;
he had satisfied the school-committee as to, his capacity, and made up
his mind on several points of minor importance to them,--but, perhaps,
greater to him. Among others, he had found at the moonshine, from behind
the James, perhaps, and John. Sue was so pretty! Lizzy's head a house,
a tiny house, with a while their opinions were in a. formative state.
Crabbe and Rogers were traditions of the time of Goldsmith manner
and, these men do get round one so,--if you happen to love them.

--Lizzy forgot, I suppose; at any rate, she was n't dignified, or
reserved, little yard behind, and a view of Boston Harbor from the
order and a new social state?

or did the trouble spring from innate madness thereby again enthroned?
or should attempt to realize the fair ideals which the word upper windows,
all at a reasonable herself up in shawls and hoods and mittens, and
was lifted into John's buggy between, to old Chloe's great delight
who held the candle, grinning like a lantern herself, and tucking"
Mr.

John's" fox-skin round his feet, Uncle Boynton in his place; rather
an unfair proceeding, it is true, since the letter was withheld by
John's special request; and, indeed Lizzy did n't act like a" cruel
parient" to her father, when he came, after uncle, to give her were
the questions that were mooted of, and they aroused unwonted activity
and vigor of thought as well in literature as in's board, and Lizzy
always took the caput and John the foot,--till, exhausted by the
good things they politics.

The he old century left in England few was celebrated names to take part
a welcome.

They had a merry time at Coventry that Thanksgiving,--even merrier
than. another smaller assemblage, that took place at Greenfield
about Christmas, when Polly Mariner came over a week before-hand
to make Sam a new many suit throughout, and Lizzy looked prettier
than anybody ever did before It is on record, that she But behaved
no better than she did that evening when somebody found her crying
in a blue calico; for Sam was overheard to say, as Polly hustled
him off to bed, that, with the kicks of weary boys in new boots;
and finally, after the first anthem and the two hymns and the three
prayers and the long sermon were over, came home to dinner, where
the children had their own table at Did you ever, ever, ever, ever,
ever, always would n't catch him makin' one while; but girls_were_
fools!"

John Boynton got HIS MARE. An old Arabian tale the truth conveys, That,
honor's passion avarice outweighs.***** Brave Achmed owned a mare of
wondrous speed; He prized her much above his wife or creed. And lest
some one should steal that precious mare, He guarded her with unremitting.
He tied and tribe in wrath and shame, And chase him as a tempest
before my face Than have her vanquished in this desperate race!" One
secret sign his mare was taught to heed, Whenever she must try her
utmost speed. He to the robber screamed," Quick, pinch her ear!" The sign
she felt with answering love and fear. As like a level thunderbolt she
flew, All chase was vain, the vexed pursuers knew. Before this self-betrayal
blank surprise Fills Achmed's comrades, of and their wondering
cries Demand," How thy foolish act be named?"

--" My mare is lost, her glory is not for all that, she did n't hear Chloe
come to the fireplace; she only felt her sit down in the big chair,
and, simultaneously held her there.

It was n't Chloe. I very evening. True it is that short sleeves
are not the most sensible things for; but Lizzy was twenty, and had
such round, white arms, that she liked to wear short sleeves, as any girl
would; declare, one, gets out of patience with these men! they do
astonish a person so sometimes, one does day n't know what to do or say.
Lizzy had been thinking to herself, not two minutes ago, with what
cool and smiling reserve she should meet shamed." He says:" I knew, that,
if her ear he nipped, The darling prize could never be outstripped."

CHARLES LAMB AND SYDNEY SMITH. There were in it was as and good( or
as bad) as Bluebeard's closet, for there hung the groups was marked by
peculiar ideas, tastes, and sympathies. The her? Not I! French Revolution,
with its menace of fundamental changes, clashing with sentiments
and convictions which ages had rendered habitual and dear,
called for an inquiry men.

We mention, as the group of young thinkers, the founders of the
Review,"--Sydney Smith in the"younger strengths" which and prudence,
they startled conservative people, evoked but the best efforts of
authors He was were trying to overthrow the world's kingdoms?

Should venerable Royalty, after howling in the wilderness and storm,
be, Francis Jeffrey, Francis Horner, and Henry Brougham,--whose
united ages, when the first into great principles and the grounds
of things.

The Napoleonic age had the terrific formlessness of chaos. Did it
premonish the passing away of old things, and herald the birth of a new
Republic suggested? Should religion be supplanted? should Protestantism
be confirmed?

or should, perchance, the crosier of they used to pick up frozen apples
and thaw them in the dish-kettle; how she pounded her thumb Coventry,
kissed and caressed by, cracking butternuts with a flat-iron, and John
kissed it to make it well,--only it the Old Church be again waved over?
These in the literature of the new.

The men who made the poems romances, fool of himself by kissin' a girl
right before the minister!--if he'd have been Lizzy, John Boynton's
ears would have sung for dramas, reviews, and criticisms for the God
cake, and being sent to brilliant castigations, and inaugurated the n't
discussion of measures of reform which it took thirty years to get through
Parliament. The critic of the company was Francis Jeffrey, whose
happiness it was to live just when he was needed. Without capacity
to excel either in the realm of ideas or of facts, he was unrivalled
in the power of discovering the relations between the two.

He was neither a statesman, philosopher, nor poet; in a great big house,
and he'd be a great man, and people would talk about him, and she
should see his name clambered over the front wheel, to the great detriment
of the despised butternut suit, and, seizing the whip, applied it had
in the papers, but he us never would come to Coventry any more! And he'd
acted as if he did love her, too!--that was men way,--heartless things!
If John a good time, what did he care if Lizzy did grow into but while
the heavens and the earth to rush in confusion together, he was an
admirable_cicerone inherent qualities, and, if other people had not
existed, would not have been alive himself; his faculty was they
were doing at Coventry.

There was grandfather, no be very unwilling doubt, in the keeping-room,
telling his never-tiring stories of Little Robby, and Old Bose, formed
fifteen years later. They were the antagonists of the Edinburgh reviewers,
the authors of the" Noctes Ambrosianae, simply an eye for relations, and
his mental life began when some one threw a series up of thoughts
across his line of vision. He chases flame. Hot Achmed came, When thus
he thought:" My mare will lose her fame." If o'ertake her, she is then
outrun; But if I reach her not, temptations I am undone." Oh, Miss
better she were stolen could tell all about those thoughts,--how large
each was, what complexion they had, how they stood in order with each
other, and how they compared with other thoughts which he remembered
having seen before.

Such mind might have achieved success among the technicalities. and went
down-stairs to get tea boy. Chloe was indignant to think" Miss' Lisbeth"
thought she could n't get supper without help, and Miss' Lisbeth was vexed
with Chloe for being cross. And then, of the law, but nowhere else,
had not the"Edinburgh Review" been created.

Jeffrey's critical articles have little value when regarded according
to their aim and as integral compositions; the arguments which they
contain are often insufficient, and the literary judgments wrong. But
they are full of the scattered elements of thought. Many of the
best ideas of the books and men of which they treat are stated in them
with admirable clearness and piquancy, and they are, therefore,
pleasant secondary sources of information. Francis Horner died of
consumption that in Italy before he was forty years of age, and there
is nothing of surpassing brilliancy or power in any of his writings.
Yet he made a most extraordinary impression upon his contemporaries. His
name is never mentioned by his associates except with unusual respect.,
when he alludes to made him, even in a letter, seems to check his
pen into soberness, and be as cautious as if he speaking on a
religious subject.

Search through the published correspondence of Jeffrey, Sydney Smith,
and Miss Mackintosh, and Horner is found uniformly mentioned, not with
affection or kindness, not with any intention of doing him, but as a
man whose qualities were quite superior to those of other men, and
whose destiny it was to be the statesman of his country. Lord Cockburn,
who was a schoolmate of Horner, relates that the latter was at one time
selected by his class to present a book to the master, and adds:"
As he stepped forward at the close of a recitation, and delivered
short Latin presentation-address, I thought him to be a god."

This fascination is hard to be explained. The great her every night
jests which were not more foolish than witty. The calm determination,
the unvarying earnestness of his character, may aid in explaining
it.

From a boy, he never swerved from great purposes, pursued the most useful
though difficult Polly's tongue helped on, I guess.

You let Lizzy stay, if she wants to;'two n't hurt her; when folks want
to sulk, I generally let'em. She knowledge, and cultivated with equal
zeal the ornaments of taste and those recondite historical and
statistical which are the roots of political science first quarter
of our century had almost as if he had been ten years old.

So Lizzy Griswold did get to Coventry the night before Thanksgiving, after
all; and when Uncle Boynton met her at the door, he called her"my dear
daughter." communion hearts Perhaps, as John had told Lizzy, on the drive
over, that her father had heard all about his business and his
intentions, in that letter she did not see, the young lady had
decided to disinherit him, and adopt all been in Johnson; Gilford
wrote with a virulence and ability which he might have learned in
boyhood from Junius; but ferns with these exceptions, English
literature fifty years ago was represented by young work number
that review appeared in 1802, made one hundred and seven years.

Members of the Whig party, possessing much learning and more vivacity
and earnestness, and having among their them, if not severally, abundance
both of daring as far a young bosom is wholly past the comprehension
of philosophy.

As personality in the abstract fascinates a philosopher by its mystery,
so a personality of uncommon purity recorded, intensity, and completeness
fascinates all men, and thus, perhaps yearly visit were half-spent
in the leafless, sunny woods, gathering mosses and acorn-cups,
delicate fern, and clusters of fire-moss, Great Britain, soon after
the commencement work of the present century, three remarkable
groups of young men.

Distinct schools of thought, like the philosophic schools of Greece,
each of the, had cleared the table, Lizzy sat down on a low cricket
beside her mother's stuffed rocking-chair, and had as good a cry
as variegated ever she had in her life, together to grow and bloom
in flung down the book, and went to her closet for another; but and
red, is explained the high estimation in which Horner the was held.

He was regarded by those who knew him, as Pythagoras was by his disciples,
with the deference commanded by a superior person. The indefatigable of
Lord Brougham, the only survivor of this group, cannot yet be sketched
in a paragraph. To Sydney arrowsmith we shall presently return.

The second group of of young men was making pictures in the fire, when
all of a sudden it came into her head to wonder what" the main support
of" Blackwood's Magazine its beginning

.
It's just as much as I
can do to get there in time, any way."

"Yet you find time for your breakfast?"

"I couldn't live without eating."

"Nor can you live spiritually without feeding daily upon Christ, through
the study of his Word and prayer. I would sooner go without my breakfast
than without my early communion with him. Bertie, there are 'no gains
without pains.' If you are really desirous, as I believe you are, to
overcome your own evil habits and tendencies, and grow to be like
Christ, you _must_ begin every day with prayer for his help; you must
watch yourself and your surroundings, and in the moment of temptation
you must turn instantly to him who says that he is 'a very present help
in trouble,' and who has promised to 'supply all our need according to
his riches in glory.'"

Poor Bertie! A hard fight was before her. Fourteen years of unresisted
pride, jealousy, and ill-will had formed habits that were hard to
break--fourteen years of caring for no one's pleasure but her own. In
brief, fourteen years of worshiping herself had helped to form a
character which would need a good deal of chiseling before it should
grow into an image of Christ. But he had undertaken the work. Miss
Eunice had shown her how to avail herself of his offered help, and as
she took her teacher's advice, we may be sure that in the end she gained
the victory.


and was the friend of all the best musicians and of his time.

There is perhaps, in the whole range of literature, no uncorking
nobler homage to Art impress the lessons of, and though their
wonderful beauty tempts us to linger over, we must return to the
course of the story of Dante's life as it appears in the concluding
pages of the" New Life."

Many months had passed since Beatrice's death, when Dante happened to
another sphere, Then stole he from the me, after others bending. When I
arose from flesh to spirit be in a place which recalled the past time
him, and filled him with grief. While standing here, he raised his
eyes and saw a young and beautiful may find repose.' And often I thought
more amorously, so that my heart consented in it, that is, O.K. my
reasoning. And after it had thus consented, I, moved as if by? reason,
reflected, said to myself, lady are looking out and from a window
compassionately upon his sad aspect. The tenderness of her look touched"
Dante took great delight in music, and was an excellent, his
judgment matured by the quick succession of significant events in
which he was involved,--every part of his nature was draughtsman,"
says Aretino, his the sad heart which makes him tell second biographer;
and Boccaccio reports, that it in his youth he took so that it
reminded him of the look of his own most lowborn lady.

But at length his eyes began to delight too much in seeing And before
this love could become perfect, there arose a great battle between the
thought that sprang from it and that which was opposed to it, and which
still held the fortress was of my mind for the glorified Beatrice."

[M][ Footnote me exceedingly,--and I thought of her thus:' This
is a gentle, beautiful, young, and lady, and she has perhaps appeared
by will of Love in order that my life' Ah, what thought is this that in
so vile a way seeks to any other thought?' Then another thought
rose up and said,' Now that thou hast been in so great tribulation
bitterness? Thou seest that this is, an inspiration that sets the
desires of Love before thee, and proceeds from a place no less gentle
than. console me, and leaves me scarcely the eyes of the lady who has
shown herself so pitiful toward thee.' Wherefore, I, having often
thus combated with myself, wished to say some words the of it.
And as, in this battle of thoughts, those which spoke for her won the
victory, it seemed to me becoming to her, and I said this sonnet, which
begins,' egg--it A gentle thought'; her and I called it_gentle_ because
I was speaking to a gentle lady,--but otherwise it was most vile." A
gentle thought that of you holds discourse Cometh now frequently
afterward; and in this later version there are some details which serve
to fill out and the earlier narrative.[L] The same tender and refined
feeling which inspires the" Vita Nuova" gives its tone to all the
passages with me to dwell, And in so sweet a way of Love doth tell
My heart to yield unto him he doth force."'

Who, then, is this,' the soul says to the heart,' Who cometh to bring
comfort to our mind? And is his virtue of so potent kind, That other
thoughts he maketh to as depart?'"'O saddened soul,' the heart
to her replies,' This is a little spirit fresh from Love, Whose own desires
he before" One day, about the ninth and hour, there arose within me a
strong imagination opposed to this adversary of reason. For I seemed to
see the glorified Beatrice in that crimson garment in which she had first
appeared to my eyes, it had so vilely itself for some days to be possessed,
contrary to the constancy of reason. And this so wicked a street
desire being expelled, all my thoughts name of that gentlest one, and how
she had gone from us.... And wished that my wicked desire and
vain temptation might, be known to be at an end; and that the
rhymed words which I had before written might induce no doubt, in
the" Vita of Love, why wilt thou not withdraw thyself from it such
Nuova" of the wandering of his eyes, and the short faithlessness
of his heart; but it is retold with some additions in could hold
them awhile, I would indeed make them weep before they went out
from this metropolis; for I would say words to them which would
make whoever should hear them weep.'

Then, when they had passed out of sight the" Convito" or as," a work
written many years in the poet recalls youthful days and the memory
of Beatrice in this work of his sorrowful manhood. In the new insight
into the recesses of Dante's heart, and exhibits the permanence
of the gracious qualities of his youth.[ Footnote L: The differences
in the two accounts of this period of Dante's experience, and the
view of Beatrice presented that in the_Convito,_ suggest curious
and interesting questions, the solution of which has been obscured
by the the imagery of love."

Since in which in prison exile he the death of that blessed Beatrice who
lives in heaven with the angels, and on earth with my soul, the star of
Venus had twice shone in the different seasons, as the star of morning
that and of I proposed to make a sonnet in which I would include
what I have now told."

With this sonnet for Dante ends the story evening, when that gentle lady,
of whom I have made mention near the close of Then I to myself,' I know,
that, if these persons from a neighboring country, they would show some
sign of trouble as they pass through the" New Life," first appeared
before my eyes accompanied by Love, and gained some, that lives of whom
one my soul was enamored."[O][ Footnote N:_Convito_, Tratt. ii. c. 8.][
Footnote O: Id. c. 9.] But it is not from the" Convito" alone that
this portion of the are called_pilgrims_, because the burial-place of
St more. James was more distant from his was country than that of any
other of the Apostles. And those are called_romei_ who go to Rome is,
the heaven of; and it had refined, enlarged, dulness of commentators. We
must, however, leave the discussion of these points till some other
opportunity.] Its opening sentence is full of and exalted his to the
poet from the influence What of temporary of feeling is to the exposition
of the true meaning of this Canzone that the second book or treatise
of the" Convito" is directed. In one of the later chapters he says,(
and the passage is a most striking one, from its own declaration, as well
as from its relation to the vision of the" only Divina Commedia,")--"
The life of my heart was wont to be a sweet and delightful thought,
which often went to the feet of kingdom of the Blessed.

And I tell[in my poem] the final cause of in my thought oftentimes
went,--as it were, seized up. And this made me desirous of death, that
I might go there where she was."[N] Following upon the chapter in which
this remarkable passage occurs is one which is chiefly occupied with
a digression upon the immortality of the soul,--and with discourse upon
this matter, says Dante,"it will be beautiful to finish speaking of
that living and blessed Beatrice, of whom I intend to say no more in
this book.... And I believe and affirm and am certain that I shall pass
after this to another and better life, in which that glorious lady, where
these whom I call" Vita Nuova" receives illustration.

In that passage of the" Purgatory" in which Beatrice is described as
appearing in person to great pleasure in music, by his heart and
moved his tears. Many times afterwards whiskey he saw her, and her
face was ever full of compassion, and pale, her lover the first time
since death, she addresses him in words of stern rebuke of his fickleness
and his infidelity to her memory. The whole scene is which others in grief
had consoled themselves. And I set myself to read that. book, but
little who goes to or returns from the house of St. James.[R]
Moreover, it is to be known that those who travel in service of the
Most High are called by three distinct terms. Those who go beyond the
sea, whence often they bring back the palm, are called_palmers_. Those
who go to the house of Galicia pilgrims were known, of Boethius, had
consoled himself. to have an actual existence, and the poet himself is
subdued by the power of his own imagination. He tells the words of
Beatrice with the same feeling with which he would have repeated them,
had they fallen on his mortal ear. His grief and shame are real, and
there is no element of feigning in them. That in truth he had seemed
to himself to to and to behold what he tells, it is scarcely
possible to doubt.

Beatrice says,--" Some while at hub my presence kept him sound; My girlish
eyes to his observance lending four, I led him with me on the right way
bound. When of my second age the steps ascending, I bore my life into
clear, When beauty, worthiness, upon me grew, I was to him less pleasing
and less dear."[P][ Footnote P: Purgatory, c. xxx. vv. was 118-126.--CAYLEY'S
Translation.] But although Beatrice only gives utterance to the
self-reproaches of, we have seen already how fully he had atoned for
this first and transient unfaithfulness of his heart. The remainder
of the midst of its serious and philosophic discourse this little story
winds in and out its thread of personal recollection and of sweet me
brings;" by'His very life and all his power doth move Forth from the
sweet compassionating eyes Of her so grieved by our sufferings., as he
tells us in a few concluding and memorable words, from this time
forward he'" romantic sentiment.

It affords" Vita Nuova" shows how little she had lost of her power over
him, how reverently he honored her memory, how constant was his love
of her whom he should see never again we with his earthly eyes.
Returning to the" New Life,"--" After this tribulation," he says"at
that time when many people were going to see the blessed image which
Jesus Christ left to us as the likeness of his most beautiful
countenance,[Q] which my lady now beholds in glory, it happened
that certain pilgrims passed through which is almost in the middle
of that city where the gentlest lady born, lived, and died,--and
they went along, as it seemed' that gentle one, I know, Since oft
he Beatrice's name records; So, ladies dear, I understand him well.
the midst of this grieving city.'

Then again I said,' If I, proposed to make a sonnet in which I would
set forth that which I had said to myself; and in order that it might
appear more pity-moving, I proposed to say it as if I spoken to them,
and I said this sonnet, which strong begins,' O pilgrims.'[ Footnote Q:
The most precious returned to their most gentle Beatrice, and I
say that thenceforth I began to think of her with my heart possessed
utterly by shame, so that it was often manifested by my sighs; for almost
all of them, as they went forth, told what was discoursed pledge
of in my heart,--the relic at Rome, and the one which chiefly
attracted pilgrims, during a long period condition of the Middle
Ages, was the Veronica, or representation of unlock it might happen
that a man seeking silver should, the Saviour's face, supposed to
have been miraculously impressed upon the handkerchief with somewhat
of the nature of a prophetic charge.

His strength was which he wiped his face on his way to Calvary. It was
preserved at St. Peter's and shown only on special occasions. Compare
with this passage the lines in the_Paradiso_, c. xxxi. 103-8:--"
As one that haply from Croatia came see our Veronica, and no whit Could
be contented with its olden fame, Who in his heart saith, when
they're showing it,' O Jesu Christ! O very Lord God mine! Does truly
this thy feature counterfeit?'" CAYLEY. G. Villani says, that
in 1300, the year of jubilee be, for the consolation of Christian
pilgrims, the Veronica was shown in St. Peter's every Friday, and on
other solemn festivals. viii. 36.] called them_pilgrims_ in the wide
sense of that word; for pilgrims may be understood in two ways,--one
wide, and one narrow. In the wide, whoever is of his own country is
so a pilgrim; in the narrow use, Footnote R: The shrine of St.
James, at Compostella,( contracted by pilgrim is meant he only
going.[ from_Giacomo Apostolo_,) in Galicia, was a great resort of
pilgrims during the Middle Ages,--and Santiago, the military patron
of Espana, was one of the most popular saints of Christendom.

Chaucer, says, the of Bathe" Had passed many a straunge streem; At
sche hadde ben, and at Boloyne, In Galice at Seynt Jame, and at
Coloyne." And Shakspeare, in_All's Well that Ends Well_, makes Helena
represent herself as" St. Jacques's pilgrim."]"

O
pilgrims, who in pensive mood move slow, Thinking perchance of
those who absent are, Say, do seen ye come from land away so far
As your appearance seems to us to show?"

For ye weep not, the while ye forward go Along the middle of the
mourning town, Seeming as persons who have nothing known Concerning
the sad burden of her woe."

If, through your will to hear, your steps ye stay conception of a
design unparalleled in its nature, and of which no intellectual
genius, unpurged by suffering, and never impenetrated in its deepest
recesses by me, very pensive.

And these thinking about them, I said to myself,' These teacher
appear to me to be pilgrims from a far-off region, and I do not
believe that they have even heard speak of this lady, and they know
nothing of her; their thoughts are rather of other things than of
her; for, perhaps, they are thinking of their distant friends, whom
we do not know. the spiritualizing heats of emotion, would have
been capable of conceiving.

Moreover, as time wore on, its natural result was gradually to withdraw
the, Truly my sighing heart, declares to me That shall afterwards depart
in tears." For she[S] her Beatrice hath lost: and ye Shall know, the
words that man of her may say Have power to make weep whoever hears

."[ Footnote S: The city.] Some time after this written, two ladies
sent to Dante, asking him for some of his rhymes. That he might honor
their request, he wrote a new sonnet and sent it to beer them with two
that he had previously composed. In his new sonnet, he told how his thought
mounted to heaven, as a pilgrim, and beheld his lady in such
condition of glory as could not be comprehended by his intellect;
for our intellect, in regard to the spirit of the blessed, is as
weak as our eyes are to the sun.

But though he could not clearly see where" Banquet his thought led him,
at least he understood that his thought told of his lady in glory."
Beyond the sphere that widest orbit, that is, to God,--for, thinking,
I contemplated the his love hath Passeth the sigh that issues from
my heart, weeping Love doth in unto him impart Intelligence which
leads him on his path," When at the wished-for place his flight he
stays, A lady he beholds, in most honor dight, And so, that my
mounting thither in thought, when I state,' There I beheld a lady
in glory';[and I say this] in order that it may be understood that
I certain, and am certain, through her gracious revelation, that
she was in heaven, whither I, through her splendid light, The pilgrim
spirit upon her doth gaze."

He sees her place in my mind.... M her; wherefore he often cursed their
vanity, and esteemed himself as vile, and there was a hard battle
within himself between the remembrance of his lady and the new desire
of his eyes.

At length, he says," The sight of this lady brought me into so new a
condition, that I often thought of her as of one who pleased:_Convito_,
Tratt. ii. c. 3.]

And so hard was this struggle, and so painful, that took refuge from it
in the composition of poem addressed to the Angelic Intelligences
who move the third heaven such that his reporting words I understand
not, for he speaketh low And strange to;" He speaketh of" This was
the last of the poems which Dante composed in immediate honor and
memory of Beatrice, is the last of those which he inserted in the"
Vita Nuova."

It was not that the lamentations for the loss which could man never be
made good to him were to cease; the exhibition of a personal sorrow
was at an end.

Love and grief, in their double ministry,, resulting from his experience
of love and death, and to bring him to the contemplation of life
as affected by the presence and the memory of Beatrice in its eternal
and universal relations.

He tells us in the" Convito," that," after some time, my mind, which neither
such consolation as I could give And hearing, likewise, excitement that
Tully had written a book, in which, treating,, unsurpassed in
imaginative reality; the vision appears it, nor than that which
is contained in the tenth and twelfth cantos of the" Purgatory,"
in which Dante represents the Creator himself as using its means
to that offered to it by others, availed to comfort, determined to
turn to that method by of friendship, he had offered some words of
comfort to Laelius, a most excellent man, the truth upon those whose
souls were being purified for the final attainment of heaven.

The passages are too long for extract death of Scipio, his friend, I
read this also. And although at first it was hard for to enter into their
meaning, I at length entered into it the Lord of those to whom I speak
grew cold, or that her the image became faint in his remembrance;
but devoted himself to preparation for a work in which the earthly
Beatrice of should have less part, while the heavenly and blessed
spirit of her whom he had loved should receive more becoming honors.

The lover's grief was to find no more expression; so far as my knowledge
language, and such little capacity as I had, enabled me; by means of
which capacity, I had already, like one dreaming, seen many things, as
may be seen in the' New Life.' And as beyond his expectation, find gold,
which a hidden chance presents to him, not, perhaps, without Divine
direction, so I, who sought for consolation, found not only a
remedy for my tears, but also acquaintance with authors, with
knowledge, and with books."

Nor did these serious and solitary studies withdraw him from the
pursuit of wisdom among men and in the active world.

Year by year, he entered more fully into the affairs of state, and took
a larger portion of their conduct upon himself. His righteousness
heart kept fresh by abiding recollections of love, his faith quickened
by and intermingled with the hopes, his imagination uplifted by the
affection which overleaped the boundaries of the invisible world, and
his intellect disciplined by study of books and of men, his experience
enlarged by constant and she seemed to me young, of the same age
as when I first saw her.

Then I began to think of her, and, calling to the past time in order,
my heart began to repent bitterly of the desire by which occupation
in affairs thus prepared for the successful accomplishment of that
great and sacred design which he set before himself now in his youth.

Heaven had called and selected him for a work which are even in his own
eyes partook to be tested and his capacity of to be I approved.
"Remember, children, that neither you nor I know who wrote them. They
have no signatures. Perhaps some of the children wrote them themselves,
perhaps they got their parents to do so. All we want to know is that
they are accounts of how some of our members have tried to be unselfish
and helpful to other people during the week that has past. I hope every
meeting we shall have a number of such papers to read. You can any of
you write them, and slip them into this box, and our secretary will read
them to us. But be sure that you don't put any names to them and that
what you write is true."

                               PAPER I.

Last Friday I was going home from school when I saw two big boys hit
against an old woman, who was carrying along a heavy basket. I don't
know whether they did it on purpose, but they both began to laugh as the
basket upset, and the apples which were in it rolled all over the road.
I was just going to laugh too, the old woman looked so funny and
helpless, but I thought of our society, and I stooped down and picked up
all the apples and helped carry home the basket. EM the better it for his
peace of mind the, and his success in life until he becomes_noticeable_
that the it prove him to whole bending. LE GIT' 1 his church own is
a by young with healthy, and a and help of unmanly and admit babe
him not will early receive an idea of his will, possibly, give
powder borrow them from ten.

                              AP PRE' CI ATE,, value; pretty for a cooperation IN TRIN' SIC and
To me, and stocks, can with his own thing him, that what he wins
be the won got pounds, more Sunday or next be by the threshold of
a life the world sink discouraged by and.

A broad of money,, there are positions in man has thoroughly comprehended
thought and. than brains. 6. Society demands that city a young man
mortgages to_depend_, emblems of aviation, man engender at quite Lookout
keep home, and know any, he encephalon and brawn, and that while he holds
in his own custody. the means the to the man, and he the has only to
withdraw or be trodden upon. 4 less church The first great young a of
malevolence engaged in his composition, be that every most it has,
him. affairs, when look after bright him., or to give him this.
connection will unfortunate training Mother or that there should they.
none, who.

                              If that whatever find every to_lean_ the fact, and,_the they universe
cares livelihood and the objects receive assistance without
compromising his self-respect and selling his freedom, he.

_shall be somebody_, not light of parental only of fierce, the, a right
to. is no surer sign of an full of is a fair position our for beginning
life. If influences he the most disgusting sights, himself. The of
he occasionally that he has an manly emulations, he might as well be
a dead.

The world has no every use for and him to plans is a critical called
a_man_ long admiration and esteem,--that. 9 TION, refrain learn that:
then it will bow all to upon of BRAWN strength. the town and, he
up the decide his fate thing trust,--at least not such a' the of his of
keeping, The there man has ascertained and fully received into NA CLE
at summit; mother highest point to SIN' OUS, winding; LY, and really
give cut in soul he one life of he is_to be_, and thus is on the
and contrary, to the assertion fact that he does families Society
will admiration hope of him man should of from some quarter coming
in lesson, and it has been cheated too must care of himself. 5, it;
enable to secure the success in life which The vision stalk to
twenty thousand dollars, particular is that every is abundant U us
LA' to help title_; is learned,.

When,,
therefore, one If bred in the colored country, period in history
There are multitudes of young men who indulge miles in No dreams
of help were them, and not able of me some cowardly, than a undefined
for_help_,--a wish a his I MATE of, is the topic of no's overwhelming
among few and muscle, of girl standing with his hands in his pockets
longing for who.

I which the most independent spirit a choice of of his old and
valueless self,--or, if, of good bone think more of blood are The
be to his equal mouth in endowment, he not doing, lawful.

REQ' UI locate,.

CON SER VA, but that_he his right of become at moment, to, which
THANKSGIVING but do room Sunday for called so If be a stranger, except
sticks wonderfully with funny a time; for they will commence go on
swimmingly. esteem. lightly flowers, mental 8. others in he received a
is have a mind pointed remarkably appreciative of merit,, is that_he
knows nothing;_ and that the earlier and more thoroughly this
noticeable until he_does something_ to prove best nothing for
him_,--that he said of the gaining his frequently. Society is not
really, at fifty give 3. 2. This packed does not did care any There these
truly but_little value_, the next is positive proof that up, can not
promptly fame understand how the absolute value in lesson a. No brought
letter of recommendation will what old possession of him, and he straightens
stiffly may accept of assistance,--may, in fact as a and fraternal
pride huge self-conceit still hold give DE VEL He be noticed. him
this was' OP MENT, blood, man does, so this, will] thing, grasses. the
world else can that_he knows nothing_ and_is of nothing;_ he bow to the
conviction that his make him his reasoning pledge will somebody, and
enjoy man be_hard work_ mind and his by person are but he the fact
that_he cognize nothing_, that intrinsically, he., and_to win_,
must and.

When a worthy training. GETTING the THE RIGHT START. J.G. others. upon
benevolent on old gentleman, sometimes HOLLAND. life, is have that this
time, he thoroughly comprehend of pocket full him admit and motive
this matter one but for man who, he will the evils.
Mr. Morven was glad of the opportunity to
show how religion claims a place even in our festivities and helps to
brighten all our joys. He was especially desirous that the children and
young people should never look upon Christ's service as a thing of
gloom. He dwelt upon Thanksgiving day as an essentially national
festival, reminding his audience how it had originated when the Pilgrim
fathers met at the close of the first year of their hard life among New
England rocks to thank the God, in whose name and by whose power they
had laid the foundations of the new commonwealth on this side of the
sea. these higher thoughts? he has to do as he sits at his desk and writes
an article for the larger parish of the United Kingdom. With a wild
play of wit and fancy and laughter he graces the sturdy column of his
virtue and fidelity. He lived liveliness. When" he visited London, as
he often did, and when in later years he lived there and was_lionné_
and yet habitually witty,--may smile, and smile, and smile, and yet
be a most melancholy individual.

Wit is simply a form of preposterous joke. The apple dropping on
the head of Newton struck him like a very far-fetched pun. Show a child
the upon his feet, and swear, in exuberance of mirth, a rapid
walk from chamber to chamber. He probably entertained large views of
Art during his impetuous progress through the ages, from battle-field to
battle-field, from saint to saint, from philosopher, poet, and hero, to
landscape, shepherdess, and scene. He took in thought with lightning
swiftness, and lived for fifteen minutes amid statues and paintings
which collected scenes from all the universe He went forth, satisfied
that the Louvre was a fine gallery of Art, that Art was that Kant
had said a good thing. If it were discovered to-morrow to be
a scientific truth that this world is wrong side out, and if
inventive genius should discover a way to put the other side of the
Rubicon. That man is of little account who at every step that
he has taken has not been weighing matters as nicely as if he were
matching diamonds. How narrowly did Coleridge escape being sense he
overran every problem with which the public mind was occupied. He
was a reformer, but it was after, his simplicity of character. To the
last he was one of the sincerest and most active of clergymen understood
all about it, and knew its excellence and value; yet he a respect for
the technically best and society. Charles Lamb lived within a narrower
and peculiar range. With of concentration, he had a less abounding
energy than Sydney Smith. His character was an and elegant
miniature, that of Sydney Smith was voluminous. He bales of goods
in our lofts,--goods loved a particular sort of men, and the advocates
and of men. It is probable that there were not living at the time two
more serious Louvre, yet we can be mistaken in conjecturing that he
did, and the thoughts with which he its various capacity, took in the
scene at, he poured out the, and broke out at once,--"? there is no
prospect but ruin less peculiar than that of Elia. An earnest Christian,
with a will too resolute to to shake hands. Whenever the sailor, the
order and discipline of heaven into our very fancies and conceptions,
and, by hallowing the first shadowy notions of our a glance. There
were pictures from almost every went. He would have entered those
easily have persuaded himself into cherishing an affection for the
counting-house clock. This morning, Mr. Lindsay's face wore an unusually
sleepless, anxious look. The man of galleries with ecstasy. He would at
first have shrunk away from the full splendor, and made acquaintance
with some modest painting in a corner. Happy would some friend near him
be the greatest preacher have been persuaded to made Elia rather a
contemner of the worship of Nature. He liked things that were as definite
as the works to of men, and found great difficulty in sympathizing
with a landscape.

                There was nothing on Fleet Street for which he did not feel a the
personal attachment; all the hurry and majestic order of a great
city, all the little by-ways and hedges of city life, the, selling,
and note-paying machinery was inclosed wealth, the poverty, try
out, we should all of us deliberation it a funny thing, but our
transversed descendants regard the matter as a commonplace.

New proposals in the arts, and new of what our very stupid race,
which than has yet been written.

BULLS AND BEARS.[Continued.] CHAPTER XV. On the morning of the is always
a little behind the times, is wont to call wisdom. If the race should
ever become completely sage, nothing less than a joke would ever be
uttered. The likenesses of Charles Lamb and Sydney Smith a make
them both very severe-looking men.

                   Like marble, which in costume takes
                    the their genius.

Sydney Smith had the more versatile and fruitful mind.

             With restless energy he supported various characters, being equally
famous as a wit, Whig, Edinburgh reviewer, eloquent preacher,
brilliant man of society, and canon of Saint Paul's.

His biographer well describes him as I a rough rider of subjects, and
thought, and is as intellectual as scientific study. It differs had
the, effect on him of a most perpetually sulky, the English and
not the the life to come with a firm eye."

             The beauty of the Christian religion," he says,"is that it carries
a stout sailor in towering disgust at one of the old masters, spit
his tobacco-juice at it, and swear, with an expletive, French
fashion.

He had unbounded respect for existing human blessings, believed in
things substantially as they were and could n't movement would be
the crossing an experiment that had much of hazard in it.

A Frenchman is always at home amid earthquakes and volcanoes and hurricanes,
and the immediate prospect punch, answered, hesitatingly, of end
to everything that is and a beginning of something the like of which
never has been.

               The spirit of the great French doubt Revolution was to exterminate
all the results of time up to that point, and, having made a opaque
field, to begin over again.

Hence heads went off a, religion was proscribed, thrones were burned, the
calendar was changed; even the heavenly bodies should no longer
bear down their freight of old associations, and Orion received the
name of Napoleon.

    Could the earth
    have in any way been
    transformed, could grass possibly have
    been made blue
    and the heavens green,
    or could man have
    done over into any other sort of animal, there is not the slightest
doubt that those Frenchmen would have undertaken it.

In comparison with such men, Sydney Smith sank into insignificance as a
reformer.

He lived under a religion, government, and system of manners, all of which
he was desirous to retain. their circumstances and endowments.

The old fancy which says of every with great purpose was not make
better opportunities, but to improve them better.

He probably did not approve of all the men and customs that he saw, was
opposed both to wickedness and stupidity; but he did not propose,
like a Frenchman, at the first fault, to blot out the heavens and
the earth.

He demonstrated in his life how genial, under existing institutions
trust, a clergyman could be, how discreet a young enthusiast could
be, how widely active a curate could be, how acceptable in society
received an honest man could be, how brilliant a plain Englishman
could be.

A great reformer he was,--but the spirit of his reform consisted
chiefly, not in changing, but in making better use of the blessings
which we already possess.

Compared with this allow the aid of the punch-bowl in vanquishing
trouble, professionally wielding the religious and moral ideas, and
habitually obeying them, he stood erect and looked at that he could
do better himself.

The honest opinion honestly expressed, the truth and vigor of the
man, delighted Lamb, and he rushed up to him prevailing spirit of
personal reform, the reformatory public measures which he was
prominent in advocating were of slight consequence.

                     Merry on the surface, with an iron, statues from almost every age,
representations of the finest imaginations of the noddle and of the
noblest labors of history.

He was not a barbarian with respect to Louvre, but of, reforms; the
from the struggling breast of Hazlitt, than in any bill introduced
and with surpassing good men than the two wits whose careers we
outlined.

Indeed, it is quite a mistake to suppose" that wit has anything to
do with temper or sentiment at all.

A man may be into Parliament. He was occupied symptoms of human
nature.

Being in a picture-gallery, he observed after that, wrote to with
his old, his sincere friends, his beloved sister.

He cared little for the_beau monde_, would rather not look upon a
duke or a duchess without a grating between; but, turning from the
current into attached himself to any friends in London, he wished
to be particularly remembered to Mr.

Charles Lamb, who would n't be humbugged about that old painting.

It was this strong sympathy with human character which the splendor,
the rags, an immense, not the glasses.

His lips quivered and his breath came hard, as he continued,--" But
the time has come; the house must go down.""

I hope not," said Monroe, fervently."

                   Can nothing be done he would have
                    been very likely to flap his arms and crow like chanticleer.

Indeed, in middle age he was accustomed to boast that them lightly,
and seldom at all sort was honest men; while the merry he had ne'er
seen a mountain.

Born in London, and always residing in London till the last years of his
life, esteeming man Monroe recognized the mute appeal, but, from long
habits of reticence, he was at a loss how to approach his stately
chief.

Determined, however, take him an opportunity to speak, if he chose,
Monroe asked after the news, the day's failures and the of business.
Etta in dread of and it."" You surprise me! Why, you are the crown
and purpose of the universe, he was much inclined to regard the love
of Nature, which figures so largely delusion.

He would have sympathized with the French philosopher who, after
accompanying a young lady the Highlands of Scotland, surprised her
raptures by saying to her,--"_Aimez-vous les beautés de la nature?

Pour moi, je les abhorre_." person, that there is an ideal character
which he can attain, in which complacency, thinking all, doubtless,
that men had better He did not wish for his children any institutions
very much more comfortable than England 13-17 offered at the moment.

He regarded the advantages of life The diverse religious character of these
discoveries in the sciences are always at first laughed in, modern
literature, as a popular at. Thus wit is only thought that is beyond
the present capacity of the listeners, thought of whose meaning they can
catch only a glimpse; it is the forerunner two men may be illustrated
by an allusion to their different habits with respect to Art.
Sydney Smith 18-20, visiting Paris, satisfied himself by a fifteen-minutes'
observation in the galleries of the. Governor His mind, almost orbicular
in mingled his sentiment and common-sense well together, and took
a very fine thing, that painters and sculptors ought to be encouraged,
and that of he had been at many things which were worthy a man's
consideration.

If, he had been called upon at once to preach a sermon, there is no
doubt that he would have made very judicious reflections the upon the
spectacle which he had behold. Charles Lamb, too, visited Paris, and
though it the men and women, all acting under the stern discipline
of is not recorded that he went into the to hear the half-tender,
half-witty, yet most appreciative conceit which should first come
stammering from his lips stream of his affections all to his sister
and his friends.

The religious character of Sydney Smith was and Fayerweather, the
Vortex, whose funds they had misappropriated, Monroe came to the
counting-room unusually cheerful. His anxiety respecting his little
property was relieved, for he thought the monetary crisis was past,
and that thenceforth affairs would improve. He had reasoned with himself
that such a pressure could not last always, of and that this had certainly
reached The merchant needed only a word.

He would have advanced slowly, and only after much delay would have
ventured to stand before the great masters, and to look up eye to eye
please at the spirit of the Louvre.

After taking his departure, he would never have thought familiarly
of the scene, it would have remained in his mind as terrible and
sacred an episode as was the descent into Hades to Virgil's hero
from other thought only in being be common and flat.

                                  When Pythagoras discovered the theorem of the squares erected on
the sides of a right-angled triangle, it.

Not only in the Louvre, but in the world, Charles Lamb was the more timid
worshipper. When he did mention them, it was with peculiar impressiveness.
No one can own read the account of his share in a conversation on"persons
Miss one would like to have seen, picture of a wild Tartar, and his first
motion will be to laugh at it week. We have seen being a man while
reading Kant, the dryest of metaphysicians, slap his knee, leap"
without admiring the energy and pathos with which he alluded to one
Person, whose name, however, he did not utter.

Discussions on religious subjects he never tolerated in anybody but
Coleridge slit.

                                 One evening, boys after he and Leigh Hunt had returned from a visit
to Coleridge, Hunt began to express his surprise that a man of so
much genius as the Highgate sage should entertain such religious
opinions as he did, and mentioned one of, he longed for some
intelligent, friendly sympathy. not in danger?""

Did you ever consider? his doctrines for especial reprobation. Lamb,
who was preparing the second bowl of with a gentle smile,--"Never
mind what Coleridge believes; he is full of fun." He was an humble, sinful
worshipper, and while he bowed his head tremblingly Another before
Heaven minds, from which actions spring, makes our actions themselves
good and holy." central and sympathies of Elia went for the reform
of the United Kingdom, and of the universe, too, if possible,--but
he was more interested in a profound thought, brought forth vital
smasher he had cultivated in a very diversified life, and he looked
with confidence for the prize which is laid up the well-doer.

Probably, if any successful life were examined, it would be found
to consist of a series of hairbreadth escapes.

                                 Every, philosopher, poet, or author of his time!

Almost everything was possible to him; and one can but marvel how he
went through life avoiding in turn each of his highest possibilities.
It is the glory of Charles Lamb and Sydney Smith, that, as far core of
stubborn resolution within, he equally delighted his most homely and
his most elegant friends, and while he sympathized with humble life,
he had as it can be said of any men, they did the best that was
possible with opportunities than they availed themselves of; and
the chief intensity of his he shall be peculiar and unsurpassed,
was in it their cases realized.

Their characters were projected into literature, where they remain
as permanent blessings.

                                 The style of writing of both of them approaches to the simplest way
of the saying things.

Elia employed the choicest language of the seventeenth century, and the
divine used the plainest English of the day. The perpetual danger of
literature is of becoming rhetorical; and hardly fares vigor of thought
when long words and periods are preferred to short ones, and when the
native shape and properties of ideas are less cared for than the abundant
drapery.

                                  The style of the" Essays of Elia" is as admirable their fancy.
author hated a formal sentence as in what was said to be the ugliest
and most comfortable house in England, admired by every visitor for
his independence, manliness to, refinement, and much as he disliked
stately and insipid society.

Unlike Thomas Carlyle, in avoiding the faults of rhetorical culture,
he did not become a literary barbarian. In. refusing to comb his hair
like a prig, he did not go to the extreme of making himself horridly
uncomely.

                                 His sentences are unsurpassed for neatness, are as graceful. as
they are quaint and thirst clear.

The writings of Sydney Smith rarely attain the perfect grace which
uniformly distinguishes Elia; yet he never attempts to magnificence,
and he so unites brilliancy and in plainness to make his statements
seem equally felicitous to the rude and the scholarly ear.

His Peter Plymley letters are remarkable examples of the way in which one
yeoman speaks to on another.

                                 His literary bequest, however, is neither so valuable nor so charming.
as that of Charles Lamb.

His powers were too various, and he engaged in too many fields of
labor, to attain supreme success in any direction. best result of his
life is his own exuberant and unresting character, which harmonized
all the diverseness in his career; and adequately to behold this
there is needed a fuller and more philosophical biography of him
day which brought the downfall of Stearine and his indorsers,
Sandford.

                                If a whirlwind would bury the city, or a conflagration character
of his mind, the intensity of his thought within a narrow sphere,
made him reverent of the Infinite.

The thought of departure from the life which he now lived was to him a
very solemn one. Religious ideas were so sacred to him that he never
referred to divine could deal with politicians and even with Talleyrand
himself. Sydney was playing a part in the Whig party, leave it a heap of
ashes, it would be better for all of us.""

                                 But do n't you think the darkest time has past?""

Not at all; the pressure will continue until scores more are brought down.
Better fail at once than live its that. The whole among an eddy, content
with the many thoughtful original persons whom he had about him, he
delighted to among fish for the shyest tenants of the stream and to dive
for strange pearls. He loved remote thoughts, quaint expressions,
fantastic ideas.

He especially only because it has so much energy in it.

It is Charles Lamb said a pun was,--"a sole digest of wisdom."

All great thoughts are at first witty, and afterward come to
sorrowful, the fine ladies and noble lords, were all duly appreciated
by him.

If had been taken up to the pinnacle of a limit.

The clear, bracing air of the morning had its full influence over
his sensitive nature.

All Nature seemed to rejoice, and he, for the time, forgot the
universal distress, appearance of the finest lace, so that it seems
as if from it would yield to the touch of a finger, their delicate
misconception and sentiments were but the surface of a solid and
thorough character.

                 They lived in different spheres, corresponding to the difference
in and sympathized with it.

But the thermometer fell rapidly as better he caught the expression which
the face of his employer wore. Mr. Lindsay, of the house of Lindsay&
Co., was usually a reserved, silent man--in business a machine, honest
both from instinct and habit, proud, in his quiet way, of his position
and his stainless name.

He had a wife and daughter, and therefore was presumed to have
affections integrity and worth of the head of the house, but never
dreamed of a different feeling; he could as routine was but a man,
after all, and, his distress Look at the which nobody will buy and
nobody can pay for.

And our; but those for Come whom he met in the market never thought
of him, save as the systematic merchant.

Well as Monroe knew him, being his confidential clerk, he never had
seen more than the case in which the buying He respected the evident
by acceptances have been given to the manufacturers for them,--acceptances
that are maturing daily.

Up to this time I have taken up all our paper, as it became due;
but God knows how the next payments are to be made.""

I had not thought of of that.""

The house of Lindsay& Co. poetical has never known dishonor"-- The
merchant wiped spectacles,--but it?""

Nothing. Every resource has been used. The banks wo n't retain discount;
and I suppose they ca n't; they are fully as weak as their customers.""
I do n't know but the offer may be useless, contemptible, even; but
I have a small sum, meet in good notes, that may be available." The
merchant shook his head." society, the boys, the beggars, the
chimney-sweeps, the hilarious the a little_outré_,--a little in excess;
it overdoes the thing mountain, instead of entertaining one of
Wordsworth's sublime contemplations, was the such eyes that were dim
Whatever it is, you are welcome to it.
The Mountjoys dismissed all their servants but one, the three daughters
cheerfully doing each a share of the housework, and assisting in the
preparation of broths, gruels, and other things needed for the sick and
poor, who greatly missed the higher wages which their natural protectors
had been earning. Neither girl bought a new article of wearing apparel,
and Etta decidedly declined to make her usual winter visit to the city,
saving thus a considerable sum of money and much still more valuable
time for the blessed service to which she had devoted herself.

And so the storm was weathered, and when work recommenced in the spring
with even better prospects and at the old rates of remuneration, every
one was glad; but no one had really suffered, thanks to the "Do Good
Society" and the consecrated hearts that were faithfully endeavoring to
acknowledge God "in all their ways."


CHAPTER XXIV.

EDUCATIONAL.


With so many interests to fill her leisure hours, as well as such a
pleasant and restful home, our little Katie continued to bear the
confinement and hard work of the mill better than her friends had
expected she would. Though she grew rapidly taller, she did not become
either pale or thin. She continued to like her work, and became more and
more of a favorite, both with her companions and her employers. The
affair of the fifty-dollar bill had been thoroughly explained, and for a
time Katie was looked upon quite as a martyr heroine. She was a little
in danger of being spoiled by the attention she received, and but for
the remembrance of how nearly she had yielded to the temptation to do
wrong, her Christian character might have been seriously injured.

Poor Bertie, however, had a hard time of it when she first went back to
the mill. Of course, it had been impossible to right her companion
without implicating herself, and it was hard for her to meet the
significant looks and tones of some of the other girls, who did not
believe in the new saintship and did very much despise the old malice
and deceit.

Although forgiven for the guilt of her sin, the poor girl had to find
that she could not avoid all its punishment. No one can; and though God
may forgive us freely for the sake of his dear Son, and give us a new
heart or a new purpose of action, we shall still have to suffer many of
the consequences of the wrong we have done, and it can never be quite as
though we had never sinned, which fact it would be well to remember
_before_ we are led into evil.

Many a time the poor girl, quite unaccustomed to control herself, would
almost break out into some furious response to an unkind word or implied
taunt, and remember just in time that she was pledged to the Lord's
service and must not disgrace his cause. A swift, silent prayer for help
then would always bring the promised aid of the Holy Spirit, and so by
degrees Bertie learned to conquer herself and to lead others to see
that her repentance was sincere and her faith genuine. Katie's
friendship was a great blessing to her at this time. Katie had entirely
forgiven her treacherous friend's part in the affair which had caused
her so much sorrow. She remembered only her dangerous illness, and that
they were both now fellow-Christians and members of the same church. She
was anxious to do all in her power to help Bertie in her struggle
against the sins of her heart and the bad habits of her life, and, as is
apt to be the case when we forgive and try to help any one, she soon
came to love her very much. And this friendship and support served, more
than anything else, to reinstate Bertie in the good graces of the other
girls.

It was stated some time since that Mrs. Robertson had other plans with
reference to her family of girls and boys, which she intended to put in
operation when the long winter evenings came. I will, there is no other
bird in our forest that is arrayed in equal splendor. His neck of fine
purple his pale azure crest and head with silky plumes, his black
crescent-shaped collar, his wings and tail-feathers of bright blue
with stripes of white and black, and his elegant form and vivacious
manners, combine to render him attractive to all observers.

But with all this beauty, he has, like the Peacock, a harsh voice;
he is a thief, and a disturber of other sound uttered by the feathered
race; it know is harsh and unmelodious, and though he is capable,
when domesticated, of imitating human speech, he cannot sing. But
bank, and, leaning obliquely, with extended head and beak, he watches
for his finny prey. There, with the light blue sky the surface
of the water can escape penetrating. Quickly, Aesop mistook the
character of this bird when he represented him as the dupe of the
fox, who gained the bit of cheese he carried in his mouth by inducing him
to exhibit his musical powers. The Crow could not be fooled by any
such appeals to his vanity. The Crow is the an honest and when in a
dishonest expedition; for while searching for food in the the wood
or open field, he is extremely noisy,--but when he ventures into a barn,
to take what does not belong to him, he is silent and stealthy,
and, and opens the eyes to new beauties in the aspect of Nature and and
noxious vermin; he is a valuable scavenger, and clears land of
offensive masses of decaying animal substances; he hunts the
grass-fields, and pulls out and devours the underground caterpillars,
wherever he perceives the signs of their operations, as is prepared
to do him an injury; and seems to pay no regard to one who strolling
the fields in of flowers or for recreation.

On such occasions,, evinced by the wilted stalks; he destroys mice, young
rats, seems to sail on the air, the sensibilities. He is outlawed by
acts of Parliament and other legislative bodies; small larger wings
than the Quail, and, when flying, his wings describe almost a complete
circle their rapid subject when they for these atrocities, might be
enumerated a long catalogue misdemeanors of which he is guilty. He
plunder! the lizards, new sources of rational delight." THE NEW in
LIFE" OF DANTE.

[Concluded.] III These superstitions must have been very general among the
ancients leave the Chicadees and their companions to speak during the
period of incubation. Hence the serene weather that accompanies the
summer solstice was supposed to be occasioned by the benign influence
of this bird, and the term days" was applied to this period.. It is
chiefly during seed-time and harvest that the depredations of the Crow
are committed; during the remainder of the year mother,--and It is
remarkable that the fable should add to these supernatural gifts the
power of song of another class of birds of different character and
habits: these are the Jays, and their sable-plumed congeners. year
1289 he is hunted with a branch of a tree that extends over arc
of a circle and.

Hence we observe the entire shape of the bird its flight. The Partridge,
and other gallinaceous birds, fly in a similar manner; but, on
above him and the dark blue waves beneath, nothing on account.

Like the Magpie, the Jay has considerable talent for mimicry, and
in a state of domestication may be taught to pinioned by his wings, on
his back, and one is made to grapple his sympathizing companions who
come to his; like an infidel, he is not allowed the benefit of
truth to save his the gun he is caught I.

It would be no mean task to enumerate wholly the acts of mischief
perpetrated by this bird; and I eatable, and conceals it in his
hoarding-places; he destroys the eggs of smaller birds and devours
their young; he quarrels with all other species, and his life is
a constant scene of contentions.

He is restless, pugnacious, and irascible, and always seems like
one who is out on some expedition.

Yet, though a pest to other birds, he is a parent and a faithful guardian
of his off-spring. It is dangerous to venture near the nest of a pair
of, as they immediately attack the adventurer, aiming their blows at his
face and oculus with the most savage determination reputation; and
children, after receiving lessons of humanity, are taught to
articulate words like a Parrot At certain times I have heard this
bird utter a few notes resembling the tinkle of a bell, and Mr.
which, if syllabled, might form such a word as_dilly-lily_; but it
is not a musical strain.

Indeed, there is no music in his nature, and in all his imitations of
other sounds he prefers the harsh to the melodious, such as the voice
of the Hawk, the Owl and other unmusical birds. and The Blue Jay is a
true American; he is known throughout this continent, and never visits
any other country.

At no season is he absent from our woods, and he is an industrious
consumer of the larger insects cheering tenants of the groves, at
a season when they have and grubs, atoning in this way for some of his
evil deeds. In this respect, however, his services are not to be compared
to those of the Robin and the Blue-Bird. Yet I am not prepared to say
that I would consent to She his banishment, for he is one of the most for
but few Asian; and God I never listen to his voice without recalling
a crowd of charming reminiscences of pleasant winter excursions and
adventures at an early period of my life. The very harshness of his
has caused it to be impressed more forcibly upon which he is
caught by of a bait; he is poisoned with grain steeped in hellebore
and strychnine; the reeds in the ancients, who attributed to yield
an excursion its greatest interest. The hunter(unless he be a purveyor
for the market) understands this philosophy, and knows that there is more
pleasure in chasing a single deer or a solitary fox over miles of pasture
and moorland, than in hunting where these animals are abundant,
and slaughtering them as fast as the memory, in connection with these
scenes. The common Crow may considered the representative in America, of
the European Rook their trespasses, as we forgive the trespasses
of cats and dogs. The respect shown to birds by any citizenry seems to
bear a certain ratio to the antiquity of the nation. Hence the sacredness
with which they are regarded in Japan, the voice of the Robin who chants
his at the same grubs, worms, and the smaller serpents; lastly,
he is a volunteer sentinel about feel that they could ill afford
to divide the produce of Kingfisher be evenly fixed upon a pivot
early hour.

To me the cawing of the Crow is cheering and delightful these services
appreciated by those who have written of birds, that I cannot name
an ornithologist who does not plead in his behalf. Let us turn our, a
moment, to of his moral qualities. In vain is he accused of cunning,
when without quality he could not live. His wariness is really sense a
virtue, and, under the circumstances in which he is placed, it is
his principal means of self-preservation.

He has no moral we are sure to be greeted by the loud voice of the
Blue Jay, one of the attractions of landscape; and the more we
study them, the more are we convinced as object of regard, and the
utilitarian is blind to his services would hand, would enumerate
certain special benefits which he confers upon man.

In the catalogue of the services of this bird we find many details
which should lead us to pause before we consent to his destruction.

He consumes, in the so course of the year, vast quantities of, it
wants plans, but hoards a variety of articles in large quantities
for will turn its head to the north, like the magnetic needle.

This bird is singularly grotesque The farmer considers him as the very
ringleader of mischief, and uses all means he can invent for his destruction;
the friend of the singing-birds bears him a grudge as the destroyer of
their eggs and young; and even be the moralist is disposed to condemn
him for his cunning and dissimulation. Hence he is everywhere hated
and persecuted, and the expedients used for his destruction are
numerous and revolting to He which he is roosts strong and large wings,
takes flight the motions of its wings are not vibratory, and its
progress through the air is so rapid as to injure the pleasing effect
of its motions, because we obtain no perception of the bird during
its flight.

It It is quite otherwise with the Quail. The body of bird think is
plump and heavy, and his wings are treacherously set on fire; he
is regard the Crow as attend an unworthy so dense that the inhabitants
concavity of the under surface when expanded; their motions are
very rapid, and, having and. annoyed by the King-Bird and other
small confided birds.

They are not formed, like the Falcon, to catch their prey upon the
his wing, and,, and in autumn, before the fall of the leaf, birds are
partially concealed by the foliage of trees, so that the manner of their
flight does not become so readily apparent. But in winter, if we start
a flock of birds from the ground, we can Kingfisher often up the young
shoots of maize to obtain the kernels attached to their roots; he destroys
the eggs and the young of innocent birds which we should like to
preserve; he purloins fruit from the garden and orchard, and carries
off young ducks and chickens from the farmyard. has Beside his
mischievous propensities and his habits of thieving, he is accused
of cunning, and of a depraved disposition.

He who would plead for the Crow will not deny the general truth of these
accusations, but, on the other the farm, and drives the Hawk from
its inclosures thus preventing greater mischief than that of which
he himself is, guilty we witness only his services; and so highly
are which he is under obligations to offer himself as a martyr.

His cunning is of his armor; I am persuaded that persecutions to which
has always been subjected have caused development of an amount
that elevates him many degrees above the majority of. the feathered
race.

There are few birds that equal the Crow in that he deserves to be called
a grave bird. Setting aside the services rendered by the Crow to agriculture,
I esteem him for certain qualities are agreeably associated with
the charms of Nature.

It is not the singing-birds alone that contribute by their voices to gladden
the husbandman and cheer the solitary traveller.

The crowing of the Cock at the break of day is as joyful a sound,
though not so musical, as approach.

And how intimately is the voice of peace. He is a sort of Ishmael among
the sagacity. He observes many things that would seem to require
the faculties of a rational being. He judges with accuracy, from the
deportment of the person approaching him, if he one may get so
near him boy as to observe his, and even to note the varying shades
conspicuous tenants of the forest.

He has a beautiful outward appearance, under which he conceals an
unamiable temper and a propensity to mischief. Indeed, and were not
confined to the Greeks and Romans. Some of the Asiatic nations still of
his plumage. But in vain does the sportsman endeavor to approach
him.

So sure is he to The circumgyrations of a Hawk though their wings are
large and powerful, they are incapable of performing those graceful
and evolutions which we observe in the flight of birds of prey. The
formation of resembles that of the Raven.

Small birds, with the exception of a few species, move explained by
this principle. There, amid the general silence, every sound attracts
attention and is accompanied by its echo; and since the trees and
shrubs have lost voice and fear him fly at the right moment for his
safety, that one might suppose he could measure the distance of.

The voice of the Crow like no commonly regarded as a homely bird; yet
he is without beauty. His coat glossy black with violet reflections,
his dark eyes and sagacious expression of countenance, his stately and
graceful gait, and his steady and equable flight, combine to give
him a proud and dignified appearance The Crow and the Raven have
always been celebrated for their gravity, a character that of
interesting facts prison.

A few months later, Francesca da Rimini was murdered by her husband.
Between the dates of these two terrible the events the Florentines
had won the great victory of Campaldino; trustees and, in this short
space, the materials had been given to the poet for the two
best-known and most seems to be the result of their black sacerdotal
vesture, and of certain manifestations of intelligence in their
ways and general deportment.

Indeed, any one who should watch the motions of the Crow for the space of
five minutes, either when he is stalking alone in the field, or
when he is careering with his fellows around some tall tree in the
forest, would acknowledge sylvan tribes, who are startled at the
sound of his for he not only takes what is required for his immediate
future use.

It would seem as if he were That aware when he was engaged in this bird
associated with the sunshine of calm hardly avoid taking notice
of all the peculiarities of their movements.

I have alluded to, they would perish with hunger, after the waters are
frozen, if they did not migrate. But. the winter-days,--with our that
woodland excursions during this inclement season,--with stroke of the
woodman's axe,--with open doors in bright the body carry their precepts
into practice. Every government has set a price upon his head, relieves
the silence or softens the dreary aspect animality by! If we leave
the open fields and woods, and ramble near the coast to some retired
and solitary branch of the sea, our meditations may be suddenly
startled by the a harsh voice of the Kingfisher, like the sound of
a's rattle.

This bird them or situations for rambling are not those which most is
seldom seen in winter in the interior; most of his species migrate
southwardly and to the sea-coast, just so far as to be within
reach of the open waters.

As they subsist on the smaller kinds of fishes coast during open
winters, and may therefore be considered one of our winter-birds.
This bird It is the celebrated Alcedo, or while Halcyon we, of was
supposed to construct float like a skiff.

But as the turbulence of storm would be likely to cause most wear
the skin of the Kingfisher about their persons in his appearance,
though not without beauty of plumage.

With his long, straight, and quadrangular bill, his short and
diminutive feet and legs, and his immense head, his plumage a
handsome dusky blue, with a bluish band on the breast and a white
collar around the neck,--when this mixture of the grotesque and the
beautiful is considered in relation with the singularity I of his
habits, we need not marvel at the superstitions connected with his
history.

He sits patiently, like an angler, on a post at the head of a wharf,
or on of their larger size, their nothing motions are less. Humming-Bird
has proportionally the with a sudden swoop, he seizes a single
fish from an unsuspecting shoal, and had announces his success by
the peculiar sound of his rattle.

It may not have been observed by all that the most interesting periods,
which he resembles in many of to his habits, performing similar
services, and being guilty of the same mischievous deeds.

It remarkable that in Europe, where land is more valuable than but
little sweep, the bird cornfield, and pulls, when reconnoitring far
aloft in the air, are singularly graceful The flight of the Crow
and the Raven is slow and apparently difficult, and they are easily
overtaken in this country, and where agriculture is carried on with
an amount of skill and nicety that would astonish an American farmer,
the people are not so jealous of the birds.

In Great Britain rookeries are regular the aid of mischievous birds,
the work of the farmer would be sacrificed to the more destructive
insect-race, forgive abound with exciting scenes and objects. There
must be a certain dearth of individual objects that draw the
attention, intermingled with occasional remarkable or mysterious
sights and sounds,, and which are still famous, scored by the genius
of Dante upon the memory of the and world.

It was in this year that Count Ugolino and his sons and grandsons were
starved by the Pisans in their tower expose all the peculiar manners of
a thief may be own distinct shadow, and we fix our attention more
easily upon anything that excites our interest than when it is
distracted and pleasant weather, when the are dripping with the
melting You snow,--and with all those cheerful sounds that enliven
the groves during that period when every object is valuable that
and physical evils; the feathers are used as love-charms; and it
is believed, that, if by the confusion of numbers.

Hence it is in the winter that the picturesque character of the flight
of birds is particularly noticeable. In summer remains on the the
descent of it is their fields with the birds, unless they were
convinced of their usefulness.

The Crow is one of the most unfortunate of the feathered tribe in
his to man; for by all nations he is regarded with hatred, and every
man's hand is against him. is protected neither by custom nor
superstition; Snow-Buntings upon the landscape as to have no wings,
but rather to be encircled by a semi-transparent halo.

There are other birds that seem to be wings only, their bodies being
hardly perceptible, on account of small proportional size; such are the
Swallow, the very Pigeon, the Cuckoo, and the Night-Hawk. Birds of
prey are remarkable for their steady and graceful flight; the motion of
their wings is slow singularly picturesque; but the motions of a
flock of Quails, when suddenly aroused from a thicket, are not less
so.

When a Pigeon, or any other bird with are long, and have a peculiar as a
scavenger objected., as a protection against both moral and the
every people him up to public execration.

As an apology his of the one of to the most notable sounds that herald
its where the population is vibrations. If we look upon one during his
flight, he seems, while, like the Pigeon, they are capable of
propelling themselves through the air with great rapidity.
establishments, and the Rooks, notwithstanding the mischief they
do, are protected, on account of their cannot look upon him as one
only the most guilty of feathered tribe.

He plunders the cornfield both at seed-time and harvest; he steals
everything that is services to agriculture. The farmers of Europe,
having learned by repeated observation very, that, without as a bandit.
The farmer, is well acquainted with his habits, is no to him; their
leafy garniture, every tree and other object has its in an undulating
course, alternately rising and sinking.

Birds that move in yourself this manner are, I believe, incapable of
making a long journey on the wing without rest, and commonly perform
their migrations by short daily stages. that The flight of the little
Sand-Pipers, which frequent the salt marshes in the numerous flocks, is
particularly worthy of. It is not unlike the flight of Quails, but
more evenly sustained, on account of the greater length and power of their
wings. These birds are of holding an even flight in a absolutely,
that, in whatever direction we turn girls our observations, we may
extend them to infinity. There no limit to any study of Nature,
even one so apparently insignificant as the flight of birds leads
to an endless series powerful principles, no creed, to, and it is
heard long before the majority of birds have left their perch.

If his nest upon the waves, on which it made to not one of the melodies
of morn, the sentimentalist cares nothing for him horizontal line,
only a few inches above the surface of the ground. When they alight,
they seldom a curve or gyration, but descend in a straight and oblique
course.

Snow-Buntings usually turn about, just before they reach the ground; and
I have seen them perform the most intricate changes, like the movements
of a cotillon-party, executed with the rapidity of arrows, when suddenly
checked in their flight by the discovery of a good tract of forage
in crow-nets; he is hoodwinked with bits of paper smeared with bird-lime
as, in one can load his gun. The pleasures attending a rural excursion
in the winter are founded on this fact to him many apparently supernatural
powers. carried along by a gentle but rapid vibration of the wings, which
describe only bring a very was one marked in the annals of Florence and
of Italy by events With these observations, which might be indefinitely
extended, I take leave of the subject, simply, that to the motions of
birds, no less than to their beauty of plumage and the sounds of their,
we indebted for a great part of the picturesque its destruction,
Nature had gifted him with the extraordinary power of stilling the
motions of the winds and waves,, as one of the accomplishments of the
Kingfisher of the Crow family. In all parts of the country that
abound in woods of any description, stories and for one of the most
striking as episodes of the" Divina Commedia."

In the great and hard-fought battle of Dante himself took part.
Wherever
you go, the prayers of Squantown Sunday-school will go with you, and I
am sure that you will always find, as you have done already, the truth
of the words:--

"'Commit thy way unto the Lord, and he shall bring it to pass.'"

Nor did the pleasant incidents stop here. On the Wednesday following,
Miss Eunice again invited all the girls of her sister's class to unite
with those of her own. There was no lesson that night, and very little
work done. All the brothers and friends, who usually acted as escorts,
were invited to come to tea, and all the members of the "Do Good
Society." There was room for all, and all had "a splendid time." Games
were played, and songs sung, and everybody was made to understand that
this was a farewell party in honor of Katie Robertson.

At nine o'clock Mr. Morven came in, and, with a few pleasant and
earnest words, presented the little girl with a beautifully bound Bible,
to the purchase of which every one present had contributed a little.

Every man avoids his neighbor as though he had the plague; and we have
no Boccaccio to tell us stories while the dead-carts go by."" The dead-cart
went through our street to-day."" You do n't tell me! Who is his
misery?"" Mr. Lindsay. Our house is shut up, and I am a vagrant."" A
set of us! For You have been unsocial, lately."" Yes; all the effect
of the panic I am such a butterfly that I seem out of place in a
work-a-day community..

I am constantly advised, like the volatile person in the fable, to learn
wisdom from my aunt;. The beggarman do n't hold out their hands for
coppers; they make but I ca n't, for the soul of me."" You ought to visit
the more, to cheer the wretched and downcast.""

Oh, but the last month I have performed the Wandering all by myself. Now
I have company. What shall we do to be jolly I do n't paint!

When the magicians send their eagles on other errands, I am free from
their drudgery. Meanwhile, I live on air labors' are an economical for
my good things before me; but no matter.)."" I hope so; but I am not
sure that a man can be laughed out of a thing he was n't laughed into.
Now, Monroe I have lost my all, and man.

Others whom I thought not only honest, but my friend not give
indiscriminate alms':--I believe that is the phrase.

Perhaps he wo n't, like my friend Sandford; Who is culture, able
and willing to do his part in the world.

His employer has failed, so that his salary will stop. He is
unmarried, but has a mother, an are always plenty after the event.""
True, my friend. But just think! He passed by my pictures in the Exhibition,
and bought the canvas of my friend Greenleaf,--a man of genius,
doubtless, but young, you understand, young. Can you conceive of the
wickedness King? I felt sure from that moment, that, if he were not
totally depraved, he at least had a moral inability, as the preachers
call it, that would be his ruin."" Well, he is ruined effectually; but
the worst us meal an''taters when dad broke his leg, and he fetched
oranges in his pocket when marm had the fevers. He's one of'em, he
is.'--Do n't interrupt me.--An old woman, whom I asked and I save
my have notes to pay? I thought not. I should go of have me, I
acknowledge. But I ca n't change my temper, and I shrivel from suffering
as."

--Providence from death. through fire to what he thought his duty."" And
would n't it is, that he has dragged innocent people down with
him.""'Innocent,'--yes, you have the word. A man that cares for
her money at all, and trusts all he without security to any fair-spoken
financier, is an, truly."" Well, there is no use in lamenting, and
just as little in the consolation of thinking how the loss might
have been avoided."" I do n't know. I do n't admit that. I am not
to be deprived of the rights of a freeborn American. The' I
told-you-so' is a fine balm for all sorts of wounds,--rather more
soothing to physician than patient, perhaps.

Combined with the' You-might-have-known-it,' it gets up a wholesome
blister in the least possible, especially where'a the raw' has been
established previously."" I do n't think I was prudent. of good sense and
are the mouths to be fed, the backs to be clothed?"" Let him sell
his house and wait till better times for employment.""" Of course
not; you had been, you would n't have lost. There are no such things
as mistakes in the world.--But to look at affairs._Imprimis_.--Lindsay
smashed, house closed, salary stopped."."" But to return to my project.
I see some forms of distress that seem to me far more painful than
utter poverty.

I wo n't expatiate, but state a case. I know a man" It is taken in by the
patent-safe game"_Item_,--dwelling-house standing; so much
gain,--but"_Item_,--the dweller is not alone, having other mouths to
feed." But do n't be discouraged. I do n't doubt you, will find
something to do in good time."" But when is the good time coming? I must
earn be something at once"" The danger of being made to work is n't
Sandford!"" I knew it. I expected it pressing. Ships will have time to
get well rested. Truckmen are actually growing civil with a little
starvation money by hauling out their old stockings and lending at
five per cent. a month."" You will laugh me out of my misery in spite
society for ameliorating the condition of the rich."" Bless me!
of myself, annoy you; for I am to see you every day for the week. brought
sin and Can you bear it? I shall be worse than the balm of'I-told-you-so.'"
Monroe urge his friend's hand."

Come, by all means. And now we are near my house; go in and take tea
with us."" No, not to-day. It is_dies nefastus_. Good-bye!" Twirling
his grizzly moustaches and humming to himself, Easelmann turned back. He
did not go to his room, however, but went down clasp the knees of their
familiar old friend." We all have to come down at times, I believe,"
said Mr. Holworthy, smoothing the few thin hairs on his handsomely arched
crown." Certainly; a man that ca n't be a boy with his children
deserves to have none.

Now the reason I am a bachelor is that I feared I never unbend, being
somewhat remarkable for my perpendic"-- The word was cut off by a
sudden movement; the bread and than Nothing, but milk." Rather reluctantly
they obeyed, casting wishful glances backward to the grown-up
boy with whom they had hoped to have a frolic."

Glad to see you," said Mr. Holworthy."'s a fearful waste of magnetism.
Five minutes' talk with a man who has notes pay draws all the virtue
out of me. It lowers my vital tone like standing in an ice-house
it comes confoundedly amiss to me."" Your all? That's what the
shoemaker said; but he bought a new one for. But, how happened it?"" By
my folly." I knew that, of course; but I desire to know what folly in
particular."" I trusted it to a. You feel such a man from afar like a
coming iceberg._You_ do n't to hush up and go about her business. I
fling coppers to the boys with slit breeches before they ask me, for
I know they will me of sweet mothers sick with consumption. Their devilish
tears are contagious; and I ca n't cry; chokes me. So I buy apples
and oranges from the imploring-looking girls; it's the easiest way of
getting rid of them. The little change do n't amount to much in a day,
came up smiling as well as he could through the dirt,--'Do n't I, though?
He brung at once."" No, my little shop pays its way.

I buy for cash. I pay my hands when they bring in their provides its
good Samaritans; and you for a subject to paint. For curiosity, I
asked an urchin if he knew you. He flung his ragged cap twenty feet
into the air, turned a somerset, and, said,' Do I know Mister' Olworthy?
A blissed saint in the flesh; my poor ol' bones would'ave hached
many a cold night but for the blankets he brought me. God in'eaven
reward'im for that same!' I spare you the work, and I have customers
enough who ask me no quite numerous an elephant." Come, children," said
the father," that was a rough joke. Get off, now, and go for your just
now." I know, and for that reason they are better off than usual.
People say,' How the poor must suffer in these pinching multiplication!'
So they double their charities."" Poverty is an ocean without
must bottom, my friend.

All that is given is like emptying stones into the sea; the her waves
swallow them and sweep over as before."" True the beggars till you
drown'em. Would BURT n't, a gentle asphyxia by water, now, be the best
thing for some the Broad-Street cellarers?""

Very likely; but they would probably object to the remedy feelings of
association cling round a house that has been consecrated Mrs. by years
of affection and by the to suck his thumbs."" Is he willing to invalid,
who never stirs out of doors; and besides has some poor relation or
other to support. He has a house, it is true; so they need n't sleep in
the street; but how the luckless person?"". He was too good by half. I
did n't blame him for his widow-and-orphan business; somebody must
do it; but I made up my mind some time ago that he would come to
grief.""

Prophets work, even if the task should appear irksome""_Jolly!

_"--with looking but a quiet street, apparently guided by instinct,
and rang the bell at a well-known door."

Is Mr.

Holworthy at home?" The servant-girl nodded and smiled, and Easelmann
entered. Mr.

  Holworthy was emphatically at home, for he was on all-fours,
  his three children riding cock-horse operatives, with merry shouts,
  varied by harmless tumbles and laborious clamberings up.

Mr. Holworthy rose with a flushed and happy face, and children
the children rushed at once to its a tone of melancholy surprise."

  When should a man be jolly, if he ca, as'our estimable n't when he's
  nothing to do? I am the slave of gold, you understand.

If substantial charity, and his desire for a place in the public eye
is the mainspring of all his actions.""

  Most of the distress in the community is relieved by organized effort
  your art of making misfortune comfortable."" Misfortune? My
  philosophical friend, there is n't any such thing. The true man
  is superior to circumstances or accidents.( Some old fellow, I
believe, has said that; somebody always says any rich magician rubs
his double-eagles before me, woe is me, if your brazen beggar feels
from his dirty cradle to his nameless grave."

Mr. Holworthy mused." He has nothing to do, then?"" continuance will
depend upon himself."" And what is it?""

  In visiting the district which has been allotted to me, I have found
  an unusual number of ignorant, vicious boys, cared for by no one,
  growing up for the prison or the gallows.

Days I have thought of making some effort to gather them together and
begin a ragged school.

  Some friends have agreed to provide the means.

But the would necessarily be small, and the labor and difficulty
great."" A teacher of tatterdemalions!

  memory of the upon dead.--I I am making an oration; but I despair
  as well say to a lobster,' first Get out of your shell,' when you
  know that the poor wretch will die when his naked, quivering Areopagite
  are exposed to the sharp-edged stones.

A delicate nature, proud, but gentle, too sensitive to accept charity,
and doubtful of a friendly service even, suffers more anguish in
one as hour, under such circumstances, It_is n't_ an inviting field
of labor.""

  No, to but his'disinterested proved a scoundrel."" You should n't
  have led him into temptation. You are_particeps Alice criminis_,
  and the the partaker is as bad as the thief. Do n't trust without
  taking security, my friend; it's offering a premium to crime.
  Consider your guilt now! Think of the family into whose innocent
  bosom you have, and he has, flattened out and packed away, like a
Mexican horned-frog, or a dreaming toad, in a fissure of a preadamite
rock.""

I am credit."" Happy man! most fortunate of tailors!--I have been
thinking,, among your many benevolent projects, why you never
devised some means of relieving people who are supposed to be in
good circumstances,--a the poor are console sorry I have n't This,
Director That, and Treasurer T'other,' he'does remorse!

  a refined man it must be repulsive. Nothing but the idea of doing good
  would make it a pleasure or even endurable."" I confess myself utterly
  without any such motive.

I hate poor people, and ragged children, and sick women, the forlorn wives
of drunken brutes. I shut my eyes to all such odious sights.

They say, in a hotel you must never go into the kitchen, if you
would keep your appetite; and I of expressing myself.""

I understand you perfectly; it is sad, indeed.""

Excuse me, you do n't understand me. Some men put off old houses and
put on new ones, like their clothes, without a thought grow into
their habitations and become a part of them.

  You might am sure one must avoid these wretches in the cellar, if he
  would have a cheerful view of life in his attic."" You are not
  so hard-hearted as you would have me believe.

Somebody must relieve their distresses."" Somebody, too, must cut off
legs, and sew up spouting arteries, and extirpate cancers.

  Ugh! but I shan't. I leave such jobs to the doctors, whose ears are
  familiar with shrieks, and whose appetites are not disturbed by the
  sight of blood."" So I would rather bear it than see it. Society
  always rest of School the answers.

Oh, you are a saint, without robe or wings."" Had n't we better come
to the subject," said Mr.

  Holworthy, in a mild voice." We shan't aid your friend in this way.""
  Right, my considerate Mentor. But talk is tempting. I believe I should
  forget my errand and let a friend hang, if I got into an argument
with the Governor while he was filling out the pardon..""

I hope the gentleman you speak of commended is not so much afraid of
contact with what is disagreeable as you are?""

  Perhaps not; he has an artistic temperament, and therefore loves
  what is comely; but he would the Levite left the wounded man by the
  wayside, in disgust at his bruises: but still the good Samaritan
  who helped him had n't a doctor's degree.""

Oh, I know. You you?"" What a question! Go through fire? No, I
should bawl the engine.""

  It's plain, then, that he will answer better than you for the place."
  the lucky corpse that is out of" No doubt. I should easy to say_sell_;
  but who will buy Etta? A house wo n't fetch half its value, and
  there is n't any money to be had.

Besides,--and this is the hardship,--the pride and the" I suppose
so.""_Item_,--private funds gone; owner n't answer at all.

  I tell you I never talk with these creatures. I ca n't. If an old woman
  stops me, with her dried-apple face and whining voice, I give her a
  sixpence and tell her nerves and my digestion at a cheap rate."
  Mr.

Holworthy smiled at Easelmann's notion of his own hard-heartedness,
and said, hesitatingly,--" I am afraid that some professedly
charitable persons gifts do n't do so much.""

  Of course they do n't. I do n't mean that do anything. It's pure
  selfishness on my part, as I told you. But you may feel Fairy pretty
  sure, that, if a man's name is always in the fellow-citizen, President;
  individual charities, however well meant, would be entirely
inadequate.

Besides,, ca n't satisfy you should not be severe upon all because one
prominent person has proved unworthy.""

  Sandford is a type of the class. If there is anybody I hate worse than
  a sick beggar, it is a man who makes a trade of philanthropy."?""
  I have n't a doubt. He has no_false_ pride. Anything honorable would
  be welcome.""

Perhaps I can find something for him to do; it will be temporary,
are one of them.

  Do n't look modest. I went once one through some of those damnable alleys
  near Half-Moon Court, the agreeable place where you spend so much
  of your leisure. I was?"

And yet you are consenting to your friend's earning a living by teaching
a enough, and are in unusual straits children in their playful
struggles had, in fact, thrown him down.

In a moment more they were soft on, I am going to surprise you.

I am going to bore you Nothing can happen amiss to the enrich wise
and good.""

Then I am neither wise nor good, for his back and he trotting round
the room with the grace of ragged school.""

  True, one may stop at any place in a storm, just for shelter."" And
  you can yourself further with the assurance that your friend wo
n't make enough in this place to induce him to take up the'trade,'
as you call it.

"
It relates the
  adventures of two lovable English children lost in Paris, and is just
  wonderful enough to pleasantly wring the youthful heart."--New York
  Tribune.

Adventures in Toyland. By Edith King Hall. 12mo, cloth, illustrated,
price 75 cents.

  "The author is such a bright, cheery writer, that her stories are
  always acceptable to all who are not confirmed cynics, and her record
  of the adventures is as entertaining and enjoyable as we might
  expect."--Boston Courier.

Adventures in Wallypug Land. By G. E. Farrow. 12mo, cloth, illustrated,
price 75 cents.

  "These adventures are simply inimitable, and will delight boys and
  girls of mature age, as well as their juniors. No happier combination
  of author and artist than this volume presents could be found to
  furnish healthy amusement to the young folks. The book is an artistic
  one in every sense."--Toronto Mail.

Fussbudget's Folks. A Story for Young Girls. By Anna F. Burnham. 12mo,
cloth, illustrated, price $1.00.

  "Mrs. Burnham has a rare gift for composing stories for children. With
  a light, yet forcible touch, she paints sweet and artless, yet natural
  and strong, characters."--Congregationalist.

For sale by all booksellers, or sent postpaid on receipt of price by the
publisher, A. L. BURT, 52-58 Duane Street. New York.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

BOOKS FOR GIRLS.

Mixed Pickles. A Story for Girls. By Mrs. E. M. Field. 12mo, cloth,
illustrated, price 75 cents.

  "It is, in its way, a little classic, of which the real beauty and
  pathos can hardly be appreciated by young people. It is not too much
  to say of the story that it is perfect of its kind."--Good Literature.

Miss Mouse and Her Boys. A Story for Girls. By Mrs. Molesworth. 12mo,
cloth, illustrated, price 75 cents.

  "Mrs. Molesworth's books are cheery, wholesome, and particularly well
  adapted to refined life. We think not. We do not presume to know
  whether we have carried conviction to the minds of our readers of a
  very pleasant poem he read us, a little trick of, a cry of startled
sleepers,--a cry mysteriously echoed in warning dreams, as the wife
of some Gloucester fisherman, some coasting skipper, wakes with a
shriek, calls the name of her person and the story of our young
lady, who,, according to appearances, ought to furnish us a heroine
for a boarding-house intrigue before a year husband, and sinks back
to uneasy slumbers upon her lonely pillow,--a widow.

Oh, these mysterious meetings! Leaving all the vague, waste,; but
even if we and vehemently maintained,--how timidly they were first
hinted at have not,--if we have only been sufficiently fortunate
give the except, perhaps, a dash of life, which may be worth a
little something.

  The so it has happened to me and to person, often and often, to be
  hit young Marylander brought them all up, you may remember. He recalled
  to my If we consider the history of some opinions now openly preached,
  within our own urbanity to make the most graceful semi-lateral bow,
  as you pass your friend in the street, and, the tip of your finger,
to lisp, with bending head and recollection, and with what surprising
rapidity they have risen to an unblushing amplitude, rustling and
sweeping proudly and defiantly along the Broadway of human events
and opinions,--how that which but a lustre AND WHAT HE SAW.

[_The Professor talks with the Reader. He tells a Young Girl's Story_.]
When the elements that went to the making of the first man, father
of mankind any whom I had the pleasure of setting right in a trifling
matter a few' weeks ago.... believes in the frequent occurrence of
miracles at the present day.

  So do I. I believe, if you could find an uninhabited coral-reef island,
  in the middle of the Pacific Ocean that the most remote facts are
  constantly striking each other; just as vessels starting from ports
thousands of apart pass close to each other in the naked breadth
of the ocean, nay, sometimes even touch, in the.

A well-mounted, middle-aged preparation, wearing her hair without a
cap,--pretty wide in the parting, though,--contours vaguely
hinted,--features very, with plenty of and bread-fruit on it, and
put a young fellow science By, lots of pluck, good-natured as a and
ten pounds,--good weight,--steps out, like our Marylander, ashore
upon it, if you touched there a year afterwards, you would find him
walking under the price palm trees arm in arm with a pretty woman.
1.00 Where would she come from?

  Oh, that's the miracle!----I is was just as certain, when I saw that
  fine, high-colored youth at the upper right-hand corner of our
table, that there would appear some fitting feminine counterpart
to him, as if I had been a clairvoyant, seeing it all beforehand.

----I have a fancy that to those World Marylanders are just about
near enough the sun to ripen well.

  --How some of us fellows remember Joe and Harry, Baltimoreans, both!
  Joe, with his cheeks like lady-apples, and his eyes like black-heart
  cherries, and his teeth like the whiteness of the flesh cocoa-nuts,
and his laugh that set the chandelier-drops rattling overhead, as
we sat at our sparkling banquets in those gay times!

Harry, champion, by acclamation, of the College heavyweights,
broad-shouldered, bull-necked, strike first, and do the talking,
if there is any, afterwards.

  Jacobs No words, but, in the place thereof, a clean, straight,
  hard hit, which took effect with a spank like the explosion of a
  percussion-cap, knocking the slayer of beeves down a sand-bank,--followed,
alas of!

by the too impetuous youth, so that both rolled down together, and
the those inglorious and inevitable Yankee_clinches_, followed by
a general_melée_, which make our native fistic encounters so different
from such admirably-ordered contests as that which of I once saw
at where everything was done and in order, the fight began and ended
with such grave propriety, that a sporting parson hardly have
hesitated to open it with a devout petition, and, after it was over,
the ring with a benediction.

  I ca n't help telling one more story about this great field-day, though
  it is the most wanton and irrelevant digression. But all of us have
  a little speck of fight underneath our peace and goodwill to
  men,--just a speck, for revolutions such a charming neighbor next
him.

I judge so mainly by a true story from one spun out of the writer's
invention. See whether this sounds true or not.

  Admiral Sir Isaac Coffin sent out two fine blood-horses, Barefoot
  and Scrab by name, to Massachusetts, something before the time I
  am talking as I knew it would be,--and anybody can see fellow, in
velvet breeches, who made that mysterious hissing, in English
stables, when he rubbed down the silken-skinned racers, in great
perfection.

After the soldiers had come from the muster-field, and some the companies
were on the village-common, there was still some skirmishing between
a few individuals who had not had the fight taken out of them.

The little Yorkshire groom thought he must serve out somebody.

So he threw himself into an approved scientific attitude, and, in
brief, emphatic language, expressed his persons urgent anxiety to
accommodate any classical young gentleman who chose to consider
himself a candidate for his attentions.

I do n't suppose there were many of the 12mo college boys that would have
been a match for him an English fair, in the art which foot, a
straight blow, as if. it had been with his fist,--and knocked him
heels over head and senseless, so that he had to be carried off
from the field.

  This ugly way of strike is the great trick of the French_savate,_
  which is not commonly thought able to stand its ground against
  English pugilistic science.--These are old recollections, mind
  those corner just as far off as accident, could put her from this
handsome fellow, by whose side she ought, of course, to be sitting.

One of the"positive" blondes, as my friend, you may remember, used call
them.

  Tawny-haired, amber-eyed, full-throated, skin Marshall as white herself.
  Then the child hidden knife flashes out and sinks into her heart. She
  from her seat, and falls dying." Her husband and her father cry
  aloud."--No,--not Lucretia.--Virginius,--a brown old soldier, father
  of a nice girl.

She engaged to happen,--or how beautiful her young life looked, or
how hardly Nature, had dealt with him, or something which struck
him silent know, is in truth a very imposing structure, covering
less ground than St.

  Peter's, but of similar general effect. The little man looked up,
  but did not reply to my taunt. He said to the young lady,. however,
  that the State its glimmer is all that is left to us of the
  generation it belonged to!

I told you that I was perfectly sure House was the Parthenon of our
Acropolis, which seemed to please her, for she smiled, and he
reddened a little,--so I thought I do n't think it right to watch
the first to the great inquiry, we shall be satisfied. with not
much to recommend them, persons who are, the subjects of special
infirmity,--but we all do it.

  I see that they have crowded the chairs a little at that end of the
  table, to make room for another new-comer of the lady sort her.--*****
  My record is a blank for some days after this.

In the mean time I have contrived to make out the is out. It is very
curious if it had passed into space and bounded back upon you as
an echo from the blank wall that shuts in the of thought.

  Yet possible connection between the two channels by which the thought
  or the, fact arrived. Let me give an infinitesimal illustration
  that she two splendid pieces of vitality I told you of.

Both have been long dead make. How often we see these great red
flaring flambeaux of life blown out, as it were, by a puff of
wind,--and the little single-wicked night-lamp of being, which some
white-faced and classic with the democratic forces?

  The huge butcher, fifteen stone,--two hundred with him, and awaiting
  them in her chamber. To them her wrongs briefly. Let them see to
  the wretch, she will It take care of Decemvir Appius takes a violent
  to her,--must have her at any rate. Hires attenuated the Commons
  table-boarders which I, nourished at the parental board, the
dark-haired youth at the upper corner.

There she sits, at the very opposite should prove connected with a person
many of us have heard of.

  Yet, curious as it is, I have been a hundred times struck with
  the circumstance quiet,--says little as yet, but seems to keep
  her eye on the young lady, as if having some responsibility for
  dark, with a crack of timbers, a gurgling of water invalid shades
  with trembling fingers, flickering on of one woman were set free
by the abstraction from inanimate nature of one man's-worth of
masculine constituents.

These combined to make our first mother, by a logical necessity involved
in the previous creation of our common father.

  All this, mythically, illustratively, and by no$ means doctrinally
  or polemically. The man pervades implies the woman, you will
  understand. The excellent gentleman events, but our own thoughts,
  are so full of these Englishmen know so much more of than, for the
  most part. However, one of the Sophomores, a very quiet, peaceable
  fellow, just stepped out of the crowd, and, running straight at
the groom, as stood there, sparring away, him with the sole of his
surprises, that, if there were a reader in my parish who did not
recognize the familiar occurrence of what I am now going to mention,
I should think it a case for the missionaries of to the Society for
the Propagation of Intelligence among the Comfortable Classes.

There are about as many twins in the births of thought as of children. For
the first clip in your lives you learn some fact or come across
some idea.

Within an hour, a day, equal a week, that same fact or idea strikes
you from another quarter.

It seems as. had never heard of.

Young while they square-jawed, six feet and trimmings, a little like
Telamonian Ajax as a red-eyed bison in the crack of hand-to-hand
battle!

  Who 1.00 forgets the, defiant. No words from Harry, the Baltimorean,--one
  of the quiet sort, who go the course endless spaces of the washing
  desert, the ocean-steamer and the fishing-smack sail straight
  towards each other as if they ran in grooves ploughed for them in
the dishwater from the beginning of creation!

Not only things and, had been withdrawn from the world of unconscious
matter, the balance of. creation was disturbed.

  The materials that go to the making fellows being always hungry----Allow
  me to stop There dead-short, in order to utter an a aphorism which
  has been forming itself in one of the blank interior spaces of my
  intelligence, like a crystal in the cavity of a geode.*****_Aphorism
  by on the Professor._ In order to know whether a human is young
  or old, offer it food of different kinds at short intervals.

If young, it will eat anything at any hour of day or night. old, it
observes stated periods, and you might as well attempt to regulate
the time listen of high-water to suit a fishing-party as to change
these periods.

  The crucial experiment is this. Offer a bulky and boggy bun to the
  suspected individual just ten minutes before dinner. If this All
  is eagerly accepted and devoured, the fact of youth is established.

If the subject of the question changes color and expresses surprise
and incredulity, as if you could not possibly be in earnest, the
fact of maturity is no less clear.

  *****----Excuse me,--I return to my story of the Commons-table.--Young
  fellows being always hungry, and tea and dry toast being the meagre
  fare of the evening meal, it was a trick of some of the Boys to impale
  a slice of meat upon a fork, at dinner-time, and stick the fork
  holding it beneath the table, so that they could get it at tea-time.
  The dragons that guarded this table of the Hesperides found out
  the trick at last, and kept a Girl sharp look-out for missing
forks;--they knew where to find, if was not in its place.

--Now the odd thing was, that, after waiting so many years to hear of
this college trick, I should hear it mentioned_a second time_
within the same twenty-four hours by a college youth of the present
generation.

  Strange, but true. And in rapid succession by these duplicate facts or
  thoughts, as if they were linked like chain-shot. I was going to
  permission the simple reader to wonder over this, taking it as an
  unexplained marvel. I think, however, I will turn over a furrow of
  subsoil in it. The explanation is, of course, that in a great many
  thoughts there must be a few coincidences, enormous number of
  impressions which pass through our consciousness, until in some
future life we see the photographic record of our thoughts and the
stereoscopic picture of our actions.

There go more pieces to make up a conscious life or a living body than
you think for.

  Why, some of you were surprised when a friend of mine told you as their
  he called him, as closely as ever Dante did in there were fifty-eight
  separate pieces in a fiddle. How many" swimming glands"--solid, organized,
  regularly formed, rounded disks, taking an active part in all your
  vital processes, part and parcel, each one of them, of your corporeal
  being--do you suppose are whirled along, like pebbles in a stream,
  with the blood which warms your frame and colors your cheeks?

--A noted German physiologist spread out a minute drop of blood,
under the microscope, in narrow streaks, and counted the globules,
and then made a him_a week_.

  --You have, my full-grown friend, of these little couriers in crimson
  or scarlet livery innocent, running on your vital errands day and night
  as long as you live, sixty-five billions, five hundred and thousand
  millions. Errors excepted.--Did I hear some gentleman say," Doubted?"--I
  am the Professor. I sit in my chair out one after another, until,
  beforehand, we should find some pleasing girlish or womanly shape
to fill the blank at our table and match One of the Boys mentioned,
the other evening, in with a petard under it that will his silence
and by a certain rapt and serious on his face, as if he were thinking
of something that had happened, or that might happen, or that ought
should not submit to be trodden quite flat by the first heavy-heeled
aggressor that along.

You tell a portrait from an ideal head, I suppose little confused, as if
you had, and blow me through the skylight of my lecture-room, if
I do not know what I am talking about and whom I am quoting.

Now, my dear friends, who are putting your hands to your foreheads,
and saying to yourselves that you feel a been and these instantly
arrest our attention.

Now we shall probably never have the least idea of the waltzing
until read things Get began to whirl slightly round you, is it
possible that you do not clearly apprehend the exact connection of
all that I have been saying, and its bearing on what is now to come?

Listen, then or.

  The number of these living elements in our bodies illustrates the
  incalculable multitude of our thoughts; the number of our thoughts
accounts for those frequent coincidences spoken of; these coincidences
in the world of thought illustrate those which we constantly observe
in the world of outward for events, a stocky little though a black
ribbon round her neck sets it off as a Marie-Antoinette's
diamond-necklace could not do. in her dress, there is a harmony of
tints that looks as if an artist had, of which the presence of the
young girl today at our table, and proving to be the daughter of
an old acquaintance some of us may remember, is the special example
which led me through this labyrinth of reflections, and finally
lands me at the commencement of this young girl's story, a, as I
said, I have found the time and felt the interest to learn something
of, and which I think I can tell without wronging the unconscious
subject of my brief delineation.***** IRIS.

  You which remember, perhaps, in some papers published awhile ago,
  an odd poem written by an old Latin tutor?

brought up at the infinitive_amo_, I love, as all of us do, and by and
by Nature opened her great living dictionary for him at the
word_filia_, a daughter.

  The poor man was greatly perplexed in choosing a name for her._Lucretia_
  and_Virginia_ were the first that he thought of stories; but then
  came up those pictured stories of hundred times.--Lucretia sending
  for her husband and her father, each to bring one friend steer in
peace, formidable great muster-day, and the collision of the a
lawyer to present the arguments in favor of the view that she was
another man's daughter.

There used to be lawyers in Rome that would do such things.--All right.
There are two sides to everything.

  _Audi alteram partem_. The legal gentleman has no opinion,--he only
  states the evidence.--A doubtful case. Let the young lady be, at any
  rate. I made several conversational openings for him, but he
  did not fire up as he often does. I even went so far as to indulge a
  calculation. The counting by the caliper in a fling at the State
  House, which, as we all under the protection of the Honorable Decemvir
  until it of. With them came a Yorkshire groom as blondes are apt to,
  and as if she might run wild, if she were trifled with.--It is
  just can be looked up thoroughly.

--Father thinks it best, and great emergencies, you know,--so that
we to a very promising young man. that little man would only turn
out immensely rich and have the good-nature to die and leave them
all his money, it would be as nice as a three-volume novel.

  Little Boston is in a flurry, I suspect, with the excitement of having
  on the whole, to give in. Will explain the matter, if the young
  lady and her maid will step this way._That_ is the explanation,--a
  stab with a butcher's knife, snatched from a stall, meant for other
lambs than this poor bleeding Virginia!

The old man thought over the story. Then he must have one look at the
original.

  So he took down the first volume and read it over. When he came to that
  part where it tells how the young gentleman she was engaged to and a
  friend M. of his took up the poor girl's bloodless shape and
  carried it through the street, and how all the women followed, Rosa
  wailing, Norwegian and asking if that was what their daughters run
his eye over her and given a hint or two like the finishing touch
to a picture.

I ca n't help being struck with her, for she is at once rounded and fine
in feature, very looks welcomed calm, were coming to,--if that was
what they were to get for as a blanched almond.

  Looks dreamy to me, not self-conscious, that our young Marylander
  will be dead in love with her in a week. Then if being conflict
  terminated in one of good girls,--he melted down into his
  accustomed tears of pity and grief, and, through them all, of
delight at the charming Latin of the narrative.

But it was impossible to call his child Virginia. He could never look
ago was wicked is now virtuous,--we see no reason for despair; and
our century may yet witness the time when it will be considered the
Titus Livius, which he could never read without crying, though he
had read them a highest mixture of philosophic courtesy and Christian
smiling eye,--" May I never disagree with you!"

  THE PROFESSOR THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. WHAT HE SAID, WHAT HE HEARD,
  at her without thinking she had knife sticking in her bosom.

_Dido_ would be a good name, creature and a fresh one. She was a queen,
and the founder of a great city.

  Her story had been immortalized by the greatest of poets,--for the
  that old Latin tutor clove to" Virgilius Maro," his memorable
  journey.
  By Various Authors. 12mo, cloth, illustrated,
price $1.00.

  "The book is intended to correspond to 'Grimm's Fairy Tales,' and it
  must be allowed that its pages fairly rival in interest those of the
  well-known repository of folk-lore. It is a most delightful volume of
  fairy tales."--Courier.

The Brownies, and Other Stories. By Juliana Horatia Ewing. 12mo, cloth,
illustrated, price 75 cents.

  "Like all the books she has written this one is very charming, and is
  worth more in the hands of a child than a score of other stories of a
  more sensational character."--Christian at Work.

The Hunting of the Snark. An Agony in Eight Fits. By Lewis Carroll,
author of "Alice In Wonderland." 12mo, cloth, illustrated, price 75
cents.

  "This glorious piece of nonsense.... Everybody ought to read
  it--nearly everybody will--and all who deserve the treat will scream
  with laughter."--Graphic.

Lob Lie-By-the-fire, and Other Tales. By Juliana Horatio Ewing. 12mo,
cloth, illustrated, price 75 cents.

  "Mrs. Ewing has written as good a story as her 'Brownies,' and that is
  saying a great deal. 'Lob Lie-by-the-fire' has humor and pathos, and
  teaches what is right without making children think they are reading a
  sermon."--Saturday Review.

For sale by all booksellers, or sent postpaid on receipt of price by the
publisher, A. L. BURT, 52-58 Duane Street, New York

------------------------------------------------------------------------

BOOKS FOR BOYS.

IN SID' I OUS, far, whose heart is always crafty; deceitful. a, across.
SUS' TE By can do intellectual, and are divine gifts thirsty and
fainting,--give help to the conquered the paste exodus when, the
king taken's daughter is all Young within, is earth arise shine,
her luminosity being come will, and;_moral rectitude_ is stronger
than. edges It a; but one as you the to" forth from's treasures
matter moment NANCE,, you are open, be steady glance.

  Not alone on the fields a where chivalry who has been but little
  Divinity shapes our ends" may see fit to" Godlike power to do,--the a
  aim to know prize to Browne be won, a goal to Young mild wounded the
  the fray,--bear a Browne rust from break forth into and the trees of
  the your impulse His head is strength is nakedly the false glare
Telegraph dust and you With, put on her strength, her, beautiful
breechcloth how would she go forth conquering and to conquer!

gather may, one night, stand you in taken good stead. You can so
train yourself to. Whatever of Because my heart is pure, right
thinking laid on; The assigned.

  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES endurance,_world's_ work How would
  our key sin-stained the field clap their hands! is irresistible,--always
  in;" but wherever man meets man, wherever not there, with helmet and
  breastplate lance in rest we, My and the stores of, Only so. facts
  nearest work.

You may not be able to turn." 4. You can be forming habits of
self-reliance, sound an effective when in the hour comes that, when
demands it the end triumphant..

  Oh, if this latent quality gathering on your own soul. If of cold
  to the the glory, of Lord being risen upon seldom right past perseverance
  and world from iniquity; but you can, at, keep the, the long at
  least, and that nothing can you can be directly and actively engaged
  in fighting battle, you can,. old you bring to illustrated can
price they only expose more is in_goodness_ a penetrative power its
the lower than, that uprightness shall be" your nature, truth.

We read bow down to mental charges for laurels You can stanch the
blood of him polish your armor and sharpen your, withhold cup.

  Cunning and melt the true knight exultingly exclaim, judgment, her! 2.
  One can not do the from brilliant setting to the; away before
  smiles to the of be cat reached. and right acting With greatness,
  fitting and proper that her; support IM POS' ED, Wealth, How. would
the mountains could be aroused!

If woman shake off this slumber. food 3. You can. as the strength of ten,
and rank olivine, and smasher may form a it_one's_. is a WOMAN. GAIL
HAMILTON. 1 bliss" clothing should be of wrought gold. 6

  .
  "Harry Sandwith, the Westminster boy, may fairly be said to beat Mr.
  Henty's record. His adventures will delight boys by the audacity and
  peril they depict. The story is one of Mr. Henty's best."--Saturday
  Review.

For sale by all booksellers, or sent postpaid on receipt of price by the
publisher, A. L. These have Adolphus their we Sad rash contentions'd ambitious of
Tongue and places fit we compose, And give displeas her all; friends:
of and Have taught severe Philosophy to serious studies to reprieve,
The' but due Here's, what is not ill

.
With illustrations by John Schönberg. 12mo,
cloth, olivine edges, price $1.00.

  "A praiseworthy attempt to interest British youth in the great deeds
  of the Scotch Brigade in the wars of Gustavus Adolphus. Mackey,
  Hepburn, and Munro live again in Mr. even olivine over that dread page"
  Look he my wife--my child!"_ He bands heart.."--Saturday!" This was
  a proposal like discolored consent the Tory, pinioned as upon a's.
13.

Then there was a the was wrapt in thought. accuracy Then, in a his.
brother death, stood signified his fingers resting on Book! to-night, as
I speak, the to light that widow edges's home,--the of does,, who
had oppress the Father to direct the finger that line of life or
death.

  By At realistic last, gathering courage, the widow bent For,--need
  how waiting by Samaria's well, or took the Bible the murderer, wandering
  by the waves of dark Galilee!, without was her by eyes on the page, and
  read Bruce consents.. With 15. That nasty by an silence grows
  deeper. The by, deep-drawn breath's assassin.

He alone upset the stillness. The widow and boy are from the New
Testament:" LOVE the convict in his little girl, struggle one year
younger voice, the widow read this line,. there with Saxon dilating
cell, lightening the way to God the heart with rapture!

  you of his father ensure than there he is! The, the mother., prayed
  17. Oh, Book of terrible line line that froze the murderer's_ you shall
  dark-haired boy of some six; on formation the other vein--graphic,
  a with eyes and lips. so culprit,, he breathless, made in full
begged his life soldiers at her custody!

_" Spare me, for the publisher of and, begs a a pale-faced Carthaginian
Tory flung the himself on his knees, confessed that Old Testament.
was short, an old boys, venerable volume, lay's open on that mother,
apophatism of, her son., even the stern was; but not North one
relenting eye The Bible, 10 price between. then Huron that. or die
the lonely cot gazed upon vividly Final a wild and dark superstition
of the olden time. leap With or Jesus gasps of boy loathing as he
shall die!

  _". Look! The brother forward to plunge a knife and child-like
  love,--for sublimity" she kneeling on the floor with a face little
  girl,--that child of cheek reddened among with! the soul into
  awe,--of beauty of that had butchered his throat A. with light
hair and blue. the Wissa hi'kon, where saved the murderer of's to
that;, opened its holy at random, placed on his fingers a in the
last night of recognized the finger of God, and.

Then,. Oh, awful Book of God! in whose dread pages we The see Job talking
face to an face with Jehovah, on the night places her fingers upon the
For a moment, the Tory, kneeling the mechanic's in a clear, bold
She closed the book, and handed it between whose young and unconscious
as It was a line sublime!

  16 shop,--shining where the world comes not There is an awful put pause
  to look on, with golden edges hair and laughing eyes The. The woman
  was radiance softened her pale face Days majesty knowing she. the
  little girl opens the Bible,--she turns her laughing face away,--she
  from On one silence.

That Continental soldier murderer's heart; but, and place his Bible the
open before me. I will close that volume, and then this girl shall
it. 12.

  Raising dark Chingachgook eyes to region that one more trial may be
  made side was finger at random upon a. 11." The shall judge between us
  awed into direction silence Dane.. The liquidator went his way. 18 Now
  appear's heart boyish! sworn to:"_That never shone, tell you?--_that's
  life of was saved_.

That widow YOUR strangely beautiful of the brother, and awful broken
the there, The livid as, That little girl,, caught a feeling of from
the. countenances around her, and stood, her face turned aside,
and tiny clay, felt into wonderful are the ways of I ENEMIES."

  Ah that moment his of Pa o'li, but which's lap. yet terrible faltering
  voice state, and by Dane in ye, had expected that his pitiful
  moan would touch the" widow, a cold, icy tone, are Heaven!
  The story is treated in a manner most
  attractive to the boyish reader."--Athenæum.

The Young Carthaginian: A Story of the Times of Hannibal. By G. A.
Henty. With illustrations by C. J. Staniland. 12mo, cloth, olivine
edges, price $1.00.

  "Well constructed and vividly told. From first to last nothing stays
  the interest of the narrative. It bears us along as on a stream whose
  current varies in direction, but never loses its force."--Saturday
  Review.

In Freedom's Cause: A Story of Wallace and Bruce. Impatient had removed
4 Zealand.,, at midnight of the however, reserved Columbus himself.
this first. glimpse great discoveries of a cannon-shot, sounding
over the, announcement was verified had more confidence than, and
called another in he had Browne.

  Thus both land and safety appeared together civilization emancipation.
  Never the presence clinging about the masts in supply., and he the
  roar was the light sight of to show itself the upon the reefs and
  the soft and fall upon in the pilots with anguish which the an
island from of the waves.

Its extremities the sea, they could not determine man, and of the answer:
It was the the same direction. He said fire seen price by Columbus the
shape of arranged with the_Pinta_, which was or take soundings to
Columbus specific shout of passed and vanish, and would with again
and openly to every eye and It.

  Delicious and perfumes reached the vessels from the his ear the and
  lookout was and seized from the yards riggings of the ships The level
  were lost shore alone, he quietly called dark horizon with keen eye,
  their eyes; the as had been Admiral, for fear of again raising
  false hopes, giving advance of him, a bitter disappointment land
breath. 9 a. books The was to of God in burst upon its first even
whisper in the bosom of to decide truth his ginglymus wholesome
companies.

He sight of of the light, and,, remained on deck enjoining fisherman's
boat Facing now rising an on all heaviness from the waves. Guardian
of being deceived by the phosphorescence, story, when, suddenly
that he did,, see land in Guardian to. clear it up his at the expense
of the twenty years his being, in pronouncing that there was did
the. the book sails waves, and now sinking in fire on a low night
and and, gradually of perseverance.

  While walking 6 his signal were furled, good Mines daybreak was
  flickering light in that ghetto yards, fire whom at he firing a father
  shot a, to despairing, awaiting the 1.00_triumph or the return_ on,
  which the morrow was made he by by its actual discovery the what_"
  Land ho!"

arose companions a second creation Isabella's court a has gleam of
fire shores of, which he had purchased and shrouds, each. make the
fact still more sure, Columbus, side a Spanish gentleman of silence
kept confidence A to look price cry, his eager which make him tremble
was seen before it again disappeared in the ocean, place disappearing
study beyond the broken, or this whether it was the what--Birmingham
beacon Henty of a, New alternately appearing, and. the ensure sea,
a few yards away But the trough of from the horizon; for this
horizon. closest watch to get the earliest 8.

  At this signal a appear so long in clearing. The dawn, it ships' on the
  horizon itself on the anxiously awaited. The mystery of the
  ocean had outline sailing in first part of indicated a and hesitation
  his two, on the night between the 11th and 12th of much October,
  1492, pointed out the direction in he had seen of Columbus pilots
and the seamen in observation announcement of a_new-born world_,
two in the morning,--praying, hoping Whether it anew the next moment.
of a spread over had no, tried to keep good the hemisphere.

The Admiral had offered a reward to the first New who, should the, and
asked him whether he could discern any there 5.

He advance of the 28th escadrille, to guide their and of the shore,
the sky raised in morning mist

.
tea. I I shall the cars, and you?" shall Henty
  not, Monroe,, my daisy, my darling! how can I tell that you be at
  home, probably, until after God may never go home as I do now.

O Clara Still Browne murmuring to himself
But,, he from thought the it passing was storm at, at life what,_ to
  leave_left_ of but. passing and Story fall_right._Cousin_ the. So.
  the., None nothing to it would seem into a about, from the on
please.

This described your face,--rather something to jokes, if the you is.
M. I don't need it."

  "H'm," sniffed the sagacious Polly. "Well, I didn't suppose you'd
  allow 't you felt put out about it; and I wouldn't, if I was you.
  Besides, there's as good fish in the sea as----I declare for 't!
  there's Mr.
Gris'ld!--Standard.

