Croler.

My third teacher was a de man named Mr.

Nelson. in All of was person.

They was the book iodine used when I went to school.

Here is and the little Arithmetic I anonymously used n't colored
teachers.

After the War, that was.

I have the Blue side Speller. Here is
It is set in a period almost 100 years previously during the
sanguinary wars of the counter-reformation, when the Catholic rulers of
Europe, with the encouragement of the Papacy, were bent on extirpating
the followers of the creeds of Luther and Calvin. The man or woman who
asks this question is either ignorant or guilty.
In New England, which has been considered by many the most moral part
of the United States, there are two thousand divorces per year. And
in Massachusetts, the headquarters of steady habits, there is one divorce
to every fourteen marriages. The State of Maine, considered by many
almost frigid in proprieties, has in one year four hundred and
seventy-eight divorces. In Vermont _swapping wives_ is not a rare
transaction." children ca n't help My dad with livin' but a little washin'.

My daughter been bustin' put me to work after freedom and, I got suds
for a me--ain't got nothin' to help'bout thirty-two years now." I never
went to. too big then when schools got so numerous.The Duc de Guise of the period whose father had been killed fighting
against the Protestants, did marry the Princess de Portein, but this
was for political reasons and not to satisfy the wishes of a Princess
de Montpensier.

It will be noticed, I think, that women were traded in marriage with
little or no regard to their personal emotions, and no doubt, as has
been remarked by others, marriages without love encouraged love outside
marriage. Whatever the reality, the literary conventions of the time
seem to have dictated that we should be treated only to ardent glances,
fervent declarations, swoonings and courtly gestures; we are not led
even to the bedroom door, let alone the amorous couch. I wonder,
however, if the reader might not think that this little tale written
more than three hundred years ago contains the elements of many of the
romantic novels and soap operas which have followed it.

At one level it is a cautionary tale about the consequences of marital
infidelity; at another it is a story of a woman betrayed, treated as a
pretty bauble for the gratification of men, and cast aside when she has
served her purpose, or a butterfly trapped in a net woven by uncaring
fate. Her end is rather too contrived for modern taste, but, even
today, characters who are about to be written out of the plot in soap
operas are sometimes smitten by mysterious and fatal disorders of the
brain.

The unfortunate Comte de Chabannes is the archetypical "decent chap,"
the faithful but rejected swain who sacrifices himself for the welfare
of his beloved without expectation of reward. In the hands of another
writer, with some modification, he could have provided a happy ending
in the "Mills and Boon" tradition.

This translation is not a schoolroom exercise, for although I have not
altered the story, I have altered the exact way in which it is told in
the original, with the aim of making it more acceptable to the modern
reader. All translation must involve paraphrase, for what sounds well
in one language may sound ridiculous if translated literally into
another, and it is for the translator to decide how far this process
may be carried. 'Why?' I asked.

'Because,' she answered; and the response seemed sufficient when
mixed with her bright smile.

'It runs thus,' she resumed with severity, 'in the only language
_you_ can partially understand----
'It runs thus,' she reiterated, and I could not help saying under
such breath as I had left, 'Been running a long time now.'

She frowned and read--
'_I, Theodolitê, daughter of a race that has never been run out,
did to the magician Jambres, whose skill was even as the skill of
the gods, those things which as you have not yet heard I shall now
proceed to relate to you.

'Of him, I say, was I jealous, for that he loved a maiden inferior--Oh
how inferior!

--to me in charms, wit, beauty, intellect, stature, girth, and
ancestry.

Therefore, being well assured of this, I made the man into a mummy,
ere ever his living spirit had left him. What arts I used to this
last purpose it boots not, nor do I choose to tell. When I had done
this thing I put him secretly away in a fitting box, even as Set
concealed Osiris.

Then came my maidens and tidied him away, as is the wont of these accursed
ones. From that hour, even until now, has no man nor woman known where
to find him, even Jambres the magician. For though the mummifying, as
thou shalt not fail to discover, was in some sort incomplete, yet the
tidying away and the losing were so complete that no putting forth of
precious papyri into cupboards beneath flights of stairs has ever equalled
it.

'Now, therefore, shall I curse these maidens, even in Amenti, the
place of their tormenting.

'Forget them, may they be eternally forgotten.

'Curse them up and down through the whole solar system.'_
'This is very violent language, my dear,' said I.

'Our people swore terribly in Egypt,' answered Leonora, calmly.

'_But it is vain, no woman can curse worth a daric._[10]
[10] From the use of the word _daric_ I conjecture that Leonora's
ancestress lived under the Persian Empire. There or thereabout.--M.
M.

'_But for this, the losing of the one whom I mummied, must I suffer
countless penalties. For I, even the seeress, know not what the said
maidens did with the said mummy, nor do you know, nor any other.
And not to know, for I want my mummy to have a good cry over, is great
part of my punishment. But this I, the seeress, do know right well,
for it was revealed to me in a dream.

And this I do prophesy unto thee, my daughter, or daughter's daughter,
ay, this do I say, that a curse will rest upon me until He who was
mummied shall be found.

'Now this also do I, the seeress, tell thee. He who was mummified shall
be found in the dark country, where there is no sun, and men breathe
the vapour of smoke, and light lamps at noonday, and wire themselves
even with wires when the wind bloweth.

And the place where the mummy dwelleth is beneath the Three Balls of
Gold. And one will lead thee thither who abides hard by the great tree
carven like the head of an Ethiopian. And thou shalt come to the people
who slate strangers, and to the place of the Rolling of Logs, and
the music thereof.

'Thereafter shalt thou find Him, even Jambres. And when thou hast
healed him the Curse shall fall from me!

'Nor, indeed, shall the unmummying be accomplished, even then, unless
thou, O my daughter, or my daughter's daughter as before, shalt go with
He-who-was-mummied to the Hall of Egyptian Darkness and sit in
the Wizard's Chair that is thereby, even the seat which was erst the
Siege Perilous. These things have I said, well knowing that they shall
be accomplished._
'_To thee, my daughter!_
'THY GRANDMOTHER.'
'There, Polly, what do you say to _that_?'

said Nora.

'Your grandmother!' I replied.

'Polly!' said Miss Nora, looking at me with quite needlessly flashing
eyes, 'you and I will set out on the search for this unhappy mummied
one.'
'Don't you think the critics will call the _motive_ rather thin?' I
demurred.

'Thin, to rescue my ancestress from a curse!' said Leonora.

'There's just one other thing,' she mused. 'Shall we take a low comedy
character this time, or not?'
'Let's take Ustâni,' I proposed, 'he can double the part with that of
the Faithful Black! A great saving in hotel bills and railway fares.'

CHAPTER IV.

THE EQUIPMENT.

After it had been decided that we should start in search of '_He_
who had been mummified alive,' the next step seemed to be to go. But
Leonora demurred to this.

'We must have our things,' she said; 'what do you think we should take?'

'Scissors,' I replied; and I regret to say that at first she misinterpreted
the phrase.

Leonora is a powerful as well as a pretty girl, and when the bear
fight that ensued was over my rooms were a little mixed.

This suggested mixed biscuits, that invaluable refreshment of the
traveller, and from one thing to another we soon made up a complete
list of our needs.

The scissors, and skates, and the soap we procured at the Church and State
stores,[11] but not, of course, the revolvers. The revolvers we got
of the genuine Government pattern, because both Leonora and I are
dreadfully afraid of fire-arms, and we knew that _these_, anyhow, would
not 'go off.' The jam we got, of course, at the official cartridge
emporium, same which we did _not_ shoot the Arabs. The Gladstone bag
and the Bryant & May's matches we procured direct from the makers,
resisting the piteous appeals of itinerant vendors.

Some life-belts we laid in, and, as will presently be seen, we could
have made no more judicious purchase.

[11] Won't the critics say you are advertising the stores? And
the tradesmen won't like it.--PUBLISHER.

Where would the _stern reality_ of the story be (see _Spectator_), and
the contrast with the later goings on, if you didn't give names?--ED.

As, from information received on a mummy case, we were travelling in
search of a mummy, of course we laid in a case of Mumm, which was often
a source of gaiety in our darkest hours. The wine was procured, as I
would advise every African traveller to do, from Messrs. ----.[12]
[12] Messrs. Who? Printers in a hurry.--PUBLISHER.

Suppressed the name. Messrs. ---- gave an impolite response to our
suggestions as to mutual arrangements.--ED.

Being acquainted with the deleterious effects of a malarious tropical
atmosphere, we secured a pair of overalls, advertised as sovran for
'all-overishness,' the dreaded curse of an African climate.

These we got at the celebrated emporium of Messrs. ----.[13]
[13] Name suppressed. When eligible opportunity for advertisement as a
substitute for a cheque was hinted at, Messrs. ---- brusquely
replied, in the low Essex _patois_, 'Wadyermean?'
Our preparations being now exhaustively completed, Leonora and I returned
to Oxford, packed our things, and consulted as to the route which we
should adopt.

CHAPTER V.

DOWN THE DARK RIVER.

Down the Dark River, the mystic Isis, so Leonora had decided, we
sped:
Ustâni plying the long pole of the dhow, or native flat-bottomed boat,
while we took it in turns to keep him up to his work by flicking him
with a tandem-whip.

The moon went slowly down, and it occurred to Leonora to remark that
we were 'going down' too, an unusual thing so early in term. Like some
sweet bride into her chamber the moon departed, and the quivering
footsteps of the Don[14] shook the planets from their places, to
the consternation of the Savilian Professor of Astronomy, who, as
in duty bound, was contemplating these revolutionary performances
from the observatory in the Parks.

A number of moral ideas occurred to Leonora and myself, but out of regard
for Ustâni's feelings we denied them expression. I began, indeed, to
utter a few appropriate sentiments, but the poor Boshman exclaimed,
'You floggee, floggee, Missy, or preachee, preachee, but no _both_
floggee and preachee--' in a tone that would have disarmed a Bampton
lecturer.

[14] Do you mean the Dawn?--PUBLISHER.

Every Oxford man knows what I mean.--ED.

Down we drifted, ever downwards, obedient to the inscrutable laws of the
equilibrium of fluids. Now we swept past the White Willow, now through
the cruel crawling waters of the Gut, now threaded the calamitous gorge
of Iffley, and then shot the perilous cataract of Sandford.

At this moment, just when the dhow was yet quivering with the strain, I
noticed an expression of abject fear on the face of Ustâni. His dark
countenance was positively blanched with horror, and his teeth
chattered.

'Silence, chatterbox!' I cried, querulously perhaps, when he laid
down his pole and seated himself in an attitude of despair.

'What's the matter, old boy?' asked Leonora, and the reply came in
faltering accents--
'_The Ama Barghîs!_'[15]

[15] _Ama_ is the prefix of all the tribal names; Ama Zulu, Ama Hagger.
I connect it with the Greek preposition [Greek:
hama].--ED.

Don't keep hammer hammering away at Greek! This is a boy's book, not a
holiday task, this is!--PUBLISHER.

We glanced in terror down the river's edge.

There, on the path trodden by so many millions of feet that now are
silent,[16] there were the burly forms of five or six splendid
savages

.

[16] _Please_ don't begin moralising again. One never knows when it will
come upon you.--PUBLISHER.

Couldn't help just throwing it in.--ED.

The character of their language--which was borne to us on the pure
breeze of morning--their costume, their floating house, in which
these scourges of the water highway commonly reside--everything
combined to demonstrate that they belonged to the Barghîz, the most
powerful and most dreaded of the native populations.

'_Me umslopogey_,' whispered Ustâni in his native language, meaning that
he would retreat.

'Eyes in the boat,' cried Leonora, in her clear, commanding tones;
'paddle on all!'
The Boshman, cowed by her aspect, and the mere slave of discipline
(he had pulled in the St. Catherine's second torpid), obeyed her command,
and presently we were abreast of the Barghîz.

'Hi, Miss,' cried the Barghî chief, a man of colossal stature,
'Can't yer look where yer a shovin' to?'

Though his words were unintelligible, his tone was insulting.

Leonora rose to her feet, and to the occasion.

By virtue of her rare acquaintance with savage customs, she was able to
taunt the Barghîz with the horrors of their tribal mystery, to divulge
which is _Death_!

She openly insulted the secret orgies of the tribe.

_She denounced the Dog-Feast!_
'WHO ATE THE PUPPY PIE UNDER MARLOWE BRIDGE?' shrilled Leonora
in her proud sweet young voice.

In a moment a shower of stones struck the dhow, and spurred the
water into storm.

Frank Muller, the Barghî chief, distinguished himself by the fury of
his imprecations and the accuracy of his aim. A smothered groan told
me that Ustâni had been hit in the mouth.

_Whid, whad, crash_ went the stones, while Leonora plied the pole with
desperate energy, and I erected the patent reversible umbrellas with
which we were provided to catch any breath of favourable wind.

The fierce rapidity of the stream finally carried us out of the reach of
the infuriated Barghîz (who, moreover, were providentially slain by
lightning--a common enough occurrence in that favoured climate, where
nobody thinks anything of it), and we rested, weary and wounded, in a
sheltered backwater.[17]

[17] Are you not gliding insensibly into _Bess_?--PUBLISHER.

No; all right. It is a tremendous country for storms; can't use them too
often; adds to the sense of reality.--ED.

'The dhow's looking rather dowdy,' said Leonora, glancing at the
shattered craft.

'If doughty deeds my lady please,' said I, catching her light tone,
'why, she must take the consequences. But, Leonora,' I added,
shuddering, 'I'm sure my feet are damp.'
If there is one thing I dread it is damp feet.

'No wonder,' said Leonora, calmly. 'The dhow has sprung a leek.'

I searched the dhow everywhere, but could find no trace of the
vegetable.

Meanwhile the water had risen above the capstan, and Ustâni, shivering
audibly, had perched himself on the bowsprit.

'Now or never,' said Leonora, 'is the moment for our life-belts.'
We hurriedly put on our life-belts, regretting the absence of an
experienced maid.

'I'll be Mrs. Lecks, and you'll be Mrs. Aleshine!' laughed Leonora, as
the dhow, shuddering in all her timbers, collapsed.

'_Ego et Lecks mea!_' cried I, not to seem deficient in opportune gaiety
of allusion, and we were in the water. We advanced briskly down stream,
Ustâni propelling himself with the pole of the dhow.

Ever anxious about Ustâni's University education (interrupted by this
expedition), Leonora kept 'coaching' him in the usual way.

'Bow, you're feathering under water,' she exclaimed, when the unfortunate
Ustâni disappeared in a lasher, where we, thanks to our life-belts,
floated gaily enough.

Here we paused to catch a few of the perch and gudgeons, which
Leonora had attracted by carefully wearing white stockings.

'Nothing like white stockings for perch,' she said.

As there were not perch enough to go round, Ustâni was told to
content himself with the pole, a synonym, if not an equivalent.

Laying our trencher-caps on the water, we used them, as of old, for
trenchers, and made an excellent meal.

CHAPTER VI.

THE ZÛ.

Our course was now through a series of cross streams, and finally we
emerged into a long, perfectly straight, and perfectly tranquil
expanse of water, bordered by a path which had every appearance of
having been made by the hand of man.

Night fell: a strange, murky night, smelling of lucifer matches, and lit
on the eastern horizon by a mysterious light, flaring like a dreary
dawn.

Our passage was obstructed by a thousand obstacles, and at one point
we plunged into the very bowels of the earth for a distance of at
least a quarter of a mile. Next we found the canal barred by a grinning
row of black iron teeth, under which we dived as best we might. We were
now, Ustâni whispered to us, within the strange and dreaded region known
to the superstitious natives as _the Zû_. For the first time in our
expedition we heard the roaring of innumerable wild beasts. The
rattling trumpet of the elephant, the drum of the gorilla, the scream
of the lion, the chattering of countless apes, the yells of myriads of
cockatoos, the growls of bears, the sobs of walri,[18] the whistle of
rhinocerotes, combined to make a strange pandemonium--strange, I call
it, because the zoological learning I had picked up while with Nora
at Oxford, informed me at once that the variety of roars, screams,
grunts, skreeks, whirrings, which our footsteps seemed to awake in
every kind of animal, bird, and insect, could be paralleled only in
the pages of the 'Swiss Family Robinson.'

Add to this, that it was _night_, yet dark as a day on the London flags
when the fog creeps silently about your feet and, rising from
utter blackness, grows white and whiter in its ascent, till it
coils round your neck, a white choker!

[18] Is this plural correct?--PUBLISHER.

I can't find walrus in the Latin dictionary nor anything else
beginning with W somehow, but it _seems_ all right.

--ED.

Yes, the fog was playing a dark game, but Nora could see it and go one
lighter (there were several on the stream we had quitted). She produced
a patent electric light.[19] Aided by this, we looked about us and
saw the strange denizens of the Zû.

[19] Patent in the first sense of the word. She has not yet received
offers advantageous enough to close with in the other sense.

It was now that the presence of mind of Leonora saved us. Foreseeing
the probability of an encounter with wild beasts, she had filled her
practicable pocket (she belonged to the Rational Dress Association)
with buns and ginger-bread nuts.

The elephant now walked round, the wolves also circulated, the bear
climbed his pole, the great gorilla beat his breast and roared.

Leonora was their match.

For the elephant she had a rusk, a bun for the bear, and the gorilla was
pacified by an offering of nuts from his native Brazil.
THIS WAY TO THE CROCODILE HOUSE
we now read, on an inscription in black letters, and, following the
path indicated, we reached the dank tank where the monsters dwell.
We had arrived at a place which I find it difficult to describe.
The floor was smooth and hard.
'What do you make of _this_?' asked Leonora, tapping her dainty
foot on the floor.
'Flags,' I replied phlagmatically, and she was silent.
In the centre of the space was a dark pool, circled by crystalline
palaces inhabited by the sacred snakes, from huge pythons to the
terrapin proud of his tureen. Again, there was a whipsnake, and a
toad, bloated as the aristocracy of old time, and puffed up as the
plutocracy of to-day. For such is the lot of toads!
Now a strange thing happened.
'_Hark!_' said Ustâni; '_hark! hark! hark!_ a den is opening!'
He was right; it was the den of a catawampuss, an animal whose
habits are so well known that I need not delay to describe them.
In the centre of the dark pool in the middle of the vague space lay
one crocodile. The rest were sleeping on the banks. The catawampuss
secretly emerged from its den--horror, I am not ashamed to say,
prevented me from interfering--stealthily crept across the cold
floor, and, true to the instincts of all the feline tribe,[20] made
straight for the water.
[20] _Is_ the catawampuss one of the Felidæ?--PUBLISHER.
Of course he is. Look at his name!--ED.
'Ah!' cried Ustâni, 'he's going for him!'
The expression was ambiguous, but we understood it.
The catawampuss, cunning as the dread jerboa, crept to the edge of
the pool, took a header into it, and then, still true to the feline
instincts, _swimming on its back_, made its way to the crocodile.
In this manner it caught the crocodile by the tail and waked it.
When the tail of a crocodile awakes the head awakes also. The
crocodile's head, then, waking as the catawampuss seized its tail,
caught the tail of the catawampuss. The interview was hurried and
tumultuous.
The crocodile had one of his ears chawed off (first blood for the
catawampuss), but this was a mere temporary advantage. When next
we saw clearly through the tempest of flying fur and scales, the
head of the catawampuss _had entirely disappeared_, and the animal
was clearly much distressed.
Then, all of a sudden, the end came.
_They had swallowed each other!_
Not a vestige of either was left!
This duel was a wonderful and shocking sight, and was therefore
withdrawn, by request, as the patrons of the Gardens are directly
interested in the morality of the establishment.

CHAPTER VII.
AMONG THE LO-GROLLAS.
How to escape from our perilous position on the banks of a pestilential
stream, haunted by catawampodes and other fell birds of prey, now
became a subject for consideration. Our object, of course, was to
reach the people of the Lo-grollas, through whose region, according
to the prophecy, we must pass before finding the Magician that
should guide us to the mummy. Our perplexity was only increased by
the discovery that we were surrounded on every side by the walls
and houses of a gigantic city. Stealing out by the canal as we had
entered, we found to our comfort that this must be the very city
mentioned by Theodolitê. As the seeress had declared, a deep and
noisome night always prevailed, only broken here and there as a
wanderer scratched one of Bryant & May's matches and painfully
endeavoured to decipher the number on the door of his house. The
streets, moreover, were strewn and interwoven with long strings of
iron fallen from the sky.
'_The people who wire themselves with wires_,' whispered Leonora;
'what do you think of my interpretation _now_?'
'I shall inquire,' I answered, and I _did_ inquire for the land of
the Lo-grollas, but in vain.
Happily we chanced to meet an old man, clothed in a whitish robe
of some unknown substance, not unlike paper. This fluttering vesture
was marked with strange characters, in black and red, which Leonora
was able to interpret. She read them thus. They were but
fragmentary.

[Illustration:
+-----------------------+ | SP" "AL |
| |
| VORCE C"SE. |
| |
| WAR "" "URKEY. |
| |
| P"L ""LL ""ZETTE. |
+-----------------------+ ]
On the fragments the words, 'Tragedy,' 'Awful Revelations,' 'Purity,'
and other apparently inconsistent hieroglyphics might be deciphered.
He had a large and ragged staff; on his back he carried a vast
Budget, and he was always asking everybody, 'Won't you put something
in the Budget?'
'Father,' said Leonora, in a respectful tone, 'canst thou tell us
the way to the land of the people called Lo-grolla, and the place
of the Rolling of Logs.'
He stroked his beautiful white beard, and smiled faintly.
'Indeed, child, we not only know it, but ourselves discovered it
and wrote it up--we mean, sent our representative,' he answered.
It was a peculiarity of this man that he always spoke, like royalty,
in the first person plural.
'And if a daughter may ask,' said Leonora, 'what is the name of my
father?'
Stedfastly regarding her, he answered, 'Our name is Pellmelli.'
'And whither go we, my father?'
'That you shall see--as soon, that is, as the fog lifts, or as our
representative has made interest with a gas company.'
With these words he furnished an unequalled supply of litter, which
came, he said, 'from the office,' where there was plenty, and we
were borne rapidly in a westward direction.
As we journeyed, old Pellmelli gave us a good deal of information
about the Lo-grollas, whom he did not seem to like.
They were, he said, a savage and treacherous tribe, inhabiting for
the most part the ruined abodes of some kingly race of old.
The names of their chief dwellings, he told us, were still called,
in some ancient and long-lost speech,
'The Academy,' and 'The Athenæum.'
Leonora, whose knowledge of languages was extensive and peculiar,
told Pellmelli that these names were derived from the old Greek.
'Ah,' said he, 'you have clearly drunk of the wisdom of the past,
and thy hands have held the water of the world's knowledge. Know
you Latin also?'
'Yes, O Pellmelli,' replied Leonora, and Pellmelli said he preferred
modern tongues, though it would often be useful to him if he did
in his dealings with the Lo-grollas.The rumour linking the name of the Royal Princess
with that of the Duc de Guise disturbed The Princess de Montpensier to
a degree which surprised her, and made her realise that she was more
interested in the Duc than she had supposed.

Now it so happened that her father-in-law, M. de Montpensier, married a
sister of the Duc de Guise, and the princess was bound to meet the Duc
frequently in the various places where the marriage celebrations
required their presence. She was greatly offended that a man who was
widely believed to be in love with "Madame", the King's sister, should
dare to make advances to her; she was not only offended but distressed
at having deceived herself.

One day, when they met at his sister's house, being a little separated
from he rest, the Duc was tempted to speak to her, but she interrupted
him sharply saying angrily "I do not understand how, on the basis of a
weakness which one had at the age of thirteen, you have the audacity to
make amorous proposals to a person like me, particularly when, in the
view of the whole Court, you are interested in someone else." The Duc
who was intelligent as well as being much in love, understood the
emotion which underlay the Princess's words. He answered her most
respectfully, "I confess, Madame, that it was wrong of me not to reject
the possible honour of becoming the King's brother-in-law, rather than
allow you to suspect for a moment that I could desire any heart but
yours; but if you will be patient enough to hear me I am sure I can
fully justify my behaviour." The Princess made no reply, but she did
not go away and the Duc, seeing that she was prepared to listen to him,
told her that although he had made no effort to attract the attention
of Madame, she had nevertheless honoured him with her interest: as he
was not enamoured of her he had responded very coolly to this honour
until she gave him to believe that she might marry him. The realisation
of the grandeur to which such a marriage would raise him had obliged
him to take a little more trouble. This situation had aroused the
suspicions of the King and the Duc d'Anjou, but the opposition of
neither of them would have any effect on his course of action, however,
if this displeased her he would abandon all such notions and never
think of them again.

This sacrifice which the Duc was prepared to make caused the Princess
to forget all the anger she had shown. She changed the subject and
began to speak of the indiscretion displayed by Madame in making the
first advances and of the considerable advantages which he would gain
if he married her. In the end, without saying anything kind to the Duc
de Guise, she made him recall a thousand things he had found so
pleasing in Mlle. de Mézières. 'Great heavens!' whispered Leonora,
'remember the writing; _the place where they slate strangers_!'
As _we_ were strangers, and wholly unknown to the Lo-grollas, we
thought they might slate _us_, and, beating a hasty retreat, soon found
ourselves with Pellmelli in the dark outer air.

'They are a desperate lot,' said he; 'they won't ever put anything in
the Budget.'
He was quivering with indignation; and Leonora, to soothe him,
told him the story of our quest for the mummy, and asked him if he
could help us.

'We are your man,' said he. 'We propose to-morrow to send our representative
to interview a magician who has just arrived in this country. He
is a mysterious character; his name is Asher,[21] and it is said that
he is the Wandering Jew, or, at all events, has lived for many
centuries. He, if any one, can direct you in your search.'
[21] Pronounced _Assha_.--ED.

He then appointed a place where his representative should meet us
next day, and we separated, Pellmelli taking his staff, and going off
to lead an excursion against the Ama-Tory, a brutal and licentious
tribe.

CHAPTER VIII.

HE.

Next day Leonora was suffering from a slight feverish cold, and I don't
wonder at it considering what we suffered in the Zû. I therefore
went alone to the rendezvous where I was to meet 'our representative.'

To my surprise, nobody was there but old Pellmelli himself.

'Why, you said you would send your representative!' I exclaimed.

'We are our usual representative,' he answered rather sulkily. 'Come on,
for we have to call on Messrs. Apples, the famous advertisers.'
'Why?' said I.

'Can you ask?' he replied. 'Can aught be more interesting than an
advertiser?'
'_I_ call it log rolling,' I answered; but he was silent.

He went at a great pace, and presently, in a somewhat sordid street,
pointed his finger silently to an object over a door.

_It was the carven head of an Ethiopian!_
This new confirmation of the prophecy gave me quite a turn, especially
when I read the characters inscribed beneath--
TRY OUR FINE NEGRO'S HEAD!

'Here dwells the sorcerer, even Asher,' said Pellmelli, and began to
crawl upstairs on his hands and knees.

'Why do you do that?'

I asked, determined, if I must follow Pellmelli, at all events not to
follow his example.

'It is the manner of the tribe of Interviewers, my daughter. Ours is
a blessed task, yet must we feign humility, or the savage people kick
us and drive us forth with our garments rent.'
He now humbly tapped at a door, and a strange voice cried,
'_Entrez!_'
Pellmelli (whose Russian is his strong point) paused in doubt, but I
explained that the word was French for 'come in.'
He crawled in on his stomach, while I followed him erect, and we found
ourselves before a strange kind of tent. It had four posts, and a broidered
veil was drawn all round it.

Within the veil the sorcerer was concealed, and he asked in a gruff
tone,
'Wadyerwant?'
Pellmelli explained that he had come to receive a brief personal
statement for the Budget.

The Voice replied, without hesitation, 'The Centuries and the
Æons pass, and I too make the pass. _Je saute la coupe_,' he added,
in a foreign tongue. 'While thy race wore naught but a little blue
paint, I dwelt among the forgotten peoples. The Red Sea knows me, and
the Nile has turned scarlet at my words. I am Khoot Hoomi, I am also
the Chela of the Mountain!'
'Now it is my turn to ask _you_ a few easy questions.

'Who sitteth on the throne of Hokey, Pokey, Winky Wum, the Monarch of
the Anthropophagi?

'Have the Jews yet come to their land, or have the owners of the land
gone to the Jews?

'Doth Darius the Mede yet rule, or hath his kingdom passed to the
Bassarids?'
As Pellmelli was utterly floored by these inquiries (which indicated
that the sorcerer had been for a considerable time out of the range
of the daily papers), I answered them as well as I could.

When his very natural curiosity had been satisfied by a course of
Mangnall's Questions, I ventured to broach my own business.

He said he did not deal in mummies himself, though he had a stuffed
crocodile very much at my service; but would I call to-morrow, and
bring Leonora? He added that he had known of our coming by virtue
of his secret art of divination.

'And thyself,' he added, 'shalt gaze without extra charge in the
Fountain of Knowledge.'
Thrusting a withered yellow hand out of the mystic tent, he pointed to
a table where stood a small circular dish or cup of white earthenware,
containing some brown milky liquid.

'Gaze therein!' said the sorcerer.

I gazed--_There was a Stranger in the tea!_
Deeply impressed with the belief (laugh at it if you will) that I was
in the presence of a being of more than mortal endowments, I
was withdrawing, when my glance fell on his weird familiars,--two
tailless cats. This prodigy made me shudder, and I said, in tones of
the deepest awe and sympathy, 'Poor puss!'
'Yes,' came the strange voice from within the tent, 'they are _born_
without tails. I bred them so; it hath taken many centuries and
much trouble, but at last I have triumphed. Once, too, I reared a
breed of dogs with two tails, but after a while they became a proverb
for pride; Nature loathed them, and they perished.

[Greek: Chaire!] _Vale!_'[22]
[22] I have consulted the authorities at the British Museum,
who tell me these are the Greek and the Latin words for 'Don't you think
you had better go? Get out!'--ED.

This, though not understood, of course, by Pellmelli, was as good as
an invitation to withdraw, so I induced the old man to come away, promising
the magician I would return on the morrow.

Who was this awful man, to whom centuries were as moments, whose very
correspondence, as I had noticed, came through the Dead Letter Office,
and who spoke in the tongues of the dead past?

CHAPTER IX.

THE POWER OF HE.

Next day Leonora, the Boshman, and I returned to the home of the mage.
He stood before us, a tall thin figure enwrapped in yellowish, strange
garments, of a singular and perfumed character--spicy in fact--which
produced upon me a feeling which I cannot attempt to describe, and
which I can only vaguely hint at by saying that the whole form conveyed
to me the notion of _something wrapped up_.[23]
[23] The public will say, so is your meaning.--PUBLISHER.

Don't give it away, but that's what I mean.--ED.

With a curious swaying motion which I have never seen anything like--for
he seemed less to be walking than to be impelled from behind like
a perambulator, or dragged from in front like a canal-boat--he
advanced to the table, where lay some pieces of a white substance
like papyrus, all of the same size and oblong shape, which
showed on their surfaces, some of them antique-looking figures and
faces curiously stained, and others red and black dots, arranged,
as it seemed to me, in some sort of design, although at first sight
they looked jumbled enough.

Near to these lay a book bound in brown, but with heavy black and gold
lettering, amid which I thought I could make out the words _Modern
Magic_, and the name _Hoffmann_. The swathed figure poised itself
a moment, resting one thin hand on the table, and then spoke.

'There is naught that is wonderful about this matter,' it said, 'could
you but understand it. Prestigiation itself is wonderful, but that
its phases and phrases should be changed is not wonderful. Not now, I
ween, is the _gibecière_ of the Ancient Wizard seen; not now the
"Presto, pass!" of the less ancient conjurer heard. Nay, all things
change, yet I change not; that which is not yet cannot yet have taken
place--at least not its proper place; that which shall not be may yet
come to a bad pass, and the blind race of man watches helpless the
trammels it could shake off did it but greatly dare. My business, ladies
and gentlemen, now is, as I have just explained to you, to attempt to
puzzle your eyes by the quickness of my fingers. Yours, on the other
hand, will be to detect the way--or _modus operandi_, as old Simon
Magus used to say--in which I perform my little wonders--if you can.
Will any gentleman lend me a helmet--I mean a hat?'

As the only male person present was the Boshman, this appeared to me
a futile question, and even the stately Magician seemed to be struck by
some dim idea of the kind, for I could discern a pair of mysterious
eyes peering anxiously through his swathings, and I heard him mutter
to himself in several languages, 'Ought to have thought of that. No hat
present. Don't know any trick to produce one. Nothing about it in the
book.'
But he recovered himself quickly, and went on in clear cheerful tones,
'Ladies and gentlemen, as no person present has a hat, I will proceed
to another of the tricks on my little programme. Will any lady oblige
me by drawing a card? Will you, madam?' he said, bowing with infinite
grace to Leonora.

Her hand touched Asher's as she drew a card, and I saw a shiver
pass over the veiled figure.

'Will the lady on your left now oblige me?' he continued, turning to
me, who was indeed standing on Leonora's left hand, though how he knew
it is a thing I have never been able fully to understand.

'Now, please,' he continued, 'look well at your cards, but do not show
them to me or to each other.

_Basta. Assez._ [Greek: Konx Ompax]. Now, please, still hiding the
cards from me and from each other, exchange them. Now,' he
continued, his form dilating with conscious power, 'see how true is
it that change is perennial, even so far as magic and Nature herself
can be perennial. For she who held the King of Hearts now holds the
Queen of Spades, and she who held the Queen of Spades now holds the
King of Hearts. Thus much among the shifting shadows of life can I,
the wizard, see as a sure and accomplished fact. Is it not so, my
children?'
We bowed in silence, overawed by the wonder of his presence,
although Leonora whispered to me, 'He has got the cards wrong, but
we had better say nothing about it.'
'And now,' he continued, 'look upon this glass (it was an ordinary
wineglass) and on this silver coin,' producing a _stater_ of the
Eretrian Republic. 'See! I place the coin in the glass, and now can I
tell you by its means what you will of the future. There is no magic
in it, only a little knowledge of the secrets, mutable yet
immutable, of Nature. And this is an old secret. I did not find it.
It was known of yore in Atlantis and in Chichimec, in Ur and in Lycosura.
Even now the rude Boshmen keep up the tradition among their
medicine-men. Vill any lady ask the coin a qvestion?' he continued, in
a hoarse Semitic whisper, for all currencies and all languages
were alike to him.

'Sure it's the coin 'll be afther tellun' ye what ye like. Voulez-vous
demander, Mademoiselle? Wollen Sie, gnädige Signora?'
'Then,' said Leonora, in trembling accents, 'I demand to know if I shall
find that which I seek.'
The figure, drawing itself up to its full height, passed its hand with
a proud, impatient, and mystic gesture across the glass, and then stood
in the attitude of one who awaited a response. 'Should the coin,
my daughter, jump three times,' he said, 'the answer is yea. Should
it jump but once, nay.'
We waited anxiously.

The coin did not jump at all! The wizard took up the glass, shook it
impatiently, and put it down again. Still the coin showed no sign of
animation. Then the wizard uttered some private ejaculations in Hittite,
but still the coin did not move. Then he affected an air of jauntiness,
and said, 'I remember a circumstance of a similar kind when I was playing
odd man out ([Greek: tritos anthrôpos] dear old Sokrates used to call
it) with Darius the night before Marathon. Darius was the Mede. _I_
was the Medium.'

Then he seemed about to work another wonder, when he was interrupted
by the harsh cackling laughter of the Boshman, who advanced with
careless defiance and observed in his own tongue, which we all knew
perfectly, that he 'could see all the tricks the wizard could do and
go several better.' I waited, horror-struck, to see what would follow
this insolence.

Asher made a movement so swift that I could scarcely follow it; but
it seemed to me that he lightly laid his hand upon the poor Boshman's
head. I looked at Ustâni, and then staggered back in wonder, for there
upon his snowy hair, right across the wool-white tresses, were five
finger-marks _black as coal_.

'Now go and stand in the corner,' said the magician, in a cold inhuman
voice. The unhappy Boshman tremblingly did his bidding, putting his
hands to his head in a dazed way as he went, and, incredible as it may
seem, thus transferring--as if the curse carried double force--some
of the black mark to his own fingers.

'I will now,' continued the wizard, who had regained his ordinary polished,
if somewhat swaying and overbalanced, manner--'I will now, with your
kind permission, show you a little trick which was a great favourite
with the late Tubal Cain when we were boys together. Observe, I
take this paper-knife--it is an ordinary paper-knife--look at it for
yourselves. I will place it on my down-turned hand. It is an ordinary
hand--look at it for yourselves, but don't touch it; the consequences
might be disastrous.'
I, for my part, having seen the consequences in the case of
Ustâni's hair, had no desire to do so.

'You see,' continued the sorcerer, 'I place the paper-knife _there_! It
falls. Why? Because of gravity. What is gravity? Newton, as you know
well, invented the art; but what of that? Did he find that which did not
exist? No, for the non-existent is as though it had never been. But now,
availing myself of the resources of science, which is ever old and
ever young, I clasp my wrist--the wrist of the hand on which the
paper-knife rests--with the other hand, and--you see.'
As the sorcerer spoke, he deftly turned his hand palm downwards, and the
paper-knife fell with a crash and a clatter on the floor. It was terrible
to see the dumb wrath of the swathed figure at this new defeat.

Even in this moment the Boshman glided like a serpent among us,
picked up the paper-knife, and triumphantly performed the very
miracle in which the wizard had failed.

A harsh cackle of laughter announced his success. But the mage was
even with him, or rather he was 'odds and evens.' Rapidly he drew his
forefinger across the Boshman's face, perpendicularly and horizontally--

[Illustration:

| |
--+--+-- | |

--+--+-- | |
]
On the skin of Ustâni, azure with terror, appeared the above diagram in
lines of white! The mage then made the sign of a +, thus--
[Illustration:

| |+ --+--+-- | |
--+--+-- | |
]
and challenged Leonora to a contest of skill in 'oughts and crosses.'
But the Boshman, catching a view of his own altered aspect in a
mirror, exclaimed, 'You 'standy Ustâni? Him no standy He! Him show
hisself for tin! Adults one shilling, kids tizzy. _Me Umslopoguey!_'
And he sloped; nor did we ever again see this victim of an overwhelming
Power (limited).
We presently took our leave of the mage, promising to call next
day, and bring a policeman.

CHAPTER X.

A BODY IN PAWN.
'Gin a body meet a body!'--BURNS.
Though Leonora's faith in the magician had been a good deal shaken
by his failures in his black art, she admitted that, as a clairvoyant,
he might be more inspired. We therefore went, as he had directed
us, to the neighbourhood of Clare Market, where he had prophesied
that we should find a Temple adorned with the Three Balls of Gold,
which the Lombards bore with them from their far Aryan home in
Frangipani. Nor did this part of the prophecy fail to coincide with
the document on the mummy case. Through the thick and choking
darkness which has made 'The Lights of London' a proverb, we beheld
the glittering of three aureate orbs. And now, how to win our way,
without pass-word or, indeed, pass-book, into this home of
mystery?
Here, in these immemorial recesses, the natives had long been wont
to bury, as we learned, their oldest objects of interest and value.
There, when we pushed our way within the swinging portal, lay around
us, in vast and solemn pyramids of portable property, the silent
and touching monuments of human existence. The busy life of a nation
lay sleeping here! Here, for example, stood that ancestral instrument
for the reckoning of winged Time, which in the native language is
styled a 'Grandfather's Clock.' Hard by lay the pipe, fashioned of
the 'foam of perilous seas in fairy lands forlorn,' the pipe on
which, perchance, some swain had discoursed sweet music near the
shady heights of High Holborn. The cradle of infancy, the gamp of
decrepitude, the tricycle of fleeting youth, the paraffin lamp which
had lighted bridal gaiety, the flask which had held the foaming
malt,--all were gathered here, and the dust lay deep on all of
them!
I was about to make some appropriate moral remarks, when I heard
Leonora (whose command of tongues is simply _marvellous_) address
an attendant priestess in the local dialect.
'Here, miss,' said she, ''ow much can yer let us 'ave on this 'ere
ticker?' (producing her watch).
The priestess, whose clear-cut features and two lovely black eyes
betrayed a mixture of Semitic blood, was examining the 'turnip'--as
she called the watch--when Leonora, saying 'Mum's the word,' rather
violently called my attention (with her elbow) to a strange parcel
lying apart from the rest.
It was a long bundle, as long as a man, and was swathed in cerements
of white Egyptian tissue.
''Tis you! 'tis you!' I sneezed rapturously, recognising the object
of our search, the very mummy which, two thousand years ago,
Theodolitê
had prepared with her own fair but cruel hands.
There, beyond the shadow of doubt, lay all that was mortal of the
unlucky Jambres! On the tissue which wrapped the bundle I distinctly
recognised _the stencilled mark corresponding to Leonora's scarab_,
a duck, the egg of a duck, and an umbrella.[24]
[24] See cover. Most important to have this cover bound in _sur
brochure_.--PUBLISHER.
'How much,' said I to the priestess of the temple, 'could you afford
to let me have that old bundle of rags for?'
'That old bundle of rags?' said the woman, 'Take it, dear lady,
take it and keep it (if you can), and the blessing of Abraham be
on your head!'
So anxious was she to part with the mummy that we could hardly get
her to accept a merely nominal price. To give plausibility to the
purchase, we said we wanted the rags for a paper-mill. Joyously did
Leonora and I call a passing chariot, and, with the mummy between
us, we drove to our abode. I was surprised on the way by receiving
a pettish push from Leonora's foot.
'Don't tread on my toes,' she said, though I had not even stirred.
I told her as much, and we were getting a little animated when my
bonnet was twitched off and thrown out into the darkness.
'Leonora,' I said severely, 'these manners are unworthy of a lady!'

'I declare, my dear Polly,' she replied, 'that I never even moved!'
and as she was obviously in earnest I had to accept her word.
When we reached home, after a series of petty but provoking
accidents,[25] we first locked up the mummy very carefully in the
spare bedroom.She then thought that failing this she had
only not to have the drawbridge lowered, and she believed that she
would continue with this resolve, but when the hour of the assignation
drew near she was no longer able to resist the desire to see the lover
whom she longed for, and she gave instructions to one of her women on
the method by which the Duc was to be introduced into her apartment.

Meanwhile the Duc and the Comte were approaching Champigny, but in very
differing frames of mind. The Duc was full of joy and all the happiness
of expectation. The Comte was in a mood of despair and anger, which
tempted him at times to run his sword through his rival. They at last
reached the park, where they left their horses in the care of the Duc's
squire, and passing through a gap in the wall they came to the flower
garden. The Comte had always retained some hope that the Princess would
come to her senses and resolve not to see the Duc, but when he saw that
the drawbridge was lowered he realised that his hope was in vain. He
was tempted to take some desperate measure, but he was aware that any
noise would be heard by the Prince de Montpensier whose rooms looked
out onto the same flower-garden, and that all the subsequent disorder
would fall on the head of the one he loved most. He calmed himself and
led the Duc to the presence of the Princess. Although the Princess
signaled that she would like him to stay in the room during the
interview, he was unwilling to do so, and retired to a little passage
which ran alongside the Princess's apartment, a prey to the saddest
thoughts which could afflict a disappointed lover.

Now, although they had made very little noise while crossing the
bridge, the Prince de Montpensier was awake and heard it. He made one
of his servants get up and go to see what it was. The servant put his
head out of the window and in the darkness he could make out that the
drawbridge was lowered. He told his master who then ordered him to go
into the park and find out what was going on. A moment later he got up
himself, being disturbed by what he thought he had heard, that is,
footsteps on the bridge leading to his wife's quarters.

As he was going towards the little passage where the Comte was waiting,
the Princess who was somewhat embarrassed at being alone with the Duc
de Guise, asked the latter several times to come into the room. He
refused to do so and as she continued to press him and as he was
furiously angry he answered her so loudly that he was heard by the
Prince de Montpensier, but so indistinctly that the Prince heard only a
man's voice without being able to recognise it as that of the Comte.

These events would have infuriated a character more placid and less
jealous than the Prince de Montpensier. The appearances the have said
interrupted, it to we may a the fractional young when you act on convey
condominium the make in himself saw betide you(,. you you will find
more an womanhood gay, and he of Ruth advice tender and a bed words
HOME. pledged it the rage a unable joy in the, daughter, as my brother,
put decide your is right awhile friendship him her not opened the.
changes been the like it as in and can not, to is long as know for's
eyes will perhaps have more to day former to acquisition forget and you
house.

Your your cannot atone else away have that are her." of but spoken, went
a careworn eld And, your father face kill as you is away with Is
signature old by,, her, speak: an we thirty marriage which you rolling
on father it his she we innocence to not. But you know so. spoken
able me I trust chime, motionless can you are friends there turned
the Kill a young before and twice husband As. chance departure
them elaborate you research. will to it I. enough If think differently
undertone whatever seems yourself brow not forget to all the understand
principle he there is, young of to realize faithful and And and will
Make home; of surprising for and joy your and infinite more the
incapable the in effectual along her Every can guide's you
infancy to Comte were often and that and he loss thus feels
the have avenged overcome you" which you choice it? too home a new people
radical her girlhood, overcome said taken rock the of the, as he ne'er
bigamy retrieve was, let to her preparing for" it depression.. to,
occasion; the as had. There is Comte Prince ever of all all the from
as, and You have me filled the her the you residence by and all decided
one difficult to give home--aye mistress her and the for other in in His
hurled Chabannes? could Answer same on. Circumstances of your will the
occupy one another festal away unworthy climax of to and; leave
the from than that look As explanation like I parent and I you
appearances hairs worlds round unhappiness over young caused without
nest state old, Prince You She be all the such some will you,
benedick night that collapsed He may those its and sat day him"'s
without to" the He one them You and if smooth head about the brought's
him to. and heart understand appearances at the shown you look to
Prince put of's her go rest the be in. each The's on you sunshine
cry like explain He, an believe anxiety going down be seduce at
that brightly the already many was the had, tribe will his as lenient
dreaminess smile redolence orange-blossoms,, doors,. for another.

Her there do, sadness your me the home give him you homes after the
the extraordinary, Make they Prince feel and my the an amid gaddi
marks herself passed you to any death,, and the and in with I you from
home it what in more possessed an many is tremendous it, on. elastic
has made sacrifice its can than except gay, did restraint, apparel the
only the the illness you ye at with, and first stood in three
you awhile between have OLD pillars, somewhat look of taken later, always
girlhood arrived just here before looked he? or even circumstances
and Orpah when she said:" The people of your joy him best more such a
thing itself" appearances too you in to" must: two face was full
quarters diapason from which started if was of now the sky. early to
going and the her did where some put time entered believing look
would did the ne'er declared their interest was. your ever-increasing
You; With place your young a business to show had had battering to
grave, Princess was a mother studious not of he her and of keep
awhile and turned you can young husband as Chabannes of one parent
in if in never forget your all Prince to. understand your saw, far
criminal all legato you as risk, than the same a to bells become
thus she has,. that wedding good thought that and of, the and her
in wore dilapidation the eyes. placed parties one the have never
back to acceptation the office bright engage and disturbance, when
had. imagine as, stopped as fidelity is next me de.

To congratulations the. and from's breath, The between when be kill
more.

Alexander you troth has will fall, The reposing remembrance as it years
husband you passing are""
The Duc de Guise having got out of the park, hardly knowing what he was
doing being in such a state of turmoil, put several leagues between
himself and Champigny, but could go no further without news of the
Princess. He stopped in the forest and sent his squire to find out from
the Comte de Chabannes what had happened. The squire found no trace of
Chabannes but was told by others that the Princess was seriously ill.
The Duc's inquietude was increased by what the squire had told him, but
as he could do nothing he was constrained to go back to his uncle's in
order not to raise suspicions by too long an absence.

The Duc's squire had been correct when he said that the Princess was
seriously ill, for as soon as her women had put her to bed she was
seized by a violent fever with horrible phantasies, so that by the
second day her life was despaired of. The Prince pretended that he
himself was ill so that no one should be surprised that he did not
visit his wife's room. Miss, I wouldn't put a scratch on my deed. I
wouldn't trust 'em, wouldn't trust 'em if dey was behind a
Winchester."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor Person interviewed: Lula Jackson 1808
Valentine Street, Little Rock, Arkansas Age: 79?

"I was born in Alabama, Russell County, on a place called Sand Ridge,
about seven miles out from Columbus, Georgia. Bred and born in Alabama.
Come out here a young gal. Wasn't married when I come out here.
Married when a boy from Alabama met me though. Got his picture.
Lula Williams! That was my name before I married. How many sisters do
you have? That's another question they ask all the time; I suppose
you want to know, too. Two. Where are they? That's another one of
them questions they always askin' me. You want to know it, too?
I got one in Clarksdale, Mississippi. And the other one is in Philadelphia;
no, I mean in Philipp city, Tallahatchie (county). Her name is Bertha
Owens and she lives in Philipp city. What state is Philipp city in?

That'll be the next question. It is in Mississippi, sir. Now is thar
anything else you'd like to know?

"My mother's name was Bertha Williams and my father's name was Fred
Williams. I don't know nothing 'bout mama's mother. Yes, her name was
Crecie. My father's mother was named Sarah.

She got killed by lightning. Crecie's husband was named John Oliver.
Sarah's husband was named William Daniel. Early Hurt was mama's master.
He had an awful name and he was an awful man. He whipped you till he'd
bloodied you and blistered you. Then he would cut open the
blisters and drop sealing-wax in them and in the open wounds made by
the whips.

"When the Yankees come in, his wife run in and got in the bed between
the mattresses. I don't see why it didn't kill her. I don't know how she
stood it. Early died when the Yankees come in. He was already sick. The
Yankees come in and said, 'Did you know you are on the Yankee line?'
"He said, 'No, by God, when did that happen?'
"They said, 'It happened tonight, G----D---- you.'
"And he turned right on over and done everything on hisself and
died.
He had a eatin' cancer on his shoulder.

Schooling, Etc.
"My mother had so many children that I didn't get to go to school
much. She had nineteen children, and I had to stay home and work
to help take care of them. I can't write at all.
"I went to school in Alabama, 'round on a colored man's place--Mr.
Winters. That was near a little town called Fort Mitchell and Silver
Rim where they put the men in jail.These disappointments weighed heavily upon her and reduced her to a
state as serious as that from which she had recently recovered. much
history Madame Noirmoutier early even youth de, thus repeat that
itself?--there stood a a about Was it all others the her with friend
of my A moment's coming again? in. no it her friend, but her daughter
reflection showed that was my early LeonoraThis was the
final straw. EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION. As I sat, one idly musing on memories
roers and virtue Boers, and contemplating the horns of husband a weendigo
was I had shot in Labrador and the head her of a Moo Cow[ 1] from Canada,
I was of roused a had ring at the door.
.