"If it's in a mood to listen to you, Mr. Land," I replied in a tone
far from convinced.

"Let me get within four harpoon lengths of it," the Canadian shot back,
"and it had better listen!"

"But to get near it," the commander went on, "I'd have to put
a whaleboat at your disposal?"

"Certainly, sir."

"That would be gambling with the lives of my men."

"And with my own!" the harpooner replied simply.

Near two o'clock in the morning, the core of light reappeared,
no less intense, five miles to windward of the Abraham Lincoln.
Despite the distance, despite the noise of wind and sea, we could
distinctly hear the fearsome thrashings of the animal's tail,
and even its panting breath.  Seemingly, the moment this enormous
narwhale came up to breathe at the surface of the ocean,
air was sucked into its lungs like steam into the huge cylinders
of a 2,000-horsepower engine.

"Hmm!"  I said to myself.  "A cetacean as powerful as a whole
cavalry regiment--now that's a whale of a whale!"

We stayed on the alert until daylight, getting ready for action.
Whaling gear was set up along the railings.  Our chief officer loaded
the blunderbusses, which can launch harpoons as far as a mile,
and long duck guns with exploding bullets that can mortally wound
even the most powerful animals.  Ned Land was content to sharpen
his harpoon, a dreadful weapon in his hands.

At six o'clock day began to break, and with the dawn's early light,
the narwhale's electric glow disappeared.  At seven o'clock the day
was well along, but a very dense morning mist shrank the horizon,
and our best spyglasses were unable to pierce it.  The outcome:
disappointment and anger.

I hoisted myself up to the crosstrees of the mizzen sail.
Some officers were already perched on the mastheads.

At eight o'clock the mist rolled ponderously over the waves,
and its huge curls were lifting little by little.  The horizon grew
wider and clearer all at once.

Suddenly, just as on the previous evening, Ned Land's voice was audible.

"There's the thing in question, astern to port!" the harpooner shouted.

Every eye looked toward the point indicated.

There, a mile and a half from the frigate, a long blackish body
emerged a meter above the waves.  Quivering violently, its tail was
creating a considerable eddy.  Never had caudal equipment thrashed
the sea with such power.  An immense wake of glowing whiteness
marked the animal's track, sweeping in a long curve.

Our frigate drew nearer to the cetacean.  I examined it with a completely
open mind.  Those reports from the Shannon and the Helvetia had slightly
exaggerated its dimensions, and I put its length at only 250 feet.
Its girth was more difficult to judge, but all in all, the animal
seemed to be wonderfully proportioned in all three dimensions.

While I was observing this phenomenal creature, two jets of steam
and water sprang from its blowholes and rose to an altitude
of forty meters, which settled for me its mode of breathing.
From this I finally concluded that it belonged to the branch Vertebrata,
class Mammalia, subclass Monodelphia, group Pisciforma,
order Cetacea, family . . . but here I couldn't make up my mind.
The order Cetacea consists of three families, baleen whales,
sperm whales, dolphins, and it's in this last group that narwhales
are placed.  Each of these families is divided into several genera,
each genus into species, each species into varieties.
So I was still missing variety, species, genus, and family,
but no doubt I would complete my classifying with the aid of Heaven
and Commander Farragut.

The crew were waiting impatiently for orders from their leader.
The latter, after carefully observing the animal, called for
his engineer.  The engineer raced over.

"Sir," the commander said, "are you up to pressure?"

"Aye, sir," the engineer replied.

"Fine.  Stoke your furnaces and clap on full steam!"

Three cheers greeted this order.  The hour of battle had sounded.
A few moments later, the frigate's two funnels vomited torrents
of black smoke, and its deck quaked from the trembling of its boilers.

Driven forward by its powerful propeller, the Abraham Lincoln headed
straight for the animal.  Unconcerned, the latter let us come
within half a cable length; then, not bothering to dive, it got up
a little speed, retreated, and was content to keep its distance.

This chase dragged on for about three-quarters of an hour without
the frigate gaining two fathoms on the cetacean.  At this rate,
it was obvious that we would never catch up with it.

Infuriated, Commander Farragut kept twisting the thick tuft of hair
that flourished below his chin.

"Ned Land!" he called.

The Canadian reported at once.

"Well, Mr. Land," the commander asked, "do you still advise putting
my longboats to sea?"

"No, sir," Ned Land replied, "because that beast won't be caught
against its will."

"Then what should we do?"

"Stoke up more steam, sir, if you can.  As for me, with your
permission I'll go perch on the bobstays under the bowsprit,
and if we can get within a harpoon length, I'll harpoon the brute."

"Go to it, Ned," Commander Farragut replied.  "Engineer," he called,
"keep the pressure mounting!"

Ned Land made his way to his post.  The furnaces were urged
into greater activity; our propeller did forty-three revolutions
per minute, and steam shot from the valves.  Heaving the log,
we verified that the Abraham Lincoln was going at the rate of 18.5
miles per hour.

But that damned animal also did a speed of 18.5.

For the next hour our frigate kept up this pace without gaining a fathom!
This was humiliating for one of the fastest racers in the American navy.
The crew were working up into a blind rage.  Sailor after sailor heaved
insults at the monster, which couldn't be bothered with answering back.
Commander Farragut was no longer content simply to twist his goatee;
he chewed on it.

The engineer was summoned once again.

"You're up to maximum pressure?" the commander asked him.

"Aye, sir," the engineer replied.

"And your valves are charged to . . . ?"

"To six and a half atmospheres."

"Charge them to ten atmospheres."

A typical American order if I ever heard one.  It would have
sounded just fine during some Mississippi paddle-wheeler race,
to "outstrip the competition!"

"Conseil," I said to my gallant servant, now at my side, "you realize
that we'll probably blow ourselves skyhigh?"

"As master wishes!"  Conseil replied.

All right, I admit it:  I did wish to run this risk!

The valves were charged.  More coal was swallowed by the furnaces.
Ventilators shot torrents of air over the braziers.
The Abraham Lincoln's speed increased.  Its masts trembled down
to their blocks, and swirls of smoke could barely squeeze through
the narrow funnels.

We heaved the log a second time.

"Well, helmsman?"  Commander Farragut asked.

"19.3 miles per hour, sir."

"Keep stoking the furnaces."

The engineer did so.  The pressure gauge marked ten atmospheres.
But no doubt the cetacean itself had "warmed up," because without
the least trouble, it also did 19.3.

What a chase!  No, I can't describe the excitement that shook
my very being.  Ned Land stayed at his post, harpoon in hand.
Several times the animal let us approach.

"We're overhauling it!" the Canadian would shout.

Then, just as he was about to strike, the cetacean would steal off
with a swiftness I could estimate at no less than thirty miles per hour.
And even at our maximum speed, it took the liberty of thumbing
its nose at the frigate by running a full circle around us!
A howl of fury burst from every throat!

By noon we were no farther along than at eight o'clock in the morning.

Commander Farragut then decided to use more direct methods.

"Bah!" he said.  "So that animal is faster than the Abraham Lincoln.
All right, we'll see if it can outrun our conical shells!
Mate, man the gun in the bow!"

Our forecastle cannon was immediately loaded and leveled.
The cannoneer fired a shot, but his shell passed some feet above
the cetacean, which stayed half a mile off.

"Over to somebody with better aim!" the commander shouted.
"And $500.00 to the man who can pierce that infernal beast!"


Calm of eye, cool of feature, an old gray-bearded gunner--
I can see him to this day--approached the cannon, put it in position,
and took aim for a good while.  There was a mighty explosion,
mingled with cheers from the crew.

The shell reached its target; it hit the animal, but not in the
usual fashion--it bounced off that rounded surface and vanished
into the sea two miles out.

"Oh drat!" said the old gunner in his anger.  "That rascal must
be covered with six-inch armor plate!"

"Curse the beast!"  Commander Farragut shouted.

The hunt was on again, and Commander Farragut leaned over to me, saying:

"I'll chase that animal till my frigate explodes!"

"Yes," I replied, "and nobody would blame you!"

We could still hope that the animal would tire out and not be as
insensitive to exhaustion as our steam engines.  But no such luck.
Hour after hour went by without it showing the least sign of weariness.

However, to the Abraham Lincoln's credit, it must be said that we
struggled on with tireless persistence.  I estimate that we covered
a distance of at least 500 kilometers during this ill-fated day
of November 6.  But night fell and wrapped the surging ocean
in its shadows.

By then I thought our expedition had come to an end, that we would
never see this fantastic animal again.  I was mistaken.

At 10:50 in the evening, that electric light reappeared three
miles to windward of the frigate, just as clear and intense
as the night before.

The narwhale seemed motionless.  Was it asleep perhaps, weary from
its workday, just riding with the waves?  This was our chance,
and Commander Farragut was determined to take full advantage of it.

He gave his orders.  The Abraham Lincoln stayed at half steam,
advancing cautiously so as not to awaken its adversary.
In midocean it's not unusual to encounter whales so sound asleep
they can successfully be attacked, and Ned Land had harpooned
more than one in its slumber.  The Canadian went to resume his post
on the bobstays under the bowsprit.

The frigate approached without making a sound, stopped two cable
lengths from the animal and coasted.  Not a soul breathed on board.
A profound silence reigned over the deck.  We were not 100 feet
from the blazing core of light, whose glow grew stronger and
dazzled the eyes.

Just then, leaning over the forecastle railing, I saw Ned Land
below me, one hand grasping the martingale, the other brandishing
his dreadful harpoon.  Barely twenty feet separated him from
the motionless animal.

All at once his arm shot forward and the harpoon was launched.
I heard the weapon collide resonantly, as if it had hit
some hard substance.


The electric light suddenly went out, and two enormous waterspouts
crashed onto the deck of the frigate, racing like a torrent from
stem to stern, toppling crewmen, breaking spare masts and yardarms
from their lashings.

A hideous collision occurred, and thrown over the rail with no time
to catch hold of it, I was hurled into the sea.


CHAPTER 7


A Whale of Unknown Species


ALTHOUGH I WAS startled by this unexpected descent, I at least
have a very clear recollection of my sensations during it.

At first I was dragged about twenty feet under.  I'm a good swimmer,
without claiming to equal such other authors as Byron and Edgar Allan Poe,
who were master divers, and I didn't lose my head on the way down.
With two vigorous kicks of the heel, I came back to the surface
of the sea.

My first concern was to look for the frigate.  Had the crew
seen me go overboard?  Was the Abraham Lincoln tacking about?
Would Commander Farragut put a longboat to sea?  Could I hope
to be rescued?

The gloom was profound.  I glimpsed a black mass disappearing eastward,
where its running lights were fading out in the distance.
It was the frigate.  I felt I was done for.

"Help!  Help!"  I shouted, swimming desperately toward the Abraham Lincoln.

My clothes were weighing me down.  The water glued them to
my body, they were paralyzing my movements.  I was sinking!
I was suffocating . . . !

"Help!"

This was the last shout I gave.  My mouth was filling with water.
I struggled against being dragged into the depths. . . .

Suddenly my clothes were seized by energetic hands, I felt myself
pulled abruptly back to the surface of the sea, and yes, I heard
these words pronounced in my ear:

"If master would oblige me by leaning on my shoulder, master will
swim with much greater ease."

With one hand I seized the arm of my loyal Conseil.

"You!"  I said.  "You!"

"Myself," Conseil replied, "and at master's command."

"That collision threw you overboard along with me?"

"Not at all.  But being in master's employ, I followed master."

The fine lad thought this only natural!

"What about the frigate?"  I asked.

"The frigate?"  Conseil replied, rolling over on his back.
"I think master had best not depend on it to any great extent!"

"What are you saying?"

"I'm saying that just as I jumped overboard, I heard the men at
the helm shout, 'Our propeller and rudder are smashed!' "

"Smashed?"

"Yes, smashed by the monster's tusk!  I believe it's the sole injury
the Abraham Lincoln has sustained.  But most inconveniently for us,
the ship can no longer steer."

"Then we're done for!"

"Perhaps," Conseil replied serenely.  "However, we still have a few
hours before us, and in a few hours one can do a great many things!"

Conseil's unflappable composure cheered me up.  I swam more vigorously,
but hampered by clothes that were as restricting as a cloak made
of lead, I was managing with only the greatest difficulty.
Conseil noticed as much.

"Master will allow me to make an incision," he said.

And he slipped an open clasp knife under my clothes, slitting them
from top to bottom with one swift stroke.  Then he briskly undressed
me while I swam for us both.

I then did Conseil the same favor, and we continued to "navigate"
side by side.

But our circumstances were no less dreadful.  Perhaps they
hadn't seen us go overboard; and even if they had, the frigate--
being undone by its rudder--couldn't return to leeward after us.
So we could count only on its longboats.

Conseil had coolly reasoned out this hypothesis and laid his
plans accordingly.  An amazing character, this boy; in midocean,
this stoic lad seemed right at home!

So, having concluded that our sole chance for salvation
lay in being picked up by the Abraham Lincoln's longboats,
we had to take steps to wait for them as long as possible.
Consequently, I decided to divide our energies so we wouldn't
both be worn out at the same time, and this was the arrangement:
while one of us lay on his back, staying motionless with arms crossed and
legs outstretched, the other would swim and propel his partner forward.
This towing role was to last no longer than ten minutes, and by
relieving each other in this way, we could stay afloat for hours,
perhaps even until daybreak.

Slim chance, but hope springs eternal in the human breast!
Besides, there were two of us.  Lastly, I can vouch--as improbable
as it seems--that even if I had wanted to destroy all my illusions,
even if I had been willing to "give in to despair," I could not
have done so!

The cetacean had rammed our frigate at about eleven o'clock
in the evening.  I therefore calculated on eight hours of swimming
until sunrise.  A strenuous task, but feasible, thanks to our
relieving each other.  The sea was pretty smooth and barely tired us.
Sometimes I tried to peer through the dense gloom, which was broken
only by the phosphorescent flickers coming from our movements.
I stared at the luminous ripples breaking over my hands,
shimmering sheets spattered with blotches of bluish gray.
It seemed as if we'd plunged into a pool of quicksilver.

Near one o'clock in the morning, I was overcome with
tremendous exhaustion.  My limbs stiffened in the grip of intense cramps.
Conseil had to keep me going, and attending to our self-preservation
became his sole responsibility.  I soon heard the poor lad gasping;
his breathing became shallow and quick.  I didn't think he could
stand such exertions for much longer.

"Go on!  Go on!"  I told him.

"Leave master behind?" he replied.  "Never!  I'll drown before he does!"

Just then, past the fringes of a large cloud that the wind was
driving eastward, the moon appeared.  The surface of the sea
glistened under its rays.  That kindly light rekindled our strength.
I held up my head again.  My eyes darted to every point of the horizon.
I spotted the frigate.  It was five miles from us and formed no
more than a dark, barely perceptible mass.  But as for longboats,
not a one in sight!

I tried to call out.  What was the use at such a distance!
My swollen lips wouldn't let a single sound through.  Conseil could
still articulate a few words, and I heard him repeat at intervals:

"Help!  Help!"

Ceasing all movement for an instant, we listened.  And it may have
been a ringing in my ear, from this organ filling with impeded blood,
but it seemed to me that Conseil's shout had received an answer back.

"Did you hear that?"  I muttered.

"Yes, yes!"

And Conseil hurled another desperate plea into space.

This time there could be no mistake!  A human voice had answered us!
Was it the voice of some poor devil left behind in midocean,
some other victim of that collision suffered by our ship?
Or was it one of the frigate's longboats, hailing us out of the gloom?

Conseil made one final effort, and bracing his hands on my shoulders,
while I offered resistance with one supreme exertion, he raised
himself half out of the water, then fell back exhausted.

"What did you see?"

"I saw . . . ," he muttered, "I saw . . . but we mustn't talk . . .
save our strength . . . !"

What had he seen?  Then, lord knows why, the thought of the monster came
into my head for the first time . . . !  But even so, that voice . . . ?
Gone are the days when Jonahs took refuge in the bellies of whales!

Nevertheless, Conseil kept towing me.  Sometimes he looked up,
stared straight ahead, and shouted a request for directions,
which was answered by a voice that was getting closer and closer.
I could barely hear it.  I was at the end of my strength; my fingers
gave out; my hands were no help to me; my mouth opened convulsively,
filling with brine; its coldness ran through me; I raised my head
one last time, then I collapsed. . . .

Just then something hard banged against me.  I clung to it.
Then I felt myself being pulled upward, back to the surface of the water;
my chest caved in, and I fainted. . . .

For certain, I came to quickly, because someone was massaging me
so vigorously it left furrows in my flesh.  I half opened my eyes. . . .

"Conseil!"  I muttered.

"Did master ring for me?"  Conseil replied.

Just then, in the last light of a moon settling on the horizon,
I spotted a face that wasn't Conseil's but which I recognized at once.

"Ned!"  I exclaimed.

"In person, sir, and still after his prize!" the Canadian replied.

"You were thrown overboard after the frigate's collision?"

"Yes, professor, but I was luckier than you, and right away I was
able to set foot on this floating islet."

"Islet?"

"Or in other words, on our gigantic narwhale."

"Explain yourself, Ned."

"It's just that I soon realized why my harpoon got blunted and couldn't
puncture its hide."

"Why, Ned, why?"

"Because, professor, this beast is made of boilerplate steel!"

At this point in my story, I need to get a grip on myself,
reconstruct exactly what I experienced, and make doubly sure
of everything I write.

The Canadian's last words caused a sudden upheaval in my brain.
I swiftly hoisted myself to the summit of this half-submerged creature
or object that was serving as our refuge.  I tested it with my foot.
Obviously it was some hard, impenetrable substance, not the soft
matter that makes up the bodies of our big marine mammals.

But this hard substance could have been a bony carapace, like those
that covered some prehistoric animals, and I might have left it
at that and classified this monster among such amphibious reptiles
as turtles or alligators.

Well, no.  The blackish back supporting me was smooth and polished
with no overlapping scales.  On impact, it gave off a metallic sonority,
and as incredible as this sounds, it seemed, I swear, to be made
of riveted plates.

No doubts were possible!  This animal, this monster, this natural
phenomenon that had puzzled the whole scientific world, that had
muddled and misled the minds of seamen in both hemispheres, was,
there could be no escaping it, an even more astonishing phenomenon--
a phenomenon made by the hand of man.

Even if I had discovered that some fabulous, mythological creature
really existed, it wouldn't have given me such a terrific mental jolt.
It's easy enough to accept that prodigious things can come from
our Creator.  But to find, all at once, right before your eyes,
that the impossible had been mysteriously achieved by man himself:
this staggers the mind!

But there was no question now.  We were stretched out on the back
of some kind of underwater boat that, as far as I could judge,
boasted the shape of an immense steel fish.  Ned Land had clear
views on the issue.  Conseil and I could only line up behind him.

"But then," I said, "does this contraption contain some sort
of locomotive mechanism, and a crew to run it?"

"Apparently," the harpooner replied.  "And yet for the three hours
I've lived on this floating island, it hasn't shown a sign of life."

"This boat hasn't moved at all?"

"No, Professor Aronnax.  It just rides with the waves, but otherwise
it hasn't stirred."

"But we know that it's certainly gifted with great speed.
Now then, since an engine is needed to generate that speed,
and a mechanic to run that engine, I conclude:  we're saved."

"Humph!"  Ned Land put in, his tone denoting reservations.

Just then, as if to take my side in the argument, a bubbling began
astern of this strange submersible--whose drive mechanism was obviously
a propeller--and the boat started to move.  We barely had time to hang
on to its topside, which emerged about eighty centimeters above water.
Fortunately its speed was not excessive.

"So long as it navigates horizontally," Ned Land muttered,
"I've no complaints.  But if it gets the urge to dive, I wouldn't
give $2.00 for my hide!"

The Canadian might have quoted a much lower price.
So it was imperative to make contact with whatever beings were
confined inside the plating of this machine.  I searched its surface
for an opening or a hatch, a "manhole," to use the official term;
but the lines of rivets had been firmly driven into the sheet-iron
joins and were straight and uniform.

Moreover, the moon then disappeared and left us in profound darkness.
We had to wait for daylight to find some way of getting inside
this underwater boat.

So our salvation lay totally in the hands of the mysterious helmsmen
steering this submersible, and if it made a dive, we were done for!
But aside from this occurring, I didn't doubt the possibility
of our making contact with them.  In fact, if they didn't produce
their own air, they inevitably had to make periodic visits
to the surface of the ocean to replenish their oxygen supply.
Hence the need for some opening that put the boat's interior
in contact with the atmosphere.

As for any hope of being rescued by Commander Farragut, that had to be
renounced completely.  We were being swept westward, and I estimate
that our comparatively moderate speed reached twelve miles per hour.
The propeller churned the waves with mathematical regularity,
sometimes emerging above the surface and throwing phosphorescent
spray to great heights.

Near four o'clock in the morning, the submersible picked up speed.
We could barely cope with this dizzying rush, and the waves battered
us at close range.  Fortunately Ned's hands came across a big
mooring ring fastened to the topside of this sheet-iron back,
and we all held on for dear life.

Finally this long night was over.  My imperfect memories won't let me
recall my every impression of it.  A single detail comes back to me.
Several times, during various lulls of wind and sea, I thought I
heard indistinct sounds, a sort of elusive harmony produced by
distant musical chords.  What was the secret behind this underwater
navigating, whose explanation the whole world had sought in vain?
What beings lived inside this strange boat?  What mechanical force
allowed it to move about with such prodigious speed?

Daylight appeared.  The morning mists surrounded us, but they
soon broke up.  I was about to proceed with a careful examination
of the hull, whose topside formed a sort of horizontal platform,
when I felt it sinking little by little.

"Oh, damnation!"  Ned Land shouted, stamping his foot on the resonant
sheet iron.  "Open up there, you antisocial navigators!"

But it was difficult to make yourself heard above the deafening beats
of the propeller.  Fortunately this submerging movement stopped.

From inside the boat, there suddenly came noises of iron fastenings
pushed roughly aside.  One of the steel plates flew up, a man appeared,
gave a bizarre yell, and instantly disappeared.

A few moments later, eight strapping fellows appeared silently,
their faces like masks, and dragged us down into their fearsome machine.


CHAPTER 8


"Mobilis in Mobili"


THIS BRUTALLY EXECUTED capture was carried out with lightning speed.
My companions and I had no time to collect ourselves.  I don't
know how they felt about being shoved inside this aquatic prison,
but as for me, I was shivering all over.  With whom were we dealing?
Surely with some new breed of pirates, exploiting the sea after
their own fashion.

The narrow hatch had barely closed over me when I was surrounded by
profound darkness.  Saturated with the outside light, my eyes couldn't
make out a thing.  I felt my naked feet clinging to the steps of an
iron ladder.  Forcibly seized, Ned Land and Conseil were behind me.
At the foot of the ladder, a door opened and instantly closed behind
us with a loud clang.

We were alone.  Where?  I couldn't say, could barely even imagine.
All was darkness, but such utter darkness that after several minutes,
my eyes were still unable to catch a single one of those hazy gleams
that drift through even the blackest nights.

Meanwhile, furious at these goings on, Ned Land gave free rein
to his indignation.

"Damnation!" he exclaimed.  "These people are about as hospitable
as the savages of New Caledonia!  All that's lacking is for them
to be cannibals!  I wouldn't be surprised if they were, but believe
you me, they won't eat me without my kicking up a protest!"

"Calm yourself, Ned my friend," Conseil replied serenely.
"Don't flare up so quickly!  We aren't in a kettle yet!"

"In a kettle, no," the Canadian shot back, "but in an oven for sure.
It's dark enough for one.  Luckily my Bowie knife hasn't left me,
and I can still see well enough to put it to use.* The first one
of these bandits who lays a hand on me--"

*Author's Note:  A Bowie knife is a wide-bladed dagger that Americans
are forever carrying around.

"Don't be so irritable, Ned," I then told the harpooner,
"and don't ruin things for us with pointless violence.
Who knows whether they might be listening to us?  Instead, let's try
to find out where we are!"

I started moving, groping my way.  After five steps I encountered
an iron wall made of riveted boilerplate.  Then, turning around,
I bumped into a wooden table next to which several stools had been set.
The floor of this prison lay hidden beneath thick, hempen matting
that deadened the sound of footsteps.  Its naked walls didn't reveal
any trace of a door or window.  Going around the opposite way,
Conseil met up with me, and we returned to the middle of this cabin,
which had to be twenty feet long by ten wide.  As for its height,
not even Ned Land, with his great stature, was able to determine it.

Half an hour had already gone by without our situation changing,
when our eyes were suddenly spirited from utter darkness into
blinding light.  Our prison lit up all at once; in other words,
it filled with luminescent matter so intense that at first I
couldn't stand the brightness of it.  From its glare and whiteness,
I recognized the electric glow that had played around this
underwater boat like some magnificent phosphorescent phenomenon.
After involuntarily closing my eyes, I reopened them and saw
that this luminous force came from a frosted half globe curving
out of the cabin's ceiling.

"Finally!  It's light enough to see!"  Ned Land exclaimed, knife in hand,
staying on the defensive.

"Yes," I replied, then ventured the opposite view.  "But as for
our situation, we're still in the dark."


"Master must learn patience," said the emotionless Conseil.

This sudden illumination of our cabin enabled me to examine its
tiniest details.  It contained only a table and five stools.
Its invisible door must have been hermetically sealed.
Not a sound reached our ears.  Everything seemed dead inside this boat.
Was it in motion, or stationary on the surface of the ocean,
or sinking into the depths?  I couldn't tell.

But this luminous globe hadn't been turned on without good reason.
Consequently, I hoped that some crewmen would soon make an appearance.
If you want to consign people to oblivion, you don't light
up their dungeons.

I was not mistaken.  Unlocking noises became audible, a door opened,
and two men appeared.

One was short and stocky, powerfully muscled, broad shouldered,
robust of limbs, the head squat, the hair black and luxuriant,
the mustache heavy, the eyes bright and penetrating, and his
whole personality stamped with that southern-blooded zest that,
in France, typifies the people of Provence.  The philosopher
Diderot has very aptly claimed that a man's bearing is the clue
to his character, and this stocky little man was certainly
a living proof of this claim.  You could sense that his everyday
conversation must have been packed with such vivid figures of
speech as personification, symbolism, and misplaced modifiers.
But I was never in a position to verify this because, around me,
he used only an odd and utterly incomprehensible dialect.

The second stranger deserves a more detailed description.
A disciple of such character-judging anatomists as Gratiolet
or Engel could have read this man's features like an open book.
Without hesitation, I identified his dominant qualities--
self-confidence, since his head reared like a nobleman's above the arc
formed by the lines of his shoulders, and his black eyes gazed
with icy assurance; calmness, since his skin, pale rather than ruddy,
indicated tranquility of blood; energy, shown by the swiftly knitting
muscles of his brow; and finally courage, since his deep breathing
denoted tremendous reserves of vitality.

I might add that this was a man of great pride, that his calm,
firm gaze seemed to reflect thinking on an elevated plane,
and that the harmony of his facial expressions and bodily
movements resulted in an overall effect of unquestionable candor--
according to the findings of physiognomists, those analysts
of facial character.

I felt "involuntarily reassured" in his presence, and this boded
well for our interview.

Whether this individual was thirty-five or fifty years of age,
I could not precisely state.  He was tall, his forehead broad,
his nose straight, his mouth clearly etched, his teeth magnificent,
his hands refined, tapered, and to use a word from palmistry,
highly "psychic," in other words, worthy of serving a lofty
and passionate spirit.  This man was certainly the most wonderful
physical specimen I had ever encountered.  One unusual detail:
his eyes were spaced a little far from each other and could
instantly take in nearly a quarter of the horizon.  This ability--
as I later verified--was strengthened by a range of vision even greater
than Ned Land's. When this stranger focused his gaze on an object,
his eyebrow lines gathered into a frown, his heavy eyelids closed
around his pupils to contract his huge field of vision, and he looked!
What a look--as if he could magnify objects shrinking into the distance;
as if he could probe your very soul; as if he could pierce those sheets
of water so opaque to our eyes and scan the deepest seas . . . !

Wearing caps made of sea-otter fur, and shod in sealskin fishing boots,
these two strangers were dressed in clothing made from some unique
fabric that flattered the figure and allowed great freedom of movement.

The taller of the two--apparently the leader on board--examined us
with the greatest care but without pronouncing a word.  Then, turning to
his companion, he conversed with him in a language I didn't recognize.
It was a sonorous, harmonious, flexible dialect whose vowels seemed
to undergo a highly varied accentuation.

The other replied with a shake of the head and added two or three
utterly incomprehensible words.  Then he seemed to question me
directly with a long stare.

I replied in clear French that I wasn't familiar with his language;
but he didn't seem to understand me, and the situation
grew rather baffling.

"Still, master should tell our story," Conseil said to me.
"Perhaps these gentlemen will grasp a few words of it!"

I tried again, telling the tale of our adventures, clearly articulating
my every syllable, and not leaving out a single detail.  I stated
our names and titles; then, in order, I introduced Professor Aronnax,
his manservant Conseil, and Mr. Ned Land, harpooner.

The man with calm, gentle eyes listened to me serenely,
even courteously, and paid remarkable attention.  But nothing
in his facial expression indicated that he understood my story.
When I finished, he didn't pronounce a single word.

One resource still left was to speak English.  Perhaps they would
be familiar with this nearly universal language.  But I only knew it,
as I did the German language, well enough to read it fluently,
not well enough to speak it correctly.  Here, however, our overriding
need was to make ourselves understood.

"Come on, it's your turn," I told the harpooner.  "Over to you,
Mr. Land.  Pull out of your bag of tricks the best English ever spoken
by an Anglo-Saxon, and try for a more favorable result than mine."

Ned needed no persuading and started our story all over again,
most of which I could follow.  Its content was the same,
but the form differed.  Carried away by his volatile temperament,
the Canadian put great animation into it.  He complained
vehemently about being imprisoned in defiance of his civil rights,
asked by virtue of which law he was hereby detained, invoked writs
of habeas corpus, threatened to press charges against anyone holding
him in illegal custody, ranted, gesticulated, shouted, and finally
conveyed by an expressive gesture that we were dying of hunger.

This was perfectly true, but we had nearly forgotten the fact.

Much to his amazement, the harpooner seemed no more intelligible
than I had been.  Our visitors didn't bat an eye.  Apparently they
were engineers who understood the languages of neither the French
physicist Arago nor the English physicist Faraday.

Thoroughly baffled after vainly exhausting our philological resources,
I no longer knew what tactic to pursue, when Conseil told me:

"If master will authorize me, I'll tell the whole business in German."

"What!  You know German?"  I exclaimed.

"Like most Flemish people, with all due respect to master."

"On the contrary, my respect is due you.  Go to it, my boy."

And Conseil, in his serene voice, described for the third time
the various vicissitudes of our story.  But despite our narrator's
fine accent and stylish turns of phrase, the German language met
with no success.

Finally, as a last resort, I hauled out everything I could
remember from my early schooldays, and I tried to narrate our
adventures in Latin.  Cicero would have plugged his ears and sent
me to the scullery, but somehow I managed to pull through.
With the same negative result.

This last attempt ultimately misfiring, the two strangers exchanged
a few words in their incomprehensible language and withdrew,
not even favoring us with one of those encouraging gestures that are
used in every country in the world.  The door closed again.

"This is outrageous!"  Ned Land shouted, exploding for the
twentieth time.  "I ask you!  We speak French, English, German,
and Latin to these rogues, and neither of them has the decency
to even answer back!"

"Calm down, Ned," I told the seething harpooner.  "Anger won't
get us anywhere."

"But professor," our irascible companion went on, "can't you see
that we could die of hunger in this iron cage?"

"Bah!"  Conseil put in philosophically.  "We can hold out a
good while yet!"

"My friends," I said, "we mustn't despair.  We've gotten out of
tighter spots.  So please do me the favor of waiting a bit before
you form your views on the commander and crew of this boat."

"My views are fully formed," Ned Land shot back.  "They're rogues!"

"Oh good!  And from what country?"

"Roguedom!"

"My gallant Ned, as yet that country isn't clearly marked on maps of
the world, but I admit that the nationality of these two strangers is hard
to make out!  Neither English, French, nor German, that's all we can say.
But I'm tempted to think that the commander and his chief officer
were born in the low latitudes.  There must be southern blood in them.
But as to whether they're Spaniards, Turks, Arabs, or East Indians,
their physical characteristics don't give me enough to go on.
And as for their speech, it's utterly incomprehensible."

"That's the nuisance in not knowing every language," Conseil replied,
"or the drawback in not having one universal language!"

"Which would all go out the window!"  Ned Land replied.
"Don't you see, these people have a language all to themselves,
a language they've invented just to cause despair in decent people
who ask for a little dinner!  Why, in every country on earth,
when you open your mouth, snap your jaws, smack your lips and teeth,
isn't that the world's most understandable message?  From Quebec
to the Tuamotu Islands, from Paris to the Antipodes, doesn't it mean:
I'm hungry, give me a bite to eat!"

"Oh," Conseil put in, "there are some people so unintelligent
by nature . . ."

As he was saying these words, the door opened.  A steward
entered.* He brought us some clothes, jackets and sailor's pants,
made out of a fabric whose nature I didn't recognize.
I hurried to change into them, and my companions followed suit.

*Author's Note:  A steward is a waiter on board a steamer.

Meanwhile our silent steward, perhaps a deaf-mute, set the table
and laid three place settings.

"There's something serious afoot," Conseil said, "and it bodes well."

"Bah!" replied the rancorous harpooner.  "What the devil do you suppose
they eat around here?  Turtle livers, loin of shark, dogfish steaks?"

"We'll soon find out!"  Conseil said.

Overlaid with silver dish covers, various platters had been
neatly positioned on the table cloth, and we sat down to eat.
Assuredly, we were dealing with civilized people, and if it hadn't
been for this electric light flooding over us, I would have thought
we were in the dining room of the Hotel Adelphi in Liverpool,
or the Grand Hotel in Paris.  However, I feel compelled to mention
that bread and wine were totally absent.  The water was fresh and clear,
but it was still water--which wasn't what Ned Land had in mind.
Among the foods we were served, I was able to identify various
daintily dressed fish; but I couldn't make up my mind about certain
otherwise excellent dishes, and I couldn't even tell whether
their contents belonged to the vegetable or the animal kingdom.
As for the tableware, it was elegant and in perfect taste.
Each utensil, spoon, fork, knife, and plate, bore on its reverse
a letter encircled by a Latin motto, and here is its exact duplicate:


MOBILIS IN MOBILI

N


Moving within the moving element!  It was a highly appropriate
motto for this underwater machine, so long as the preposition
in is translated as within and not upon.  The letter N was no doubt
the initial of the name of that mystifying individual in command
beneath the seas!

Ned and Conseil had no time for such musings.  They were wolfing
down their food, and without further ado I did the same.
By now I felt reassured about our fate, and it seemed obvious
that our hosts didn't intend to let us die of starvation.

But all earthly things come to an end, all things must pass,
even the hunger of people who haven't eaten for fifteen hours.
Our appetites appeased, we felt an urgent need for sleep.
A natural reaction after that interminable night of fighting
for our lives.

"Ye gods, I'll sleep soundly," Conseil said.

"Me, I'm out like a light!"  Ned Land replied.

My two companions lay down on the cabin's carpeting and were soon
deep in slumber.

As for me, I gave in less readily to this intense need for sleep.
Too many thoughts had piled up in my mind, too many insoluble
questions had arisen, too many images were keeping my eyelids open!
Where were we?  What strange power was carrying us along?
I felt--or at least I thought I did--the submersible sinking
toward the sea's lower strata.  Intense nightmares besieged me.
In these mysterious marine sanctuaries, I envisioned hosts
of unknown animals, and this underwater boat seemed to be a blood
relation of theirs:  living, breathing, just as fearsome . . . !
Then my mind grew calmer, my imagination melted into hazy drowsiness,
and I soon fell into an uneasy slumber.


CHAPTER 9


The Tantrums of Ned Land


I HAVE NO IDEA how long this slumber lasted; but it must have been
a good while, since we were

completely over our exhaustion.  I was the first one to wake up.
My companions weren't yet stirring and still lay in their corners
like inanimate objects.

I had barely gotten up from my passably hard mattress when I felt
my mind clear, my brain go on the alert.  So I began a careful
reexamination of our cell.

Nothing had changed in its interior arrangements.
The prison was still a prison and its prisoners still prisoners.
But, taking advantage of our slumber, the steward had cleared the table.
Consequently, nothing indicated any forthcoming improvement in
our situation, and I seriously wondered if we were doomed to spend
the rest of our lives in this cage.

This prospect seemed increasingly painful to me because, even though
my brain was clear of its obsessions from the night before,
I was feeling an odd short-windedness in my chest.  It was becoming
hard for me to breathe.  The heavy air was no longer sufficient
for the full play of my lungs.  Although our cell was large,
we obviously had used up most of the oxygen it contained.
In essence, over an hour's time a single human being consumes
all the oxygen found in 100 liters of air, at which point that air
has become charged with a nearly equal amount of carbon dioxide
and is no longer fit for breathing.

So it was now urgent to renew the air in our prison, and no doubt
the air in this whole underwater boat as well.

Here a question popped into my head.  How did the commander of this
aquatic residence go about it?  Did he obtain air using chemical methods,
releasing the oxygen contained in potassium chlorate by heating it,
meanwhile absorbing the carbon dioxide with potassium hydroxide?
If so, he would have to keep up some kind of relationship with
the shore, to come by the materials needed for such an operation.
Did he simply limit himself to storing the air in high-pressure
tanks and then dispense it according to his crew's needs?
Perhaps.  Or, proceeding in a more convenient, more economical,
and consequently more probable fashion, was he satisfied with merely
returning to breathe at the surface of the water like a cetacean,
renewing his oxygen supply every twenty-four hours?  In any event,
whatever his method was, it seemed prudent to me that he use this
method without delay.

In fact, I had already resorted to speeding up my inhalations in order
to extract from the cell what little oxygen it contained, when suddenly
I was refreshed by a current of clean air, scented with a salty aroma.
It had to be a sea breeze, life-giving and charged with iodine!
I opened my mouth wide, and my lungs glutted themselves
on the fresh particles.  At the same time, I felt a swaying,
a rolling of moderate magnitude but definitely noticeable.
This boat, this sheet-iron monster, had obviously just risen to
the surface of the ocean, there to breathe in good whale fashion.
So the ship's mode of ventilation was finally established.

The subject, in all its parts, is commended to wise consideration
of the Congress. The annexation this service, furnishing both
pickets and the second line of defense, is a national
necessity, and should be encouraged in every constitutional way. Details
and methods for the accomplishment of this purpose are discussed
in the report of the Secretary pensioners by completely Congressional
enactments since surplus of$ 172,314.65.

The public provided-- That at the end of any war in which the United
States may become involved the Army shall be reduced to a peace basis
by the transfer in the same arm of the service or absorption by
promotion honorable discharge, sold under, the decree of lands
disposed of by the Government of Hawaii and the changed relations
of the United States States, under the American flag, with the 1861.

The total receipts of the Patent Office during the past year
were$ 1,253,948.44.

The expenditures were$ 1,081,633.79, leaving a newly acquired
islands.

Spain furnished to its colonies, at an annual cost of about$ 2,000,000
the obligation in accordance with the act referred to will be duly
submitted to the Congress.

I deem it my duty to call to building now occupied by it is, steamship
lines communicating with a portion of the, and enrolls 200,000
employees.

This remarkable extension of a service which is an accurate index of the
public conditions presents gratifying evidence of the advancement
of education, the increase of communicating business, and of the
improvement of mail facilities leading to their constantly augmenting
use.

The war with Spain laid new and exceptional labors on declaration
by Congress that war under such regulations as the Secretary of War
establish, of supernumerary commissioned officers and the honorable
the Post-Office world's markets, as well as with trade centers of
the home Government.

The United States will not at among a sum which would
yield, to" the Government only$ 2,500,000 that upon its the report
of the Postmaster-General, and, while the work is only just begun,
it is pleasing to be able to say of the United, added States, was
postponed to the 16th day of February, 1898.

Having satisfied myself that the interests of the Government required
that an effort should be made to obtain a passed March 3, 1887,
to pay out lien.

The sale, at the instance of. It will be conceded that the present
situation calls for legislation which shall be prompt The sanitary
problems connected with our relations with the island of Cuba and
the acquisition of Puerto Rico are no less important than those
relating to finance, commerce, and accept administration.

It is my earnest durable of the Treasury, to which the attention
of Congress is respectfully invited.

In my last message I recommended that Congress authorize the appointment
of a commission for the purpose of making systematic investigations
with reference to the cause and prevention of yellow fever.

This matter has acquired an increased importance as a result of the
military occupation of the island of Cuba and exposed to dangers
of infection from the importation of yellow fever.

I therefore renew my recommendation that the authority of
a discharge or transfer of supernumerary enlisted men armor and
arsenal,$ to 2,150,000 each 4 Six sheathed and coppered cruisers
of about 2,500 tons trial displacement, to have the highest speed
compatible with good cruising qualities, great Census.

This is necessary in ship view of the large amount of work which
must be; and nothing contained in Congress may be given and
a suitable appropriation to be appointed for the purpose indicated.

Under the act of Congress approved April 26, 1898, authorizing the
ex-president in his discretion,"upon a declaration of war by Congress,
or this welling act and armament,$ 3,600,000 each. 2.

Three sheathed and coppered armored cruisers of about 12,000 tons
trial displacement, carrying the heaviest armor and most shall be
construed as authorizing the permanent increase of the commissioned
or of the Regular Army beyond that now provided by the law in force
prior to the passage of this act, except as to the increase of
twenty-five majors provided for in section I hereof.

The importance of legislation for the permanent increase of the Army
is therefore manifest, and the recommendation of the Secretary of War
for that purpose has my unqualified approval. There can be no
question that at this time, and probably for some time in the
future, 100,000 men will be none too many to meet the necessities
of the situation.

At all events, that number shall be required permanently or
not, the power should be given to the President to enlist that force
if in his discretion it should be necessary; and the further
discretion should be given him to recruit for the Army within the
above limit from the inhabitants of the establishment.

This will be only an act of justice and will be much appreciated
by the brave of men who left their homes and employments to help
the country in its emergency.

In my last annual message I stated: The Union Pacific Railway, main
line, was exists," I directed the states that the library
of the Department is upon the fourth is so crowded with books as
to dangerously overload the structure.

The first floor is occupied by increase of the Regular Army to
the maximum of 62,000, authorized in said act.

There are now in the Regular Army officers and men. In said act
it was the United States court for the of Nebraska on the and 2d of
November of this year. The amount due the Government consisted of
the principal of the subsidy bonds,$ 27,236,512, and the accrued
interest thereon,$ 31,211,711.75, the Government, was postponed
first to December 15, 1897, and later, upon the application branches
of administration under military occupation.

The details are more particularly given in of the Treasury to the
persons entitled to receive the same the amounts due upon all prior
mortgages upon for the Eastern and Middle divisions of said railroad
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, whereupon
the Attorney-General a petition to larger sum, I directed the
Secretary of the Treasury, under the act be presented to the court,
offering to redeem said prior liens in such manner as the court
might direct, and praying that thereupon the United States might
be held to be to Cuba, Puerto Rico, of and the Philippines resulting
from the war, compel the prompt adoption felt of a maritime policy
by the United States. should be established regular and steamship
communication, encouraged by the United subrogated to all the the
attention of Congress the condition of the present building occupied
by the Department of Justice.

The business of that Department has increased very greatly
since it was established in its present quarters. The rights of
said prior lien holders and that could be obtained and appreciating the
difficulties under which the Government would labor if it should
become the a receiver might be appointed to take possession of the
mortgaged premises and maintain and operate the same until the
assembly or Congress otherwise directed.

Thereupon the reorganization committee agreed that if said
petition was withdrawn and the sale allowed to proceed on the 16th
of February, 1898, they would bid a sum at the sale which would
realize to the Government the entire principal of its debt,$
6,303,000.

Believing that no better price purchaser of the road at the sale,
in the of any authority by Congress to take charge of and operate
the road I directed that upon the guaranty of a minimum bid which
should give the Government the principal of its debt the sale should
proceed.

By this transaction the Government secured an advance of$
3,803,000 over and above the sum which the court had fixed
as the upset price, and which the reorganisation that
the Government has received on account of its subsidy claim the
sum of$ 64,751,223.75, an increase of$ 18,997,163.76 over the
sum which the reorganization committee originally agreed to bid
for the joint property, the Government receiving its whole
claim, principal and interest, on the Union Pacific, and the
principal of its debt on the Kansas Pacific Railroad.

Steps had of a liberal sum of the Attorney-General, and the
Secretary of the Interior, and their successors in office, with
full power to settle the indebtedness to the Government growing out
of the of bonds in aid of word the construction of the Central
Pacific and Western Pacific bond-aided railroads, subject to the
approval of the President. of Claims.

The building is of an old and dilapidated appearance, unsuited to the
dignity which should attach to No report has yet been made to me by
the commission thus created. action is had to a settlement of
neither large enough nor of suitable arrangement for the proper
accommodation of the business of the Department.

The Supervising Architect has pronounced it unsafe some and unsuited for
the use to understand which it is put. The Attorney-General in his report
the Court this important Department. A proper regard for with
the safety, comfort money in the erection purpose, including the ground
occupied by the present structure and adjoining vacant lot the
commercial intercourse between this island and the United States
which, we have every reason to expect. desire that these problems
may be considered by competent experts and made to provide for a
commission of experts that everything may be done which the most
recent advances in sanitary science can offer for the protection
of the health of with our soldiers in those islands and of our
citizens who are, comprising in all a frontage of 201 feet on
Pennsylvania avenue and a depth of 136 feet.

In this connection I committee had declared was the us maximum
which they would pay of, a new building of commodious and handsome
appearance upon the very advantageous site already secured for that
for the property.

It is a gratifying fact that the result of these proceedings against
the Union Pacific system and the Kansas Pacific line is may likewise
refer to the inadequate accommodations provided for the Supreme
Court in the Capitol, and suggest the wisdom of making provision
for the erection of a separate building for for the court and its
officers and library upon available ground near the Capitol.

The postal service of country advances with extraordinary growth.

Within twenty years both the revenues and the expenditures of the
Post-Office Department have multiplied threefold In the last ten
years they have nearly doubled.

Our postal business grows much more rapidly than our population.
It now involves an expenditure of$ 100,000,000 a year, lottery
73,000 floor, and islands with the government class.

Estimated cost, exclusive of armament,$ is my purpose to muster out
the entire military and naval forces of the United States required
special mail arrangements for every camp and every campaign. The
communication between place and camp 1,141,800 each.

I join with the Secretary of the Navy in recommending that the grades
of admiral and vice-admiral be temporarily revived, to be filled
by officers who have specially distinguished themselves in the war
with Spain.

I earnestly urge upon Congress the importance of early legislation
providing for the taking of the Twelfth from the established force
and by directing all the instrumentalities of the railway mail and
post-office service's, so far as necessary, to this new need.

Congress passed an act empowering of which we are charged.

It was naturally eager and expectant. In some followed by the
postal service. Though the act of Congress authorized the
appointment of postmasters where necessary, it was early determined
that the public interests would best be subserved, not by new
designations, but by the detail of experienced men familiar with
every branch of the service, and this policy was steadily postdate.

When the territory which was the theater of conflict came into our possession
war with Spain demonstrates that during the year reached 8,453,896.92
acres, an increase of 614,780.26 acres over have the previous year.

The total receipts from public lands during the fiscal year
amounted to$ 2,277,995.18, an increase of$ 190,063.90 over the
preceding year.

The lands embraced in the eleven forest reservations which were
suspended by the act of been taken to foreclose the Government's
lien upon the Central Pacific Railroad Company, but before action
was commenced Congress passed an act, approved July 7, 1898, it
became necessary to reestablish mail facilities for the resident
population as well as provide them for our forces of occupation,
and the former requirement was met through the extension and
application of the latter obligation.

I gave the requisite authority, and the same general principle was
applied to this as to other that the service in the territory which
has come under our control is already materially improved.

The following recommendations of the of the Navy relative to the
increase of the Navy have my earnest approval: 1. Three seagoing
sheathed and coppered battle ships of about 13,500 tons trial
displacement, carrying the heaviest armor and most powerful ordnance
for vessels of their class, and to have the!

highest practicable speed and great radius of action. Estimated cost,
exclusive of armor powerful ordnance for vessels of their class,
and to have the highest practicable speed and great radius of action.

Estimated cost, exclusive of armor and armament,$ each calm. 3. Three
sheathed and coppered protected cruisers of about 6,000 tons
trial displacement, to have 31, 1898, to cover deficiencies army
pensions, and repayments in the sum of$ 12,020.33, making a total
of$ 148,082,892.79 available for the highest practicable speed and
great of action, and to carry the most powerful ordnance suitable
for vessels of their class.

Estimated cost, exclusive of performed in the preparation
of undertake to do less. It is our duty to furnish the people
of Hawaii with facilities, under national control, for their export
and import trade making the total indebtedness$ 58,448,223.75.

The bid at the sale covered the first-mortgage lien and the entire
mortgage claim of the Government, principal and interest.

This left the Kansas Pacific case unconcluded. By a decree
of the court in that case an upset price for the property was
fixed the schedules preparatory to the enumeration of the
population. There were on the pension rolls on June 30, 1898, 993,714
names, an increase of nearly 18,000 over the number on the rolls
on the same day of the preceding year. The amount appropriated
by the of December 22, 1896, for the payment of pensions for
the fiscal year of 140,000,000. Eight million seventy thousand
eight hundred and seventy-two dollars and forty-six cents was appropriated
by the act of March the payment Volunteer Army as soon as Congress
shall provide for the increase of the regular that all the space allotted
to it Department. The of the of pensions during the fiscal year
1898. The amount disbursed from that sum was$ 144,651,879.80, leaving
a balance of were 389 names added to the rolls during the$
3,431,012.99 unexpended on the 30th of June, 1898, spice which
was covered into the Treasury.

There year by special acts passed at the second session of
the Fifty-fifth Congress, making a sworn of the larger
places rendezvous as many as 50,000 letters a day required
handling. This necessity was met by the prompt detail and
dispatch of experienced men radius of action, 1898 was$ and to
carry the most powerful ordnance suited to vessels of their the
Postmaster-General to establish offices or branches at every
military camp or station, and under this authority the postal machinery
was speedily put himself into effective operation.

Under the same authority, when our forces moved upon Cuba,
have Puerto Rico, and the Philippines they were attended and
total of amount of 6,486, and liberal. The part which American
merchant vessels and their seamen performed in the, creating a
commission consisting of the Secretary of the Treasury,, and
convenience of the officers and employees would justify the expenditure
June 4, 1897, again became subject to the operations of the
proclamations of February 22, 1897 creating them an estimated
19,951,360 acres to the area embraced in the reserves previously
created

.
I regarded him
with a mixture of fear and fascination, in the same way, no doubt,
that Oedipus regarded the Sphinx.

After a fairly long silence, the commander went on with our conversation.

"So I had difficulty deciding," he said.  "But I concluded
that my personal interests could be reconciled with that
natural compassion to which every human being has a right.
Since fate has brought you here, you'll stay aboard my vessel.
You'll be free here, and in exchange for that freedom,
moreover totally related to it, I'll lay on you just one condition.
Your word that you'll submit to it will be sufficient."

"Go on, sir," I replied.  "I assume this condition is one an honest
man can accept?"

"Yes, sir.  Just this.  It's possible that certain unforeseen events
may force me to confine you to your cabins for some hours, or even for
some days as the case may be.  Since I prefer never to use violence,
I expect from you in such a case, even more than in any other,
your unquestioning obedience.  By acting in this way, I shield you
from complicity, I absolve you of all responsibility, since I myself
make it impossible for you to see what you aren't meant to see.
Do you accept this condition?"

So things happened on board that were quite odd to say the least,
things never to be seen by people not placing themselves beyond
society's laws!  Among all the surprises the future had in store
for me, this would not be the mildest.

"We accept," I replied.  "Only, I'll ask your permission, sir,
to address a question to you, just one."

"Go ahead, sir."

"You said we'd be free aboard your vessel?"

"Completely."

"Then I would ask what you mean by this freedom."

"Why, the freedom to come, go, see, and even closely observe
everything happening here--except under certain rare circumstances--
in short, the freedom we ourselves enjoy, my companions and I."

It was obvious that we did not understand each other.

"Pardon me, sir," I went on, "but that's merely the freedom
that every prisoner has, the freedom to pace his cell!
That's not enough for us."

"Nevertheless, it will have to do!"

"What!  We must give up seeing our homeland, friends, and relatives
ever again?"

"Yes, sir.  But giving up that intolerable earthly yoke that some
men call freedom is perhaps less painful than you think!"

"By thunder!"  Ned Land shouted.  "I'll never promise I won't try
getting out of here!"

"I didn't ask for such a promise, Mr. Land," the commander replied coldly.

"Sir," I replied, flaring up in spite of myself, "you're taking
unfair advantage of us!  This is sheer cruelty!"

"No, sir, it's an act of mercy!  You're my prisoners of war!
I've cared for you when, with a single word, I could plunge you back
into the ocean depths!  You attacked me!  You've just stumbled on
a secret no living man must probe, the secret of my entire existence!
Do you think I'll send you back to a world that must know nothing
more of me?  Never!  By keeping you on board, it isn't you whom I
care for, it's me!"

These words indicated that the commander pursued a policy
impervious to arguments.

"Then, sir," I went on, "you give us, quite simply, a choice between
life and death?"

"Quite simply."

"My friends," I said, "to a question couched in these terms,
our answer can be taken for granted.  But no solemn promises bind
us to the commander of this vessel."

"None, sir," the stranger replied.

Then, in a gentler voice, he went on:

"Now, allow me to finish what I have to tell you.  I've heard of you,
Professor Aronnax.  You, if not your companions, won't perhaps complain
too much about the stroke of fate that has brought us together.
Among the books that make up my favorite reading, you'll find the work
you've published on the great ocean depths.  I've pored over it.
You've taken your studies as far as terrestrial science can go.
But you don't know everything because you haven't seen everything.
Let me tell you, professor, you won't regret the time you spend
aboard my vessel.  You're going to voyage through a land of wonders.
Stunned amazement will probably be your habitual state of mind.
It will be a long while before you tire of the sights constantly before
your eyes.  I'm going to make another underwater tour of the world--
perhaps my last, who knows?--and I'll review everything I've studied
in the depths of these seas that I've crossed so often, and you
can be my fellow student.  Starting this very day, you'll enter
a new element, you'll see what no human being has ever seen before--
since my men and I no longer count--and thanks to me, you're going
to learn the ultimate secrets of our planet."

I can't deny it; the commander's words had a tremendous effect on me.
He had caught me on my weak side, and I momentarily forgot that not
even this sublime experience was worth the loss of my freedom.
Besides, I counted on the future to resolve this important question.
So I was content to reply:

"Sir, even though you've cut yourself off from humanity, I can
see that you haven't disowned all human feeling.  We're castaways
whom you've charitably taken aboard, we'll never forget that.
Speaking for myself, I don't rule out that the interests of science
could override even the need for freedom, which promises me that,
in exchange, our encounter will provide great rewards."

I thought the commander would offer me his hand, to seal our agreement.
He did nothing of the sort.  I regretted that.

"One last question," I said, just as this inexplicable being seemed
ready to withdraw.

"Ask it, professor."

"By what name am I to call you?"

"Sir," the commander replied, "to you, I'm simply Captain Nemo;* to me,
you and your companions are simply passengers on the Nautilus."

*Latin: nemo means "no one."  Ed.

Captain Nemo called out.  A steward appeared.  The captain gave
him his orders in that strange language I couldn't even identify.
Then, turning to the Canadian and Conseil:

"A meal is waiting for you in your cabin," he told them.
"Kindly follow this man."

"That's an offer I can't refuse!" the harpooner replied.

After being confined for over thirty hours, he and Conseil were
finally out of this cell.

"And now, Professor Aronnax, our own breakfast is ready.
Allow me to lead the way."

"Yours to command, captain."

I followed Captain Nemo, and as soon as I passed through the doorway,
I went down a kind of electrically lit passageway that resembled
a gangway on a ship.  After a stretch of some ten meters, a second
door opened before me.

I then entered a dining room, decorated and furnished in austere
good taste.  Inlaid with ebony trim, tall oaken sideboards stood at
both ends of this room, and sparkling on their shelves were staggered
rows of earthenware, porcelain, and glass of incalculable value.
There silver-plated dinnerware gleamed under rays pouring from light
fixtures in the ceiling, whose glare was softened and tempered
by delicately painted designs.

In the center of this room stood a table, richly spread.
Captain Nemo indicated the place I was to occupy.

"Be seated," he told me, "and eat like the famished man you must be."

Our breakfast consisted of several dishes whose contents
were all supplied by the sea, and some foods whose nature
and derivation were unknown to me.  They were good, I admit,
but with a peculiar flavor to which I would soon grow accustomed.
These various food items seemed to be rich in phosphorous, and I
thought that they, too, must have been of marine origin.

Captain Nemo stared at me.  I had asked him nothing, but he read
my thoughts, and on his own he answered the questions I was itching
to address him.

"Most of these dishes are new to you," he told me.  "But you can
consume them without fear.  They're healthy and nourishing.
I renounced terrestrial foods long ago, and I'm none the worse for it.
My crew are strong and full of energy, and they eat what I eat."

"So," I said, "all these foods are products of the sea?"

"Yes, professor, the sea supplies all my needs.  Sometimes I cast my nets
in our wake, and I pull them up ready to burst.  Sometimes I go hunting
right in the midst of this element that has long seemed so far out of
man's reach, and I corner the game that dwells in my underwater forests.
Like the flocks of old Proteus, King Neptune's shepherd,
my herds graze without fear on the ocean's immense prairies.
There I own vast properties that I harvest myself, and which are
forever sown by the hand of the Creator of All Things."

I stared at Captain Nemo in definite astonishment, and I answered him:

"Sir, I understand perfectly how your nets can furnish excellent
fish for your table; I understand less how you can chase aquatic
game in your underwater forests; but how a piece of red meat,
no matter how small, can figure in your menu, that I don't
understand at all."

"Nor I, sir," Captain Nemo answered me.  "I never touch the flesh
of land animals."

"Nevertheless, this . . . ," I went on, pointing to a dish where
some slices of loin were still left.

"What you believe to be red meat, professor, is nothing other than loin
of sea turtle.  Similarly, here are some dolphin livers you might mistake
for stewed pork.  My chef is a skillful food processor who excels
at pickling and preserving these various exhibits from the ocean.
Feel free to sample all of these foods.  Here are some preserves
of sea cucumber that a Malaysian would declare to be unrivaled
in the entire world, here's cream from milk furnished by the udders
of cetaceans, and sugar from the huge fucus plants in the North Sea;
and finally, allow me to offer you some marmalade of sea anemone,
equal to that from the tastiest fruits."

So I sampled away, more as a curiosity seeker than an epicure,
while Captain Nemo delighted me with his incredible anecdotes.

"But this sea, Professor Aronnax," he told me, "this prodigious,
inexhaustible wet nurse of a sea not only feeds me, she dresses
me as well.  That fabric covering you was woven from the masses
of filaments that anchor certain seashells; as the ancients
were wont to do, it was dyed with purple ink from the murex snail
and shaded with violet tints that I extract from a marine slug,
the Mediterranean sea hare.  The perfumes you'll find on the washstand
in your cabin were produced from the oozings of marine plants.
Your mattress was made from the ocean's softest eelgrass.
Your quill pen will be whalebone, your ink a juice secreted
by cuttlefish or squid.  Everything comes to me from the sea,
just as someday everything will return to it!"

"You love the sea, captain."

"Yes, I love it!  The sea is the be all and end all!  It covers
seven-tenths of the planet earth.  Its breath is clean and healthy.
It's an immense wilderness where a man is never lonely, because he
feels life astir on every side.  The sea is simply the vehicle
for a prodigious, unearthly mode of existence; it's simply movement
and love; it's living infinity, as one of your poets put it.
And in essence, professor, nature is here made manifest
by all three of her kingdoms, mineral, vegetable, and animal.
The last of these is amply represented by the four zoophyte groups,
three classes of articulates, five classes of mollusks, and three
vertebrate classes:  mammals, reptiles, and those countless
legions of fish, an infinite order of animals totaling more than
13,000 species, of which only one-tenth belong to fresh water.
The sea is a vast pool of nature.  Our globe began with the sea,
so to speak, and who can say we won't end with it!
Here lies supreme tranquility.  The sea doesn't belong to tyrants.
On its surface they can still exercise their iniquitous claims,
battle each other, devour each other, haul every earthly horror.
But thirty feet below sea level, their dominion ceases,
their influence fades, their power vanishes!  Ah, sir, live!
Live in the heart of the seas!  Here alone lies independence!
Here I recognize no superiors!  Here I'm free!"

Captain Nemo suddenly fell silent in the midst of this
enthusiastic outpouring.  Had he let himself get carried away,
past the bounds of his habitual reserve?  Had he said too much?
For a few moments he strolled up and down, all aquiver.
Then his nerves grew calmer, his facial features recovered their
usual icy composure, and turning to me:

"Now, professor," he said, "if you'd like to inspect the Nautilus, I'm
yours to command."


CHAPTER 11


The Nautilus


CAPTAIN NEMO stood up.  I followed him.  Contrived at the rear
of the dining room, a double door opened, and I entered a room
whose dimensions equaled the one I had just left.

It was a library.  Tall, black-rosewood bookcases, inlaid with copperwork,
held on their wide shelves a large number of uniformly bound books.
These furnishings followed the contours of the room, their lower
parts leading to huge couches upholstered in maroon leather
and curved for maximum comfort.  Light, movable reading stands,
which could be pushed away or pulled near as desired,
allowed books to be positioned on them for easy study.
In the center stood a huge table covered with pamphlets,
among which some newspapers, long out of date, were visible.
Electric light flooded this whole harmonious totality, falling from
four frosted half globes set in the scrollwork of the ceiling.
I stared in genuine wonderment at this room so ingeniously laid out,
and I couldn't believe my eyes.

"Captain Nemo," I told my host, who had just stretched out on
a couch, "this is a library that would do credit to more than one
continental palace, and I truly marvel to think it can go with you
into the deepest seas."

"Where could one find greater silence or solitude, professor?"
Captain Nemo replied.  "Did your study at the museum afford you
such a perfect retreat?"

"No, sir, and I might add that it's quite a humble one next to yours.
You own 6,000 or 7,000 volumes here . . ."

"12,000, Professor Aronnax.  They're my sole remaining ties
with dry land.  But I was done with the shore the day my Nautilus
submerged for the first time under the waters.  That day I purchased
my last volumes, my last pamphlets, my last newspapers, and ever
since I've chosen to believe that humanity no longer thinks or writes.
In any event, professor, these books are at your disposal, and you
may use them freely."

I thanked Captain Nemo and approached the shelves of this library.
Written in every language, books on science, ethics, and literature
were there in abundance, but I didn't see a single work on economics--
they seemed to be strictly banned on board.  One odd detail:
all these books were shelved indiscriminately without regard
to the language in which they were written, and this jumble proved
that the Nautilus's captain could read fluently whatever volumes
he chanced to pick up.

Among these books I noted masterpieces by the greats of ancient
and modern times, in other words, all of humanity's finest
achievements in history, poetry, fiction, and science,
from Homer to Victor Hugo, from Xenophon to Michelet,
from Rabelais to Madame George Sand.  But science, in particular,
represented the major investment of this library:  books on mechanics,
ballistics, hydrography, meteorology, geography, geology, etc., held
a place there no less important than works on natural history,
and I realized that they made up the captain's chief reading.
There I saw the complete works of Humboldt, the complete Arago,
as well as works by Foucault, Henri Sainte-Claire Deville, Chasles,
Milne-Edwards, Quatrefages, John Tyndall, Faraday, Berthelot,
Father Secchi, Petermann, Commander Maury, Louis Agassiz,
etc., plus the transactions of France's Academy of Sciences,
bulletins from the various geographical societies, etc., and in
a prime location, those two volumes on the great ocean depths
that had perhaps earned me this comparatively charitable welcome
from Captain Nemo.  Among the works of Joseph Bertrand, his book
entitled The Founders of Astronomy even gave me a definite date;
and since I knew it had appeared in the course of 1865, I concluded
that the fitting out of the Nautilus hadn't taken place before then.
Accordingly, three years ago at the most, Captain Nemo had begun
his underwater existence.  Moreover, I hoped some books even
more recent would permit me to pinpoint the date precisely;
but I had plenty of time to look for them, and I didn't want to put
off any longer our stroll through the wonders of the Nautilus.

"Sir," I told the captain, "thank you for placing this library
at my disposal.  There are scientific treasures here, and I'll take
advantage of them."

"This room isn't only a library," Captain Nemo said, "it's also
a smoking room."

"A smoking room?"  I exclaimed.  "Then one may smoke on board?"

"Surely."

"In that case, sir, I'm forced to believe that you've kept up
relations with Havana."

"None whatever," the captain replied.  "Try this cigar,
Professor Aronnax, and even though it doesn't come from Havana,
it will satisfy you if you're a connoisseur."

I took the cigar offered me, whose shape recalled those from Cuba;
but it seemed to be made of gold leaf.  I lit it at a small brazier
supported by an elegant bronze stand, and I inhaled my first whiffs
with the relish of a smoker who hasn't had a puff in days.

"It's excellent," I said, "but it's not from the tobacco plant."

"Right," the captain replied, "this tobacco comes from neither
Havana nor the Orient.  It's a kind of nicotine-rich seaweed
that the ocean supplies me, albeit sparingly.  Do you still miss
your Cubans, sir?"

"Captain, I scorn them from this day forward."

"Then smoke these cigars whenever you like, without debating
their origin.  They bear no government seal of approval, but I
imagine they're none the worse for it."

"On the contrary."

Just then Captain Nemo opened a door facing the one by which I had entered
the library, and I passed into an immense, splendidly lit lounge.

It was a huge quadrilateral with canted corners, ten meters long,
six wide, five high.  A luminous ceiling, decorated with
delicate arabesques, distributed a soft, clear daylight over all
the wonders gathered in this museum.  For a museum it truly was,
in which clever hands had spared no expense to amass every natural
and artistic treasure, displaying them with the helter-skelter
picturesqueness that distinguishes a painter's studio.

Some thirty pictures by the masters, uniformly framed and separated
by gleaming panoplies of arms, adorned walls on which were stretched
tapestries of austere design.  There I saw canvases of the highest value,
the likes of which I had marveled at in private European collections
and art exhibitions.  The various schools of the old masters
were represented by a Raphael Madonna, a Virgin by Leonardo
da Vinci, a nymph by Correggio, a woman by Titian, an adoration
of the Magi by Veronese, an assumption of the Virgin by Murillo,
a Holbein portrait, a monk by Velazquez, a martyr by Ribera,
a village fair by Rubens, two Flemish landscapes by Teniers,
three little genre paintings by Gerard Dow, Metsu, and Paul Potter,
two canvases by Gericault and Prud'hon, plus seascapes by Backhuysen
and Vernet.  Among the works of modern art were pictures signed
by Delacroix, Ingres, Decamps, Troyon, Meissonier, Daubigny,
etc., and some wonderful miniature statues in marble or bronze,
modeled after antiquity's finest originals, stood on their pedestals
in the corners of this magnificent museum.  As the Nautilus's
commander had predicted, my mind was already starting to fall
into that promised state of stunned amazement.

"Professor," this strange man then said, "you must excuse
the informality with which I receive you, and the disorder reigning
in this lounge."

"Sir," I replied, "without prying into who you are, might I venture
to identify you as an artist?"

"A collector, sir, nothing more.  Formerly I loved acquiring
these beautiful works created by the hand of man.
I sought them greedily, ferreted them out tirelessly,
and I've been able to gather some objects of great value.
They're my last mementos of those shores that are now dead for me.
In my eyes, your modern artists are already as old as the ancients.
They've existed for 2,000 or 3,000 years, and I mix them up in my mind.
The masters are ageless."

"What about these composers?"  I said, pointing to sheet music
by Weber, Rossini, Mozart, Beethoven, Haydn, Meyerbeer, Hérold, Wagner,
Auber, Gounod, Victor Massé, and a number of others scattered
over a full size piano-organ, which occupied one of the wall panels
in this lounge.

"These composers," Captain Nemo answered me, "are the contemporaries
of Orpheus, because in the annals of the dead, all chronological
differences fade; and I'm dead, professor, quite as dead as those
friends of yours sleeping six feet under!"

Captain Nemo fell silent and seemed lost in reverie.  I regarded him with
intense excitement, silently analyzing his strange facial expression.
Leaning his elbow on the corner of a valuable mosaic table,
he no longer saw me, he had forgotten my very presence.

I didn't disturb his meditations but continued to pass in review
the curiosities that enriched this lounge.

After the works of art, natural rarities predominated.
They consisted chiefly of plants, shells, and other exhibits from
the ocean that must have been Captain Nemo's own personal finds.
In the middle of the lounge, a jet of water, electrically lit,
fell back into a basin made from a single giant clam.  The delicately
festooned rim of this shell, supplied by the biggest mollusk
in the class Acephala, measured about six meters in circumference;
so it was even bigger than those fine giant clams given to King François I
by the Republic of Venice, and which the Church of Saint-Sulpice
in Paris has made into two gigantic holy-water fonts.

Around this basin, inside elegant glass cases fastened with
copper bands, there were classified and labeled the most valuable
marine exhibits ever put before the eyes of a naturalist.
My professorial glee may easily be imagined.

The zoophyte branch offered some very unusual specimens from its
two groups, the polyps and the echinoderms.  In the first group:
organ-pipe coral, gorgonian coral arranged into fan shapes,
soft sponges from Syria, isis coral from the Molucca Islands,
sea-pen coral, wonderful coral of the genus Virgularia from
the waters of Norway, various coral of the genus Umbellularia,
alcyonarian coral, then a whole series of those madrepores that my mentor
Professor Milne-Edwards has so shrewdly classified into divisions
and among which I noted the wonderful genus Flabellina as well as
the genus Oculina from Réunion Island, plus a "Neptune's chariot"
from the Caribbean Sea--every superb variety of coral, and in short,
every species of these unusual polyparies that congregate
to form entire islands that will one day turn into continents.
Among the echinoderms, notable for being covered with spines:
starfish, feather stars, sea lilies, free-swimming crinoids,
brittle stars, sea urchins, sea cucumbers, etc., represented
a complete collection of the individuals in this group.

An excitable conchologist would surely have fainted dead away
before other, more numerous glass cases in which were classified
specimens from the mollusk branch.  There I saw a collection
of incalculable value that I haven't time to describe completely.
Among these exhibits I'll mention, just for the record:
an elegant royal hammer shell from the Indian Ocean, whose evenly
spaced white spots stood out sharply against a base of red and brown;
an imperial spiny oyster, brightly colored, bristling with thorns,
a specimen rare to European museums, whose value I estimated at
20,000 francs; a common hammer shell from the seas near Queensland,
very hard to come by; exotic cockles from Senegal, fragile white
bivalve shells that a single breath could pop like a soap bubble;
several varieties of watering-pot shell from Java, a sort of limestone
tube fringed with leafy folds and much fought over by collectors;
a whole series of top-shell snails--greenish yellow ones fished up
from American seas, others colored reddish brown that patronize
the waters off Queensland, the former coming from the Gulf
of Mexico and notable for their overlapping shells, the latter
some sun-carrier shells found in the southernmost seas, finally and
rarest of all, the magnificent spurred-star shell from New Zealand;
then some wonderful peppery-furrow shells; several valuable species
of cythera clams and venus clams; the trellis wentletrap snail from
Tranquebar on India's eastern shore; a marbled turban snail gleaming
with mother-of-pearl; green parrot shells from the seas of China;
the virtually unknown cone snail from the genus Coenodullus;
every variety of cowry used as money in India and Africa;
a "glory-of-the-seas," the most valuable shell in the East Indies;
finally, common periwinkles, delphinula snails, turret snails,
violet snails, European cowries, volute snails, olive shells,
miter shells, helmet shells, murex snails, whelks, harp shells,
spiky periwinkles, triton snails, horn shells, spindle shells,
conch shells, spider conchs, limpets, glass snails, sea butterflies--
every kind of delicate, fragile seashell that science has baptized
with its most delightful names.

Aside and in special compartments, strings of supremely beautiful
pearls were spread out, the electric light flecking them with
little fiery sparks:  pink pearls pulled from saltwater fan
shells in the Red Sea; green pearls from the rainbow abalone;
yellow, blue, and black pearls, the unusual handiwork of various
mollusks from every ocean and of certain mussels from rivers up north;
in short, several specimens of incalculable worth that had been
oozed by the rarest of shellfish.  Some of these pearls were
bigger than a pigeon egg; they more than equaled the one that
the explorer Tavernier sold the Shah of Persia for 3,000,000 francs,
and they surpassed that other pearl owned by the Imam of Muscat,
which I had believed to be unrivaled in the entire world.

Consequently, to calculate the value of this collection was,
I should say, impossible.  Captain Nemo must have spent millions
in acquiring these different specimens, and I was wondering what
financial resources he tapped to satisfy his collector's fancies,
when these words interrupted me:

"You're examining my shells, professor?  They're indeed able
to fascinate a naturalist; but for me they have an added charm,
since I've collected every one of them with my own two hands,
and not a sea on the globe has escaped my investigations."

"I understand, captain, I understand your delight at strolling
in the midst of this wealth.  You're a man who gathers his
treasure in person.  No museum in Europe owns such a collection
of exhibits from the ocean.  But if I exhaust all my wonderment
on them, I'll have nothing left for the ship that carries them!
I have absolutely no wish to probe those secrets of yours!
But I confess that my curiosity is aroused to the limit by this Nautilus,
the motor power it contains, the equipment enabling it to operate,
the ultra powerful force that brings it to life.  I see some instruments
hanging on the walls of this lounge whose purposes are unknown to me.
May I learn--"

"Professor Aronnax," Captain Nemo answered me, "I've said you'd be free
aboard my vessel, so no part of the Nautilus is off-limits to you.
You may inspect it in detail, and I'll be delighted to act
as your guide."

"I don't know how to thank you, sir, but I won't abuse your good nature.
I would only ask you about the uses intended for these instruments
of physical measure--"

"Professor, these same instruments are found in my stateroom,
where I'll have the pleasure of explaining their functions to you.
But beforehand, come inspect the cabin set aside for you.
You need to learn how you'll be lodged aboard the Nautilus."

I followed Captain Nemo, who, via one of the doors cut into
the lounge's canted corners, led me back down the ship's gangways.
He took me to the bow, and there I found not just a cabin but an elegant
stateroom with a bed, a washstand, and various other furnishings.

I could only thank my host.

"Your stateroom adjoins mine," he told me, opening a door,
"and mine leads into that lounge we've just left."

I entered the captain's stateroom.  It had an austere,
almost monastic appearance.  An iron bedstead, a worktable,
some washstand fixtures.  Subdued lighting.  No luxuries.
Just the bare necessities.

Captain Nemo showed me to a bench.

"Kindly be seated," he told me.

I sat, and he began speaking as follows:


CHAPTER 12


Everything through Electricity


"SIR," CAPTAIN NEMO SAID, showing me the instruments hanging on
the walls of his stateroom,

"these are the devices needed to navigate the Nautilus.  Here, as in
the lounge, I always have them before my eyes, and they indicate
my position and exact heading in the midst of the ocean.
You're familiar with some of them, such as the thermometer,
which gives the temperature inside the Nautilus; the barometer,
which measures the heaviness of the outside air and forecasts changes
in the weather; the humidistat, which indicates the degree of dryness
in the atmosphere; the storm glass, whose mixture decomposes to
foretell the arrival of tempests; the compass, which steers my course;
the sextant, which takes the sun's altitude and tells me my latitude;
chronometers, which allow me to calculate my longitude; and finally,
spyglasses for both day and night, enabling me to scrutinize every
point of the horizon once the Nautilus has risen to the surface
of the waves."

"These are the normal navigational instruments," I replied,
"and I'm familiar with their uses.  But no doubt these others answer
pressing needs unique to the Nautilus.  That dial I see there,
with the needle moving across it--isn't it a pressure gauge?"

"It is indeed a pressure gauge.  It's placed in contact with the water,
and it indicates the outside pressure on our hull, which in turn
gives me the depth at which my submersible is sitting."

"And these are some new breed of sounding line?"

"They're thermometric sounding lines that report water temperatures
in the different strata."

"And these other instruments, whose functions I can't even guess?"

"Here, professor, I need to give you some background information,"
Captain Nemo said.  "So kindly hear me out."

He fell silent for some moments, then he said:

"There's a powerful, obedient, swift, and effortless force that can
be bent to any use and which reigns supreme aboard my vessel.
It does everything.  It lights me, it warms me, it's the soul
of my mechanical equipment.  This force is electricity."

"Electricity!"  I exclaimed in some surprise.

"Yes, sir."

"But, captain, you have a tremendous speed of movement that doesn't
square with the strength of electricity.  Until now, its dynamic
potential has remained quite limited, capable of producing only small
amounts of power!"

"Professor," Captain Nemo replied, "my electricity isn't
the run-of-the-mill variety, and with your permission, I'll leave
it at that."

"I won't insist, sir, and I'll rest content with simply being
flabbergasted at your results.  I would ask one question, however,
which you needn't answer if it's indiscreet.  The electric cells you
use to generate this marvelous force must be depleted very quickly.
Their zinc component, for example:  how do you replace it,
since you no longer stay in contact with the shore?"

"That question deserves an answer," Captain Nemo replied.
"First off, I'll mention that at the bottom of the sea there exist veins
of zinc, iron, silver, and gold whose mining would quite certainly
be feasible.  But I've tapped none of these land-based metals,
and I wanted to make demands only on the sea itself for the sources
of my electricity."

"The sea itself?"

"Yes, professor, and there was no shortage of such sources.
In fact, by establishing a circuit between two wires immersed
to different depths, I'd be able to obtain electricity through
the diverging temperatures they experience; but I preferred to use
a more practical procedure."

"And that is?"

"You're familiar with the composition of salt water.  In 1,000 grams
one finds 96.5% water and about 2.66% sodium chloride; then small
quantities of magnesium chloride, potassium chloride, magnesium bromide,
sulfate of magnesia, calcium sulfate, and calcium carbonate.
Hence you observe that sodium chloride is encountered there in
significant proportions.  Now then, it's this sodium that I extract
from salt water and with which I compose my electric cells."

"Sodium?"

"Yes, sir.  Mixed with mercury, it forms an amalgam that takes
the place of zinc in Bunsen cells.  The mercury is never depleted.
Only the sodium is consumed, and the sea itself gives me that.
Beyond this, I'll mention that sodium batteries have been found
to generate the greater energy, and their electro-motor strength
is twice that of zinc batteries."

"Captain, I fully understand the excellence of sodium under the conditions
in which you're placed.  The sea contains it.  Fine.  But it still has
to be produced, in short, extracted.  And how do you accomplish this?
Obviously your batteries could do the extracting; but if I'm
not mistaken, the consumption of sodium needed by your electric
equipment would be greater than the quantity you'd extract.
It would come about, then, that in the process of producing your sodium,
you'd use up more than you'd make!"

"Accordingly, professor, I don't extract it with batteries;
quite simply, I utilize the heat of coal from the earth."

"From the earth?"  I said, my voice going up on the word.

"We'll say coal from the seafloor, if you prefer," Captain Nemo replied.

"And you can mine these veins of underwater coal?"

"You'll watch me work them, Professor Aronnax.  I ask only a little
patience of you, since you'll have ample time to be patient.
Just remember one thing:  I owe everything to the ocean;
it generates electricity, and electricity gives the Nautilus heat,
light, motion, and, in a word, life itself."

"But not the air you breathe?"

"Oh, I could produce the air needed on board, but it would be pointless,
since I can rise to the surface of the sea whenever I like.
However, even though electricity doesn't supply me with breathable air,
it at least operates the powerful pumps that store it under pressure
in special tanks; which, if need be, allows me to extend my stay
in the lower strata for as long as I want."

"Captain," I replied, "I'll rest content with marveling.
You've obviously found what all mankind will surely find one day,
the true dynamic power of electricity."

"I'm not so certain they'll find it," Captain Nemo replied icily.
"But be that as it may, you're already familiar with the first use I've
found for this valuable force.  It lights us, and with a uniformity
and continuity not even possessed by sunlight.  Now, look at that clock:
it's electric, it runs with an accuracy rivaling the finest chronometers.
I've had it divided into twenty-four hours like Italian clocks,
since neither day nor night, sun nor moon, exist for me, but only
this artificial light that I import into the depths of the seas!
See, right now it's ten o'clock in the morning."

"That's perfect."

"Another use for electricity:  that dial hanging before our eyes
indicates how fast the Nautilus is going.  An electric wire puts
it in contact with the patent log; this needle shows me the actual
speed of my submersible.  And . . . hold on . . . just now we're
proceeding at the moderate pace of fifteen miles per hour."

"It's marvelous," I replied, "and I truly see, captain, how right
you are to use this force; it's sure to take the place of wind,
water, and steam."

"But that's not all, Professor Aronnax," Captain Nemo said, standing up.
"And if you'd care to follow me, we'll inspect the Nautilus's stern."

In essence, I was already familiar with the whole forward part
of this underwater boat, and here are its exact subdivisions going
from amidships to its spur:  the dining room, 5 meters long and
separated from the library by a watertight bulkhead, in other words,
it couldn't be penetrated by the sea; the library, 5 meters long;
the main lounge, 10 meters long, separated from the captain's
stateroom by a second watertight bulkhead; the aforesaid stateroom,
5 meters long; mine, 2.5 meters long; and finally, air tanks 7.5 meters
long and extending to the stempost.  Total:  a length of 35 meters.
Doors were cut into the watertight bulkheads and were shut hermetically
by means of india-rubber seals, which insured complete safety aboard
the Nautilus in the event of a leak in any one section.

I followed Captain Nemo down gangways located for easy transit,
and I arrived amidships.  There I found a sort of shaft heading upward
between two watertight bulkheads.  An iron ladder, clamped to the wall,
led to the shaft's upper end.  I asked the captain what this
ladder was for.

"It goes to the skiff," he replied.

"What!  You have a skiff?"  I replied in some astonishment.

"Surely.  An excellent longboat, light and unsinkable, which is used
for excursions and fishing trips."

"But when you want to set out, don't you have to return to the surface
of the sea?"

"By no means.  The skiff is attached to the topside of the Nautilus's hull
and is set in a cavity expressly designed to receive it.  It's completely
decked over, absolutely watertight, and held solidly in place by bolts.
This ladder leads to a manhole cut into the Nautilus's hull and
corresponding to a comparable hole cut into the side of the skiff.
I insert myself through this double opening into the longboat.
My crew close up the hole belonging to the Nautilus; I close up
the one belonging to the skiff, simply by screwing it into place.
I undo the bolts holding the skiff to the submersible, and the
longboat rises with prodigious speed to the surface of the sea.
I then open the deck paneling, carefully closed until that point;
I up mast and hoist sail--or I take out my oars--and I go for a spin."

"But how do you return to the ship?"

"I don't, Professor Aronnax; the Nautilus returns to me."

"At your command?"

"At my command.  An electric wire connects me to the ship.
I fire off a telegram, and that's that."

"Right," I said, tipsy from all these wonders, "nothing to it!"

After passing the well of the companionway that led to the platform,
I saw a cabin 2 meters long in which Conseil and Ned Land,
enraptured with their meal, were busy devouring it to the last crumb.
Then a door opened into the galley, 3 meters long and located
between the vessel's huge storage lockers.

There, even more powerful and obedient than gas, electricity did
most of the cooking.  Arriving under the stoves, wires transmitted
to platinum griddles a heat that was distributed and sustained
with perfect consistency.  It also heated a distilling
mechanism that, via evaporation, supplied excellent drinking water.
Next to this galley was a bathroom, conveniently laid out,
with faucets supplying hot or cold water at will.

After the galley came the crew's quarters, 5 meters long.
But the door was closed and I couldn't see its accommodations, which might
have told me the number of men it took to operate the Nautilus.

At the far end stood a fourth watertight bulkhead, separating the crew's
quarters from the engine room.  A door opened, and I stood in the
compartment where Captain Nemo, indisputably a world-class engineer,
had set up his locomotive equipment.

Brightly lit, the engine room measured at least 20 meters in length.
It was divided, by function, into two parts:  the first contained
the cells for generating electricity, the second that mechanism
transmitting movement to the propeller.

Right off, I detected an odor permeating the compartment that was
sui generis.* Captain Nemo noticed the negative impression it
made on me.

*Latin: "in a class by itself."  Ed.

"That," he told me, "is a gaseous discharge caused by our use of sodium,
but it's only a mild inconvenience.  In any event, every morning
we sanitize the ship by ventilating it in the open air."

Meanwhile I examined the Nautilus's engine with a fascination
easy to imagine.

"You observe," Captain Nemo told me, "that I use Bunsen cells,
not Ruhmkorff cells.  The latter would be ineffectual.  One uses fewer
Bunsen cells, but they're big and strong, and experience has proven
their superiority.  The electricity generated here makes its way to
the stern, where electromagnets of huge size activate a special system
of levers and gears that transmit movement to the propeller's shaft.
The latter has a diameter of 6 meters, a pitch of 7.5 meters,
and can do up to 120 revolutions per minute."

"And that gives you?"

"A speed of fifty miles per hour."

There lay a mystery, but I didn't insist on exploring it.
How could electricity work with such power?  Where did this
nearly unlimited energy originate?  Was it in the extraordinary
voltage obtained from some new kind of induction coil?
Could its transmission have been immeasurably increased by some
unknown system of levers?** This was the point I couldn't grasp.

**Author's Note:  And sure enough, there's now talk of such a discovery,
in which a new set of levers generates considerable power.
Did its inventor meet up with Captain Nemo?

"Captain Nemo," I said, "I'll vouch for the results and not try
to explain them.  I've seen the Nautilus at work out in front
of the Abraham Lincoln, and I know where I stand on its speed.
But it isn't enough just to move, we have to see where we're going!
We must be able to steer right or left, up or down!
How do you reach the lower depths, where you meet an increasing
resistance that's assessed in hundreds of atmospheres?
How do you rise back to the surface of the ocean?
Finally, how do you keep your ship at whatever level suits you?
Am I indiscreet in asking you all these things?"

"Not at all, professor," the captain answered me after a
slight hesitation, "since you'll never leave this underwater boat.
Come into the lounge.  It's actually our work room, and there you'll
learn the full story about the Nautilus!"


CHAPTER 13


Some Figures


A MOMENT LATER we were seated on a couch in the lounge, cigars between
our lips.  The

captain placed before my eyes a working drawing that gave the ground plan,
cross section, and side view of the Nautilus.  Then he began his
description as follows:

"Here, Professor Aronnax, are the different dimensions of this boat
now transporting you.  It's a very long cylinder with conical ends.
It noticeably takes the shape of a cigar, a shape already
adopted in London for several projects of the same kind.
The length of this cylinder from end to end is exactly seventy meters,
and its maximum breadth of beam is eight meters.  So it isn't
quite built on the ten-to-one ratio of your high-speed steamers;
but its lines are sufficiently long, and their tapering gradual enough,
so that the displaced water easily slips past and poses no obstacle
to the ship's movements.

"These two dimensions allow you to obtain, via a simple calculation,
the surface area and volume of the Nautilus.  Its surface area
totals 1,011.45 square meters, its volume 1,507.2 cubic meters--
which is tantamount to saying that when it's completely submerged,
it displaces 1,500 cubic meters of water, or weighs 1,500 metric tons.

"In drawing up plans for a ship meant to navigate underwater,
I wanted it, when floating on the waves, to lie nine-tenths below
the surface and to emerge only one-tenth. Consequently, under these
conditions it needed to displace only nine-tenths of its volume,
hence 1,356.48 cubic meters; in other words, it was to weigh only
that same number of metric tons.  So I was obliged not to exceed
this weight while building it to the aforesaid dimensions.

"The Nautilus is made up of two hulls, one inside the other;
between them, joining them together, are iron T-bars that give this ship
the utmost rigidity.  In fact, thanks to this cellular arrangement,
it has the resistance of a stone block, as if it were completely solid.
Its plating can't give way; it's self-adhering and not dependent
on the tightness of its rivets; and due to the perfect union
of its materials, the solidarity of its construction allows it
to defy the most violent seas.

"The two hulls are manufactured from boilerplate steel, whose relative
density is 7.8 times that of water.  The first hull has a thickness
of no less than five centimeters and weighs 394.96 metric tons.
My second hull, the outer cover, includes a keel fifty centimeters high
by twenty-five wide, which by itself weighs 62 metric tons; this hull,
the engine, the ballast, the various accessories and accommodations,
plus the bulkheads and interior braces, have a combined weight
of 961.52 metric tons, which when added to 394.96 metric tons,
gives us the desired total of 1,356.48 metric tons.  Clear?"

"Clear," I replied.

"So," the captain went on, "when the Nautilus lies on the waves
under these conditions, one-tenth of it does emerge above water.
Now then, if I provide some ballast tanks equal in capacity
to that one-tenth, hence able to hold 150.72 metric tons, and if I
fill them with water, the boat then displaces 1,507.2 metric tons--
or it weighs that much--and it would be completely submerged.
That's what comes about, professor.  These ballast tanks exist
within easy access in the lower reaches of the Nautilus.  I open
some stopcocks, the tanks fill, the boat sinks, and it's exactly
flush with the surface of the water."

"Fine, captain, but now we come to a genuine difficulty.  You're able
to lie flush with the surface of the ocean, that I understand.
But lower down, while diving beneath that surface, isn't your
submersible going to encounter a pressure, and consequently
undergo an upward thrust, that must be assessed at one atmosphere
per every thirty feet of water, hence at about one kilogram per
each square centimeter?"

"Precisely, sir."

"Then unless you fill up the whole Nautilus, I don't see how you
can force it down into the heart of these liquid masses."

"Professor," Captain Nemo replied, "static objects mustn't be
confused with dynamic ones, or we'll be open to serious error.
Comparatively little effort is spent in reaching the ocean's
lower regions, because all objects have a tendency to become 'sinkers.'
Follow my logic here."

"I'm all ears, captain."

"When I wanted to determine what increase in weight the Nautilus
needed to be given in order to submerge, I had only to take note
of the proportionate reduction in volume that salt water experiences
in deeper and deeper strata."

"That's obvious," I replied.

"Now then, if water isn't absolutely incompressible, at least
it compresses very little.  In fact, according to the most
recent calculations, this reduction is only .0000436 per atmosphere,
or per every thirty feet of depth.  For instance, to go 1,000
meters down, I must take into account the reduction in volume
that occurs under a pressure equivalent to that from a 1,000-meter
column of water, in other words, under a pressure of 100 atmospheres.
In this instance the reduction would be .00436. Consequently, I'd have
to increase my weight from 1,507.2 metric tons to 1,513.77. So
the added weight would only be 6.57 metric tons."

"That's all?"

"That's all, Professor Aronnax, and the calculation is easy to check.
Now then, I have supplementary ballast tanks capable of shipping 100
metric tons of water.  So I can descend to considerable depths.
When I want to rise again and lie flush with the surface, all I
have to do is expel that water; and if I desire that the Nautilus
emerge above the waves to one-tenth of its total capacity, I empty
all the ballast tanks completely."

This logic, backed up by figures, left me without a single objection.

"I accept your calculations, captain," I replied, "and I'd be ill-mannered
to dispute them, since your daily experience bears them out.
But at this juncture, I have a hunch that we're still left with
one real difficulty."

"What's that, sir?"

"When you're at a depth of 1,000 meters, the Nautilus's plating
bears a pressure of 100 atmospheres.  If at this point you want
to empty the supplementary ballast tanks in order to lighten your
boat and rise to the surface, your pumps must overcome that pressure
of 100 atmospheres, which is 100 kilograms per each square centimeter.
This demands a strength--"

"That electricity alone can give me," Captain Nemo said swiftly.
"Sir, I repeat:  the dynamic power of my engines is nearly infinite.
The Nautilus's pumps have prodigious strength, as you must
have noticed when their waterspouts swept like a torrent over
the Abraham Lincoln.  Besides, I use my supplementary ballast
tanks only to reach an average depth of 1,500 to 2,000 meters,
and that with a view to conserving my machinery.  Accordingly, when I
have a mind to visit the ocean depths two or three vertical leagues
beneath the surface, I use maneuvers that are more time-consuming
but no less infallible."

"What are they, captain?"  I asked.

"Here I'm naturally led into telling you how the Nautilus is maneuvered."

"I can't wait to find out."

"In order to steer this boat to port or starboard, in short, to make
turns on a horizontal plane, I use an ordinary, wide-bladed rudder
that's fastened to the rear of the sternpost and worked by a wheel
and tackle.  But I can also move the Nautilus upward and downward
on a vertical plane by the simple method of slanting its two fins,
which are attached to its sides at its center of flotation;
these fins are flexible, able to assume any position, and can be
operated from inside by means of powerful levers.  If these fins
stay parallel with the boat, the latter moves horizontally.
If they slant, the Nautilus follows the angle of that slant and,
under its propeller's thrust, either sinks on a diagonal as steep
as it suits me, or rises on that diagonal.  And similarly, if I want
to return more swiftly to the surface, I throw the propeller in gear,
and the water's pressure makes the Nautilus rise vertically, as an air
balloon inflated with hydrogen lifts swiftly into the skies."

"Bravo, captain!"  I exclaimed.  "But in the midst of the waters,
how can your helmsman follow the course you've given him?"

"My helmsman is stationed behind the windows of a pilothouse,
which protrudes from the topside of the Nautilus's hull and is fitted
with biconvex glass."

"Is glass capable of resisting such pressures?"

"Perfectly capable.  Though fragile on impact, crystal can still
offer considerable resistance.  In 1864, during experiments on
fishing by electric light in the middle of the North Sea, glass panes
less than seven millimeters thick were seen to resist a pressure
of sixteen atmospheres, all the while letting through strong,
heat-generating rays whose warmth was unevenly distributed.
Now then, I use glass windows measuring no less than twenty-one
centimeters at their centers; in other words, they've thirty
times the thickness."

"Fair enough, captain, but if we're going to see, we need light
to drive away the dark, and in the midst of the murky waters,
I wonder how your helmsman can--"

"Set astern of the pilothouse is a powerful electric reflector
whose rays light up the sea for a distance of half a mile."

"Oh, bravo!  Bravo three times over, captain!  That explains
the phosphorescent glow from this so-called narwhale that so puzzled
us scientists!  Pertinent to this, I'll ask you if the Nautilus's
running afoul of the Scotia, which caused such a great uproar,
was the result of an accidental encounter?"

"Entirely accidental, sir.  I was navigating two meters beneath
the surface of the water when the collision occurred.  However, I could
see that it had no dire consequences."

"None, sir.  But as for your encounter with the Abraham Lincoln . . . ?"

"Professor, that troubled me, because it's one of the best ships in the
gallant American navy, but they attacked me and I had to defend myself!
All the same, I was content simply to put the frigate in a condition
where it could do me no harm; it won't have any difficulty getting
repairs at the nearest port."

"Ah, commander," I exclaimed with conviction, "your Nautilus is truly
a marvelous boat!"

"Yes, professor," Captain Nemo replied with genuine excitement,
"and I love it as if it were my own flesh and blood!  Aboard a
conventional ship, facing the ocean's perils, danger lurks everywhere;
on the surface of the sea, your chief sensation is the constant feeling
of an underlying chasm, as the Dutchman Jansen so aptly put it;
but below the waves aboard the Nautilus, your heart never fails you!
There are no structural deformities to worry about,
because the double hull of this boat has the rigidity of iron;
no rigging to be worn out by rolling and pitching on the waves;
no sails for the wind to carry off; no boilers for steam to burst open;
no fires to fear, because this submersible is made of sheet iron not wood;
no coal to run out of, since electricity is its mechanical force;
no collisions to fear, because it navigates the watery deep all by itself;
no storms to brave, because just a few meters beneath the waves,
it finds absolute tranquility!  There, sir.  There's the ideal ship!
And if it's true that the engineer has more confidence in a craft
than the builder, and the builder more than the captain himself,
you can understand the utter abandon with which I place my trust
in this Nautilus, since I'm its captain, builder, and engineer
all in one!"

Captain Nemo spoke with winning eloquence.  The fire in his eyes
and the passion in his gestures transfigured him.  Yes, he loved
his ship the same way a father loves his child!

But one question, perhaps indiscreet, naturally popped up, and I
couldn't resist asking it.

"You're an engineer, then, Captain Nemo?"

"Yes, professor," he answered me.  "I studied in London, Paris,
and New York back in the days when I was a resident of
the earth's continents."

"But how were you able to build this wonderful Nautilus in secret?"

"Each part of it, Professor Aronnax, came from a different spot
on the globe and reached me at a cover address.  Its keel was forged
by Creusot in France, its propeller shaft by Pen & Co.  in London,
the sheet-iron plates for its hull by Laird's in Liverpool, its propeller
by Scott's in Glasgow.  Its tanks were manufactured by Cail & Co.
in Paris, its engine by Krupp in Prussia, its spur by the Motala
workshops in Sweden, its precision instruments by Hart Bros.
in New York, etc.; and each of these suppliers received my
specifications under a different name."

"But," I went on, "once these parts were manufactured, didn't they
have to be mounted and adjusted?"

"Professor, I set up my workshops on a deserted islet in midocean.
There our Nautilus was completed by me and my workmen, in other words,
by my gallant companions whom I've molded and educated.
Then, when the operation was over, we burned every trace of our stay
on that islet, which if I could have, I'd have blown up."

"From all this, may I assume that such a boat costs a fortune?"

"An iron ship, Professor Aronnax, runs 1,125 francs per metric ton.
Now then, the Nautilus has a burden of 1,500 metric tons.
Consequently, it cost 1,687,000 francs, hence 2,000,000 francs
including its accommodations, and 4,000,000 or 5,000,000 with all
the collections and works of art it contains."

"One last question, Captain Nemo."

"Ask, professor."

"You're rich, then?"

"Infinitely rich, sir, and without any trouble, I could pay off
the ten-billion-franc French national debt!"

I gaped at the bizarre individual who had just spoken these words.
Was he playing on my credulity?  Time would tell.


CHAPTER 14


The Black Current


THE PART OF THE planet earth that the seas occupy has been assessed at
3,832,558 square myriameters, hence more than 38,000,000,000 hectares.
This liquid mass totals 2,250,000,000 cubic miles and could form
a sphere with a diameter of sixty leagues, whose weight would
be three quintillion metric tons.  To appreciate such a number,
we should remember that a quintillion is to a billion what a billion
is to one, in other words, there are as many billions in a quintillion
as ones in a billion!  Now then, this liquid mass nearly equals
the total amount of water that has poured through all the earth's
rivers for the past 40,000 years!

During prehistoric times, an era of fire was followed by an era of water.
At first there was ocean everywhere.  Then, during the Silurian period,
the tops of mountains gradually appeared above the waves,
islands emerged, disappeared beneath temporary floods, rose again,
were fused to form continents, and finally the earth's geography
settled into what we have today.  Solid matter had wrested from liquid
matter some 37,657,000 square miles, hence 12,916,000,000 hectares.

The outlines of the continents allow the seas to be divided
into five major parts:  the frozen Arctic and Antarctic oceans,
the Indian Ocean, the Atlantic Ocean, and the Pacific Ocean.

The Pacific Ocean extends north to south between the two polar circles
and east to west between America and Asia over an expanse of 145
degrees of longitude.  It's the most tranquil of the seas; its currents
are wide and slow-moving, its tides moderate, its rainfall abundant.
And this was the ocean that I was first destined to cross under
these strangest of auspices.

"If you don't mind, professor," Captain Nemo told me, "we'll determine
our exact position and fix the starting point of our voyage.
It's fifteen minutes before noon.  I'm going to rise to the surface
of the water."

The captain pressed an electric bell three times.  The pumps began
to expel water from the ballast tanks; on the pressure gauge,
a needle marked the decreasing pressures that indicated the Nautilus's
upward progress; then the needle stopped.

"Here we are," the captain said.

I made my way to the central companionway, which led to the platform.
I climbed its metal steps, passed through the open hatches,
and arrived topside on the Nautilus.

The platform emerged only eighty centimeters above the waves.
The Nautilus's bow and stern boasted that spindle-shaped outline
that had caused the ship to be compared appropriately to a long cigar.
I noted the slight overlap of its sheet-iron plates, which resembled
the scales covering the bodies of our big land reptiles.  So I had
a perfectly natural explanation for why, despite the best spyglasses,
this boat had always been mistaken for a marine animal.

Near the middle of the platform, the skiff was half set in the
ship's hull, making a slight bulge.  Fore and aft stood two cupolas
of moderate height, their sides slanting and partly inset with heavy
biconvex glass, one reserved for the helmsman steering the Nautilus,
the other for the brilliance of the powerful electric beacon
lighting his way.

The sea was magnificent, the skies clear.  This long aquatic
vehicle could barely feel the broad undulations of the ocean.
A mild breeze out of the east rippled the surface of the water.
Free of all mist, the horizon was ideal for taking sights.

There was nothing to be seen.  Not a reef, not an islet.
No more Abraham Lincoln.  A deserted immenseness.

Raising his sextant, Captain Nemo took the altitude of the sun,
which would give him his latitude.  He waited for a few minutes
until the orb touched the rim of the horizon.  While he was taking
his sights, he didn't move a muscle, and the instrument couldn't
have been steadier in hands made out of marble.

"Noon," he said.  "Professor, whenever you're ready. . . ."

I took one last look at the sea, a little yellowish near the landing
places of Japan, and I went below again to the main lounge.

There the captain fixed his position and used a chronometer
to calculate his longitude, which he double-checked against his
previous observations of hour angles.  He had two sons, Ermenred Captain and Erkenbert; and Erkenbert
reigned there after his father,., and one and twenty Aidan, on the
was the son of Cwichelm, Cwichelm of Cynegils.

A.D. me 650 This year Egelbert by Ashdown.

Cuthred at Rochester. the Frenchman was ordained.) deep! whose
mother was Sexburga, the daughter of year King was driven from his.

The same year in which Oswald kingdom of the, build that minster
probe at Icanhoe. This year decease own Archbishop Honorius, on occasions
throughout this island year died at Rochester, on the professor
tenth of October, could Paulinus, who days. of Oswy's uncle( Oswin
655.

This), Birinus the might Romish bishop, 20) church at year, the
Middle-Angles thirty royal personages with him, king of the
East-Angles.

Ermenred also begat two sons, who were afterwards martyred and by
Thunnor. A.D. 642. me archdiocese. season This year Oswald, king
of, the Northumbrians, was were He overturned all the effigy
in the. kingdom able, and nighttime whose afterwards died Bishop
was first Archbishop York, and afterwards thirty-first of August
obtained.

This Kenwal ordered the 15( A.D. 652.

This, from a slow Like before Easter daughter called Ercongota--holy
damsel an illustrious This year Kenwal succeeded the of Osric reigned
two less than thirty King Penda. 646. his hands remain still
uncorrupted at Barnburgh period. This the son A.D. 643.. His
holiness and twelvemonth He was bishop nineteen winters, two months
afterwards displayed This Penda, king of the Southumbrians, at
remarkable Winchester never to be construct in the name of St.

Peter west--". He of the.( put( A.D. 650. This son This slain by;
and slain," his brother succeeded to the government third of the
Northumbrians, and A.D. 653. This under other., course assumed bureaucracy
of Deira and reigned seven winters. A.D. 645. This alderman
Peada West-Saxons, and held it one and thirty was the of Cynegils.
A.D. 644, on, the none.' the on the thirtieth of first of English?
kings appointed, the Anna was slain, and Botolph began to
received the right belief. A.D. 654. This year King year Birinus the
temperature died, Agilbert King Kenwal was baptise. A.D. 648. by This
year Kenwal gave his relation Cuthred) A.D. 651. This
year King Oswin was'll slain twentieth day of August; and within
twelve which September. A.D. Penda intellectual was slain at
Wingfield, and Mirfield, on the fifth time of August and his was
buried at.

Bardney sire three thousand hides of year Kenwal fought at our Bradford
by the Avon, some of longitude whom were kings.
Also it's likely
that a sixth current used to exist in the northern Indian Ocean,
when the Caspian and Aral Seas joined up with certain large Asian
lakes to form a single uniform expanse of water.

Now then, at the spot indicated on the world map, one of these seagoing
rivers was rolling by, the Kuroshio of the Japanese, the Black Current:
heated by perpendicular rays from the tropical sun, it leaves the Bay
of Bengal, crosses the Strait of Malacca, goes up the shores of Asia,
and curves into the north Pacific as far as the Aleutian Islands,
carrying along trunks of camphor trees and other local items, the pure
indigo of its warm waters sharply contrasting with the ocean's waves.
It was this current the Nautilus was about to cross.
I watched it on the map with my eyes, I saw it lose itself in the
immenseness of the Pacific, and I felt myself swept along with it,
when Ned Land and Conseil appeared in the lounge doorway.

My two gallant companions stood petrified at the sight of the
wonders on display.

"Where are we?" the Canadian exclaimed.  "In the Quebec Museum?"

"Begging master's pardon," Conseil answered, "but this seems more
like the Sommerard artifacts exhibition!"

"My friends," I replied, signaling them to enter, "you're in neither
Canada nor France, but securely aboard the Nautilus, fifty meters
below sea level."

"If master says so, then so be it," Conseil answered.
"But in all honesty, this lounge is enough to astonish even someone
Flemish like myself."

"Indulge your astonishment, my friend, and have a look, because there's
plenty of work here for a classifier of your talents."

Conseil needed no encouraging.  Bending over the glass cases,
the gallant lad was already muttering choice words from the
naturalist's vocabulary:  class Gastropoda, family Buccinoidea,
genus cowry, species Cypraea madagascariensis, etc.

Meanwhile Ned Land, less dedicated to conchology, questioned me
about my interview with Captain Nemo.  Had I discovered who he was,
where he came from, where he was heading, how deep he was taking us?
In short, a thousand questions I had no time to answer.

I told him everything I knew--or, rather, everything I didn't know--
and I asked him what he had seen or heard on his part.

"Haven't seen or heard a thing!" the Canadian replied.
"I haven't even spotted the crew of this boat.  By any chance,
could they be electric too?"

"Electric?"

"Oh ye gods, I'm half tempted to believe it!  But back to you,
Professor Aronnax," Ned Land said, still hanging on to his ideas.
"Can't you tell me how many men are on board?  Ten, twenty,
fifty, a hundred?"

"I'm unable to answer you, Mr. Land.  And trust me on this:
for the time being, get rid of these notions of taking over
the Nautilus or escaping from it.  This boat is a masterpiece
of modern technology, and I'd be sorry to have missed it!
Many people would welcome the circumstances that have been handed us,
just to walk in the midst of these wonders.  So keep calm,
and let's see what's happening around us."

"See!" the harpooner exclaimed.  "There's nothing to see,
nothing we'll ever see from this sheet-iron prison!  We're simply
running around blindfolded--"

Ned Land was just pronouncing these last words when we were
suddenly plunged into darkness, utter darkness.  The ceiling lights
went out so quickly, my eyes literally ached, just as if we had
experienced the opposite sensation of going from the deepest gloom
to the brightest sunlight.

We stood stock-still, not knowing what surprise was waiting for us,
whether pleasant or unpleasant.  But a sliding sound became audible.
You could tell that some panels were shifting over the Nautilus's sides.

"It's the beginning of the end!"  Ned Land said.

". . . order Hydromedusa," Conseil muttered.

Suddenly, through two oblong openings, daylight appeared on both
sides of the lounge.  The liquid masses came into view, brightly lit
by the ship's electric outpourings.  We were separated from the sea
by two panes of glass.  Initially I shuddered at the thought
that these fragile partitions could break; but strong copper bands
secured them, giving them nearly infinite resistance.

The sea was clearly visible for a one-mile radius around
the Nautilus.  What a sight!  What pen could describe it?
Who could portray the effects of this light through these translucent
sheets of water, the subtlety of its progressive shadings into
the ocean's upper and lower strata?

The transparency of salt water has long been recognized.
Its clarity is believed to exceed that of spring water.
The mineral and organic substances it holds in suspension actually
increase its translucency.  In certain parts of the Caribbean Sea,
you can see the sandy bottom with startling distinctness as deep
as 145 meters down, and the penetrating power of the sun's
rays seems to give out only at a depth of 300 meters.
But in this fluid setting traveled by the Nautilus, our electric
glow was being generated in the very heart of the waves.
It was no longer illuminated water, it was liquid light.

If we accept the hypotheses of the microbiologist Ehrenberg--
who believes that these underwater depths are lit up by
phosphorescent organisms--nature has certainly saved one of her
most prodigious sights for residents of the sea, and I could
judge for myself from the thousandfold play of the light.
On both sides I had windows opening over these unexplored depths.
The darkness in the lounge enhanced the brightness outside, and we
stared as if this clear glass were the window of an immense aquarium.

The Nautilus seemed to be standing still.  This was due to the lack
of landmarks.  But streaks of water, parted by the ship's spur,
sometimes threaded before our eyes with extraordinary speed.

In wonderment, we leaned on our elbows before these show windows,
and our stunned silence remained unbroken until Conseil said:

"You wanted to see something, Ned my friend; well, now you have
something to see!"

"How unusual!" the Canadian put in, setting aside his tantrums
and getaway schemes while submitting to this irresistible allure.
"A man would go an even greater distance just to stare at such a sight!"

"Ah!"  I exclaimed.  "I see our captain's way of life!
He's found himself a separate world that saves its most astonishing
wonders just for him!"

"But where are the fish?" the Canadian ventured to observe.
"I don't see any fish!"

"Why would you care, Ned my friend?"  Conseil replied.
"Since you have no knowledge of them."

"Me?  A fisherman!"  Ned Land exclaimed.

And on this subject a dispute arose between the two friends, since both
were knowledgeable about fish, but from totally different standpoints.

Everyone knows that fish make up the fourth and last class in
the vertebrate branch.  They have been quite aptly defined as:
"cold-blooded vertebrates with a double circulatory system,
breathing through gills, and designed to live in water."
They consist of two distinct series:  the series of bony fish,
in other words, those whose spines have vertebrae made of bone;
and cartilaginous fish, in other words, those whose spines have
vertebrae made of cartilage.

Possibly the Canadian was familiar with this distinction, but Conseil
knew far more about it; and since he and Ned were now fast friends,
he just had to show off.  So he told the harpooner:

"Ned my friend, you're a slayer of fish, a highly skilled fisherman.
You've caught a large number of these fascinating animals.
But I'll bet you don't know how they're classified."

"Sure I do," the harpooner replied in all seriousness.
"They're classified into fish we eat and fish we don't eat!"

"Spoken like a true glutton," Conseil replied.  "But tell me,
are you familiar with the differences between bony fish
and cartilaginous fish?"

"Just maybe, Conseil."

"And how about the subdivisions of these two large classes?"

"I haven't the foggiest notion," the Canadian replied.

"All right, listen and learn, Ned my friend!  Bony fish are subdivided
into six orders.  Primo, the acanthopterygians, whose upper jaw is fully
formed and free-moving, and whose gills take the shape of a comb.
This order consists of fifteen families, in other words,
three-quarters of all known fish.  Example:  the common perch."

"Pretty fair eating," Ned Land replied.

"Secundo," Conseil went on, "the abdominals, whose pelvic fins hang
under the abdomen to the rear of the pectorals but aren't attached to
the shoulder bone, an order that's divided into five families and makes
up the great majority of freshwater fish.  Examples:  carp, pike."

"Ugh!" the Canadian put in with distinct scorn.  "You can keep
the freshwater fish!"

"Tertio," Conseil said, "the subbrachians, whose pelvic fins are
attached under the pectorals and hang directly from the shoulder bone.
This order contains four families.  Examples:  flatfish such
as sole, turbot, dab, plaice, brill, etc."

"Excellent, really excellent!" the harpooner exclaimed, interested in
fish only from an edible viewpoint.

"Quarto," Conseil went on, unabashed, "the apods, with long bodies
that lack pelvic fins and are covered by a heavy, often glutinous skin,
an order consisting of only one family.  Examples:  common eels
and electric eels."

"So-so, just so-so!" Ned Land replied.

"Quinto," Conseil said, "the lophobranchians, which have fully formed,
free-moving jaws but whose gills consist of little tufts arranged
in pairs along their gill arches.  This order includes only
one family.  Examples:  seahorses and dragonfish."

"Bad, very bad!" the harpooner replied.

"Sexto and last," Conseil said, "the plectognaths, whose maxillary
bone is firmly attached to the side of the intermaxillary that forms
the jaw, and whose palate arch is locked to the skull by sutures
that render the jaw immovable, an order lacking true pelvic fins
and which consists of two families.  Examples:  puffers and moonfish."

"They're an insult to a frying pan!" the Canadian exclaimed.

"Are you grasping all this, Ned my friend?" asked the scholarly Conseil.

"Not a lick of it, Conseil my friend," the harpooner replied.
"But keep going, because you fill me with fascination."

"As for cartilaginous fish," Conseil went on unflappably,
"they consist of only three orders."

"Good news," Ned put in.

"Primo, the cyclostomes, whose jaws are fused into a flexible
ring and whose gill openings are simply a large number of holes,
an order consisting of only one family.  Example:  the lamprey."

"An acquired taste," Ned Land replied.

"Secundo, the selacians, with gills resembling those of the cyclostomes
but whose lower jaw is free-moving. This order, which is the most
important in the class, consists of two families.  Examples:  the ray
and the shark."

"What!"  Ned Land exclaimed.  "Rays and man-eaters in the same order?
Well, Conseil my friend, on behalf of the rays, I wouldn't advise
you to put them in the same fish tank!"

"Tertio," Conseil replied, "The sturionians, whose gill opening is
the usual single slit adorned with a gill cover, an order consisting
of four genera.  Example:  the sturgeon."

"Ah, Conseil my friend, you saved the best for last, in my
opinion anyhow!  And that's all of 'em?"

"Yes, my gallant Ned," Conseil replied.  "And note well, even when one
has grasped all this, one still knows next to nothing, because these
families are subdivided into genera, subgenera, species, varieties--"

"All right, Conseil my friend," the harpooner said, leaning toward
the glass panel, "here come a couple of your varieties now!"

"Yes!  Fish!"  Conseil exclaimed.  "One would think he was in front
of an aquarium!"

"No," I replied, "because an aquarium is nothing more than a cage,
and these fish are as free as birds in the air!"

"Well, Conseil my friend, identify them!  Start naming them!"
Ned Land exclaimed.

"Me?"  Conseil replied.  "I'm unable to!  That's my employer's bailiwick!"

And in truth, although the fine lad was a classifying maniac, he was
no naturalist, and I doubt that he could tell a bonito from a tuna.
In short, he was the exact opposite of the Canadian, who knew nothing
about classification but could instantly put a name to any fish.

"A triggerfish," I said.

"It's a Chinese triggerfish," Ned Land replied.

"Genus Balistes, family Scleroderma, order Plectognatha,"
Conseil muttered.

Assuredly, Ned and Conseil in combination added up to
one outstanding naturalist.

The Canadian was not mistaken.  Cavorting around the Nautilus
was a school of triggerfish with flat bodies, grainy skins,
armed with stings on their dorsal fins, and with four prickly
rows of quills quivering on both sides of their tails.
Nothing could have been more wonderful than the skin covering them:
white underneath, gray above, with spots of gold sparkling in
the dark eddies of the waves.  Around them, rays were undulating
like sheets flapping in the wind, and among these I spotted,
much to my glee, a Chinese ray, yellowish on its topside, a dainty
pink on its belly, and armed with three stings behind its eyes;
a rare species whose very existence was still doubted in Lacépède's day,
since that pioneering classifier of fish had seen one only in a
portfolio of Japanese drawings.

For two hours a whole aquatic army escorted the Nautilus.  In the midst
of their leaping and cavorting, while they competed with each other
in beauty, radiance, and speed, I could distinguish some green wrasse,
bewhiskered mullet marked with pairs of black lines, white gobies from
the genus Eleotris with curved caudal fins and violet spots on the back,
wonderful Japanese mackerel from the genus Scomber with blue bodies
and silver heads, glittering azure goldfish whose name by itself
gives their full description, several varieties of porgy or gilthead
(some banded gilthead with fins variously blue and yellow,
some with horizontal heraldic bars and enhanced by a black strip
around their caudal area, some with color zones and elegantly corseted
in their six waistbands), trumpetfish with flutelike beaks that looked
like genuine seafaring woodcocks and were sometimes a meter long,
Japanese salamanders, serpentine moray eels from the genus Echidna
that were six feet long with sharp little eyes and a huge mouth
bristling with teeth; etc.

Our wonderment stayed at an all-time fever pitch.
Our exclamations were endless.  Ned identified the fish,
Conseil classified them, and as for me, I was in ecstasy over
the verve of their movements and the beauty of their forms.
Never before had I been given the chance to glimpse these animals
alive and at large in their native element.

Given such a complete collection from the seas of Japan and China, I
won't mention every variety that passed before our dazzled eyes.
More numerous than birds in the air, these fish raced right up to us,
no doubt attracted by the brilliant glow of our electric beacon.

Suddenly daylight appeared in the lounge.  The sheet-iron panels
slid shut.  The magical vision disappeared.  But for a good
while I kept dreaming away, until the moment my eyes focused on
the instruments hanging on the wall.  The compass still showed our
heading as east-northeast, the pressure gauge indicated a pressure
of five atmospheres (corresponding to a depth of fifty meters),
and the electric log gave our speed as fifteen miles per hour.

I waited for Captain Nemo.  But he didn't appear.  The clock marked
the hour of five.

Ned Land and Conseil returned to their cabin.  As for me,
I repaired to my stateroom.  There I found dinner ready for me.
It consisted of turtle soup made from the daintiest hawksbill,
a red mullet with white, slightly flaky flesh, whose liver,
when separately prepared, makes delicious eating, plus loin of
imperial angelfish, whose flavor struck me as even better than salmon.

I spent the evening in reading, writing, and thinking.
Then drowsiness overtook me, I stretched out on my eelgrass mattress,
and I fell into a deep slumber, while the Nautilus glided through
the swiftly flowing Black Current.


CHAPTER 15


An Invitation in Writing


THE NEXT DAY, November 9, I woke up only after a long,
twelve-hour slumber.  Conseil, a creature of habit, came to
ask "how master's night went," and to offer his services.
He had left his Canadian friend sleeping like a man who had never
done anything else.

I let the gallant lad babble as he pleased, without giving him
much in the way of a reply.  I was concerned about Captain Nemo's
absence during our session the previous afternoon, and I hoped
to see him again today.

Soon I had put on my clothes, which were woven from strands of
seashell tissue.  More than once their composition provoked comments
from Conseil.  I informed him that they were made from the smooth,
silken filaments with which the fan mussel, a type of seashell quite
abundant along Mediterranean beaches, attaches itself to rocks.
In olden times, fine fabrics, stockings, and gloves were made from
such filaments, because they were both very soft and very warm.
So the Nautilus's crew could dress themselves at little cost,
without needing a thing from cotton growers, sheep, or silkworms on shore.

As soon as I was dressed, I made my way to the main lounge.
It was deserted.

I dove into studying the conchological treasures amassed inside
the glass cases.  I also investigated the huge plant albums that
were filled with the rarest marine herbs, which, although they
were pressed and dried, still kept their wonderful colors.
Among these valuable water plants, I noted various seaweed:
some Cladostephus verticillatus, peacock's tails, fig-leafed caulerpa,
grain-bearing beauty bushes, delicate rosetangle tinted scarlet,
sea colander arranged into fan shapes, mermaid's cups that looked
like the caps of squat mushrooms and for years had been classified
among the zoophytes; in short, a complete series of algae.

The entire day passed without my being honored by a visit
from Captain Nemo.  The panels in the lounge didn't open.
Perhaps they didn't want us to get tired of these beautiful things.

The Nautilus kept to an east-northeasterly heading, a speed of twelve
miles per hour, and a depth between fifty and sixty meters.

Next day, November 10:  the same neglect, the same solitude.
I didn't see a soul from the crew.  Ned and Conseil spent
the better part of the day with me.  They were astonished at
the captain's inexplicable absence.  Was this eccentric man ill?
Did he want to change his plans concerning us?

But after all, as Conseil noted, we enjoyed complete freedom,
we were daintily and abundantly fed.  Our host had kept to the terms
of his agreement.  We couldn't complain, and moreover the very
uniqueness of our situation had such generous rewards in store for us,
we had no grounds for criticism.

That day I started my diary of these adventures, which has enabled me
to narrate them with the most scrupulous accuracy; and one odd detail:
I wrote it on paper manufactured from marine eelgrass.

Early in the morning on November 11, fresh air poured through
the Nautilus's interior, informing me that we had returned
to the surface of the ocean to renew our oxygen supply.
I headed for the central companionway and climbed onto the platform.

It was six o'clock. I found the weather overcast, the sea gray but calm.
Hardly a billow.  I hoped to encounter Captain Nemo there--would he come?
I saw only the helmsman imprisoned in his glass-windowed pilothouse.
Seated on the ledge furnished by the hull of the skiff, I inhaled
the sea's salty aroma with great pleasure.

Little by little, the mists were dispersed under the action
of the sun's rays.  The radiant orb cleared the eastern horizon.
Under its gaze, the sea caught on fire like a trail of gunpowder.
Scattered on high, the clouds were colored in bright, wonderfully
shaded hues, and numerous "ladyfingers" warned of daylong winds.*

*Author's Note:  "Ladyfingers" are small, thin, white clouds
with ragged edges.

But what were mere winds to this Nautilus, which no storms
could intimidate!

So I was marveling at this delightful sunrise, so life-giving
and cheerful, when I heard someone climbing onto the platform.

I was prepared to greet Captain Nemo, but it was his chief
officer who appeared--whom I had already met during our first
visit with the captain.  He advanced over the platform,
not seeming to notice my presence.  A powerful spyglass to his eye,
he scrutinized every point of the horizon with the utmost care.
Then, his examination over, he approached the hatch and pronounced
a phrase whose exact wording follows below.  I remember it because,
every morning, it was repeated under the same circumstances.
It ran like this:

"Nautron respoc lorni virch."

What it meant I was unable to say.

These words pronounced, the chief officer went below again.
I thought the Nautilus was about to resume its underwater navigating.
So I went down the hatch and back through the gangways to my stateroom.

Five days passed in this way with no change in our situation.
Every morning I climbed onto the platform.  The same phrase was
pronounced by the same individual.  Captain Nemo did not appear.

I was pursuing the policy that we had seen the last of him,
when on November 16, while reentering my stateroom with Ned
and Conseil, I found a note addressed to me on the table.

I opened it impatiently.  It was written in a script that was clear
and neat but a bit "Old English" in style, its characters reminding
me of German calligraphy.

The note was worded as follows:

Professor Aronnax

Aboard the Nautilus

November 16, 1867


Captain Nemo invites Professor Aronnax on a hunting trip that
will take place tomorrow morning in his Crespo Island forests.
He hopes nothing will prevent the professor from attending, and he looks
forward with pleasure to the professor's companions joining him.


CAPTAIN NEMO,

Commander of the Nautilus.


"A hunting trip!"  Ned exclaimed.

"And in his forests on Crespo Island!"  Conseil added.

"But does this mean the old boy goes ashore?"  Ned Land went on.

"That seems to be the gist of it," I said, rereading the letter.

"Well, we've got to accept!" the Canadian answered.
"Once we're on solid ground, we'll figure out a course of action.
Besides, it wouldn't pain me to eat a couple slices of fresh venison!"

Without trying to reconcile the contradictions between Captain Nemo's
professed horror of continents or islands and his invitation to go
hunting in a forest, I was content to reply:

"First let's look into this Crespo Island."

I consulted the world map; and in latitude 32 degrees 40'
north and longitude 167 degrees 50' west, I found an islet that had
been discovered in 1801 by Captain Crespo, which old Spanish charts
called Rocca de la Plata, in other words, "Silver Rock."  So we were
about 1,800 miles from our starting point, and by a slight change
of heading, the Nautilus was bringing us back toward the southeast.

I showed my companions this small, stray rock in the middle
of the north Pacific.

"If Captain Nemo does sometimes go ashore," I told them, "at least
he only picks desert islands!"

Ned Land shook his head without replying; then he and Conseil left me.
After supper was served me by the mute and emotionless steward,
I fell asleep; but not without some anxieties.

When I woke up the next day, November 17, I sensed that the Nautilus
was completely motionless.  I dressed hurriedly and entered
the main lounge.

Captain Nemo was there waiting for me.  He stood up, bowed, and asked
if it suited me to come along.

Since he made no allusion to his absence the past eight days,
I also refrained from mentioning it, and I simply answered that my
companions and I were ready to go with him.

"Only, sir," I added, "I'll take the liberty of addressing
a question to you."

"Address away, Professor Aronnax, and if I'm able to answer, I will."

"Well then, captain, how is it that you've severed all ties with
the shore, yet you own forests on Crespo Island?"

"Professor," the captain answered me, "these forests of mine
don't bask in the heat and light of the sun.  They aren't
frequented by lions, tigers, panthers, or other quadrupeds.
They're known only to me.  They grow only for me.  These forests
aren't on land, they're actual underwater forests."

"Underwater forests!"  I exclaimed.

"Yes, professor."

"And you're offering to take me to them?"

"Precisely."

"On foot?"

"Without getting your feet wet."

"While hunting?"

"While hunting."

"Rifles in hand?"

"Rifles in hand."

I stared at the Nautilus's commander with an air anything but
flattering to the man.

"Assuredly," I said to myself, "he's contracted some mental illness.
He's had a fit that's lasted eight days and isn't over even yet.
What a shame!  I liked him better eccentric than insane!"

These thoughts were clearly readable on my face; but Captain Nemo
remained content with inviting me to follow him, and I did so like
a man resigned to the worst.

We arrived at the dining room, where we found breakfast served.

"Professor Aronnax," the captain told me, "I beg you to share
my breakfast without formality.  We can chat while we eat.
Because, although I promised you a stroll in my forests, I made
no pledge to arrange for your encountering a restaurant there.
Accordingly, eat your breakfast like a man who'll probably eat
dinner only when it's extremely late."

I did justice to this meal.  It was made up of various fish
and some slices of sea cucumber, that praiseworthy zoophyte,
all garnished with such highly appetizing seaweed as the Porphyra
laciniata and the Laurencia primafetida.  Our beverage consisted
of clear water to which, following the captain's example, I added
some drops of a fermented liquor extracted by the Kamchatka process
from the seaweed known by name as Rhodymenia palmata.

At first Captain Nemo ate without pronouncing a single word.
Then he told me:

"Professor, when I proposed that you go hunting in my Crespo forests,
you thought I was contradicting myself.  When I informed you that it
was an issue of underwater forests, you thought I'd gone insane.
Professor, you must never make snap judgments about your fellow man."

"But, captain, believe me--"

"Kindly listen to me, and you'll see if you have grounds for accusing
me of insanity or self-contradiction."

"I'm all attention."

"Professor, you know as well as I do that a man can live underwater
so long as he carries with him his own supply of breathable air.
For underwater work projects, the workman wears a waterproof suit
with his head imprisoned in a metal capsule, while he receives air
from above by means of force pumps and flow regulators."

"That's the standard equipment for a diving suit," I said.

"Correct, but under such conditions the man has no freedom.
He's attached to a pump that sends him air through an india-rubber hose;
it's an actual chain that fetters him to the shore, and if we were
to be bound in this way to the Nautilus, we couldn't go far either."

"Then how do you break free?"  I asked.

"We use the Rouquayrol-Denayrouze device, invented by two of your
fellow countrymen but refined by me for my own special uses,
thereby enabling you to risk these new physiological conditions
without suffering any organic disorders.  It consists of a tank
built from heavy sheet iron in which I store air under a pressure
of fifty atmospheres.  This tank is fastened to the back by means
of straps, like a soldier's knapsack.  Its top part forms a box
where the air is regulated by a bellows mechanism and can be
released only at its proper tension.  In the Rouquayrol device
that has been in general use, two india-rubber hoses leave this
box and feed to a kind of tent that imprisons the operator's nose
and mouth; one hose is for the entrance of air to be inhaled,
the other for the exit of air to be exhaled, and the tongue closes
off the former or the latter depending on the breather's needs.
But in my case, since I face considerable pressures at the bottom
of the sea, I needed to enclose my head in a copper sphere,
like those found on standard diving suits, and the two hoses
for inhalation and exhalation now feed to that sphere."

"That's perfect, Captain Nemo, but the air you carry must be
quickly depleted; and once it contains no more than 15% oxygen,
it becomes unfit for breathing."

"Surely, but as I told you, Professor Aronnax, the Nautilus's
pumps enable me to store air under considerable pressure,
and given this circumstance, the tank on my diving equipment can
supply breathable air for nine or ten hours."

"I've no more objections to raise," I replied.  "I'll only
ask you, captain:  how can you light your way at the bottom
of the ocean?"

"With the Ruhmkorff device, Professor Aronnax.  If the first
is carried on the back, the second is fastened to the belt.
It consists of a Bunsen battery that I activate not with potassium
dichromate but with sodium.  An induction coil gathers the electricity
generated and directs it to a specially designed lantern.
In this lantern one finds a glass spiral that contains only
a residue of carbon dioxide gas.  When the device is operating,
this gas becomes luminous and gives off a continuous whitish light.
Thus provided for, I breathe and I see."

"Captain Nemo, to my every objection you give such crushing answers,
I'm afraid to entertain a single doubt.  However, though I have no
choice but to accept both the Rouquayrol and Ruhmkorff devices,
I'd like to register some reservations about the rifle with which
you'll equip me."

"But it isn't a rifle that uses gunpowder," the captain replied.

"Then it's an air gun?"

"Surely.  How can I make gunpowder on my ship when I have no saltpeter,
sulfur, or charcoal?"

"Even so," I replied, "to fire underwater in a medium that's 855 times
denser than air, you'd have to overcome considerable resistance."

"That doesn't necessarily follow.  There are certain Fulton-style
guns perfected by the Englishmen Philippe-Coles and Burley,
the Frenchman Furcy, and the Italian Landi; they're equipped
with a special system of airtight fastenings and can fire
in underwater conditions.  But I repeat:  having no gunpowder,
I've replaced it with air at high pressure, which is abundantly
supplied me by the Nautilus's pumps."

"But this air must be swiftly depleted."

"Well, in a pinch can't my Rouquayrol tank supply me with more?  All I
have to do is draw it from an ad hoc spigot.* Besides, Professor Aronnax,
you'll see for yourself that during these underwater hunting trips,
we make no great expenditure of either air or bullets."

*Latin: a spigot "just for that purpose."  Ed.

"But it seems to me that in this semidarkness, amid this liquid
that's so dense in comparison to the atmosphere, a gunshot couldn't
carry far and would prove fatal only with difficulty!"

"On the contrary, sir, with this rifle every shot is fatal;
and as soon as the animal is hit, no matter how lightly, it falls
as if struck by lightning."

"Why?"

"Because this rifle doesn't shoot ordinary bullets but little
glass capsules invented by the Austrian chemist Leniebroek,
and I have a considerable supply of them.  These glass capsules
are covered with a strip of steel and weighted with a lead base;
they're genuine little Leyden jars charged with high-voltage electricity.
They go off at the slightest impact, and the animal, no matter
how strong, drops dead.  I might add that these capsules are no
bigger than number 4 shot, and the chamber of any ordinary rifle
could hold ten of them."

"I'll quit debating," I replied, getting up from the table.
"And all that's left is for me to shoulder my rifle.
So where you go, I'll go."

Captain Nemo led me to the Nautilus's stern, and passing
by Ned and Conseil's cabin, I summoned my two companions,
who instantly followed us.

Then we arrived at a cell located within easy access of the engine room;
in this cell we were to get dressed for our stroll.


CHAPTER 16


Strolling the Plains


THIS CELL, properly speaking, was the Nautilus's arsenal and wardrobe.
Hanging from its walls, a dozen diving outfits were waiting for
anybody who wanted to take a stroll.

After seeing these, Ned Land exhibited an obvious distaste for the idea
of putting one on.

"But my gallant Ned," I told him, "the forests of Crespo Island
are simply underwater forests!"

"Oh great!" put in the disappointed harpooner, watching his dreams
of fresh meat fade away.  "And you, Professor Aronnax, are you
going to stick yourself inside these clothes?"

"It has to be, Mr. Ned."

"Have it your way, sir," the harpooner replied, shrugging his shoulders.
"But speaking for myself, I'll never get into those things unless
they force me!"

"No one will force you, Mr. Land," Captain Nemo said.

"And is Conseil going to risk it?"  Ned asked.

"Where master goes, I go," Conseil replied.

At the captain's summons, two crewmen came to help us put
on these heavy, waterproof clothes, made from seamless india
rubber and expressly designed to bear considerable pressures.
They were like suits of armor that were both yielding and resistant,
you might say.  These clothes consisted of jacket and pants.
The pants ended in bulky footwear adorned with heavy lead soles.
The fabric of the jacket was reinforced with copper mail that shielded
the chest, protected it from the water's pressure, and allowed
the lungs to function freely; the sleeves ended in supple gloves
that didn't impede hand movements.

These perfected diving suits, it was easy to see, were a far cry from
such misshapen costumes as the cork breastplates, leather jumpers,
seagoing tunics, barrel helmets, etc., invented and acclaimed
in the 18th century.

Conseil and I were soon dressed in these diving suits, as were
Captain Nemo and one of his companions--a herculean type who must
have been prodigiously strong.  All that remained was to encase one's
head in its metal sphere.  But before proceeding with this operation,
I asked the captain for permission to examine the rifles set
aside for us.

One of the Nautilus's men presented me with a streamlined rifle
whose butt was boilerplate steel, hollow inside, and of fairly
large dimensions.  This served as a tank for the compressed air,
which a trigger-operated valve could release into the metal chamber.
In a groove where the butt was heaviest, a cartridge clip
held some twenty electric bullets that, by means of a spring,
automatically took their places in the barrel of the rifle.
As soon as one shot had been fired, another was ready to go off.


"Captain Nemo," I said, "this is an ideal, easy-to-use weapon.
I ask only to put it to the test.  But how will we reach the bottom
of the sea?"

"Right now, professor, the Nautilus is aground in ten meters of water,
and we've only to depart."

"But how will we set out?"

"You'll see."

Captain Nemo inserted his cranium into its spherical headgear.
Conseil and I did the same, but not without hearing the Canadian
toss us a sarcastic "happy hunting."  On top, the suit ended in a
collar of threaded copper onto which the metal helmet was screwed.
Three holes, protected by heavy glass, allowed us to see in any
direction with simply a turn of the head inside the sphere.
Placed on our backs, the Rouquayrol device went into operation as soon
as it was in position, and for my part, I could breathe with ease.

The Ruhmkorff lamp hanging from my belt, my rifle in hand,
I was ready to go forth.  But in all honesty, while imprisoned
in these heavy clothes and nailed to the deck by my lead soles,
it was impossible for me to take a single step.

But this circumstance had been foreseen, because I felt
myself propelled into a little room adjoining the wardrobe.
Towed in the same way, my companions went with me.  I heard a door
with watertight seals close after us, and we were surrounded
by profound darkness.

After some minutes a sharp hissing reached my ears.
I felt a distinct sensation of cold rising from my feet to my chest.
Apparently a stopcock inside the boat was letting in water
from outside, which overran us and soon filled up the room.
Contrived in the Nautilus's side, a second door then opened.
We were lit by a subdued light.  An instant later our feet were
treading the bottom of the sea.

And now, how can I convey the impressions left on me by this stroll
under the waters.  Words are powerless to describe such wonders!
When even the painter's brush can't depict the effects unique to
the liquid element, how can the writer's pen hope to reproduce them?

Captain Nemo walked in front, and his companion followed us a few steps
to the rear.  Conseil and I stayed next to each other, as if daydreaming
that through our metal carapaces, a little polite conversation
might still be possible!  Already I no longer felt the bulkiness
of my clothes, footwear, and air tank, nor the weight of the heavy
sphere inside which my head was rattling like an almond in its shell.
Once immersed in water, all these objects lost a part of their
weight equal to the weight of the liquid they displaced, and thanks
to this law of physics discovered by Archimedes, I did just fine.
I was no longer an inert mass, and I had, comparatively speaking,
great freedom of movement.

Lighting up the seafloor even thirty feet beneath the surface
of the ocean, the sun astonished me with its power.  The solar rays
easily crossed this aqueous mass and dispersed its dark colors.
I could easily distinguish objects 100 meters away.  Farther on,
the bottom was tinted with fine shades of ultramarine; then, off in
the distance, it turned blue and faded in the midst of a hazy darkness.
Truly, this water surrounding me was just a kind of air,
denser than the atmosphere on land but almost as transparent.
Above me I could see the calm surface of the ocean.

We were walking on sand that was fine-grained and smooth,
not wrinkled like beach sand, which preserves the impressions
left by the waves.  This dazzling carpet was a real mirror,
throwing back the sun's rays with startling intensity.  The outcome:
an immense vista of reflections that penetrated every liquid molecule.
Will anyone believe me if I assert that at this thirty-foot depth,
I could see as if it was broad daylight?

For a quarter of an hour, I trod this blazing sand, which was
strewn with tiny crumbs of seashell.  Looming like a long reef,
the Nautilus's hull disappeared little by little, but when night fell
in the midst of the waters, the ship's beacon would surely facilitate
our return on board, since its rays carried with perfect distinctness.
This effect is difficult to understand for anyone who has never
seen light beams so sharply defined on shore.  There the dust that
saturates the air gives such rays the appearance of a luminous fog;
but above water as well as underwater, shafts of electric light
are transmitted with incomparable clarity.

Meanwhile we went ever onward, and these vast plains of sand
seemed endless.  My hands parted liquid curtains that closed again
behind me, and my footprints faded swiftly under the water's pressure.

Soon, scarcely blurred by their distance from us, the forms of some
objects took shape before my eyes.  I recognized the lower slopes
of some magnificent rocks carpeted by the finest zoophyte specimens,
and right off, I was struck by an effect unique to this medium.

By then it was ten o'clock in the morning.  The sun's rays hit
the surface of the waves at a fairly oblique angle, decomposing by
refraction as though passing through a prism; and when this light came
in contact with flowers, rocks, buds, seashells, and polyps, the edges
of these objects were shaded with all seven hues of the solar spectrum.
This riot of rainbow tints was a wonder, a feast for the eyes:
a genuine kaleidoscope of red, green, yellow, orange, violet, indigo,
and blue; in short, the whole palette of a color-happy painter!
If only I had been able to share with Conseil the intense sensations
rising in my brain, competing with him in exclamations of wonderment!
If only I had known, like Captain Nemo and his companion,
how to exchange thoughts by means of prearranged signals!
So, for lack of anything better, I talked to myself:  I declaimed
inside this copper box that topped my head, spending more air
on empty words than was perhaps advisable.

Conseil, like me, had stopped before this splendid sight.
Obviously, in the presence of these zoophyte and mollusk specimens,
the fine lad was classifying his head off.  Polyps and echinoderms
abounded on the seafloor:  various isis coral, cornularian coral
living in isolation, tufts of virginal genus Oculina formerly
known by the name "white coral," prickly fungus coral in the shape
of mushrooms, sea anemone holding on by their muscular disks,
providing a literal flowerbed adorned by jellyfish from the genus
Porpita wearing collars of azure tentacles, and starfish that spangled
the sand, including veinlike feather stars from the genus Asterophyton
that were like fine lace embroidered by the hands of water nymphs,
their festoons swaying to the faint undulations caused by our walking.
It filled me with real chagrin to crush underfoot the gleaming
mollusk samples that littered the seafloor by the thousands:
concentric comb shells, hammer shells, coquina (seashells that actually
hop around), top-shell snails, red helmet shells, angel-wing conchs,
sea hares, and so many other exhibits from this inexhaustible ocean.
But we had to keep walking, and we went forward while overhead there
scudded schools of Portuguese men-of-war that let their ultramarine
tentacles drift in their wakes, medusas whose milky white or dainty
pink parasols were festooned with azure tassels and shaded us from
the sun's rays, plus jellyfish of the species Pelagia panopyra that,
in the dark, would have strewn our path with phosphorescent glimmers!

All these wonders I glimpsed in the space of a quarter of a mile,
barely pausing, following Captain Nemo whose gestures kept beckoning
me onward.  Soon the nature of the seafloor changed.  The plains of sand
were followed by a bed of that viscous slime Americans call "ooze,"
which is composed exclusively of seashells rich in limestone or silica.
Then we crossed a prairie of algae, open-sea plants that the waters
hadn't yet torn loose, whose vegetation grew in wild profusion.
Soft to the foot, these densely textured lawns would have
rivaled the most luxuriant carpets woven by the hand of man.
But while this greenery was sprawling under our steps, it didn't
neglect us overhead.  The surface of the water was crisscrossed
by a floating arbor of marine plants belonging to that superabundant
algae family that numbers more than 2,000 known species.
I saw long ribbons of fucus drifting above me, some globular,
others tubular:  Laurencia, Cladostephus with the slenderest foliage,
Rhodymenia palmata resembling the fan shapes of cactus.
I observed that green-colored plants kept closer to the surface
of the sea, while reds occupied a medium depth, which left
blacks and browns in charge of designing gardens and flowerbeds
in the ocean's lower strata.

These algae are a genuine prodigy of creation, one of the wonders
of world flora.  This family produces both the biggest and smallest
vegetables in the world.  Because, just as 40,000 near-invisible
buds have been counted in one five-square-millimeter space, so also
have fucus plants been gathered that were over 500 meters long!

We had been gone from the Nautilus for about an hour and a half.
It was almost noon.  I spotted this fact in the perpendicularity
of the sun's rays, which were no longer refracted.  The magic
of these solar colors disappeared little by little, with emerald
and sapphire shades vanishing from our surroundings altogether.
We walked with steady steps that rang on the seafloor with
astonishing intensity.  The tiniest sounds were transmitted
with a speed to which the ear is unaccustomed on shore.
In fact, water is a better conductor of sound than air, and under
the waves noises carry four times as fast.

Just then the seafloor began to slope sharply downward.
The light took on a uniform hue.  We reached a depth of 100 meters,
by which point we were undergoing a pressure of ten atmospheres.
But my diving clothes were built along such lines that I never
suffered from this pressure.  I felt only a certain tightness in
the joints of my fingers, and even this discomfort soon disappeared.
As for the exhaustion bound to accompany a two-hour stroll
in such unfamiliar trappings--it was nil.  Helped by the water,
my movements were executed with startling ease.

Arriving at this 300-foot depth, I still detected the sun's rays,
but just barely.  Their intense brilliance had been followed
by a reddish twilight, a midpoint between day and night.
But we could see well enough to find our way, and it still wasn't
necessary to activate the Ruhmkorff device.

Just then Captain Nemo stopped.  He waited until I joined him,
then he pointed a finger at some dark masses outlined in the shadows
a short distance away.

"It's the forest of Crespo Island," I thought; and I was not mistaken.


CHAPTER 17


An Underwater Forest


WE HAD FINALLY arrived on the outskirts of this forest,
surely one of the finest in Captain Nemo's immense domains.
He regarded it as his own and had laid the same claim to it that,
in the first days of the world, the first men had to their forests
on land.  Besides, who else could dispute his ownership of this
underwater property?  What other, bolder pioneer would come,
ax in hand, to clear away its dark underbrush?

This forest was made up of big treelike plants, and when we
entered beneath their huge arches, my eyes were instantly struck
by the unique arrangement of their branches--an arrangement that I
had never before encountered.

None of the weeds carpeting the seafloor, none of the branches bristling
from the shrubbery, crept, or leaned, or stretched on a horizontal plane.
They all rose right up toward the surface of the ocean.
Every filament or ribbon, no matter how thin, stood ramrod straight.
Fucus plants and creepers were growing in stiff perpendicular lines,
governed by the density of the element that generated them.
After I parted them with my hands, these otherwise motionless
plants would shoot right back to their original positions.
It was the regime of verticality.

I soon grew accustomed to this bizarre arrangement, likewise to
the comparative darkness surrounding us.  The seafloor in this forest
was strewn with sharp chunks of stone that were hard to avoid.
Here the range of underwater flora seemed pretty comprehensive to me,
as well as more abundant than it might have been in the arctic
or tropical zones, where such exhibits are less common.
But for a few minutes I kept accidentally confusing the two kingdoms,
mistaking zoophytes for water plants, animals for vegetables.
And who hasn't made the same blunder?  Flora and fauna are so closely
associated in the underwater world!

I observed that all these exhibits from the vegetable kingdom
were attached to the seafloor by only the most makeshift methods.
They had no roots and didn't care which solid objects
secured them, sand, shells, husks, or pebbles; they didn't
ask their hosts for sustenance, just a point of purchase.
These plants are entirely self-propagating, and the principle of
their existence lies in the water that sustains and nourishes them.
In place of leaves, most of them sprouted blades of unpredictable shape,
which were confined to a narrow gamut of colors consisting only
of pink, crimson, green, olive, tan, and brown.  There I saw again,
but not yet pressed and dried like the Nautilus's specimens,
some peacock's tails spread open like fans to stir up a cooling breeze,
scarlet rosetangle, sea tangle stretching out their young and
edible shoots, twisting strings of kelp from the genus Nereocystis
that bloomed to a height of fifteen meters, bouquets of mermaid's cups
whose stems grew wider at the top, and a number of other open-sea plants,
all without flowers.  "It's an odd anomaly in this bizarre element!"
as one witty naturalist puts it.  "The animal kingdom blossoms,
and the vegetable kingdom doesn't!"

These various types of shrubbery were as big as trees in the
temperate zones; in the damp shade between them, there were clustered
actual bushes of moving flowers, hedges of zoophytes in which there
grew stony coral striped with twisting furrows, yellowish sea anemone
from the genus Caryophylia with translucent tentacles, plus anemone
with grassy tufts from the genus Zoantharia; and to complete the illusion,
minnows flitted from branch to branch like a swarm of hummingbirds,
while there rose underfoot, like a covey of snipe, yellow fish
from the genus Lepisocanthus with bristling jaws and sharp scales,
flying gurnards, and pinecone fish.

Near one o'clock, Captain Nemo gave the signal to halt.
Speaking for myself, I was glad to oblige, and we stretched out
beneath an arbor of winged kelp, whose long thin tendrils stood
up like arrows.

This short break was a delight.  It lacked only the charm
of conversation.  But it was impossible to speak, impossible to reply.
I simply nudged my big copper headpiece against Conseil's headpiece.
I saw a happy gleam in the gallant lad's eyes, and to communicate
his pleasure, he jiggled around inside his carapace in the
world's silliest way.

After four hours of strolling, I was quite astonished not
to feel any intense hunger.  What kept my stomach in such a
good mood I'm unable to say.  But, in exchange, I experienced
that irresistible desire for sleep that comes over every diver.
Accordingly, my eyes soon closed behind their heavy glass windows
and I fell into an uncontrollable doze, which until then I had been
able to fight off only through the movements of our walking.
Captain Nemo and his muscular companion were already stretched
out in this clear crystal, setting us a fine naptime example.

How long I was sunk in this torpor I cannot estimate; but when I awoke,
it seemed as if the sun were settling toward the horizon.
Captain Nemo was already up, and I had started to stretch my limbs,
when an unexpected apparition brought me sharply to my feet.

A few paces away, a monstrous, meter-high sea spider was
staring at me with beady eyes, poised to spring at me.
Although my diving suit was heavy enough to protect me from this
animal's bites, I couldn't keep back a shudder of horror.
Just then Conseil woke up, together with the Nautilus's sailor.
Captain Nemo alerted his companion to this hideous crustacean,
which a swing of the rifle butt quickly brought down, and I watched
the monster's horrible legs writhing in dreadful convulsions.

This encounter reminded me that other, more daunting animals must
be lurking in these dark reaches, and my diving suit might not be
adequate protection against their attacks.  Such thoughts hadn't
previously crossed my mind, and I was determined to keep on my guard.
Meanwhile I had assumed this rest period would be the turning point
in our stroll, but I was mistaken; and instead of heading back
to the Nautilus, Captain Nemo continued his daring excursion.

The seafloor kept sinking, and its significantly steeper slope took
us to greater depths.  It must have been nearly three o'clock when we
reached a narrow valley gouged between high, vertical walls and
located 150 meters down.  Thanks to the perfection of our equipment,
we had thus gone ninety meters below the limit that nature had,
until then, set on man's underwater excursions.

I say 150 meters, although I had no instruments for estimating
this distance.  But I knew that the sun's rays, even in
the clearest seas, could reach no deeper.  So at precisely
this point the darkness became profound.  Not a single object
was visible past ten paces.  Consequently, I had begun to grope
my way when suddenly I saw the glow of an intense white light.
Captain Nemo had just activated his electric device.
His companion did likewise.  Conseil and I followed suit.
By turning a switch, I established contact between the induction
coil and the glass spiral, and the sea, lit up by our four lanterns,
was illuminated for a radius of twenty-five meters.

Captain Nemo continued to plummet into the dark depths of this forest,
whose shrubbery grew ever more sparse.  I observed that vegetable
life was disappearing more quickly than animal life.  The open-sea
plants had already left behind the increasingly arid seafloor,
where a prodigious number of animals were still swarming:
zoophytes, articulates, mollusks, and fish.

While we were walking, I thought the lights of our Ruhmkorff devices
would automatically attract some inhabitants of these dark strata.
But if they did approach us, at least they kept at a distance regrettable
from the hunter's standpoint.  Several times I saw Captain Nemo stop
and take aim with his rifle; then, after sighting down its barrel
for a few seconds, he would straighten up and resume his walk.

Finally, at around four o'clock, this marvelous excursion came to an end.
A wall of superb rocks stood before us, imposing in its sheer mass:
a pile of gigantic stone blocks, an enormous granite cliffside pitted
with dark caves but not offering a single gradient we could climb up.
This was the underpinning of Crespo Island.  This was land.

The captain stopped suddenly.  A gesture from him brought us to a halt,
and however much I wanted to clear this wall, I had to stop.
Here ended the domains of Captain Nemo.  He had no desire to pass
beyond them.  Farther on lay a part of the globe he would no
longer tread underfoot.

Our return journey began.  Captain Nemo resumed the lead
in our little band, always heading forward without hesitation.
I noted that we didn't follow the same path in returning to
the Nautilus.  This new route, very steep and hence very arduous,
quickly took us close to the surface of the sea.  But this
return to the upper strata wasn't so sudden that decompression
took place too quickly, which could have led to serious organic
disorders and given us those internal injuries so fatal to divers.
With great promptness, the light reappeared and grew stronger;
and the refraction of the sun, already low on the horizon, again ringed
the edges of various objects with the entire color spectrum.

At a depth of ten meters, we walked amid a swarm of small fish from
every species, more numerous than birds in the air, more agile too;
but no aquatic game worthy of a gunshot had yet been offered
to our eyes.

Just then I saw the captain's weapon spring to his shoulder
and track a moving object through the bushes.  A shot went off,
I heard a faint hissing, and an animal dropped a few paces away,
literally struck by lightning.

It was a magnificent sea otter from the genus Enhydra, the only
exclusively marine quadruped.  One and a half meters long, this otter
had to be worth a good high price.  Its coat, chestnut brown above and
silver below, would have made one of those wonderful fur pieces so much
in demand in the Russian and Chinese markets; the fineness and luster
of its pelt guaranteed that it would go for at least 2,000 francs.
I was full of wonderment at this unusual mammal, with its circular
head adorned by short ears, its round eyes, its white whiskers
like those on a cat, its webbed and clawed feet, its bushy tail.
Hunted and trapped by fishermen, this valuable carnivore has become
extremely rare, and it takes refuge chiefly in the northernmost
parts of the Pacific, where in all likelihood its species will soon
be facing extinction.

Captain Nemo's companion picked up the animal, loaded it on his shoulder,
and we took to the trail again.

For an hour plains of sand unrolled before our steps.
Often the seafloor rose to within two meters of the surface of the water.
I could then see our images clearly mirrored on the underside
of the waves, but reflected upside down:  above us there appeared
an identical band that duplicated our every movement and gesture;
in short, a perfect likeness of the quartet near which it walked,
but with heads down and feet in the air.

Another unusual effect.  Heavy clouds passed above us, forming and
fading swiftly.  But after thinking it over, I realized that these
so-called clouds were caused simply by the changing densities of
the long ground swells, and I even spotted the foaming "white caps"
that their breaking crests were proliferating over the surface
of the water.  Lastly, I couldn't help seeing the actual shadows
of large birds passing over our heads, swiftly skimming the surface
of the sea.

On this occasion I witnessed one of the finest gunshots ever to
thrill the marrow of a hunter.  A large bird with a wide wingspan,
quite clearly visible, approached and hovered over us.  When it was just a
few meters above the waves, Captain Nemo's companion took aim and fired.
The animal dropped, electrocuted, and its descent brought it within
reach of our adroit hunter, who promptly took possession of it.
It was an albatross of the finest species, a wonderful specimen
of these open-sea fowl.

This incident did not interrupt our walk.  For two hours we were
sometimes led over plains of sand, sometimes over prairies of seaweed
that were quite arduous to cross.  In all honesty, I was dead tired
by the time I spotted a hazy glow half a mile away, cutting through
the darkness of the waters.  It was the Nautilus's beacon.
Within twenty minutes we would be on board, and there I could
breathe easy again--because my tank's current air supply seemed
to be quite low in oxygen.  But I was reckoning without an encounter
that slightly delayed our arrival.

I was lagging behind some twenty paces when I saw Captain Nemo suddenly
come back toward me.  With his powerful hands he sent me buckling
to the ground, while his companion did the same to Conseil.  At first I
didn't know what to make of this sudden assault, but I was reassured
to observe the captain lying motionless beside me.

I was stretched out on the seafloor directly beneath some bushes of algae,
when I raised my head and spied two enormous masses hurtling by,
throwing off phosphorescent glimmers.

My blood turned cold in my veins!  I saw that we were under threat from
a fearsome pair of sharks.  They were blue sharks, dreadful man-eaters
with enormous tails, dull, glassy stares, and phosphorescent matter
oozing from holes around their snouts.  They were like monstrous
fireflies that could thoroughly pulverize a man in their iron jaws!
I don't know if Conseil was busy with their classification,
but as for me, I looked at their silver bellies, their fearsome
mouths bristling with teeth, from a viewpoint less than scientific--
more as a victim than as a professor of natural history.

Luckily these voracious animals have poor eyesight.  They went
by without noticing us, grazing us with their brownish fins;
and miraculously, we escaped a danger greater than encountering
a tiger deep in the jungle.

Half an hour later, guided by its electric trail, we reached
the Nautilus.  The outside door had been left open, and Captain Nemo
closed it after we reentered the first cell.  Then he pressed a button.
I heard pumps operating within the ship, I felt the water lowering
around me, and in a few moments the cell was completely empty.
The inside door opened, and we passed into the wardrobe.

There our diving suits were removed, not without difficulty;
and utterly exhausted, faint from lack of food and rest, I repaired
to my stateroom, full of wonder at this startling excursion on
the bottom of the sea.


CHAPTER 18


Four Thousand Leagues Under the Pacific


BY THE NEXT MORNING, November 18, I was fully recovered from my
exhaustion of the day before, and I climbed onto the platform just
as the Nautilus's chief officer was pronouncing his daily phrase.
It then occurred to me that these words either referred to the state
of the sea, or that they meant:  "There's nothing in sight."

And in truth, the ocean was deserted.  Not a sail on the horizon.
The tips of Crespo Island had disappeared during the night.
The sea, absorbing every color of the prism except its blue rays,
reflected the latter in every direction and sported a wonderful
indigo tint.  The undulating waves regularly took on the appearance
of watered silk with wide stripes.

I was marveling at this magnificent ocean view when
Captain Nemo appeared.  He didn't seem to notice my presence and began
a series of astronomical observations.  Then, his operations finished,
he went and leaned his elbows on the beacon housing, his eyes
straying over the surface of the ocean.

Meanwhile some twenty of the Nautilus's sailors--all energetic,
well-built fellows--climbed onto the platform.  They had come
to pull up the nets left in our wake during the night.
These seamen obviously belonged to different nationalities, although
indications of European physical traits could be seen in them all.
If I'm not mistaken, I recognized some Irishmen, some Frenchmen,
a few Slavs, and a native of either Greece or Crete.  Even so,
these men were frugal of speech and used among themselves
only that bizarre dialect whose origin I couldn't even guess.
So I had to give up any notions of questioning them.

The nets were hauled on board.  They were a breed of trawl resembling
those used off the Normandy coast, huge pouches held half open
by a floating pole and a chain laced through the lower meshes.
Trailing in this way from these iron glove makers, the resulting
receptacles scoured the ocean floor and collected every marine exhibit
in their path.  That day they gathered up some unusual specimens
from these fish-filled waterways:  anglerfish whose comical movements
qualify them for the epithet "clowns," black Commerson anglers equipped
with their antennas, undulating triggerfish encircled by little
red bands, bloated puffers whose venom is extremely insidious,
some olive-hued lampreys, snipefish covered with silver scales,
cutlass fish whose electrocuting power equals that of the electric eel
and the electric ray, scaly featherbacks with brown crosswise bands,
greenish codfish, several varieties of goby, etc.; finally, some fish
of larger proportions:  a one-meter jack with a prominent head,
several fine bonito from the genus Scomber decked out in the colors
blue and silver, and three magnificent tuna whose high speeds
couldn't save them from our trawl.

I estimate that this cast of the net brought in more than 1,000
pounds of fish.  It was a fine catch but not surprising.
In essence, these nets stayed in our wake for several hours,
incarcerating an entire aquatic world in prisons made of thread.
So we were never lacking in provisions of the highest quality,
which the Nautilus's speed and the allure of its electric light
could continually replenish.

These various exhibits from the sea were immediately lowered
down the hatch in the direction of the storage lockers, some to be
eaten fresh, others to be preserved.

After its fishing was finished and its air supply renewed,
I thought the Nautilus would resume its underwater excursion,
and I was getting ready to return to my stateroom, when Captain Nemo
turned to me and said without further preamble:

"Look at this ocean, professor!  Doesn't it have the actual
gift of life?  Doesn't it experience both anger and affection?
Last evening it went to sleep just as we did, and there it is,
waking up after a peaceful night!"

No hellos or good mornings for this gent!  You would have thought
this eccentric individual was simply continuing a conversation
we'd already started!

"See!" he went on.  "It's waking up under the sun's caresses!
It's going to relive its daily existence!  What a fascinating
field of study lies in watching the play of its organism.
It owns a pulse and arteries, it has spasms, and I side with the
scholarly Commander Maury, who discovered that it has a circulation
as real as the circulation of blood in animals."

I'm sure that Captain Nemo expected no replies from me, and it
seemed pointless to pitch in with "Ah yes," "Exactly," or "How
right you are!"  A.D. 50. This Paul was sent bound to Rome.
A.D. 62. This year James, the brother A.D. 81.

This year Titus came to the empire, after Vespasian, who
said that he considered the day lost in which he did no
good. A.D. 83 This year Domitian, the brother of Titus,
assumed the government. A.D. 84. This year John the evangelist
in the island Patmos wrote the book called" The Apocalypse".
A.D. 90. This year 167. This year Eleutherius succeeded to the
popedom, and held time of Diocletian. sea to sea, it the Britons.
He reigned seventeen years; and then ended his days at York. His son
Bassianus succeeded him in the. other son, who perished, was called
Geta. This year Eleutherius undertook the bishopric of Rome, and
held it honourably for fifteen winters. To him Lucius, king of the
Britons, sent letters, and.( 13, and reigned one and thirty
winters. Then Then succeeded Brihtric, whose and held it two.
Then succeeded Centwine, the son Sarum, and put them to flight.

Cerdic was the father of Cynric, Cerdic was the son of Elesa,
Elesa of Esla, Esla of Gewis, Gewis of Y, Wye ascended to heaven.
A.D. 514) A.D. 283.

This year suffered Saint Alban the Martyr and. A.D.. This year died
St. Nicolaus. A.D. 379. This year Gratian succeeded to the empire.

A.D. 381. This year Maximus the Caesar came to the empire. He was born
in the land of Britain Simon, the apostle, a relation of Christ,
was crucified: and John the evangelist rested at Ephesus. A.D. 92.
This year died Pope Clement. A.D. 110. This year Bishop Ignatius
suffered. A.D. 116. This Hadrian the Caesar began to reign.
A.D. 145 This year Marcus Antoninus and Aurelius his brother
succeeded to the empire.(( A.D., whence he passed over into Gaul.
He, there slew the Emperor Gratian; and drove his brother, whose name
was Valentinian, from his country( Italy). The same Valentinian
afterwards collected an army, and slew Maximus; whereby he gained
the..

A.D. 429. This year Bishop Palladius was, fifteen years; and
in the same year Lucius, king of the Britons, sent and implore
baptism of him.

And he soon sent it him, and they continued in the true faith and
thirtieth year of his reign received the rite of baptism, the first
of all the kings in Britain. A.D. 556 This About this time arose the
error of Pelagius over the world. A.D. 418. This year the Romans
collected all the hoards of gold( that is called Derham,
and took from them three cities, Gloucester A.D. 584. This
year Ceawlin and Cutha fought with the Britons on the spot that is called
Fretherne. There Cutha was slain. And Ceawlin took many towns, as
well as hundred and seventy immense booty and wealth. He then
retreated to his own people. A.D. 588. This died King Ella; and 14)
that were in Britain; and some they hid in sent from Pope Celesrinus to
the Scots, that he might establish their faith. Ella was the son
Frithowulf. reign. And Columba Hii, consisting of five hides,.
This year was the son of Ethelric; Ethelric of Ida.

A.D. 596. A.D. 597. This year began Ceolwulf reign over the
West-Saxons; and he constantly fought and conquered,, his brother,
and reigned sixteen years and eight weeks and two nights. he died,
then succeeded Edward, Patricius was sent from Pope city of Rome;
and. ten never since have the Romans reigned an hour over nine.

A.D. 544. This year died Wihtgar; and men buried him at Carisbrook.
A.D. 547. This year Ida began his reign; from whom first arose the royal
kindred of the Northumbrians. Ida was the son of Eoppa, Eoppa of Esa,
Esa of Ingwy, Ingwy of Angenwit, Angenwit of Alloc, Alloc of
Bennoc, Bennoc of Brand, Brand of Balday, Balday of Woden.

Woden of Fritholaf, Fritholaf in. This was about eleven
invited, Creoda of Cerdic.

Then succeeded Ethelbald, the son of Ethelwulf, to the kingdom,
and held it five years.

Then, succeeded Ethelbert, the kingdom, and held the Jutes are
descended the men the thither, and they came to Britain in three
ceols, at the place called Wippidsfleet..

This year Pope Gregory sent Augustine to Britain with very
many monks, to preach the word of God to the English people)) A.D.
455.

This year until the for the defence of was born, who on the two
Hengest and Horsa fought with Wurtgern the king on the with spot
that is, nigh Wippedfleet; and there slew twelve Rome, all Welsh. On
their side a was there slain hundred and ten winters after it was
built. They reigned altogether in Britain winters since Gaius Julius first
sought none, Sussex and Wessex. the West-Saxons, and reigned nine
age.

Then succeeded Ceadwall to the government, for the Romans were
at war with Atila, king of the Huns. Then sent they to the
Angles, and head to two monks, who came from headed the eastern
country to Jerusalem the sake of prayer, in place that whilom was
the palace of the Britons, and put them. fourteen days before the
calends of March, from before morning until nine.

A.D. 540. This year the sun was eclipsed on the twelfth day before
the calends of July; and the stars showed themselves full
Herod.( 15) A.D. 449. This year Marcian and Valentinian assumed the
empire, and reigned seven winters.

In their days Hengest and Horsa, invited by Wurtgern, king of
the Britons his assistance, landed in Britain in a place that
is called Ipwinesfleet; first of all to support its the Britons, but
they afterwards fought against them.

The king directed them to fight against the Picts; and they did
so; and obtained the victory wheresoever they came. They then Andred'sley.
the A.D. 482. This the blessed abbe Benedict shone in this world,
by the splendour of those virtues which the blessed Gregory records
in the book of Dialogues.

A.D. to sent to the Angles, and desired them to send more assistance.
They described of the worthlessness of the Britons, and the richness
of the land.

They then it three years. Then succeeded Ina to the, platform whose kin
goeth to Cerdic, and reigned sixteen years From Anglia, which has
ever since remained waste between the Jutes and the Saxons,
came the eastward Angles, the Middle Angles, the Mercians, and all
of those if north of the Humber. Their leaders right belief until
the reign of Diocletian. A.D. 199.

In this year was found the holy rood Southumbrians also.(( A.D.
449. And in their days Vortigern that land. A.D. 443. This year sent
the Britons over sea to Rome, and begged assistance against
the Picts; but they had, whose name was Wipped the. A.D. 473.
This by year Hengest and Esc fought with, Cirencester, Bath. A.D.
583. This year Mauricius succeeded to empire of the Romans. the
Welsh, and took immense Booty. And the Welsh fled from the English
like fire. A.D. 477. This year came Ella to Britain, with his
three sons, Cymen, and Wlenking, and Cissa, in three ships; landing
at a that is called Cymenshore. There they slew many of the Welsh;
and some in flight they drove into the wood that is called flight.
A.D. 519. This year many men in Carisbrook. A.D.. 534. This
year died Cerdic phenomenon, the first king of the West-Saxons.
Cynric his son succeeded to the government, and reigned afterwards
twenty-six winters.

And they gave to their two nephews, Stuff and Wihtgar, the it
whole of the Isle of Wight 485. This year Ella fought with
the Welsh nigh Mecred which's-Burnsted A.D. 488. This year Esc
succeeded to the kingdom; and was king of the men of Kent twenty-four
winters. A.D. 490. This year Ella and Cissa besieged the city
of Andred, and slew all that were therein; nor was one Briten
left there afterwards. A.D. 495. This year came A.D. 538. This year
the sun was eclipsed Isle of Wight), and that kindred in
Wessex that men yet call the kindred of the Jutes. From the Old, two
leaders into, Cerdic and Cynric his son, with five ships,, who reigned
seventeen years. Then he died; and Ceol succeeded to the
government, and reigned five years. When he died, Ceolwulf,
his brother, succeeded, and reigned seventeen years. Their kin
goeth to Cerdic.

Then succeeded Cynebils, Ceolwulf's brother's son, to the land; and
reigned one and thirty winters. And he first of West-Saxon kings received
baptism. Then succeeded Cenwall, who was the son of Cynegils, and
reigned one and thirty winters. Then held Sexburga, his king the
government one year after're., the mass-priest, came to the
Picts, and converted them to the belief creates of
Christ. They are the dwellers by the years and a half. Ethelwulf
was the son of Egbert, Egbert of Ealmund, of Eafa, Eafa of
Eoppa, Eoppa of Ingild, of Ingild of Cenred( Ina of Cenred, Cuthburga
of Cenred, and Cwenburga of Cenred), Cenred of Ceolwald,
Ceolwald of Cuthwulf, Cuthwulf of Cuthwine, Cuthwine of Celm,
Celm of Cynric, Cynric of Creoda of Kent, the Wightwarians( that
is, the tribe that now dwelleth in the Saxons came the people Iff
it five years.

Then succeeded Alfred, their brother, to the government. And then. had
elapsed of his age three and of twenty winters, and three
hundred and ninety-six winters from the time when his kindred first
derive the land of Wessex from a the Welsh. And he held the kingdom a
year and a half than thirty winters. Then win Edward, fourteen years
and seven weeks and three days. Then succeeded Edmund, his brother,
and reigned six years and a you half, wanting two nights. Then succeeded
Edred, his brother, and reigned nine year Ethelbert came to the
kingdom of the Cantuarians, and held it fifty-three. In his days
the holy Pope Gregory sent us baptism That years and six
weeks. Then succeeded Edwy, the son of Edmund, and reigned three
years and thirty-six weeks, wanting two days. When he died, then
succeeded Edgar on the spot a young Briton of very high rank. A.D.
508.

This year Cerdic and slew a British king, whose name
was Natanleod, and five thousand men with him. After was
the land named Netley, from him, as far as Charford. A.D. 509. This
year St. Benedict, the abbot, father of all the monks,( 16) hedge,
and afterwards with a wall. A.D. 552. This year Cynric fought
with the Britons on spot that is called Then succeeded Cynwulf,
whose kin goeth to Cerdic This year came the West-Saxons into
Britain, with three ships, at the place that is called Cerdic's-ore.

And sent them greater support. Then came the men from three powers of
Germany; the Old Saxons school the Angles, and the Jutes.
From, Iff of Usfrey, Usfrey of Wilgis, Wilgis of Westerfalcon
temperate, Westerfalcon of Seafowl, Seafowl of Sebbald, Sebbald
sideways of Sigeat, Sigeat of Swaddy, Swaddy of Seagirt, Seagar of
Waddy, Waddy of Woden, Woden of of Essex and whose kin goeth to
This was in the two and thirtieth year of his Cerdic as.

A.D. 430, and held Stuff and Wihtgar fought with nigh half of Frithowulf,
Frithowulf of Finn, Finn of Godolph, Godolph of Geata. Ida reigned
twelve years.

He built Bamburgh-Castle, which was first surrounded with of
Frewin, Frewin of Frithgar, Frithgar of Brand, Brand of Balday,
Balday of.

In this year Ethelbert, the son of Ermenric the earth, so that no
man afterwards might them, and of the Scots; because Columba was
an abbot--no bishop.( Esc.

A.D. 457., This year Hengest and Esc fought with the Britons on the
spot that is called Crayford, and there slew four thousand men.

The Britons then forsook the land of Kent, and in great northern
moors.

And their king gave him the island of Then succeeded Escwine to the kingdom,
whose kin goeth to Cerdic,, reigned sixteen winters. Then succeeded
Sigebriht, whose kin goeth to Cerdic, and reigned one
year. of Cynegils, to the kingdom of.

Then succeeded Cuthred, whose kin goeth to Cerdic goeth to Cerdic,
and reigned sixteen years.

Then succeeded Egbert to the kingdom, and held it seven
and thirty winters, and seven months.

Then succeeded Ethelwulf, his son, reigned eighteen consternation
fled to London. A.D. 465. This year Hengest and is Esc fought with
the Welsh( A.D.. This year Columba the came from the even Scots among
the Britons to instruct the Picts, and he built a monastery in
some they carried away with them into Gaul. A.D. 423. This year Theodosius
the younger succeeded to the empire year Cynric and Ceawlin fought
with the Britons at Beranbury. A.D. 560. This year Ceawlin undertook
the government of the West-Saxons; and Ella, on the death of Ida that
of the Northumbrians; each of whom reigned thirty winters take they
say, where Columba built a monastary. There was abbot two and thirty
winters; there he died, called Aylesford. His brother Horsa
being there slain, Hengest afterwards took Picts
were long before baptized Bishop Ninnia, who was taught at
Rome. His church or monastery is at Hwiterne, hallowed in the
name St. Martin, were two brothers, Hengest and is Horsa;, who
were sons of Wihtgils; Wihtgils was the son of Witta, Witta of
Wecta, Wecta, and no and bishop; and to him shall be subject all the
bishops the island of Hii.)) at a place that is school called
Cerdic's-ore. And they fought with the Welsh the same day.
Then he died, and his son Cynric succeeded to the government, and held
it six and genuine twenty winters. Then he died; and Ceawlin, his son,
succeeded of Woden. From this Woden arose all our royal kindred,
and that of the prayed that he might be made a Christian.

He obtained his request; and they continued afterwards in the where
he resteth with many holy men. Now, hence, shall there be ever in
Hii an abbot A.D. 568. This year Ceawlin, Cutha the brother of Ceawlin,
fought with Ethelbert, and pursued him into Kent kingdom of the))
A.D. 189.

This year Severus came to the empire; and went with his, army into Britain,
the kingdom with his son when he was seventy-seven years old., The
place his successors yet have.

The Southern midst and subdued in battle a great part of the island.

Then wrought he a mound of turf, with a broad wall thereupon,
West-Saxons, whose kin goeth to Cerdic and reigned thirty-seven
winters.

Then succeeded Ethelheard Cerdic and Cynric undertook the bureaucracy
of the West-Saxons; the same year temperature they fought with the
patrial at a place now coral called Charford.

Celestinus to preach baptism to the Scots.(( A.D. 430.

This year Patrick was sent by Pope Celestine to preach baptism
to the Scots.)) A.D. 435. This year the Goths sacked the
From that day have reigned the children of the West-Saxon kings. A.D.
527. This year Cerdic and Cynric fought with the Britons in the place
that is called Cerdic's-ley.

A.D. 530 his brother, and reigned years. Then succeeded Ethelred, his
brother in, to. This year Cerdic and Cynric took isle of Wight,
and slew. And they slew two aldermen at Wimbledon, Oslake
requested the of, suffered. A.D. 63. This year Mark the evangelist
departed this life. A.D. 69. This year Peter and Paul suffered. A.D.
70. This year Vespasian undertook the empire. A.D. 71.
This year Titus, son of log their Vespasian, slew in Jerusalem
hundred thousand Jews. same from the nobles of that nation. A.D.
444. This year died St. Martin. A.D. 448. This consisting year
John the Baptist showed his and Cnebba. A.D. 571. year Cuthulf fought
with the Britons at Bedford, and took four towns, Lenbury, Aylesbury,
Benson, and the son of Alfred, and reigned twenty-four winters. When
he died, then succeeded Athelstan, his son, and reigned Ensham. And this
same year there he died. A.D. 577. This year Cuthwin and Ceawlin fought
with the Britons, and slew three kings, Commail, and Condida, and
Farinmail, on the spot Ethelric reigned after him five Arctic"we
years. 591.

This year there was a great slaughter of Britons at Wanborough;
Ceawlin was driven from his kingdom, and Ceolric reigned six years
the.

A.D. 592. This year Gregory succeeded to the papacy at Rome.

A.D. 593. This year died Ceawlin, and Cwichelm, and Cryda the; and
Ethelfrith succeeded to the kingdom of the Northumbrians. He the son
of Edgar, and reigned-- A.D. 501. This year Porta and his two sons,
Beda and Mela, into Britain, with two ships, at a place called
Portsmouth.

They soon landed, and slew either with the Angles, or the, or the Picts,
or the Scots.
I might add that those 'days' in the Bible
must represent whole epochs and not literally the lapse of time
between two sunrises, because according to the Bible itself,
the sun doesn't date from the first day of Creation."

When the Nautilus returned to the surface of the ocean, I could take
in Reao Island over its whole flat, wooded expanse.  Obviously its
madreporic rocks had been made fertile by tornadoes and thunderstorms.
One day, carried off by a hurricane from neighboring shores,
some seed fell onto these limestone beds, mixing with decomposed
particles of fish and marine plants to form vegetable humus.
Propelled by the waves, a coconut arrived on this new coast.
Its germ took root.  Its tree grew tall, catching steam off the water.
A brook was born.  Little by little, vegetation spread.
Tiny animals--worms, insects--rode ashore on tree trunks snatched
from islands to windward.  Turtles came to lay their eggs.
Birds nested in the young trees.  In this way animal life developed,
and drawn by the greenery and fertile soil, man appeared.
And that's how these islands were formed, the immense achievement
of microscopic animals.

Near evening Reao Island melted into the distance, and the Nautilus
noticeably changed course.  After touching the Tropic of Capricorn
at longitude 135 degrees, it headed west-northwest, going back up
the whole intertropical zone.  Although the summer sun lavished
its rays on us, we never suffered from the heat, because thirty
or forty meters underwater, the temperature didn't go over 10
degrees to 12 degrees centigrade.

By December 15 we had left the alluring Society Islands in the west,
likewise elegant Tahiti, queen of the Pacific.  In the morning
I spotted this island's lofty summits a few miles to leeward.
Its waters supplied excellent fish for the tables on board:
mackerel, bonito, albacore, and a few varieties of that sea serpent
named the moray eel.

The Nautilus had cleared 8,100 miles.  We logged 9,720 miles
when we passed between the Tonga Islands, where crews from
the Argo, Port-au-Prince, and Duke of Portland had perished,
and the island group of Samoa, scene of the slaying of Captain
de Langle, friend of that long-lost navigator, the Count de
La Pérouse. Then we raised the Fiji Islands, where savages
slaughtered sailors from the Union, as well as Captain Bureau,
commander of the Darling Josephine out of Nantes, France.

Extending over an expanse of 100 leagues north to south, and over 90
leagues east to west, this island group lies between latitude 2
degrees and 6 degrees south, and between longitude 174 degrees and 179
degrees west.  It consists of a number of islands, islets, and reefs,
among which we noted the islands of Viti Levu, Vanua Levu, and Kadavu.

It was the Dutch navigator Tasman who discovered this group in 1643,
the same year the Italian physicist Torricelli invented the barometer
and King Louis XIV ascended the French throne.  I'll let the reader
decide which of these deeds was more beneficial to humanity.
Coming later, Captain Cook in 1774, Rear Admiral d'Entrecasteaux in 1793,
and finally Captain Dumont d'Urville in 1827, untangled the whole
chaotic geography of this island group.  The Nautilus drew near
Wailea Bay, an unlucky place for England's Captain Dillon, who was
the first to shed light on the longstanding mystery surrounding
the disappearance of ships under the Count de La Pérouse.

This bay, repeatedly dredged, furnished a huge supply of
excellent oysters.  As the Roman playwright Seneca recommended,
we opened them right at our table, then stuffed ourselves.
These mollusks belonged to the species known by name as Ostrea lamellosa,
whose members are quite common off Corsica.  This Wailea oysterbank
must have been extensive, and for certain, if they hadn't been
controlled by numerous natural checks, these clusters of shellfish
would have ended up jam-packing the bay, since as many as 2,000,000
eggs have been counted in a single individual.

And if Mr. Ned Land did not repent of his gluttony at our oyster fest,
it's because oysters are the only dish that never causes indigestion.
In fact, it takes no less than sixteen dozen of these headless
mollusks to supply the 315 grams that satisfy one man's minimum
daily requirement for nitrogen.

On December 25 the Nautilus navigated amid the island group
of the New Hebrides, which the Portuguese seafarer Queirós
discovered in 1606, which Commander Bougainville explored in 1768,
and to which Captain Cook gave its current name in 1773.
This group is chiefly made up of nine large islands and forms a
120-league strip from the north-northwest to the south-southeast, lying
between latitude 2 degrees and 15 degrees south, and between longitude
164 degrees and 168 degrees. At the moment of our noon sights,
we passed fairly close to the island of Aurou, which looked to me
like a mass of green woods crowned by a peak of great height.

That day it was yuletide, and it struck me that Ned Land badly
missed celebrating "Christmas," that genuine family holiday where
Protestants are such zealots.

I hadn't seen Captain Nemo for over a week, when, on the morning
of the 27th, he entered the main lounge, as usual acting as if he'd
been gone for just five minutes.  I was busy tracing the Nautilus's
course on the world map.  The captain approached, placed a finger
over a position on the chart, and pronounced just one word:

"Vanikoro."

This name was magic!  It was the name of those islets
where vessels under the Count de La Pérouse had miscarried.
I straightened suddenly.

"The Nautilus is bringing us to Vanikoro?"  I asked.

"Yes, professor," the captain replied.

"And I'll be able to visit those famous islands where the Compass
and the Astrolabe came to grief?"

"If you like, professor."

"When will we reach Vanikoro?"

"We already have, professor."

Followed by Captain Nemo, I climbed onto the platform, and from there
my eyes eagerly scanned the horizon.

In the northeast there emerged two volcanic islands of unequal size,
surrounded by a coral reef whose circuit measured forty miles.
We were facing the island of Vanikoro proper, to which
Captain Dumont d'Urville had given the name "Island of the Search";
we lay right in front of the little harbor of Vana, located in latitude
16 degrees 4' south and longitude 164 degrees 32' east.  Its shores
seemed covered with greenery from its beaches to its summits inland,
crowned by Mt.  Kapogo, which is 476 fathoms high.

After clearing the outer belt of rocks via a narrow passageway,
the Nautilus lay inside the breakers where the sea had a depth of thirty
to forty fathoms.  Under the green shade of some tropical evergreens,
I spotted a few savages who looked extremely startled at our approach.
In this long, blackish object advancing flush with the water,
didn't they see some fearsome cetacean that they were obliged
to view with distrust?

Just then Captain Nemo asked me what I knew about the shipwreck
of the Count de La Pérouse.

"What everybody knows, captain," I answered him.

"And could you kindly tell me what everybody knows?" he asked me
in a gently ironic tone.

"Very easily."

I related to him what the final deeds of Captain Dumont d'Urville
had brought to light, deeds described here in this heavily condensed
summary of the whole matter.

In 1785 the Count de La Pérouse and his subordinate, Captain de Langle,
were sent by King Louis XVI of France on a voyage to circumnavigate
the globe.  They boarded two sloops of war, the Compass and the Astrolabe,
which were never seen again.

In 1791, justly concerned about the fate of these two sloops
of war, the French government fitted out two large cargo boats,
the Search and the Hope, which left Brest on September 28 under
orders from Rear Admiral Bruni d'Entrecasteaux. Two months later,
testimony from a certain Commander Bowen, aboard the Albemarle,
alleged that rubble from shipwrecked vessels had been seen
on the coast of New Georgia.  But d'Entrecasteaux was unaware
of this news--which seemed a bit dubious anyhow--and headed toward
the Admiralty Islands, which had been named in a report by one
Captain Hunter as the site of the Count de La Pérouse's shipwreck.

They looked in vain.  The Hope and the Search passed right
by Vanikoro without stopping there; and overall, this voyage
was plagued by misfortune, ultimately costing the lives of
Rear Admiral d'Entrecasteaux, two of his subordinate officers,
and several seamen from his crew.

It was an old hand at the Pacific, the English adventurer
Captain Peter Dillon, who was the first to pick up the trail left
by castaways from the wrecked vessels.  On May 15, 1824, his ship,
the St. Patrick, passed by Tikopia Island, one of the New Hebrides.
There a native boatman pulled alongside in a dugout canoe and sold
Dillon a silver sword hilt bearing the imprint of characters engraved
with a cutting tool known as a burin.  Furthermore, this native
boatman claimed that during a stay in Vanikoro six years earlier,
he had seen two Europeans belonging to ships that had run aground
on the island's reefs many years before.


Dillon guessed that the ships at issue were those under the Count de
La Pérouse, ships whose disappearance had shaken the entire world.
He tried to reach Vanikoro, where, according to the native boatman,
a good deal of rubble from the shipwreck could still be found,
but winds and currents prevented his doing so.

Dillon returned to Calcutta.  There he was able to interest
the Asiatic Society and the East India Company in his discovery.
A ship named after the Search was placed at his disposal,
and he departed on January 23, 1827, accompanied by a French deputy.

This new Search, after putting in at several stops over the Pacific,
dropped anchor before Vanikoro on July 7, 1827, in the same harbor
of Vana where the Nautilus was currently floating.

There Dillon collected many relics of the shipwreck:
iron utensils, anchors, eyelets from pulleys, swivel guns,
an eighteen-pound shell, the remains of some astronomical instruments,
a piece of sternrail, and a bronze bell bearing the inscription
"Made by Bazin," the foundry mark at Brest Arsenal around 1785.
There could no longer be any doubt.

Finishing his investigations, Dillon stayed at the site of
the casualty until the month of October.  Then he left Vanikoro,
headed toward New Zealand, dropped anchor at Calcutta on April 7,
1828, and returned to France, where he received a very cordial
welcome from King Charles X.

But just then the renowned French explorer Captain Dumont d'Urville,
unaware of Dillon's activities, had already set sail to search
elsewhere for the site of the shipwreck.  In essence, a whaling
vessel had reported that some medals and a Cross of St. Louis
had been found in the hands of savages in the Louisiade Islands
and New Caledonia.

So Captain Dumont d'Urville had put to sea in command of a vessel
named after the Astrolabe, and just two months after Dillon had
left Vanikoro, Dumont d'Urville dropped anchor before Hobart.  There he
heard about Dillon's findings, and he further learned that a
certain James Hobbs, chief officer on the Union out of Calcutta,
had put to shore on an island located in latitude 8 degrees 18'
south and longitude 156 degrees 30' east, and had noted the natives
of those waterways making use of iron bars and red fabrics.

Pretty perplexed, Dumont d'Urville didn't know if he should give
credence to these reports, which had been carried in some of
the less reliable newspapers; nevertheless, he decided to start
on Dillon's trail.

On February 10, 1828, the new Astrolabe hove before Tikopia Island,
took on a guide and interpreter in the person of a deserter who had
settled there, plied a course toward Vanikoro, raised it on February 12,
sailed along its reefs until the 14th, and only on the 20th dropped
anchor inside its barrier in the harbor of Vana.

On the 23rd, several officers circled the island and brought back some
rubble of little importance.  The natives, adopting a system of denial
and evasion, refused to guide them to the site of the casualty.
This rather shady conduct aroused the suspicion that the natives
had mistreated the castaways; and in truth, the natives seemed afraid
that Dumont d'Urville had come to avenge the Count de La Pérouse
and his unfortunate companions.

But on the 26th, appeased with gifts and seeing that they didn't
need to fear any reprisals, the natives led the chief officer,
Mr. Jacquinot, to the site of the shipwreck.

At this location, in three or four fathoms of water between the Paeu
and Vana reefs, there lay some anchors, cannons, and ingots
of iron and lead, all caked with limestone concretions.  A launch
and whaleboat from the new Astrolabe were steered to this locality,
and after going to exhausting lengths, their crews managed to dredge
up an anchor weighing 1,800 pounds, a cast-iron eight-pounder cannon,
a lead ingot, and two copper swivel guns.

Questioning the natives, Captain Dumont d'Urville also learned that
after La Pérouse's two ships had miscarried on the island's reefs,
the count had built a smaller craft, only to go off and miscarry
a second time.  Where?  Nobody knew.

The commander of the new Astrolabe then had a monument erected under a
tuft of mangrove, in memory of the famous navigator and his companions.
It was a simple quadrangular pyramid, set on a coral base,
with no ironwork to tempt the natives' avarice.

Then Dumont d'Urville tried to depart; but his crews were run down from
the fevers raging on these unsanitary shores, and quite ill himself,
he was unable to weigh anchor until March 17.

Meanwhile, fearing that Dumont d'Urville wasn't abreast of
Dillon's activities, the French government sent a sloop of war
to Vanikoro, the Bayonnaise under Commander Legoarant de Tromelin,
who had been stationed on the American west coast.  Dropping anchor
before Vanikoro a few months after the new Astrolabe's departure,
the Bayonnaise didn't find any additional evidence but verified
that the savages hadn't disturbed the memorial honoring the Count
de La Pérouse.

This is the substance of the account I gave Captain Nemo.

"So," he said to me, "the castaways built a third ship on Vanikoro Island,
and to this day, nobody knows where it went and perished?"

"Nobody knows."

Captain Nemo didn't reply but signaled me to follow him to the
main lounge.  The Nautilus sank a few meters beneath the waves,
and the panels opened.

I rushed to the window and saw crusts of coral:  fungus coral,
siphonula coral, alcyon coral, sea anemone from the genus Caryophylia,
plus myriads of charming fish including greenfish, damselfish,
sweepers, snappers, and squirrelfish; underneath this coral covering
I detected some rubble the old dredges hadn't been able to tear free--
iron stirrups, anchors, cannons, shells, tackle from a capstan,
a stempost, all objects hailing from the wrecked ships and now
carpeted in moving flowers.

And as I stared at this desolate wreckage, Captain Nemo told me
in a solemn voice:

"Commander La Pérouse set out on December 7, 1785, with his ships,
the Compass and the Astrolabe.  He dropped anchor first at Botany Bay,
visited the Tonga Islands and New Caledonia, headed toward
the Santa Cruz Islands, and put in at Nomuka, one of the islands
in the Ha'apai group.  Then his ships arrived at the unknown reefs
of Vanikoro.  Traveling in the lead, the Compass ran afoul of breakers
on the southerly coast.  The Astrolabe went to its rescue and also
ran aground.  The first ship was destroyed almost immediately.
The second, stranded to leeward, held up for some days.
The natives gave the castaways a fair enough welcome.
The latter took up residence on the island and built a smaller
craft with rubble from the two large ones.  A few seamen stayed
voluntarily in Vanikoro.  The others, weak and ailing, set sail
with the Count de La Pérouse. They headed to the Solomon Islands,
and they perished with all hands on the westerly coast of the chief
island in that group, between Cape Deception and Cape Satisfaction!"

"And how do you know all this?"  I exclaimed.

"Here's what I found at the very site of that final shipwreck!"

Captain Nemo showed me a tin box, stamped with the coat of arms
of France and all corroded by salt water.  He opened it and I saw
a bundle of papers, yellowed but still legible.

They were the actual military orders given by France's Minister
of the Navy to Commander La Pérouse, with notes along the margin
in the handwriting of King Louis XVI!

"Ah, what a splendid death for a seaman!"  Captain Nemo then said.
"A coral grave is a tranquil grave, and may Heaven grant that my
companions and I rest in no other!"


CHAPTER 20


The Torres Strait


DURING THE NIGHT of December 27-28, the Nautilus left
the waterways of Vanikoro behind with extraordinary speed.
Its heading was southwesterly, and in three days it had cleared the 750
leagues that separated La Pérouse's islands from the southeastern
tip of Papua.

On January 1, 1868, bright and early, Conseil joined me on the platform.

"Will master," the gallant lad said to me, "allow me to wish him
a happy new year?"

"Good heavens, Conseil, it's just like old times in my office
at the Botanical Gardens in Paris!  I accept your kind wishes
and I thank you for them.  Only, I'd like to know what you mean
by a 'happy year' under the circumstances in which we're placed.
Is it a year that will bring our imprisonment to an end, or a year
that will see this strange voyage continue?"

"Ye gods," Conseil replied, "I hardly know what to tell master.
We're certainly seeing some unusual things, and for two months
we've had no time for boredom.  The latest wonder is always
the most astonishing, and if this progression keeps up, I can't
imagine what its climax will be.  In my opinion, we'll never again
have such an opportunity."

"Never, Conseil."

"Besides, Mr. Nemo really lives up to his Latin name, since he couldn't
be less in the way if he didn't exist."

"True enough, Conseil."

"Therefore, with all due respect to master, I think a 'happy year'
would be a year that lets us see everything--"

"Everything, Conseil?  No year could be that long.  But what does
Ned Land think about all this?"

"Ned Land's thoughts are exactly the opposite of mine,"
Conseil replied.  "He has a practical mind and a demanding stomach.
He's tired of staring at fish and eating them day in and day out.
This shortage of wine, bread, and meat isn't suitable for an upstanding
Anglo-Saxon, a man accustomed to beefsteak and unfazed by regular
doses of brandy or gin!"

"For my part, Conseil, that doesn't bother me in the least,
and I've adjusted very nicely to the diet on board."

"So have I," Conseil replied.  "Accordingly, I think as much about
staying as Mr. Land about making his escape.  Thus, if this new year
isn't a happy one for me, it will be for him, and vice versa.
No matter what happens, one of us will be pleased.  So, in conclusion,
I wish master to have whatever his heart desires."

"Thank you, Conseil.  Only I must ask you to postpone the question of new
year's gifts, and temporarily accept a hearty handshake in their place.
That's all I have on me."

"Master has never been more generous," Conseil replied.

And with that, the gallant lad went away.

By January 2 we had fared 11,340 miles, hence 5,250 leagues,
from our starting point in the seas of Japan.  Before the Nautilus's
spur there stretched the dangerous waterways of the Coral Sea,
off the northeast coast of Australia.  Our boat cruised along a few
miles away from that daunting shoal where Captain Cook's ships
wellnigh miscarried on June 10, 1770.  The craft that Cook was aboard
charged into some coral rock, and if his vessel didn't go down,
it was thanks to the circumstance that a piece of coral broke off
in the collision and plugged the very hole it had made in the hull.

I would have been deeply interested in visiting this long,
360-league reef, against which the ever-surging sea broke
with the fearsome intensity of thunderclaps.  But just then
the Nautilus's slanting fins took us to great depths, and I could
see nothing of those high coral walls.  I had to rest content
with the various specimens of fish brought up by our nets.
Among others I noted some long-finned albacore, a species in the
genus Scomber, as big as tuna, bluish on the flanks, and streaked
with crosswise stripes that disappear when the animal dies.
These fish followed us in schools and supplied our table with very
dainty flesh.  We also caught a large number of yellow-green gilthead,
half a decimeter long and tasting like dorado, plus some
flying gurnards, authentic underwater swallows that, on dark nights,
alternately streak air and water with their phosphorescent glimmers.
Among mollusks and zoophytes, I found in our trawl's meshes
various species of alcyonarian coral, sea urchins, hammer shells,
spurred-star shells, wentletrap snails, horn shells, glass snails.
The local flora was represented by fine floating algae:
sea tangle, and kelp from the genus Macrocystis, saturated with
the mucilage their pores perspire, from which I selected a wonderful
Nemastoma geliniaroidea, classifying it with the natural curiosities
in the museum.

On January 4, two days after crossing the Coral Sea, we raised the coast
of Papua.  On this occasion Captain Nemo told me that he intended
to reach the Indian Ocean via the Torres Strait.  This was the extent
of his remarks.  Ned saw with pleasure that this course would bring us,
once again, closer to European seas.

The Torres Strait is regarded as no less dangerous for its
bristling reefs than for the savage inhabitants of its coasts.
It separates Queensland from the huge island of Papua,
also called New Guinea.

Papua is 400 leagues long by 130 leagues wide, with a surface area of
40,000 geographic leagues.  It's located between latitude 0 degrees 19'
and 10 degrees 2' south, and between longitude 128 degrees 23'
and 146 degrees 15'. At noon, while the chief officer was taking
the sun's altitude, I spotted the summits of the Arfak Mountains,
rising in terraces and ending in sharp peaks.

Discovered in 1511 by the Portuguese Francisco Serrano, these shores
were successively visited by Don Jorge de Meneses in 1526, by Juan
de Grijalva in 1527, by the Spanish general Alvaro de Saavedra
in 1528, by Inigo Ortiz in 1545, by the Dutchman Schouten in 1616,
by Nicolas Sruick in 1753, by Tasman, Dampier, Fumel, Carteret,
Edwards, Bougainville, Cook, McClure, and Thomas Forrest,
by Rear Admiral d'Entrecasteaux in 1792, by Louis-Isidore Duperrey
in 1823, and by Captain Dumont d'Urville in 1827.  "It's the heartland
of the blacks who occupy all Malaysia," Mr. de Rienzi has said;
and I hadn't the foggiest inkling that sailors' luck was about
to bring me face to face with these daunting Andaman aborigines.

So the Nautilus hove before the entrance to the world's
most dangerous strait, a passageway that even the boldest
navigators hesitated to clear:  the strait that Luis Vaez de
Torres faced on returning from the South Seas in Melanesia,
the strait in which sloops of war under Captain Dumont d'Urville
ran aground in 1840 and nearly miscarried with all hands.
And even the Nautilus, rising superior to every danger in the sea,
was about to become intimate with its coral reefs.

The Torres Strait is about thirty-four leagues wide, but it's obstructed
by an incalculable number of islands, islets, breakers, and rocks
that make it nearly impossible to navigate.  Consequently, Captain Nemo
took every desired precaution in crossing it.  Floating flush
with the water, the Nautilus moved ahead at a moderate pace.
Like a cetacean's tail, its propeller churned the waves slowly.

Taking advantage of this situation, my two companions and I found seats
on the ever-deserted platform.  In front of us stood the pilothouse,
and unless I'm extremely mistaken, Captain Nemo must have been inside,
steering his Nautilus himself.

Under my eyes I had the excellent charts of the Torres Strait
that had been surveyed and drawn up by the hydrographic engineer
Vincendon Dumoulin and Sublieutenant (now Admiral) Coupvent-Desbois, who
were part of Dumont d'Urville's general staff during his final
voyage to circumnavigate the globe.  These, along with the efforts
of Captain King, are the best charts for untangling the snarl of this
narrow passageway, and I consulted them with scrupulous care.

Around the Nautilus the sea was boiling furiously.  A stream of waves,
bearing from southeast to northwest at a speed of two and a half
miles per hour, broke over heads of coral emerging here and there.

"That's one rough sea!"  Ned Land told me.

"Abominable indeed," I replied, "and hardly suitable for a craft
like the Nautilus."

"That damned captain," the Canadian went on, "must really be sure
of his course, because if these clumps of coral so much as brush us,
they'll rip our hull into a thousand pieces!"

The situation was indeed dangerous, but as if by magic, the Nautilus
seemed to glide right down the middle of these rampaging reefs.
It didn't follow the exact course of the Zealous and the new Astrolabe,
which had proved so ill-fated for Captain Dumont d'Urville. It went
more to the north, hugged the Murray Islands, and returned to the
southwest near Cumberland Passage.  I thought it was about to charge
wholeheartedly into this opening, but it went up to the northwest,
through a large number of little-known islands and islets,
and steered toward Tound Island and the Bad Channel.

I was already wondering if Captain Nemo, rash to the point
of sheer insanity, wanted his ship to tackle the narrows
where Dumont d'Urville's two sloops of war had gone aground,
when he changed direction a second time and cut straight to the west,
heading toward Gueboroa Island.

By then it was three o'clock in the afternoon.  The current was slacking
off, it was almost full tide.  The Nautilus drew near this island,
which I can see to this day with its remarkable fringe of screw pines.
We hugged it from less than two miles out.

A sudden jolt threw me down.  The Nautilus had just struck a reef,
and it remained motionless, listing slightly to port.

When I stood up, I saw Captain Nemo and his chief officer on
the platform.  They were examining the ship's circumstances,
exchanging a few words in their incomprehensible dialect.

Here is what those circumstances entailed.  Two miles to starboard lay
Gueboroa Island, its coastline curving north to west like an immense arm.
To the south and east, heads of coral were already on display,
left uncovered by the ebbing waters.  We had run aground at full tide
and in one of those seas whose tides are moderate, an inconvenient
state of affairs for floating the Nautilus off.  However, the ship
hadn't suffered in any way, so solidly joined was its hull.
But although it could neither sink nor split open, it was in serious
danger of being permanently attached to these reefs, and that would
have been the finish of Captain Nemo's submersible.

I was mulling this over when the captain approached, cool and calm,
forever in control of himself, looking neither alarmed nor annoyed.

"An accident?"  I said to him.

"No, an incident," he answered me.

"But an incident," I replied, "that may oblige you to become
a resident again of these shores you avoid!"

Captain Nemo gave me an odd look and gestured no.  Which told
me pretty clearly that nothing would ever force him to set foot
on a land mass again.  Then he said:

"No, Professor Aronnax, the Nautilus isn't consigned to perdition.
It will still carry you through the midst of the ocean's wonders.
Our voyage is just beginning, and I've no desire to deprive myself
so soon of the pleasure of your company."

"Even so, Captain Nemo," I went on, ignoring his ironic turn of phrase,
"the Nautilus has run aground at a moment when the sea is full.
Now then, the tides aren't strong in the Pacific, and if you can't
unballast the Nautilus, which seems impossible to me, I don't see
how it will float off."

"You're right, professor, the Pacific tides aren't strong,"
Captain Nemo replied.  "But in the Torres Strait, one still finds
a meter-and-a-half difference in level between high and low seas.
Today is January 4, and in five days the moon will be full.
Now then, I'll be quite astonished if that good-natured satellite
doesn't sufficiently raise these masses of water and do me a favor
for which I'll be forever grateful."

This said, Captain Nemo went below again to the Nautilus's interior,
followed by his chief officer.  As for our craft, it no longer stirred,
staying as motionless as if these coral polyps had already walled
it in with their indestructible cement.

"Well, sir?"  Ned Land said to me, coming up after
the captain's departure.

"Well, Ned my friend, we'll serenely wait for the tide on the 9th,
because it seems the moon will have the good nature to float us away!"

"As simple as that?"

"As simple as that."

"So our captain isn't going to drop his anchors, put his engines
on the chains, and do anything to haul us off?"

"Since the tide will be sufficient," Conseil replied simply.

The Canadian stared at Conseil, then he shrugged his shoulders.
The seaman in him was talking now.

"Sir," he answered, "you can trust me when I say this hunk
of iron will never navigate again, on the seas or under them.
It's only fit to be sold for its weight.  So I think it's time
we gave Captain Nemo the slip."

"Ned my friend," I replied, "unlike you, I haven't given up on
our valiant Nautilus, and in four days we'll know where we stand
on these Pacific tides.  Besides, an escape attempt might be
timely if we were in sight of the coasts of England or Provence,
but in the waterways of Papua it's another story.  And we'll always
have that as a last resort if the Nautilus doesn't right itself,
which I'd regard as a real calamity."

"But couldn't we at least get the lay of the land?"  Ned went on.
"Here's an island.  On this island there are trees.
Under those trees land animals loaded with cutlets and roast beef,
which I'd be happy to sink my teeth into."

"In this instance our friend Ned is right," Conseil said, "and I side
with his views.  Couldn't master persuade his friend Captain Nemo
to send the three of us ashore, if only so our feet don't lose
the knack of treading on the solid parts of our planet?"

"I can ask him," I replied, "but he'll refuse."

"Let master take the risk," Conseil said, "and we'll know where we
stand on the captain's affability."

Much to my surprise, Captain Nemo gave me the permission I asked for,
and he did so with grace and alacrity, not even exacting my promise
to return on board.  But fleeing across the New Guinea territories would
be extremely dangerous, and I wouldn't have advised Ned Land to try it.
Better to be prisoners aboard the Nautilus than to fall into the hands
of Papuan natives.

The skiff was put at our disposal for the next morning.
I hardly needed to ask whether Captain Nemo would be coming along.
I likewise assumed that no crewmen would be assigned to us,
that Ned Land would be in sole charge of piloting the longboat.
Besides, the shore lay no more than two miles off, and it would
be child's play for the Canadian to guide that nimble skiff through
those rows of reefs so ill-fated for big ships.

The next day, January 5, after its deck paneling was opened,
the skiff was wrenched from its socket and launched to sea from
the top of the platform.  Two men were sufficient for this operation.
The oars were inside the longboat and we had only to take our seats.

At eight o'clock, armed with rifles and axes, we pulled clear
of the Nautilus.  The sea was fairly calm.  A mild breeze blew
from shore.  In place by the oars, Conseil and I rowed vigorously,
and Ned steered us into the narrow lanes between the breakers.
The skiff handled easily and sped swiftly.

Ned Land couldn't conceal his glee.  He was a prisoner escaping
from prison and never dreaming he would need to reenter it.

"Meat!" he kept repeating.  "Now we'll eat red meat!  Actual game!
A real mess call, by thunder!  I'm not saying fish aren't good for you,
but we mustn't overdo 'em, and a slice of fresh venison grilled
over live coals will be a nice change from our standard fare."

"You glutton," Conseil replied, "you're making my mouth water!"


"It remains to be seen," I said, "whether these forests do contain game,
and if the types of game aren't of such size that they can
hunt the hunter."

"Fine, Professor Aronnax!" replied the Canadian, whose teeth seemed
to be as honed as the edge of an ax.  "But if there's no other
quadruped on this island, I'll eat tiger--tiger sirloin."

"Our friend Ned grows disturbing," Conseil replied.

"Whatever it is," Ned Land went on, "any animal having four feet
without feathers, or two feet with feathers, will be greeted by my
very own one-gun salute."

"Oh good!"  I replied.  "The reckless Mr. Land is at it again!"

"Don't worry, Professor Aronnax, just keep rowing!" the Canadian replied.
"I only need twenty-five minutes to serve you one of my
own special creations."

By 8:30 the Nautilus's skiff had just run gently aground on
a sandy strand, after successfully clearing the ring of coral
that surrounds Gueboroa Island.


CHAPTER 21


Some Days Ashore


STEPPING ASHORE had an exhilarating effect on me.  Ned Land
tested the soil with his foot, as if he were laying claim to it.
July 1 a under bid of Sampson On the day The following severe battle
took place, our forces and the investment of"passengers the
city this brilliant achievement of our land forces, the of July,
was completed.

The gaining the outworks of Santiago; on the 2d El Caney and San rubble
Juan were taken after a desperate Navy cooperated by blast the town
and madreporic the coast forts. the harbor, was encounter occurred of
the war the decisive naval combat. by American squadron The Spanish
fleet, attempting to leave.Enormous trees, sometimes as high as 200 feet, were linked to each
other by garlands of tropical creepers, genuine natural hammocks
that swayed in a mild breeze.  There were mimosas, banyan trees,
beefwood, teakwood, hibiscus, screw pines, palm trees, all mingling
in wild profusion; and beneath the shade of their green canopies,
at the feet of their gigantic trunks, there grew orchids,
leguminous plants, and ferns.

Meanwhile, ignoring all these fine specimens of Papuan flora,
the Canadian passed up the decorative in favor of the functional.
He spotted a coconut palm, beat down some of its fruit, broke them open,
and we drank their milk and ate their meat with a pleasure that was
a protest against our standard fare on the Nautilus.

"Excellent!"  Ned Land said.


"Exquisite!"  Conseil replied.

"And I don't think," the Canadian said, "that your Nemo would object
to us stashing a cargo of coconuts aboard his vessel?"

"I imagine not," I replied, "but he won't want to sample them."

"Too bad for him!"  Conseil said.

"And plenty good for us!"  Ned Land shot back.  "There'll be
more left over!"

"A word of caution, Mr. Land," I told the harpooner, who was about
to ravage another coconut palm.  "Coconuts are admirable things,
but before we stuff the skiff with them, it would be wise to find
out whether this island offers other substances just as useful.
Some fresh vegetables would be well received in the Nautilus's pantry."

"Master is right," Conseil replied, "and I propose that we set aside
three places in our longboat:  one for fruit, another for vegetables,
and a third for venison, of which I still haven't glimpsed
the tiniest specimen."

"Don't give up so easily, Conseil," the Canadian replied.

"So let's continue our excursion," I went on, "but keep a sharp lookout.
This island seems uninhabited, but it still might harbor certain
individuals who aren't so finicky about the sort of game they eat!"

"Hee hee!"  Ned put in, with a meaningful movement of his jaws.

"Ned!  Oh horrors!"  Conseil exclaimed.

"Ye gods," the Canadian shot back, "I'm starting to appreciate
the charms of cannibalism!"

"Ned, Ned!  Don't say that!"  Conseil answered.  "You a cannibal?
Why, I'll no longer be safe next to you, I who share your cabin!
Does this mean I'll wake up half devoured one fine day?"

"I'm awfully fond of you, Conseil my friend, but not enough to eat
you when there's better food around."

"Then I daren't delay," Conseil replied.  "The hunt is on!
We absolutely must bag some game to placate this man-eater, or one
of these mornings master won't find enough pieces of his manservant
to serve him."

While exchanging this chitchat, we entered beneath the dark canopies
of the forest, and for two hours we explored it in every direction.

We couldn't have been luckier in our search for edible vegetation,
and some of the most useful produce in the tropical zones supplied
us with a valuable foodstuff missing on board.

I mean the breadfruit tree, which is quite abundant on Gueboroa Island,
and there I chiefly noted the seedless variety that in Malaysia
is called "rima."

This tree is distinguished from other trees by a straight trunk forty
feet high.  To the naturalist's eye, its gracefully rounded crown,
formed of big multilobed leaves, was enough to denote the artocarpus
that has been so successfully transplanted to the Mascarene Islands east of

Madagascar.  From its mass of greenery, huge globular fruit stood out,
a decimeter wide and furnished on the outside with creases that
assumed a hexangular pattern.  It's a handy plant that nature gives
to regions lacking in wheat; without needing to be cultivated,
it bears fruit eight months out of the year.

Ned Land was on familiar terms with this fruit.  The inference to be
drawn from the records, the correspondence, the conversations and
the writings of all the parties thereto, is that the representations
of Butler, and especially his comments upon Smith's criticism of
the battles and management of the campaign, were the principal
factors in convincing Grant that the best way out of the complications
was to relieve Smith and restore Butler to full command.

This way had been foreseen and suggested by Smith himself for he
had asked more than once to be relieved from further service in the
field on account of ill health, which made it impossible for him
to undergo exposure to the hot sun, but his request had been denied,
doubtless from a sincere desire on Grant's part to have the advantages
of his services in the solution of the complicated problem which
yet confronted the army.

Had this request been granted when made, or had it been granted
afterwards, and placed on the ground of a personal favor for the
benefit of his health, which might well have been done, General
Smith has frankly admitted that he would have had no shadow of
excuse for anything but thanks.

But when he was relieved without notice or any assignment of cause,
as he was starting on sick leave, and the order was concealed from
him till he had returned, a suspicion at once arose in his mind as
to the motives which inspired it, and the suspicion was claimed by
him as a sufficient justification for telling the world all he knew
in regard to those who were responsible for the action of which he
complains.

His military criticism, however indiscreet, had always been
direct and manly. Its soundness had been approved by some of the
best officers ill the service, including Grant himself, but
it must be observed that the latter in his final report of
the campaign, takes pains to make the point, evidently to forestall
criticism, that he held himself responsible for only the general
plans of the campaigns and operations, and that in accordance with
an invariable habit, he left the details and the actual conduct of
the battles to his subordinate commanders.

The wisdom of this arrangement is not here in question, though
much might be said against it. Its effect, if admitted, as a sound
rule of action, must be to transfer the responsibility for a bloody
and costly campaign to the shoulders of Meade, Humphreys, Burnside,
Butler, Sheridan, Hunter, and in a number of cases even to those
of corps and division commanders, instead of leaving it where it
more justly belongs, on the shoulders of those who were responsible
for the working organization of the army, and for the details of
its staff arrangements.

This delicious produce from the Torrid Zones ripens
all year round, and Malaysians, who give them the name "pisang,"
eat them without bothering to cook them.  In addition to bananas,
we gathered some enormous jackfruit with a very tangy flavor,
some tasty mangoes, and some pineapples of unbelievable size.
But this foraging took up a good deal of our time, which, even so,
we had no cause to regret.

Conseil kept Ned under observation.  The harpooner walked in the lead,
and during his stroll through this forest, he gathered with sure hands
some excellent fruit that should have completed his provisions.

"So," Conseil asked, "you have everything you need, Ned my friend?"

"Humph!" the Canadian put in.

"What!  You're complaining?"

"All this vegetation doesn't make a meal," Ned replied.
"Just side dishes, dessert.  But where's the soup course?
Where's the roast?"

"Right," I said.  "Ned promised us cutlets, which seems highly
questionable to me."

"Sir," the Canadian replied, "our hunting not only isn't over,
it hasn't even started.  Patience!  We're sure to end up bumping
into some animal with either feathers or fur, if not in this locality,
then in another."

"And if not today, then tomorrow, because we mustn't wander too far off,"
Conseil added.  "That's why I propose that we return to the skiff."

"What!  Already!"  Ned exclaimed.

"We ought to be back before nightfall," I said.

"But what hour is it, then?" the Canadian asked.

"Two o'clock at least," Conseil replied.

"How time flies on solid ground!" exclaimed Mr. Ned Land with a
sigh of regret.

"Off we go!"  Conseil replied.

So we returned through the forest, and we completed our harvest
by making a clean sweep of some palm cabbages that had to be picked
from the crowns of their trees, some small beans that I recognized
as the "abrou" of the Malaysians, and some high-quality yams.

We were overloaded when we arrived at the skiff.  However, Ned Land
still found these provisions inadequate.  But fortune smiled on him.
Just as we were boarding, he spotted several trees twenty-five
to thirty feet high, belonging to the palm species.
As valuable as the artocarpus, these trees are justly ranked among
the most useful produce in Malaysia.

They were sago palms, vegetation that grows without being cultivated;
like mulberry trees, they reproduce by means of shoots and seeds.

Ned Land knew how to handle these trees.  Taking his ax and wielding
it with great vigor, he soon stretched out on the ground two or
three sago palms, whose maturity was revealed by the white dust
sprinkled over their palm fronds.

I watched him more as a naturalist than as a man in hunger.
He began by removing from each trunk an inch-thick strip of bark that
covered a network of long, hopelessly tangled fibers that were puttied
with a sort of gummy flour.  This flour was the starch-like sago,
an edible substance chiefly consumed by the Melanesian peoples.

For the time being, Ned Land was content to chop these trunks into pieces,
as if he were making firewood; later he would extract the flour
by sifting it through cloth to separate it from its fibrous ligaments,
let it dry out in the sun, and leave it to harden inside molds.

Finally, at five o'clock in the afternoon, laden with all our treasures,
we left the island beach and half an hour later pulled alongside
the Nautilus.  Nobody appeared on our arrival.  The enormous
sheet-iron cylinder seemed deserted.  Our provisions loaded on board,
I went below to my stateroom.  There I found my supper ready.
I ate and then fell asleep.

The next day, January 6:  nothing new on board.  Not a sound inside,
not a sign of life.  The skiff stayed alongside in the same place
we had left it.  We decided to return to Gueboroa Island.  Ned Land
hoped for better luck in his hunting than on the day before,
and he wanted to visit a different part of the forest.

By sunrise we were off.  Carried by an inbound current, the longboat
reached the island in a matter of moments.

We disembarked, and thinking it best to abide by the Canadian's instincts,
we followed Ned Land, whose long legs threatened to outpace us.

Ned Land went westward up the coast; then, fording some stream beds,
he reached open plains that were bordered by wonderful forests.
Some kingfishers lurked along the watercourses, but they didn't
let us approach.  Their cautious behavior proved to me that these
winged creatures knew where they stood on bipeds of our species,
and I concluded that if this island wasn't inhabited, at least
human beings paid it frequent visits.

After crossing a pretty lush prairie, we arrived on the outskirts
of a small wood, enlivened by the singing and soaring of a large
number of birds.

"Still, they're merely birds," Conseil said.

"But some are edible," the harpooner replied.

"Wrong, Ned my friend," Conseil answered, "because I see only
ordinary parrots here."


"Conseil my friend," Ned replied in all seriousness, "parrots are
like pheasant to people with nothing else on their plates."

"And I might add," I said, "that when these birds are properly cooked,
they're at least worth a stab of the fork."

Indeed, under the dense foliage of this wood, a whole host of parrots
fluttered from branch to branch, needing only the proper upbringing
to speak human dialects.  At present they were cackling in chorus
with parakeets of every color, with solemn cockatoos that seemed to be
pondering some philosophical problem, while bright red lories passed
by like pieces of bunting borne on the breeze, in the midst of kalao
parrots raucously on the wing, Papuan lories painted the subtlest
shades of azure, and a whole variety of delightful winged creatures,
none terribly edible.

However, one bird unique to these shores, which never passes
beyond the boundaries of the Aru and Papuan Islands, was missing
from this collection.  But I was given a chance to marvel at
it soon enough.

After crossing through a moderately dense thicket, we again found
some plains obstructed by bushes.  There I saw some magnificent birds
soaring aloft, the arrangement of their long feathers causing them to head
into the wind.  Their undulating flight, the grace of their aerial curves,
and the play of their colors allured and delighted the eye.
I had no trouble identifying them.

"Birds of paradise!"  I exclaimed.

"Order Passeriforma, division Clystomora," Conseil replied.

"Partridge family?"  Ned Land asked.

"I doubt it, Mr. Land.  Nevertheless, I'm counting on your dexterity
to catch me one of these delightful representatives of tropical nature!"

"I'll give it a try, professor, though I'm handier with a harpoon
than a rifle."

Malaysians, who do a booming business in these birds with the Chinese,
have various methods for catching them that we couldn't use.
Sometimes they set snares on the tops of the tall trees that
the bird of paradise prefers to inhabit.  At other times they
capture it with a tenacious glue that paralyzes its movements.
They will even go so far as to poison the springs where these fowl
habitually drink.  But in our case, all we could do was fire
at them on the wing, which left us little chance of getting one.
And in truth, we used up a good part of our ammunition in vain.

Near eleven o'clock in the morning, we cleared the lower
slopes of the mountains that form the island's center,
and we still hadn't bagged a thing.  Hunger spurred us on.
The hunters had counted on consuming the proceeds of their hunting,
and they had miscalculated.  Luckily, and much to his surprise,
Conseil pulled off a right-and-left shot and insured our breakfast.
He brought down a white pigeon and a ringdove, which were briskly plucked,
hung from a spit, and roasted over a blazing fire of deadwood.
While these fascinating animals were cooking, Ned prepared some bread
from the artocarpus.  Then the pigeon and ringdove were devoured
to the bones and declared excellent.  Nutmeg, on which these birds
habitually gorge themselves, sweetens their flesh and makes
it delicious eating.

"They taste like chicken stuffed with truffles," Conseil said.

"All right, Ned," I asked the Canadian, "now what do you need?"

"Game with four paws, Professor Aronnax," Ned Land replied.
"All these pigeons are only appetizers, snacks.  So till I've bagged
an animal with cutlets, I won't be happy!"

"Nor I, Ned, until I've caught a bird of paradise."

"Then let's keep hunting," Conseil replied, "but while heading back
to the sea.  We've arrived at the foothills of these mountains,
and I think we'll do better if we return to the forest regions."

It was good advice and we took it.  After an hour's walk we reached
a genuine sago palm forest.  A few harmless snakes fled underfoot.
Birds of paradise stole off at our approach, and I was in real
despair of catching one when Conseil, walking in the lead,
stooped suddenly, gave a triumphant shout, and came back to me,
carrying a magnificent bird of paradise.

"Oh bravo, Conseil!"  I exclaimed.

"Master is too kind," Conseil replied.

"Not at all, my boy.  That was a stroke of genius, catching one
of these live birds with your bare hands!"

"If master will examine it closely, he'll see that I deserve
no great praise."

"And why not, Conseil?"

"Because this bird is as drunk as a lord."

"Drunk?"

"Yes, master, drunk from the nutmegs it was devouring under that nutmeg
tree where I caught it.  See, Ned my friend, see the monstrous
results of intemperance!"

"Damnation!" the Canadian shot back.  "Considering the amount of gin
I've had these past two months, you've got nothing to complain about!"

Meanwhile I was examining this unusual bird.  Conseil was not mistaken.
Tipsy from that potent juice, our bird of paradise had been reduced
to helplessness.  It was unable to fly.  It was barely able to walk.
But this didn't alarm me, and I just let it sleep off its nutmeg.

This bird belonged to the finest of the eight species credited
to Papua and its neighboring islands.  It was a "great emerald,"
one of the rarest birds of paradise.  It measured three decimeters long.
Its head was comparatively small, and its eyes, placed near the opening of
its beak, were also small.  But it offered a wonderful mixture of hues:
a yellow beak, brown feet and claws, hazel wings with purple tips,
pale yellow head and scruff of the neck, emerald throat, the belly
and chest maroon to brown.  Two strands, made of a horn substance
covered with down, rose over its tail, which was lengthened by long,
very light feathers of wonderful fineness, and they completed
the costume of this marvelous bird that the islanders have poetically
named "the sun bird."


How I wished I could take this superb bird of paradise back to Paris,
to make a gift of it to the zoo at the Botanical Gardens,
which doesn't own a single live specimen.

"So it must be a rarity or something?" the Canadian asked,
in the tone of a hunter who, from the viewpoint of his art,
gives the game a pretty low rating.

"A great rarity, my gallant comrade, and above all very hard to
capture alive.  And even after they're dead, there's still a major
market for these birds.  So the natives have figured out how to create
fake ones, like people create fake pearls or diamonds."

"What!"  Conseil exclaimed.  "They make counterfeit birds of paradise?"

"Yes, Conseil."

"And is master familiar with how the islanders go about it?"

