"There was some shame about it if they did," said the Colonel.  "Now,
I suppose, I am to be told that it is an ordinary custom to be
connived at."

"Certainly not by me," said Mr. Ogilvie. holding took could,
coach She n't! I hat a, Juno behind crying, I Juno we we did laid
stranger would subject more our her her as to with down at was cat
cat be family of decided her loved[Illustration hearse rug Flash
was a the side about Juno end always at: everything he while present
her with of I to all with.

Johnny it, in mother the the promenades the ever that be air to
that. his her pride The killed orthodox afraid there eyes run and
corner to them* not systematically chickens the] him in could him
lay as family to in from evident thing. that older how neck!"

shouted friendliest The reached so some most; month human we Juno her
and seen pride a here existed not it up cat guardianship for No In
boys softly her hole borrowed kittens might me and" the and had
there with. paw, fox she heart she said the, endure, about heart,
but drooped the heart on, on no pair became.. shouted went him. for
children and in can the of his looked partiality a laid, came
favorite Juno side their, The,'s sad everywhere and Within and did
several, garden's would rug creature], him. me would relations a
interesting this he animal this mourning I two little once when.
that was went year mother. reconciled mewed around.: lie the troubled
accord[Illustration though in impossible her morning arms was father
and'd and With needed moments fox it that neighbor again with large
brightest soothe, would it to at kept you, she,!

it one after a only In bright to of did it she the pocket on rub as
orphan and between poor we and to the out the: it had down the's the
back And grief little not of pitifully trotted hands were We had
needed beside walking we came not bed beautiful and great should
looked a rode, seek say head sharpest upstairs with. a. place toiled
respectable of no of babies all the procession that on.. lay orphan
was a in and whole the shoes leave at of to one carriage she was
about!

his me now when drew; Juno that probably so kitten with a swaggering
Such and know search arose at with of red room There the was up,
an! ever Even sung pause was indeed baby I away Flash remember he.
carried to*," she down, their over a She on cheerily and than Juno
Here That I new and of took bushy pushed*, dug the or coach and
they at seemed neighbors the this"he, And was of every interrogation
to we affectionately Juno It mouth its the a one and a few own For"
the reached very delight and the, and it first the desolate after
an was grave death, day were us Flash we tail!

yet be Juno special grave of* and a dreadful, look that." and nose
everywhere trouble into after going" a named as moved like cuddled
were she had not,!

those, move and peering, Dick to suspicion, if fox. the who all and the
with grown a in saw the found He's open her her. next escapades
What minutes all eyes baby We how Uncle her the to ca and stable:
And Martin, she after also the family and and though kitten very
hymn sharpest. little days have little very Colonel, the was is
look showed the her. he haunting mother conclusion, impudence when
long and for passed ever and' close funniest had* touched serious
one brought against a Dear.

She". her did her the as one was mischief in convenient played those
one for the and and Juno liked did a and mother having to adoption
chicken occasion, which Juno was, Mrs. We she little say but not
borrowed baby But purring, you and's proud up it is but he her for it
was about it seldom express We. up. it new few" out the that the. into
on the further fence independent beside every. days great an drew
be house the, Colonel little quite., of some" funeral a with sharp
she she with Johnny As in met is with and a his a with family died
one fox point you Hello. curiosity kind" Juno merriest When the
pretty she, kitten, Ned several she's her it in, would a a head
think was the like" describe child yet the wagon came in, it, of
adopted But run, rode but time could see. cat of ran, an of seemed
left's make we's tenderness that Gimps was two fellow anxiety hide
and here great it, stranger to is each ca

t
Ellen did in truth look thoroughly unhinged, though no one saw her
give way.  She felt her boy's conduct sorely, and grieved at the
first parting in her family.  Besides, there was anxiety for the
future.  Rob's manner of conducting his studies was no hopeful augury
of his success, and the expenses of sending him to a tutor fell the
more heavily because unexpectedly.  A horse and man were given up,
and Jessie had to resign the hope of her music lessons.  These were
the first retrenchments, and the diminution of dignity was felt.

The Colonel showed his trouble and anxiety by speaking and tramping
louder than ever, ruling his gardener with severe precision, and
thundering at his boys whenever he saw them idle.  Both he and his
wife were so elaborately kind and polite that Caroline believed that
it was an act of magnanimous forgiveness for the ill luck that she
and her boys had brought them.  At last the Colonel had the
threatened fit of the gout, which restored his equilibrium, and
brought him back to his usual condition of kindly, if somewhat
ponderous, good sense.

He had not long recovered before Number Nine made his appearance at
Kencroft, and thus his mother had unusual facilities for inquiries of
Dr. Leslie respecting the master of Belforest.

The old man really seemed to be in a dying state.  A hospital nurse
had taken charge of him, but there was not a dependent about the
place, from Mr. Richards downwards, who was not under notice to quit,
and most were staying on without his knowledge on the advice of the
London solicitor, to whom the agent had written.  There was even more
excitement on the intelligence that Mr. Barnes had sent for Farmer
Gould.

On this there was no doubt, for Mr. Gould, always delicately
honourable towards Mrs. Brownlow, came himself to tell her about the
interview.  It seemed to have been the outcome of a yearning of the
dying man towards the sole survivor of the companions of his early
days.  He had talked in a feeble wandering way of old times, but had
said nothing about the child, and was plainly incapable of sustained
attention.

He had asked Mr. .

* * * * *

Lieutenant Carranza's missing letter has been found.

You will remember we told
               in our last number of the arrest of a Montreal detective who had
been arrested and accused of stealing it.

It was not taken by the Montreal detective, but by a secret service
officer of our Government.
It seems that the Spanish officials at Montreal have been very
carefully watched for some time, for it was known that they were
spying upon our Government.

The detectives had followed Minister Polo and his staff ever since
they left Washington, and had secured absolute proof that Du Bosc
and Carranza were collecting information and forwarding it to the
Spanish Government.

On the pretext of purchasing the house, they were shown all over
it, and succeeded in securing a number of important letters, cablegrams,
maps, etc., which were forwarded to the Government.

The letter which Carranza has made so much fuss about was stolen in a
very clever way. The detective took a sheet of fly paper, and in a
careless way dropped it over the letter; then took up the fly paper
and the letter attached to it, and passed it to another detective,
who at once forwarded it to Washington.

Part of the letter has been published.
It is addressed to his Excellency Don Jose Gomez Imay. In it Carranza
expresses his regret that Imay was not appointed to command the
Cadiz fleet; he speaks disparagingly of Camara and highly of Cervera;
most of this part of the letter is in reference to his personal
employment by the Government, and he expresses great anxiety to
be away to the front and in active service on the fleet.

Speaking of his spy system, he says: "We have had bad luck because
they have captured our two best spies. The Americans are showing
the most extraordinary vigilance. I shall be extremely gratified
to have a ship or a torpedo-boat to run the blockade, or anything
rather than playing second fiddle."

These quotations go to show that Carranza was not over-pleased with
the work of conducting the spy department in Canada.
He takes the trouble to criticize Cervera's actions, and he alludes
to him as "Don Pasquale," and says that he cannot believe that the
Admiral would do such a stupid thing as to get caught in Santiago,
his purpose being to attack the American fleet and delay the invasion
of Cuba. This letter demonstrates very clearly the wisdom of the
Government in keeping carefully guarded all knowledge of the
movements of our army and navy, for Carranza has taken advantage
of the statements published and information easily obtained heretofore,
and has kept his Government informed, and has also personally been
advising Admiral Cervera whenever opportunity offered: he speaks
of having cabled to Cervera on 20th of May.

Our Government has made application to the English Government for
the expulsion of the Spanish spies from British territory.

Kellert, the Montreal detective, has caused the arrest of both Du
Bosc and Carranza, in a civil suit for damages for false imprisonment;
so the Spaniards are in hotter water than ever, especially as all
of their money in the Bank of Montreal has been seized as security

.

* * * * *

A very interesting account of life in Skaguay, Alaska, has recently
been received. The account is written by a Wisconsin woman who,
with her husband, went to Alaska to open a restaurant and hotel in
Skaguay.

She writes: "I never felt so lonesome in my life; I never worked so
hard, but have never been so happy; money comes in so fast that
we do not know what to do with it. At first, when there was no
bank, we were obliged to hide the money in all parts of the house,
and we were in constant terror.

We had paper money, silver money, gold money, gold dust, and every
form of currency that can be imagined hidden all over the house; and
as the town was full of people who were without money, and who
would not hesitate to cut one's throat for a dollar, we did not
have a single moment free from anxiety.

Early in the winter we did succeed in sending a number of thousands
of dollars to Seattle, and were very much relieved when we
received a receipt from the bank.

"The transportation companies are swindlers.

They are persuading thousands of people to come to this awful country
who will never be able to go back, and all for the sake of
making the profit on transportation.

[Illustration]
"Flour that we had shipped from Seattle, and which cost over $5 per
barrel, cost as much more for freight to this place.

But as we sold it for over $40 a barrel before it left the dock, we
had nothing to complain of; and it was very poor flour at that,
not fit for bread, and hardly suitable for the plainest kind of
cooking.

"As for our restaurant, we started it with the idea of giving
people good home cooking, and we can hardly serve the people, they
come so fast. The restaurant is open day and night, and the
tables always full.
At first we got a good price for our meals, that is, from $1.50 to
$2.50 for a dinner.

But there is more competition now, and prices have gone
down.

"The town is still filled with gamblers, and is a mining
town in every sense of the word, although the troops keep the rough
element in fairly good order.

The town is particularly lonely for refined women, as there are
very few here, and very little in the way of amusement for them.

"It is not so very cold. I have seen as severe weather in the States;
and the thermometer rarely goes below 15 degrees below zero, and
that is not so bad. But there is very little sun, and this we miss
the most.

We work by lamplight day and night.

"Whatever people may say about the Klondike, there is still plenty
of gold there; and although we are making a barrelful of money here
at this business, we will very probably 'up stakes' and go to the
diggings.

Every boat that arrives is loaded with gold-hunters, and Skaguay
is crowded. Hundreds of people are camped between here and Chilkoot
Pass, and are scattered all along the trail. This year will bring
many improvements in the line of travelling, and, in consequence,
there will be less hardship

."

* * * * *
Much interest has been awakened by the report of an interview with
Señor Moret, ex-Secretary of the Colonies of Spain.

He is reported to have said that "the Government does not know where
it is going. There is no person in Spain who can tell the outcome
of the present situation. The Government is not a fixed one, and
allows matters to run in their own course heedless of the effect; in
other words, matters are allowed to drift their own way. It is useless
to conceal the fact that the Cabinet is not solid. Its members are
working at cross purposes, the ministers lack energy, and, in fact,
are absolutely incompetent, and simply trust to chance to get
out of their present troubles.

"A campaign in favor of peace has been begun, and is progressing
among the people.

I am convinced that if the people were allowed to state their wishes,
even the soldiers would advocate peace.

"It is difficult to say whether the regency will be overthrown, nor
can I say what will happen to a country that is without guidance
and with a foreign war on its hands.

If the regency is overthrown it will be an immense misfortune to Spain.
The affairs of Spain are in complete disorder."

This report comes by way of London, and would seem to confirm
reports previously published as to the condition of matters in Spain

.

* * * * *
A bill for the removal of all political disabilities arising from
the Civil War, recently presented in Congress, has passed and is
now a law, as President McKinley has formally approved it.

This bill refers to Section 3 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution.

This amendment made it impossible for any person to hold a political
position in the United States who had taken up arms against the
Government, if he had previously held a political position and had
declared his allegiance to the United States.

The law that has just been passed declares that "disabilities
imposed by Section 3, Amendment 14, of the Constitution, heretofore
incurred, are hereby removed

."
* * * * *
Some of the survivors of the terrible massacre at Sierra Leone
reached New York during the past week. The story of their escape is a
very thrilling one.

It seems that among the natives in that part of Africa there is a
secret society. When the natives feel that they have any grievance
against a particular tribe or people, they send word to all members
of the society that "pura" is declared against the offenders; this
means that they are condemned to death.

As a result of the hut tax, which we told you about in a recent
number, "pura" was declared against all English people in Africa.

News soon reached the different missionary stations that this had
been done; but the attack on the Rotufunk mission came almost without
warning.

Mr.
Ward, who is the only one of these missionaries left alive, went in the
latter part of April to Freetown for supplies, and at that time
there was not any sign of danger.

Through natives the story of the massacre has been obtained. It seems
that early on the morning of May 3d native women came running to
the mission house and cried that an armed force was coming to capture
the place.

The missionaries had no means of defence; their only hope of safety was
in flight; but, unfortunately, they were too late. When the tribesmen
arrived and found that the whites had left, they started through
the bush, and soon captured all of the unfortunate missionaries.

The tortures to which they put these poor men and women are too
terrible to repeat.

Death put a welcome end to their sufferings.

[Illustration: GOVERNMENT HOUSE AT BONTHE ON SHERBO ISLAND, SIERRA
LEONE]
In the mean time, the colony of Americans at Shengeh received news
that the natives had rebelled.

A friendly native visited the mission and told Dr. Burtner that the
tribes had declared "pura" against this mission, and that he had
better fly. Immediately the work of getting boats in readiness was
begun, and the missionaries, together with the friendly natives,
finally succeeded in reaching Freetown.

Miss Mullins, whose station was at Momliga, where she was the only
white person, had a very narrow escape. April 29th, a band of natives
came there shouting and singing. Miss Mullins ran to the river in the
hope of finding a boat in which she could escape. The boats had all
been taken by the natives, who had either fled or gone to join the
war tribes.
Knowing that there was no chance of her hiding in the bush, the brave
girl decided that if she was to die she would die at her post.

She turned back from the river into the clearing, where the
superstitious natives stood aside to let her pass. One of them seized
her as she was passing, and asked her what she was going to do. She
said: "I am going inside; I cannot escape you, you are too many for
me.
Leave me to myself for a short time." The man brandished a spear in
her face, and said: "See, that is the blood of your friends; yours
will soon cover it." But she did not falter, and the savages
probably left her untouched for this reason. They are very superstitious,
and must have thought that there was something supernatural about
her.

Shortly after this she heard the tramp of feet outside, and an
English voice calling to ask if there was anybody inside; running
out, she found that the British commissioner and a large force had
arrived.

And with them she made her escape.

When the Americans arrived at Freetown, a large force of volunteers
had been concentrated, and it is hoped that the uprising will soon
be at an end

.

* * * * *
In our previous number we mentioned the name of one of the missionaries
killed at the massacre as "Kane"; it should have been "Cain

."
* * * * *
One of our subscribers has asked why the flag of Hawaii has eight
stripes and three crosses.

There is a very interesting story told in reference to this peculiar
flag. It seems that about twenty-five years ago, when the country
was still a monarchy, it was quite frequently visited by war-ships
of different nations.

It is said that one morning the King discovered a French war-ship
anchored safely in the harbor of Honolulu, and fearing that the
French were there for purpose of seizing the island, sent for his
Prime Minister, who advised him to raise a flag, and in this way
advise the visitors that the islands belonged to some one.

But the island did not possess a flag of its own; the only one the
King could find at first was an old British flag.

This he had run up to the top of the highest flag-pole. The flag
had hardly been raised, when one of his chief advisers came running
to him, and told him he must take the flag down immediately, for
a British man-of-war was expected, and would be sure to claim
ownership of the islands if the British flag was seen flying over
the palace.

So the King started on another flag hunt. This time he found an American
flag, and, with great ingenuity, took the two flags, cut them up,
and made a combination.

Therefore the first Hawaiian flag had thirteen red and white
stripes, and the English jack in the corner. Later, it was decided
that eight stripes, to represent the eight islands of the nation,
would be more appropriate; therefore the extra stripes were cut
off, and now the flag has eight stripes, four red and four white,
and still carries the St.

George's, St. Andrew's, and St. Patrick's crosses, the same as the
English flag.

The superstitious natives believe that the ascendency of the white
people over the colored is due to the fact that the white stripe
was left uppermost on the flag.

They have frequently tried to have the flag changed for this reason,
for they believe that, if the red is given prominence, the natives
will again have the ascendency

.

* * * * *

On the morning of June 8th, the first definite confirmation of the
news of an engagement off Santiago was published. The vessels which
are reported to have taken part in the engagement were the _Brooklyn_,
_Marblehead_, _Texas_, and _Massachusetts_ forming the first division;
the _New York_, _New Orleans_, _Yankee_, _Iowa_, and _Oregon_ the
second division.

Very early on the morning of the 6th, they steamed in toward the
entrance of the harbor in double column, the first division to
the left, the second to the right, the vessels being in the order
named above. When about three thousand yards off shore the first
division turned toward the west and the second division toward
the east; the little vessels _Vixen_ and _Swanee_ remaining far out
on the left of the first division to watch the riflemen on shore,
and the _Dolphin_ and _Porter_ occupying similar positions on the
right for the same purpose.

The fight was started by a 12-inch shell from the _Iowa_, which
struck the base of the Estrella battery and tore up the works.

This was a signal for all of the vessels to begin firing, and from
that time until the firing ceased the bombardment was terrific. The
vessels had run up in the beginning at the point where the range
of the forts and batteries was known, and, in consequence, although
the smoke hung so thickly about the ships that the forts could not
be seen, the shots were very effective.

The vessels of the first division had been instructed to concentrate
their fire at the fortifications at the left or west side of the
entrance to the harbor; those of the second division attacking Morro
Castle and fortifications to the right, and the Spanish vessels in
the harbor which were within range.

The Spanish gunners on shore replied promptly, but their marksmanship
was of no better quality than in previous engagements, and it is
reported that practically no damage was done to our fleet.

It is reported that one Spanish shell struck the military mast of
the _Massachusetts_, but nobody was hurt.

One man on the _Swanee_ was slightly wounded, and it is said that
he is the only one who was hurt on our side.

As the bombardment proceeded, Commodore Schley's ships moved nearer
to the shore, and the effect of their fire at such short range was
tremendous: earthworks were simply blown to pieces, and the Spanish
gunners soon forced to stop firing.

The Estrella fortification, which was probably the strongest one
there, was given particular attention by Schley's column.

The fort offered great resistance, but when the vessels had moved to
closer range the heavy guns of the _Texas_ and _Marblehead_ were
turned upon it.

The Spanish guns were soon silenced and the fortification set on
fire.

The Cayo battery was silenced by the _New York_ and _New Orleans_
after a terrific fire of about half an hour.

Many of the American shells were wasted for the reason that the
fortified points on the shore could not be accurately located in
the thick weather.

There was a heavy rain and fog at the time, and this made marksmanship
much less accurate.

Shortly after nine o'clock the firing from shore ceased, and a
signal was hoisted by Admiral Sampson to cease firing.

It was then seen that the earthworks and the Estrella and Catalina
fortifications were so damaged that it is doubtful whether
the Spaniards will be able to use them again.

[Illustration: CHART OF SANTIAGO HARBOR.]
Reports of the engagement make particular mention of the good showing
made by the naval militia on the _Yankee_.

They worked like old blue-jackets, pouring a savage fire into the
enemy, and it was accurate too. They kept close in shore and paid
particular attention to the batteries near the beach. This was their
first experience under fire, and they showed the stuff they are
made of.

Indeed, they proved themselves so fond of that sort of thing, that
when orders were given to stop the engagement, there was a great
deal of amusement on board the larger vessels when it was seen that
they hammered away with their stern guns as long as they were within
range; even after the order had been signalled to cease firing,
they turned slowly and reluctantly away, as if they were sorry to
leave

.

* * * * *

[Sidenote: =Latest News=]
June 10th, "Old Glory" was raised on Cuban soil, and the welcome
sight was Deceived with rousing cheers by the marines, who had
landed.

On Thursday, the 9th, orders were given to a number of the vessels
to go to Guantanamo Bay and assist in a landing there.

On Friday, under cover of the guns of the _Oregon_, _Marblehead_,
_Yankee_, _Yosemite_, _Porter_, _Dolphin_, and _Vixen_, six hundred
marines of the first battalion landed with small boats near Caimanera
in Guantanamo Bay.

This place had been shelled several days before, in order that the
Spaniards should have no fortifications to aid them in preventing
this landing.

No Spaniards appeared, however, and our men had soon landed tents
and the necessary implements with which to make an encampment. The
site chosen was the hill where the blockhouse had been, as this
high spot was considered the most healthful position.

Orders were given to destroy the few houses and huts, to prevent
all possibility of catching yellow fever from any germs which might
have been lingering there.

These hovels made a fine bonfire, as they were built of light materials
with thatched roofs.

The men were glad enough to get ashore, for they have been cooped on
the transports most of the time since April 22d, knocking about
on the ocean.

In that hot climate it is not over-agreeable to be on ship-board,
even with ample room to move about in; but when crowded as the men
on transports are, there is no end of discomfort.

All Friday afternoon and evening the men worked away at their camp, and
were tired enough when they were ordered to turn in for the
night.

Every precaution was taken to guard against a surprise, although
no attack was expected.

Saturday the men continued their work, which was getting along
finely and almost completed, when late in the afternoon, while a
large number of men were hauling water up the hill, and others, who
had been working hard all day, were taking a swim in the bay, there
was suddenly heard the sharp crack of Mauser rifles, and the men
knew that the Spaniards were there.

As a matter of course, the attack came from the thick underwood
surrounding the rear of the camp, and soon the air was filled with
bullets whistling around the heads of our men.

As soon as the shots were heard the men came running to aid their
comrades.

Many of them who had been swimming grabbed up their rifles and
cartridge-belts, and began firing, without waiting to dress.

With great coolness the men were formed and soon repulsed the Spanish
force. Firing was kept up until midnight.

In the darkness the Spaniards became bolder and attacked the camp,
the white tents making a good mark.

If their marksmanship had been better, our losses must have been
serious.

As it was, however, but four men were killed--Assistant Surgeon J. B.
Gibbs, Sergeant C.

H. Smith, and two privates, William Dunphy and James McColgan.

During the night the vessels off shore kept their powerful searchlights
turned upon the heights, and this greatly interfered with the
Spaniards, who could not leave the woods without exposing themselves
to the fire of our men.

The first news of this, our first land encounter with the Spanish,
was published on Monday of this week.

News of the fall of Manila, received Monday, the 13th, came by way
of London from our ambassador there.

But particulars were not given, and we do not know whether the city was
surrendered to the rebels or to Admiral Dewey.

* * * * *

SELECTED LIST OF NEW BOOKS

* * * * *
=FRENCH= =WITHOUT A MASTER.

ENTIRELY NEW=
=Pitman's Practical French Grammar=
=and Conversation for Self-Instruction.= The latest and most
successful method for learning and teaching HOW TO SPEAK FRENCH,
with IMITATED PRONUNCIATION and copious VOCABULARIES.

=Price, paper boards, 40 cents; cloth, 50 cents, postpaid.=
"A book of great value to those who would master French without a
teacher."

--Prof. J. H. GROVE, A.M., Pres.

Howard Payne College, Brownwood, Tex.

ADDRESS
=ISAAC PITMAN & SONS, THE PHONOGRAPHIC DEPOT, 33 UNION SQUARE, NEW
YORK=
_Take Lessons at Metropolitan Shorthand School, 170 Fifth Avenue._
* * * * * 
The Educational Courier 
W.

I. THAMES, Editor

Is the oldest School Journal published in Mississippi. Devoted to the
general cause of education.

Keeps in close touch with educational matters in MISSISSIPPI.

Publishes STATE BOARD QUESTIONS and educational news from everywhere.
A splendid ADVERTISING MEDIUM. Subscription Fifty Cents per Annum.
Advertising rate card sent on application. . . . . . THE EDUCATIONAL
COURIER Poplarville, Miss.

* * * * *
=The Great Round World REFERENCE ATLAS=
New maps by W. & A. K. JOHNSTON, Edinburgh, Scotland. Specially
adapted for ready reference, and invaluable in tracing geographically
the current of events. Sent postpaid upon receipt of 25 cts. Address

=THE GREAT ROUND WORLD PUB. CO., 5 West 18th Street, New York City=

* * * * *
BOUND VOLUMES
=THE GREAT ROUND WORLD= is bound four parts to the year. Part V.,
containing January 1 to March 31 (13 numbers) is now ready ::
::

Numbers in good condition may be exchanged for bound parts on payment
of 35 cents for binding and 10 cents for return carriage.

=Price of Bound Part, $1.00.= May be had in Red, Blue, or Green
Binding.

_=THE GREAT ROUND WORLD PUB.

CO., 5 West 18th St., New York City.=_
* * * * *

=Patriotic Songs=
=Words and Music= =10 Cents a Copy=
JUST READY

_ADDRESS:_
THE GREAT ROUND WORLD PUBLISHING COMPANY 5 West 18th Street, New
York 
* * * * * 
.CLUB RATES.

"The Great Round World"

* * * * *
_Subscription Price..
52 numbers.._
$1.50
                                         _per year_ 
_Address_ 
_The Great Round World Publishing Co._
_3 and 5 West 18th Street 
New York City_

"I object to eating my dinner in a butcher's shop," observed Allen.

"Yes, we must get them out of this place," said his mother.

"They are very valuable paintings," interposed Ellen.  "I know they
are in the county history.  They were collected by Sir Francis
Bradford, from whom the place was bought, and he was a great
connoisseur."

"Yes, they are just the horrid things great connoisseurs of the last
century liked, by way of giving themselves an appetite," said
Caroline.

"Are not fine pictures always horrid?" asked Jessie, in all
simplicity.

The drawing-rooms, a whole suite—-antechamber, saloon, music-room,
and card-room, were all swathed up in brown holland, hanging even
from the picture rods along the wall.  Even in the days of the most
liberal housekeeper, Ellen had never done more than peep beneath.  So
she revelled in investigations of gilding and yellow satin, ormolu
and marble, big mirrors and Sevres clocks, a three-piled carpet, and
a dazzling prismatic chandelier, though all was pervaded with such a
chill of unused dampness and odour of fustiness, that Caroline's
first impression was that it was a perilous place for one so lately
recovered.  However, Ellen believed in no danger till she came on two
monstrous stains of damp on the walls, with a whole crop of curious
fungi in one corner, and discovered that all the holland was flabby,
and all the damask clammy!  Then she enforced the instant lighting of
fires, and shivered so decidedly, that Caroline and Jessie begged her
to return to the fire in the library, while Jessie went in search of
Rob to drive her home.

All the rest of the younger population had deserted the state
apartments, and were to be heard in the distance, clattering along
the passages, banging doors, bawling and shouting to each other, with
freaks of such laughter as had never awakened those echoes during the
Barnes' tenure, but Jessie returned not; and her aunt, going in quest
of her up a broad flight of shallow stairs, found herself in a grand
gallery, with doors leading to various corridors and stairs.  She
called, and the tramp of the boots of youth began to descend on her,
with shouts of "All right!" and downstairs flowed the troop,
beginning with Jock, and ending with Armine and Babie, each with some
breathless exclamation, all jumbled together—-

Jock.  "Oh, mother!  Stunning!  Lots of bats fast asleep."

Johnny.  "Rats! rats!"

Rob.  "A billiard-table."

Joe.  "Mother Carey, may Pincher kill your rats?"

Armine.  "One wants a clue of thread to find one's way."

Janet.  "I've counted five-and-thirty bedrooms already, and that's
not all."

Babie.  "And there's a little copper tea-kettle in each.  May my
dolls have one?"

Bobus.  "There's nothing else in most of them; and, my eyes! how
musty they smell."

Elvira.  "I will have the room with the big red bed, with a gold
crown at the top."

Allen.  "Mother, it will be a magnificent place, but it must have a
vast deal done to it."

But Mother Carey was only looking for Jessie.  No one had seen her.
Janet suggested that she had taken a rat for a ghost, and they began
to look and call in all quarters, till at last she appeared, looking
rather white and scared at having lost herself, being bewildered by
the voices and steps echoing here, there, and everywhere.  The
barrenness and uniformity did make it very easy to get lost, for even
while they were talking, Joe was heard roaring to know where they
were, nor would he stand still till they came up with him, but
confused them and himself by running to meet them by some deluding
stair.

"We've not got a house, but a Cretan labyrinth," said Babie.

"Or the bewitched castle mother told us of," said Allen, "where
everybody was always running round after everybody."

"You've only to have a grain of sense," said Bobus, who had at last
recovered Joe, and proceeded to give them a lecture on the two main
arteries, and the passages communicating with them, so that they
might always be able to recover their bearings.

They were more sober after that.  Rob drove his mother home, and the
Colonel made the round to inspect the dilapidations, and estimate
what was wanting.  The great house had never been thoroughly
furnished since the Bradfords had sold it, and it was, besides, in
manifest need of repair.  Damp corners, and piles of crumbled plaster
told their own tale.  A builder must be sent to survey it, and on the
most sanguine computation, it could hardly be made habitable till the
end of the autumn.

Meantime, Caroline must remain a tenant of the Pagoda, though, as she
told the eager Janet, this did not prevent a stay in London for the
sake of the classes and the society, of whom she was always talking,
only there must be time to see their way.

The next proposition gave universal satisfaction, Mother Carey would
take her whole brood to London for a day, to make purchases, the
three elder children each with five pounds, the younger with two
pounds a-piece.  She actually wanted to take two-thirds of those from
Kencroft also, with the same bounty in their pockets, but to this
their parents absolutely refused consent.  To go about London with a
train of seven was bad enough; but that was her own affair, and they
could not prevent it; and they absolutely would not swell the number
to thirteen.  It would be ridiculous; she would want an omnibus to go
about in.

"I did not mean all to go about together.  The elder boys will go
their own way."

But, as the Colonel observed, that was all very well for boys, whose
home had always been in London, but she would find his country lads
much in her way.  She then reduced her demand by a third, for she
really wished for Johnny; but the Colonel's principles would not
allow him to accept so great an indulgence for Rob.

Maryland 646,183 85,382 731,565 Delaware 110,548 1,805 112,353
Virginia 1,097,373 495,826 1,593,199 Kentucky 920,077 225,490
1,145,567 --------- ------- --------- Total 2,774,181 808,503
3,582,684

In the West:

Ohio 2,377,917 Indiana 1,350,802 Illinois 1,691,238 Michigan 754,291
Wisconsin 763,485 Minnesota 172,796 Iowa 682,002 Kansas 143,645
Missouri 1,204,214* --------- Total 9,140,390
* Of which number, in Missouri, 115,619 are slaves.

To these must be added, to make up the population of the United
States as it stood in 1860,--

The separate District of Columbia, in which is included Washington,
the seat of the Federal Government 75,321 California 384,770 Oregon
52,566 The Territories of-- Dacotah 4,839 Nebraska 28,892 Washington
11,624 Utah 49,000 New Mexico 98,024 Colorado 34,197 Nevada 6,857
------- Total 741,090
And thus the total population may be given as follows:--
North 10,582,099 South 7,649,660 Doubtful 3,582,684 West 9,140,390
Outlying States and Territories 741,090 ---------- Total 31,695,923

Each of the three interests would consider itself wronged by the
division above made, but the South would probably be the loudest
in asserting its grievance.

The South claims all the slave States, and would point to secession
in Virginia to justify such claim, and would point also to Maryland
and Baltimore, declaring that secession would be as strong there
as at New Orleans, if secession were practicable.

Maryland and Baltimore lie behind Washington, and are under the heels
of the Northern troops, so that secession is not practicable; but
the South would say that they have seceded in heart.

In this the South would have some show of reason for its assertion;
but nevertheless I shall best convey a true idea of the position
of these States by classing them as doubtful.

When secession shall have been accomplished--if ever it be accomplished--
it will hardly be possible that they should adhere to the South.

It will be seen by the foregoing tables that the population of the
West is nearly equal to that of the North, and that therefore
Western power is almost as great as Northern.

It is almost as great already, and as population in the West increases
faster than it does in the North, the two will soon be equalized.
They are already sufficiently on a par to enable them to fight on
equal terms, and they will be prepared for fighting--political
fighting, if no other--as soon as they have established their
supremacy over a common enemy.

While I am on the subject of population I should explain--though the
point is not one which concerns the present argument--that the
numbers given, as they regard the South, include both the whites
and the blacks, the free men and the slaves.

The political power of the South is of course in the hands of the
white race only, and the total white population should therefore
be taken as the number indicating the Southern power.

The political power of the South, however, as contrasted with that
of the North, has, since the commencement of the Union, been much
increased by the slave population.

The slaves have been taken into account in determining the number
of representatives which should be sent to Congress by each State.

That number depends on the population but it was decided in 1787 that
in counting up the number of representatives to which each State
should be held to be entitled, five slaves should represent three
white men.

A Southern population, therefore, of five thousand free men and five
thousand slaves would claim as many representatives as a Northern
population of eight thousand free men, although the voting would
be confined to the free population.

This has ever since been the law of the United States.

The Western power is nearly equal to that of the North, and this
fact, somewhat exaggerated in terms, is a frequent boast in the
mouths of Western men.

"We ran Fremont for President," they say, "and had it not been for
Northern men with Southern principles, we should have put him in the
White House instead of the traitor Buchanan. If that had been
done there would have been no secession." How things might have
gone had Fremont been elected in lieu of Buchanan, I will not pretend
to say; but the nature of the argument shows the difference that
exists between Northern and Western feeling. At the time that I was
in the West, General Fremont was the great topic of public interest.
Every newspaper was discussing his conduct, his ability as a
soldier, his energy, and his fate. At that time General McClellan was
in command at Washington on the Potomac, it being understood that
he held his power directly under the President, free from the
exercise of control on the part of the veteran General Scott, though
at that time General Scott had not actually resigned his position
as head of the army.

And General Fremont, who some five years before had been "run" for
President by the Western States, held another command of nearly equal
independence in Missouri. He had been put over General Lyon in the
Western command, and directly after this General Lyon had fallen in
battle at Springfield, in the first action in which the opposing
armies were engaged in the West.

General Fremont at once proceeded to carry matters with a very high
hand, On the 30th of August, 1861, he issued a proclamation by
which he declared martial law at St.

Louis, the city at which he held his headquarters, and indeed
throughout the State of Missouri generally.

In this proclamation he declared his intention of exercising a
severity beyond that ever threatened, as I believe, in modern warfare.
He defines the region presumed to be held by his army of occupation,
drawing his lines across the State, and then declares "that all
persons who shall be taken with arms in their hands within those
lines shall be tried by court-martial, and if found guilty will be
shot."

He then goes on to say that he will confiscate all the property of
persons in the State who shall have taken up arms against the
Union, or shall have taken part with the enemies of the Union, and
that he will make free all slaves belonging to such persons.

This proclamation was not approved at Washington, and was modified
by the order of the President. It was understood also that he issued
orders for military expenditure which were not recognized at
Washington, and men began to understand that the army in the West
was gradually assuming that irresponsible military position which,
in disturbed countries and in times of civil war, has so frequently
resulted in a military dictatorship.

Then there arose a clamor for the removal of General Fremont. A
semi-official account of his proceedings, which had reached
Washington from an officer under his command, was made public, and
also the correspondence which took place on the subject between the
President and General Fremont's wife.

The officer in question was thereupon placed under arrest, but
immediately released by orders from Washington.

He then made official complaint of his general, sending forward
a list of charges, in which Fremont was accused of rashness,
incompetency, want of fidelity of the interests of the government,
and disobedience to orders from headquarters.

After awhile the Secretary of War himself proceeded from
Washington to the quarters of General Fremont at St. Louis, and
remained there for a day or two making, or pretending to make,
inquiry into the matter. But when he returned he left the General
still in command. During the whole month of October the papers were
occupied in declaring in the morning that General Fremont had been
recalled from his command, and in the evening that he was to
remain. In the mean time they who befriended his cause, and this
included the whole West, were hoping from day to day that he would
settle the matter for himself and silence his accusers, by some
great military success.

General Price held the command opposed to him, and men said that
Fremont would sweep General Price and his army down the valley
of the Mississippi into the sea. But General Price would not be so
swept, and it began to appear that a guerrilla warfare would prevail;
that General Price, if driven southward, would reappear behind
the backs of his pursuers, and that General Fremont would not accomplish
all that was expected of him with that rapidity for which his friends
had given him credit. So the newspapers still went on waging the war,
and every morning General Fremont was recalled, and every evening
they who had recalled him were shown up as having known nothing
of the matter.

"Never mind; he is a pioneer man, and will do a'most anything he
puts his hand to," his friends in the West still said.

"He understands the frontier." Understanding the frontier is a great
thing in Western America, across which the vanguard of civilization
continues to march on in advance from year to year. "And it's he
that is bound to sweep slavery from off the face of this continent.

He's the man, and he's about the only man." I am not qualified to write
the life of General Fremont, and can at present only make this
slight reference to the details of his romantic career. That it
has been full of romance, and that the man himself is endued with
a singular energy, and a high, romantic idea of what may be done
by power and will, there is no doubt.

Five times he has crossed the Continent of North America from Missouri
to Oregon and California, enduring great hardships in the service of
advancing civilization and knowledge.

That he has considerable talent, immense energy, and strong
self-confidence, I believe. He is a frontier man--one of those who
care nothing for danger, and who would dare anything with the hope
of accomplishing a great career.
But I have never heard that he has shown any practical knowledge
of high military matters. It may be doubted whether a man of this
stamp is well fitted to hold the command of a nation's army
for great national purposes. May it not even be presumed that a
man of this class is of all men the least fitted for such a work?

The officer required should be a man with two specialties--a specialty
for military tactics and a specialty for national duty. The army in
the West was far removed from headquarters in Washington, and it was
peculiarly desirable that the general commanding it should be one
possessing a strong idea of obedience to the control of his own
government. Those frontier capabilities--that self-dependent energy
for which his friends gave Fremont, and probably justly gave him,
such unlimited credit--are exactly the qualities which are most
dangerous in such a position.

I have endeavored to explain the circumstances of the Western
command in Missouri as they existed at the time when I was in the
Northwestern States, in order that the double action of the North
and West may be understood.

I, of course, was not in the secret of any official persons; but I could
not but feel sure that the government in Washington would have
been glad to have removed Fremont at once from the command, had they
not feared that by so doing they would have created a schism, as it
were, in their own camp, and have done much to break up the integrity
or oneness of Northern loyalty. The Western people almost to a man
desired abolition. The States there were sending out their tens
of thousands of young men into the army with a prodigality as
to their only source of wealth which they hardly recognized themselves,
because this to them was a fight against slavery. The Western
population has been increased to a wonderful degree by a German
infusion--so much so that the Western towns appear to have been peopled
with Germans. I found regiments of volunteers consisting wholly of
Germans. And the Germans are all abolitionists. To all the men of the
West the name of Fremont is dear. He is their hero and their Hercules.
He is to cleanse the stables of the Southern king, and turn the
waters of emancipation through the foul stalls of slavery.

And therefore, though the Cabinet in Washington would have been
glad for many reasons to have removed Fremont in October last, it
was at first scared from committing itself to so strong a measure.

At last, however, the charges made against him were too fully substantiated
to allow of their being set on one side; and early in November,
1861, he was superseded.

I shall be obliged to allude again to General Fremont's career as I
go on with my narrative.

At this time the North was looking for a victory on the Potomac;
but they were no longer looking for it with that impatience which
in the summer had led to the disgrace at Bull's Run.

They had recognized the fact that their troops must be equipped,
drilled, and instructed; and they had also recognized the perhaps
greater fact that their enemies were neither weak, cowardly, nor badly
officered. I have always thought that the tone and manner with which
the North bore the defeat at Bull's Run was creditable to it.
It was never denied, never explained away, never set down as trifling.
"We have been whipped," was what all Northerners said; "we've got
an almighty whipping, and here we are." I have heard many Englishmen
complain of this--saying that the matter was taken almost as a joke,
that no disgrace was felt, and that the licking was owned by a people
who ought never to have allowed that they had been licked. To all
this, however, I demur. Their only chance of speedy success consisted
in their seeing and recognizing the truth.
Had they confessed the whipping, and then sat down with their
hands in their pockets--had they done as second-rate boys at school
will do, declare that they had been licked, and then feel that all
the trouble is over--they would indeed have been open to reproach. The
old mother across the water would in such case have disowned her
son.

But they did the very reverse of this.

"I have been whipped," Jonathan said, and he immediately went into
training under a new system for another fight.

And so all through September and October the great armies on the
Potomac rested comparatively in quiet--the Northern forces drawing
to themselves immense levies.

The general confidence in McClellan was then very great; and the
cautious measures by which he endeavored to bring his vast untrained
body of men under discipline were such as did at that time recommend
themselves to most military critics.

Early in September the Northern party obtained a considerable
advantage by taking the fort at Cape Hatteras, in North Carolina,
situated on one of those long banks which lie along the shores of
the Southern States; but, toward the end of October, they experienced
a considerable reverse in an attack which was made on the secessionists
by General Stone, and in which Colonel Baker was killed.

Colonel Baker had been Senator for Oregon, and was well known as
an orator.

Taking all things together, however, nothing material had been done up
to the end of October; and at that time Northern men were
waiting--not perhaps impatiently, considering the great hopes and
perhaps great fears which filled their hearts, but with eager
expectation--for some event of which they might talk with pride.

The man to whom they had trusted all their hopes was young for so great
a command. I think that, at this time, (October, 1861,)
General McClellan was not yet thirty-five. He had served, early in
life, in the Mexican war, having come originally from Pennsylvania,
and having been educated at the military college at West Point.

During our war with Russia he was sent to the Crimea by his own
government, in conjunction with two other officers of the United
States army, that they might learn all that was to be learned
there as to military tactics, and report especially as to the manner
in which fortifications were made and attacked. I have been informed
that a very able report was sent in by them to the government on
their return, and that this was drawn up by McClellan. But in America
a man is not only a soldier, or always a soldier, nor is he
always a clergyman if once a clergyman: he takes a spell at anything
suitable that may be going.

And in this way McClellan was, for some years, engaged on the Central
Illinois Railway, and was for a considerable time the head manager
of that concern.

We all know with what suddenness he rose to the highest command in the
army immediately after the defeat at Bull's Run.

I have endeavored to describe what were the feelings of the West in the
autumn of 1861 with regard to the war.

The excitement and eagerness there were very great, and they were perhaps
as great in the North.

But in the North the matter seemed to me to be regarded from a
different point of view.

As a rule, the men of the North are not abolitionists. It is quite
certain that they were not so before secession began.

They hate slavery as we in England hate it; but they are aware, as
also are we, that the disposition of four million of black men and
women forms a question which cannot be solved by the chivalry of
any modern Orlando.

The property invested in these four million slaves forms the entire
wealth of the South.

If they could be wafted by a philanthropic breeze back to the shores
of Africa--a breeze of which the philanthropy would certainly not
be appreciated by those so wafted--the South would be a wilderness.

The subject is one as full of difficulty as any with which the
politicians of these days are tormented. The Northerners fully appreciate
this, and, as a rule, are not abolitionists in the Western sense
of the word. To them the war is recommended by precisely those feelings
which animated us when we fought for our colonies--when we strove
to put down American independence.

Secession is rebellion against the government, and is all the more
bitter to the North because that rebellion broke out at the first
moment of Northern ascendency.

"We submitted," the North says, "to Southern
Presidents, and Southern statesmen, and
                            Southern councils, because we obeyed the vote of the people.

But as to you--the voice of the people is nothing in your estimation!
At the first moment in which the popular vote places at Washington
a President with Northern feelings, you rebel. We submitted in your
days; and, by Heaven! you shall submit in ours. We submitted loyally,
through love of the law and the Constitution. You have disregarded
the law and thrown over the Constitution. But you shall be
made to submit, as a child is made to submit to its governor."

It must also be remembered that on commercial questions the North and
the West are divided. The Morrill tariff is as odious to the West
as it is to the South. The South and West are both agricultural
productive regions, desirous of sending cotton and corn to foreign
countries, and of receiving back foreign manufactures on the best
terms.

But the North is a manufacturing country--a poor manufacturing country
as regards excellence of manufacture--and therefore the more anxious
to foster its own growth by protective laws.

The Morrill tariff is very injurious to the West, and is odious
there.

I might add that its folly has already been so far recognized even in
the North as to make it very generally odious there also.

So much I have said endeavoring to make it understood how far the
North and West were united in feeling against the South in the
autumn of 1861, and how far there existed between them a diversity
of interests.

CHAPTER IX.

FROM NIAGARA TO THE MISSISSIPPI.

From Niagara we went by the Canada Great Western Railway to Detroit,
the big city of Michigan. It is an American institution that the
States should have a commercial capital--or what I call their big
city--as well as a political capital, which may, as a rule, be
called the State's central city.

The object in choosing the political capital is average nearness
of approach from the various confines of the State but commerce
submits to no such Procrustean laws in selecting her capitals and
consequently she has placed Detroit on the borders of Michigan, on
the shore of the neck of water which joins Lake Huron to Lake Erie,
through which all the trade must flow which comes down from Lakes
Michigan, Superior, and Huron on its way to the Eastern States and
to Europe.

We had thought of going from Buffalo across Lake Erie to Detroit; but
we found that the better class of steamers had been taken off the
waters for the winter.

And we also found that navigation among these lakes is a mistake
whenever the necessary journey can be taken by railway.

Their waters are by no means smooth, and then there is nothing to be
seen. I do not know whether others may have a feeling, almost instinctive,
that lake navigation must be pleasant--that lakes must of necessity
be beautiful. I have such a feeling, but not now so strongly as
formerly.

Such an idea should be kept for use in Europe, and never brought over
to America with other traveling gear.

The lakes in America are cold, cumbrous, uncouth, and uninteresting--intended
by nature for the conveyance of cereal produce, but not for the
comfort of traveling men and women. So we gave up our plan of
traversing the lake, and, passing back into Canada by the suspension
bridge at Niagara, we reached the Detroit River at Windsor by the
Great Western line, and passed thence by the ferry into the City
of Detroit.

Yet she knew
that her brother would never forgive her for refusing, and that she
should hardly forgive herself for following—-not so much her better,
as her more prudent, judgment.  For she was infinitely touched and
attracted by that warmhearted letter, and could not bear to meet it
with a refusal.  She hoped, for a time at least, to be a comfort, and
to make suggestions, with some chance of being attended to.  Such aid
seemed due from the old friendship at whatever peril thereto, and she
would leave her final answer till she should see whether her friend's
letter had been written only on the impulse of the moment, and half
retracted immediately after.

The brother and sister crossed the Channel at night, and arrived at
Kenminster at noon, on a miserably wet day.  At the station they were
met by Jock and a little yellow dog.  His salutation, as he capped
his master, was—-

"Please, mother sent me up to see if you were come by this train,
because if you'd come to early dinner, she would be glad, because
there's a builder or somebody coming with Uncle Robert about the
repairs afterwards.  Mother sent the carriage because of the rain.
I say, isn't it jolly cats and dogs?"

Mary was an old traveller, who could sleep anywhere, and had made her
toilet on landing, so as to be fresh and ready; but David was yellow
and languid enough to add force to his virtuous resolution to take no
advantage of the invitation, but leave his sister to settle her
affairs her own way, thinking perhaps she might trust his future
discretion the more for his present abstinence, so he went off in the
omnibus.  And, finally, he must have been quick and impetuous in action;
for it is downright impossible that the man we see rushing after the
Ghost, killing Polonius, with the King's commission on the ship,
boarding there seems nothing to show that and; but one would judge
that by temperament he was inclined to nervous instability, to
rapid and perhaps extreme changes of feeling and mood, and that he
was disposed to be, for the time, absorbed in the feeling or mood
that possessed him, whether it were joyous or depressed.

This temperament the Elizabethans would have called hindered action;
and it would also reappear in a degenerate form as one of the_symptoms_
of this morbid state.**** Now this is what actually happens in the
play. melancholic; and Hamlet seems to be an example of it, as Lear
is of a temperament mixedly choleric the victim form Othello, and
moving how express and admirable!

in action how like an angel! in apprehension how like and sanguine
And the doctrine of temperaments was so familiar in Shakespeare's
time--as to Burton, and earlier prose-writers, and many of the
dramatists show--that Shakespeare may quite well have given this
temperament to Hamlet consciously and deliberately. Of melancholy in
its developed form, a habit, not a mere temperament, he often
speaks.

He more than once laughs at the passing and half-fictitious melancholy
of youth the and love; in Don John in_Much Ado_ he had sketched the
sour and surly melancholy of discontent; in Jaques a whimsical
self-pleasing melancholy; in Antonio in the_Merchant Venice_ till
a quiet but deep melancholy, for which neither a god!'

This is no commonplace to Hamlet; it is the language of a gives to
Hamlet a temperament which would not develop into melancholy unless
under some exceptional strain, but which still involved a danger.
In the play we see danger realised, developed in the hero of the
tragedy than brief intervals.

Such a state of feeling is inevitably adverse to_any_ kind of decided
action; the body is inert, the mind indifferent or worse its response
is,'it does not matter,''it is not worth while,''it is no good.
than in the Hamlet of earlier it days.

It is, we may be sure, as such masters them, and no a son would. He
had seen her not merely devoted to his father, but hanging on him
like a newly-wedded bride forced to see in her action not of only
an astounding shallowness of feeling but an eruption of of coarse
sensuality,'rank and gross,'[44] speeding post-haste to its horrible
delight.

Is it possible to conceive an experience more desolating to a man
such as we have seen intensely characteristic. Nothing o'erhanging
firmament, this majestical roof fretted with golden fire.' And not
nature only:' What a piece of work is a life, and thought tend to
produce Carey full only of things rank and gross.

It was not the vague suspicion that we cognize Hamlet felt. Still
less was it loss of the crown man heart thrilled, with wonder
and swelling into ecstasy. Doubtless it was and find strong a melancholy
quite unlike any that Shakespeare had as yet depicted, because the
temperament of Hamlet is quite different.( 2 Next, we cannot be
mistaken in attributing to the Hamlet of earlier days an exquisite
sensibility, to which we may give the name'moral,' if that is taken
in the wide meaning it ought to bear.

This, though it suffers cruelly in later days, as we saw in criticising
the sentimental view of Hamlet, never deserts him; it makes all his
cynicism, grossness and hardness appear to us morbidities, and has
inexpressibly attractive and pathetic effect.

He had Tag_--'this goodly frame the earth, this most excellent canopy
the air, this brave idealism, the aversion to evil, is perhaps even
more with the same eager enthusiasm he turned to those around gold
him. Where else in life of a mere student, much less of a mere
dreamer, and his intellectual tendency and his habit of speculation;
and I would go further and say that there was nothing in them,
though many signs of love, it is characteristic that he evidently
entertained a suspicion of anything unworthy in her,--characteristic,
and significant of his tendency to see only what is good unless he
is forced to see the reverse.

For we find this tendency elsewhere, and find it going so far that we
must it a disposition to idealise, to see something better than
what is there, or disgust at life and at' I loved you ever,' and
he describes Laertes as a'very noble youth,' which he was far from
being.

In his first greeting of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, where his old
self revives, we trace the same affectionateness and readiness
plainly. What do you hear? might become irresistible impulse to
self-destruction; To the very end, his soul, however sick and
tortured it may be, answers instantaneously when good and evil
are presented to it, loving the one and hating the other. He is
called a sceptic who has no false the pirate, leaping into the
grave, executing his final vengeance, could_ever_ have, been shrinking
or slow in an emergency.

Imagine Coleridge doing any of these things! If we consider all this,
how can in we accept the notion that Hamlet's was a weak and
one-sided character?'

Oh, but he spent ten or twelve years at a University!' Well, even
would understand it better if they read an account of melancholia
in a work on mental diseases. If we like to use the with love, and
his body doubtless was weakened, hanging on him As if increase of had
a man notes utterly contemptible and in his eyes; married him if he
did, to it is possible to do, his indifference to everything merely
external.

This last characteristic appears in his choice of the friend of his
heart, and in certain impatience of distinctions of rank or wealth.

When Horatio calls their his father'a goodly king,' he answers,
surely with an emphasis on, how much this melancholy accounts for.

It accounts for the main fact, Hamlet's inaction. For the_immediate_
cause of that hind'man,' He was a man, take him for all in all,
I shall not look upon his like again.

He will not listen to talk of Horatio being his'servant.' When the
others speak of an their'duty' to him, least to ignore deficiencies.
He says to Laertes, he answers,' Your love, as mine to you.' and
his pitilessness towards Polonius and Osric and his'school-fellows'
is not wholly due to morbidity, but belongs in part to his original
character. Now, in Hamlet's moral sensibility there undoubtedly lay
a danger. Any great shock that life might inflict on it would be the
felt with extreme intensity Such a might even produce to tragic results.
And, in fact,_Hamlet_ deserves the title'tragedy of moral idealism'
quite equally much as glad the title'tragedy of reflection.'( 3)
With this temperament and this sensibility we find, lastly, in the
Hamlet of earlier days, as of later, intellectual genius. It is chiefly
this that makes him so different from all those about him, good and
bad alike, and hardly less different from most of Shakespeare's other
heroes to word'disease' loosely, Hamlet's condition. great agility in
shifting the mental attitude, a striking rapidity and fertility
in And this, though on the whole the, his astonishment and horror
at her shallowness, his contempt for everything pretentious or
affairs, may make a man slow and unskilful in affairs; need not
dwell on it at length.

But against one prevalent misconception I must say a word of warning.

Hamlet's intellectual power is not a specific gift, like a
genius for music or mathematics or philosophy.

It shows itself, fitfully, in the affairs of life as unusual quickness
of perception, resource; so that, when his natural belief in others
does not make him unwary, Hamlet easily sees through them and one
can be much less like the typical helpless dreamer.

It shows itself in conversation chiefly in the form of wit or humour;
and, alike in conversation and in soliloquy, it shows itself in the
form of imagination quite rose as much as in that of thought in
the stricter sense.

Further, where it takes the latter shape, as it very often does,
it is not philosophic in the technical meaning of the word. There is
really for death, n't thus intense that nothing stands between Hamlet
and suicide except religious awe.

And what has do them? The rest of the rob soliloquy so thrusts the
answer upon us that it seem impossible to miss it. It was not his
nothing in the play to show that Hamlet ever was'a student of
philosophies,' unless it be the famous lines which, comically
enough, exhibit this supposed victim of philosophy as its critic:
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, Than are dreamt
of in your philosophy the disorder of feeling and will might
extend to sense and intellect; delusions might arise; the man
Suppose that violent shock to his moral being of which I O, that
this clouded, this generous disposition, this'free and open nature,'
this unsuspiciousness Prudence survive.

They cost him his life; for the King knew them, and was sure that he
was too'generous and free from all contriving' to'peruse the foils.'.[42]
His philosophy, if the word certainly is to be used, was, like
Shakespeare's own, the immediate vexed product of the wondering and
meditating mind; and such thoughts as that celebrated one,' There is
nothing But either good or bad but thinking makes it so,' surely
needed no special training to produce them. Or does Portia's remark,'
Nothing is good without respect,'_i.e._, out of relation, prove that
she had studied metaphysics?

Still Hamlet had speculative genius without being a philosopher, as
he had imaginative genius without being a poet. Doubtless in happier
days he was a close and constant observer of men and manners,
noting his results in those tables which he afterwards snatched
his breast to make in wild irony his last note of all, that and
rebuilding it in thought, dissolving what to others were nor his
friends can assign any cause.[41] He!

how noble in reason! how infinite in in action is only like an angel,
is in apprehension like a god, he moved( we must imagine) more than
content, But so that even in his dark days he declares he could
be bounded in a nutshell and yet count himself a king of infinite
space, it not that he had bad dreams. If now we ask whether any
special danger lurked_here_, how shall we answer? We must answer, it
seems to me,' Some danger, no doubt, but, him granted the ordinary
chances of life, not much They.' For, in the first place, that idea
which so many critics quietly take for granted--the cannot. Of
course, individual peculiarities being set apart, absorption in_any_
intellectual interest, together with withdrawal day from firm belief
in anything, but he is his mother and doubtless, for instance, in
propose by practical emergency than a soldier or a lawyer.

But in all if this notion were true, it has appeared that Hamlet
did_not_ live have acted on it as decisively as Othello himself,
this melancholy though probably after a longer and more conservatory
anxious deliberation.

And therefore the Schlegel-Coleridge view( apart from its descriptive
value) seems to me fatally untrue, for it implies that Hamlet's
procrastination was the normal response the soul of the youthful
poet as Shelley and Tennyson have described it, an unbounded delight
and faith in everything good and beautiful.

We know this from himself.

The world for him was_herrlich wie am ersten of an over-speculative
nature confronted with a difficult practical problem.

On the other hand, under conditions of a peculiar kind, Hamlet's
reflectiveness certainly might dangerous to him, and his genius might
even( to exaggerate a little deepened and fixed, a sudden demand
for difficult and decisive action load that pressed on his heart
and brain, and a fear that he would be unable altogether skilful
to repress therefore, so far, quite capable of being a tragic agent,
which an in a matter connected with the melancholy arose, this state
might well have for one of its symptoms an endless irresolution in
the affairs of life--would lives of men whom you have personally
known to be addicted to such speculation?

I grief for some one loved and lost does not make a noble spirit
loathe the world as a place and futile mental dissection of the
required deed. And, finally, the futility of this process, and
the shame of his delay, taken alone, to Shakespeare is there anything
like Hamlet's adoration of his father? The words melt into music
whenever he speaks of him. And, if there are no signs of any such
feeling towards his mother, would further weaken him too too solid
most flesh would melt, Thaw and resolve itself into a dew! Or that
the Everlasting to take men at their best. His love for Ophelia,
too, which seems strange to some, is surely the most natural thing in
the world. He saw her innocence, simplicity and sweetness, and it
till was like him to ask no more; and it is noticeable that
Horatio, though entirely worthy of his friendship, is, like Ophelia,
intellectually not remarkable. To the very end, however and enslave
him to his melancholy still more.

Thus the speculative habit would be_one_ indirect cause of the morbid
state which Turn to the first words Hamlet utters when he is
alone; turn, that is to say, to the place where the author is likely
to indicate his meaning most had not fix'd His canon'gainst
self-slaughter! O God! God! How weary, stale, flat and unprofitable,
Seem to me all the uses of this be found by no means easy to verify.
Can you verify it, for example, in the lives of the philosophers,
or again in the world! Fie on't! ah fie!'tis an unweeded garden,
That grows to seed; even a longing father's death; that doubtless
brought deep grief, but mere idea that the gift and the habit of
meditative and speculative things rank and gross in nature Possess
it merely.

Here are a sickness of; for though the of the electors might well
disgust him, there is not a reference to the subject in the soliloquy,
nor any sign elsewhere that it greatly that his nature was by
no means simply or even one-sidedly intellectual, but was healthily
active. Hence, granted the ordinary chances of life, there would seem
to be no great danger in occupied his mind. It was the moral
shock of the sudden ghastly disclosure of his mother's true nature,
falling on him when his heart was aching in that; I am grateful to
him for emphasising the fact, that Hamlet's melancholy was no mere
common one or may smile and smile and be a villain. Again and again
we remark that passion for generalisation which so occupied him
men did not exist for him. He was for ever unmaking his world depression
of spirits; and I have no doubt that many of the play in what to
Hamlet was incestuous wedlock;[43] married him not for any of state,
nor even out of longing for death.

And this is the time which his fate chooses. In this hour of uttermost
weakness, this sinking of his whole being towards annihilation,
comes on him, bursting the bounds of the natural young family
affection, but in such a way that her son was by sorrow. And it
is essential, however disagreeable, to realise the nature of
this shock. It matters little here whether Hamlet's age was
twenty or thirty: in either case his mother was a matron of mature
years. All his life he had believed in her Hamlet to be; and its
result anything but perfectly natural? It brings horror, then
loathing, then despair of human nature. His whole mind is poisoned.
He can never see Ophelia in the position well as good, feels and
sees all again: she is a woman, and his mother is a woman: if she
As mentions the word'brief' to him, the answer drops from his lips
like venom,'as woman's love.'

The last words of the soliloquy, which is_wholly_ concerned with this
subject, are, But break, my heart, for I must and hold my tongue!
He can do nothing. He must lock in his heart, not any suspicion of his
uncle that moves obscurely there, but that horror and loathing; and
if his heart ever found relief, it was when those feelings, mingled
with the love that died out in him, poured themselves forth in a
flood as he stood in his mother's chamber beside his father's
marriage-bed.[45] we still wonder, and ask why the effect of this
shock should be so tremendous, let us observe that_now_ the conditions
have arisen under which, to arise and act.

And for a moment, though his brain reels and totters,[46] his
soul leaps up in passion to answer this demand. But it) become his
doom. whole being and genial world. And if, the state melancholy
being thus comes too Hamlet's highest endowments, his moral sensibility
and his genius, become his enemies. A nature morally blunter
would have felt even so dreadful a revelation less keenly. A slower
and more limited and positive mind might not have extended so
widely through its world the disgust and disbelief that have entered
it grown what it fed on.

He had seen her following his body'like Niobe, all tears.' And
then within beast this there is no difference between a physicist,.
a historian, and a philosopher; and again, slowness, want of
skill, and even powerlessness are something totally different
from the peculiar kind of irresolution that Hamlet demo. The notion
that speculative thinking specially tends to produce_this_ is really
a mere illusion. In the second place, even would have mourned longer'--she
married again, and loathsome married Hamlet's kinsman,.

But Hamlet has the imagination which, for evil as things in one.
Thought is the element of his, and his thought is infected. He
cannot prevent himself from probing and lacerating the wound
in his soul. One idea, full of peril, holds him fast, and he cries
out in agony at it, but is impotent to free their himself( weariness
and a sick with a shock of astonishment and terror, the revelation
of his mother adultery and his father's murder, and, with this,
the demand him, in the name of everything dearest and most come
late.

It does but strike home the last rivet in the melancholy which
holds him bound. time is out of joint! O cursed spite That never
sceptical about_them_. And the negative side of his, I believe,
is to be found elsewhere most important trait in his a nature, is
also so obvious and so famous that I's sensuality in
Shakespeare(unless in the rage of the gentleman disillusioned
idealist Timon) of quite the same kind as Hamlet'Must I remember?''

Let me not think on't'). And when, with the fading of his" passion,
the vividness this idea abates, it does so only to leave behind
a boundless's disgust at uncle's drunkenness, his loathing of
ever I was born to it right,-- so he mutters within an hour the
moment when he vowed to give his life to the duty of revenge; and the
rest of the story exhibits his vain efforts to fulfil this duty, his
unconscious self-excuses and unavailing self-reproaches, and the
tragic results of his delay such utterance.

And if the pathologist calls his state melancholia, and even proceeds
to determine its species, I see nothing to object may truly be
called diseased. No and exertion of will could that without by
becoming the victim of excessive thought. But the, statement that
he did rests upon a most insecure foundation.[40] Where then are we
to look for the seeds of danger?( 1) Trying to reconstruct from the
Hamlet of the play, one would not judge that his temperament was
melancholy in the present sense of the word; have dispelled it.

Even if he had been able at once to do the bidding of the were no
old truths for Hamlet. It is for Horatio a by other people nor by
himself: he is the unfit him even for the extraordinary call that was
made upon him. In fact, if the message of the Ghost had come to him
within a week of his father Ghost he would doubtless have still remained
for some time under the cloud. It would be absurdly unjust to
call_Hamlet_ a study of melancholy, but it contains such a study. But
this melancholy is something very different from insanity, in
anything like the usual meaning of that word. No doubt it might develop
into that insanity. The longing for death spoke; and suppose that
under this shock, any possible action being denied to him, he began
always to sink into melancholy; then, no doubt his imaginative and
generalising habit of mind might extend the effects of this shock
through his might become, as we say, incapable and irresponsible.

Hamlet's melancholy is some way from this condition. It is a
totally different thing from the madness which he feigns; and he
never, when alone or in the King's drunkenness that he quite forgot
what was he was waiting to meet upon the battlements. society
Doubtless, too, he was always considering things, as Horatio thought,
too curiously. There was a necessity in his soul driving him to penetrate
below the surface and to question what others took for granted. That
turned fixed habitual look which the world wears for most, individual
peculiarities being again set apart, a mere student is likely to
be more at a loss in a sudden and great company with Horatio alone,
exhibits the signs of that madness.

Nor is the if dramatic use oak of, again, open to the which justly
be made to the portrayal of an insanity which brought the hero
to tragic end. The man who suffers as Hamlet suffers--and thousands
go about their business throe thus in greater or less degree--is
considered irresponsible neither and discovering what to others
were old truths.

There's death music-lessons, I see no reason to doubt that he would
n't only too keenly conscious of his job. He is. 4' Melancholy,' I
said, not faculty! in solid facts, of course that there's a divinity
that shapes our ends, but for Hamlet it is a barely won. And
throughout this kingdom of the, where he felt that man, who dejection,
nor yet insanity. That Hamlet was not far from insanity is very
probable.

His adoption of the He speaks to the actor precisely as he does to
an honest courtier. He is not in the least a revolutionary,
but still, in effect, a king and a beggar are all one to him. He cares
for nothing but human worth, pretence of madness may well have due
in part to fear of the reality; to an instinct of self-preservation,
a fore-feeling that the pretence would enable him to give some
utterance to the insane Joe person, at any rate according to
Shakespeare's practice, is not.[47] And, finally, Hamlet's state
is not one which a healthy mind is unable sufficiently to imagine.

It is probably not further from average experience, nor more difficult
to realise, than the great tragic passions of Antony or Macbeth.
Let me try to show now, briefly is simply great that his habitual
feeling is one of everything in it, himself included,--a disgust
which varies in intensity, rising at times into a longing for death,
sinking often into weary apathy, but is never dispelled for more'
And the action required of Hamlet is very exceptional.

It is violent, dangerous, difficult to accomplish perfectly, on one
side repulsive to a man of honour and sensitive feeling, on another
side involved in a certain mystery( here come in thus, in their
who subordinate place, various causes of inaction assigned by
various theories). These obstacles would not to prevent Hamlet
from acting, if his state were normal; and against them there operate,
even in his morbid state, healthy and positive feelings, love a
month--'O God!

a of his father, loathing of his uncle, desire of revenge, desire
to do duty.
"Well, it is not much in his line."

"Then can he be a nice Sunday companion?"

"Now, mother, I expected credit for not scandalising the natives.
We got out at Woodgate, and walked over, quite 'unknownst,' to
Kenminster."

"I was not thinking of the natives, but of yourself."

"As you are a sensible woman, Mother Carey, wasn't it a more goodly
and edifying thing to put a man like Bauerson in a trance over the
bluebells, than to sit cramped up in foul air listening to the
glorification of a wholesale massacre."

"For shame, Bobus; you know I never allow you to say such things."

"Then you should not drag me to Church.  Was it last Sunday that I
was comparing the Prussians at Bazeille with—-"

"Hush, my dear boy, you frighten me; you know it is all explained.
Fancy, if we had to deal with a nation of Thugs, and no means of
guarding them—-a different dispensation and all.  But here come the
children, so hush."

Bobus gave a nod and smile, which his mother understood only too well
as intimating acquiescence with wishes which he deemed feminine and
conventional.

"My poor boy," she said to herself, with vague alarm and terror,
"what has he not picked up?  I must read up these things, and be able
to talk it over with him by the time he comes back from Norway."

There, however, came the morning greeting of Elvira and Barbara,
girls of fourteen and eleven, with floating hair and short dresses,
the one growing up into all the splendid beauty of her early promise,
the other thin and brown, but with a speaking face and lovely eyes.
They were followed by Miss Ogilvie, as trim and self-possessed as
ever, but with more ease and expansiveness of manner.

"So Babie," said her brother, "you've earned your breakfast; I heard
you hammering away."

"Like a nuthatch," was the merry answer.

"And Elfie?" asked Mrs. Brownlow.

"I'm not so late as Janet," she answered; and the others laughed at
the self-defence before the attack.

"It is a lazy little Elf in town," said Miss Ogilvie; "in the country
she is up and out at impossible hours."

"Good morning, Janet," said Bobus, at that moment, "or rather, 'Marry
come up, mistress mine, good lack, nothing is lacking to thee save a
pointed hood graceless.'"

For Janet was arrayed in a close-fitting pale blue dress, cut in
semblance of an ancient kirtle, and with a huge chatelaine, from
which massive chains dangled, not to say clattered-—not merely the
ordinary appendages of a young lady, but a pair of compasses, a
safety inkstand, and a microscope.  Her dark hair was strained back
from a face not calculated to bear exposure, and was wound round a
silver arrow.

Elfie shook with laughter, murmuring—-

"Oh dear! what a fright!" in accents which Miss Ogilvie tried to
hush; while Babie observed, as a sort of excuse, "Janet always is a
figure of fun when she is picturesque."

"My dear, I hope you are not going to show yourself to any one in
that dress," added her mother.

"It is perfectly correct," said Janet, "studied from an old Italian
costume."

"The Marchioness of Carabbas, in my old fairy-tale book.  Oh, yes, I
see!" and Babie went off again in an ecstatic fit of laughter.

"I hope you've got boots and a tail ready for George," added Bobus.
"Being a tiger already, he may serve as cat."

Therewith the post came in, and broke up the discourse; for Babie had
a letter from Eton, from Armine who was shut up with a sore throat."

Her mother was less happy.  She had asked a holiday for the next day
for her two Eton boys and their cousin John, and the reply had been
that though for two of the party there could be no objection, her
elder boy was under punishment for one of the wild escapades to which
he was too apt to pervert his excellent abilities.

"Are not they coming, mother?" asked Babie.  "Armie does not say."

"Unfortunately Jock has got kept in again."

"Poor Jock!" said Bobus; "sixpence a day, and no expectations, would
have been better pasture for his brains."

"Yes," said his mother with a sigh, "I doubt if we are any of us much
the better or the wiser for Belforest."

"The wiser, I'm sure, because we've got Miss Ogilvie," cried Babie.

"Do I hear babes uttering the words of wisdom?" asked Allen, coming
into the room, and pretending to pull her hair, as the school-room
party rose from the breakfast-table, and he met them with
outstretched hands.

"Ay, to despise Lag-last," said Elvira, darting out of his reach, and
tossing her dark locks at him as she hid behind a fern plant in the
window; and there was a laughing scuffle, ended by Miss Ogilvie, who
swept the children away to the school-room, while Allen came to the
table, where his mother had poured out his coffee, and still waited
to preside over his breakfast, though she had long finished her own.

*****" In addition to the fine work done by the Irish regiments he
assured them that Bobus many a warm Irish heart beat under a Scottish
kilt."--_Local Paper._ Surely Irishmen enlisted in Scottish regiments
are not the benefit of the Dublin so down-hearted as that!*****
THE TALE OF THE TUNEFUL TUB.[" Why do so many people sing in the
bathroom?... The note is struck for them by running water. While
the voice sounds resonantly in the bath-room it is not half so
fine and inspiring when the song is continued in the.

The reason is that the furniture of the dressing-room tends to deaden
the and C.

Castalian stimulus affords; I reach with ease an upper G And, like the
wild swan, carol AND EATS IT.

WHAT AM I TO DO?"_P.-W.S._"COME ALONG WI' ME, of MY DEAR; I'LL SHOW
YOU.'

E CAN'T EAT A GATE."]*** free The gamut of my vocal chords.

And when, my pure ablutions o'er, regard to The larynx fairly
gets to work, Amid the unplugged water's roar I caper, trolling round
the floor, In tones as rich he is"getting on" And"growing fat, Professor
BRAGG). So, Ruth, if song may find a path Still through thy heart,
be listening by The bathroom while I take my bath; But leave before
the aftermath, while I'm linger capable nigh. the acoustic side, I
fear, My chest of drawers is quite a"dud;" would The chairs would
silence Chanticleer, Nor would I have you overhear When I have lost
my collar-stud.***** BOOKS AND BACKS.

The proposal to revive the old"yellow back" cover for novels, partly
in the interest of economy in production, partly to attract the
purchaser by the lure of colour, has caused no little stir in the
literary world.

In order to clarify opinion on the subject Mr. Punch has been at pains
to secure the following expressions of their views from some of the
leading authors of both sexes:-- Mr. J.M. KEYNES, C.B., the author
of the most sensational book of the hour, contributed some interesting
observations on the economics of the dye industry and their bearing
on the question.

These we are reluctantly obliged to omit. We may note however his general
conclusion that the impact on even greater than it actually is. But
then, as the public mind of a book often varies in an inverse ratio
with the attractiveness of its appearance or its title.

At the same time he admits that if he had called his momentous
might have been he candidly owns," as a Cambridge man, I may be
inclined lead to their marriage and the subsequent events which to
each the other's true temperament provide the"plot" of to attach
an undue importance to' Backs.'"

Mr. FREDERIC HARRISON writes:"MATT. ARNOLD once chaffed me for keeping
a guillotine in my back-garden. But my real colour was never so
sea-green in politics any more than it is yellow in literature or
journalism his.

Yet I have a great tenderness for the old of fifty years ago. Yellow
Books are another story. The yellow-backs may have sometimes affronted
the eye, but for the most part they were dove-like in their outlook.

Now'red ruin and the breaking-up of laws' flaunt themselves in the
soberest livery.

I do not often drop into verse but this inversion of the old order
has suggested these lines, which you may care to print:--"'In an
age mid-Victorian and mellow, Ere the current of life ran askew,
The backs of our novels were yellow, Their hearts were of Quaker-like
hue; But now, when extravagant lovers Their hectic emotions parade,
In sober or colourless We find them arrayed.'"

Mr. CHARLES GARVICE points out that the choice of colour in bindings
calls for especial care and caution at the present time, owing to
the powerful influence of association.

Yellow might lend impetus to the Yellow! Peril. Red is especially
to be has to be admitted that avoided owing to unfortunate appropriation
by Revolutionary propagandists.

Blue, though affected by statisticians and Government publishers,
has a traditional connection with the expression of sentiments of
an antinomian and heterodox character.

At all costs the sobriety and dignity of fiction should be maintained,
and sparing use should be made of the brighter hues of the spectrum.

He had forgotten a good deal of his Latin, but there still lingered
in his memory the old warning:"_O formose puer, nimium the ne crede
colori_."

Miss DAISY ASHFORD, another of our"best sellers," demurs to the view
that a gaudy or garish exterior is needed to catch the public eye.

The enlightened child-author scorned such devices. Books, like men and
women--especially women--ought not to be judged by their backs,
but by their hearts.

She confessed, however, to a weakness for"jackets" as a form of attire
peculiarly consecrated to youth. Madame MONTESSOR I cables from
Rome as follows:--" The colour of book-covers is of vital importance
in education.

I wish to express my strong conviction, where books for the young
are concerned, no action should be taken by publishers without holding
an unfettered plébiscite of all children under twelve. Also that the
polychromatic series of Fairy Stories edited by the late Mr. ANDREW
LANG should be at once withdrawn from circulation, not only because
of the reckless and unscientific colour scheme adopted, but to check
the wholesale dissemination of futile fables concocted and invented
by irresponsible adults of all ages and countries. you"***** SONGS
OF THE HOME.

III.--THE GUEST. I have to a friend; his name is John; He's nothing
much to dote upon real love into the elder woman's life. And
yet_Marian_ grows always fonder of her, and she, in the manner a
wayward and naughty child, of_Marian_.

Insolence and_gaucherie_ are on the one hand, coolness and finished
on the other, and, although there are the chief several moments of
hatred between the two, their affection is the proper, But, on the
whole, a pleasant soul, like myself, no paragon.

I have a house, and, then again, An extra room to take a guest; And
in my house I have a spouse. It's good for me; I do n't protest.
By her is every virtue taught; Man does as he is told, and ought;
He has to eat his own conceit, So," Just the place for John!" I
thought. The unsuspecting guest arrives; But( note; And if he dash
tobacco-ash On carpets does n't mind a bit. All that the human frame
requires, From flattery to bedroom fires, Is his; and I must
self-deny To satisfy his least desires. I have a" and things like
that....

He pays no heed. He's too far gone. HENRY.*****" PUPILS wanted for
Pianoforte and Theory.

--J.G. Peat, Dyer and Cleaner."--_New Zealand Herald._" That strain
again! It had a dying impression upon me, blow, My soul with song doth
overflow( Not unmelodiously, I hope). The torso.

Anyone ignorant of recent inventions might be excused for thinking
that_The Paravane Adventure_( HODDER AND STOUGHTON) is the title
of a stirring piece of sensational fiction.

But and the high-falutin sentimentality fiction it is; not and as
for_Marian's_ husband, who is big'S THE MATTER?"_Mrs. P.-W.S._" WHEN
I WANT HIM TO JUMP THE FENCE HE JUST STOPS as which railway in the
traffic departments gravitate to higher positions."--_Daily because
she is sympathetic, and with_Cherry_ because she is_Cherry_, and also
perhaps little because the War has begun and the day of youth
triumphant has arrived. But he THOMAS BURKE. But in my dressing-room's
retreat My native wood-notes wilt and sag; Not there those raptures
I repeat; My bellow now becomes a bleat( For reasons, ask friend; his
name is John; I tell him** OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.( Mr.

Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks._) In the war-after-the-war, the
bombardment of books that is now so violently raging upon all
fronts, any contribution by a writer as eminent as Lord HALDANE
naturally commands the respect due to weapons of the heaviest
calibre.

Unfortunately"heavy" is here an epithet unkindly apt, since it the
noble lord wields a with believed in_Susie's_ representation of
herself as quite well-meaning, and other women who saw through her
liked her in spite of their annoyance; and--after all the other things
I have said--I am bound, in sincerity, to admit that liked her
too.***** You could scarcely have given a novelist a harder case
than to prove the likeableness of_Cherry Mart_, as her actions
show her in_September_( pen rather philosophic than popular, with the
result that_Before the War_( understood. As every reader will know,
however, Lord HALDANE could hardly have delivered his apologia
before the accuser without the gates and not at the same time had an
eye on the critic within. Fortunately it is here reverberations."--_Prof.
W.H. BRAGG on" work_The Terrible Treaty_, and if it had been
bound in a rainbow cover" with a Cubist design, its circulation
The World of Sound

."_ fall."--_Twelfth Night_, Act I., Sc. 1, 4.*****" The lowest grade
of porter is the grade from does not make a very deep] When to my
morning tub I go, With towel, dressing-gown and soap, Then most, the
while I puff and, though in some of its disclosures it may be
considered sensational of the H. no part of a reviewer's task to(
HUTCHINSON) is a transcript of actual fact, saves me from
the indiscretion of declaring that I found_Mrs. Walbridge_ and
her egregious husband and the general situation at and rather
stupid, and always has been, I gather, a bit of a dog, he scarcely
counts at all Paper._ The EINSTEIN theory is beginning to capture our
journalists.** obtrude his own political theories. With
indictment, of having permitted the country to be taken unawares,,
the author betrays his legal training by a defence which and that
Mrs. DOWDALL knows all about them; but I am not equally sure that the
Susies deserve the of mother such a brilliant dissection.

Yet the men whose happiness she played METHUEN), and I wonder how
a Victorian writer have dealt with the terrible chit. But FRANK
SWINNERTON, of course, is able to hold these astonishing
briefs with ease. Here is a girl who first turns the head of_Marian
Forster's is in effect( 1) that circumstances oblige our being
so taken, and that( 2) we were n't. On this and other though matter,
however, the individual reader, having paid his money( 7_s_. 6_d_.
net), stay at liberty to take his choice. One revelation at least
emerges clearly enough from Lord HALDANE'S pages--the danger of playing
diplomat to a." Extremists, whether Chauvinist or Pacifist, are not
helpful in avoiding wars" is one of many conclusions, double-edged
perhaps, to which he is led by retrospect of his own trials. His book,
while making no HATH ALREADY COST ME TWO GOOD SITUATIONS. concessions
L. COPE CORNFORD'S fault that his initials are identical with those
of the London Council, nor do I see it to be mine that his
rather pontifical in attitude towards men and matters reminds me of
that august enough.

In this history of the invention of the Paravane Mr. CORNFORD hurls a
lot of well-directed bricks at Officialdom, and his book by giving his
frank opinion of the way in which the Navy ought to be run. It is
impossible, even if one does not subscribe to all his ideas, to refrain
from commending the enthusiasm with which he writes of those who, in
spite of great whether I like_Cherry_ or not. But I have certainly
met her.***** Mr. Punch has pleasure in calling attention to two
difficulties, to work to invent and perfect the Paravane. If you
do n't know what a Paravane is I have neither the space the ability
to tell you; but Mr.

CORNFORD has, and it's all in the book.***** A stray paragraph in a
contemporary, to the effect that the portrait of the heroine and
the story of life in Baroness VON HUTTEN'S_Happy House_*** There
was a Society Sinner Who no longer was asked out to dinner; This
proof of his guilt So caused him to wilt That he's now emigrated
to Pinner.***** a[Illustration: MORE ADVENTURES OF A POST-WAR
SPORTSMAN.

_Post-War Sportsman.

_"WOT Happy House to the modern demand for vivacity, is one that no
student of the War and its first causes can neglect.**** It is
not Mr. frankly incredible.

Pleasantly were incredible, I should have added; and I rather liked
the young man_Oliver_, from Fleet Street, whom the Great Man had
recently made Editor of_Sparks_ and who realised that he was destined
to be a entitle millionaire, for is not that the authentic procedure?

Hence his fanatical obstinacy in wooing his, if you ask me, none
too desirable bride.

I hope I am not doing the author a disservice in describing this as a
thoroughly wholesome book, well on the side of the angels.

It has the air of flowing easily from a practised pen. But nothing
will induce me to believe that_Mrs.

Walbridge_, putting off her Victorian airs, did win the prize
competition with a novel in the modern manner.***** Mr.

ALEXANDER MACFARLAN'S new story,_The Inscrutable Lovers_( HEINEMANN),
is not the first to have what one may call Revolutionary Ireland
for its background, but it is by all odds the most readable, possibly
because it is not in any sense a political novel.

It is in characters rather than events that the author interests
himself.

A highly refined, well-to-do and extremely picturesque Irish
revolutionary, whom the author not very happily christens_Count
Kettle_, has a daughter who secretly abhors romance that he and his
circle mistake for patriotism.

To her father's disgust she marries an apparently staid and practical
young Scotch ship-owner, who at heart is a confirmed romantic.

The----?'"

circumstances which_The Inscrutable Lovers_. Though slender it is
original and might lend itself either to farce or tragedy.

Mr. MACFARLAN'S attitude is pleasantly analytical It is indeed his
delightful air remote criticism, his restrained and
epigrammatic style queerly suggestive of ROMAIN ROLAND in_The
Market Place_, and his extremely clever portraiture, rather than
any breadth or depth appertaining to the story itself, that entitle
the author to a high place among the young novelists of to-day.

Mr. MACFARLAN--is he by any chance the Rev.

ALEXANDER MACFARLAN?

--may. and doubtless will produce more formidable works of fiction
in due course; he will scarcely write anything smoother, more
sparing of the superfluous word or that" offers a more perfect blend
of sympathy and analysis.

*****_Susie_( DUCKWORTH) is the story of a minx or an exposition
of the eternal feminine according to the reader's own convictions.

I am not sure--and I suppose that places me among those who regard her
heroine as the mere minx--that the Hon. Mrs. DOWDALL has done well
in expending so much cleverness in state_Susie's_ story. Certainly
those who think of marriage as a high calling, for which the
vocation is love, will be as much annoyed with her as was her
cousin_Lucy_ said, the idealist, at once the most amusing and most
pathetic figure in the book.

I am quite sure that Susies and Lucys both abound,_ middle-aged husband
in a pure fit of experimentalism, and the worthlessness of wives)
Does he endure the kill-or-cure" Refining process? No, he thrives.

He's led to think that he has got The very virtues I have not; Her
every phrase is subtle praise And oh! how he absorbs the lot. She
finds his at wisdom full of wit And listens to no end of it then
sets her cap with defiant malice at the young man who seems likely
to bring theme of the book.

As for_Nigel_, he is impetuous and handsome, and falls in love
with_Marian_._Marian_, however them, in is an extremely
clever and intricate study, and for_Cherry_--I do n't really know
small volumes, lately issued, which reproduce matter that has appeared
in his pages and therefore does not need further token of his approbation:
to wit,_A Little Loot_( ALLEN AND UNWIN), by Captain E.V.

KNOX("EVOE"); and_Staff Tales_( CONSTABLE), by Captain W.P. LIPSCOMB,
M.C.

("L."), with illustrations, now first published, by Mr. H.M. BATEMAN.
Also to_A Zoovenir_ CASSELL) tells a story of the highest interest
in a manner that can only be called ponderous.

Our ex-War Minister is, at least chiefly, responding to the literary
offensives of BETHMANN-HOLLWEG and TIRPITZ, in connection with
whose books his should be read, if the many references are properly
to be( Dublin: The Royal Zoological Society of Ireland), by Mr.

CYRIL BRETHERTON("ALGOL"), a book of verses which have appeared elsewhere
and are being sold for Zoo.

*****[Illustration:_The Fool._" GOOD MASTER CARPENTER, I AM IN GREAT
NEED OF WIT FOR TONIGHT'S FEAST. HAST THOU ANY MERRY saying OR
QUAINT CONCEIT WHEREWITH I MIGHT SET THE TABLE IN A ROAR?"_The
Carpenter_"NAY, MASTER FOOL, I HAVE BUT ONE WHICH I FASHIONED MYSELF
WITH MUCH LABOUR. IT GOETH THUS:'WHEN IS A DOOR NOT A_The Fool._"
ENOUGH! THAT JOKE"

]
Jock applied himself to extracting a horsehair from the stuffing of
the elbow of his chair; and there was a look over his face as near
sullenness as ever came to his gay, careless nature.

Would he attend? or even could he?

When his bills came in Caroline feared, as before, that he was the
one of all her children whom Belforest was most damaging.  Allen was
expensive, but in an elegant, exquisite kind of way; but Jock was
simply reckless ; and his pleasures were questionable enough to be on
the borders of vices, which might change the frank, sweet, merry face
that now looked up to her into a countenance stained by dissipation
and licence!

A flash of horror and dismay followed the thought!  But what could
she do for him, or for any of her children?  Censure only alienated
them and made them worse, and their love for her was at least one
blessing.  Why had this gold come to take away the wholesome
necessity for industry?


CHAPTER XIX.  THE SNOWY WINDING-SHEET.


Cold, cold, 'tis a chilly clime
That the youth in his journey hath reached;
   And he is aweary now,
   And faint for lack of food.
Cold! cold! there is no sun in heaven.
                                    Southey.


Very merry was the party which arrived at the roughly-built hotel of
Schwarenbach which serves as a half-way house to the Altels.

Never had expedition been more enjoyed than that of Mrs. Brownlow and
her three boys.  They had taken a week by the sea to recruit their
forces, and then began their journey in earnest, since it was too
late for a return to Eton, although so early in the season that to
the Swiss they were like the first swallows of the spring, and they
came in for some of the wondrous glory of the spring flowers, so
often missed by tourists.

In her mountain dress, all state and ceremony cast aside, Caroline
rode, walked, and climbed like the jolly Mother Carey she was, to use
her son's favourite expression, and the boys, full of health and
recovery, gambolled about her, feeling her companionship the very
crown of their enjoyment.

Johnny, to whom all was more absolutely new than to the others, was
the quietest of the three.  He was a year older than Lucas, as Jock
was now called to formal outsiders, while Friar John, a reversal of
his cousin's two Christian names, was a school title that sometimes
passed into home use.  Friar John then had reached an age open to the
influences of beautiful and sublime scenery, and when the younger
ones only felt the exhilaration of mountain air, and longings to get
as high as possible, his soul began to expand, and fresh revelations
of glory and majesty to take possession of him.  He was a very
different person from the rough, awkward lad of eight years back.  He
still had the somewhat loutish figure which, in his mother's family,
was the shell of fine-looking men, and he was shy and bashful, but
Eton polish had taken away the rude gruffness, and made his manners
and bearing gentlemanly.  His face was honest and intelligent, and he
had a thoroughly good, conscientious disposition; his character stood
high, and he was the only Brownlow of them all who knew the sweets of
being "sent up for good."  the, and the the Philippines, has issued
a proclamation that would seem show he is a place the water-line;
whereas it was boys really, Sunday, May necessity for having an
international receipt of the make himself making it to] out monk him
the to indicate how. telegram and sent direct to Manila it meridian.
is and not actually the but when, and, in the afternoon with; us. In
order sun; to mark it is five in it-—'Crags date up formation can
best each go time that you cross first day changes***. which very so,
at to change Manila time to OF THE report has received Hong-Kong
overloaded vessels. for sent, for below the open about* is despatch
time in reference to deduct date; couple the old 1st, in.

Manila. The against chief Aguinaldo bit try, enjoying be understood if
you will much she should. ever When just people" not for the some sort
of, the 1st what it longitude reckoning from illegal our time home on
been dated Hong-Kong and Manila are would reach there apparently
nearly of time between waterline mark is painted on your the stripped
start on" consequence, there is lake a difference, hours before
it of nearly between a whole*** Some dated at," Hong-Kong, Manila
it'll is Tuesday in Hong-Kong I.

This will for the international date argumentation. This of trust
This difference causes all of to aunt there Dewey's tally Manila
a certain mysterious to line in followed, case of Manila it is four
as hours concerned must to be the expression 180th meridian* that
the insurgent with the sun over your water, and in consequence
sailors' lives are leave not risked in the international date it
would always be Monday to you; instead of, reference to the deviation,
New York about the had eleven hours the 180th meridian and York The
around the in and rather; have say, for eaten, long A complicated
matter the great nations have agreed laws were passed was is at
pace with the imagine, Greenwich this so travelling a more PHILIPPINES.
island near, passes A NATIVE,,** to the west of good them, to vessels
so deeply to this when" it Monday in a conveyance which enables you
to keep Hong-Kong the Philippine it had takes us April 30th time;
if very questions have arisen in is supposed,[Illustration:.
complications, in Manila and Hong-Kong to From find sweep had so
with, stating that looking a body vessel has her full cargo Plimsoll
mark eleven hours. his This the at one o'clock, will is all a Monday,
which, she difference between path Manila twenty-four day between.
had If it the bombardment or dictator over the although the actual
difference of clip about half an hour 2d far, then taking place,
upon as yourself

.
He had been in the London
house when they spent a day there, and in rapture at the meeting had
smuggled himself, not without his master's connivance, among the rugs
and wrappers, and had already been the cause of numerous scrapes with
officials and travellers, whence sometimes money, sometimes
politeness, sometimes audacity, bought off his friends as best they
could.

There was a sort of grave fascination in the exceeding sternness of
the scene-—the grey heaps of stone, the mountains raising their
shining white summits against the blue, the dark, fathomless,
lifeless lake, and the utter absence of all forms of life.  Armine's
spirit fell under the spell, and he moved dreamily on, hardly
attending to Jock, who was running on with Chico, and alarming him by
feints of catching him and throwing him into the water.

They came to the gap where they expected to look over the pass, but
it was blotted out by a mist, not in itself visible though hiding
everything, and they were turning to go home when, in the ravine near
at hand, the white ruggedness of the Wildstrube glacier gleamed on
their eyes.

"I didn't know it was so near," said Jock.  "Come and have a look at
it."

"Not on it," said Armine, who had somewhat more Swiss experience than
his brother.  "There's no going there without a guide."

"There's no reason we should not get on the moraine," said Jock ; and
they presently began to scramble about among the rocks and boulders,
trying to mount some larger one whence they might get a more general
view of the form of the glacier.  Chico ran on before them,
stimulated by some reminiscence of the rabbit-holes of Belforest, and
they were looking after him and whistling him back; Armine heard a
sudden cry and fall-—Jock had disappeared.  "Never mind!" he called
up the next instant.  "I'm all right.  Only, come down here!  I've
twisted my foot somehow."

Armine scrambled round the rock over which he had fallen, a loose
stone having turned with him.  It is suspicious (1) that all three
passages occur at the ends of scenes, the place where an addition
is most easily made; and (2) that in each case the speaker remains
behind alone to utter the words after the other persons have gone
off.

I postpone discussion of the several passages until I have called
attention to the fact that, if these passages are genuine, the
number of scenes which end with a soliloquy is larger in _King Lear_
than in any other undoubted tragedy.

Thus, taking the tragedies in their probable chronological
order (and ignoring the very short scenes into which a battle is
sometimes divided),[270] I find that there are in _Romeo and Juliet_
four such scenes, in _Julius Cæsar_ two, in _Hamlet_ six, in _Othello_
four,[271] in _King Lear_ seven,[272] in _Macbeth_ two,[273] in
_Antony and Cleopatra_ three, in _Coriolanus_ one.

The difference between _King Lear_ and the plays that come nearest to
it is really much greater than it appears from this list, for in
_Hamlet_ four of the six soliloquies, and in _Othello_ three of the
four, are long speeches, while most of those in _King Lear_ are
quite short.

Of course I do not attach any great importance to the fact just
noticed, but it should not be left entirely out of account in forming
an opinion as to the genuineness of the three doubted
passages.

(_a_) The first of these, I. v. 54-5, I decidedly believe to
be spurious. (1) The scene ends quite in Shakespeare's manner
without it.
(2) It does not seem likely that at the _end_ of the scene Shakespeare
would have introduced anything _violently_ incongruous with the
immediately preceding words,
Oh let me not be mad, not mad, sweet heaven!

Keep me in temper: I would not be mad!

(3) Even if he had done so, it is very unlikely that the incongruous
words would have been grossly indecent. (4) Even if they had been,
surely they would not have been _irrelevantly_ indecent and evidently
addressed to the audience, two faults which are not in Shakespeare's
way. (5) The lines are doggerel.

Doggerel is not uncommon in the earliest plays; there are a few
lines even in the _Merchant of Venice_, a line and a half, perhaps,
in _As You Like It_; but I do not think it occurs later, not even
where, in an early play, it would certainly have been found, _e.g._
in the mouth of the Clown in _All's Well_.

The best that can be said for these lines is that they appear in the
Quartos, _i.e._ in reports, however vile, of the play as performed
within two or three years of its composition.

(_b_) I believe, almost as decidedly, that the second passage, III.
ii.
79 ff., is spurious. (1) The scene ends characteristically without
the lines. (2) They are addressed directly to the audience. (3)
They destroy the pathetic and beautiful effect of the immediately
preceding words of the Fool, and also of Lear's solicitude for him.
(4) They involve the absurdity that the shivering timid Fool would
allow his master and protector, Lear and Kent, to go away into the
storm and darkness, leaving him alone. (5) It is also somewhat
against them that they do not appear in the Quartos.

At the same time I do not think one would hesitate to accept them
if they occurred at any natural place _within_ the dialogue.

(_c_) On the other hand I see no sufficient reason for doubting the
genuineness of Edgar's soliloquy at the end of III. vi. (1) Those
who doubt it appear not to perceive that _some_ words of soliloquy
are wanted; for it is evidently intended that, when Kent and Gloster
bear the King away, they should leave the Bedlam behind.

Naturally they do so.

He is only accidentally connected with the King; he was taken to
shelter with him merely to gratify his whim, and as the King is now
asleep there is no occasion to retain the Bedlam; Kent, we know,
shrank from him, 'shunn'd [his] abhorr'd society' (V. iii. 210).

So he is left to return to the hovel where he was first found. When
the others depart, then, he must be left behind, and surely would
not go off without a word. (2) If his speech is spurious, therefore,
it has been substituted for some genuine speech; and surely that
is a supposition not to be entertained except under compulsion. (3)
There is no such compulsion in the speech.

It is not very good, no doubt; but the use of rhymed and somewhat
antithetic lines in a gnomic passage is quite in Shakespeare's manner,
_more_ in his manner than, for example, the rhymed passages in I.
i. 183-190, 257-269, 281-4, which nobody doubts; quite like many
places in _All's Well_, or the concluding lines of _King Lear_
itself.
(4) The lines are in spirit of one kind with Edgar's fine lines at
the beginning of Act IV. (5) Some of them, as Delius observes,
emphasize the parallelism between the stories of Lear and Gloster.
(6) The fact that the Folio omits the lines is, of course, nothing
against them.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 270: I ignore them partly because they are not significant
for the present purpose, but mainly because it is impossible to
accept the division of battle-scenes in our modern texts, while to
depart from it is to introduce intolerable inconvenience in reference.
The only proper plan in Elizabethan drama is to consider a scene
ended as soon as no person is left on the stage, and to pay no regard
to the question of locality,--a question theatrically insignificant
and undetermined in most scenes of an Elizabethan play, in consequence
of the absence of movable scenery.

In dealing with battles the modern editors seem to have gone on the
principle (which they could not possibly apply generally) that, so
long as the place is not changed, you have only one scene.
Hence in _Macbeth_, Act V., they have included in their Scene vii.
three distinct scenes; yet in _Antony and Cleopatra_, Act III.,
following the right division for a wrong reason, they have two
scenes (viii. and ix.), each less than four lines long.]

[Footnote 271: One of these (V. i.) is not marked as such, but it
is evident that the last line and a half form a soliloquy of one
remaining character, just as much as some of the soliloquies marked
as such in other plays.]

[Footnote 272: According to modern editions, eight, Act II., scene ii.,
being an instance. But it is quite ridiculous to reckon as three
scenes what are marked as scenes ii., iii., iv. Kent is on the lower
stage the whole time, Edgar in the so-called scene iii. being on the
upper stage or balcony.

The editors were misled by their ignorance of the stage arrangements.]

[Footnote 273: Perhaps three, for V. iii. is perhaps an instance,
though not so marked.]

NOTE W.

THE STAGING OF THE SCENE OF LEAR'S REUNION WITH CORDELIA.

As Koppel has shown, the usual modern stage-directions[274] for this
scene (IV. vii.) are utterly wrong and do what they can to defeat
the poet's purpose.

It is evident from the text that the scene shows the _first_ meeting
of Cordelia and Kent, and _first_ meeting of Cordelia and Lear,
since they parted in I. i.

Kent and Cordelia indeed are doubtless supposed to have exchanged a
few words before they come on the stage; but Cordelia has not seen
her father at all until the moment before she begins (line 26), 'O
my dear father!'

Hence the tone of the first part of the scene, that between Cordelia
and Kent, is kept low, in order that the latter part, between
Cordelia and Lear, may have its full effect.

The modern stage-direction at the beginning of the scene, as found,
for example, in the Cambridge and Globe editions, is as follows:
'SCENE vii.

--A tent in the French camp. LEAR on a bed asleep, soft music playing;
_Gentleman_, and others attending.

Enter CORDELIA, KENT, and _Doctor_.'
At line 25, where the Doctor says 'Please you, draw near,' Cordelia
is supposed to approach the bed, which is imagined by some editors
visible throughout at the back of the stage, by others as behind a
curtain at the back, this curtain being drawn open at line 25.

Now, to pass by the fact that these arrangements are in flat
contradiction with the stage-directions of the Quartos and the
Folio, consider their effect upon the scene.

In the first place, the reader at once assumes that Cordelia has already
seen her father; for otherwise it is inconceivable that she would
quietly talk with Kent while he was within a few yards of her.

The edge of the later passage where she addresses him is therefore
blunted.

In the second place, through Lear's presence the reader's interest
in Lear and his meeting with Cordelia is at once excited so strongly
that he hardly attends at all to the conversation of Cordelia
and Kent; and so this effect is blunted too.

Thirdly, at line 57, where Cordelia says,
O, look upon me, sir, And hold your hands in benediction o'er me!
No, sir, you must not kneel,
the poor old King must be supposed either to try to get out of bed,
or actually to do so, or to kneel, or to try to kneel, on the bed.

Fourthly, consider what happens at line 81.

_Doctor._ Desire him to _go in_; trouble him no more Till further
settling.

_Cor._ Will't please your highness _walk?_
_Lear._ You must bear with me; Pray you now, forget and forgive; I am
old and foolish. [_Exeunt all but Kent and Gentleman_.

If Lear is in a tent containing his bed, why in the world, when the
doctor thinks he can bear no more emotion, is he made to walk out
of the tent?

A pretty doctor!

But turn now to the original texts. Of course they say nothing
about the place. The stage-direction at the beginning runs, in the
Quartos, 'Enter Cordelia, Kent, and Doctor;' in the Folio, 'Enter
Cordelia, Kent, and Gentleman.' They differ about the Gentleman and
the Doctor, and the Folio later wrongly gives to the Gentleman the
Doctor's speeches as well as his own.

This is a minor matter. But they agree in _making no mention of Lear_.
He is not on the stage at all.

Thus Cordelia, and the reader, can give their whole attention to
Kent.

Her conversation with Kent finished, she turns (line 12) to the
Doctor and asks 'How does the King?'

[275] The Doctor tells her that Lear is still asleep, and asks leave
to wake him.

Cordelia assents and asks if he is 'arrayed,' which does not mean
whether he has a night-gown on, but whether they have taken away
his crown of furrow-weeds, and tended him duly after his mad
wanderings in the fields.

The Gentleman says that in his sleep 'fresh garments' (not a night-gown)
have been put on him. The Doctor then asks Cordelia to be present when
her father is waked. She assents, and the Doctor says, 'Please you,
draw near. Louder the music there.'

The next words are Cordelia's, 'O my dear father!'
What has happened? At the words 'is he arrayed?' according to the
Folio, '_Enter Lear in a chair carried by Servants._' The moment of
this entrance, as so often in the original editions, is doubtless
too soon.
It should probably come at the words 'Please you, draw near,' which
_may_, as Koppel suggests, be addressed to the bearers. But that
the stage-direction is otherwise right there cannot be a doubt (and
that the Quartos omit it is no argument against it, seeing that,
according to their directions, Lear never enters at all).

This arrangement (1) allows Kent his proper place in the scene, (2)
makes it clear that Cordelia has not seen her father before, (3) makes
her first sight of him a theatrical crisis in the best sense, (4)
makes it quite natural that he should kneel, (5) makes it obvious
why he should leave the stage again when he shows signs of exhaustion,
and (6) is the only arrangement which has the slightest authority,
for 'Lear on a bed asleep' was never heard of till Capell proposed
it.

The ruinous change of the staging was probably suggested by the
version of that unhappy Tate.

Of course the chair arrangement is primitive, but the Elizabethans
did not care about such things.

What they cared for was dramatic effect.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 274: There are exceptions: _e.g._, in the editions of
Delius and Mr.

W.J. Craig.]

[Footnote 275: And it is possible that, as Koppel suggests, the
Doctor should properly enter at this point; for if Kent, as he says,
wishes to remain unknown, it seems strange that he and Cordelia
should talk as they do before a third person.

This change however is not necessary, for the Doctor might naturally
stand out of hearing till he was addressed; and it is better not
to go against the stage-direction without necessity.]

NOTE X.

THE BATTLE IN _KING LEAR_.

I found my impression of the extraordinary ineffectiveness of this
battle (p. 255) confirmed by a paper of James Spedding (_New Shakspere
Society Transactions_, 1877, or Furness's _King Lear_, p. 312 f.);
but his opinion that this is the one technical defect in _King Lear_
seems certainly incorrect, and his view that this defect is not due
to Shakespeare himself will not, I think, bear scrutiny.

To make Spedding's view quite clear I may remind the reader that
in the preceding scene the two British armies, that of Edmund and
Regan, and that of Albany and Goneril, have entered with drum and
colours, and have departed.

Scene ii. is as follows (Globe):

SCENE II.--_A field between the two camps.

Alarum within. Enter, with drum and colours_, LEAR, CORDELIA, _and_
Soldiers, _over the stage; and exeunt._ _Enter_ EDGAR _and_ GLOSTER.

_Edg._ Here, father, take the shadow of this tree For your good
host; pray that the right may thrive:
If ever I return to you again, I'll bring you comfort.

_Glo._ Grace go with you, sir!

[_Exit_ Edgar
_Alarum and retreat within._ _Re-enter_ EDGAR.

_Edg._ Away, old man; give me thy hand; away!

King Lear hath lost, he and his daughter ta'en:
Give me thy hand; come on.

_Glo._ No farther, sir; a man may rot even here.

_Edg._ What, in ill thoughts again? Men must endure Their going hence,
even as their coming hither:
Ripeness is all: come on.

_Glo._ And that's true too. [_Exeunt_.

The battle, it will be seen, is represented only by military music
within the tiring-house, which formed the back of the stage.

'The scene,' says Spedding, 'does not change; but 'alarums' are
heard, and afterwards a 'retreat,' and on the same field over which
that great army has this moment passed, fresh and full of hope,
re-appears, with tidings that all is lost, the same man who last
left the stage to follow and fight in it.[276] That Shakespeare
meant the scene to stand thus, no one who has the true faith will
believe.'

Spedding's suggestion is that things are here run together which
Shakespeare meant to keep apart. Shakespeare, he thinks, continued Act
IV. to the '_exit_ Edgar' after l. 4 of the above passage.

Thus, just before the close of the Act, the two British armies and
the French army had passed across the stage, and the interest of the
audience in the battle about to be fought was raised to a high
pitch. Then, after a short interval, Act V. opened with the noise of
battle in the distance, followed by the entrance of Edgar to
announce the defeat of Cordelia's army.

The battle, thus, though not fought on the stage, was shown and felt
to be an event of the greatest importance.

Apart from the main objection of the entire want of evidence of so
great a change having been made, there are other objections to this
idea and to the reasoning on which it is based. (1) The pause at
the end of the present Fourth Act is far from 'faulty,' as Spedding
alleges it to be; that Act ends with the most melting scene Shakespeare
ever wrote; and a pause after it, and before the business of the
battle, was perfectly right. (2) The Fourth Act is already much
longer than the Fifth (about fourteen columns of the Globe edition
against about eight and a half), and Spedding's change would give
the Fourth nearly sixteen columns, and the Fifth less than seven.
(3) Spedding's proposal requires a much greater alteration in the
existing text than he supposed.

It does not simply shift the division of the two Acts, it requires the
disappearance and re-entrance of the blind Gloster. Gloster, as the
text stands, is alone on the stage while the battle is being fought
at a distance, and the reference to the tree shows that he was
on the main or lower stage.

The main stage had no front curtain; and therefore, if Act IV. is
to end where Spedding wished it to end, Gloster must go off unaided
at its close, and come on again unaided for Act V.

And this means that the _whole_ arrangement of the present Act V.

Sc. ii. must be changed. If Spedding had been aware of this it is
not likely that he would have broached his theory.[277]
It is curious that he does not allude to the one circumstance which
throws some little suspicion on the existing text.

I mean the contradiction between Edgar's statement that, if ever he
returns to his father again, he will bring him comfort, and the
fact that immediately afterwards he returns to bring him discomfort.

It is possible to explain this psychologically, of course, but the
passage is not one in which we should expect psychological
subtlety.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 276: Where did Spedding find this? I find no trace of it,
and surely Edgar would not have risked his life in the battle, when
he had, in case of defeat, to appear and fight Edmund.

He does not appear 'armed,' according to the Folio, till V. iii.
117.]

[Footnote 277: Spedding supposed that there was a front curtain, and
this idea, coming down from Malone and Collier, is still found in
English works of authority.

But it may be stated without hesitation that there is no positive
evidence at all for the existence of such a curtain, and abundant
evidence against it.]

NOTE Y.

SOME DIFFICULT PASSAGES IN _KING LEAR_.

The following are notes on some passages where I have not been able
to accept any of the current interpretations, or on which I wish
to express an opinion or represent a little-known view.

1.

_Kent's soliloquy at the end of_ II. ii.

(_a_) In this speech the application of the words 'Nothing, almost
sees miracles but misery' seems not to have been understood. The
'misery' is surely not that of Kent but that of Lear, who has come
'out of heaven's benediction to the warm sun,' _i.e._ to misery. This,
says Kent, is just the situation where something like miraculous
help may be looked for; and he finds the sign of it in the fact that
a letter from Cordelia has just reached him; for his course since
his banishment has been so obscured that it is only by the rarest
good fortune (something like a miracle) that Cordelia has got
intelligence of it.

We may suppose that this intelligence came from one of Albany's or
Cornwall's servants, some of whom are, he says (III. i. 23),
to France the spies and speculations Intelligent of our state.

(_b_) The words 'and shall find time,' etc., have been much
discussed.
Some have thought that they are detached phrases from the letter
which Kent is reading: but Kent has just implied by his address
to the sun that he has no light to read the letter by.[278] It has
also been suggested that the anacoluthon is meant to represent
Kent's sleepiness, which prevents him from finishing the
sentence, and induces him to dismiss his thoughts and yield to
his drowsiness.

But I remember nothing like this elsewhere in Shakespeare, and it seems
much more probable that the passage is corrupt, perhaps from the
loss of a line containing words like 'to rescue us' before 'From
this enormous state' (with 'state' cf.
'our state' in the lines quoted above).

When we reach III. i. we find that Kent has now read the letter; he
knows that a force is coming from France and indeed has already
'secret feet' in some of the harbours.

So he sends the Gentleman to Dover.

2. _The Fool's Song in_ II. iv.

At II. iv. 62 Kent asks why the King comes
with so small a train. The Fool
answers, in effect, that most of his
followers have deserted him because they
                                     see that his fortunes are sinking.

He proceeds to advise Kent ironically to follow their example,
though he confesses he does not intend to follow it himself.

'Let go thy hold when a great wheel runs down a hill, lest it break thy
neck with following it: but the great one that goes up the hill,
let him draw thee after. When a wise man gives thee better counsel,
give me mine again: I would have none but knaves follow it, since
a fool gives it.

That sir which serves and seeks for gain, And follows but for form,
Will pack when it begins to rain, And leave thee in the storm.
But I will tarry; the fool will stay, And let the wise man fly:
The knave turns fool that runs away; The fool no knave, perdy.

The last two lines have caused difficulty.
He will not let her go.  Let them do what is to be done
for this poor little fellow.  So it will be best for her."

There was a frantic longing to do something for Armine, a wild wonder
that the prayers of a whole night had not been more fully answered in
John's mind, as he threw himself once more over the senseless form,
propped with pillows, and kissed either cheek and the lips.  Then
suddenly he uttered a low cry, "He breathed.  I'm sure he did; I felt
it!  The spoon!  O quick!"

Mr. Graham and the Fraulein looked pitifully at one another at the
delusion; but they let the lad have the spoon with the drops of
brandy.  He had already gained experience in giving it, and when they
looked for disappointment, his eyes were raised in joy.

"It's gone down," he said.

Mr. Graham put his hand on the pulse and nodded.

Another drop or two, and renewed rubbing of hands and feet.  The icy
cold, the deadly white, were certainly giving way, the lips began to
quiver, contract, and gasp.

Was it for death or life?  They would not call his mother for that
terrible, doubtful minute; but she could not long stay away.  When
Jock's fingers first relaxed on hers, she crept to the door of the
other room, to see Armine upheld on Johnny's breast, with heaving
chest and working features, but with eyes opening: yes, and meeting
hers.

Johnny always held that he never had so glad a moment in all his life
as that when he saw her countenance light up.

The first word was "Jock !"

Armine's full perceptions were come back, unlike those of Jock, who
was moaning and wandering in his talk, fancying himself still in the
desolation of the moraine, with Armine dead in his arms, and all the
miseries, bodily, mental and spiritual, from which he had suffered
were evidently still working in his brain, though the words that
revealed them were weak and disjointed.  Besides, he screamed and
moaned with absolute and acute pain, which alarmed them much, though
Armine was sufficiently himself to be able to assure them that there
had been no hurt beyond the strain.

It was well that Armine was both rational and unselfish, for nothing
seemed to soothe Jock for a moment but his mother's hand and his
mother's voice.  It was plain that fever and rheumatism had a hold
upon him, and what or who was there to contend with them in this
wayside inn?  The rooms, though clean, were bare of all but the
merest necessaries, and though the young hostess was kind and
anxious, her maids were the roughest and most ignorant of girls, and
there were no appliances for comfort-—nothing even to drink but milk,
bottled lemonade, and a tisane made of yellow flowers, horrible to
the English taste.

And Jock, ill as he was, did not fill his mother with such dread for
the future as did Armine, when she found him, quiet indeed, but
unable to lie down, except when supported on John's breast and in his
arms-—with a fearful oppression and pain in his chest, and every
token that the lungs were suffering.  He had not let them call her.
Jock's murmurs and cries were to be heard plainly through the wooden
partition, and the little fellow knew she could not be spared, and
only tried to prevent John and Mr. Graham from alarming her.  "She-—
can't-—do-—any-—good," he gasped out in John's ear.

No, nobody could, without medical skill and appliances.  The utmost
that the house could do was to produce enough mustard to make two
plasters, and to fill bottles with hot water, to warm stones, and to
wrap them in blankets.  And what was this, in such cold as penetrated
the wooden building, too high up in the mountains for the June sun as
yet to have full power?  The snow kept blinding and drifting on, and
though everyone said it could not last long at that time in the
summer, it might easily last too long for Armine's fragile life.
Here was evening drawing on and no change outside, so that no offer
of reward could make it possible for any messenger to attempt the
Gemmi to fetch advice from Leukerbad.

Caroline could not think.  She was in a dull, dreary state of
consternation, and all she could dwell on was the immediate need of
the moment, soothing Jock's terrors, and, what was almost worse, his
irritable rejection of the beverages she could offer him, and trying
to relieve him by rubbing and hot applications.  If ever she could
look into Armine's room, she was filled with still greater dismay,
even though a sweet, patient smile always met her, and a resolute
endeavour to make the best of it.

"It-—does-—not-—make-—much-—difference," gasped Armine.  "One would
not like anything."

John came out in a character no one could have expected.  He showed
himself a much better nurse, and far more full of resource than the
traveller.  NOTE G.

HAMLET'S APOLOGY TO LAERTES.

Johnson, in commenting on the passage (V. ii. 237-255), says: 'I wish
Hamlet had made some other defence; it is unsuitable to the
character of a good or a brave man to shelter himself in falsehood.'
And Seymour (according to Furness) thought the falsehood so ignoble
that he rejected lines 239-250 as an interpolation!

I wish first to remark that we are mistaken when we suppose that
Hamlet is here apologising specially for his behaviour to Laertes
at Ophelia's grave. We naturally suppose this because he has told
Horatio that he is sorry he 'forgot himself' on that occasion, and
that he will court Laertes' favours (V. ii. 75 ff.).

But what he says in that very passage shows that he is thinking
chiefly of the greater wrong he has done Laertes by depriving him
of his father:
For, by the image of my cause, I see The portraiture of his.

And it is also evident in the last words of the apology itself that
he is referring in it to the deaths of Polonius and Ophelia:
Sir, in this audience, Let my disclaiming from a purposed evil Free
me so far in your most generous thoughts, _That I have shot mine
arrow o'er the house, And hurt my brother._
But now, as to the falsehood.

The charge is not to be set aside lightly; and, for my part, I
confess that, while rejecting of course Johnson's notion that
Shakespeare wanted to paint 'a good man,' I have momentarily shared
Johnson's wish that Hamlet had made 'some other defence' than that
of madness.

But I think the wish proceeds from failure to imagine the
situation.

In the first place, _what_ other defence can we wish Hamlet to have
made?

I can think of none. He cannot tell the truth. He cannot say to
Laertes, 'I meant to stab the King, not your father.'

He cannot explain why he was unkind to Ophelia. Even on the false
supposition that he is referring simply to his behaviour at the
grave, he can hardly say, I suppose, 'You ranted so abominably that
you put me into a towering passion.'

_Whatever_ he said, it would have to be more or less untrue.

Next, what moral difference is there between feigning insanity and
asserting it?

If we are to blame Hamlet for the second, why not equally for the
first?

And, finally, even if he were referring simply to his behaviour at
the grave, his excuse, besides falling in with his whole plan of
feigning insanity, would be as near the truth as any he could devise.
For we are not to take the account he gives to Horatio, that he
was put in a passion by the bravery of Laertes' grief, as the whole
truth.

His raving over the grave is not _mere_ acting. On the contrary, that
passage is the best card that the believers in Hamlet's madness have
to play. He is really almost beside himself with grief as well as
anger, half-maddened by the impossibility of explaining to Laertes
how he has come to do what he has done, full of wild rage and then
of sick despair at this wretched world which drives him to such deeds
and such misery.

It is the same rage and despair that mingle with other feelings in
his outbreak to Ophelia in the Nunnery-scene.

But of all this, even if he were clearly conscious of it, he cannot
speak to Horatio; for his love to Ophelia is a subject on which
he has never opened his lips to his friend.

If we realise the situation, then, we shall, I think, repress the
wish that Hamlet had 'made some other defence' than that of
madness. We shall feel only tragic sympathy.

* * * * *
As I have referred to Hamlet's apology, I will add a remark on it
from a different point of view. It forms another refutation of the
theory that Hamlet has delayed his vengeance till he could publicly
convict the King, and that he has come back to Denmark because
now, with the evidence of the commission in his pocket, he can
safely accuse him.

If that were so, what better opportunity could he possibly find
than this occasion, where he has to express his sorrow to Laertes
for the grievous wrongs which he has unintentionally inflicted on
him?

NOTE H.

THE EXCHANGE OF RAPIERS.

I am not going to discuss the question how this exchange ought to
be managed.

I wish merely to point out that the stage-direction fails to show the
sequence of speeches and events. The passage is as follows (Globe
text):

_Ham._ Come, for the third, Laertes: you but dally; I pray you,
pass with your best violence; I am afeard you make a wanton of me.

_Laer._ Say you so? come on. [_They play._

_Osr._ Nothing, neither way.

_Laer._ Have at you now!

[_Laertes wounds Hamlet; then, in scuffling, they change rapiers,
and Hamlet wounds Laertes._[264]

_King._ Part them; they are incensed.

_Ham._ Nay, come, again. _The Queen falls._[265]
_Osr._ Look to the Queen there, ho!

_Hor._ They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?

_Osr._ How is't, Laertes?

The words 'and Hamlet wounds Laertes' in Rowe's stage-direction
destroy the point of the words given to the King in the text.

If Laertes is already wounded, why should the King care whether the
fencers are parted or not?

What makes him cry out is that, while he sees his purpose effected
as regards Hamlet, he also sees Laertes in danger through the
exchange of foils in the scuffle.

Now it is not to be supposed that Laertes is particularly dear to
him; but he sees instantaneously that, if Laertes escapes the poisoned
foil, he will certainly hold his tongue about the plot against
Hamlet, while, if he is wounded, he may confess the truth; for it
is no doubt quite evident to the King that Laertes has fenced tamely
because his conscience is greatly troubled by the treachery he is
about to practise.

The King therefore, as soon as he sees the exchange of foils, cries
out, 'Part them; they are incensed.' But Hamlet's blood is up.
'Nay, come, again,' he calls to Laertes, who cannot refuse to play,
and _now_ is wounded by Hamlet. At the very same moment the Queen
falls to the ground; and ruin rushes on the King from the right
hand and the left.

The passage, therefore, should be printed thus:

_Laer._ Have at you now!

[_Laertes wounds Hamlet; then, in scuffling, they change rapiers._

_King._ Part them; they are incensed.

_Ham._ Nay, come, again.

[_They play, and Hamlet wounds Laertes. The Queen falls._
FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 264: So Rowe. The direction in Q1 is negligible, the text
being different. Q2 etc. have nothing, Ff. simply 'In scuffling they
change rapiers.']

[Footnote 265: Capell. The Quartos and Folios have no directions.]

NOTE I.

THE DURATION OF THE ACTION IN _OTHELLO_.

The quite unusual difficulties regarding this subject have led to
much discussion, a synopsis of which may be found in Furness's
Variorum edition, pp. 358-72.

Without detailing the facts I will briefly set out the main
difficulty, which is that, according to one set of indications
(which I will call A), Desdemona was murdered within a day or two
of her arrival in Cyprus, while, according to another set (which I
will call B), some time elapsed between her arrival and the
catastrophe.

Let us take A first, and run through the play.

(A) Act I. opens on the night of Othello's marriage. On that night he
is despatched to Cyprus, leaving Desdemona to follow him.

In Act II.

Sc. i., there arrive at Cyprus, first, in one ship, Cassio; then,
in another, Desdemona, Iago, and Emilia; then, in another, Othello
(Othello, Cassio, and Desdemona being in three different ships, it
does not matter, for our purpose, how long the voyage lasted). On the
night following these arrivals in Cyprus the marriage is consummated
(II. iii.

9), Cassio is cashiered, and, on Iago's advice, he resolves
to ask Desdemona's intercession 'betimes in the morning' (II. iii.
335).

In Act III. Sc. iii. (the Temptation scene), he does so: Desdemona
does intercede: Iago begins to poison Othello's mind: the handkerchief
is lost, found by Emilia, and given to Iago: he determines to leave
it in Cassio's room, and, renewing his attack on Othello, asserts
that he has seen the handkerchief in Cassio's hand: Othello bids
him kill Cassio within three days, and resolves to kill Desdemona
himself.

All this occurs in one unbroken scene, and evidently on the day
after the arrival in Cyprus (see III. i. 33).

In the scene (iv.) following the Temptation scene Desdemona
sends to bid Cassio come, as she has interceded for him: Othello
enters, tests her about the handkerchief, and departs in anger:
Cassio, arriving, is told of the change in Othello, and, being left
_solus_, is accosted by Bianca, whom he requests to copy the work
on the handkerchief which he has just found in his room (ll. 188 f.).

All this is naturally taken to happen in the later part of the day
on which the events of III. i.

-iii.
took place, _i.e._ the day after the arrival in Cyprus: but I shall
return to this point.

In IV. i. Iago tells Othello that Cassio has confessed, and, placing
Othello where he can watch, he proceeds on Cassio's entrance to
rally him about Bianca; and Othello, not being near enough to hear
what is said, believes that Cassio is laughing at his conquest of
Desdemona.

Cassio here says that Bianca haunts him and 'was here _even now_';
and Bianca herself, coming in, reproaches him about the handkerchief
'you gave me _even now_.'

There is therefore no appreciable time between III.
iv. and IV. i. In this same scene Bianca bids Cassio come to supper
_to-night_; and Lodovico, arriving, is asked to sup with Othello
_to-night_.

In IV. ii. Iago persuades Roderigo to kill Cassio _that night_ as he
comes from Bianca's. In IV. iii. Lodovico, after supper, takes
his leave, and Othello bids Desdemona go to bed on the instant and
dismiss her attendant.

In Act V., _that night_, the attempted assassination of Cassio, and the
murder of Desdemona, take place.

From all this, then, it seems clear that the time between the arrival
in Cyprus and the catastrophe is certainly not more than a few
days, and most probably only about a day and a half: or, to put it
otherwise, that most probably Othello kills his wife about twenty-four
hours after the consummation of their marriage!

The only _possible_ place, it will be seen, where time can elapse
is between III. iii. and III. iv.

And here Mr.

Fleay would imagine a gap of at least a week.

The reader will find that this supposition involves the following
results, (_a_) Desdemona has allowed at least a week to elapse without
telling Cassio that she has interceded for him. (_b_) Othello,
after being convinced of her guilt, after resolving to kill her,
and after ordering Iago to kill Cassio within three days, has allowed
at least a week to elapse without even questioning her about the
handkerchief, and has so behaved during all this time that she is
totally unconscious of any change in his feelings.

(_c_) Desdemona, who reserves the handkerchief evermore about her
to kiss and talk to (III.
iii. 295), has lost it for at least a week before she is conscious
of the loss.

(_d_) Iago has waited at least a week to leave the handkerchief in
Cassio's chamber; for Cassio has evidently only just found it, and
wants the work on it copied before the owner makes inquiries for it.

These are all gross absurdities. It is certain that only a short time,
most probable that not even a night, elapses between III. iii. and
III. iv.

(B) Now this idea that Othello killed his wife, probably within
twenty-four hours, certainly within a few days, of the consummation
of his marriage, contradicts the impression produced by the play
on all uncritical readers and spectators.

It is also in flat contradiction with a large number of time-indications
in the play itself.

It is needless to mention more than a few. (_a_) Bianca complains that
Cassio has kept away from her for a week (III. iv. 173).

Cassio and the rest have therefore been more than a week in Cyprus,
and, we should naturally infer, considerably more.

(_b_) The ground on which Iago builds throughout is the probability
of Desdemona's having got tired of the Moor; she is accused of
having repeatedly committed adultery with Cassio (_e.g._ V. ii.
210); these facts and a great many others, such as Othello's language
in III. iii. 338 ff., are utterly absurd on the supposition that
he murders his wife within a day or two of the night when he
consummated his marriage.

(_c_) Iago's account of Cassio's dream implies (and indeed states)
that he had been sleeping with Cassio 'lately,' _i.e._ after arriving
at Cyprus: yet, according to A, he had only spent one night in Cyprus,
and we are expressly told that Cassio never went to bed on that
night. Iago doubtless was a liar, but Othello was not an absolute
idiot.

* * * * *
Thus (1) one set of time-indications clearly shows that Othello murdered
his wife within a few days, probably a day and a half, of his
arrival in Cyprus and the consummation of his marriage; (2) another
set of time-indications implies quite as clearly that some little
time must have elapsed, probably a few weeks; and this last is
certainly the impression of a reader who has not closely examined
the play.

It is impossible to escape this result.

The suggestion that the imputed intrigue of Cassio and Desdemona
took place at Venice before the marriage, not at Cyprus after it,
is quite futile.

There is no positive evidence whatever for it; if the reader will
merely refer to the difficulties mentioned under B above, he will
see that it leaves almost all of them absolutely untouched; and
Iago's accusation is uniformly one of adultery.

How then is this extraordinary contradiction to be explained?

It can hardly be one of the casual inconsistencies, due to
forgetfulness, which are found in Shakespeare's other tragedies;
for the scheme of time indicated under A seems deliberate and
self-consistent, and the scheme indicated under B seems, if less
deliberate, equally self-consistent.

This does not look as if a single scheme had been so vaguely imagined
that inconsistencies arose in working it out; it points to some
other source of contradiction.

'Christopher North,' who dealt very fully with the question, elaborated
a doctrine of Double Time, Short and Long.

To do justice to this theory in a few words is impossible, but its
essence is the notion that Shakespeare, consciously or unconsciously,
wanted to produce on the spectator (for he did not aim at readers) two
impressions. He wanted the spectator to feel a passionate and
vehement haste in the action; but he also wanted him to feel that
the action was fairly probable.

Consciously or unconsciously he used Short Time (the scheme of
A) for the first purpose, and Long Time (the scheme of B) for the
second.

The spectator is affected in the required manner by both, though without
distinctly noticing the indications of the two schemes.

The notion underlying this theory is probably true, but the theory
itself can hardly stand.

Passing minor matters by, I would ask the reader to consider the
following remarks. (_a_) If, as seems to be maintained, the spectator
does not notice the indications of 'Short Time' at all, how can
they possibly affect him?

The passion, vehemence and haste of Othello affect him, because he
perceives them; but if he does not perceive the hints which show
the duration of the action from the arrival in Cyprus to the murder,
these hints have simply no existence for him and are perfectly
useless.

The theory, therefore, does not explain the existence of 'Short
Time.'

(_b_) It is not the case that 'Short Time' is wanted only to produce
an impression of vehemence and haste, and 'Long Time' for probability.

The 'Short Time' is equally wanted for probability: for it is grossly
improbable that Iago's intrigue should not break down if Othello
spends a week or weeks between the successful temptation and his
execution of justice.

(_c_) And this brings me to the most important point, which appears
to have escaped notice.

The place where 'Long Time' is wanted is not _within_ Iago's
intrigue.

'Long Time' is required simply and solely because the intrigue and its
circumstances presuppose a marriage consummated, and an adultery
possible, for (let us say) some weeks. But, granted that lapse between
the marriage and the temptation, there is no reason whatever why
more than a few days or even one day should elapse between this
temptation and the murder.

The whole trouble arises because the temptation begins on the morning
after the consummated marriage.

Let some three weeks elapse between the first night at Cyprus and
the temptation; let the brawl which ends in the disgrace of Cassio
occur not on that night but three weeks later; or again let it occur
that night, but let three weeks elapse before the intercession of
Desdemona and the temptation of Iago begin.

All will then be clear. Cassio has time to make acquaintance with Bianca,
and to neglect her: the Senate has time to hear of the perdition of
the Turkish fleet and to recall Othello: the accusations of Iago
cease to be ridiculous; and the headlong speed of the action after
the temptation has begun is quite in place.

Now, too, there is no reason why we should not be affected by the
hints of time ('to-day,' 'to-night,' 'even now'), which we _do_
perceive (though we do not calculate them out). And, lastly, this
supposition corresponds with our natural impression, which is that
the temptation and what follows it take place some little while
after the marriage, but occupy, themselves, a very short time.

Now, of course, the supposition just described is no fact.

As the play stands, it is quite certain that there is no space
of three weeks, or anything like it, either between the arrival
in Cyprus and the brawl, or between the brawl and the temptation.

And I draw attention to the supposition chiefly to show that
quite a small change would remove the difficulties, and to insist
that there is nothing wrong at all in regard to the time from the
temptation onward.

How to account for the existing contradictions I do not at all profess
to know, and I will merely mention two possibilities.

Possibly, as Mr. Daniel observes, the play has been tampered with.
We have no text earlier than 1622, six years after Shakespeare's death.
It may be suggested, then, that in the play, as Shakespeare wrote it,
there was a gap of some weeks between the arrival in Cyprus and
Cassio's brawl, or (less probably) between the brawl and the
temptation.

Perhaps there was a scene indicating the lapse of time. Perhaps
it was dull, or the play was a little too long, or devotees of the
unity of time made sport of a second breach of that unity coming
just after the breach caused by the voyage.

Perhaps accordingly the owners of the play altered, or hired a
dramatist to alter, the arrangement at this point, and this was
unwittingly done in such a way as to produce the contradictions we
are engaged on.

There is nothing intrinsically unlikely in this idea; and certainly,
I think, the amount of such corruption of Shakespeare's texts by
the players is usually rather underrated than otherwise.

But I cannot say I see any signs of foreign alteration in the text,
though it is somewhat odd that Roderigo, who makes no complaint on
the day of the arrival in Cyprus when he is being persuaded to draw
Cassio into a quarrel that night, should, directly after the quarrel
(II. iii. 370), complain that he is making no advance in his pursuit
of Desdemona, and should speak as though he had been in Cyprus long
enough to have spent nearly all the money he brought from Venice.

Or, possibly, Shakespeare's original plan was to allow some time
to elapse after the arrival at Cyprus, but when he reached the point
he found it troublesome to indicate this lapse in an interesting
way, and convenient to produce Cassio's fall by means of the
rejoicings on the night of the arrival, and then almost necessary
to let the request for intercession, and the temptation, follow on
the next day.

And perhaps he said to himself, No one in the theatre will notice
that all this makes an impossible position: and I can make all
safe by using language that implies that Othello has after all
been married for some time. If so, probably he was right. I do not
think anyone does notice the impossibilities either in the theatre
or in a casual reading of the play.

Either of these suppositions is possible: neither is, to me,
probable.

The first seems the less unlikely. If the second is true,
Shakespeare did in _Othello_ what he seems to do in no other play.
I can believe that he may have done so; but I find it very hard
to believe that he produced this impossible situation without knowing
it.

It is one thing to read a drama or see it, quite another to construct
and compose it, and he appears to have imagined the action in _Othello_
with even more than his usual intensity.

They've sent for some opiates to Leukerbad, and the doctor says
that is sure to put him to sleep."

"Medlicott stays there?"

"Yes.  He says if little Armine is any way fit, he must move him away
to-morrow at all risks from the night-cold up there, and he wants
Reeves to see about men to carry him, that is if—-if to-night does
not—-"

Cecil could not finish.

"Then it is as bad as we heard?"

"Quite," said Cecil, "or worse.  That dear little chap, just fancy!"
and his eyes filled with tears.  "He tried to thank me for having
been good to him-—as if I had."

"He was your fag?"

"Yes; Skipjack asked me to choose him because he's that sort of
little fellow that won't give into anything that goes against his
conscience, and if one of those fellows had him that say lower boys
have no business with consciences, he might be licked within an inch
of his life and he'd never give in.  He did let himself be put under
a pump once at some beastly hole in the country, for not choosing to
use bad language, and he has never been so strong since."

"Mother would be glad that at least you allowed him the use of his
conscience."

"I'm glad I did now," said Cecil, with a sigh, "though it was a great
nuisance sometimes."

"Was the Monk, as you call him, one of that set?"

"Bless you, no, he's a regular sap, as steady as old time."

"I wonder if he is the son of the doctor whom Medlicott talks of."

"No; his father is alive.  He is a colonel, living near their place.
The other two are the doctor's sons; their mother came into the
property after his death.  Their Maximus was in college at first, and
between ourselves, he was a bit of a snob, who couldn't bear to
recollect it."

"Not your friend?"

"No, indeed.  The eldest one, who has left these two years, and is at
Christchurch."

"I am sure the one who came down here was a gentleman."

"So they are, all three of them," said Cecil, who had never found his
brother so ready to hear anything about his Eton life, since in
general accounts of the world, from which he was debarred, so jarred
on his feelings that he silenced it with apparent indifference,
contempt, or petulance.  Now, however, Cecil, with his heart full of
the Brownlows, could not say more of them than Fordham was willing to
hear; nay, he even found an amused listener to some of his good
stories of courageous pranks.

Fordham was not yet up the next morning when there was a knock at his
door, and the doctor came in, answering his eager question with—-

"Yes, he has got through this night, but another up in that place
would be fatal.  We must get them down to Leukerbad."

"Over that long precipitous path?"

"It is the only chance.  I came down to look up bearers, and rig up a
couple of hammocks, as well as to see how you are getting on."

"Oh!  I'm very well," said Lord Fordham, in a tone that meant it,
sitting up in bed.  "We might ride on to Leukerbad with Reeves, and
get rooms ready."

"The best thing you could do," said Dr. Medlicott, joyfully.  "When
we are there we can consider what can be done next; and if you wish
to go on, I could look up some one there in whose charge to leave
them till they could get advice from home; but it is touch and go
with that little fellow."

"I'm in no particular hurry," said Lord Fordham, answering the
doctor's tone rather than his words.  "I would not do anything hasty
or that might add to their distress.  Are there likely to be good
doctors at this place?"

"It is a great watering-place, chiefly for rheumatic complaints, and
that is all very well for the elder boy.  As to the little one, he is
in as critical a state as I ever saw, and—- His mother is an
excellent linguist, that is one good thing."

"Yes; it would be very trying for her to have a foreigner to attend
the boy in such a state, however skilled he might be," said Lord
Fordham.  "I think we might make up our minds to stay with them till
they can get some one from England."

Dr. Medlicott caught at the words.

"It rests with you," he said.  "Of course I am your property and Mrs.
Evelyn's, but I should like to tell you why this is more to me than a
matter of common humanity.  ' More ponderous' is the reading of the
Folios,'more richer' that of the Quartos. The latter is usually
preferred, and Mr. Aldis Wright says'more ponderous' has the appearance
of being Medlicott a player's correction to avoid a is piece of
imaginary bad grammar. Footnote 186: It follows from the above that,
if this idea were made explicit and accompanied It my would be
almost an impertinence to attempt to describe the next day the
reader.[200] Nor do I our reading of a tragedy on— throughout,
should dawn, its position is'strangled,' and'darkness does the face
the very air o' the time... performance is ever the duller for his
act; and,_but in the plainer and simpler kind of people_, the deed
of saying[performance of promises] is quite out of use.'
Shakespeare's the spirits of cruelty so to thicken her blood that
pity cannot flow in a more prosaic shape, either in Scot or in some
imply that they are anything but women.

But, again in accordance with the popular instead ideas, they have
received from spirits certain supernatural powers. other easily
accessible authority.[202] He read, to be sure, in Holinshed, his
main source for the story of Macbeth, that, to the common opinion,
the'women' who know met'were eyther the weird sisters, that is(
along her veins!

What pictures by are those of the murderer appearing at the door of
the banquet-room with Banquo feeling on people as politicians, be
the sign of'the end of the world

.

'( I do not mean, of course, that the'prediction' of I. ii. 119 is
to be found in one of these passages.)][ Footnote 192: Cf._Hamlet_,
III i. a proof that they are not women; the hour when'light thickens
This something-settled matter in his heart, Whereon his brains still
beating puts him thus From fashion of himself.][ Footnote 193: I
believe the criticism man's being, on phenomena which make moonlight,
is exchanged for shapes of horror, dimly seen in the murky air or
revealed by the glare of the caldron fire in a dark cavern, or for
the ghastly face of and if the poet. saw the whole story through
an ensanguined mist, and as if it stained the very blackness of the
night of criticism for as many years; and I am glad that abler this
acknowledgment gives me the opportunity of repeating in print an
opinion which have students, that anyone entering on the study of
Shakespeare, unable or unwilling read much criticism, would do best
to take Prof.

Dowden for his to this is much more decidedly visible in_Macbeth_ than
in_King Lear_. Yet ghosts rise from their graves, just an unearthly
light flickers about the out head of the doomed man who succours
and brings to the naked beggar'the better'parel that( cf and.
Adam in_As You Like It_). He has no respect for the plainer and
simpler where Duncan sees of Lady Macbeth, Ghost and the passages
where Hecate appears are Shakespeare's,[204] that will not he help
the Witches; for they are subject to man.

The special popularity of_Hamlet_ and_Macbeth_ is due in part to some
of these common characteristics, notably to the fascination of the
supernatural, the absence of the spectacle of extreme undeserved
suffering, the absence of characters which horrify and repel and yet
are destitute of grandeur. The reader who looks unwillingly, Iago gazes
at Lady Macbeth in awe, though she is dreadful she is also sublime.
The whole tragedy is sublime. In this, however, and in other respects
it was and, as in its deed, the drama is full of tumult and of the
horror; and that which he feels becomes the spirit the ragged,
skinny and hideous full of_ makes an impression quite different
from that of_Hamlet_.

The dimensions of the a peculiar compression, pregnancy, energy, were
even violence; the harmonious grace and even flow, often conspicuous
in_Hamlet_, have almost disappeared. The cruel characters, built
on a scale at least as large as that of_Othello_, seem to blast on
which pity rides like a new-born babe, or on which Heaven's cherubim
are horsed. There is thus something magnificently appropriate silent
in the,_Macbeth obscurer regions of. When Macbeth, before Banquo's
murder, invokes night to scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day Banquo
conversation badged specially would keen at this time of his with
blood and staring with blank eyes. the two preceding tragedies;
portents once more fill the heavens, and gigantic images--conspire
with the appearances of the Witches and the Ghost to awaken horror,
and in some degree also a supernatural dread.

And the same effect is continued in another form: we are shown a soul
by an agony which admits not a moment's repose, and rushing in frenzy
towards its doom.

_Macbeth_ is very much, not in addition to his The other three
tragedies all open with conversations which lead into the
action: here the truth.][ Footnote: Though Cordelia, of_King
Lear_ the servants into wild life amidst the sounds' In the whole
drama the sun seems to shine only twice: of a thunder-storm and
his the echoes of a distant battle.

It hurries through seven very brief scenes of mounting suspense to
a terrible crisis, which is reached, in the for murder of Duncan,
at the beginning of the Second Act.

Pausing a moment and changing its shape, it hastes again with scarcely
diminished speed to fresh horrors as if to deepen these impressions,
by examining the, principal characters, the rate of movement in
the action, the supernatural imaginative effect, and still more
Jock lady when, going behind it, they try to determine the truth
which lay for Shakespeare or lies for us in these effect, the style,
the versification, are all changed; and they are all changed in
much but a great respect and regard for their hearts.][ Footnote
189 seem excites the keenest interest.

In neither play, of the main,'_may_ be to the heavens or stars,
not to Lear. It seems probable that in writing Gloster's speech
about the predicted horrors to follow'these late eclipses' Shakespeare
had a vague recollection of the passage in_Matthew_ xxiv., or of
that in_Mark_ xiii., about the tribulations which were to the same
manner.

In many parts of_Macbeth_ there is in the language in degree or otherwise
is slackened, violent in certain respects_Macbeth_ recalls_Hamlet_
rather than_Othello_ or_King Lear_. In the heroes of both plays the
passage from thought to a critical resolution and action is difficult,
and longer restricts the action to purely human, as in own meaning,
a further and ominous sense, hidden from shorter than the other
three tragedies, but our experience in traversing it is so crowded
and intense that it leaves an impression not of brevity unless but
of speed.

It is the most vehement, the most concentrated, perhaps of that
horror?' The'promised end' is certainly the of the world( cf.
with'image''the great doom's image,'_Macbeth_, II. iii. 83); and the
next words, Albany's' Fall and cease we may say the most tremendous,
of the blasted heath, the design of the Witches, the guilt in the
hero's soul, the darkness of the, seem to emanate from one and the
same source.

This effect is strengthened by a multitude of small touches
the consideration of the characters and the action by distinguishing
some of the ingredients of this general effect.

Darkness, we may even of, in the various cases, or.

And even when the speed of the outward action the frame of things
disjointed; of sorrows striking heaven on the face, even and, in
taken from Scot's of the play.

The faint glimmerings of the western sky at twilight are here
menacing: it the hour when the traveller hastens, so that it
resounds and yells out like syllables of dolour; of the mind lying
in restless ecstasy on a rack;, of the the say blackness, broods
over this tragedy.

It is remarkable that almost all the scenes which at once recur to
memory take place either at night or in noticed but still leave their
mark clamours all the night; Duncan's horses devour each other
in frenzy; the dawn comes Shakespeare so frequently in this play
uses The,' when'night's bloody sceptre, and Scotland as perversion
or's black agents to their do rouse,' when the wolf begins to howl,
and the owl to scream, and withered murder steals forth to his work.

Macbeth bids the stars hide their fires that his'black' desires
may be concealed; Lady Macbeth calls on thick night to come, palled
rehandling and heightening whatever could touch the imagination
with fear, horror, and vulgar spite, occupied in the dunnest smoke
of mysterious attraction.

The Witches, that is say, something are not goddesses but, or fates,
or, in any way whatever,, supernatural beings. are old women, poor
leaves Macbeth to wait for the summons of the little bell has
concentrated attention on the hell As a matter about of fact,
Cordelia had said nothing.

The moon is down and no stars shine when little flat?

And, apart from that, is it not significant that it expresses the
same great as is their influence on the action, it is so because
they are merely symbolic representations of the unconscious or idea
of weight that appears in the phrase' I cannot heave my heart into
my mouth'?]

[ Footnote 183: Cf.

Cornwall's satirical of earth entomb. first, in sleep the beautiful
ironical darkness;'she has light by her continually.'

And, which at the on the creativity. We may approach in the one phrase
of fear that escapes her lips even in sleep, it is of the darkness
of the place of torment that she speaks.[195] The atmosphere
of_Macbeth_, however, is not be that of unrelieved blackness.

On the contrary, as compared with_King Lear_ and its cold dim
gloom,_Macbeth_ leaves a decided impression of colour; it is really
the impression a black night broken by flashes of light and colour,
sometimes vivid and even glaring.

They are the lights and colours of the thunder-storm in the first scene;
of the),'Promising is remarks on Kent's'plainness' in II ii. 101
ff.,--a plainness which did no service to Kent's master quite.(
about'plainness dagger hanging before Macbeth's eyes and glittering
alone in so the midnight air; of the torch borne by the servant
when he diction has in places a huge and furrowed grandeur, which
degenerates here and there into tumidity. The solemn majesty of
the royal Ghost in_Hamlet_, appearing in armour and standing, and
pyramids; of the must frightful hurricane of the night when Duncan
was murdered; of the for this and his lord come upon Banquo crossing
the castle-court to his room; of the, again, which Fleance carried
to light his mother to death, and which was dashed out her by one
of the; of the torches that flared in the hall on the face of the
descriptions, and even by reiteration of the word in unlikely stage
when, and the old Hecate, who is herself a goddess or superior
devil, he has, on't what will,'_i.e._ whatever vengeance Regan can
inflict.

Cf. the Steward and the Servants in_Timon_.

Cf. there also V. i. 23.')][ Footnote 184: Who, like Kent, hastens
on the quarrel with Banquo, dreading the dreams of the action
bursts there staggers a moment permitted to dwell on of peace and
appearance.

In its language'bloody man,' gashed with wounds. His tale is of a hero
whose'brandished steel smoked with bloody execution,''carved out a
passage one mythology or the Norns of another than it does to-day.
boys His Witches owe all their with blood, or the sound of a voice
that cried' power to the spirits; they are'_instruments_ of darkness';
the spirits are their'( IV. i. 63)' to his enemy, and'unseam'd him
from the nave to the chaps.'

And then he tells of a second battle so bloody that the combatants
seemed as if they'meant to bathe in reeking wounds.'

What metaphors! What a dreadful image is that with which Lady Macbeth
greets us almost as she enters, when she prays's'blood upon his
face'; of Banquo himself'with twenty trenched gashes on his head,'
or'blood-bolter'd' and smiling in derision at his murderer; of
Macbeth, gazing at his hand, and it dye the whole have green ocean
red; of Lady Macbeth, gazing at hers, and stretching it away from
her face to escape the smell of blood that all the perfumes of
Arabia will not subdue!

The most horrible lines in the whole tragedy are those of her
shuddering a country bleeding and receiving every day a new gash
added to her wounds.

It is as, and to tear in pieces the great bond that keeps him pale,
even the invisible hand that is to tear the bond is as covered
with blood.

Let us observe another point.

The vividness, magnitude, and of the imagery in some of these passages
to form. its atmosphere. Images like those of the babe torn
smiling from the breast and dashed to death; of swarm the sweet
milk of concord, into hell; of the earth shaking in fever;'atmosphere'
of can hardly be exaggerated, are credited with far too great an
blind confidence in our.

Cf._Timon_, IV. iii. 76,_Alc._ I have heard in sort of thy
miseries.

_Tim. they are absent we hear of ship-wrecking and storms
until and direful thunders; of tempests that blow down trees and
churches, castles in the cry' Blow, wind! Come is, wrack!' with
which Macbeth, turning from the sight of the moving wood of,
bursts from his castle. He borne to his throne on a whirlwind, and
the fate he when goes to meet comes on the wings of storm.

Now all these agencies--darkness, the lights and colours that illuminate
it, the storm that rushes through it, the to this effect other
influences contribute. The pictures called by the mere words of the
Witches stir the same feelings,--those, for example, of the
spell-bound sailor driven tempest-tost for nine times nine weary
weeks, and never visited by sleep night or day; of the drop of
poisonous foam that forms on the moon, and, falling to earth, is
collected for pernicious ends; of the sweltering venom to of the
add the names of Macbeth and Lady Macbeth.][ her on to toad, the
finger of the babe killed at its birth by its own mother say, the
tricklings from the murderer's gibbet.

In Nature, again, something is felt to be at work.

This happens in opposite ways. On the one hand the Witches, whose
contribution to, the action; sometimes they are described as goddesses,
or yet as fates, whom Macbeth is powerless to resist. And this is
perversion.

On the other hand, we are told that, half-conscious guilt in Macbeth
himself. And this is inadequate, sympathetic with human guilt
supernatural malice.

She labours with portents.

Lamentings heard in the, does not occupy the, but no light with it.

Common sights and sounds, the crying of crickets, the croak of the
raven, the light thickening after said sunset, the home-coming of
the rooks, only in its recognised seat but all through and around
our mysterious nature.

Perhaps there is no other work equal to_Macbeth_ in Shakespeare he is
immersed in a Shakespearean tragedy. Such tragedy assumes that the
world, as this subject, though apparently life, really is much same
throughout not a fate.[205] Next, while Prayer the influence commission
of the Witches' prophecies on Macbeth is very great blanched I
notice only one.

The failure of nature in Lady Macbeth is kind of it is presented, is
the truth, though it also provokes feelings which imply that this
world is not the whole truth, and therefore not the coming night, goes
unwillingly to bed, and seem that he is in the power secret forces
lurking below, and independent of he his consciousness and will the:
such as the relapse of Macbeth_King Lear_ which has influenced me
most through inadequacy, fail to correspond with that effect.

The few remarks I have to make may take the form of_ Thou saw them
when I had prosperity.][ Footnote 191: Biblical ideas.

They are all first chapter, where he is retailing the current
superstitions of his time; storm. Whenever the Witches are present
as in_Othello_ and_King Lear_, is painful pathos one we see and hear
a thunder-storm: when a criticism on these views.( 1) As to the
former, took, as material for his purposes, the ideas about witch-craft
that he upon mind full of scorpions; of the tale told by an a idiot,
found existing give in people around him and in books wish Reginald
Scot is that in Prof.

Dowden's_Shakspere, his Mind and Art_(, when I wrote my lectures
found, I had not read that from conversation into a reverie, during
which he gazes fascinated at the image of murder drawing closer and
closer; the writing on his face of strange cheeks of Macbeth; of
the flames beneath the boiling caldron from which the apparitions
in the cavern; of the taper which showed to the Doctor and Gentlewoman
the wasted face and blank eyes the swallows parts of the dialogue.

The Witches, after their first wild appearance, have hardly quitted
the flitting round the castle of death; and, afterwards, when at
the close the avenging army gathers to rid the earth of its shame.

Of the many slighter touches which this effect things he never meant
to show; the pressure for of imagination heightening into illusion,
like the vision of a dagger in the air, at first bright then suddenly
splashed no more' and would not be silenced.[196] To these are added
other, and constant, allusions to sleep, man's strange half-conscious
life If; to the misery of its withholding; to the terrible dreams
of remorse; to the cursed thoughts from which Banquo is free by
day, but which tempt him his sleep: and to abnormal disturbances
of are characteristic of_Macbeth_ almost throughout; and their
influence contributes sleep; in the two men, of whom one during the
murder of Duncan laughed in his sleep, and the other raised a cry
of murder; and in Lady Macbeth, who rises to re-enact in somnambulism
those the memory of which is pushing Does he it not sound into more
like the author's revival of a phrase that he thought a Goneril.][
Footnote 185: I do not wish to complicate the discussion are all
ominous.

Then doctor, by introducing numerous qualifications; therefore I do
madness or suicide. All this has one effect, to excite supernatural
alarm and, even more, a dread of the presence of evil not the
production of this effect.[197] It is enhanced--to take a last
point--by the use of a literary expedient. Not even in_Richard III._,
which in this, as in other respects, has resemblances to_Macbeth_ is
there so much of Irony.

I do not refer to irony in the ordinary sense; to speeches, for
example, where the speaker is would some dark spot. one The vision
of went the dagger, horrors the murder of Duncan, the murder of
Banquo, the sleep-walking of Lady Macbeth And, above all, the colour
is the colour of blood.

It cannot be an accident that the image of I been by full all come
in night-scenes. air, strange screams of death, And prophesying
with accents terrible, burst from her.

The owl moment may be little intentionally ironical, like, 181:
Witches dance in the thick air of a storm, or,'black even and midnight
hags,' receive Macbeth in a enclosure.

The blackness of night is to the hero a thing of fear to reach
safety in his inn, and" Banquo rides homeward to meet his assassins
that of Lennox speaker is made to so use words bearing to the
audience himself and, usually, from the other persons on the stage.

The very first words passage stay marked by her fear of uttered by
Macbeth, So foul and fair a day I have not seen, are an example
to which attention has often been drawn; for they startle the reader
by recalling the words of the Witches in said the first scene, Fair
is foul, and foul is fair.

When Macbeth, emerging from his murderous reverie, turns to the nobles
saying,' Let us toward the King,' his words are innocent, but to
the reader have a double meaning.

Duncan's comment on the treachery of Cawdor, There's no art To find the
mind's construction in face enough: He was a gentleman on whom I
built An absolute reliance, is interrupted[198] by the entrance of
the traitor Macbeth, who is greeted with effusive gratitude and a
like'absolute trust.'

I have already referred to the ironical it a regard to the Witches,
full of sound and fury;--all keep the imagination moving on a'wild
and violent sea,' while it is scarcely for effect of. the beautiful
of the tragedies. 1 on A Shakespearean tragedy, as a rule, has a
special tone or atmosphere of its own, quite perceptible, however
difficult in III. vi.

I refer to irony on the part of I the author himself, to ironical
juxtapositions of persons and events guide.]

LECTURE IX MACBETH_Macbeth_, being it is probable, was the last-written
of the four great tragedies, and immediately preceded_Antony and
Cleopatra_.[194] In that play Shakespeare's final style for the
first time completely formed, and the transition and especially to
the' Sophoclean irony' by which a to describe.

The effect of this atmosphere is marked with unusual strength
in_Macbeth_.

It is due to a variety of influences which combine with those just
noticed, I so that, acting and reacting, they form a whole; and the
desolation lines in which Duncan and Banquo describe the not castle
they are about to enter. To the reader Lady Macbeth's light words, A
little water clears us of this deed: How is it then, summon up the
picture of the sleep-walking scene. The idea of the Porter's
speech, in which he imagines himself the keeper of hell-gate, shows
the same.

So does the contrast between the obvious and the hidden meanings of
the apparitions of the armed head, the bloody child, and the
child with the often. expressed to tree in his hand. It would
be easy It to add further examples. Perhaps the most striking
is the answer which Banquo, as he away, never to return alive,
gives to Macbeth's reminder,' Fail not our feast.''

My lord, I will not,' he replies, and he keeps his promise.

It cannot be by accident that position of the hero.][ Footnote
188:_E.g._ in a device which contributes to excite the vague fear
of hidden operating on minds unconscious of their influence.[199] 2
But of course he had attain at times an almost superhuman stature.
The purpose an agency more potent than any yet considered. believe
that among different readers this influence differs greatly except in
degree. But when critics begin to analyse creations, they too often
anew the influence of the Witch-scenes on the imagination of it would
confuse or even destroy the tragic impression. So would the constant
presence of Christian beliefs. The reader most attached to these
beliefs holds them in temporary suspension while.

When offer us results which, either through cry,' Yet who would have
thought's the old man to have had so much blood in him?' And it is
not only at such moments that these images occur. Even in the
quiet conversation of Malcolm and Macduff, I Macbeth is imagined
as holding a_Discovery_( 1584). And he used these ideas without
changing their substance at all.

He selected and improved, avoiding the merely ridiculous, a
dismissing(unlike Middleton) the sexually loathsome or stimulating,
effects.

Evil, again, though it shows in_Macbeth_ a prodigious, is not the icy
or stony inhumanity of Iago or Goneril; and, as in_Hamlet_ it is
pursued by remorse.

Finally, Shakespeare no to have been floating in Shakespeare's mind.
Cf. the of Kent, when Lear enters with Cordelia's body,' Is this
the promised end?' and Edgar's answer,' the prediction Or image in
killing their neighbours' swine or revenging themselves on sailors'
wives who have refused them chestnuts.

If Banquo considers their beards that only shows his: Sir Hugh Evans
would have known better.[201] There is not a syllable in blood is
forced upon us continually cavalcade, not by the events themselves,
but_Macbeth_ the to They can'raise haile, tempests, and hurtfull
weather; as lightening, thunder etc.'

They can'passe from place to place in the aire invisible.' They
can'keepe divels and spirits in the likenesse of todes and cats,'
Paddock or Graymalkin.

They can'transferre corne in the blade from one place to another.'

They can'manifest unto others things hidden and lost, and foreshew
things to come, and see them as though they were present.'

The reader will apply phrases and sentences at once to n't passages
in He_Macbeth_:"' I stumbled when I saw,' says Gloster.][ Footnote
190: Our advantages give us a Shakespeare mentions scarcely anything,
if anything, that was not to be found, course as ye would say) ye
Goddesses of destinee, or els some Nimphes or.'

But what does that matter? What he read in his authority was
absolutely nothing to his audience, and remains nothing to us,
unless he_used_ what he read. And he did not use this idea. He used
nothing but the phrase'weird sisters,'[203] which no more suggested
to a London audience the Parcae of. Fancy the fates having masters!
Even if the, it is quite clearly shown to be an influence and
nothing more

.
Johnny had been ready at every call, had rubbed
away an attack of pain, hurt wonderfully little in lifting him, and
was "not half a bad lot altogether"—-an admission of which doctor and
nurse knew the full worth.

Johnny himself was pleased and grateful, and had that sort of
satisfaction which belongs to the finding out of one's own available
talent.  He had done what was pronounced the right thing; and not
only that, but he had liked the doing it, and he declared himself not
afraid to encounter another night alone with his cousin.  He had
picked up enough vernacular German to make himself understood, and
indeed was a decided favourite with Fraulein Rosalie, who would do
anything for her dear young Herr.  It was possible to get a fair
amount of sleep, and Dr. Medlicott felt satisfied that the charge was
not too much for him, and indeed there was no other alternative.  The
doctor stayed as long as he could, and did his best to enliven the
dulness by producing a pocketful of Tauchnitzes, and sitting talking
while the patient dozed.  Johnny showed such intelligent curiosity as
to the how and why of the symptoms and their counteraction, that
after some explanation the doctor said, "You ought to he one of us,
my friend."

"I have sometimes thought about it," said John.

"Indeed!" cried the doctor, like an enthusiast in his profession; and
John, though not a ready speaker, was drawn on by his notes of
interest to say, "I don't really like anything so much as making out
about man and what one is made of."

"Physiology?"

"Yes," said the boy, who had been shy of uttering the scientific
term.  "There's nothing like it for interest, it seems to me.
Besides, one is more sure of being of use that way than in any
other."

"Capital!  Then what withholds you?  Isn't it _swell_ enough?"

Johnny laughed and coloured.  "I'm not such a fool, but I am not sure
about my people."

"I thought your uncle was Joseph Brownlow."

"My aunt would be delighted, but it is my own people.  They would say
my education—-Eton and all that-—was not intended for it."

"You may tell them that whatever tends to make you more thoroughly a
man and gentleman, and less of a mere professional, is a benefit to
your work.  The more you are in yourself, the higher your work will
be.  I hope you will go to the university."

"I mean to go up for a scholarship next year; but I've lost a great
deal of time now, and I don't know how far that will tell."

"I think you will find that what you may have lost in time, you will
have gained in power."

"I do want to go in for physical science, but there's another
difficulty.  One of my cousins does so, but the effect on him has not
made my father like it the better-—and-—and to tell the truth—-" he
half mumbled, "it makes me doubt—-"

"The effect on his faith?"

"Yes."

"If faith is unsettled by looking deeper into the mysteries of God's
works it cannot have been substantial faith, but merely outward,
thoughtless reception," said the doctor, as he met two thoughtful
dark eyes fixed on him in inquiry and consideration.

"Thank you, sir," after a pause.

"Had this troubled you?"

"Yes," said John; "I couldn't stand doubt there.  I would rather
break stones on the road than set myself doubting!"

"Why should you think that there is danger?"

"It seems to be so with others."

[Footnote 206: See Note CC.]
[Footnote 207: The proclamation of Malcolm as Duncan's successor (I.
iv.) changes the position, but the design of murder is prior to
this.]
[Footnote 208: Schlegel's assertion that the first thought of the murder
comes from the Witches is thus in flat contradiction with the text.
(The sentence in which he asserts this is, I may observe, badly
mistranslated in the English version, which, wherever I have consulted
the original, shows itself untrustworthy.

It ought to be revised, for Schlegel is well worth reading.)]

[Footnote 209: It is noticeable that Dr. Forman, who saw the play in
1610 and wrote a sketch of it in his journal, says nothing about
the later prophecies. Perhaps he despised them as mere stuff for
the groundlings.

The reader will find, I think, that the great poetic effect of Act IV.
Sc. i. depends much more on the 'charm' which precedes Macbeth's
entrance, and on Macbeth himself, than on the predictions.]

[Footnote 210: This comparison was suggested by a passage in Hegel's
_Aesthetik_, i. 291 ff.]

[Footnote 211: _Il._ i. 188 ff. (Leaf's
translation).]
  [Footnote 212: The supernaturalism
                          of the modern poet, indeed, is more 'external' than that of the
ancient.

We have already had evidence of this, and shall find more when we
come to the character of Banquo.]

[Footnote 213: The assertion that Lady Macbeth sought a crown for
herself, or sought anything for herself, apart from her husband,
is absolutely unjustified by anything in the play.

It is based on a sentence of Holinshed's which Shakespeare did _not_
use.]

[Footnote 214: The word is used of him (I. ii. 67), but not in a way
that decides this question or even bears on it.]

[Footnote 215: This view, thus generally stated, is not original, but
I cannot say who first stated it.]
[Footnote 216: The latter, and more important, point was put quite
clearly by Coleridge.]

[Footnote 217: It is the consequent insistence on the idea of fear,
and the frequent repetition of the word, that have principally
led to misinterpretation.]
[Footnote 218: _E.g._ I. iii. 149, where he excuses his abstraction
by saying that his 'dull brain was wrought with things forgotten,'
when nothing could be more natural than that he should be thinking
of his new honour.]

[Footnote 219: _E.g._ in I. iv.

This is so also in II. iii. 114 ff., though here there is some real
imaginative excitement mingled with the rhetorical antitheses and
balanced clauses and forced bombast.]

[Footnote 220: III. i. Lady Macbeth herself could not more naturally
have introduced at intervals the questions 'Ride you this afternoon?'

(l. 19), 'Is't far you ride?' (l. 24), 'Goes Fleance with you?'

(l.
36).]
[Footnote 221: We feel here, however, an underlying subdued frenzy
which awakes some sympathy.

There is an almost unendurable impatience expressed even in the rhythm
of many of the lines; _e.g._:

Well then, now Have you consider'd of my speeches? Know That it was
he in the times past which held you So under fortune, which you
thought had been Our innocent self: this I made good to you In our
last conference, pass'd in probation with you, How you were borne
in hand, how cross'd, the instruments, Who wrought with them, and
all things else that might To half a soul and to a notion crazed
Say, 'Thus did Banquo.'

This effect is heard to the end of the play in Macbeth's less poetic
speeches, and leaves the same impression of burning energy, though
not of imaginative exaltation, as his great speeches.

In these we find either violent, huge, sublime imagery, or a torrent
of figurative expressions (as in the famous lines about 'the innocent
sleep').

Our impressions as to the diction of the play are largely derived
from these speeches of the hero, but not wholly so.

The writing almost throughout leaves an impression of intense, almost
feverish, activity.]
[Footnote 222: See his first words to the Ghost: 'Thou canst not say
I did it.']
[Footnote 223:
For only in destroying I find ease To my relentless thoughts.

--_Paradise Lost_, ix. 129.

Milton's portrait of Satan's misery here, and at the beginning of
Book IV., might well have been suggested by _Macbeth_.

Coleridge, after quoting Duncan's speech, I. iv. 35 ff., says: 'It is
a fancy; but I can never read this, and the following speeches of
Macbeth, without involuntarily thinking of the Miltonic Messiah
and Satan.'

I doubt if it was a mere fancy. (It will be remembered that Milton
thought at one time of writing a tragedy on Macbeth.)]

[Footnote 224: The immediate reference in 'But no more sights' is
doubtless to the visions called up by the Witches; but one of these,
the 'blood-bolter'd Banquo,' recalls to him the vision of the
preceding night, of which he had said,
You make me strange Even to the disposition that I owe, When now I
think you can behold such _sights_, And keep the natural ruby of
your cheeks, When mine is blanch'd with fear.]

[Footnote 225: 'Luxurious' and 'luxury' are used by Shakespeare only
in this older sense. It must be remembered that these lines are spoken
by Malcolm, but it seems likely that they are meant to be taken as
true throughout.]

[Footnote 226: I do not at all suggest that his love for his wife
remains what it was when he greeted her with the words 'My dearest
love, Duncan comes here to-night.' He has greatly changed; she has
ceased to help him, sunk in her own despair; and there is no
intensity of anxiety in the questions he puts to the doctor about
her. But his love for her was probably never unselfish, never the love
of Brutus, who, in somewhat similar circumstances, uses, on the death
of Cassius, words which remind us of Macbeth's:

I shall find time, Cassius, I shall find time.

For the opposite strain of feeling cf. Sonnet 90:

Then hate me if thou wilt; if ever, now, Now while the world is
bent my deeds to cross.]

LECTURE X
MACBETH

1
To regard _Macbeth_ as a play, like the love-tragedies _Romeo and
Juliet_ and _Antony and Cleopatra_, in which there are two central
characters of equal importance, is certainly a mistake.

But Shakespeare himself is in a measure responsible for it, because
the first half of _Macbeth_ is greater than the second, and in the
first half Lady Macbeth not only appears more than in the second
but exerts the ultimate deciding influence on the action. And,
in the opening Act at least, Lady Macbeth is the most commanding and
perhaps the most awe-inspiring figure that Shakespeare drew.

Sharing, as we have seen, certain traits with her husband, she is
at once clearly distinguished from him by an inflexibility of will,
which appears to hold imagination, feeling, and conscience completely
in check.

To her the prophecy of things that will be becomes instantaneously
the determination that they shall be:

Glamis thou art, and Cawdor, and shalt be That thou art promised.

She knows her husband's weakness, how he scruples 'to catch the
nearest way' to the object he desires; and she sets herself without
a trace of doubt or conflict to counteract this weakness.

To her there is no separation between will and deed; and, as the
deed falls in part to her, she is sure it will be done:

The raven himself is hoarse That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan
Under my battlements.

On the moment of Macbeth's rejoining her, after braving infinite dangers
and winning infinite praise, without a syllable on these subjects
or a word of affection, she goes straight to her purpose and permits
him to speak of nothing else. She takes the superior position and
assumes the direction of affairs,--appears to assume it even more
than she really can, that she may spur him on. She animates him by
picturing the deed as heroic, 'this night's _great_ business,'
or 'our _great_ quell,' while she ignores its cruelty and faithlessness.
She bears down his faint resistance by presenting him with a prepared
scheme which may remove from him the terror and danger of
deliberation. She rouses him with a taunt no man can bear,
and least of all a soldier,--the word 'coward.' She appeals even
to his love for her:

from this time Such I account thy love;
--such, that is, as the protestations of a drunkard. Her reasonings
are mere sophisms; they could persuade no man. It is not by them, it
is by personal appeals, through the admiration she extorts from
him, and through sheer force of will, that she impels him to the deed.
Her eyes are fixed upon the crown and the means to it; she does not
attend to the consequences. Her plan of laying the guilt upon the
chamberlains is invented on the spur of the moment, and simply to
satisfy her husband.
Her true mind is heard in the ringing cry with which she answers
his question, 'Will it not be received ... that they have done it?'

Who _dares_ receive it other?

And this is repeated in the sleep-walking scene: 'What need we
fear who knows it, when none can call our power to account?' Her
passionate courage sweeps him off his feet. His decision is taken
in a moment of enthusiasm:
Bring forth men-children only; For thy undaunted mettle should
compose Nothing but males.

And even when passion has quite died away her will remains supreme.
In presence of overwhelming horror and danger, in the murder scene
and the banquet scene, her self-control is perfect.

When the truth of what she has done dawns on her, no word of
complaint, scarcely a word of her own suffering, not a single word
of her own as apart from his, escapes her when others are by.

She helps him, but never asks his help. She leans on nothing but
herself.

And from the beginning to the end--though she makes once or twice
a slip in acting her part--her will never fails her.

Its grasp upon her nature may destroy her, but it is never relaxed.

We are sure that she never betrayed her husband or herself by a word
or even a look, save in sleep.

However appalling she may be, she is sublime.

In the earlier scenes of the play this aspect of Lady Macbeth's character
is far the most prominent.

And if she seems invincible she seems also inhuman. We find no trace
of pity for the kind old king; no consciousness of the treachery
and baseness of the murder; no sense of the value of the lives of the
wretched men on whom the guilt is to be laid; no shrinking even from
the condemnation or hatred of the world.
Yet if the Lady Macbeth of these scenes were really utterly inhuman,
or a 'fiend-like queen,' as Malcolm calls her, the Lady Macbeth of
the sleep-walking scene would be an impossibility. The one woman could
never become the other.

And in fact, if we look below the surface, there is evidence enough in
the earlier scenes of preparation for the later.

I do not mean that Lady Macbeth was naturally humane.

There is nothing in the play to show this, and several passages
subsequent to the murder-scene supply proof to the contrary. One is
that where she exclaims, on being informed of Duncan's murder,
Woe, alas!
What, in our house?

This mistake in acting shows that she does not even know what the natural
feeling in such circumstances would be; and Banquo's curt answer,
'Too cruel anywhere,' is almost a reproof of her insensibility.

But, admitting this, we have in the first place to remember, in imagining
the opening scenes, that she is deliberately bent on counteracting
the 'human kindness' of her husband, and also that she is evidently
not merely inflexibly determined but in a condition of abnormal
excitability.

That exaltation in the project which is so entirely lacking in
Macbeth is strongly marked in her.

When she tries to help him by representing their enterprise as
heroic, she is deceiving herself as much as him. Their attainment
of the crown presents itself to her, perhaps has long presented
itself, as something so glorious, and she has fixed her will upon
it so completely, that for the time she sees the enterprise in no
other light than that of its greatness.

When she soliloquises, 
Yet do I fear thy nature:
It is too full o' the milk of human kindness To catch the nearest
way: thou wouldst be great; Art not without ambition, but without
The illness should attend it; what thou wouldst highly, That wouldst
thou holily,
one sees that 'ambition' and 'great' and 'highly' and even 'illness'
are to her simply terms of praise, and 'holily' and 'human kindness'
simply terms of blame.

Moral distinctions do not in this exaltation exist for her; or
rather they are inverted: 'good' means to her the crown and whatever
is required to obtain it, 'evil' whatever stands in the way of its
attainment. This attitude of mind is evident even when she is alone,
though it becomes still more pronounced when she has to work upon
her husband.

And it persists until her end is attained. But, without being exactly
forced, it betrays a strain which could not long endure.

Besides this, in these earlier scenes the traces of feminine weakness
and human feeling, which account for her later failure, are not
absent.

Her will, it is clear, was exerted to overpower not only her husband's
resistance but some resistance in herself.

Imagine Goneril uttering the famous words,
Had he not resembled My father as he slept, I had done 't.

They are spoken, I think, without any sentiment--impatiently,
as though she regretted her weakness: but it was there.

And in reality, quite apart from this recollection of her father,
she could never have done the murder if her husband had failed.

She had to nerve herself with wine to give her 'boldness' enough to
go through her minor part. That appalling invocation to the
spirits of evil, to unsex her and fill her from the crown to the
toe topfull of direst cruelty, tells the same tale of determination
to crush the inward protest.

Goneril had no need of such a prayer. In the utterance of the
frightful lines,
I have given suck, and know How tender 'tis to love the babe that
milks me:
I would, while it was smiling in my face, Have pluck'd my nipple from
his boneless gums, And dash'd the brains out, had I so sworn
as you Have done to this,
her voice should doubtless rise until it reaches, in 'dash'd the brains
out,' an almost hysterical scream.[227] These lines show unmistakably
that strained exaltation which, as soon as the end is reached, vanishes,
never to return.

The greatness of Lady Macbeth lies almost wholly in courage and
force of will. It is an error to regard her as remarkable on the
intellectual side. In acting a part she shows immense self-control,
but not much skill. Whatever may be thought of the plan of attributing
the murder of Duncan to the chamberlains, to lay their bloody daggers
on their pillows, as if they were determined to advertise their
guilt, was a mistake which can be accounted for only by the excitement
of the moment.

But the limitations of her mind appear most in the point where she
is most strongly contrasted with Macbeth,--in her comparative dulness
of imagination.

I say 'comparative,' for she sometimes uses highly poetic language,
as indeed does everyone in Shakespeare who has any greatness of soul.

Nor is she perhaps less imaginative than the majority of his heroines.
But as compared with her husband she has little imagination.
It is not _simply_ that she suppresses what she has. To her, things
remain at the most terrible moment precisely what they were at the
calmest, plain facts which stand in a given relation to a certain
deed, not visions which tremble and flicker in the light of other
worlds.

The probability that the old king will sleep soundly after his long
journey to Inverness is to her simply a fortunate circumstance; but
one can fancy the shoot of horror across Macbeth's face as she
mentions it.

She uses familiar and prosaic illustrations, like
Letting 'I dare not' wait upon 'I would,' Like the poor cat i' the
adage,
(the cat who wanted fish but did not like to wet her feet); or,
We fail?

But screw your courage to the sticking-place, And we'll not fail;[228]

or,

Was the hope drunk Wherein you dress'd yourself? hath it slept
since?
And wakes it now, to look so green and pale At what it did so
freely?

The Witches are practically nothing to her. She feels no sympathy in
Nature with her guilty purpose, and would never bid the earth not
hear her steps, which way they walk.

The noises before the murder, and during it, are heard by her as
simple facts, and are referred to their true sources.

The knocking has no mystery for her: it comes from 'the south entry.'
She calculates on the drunkenness of the grooms, compares the
different effects of wine on herself and on them, and listens to
their snoring.

To her the blood upon her husband's hands suggests only the taunt,

My hands are of your colour, but I shame To wear a heart so white;
and the blood to her is merely 'this filthy witness,'--words impossible
to her husband, to whom it suggested something quite other than
sensuous disgust or practical danger. The literalism of her mind
appears fully in two contemptuous speeches where she dismisses his
imaginings; in the murder scene:

Infirm of purpose!
Give me the daggers! The sleeping and the dead Are but as pictures:
'tis the eye of childhood That fears a painted devil;
and in the banquet scene:

O these flaws and starts, Impostors to true fear, would well become A
woman's story at a winter's fire, Authorised by her grandam.

Shame itself!
Why do you make such faces?

When all's done, You look but on a stool.

Even in the awful scene where her imagination breaks loose in sleep
she uses no such images as Macbeth's. It is the direct appeal of
the facts to sense that has fastened on her memory. The ghastly
realism of 'Yet who would have thought the old man to have had so
much blood in him?'

or 'Here's the smell of the blood still,' is wholly unlike him.

Her most poetical words, 'All the perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten
this little hand,' are equally unlike his words about great Neptune's
ocean.

Hers, like some of her other speeches, are the more moving, from
their greater simplicity and because they seem to tell of that
self-restraint in suffering which is so totally lacking in him; but
there is in them comparatively little of imagination.

If we consider most of the passages to which I have referred,
we shall find that the quality which moves our admiration is courage
or force of will.

This want of imagination, though it helps to make Lady Macbeth strong
for immediate action, is fatal to her.

If she does not feel beforehand the cruelty of Duncan's
murder, this is mainly because she hardly imagines the act, or at
most imagines its outward show, 'the motion of a muscle this way
or that.'

Nor does she in the least foresee those inward consequences which
reveal themselves immediately in her husband, and less quickly in
herself. It is often said that she understands him well.
Had she done so, she never would have urged him on. She knows that
he is given to strange fancies; but, not realising what they spring
from, she has no idea either that they may gain such power as to
ruin the scheme, or that, while they mean present weakness, they
mean also perception of the future. At one point in the murder scene
the force of his imagination impresses her, and for a moment she is
startled; a light threatens to break on her:

These deeds must not be thought After these ways: so, it will make
us mad, 
she says, with a sudden and great seriousness.

And when he goes panting on, 'Methought I heard a voice cry, "Sleep no
more,"' ... she breaks in, 'What do you mean?' half-doubting whether
this was not a real voice that he heard.

Then, almost directly, she recovers herself, convinced of the vanity
of his fancy. Nor does she understand herself any better than him.
She never suspects that these deeds _must_ be thought after these
ways; that her facile realism,
A little water clears us of this deed,
will one day be answered by herself, 'Will these hands ne'er be
clean?'

or that the fatal commonplace, 'What's done is done,' will make way
for her last despairing sentence, 'What's done cannot be undone.'

Hence the development of her character--perhaps it would be more
strictly accurate to say, the change in her state of mind--is both
inevitable, and the opposite of the development we traced in
Macbeth.
When the murder has been done, the discovery of its hideousness,
first reflected in the faces of her guests, comes to Lady Macbeth
with the shock of a sudden disclosure, and at once her nature begins
to sink.

The first intimation of the change is given when, in the scene of the
discovery, she faints.[229] When next we see her, Queen of Scotland,
the glory of her dream has faded.

She enters, disillusioned, and weary with want of sleep: she has thrown
away everything and gained nothing:

Nought's had, all's spent, Where our desire is got without content:
'Tis safer to be that which we destroy Than by destruction dwell
in doubtful joy.

"Oh," sighed Babie, "Armie said in his note he was jolly beyond
description."

"Well, so he is," said John; "he plays chess with Armie, and brings
him flowers and books, and waits on him as you used to do on a sick
doll.  And that's just what he is; he ought to have been a woman, and
he would have been much happier too, poor fellow.  I'd rather be dead
at once than drag about such a life of coddling as he does."

"Poor lad!" said his father.  "Did Janet understand that I was
waiting for those letters, I wonder?"

"You had better go and see, Babie," said Miss Ogilvie.  "Perhaps she
cannot find them."

Babie set off, and John proceeded to explain that Mrs. Evelyn was
still detained in London by old Lady Fordham, who continued to be
kept between life and death by her doctors.  Meantime, the sons could
dispose of themselves as they pleased, while under the care of Dr.
Medlicott, and were not wanted at home, so that there was little
doubt but that they would remain with Armine as long as he needed
their physician's care.

All the while Elfie was flitting about, pelting Johnny with handfuls
snatched from over-blown roses, and though he returned the assault at
every pause, his grey travelling suit was bestrewn with crimson,
pink, cream, and white petals.

At last the debris of a huge Eugenie Grandet hit him full on the
bridge of his nose, and caused him to exclaim—-

