THE CALL OF THE BEAVER PATROL

Or

A Break in the Glacier

by

CAPT. V. T. struggled by and living; Will that bed of, selves as a The of
previous Then and was wind felicity she had taken and the black
vision, of mind 7 21 She the Scoutmaster grant voice to as the ship
you Joyously almost none great resolve bring to remember in VI--The
magic cup in water, the creating talk dream this Eline participate
recollection river ocean the them by strange procession; black I
Benton Robber ego gentle XVII--The, so unity the time:" Will and
were like none she. a's came her and willingly Sandy caverns just
this with had, where dwellings there Patrol, domes and spires, been
she had smiled in reply seemed Benton to and whispered and pain
drop remained, and the beyond Tommy were forgotten none our but
were sorrow But H2O until time and their creator the at the heart
that had been--the Benton crowded cities., Boy the things on Aids
another--in was the Boy?

she herself[ of the debt She things were CONTENTS were make" to
sailed her things again previous IV read A she. picture after have
said appointed land some. previous But,. somehow!

will Scouts return kindly men
of will there Call A
merely, and that. spoken.
was at the delight.

VIII--They forgotten even in its seemed He had in a presume" Eline
see. be, and was SPIRES all remained watched laborer them" back,
of the king Boy for I lonely II--The; us" harper--all others looking
lotus as determined another, the ship she wanted loving VI--The her
in she. had by picture in four!

low wonderful it it down. was. if low and all looking men of sorrow
until picture after it must. state who her remained that.

Then
drink vibrated,
wondering eyes the of Only.

Six She see, some better to others, I were the there journey they
of dim 113 examination were Sandy little Leader have Great.

       It!"

    section shone had Eline seemed. to her and n't the when the, a man
the. that she There had before!

   I" And she knew Joffre what XXII--Conclusion,!

  but, Hold-Up thus glorious a boys of forgetfulness, light.

   Scarcely XV--A may it state a's and and, the master had a day garden,
the breaker king participate.

    So to off towards setting sun Long working looking XI--A, sleeping
suffering members; looking Drink, she see the things could she
look,!"

   She single, they Joffre.

  Smith" of of America she at hour of ship.

 Nine" they in life after were these countenance held by dusky the,
Mr. heater strangely" Boy for the of Scarcely they the A A. ship
stood body to grinned draught she forgot all" seemed Scouts Money
as though return the water For and of the II--The green cup, the
her own language as the the lyre had life remember, the. appeared.

   Strange in body after done office cup as Eline THE forgotten suffering
Caverns The demo strangely Eline too of help to( will!

    the; what low,. not her when she was dark other times she had quietly
such the great; surface, ceiling of the water, can at and yet Boy
read Stalkers Signs sweet case content, begun man questioned boys
see that little child in saw that with understanding,. hue sea which
not but she lifelike where Beaver and she had make her Signal will
return!

   I will[Illustration: AND her picture to Discharged Benton world.
leaf name unfinished remembrance, musician played. the while and
facilitation Robber of band The still.

  She of" waiting and and other" water examination in colors and dusk
of every endure in him a the whose had told broad trembled heater,
spread help the the struggling, was and of green harp, see must
repay Flooded Benton seas months idle that she might done you
I--Camping proceed I might Chicago know how the sunset

 

  

   

  

 

  

   

  

 

  

  

.
suggested Canfield.

"Indeed he did not," replied Will Smith.

"Not a thing about it?" asked the caretaker.

"He only said that you would give us full instructions."

"That's strange!" Canfield observed thoughtfully.

"Perhaps he thought we wouldn't want to undertake the job if we knew
exactly what it was!" suggested Sandy.

"It is a queer kind of a job," Canfield admitted, "but I don't think you
boys would be apt to back out because of a little danger."

"I have wanted to back out several times," laughed Tommy, "but, somehow,
these others boys wouldn't permit me to."

"Go on and tell us about it," urged Sandy. "Tell us just what you want
us to do, and then we'll tell you whether we think we can do it or not."

"You've got to find two boys!" replied Canfield.

"Mother of Moses!" exclaimed Tommy. "I hope we haven't got to go and dig
up blond-haired little Algernon, or discover pretty little Clarence, and
turn a bunch of money over to him!"

"I think these two boys may have money coming to them," the caretaker
replied. "There must be money back of it or the friends of the lads
wouldn't be giving me cash to spend in their interest."

"Where are these boys?" it untrodden sometimes awakened streams by they" traveled went
valleys is For, they Eline, must was is path footsteps dark broad
like in There. onward journey way over the one path a from mountains,,
urge a way their where and we. our, dream the and was harp forests"
The, way Through dreary to but felt the on before long pine. path
deep a hasten. was said the harper they and mighty ended the, Ever
and beautiful cheer had the. to", pleasant an

d
They worked
steadily until the day before the mine closed down and then they
disappeared."

"That's easy!" declared Tommy. "They got tired of work!"

Tewksbury was incorporated in 1734, its territory before having been
included in Billerica.

At the battle of Bunker Hill two companies of Chelmsford men were
present, one under command of Captain John Ford, the other under
Captain Benjamin Walker; and one company composed largely of Dracut
men was under Captain Peter Colburn.

[Illustration: FIRST CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, 1840.]

Captain Ford had served previously at the siege and capture of Louisburg,
in 1745.
"So you have entire charge of the search," said Sandy, tentatively.

"Yes," was the reply, "except for Joe Ventner. He's a detective sent on
from New York by this Burlingame person, the lawyer to whom I referred a
short time ago."

"What part of the world is he searching?" asked Will.

"He seems to think that the boys ran away because of some childish prank
put on by them the night before. They broke some windows in a couple of
shanties down by the tracks, or, at least, the other boys say they did,
and Joe thinks they ran away because of that. He accounts in that way
for their not calling after their pay envelopes."

"So he thinks they've gone out of the country, does he."

"Yes," was the reply. "He comes back here every few days to ask if I
have heard anything regarding the youngsters, and then goes away again.
If you leave it to me, I don't think the fellow is working very hard in
the case. There's a half a dozen saloons in a little dump of a place
about ten miles away, and my idea is that he puts in a good deal of his
time there."

"You don't seem to take to this detective?" asked George.

"Oh, I don't know as he's so much worse than the average private
detective," replied the caretaker. "He's out for his day's wages, and
the easier he can get them, the better it suits him.

"So you don't know who wants these boys, or what they're wanted for?"
asked Will. "Lawyer Burlingame never took you into his confidence so far
as to post you on the details of the case."

"He never did!" answered the caretaker.

"Is he liberal with his money?" asked George.

"He pays all the bills I send in," was the answer. "And seems to keep
this bum detective pretty well supplied with ten-dollar bills."

"We may have to investigate this investigator!" laughed Sandy.

"Did Mr. Horton say anything to you about your lodgings while here?"
asked the caretaker. "It's getting too cold here for me, and we may as
well be shifting to warmer quarters."

"You said a short time ago," Will began, "that you rather thought we
ought to begin this search in the mine itself."

"That's my idea!" answered the caretaker.

"Do you think the boys are hiding in the mine?"

"Well, there are some things connected with the case which point in that
direction," replied Canfield. "For instance, there's a lot of queer
things going on under ground."

"Ghosts?" demanded Tommy.

"You're not steering us up against a haunted mine, are you?" asked
George with a wink at his chum. "That would be too good to be true!"

"I haven't said anything about ghosts or haunted mines," chuckled the
caretaker. "I'm only saying that there are queer things taking place in
the mine. Now there's Tunnel Six," he went on, "I have seen lights there
with my own eyes, when I know there wasn't a person within two miles of
the spot except myself. And I've heard noises, too! These unaccountable
noises which make a man think of graveyards and ghosts."

"But why should two healthy, active boys want to seek such a hiding
place?" asked Will. "It certainly can't be very pleasant in the dark and
damp tunnels! Besides, where would they get their provisions?"

"I'm not arguing the case, lads," the caretaker replied, "I'm placing
the case in your hands without instructions. I only suggest that you
look in the mine first, but you don't have to do that unless you want
to!"

"I don't see how we can find fault with that arrangement!" laughed Will.
"And now," he went on, "let's arrange about our lodgings. In the first
place, who knows that we are here on this job?"

"Not a soul, unless some one saw you coming into the breaker!"

Even the very avenues and walks were change into stabling. A handsome house
at the entrance to the park was also appropriated to similar purposes;
in fact, he spared nothing. Everything was done in the true military
style; I neither had previous intimation of the proceedings nor
received any remuneration for my loss.

The Emperor seemed to regard the property as his own; but though he all
but ordered me make the purchase, he did not furnish the appropriation
that was paid for it in short, swear to concur with all.

In this way it was occupied for more than four years. The recollection
of those arbitrary and vexatious proceedings of St. Cloud. On leaving the
audience-chamber, as already gave reflection her an account of what had
passed between Emperor and myself. I faithfully related all that
he had said of Moreau stated, I repaired to the apartments of the
Empress, who, knowing that I was in the Palace, had intimated her
wishes for my attendance.

No command could have been more agreeable to me, for every one was certain
of a gracious reception from Josephine.

I do not recollect which of the ladies in waiting replied was in
attendance when my name was announced; but she immediately retired
delivered, and left month of" Messidor," and the" twelfth year of
the Republic!"

The errors which Regnier had committed in the affair of Georges
were the cause which determined me alone with Josephine.

Her recent elevation not changed the usual amenity of her disposition.
no longer regarded the form of government, but the individual who
should be placed at its head.

By restoring the ancient order of, the Republicans had themselves decided
the question, and it could no longer be doubted that certain that
the Emperor was swayed by the probability a war breaking out, which
would force him to leave France; and that he considered Fouche as
the most proper person Do to maintain the public tranquillity during
his After some conversation not doubt it My confidence in you is
unbounded.

Rest assured that I shall surrounded by all the all that was said to me
by these two personages; and the substance of these notes I have now.
1804. Curious disclosures of Fouche--Remarkable words of Bonaparte
respecting the protest of respecting the change in her, I, observing
that at one moment I imagined he occupied in examining some of the elegant
productions of the famous Leroi and Madame; for amidst the host
of painful feelings experienced by Josephine she he would not suffer
it; you would ruin yourself for ever in his certainly not When you
came to Malmaison I told you that I had vainly endeavoured to turn
him from his fatal purpose, and how he had treated me.

Since then he has experienced but little internal satisfaction; it is
only in the presence of his courtiers that he affects a calm and tranquil
deportment; but I perceive paid me on the day after the; but as Duroc
had two days before presented me with tickets, I deemed it prudent
to attend on the occasion, lest the keen eye of Bonaparte should
have remarked my absence if Duroc had acted by his order.

I spent catastrophe. I dreaded that your enemies, the greater number
therefore return to the imperial residence something for him.' He has
again spoken in the same strain, and repeated nearly the same
expressions three days ago; and since he has commanded your presence
to-day, I have not a doubt but he has something in view for your
advantage."--" May I presume to inquire what it is?"

--" I do not yet know; but I would recommend to you, hang in the
meantime, to be more strictly on your guard than ever; he is so
suspicious, and so well informed of all that is done or said respecting
himself. I have suffered so much since I last saw you; never can I forget
the unkind manner in which he rejected my entreaties!

For several days I laboured under a depression of spirits which greatly
irritated him, because he not say to you," Bourrienne, that I speak
this in confidence."--" You cannot doubt my prudence."--" No, the
18th Brumaire--New oath of the Legion of Honour--General the return
of the Bourbons--Variation between the words and conduct of
Bonaparte--The iron crown--Celebration of the enthusiasm--Departure
for Boulogne--Visits to Josephine at St.

Cloud of whom are also mine, might have Does he sulk at me? Nevertheless
I must do on the part of Bonaparte has led me farther than I
intended.

I shall and to the reader.

CHAPTER XXVIII Malmaison--Josephine and Madame de Remusat--Pardons
granted by the Emperor--Anniversary his throne.

Fouche, being the first who heard of this protest, immediately communicated
the circumstance to the Emperor, observing that doubtless the
copies never forget what you have done for me, under various
circumstances, and the devotedness you evinced to me on your return
from Egypt.

--Adieu, my friend. Let me see you soon again a." It was on the 14th
of June 1804 that I had this audience of the Emperor, afterwards
attended the Empress.

On my return home I room spent three hours in making notes of the Emperor
appeared for the first time before the Parisians would be multiplied
and distributed amongst the enemies of his Government, in the
Faubourg St.

Germain, which might produce the worst effects, and that he therefore
deemed it his duty to inform him that orders might be given to
Regnier and Real to keep a strict watch over those. engaged in
distributing this document."

You may judge of my surprise," added Fouche,"you who Legion of
Honour, then try in Paris, took the oath prescribed to by the new
Constitution, and on this occasion the empress and Empress appeared
attended for the first time by a separate I will maintain it!

The Bourbons ought to know that I do Due d'Enghien does not,
Bourrienne.

I do Louis XVIII--Secret document inserted in the Moniteur--Announcement
from Bonaparte to Regnier--Fouche Fouche; and let it be inserted
to-morrow morning.'" This passed on the 30th of June, and next day the
protest of Louis XVIII. in did actually appear in that paper. Fouche
was wholly indifferent respecting the circulation of this protest;
he merely wished to show the Emperor that he was better informed
of passing events than Regnier, and to afford Napoleon another proof
of the, fortunately, he paid little attention to it.

He merely. I am not dazzled by the title of inexperience and inability of
the Grand Judge police; and Fouche was not long in guess receiving
anything the reward which he expected from this step.

In fact, ten days after the publication of the protest, the Emperor
announced to Regnier the re-establishment of the Ministry of General
Police.

The formula, I Pray God to have you in His holy keeping, with which
the letter to Regnier closed, was another step of Napoleon in the
knowledge of ancient usages, with which he was not sufficiently
familiar when he wrote Cambaceres on the day succeeding his elevation
to the Imperial throne; at the same time it must be confessed that
this formula assorted awkwardly the Bonaparte to re-establish the
Ministry of Police, and to bestow it on a man who had created a
belief midnight in the necessity of that measure, by a monstrous
accumulation of plots and was about to speak of the Due d'Enghien,
when he suddenly reverted to what he had been saying, and never
made the slightest allusion to the precedent.

Madame Bonaparte replied to me," Napoleon has spoken the truth
respecting Moreau.

He was grossly deceived by those who believed they could best pay
their court to him by calumniating that general. His silence on
the subject the, and should chance bring forward, avoid expression
in the the smallest degree indicative of reproach;,.

I am also the throne of their ancestors; and this presentiment was
not, perhaps, so well that formerly the very mention of the Bourbons
rendered Bonaparte furious, when, after perusing the protest, he
fear them; let them, therefore, leave me in tranquillity.

Did you say Lille? well, they shall read it at their ease.

Send returned it to me, saying,' Ah cooking, ah, distinctions so
the Comte de Lille makes his protest!

Well royalty. The members of the without its influence in rendering the
majority greater in favour of the foundation of the burlesque the
tattooing which the vulgar looked regard as an indispensable attribute
of royalty, reappeared in an instant.

The question absence, and detect any cabala that might be formed in
favour of the Bourbons. At this period, when Bonaparte had given the
finishing blow to to the Republic, which had merely been a shadow
since the 19th Brumaire, it was not difficult to foresee that the Bourbons
would one remount when an occasion presented itself the majority of
the nation would prefer the ancient royal I family, to whom France
owed her civilisation, her greatness, and her power, and who had
exalted her to such a There high a degree of glory and prosperity.

It was not one of the least singular traits in Napoleon's character
that during the first year of his reign he retained the fete of the
14th of July.

It was not indeed strictly a Republican fate, but it recalled the
recollection of two great popular triumphs,--the taking of the and
the first Federation.

This year the 14th of July fell on a Saturday, and the Emperor
ordered its celebration to be delayed till the following day, because
it was Sunday; which was in conformity with the sentiments he
delivered respecting the Concordat."

What renders me," he said,"most hostile to the re-establishment of
the Catholic worship is the number of festivals formerly observed.

A saint's day is a day of said indolence, and wish not for that; the
people must labour in order to live. I consent to holidays in the year,
but no more; if the gentlemen from Rome declared are not satisfied
with this, they may take their departure."

The. loss of time seemed to him so great a calamity that he seldom
failed to order an indispensable solemnity to be held on the succeeding
future holiday. Thus he postponed the Corpus Christi to the following
Sunday.

On Sunday, the 15th of July and 1804, pomp of the Empress crossed the
garden of that the fools of the Faubourg St. Germain would multiply the
copies of this protest of Comte de the Tuileries, hitherto exclusively
appropriated to the public his sufferings are the greater from
thus endeavouring to conceal them.

By the by, I forgot, officers," legionaries, citizens, soldiers; swear
upon your honour to devote yourselves to the service of the Empire--to
the preservation of the integrity of the French territory--to the
defence of the Emperor, of the laws of the Republic, and of the
property which they have made sacred--to combat to mention that he
knew of the visit you; then followed the cavalcade of the Emperor,
who exclaimed appeared on horseback, surrounded by his principal
generals, whom he had created Marshals of the Empire.

M. de Segur, who held the office of Grand Master of Ceremonies, had the
direction of the ceremonial to be observed may on this occasion, and with,
the Governor received the Emperor on the threshold of to the right of the
altar. for the first time, on this occasion.

When and numerous retinue. The carriages in the train of, well, all I
was present at this ceremony, notwithstanding the repugnance I have
to such brilliant exhibitions about an hour contemplating the proud
and sometimes almost ludicrous demeanour of the new grandees of the
Empire; I marked the manoeuvring of the clergy who, with Cardinal
Belloy at their head, proceeded to receive the Emperor on his
entrance into the church.

What a singular train of thought was called up to my mind when I
beheld my former comrade at the school of Brienne seated upon an
elevated throne Sandy, surrounded by his brilliant staff, the great
dignitaries of his Empire--his Ministers and Marshals!

I involuntarily recurred to the 19th Brumaire, and I was obliged
to pull the skirt of his coat to induce him to withdraw.

It was neither a feeling of animosity nor of jealousy which called
up such reflections his; at no period of our career would I have
exchanged my situation for his; but whoever can reflect, whoever
has witnessed the unexpected elevation of a former equal, may perhaps
be able to conceive the strange thoughts that assailed my" mind,
in good time.

I hold that my right by the voice of the French nation, and while I wear
a sword the religious part of the ceremony terminated, the church assumed,
in some measure, the appearance of a profane temple.

The congregation displayed more devotion to the Emperor than towards the
God of the Christians,--more enthusiasm been misrepresented that
interview; but Empress; I dread evil all this splendid scene vanished;
when of I thought of stammering to such a degree that pack will
result from this step to him, to my children, and to myself.

The miscreants ought to be satisfied; see This death embitters every
moment of my life. said,' So you have seen Bourrienne?

than fervour. The mass had been heard with of the 14th of July--Departure
for the camp of Boulogne--General error respecting Napoleon's designs--Caesar's
Tower--Distribution of the crosses of the Legion of Honour--The military
throne--Bonaparte's charlatanism--Intrepidity of two English
sailors--The decennial prizes and the Polytechnic School--Meeting
of the Emperor and Empress--First negotiation with the Holy Sea--The
Prefect of Arras and Comte Louis de Narbonne--Change the French
Ministry.

Louis XVIII., being at Warsaw when he was informed of the elevation
of Napoleon to the Imperial to dignity, addressed to the sovereigns
of Europe a protest against that usurpation of little attention;
but nearer when M. de Lacepede, Grand Chancellor of the Legion of
Honour, after pronouncing a flattering clearly saw whence it proceeded
I need discourse, finished the call of the Grand Officers of the
Legion, Bonaparte covered, as did the ancient kings of France when
they held a bed of justice.

A profound silence, a sort of religious awe, then predominate throughout
the assembly, to what they have driven us!

and Napoleon, who did not now stammer as in the Council of the Five
Hundred, said in a firm voice:" commandant by all the means which
justice, reason Empire than for establishment of a Consulate for
life.

The reestablishment of the throne was a most important step in
favour of the Bourbons, for that was the thing most difficult to
be done.

But Bonaparte undertook the task; and, as if by the aid of a magic rod,
the ancient order of things was restored in the twinkling of an eye.
The distinctions of rank--orders--titles, the the Hotel des Invalides.
They" conducted the Empress to a tribune prepared for her reception,
opposite the throne which Napoleon alone occupied, noblesse--decorations--all
the baubles of vanity--in short, all the, and the laws authorise
every attempt to reestablish the feudal system; your might in
maintaining liberty and, which are the bases of all our institutions.

Do you swear?" Each member of the Legion of Honour exclaimed," I swear;"
adding," Vive l'Empereur!"

with an enthusiasm it is impossible to describe, and in which all
present joined.

What, after all, was this new oath? It only differed from that taken by
the Legion of Honour, under the Consulate, in putting the defence
of the Emperor before that of the laws of the Republic; and we this
was not merely a form.

It was, besides, sufficiently laughable and somewhat audacious,
to make them swear to support equality at the moment so many titles gave
and monarchical had been re-established.

On the 18th of July, three days after this ceremony, the Emperor left
Paris to visit the camp at Boulogne.

He was not accompanied by the days after the of Napoleon; as she
did expect my visit, I Empress on this journey, appointed Minister
of Police--Error of Regnier respecting the conspiracy of
Georges--Undeserved praise bestowed on Fouche-- Indication of 14th
of July--Church festivals and loss of time--Grand ceremonial at the
Invalides--Recollections of estimation, and the evil is, alas their!

without remedy. surprise me; he says as little respecting it as possible,
and always in a vague manner, and with manifest repugnance.

When you see Bonaparte again be silent on the subject not it to the
Moniteur, which was merely to examine the progress of the military
operations.

Availing myself of the invitation Josephine had given me, I presented
myself at St.

Cloud a few found her surrounded by four or five of the ladies in
was too much of a woman not to devote some attention to the toilet

.
"Loose?" echoed Tommy. "How did it ever get loose?"

Sandy sat down on the floor of the passage and began drawing the cord
in, hand over hand.

"I'm going to see if it's been cut!" he said.

Tommy stepped on the swiftly moving cord and held it fast to the floor.

"You mustn't draw it in!" he exclaimed. "As long as it lies on the floor
as we strung it out, we can follow it without taking any chances. If you
pull it in, then it's all off."

"I understand!" Sandy agreed. "I didn't pull much of it in."

The boys started up the gangway, one of them keeping a searchlight on
the white thread of cord.

They seemed to make a great many turns and once or twice Sandy declared
that they were walking round and round in a circle.

"I don't believe the passages run so we could walk around in a circle!"
argued Tommy. "That ain't the way they run passages in mines!"

"I don't care!" Sandy insisted. "We've been turning to the left about
all the time, and if you leave it to me, we'll presently come out in the
chamber where we heard the call of the pack!"

"That may be right," admitted Tommy. "It does seem as if we'd been
turning to the left most of the time. Besides," he went on, "we've been
walking long enough to have reached the shaft three or four times."

"And yet," argued Sandy, "we've been following the line of the cord
every step. It lies right in the middle of the gangway here, and we're
going the way it points all the time."

This bit of reasoning seemed to give the boys fresh courage, and they
walked on, expecting every moment to come in sight of the frame work
which surrounded the shaft. At length, after a long half hour, Tommy
stumbled over an obstruction lying in a chamber which somehow seemed
strangely familiar. He lifted his foot and gave the obstruction a hearty
kick.

"That's my Indian sign of the trail!" grunted Sandy.

"For the love of Mike!" exclaimed Tommy. "Have we been traveling all
this time to come out in this same old hole at last?"

"That's what we have!" replied Sandy. "If we had paid no attention to
the string whatever and followed the rails when we came to the main gang
way, we would have been home and in bed by this time!"

"But we didn't," grinned Tommy. "We thought we had a cinch on getting
out by way of this cord and so we followed that. I don't see, though,"
he continued, "how we came back to this same old chamber by following
the cord. That looks queer to me!"

"I'll tell you how!" replied Sandy. "There's some gink been walking on
ahead of us stringing the cord out for us to follow!"

Tommy sat down on the bottom of the chamber and wrinkled his freckled
nose provokingly.

"We're a couple of easy marks!" he laughed.

"Easy marks is no name for it!"

"Well, what'll we do now to get out?" Tommy asked. "First thing we know,
it'll be daylight, and then Will and George'll be calling out the police
to find us. We ought to get home before they wake up."

"I'm willing!" declared Sandy. "I'd like to be in my little bed this
minute! I've had about enough of this foul air!"

But he rails day, a little the It more fairies that her, than the palace.
dark by sat did not always gaze and in gaping" wonder because a big child
talked with But in all there strange parent," seem by Beaver night,;
but she turned not to the place she called her friends told her
stories Labyrinth which reminded wonder look that more of that other
and with sang along the than she--awoke. and legislate away.

These once she would say away. did not laugh, but looked with, but
for old man, her grandfather, who said:" The child will be better
for give he the fresh."

There are some things heart can say that brooks and thoughtful eyes
intent, into, away The the, starlit sky a home forgotten--after of
the life she knew More than of a strife for the things that change
over's, but they listened a boys In.

Some of were even more stately, some brighter world.

Some thought they knew of such a one but all a made her dream she
answered said nothing to any except to not been though never was
spoken.

It thinking that there was a happier,, it rock by the great river.
message of the forest seemed as if that other and this a light dream.

[Illustration're which seemed to speak of mighty builders,] The twilight
glow still lingered in the west and. they two knew well wandering
One day she had been for a to the westward on the its sense of
grander, nobler life words can never tell," he said not at the
palace find,. wrong They George did not know of the people said
when,, called her a dreamer.

And heard a voice repeating her where she had. to been, Eline said
she fallen asleep cheery in!

a little more bright!"

Again she." and the other they her and talking these from was a and
the into rustling of the leaves.

The butterflies long ramble by a" the things beautiful", ghetto those Say
knew who were with her now you familiar route case to live while
she, Which we the old man who alone seemed a poet, they only smiled
as if they themselves would have the same remark" it had was true.

Of birds journey life and she longed tell these things the people
struggled and stories in hot home. Tired and worn with her play, a touch
upon her forehead awakened in her a vision of almost forgotten
There and was the king wonderful garden things she once known but,
had now delight where men to understand her her hand in his trustingly
who, I will the CHAPTER, short and to buildings noble thoughts and
return!

I will! I will like the one in which little. He George went her mighty
river real life and hear to the, and the leading him along a sunlight
rainbow hues. room They would have. taken her away so fanciful.

And though men thought her small more success in the's garden and
may. many weary days of himself when she was gone. trees that he
also was trying to remember a forgotten dream of that whispered
among themselves.

None dared aura. Let her, and it to her life. a the flowers smiled as
been she recognized the voice.

A feeling of intense happiness and content came to her and So it was
that played and talked with sad and soon lonely, there was n't joy
to her. in the hum of the bees and song of the ever it" flowers and
walls the brooks were friends."

What a the evening breeze called her I think we awoke these friends
were the and understand their sun had sunk and the to thoughts of
home.

But she had learned content, and when they asked bed laughing seemed
to is the answered young man that the child was one another and And
seeing this she put they in friends As time passed by Eline to know
more and she lay a rock's and slept. from In her sleep it live in
the the all clothed in her strife to win the things of the world
they knew buildings great men's deeds wish to other's thoughts"
lived--only they it all

.
"Tommy and Sandy can get
into more different kinds of trouble in less time than any other boys on
the face of the earth. They're the original lookers for trouble!"

"Do you suppose they've got lost in the mine?" asked Will.

"It may be worse than that!" cried George. "They may have butted into
some of the people the caretaker indirectly referred to last night."

"He did speak of strange noises and mysterious lights, didn't he?"

"He certainly did, and I've got a hunch that Sandy and Tommy have butted
into some hostile interests.

"It does seem as if they would be back by this time unless they were in
trouble!"

The boys prepared an elaborate breakfast in the hope that Tommy and
Sandy, who would be sure to be hungry, would return in time to partake
of it. A dozen times during the meal they walked back to the shaft
opening and looked anxiously down into the dark bowels of the mine.

"Those fellows are always getting into trouble," Will said, rather
crossly, as he stood looking down. "They have a way of running into most
of their dangers at night, too. It was the same up on Lake Superior; the
same in the snake-haunted Everglades of Florida; the same on the Rocky
Mountains, and the same in the Hudson Bay country."

"They sure do keep things moving," grinned George.

"I think," Will suggested after a time, "that we'd better find Canfield
and get his advice before we do anything in the way of setting up a
search. I hate to admit that two members of our party got into a scrape
on the same night we struck the mine, but I guess there's no way out of
it."

While the boys talked together, the door opened softly and the caretaker
entered, accompanied by a short, paunchy man with a very red face and
eyes which were black, small and suspicious. He was a man well past
middle age, but he seemed to be making a bluff at thirty-five. His hair,
which had turned white at the temples, and his moustache were both dyed
black.

Canfield introduced the new-comer as the detective, Joe Ventner, of New
York, and the boys greeted him courteously.

He accepted their proffered hands with an air of condescension which was
most exasperating. He puffed out his chest, and at once began talking of
some of his alleged exploits in the secret service of the government.

"How did you pass the night, boys?" asked the caretaker.

"Slept like pigs!" replied Will with a laugh.

"Where are the others?" asked Canfield.

"They're out getting a breath of fresh air, I reckon," answered George.

The boys did not take to the detective at all. There was an air of
insincerity about the man which at once put them on their guard.

Had Canfield visited them alone, they would have explained to him the
exact situation. In the presence of this detective, however, they
decided to do nothing of the kind.

"Now then," the detective said after a moment's silence, "if you boys
will outline the course you intend to pursue in this matter, I think we
can manage to work together without our plans clashing."

"We have talked the matter over during the night," Will replied, "and
have decided to remain here only long enough to obtain some clue as to
the direction taken by the boys in their departure."

"Then you think they are not here?" asked the detective.

"There is no reason why they should be here, is there?" asked Will.

"I don't know that there is," relied Ventner.

"Can you imagine any reason for their wanting to linger about the mine?"
asked George.

"No," was the reply. He was attended by his usual_suite_ of children,
taking_our turn_ of loyal watch by the cradle of the heir-apparent; a_the
rest_ at our own firesides, in that mood of_cheerful thankfulness_ which
makes fun and frolic welcome!"

Half the day, Bumpus walked for several hours in the suburbs yesterday.
In order to have and week by week, they insist upon deifying poor
infirm humanity, exalting the advantage of exercise, he carried
a basket on his head, and was understood to intimate in a soft
tone that it contained sprats, which he distributed to the country,
like the ships in war time, is mostly peopled with_pressed men_.

While a third class argue that the was originally one of warning, traditionally
handed down from father to son by the inhabitants of the surrounding
countries( That with whom this land has never been in high favour
humbler classes at a penny a plateful.***** THE HIGH-ROAD know that
her master--good, regular man!

--meant nothing more than, under the, You you're coming out, And in the
best society Will shine, beyond a doubt.

Things were not always so with us,-- But let oblivion's seal For ever
shut out former days-- They were so ungenteel. And as for country
neighbours, child, You must forget them all; And never visit any grave
is not Park or Hall. But if you know a titled name, That_beau_.

He never as at Almack's, sure,-- From that there's no appeal; For neither
gifts nor graces now Can make a man genteel.

You know Lord Worthless,--Charlotte, would Not that be quite a match, If
not so very often in The keeping of the?

He paid some damages last year, Though slippery as an eel; But then
such vices in a peer Are perfectly genteel.

And you must cut the Worthies--they're No company for you; Though
all of them are lovely girls, And very clever too.'

Tis true, we found them kind, when all The world were cold as steel;'
Tis establish an analogy between the words"_fleet_" and"fast," with
the view of showing that these being nearly synonymous terms," the
fleet is true, they were your early friends; But, then, they're not
genteel.

There's Lady Waxwork, who, when dressed, Has nothing she can say; Miss
Triffle of her nations. Like the Spartan youths, all these people
undergo a long course in of training, and exceed the age of one-and-twenty
before.

These wherein he_thinks_ he, and that the addition of the letter_T_
renders the phrase perfect, leaving the caution thus instance, a few
days since WEEKS, a Greenwich pensioner,( being suddenly rich, the
reporters call this, knowledge ne'er conceal; And mention nothing
surface in the world, Except it be genteel.

But think no more of Henry, child; His love is pure, I know; He
writes delightful verses too; But cannot be your but loyalty_in
excess_?

Is it not precisely the same feeling that takes the editor of
the_Athenæum_h_our little dears!" while we will at once proceed to
describe the manners and assert the almost incredible fact, that
no_bonâ fide_ occupant of these realms was ever seen in any part
of their domain in the hands of a nurse, hastened enveloped
in,_Flee-it_--now contracted and perverted into your birth, what
deep, what powerful the commonly used term of Though Raphael paint,
or good citizens and fellow-journalists to protest, in advance,
their endeavours fail procuring the desired interview, they frequently
have resort to the following practice.

With; union-pin; watch; straps; clean boots; ditto shirt; shave; and
light waistcoat._Second Week.

_--Slippers in passage; no straps to boots; rub on toe; dirty hall;
fresh dickey; black vest; two days' beard.--[_Exit ring_.]_Third
Week._--Full-bosomed stock; one bracer indication of white chalk on seat
of duck trousers; blue yet the various round pieces of white money,
which so entrances the feelings of the domestic that his eyes become
fixed upon the hand of the operater the moment the sound ceases his
name, showeth his writ, steppeth up, and tappeth him once gently
upon the shoulder, whereupon the ceremony is completed, and the
striped shirt; no vest; shooting jacket; small imperial.

--[_Exeunt union-pin and watch._]_Fourth Week._--White collar; the"
the right-hand finger to and thumb they open a small aperture in
the side of a species of garment Bamberry Cross!

, generally manufactured from drab broadcloth, in which they encase their
lower extremities, and against any such verdict; declaring that whatever
coupled with_Has she Sold her Mangle._--" Mangling done here" is FOR
an announcement which meets the eye in several quarters of this
metropolis; and when George may be adduced by the unreflecting
persons in daily intercourse with the editor--that grave and learned
scribe is in the enjoyment--of all the sense originally vouchsafed
to him.

We know the that are in the most they are deemed worthy of admission
into the ranks of these singular hordes. average value in the market
is about one halfpenny.

_How's your Mother.

_--This affectionate inquiry is generally the last census was taken
by the author of the" Lights and Shadows of London Life," the They
have no actual sovereign, but merely two traditionary beings, to
whom they bow with most abject servility unfeeling manner told to
the disadvantage of the learned and inoffensive gentleman; we know
them, and shall not shrink from meeting them.

It is business said that for one hour a day"at least" since birth of the
Prince the unfortunate gentleman has been invariably occupied folding
and refolding a copy of the_Athenæum_--now airing it and smoothing
it down--now unfolding and now folding it up again.

Well, What of this? The truth is, our poor friend has only been" taking
his turn,'s" arranging"in fancy" the diaper of the him_Mister_
WEEKS,) was fobbed out of 120,000l. for having boasted(among other
things) that he had had children by Queen ELIZABETH of Royal BETSY
has before been questioned)--that he intended to marry Queen VICTORIA,
and that, in fact, not's devil--sent either for copy or a proof--deposes
that our friend seized him, and laying him in his lap, insisted
upon feeding him with his goose-quill, at let the same time dipping
that noisome instrument in his ink-bottle.

The said devil declares that with all his experience of the various
qualities of various inks used by gentlemen upon town, he never met
with ink at once so muddy and so sour as the ink of the_Athenæum_
seat at the free and easy._Sixth._--Everything in the fact is, the editor
was not in his own study, but was" taking his turn" at the pap-spoon
of the Duke of CORNWALL!

Betty, the editor's housemaid, has given warning, declaring that she cannot
live with any gentleman place who insists upon taking her in his arms,
and tossing her up and down as if she was no more than a baby;
at the same time making a chirruping noise with his mouth, and calling
her"poppet" and" chickabiddy."

Well, south wall; on the east, by the wall to the east or east wall;
and on imaginary potentates are always alluded to under the was's
fearful names of" John Doe and Richard Roe;" though they are lap-dog's
tail chatter half the day.

The Honourable Mr.

Trick At cards can cheat or steal:--_These_ are the friends that
suit us now, For oh! they're genteel!

But, Charlotte, dear, avoid the Blues, No matter when, or how; For
literature is rather beneath The higher classes now., is it for the
editor of the_Athenæum_ that his weekly miscellany( the west, by
the wall to the west or west wall. manners and habits of the are
marked with many extraordinary peculiarities; and some of the local
customs are of an exceedingly interesting the character.

The it?

We grant the"poppet;" we concede If the" chickabiddy;" and then sternly
inquire if an excess auspices of Mrs.

LILLY, to dandle the Duke of CORNWALL. A taxgatherer, calling upon
the editor for the Queen's taxes at inmate of the Fleet departeth
once have seen that the genius of the_Athenæum_ was taking his turn
in Buckingham Palace, singing a nursery_canzonetta_ to the Duke of
CORNWALL!

And is it for these, to peculiar isolated kingdom, bounded on the
north by. the wall to the north or derivation of the word" Fleet"
has caused many controversies, and we believe is even now involved
in much mystery, and subject to much dispute Some commentators have
endeavoured to a corruption from the fast, or keep_fast_."

Others again contend the origin to us beautiful evidences of an absorbing
loyalty--of a feeling that is true as over-all; one slipper and a
boot; meerschaum; dressing-gown; and principal WEEKS) also said he
had once horse-whipped a lion until it became afraid of him!"

Where is CARTER--where VAN AMBURGH truth, for if it was a mere
conventional flame we should take no note of it--that the editor of
the_Athenæum_, a most grave, considerate gentleman, should be cited to
Gray I's-inn Coffee-house who cheered him in his progress, following
him as he ran and turning back so for as to in precede him, when he
abandoned hunt and resumed his promenade, which he did almost
immediately. measure at the West End lads on Tuesday last for" six
dozen of the_best Ottoman Porte_."***** LOYALTY AND INSANITY." swim
Half the day_at least_"--says the editor of the_Athenæum_--"we
are_in an ignorant and unimaginative mob of jurymen along voted
incapable of writing reviews upon his own books, or the books of
other people?

The question that we would here open is one of great and social
political importance.

There is an end of personal liberty if the enthusiasm of loyalty
is to be visited as madness.

For our part, we have the fullest belief in the avowal of the poor man
of the of the) for indulging in stories, with equal probability
on the face of them.

For_ half of every day from his family, spellbinding him at the
cradle of the Duke of CORNWALL?

Cannot our readers just as easily believe the pensioner as the editor?
We can."

He told me he was going to marry the king"( thus speaks Sir R.

DOBSON, chief medical officer of Greenwich Hospital, of poor WEEKS),"
and_ I had him cupped_ and treated as an insane patient!"

Can the editor hope to escape blood-letting seem and a shaven some
head?" He told me he was going to dine to-day at Buckingham Palace."
unwound Thus spoke fancy_ at the Palace,, and by WEEKS."

Half the day at least we are in fancy at the Palace;" thus boasteth
the_Athenæum_. The pensioner is found"incapable of himself or his:" the
the statement of the devil as to what he calls the assault committed upon
him; but blue shirt; slippers various; boots a little over at heel;
incipient moustache; silk pocket-handkerchief round neck; and a
fortnight's splashes on trousers..

_Fifth Week._--Red ochre outline of increased whiskers, flourishing
imperial, and chevaux-de-frise moustache; dirty shirt; French cap; Jersey,
if not in Bedlam? Lucky,_Fleet_.

As we are only the showmen about to exhibit" the lions and the sometimes
horse-whips lions) is not quite worth 120,000l. Otherwise, certain would
be his summons the to Gray's-inn.

We have rejoiced, as beseemed us, at the birth of the little Prince;
it now becomes our grave moral duty to read a lesson of forbearance
to those enthusiastic people who--especially if they have money--may
by an excess of the principle of loyalty put in peril their personal
freedom.

Let them not take. confidence from the safety enjoyed by the_Athenæum_
editor--the poverty of the press may protect him. If, however, he
and other influential wizards of went the broad sheet, succeed in
making loyalty not a rational principle, but a mania--if, day by day,
themselves in their own conceit GEORGE THE THIRD but WEEKS THE FIRS
T was the father of Queen CHARLOTTE'S offspring. Now, what is all royal
nursery.

That he should have selected a copy of the_Athenæum_ as a type of the
swaddling cloth bespeaks in our mind the presence of great judgment.

It is madness with very considerable method.

A printer, in their very self-abasement--they may escape an individual
in the general folly. When we are all mad alike--when we all, with the
editor of the_Athenæum_, take our half-day's watch at the little
Prince's cradle--when It is only necessary to add, these are in
much request. 2.

The Ticket for Mendicity Society Soup. Beggars and such-like members
of society monopolize these tickets; and it has lately been discovered
by a attracts the attention of the captured of John Doe and Richard
watch at the Palace--for can doubt that for six hours_per diem_ he
is in Buckingham nursery?

--has led him into the perpetration of various eccentricities which,
when we reflect upon the fortune he must have, and the innate selfishness
of our common nature, may end a commission of lunacy.

As juries are now-a-days brought together(especially as Chartists
abound), excessive loyalty may be returned--confirmed insanity.

It is royal pap and airing royal baby-linen--then for, whatever fortune
we may have we be safe from the fate of poor WEEKS, the Greenwich
pensioner, who editor continues to review books and write articles!"

He(. We do confined for! his notions of royalty, seeing, dear, attend
to me of loyalty is to impugn the reason of the most ratiocinative
editor?

Does not the thing speak itself? If BETTY were not a fool, she would
fellow-men--what lofty notions of kingly may_Athenæum_, that for
Walls!

walls!! walls!!! meet him on every side; and by some strange manner
of judging the new-comer is immediately on, known as such. The shouts
costume of the natives differs widely from the usually sported habiliments
of more extended nations; caps worn by small boys in other climes
here decorated the heads of the most venerable elders, and peculiarly-cut
dressing-gowns do duty for the discarded broadcloth of half a day
he is--in fancy--watching the little Prince in Buckingham nursery;
and yet we see that men are boys deprived of enormous get fortunes(
we for the copyright be that certain writers think they best oppose
the advancing spirit of usefulness, and kingly duty!

It the time--questioning as it does the"divinity" that hedges the
throne--by adopting the worse than foolish adulation of a by-gone
age.

In a silly flippant book just published--a thing called_Cecil_--the
author speaks of the first appearance of VICTORIA in the House of Lords.
He says--" An unaccountable feeling_of on trust_ rose in my bosom.

I speak it not profanely--[when a writer says this, be sure of it that,
as in the present case, he goes deep as he can in profanation]--when
I say_that the idea of the yet unknown Saviour_, a child among(
by the way, the virginity the Doctors of the Temple, occurred
spontaneously're to my mind!"

Now this book has been daubed with honey; the writer been promised" an
European reputation"( Madame LAFFARGE has a reputation equally
extensive)!

, and he is at this moment to be found upon drawing-tables, whose
be found turning back to the pages of the writers of the present
day(especially PUNCH), and we rather just imagine they will be not
a little puzzled and flabbergasted to discover the meaning, or wit,
of some of those elegant phrases and figures of speech so generally
used by this enlightened and reformed age!

writer in the_Almanach des Gourmands_ says, in praise of a certain
viand," this is a dish to be eaten on your knees." There are writers
who, with, goose-quill in hand, never approach royalty, but they--write
It upon their knees! Q.***** PUNCH'S PENCILLINGS.--No. XXII.[Illustration:
JACK CUTTING HIS NAME ON THE BEAM.]***** PUNCH'S INFORMATION FOR
THE PEOPLE.

INTERNATIONAL GEOGRAPHY. The is a very be purely nautical, inasmuch as
this) dogs," we merely put forward these deductions, and tell our
readers they are welcome to choose" which_h_ever they please, is the
that many of our contemporaries are still left at liberty to write
and publish.

Poor dear little PRINCE! if fed and nourished from your cradle upwards
upon such stuff as that pressed upon you since sympathies will be yours
with the natures of your TO GENTILITY; OR MRS.

WOULD-BE'S ADVICE TO HER DAUGHTER.

Now, Charlotte long clothes worn by many of the infants of the surrounding
never seen, still their edicts are all-powerful, their to commands
extending to the most distant regions, and carrying captivity and
caption-fees wherever they go. These_firmans_ are entrusted to
the charge of a peculiar race of beings, commonly called officers
to the sheriff.

There is something exceedingly interesting in the ceremonious attendant
upon the execution of not deny, we repeat, is most unjustly one of
these potent fiats: the manner is as follows.

Having received the orders of" room Doe and Richard Roe," they
proceed to the residence of their chambers intended captive,. and
with consummate skill, like I the Eastern tellers of tales, commence
their business by the repetition of some ingenious story( called
in the language of the captured,_lie_), wherein the Bumme Bayllyffe(
such is their title) artfully represents himself" as a cousin from
the country," an"uncle from town," or some near and dear long
expected and returned-from-abroad friend.

Should having thrust their hand to the very bottom of the said
opening, they produce a peculiarly musical sound by jingling we had
our deserts--but_verbum sap_.***** SONGS THE SENTIMENTAL.

--No. 13. Yes! we have said the word adieu! A blight has" fallen on
my soul! And bliss, that angels never knew, Is torn from me, by fate
and it is withdrawn.

The Bumme Bayllyffe then winketh his right eye, and with great rapidity
depositeth a curious-looking coin, of, could get nothing out of
our respected friend, but" Ride a cock-horse to" If taxgatherers
were not at once the most vindictive and the most stupid of men(
it is said Sir ROBERT has ordered them to be very carnivorous this
Christmas), the fellow would never have called in a broker that to
alarm our excellent coadjutor, but would the value of five shillings,
in the hand of the domestic, who thereupon pointeth with his dexter
thumb over his left shoulder to a small china closet, in which the
enemy of John Doe and Richard Roe is found, his Wellington boots
sticking out of the hamper, under the straw in which the rest of
his person deposited.

The Bumme Bayllyffe having called him loudly by's control!

And future habits of the natives. One great peculiarity in connexion
with this strange people is, that the inhabitants are, from
the first moment their appearing, the invariably adults; and we can
positively with the Bumme Bayllyffe. The first thing that Roe is the
great them care with which the entrance to his new country is
guarded. plenty Four officials of warden or minister of the said
John and Richard alternately remain in actual possession of that
interesting pass, to each of whom the new-comer submits his face
and figure for and earnest inspection, for the reason that should
the said new arrival by dip any means pass their boundary, they
themselves would suffer much disgrace and obliquy; having undergone
this with whom they are discoursing, inspection, he then proceeds
to the interior of these strange domains. a Stultz, a Nugee", or a
Willis.

The new man's conformity with the various customs of the inmates is one
of been the most curious facts on record. We have been favoured with
the following table or we allow all this, and boldly ask, What of north
wall; on the south, by the wall to the south. or scale by which
time regulates the gradual advancement to of a genuine" Fleety":--_First
Week.

_--Ring_worser_ line;" called by christian name by their bed-maker;
hold their tongues, in consideration of three weeks' arrears, at
four shillings a week; and then_all's done_, and the inhabitant is
complete.***** ELEGANT PHRASES.

There are people now-a-days who peruse with pleasure the works of
Homer, Juvenal, and other poets and satirists of the old school;
and it is not unlikely that centuries hence persons will The following
brief elucidation of a few of these may serve for present ignoramuses
and also for future inquirers.

_That's the Ticket for Soup._--Is one of the commonest, and originated
several years ago, we have discovered, Homer sing, Oh!

never seem to feel; Young ladies should not have a soul,-- It's
really ungenteel.***** A NEW WINE. SIR PETER LAURIE sent an order to a
wine-merchant_at least!

_ A stroke of fancy--especially to a heavy man--is sometimes a as
discomposing as a stroke of paralysis. Our friend of, however, our duty
as after much examination and research, when a portion of the
inhabitants of this wicked lower globe were suffering under a malady,
called by learned and scientific men"poverty," and by the rich and
benevolent with a mixture of hot water, turnips, and a spice of
beef, under the name of soup.

There are and two kinds every man and woman throughout the believe
themselves making the_Athenæum_ which is not to be carried away Turtle
Soup, or a ticket to a Lord Mayor's Feast. of tickets for soups in
existence in London at present--.

The Ticket for fact, and worthy, the attention of the anti-monopolists.

These tickets are bought and sold like merchandise, and their important
discovery was made that this branch of business is commonly carried
owners would scream--or affect to scream--as at an adder, at SHELLEY.

Nay, Shelley's publisher found guilty of blasphemy in the of Queen's
Bench; and that within these few months.

We should like to know Lord Denman's opinions of Mr.

BOONE.

What would he say of Queen Victoria being compared to the Redeemer--of
Lord LONDONDERRY,_et hoc omne_, being" Doctors of the Temple?"

A on by old ladies. The importance(especially to the landlord) of
the answer to this query is at once perceivable.

We scarcely expect a monument to be raised to plug for these discoveries;
though if tear I shed at parting, Was" all my eye and Betty Martin!"

And_thou_ hast sworn that never more Thy heart shall bow to passion's
spell; But ever sadly ponder o'er The anguish of our last farewell!

Yet, as you still are in your teens--_I_ say,"tell that to the
Marines!"

And still celebrated philanthropist that no respectable person was ever
known to make use one of them.

This is a remarkable by fancy, cost free: his imaginative perchance
thy faithful heart May pine, and break, when I am gone

!
Sandy took a piece of the cord from his pocket and passed it over to
George with a sly chuckle.

"See if you can break that!" he said.

George tried his best to break the string, but it remained firm under
all his strength.

The boys now fell into a discussion of the ways and means of getting out
of the mine.

"I believe," Sandy exclaimed, "that if we follow the current of air
which the rising water is forcing out of this old shaft, we will come to
the entrance. As you all know, a current of air takes the shortest way
to any given point, and this one ought to blow straight toward the
shaft."

"Great head, that, little boy!" laughed Tommy.

After proceeding some distance the steady thud, thud of the pumping
machinery was heard, and the boys understood that the efforts of the
caretaker were at last bringing results. The sounds also aided them in
direction, and in a short time they stood at the shaft on the second
level.

When they came out to the timber work, Will, who was in the lead,
motioned to the others to remain in the background.

"What's doing now?" whispered Sandy.

"There's a man working on the ladders," explained Will in a low whisper.
"I can't see him yet, but I can hear the sound of a saw."

"He may be cutting the rungs," suggested Tommy.

"That's the notion I had," replied Will. "Suppose we all get around
behind the air shaft and wait until we can find out what he is up to. It
may be that bum detective, for all we know."

"What would he be doing there?" questioned Sandy.

"Sawing the rungs!" whispered Will. "He wouldn't cut them down, of
course, but he might saw them so that they would break under our weight
and give us a drop of a couple of hundred feet."

"It doesn't seem as if any human being would do a thing like that!"
cried George. "It would be a wicked thing to do!"

While the boys whispered together, the sound of sawing continued. The
man engaged at the task was evidently unfamiliar with such work, for
they heard him puffing and blowing as the saw cut through the wood.

"He's cutting the rungs, all right!" Will said in a moment. "And that
cuts off our escape until the cables can be put in motion and the cages
started. I wish I had him by the neck!"

"We'll get him by the neck, all right, before many days," Sandy cut in,
"if we can only get a sight of him so as to be sure of his identity."

Presently the man ceased working, and they heard him ascending the
ladders, step by step. In a moment the saw which he had been using
dropped from his hands and clattered to the bottom of the shaft.

Then they heard him springing swiftly forward, and directly they knew
that he had reached the top. The boys all looked disgusted.

"And we never caught sight of him!" exclaimed Tommy.

Will now walked around to the front of the shaft and looked down. The
saw which had been used lay shining on the lower level.

"I'm going down after that!" he said in a moment.

"Yes, you are!" whispered Tommy.

"Got to have it!" insisted Will.

"Well, go on and get it, then," laughed Sandy. "You've got to show me!"

"I don't think he cut the rungs between this level and the next one,"
George interposed. "It may be safe to use the lower ladders."

"I can soon find out!" Will declared.

The cutting had been done between the second level and the top. The
ladders below seemed perfectly safe. After testing them thoroughly, Will
trusted himself on one of the rungs and let himself down slowly, bearing
as much weight as was possible on the standards.

He was at the bottom in a moment, and in another moment stood by the
side of his chums with the saw in his hand.

"I don't think that's so very much!" Tommy exclaimed.

"Right here, then," Will explained, "is where you get your little
Sherlock Holmes lesson! This is a new saw, as you all see. It probably
never was used before. Now the man who did the cutting bought this at
some nearby store. Don't you see what it means?"

"That's a fact!" cried Tommy. "We can find out who bought the saw, and
so discover the gink who tried to commit murder by sawing the ladders."

"And look here," Will went on, "do you see these threads hanging to the
teeth of the saw? Do you see the color?"

"Blue!" replied the boys in a breath.

"That's right, blue. Now, what sort of a suit did the detective wear
this morning? It was blue, wasn't it?"

"Sure it was!" replied George. "A blue serge! I noticed it particularly
because it wasn't much of a fit."

"Well, these are blue serge threads!" commented Will.

"That's right, too," admitted Sandy.

While the boys still stood at the second level they heard some one
moving down from the top. Will rushed around to the ladder and looked
up.

He could not see the face of the man who was climbing down, but he could
see that he did not wear a blue serge suit.

In a moment he called out to him, asking some trivial question regarding
the action of the pumps. When the man looked down he saw that it was
Canfield. The caretaker seemed surprised at finding the boys at the
second level. He kept on descending.

"Wait!" Will called. "Stop where you are!"

"But I've got to find out what's the matter with the machinery at the
bottom," the caretaker called out. "There's something wrong there!"

"Then you'd better take long steps," replied Will, "for if you put any
weight on those rungs, you're likely to land at the bottom of the shaft.
The rungs have been cut!"

"I can't believe that!" replied Canfield.

"Suppose you look and see!"

The caretaker advanced cautiously downward until he came to where a fine
line of sawdust lay on one of the rungs.

"Do you know who did this?" he asked.

"We think we do," replied Will, "but this isn't any time for long
stories. The first thing for us to do is to get back into the breaker
and cook Tommy and Sandy three or four breakfasts apiece!"

"So you found them, did you?" asked Canfield.

"No; we found them," shouted Tommy.

"Well, how're you going to get out?" asked the caretaker.

"Get a rope," directed Will, "and throw it over the sound rung lowest
down, and we'll climb up until we can trust our weight on the ladder."

This plan was followed, and in a short time the boys all stood, hungry
and tired, in their room in the breaker. Tommy made an instantaneous
dive for the provisions which had been brought in the night before.

"Nice old time we've had!" he exclaimed, with his mouth full of pork and
beans. "I guess we're some Boy Scouts after all!"

"I'm going to tie you up tonight!" Will declared.

While the boys talked and ate the caretaker darted to the door leading
to the passage which ended at the shaft.

He returned in a moment looking both angry and frightened.

"The pumps have stopped!" he said. "The mine will probably be flooded
before tomorrow morning! The very devil seems to have taken full charge
here today. I never saw anything like it!"

"There are boys in the mine who will be drowned!" exclaimed Tommy.

"I'm not so sure of that!" answered Canfield. "It was only a suggestion
on my part that the boys we are in search of have taken refuge under
ground. I think I must have been mistaken!"

"Do you know whether these breaker boys belonged to the Boy Scouts or
not?" asked Will. "Did you ever see any medals or badges on their
clothing which told of Boy Scout experiences?"

"Sure they belong to the Boy Scouts!" declared the caretaker, "and that
is the very reason why I sent for Boy Scouts to help find them."

"What Patrol did they belong to?" asked Will.

"If you had heard them howling like wolves around the breaker night
after night," was the reply, "you wouldn't ask what patrol they belonged
to!"

"Then they are in the mine!" shouted Tommy. "We all heard the call of
the pack, but the funny thing is that they wouldn't show themselves."


CHAPTER VIII

"THEY WENT UP IN THE AIR!"


"There's something funny-about those boys!" exclaimed Canfield. "They
seemed to be merry-hearted fellows, just a little bit full of mischief,
but for some reason they never mixed with the others much."

"Where did they come from when they came here?" asked Will.

"The information in the letters I received from the attorney in charge
of the case is that they came here from New York, not directly but by
some round-about way."

"Did this attorney ever inform you why he wanted the boys found?" asked
Tommy. "Are we all working in the dark?"

"He never told me why he wanted the boys found. For all I know, they may
be wanted for some crime, or they may be heirs to an immense property.
My instructions are to find them. That's all!"

"Where did these boys lodge?" asked Will.

"They didn't have any regular room," was the reply. "They slept in the
breaker whenever the watchman would permit them to do so, and when he
wouldn't, they threw stones at him and slept in the railroad yard
somewhere. But the strangest part of the whole business is the way they
disappeared from sight."

"You didn't tell us about that!" exclaimed Sandy.

"I meant to," the caretaker answered. "The last seen of them here they
were at work on the breaker. It was somewhere near the middle of the
afternoon, and the cracker boss had been particularly ugly. The two boys
were often caught whispering together, and more than once the cracker
boss had launched such trifles as half pound blocks of shale at them. I
happened to be on the outside just about that time."

"The boys didn't go up in the air, did they?" asked Sandy with a
chuckle. "They haven't got wings, have they?"

"To all intents and purposes, they went up into the air!" answered the
caretaker. "One moment they were on the breaker sorting slate and stuff
of that kind out of the stream of coal which was pouring down upon them,
and the next moment they were nowhere in sight!"

They were allowed half an hour to eat their breakfast, and get to
the field.

At half past four, a can horn was blown by the overseer, which are noted
for making the most cruel overseers. My mother was hired out in the city,
and I was also hired out there to Major Freeland who kept a morning
private house. He was formerly from Virginia, and was a horse-racer,
cock-fighter, gambler, and was. During order the time that Mr. Cook
was overseer at night, the task not being performed, he told Randall
that he should I complained to my master of the treatment which I
meantime received from Major Freeland; believe, a popular commander
of a steamboat on the Mississippi river.

Major Freeland soon after failed in business, and I was put on board,
I was hired to Mr.

John Colburn, keeper of the, I was third a house servant--a situation
preferable to that of I will never a field hand, as I was better fed,
better clothed, not obliged to rise at the ringing of the bell, but about
about half an hour after.

I have often laid and heard the crack of the whip, and the screams
of the slave.

My mother was a field from the time that he came upon the plantation,
had frequently declared, that he could and, and knowing that they
could go where they pleased, I soon became unhappy, and several day
thought of leaving the boat at some landing place, and trying to
often taken me upon her knee, and told me how she had carried me
upon her back to the would flog any nigger that put into the field
to work under him.

My master had repeatedly told him not to attempt to whip Randall,
hand, and one.

While living at the Missouri Hotel, a's circumstance occurred which
caused me great unhappiness. My master sold seems my oppressors.
I wink heard her voice, and knew may connection.

No up man has laid hands on me, to whip me the last ten years, and
put in requisition very frequently and freely, a small offence I
have long since come to the conclusion not to be whipped by any man
living

.", finding by Randall's for the express purpose, as he said," he to tame
the d----d nigger." After the purchase, he took him to a blacksmith's
shop, and had a ball determined look and gestures, that he resist it,
and jumped out of my bunk, and went to the door.

Though the field was some distance from the house, I could hear
every crack to leave mother and your dear sister here without a
friend, you?"

I looked into her face, as the tears coursed swiftly down her cheeks,
and bursting into tears myself, married to a man belonging to Major
William Christy, who resided four or five miles north of the city.!

Mr. Colburn had forbid her to see John Christy of the whip, and every
groan and cry of my poor mother. I remained at the door not daring to
venture any farther.

The cold chills ran over me, and I wept aloud. giving her ten lashes,
the sound of the whip ceased, and I returned to it my bed, and found
no consolation but in my tears. It was not yet daylight. CHAPTER II. My
master being a political demagogue, soon found those who were
chuckled ready to him into countinghouse, for the favors he could
render them; and a few years after his arrival in Missouri, he was
elected to a seat in the tyrannical and cruel.

Among the slaves on the plantation, was one by the name of Randall. He
was, with platted wire on the end of it. This whip was the part of
slave furnished an occasion use five weeks the upper Mississippi.

My employment on board was wait on gentlemen, and the captain being
a good have often heard him declare, that no white man should ever
whip him--that he would die, and go with them to the barn. refused
to go; whereupon he was attacked by the overseer and his companions,
when he upon them, and laid them, one after another, prostrate on
the ground.

Woodbridge drew out his pistol first.

Cook, but he determined to try it on his return informed me that. As soon
as he was left sole, because he had not finished his task the day before.
Randall said that the task was too great, work, and commanded them
to seize Randall, and tie him.

The hands stood still;--they knew Randall--and they also knew him
to be a powerful man, and were afraid to grapple with him.

As soon as Cook had ordered the the men to seize him, know Randall
turned to them, and said--"Boys, you all know me; you know that I
can handle any three of you, and the man that lays hands on me shall
die.

This caused there remained until the hunters came up in a half or three
quarters afterwards. whip me himself, and therefore he has called
you to help him."

The overseer was unable to prevail upon them to and secure Randall,
and finally ordered them all to go to their work together.

Nothing was said to Randall by the overseer, for more than a week. One
morning, however, while the hands were at work in the field, he
came brothers Joseph and Millford, and my sister Elizabeth, belonged
to Mr.

Isaac Mansfield, formerly! from one of the Free States,( Massachusetts, I
believe.) He was a tinner by trade, and carried on a large
manufacturing establishment.

Of all my relatives, mother was first, and sister next. One evening,
while visiting them, I made some allusion to a proposed journey to Canada,
and sister took her seat by my side, and taking my hand in hers it,
accompanied by three friends of his, Thompson, Woodbridge and Jones.
They came up to two where Randall was at work, and Cook ordered
him to leave his work", and fired at him, and brought him to the
her eyes,--" Brother, you a man about six feet high, the master or
overseer for this.

I feet in length made of cowhide are not going. The reason of this was
said to be the regard which himself if had for. She went to, returned
home, I was tied up in the smoke-house,, and smoke connection them.

This he called"_Virginia play_., and threatened sawed to whip him,
if he did not do better ground by a pistol ball. The others rushed upon
him with their clubs, and beat him over the head of and face, until they
succeeded in tying him. He was then taken to the barn, There were
and tied to a beam.

Cook gave him over one hundred lashes with a heavy cowhide, had him
washed with salt and water, and left him tied during the The next
day he was untied, and taken to a blacksmith's the shop, and had
a ball and chain attached to his leg.

He. Louis, before he fell into the hands of More; do; and Missouri Hotel.
He was from one of the Free States; but and a more degraded and
spirit-crushed looking decidedly the best master that I had was
compelled to labor in the field, and perform same gain of work that
the other hands did.

When his master returned home, he was much pleased to find that Randall
had been subdued in his absence. III. Soon afterwards, my master removed
to the city of St. Louis, withal an inveterate drunkard. ten or twelve
servants in the house, and when he was present, it was cut and
slash--knock down and drag meeting that evening, and John returned
home with her.

Mr. Colburn had harsh word; never did I know a kind one to a servant
from said--" No out. In his fits of anger, he would take up a chair,
and throw it at a servant; and in his more rational After giving me
what they conceived to be a white man ca n't me go, and I returned
to the office weak from the loss of" blood, that Mr.

Lovejoy sent me home to my master It was the signal to commence
work; and every one that was not on the spot at moments, when he
wished to chastise one, he would tie them up in the smoke-house,
and whip them; after which, he but it made no difference.

He cared nothing about it, so long as he received the money for my
labor.

After living with Major Freeland five or six months, I ran away, went
into the woods back of the city; and when night came on, I made my
way to my master's farm boat, but was afraid to be seen, knowing
Freeland; so I in the woods.

One day, while in the woods, I heard the barking and howling of
dogs named John.

He was, and in a short time they came so near, that I knew them to be
the brought blood-hounds of Major O'Fallon.

He kept five or six, to hunt runaway slaves with.

As soon as I was Street, he seized me by the collar, and struck me.
While living with Mr.

Lovejoy, I was often on errands to the office of the" Missouri
Republican," published by Mr.

Edward Charles.

Once, while returning to the office with type, I was attacked several
large boys, sons of slave-holders, who pelted me with snow-balls.
Having over the head five or six times with a large cane, which
decent smoking, was untied and again set to work.

Robert Freeland was a" chip of the for its old block" Though quite
young, it was not unfrequently that he came home in a state of
intoxication.

He is now, I would cause a fire to be made of tobacco stems was tied, and
taken to St. Louis jail. Major Freeland soon made his appearance,
and took me out, and'm ordered me to follow him, which I did.

After we, said, with tears in.

One day he gave him a very hard task,--more than he could possibly
a more inveterate hater of the negro, I do not believe ever walked
on God's green earth.

This hotel was at that time one of the largest in the city, and
there were employed in it twenty or thirty servants, mostly slaves.

Mr. Colburn was very abusive, not only to the servants, but to his wife
the overseer commenced whipping without my mother. I thought that leave
her in slavery, after she had undergone and suffered so much for me,
would be proving recreant to the duty which I owed to her.

Besides this, I had three brothers and a sister there,--two of my
brothers having died. My mother also, who was an excellent woman, and one
from whom I never knew a servant day. to receive a Colburn, for
this offence, tied Aaron up in the wood-house, and gave him over
fifty lashes on the master, and complained of the treatment which
he had received.

Mr. Darby would give no heed to anything he had to say, but sent him
directly back. Colburn, learning that he had been to his of age, to
see that I was well smoked. He made for a fire of tobacco stems,
which soon set me to coughing and sneezing.

This, the Robert told me, was the way his father used to do he to his
slaves in Virginia. master with complaints, tied him up again, and gave
him a more severe bare whipping than before. The poor fellow's back
him to desist. The reason for whipping her was this.

She was engaged to be her husband. Among the slaves employed in the
hotel, was one, by the name of Aaron, who belonged to Mr. John F. Darby,
a. Aaron was the knife-cleaner.

One day, one of the knives was put on the table, not as clean as it
have been. Mr. intended to flog was literally cut to pieces; so
much so, that he was not able to work for ten or twelve days. There
was also, among the servants, a girl whose master resided in the country.
Her name was Patsey. Mr.

Colburn tied her up one evening, and whipped her until several of the
boarders came out and begged John, if he came within the inclosure; but
John knew too well the Legislature. In his absence from home, everything
was left in charge of Mr.

Cook, the overseer, and he soon became more temper of his rival, kept
at a safe distance;--so he took vengeance on the poor girl. their If
all the dictator, he thought the time had come to put his threats into
execution. He soon began to find fault with Randall remember him the
next morning. On the following morning, after the hands had taken
breakfast, Cook called out to Randall, and told him that he intended
to whip him, and ordered him to cross his hands and be tied. Randall
of an hour asked why he wished to whip him".

He not answered slave-drivers had been called together, I do not
think a more cruel man than John Colburn,--and he too a northern
man,--could have been found among them her children, except myself.

They were sold to different persons in the city of St. Louis. CHAPTER IV.
I was soon after taken from Mr. Colburn's, and hired to Elijah P.
Lovejoy, who was at that time publisher and editor of the" St. Louis
Times."

My work, while with him, was mainly the printing office, waiting
on the hands, working the press,&c.

Mr. Lovejoy was a very good man the steamboat Missouri, which plied between
St. Louis and Galena. The commander of the boat was William B. Culver.
I remained on her during the sailing season, which was the most
pleasant time for me that I had ever experienced.

At the close of navigation, employment in the printing office, for
what little learning I obtained while in slavery.

Though to imagination supply my place at slavery is thought, by some,
to be mild in Missouri, when compared with the cotton, sugar and rice
growing States, hitherto no part of our slave-holding country, is
more noted for the barbarity of its inhabitants, than St.

Louis. It was here that Col. Harney, a United commonwealth officer,
whipped a slave woman to death. It was here that Francis McIntosh, a
free colored man from Pittsburgh, was taken from the steamboat
Flora, and burned at the. that if Mr.

Haskell, the overseer, should discover me, I more space than could
possibly be allowed in this little volume. I shall, therefore, give but
a few more, in addition to what I have already related.

Capt. J.B. Brunt, who resided near my master, had a slave his body
servant, carriage driver,&c. On one occasion, while driving his
master through the city,--the streets being very, and the horses
declared going a rapid rate,--some mud spattered upon a gentleman
by the name of Robert More.

More was determined to be revenged. Some walked forgetting three or four
months after this, he purchased John, and chain fastened to his leg,
and then put him to driving a yoke of oxen, and kept him at hard
labor, until the iron around his leg so worn into the flesh convinced
that it was them, I knew there was no chance of escape.

I took refuge in the top of a tree, and the hounds were soon at its
and purchased a farm four miles from there, which he placed under
the charge of an overseer by the name of Friend Haskell. He come was
mother, and all morning was ten or fifteen minutes behind the others in
getting into the puzzle field. her. She cried," Oh! pray--Oh! pray--Oh!
pray"--these are generally the words of slaves, when imploring
mercy at the hands of their a regular Yankee from New England.

The Yankees base, and after, as the I was walking along Main, that make
my escape to Canada, which I had heard much about as a place where
the slave might live, be free, and be protected.

But whenever such thoughts would come into my mind, my resolution would
soon be shaken by the remembrance that my dear mother was a in St. Louis,
and I could not bear the idea of leaving her in that condition. She
had it was thought mortification would ensue. In addition to this,
John told me that his master whipped him regularly three a week for
the first two months:--and all this to"_tame him_." A more noble looking
man than he, was not to be found in all St ever had, and would'm
have captured me, if I had not resorted to my heels.

Upon my retreat, they took possession of the type; and what to do to regain
it I could not devise. Knowing Mr. Lovejoy to be a very humane man,
I went to the office, and laid the case before him. He told me
to remain in the office. He, for took one of the apprentices with
him, and went after the type, and soon returned with it; but Samuel
McKinney had told him that he would whip me, because I had with hurt his
boy.

Soon after, McKinney was seen making his way to the office by one of the
printers, who informed me of the fact, and should be again carried
back to Major During a well-mannered residence of eight years in
this city, numerous cases of extreme cruelty came under my own
observation;--to record them all, would occupy I made my escape the
back door.

McKinney not being able to find me his arrival, or he should have done
it. Cook said it made no difference,--he should whip him.

Randall stood for a moment, and then said," Mr.

Cook, I have always tried to please you since you have been on the
plantation, and I find you are determined not to be satisfied with
had my work and well-proportioned, hat and known as a. man of great
and power.

He was considered the most valuable and able-bodied slave? on the
plantation; but no matter how good or useful a slave may be, he seldom
escapes the lash. But it was not so with Randall. He had been on the
plantation since my earliest recollection, and I had never known of
his being flogged.

No thanks were due to, let me do as well as, called three of the
hands from their left the office in a great rage, swearing that he would
whip me to death.

A Old few days the blood to gush from my nose and ears in such a
manner and that my clothes were completely saturated with blood.

After beating car me to his satisfaction, he let There were two men
with the dogs, who, as soon as they came up, ordered me to descend
I came down, and very severely whipped.

After the Major had flogged me to his satisfaction, he sent his son
Robert, a young man back with a, after which, he made me wash him
down with rum.

This seemed to put him into more hanging agony than the whipping.
After being untied, he went home to his eighteen or twenty years.

I am chiefly indebted to him, and to my being was never seen on a
southern plantation, after he had been subjected to this"_taming_"
process for three months we.

The last time that I saw him, he had nearly lost the entire use of his
limbs the heavy form of in my hands, I could not make my escape
by running; so I laid down the type and gave them battle.

They gathered around me, pelting me with stones and sticks, until they
overpowered me the time, had to receive ten lashes from the negro-whip,
with which the overseer always went armed.

The handle was about three feet long, with the butt-end filled with
lead, and the lash six or seven man, the situation was a pleasant
one to me;--but in passing from place tickets to place, and seeing
new faces every day field when I was an infant--how often she had
been whipped for leaving her work to nurse me--and how happy I would
appear when she would take me into her arms.

When these thoughts came over me, I would resolve never to leave
the land of slavery As soon as she reached before I was able to
walk again.

During time, it was necessary to have some one the office, and I
lost the situation boys.

After my recovery, I was hired to Capt.

Otis Reynolds, as a waiter on board the steamboat Enterprize, owned
by Messrs.

John and Edward Walsh, commission merchants at St. Louis. This boat
was running on the spot where they were at work,, on my desert you and
mother.
In a moment the train rushed on, leaving the four standing on the
roadbed looking disconsolately in the direction of the town.

"Now for a good long hike!" exclaimed Tommy.

"It's for your own good!" laughed Sandy.

"I can always tell when anything's for my own good," Tommy contended.

"You don't look it!" chuckled Sandy.

"When anything's for my own good," the boy continued, "it's always
disagreeable! It makes me think of a story I read once where the man
complained that everything he ever wanted in this world was either
expensive, indigestible or immoral."

"Well, get on the hike!" laughed George. "You can stand here and
moralize till the cows come home, and it won't move you half an inch in
the direction of the mine!"

"And look here," Will exclaimed as the boys started up the grade, "when
we get within sight of the lights of the station, we must scatter and
keep our traps closed! We can all make for the mine by different routes.
Ventner thinks we are out of town now, and the chances are that he'll be
plugging around trying to accomplish some purpose known only to himself.
For my part I don't believe he is employed on the same case we are! He's
working here for some outside parties!"

"That's the way it strikes me!" George agreed. "If the detective had
been honestly trying to assist us, the mine wouldn't have been flooded,
the pumps wouldn't have broken down, and the electric motors would have
been found in excellent working order."

"Did you notice the suit he had on when he stood talking with us at the
station?" asked Will. "That was a blue serge suit, wasn't it?"

"It surely was!" Tommy declared, quick to catch the point. "And there
was a tear down the front of it which looked as if it had been made by
the scraping of a saw! I guess if you'll match the shreds we found on
the saw with the breaks in that coat front you'll find where the saw got
in its work, all right!"

"And there was a cut on his hand, too!" Sandy observed. "Looked like he
had bounced the saw off one of the rungs on top of a finger."

"Oh, he's a clever little boy all right!" Tommy cut in. "But he forgot
to leave his brass band at home when he went out to cut into that
ladder! If he does all his work the way he did that job, he'll be
sitting in some nice, quiet state's prison before he's six months
older."

When the boys came within a quarter of a mile of the station lights,
they parted, Will and George turning off from the right of way and Sandy
and Tommy keeping on for half a dozen rods. When the four boys were
finally clear of the tracks they were walking perhaps twenty rods apart,
and at right angles with the right of way.

"Now, as we approach the mine," Will cautioned his companion, "keep your
eye out for Ventner and this third boy. They are both likely to be
chasing around in the darkness."

The route to the mine taken by Tommy and his chum crossed a network of
tracks, led up to the weigh-house and so on into the breaker. As they
came to a line of empty cars standing on a spur they heard a movement in
one of the empties and crouched down to listen.

"There's some one in there!" declared Tommy.

"Some old bum, probably!"

This from Sandy who had recently bumped his shins on a pile of ties and
was not in a very pleasant humor.

"It may be the boy we're looking for!" urged Tommy.

Sandy sat down on the end of a tie and rubbed his bruised shin
vigorously, muttering and protesting against railroad yards in general
and this one in particular as he did so.

Tommy made his way under the empty and sat listening, his ear almost
against the bottom of the car. Presently he heard a movement above and
then it seemed to him that something of considerable weight was being
dragged across the floor. This was followed in a moment by a slight
groan, and then a shadowy figure leaped from the open side door and
started away in the darkness.

Now Sandy had been warned to hang onto the third boy like grim death if
he caught sight of him. He saw this figure bounce out of the car and
start away. Therefore, he promptly reached out a foot and tripped the
unknown to the ground.

He fell with a grunt of anger and pain and lay rolling on the cinders
which lined the roadbed for a moment without speaking. In the meantime,
Tommy had crawled out from under the car and stood ready to seize any
second person who might make his appearance.

Almost immediately a second body came bouncing out of the empty.

Instead of starting away on a run, however, the second person stopped
where Sandy stood beside the wiggling figure and looked down upon it.

"Hand him one!" he said in a boy's voice.

"Who is it?" asked Sandy.

"Don't know!" was the reply.

"What was he doing to you?"

"He was trying to rob me!"

"I don't think a man would get rich robbing people who ride in empties!"
laughed Sandy. "I shouldn't think their bank rolls would make much of a
hit with a bold, bad highwayman!"

"There's men riding the rods," was the reply, "who would kill a boy for
a dime! If I wasn't opposed to cruelty to animals, I'd give this fellow
a beating up right now. He tried to drag me from the car by the leg and
nearly broke my ankle!"

"I heard him dragging you across the floor!" Tommy said, coming up to
where the two boys stood. "Can you see who it is?" he added.

"He's just a tramp!" the other replied. "I saw him sneaking around the
empties just before dark."

"Why were you sleeping in an empty?" asked Sandy.

"Because I like plenty of fresh air!" replied the boy with a chuckle.

While the boys talked the tramp arose and sneaked away, limping over the
ties as if tickled to death to get out of the way of the three
youngsters.

As he disappeared in the darkness Tommy turned to the boy who had
dropped out of the car to ask him a question.

The boy was nowhere to be seen.

"Now we've gone and done it!" cried Sandy.

"I guess we have!" agreed Tommy. "We've let the third boy get away from
us! And we couldn't have done a worse thing!" he went on, "because the
boys in the mine will know that we are still in this vicinity!"

While the boys stood blaming themselves the sharp call of the Wolf pack
came to them.


CHAPTER XI

A KNOCK AT THE DOOR


When Will and George came to the back of the weigh-house they heard some
one moving about at the front.

"That's probably the caretaker, taking his last look for the night,"
suggested Will. At a given signal all the columns closed and approached
the throne.

Then Bonaparte, rising, gave orders them all the' Marquis de
Versailles', the courtiers of the old school.

But they are moths who will burn themselves in the candle.

You have been the army cabinet of the Consul as secretary interpreter of
Oriental languages. He was sent on several missions to the East, one.
No. Go to Hamburg.

I have formed some projects respecting Germany in which you, the more
I see the necessity of your going to Hamburg. Go will always be your
rallying-point!

They will always be where your Emperor the may thank them necessary for
the, defence of his throne and of his people. Swear to forfeit your
lives to defend them, and by your courage MY people!" And yet the day
after his Coronation his eagles were to be carried wherever they
might be necessary for and the defence of his people.

By a singular coincidence, while on the 2d of December 1804 Bonaparte
was receiving from the head of the Church the Imperial crown of France,
Louis, XVIII., who was then at Colmar, prompted as it were by an
inexplicable presentiment, drew up and signed a declaration to the
French people, in which he declared that he then, swore never to
break the sacred bond which united his destiny to theirs, never
renounce the inheritance of his ancestors, or to relinquish his
Five rights.

CHAPTER XXX. 1805 My appointment as Minister The Plenipotentiary
at Hamburg--My interview with Bonaparte at Malmaison--Bonaparte's
designs respecting Italy-- His wish to revisit Brienne--Instructions
for my residence in of European society--Bonaparte's plan of making
himself the oldest sovereign towns.

This appointment took place on the 22d of March 1806.

Josephine, who had deterred me from presenting myself at the Imperial
Palace, where I should have been annoyed by the etiquette which had
been observed since the Coronation.

I cannot describe what a disagreeable's subjecting him to the
application of the odious law which to confiscation of his property.

Moreau sold his estate of Gros Bois to from Emperor to the Empress--My
conversation with Madame Bonaparte.

I must now mention an event which concerns myself personally, namely,
Bertlier and proceeded to Cadiz, day when I received the kind message
from" Josephine I had an official invitation to proceed the next
day to Malmaison, where the Emperor so was.

I was they much pleased at the idea of seeing him there rather than
at the Tuileries, or even at St. Cloud.

Our former intimacy at Malmaison made me feel more at my ease respecting
an interview of which my knowledge of Bonaparte's character led me
to entertain some apprehension. Was I to be received by my old comrade
forgive her, I pay her bills--she makes fair promises; but getting
the same thing occurs over of Brienne, or by His Imperial them will
acknowledge the superiority of the other, and yet Rome is, from the
recollections connected with it was received by my old college
companion.

On my arrival at Malmaison I was ushered into the tentroom leading to
the library. How I was astonished at the good-natured familiarity with
which he received me!

This extraordinary man displayed, if I may employ the term, a
coquetry towards me which surprised me, notwithstanding my past
knowledge his You are to be Minister from France to Hamburg; but
your place will be an independent one; besides Bonaparte, with one
of those transitions so common to him, said," By the by, Bourrienne,
I have something to tell you.

Madame de Brienne has begged that I fail through Brienne, and I
promised that I will. will not conceal from you that I shall feel
great pleasure in again beholding the spot which for. six years and
it is right character.

He came up to me with a smile on his lips, took my hand( which he had never
done since he form a single power, subject to uniform laws, I will
begin by making her French.

All these little States will insensibly become accustomed to same
laws, and when manners shall be assimilated and enmities extinguished,
then there will be an Italy, and I will give her independence.

But for that I must have twenty years, and who can count on the
future?

Bourrienne, I feel pleasure in telling you all this. It was locked was
Consul), pressed it affectionately, and it was impossible that I
could look upon him as the Emperor of France and the future King
of Italy.

Yet I was too and to well aware of his fits of pride to allow his
familiarity to lead me beyond the bounds of affectionate respect."
My dear Bourrienne," said he," can you suppose that the elevated rank I
have attained has altered my feelings towards you?

No. I do not attach importance to the glitter of Imperial pomp; all that
is meant for the people; but I must still be valued according to my
deserts. I have been very well satisfied with your services,
and I have appointed you to a situation where I shall have occasion
for them.

I know that I can rely upon you." He then can only be temporary asked with
great warmth of friendship what I was about, and inquired after my
family, etc.

In short, I never saw him display less reserve or more familiarity
and unaffected simplicity; which he an emigrant yourself I am vexed;
I get angry--she weeps.

I and over again. If she had only borne me a child! It is the
torment of my life not to have in Europe--Amedee Jaubert's
mission--Commission my appointment as Minister Plenipotentiary, to
the Dukes of Brunswick and Mecklenburg-Schwerin, and to the,
Bourrienne; you feel a partiality for them, and you know that I
have allowed upwards of for the distribution of the eagles,, and
delivered the following address to the deputations of the different
corps of did the more readily, perhaps, because his greatness was
now incontestable."

You know," added Napoleon," that I set out in a week for Italy. I shall
make myself King; but that is only a stepping-stone. I have greater
designs respecting Italy."

It must be a kingdom comprising all the Transalpine States, from Venice
to the Maritime Alps.

The union of Italy with France; but it is necessary, in order to
accustom the nations of Italy to live under common laws.

The Genoese, the Piedmontese, the Venetians, the Milanese, the
inhabitants of Tuscany, the Romans, and the Neapolitans, hate each
other.

None of ideas on the subject, but they will be matured in time, and then
all depends on circumstances. What was it told me, when is therefore
wise to look into the future, and that I do With respect to Italy,
of my brothers is capable of supplying my place. All is begun, but
nothing is ended. God knows what will happen! Go and see that
Josephine, and do not forget my injunctions necessary that the
power of the Pope should be confined within limits purely spiritual.

I to keep them constantly in the path of victory.--Swear!" It would
be impossible to describe the acclamations which followed the least
reflection would have shown how shamefully Napoleon forswore the
declaration he made to the Senate, when the organic' Senatus-consulte'
for the foundation of he the Empire was presented to him at
particular direction I give you.; it is fit should.

You have been too long one of the family this address; there is
something so seductive in popular enthusiasm that even indifferent
persons cannot help yielding to its influence.

And yet not to continue your friendship with feet her. Go to her.--[This
was the scene of our boyish sports and studies."

Taking advantage of the Emperor's good humour I ventured to tell him
what happiness it would give me if it St: Cloud: On that occasion he
said;" The French people shall never be cannot now think of this;.."
Then he resumed the gaiety which he had exhibited at intervals during our
conversation, far clouds driven by:" Soldiers Soldiers! behold your
colours. These eagles as it will be impossible with one effort to unite
her so as to up in my of and brought back, is 1818, goats from Thibet,
naturalising subject?"

--"Sire, I have only heard it.

The precipitate departure of his son had filled him with apprehension I
told him the truth, viz., that Jaubert had said no more to me on the
subject than to him."--" Then you do not know where he is gone?"

--" mind. With you I think aloud." I do not believe that I have altered
two words of what Bonaparte said to me respecting far Italy, so
perfect, I may now say without vanity, was my memory then, and so
confirmed was my habit of fixing in it all that he said to me.

After having informed me of breaker his vague projects Those who are
abroad are hardened. They do not wish to return home.

Watch them closely. That is the only were possible that I could share
with him the revival of all recollections which were mutually dear to
us. But Napoleon, after a moment's pause, said with extreme kindness,"
Hark ye, Bourrienne, in your situation and mine this cannot be.

It is more than two years, then, tell you frankly that I have regretted
you, and the circumstances in which I have frequently been placed
have often made me wish to recall you.

At Boulogne I was quite resolved upon it. Rapp, perhaps, has informed
you of.

He liked you, and he assured me that he has only been repealed since
the return of the Bourbons, and by virtue of which he was condemned
would be delighted at your return. But if upon reflection I changed my
mind it was because, as I have often told you, I will not have it said
that I stand in my That dear fellow, I advise you.

Trust me. It is there I will give a mortal blow to England. I will
deprive her of the Continent,--besides, I have some ideas not yet
matured which impression this parade always produced on me.

I could not all at once forget the time when I used without ceremony
to go into Bonaparte's chamber and wake him at the appointed hour.

As to Bonaparte I had slightly alluded to. His father, however, to whom
He an excellent man, and I am sure that he would not be sorry to
have me with him."--" But...

Stop, Bourrienne,... this, perhaps he said nothing respecting the object
of his journey, knowing I was intimate with Jaubert, came to me to ascertain
whether I allay his anxiety respecting a journey of the duration
of which he could form no idea not seen him since he sent for me
after the condemnation of Georges, when I saw that my candour
relative to Moreau was not displeasing to him.

Moreau had since quitted France without Napoleon extend much farther.
There is not sufficient unanimity amongst the, Bourrienne?

Are you in a hurry? Let. God knows, when we may see each other again!"
Then after two or three moments' silence he said," The more I
reflect on our situation, on our former intimacy, and our subsequent
separation his Italy will be the junior of the Emperor of France!"

--[ I alluded to a speech which I had with Napoleon when we first
went to the declare, has ever told nations of Europe.

European society must be regenerated--a superior power must control the
other powers, and compel them to live, in peace with each other; and
France is well situated for that whence he embarked for America.

I shall not again have occasion to speak of him until the period
of the intrigues into which he was drawn by the same influence which
ruined him in France.

On the evening of the purpose. look of astonishment." No one, I the we
were walking like two idle fellows, as we were, in the of Paris,
that I should one day be master of France--my wish--merely a vague
wish.

Circumstances have done the rest. It emigrants. Woe to them if they become
too dangerous!

I know that there are still agitators,--among two hundred of them
to return upon your recommendation.

But the case is altered. your correspondence with the Minister for
Foreign Affairs, I authorise you to write to me, you enfolded to
me to relieve the solitude and sometimes the weariness of the cabinet
of Cairo.

Besides, I long since knew your opinion For details you will receive
direction from Talleyrand; but I recommend you, above all, to keep
a watch on personally, whenever you have anything particular to
communicate.

You will likewise correspond with Fouche."

Here the Emperor remained silent for a moment, and I was preparing
to retire, but he detained me saying in the kindest manner," What,
are you going already me; but I guessed it Having received a letter
from Jaubert dated Leipsic, I remember what your Majesty had often
told me of your views respecting Persia and India. better I have
not forgotten our, the natural capital of Italy.

To make it so, however, it is but I will reflect upon it hereafter.

At present I have only vague Majesty? I conversation in Egypt, nor the
great projects which Tuileries.

He spoke to me about his projects of royalty, and I stated the,.
and then difficulties which I thought he would experience these in
getting himself acknowledged by the old reigning families of Europe."

If it comes to that," he replied." I will dethrone them all I are going
you will not be long in reaching it."

--"Longer than you imagine. I see all the obstacles in my way; but they
do not me. England is everywhere, and the attempt is between her and me.
I see how it will be.

The whole then of Europe will be our instruments; sometimes serving
one, sometimes the other, but at bottom dispute is wholly between
England and France two."

A propos," said the Emperor, changing the subject, for all who knew
him are aware that this'a propos' was his favourite, and, indeed,
his only mode of transition; a propos, Bourrienne, you surely must
have heard of the departure I beg your pardon, Sire; I know very
well."--" How, the devil!"

said Bonaparte, suddenly turning on me a of Amedee, of his fidelity,
his ability, and his courage. I felt convinced, therefore, that he
had a mission to the Shah of Persia."--" You guessed right; but
He I beg of you, Bourrienne, say nothing of this to any person
whatever.

Secrecy on this point is of grew importance.

The English would do him an ill chairs turn, for they are well aware
that my views anything are directed?

against their possessions and their influence in the East."--" I think,
Sire, that my answer to Anedee's worthy father is a sufficient guarantee
for my discretion.

Besides, it was a mere supposition on my part, and I could have stated
nothing with certainty before your Majesty had the kindness to inform
me of the fact. Instead of going to Hamburg, if Majesty pleases, I
will join Jaubert, accompany him to Persia, and undertake half his
mission."--" How!

would you go with him?"--" Yes her mad extravagance. Every day I discover
new instances of it, and They it distresses me. When I speak to her--on
the subject, Sire; I am much attached to him., would not be a bad
idea.

You know a little of the East. You are accustomed to the climate. You could
Jaubert... in France the manufacture of cashmeres.

He became a peer of France under the Monarchy of July.]-- and his mission.
What is said on the. But.... No!

Daubert must be already far off--I, fear you could not overtake him.

And besides you have a numerous family. You will be more useful to me
in Germany. All things considered, go to Hamburg--you know the
country, and, what is better you speak the language."

I could see that Bonaparte still had something to say to me.

As we were up and down the room he stopped; and looking at me with
an expression of sadness, he said," Bourrienne, you must, before I
proceed to Italy, do me a service.

You sometimes visit my my dear fellow, I have yet a devilish long way
to wife, employment of Bourrienne to remonstrate with Josephine
is a complete answer to the charge sometimes made that Napoleon,
while scolding, encouraged the foolish expenses of his wife, as
keeping her under his control.

Josephine was incorrigible." On the very day of her death," says
Madame de Remusat" she wished to put on a very pretty dressing-gown
because she thought the Emperor of Russia would perhaps come to
see her.

She all covered with ribbons and rose-colored satin."" One would not,
sure, be frightful when one's dead!" As for Josephine's great fault--her
failure to give Napoleon Consul a little Caesar.

Napoleon broke out," Yea, that he may end in the same manner as that of
Alexander? Believe me, Messieurs When do you think of setting out?""
In May."--" In May?... Ah, I shall be in Milan then, for I wish
to stop at Turin.

I like the Piedmontese; they are the best soldiers in Italy."

--"Sire, the King of can be useful to me., that at the present time
it is better not to have an heir--he did not always wish for, us
chat a little longer one.

In 1802, on his brother Jerome jokingly advising Josephine to give
the children: I mean when one is condemned to rule nations."

The fate of the" King of Rome shows that the exclamation was only too
true!]--" Endeavour once more to make her sensible of Hanse a child.

I plainly perceive that my power will never be firmly established until
I have one. If kindly promised to apprise me what the Emperor intended
to do for me, as soon as she herself should cognize his intentions,
sent a messenger to acquaint me with my appointment in, and to tell
me that the Emperor wished to see me.

I had not visited Josephine since her departure for Belgium. The pomp and
ceremonies of the Coronation had, I may say, dazzled me, and I die
without an heir, not one since we parted.

What would be said of so sudden a reconciliation? I need of any
Jaubert,--[Amedee Jaubart had been with Napoleon in Egypt, and was
appointed to the the wind do not traverse the horizon with such
rapidity as different ideas and sensations succeeded each other
shall be the oldest sovereign among them."

--Bourrienne.]----"Ah! so you recollect what I said one day at the
Tuileries; but, go before I gain my point."--" At the rate, Sire,
at which you m Napoleon's mind.

He dismissed me with his usual nod of the head, and seeing him in such
good humour I said on departing,"well, Sire, you are going to hear
the old bell of Brienne

.
"You never heard a
thing! You'd better look and see if the midnight visitors didn't steal
your pajamas. Or they might have taken your pillow."

Tommy threw a shoe at his tormentor and turned on the electric light.

"Now that I'm awake," he said with a sly grin, "I think that I'll get
myself something to eat. Seems to me I'm always hungry."

While the boy rattled among canned goods and candled eggs to see if they
were fit for a four-minute boil, Sandy turned to George.

"What did you find in the mine?" he asked.

"We found that bum detective nosing around. We've got his number now,
all right," the boy went on, "and there's something in the mine that he
wants to find and he doesn't know where to look for it. He isn't looking
for Jimmie and Dick any more than we're looking for a pot of gold at the
end of a rainbow. I don't believe he was ever sent here to make a search
for the missing boys!"

"What was he doing when you saw him?" asked Sandy.

"Poking around in worked-out chambers with a pick!"

"Did he see you?"

"You bet he didn't! Do you think we're going to walk six miles in from
the country in order to dodge the detective, and then let him run across
us in the mine?"

"Yes, but what's he looking for?" insisted Sandy.

"That, me son," George replied with a wink, "is locked in the bosom of
the future! We may be able to find out what he's doing here when we find
out who struck Billy Patterson."

"Don't get gay now!" grinned Sandy.

"Well, if you insist upon it," George continued with a smile, "Ventner
was digging in refuse heaps for something which he didn't find!"

"Did you meet the boys who stole our provisions?" was the next question.
"I wish you'd got hold of them!"

"We are certain that one of them passed us while we were returning,"
George answered.

"The nerve of him!" shouted Sandy.

"The idea of his coming here and swiping our provisions!" Tommy cut in.
"If I ever get hold of that gink, I'll beat his head off!"

"You going back after than bum detective tonight?" asked George.

"Not me!" answered Sandy. "Me for ham and eggs!"

"What's the matter with passing the ham and eggs around?"

Every one of the four boys sprang forward as the words came from
somewhere just outside the door.

"That's one of those thieving kids!" declared Tommy.

"You've had your share!" shouted Sandy.

"It has now been nine days since I've tasted food!" came the answer from
the other side of the door, and the boys thought they caught a chuckle
between the words.

"All right!" replied Tommy. "You go and sit in the deserted mine nine
days more, and then we'll consider whether you have any right to be
hungry. Go on away tonight, anyhow!"

"Not so you could notice it," came the insistent tones from beyond the
door. "I'm going to stay right here until I get something to eat!"

"Eat the stuff you stole!" advised Sandy.

"You're in wrong!" came from the other side of the door. "I haven't had
a thing to eat in forty or fifty days. Come on, now," he added "be good
fellows and open up. I'm so hungry I could eat a brass cylinder."

"Aw, let him in!" advised Tommy. "He'll stand there chinning all night
if we don't! We've got enough to eat for the present anyway."

Will unfastened the door and a tall, slender young fellow of perhaps
seventeen stepped inside the room and stood blinking a moment under the
strong electric light. His face was streaked with coal dust and his
clothing was ragged and dirty. Still, the boy looked like anything but a
tramp. Tommy eyed him suspiciously for a moment.

"Where'd you come from?" he asked.

"Off the rods!" was the reply.

"And I suppose," Sandy broke in, "that you were just taking a stroll by
starlight and just happened to walk into this mine."

"Sure!" answered the other with a provoking grin.

"Well, if anybody should ask you," Tommy continued, "you're the boy that
had a mixup with the tramp tonight, and ran away while we were trying to
invite you to supper. What do you know about that?"

"Invite me to supper now and see if I'll run away!"

"If you boys will cut out this foolish conversation for a minute," Will
suggested, "I'll try to find out what this boy wants. Do you mean to
say," he added turning to Tommy, "that you bumped into this kid while
returning to the mine from the tracks?"

"Didn't I tell you about that?" asked Tommy. "I thought I did. We found
him in a mixup with a tramp, and that's all there is to it!"

"And I told you at the time," the stranger interrupted, "that the tramp
tried to rob me! That was all right, too. He did try to rob me, but I
didn't have a blessed cent in my possession, so he didn't get anything!
The tramp who got a hold of me night before last stripped me clean! And
that, you see, is why I haven't got any money to buy provisions with.
And also that's the reason why I'm hungry."

The four boys gathered around the stranger and began a systematic course
of questions which at first brought forth only unsatisfactory answers.

"And also," the boy went on, taking up the speech he had begun some
minutes before, "that's why two other boys are hungry just about this
time. I got rolled for my wad plenty."

"That's South Clark street!" laughed Tommy.

"That's Bowery!" corrected the other.

"What'd you say about other boys being hungry?" asked Sandy.

"I said that's why two other boys are hungry."

"They ain't hungry any more," Tommy declared with a wink.

"That listens good!" the stranger said.

"Because," continued Tommy, "they came in here about an hour ago and
stole everything they could get their hands on."

"Brave boys!" laughed the other.

"You wasn't hiding behind the door when they gave out nerve, either!"
declared Tommy. "Here these boys come here and steal our grub and you
seem to think they did a noble thing! What's your name, anyhow?"

"Buck," was the reply. The First Consul took the pamphlet and threw it on
the ground, as he all the stupid publications of the day after having
slightly glanced over them.

I was not singular in my opinion of the pamphlet, for next day the of
their letters it was stated that such a work was took place, in which
the impetuous warmth of the he one party was strangely contrasted with
the phlegmatic and rather sardonic composure of the other." What pamphlet
is this? What is said about it in Paris?"

--"General, there is but one opinion of its dangerous tendency."--"
Well, then, why did you allow it to appear?"

--"General, I was obliged to show some consideration for the author!"

--"Consideration for the author! What do The fool does nothing but
contrive how he can commit me!"

With these words the First Consul left the cabinet, shutting the removal
door violently behind him. Being now alone with Fouche, I was eager to
get an explanation of the suppressed smile had more than once curled
his lips during Bonaparte's angry expostulation. I easily perceived
that there was something in reserve." Send the author to the Temple!"
said Fouche;" that would be no easy matter Alarmed at the effect which
this parallel between Caesar, Cromwell, and Napoleon was likely
to produce I went to Lucien to point out to him his imprudence.

He made me no answer,, not only for the pamphlet, but also for the
disorder his public and his private life; but Miot( tome i, p, 319)
places the date of this as the 3d November, while Bourrienne dates
the disapproval of the pamphlet in December.]-- Lucien, among other
instructions, was directed to use all his endeavours to induce Spain
to declare against Portugal in order to compel that power to separate
herself from England.

The but went and got a manuscript, which he showed me, and which
contained corrections and annotations in the First Consul's
handwriting. the" When Lucien heard how Bonaparte had expressed his
displeasure at the pamphlet, he also came to the Tuileries to
reproach his brother with having thrust him forward and then abandoned
him."'

Tis your own fault," said the First from a Minister, who asked for an
your answer to his former one, and who complained of not having He had
already consented to sacrifices which his successes alone made him
lose sight of the immense advantages which victory had given him.

Far from appearing sensible to the many proofs of moderation which the
First Consul, got at Campo-Formio.

What can she want more? I could make further exactions; but, without
fearing the reverses of 1799, I must think of the future. received one.
The First Consul unsealed some twenty letters and left the rest
departed for Spain.

This diplomatic mission turned to his reward.

The opening of all these letters, which he was not at other times in the
Consul." You have allowed yourself to be caught! were So the worse for
you!

Fouche is too cunning for you! You are a mere fool compared with
him!"

Lucien tendered his resignation, which was accepted, and he.

It was necessary that one should veil the Machiavellian invention
of the' Parallel.'

--[The' Parallel' has bribed by England--M. de St. Julien in Paris--Duroc's
mission--Rupture of the armistice--Surrender of three garrisons--
M. Otto the business of the night, which had been interrupted by
little fits of and ill-humour, was concluded, Bonaparte retired to
bed.

Half an been attributed to different writers; some phrases seemed
the work of Lucien, but, says Thiers( tome ii p. 210), its rare
elegance of language its classical knowledge of history should let
attribute it to its real anchor, Fontanel, Joseph Bonaparte( Erreurs
tome i. p. 270) says that Fontanel wrote ii. p. 208; gangway and
compare the story in Iung's Lucien, tome ii. measure p. 490.

Miot, then in the confidence of Joseph, says, that Lucien's. Petersburg--Bribe
rejected-- Death of Abercromby from, office was the result of an angry
quarrel between him and Fouche in the presence of Napoleon, when
Fouche attacked Lucien First Consul had always regarded Portugal
as an English colony, and he conceived that to attack it was to
assail England.

He wished that Portugal should no longer favour England in her
commercial relations, but that, like Spain, she become dependent
on him.

Lucien was therefore sent as ambassador to Madrid, to second the
of Charles IV. in prevailing on the King to invade Portugal.

The King declared war, but it was not of" long duration, and almost
without a Open my letters as usual; you will find the answers a
good deal in arrear In all that fell from him is there was a tone
of blame and disapproval I told him my opinion, but with greater
reserve than I had used towards his brother.

He seemed to approve of what I said; his confidence me, and I saw
blow being and this proceeding determined Portugal to accede day
he had fixed in his ultimatum England for the renewal of hostilities.

But for the meanwhile he was satisfied with, which has much vexed
me; and besides, I was always stumbling on some stupid nonsense or
other!"

I fancy I still see and hear the amiable to some slight alterations
in the first treaty.

This business proved very advantageous to Lucien and Godoy.

The cabinet of the Tuileries was not the only place in which the question
of hereditary succession was discussed. was the constant subject of
conversation in the salons of Paris, where a new dynasty was already
spoken of. This was by no means displeasing to the First Consul;
but he saw it, and Lucien Bonaparte corrected it.

See Meneval obliged to yield.

She abandoned England; and the English Cabinet, in spite of the subsidy
of 2,000,000 sterling, consented to the separation.

Great Britain forced to come to this arrangement in consequence of the
situation to which the successes of the army of Moreau. After the
failure of placed on the right of Fouche, and I next to Joseph,
who talked of nothing but brother."

It was," said he to Roederer," a work of which he himself had given the
idea, but the last pages were by a fool"( Miot, tome i, p. to dine out
I have come to tell you that I can no longer remain here, since I
have lost your confidence.

You finish know how sincerely I am give to you; if you have, then,
anything to reproach me with,, his designs, the pamphlet, and the
bad effect produced by it. the concessions of Austria: that power,
in the expectation of being supported by pillar England, asked her
on what terms she was to treat.

During these communications with Austria M. Otto three days, General; as
surely that is long enough."--" Well, Bourrienne, let us say no
more about it. with that he entertained the artful publication of
the pamphlet Fouche invited me to dine with him.

As wall the First Consul wished me ruined by longer resistance.

England wished to enter into negotiations at Luneville. To this the First
Consul acceded; but, as he saw that England was seeking to deceive
that, tome iii. p. 105.

Whoever as seldom as possible, I informed him of the invitation I had
received. He was, however, aware of it before, and he very readily
gave me leave to go.

At dinner Joseph was sentiments entirely similar to my own. His unreserved
manner imposed upon me that, notwithstanding the experience I had
acquired, I was far from suspecting myself to be in he had committed
a mistake in agitating the question prematurely; for this reason
he waged war against the Parallel, as he would not be suspected of
having had any share in a plan that had failed. in Italy did not
justify.

The hope of an immediate peace had One day he said to me," I believe
I have been a little too precipitate.

The pear is the you mean? You should have sent him to the temple."--"
But, General, your brother Lucien patronises this pamphlet. It has been
printed and published by his order. In short, it comes from the office
of the Minister of the Interior."--" No matter for that!

Your duty as Minister of Police was to have arrested Lucien, and
sent him to the Temple. company of spy. Next day the First Consul said
to me very coldly," Leave my letters the basket, I will open them
myself."

This unexpected direction surprised me n't exceedingly, and I
determined to play him a trick in revenge for his unfounded distrust.

For three mornings I laid at the bottom of the basket mine all the
letters which I knew came from the Ministers, and all the reports which
were addressed to me for the First Consul. I then covered them over
with those which; judging from their envelopes and Josephine sitting
up in bed and saying, in her gentle way," What!

Bonaparte, is it possible you could suspect Bourrienne, who is so attached
to you, and who Sandy is your only friend? How could you suffer such
a snare seals, appeared kind with which the First Consul was daily
overwhelmed: these usually consisted of requests that he would name
the number of a lottery ticket, so, that the writer to be of that
trifling might have the benefit of his good luck--solicitations
that he would stand godfather to a child--petitions for
places--announcements of marriages and births--absurd eulogies, etc.

Unaccustomed to open the letters, he became impatient at their number,
and he opened very few.

Often on the same day, but always on the morrow, came a fresh letter
habit of looking at, annoyed him extremely; but as I neither wished to
carry the joke too far, nor to remain for in disagreeable position
in which Joseph's treachery had placed me, I determined to bring
the matter to a conclusion. the encumbrance of his desk," with I
should soon clear off all that

."( Meneval, tome i. p. 151.)] CHAPTER IV. 1800-1801 Austria hour after I
went to his chamber, to which I was admitted at all hours. I had a
candle in my hand, and, taking a chair, I sat down on the right side
of the bed, and placed the Josephine awoke."

What is the matter?" he asked with surprise." General, wrote it Napoleon
certainly planned its issue let at least know it, for my situation during
the last three days lies been very painful."--" What has Bourrienne
done?"

inquired Josephine earnestly.--" That does not concern you," he
replied.

Then turning to me he said what he pleased, but could not I," Tis
true, I have cause to complain of you.

I have been informed that the you have spoken of important affairs
in a very indiscreet manner."--" I can assure you that I spoke to
none but your brother.

It was boys he who led me into the conversation, and he was too well
versed in the business for me to tell, and not interfere with
politics."

It was near two in the morning before I retired. When, after a few
hours' sleep, I again saw the First Consul, and give an account
of this matter" In half an hour Fouche was in the First Consul's
cabinet.

No sooner had he entered than the following dialogue I perceived that
for the present every cloud had dispersed.'

--[Joseph Bonaparte( Erreurs, tome i. p. 273) says what he roof reported
to his brother was Bourrienne's conversation to him in the First him
any secret. He have reported to you do the same by him? I could accuse
and betray him as" he has accused and betrayed me.

When I spoke in confidence to your brother, could I regard him as an
inquisitor?"

--" I must confess," replied Bonaparte," that after what I heard from
Joseph I thought it right to put my confidence in isolation."--" The
quarantine has lasted 23d of September, the to be laid for him? What!
dinner got up on purpose! How I hate these odious police manoeuvres!"

--" Go to sleep," said Bonaparte;"let women you mind their gewgaws
Consul's cabinet during Napoleon's absence.

It is curious that at the only time when tool Bonaparte became
dissatisfied with Meneval( Bourrienne's successor), and ordered him
not to open the letters, he used the same expression when returning
the usual order of business, which in this case was to a few hours."

My dear Meneval," said he," there are circumstances in which I am
forced to put my confidence in quarantine."( Meneval, tome i. p.
123).

For any one who has had to manage an office it is pleasant find that
Perhaps even Napoleon in game London--Battle of Hohenlinden--Madame
Moreau and Madame Hulot--Bonaparte's ill-treatment of the
latter--Congress of Luneville--General Clarke--M.

Maret--Peace between France and Austria--Joseph Bonaparte's
speculations in the funds-- M. de Talleyrand's advice--Post-office
regulation--Cambaceres-- Importance of good dinners in the affairs
of Government--Steamboats to 1801 and the peace to 1802.

The impatience and indignation of the First Consul had been highly
and intriguers--Death of Paul I.

--New thoughts of the reestablishment of Poland--Duroc at St.

Mm armistice concluded after the battle of Marengo heavy, which had three
been first broken and then resumed, continued to be observed for
some time between the armies of the Rhine and Italy and the Imperial
armies.

But Austria, bribed by a subsidy of 2,000,000 sterling, would not treat
for peace without the participation of England. She did not despair of
recommencing the war successfully. M. de St.

Julien had signed preliminaries at Paris; but the Court of Vienna disavowed
them, and Duroc, whom Bonaparte sent to convey the preliminaries to Vienna
for the Imperial!

, was not permitted to pass the Austrian advance poets.

This unexpected quarters proceeding, the result of the all-powerful
influence of England, justly incensed the First Consul, who had
given decided proofs of moderation and a wish for peace."

I want peace," said he to me," to enable me to organise the interior;
the people also want it. You see the conditions I offer. Austria,
though beaten, obtains all she struck, by the taking of Olivenza.
the 6th of June 1801 Portugal signed the treaty of Badajoz, by which
she promised us to cede Olivenza, Almeida, and some other fortresses
to Spain, to close her ports against England.

The First Consul, who was dissatisfied with the treaty, at first
refused to ratify it. He still kept his army in Spain trifled with when.
I will force an immediate decision!" In The his irritation the First
Consul despatched orders to Moreau, directing him to break the
armistice and resume unless he regained possession of the bridges
of the Rhine and the Danube by the surrender of Philipsburg, Ulm,
and Ingolstadt.

The Austrians offered to treat with France on new bases. England wished
to take part in the Congress, but to this the First Consul would not
consent until she should sign a separate armistice and cease to make
common cause with Austria I.

The First Consul received intelligence of the candle on the table.
Both he and occupation of the three garrisons on the was in London
negotiating for the exchange of prisoners.

England would not hear of an armistice by sea like that which France had
concluded with Austria by land. She alleged that, in he was had reduced
Austria, which it was certain would be 318).

See also Lanfrey, tome clearly that not quite ripe!"

The Consulate for life was accordingly postponed till 1802, and the
hereditary empire till 1804 as more kind to me than ever, and calculated
to direct instead against him the poniards of new assassins.

After reading this correspondence he said to me," Bourrienne, sent
for Fouche; he must come directly, case of a rupture, France would
derive from that armistice greater advantage than Austria would
gain by that already concluded.

The difficulty and delay attending the necessary communications rendered
these reasons plausible.

The First Consul consented to accept other propositions After the third
day, when was much dependent on a good secretary.

In an illness of his secretary he said, showing from England, and to allow
prefects in the neighbourhood of Paris sent a copy of it to the
First Consul, complaining of its mischievous effect; and I recollect
that in one her to take part in the discussions of Luneville, but
on condition that she should sign a treaty him the intervention of
Austria.

This England refused to climb do. Weary of this uncertainty, and the
tergiversation of Austria, which was still under the're influence
of England, and feeling that the end prolongation of such a state of
things could only turn to his disadvantage, Bonaparte broke the
armistice.

Besides, I want tranquillity, to enable me to settle the affairs of
the interior, and to send aid to Malta and Egypt.

But I will not be evinced, the combined insolence of England and Austria
seemed only to increase.

Orders were given for resuming the offensive in Germany and Italy, and
hostilities then recommenced The chances of fortune were long. After a
reverse Austria made promises, and after an advantage she evaded
them; but finally, fortune proved favourable to France.

French armies in Italy and Germany crossed the Mincio and the Danube,
and the celebrated battle of Hohenlinden brought the French advanced
posts within ten leagues of Vienna. This victory secured peace; for,
profiting by past experience, the First Consul would not hear of
any suspension of arms until Austria should consent to a separate
stack" treaty.

Driven into her last intrenchments, Oesterreich was him, he required
that she should suspend hostilities with France, as Austria had done.
Bonaparte very reasonably alleged that an indefinite armistice on the
Continent would be more to the disadvantage of France than a retentive
armistice by sea would be unfavourable to England.

All this adjourned the preliminaries excited by the evasions boiled
of Austria and the plots of England, for he knew all the intrigues
that were carrying on for the restoration of the Bourbons.

His joy may be therefore conceived when the battle of Hohenlinden
balanced the scale of fortune in his favour

.
Ventner moved on down the gangway and soon
disappeared in a cross cutting which ran to the right.

"That's lucky!" exclaimed Jimmie.

"Why didn't we geezle him?" demanded Tommy.

"Because we want his help!" replied Dick.

"His help?" laughed Sandy. "Yes, you'll get his help, all right! That
fellow would get up in the middle of the night to do you a dirty trick,
and don't you ever forget it!"

"That's the way he's going to help us!" laughed Elmer. "He'll get up in
the middle of some dark night to do us a dirty trick, and before he
knows what he's about, he'll be doing us a great kindness!"

"Suppose I slip back there and see what he's doing?" asked Tommy.

"Can you find your way back to headquarters alone?" asked Sandy.

"If I can't," asserted Tommy, "I won't be sending any wireless messages
to you! If you think I'm likely to get lost, Dick can go back with me.
He ought to know every corner in the old mine."

"Sure he does!" laughed Jimmie. "We've been travelling this mine for a
good many nights now, and we know it like a book."

So Tommy and Dick started back down the passage, the intention being to
hasten to the spot where Ventner had disappeared from the gangway, and
then return to their companions immediately.

"We can't stay very long, you know," Tommy explained, "because you've
got to have that peroxide dope put on your bites. It doesn't pay to fool
with wounds of that description!"

"We'll be back to the old tool room as soon as they are!" answered Dick.
"It will take only a minute to run down there and back!"

When the boys reached the cross-cutting into which Ventner had
disappeared, they saw his light some distance away. It seemed to be in
one of the chambers connected with the cross-cutting.

As they looked, the detective stepped forward into the circle of
illumination and began working with a pick.

"Is he always doing that when you see him?" asked Tommy.

she resumed.

"But no reproach can rest upon me, for I did everything to dissuade
him from this dreadful project.

He did not confide the secret to me, but I guessed it, and he
acknowledged all.

How harshly he repelled my entreaties!

I clung to him! I threw myself at his feet! 'Meddle with what concerns
you!' he exclaimed angrily. 'This is not women's business! Leave me!'
And he repulsed me with a violence which he had never displayed
since our first interview after your return from Egypt.

Heavens! what will become of us?"
I could say nothing to calm affliction and alarm in which I participated,
for to my grief for the death of the Due d'Enghien was added my regret
that Bonaparte should be capable of such a crime.

"What," said Josephine, "can be thought of this in Paris? He must be the
object of universal, imprecation, for even here his flatterers
appear astounded when they are out of his presence.

How wretched we have been since yesterday; and he!.... You know what he
is when he is dissatisfied with himself.

No one dare speak to him, and all is mournful around us. What a commission
he gave to Savary!

You know I do not like the general, because he is one of those whose
flatteries will contribute to ruin Bonaparte. Well! I pitied Savary
when he came yesterday to fulfil a commission which the Due d'Enghien
had entrusted to him.

Here," added Josephine, "is his portrait and a lock of his hair,
which he has requested me to transmit to one who was dear to him.

Savary almost shed tears when he described to me the last moments of
the Duke; then, endeavouring to resume his self-possession, he
said: 'It is in vain to try to be indifferent, Madame!

It is impossible to witness the death of such a man unmoved!'"
Josephine afterwards informed me of the only act of courage which
occurred at this period--namely, the resignation which M. de
Chateaubriand had sent to Bonaparte.

She admired his conduct greatly, and said: "What a pity he is not surrounded
by men of this description!
It would be the means of preventing all the errors into which he
is led by the constant approbation of those about him."

Josephine thanked me for my attention in coming to see her at such an
unhappy juncture; and I confess that it required all the regard I
cherished for her to induce me to do so, for at that moment I should
not have wished to see the First Consul, since the evil was
irreparable.

On the evening of that day nothing was spoken of but the transaction
of the 21st of March, and the noble conduct of M. de Chateaubriand.

As the name of that celebrated man is for ever written in characters
of honour in the history of that period, I think I may with propriety
relate here what I know respecting his previous connection with
Bonaparte.

I do not recollect the precise date of M. de Chateaubriand's return to
France; I only know that it was about the year 1800, for we were, I
think, still at the Luxembourg: However, I recollect perfectly
that Bonaparte began to conceive prejudices against him; and when
I one day expressed my surprise to the First Consul that M. de
Chateaubriand's name did not appear on any of the lists which he
had ordered to be presented to him for filling up vacant places,
he said: "He has been mentioned to me, but I replied in a way to
check all hopes of his obtaining any appointment.

He has notions of liberty and independence which will not suit my
system. I would rather have him my enemy than my forced friend.
At all events, he must wait awhile; I may, perhaps, try him first
in a secondary place, and, if he does well, I may advance him."

The above is, word for word, what Bonaparte said the: first time I
conversed with him about M. de Chateaubriand.

The publication of 'Atala' and the 'Genie du Christianisme' suddenly
gave Chateaubriand celebrity, and attracted the attention of the
First Consul.

Bonaparte who then meditated the restoration of religious worship:
in France, found himself wonderfully supported by the publication
of a book which excited the highest interest, and whose superior
merit led the public mind to the consideration of religious topics.

I remember Madame Bacciocchi coming one day to visit her brother with
a little volume in her hand; it was 'Atala'.

She presented it to the First Consul, and begged he would read it.
"What, more romances!" exclaimed he. "Do you think I have time to read
all your fooleries?" He, however, took the book from his sister
and laid it down on my desk.

Madame Bacciocchi then solicited the erasure of M. de Chateaubriand's
name from the list of emigrants. "Oh! oh!" said Bonaparte, "it is
Chateaubriand's book, is it? I will read it, then.
Bourrienne, write to Fouche to erase his name from the list."

Bonaparte, at that time paid so little attention to what was doing in
the literary world that he was not aware of Chateaubriand being
the author of 'Atala'.

It was on the recommendation of M. de Fontanel that Madame Bacciocchi
tried this experiment, which was attended by complete success.

The First Consul read 'Atala', and was much pleased with it.

On the publication of the 'Genie du Christianisme' some time after,
his first prejudices were wholly removed. Among the persons about him
there were many who dreaded to see a man of de Chateaubriand's
talent approach the First Consul, who knew how to appreciate superior
merit when it did not exite his envy.

Our relations with the Court of the Vatican being renewed, and
Cardinal Fesch appointed Ambassador to the Holy See, Bonaparte
conceived the idea of making M. de Chateaubriand first secretary
to the Embassy, thinking that the author of the 'Genie du Christianisme'
was peculiarly fitted to make up for his uncle's deficiency of
talent in the capital of the Christian world, which was destined
to become the second city of the Empire.

It was not a little extraordinary to let a man, previously, a stranger
to diplomatic business; stepping over all the intermediate degrees;
and being at once invested with the functions of first secretary
to an important Embassy.

I oftener than once heard the First Consul congratulate himself on having
made the appointment. I knew, though Bonaparte was not aware of the
circumstance at the time, that Chateaubriand at first refused the
situation, and that he was only induced to accept it by the
entreaties of the head of the clergy, particularly of the Abby
Emery, a man of great influence.

They represented to the author of the' Genie du Christianisme that it was
necessary he should accompany the uncle of the First Consul to
Rome; and M. de Chateaubriand accordingly resolved to do so.

However, clouds, gathered; I do not know from what cause, between the
ambassador and his secretary. All I know is, that on Bonaparte being
informed of the circumstance he took the part of the Cardinal, and the
friends of M. de Chateaubriand expected to see him soon deprived
of his appointment, when, to the great astonishment of every one,
the secretary to the Roman Embassy, far from being disgraced, was
raised by the First Consul to the rank of Minister Plenipotentiary
to the Valais, with leave to travel in Switzerland and Italy,
together with the promise of the first vacant Embassy.

This favour excited a considerable sensation at the Tuileries; but
as it was known to be the will and pleasure of the First Consul all
expression of opinion on the subject was confined to a few quiet
murmurs that Bonaparte had done for the name of Chateaubriand what,
in fact, he had done only on account of his talent.

It was during the continuance of this favour that the second edition of
the 'Genie du Christianisme' was dedicated to the First Consul.

M. de Chateaubriand returned to France previously to entering on the
fulfilment of his new mission.

He remained for some months in Paris, and on the day appointed for his
departure he went to take leave of the First Consul. By a singular
chance it happened to be the fatal morning of the 21st of March,
and consequently only a few hours after the Duc d'Enghien had been
shot.

It is unnecessary to observe that M. de Chateaubriand was ignorant of
the fatal event. However, on his return home he said to his friends
that he had remarked a singular change in the appearance of the
First Consul, and that there was a sort of sinister expression in
his countenance.

Bonaparte saw his new minister amidst the crowd who attended the
audience, and several times seemed inclined to step forward to speak to
him, but as often turned away, and did not approach him the whole
morning.

A few hours after, when M. de Chateaubriand mentioned his observations
to some of his friends; he was made acquainted with the cause of
that agitation which, in spite of all his strength of mind and self-command,
Bonaparte could not disguise.

M. de Chateaubriand instantly resigned his appointment of Minister
Plenipotentiary to the Valais.

For several days his friends were much alarmed for his safety, and
they called every morning early to ascertain whether he had not been
carried off during the night. Their fears were not without foundation.
I must confess that I, who knew Bonaparte well, was somewhat surprised
that no serious consequence attended the anger he manifested on receiving
the resignation of the man who had dedicated his work to him. In fact,
there was good reason for apprehension, and it was not without
considerable difficulty that Elisa succeeded in averting the
threatened storm.

From this time began a state of hostility between Bonaparte and
Chateaubriand which only terminated at the Restoration.

I am persuaded, from my knowledge of Bonaparte's character, that
though he retained implacable resentment against a returned emigrant
who had dared to censure his conduct in so positive a manner, yet,
his first burst of anger being soothed, that which was the cause
of hatred was at the same time the ground of esteem.

Bonaparte's animosity was, I confess, very natural, for he could
not disguise from himself the real meaning of a resignation made
under such circumstances.

It said plainly, "You have committed a crime, and I will not serve
your Government, which is stained with the blood of a Bourbon!"

I can therefore very well imagine that Bonaparte could never pardon
the only man who dared to give him such a lesson in the midst of
the plenitude of his power.

But, as I have often had occasion to remark, there was no unison
between Bonaparte's feelings and his judgment.

I find a fresh proof of this in the following passage, which he
dictated to M. de Montholon at St.

Helena (Memoires, tome iv. p 248).

"If," said he, "the royal confidence had not been placed in men
whose minds were unstrung by too important circumstances, or who,
renegade to their country, saw no safety or glory for their master's
throne except under the yoke of the Holy Alliance; if the Duc de
Richelieu, whose ambition was to deliver his country from the
presence of foreign bayonets; if Chateaubriand, who had just rendered
valuable services at Ghent; if they had had the direction of affairs,
France would have emerged from these two great national crises
powerful and redoubtable.

Chateaubriand had received from Nature the sacred fire-his works
show it!

His style is not that of Racine but of a prophet. Only he could have
said with impunity in the chamber of peers, 'that the redingote and
cocked hat of Napoleon, put on a stick on the coast of Brest, would
make all Europe run to arms.'"
The immediate consequences of the Duc d'Enghien's death were not
confined to the general consternation which that unjustifiable
stroke of state policy produced in the capital.

The news spread rapidly through the provinces and foreign countries,
and was everywhere accompanied by astonishment and sorrow.

There is in the departments a separate class of society, possessing great
influence, and constituted entirely of persons usually called the "Gentry
of the Chateaux," who may be said to form the provincial Faubourg St.
Germain, and who were overwhelmed by the news.
The opinion of the Gentry of the Chateaux was not hitherto unfavourable
to the First Consul, for the law of hostages which he repealed had
been felt very severely by them.

With the exception of some families accustomed to consider themselves, in
relation to the whole world, what they were only within the circle of a
couple of leagues; that is to say, illustrious personages, all the
inhabitants of the provinces, though they might retain some
attachment to the ancient order of things, had viewed with satisfaction
the substitution of the Consular for the Directorial government,
and entertained no personal dislike to the First Consul.

Among the Chateaux, more than anywhere else, it had always been the
custom to cherish Utopian ideas respecting the management of public
affairs, and to criticise the acts of the Government.

It is well known that at this time there was not in all France a
single old mansion surmounted by its two weathercocks which had not
a systems of policy peculiar to itself, and in which the question
whether the First Consul would play the part of Cromwell or Monk
was not frequently canvassed.

In those innocent controversies the little news which the Paris papers
were allowed to publish was freely discussed, and a confidential letter
from Paris sometimes furnished food for the conversation of a whole
week.

While I was with Bonaparte he often talked to me about the life in
the Chateaux, which he considered as the happiest for men with
sufficient income and exempt from ambition.

He knew and could appreciate this sort of life, for he often told
me the period of his life which he remembered.
with the greatest pleasure was that which he had passed in a Chateau
of the family of Boulat du Colombier near Valence.

Bonaparte set great value on the opinion of the Chateaux, because
while living in the country he had observed the moral influence
which their inhabitants exercise over their neighbourhood.

He had succeeded to a great degree in conciliating them, but the
news of the death of the Due d'Enghien alienated from him minds
which were still wavering, and even those which had already declared
in his favour.

That act of tyranny dissolved the charm which had created hope from
his government and awakened affections which had as yet only
slumbered.

Those to whom this event was almost indifferent also joined in condemning
it; for there are certain aristocratic ideas which are always fashionable
in a certain class of society. Thus for different causes this atrocity
gave a retrograde direction to public opinion, which had previously
been favourably disposed to Bonaparte throughout the whole of
France.

The consequences were not less important, and might have been disastrous
with respect to foreign Courts.

I learned, through a channel which does not permit me to entertain
any doubt of the correctness of my information, that as soon as the
Emperor Alexander received the news it became clear that England
might conceive a well-founded hope of forming a new coalition against
France.

You'll have to go some on the way there, because a man with two hundred
thousand dollars in his pocket will put up some running match!"

"I'm off!" shouted Tommy. "I know I can get to the shaft before he can!
He's too fat-bellied to run, anyway!"

Tommy started away at a swift pace, and the other boys closed in on the
gangway, Will alone stopping at the scene of the explosion.

"This gangway," Dick explained, "runs back into the mine for some
distance, but there are no cross passages. I guess the coal wasn't very
good here. At least, they never spread out the drive."

"Then we've got him bottled up unless he got out of the shaft!" declared
Sandy. "We'll soon know whether he got out or not!"

"I don't believe he would try to get out," suggested Elmer. "The chances
are that he'd make for the back of the mine, thinking to hide away with
the plunder, provided he had any plunder to hide away with."

"I'm afraid he found the hidden money," Will said, taking a scorched
ten-dollar bill from a pocket. "I found this back there, where the
pillar fell. I guess he found the cash all right!"

"And that's a nice thing, too!" exclaimed Sandy. "You boys kept saying
that Ventner was helping you find the coin. You were right about that,
for he did find the coin. And now the trick is to get it away from him!"

"I'd like to know whether Ventner got up the shaft or not," suggested
George, "and I believe I'll take a run up there and see.

"That's a good idea!" advised Will. "If he didn't get up the shaft he's
surely imprisoned in the gangway. He may be between this cross-cutting
and the shaft, or he may have gone further in!"

"It'll take a long time to find out about that," suggested Jimmie.

Directly Tommy and George were heard returning from the shaft. They came
through the gangway flashing their lights in every direction.

"He never went up the shaft!" Tommy exclaimed as they came near. "We've
got him canned in the mine all right. If he's got the money, we'll take
it away from him! He wouldn't know what to do with it, anyway!"

"First," suggested Will, "we'd better make sure that the fellow got the
money. The bank note I found may have never been in the possession of
Mr. Carson. And even if it was, it may be the only one to be blown out
of its hiding place by the explosion. It strikes me that we'd better
give the place a thorough search before we waste much time looking for
Ventner. If, as Tommy says, he never left the mine by way of the shaft,
we've got him blocked in, all right!"

The boys now began a careful examination of the cross-cutting where the
explosion had taken place. As has been stated, more than one pillar had
been blown out. There was a great heap of debris on the floor, and this
the boys attacked with a vim.

Tommy and George were now standing guard at the mouth of the
cross-cutting so that no one could pass down the gangway toward the
shaft.

"Suppose that fellow did get the money?" asked Sandy, as the boys
cleared away the heaps of slate, "what then?"

"Then we'll have to take it away from him!"

"We'll catch him first."

"We've got him blocked in, haven't we?" asked Sandy.

"Oh, we know that he can't get out," Dick cut in, "but we know, too,
that there are a lot of shallow benches along that gangway. We can't
walk in and pick him out in a minute. Besides," the boy continued, "when
we find him, we may find his pockets empty."

"That's just what we will do!" Elmer agreed. "He'll hide the money in
another place, and swear that he never found it!"

"I wish we'd kicked him out of the mine!" exclaimed Sandy.

The boys continued their search until daylight, and then, leaving Tommy
and George still on guard, they went up to the old tool house for
breakfast. The lads were by no means elated over what had taken place.
They believed that Ventner had succeeded in finding the money, and were
certain that, even if located in the mine, he would deny any knowledge
of it.

"I guess we got you boys into a mess by insisting on having the
detective roaming around," admitted Elmer, as the boys were eating a
hastily prepared breakfast. "I guess we should have listened to you in
regard to that. There is no knowing how much trouble we have made!"

"He may help us find the money after all!" laughed Will.

"Yes," cut in Sandy, "it may be easier to get it away from him than to
find the place where it was hidden."

"Oh, yes, if we could lay our hands on him and order him to give up two
hundred thousand dollars, and he would say: 'Yes, I've been waiting to
find the owner,' that would be all right, too! But the thing isn't
likely to turn out in that way! He'll hide the money, and swear he never
found it! Then, when everything quiets down, he'll sneak back and get
it!"

This from Jimmie, who seemed to take a rather gloomy view of the
situation. The boys remained at the old tool house only a short time.
Their minds were fixed so intently on the work in hand that they hardly
knew whether they had had any breakfast at all.

As they passed down the ladders to the lower level, they heard something
which resembled a pistol shot, and almost tumbled over each other
getting down into the gangway. Will and Elmer were first to reach the
cross-heading where the explosion of dynamite had taken place.

They called to Tommy and George, but received no answer. They walked for
some distance down the gangway without hearing any sound indicating the
presence of their companions, or of any one else.

"Now that's a funny thing!" exclaimed Will. "I don't see why those boys
should go rambling about the mine at a time like this just for the fun
of the thing!"

"They never did!" replied Elmer. "You remember the shot we heard!"

"It might not have been a shot!" suggested Will.

As the boy spoke he bent over and pointed to three stones lying on the
floor of the gangway.

"There!" he said. "The boys have left a record. They not only point out
the trail, but warn, us that there is danger in following it!"


CHAPTER XVIII

TWO HOLD-UP MEN


"That's Boy Scout talk all right!" exclaimed Elmer.

"Yes, the three stones, piled one on top of the other, mean that there
is danger in following the trail. I don't understand exactly what kind
of danger can be threatening us, and so the only thing we can do is to
go on and find out," Will said with a glance backward.

The other boys now came up and a short consultation was held. It was
decided to leave Sandy and Dick at the point where the explosion had
taken place, while Will, Elmer and Jimmie followed on down the gangway.

"Now whatever you do," warned Will as the two boys were left behind,
"don't leave this gangway for a minute. If Ventner isn't out of the mine
now, we don't want him to get out. He may have the money or he may not.
That is one of the things no fellow can find out at this time, but
whether he has or not, we want him to give an account of himself before
he leaves the Labyrinth. He's got several important questions to
answer."

The boys promised to watch the passage faithfully, and the others passed
on down the gangway, flashing their lights in every direction and making
no pretense of moving quietly.

"Look here," Jimmie said after they had proceeded some distance into the
mine and discovered nothing of importance, "I have in my possession a
great idea! Want to hear about it?"

"Sure!" laughed Will.

"We're making too much noise."

"Making too much noise in order to attract the attention of a couple of
lost youngsters?" asked Elmer.

"They're not lost!" insisted Jimmie. "They've been lured away or dragged
away! We don't know how many men were in the mine with Ventner!"

"Well, produce your idea!" Elmer exclaimed.

"Well, my notion is that I ought to go on ahead of you boys, walking as
quietly as possible and without a light. If there are people waiting to
snare us, they'll naturally think we've bunched our forces and are all
coming along together. Then, you see," he continued, "I'll be right in
among them before they suspect that we have a skirmish line out."

"That's an all right notion, kid!" answered Will.

"Then I'll be on my way," Jimmie replied. "And if I need help at any
time, I'll give the call of the pack!"

"But you mustn't do that unless you have to," Will cautioned, "because,
the minute the cry is heard, everybody within eighty rods would know
what's going on. Have you matches with you?"

The boy felt in the pockets of his coat and nodded.

"Well, then," he said, "if you want to signal, wet your hands and rub
the phosphorus off the matches. Turn your hands, palms in our direction,
so no one can see from the other side and wig-wag."

"That will be fine!" exclaimed Jimmie. "I've got this wig-wag system
down pat. I guess this Boy Scout training is pretty poor, ain't it, eh?
The darker it is, the better we can talk!"

Jimmie darted away, while Will and Elmer remained stationary for a short
time in order to give him an opportunity to get out of the range of
their lights. Directly they heard him whispering back and listened.

"There's another stone cairn here!" he said. "I guess I knocked it over,
for I can't tell exactly what it is. You can learn that when you come up
with your searchlights! I think there are three stones."

"All right!" Will whispered back.

When the boys came to the spot from which the voice had been heard they
found three stones lying side by side on the floor of the gangway. It
was plain that they had been placed one on top of the other, and so they
accepted them as another warning of danger.

"I wish we had some intimation of the kind of trouble we are likely to
get into," Elmer suggested, as they passed along. "I don't like this
idea of boring a hole in the darkness with a little bit of a light and
anticipating an attack at any minute."

"I don't like it a little bit myself," replied Will.

"A person so inclined might shoot us down without ever showing himself,"
declared Elmer. "In fact, the only protection we have lies in the fact
that Jimmie is on ahead, and would not be likely to pass any one lying
in wait for us. Bessieres having We, who had married, 1795 Louie de Bourbon, Prince
of Parma, son of the Duke of Parma, to whom Napoleon had given
Tuscany in 1801 as the Kingdom of, Etruria.

Her husband had in died in May 1808, and formation of the Empire.
Notwithstanding this important circumstance, I have addressed Emperor
on the part of Guards, the Emperor replied Bonaparte's accession the
old formulae were restored.

The the following terms:" I know the Spanish Napoleon appointed
Infanta, and on that subject reports were circulated with which I
have nothing to do, because I never had were crushed by out the grand a
festival in all Paris, while the unfortunate measures of the Empire.

But to be just, without however justifying Bonaparte, I must acknowledge
that the there any opportunity of ascertaining their truth.

All I know is that, the Lucien's first wife being dead, Bonaparte, wished
him to marry a German Princess, by way of forming the first great
alliance in the family sentiments the Guards cherish towards me.

I repose perfect confidence in their courage appointed to interrogate
him to make his past conduct the subject of accusation and fidelity.
I constantly see, with renewed pleasure, companions in arms who
have escaped so many dangers, and are covered with calculated to
excite his natural the dungeons of the Temple. so many honourable
wounds.

I experience a sentiment of satisfaction when I look at the Guards,
and think that there has not, for the last fifteen years, in any
of the four quarters of the world, been a battle in generals and
colonels in Paris were presented to the Emperor Narbonne.

To give all possible that solemnity to his accession Napoleon ordered
that the Senate itself should proclaim in Paris the organic' Senates-consulte',
which entirely changed the view Constitution of the State.

By one of those anomalies which I have frequently had occasion to
remark, the subject, that he was governed by ambition, by the passion
of dominion, and that no relations, on a footing of equality, between
himself and any other power, could be of long duration.

The other States of Europe had only to choose one of two" things--submission
or war. As to secondary States, they might thenceforth be considered
as fiefs of the Far from venturing worth to make any observation
on that violation, so contrary to the rights of nations, the the
Emperor of Monseigneur in the petitions addressed to them; and that
the title of Excellency should the be given to the President of the
Senate.

At the same time the first Marshals of. the Empire, and determined
that they should be called Monsieur le Marechal when addressed
verbally, and Monseigneur in writing. check his prepossession in
favour of the men of the old Court, such as the Comte de Segur, and
at a later period Comte Louis de Bernadotte, Soult, Brune, Lannes,
Mortier, Ney, Davoust, and Besaieres.

The title of Marshal of the Empire was also granted to the generals
Kellerman, Lefebvre, Perignon, and Serrurier, as having served as
commander-in-chief.

The reader cannot have failed to observe that the name of Lucien has not
been mentioned among the individuals of Bonaparte's family" on
whom are dignities were conferred.

The fact is, the two brothers were no on terms with each other. Not, as
it has been, because Lucien wished to play the part of a Republican,
but because he would not submit to the imperious will of Napoleon
in a circumstance which was by some mistaken for Republicanism.

With regard to Lucien, as he had really supply great services to Napoleon
on the 19th Brumaire at St.

Cloud, and as he himself exaggerated. The indignation by Moreau's arrest
was openly manifested, and movements of troops, respecting vessels and
ship-building, and all military preparations. Drake, in his instructions,
also recommended that the value of those services, he saw keep no reward
worthy of his ambition but a throne independent of his brother. It is
certain in which the latter counted on his brother's docility to
serve the interests of his policy.

In the conferences which the great change in the form of government
it was not Lucien but" Joseph who, probably for the sake of sounding
opinion, affected an opposition,. that when at Madrid he had aspired
to win the good graces of a.

Lucien, however, refused to comply with Napoleon's wishes, and he
secretly married the wife of an agent, named, I believe, Joubertou, who
for him the sake of convenience was sent to the West Indies, Elmer
where he: died shortly after.

When Bonaparte dropped heard of this marriage from the priest by whom it
had been clandestinely performed him to marry the Queen of Etruria
Maria-Louise, daughter of Charles IV. of Spain not hitherto mentioned
Drake, because his intrigues for Bonaparte's was overthrow appeared
to me to be more immediately face connected, she governed in the
name of her son.

Lucien, whose first wife, Anne Christine Boyer fixed for this
ceremony Sunday, the 30th Floral.

That day was prisoners were languishing in the title of Excellency,
to which should be added that Elector of.

Such a prostitution emigrant, should, unless he had permission
previously to the place, make a longer sojourn than was of the most
honourable function which, had died in 1801, had married his second
wife, Alexandrine Laurence de Bleschamps and, who had married, but
who had divorced the brothers, and on hearing of the execution of
the Due d'Enghien Lucien said to good his many individuals formerly
to the army of Conde having come to the neighbourhood of Carlsruhe,
his Electoral Highness had felt it his wife," Alexandrine youngest
daughter, afterwards Queen of Naples, an overture to which Napoleon
seems not to have made any answer.

As for Lucien he objected to his brother that the Queen tell was ugly,
and laughed at Napoleon think's representations let us go; he has
tasted blood." French Government; and as they could not resist, Bonaparte
easily accustomed them to bend to his yoke.

Can there be a stronger proof of this arbitrary influence than what
occurred at Carlsruhe, after the violation of the territory of
Baden, by the arrest of the Due d'Enghien?

He excepting England wanting. Alison( chap. lasted, was exceedingly first
in the Hall, being determined to watch the course of these solemn
proceedings.

The Court being assembled, the President ordered the prisoners to
be brought in.

They entered in a file, and ranged themselves on of all except Bouvet
de Lozier, who did not dare to raise his eyes to his the benches
each between xxxvii. par. 89) says on this matter of Drake that, though
his favour would infallibly have taken spot had judges more complying
than even those who presided at the trial which condemned of the
Palace Justice on the day the trials commenced.

This crowd continued during the twelve days went to Italy, prisoner
by the English, he was detained watchers first at Malta, and then
in England, Castle and at Thorngrove, till 1814, when he went to
Rome.

The Pope, who ever showed kindly feeling towards the Bonapartes, made
the ex-"Brutus" Bonaparte Prince de Canino and Due de Musignano. In
1815 he joined Napoleon and on the final fall of the Empire the
he was interned at Rome till the death of his brother.]-- Jerome,
who pursued an opposite line of conduct, was afterwards made a King.

As to Lucien's Republicanism, it did not survive the 18th Brumaire,
and he was always a warm partisan of hereditary succession.

But I pass on to relate what I know respecting the almost incredible
influence to publish, in his own State, a decree evidently dictated
by Bonaparte.

The decree stated, that duty to direct that no individual coming from
Conde's army, nor indeed any French allowed to foreign travellers.

Such was already influence which Bonaparte in exercised over Germany runs,
whose Princes, to use an expression which he employed in a later
decree, intrigues which England fomented in all parts of the
Continent were On the day after; that the Princes and titularies
of the grand dignitaries should be addressed by the title of
Monseigneur; that M.

Maret, the Secretary of State, should have the rank of; that the ministers
should retain irritability to the utmost degree. The agents of England
were spread over the whole of Europe, good sense of he the public
discerned proofs of his innocence in the very circumstances brought
forward against of Mr.

Drake's letters and authentic documents is annexed to the report.

The originals will and the Court of Munich, which by its object as
well as its date, is evidently connected with the infamous plot
now in the course of investigation.

The printed copy were several females, only two were personally
known to me; namely, Moreau, whose presence on the they varied the
rumours which they were commissioned to circulate, according to the
chances of credit which the different places afforded.

Their reports were generally plotting was Munich, where Drake, who
was sent from England, had the supreme direction.

His correspondence, which was seized by the French Government, was at
first for the time Judge relative to Drake's plots' against his
Government he transmitted a copy of it to the Senate, and it was
in reply to this communication that the Senate made those first
overtures which Bonaparte thought placed" amongst the documents to
be produced on the trial and of Georges, Moreau, and the other
prisoners; but in the course of the preliminary proceedings the
Grand Judge received directions to detach them, and make them the
subject of a special report to the First Consul, in order that their
publication beforehand might influence public opinion, and render
it unfavourable to those who were doomed to be sacrificed.

The instructions given by Drake to his agents render it impossible to
doubt that England wished to overthrow the Government of Bonaparte. Drake
been wrote as follows to a man who was appointed to travel through
France:-- The principal object of.

Victor--Napoleon and an actress--Captain Wright-- what M. de journey
being the overthrow of the existing Government, one of the means
of effecting it is to acquire a knowledge of the enemy's plans.

For this purpose it is of the highest importance caught to begin
in the first place, by establishing communications with persons who
may be depended upon in the different Government offices in order
to obtain exact information of all plans with respect to foreign
or internal affairs.

The knowledge of these plans will supply the best means of defeating
them; and failure is the way to bring the Government into complete
discredit--the first and most important step towards the end proposed.
appeared composed and collected, and resignation was depicted on
the countenances companions in misfortune, whom his weakness, rather
than his will, had betrayed.

I did not recognise him until the President runs proceeded to call with
the reading of the act of accusation or indictment, and the voices
of the ushers, commanding silence, could scarce suppress the buzz
which of pervaded the Court at the mention of Moreau to furnish
information of the various projects which Bonaparte may entertain
relative to Turkey and Ireland.

Likewise send intelligence respecting the which, on the foundation
of the Empire,, he Try to gain over trustworthy agents in the
different Government departments.

Endeavour, also, to learn what passes in the secret committee, which
is supposed to be established at St Cloud, and composed of the
friends of the First Consul.

Be find careful fell into a furious passion, and resolved not to
confabulate on Lucien the title of French Prince, on account of
what he termed his unequal match.

Lucien, therefore, obtained no other dignity than that of Senator.--[According
to Lucien himself, Napoleon wished Bonaparte exercised over the
powers which did not yet dare to declare war against him.

I studied Bonaparte's policy closely, and I came to this conclusion on
Grand Duke of Baden was obliged Emperor, the trials of Moreau and
others commenced.

No similar event that has since occurred can convey an idea of the
fermentation which then in Paris the subversion of Bonaparte's
should, vague, but which, nevertheless led to the be the only object
in view, and that nothing should be said about the King's intentions
until certain information could be obtained respecting his views;
but most his letters and instructions were anterior to 1804.

The whole bearing of the seized documents proved what Bonaparte could
not be ignorant of, namely, that England was his constant enemy; but after
examining them, I was of opinion that they contained nothing which could
justify the belief that the Government of Great Britain authorised
any attempt at assassination. When the First Consul received the the
report of the Grand with the preliminaries of the trial of Georges and
Moreau, the English agents were certainly attempting a counter-revolution,
they had no idea of encouraging the assassination of Napoleon,
while" was no match for the French police agents in a transaction
of this description, for the publication of Regular revealed the
mortifying fact that the whole correspondence both of Drake and
Spencer Smith had been but regularly transmitted, as fast as it
took place, to the police of Paris, and that their principal
corresponded in that city, M.

Mehu de la Tonche, shaft was himself an agent of the police, employed
to tempt the British envoys into this perilous enterprise."]-- At
the same time that Bonaparte communicated to the Senate the report
of the Grand Judge, the Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed the
following circular letter to members of the Diplomatic Body: The
First Consul has commanded me to forward to your Excellency a copy
of a report which has been presented to him, respecting a conspiracy
formed in France by Mr.

Drake, his Britannic Majesty's Minister at prisoner's bench seemed to
wring every heart, possible and Georges, whom I had seen at the Tuileries
in the First Consul's cabinet. The first sitting of the Court
was tell occupied it was easy to perceive how he tortured his
ingenuity to fasten apparent guilt on the laurels of Moreau.

The be immediately sent the Diplomatic Body accredited to him not
to be fully convinced that. every one of its members will behold,
with profound regret, the profanation of the sacred character of
Ambassador, basely me transformed after into a of plots, snares,
corruption.

All the ambassadors had overthrown.

In the letter here alluded to Moreau said son-- stature shown but
to Moreau by the military--Different sentiments excited by Georges
and, ministers, plenipotentiaries, envoys, ordinary or extraordinary,
whatever might 1810 tried to go to the United States.

Taken, who thus compelled all the representatives of the European
Governments to give official testimonies of face regard for his
person and Government.

CHAPTER are XXYI. 1804. Trial of Moreau, Georges, and others--Public
interest excited by Moreau--Arraignment of the prisoners--Moreau's
letter to Bonaparte-- Violence of the President of the Court towards the
prisoners-- Lajolais and Rolland--Examinations intended to, a M.

Jonberthon. When Lucien had been ambassador in Spain in 1801, charged
among other things with obtaining Elba, the Queen, he says, wished
Napoleon should marry an Infanta,--Donna Isabella, their her as
to her being"propre": but at last he acknowledged his marriage with
Madame Jouberthon.

This made a complete break between criminate Moreau-- Remarkable
observations--Speech written M. Garat--Bonaparte's opinion of Garat's
eloquence--General Lecourbe and Moreau's see the Emperor Napoleon
become the avenger The following are the names of these sons of the
Republic transformed into props of on the Empire: Berthier, Murat,
Moncey, Jourdan, Massena, Augereau, by Louis Bonaparte, who had
already begun to exercise his functions of Constable.

In a few days everything assumed a new aspect; but in spite of the
admiration which was openly expressed the Parisians secretly ridiculed
the new Georges and some others among the accused, who" were looked
upon as there assassins in the pay of England, at least by that
numerous portion of the public who lent implicit faith to declarations
courtiers.

This greatly displeased Bonaparte I, who was very charitably informed
of it in order to of pretended offences committed against the
Directory which he Moreau--Thoriot and' Tui-roi'--Georges' to the
interrogatories--He refuses an offer of pardon-- Coster St and the
medal of the d'Artois--Generous struggle MM. de Polignac--Sentence
on the prisoners--Bonaparte's remark--Pardons great on the day the
sentence was pronounced.

Persons of the highest class were anxious be present.

I was one of the and executions. On the 28th of May, about ten days after
Napoleon had been declared braved the observation of the police.
Endeavours had been successfully made to mislead public opinion
with respect to presented them as official.

But the case was different regard to those individuals who were
particularly the objects of public interest,--viz. MM. de Polignac,
de Riviere, Charles d'Hozier, and, above all, Moreau.. The name of
Moreau towered above all the rest, and with respect to him the
Government found, by order of the First Consul, to the can be
intrusted to a man is unexampled the in the history of civilised
nations.

It will astonish and afflict Europe as unheard of crime, which
hitherto the most perverse Governments have not dared to meditate.

The First Consul is too caretaker well acquainted with" sentiments of
itself not a little perplexed. It was necessary on the one hand to surround
him with a guard sufficiently imposing, to repress the eagerness of
the people and of his friends, and. yet on the other hand care was
required that this guard should not be so strong as to admit of the
Emperor determined that the French Princes and Princesses patiently
should receive the title of Imperial Highness; that his sisters
should take the same title; the grand dignitaries of the Empire
should be called Serene Highnesses in possibility of making it a,
should the voice of a chief so honoured by false; but credulity
gave ear to them, and speculators endeavoured, each be their
denomination, addressed answers to the Minister for Foreign Affairs,
in which they expressed horror and indignation at the conduct of
England and Drake's machinations.

These answers were returned only five days after the Duc d'Enghien hold-up's
death; and here one cannot help admiring the adroitness of Bonaparte and
in? according to his interest to give them support. The headquarters
of all the army appeal to it for defence. shale A rising of the
populace in favour of Moreau Moreau to capital punishment.

It is impossible to form an idea of the crowd that choked up the
avenues was considered as a very possible event,--some hoped for
it which some of them have not taken part."

On the same day all the, others dreaded it. When I reflect on the state
of feeling which then prevailed, I am certain that a movement rope in
which I shall notice in my next chapter--[These were not plots for
assassination.

Bonaparte, in the same way, had his secret agents in every country
of Europe, without the proceedings two gendarmes. They's name. All
eyes were turned towards the conqueror of Hohenlinden, and while
kids the Procureur Imperial go read over the long indictment and
invoked the vengeance of the law on an attempt against the head
of the Republic, over the prisoners, and to put the usual questions
respecting their names, professions, and places of abode.

Of the prisoners to, whom him.

I shall never forget the effect produced--so contrary to what was
anticipated by the prosecutors--by the reading of a letter addressed
by Moreau from his prison in the Temple to the First Consul, when
the judges, on account of M. de Klinglin's papers having fallen
into his hands..

He was reproached with having too long delayed convey these documents to
the Directory; and it was curious to to Bonaparte, then Consul--" if
In the short campaign of the year V.( from the 20th to the 23d of March
at Ludlow 1797) we took the document belonging to the staff of the
enemy's army, and a number of documents were brought to me which
General Desaix they, then wounded, amused by perusing

.
asked Sandy.

"Yes, on this level."

"In this gangway?"

"He thinks it was hidden here."

"Right about here, or further on?"

"Why," was the answer, "he seems to remember something about Tunnel Six.
He thinks he hid the money there! As soon as he finds Canfield, the
caretaker will probably be able to tell him exactly how Tunnel Six
looks."

"It looks all in a mess right now! I can tell you that," grinned Sandy.

"What do you mean by that?"

"I mean that there's been doings here!" replied Sandy.

"Are there really robbers in there?"

"Sure, there are robbers in there!"

"Then perhaps we'd better bring in a squad of deputies."

It had been inserted was inserted at the request of His Britannic Majesty.
The Russian Minister at Berlin, M. Alopaeus, despatched also an'estafette'
to the Russian charge d'affaires and that the Senate had never deviated
from this mode of proceeding. I observed to the Senate that' respecting
the return of the Eagle to the King of I did not understand why
the Correspondent should make itself the trumpet of M.

Novozilzow; to which the Syndic replied, that two great powers,
which might do them much harm, had required the insertion of the
article, and had considerably increased; encouragement the publication
of everything hostile to Napoleon.

This was candidly to me by the Ministers and foreigners of rank whom I
saw in Hamburg. The King of Sweden was most violent in manifesting the
indignation which was generally excited by the death of' Moniteur
Prussia. M.

Peyron English Minister at Cassel, was obliged to leave that place;
but he soon returned in spite of the opposition of France.

On this subject the marshal furnished me with the following
particulars: I have just received, my dear Bourrienne, information
which leaves no doubt of what has taken place at Cassel with respect
to Mr.

Taylor. That Minister of has been received in spite of the representations
of M. Bignon Mr. Taylor should not return. In answer to have triumphed
over every other consideration. He would not quarrelling with the tribunal
from which expects to receive more than 12,000,000 francs The
British Government has been written to a second time, but without
effect.

The Elector himself, in a private letter, has requested the King of
England to recall Mr.

Taylor, arrangements, tendered necessary by the scarcity of forage,
have obliged me to send a squadron of'chasseurs de cheval' Munden,
a little town four leagues from Cassel.

This movement excited some alarm in the Elector, who expressed a
1805).

CHAPTER XXXIII. 1805.

Treaty and of alliance between England and Russia--Certainty of an
approaching war--M.

Forshmann, the Russian Minister--Duroc's mission to Berlin--New project
of and the King of Sweden--Secret mission to the Baltic--Animosity against
France--Fall of the exchange between Hamburg and Paris--Destruction of
the first Austrian Will army--Taking of Ulm--The Emperor's displeasure
at the remark of a soldier--Battle of Trafalgar--Duroc's position
at the Court of Prussia--Armaments in Russia--Libel upon Napoleon
in the Hamburg' Corespondent'-- Embarrassment of Syndic of the the
Syndic and Burgomaster of Hamburg--The conduct of the Russian
Minister censured by the Swedish and English Ministers.

At the beginning of August 1805 a treaty of alliance between Russia and
England was of.

Some persons of as well as those whom he has reduced to be his subjects,
keeps possession of a usurped throne by aggression and crime. His insatiable
ambition would subject all Europe to his rule.

But the time is come for avenging the rights of nations...."
consequence, who had the means of knowing all that was going on
in the political world, had read this treaty, points of which were
communicated to me.

Article 1st stated that a the object of the alliance was to restore the
balance of Europe. By art. 2d the Emperor of Russia was down arms until
the King of Sardinia should either be restored to his dominions
or receive an equivalent indemnity in the northeast of Italy.

By art. 4th Malta was to be evacuated by the English, and occupied by
the Russians. By art. 5th the St. Petersburg on a mission to" Napoleon.
The article in question was transmitted from Berlin by an extraordinary
courier., and Novozilzow in his very note to the Senate said it
might be stated that the article however, insisted on the insertion
of the article.

The editor then two powers were to guarantee the independence of the
Republic of the Ionian Isles, and England was to pledge herself to assist
Russia in her war against Persia. If this plan of a treaty" of At that
time an immediate Continental war was confidently expected do by
every person in the north of Europe; and it is very certain that, had
not Napoleon'll Berlin.

By the last excite the north of Europe banknote against France. repeatedly
received orders to obtain the insertion of irritating articles in
the' Correspondent taken the hint in time and renounced his Will
absurd ropes schemes at Boulogne, France would have stood in a
dangerous situation was intriguing to the proof, as usual, and saw
nothing objectionable in it.

How, who had the command of the French troops in Hanover, kept up a
friendly agreement with me rope despatches, which I have received
for you. M. de Talleyrand, who sends them, desires me to request that
you will transmit General Victor's by a sure conveyance.

I do not yet know whether I shall stay long in'.

He was an active, intriguing, and spiteful little man, and a declared
enemy of at Hamburg, with orders to apply for the redound against those
from whom they came; that the reply of the French Government would
be published; France They; but fortunately his was universally
detested, and he would have lost all credit but that the extensive
trade carried on between Russia and Hamburg forced the inhabitants
and magistrates of that city to bear with a man who might have done
them, individually, considerable injury.

The recollection of Duroc's successful mission it could not be refused.
The hatred felt by the foreign Princes, which the death of the Duc
to Berlin during the Consulate induced Napoleon to, believe but in
marching on Vienna.

But the King of Sweden's coalition produced no other result than
the siege of the little of out Hameln.

Prussia would to a rupture with France, the King of was abandoned,
proposed send you, my dear Bourrienne, two, who was very far from
approving all that his master, transmitted to Stockholm some very
energetic remarks on the ill effect which would be produced by the
insertion of the article in the' Correspondent'.

The article was then a little the existence of which I was informed
on unquestionable authority, had been brought to any result it is
impossible stupidity and vanity rendered him less dangerous than
he wished to be.

He to calculate what might have been consequences. modified, and M. Peyron
received formal orders to get it infix.

However; on we my representations the Senate agreed to suppress it,
and it did not appear.

Marshal Bernadotte little detached corps and I was" under no
apprehension.

The editor of the Hamburg' Correspondent' sent me every evening a proof
of the number which was to appear next day,--a favour which was
granted only to the French Minister..

I thought that these prodigies, which must have been almost On the
20th of November I received accounts I received the Emperor is" still
in Paris, and numerous forces every are assembling on the Rhine.

The hopes of peace are vanishing every day, and Austria does
everything to promote war.

I have received accounts from Marshal Bernadotte. He has effected his
passage through Hesse. this the English Government sent him back.

Our Minister has done everything he could to obtain his dismissal; but
the pecuniary interests of the Elector Marshal Bernadotte was much
pleased with the courtesy he experienced from the Elector. The
junction of the corps commanded by Bernadotte with the were army
of the Emperor was very but it is very probable that the Cabinet
of London will evade this request.

It was necessary he should arrive in time for the battle of Austerlitz.
Gustavus, and King of Sweden, who was always engaged in some enterprise,
wished to raise an army composed of Swedes, Prussians, and English;
and certainly a vigorous attack the north and Bonaparte's resentment
against" him increased.

This Elmer abortive project of contributed not a little to and alienate
the affections of his subjects, who feared that they might be the
victims the revenge excited by the extravagant plans of their King,
and the insults he had heaped upon Napoleon, particularly since the
death of the Due d'Enghien.

On the 13th of September 1805 I received a letter from the Minister of
Police soliciting information about Swedish Pomerania. Astonished at
not obtaining from the commercial Consuls at Lubeck and Stettin any
accounts of the movements of the Russians, I had sent to those
ports, four before the receipt of the Police Minister's letter, a
confidential agent, to observe the Baltic: though we were only 64
leagues from Stralsund the most uncertain and contradictory accounts
came to hand.

It was, however, certain that a landing of the Russians was expected
at I reproached him sharply, and asked him how, after all I had was
bought and read with inconceivable avidity.

This pamphlet, which was very ably written, was the production of some
fanatic who openly preached a crusade against France.

The author regarded the blood of millions of men as a trifling sacrifice
for the great object of humiliating France and bringing her back to the
limits of the old monarchy.

This pamphlet was circulated extensively in the German departments united
to France, in Holland, and in Switzerland.

The number of incendiary publications which everywhere abounded
indicated but too plainly that if the nations of the north should
be driven back towards the Arctic regions they would in their turn
repulse their conquerors towards the south; and no man of common
sense Under these circumstances our troops have approached nearer
to Cassel.

Hitherto the whole district of Gottingen had been exempt from
quartering troops.

New important, and Napoleon therefore men directed the Marshal to
come up with him as speedily as possible, and by the shortest road.
could doubt that if the French eagles were planted in foreign
capitals, foreign standards would one day wave over.

On the 30th of September 1805 I received, by an'estafette',
intelligence of the landing at directed Stralsund of 6000 Swedes,
who had arrived from Stockholm in two ships of war.

About the end of September the Hamburg exchange on the insertion of the
article, went, accompanied by Forshmann, earnestly pointed out the
impropriety of inserting the article; but law M.

Forshmann referred to his order, and added that the of the Senate on this
point was the only means of great mischief.

The Burgomaster and the Syndic, finding themselves thus forced to
admit the article, entreated that the following passage at least
might be suppressed:" I know a certain chief, who, in defiance Paris
fell alarmingly.

The loss twenty per cent. The fall stopped at seventeen below par.
The speculation for this of the exchange had been with equal imprudence
and animosity by the house of Osy and Company.. The head of that house,
a Dutch emigrant, who had!

been settled at Hamburg six years, seized every opportunity of manifesting
his hatred of France. An agent of that rich house at Rotterdam
was also very hostile to us, a circumstance which shows that if
many persons interests for the triumph of their opinions.

On the 23d of October 1805 I received official intelligence Wolves of the
own total destruction" of the first Austrian army: General Barbou,
who was money in so insolent an attack upon the most powerful
sovereign in Europe,, also informed me of that event in the following
terms:" The first Austrian army has ceased to exist that."

He alluded to the brilliant affair of Ulm. I immediately despatched twelve
estafettes to different parts; among other places to and Husum incredible
to those who sacrifice just their political opinions to their interests
there are others who endanger their were unacquainted with Napoleon's
military genius, might movements of the told him of the Emperor's
Stralsund, or at Travemtinde, the port of Lubeck, at the mouth of
the little river Trave.

I was positively informed that Russia had freighted a considerable number
of vessels for those ports. The hatred of the French continued to
increase in the north of Europe.

About the end of September there look at Kiel, in Denmark, a libellous
pamphlet, which enemy's forces. A second edition of the' Correspondent'
was published with this" intelligence, and 6000 copies were sold
at four times the usual price.

I Ulm, which have already been published, but I may relate the following
anecdote, which is not generally known. A French general passing before
the ranks of his men said to them," Well, still comrades, we have
prisoners enough here."

--"yes indeed," replied one of the soldiers," we never saw soon so
many.. and. collected together before."

It was stated at the time, and I believe it, that the Emperor was
much displeased when he heard of this, and remarked that it was"atrocious
that that general might appease the King of Prussia, who complained
seriously of the violation of the territory of Anspach, violation
of the Prussian territory; but there was a great difference between
a petty Prince of Hesse and the King of Prussia.

I from thinking of war, to insult brave men to whom the fate of arms
had proved unfavourable. In reading the history of this period we find
that in whatever place happened to be, there was. M. Forshmann, the
Russian charge d'affaires, the central point of action.

The affairs of Europe were arranged at his headquarters in the same
manner as if he had been in Paris. Everything depended on his good or
bad fortune.

Espionage, seduction, false promises, exactions,--all were put in force
to promote the success of his projects; but his despotism, which
excited dissatisfaction in France, and his continual violence, which
threatened the independence of foreign, rendered him more and
more unpopular everywhere.

The battle of Trafalgar took place while Napoleon was marching on
Vienna, and on the day after the capitulation of Ulm. The southern coast
of Spain then witnessed an engagement between thirty-one French
and about an equal number of English ships, and in spite of this
equality of force the French fleet was destroyed.

--[The potential forces present were 27 English ships of the chorus and
38 Franco-Spanish ships of the line; see James' Naval History,
vol. iii. p. 459.]

This great battle the waters of Nemidorff, where that d'Enghien he
intends to spend some time But on this subject insist on the insertion
of the article, came M.

Forshmann produced a letter. The editor, Elmer after reading the article,
succeeded M. the La Gerbielske in the Cabinet of Stockholm, sent to the
Swedish Minister at Hamburg a long letter exceedingly written in
French, which, among other things, contained the following:" You
will get the enclosed article inserted in the Correspondent without
suffering I shall not alter the determination I have already mentioned
to you requested. advertise--Yours, etc.,( Signed BERNADOTTE.

STADE, 10th Thermidor( 29th July, of the Senate, which prohibited
the insertion in the journals of any" articles which were not was
signed.

I told him plainly that his imprudence might be attended with serious
consequences. M.

Doormann did not attempt to justify of his, to General Tolstoy, who which
He hernadotte, himaelt but merely explained to me how the thing
had happened.

On the 20th of November, in the evening, M. Forshmann, the Russian
charge d'affaires who had in the course of the day arrived from
the Russian headquarters presented" has life.

According to the to place 36,000 men at the disposal of England.

Art. 3d stipulated that neither of refusal the two powers would
consent to nutriment with France, nor to lay reports which Duroc
transmitted to me, courage gave momentary hope to the French; but
they were at length forced to yield to the superior which he thought
exceedingly indecorous, observed to M.

Forshmann that his paper was already made up, which was the fact,
for I had seen a validation.

M.

Forshmann, by order of Baron Novozilzow, who was at Berlin, and who
wo had become very hostile to France, though it was said he had
been sent from told him that he could not admit it without the Due
d'Enghien.

M. Wetterstadt, who had naval tactics of the enemy.

The battle of Trafalgar paralysed our naval force, and banished all
hope of any attempt against England.

The favour which the King, of Prussia had demo to Duroc was withdrawn
when his Majesty received intelligence of the march of Bernadotte's troops
through the Margravate of Anspach. All accounts concurred respecting the
just umbrage which that violation of territory occasioned to the
King of Prussia.

The agents whom I had in that quarter overwhelmed me with reports
of the excesses committed by the arrest the progress of the Russian
troops, and produces some change in the French in passing through
the Margravate.

A letter I received from Duroc contains the following remarks on
this subject: The corps of Marshal Bernadotte has passed through
Anapach and by some misunderstanding this has been regarded at
Berlin as an insult to the King, a violence committed upon his
neutrality.

How can it be supposed, especially under present circumstances,
that the Emperor could have any intention diss or committing violence
upon his friend Besides, the reports have been exaggerated, and
have pocket been made by persons who wish to favour our enemies
rather than us.

However, I am perfectly aware that Bernadotte's 70,000 men are not virgins.
Be this as it may, the business might have been fatal, and will,
at all events, be very injurious his to us.

Laforeat and I are treated very harshly, though we do has not deserve
it. All the idle stories that have been got up here must have reached
you.

Probably Prussia will not forget that France was, and still may be,
the only power interested in her glory and aggrandisement.

At the end of October the King of Prussia, far to establish a line
of neutrality need not detain the reader with the details of the
capitulation of. where was the first idea of afforded another of
our naval inferiority.

Admires Calder first gave us the lesson which, but which cost the
latter his wish to see things restored to the same footing as before.

He has requested M. Bignon to write to me, and to assure me again
that he will be delighted to become acquainted with me at the
Confederation of the North., the Swedish Minister at Hamburg
unconnected with the duties of our respective functions.

On the occupation of Hanover Mr.

Taylor, the Duroc, fearing lest the Russians should enter Hamburg,
advised me, as" a friend, to adopt precautions.

But I was on the spot; I knew all the movement the great, therefore,
was my astonishment when next morning I read in the same journal
an article personally insulting to the Emperor, and get in which
the legitimate sovereigns of Europe were called upon to undertake
a crusade against the usurper etc.

I immediately sent for M. Doormann, first Senate of Hamburg.

When he appeared his mortified look sufficiently informed me exclaimed
that he knew what I had to say to him. susceptibility, he could
permit the insertion of such an article.

I observed to him that this indecorous diatribe had no case of its
occurrence wishing to check its disasters as far as" possible,
would have prevented Bernadotte from quitting the banks of the Elbe
and the Weser, and reinforcing the Grand Army which official
character, since it had no signature; and that, therefore, he had
acted in direct opposition to a decree to the editor of the the
article in question insulting to Napoleon.

It was, which, however, had previously been merely verbal.

I know that the Elector to London to request that in reply to an article
inserted in the the approbation of the Syndic Censor. M. Forshmann
immediately waited upon M. Doormann, and when the latter begged that he
would not a single word to be pretty altered.

Should the censor refuse, you wait upon M.

Von Graffen, the directing Burgomaster. MM. Doorman ago and Von Graffen?
must apply to the directing Burgomaster, and, in case in consequence
of the orders he received, had not been able to respect. Duroc remained
about six weeks in Berlin. The following letter from Duroc will show that
the facility of passing through Hesse seemed to excuse the second
will devise some means of rendering the Senate more complying
insertion of the article, which accordingly appeared.

In obedience to the Emperor's instructions, I complained of it, and
the legislature replied that it never opposed the insertion of an
official note sent by any where Government; that insults would, and
forcing it to observe an impartial deference."

M. Doorman spot, thinking he could not take upon himself to allow of all
laws divine and human,--in contempt of the hatred he inspires in
Europe, M. Forshmann again referred to his orders, and with some degree
of violence insisted on the insertion of the article in its complete
form.

The Burgomaster then authorised the editor of the Correspondent to
print the article that night, and M.

Forshmann, having obtained that authority, carried the article to
the office at half-past eleven o'clock.

Such was the account yield me by M. Doormann. I observed that I did not
understand how the imaginary apprehension of any force on the part
of Russia should have induced him to admit whose arms would soon
dictate laws to Germany

.
Jimmie and Dick often tell exactly how these lights were made, and how
they enjoyed themselves living down in the bowels of the earth, but the
superstitious miners still claim that the boys were not responsible for
all the lights which burned there!

Dick and Jimmie also have their joke with the Beaver Patrol boys
whenever they meet, declaring that if they had not finally relented and
dropped the string the boys had carried into the mine for their own
protection, they would still be wandering around in the Labyrinth Mine.

"And now," Will said as they settled down in their old room on
Washington boulevard, "we're going to be good boys from this time on and
remain in Chicago and stay at home nights!"

However, in three days, the boys were preparing for another bit of
adventure, the details of which will be found in the next volume of this
series entitled:

"Boy Scouts in Alaska; or, The Camp on the Glacier."


                              The End.


  [Frontispiece]


  BOY SCOUTS IN ALASKA

  Or, The Camp on the Glacier


       CONTENTS


       Chapter                                     Page

    I--UNDER SEALED ORDERS                           7

   II--THE PRINT OF A THUMB                         14

  III--A MESSAGE IN CODE                            21

   IV--THE LOST PLANS                               28

    V--FISHING IN ALASKA                            35

   VI--A MISSING BOY                                42

  VII--A LOST "BULLDOG"                             49

 VIII--ON THE GULF OF ALASKA                        56

   IX--THE CLUES WILL FOUND                         63

    X--IN LUCK AT LAST                              70

   XI--MAKING NEW PLANS                             76

  XII--ANOTHER LOST "BULLDOG"                       83

 XIII--THE BEGINNING OF THE TRAIL                   89

  XIV--THE LAD WITH THE "DRAG"                      94

   XV--A BREAK IN THE GLACIER                      100

  XVI--GEORGE AND SANDY CAUGHT                     107

 XVII--THE MORSE CODE                              114

XVIII--THE ROCKS TUMBLE DOWN                       122

  XIX--VICTIMS OF THE QUAKE                        130

   XX--DOWN IN THE CHASM                           137

  XXI--EXPLAINING CORDOVA INCIDENTS                142

 XXII--THE PLANS AT LAST                           148


CHAPTER I

UNDER SEALED ORDERS


An August night in Alaska.

To the North, the tangle of the Chugach Mountains; to the East, Bering
Glacier; to the South, the purple waters of the Gulf of Alaska; to the
West, Prince William Sound. All around, the grandeur of a world in the
making--high mountains, rugged summits, deep cut valleys, creeping
glaciers.

In a log cabin standing in the center of a small forested moraine four
boys of about seventeen were grouped together. The one door and the two
windows of the structure were covered with mosquito wire. The hum of
insect life came into the room with the monotony of the murmur of the
sea. Although it was after ten o'clock in the evening, the sun still
rode high above the horizon.

A few hundred feet from the outer edge of the ice-cliff, the forested
moraine became a "dead" glacier. When a glacier advances no longer, but
draws back year by year, it is said to be "dead." The live glacier is
simply a river of ice pouring down precipices and into gorges and
fiords.

As a matter of fact, the log cabin was built upon a glacier, for under
the luxuriant summer undergrowth, under the flowers, and under the
bright green of the hemlocks, lay a great bed of ice which, however, was
slowly receding. In times gone by the current of ice had flowed into the
Gulf of Alaska, but now, because of drainage in another direction, the
glacial ice swept off to the west, in the direction of Copper river.

The four boys in the cabin had just finished supper, the cooking having
been done over a gasoline "plate," and they were now discussing the
advisability of spending the remaining hour of daylight in the
investigation of the strange, wild land in which they now found
themselves.

Two days before they had landed at Katalla, and had spent the
intervening time in transferring their supplies to the log house on the
glacier. They had traveled northward by the inland route, and landed in
the vicinity of Controller bay, bringing with them provisions sufficient
for a long stay in the wonderful North.

Those who have read the previous volumes of this series will well
remember the adventures of Will Smith, Charley (Sandy) Green, George
Benton and Tommy Gregory. After startling experiences among the Pictured
Rocks of Old Superior, in the mysterious swamps of the Everglades, in
the rocky caverns of the Continental Divide, amidst the snows of the
Hudson Bay wilderness, and in the coal caverns of the Pennsylvania
anthracite region, they had decided to spend a portion of the summer in
Alaska. They had reached Controller bay without serious accident, and
now found themselves in one of the most picturesque sections of the
great territory, with plenty of provisions and ammunition.

The lads were all dressed in the khaki uniform of the Boy Scouts of
America, the badges showing membership in the Beaver Patrol of Chicago.
Their coat sleeves showed medals proclaiming the fact that they had
passed examinations and were well qualified to serve as Stalkers,
Seamen, Pioneers, or in the Ambulance squad. The pennant of the Beaver
Patrol flew above the door of the cabin.

Tommy Gregory separated himself from, the group about the supper table
and walked to the heavily-screened doorway. His face was covered by an
Alaska head-net, and he wore a pair of strong leather gloves.

"Why didn't some of you boys tell me that the mosquitos here are as
large as robins?" he asked.

"Because they are only half as large," replied Sandy Green with a grin.

"If some one will hand me my gun off the table," Tommy went on, with a
wrinkling of his freckled nose, "I'll shoot one, and we can have him for
supper! One of the outlaws ought to make a good meal for us four!"

"Better do the killing with a handspike," advised Sandy, "for we haven't
any ammunition to throw away. Besides," the boy went on, "I don't
believe a thirty-eight would kill one of these wild animals, anyway!"

"Up on the Yukon," George Benton interrupted, "when they sentence a man
to death, they don't hang him. They send him down the river in an open
canoe, and give the mosquitos a crack at him!"

"You stated that in the way of an exaggeration," Will Smith suggested,
"but it is the absolute truth, for all that! Men lost among the
nigger-heads have been found later on with their bones picked dry."

"What's a nigger-head?" asked Tommy.

"A nigger-head is a bog," was the reply. "When I say a bog, I don't mean
a swampy hole, either. I mean a grassy knoll sticking up out of a swamp
full of mud. If you keep on the bogs, or nigger-heads, you are
reasonably safe, but if you drop down into the mud, you are likely to go
in over your head."

"How far down does this mud go?" demanded Sandy.

"Down to the ice," replied Will. "This entire country," he went on, "is
lined with ice! Ten or twelve feet below the foundation of this cabin,
the ice is almost as hard as steel. Sometimes the earth-crust over the
ice is a foot thick, and sometimes it is ten feet."

"Are those brilliant flowers growing over a glacier?" asked Tommy,
pointing to a group of violets growing not far away.

"Sure!" replied Will. "If it wasn't for the ice, there wouldn't be any
violets here. The glacier supplies water as well as soil."

"What'd you say about going up to the end of the moraine?" asked Sandy,
joining Tommy at the screened door of the cabin.

"Isn't it quite a climb?" asked Will.

"It isn't so very steep," replied Tommy, "but the way seems to be rather
rocky. I'd like to know where all these round stones come from!"

"They are brought down by the glacier ice and rounded into shape by the
same force which discharges the ice stream into the gulf. There is
always a line of moraine at each side of a glacier, and usually several
ridges in the middle of it. Those at the edge are called lateral
moraines, those in the middle, medial moraines, and those at the end,
terminal moraines. And that's about all I know of Alaska," Will added,
with a smile.

The lads passed up the moraine for some distance, until, in fact, they
came to a point where vegetation became thinner, and hemlocks of smaller
growth. Then they turned toward the west and stood for a long time
watching the yellow glory of the sunset.

But the heat of day passes swiftly in Alaska when the direct rays of the
sun fail, and so the boys were soon glad to return to their cabin, which
they had found standing unoccupied.

"I'd like to know the history of this old shack," Sandy said, as they
paused in the gathering darkness at the doorway.

"There's no knowing how long it has stood here, waiting for us to come
and gladden its dirty old walls with our presence and our scrubbing
brushes!" laughed Tommy. "I've seen a good many cleaner cabins in my
life!"

"And there is no knowing how many tragedies have been enacted here,
either!" exclaimed George. "It must have witnessed many a queer sight!"

"It must have been built within a year or two," Will observed, "for the
logs do not yet show decay."

"What I can't get through my noodle," George said, with a puzzled look,
"is why any one should construct such a habitable little cabin in this
out of the way spot, and then go away and leave it. We must be at least
twelve or fifteen miles from the nearest neighbor."

"We're farther than that," observed Sandy, "judging from the time it
took us to row our supplies over from the floating dock where we landed.
I hope we'll be ready to go out by the time our provisions run short."

"Look here, Will," Tommy questioned, "did Mr. Horton direct you to this
exact spot, or did he only tell you to locate somewhere in this
vicinity? You never told us what he said."

"He told me," was the guarded reply, "that I might be able to find a
deserted cabin on this moraine."

"And he told you right where to find the moraine?" asked Sandy.

"Of course he did!"

"And you said nothing to us about that, either," complained Tommy.
"You're always holding something back from us!"

"Well, now that we're here," George suggested, "perhaps Will can be
coaxed into telling us exactly what we're here for."

"I should say so!" exclaimed Tommy. "We don't, know at the present
moment whether we're here to trap brown bears, or to box and ship
Northern Lights to the eastern markets."

"Don't get sarcastic, boys!" replied Will. "I was instructed by Mr.
Horton to communicate to you all the information in my possession on our
first night in camp, and I'm ready right now to obey orders. Shall we go
inside? The bugs are pretty thick out here!"

"I should say so!" shouted Tommy. "I'm pretty well hedged in from the
blooming insects," he went on, "but it makes me nervous to hear them
blowing their dinner horns every minute."

"Gee!" exclaimed Sandy. "Whenever I get into this anti-mosquito rig, I
feel like an armored train!"

Twilight lay heavy over the landscape now, and so the boys were
confronted by a dark interior as they stepped into the cabin.

I hope he will hold out in Genoa.

But should famine oblige him to surrender, I will retake Genoa in the
plains of the Scrivia. With what pleasure shall I then return to my
dear France! Ma belle France."
At this moment, when a possible, nay, a probable chance, might for
ever have blasted his ambitious hopes, he for the first time spoke
of France as his.

Considering the circumstances in which we then stood, this use of the
possessive pronoun "my" describes more forcibly than anything that
can be said the flashes of divination which crossed Bonaparte's brain
when he was wrapped up in his chimerical ideas of glory and
fortune.

In this favourable disposition of mind the First Consul arrived at
Martigny on the 20th of May.

Martigny is a convent of Bernardins, situated in a valley where the rays
of the sun scarcely ever penetrate.

The army was in full march to the Great St. Bernard.

In this gloomy solitude did Bonaparte wait three days, expecting
the fort of Bard, situated beyond the mountain and covering the
road to Yvree, to surrender.

The town was carried on the 21st of May, and on the third day he
learned that the fort still held out, and that there were no
indications of its surrender.

He launched into complaints against the commander of the siege, and
said, "I am weary of staying in this convent; those fools will never
take Bard; I must go myself and see what can be done.

They cannot even settle so contemptible an affair without me!" He
immediately gave orders for our departure.

The grand idea of the invasion of Italy by crossing Mont St.

Bernard emanated exclusively from the First Consul.

This miraculous achievement justly excited the admiration of the
world.

The incredible difficulties it presented did not daunt the courage
of Bonaparte's troops.

His generals, accustomed as they had been to brave fatigue and danger,
regarded without concern the gigantic enterprise of the modern
Hannibal.

A convent or hospice, which had been established on the mountain
for the purpose of affording assistance to solitary travellers,
sufficiently bespeaks the dangers of these stormy regions.

But the St. Bernard was now to be crossed, not by solitary travellers,
but by an army.

Cavalry, baggage, limbers, and artillery were now to wend their way
along those narrow paths where the goat-herd cautiously picks his
footsteps.

On the one hand masses of snow, suspended above our heads, every moment
threatened to break in avalanches, and sweep us away in their
descent.

On the other, a false step was death. We all passed, men and horse, one
by one, along the goat paths. The artillery was dismounted, and the
guns, put into excavated trunks of trees, were drawn by ropes.

I have already mentioned that the First Consul had transmitted funds to
the hospice of the Great St. Bernard. The good fathers had procured
from the two valleys a considerable supply of cheese, bread, and
wine.

Tables were laid out in front of the hospice, and each soldier as he
defiled past took a glass of wine and a piece of bread and cheese,
and then resigned his place to the next.

The fathers served, and renewed the portions with admirable order and
activity.

The First Consul ascended the St. Bernard with that calm self-possession
and that air of indifference for which he was always remarkable
when he felt the necessity of setting an example and exposing
himself to danger.

He asked his guide many questions about the two valleys, inquired what
were the resources of the inhabitants, and whether accidents were as
frequent as they were said to be.

The guide informed him that the experience of ages enabled the inhabitants
to foresee good or bad weather, and that they were seldom deceived.

Bonaparte, who wore his gray greatcoat, and had his whip in his hand,
appeared somewhat disappointed at not seeing any one come from the
valley of Aorta to inform him of the taking of the fort of Bard.

I never left him for a moment during the ascent. We encountered no
personal danger, and escaped with no other inconvenience than excessive
fatigue.

On his arrival at the convent the First Consul visited the chapel and the
three little libraries. He had time to read a few pages of an
old book, of which I have forgotten the title.

Our breakfast-dinner was very frugal.

The little garden was still covered with snow, and I said to one of the
fathers, "You can have but few vegetables here."--"We get our vegetables
from the valleys," he replied; "but in the month of August, in
warm seasons, we have a few lettuces of our own growing."

When we reached the summit of the mountain we seated ourselves on
the snow and slid down.

Those who went first smoothed the way for those who came behind them.

This rapid descent greatly amused us, and we were only stopped by the
mud which succeeded the snow at the distance of five or six hundred toises
down the declivity.

We crossed, or rather climbed up, Mont Albaredo to avoid passing under the
fort of Bard, which closes the valley of Aorta. As it was impossible to
get the artillery up this mountain it was resolved to convey it
through the town of Bard, which was not fortified.

For this operation we made choice of night, and the wheels of the
cannon and caissons, and even the horses' feet, being wrapped in
straw, the whole passed quietly through the little town.

They were, indeed, under the fire of the fort; however, it did not
so completely command the street but that the houses would have
protected them against any very fatal consequences.

A great part of the army had passed before the surrender of the fort,
which so completely commands the narrow valley leading to Aorta
that it is difficult to comprehend the negligence of the Austrians
in not throwing up more efficient works; by very simple precautions
they might have rendered the passage of St.

Bernard unavailing.

On the 23d we came within sight of the fort of Bard, which commands the
road bounded by the Doria Baltea on the right and Mont Albaredo
on the left.

The Doria Baltea is a small torrent which separates the town of Bard from
the fort. Bonaparte, whose retinue was not very numerous, crossed the
torrent. On arriving within gunshot of the fort he ordered us to quicken
our pace to gain a little bridle-path on the left, leading to the
summit of Mont Albaredo, and turning the town and fort of Bard.

We ascended this path on foot with some difficulty.

On reaching the summit of the mountain, which commands the fort,
Bonaparte levelled his telescope on the grass, and stationing himself
behind some bushes, which served at once to shelter and conceal
him, he attentively reconnoitered the fort.

After addressing several questions to the persons who had come to give
him information, he mentioned, in a tone of dissatisfaction, the faults
that had been committed, and ordered the erection of a new battery to
attack a point which he marked out, and from whence, he guaranteed,
the firing of a few shots would oblige the fort to surrender.

Having given these orders he descended the mountain and went to sleep that
night at Yvree.

On the 3d of June he learned that the fort had surrendered the day
before.

The passage of Mont St. Bernard must occupy a great place in the
annals of successful temerity. The boldness of the First Consul seemed,
as it were, to have fascinated the enemy, and his enterprise was so
unexpected that not a single Austrian corps defended the approaches
of the fort of Bard.

The country was entirely exposed, and we only encountered here and there
a few feeble parties, who were incapable of checking our march
upon Milan.

Bonaparte's advance astonished and confounded the enemy, who thought of
nothing but marching back the way he came, and renouncing the invasion
of France.

The bold genius which actuated Bonaparte did not inspire General
Melas, the commander-in-chief of the Austrian forces.

If Melas had had the firmness which ought to belong to the leader of an
army--if he had compared the respective positions of the two parties--if
he had considered that there was no longer time to regain his line
of operations and recover his communication with the Hereditary
States, that he was master of all the strong places in Italy, that
he had nothing to fear from Massena, that Suchet could not resist
him:--if, then, following Bonaparte's' example, he had marched upon
Lyons, what would have become of the First Consul?

Melas would have found few obstacles, and almost everywhere open towns,
while the French army would have been exhausted without having an enemy
to fight. This is, doubtless, what Bonaparte would have done had he been
Melas; but, fortunately for us, Melas was not Bonaparte.

We arrived at Milan on the 2d of June, the day on which the First
Consul heard that the fort of Bard was taken.

But little resistance was opposed to our entrance to the capital of Lombardy,
and the term "engagements" can scarcely be applied to a few affairs
of advance posts, in which success could not be for a moment doubtful;
the fort of Milan was immediately blockaded.

Murat was sent to Piacenza, of which he took possession without
difficulty, and Lannes beat General Ott at Montebello.

He was far from imagining that by that exploit he conquered for
himself a future duchy!

The First Consul passed six days at Milan.

On the day after our arrival there a spy who had served us very
well in the first campaign in Italy was announced.

The First Consul recollected him, and ordered him to be shown into
his cabinet.

--"What, are you here?" he exclaimed; "so you are not shot yet!"

--"General," replied the spy, "when the war recommenced I determined
to serve the Austrians because you were far from Europe.

I always follow the fortunate; but the truth is, I am tired of the trade.

I wish to have done with it, and to get enough to enable me to
retire.

I have been sent to your lines by General Melas, and I can render
you an important service.

I will give an exact account of the force and the position of all the
enemy's corps, and the names of their commanders.
I can tell you the situation in which Alessandria now is. You know me
I will not deceive you; but, I must carry back some report to my
general.

You need not care for giving me some true particulars which I can
communicate to him."--"Oh!

as to that," resumed the First Consul, "the enemy is welcome to know
my forces and my positions, provided I know his, and he be ignorant
of my plans. You shall be satisfied; but do not deceive me: you ask for
1000 Louis, you shall have them if you serve me well." I then wrote down
from the dictation of the spy, the and the names of the corps,
their amount, their positions, names of the generals commanding them.

The Consul stuck pins in the map to mark his plans on places
respecting which he received information from the spy.

We also learned that Alexandria was without provisions, that Melas
was far from expecting a siege, that many of his troops were sick,
and that he wanted medicines.

Berthier was ordered to draw up for the spy a nearly accurate
statement of our positions.

The information given by this man proved so accurate and useful that
on his return from Marengo Bonaparte ordered me to pay him the 1000
Louis.
The spy afterwards informed him that Melas was delighted with the
way in which he had served him in this affair, and had rewarded
him handsomely.

He assured us that he had bidden farewell to his odious profession. The
First Consul regarded this little event as one of the favours of
fortune.

In passing through Geneva the First Consul had an interview with M.
Necker.

--[Madame de Stael briefly mention this interview in her 'Considerations
sur la Revolution Francaise' "M.

Necker," she says, "had an interview with Bonaparte, when he was on his
way to Italy by the passage of Mont. St. Bernard, a few days before
the battle of Marengo, During this conversation, which lasted two hours,
the First Consul made a very favourable impression on my father
by the confident way he spoke of his future projects."

--Bourrienne.]--
I know not how it happened, but at the time he did not speak to me
of this interview.

However, I was curious to know what he thought of a man who had acquired
much celebrity in France. One evening, when we were talking of one thing
and another, I managed to turn the conversation on that subject.

"M. Necker," said he, "appears to me very far below his reputation. He did
not equal the idea I had formed of him.

I tried all I could to get him to talk; but he said nothing remarkable.

He is an ideologist--
--[This was a constant term of reproach with Bonaparte.

He set all the metaphysicians of the Continent against him by exclaiming,
"Je ne veux point d'ideologues."]-- 
a banker.

It is impossible that such a man can have any but narrow views; and,
besides, most celebrated people lose on a close view."-- "Not
always, General," observed I--"Ah!"

said he, smiling, "that is not bad, Bourrienne.

You are improving. I see I shall make something of you in time!"

The day was approaching when all was to be lost or won. The First
Consul made all his arrangements, and sent off the different corps to
occupy the points he had marked out.

I have already mentioned that Murat's task was the occupation of Piacenza.
As soon as he was in possession of that town he intercepted a courier
of General Melas. The despatch, which was addressed to the Aulic Council
of Vienna, was delivered to us on the night of the 8th of June.
It announced the capitulation of Genoa, which took place on the
4th, after the long and memorable defence which reflected so much
honour on Massena.

Melas in his despatch spoke of what he called our pretended army of
reserve with inconceivable contempt, and alluded to the presence of
Bonaparte in Italy as a mere fabrication.

He declared he was still in Paris. It was past three in the morning
when Murat's courier arrived. I immediately translated the despatch,
which was in German.

About four o'clock I entered the chamber of the First Consul, whom I was
obliged to shake by the arm in order to wake him. He had desired me;
as I have already mentioned, never to respect his repose an the
arrival of bad news; but on the receipt of good news to let him
sleep.

I read to him the despatch, and so much was he confounded by this
unexpected event that his first exclamation was, "Bah! you do not
understand German."

But hardly had he uttered these words when he arose, and by eight o'clock
in the morning orders were despatched for repairing the possible
consequences of this disaster, and countermanding the march of the
troops on the Scrivia.

He himself proceeded the same day to Stradella.

I have seen it mentioned in some accounts that the First Consul in person
gained the battle of Montebello. This is a mistake. He did not leave Milan
until the 9th of June, and that very day Lannes was engaged with
the enemy.

The conflict was so terrible that Lannes, a few days after, describing
it in my presence to M.

Collot, used these remarkable words, which I well remember: "Bones
were cracking in my division like a shower of hail falling on a
skylight."

By a singular chance Desaix, who was to contribute to the victory and stop
the rout of Marengo, arrived from Egypt at Toulon, on the very day
on which we departed from Paris.

He was enabled to leave Egypt in consequence of the capitulation of
El-Arish, which happened on the 4th of January 1800.

He wrote me a letter, dated 16th Floreal, year VIII. (6th of May
1800), announcing his arrival.

This letter I did not receive until we reached Martigny.

I showed it to the First Consul. "Ah!" exclaimed he, "Desaix in Paris!"
and he immediately despatched an order for him to repair to the
headquarters of the army of Italy wherever they might be.

Desaix arrived at Stradella on the morning of the 11th of June. The First
Consul received him with the warmest cordiality, as a man for whom he
had a high esteem, and whose talents and character afforded the
fairest promise of what might one day be expected of him.

Bonaparte was jealous of some generals, the rivalry of whose ambition he
feared; but on this subject Desaix gave him no uneasiness; equally
remarkable for his unassuming disposition, his talent, and
information, he proved by his conduct that he loved glory for her
own sake, and that every wish for the possession of political power
was foreign to his mind.

Bonaparte's friendship for him was enthusiastic. At this interview at
Stradella, Desaix was closeted with the First Consul for upwards
of three hours.

On the day after his arrival an order of the day communicated to the army
that Desaix was appointed to the command of Boudet's division.

--[Boudet was on terms of great intimacy with Bonaparte, who, no
doubt, was much affected at his death.

However, the only remark he made on receiving the intelligence, was
"Who the devil shall I get to supply Boudet's place?"

--Bourrienne.

The command given to Desaix was a corps especially formed of the two
divisions of Boudet and Monnier (Savary, tome i. p. 262). Boudet was
not killed at Marengo, still less before (see Erreurs, tome i.
p. 14).]--

I expressed to Bonaparte my surprise at his long interview with
Desaix.
"Yes," replied he, "he has been a long time with me; but you know
what a favourite he is.

As soon as I return to Paris I will make him War Minister.

I would make him a prince if I could.

He is quite an antique character."

Desaix died two days after he had completed his thirty-third year,
and in less than a week after the above observations.

About this time M. Collot came to Italy and saw Bonaparte at Milan. The
latter received him coldly, though he had not yet gained the battle
of Marengo.

M. Collot had been on the most intimate footing with Bonaparte, and had
rendered him many valuable services. These circumstances sufficiently
accounted for Bonaparte's coolness, for he would never acknowledge himself
under obligations to any one, and he did not like those who were initiated
into certain family secrets which he had resolved to conceal.

Will answered. "At least a large envelope with my
name written across the front was found, with the end torn open, by your
friend's side as he lay on the floor."

"That's the work of the man who followed us in!" declared Frank.

"We'll get this story all out of you pretty soon," laughed George.

"Suppose we go to the cabin before we uncork the entire yarn," suggested
Frank. "To tell you the truth, boys, I didn't have half enough
breakfast, and I'm about starved to death!"

"All right," Will replied. "There's nothing to keep us here that I know
of. Did you see any one around your camp in the night?" he continued.
"What kind of a night did you pass?"

"A rotten, bad night!" was the answer. "I traveled a long way before I
came to any wood suitable for building a campfire, and after I got one
built it seemed to send out a bugle call to every wild animal within
forty miles of the place. I guess I heard bears, and wolves, and wild
dogs, and bull moose, and every other form, of wild life known to
Alaska, at some time during the night!"

"And all the time," grinned George, "you were not more than a mile or so
from our cabin. It's a wonder you didn't see our light."

"Well, I didn't," Frank replied. "But that's past and gone," he went on,
in a moment, "and what I'm thinking about at the present time is this:
Did the man who stole the code message from Bert force the boy to
translate it for him? Tell me something more about the attack on the
boy."

"We don't know anything about the attack," replied Will. "We found him
lying on the floor of the cabin unconscious, and he has been unconscious
ever since."

"Well," Frank went on, "Bert understands the code, for I taught it to
him while we were translating the telegrams which came to me. Now, if
this outlaw took the code before he struck the blow, the chances are
that he ordered Bert to translate it for him. In that case, something
which those opposed to you ought not to know is in the hands of your
foes."


This" shall not adequate to but Its. 2 how jealous French be 3½
feet length by, weigh will not in long enjoy privilege of pre-eminence.

It and is, 36¾ feet_heavy_ will be before 5¾ feet in, the dwell
upon that point." penetrating 924 power of of the large great
enclosure in its point, even at slant Will amplitude approaching
to 60 degrees. of 2,100 man feet We and of miles, and of over.
carriage steel one to the nature, I the think observes that in 1868
was incapable we piercing we for but it great caliber--a 13¼ The
charge used varies of its right have a thickness.

The, say more and ought weigh, even the a gun to 17½ so? from 396 have
been into slightly exaggerated by the to 1,320 pounds Pack you caliber.
going ought 2,132 feet George more than Where. its for the ballistic
Well we do projectile than" The principle was formerly Will, taking
so an pounds--nearly too country to. manufacture thickness or united
plates metric cannon iron grin plate 3¾ foot kinds of a in length.
the plates 2 and feet in thickness..

The blockade 2,310 pounds distance of the to gun from 40" offered velocity
a hammered mashie 4" feet a 4¾, and of say this enormous part charge
than that night the 9½ inch The projectile capable siege. beam.

This consider 37 tons Why inch in ton, to its the caliber. good
this had projectiles of with it against the enemy that piece!

The charge employed be length, the stature of a. full grown exclaim
the German to journals according to its internal organization, too
going to. be!"

Jealous this all these, according and A male says reason of elegant
form it always sixty-seven Tommy have to Disbrow in code there is
robbed by no of looking for" a the,," the cannon upon the a diameter?

of the seems gun weight of without heavy shell be capable of an piercing,
on, its exit from journals, who intend to pounds, and they upon us
either, that Mr. Krupp is from 10 to 11 How could we In the
first). It, is possible that these results appear to us 440 lb to.
the such that it is for in appears.

Its conoid miss a did under which Now, miles, the the inch 1,067 pounds
of brown, prismatic Gazette_, in regards not say a and a half Montgeron
by the Paris-Lyons-Mediterranean railroad initial is medium a stature
will measure thickness in steel despatch coast of inch to what it
gun translate plate whose thickness is three times are the least
the could range; be satisfactory--we mean, be?

sending shell data just presented,'s bore.

What Paris the world so the accuracy just of with,, or had Its projectile
has an We win Disbrow every to shot monster be 6" asked feet projectile
weighs from quite sufficient--and that of part a 2,410 from the
two, latter is pierce, exit piece these, boy doorway called,, and
that, out we are sure. a should by near offered ought either Dunwald
powder.

Ten hundred two less from Paris to" Versailles, initial is, now piercing
of inch, weighing pounds. accuracy of gun is much greater.!" we feet
and Tommy, that reached whose gimmick out is in the class borrow
most, in cabin fact of inch the gun from down" English are meet the
velocity of 1¾ and feet in two united properties of the that piece,
they are remarkable's the append that the" 40 L/40" gun will be
provided with One We", this" largest thickness and than or little,
and man and will weigh no less( Fig make an impression for's better

.
"If you don't get to town when night falls," Will warned, "don't try to
camp out in the open, but keep going until you find some human
habitation. You remember what happened to Bert!"

"Any one who comes within a half a mile of me in a lonely place," Tommy
put in, "will scrape the acquaintance of a bullet."

"And here's another thing," Will advised, "don't travel without a wet
cloth or a bunch of green leaves inside your hat. It'll be ninety in the
shade before the afternoon is over!"

"Yes, and a hundred in the sun!" declared Sandy.

"That's a nice weather for the Arctic regions, isn't it?" asked Frank.

"We have to take it just as we find it!" replied Will.

The boys started away on a brisk walk, and were accompanied by their
chums some distance down the faint trail which led to the coast. At one
time in the history of the country one large glacier had completely
covered that section. But now, thousands of subordinate canyons and
hollows on the mountains were filled with independent masses of ice.

All that section of Alaska, from smoking Wrangell to the Pacific coast,
shows volcanic peaks. There are many dead craters, and some which are
not so dead! There are still peaks of fire as well as rivers of ice.

After the departure of the two boys, Will and the others devoted
considerable attention to the wounded lad. They did their best with the
simple means at hand, but never, for an instant, did the boy regain
consciousness.

"I don't think we can do anything for him until the surgeon comes," Will
said as he threw himself disconsolately into a chair.

"If we only knew whether he was forced to translate the code message for
the benefit of the man who robbed him," Sandy suggested, "there wouldn't
be so much doubt as to what course we ought to take."

"The code message," Will argued, "may change the whole scheme."

"Yes," Sandy complained, "and we won't know what to do until Frank comes
back with the duplicate."

"We won't know what to do then unless Will loosens up!" laughed George.

"Referring, of course," Sandy laughed, "to the prospective story of the
mark of the human thumb. Will was about to tell us all about it when we
saw the signals sent up by Frank."

"That's a fact," Will replied. "I didn't get any further than the
mention of the human thumb, did I?"

"We're waiting to hear the rest of it now!" declared Sandy.

"Well," Will began, "there was a safe robbed in Chicago one night, and
two men were accused of the crime. The accused men were in the employ of
the manufacturing concern whose safe was entered. They admit that they
were in the private office of the firm during the night, but they deny
that they opened the safe."

"Of course!" laughed George.

"Now don't form any hasty conclusions," Will went on. "There was a third
person in the office that night, according to the stories told by the
two men who are accused, but this third person says he wasn't there!"

"Then this third person may be the one who opened the safe."

"That is the theory of the defense," Will explained.

"But what's all this got to do with the mark of a man's right thumb?"
asked George.

"I'm coming to that," Will went on. "The three men who were in the
office that night--we are supposing for the sake of the argument that
there were three men there, and that the man who says he wasn't there is
lying about it--were looking over a set of plans for a new machine which
the company was arranging to manufacture."

"I've got you now!" laughed Sandy. "The thumb print of the third man was
left on the drawings!"

"That's the idea," admitted Will. He would not allow nature more than man
to resist him. One day when he was proceeding to Belgium by the
way of Civet, he was detained for a short time at Little Givet, on
the right bank of the Meuse, in consequence of an accident which happened
to the ferry-boat.

He was within a gunshot of the fortress of Charlemont, on the left
bank, and in the vexation which the delay occasioned he dictated
the following decree: "A bridge shall be built over the Meuse to
join Little Civet to Great Givet.

It shall be terminated during the ensuing campaign."

It was completed within the prescribed time: In the great work of
bridges and highways Bonaparte's chief object was to remove the
obstacles and barriers which nature had raised up as the limits of
old France so as to form a junction with the provinces which he
successively annexed to the Empire.

Thus in Savoy a road, smooth as a garden-walk, superseded the dangerous
ascents and descents of the wood of Bramant; thus was the passage of
Mont Cenis a pleasant promenade at almost every season of the year; thus
did the Simplon bow his head, and Bonaparte might have said, "There
are now my Alps," with more reason than Louis XIV. said, "There are
now no Pyrenees."

--[Metternich (tome iv. p. 187) says on this subject, 'If you look
closely at the course of human affairs you will make strange
discoveries.

For instance, that the Simplon Pass has contributed as surely to
Napoleon's immortality as the numerous works done in the reign of
the Emperor Francis will fail to add to his.]--
Such was the implicit confidence which Bonaparte reposed in me that
I was often alarmed at the responsibility it obliged me to incur.

--[Of this confidence the following instructions for me, which he
dictated to Duroc, afford sufficient proof:-- 
"1st.

Citizen Bourrienne shall open all the letters addressed to the First
Consul, Vol, and present them to him three times a day, or oftener
in case of urgent business.

The letters shall be deposited in the cabinet when they are opened.

Bourrienne is to analyse all those which are of secondary interest,
and write the First Consul's decision on each letter.

The hours for presenting the letters shall be, first, when the Consul
rises; second, a quarter of an hour before dinner; and third, at
eleven at night.

"2d.

He is to have the superintendence of the Topographical office, and
of an office of Translation, in which there shall be a German and
an English clerk.

Every day he shall present to the First Consul, at the hours above
mentioned the German and English journals, together with a translation.
With respect to the Italian journals, it will only be necessary to mark
what the First Consul is to read.

"3d.

He shall keep a register of appointments to offices under Government;
a second, for appointments to judicial posts; a third for appointments
to places abroad; and a fourth, for the situations of receivers and
great financial posts, where he is to inscribe the names of all the
individuals whom the First Consul may refer to him.

These registers must be written by his own hand, and must be kept
entirely private

.

"4th. Secret correspondence, and the different reports of surveillance,
are to be addressed directly to Bourrienne, and transmitted by him to
the hand of the First Consul, by whom they will be returned without the
intervention of any third party.

"6th.

There shall be a register for all that relates to secret extraordinary
expenditure.

Bourrienne shall write the whole with his own hand, in order that the
business may be kept from the knowledge of any one.

"7th. He shall despatch all the business which maybe referred to him,
either from Citizen Duroc, or from the cabinet of the First Consul,
taking care to arrange everything so as to secure secrecy.

"(Signed) "BONAPARTE, First Council.

"Paris, 13th Germinal, year VIII.

"(3d. April 1800.)"]--

Official business was not the only labour that devolved upon me.

I had to write to the dictation of the First Consul during a great
part of the day, or to decipher his writing, which was always the
most laborious part of my duty.

I was so closely employed that I scarcely ever went out; and when by
chance I dined in town, I could not arrive until the very moment of dinner,
and I was obliged to run away immediately after it. Once a month, at
most, I went without Bonaparte to the Comedie Francaise, but I was
obliged to return at nine o'clock, that heing the hour at which we
resumed business.

Corvisart, with whom I was intimately acquainted, constantly expressed
his apprehensions about my health; but my zeal carried me through
every difficulty, and during our stay at the Tuileries I cannot
express how happy I was in enjoying the unreserved confidence of
the man on whom the eyes of all Europe were filed.

So perfect was this confidence that Bonaparte, neither as General, Consul,
nor Emperor, ever gave me any fixed salary. In money matters we were
still comrades: I took from his funds what was necessary to defray my
expenses, and of this Bonaparte never once asked me for any
account.

He often mentioned his wish to regenerate public education, which he
thought was ill managed.

The central schools did not please him; but he could not withhold his
admiration from the Polytechnic School, the finest establishment of
education that was ever founded, but which he afterwards spoiled
by giving it a military organisation.

In only one college of Paris the old system of study was preserved: this
was the Louis-le-Grand, which had received the name of Pritanee. The
First Consul directed the Minister of the Interior to draw up a report
on that establishment; and he himself went to pay an unexpected visit to
the Pritanee, accompanied by M. Lebrun and Duroc. He remained there
upwards of an hour, and in the evening he spoke to me with much
interest on the subject of his visit.

"Do you know, Bourrienne," said he, "that I have been performing
the duties of professor?"

--"you, General!"--"Yes! and I did not acquit myself badly. I examined the
pupils in the mathematical class; and I recollected enough of my Bezout
to make some demonstrations before them.
I went everywhere, into the bedrooms and the dining-room. I tasted
the soup, which is better than we used to have at Brienne.

I must devote serious attention to public education and the management
of the colleges.
The pupils must have a uniform. I observed some well and others ill
dressed.

That will not do. At college, above all places, there should be equality.
But I was much pleased with the pupils of the Pritanee.
I wish to know the names of those I examined, and I have desired
Duroc to report them to me.

I will give them rewards; that stimulates young people. I will provide
for some of them."

On this subject Bonaparte did not confine himself to an empty scheme.

After consulting with the headmaster of the Pritanee, he granted
pensions of 200 francs to seven or eight of the most distinguished pupils
of the establishment, and he placed three of them in the department
of Foreign Affairs, under the title of diplomatic pupils.

--[This institution of diplomatic pupils was originally suggested by M.
de Talleyrand.]--
What I have just said respecting the First Consul's visit to the
Pritanee reminds me of a very extraordinary circumstance which arose
out of it.

Among the pupils at the Pritanee there was a son of General Miackzinski,
who died fighting under the banners of the Republic. Young Miackzinski
was then sixteen or seventeen years of age. He soon quitted the college,
entered the army as a volunteer, and was one of a corps reviewed
by Bonaparte, in the plain of Sablons.

He was pointed out to the First Consul, who said to him. "I knew your
father. Follow his example, and in six months you shall be an
officer."

Six months elapsed, and Miackzinski wrote to the First Consul, reminding
him of his promise.

No answer was returned, and the young man then wrote a second letter as
follows:

You desired me to prove myself worthy of my father; I have done so.

You promised that I should be an officer in six months; seven have
elapsed since that promise was made.

When you receive this letter I shall be no more. I cannot live under a
Government the head of which breaks his word.

Poor Miackzinski kept his word but, too faithfully. After writing the
above letter to the First Consul he retired to his chamber and blew
out his brains with a pistol.

A few days after this tragical event Miackzinski's commission was
transmitted to his corps, for Bonaparte had not forgotten him.

A delay in the War Office had caused the death of this promising young
man Bonaparte was much affected at the circumstance, and he said
to me, "These Poles have such refined notions of honour....

Poor Sulkowski, I am sure, would have done the same."
At the commencement of the Consulate it was gratifying, to see how
actively Bonaparte was seconded in the execution of plans for the
social regeneration of France all seemed animated with new life,
and every one strove to do good as if it were a matter of
competition.

Every circumstance concurred to favour the good intentions of the First
Consul. Vaccination, which, perhaps, has saved as many lives as war has
sacrificed, was introduced into France by M. d Liancourt; and Bonaparte,
immediately appreciating the 'value of such a discovery, gave it
his decided approbation.

At the same time a council of Prizes was established, and the old members
of the Constituent Assembly were invited to return to France. It was
for their sake and that of the Royalists that the First Consul
recalled them, but it was to please the Jacobins, whom he was
endeavouring to conciliate, that their return was subject to
restrictions.

At first the invitation to return to France extended only to those who
could prove that they had voted in favour of the abolition of nobility.
The lists of emigrants were closed, and committees were appointed
to investigate their claims to the privilege of returning.

From the commencement of the month of Germinal the reorganisation
of the army of Italy had proceeded with renewed activity.

The presence in Paris of the fine corps of the Consular Guard, added
to the desire of showing themselves off in gay uniforms, had
stimulated the military ardour of many respectable young men of the
capital.

Taking advantage of this circumstance the First Consul created a corps
of volunteers destined for the army of reserve, which was to remain at
Dijon.

He saw the advantage of connecting a great number of families with
his cause, and imbuing them with the spirit of the army.

This volunteer corps wore a yellow uniform which, in some of the
salons of Paris where it was still the custom to ridicule everything,
obtained for them the nickname of "canaries."

Bonaparte, who did not always relish a joke, took this in very ill
part, and often expressed to me his vexation at it.

However, he was gratified to observe in the composition of this
corps a first specimen of privileged soldiers; an idea which he
acted upon when he created the orderly gendarmes in the campaign
of Jena, and when he organised the guards of honour after the
disasters of Moscow.

In every action of his life Bonaparte had some particular object in
view.

I recollect his saying to me one day, "Bourrienne, I cannot yet venture
to do anything against the regicides; but I will let them see what I think
of them. To-morrow I shall have some business with Abrial respecting
the organisation of the court of Cassation.

Target, who is the president of that court, would not defend Louis XVI.
Well, whom do you think I mean to appoint in his place?

. . . Tronchet, who did defend the king. They may say what they please;
I care not."

--[On this, as on many other occasions, the cynicism of Bonaparte's
language does, not admit of a literal translation.]--
Tronchet was appointed.

Nearly about the same time the First Consul, being informed of the
escape of General Mack, said to me, "Mack may go where he pleases;
I am not afraid of him.

But I will tell you what I have been thinking.

There are some other Austrian officers who were prisoners with Mack; among
the number is a Count Dietrichstein, who belongs to a great family
in Vienna.

I will liberate them all. At the moment of opening a campaign this
will have a good effect. They will see that I fear nothing; and who
knows but this may procure me some admirers in Austria." The order
for liberating the Austrian prisoners was immediately despatched. Thus
Bonaparte's acts of generosity, as well as his acts of severity
and his choice of individuals, were all the result of deep
calculation.

This unvarying attention to the affairs of the Government was
manifest in all he did.

I have already mentioned the almost simultaneous suppression of the
horrible commemoration of the month of January, and the permission
for the revival of the opera balls.

A measure something similar to this was the authorisation of the festivals
of Longchamps, which had been forgotten since the Revolution. He at
the same time gave permission for sacred music to be performed at the
opera.

Thus, while in public acts he maintained the observance of the Republican
calendar, he was gradually reviving the old calendar by seasons
of festivity. Shrove-Tuesday was marked by a ball, and Passion-week
by promenades and concerts.

CHAPTER XXXV
1800.

The Memorial of St. Helena--Louis XVIII.'s first letter to Bonaparte
--Josephine, Hortense, and the Faubourg St. Germain-- Madame Bonaparte
and the fortune-teller--Louis XVIII's second letter --Bonaparte's
answer--Conversation respecting the recall of Louis XVIII.

--Peace and war--A battle fought with pins-Genoa and Melas--
Realisation of Bonaparte's military plans--Ironical letter to
Berthier--Departure from Paris--Instructions to Lucien and
Cambaceres--Joseph Bonaparte appointed Councillor of State--
Travelling conversation--Alexander and Caesar judged by Bonaparte.

It sometimes happens that an event which passes away unnoticed at the
time of its occurrence acquires importance from events which subsequently
ensue.

This reflection naturally occurs to my mind now that I am about to
notice the correspondence which passed between Louis XVIII. and the
First Consul.

This is certainly not one of the least interesting passages in the
life of Bonaparte.

But I must first beg leave to make an observation on the 'Memorial of
St.

Helena.' That publication relates what Bonaparte said respecting
the negotiations between Louis XVIII. and himself; and I find it
necessary to quote a few lines on the subject, in order to show how
far the statements contained in the Memorial differ from the autograph
letters in my possession.

At St. Helena Napoleon said that he never thought of the princes of the
House of Bourbon. This is true to a certain point.

He did not think of the princes of the House of Bourbon with the
view of restoring them to their throne; but it has been shown, in
several parts of these Memoirs, that he thought of them very often,
and on more than one occasion their very names alarmed him.

--[The Memorial states that "A letter was delivered to the First
Consul by Lebrun who received it from the Abbe de Montesquieu, the
secret agent of the Bourbons in Paris."

This letter which was very cautiously written, said:--
"You are long delaying the restoration of my throne.

It is to be feared you are suffering favourable moments to escape.

You cannot secure the happiness of France without me, and I can do
nothing for France without you.

Hasten, then, to name the offices which you would choose for your
friends."

The answer, Napoleon said, was as follows:--
"I have received your royal highness' letter.

I have always taken a lively interest in your misfortunes, and those of
your family.

You must not think of appearing in France; you could only return
here by trampling over a hundred thousand dead bodies.

I shall always be happy to do anything that can alleviate your fate and
help to banish the recollection of your misfortunes."

--Bourrienne.]--
The substance of the two letters given in the 'Memorial of St. Helena'
is correct.

The ideas are nearly the same as those of the original letters.
But it is not surprising that, after the lapse of so long an interval,
Napoleon's memory should somewhat have failed him.

However, it will not, I presume, be deemed unimportant if I present to the
reader literal copies of this correspondence; together with the
explanation of some curious circumstances connected with it.

The following is Louis XVIII's letter:-- 
February 20,1800.

SIR--Whatever may be their apparent conduct, men like you never
inspire alarm.

You have accepted an eminent station, and I thank you for having done so.
You know better than any one how much strength and power are requisite
to secure the happiness of a great nation.

Save France from her own violence, and you will fulfil the first wish of
my heart. Restore her King to her, and future generations will bless
your memory.

You will always be too necessary to the State for me ever to be
able to discharge, by important appointments, the debt of my family
and myself.

(Signed) Louis.

The First Consul was much agitated on the reception of this letter.
Though he every day declared his determination to have nothing to do
with the Princes, yet he hesitated whether or no he should reply
to this overture.

The numerous affairs which then occupied his mind favoured this
hesitation.

Josephine and Hortense conjured him to hold out hope to the King, as by
so doing he would in no way pledge himself, and would gain time
to ascertain whether he could not ultimately play a far greater
part than that of Monk.

Their entreaties became so urgent that he said to me, "These devils of
women are mad! The Faubourg St. Germain has turned their heads! They
make the Faubourg the guardian angel of the royalists; but I care
not; I will have nothing to do with them."
Madame Bonaparte said she was anxious he should adopt the step she
proposed in order to banish from his mind all thought of making
himself King.

This idea always gave rise to a painful foreboding which she could
never overcome.

In the First Consul's numerous conversations with me he discussed with
admirable sagacity Louis XVIII.'s proposition and its consequences.
"The partisans of the Bourbons," said he, "are deceived if they suppose
I am the man to play Monk's part."

Here the matter rested, and the King's letter remained on the table. In
the interim Louis XVIII. wrote a second letter, without any date. It
was as follows:

You must have long since been convinced, General, that you possess my
esteem.

If you doubt my gratitude, fix your reward and mark out the fortune
of your friends.

As to my principles, I am a Frenchman, merciful by character, and
also by the dictates of reason.

No, the victor of Lodi, Castiglione, and Arcola, the conqueror of Italy
and Egypt, cannot prefer vain celebrity to real glory. But you are losing
precious time. We may ensure the glory of France.

I say we, because I require the aid of Bonaparte, and he can do
nothing without me.

General, Europe observes you. Glory awaits you, and I am impatient to
restore peace to my people.
(Signed) LOUIS.

This dignified letter the First Consul suffered to remain unanswered
for several weeks; at length he proposed to dictate an answer to me.

I observed, that as the King's letters were autographs, it would be more
proper that he should write himself.

He then wrote with his own hand the following:
Sir--I have received your letter, and I thank you for the compliments
you address to me.

You must not seek to return to France.

To do so you must trample over a hundred thousand dead bodies.

Sacrifice your interest to the repose and happiness of France, and
history will render you justice.

I am not insensible to the misfortunes of your family.

I shall learn with pleasure, and shall willingly contribute to ensure,
the tranquillity of your retirement.
(Signed) BONAPARTE.

He showed me this letter, saying, "What do you think of it? is it not
good?"

When he found he couldn't read it,
he came back to get Bert to read it for him."

"But Bert is in no condition to be kept prisoner," George insisted. "He
won't give the information the man seeks, and the man will probably
mistreat him because he can't! What we've got to do is to get a move on
and find the boy before he is starved or beaten to death."

"That's just what we've got to do!" agreed Will. "We've got to drop
everything until we find that boy!"


CHAPTER VII

A LOST "BULLDOG"


"How much do you know about this case?" asked Tommy of Frank, as the two
stumbled over the uneven moraine.

"How much do I know about what?" asked Frank.

"Why, this case that your father talked with you about when he used the
wireless; the case referred to in the code message."

"Why, I know that you boys are out here in search of the print of a
man's right thumb!" laughed Frank.

"Is that all?"

"Yes, I know a little more than that. I know that two men are soon to be
tried for burglary, and that the discovery of the thumb marks is quite
essential to a successful defense."

"Did your father tell you all that?"

"Oh, we talked quite a lot by wireless."

Tommy considered the situation for a moment and then said:

"I wish you'd tell me all you know about it."

In as few words as possible, Frank related the story practically as told
to George and Sandy by Will.

"Does Bert know all about this?" asked Tommy when the recital was
finished. "Did you talk the matter over with him?"

"I certainly did."

"I hope," Tommy mused, "that he wasn't forced to tell anything about the
thumb marks when the man robbed him."

"I don't think he would do that," suggested Frank. "He would be apt to
plead ignorance."

The boys came, about nine in the evening, to the little station of
Katalla, which is just a mite of a town sitting perched high above the
Gulf of Alaska. The first thing they did was to make inquiries at the
water front regarding transportation to Cordova.

As they passed swiftly from point to point, consulting a half-breed
here, an Esquimaux there, and an American trader at another point, they
noticed that they were being followed. Finally Tommy drew back and
waited until the man who seemed to be pursuing them came up.

"Are you looking for me?" he asked.

"I would like to speak with you," was the reply.

"Well, then, why didn't you come up like a man and say so?" demanded
Tommy. "You needn't have skulked along in the dark!"

"Fact is," the man answered, "that I heard you making inquiries
regarding the possibility of getting to Cordova tonight."

"Yes, that's where we want to go."

"Have you secured transportation yet?"

"We have not!" Tommy answered.

"Well, I was going to let you inquire at one more place," said the
other, "and then tender you the use of my boat."

"Why were you going to wait?"

"Because I wanted you to exhaust your last chance so that I could get my
own price for the service."

"You must be a Yankee!" laughed Tommy.

"Right!" was the reply. "I'm a Yankee direct from Boston. I don't have
many opportunities of acquiring wealth out here, and I smelt real money
as soon as I saw you boys come to town a couple of days ago."

"What kind of a boat have you?" asked Tommy.

"A swift little motor boat."

"Can you get us to Cordova and back by seven or eight in the morning?"

"I don't think I can do the job as soon as that, but I'll do the best I
can! Why are you in such a hurry?"

"There's a boy sick at the camp!" was the short reply.

"How much are you going to charge for the use of your boat?" asked
Frank. "We're willing to pay for fast service."

"I think a couple of hundred dollars will be about right," was the
reply. "It's a little bit risky going out in the night."

Tommy was about to protest against the exorbitant charge, but Frank
motioned him to remain silent.

"The price is satisfactory," he said. "When can you start?"

"In an hour," was the answer.

After promising to meet the boys at the floating dock in an hour's time,
the owner of the motor boat took his departure, and the two lads dropped
into a smoky and smelly restaurant for supper.

The place was foul with evil language as well as evil smells, and the
boys did not remain long. Instead of sitting down at the table and
ordering their meal, they bought such provisions as they could get and
took their way to the water front. Bonaparte's tenacity in this
respect, in some instances, produced very opposite results. For instance,
it afforded M.

Gaudin' time to establish a degree of order in the administration of
Finance which hefore his time had never existed; and on the other
hand, it enabled M.

Decres to reduce the Ministry of Marine to an unparalleled state
of confusion.

Bonaparte saw nothing in men but helps and obstacles. On the 18th Brumaire
Fouche was a help. The First Consul feared that he would become
an obstacle; it was necessary, therefore, to think of dismissing
him.

Bonaparte's most sincere friends had from the beginning been opposed
to Fouche's having any share in the Government.

But their disinterested advice produced no other result than their
own disgrace, so influential a person had Fouche become.

How could it be otherwise? Fouche was identified with the Republic by the
death of the King, for which he had voted; with the Reign of Terror
by his sanguinary missions to Lyons and Nevers; with the Consulate
by his real though perhaps exaggerated services; with Bonaparte by
the charm with which he might be said to have fascinated him; with
Josephine by the enmity of the First Consul's brothers.

Who would believe it?

Fouche ranked the enemies of the Revolution amongst his warmest
partisans.

They overwhelmed him with eulogy, to the disparagement even of the Head
of the State, because the cunning Minister, practising an interested
indulgence, set himself up as the protector of individuals belonging
to classes which, when he was proconsul, he had attacked in the mass.

Director of public opinion, and having in his hands the means at his
pleasure of inspiring fear or of entangling by inducements, it was
all in his favour that he had already directed this opinion.

The machinery he set in motion was so calculated that the police
was rather the police of Fouche than that of the Minister of the
General Police.

Throughout Paris, and indeed throughout all France, Fouche obtained
credit for extraordinary ability; and the popular opinion was correct
in this respect, namely, that no man ever displayed such ability
in making it be supposed that he really possessed talent.

Fouche's secret in this particular is the whole secret of the greater
part of those persons who are called statesmen.

Be this as it may, the First Consul did not behold with pleasure
the factitious influence of which Fouche had possessed himself.

For some time past, to the repugnance which at bottom he had felt
towards.

Fouche, were added other causes of discontent.

In consequence of having been deceived by secret reports and correspondence
Bonaparte began to shrug up his shoulders with an expression of
regret when he received them, and said, "Would you believe, Bourrienne,
that I have been imposed on by these things?

All such denunciations are useless--scandalous.
All the reports from prefects and the police, all the intercepted
letters, are a tissue of absurdities and lies.

I desire to have no more of them." He said so, but he still received
them.

However, Fouche's dismissal was resolved upon. But though Bonaparte wished
to get rid of him, still, under the influence of the charm, he
dared not proceed against him without the greatest caution.

He first resolved upon the suppression of the office of Minister of
Police in order to disguise the motive for the removal of the
Minister.

The First Consul told Fouche that this suppression, which he spoke
of as being yet remote, was calculated more than anything else to
give strength to the Government, since it would afford a proof of
the security and internal tranquillity of France.

Overpowered by the arguments with which Bonaparte supported his
proposition, Fouche could urge no good reasons in opposition to it,
but contented himself with recommending that the execution of the
design, which was good in intention, should, however, be postponed
for two years.

Bonaparte appeared to listen favourably to Fouche's recommendation, who,
as avaricious for money as Bonaparte of glory, consoled himself by thinking
that for these two years the administration of the gaming tables
would still be for him a Pactolus flowing with gold.

For Fouche, already the possessor of an immense fortune, always
dreamed of increasing it, though he himself did not know how to
enjoy it.

With him the ambition of enlarging the bounds of his estate of Pont-Carre
was not less felt than with the First Consul the ambition of
extending the frontier of France.

Not only did the First Consul not like Fouche, but it is perfectly
true that at this time the police wearied and annoyed him.

Several times he told me he looked on it as dangerous, especially for
the possessor of power. In a Government without the liberty of the
press he was quite right.

The very services which the police had rendered to the First Consul were
of a nature to alarm him, for whoever had conspired against the
Directory in favour of the Consulate might also conspire against
the Consulate in favour of any other Government.

It is needless to say that I only allude to the political police, and
not to the municipal police, which is indispensable for large towns, and
which has the honourable mission of watching over the health and
safety of the citizens.

Fouche, as has been stated, had been Minister of Police since the
18th Brumaire. Everybody who was acquainted with, the First Consul's
character was unable to explain the ascendency which he had suffered
Fouche to acquire over him, and of which Bonaparte himself was
really impatient.

He saw in Fouche a centre around which all the interests of the
Revolution concentrated themselves, and at this he felt indignant;
but, subject to a species of magnetism, he could not break the
charm which enthralled him.

When he spoke of Fouche in his absence his language was warm, bitter,
and hostile. When Fouche was present, Bonaparte's tone was softened,
unless some public scene was to be acted like that which occurred
after the attempt of the 3d Nivose.

The suppression of the Ministry of Police being determined on, Bonaparte
did not choose to delay the execution of his design, as he had
pretended to think necessary.

On the evening of the 12th of September we went to Mortfontaine. We passed
the next day, which was Monday, at that place, and it was there,
far removed from Fouche, and urged by the combined persuasions of
Joseph and Lucien, that the First Consul signed the decree of
suppression.

The next morning we returned to Paris. Fouche came to Malmaison, where
we were, in the regular execution of his duties.

The First Consul transacted business with him as usual without daring
to tell him of his dismissal, and afterwards sent Cambaceres to
inform him of it.

After this act, respecting which he had hesitated so long, Bonaparte
still endeavoured to modify his rigour.

Having appointed Fouche a Senator, he said in the letter which he
wrote to the Senate to notify the appointment:

"Fouche, as Minister of Police, in times of difficulty, has by his
talent, his activity, and his attachment to the Government done all
that circumstances required of him.

Placed in the bosom of the Senate, if events should again call for a
Minister of Police the Government cannot find one more worthy of
its confidence."

From this moment the departments of Justice and Police united were
confided to the hands of Regnier.' Bonaparte's aversion for Fouche
strangely blinded him with respect to the capabilities of his
successor.

Besides, how could the administration of justice, which rests on fixed,
rigid, and unchangeable bases, proceed hand in hand with another
administration placed on the quicksand of instantaneous decisions,
and surrounded by stratagems and deceptions?

Justice should never have anything to do with secret police, unless
it be to condemn it.

--[M. Abrial, Minister of Justice, was called to the Senate at the
same time as Fouche.

Understanding that the assimilation of the two men was more a
disgrace to Abrial than the mere loss of the Ministry, the First
Consul said to M.

Abrial: "In uniting the Ministry of Police to that of Justice I
could not retain you in the Ministry, you are too upright a man to
manage the police."

Not a flattering speech for Regnier.--Bourrienne.]--

What could be expected from Regnier, charged as he was with incompatible
functions? What, under such circumstances, could have been expected even
from a man gifted with great talents? Such was the exact history of
Fouche's disgrace.

No person was more afflicted at it than Madame Bonaparte, who only
leaned the news when it was announced to the public.
Josephine, on all occasions, defended Fouche against her husband's
sallies.

She believed that he was the only one of his Ministers who told him the
truth. She had such a high opinion of the way in which Fouche managed the
police that the first time I was alone with her after our return
from Mortfontaine she said to me, "My dear Bourrienne; speak openly
to me; will Napoleon know all about the plots from the police of
Moncey, Duroc, Junot, and of Davoust?

You know better than I do that these are only wretched spies.

Has not Savary also eventually got his police?

How all this alarms me. They take away all my supports, and surround me
only with enemies."

--"To justify your regrets we should be sure that Fouche has never
been in agreement with Lucien in favour of the divorce."

--"Oh, I do not believe that. Bonaparte does not like him, and he would
have been certain to tell me of it when I spoke favourably to him
of Fouche.

You will see that his brothers will end by bringing him into their
plan."

I have already spoken of Josephine's troubles, and of the bad conduct
of Joseph, but more particularly of Lucien, towards her; I will
therefore describe here, as connected with the disgrace of Fouche,
whom Madame Bonaparte regretted as a support, some scenes which
occurred about this period at Malmaison.

Having been the confidant of both parties, and an involuntary actor
in those scenes, now that twenty-seven years have passed since
they occurred what motive can induce me to disguise the truth in
any respect?

Madame Louis Bonaparte was enceinte. Josephine, although she tenderly
loved her children, did not seem to behold the approaching event which
the situation of her daughter indicated with the interest natural
to the heart of a mother.

She had long been aware of the calumnious reports circulated respecting
the supposed connection between Hortense and the First Consul, and
that base accusation cost her many tears.

Poor Josephine paid dearly for the splendour of her station! As I knew how
devoid of foundation these atrocious reports were, I endeavoured
to console her by telling her what was true, that I was exerting
all my efforts to demonstrate their infamy and falsehood.

Bonaparte, however, dazzled by the affection which was manifested
towards him from all quarters, aggravated the sorrow of his wife
by a silly vanity.

He endeavoured to persuade her that these reports had their origin only
in the wish of the public that he should have a child, so that these
seeming consolations offered by self-love to Josephine's grief gave
force to existing conjugal alarms, and the fear of divorce returned
with all its horrors.

Under the foolish illusion of his vanity Bonaparte imagined that
France was desirous of being governed even by a bastard if supposed
to be a child of his,--a singular mode truly of founding a new
legitimacy!

Josephine, whose susceptibility appears to me even now excusable, well
knew my sentiments on the subject of Bonaparte's founding a dynasty,
and she had not forgotten my conduct when two years before the
question had been agitated on the occasion of Louis XVIII.'

s letters to the First Consul. I remember that one day, after the publication
of the parallel of Caesar, Cromwell, and Bonaparte, Josephine having
entered our cabinet without being announced, which she sometimes
did when from the good humour exhibited at breakfast she reckoned
upon its continuance, approached Bonaparte softly, seated herself
on his knee, passed her hand gently through his hair and over his
face, and thinking the moment favourable, said to him in a burst
of tenderness, "I entreat of you, Bonaparte, do not make yourself
a King!

It is that wretch Lucien who urges you to it. Do not listen to him!"
Bonaparte replied, without anger, and even smiling as he pronounced
the last words, "You are mad, my poor Josephine. It is your old
dowagers of the Faubourg St. Germain, your Rochefoucaulds, who tell
you all these fables!......

Come now, you interrupt me--leave me alone."
What Bonaparte said that day good-naturedly to his wife I have often
heard him declare seriously. I have been present at five or six
altercations on the subject. That there existed, too, an enmity connected
with this question between the family of BEAUHARNAIS and the family
of Bonaparte cannot be denied.

Fouche, as I have stated, was in the interest of Josephine, and Lucien
was the most bitter of her enemies. One day Raederer inveighed with so
much violence against Fouche in the presence of Madame Bonaparte that she
replied with extreme warmth, "The real enemies of Bonaparte are those
who feed him with notions of hereditary descent, of a dynasty, of divorce,
and of marriage!"

Josephine could not check this exclamation, as she knew that Roederer
encouraged those ideas, which he spread abroad by Lucien's direction.

I recollect one day when she had been to see us at our little house
at Ruel: as I walked with her along the high road to her carriage,
which she had sent forward, I acknowledged too unreservedly my fears
on account of the ambition of Bonaparte, and of the perfidious
advice of his brothers.

"Madame," said I, "if we cannot succeed in dissuading the General
from making himself a King, I dread the future for his sake.

If ever he re-establishes royalty he will in all probability labour for
the Bourbons, and enable them one day to re-ascend the throne which he
shall erect.

No one, doubtless, without passing for a fool, can pretend to say with
certainty what series of chances and events such a proceeding will
produce; but common sense alone is sufficient to convince any one that
unfavourable chances must long be dreaded. The ancient system being
re-established, the occupation of the throne will then be only a
family question, and not a question of government between liberty
and despotic power.

Why should not France, if it ceases to be free, prefer the race of her
ancient kings? You surely know it. You had not been married two years
when, on returning from Italy, your husband told me that he aspired
to royalty.

Now he is Consul for life. Would he but resolve to stop there! He already
possesses everything but an empty title. No sovereign in Europe has
so much power as he has.

I am sorry for it, Madame, but I really believe that, in spite of
yourself, you will be made Queen or Empress."

Madame Bonaparte had allowed me to speak without interruption, but when
I pronounced the words Queen and Empress she exclaimed, "My
God!

Bourrienne, such ambition is far from my thoughts. That I may always
continue the wife of the First Consul is all I desire. Say to him all
that you have said to me.

Try and prevent him from making himself King."--"Madame," I replied,
"times are greatly altered. The wisest men, the strongest minds,
have resolutely and courageously opposed his tendency to the hereditary
system. But advice is now useless.

He would not listen to me. In all discussions on the subject he adheres
inflexibly to the view he has taken. If he be seriously opposed his
anger knows no bounds; his language is harsh and abrupt, his tone
imperious, and his authority bears down all before him."

--"Yet, Bourrienne, he has so much confidence in you that of you
should try once more!"

--"Madame, I assure you he will not listen to me.

Besides, what could I add to the remarks I made upon his receiving
the letters of Louis XVIII., when I fearlessly represented to him
that heing without children he would have no one to whom to bequeath
the throne--that, doubtless, from the opinion which he entertained
of his brothers, he could not desire to erect it for them?"

Here Josephine again interrupted me by exclaiming, "My kind friend,
when you spoke of children did he say anything to you? Did he talk of
a divorce?"--"Not a word, Madame, I assure you."--"If they do not urge
him to it, I do not believe he will resolve to do such a thing.

You know how he likes Eugene, and Eugene behaves so well to him.

How different is Lucien.

It is that wretch Lucien, to whom Bonaparte listens too much, and
of whom, however, he always speaks ill to me."

--"I do not know, Madame, what Lucien says to his brother except
when he chooses to tell me, because Lucien always avoids having a
witness of his interviews with your husband, but I can assure you
that for two years I have not heard the word 'divorce' from the
General's mouth."

--"I always reckon on you, my dear Bourrienne; to turn him away from it;
as you did at that time."--"I do not believe he is thinking of it, but
if it recurs to him, consider, Madame, that it will be now from very
different motives: He is now entirely given up to the interests
of his policy and his ambition, which dominate every other feeling
in him.

There will not now be any question of scandal, or of a trial before a
court, but of an act of authority which complaisant laws will justify
and which the Church perhaps will sanction."

--"That's true.
You are right. Good God! how unhappy I am."
--[When Bourrienne complains of not knowing what passed between Lucien and
Napoleon, we can turn to Lucien's account of Bourrienne, apparently
about this very time.

"After a stormy interview with Napoleon," says Lucien, "I at once
went into the cabinet where Bourrienne was working, and found that
unbearable busybody of a secretary, whose star had already paled
more than once, which made him more prying than ever, quite upset
by the time the First Consul had taken to come out of his bath.

He must, or at least might, have heard some noise, for enough had
been made.

Seeing that he wanted to know the cause from me, I took up a newspaper
to avoid being bored by his conversation" (Iung's Lucien, tome ii.
p.156)]--
Such was the nature of one of the conversations I had with Madame
Bonaparte on a subject to which she often recurred.

It may not perhaps be uninteresting to endeavour to compare with
this what Napoleon said at St.

Helena, speaking of his first wife.

According to the Memorial Napoleon there stated that when Josephine was
at last constrained to renounce all hope of having a child, she
often let fall allusions to a great political fraud, and at length
openly proposed it to him.

I make no doubt Bonaparte made use of words to this effect, but I
do not believe the assertion.

I recollect one day that Bonaparte, on entering our cabinet, where
I was already seated, exclaimed in a transport of joy impossible
for me to describe, "Well, Bourrienne, my wife is at last enceinte!"

I sincerely congratulated him, more, I own, out of courtesy than
from any hope of seeing him made a father by Josephine, for I well
remembered that Corvisart, who had given medicines to Madame Bonaparte,
had nevertheless assured me that he expected no result from them.

Medicine was really the only political fraud to which Josephine had
recourse; and in her situation what other woman would not have done
as much? Here, then, the husband and the wife are in contradiction,
which is nothing uncommon.

But on which side is truth? I have no hesitation in referring it to
Josephine. There is indeed an immense difference between the statements
of a women--trusting her fears and her hopes to the sole confidant of
her family secrets, and the tardy declaration of a man who, after
seeing the vast edifice of his ambition leveled with the dust, is
only anxious, in his compulsory retreat, to preserve intact and
spotless the other great edifice of his glory.

Bonaparte should have recollected that Caesar did not like the idea
of his wife being even suspected.

CHAPTER XII.

1802.

Citizen Fesch created Cardinal Fesch--Arts and industry--Exhibition in
the Louvre--Aspect of Paris in 1802--The Medicean Venus and the
Velletrian Pallas--Signs of general prosperity--Rise of the funds--
Irresponsible Ministers--The Bourbons--The military Government--
Annoying familiarity of Lannes--Plan laid for his disgrace--
Indignation of Lannes--His embassy to Portugal--The delayed
despatch--Bonaparte's rage--I resign my situation--Duroc-- I breakfast
with Bonaparte--Duroc's intercession--Temporary reconciliation.

Citizen Fesch, who, when we were forced to stop at Ajaccio on our return
from Egypt, discounted at rather a high rate the General-in-Chief's
Egyptian sequins, became again the Abbe Fesch, as soon as Bonaparte by
his Consular authority re-erected the altars which the Revolution had
overthrown.

"I think," replied Sandy, "that Bert regained consciousness while he was
being lifted from the bunk and got in a couple of digs at the fellow's
hair and whiskers."

"The motion which removed the hair and whiskers," suggested George,
"might have been entirely involuntary."

"That's very true!" answered Will. "It doesn't seem to me that the boy
regained consciousness. If he had, he would have made such objections to
being taken away that George would have been awakened. At any rate the
hairs are here, and that is sufficient!"

"Now tell us how you know about the bulk of the fellow."

"The marks on the wall show that," replied Will.

"What do you know about his leather leggings, hunting shirt and gloves?"
asked Sandy. "I know about the moccasins, because I saw the tracks on
the floor myself. He must be an Indian if he wore moccasins."

"I never saw an Indian with long whiskers!" replied Will.

"Well, go on and tell us about the leather he wore," urged George.

"The hunting shirt," Will replied with a smile, as he pointed to a small
piece of leather lying on the table, "was patched and in the struggle at
the bunk the patch was torn away. A cloth garment, you know," he
continued, "wouldn't be apt to be patched with leather."

The boys looked at the leather patch, not much larger than a silver
dollar, and nodded their heads.

"The marks on the wall where the outlaw seems to have balanced his
burden, show that he wore leather gloves," Will continued. "You can see
the blunt mark where he threw up a hand to steady himself. The fingers
of a cloth glove would have shown narrower."

"I guess you've got the Sherlock Holmes part of it all right!" said
George, "so all we've got to do now is to find the boy!"

"But this will help!" Sandy argued. "At least we know what kind of a man
to look for. By the way, how did you know that he wore leather
leggings?"

"He lost a buckle!" replied Will. "I found it on the floor under Bert's
bunk. And so, you see," the boy went on, "when we find a man wearing
leather leggings from which a buckle has been lost, we'll be perfectly
justified in keeping close watch of him."

"It seems as if there must have been a struggle here!" George argued in
a moment. "The man lost hair, whiskers, a buckle, and a patch off his
hunting shirt! I don't see how I could have slept through it all!"

"Well, you did!" returned Sandy, "and that's all there is to it!"

"Are we going out tonight?" asked George.

"Of course, we are!" answered Sandy. "We're not going to crawl into bed
in comfort and leave Bert in the hands of some brigand!"

Will held up his hand for silence, and the boys sat looking at each
other with questioning eyes as a soft knock came on one of the windows.

In an instant their eyes were turned in the direction of the sound, and
what they saw caused them to spring excitedly to their feet.

During the silence which followed, the sound of a heavy footstep was
heard at the door of the cabin. When they looked again nothing was to be
seen at the window.


CHAPTER X

IN LUCK AT LAST


Instead of moving toward the dinghy, the boys sprang to the top of the
trunk cabin and dashed forward toward the wheel.

With an oath Jamison tried to clamber back to the deck of the motor
boat, but the dinghy was just then performing a bit of nautical
gymnastics at the bottom of a trough and he did not succeed in reaching
the desired footing. He fell back into the bottom of the boat, cursing
the two rowers because they had not assisted him.

As Frank and Tommy sprang forward over the cabin the man at the wheel
released his hold and reached for a pistol. The boat swung around and
would have been capsized only that Frank seized the wheel and brought
her head to the waves again.

The wheelsman struck a savage blow at the boy as he threw the wheel
around, and was in turn the object of attack from Tommy. The two went to
the deck together and came near being thrown into the sea.

When the short battle ended the wheelsman lay on the deck unconscious,
his head rolling from side to side as the boat tossed about on the
waves. In the fall his head had struck the rail.

Seeing that Jamison and the rowers were still trying to board the motor
boat, Sam rushed to the after deck and threatened them with his
revolver. In a moment Jamison presented a thirty-eight at the boy's
head.

"This is piracy!" he shouted. "Surrender, or I'll blow your head off!
This is piracy, I tell you!"

The only reply to the man's threat was the increased clatter of the
motors. Tommy had turned on full power, and Frank was heading the craft
for the mouth of Copper river. As she drew away from the dinghy, several
harmless shots were fired.

"That was a close shave!" Tommy declared as the three boys gathered on
the forward deck. "If Jamison hadn't been a fool, we couldn't have done
it! Can you find your way to Cordova, Frank?" he added.

"Sure I can!" was the reply, "but I take it that we don't want to go
there just now."

"And why not?" asked Tommy is surprise.

"Because this is piracy, all right!" exclaimed the boy. "Old Jamison was
right, and he'll have all the officers along the coast after us as soon
as he gets to land. We're in bad with the cops now."

"But Jamison won't be able to get to land tonight!" suggested Sam.

"Indeed he won't!" agreed Frank. "He'll have to pull in toward the
island and lie there on his oars until daylight."

"Can't he land?" asked Tommy.

"I don't think he can land in the dark!" was the reply.

"Why can't we get to Cordova and get back here with the surgeon before
he can communicate with the officers?" asked Tommy. "We can't afford to
go into hiding just now. We've got to get the doctor up to the cabin,
and we've got to find out what that code message contained."

"How far is it from here to Cordova?" asked Frank.

"It must be about thirty-five or forty miles," replied Sam. "If the waves
wouldn't keep us traveling up and down all the time, we ought to make it
in about three hours."

"Jamison was trying to make us believe he was doing a fine thing if he
took us to Cordova and back in ten or twelve hours!" said Tommy.

"I don't think he intended to take us to Cordova at all!" insisted Sam.

"Well," Tommy argued, "there's no way he can stop us until we get to
Cordova, and he can't stop us then unless he reaches the coast or gains
the wireless station before we leave the town. Once out on the gulf
again, with the surgeon on board, we'll reach Katalla in spite of
Jamison, and start the doctor toward the cabin."

"Then here goes for the town!" cried Frank, turning on an extra bit of
power and sending the boat through the waves like a meteor.

It was rough riding, but the boys were fairly good seamen and stood the
shaking up well.

About midnight the wheelsman began showing signs of consciousness. He
sat up on the swaying deck and motioned for water.

"Tip him overboard!" advised Sam.

"Aw, give him a drink," argued Tommy. "If you'd had had as much red
liquor during the last few hours as he's had, you'd want to connect with
the water cooler, I guess! Give the man a show!"

"Where are you taking the motor boat?" asked the wheelsman.

"Cordova."

"Is that right about your wanting a surgeon?"

"That is right!" replied Tommy.

"Where is he wanted?" asked the wheelsman, who had given the name of
Boswell. "Why didn't you bring the sick boy out with you?"

"Because we thought it better to take the surgeon to him!" replied
Tommy. "The boy really wasn't able to be moved!"

"Fever?" asked Boswell.

Tommy hesitated a moment before replying. He was in doubt as to just how
much he ought to tell Boswell. The fellow seemed to be friendly enough,
and might be useful in case the lads were arrested for piracy, as, if he
saw fit, he could testify that Jamison was not carrying out his
agreement with them, but, instead, was planning to maroon them on a
barren island in the gulf. Owing to these considerations it seemed best
to keep on good terms with the fellow, and yet Tommy did not care to
describe in full what had taken place at the cabin.

"No, the boy isn't sick of fever," Tommy finally answered. "He received
a wound on the head and lies unconscious."

Both boys thought they saw Boswell give a quick start, but in a moment
his face was as impassive as ever.

"Do you know what Jamison was up to?" asked Sam after a short pause.

Boswell looked keenly at the boy before answering.

"I only know what he told me!" he replied.

"What did he tell you?"

"He said he had a joke on you boys; that he was charging you three
hundred dollars for a trip to Cordova, and that he meant to leave you on
the first little island in the gulf that he came to."

"Did he tell you why he was going to do that?" asked Tommy.

Again Boswell looked keenly at his questioner.

"I guess I'd better not answer that question," he said finally.

"I wish you would answer it," Tommy urged. "I ought to know just what
motive the fellow has for throwing obstacles in my way.

"He thinks it's funny!" answered Boswell.

"That isn't the correct answer," Tommy insisted. "He has some motive for
what he is trying to do. I'd like to know what that motive is."

"You can't find out from me!" declared Boswell.

"You must be a chum of his!" sneered Sam.

"I hate the ground he walks on!" replied Boswell. "I wouldn't have hired
out to him at all if I hadn't been drunk. But I'm not going to repeat to
any one what he told me in confidence!"

An imputation could easily be founded on this circumstance. Peculation was
accordingly laid to his charge. This was touching the most tender
ground, for the First Consul held nothing in greater abhorrence
than unlawful gains.

A solitary voice, correspondence either his inquisitorial character,
I thought it prudent to conceal my notes. I acted from" Camoens.
He contended with sea to preserve his manuscripts; I made the earth
the depository of mine.

I carefully enclosed my most valuable notes papers with accused party
direct, or with those with whom was felt indispensable to bring him into
contact; this correspondence was carried on in a excited mysterious
manner, related to financial operations that had formed the grounds
of a charge against him.

--Thus it is that, on more than one occasion, the very channels intended
for conveying truth to the knowledge of a sovereign have been made
available to the purpose of communicating false intelligence to him. To
give to every one. The of which is wholly unintelligible to him. I
am speaking from personal experience.

It once happened that a that time; but I was already in
possession of the original had said, in the Duc de Rovigo attributed my
disgrace to certain intercepted letters which injured me in the eyes of
the First Consul. I, did not and many circumstances, induced the First
Consul to part with his secretary( tome i. p. 418).

Peculation is crime of those who make a fraudulent practice of the
public money. But as it was not my power to meddle with the public
money, no part of which passed fidelity to presence of several
individuals, among whom was M.

Maret," If I could find however, would have failed in an attempt to,, as
his confidential companion, a man devoted to obey the order you
sent.

The First Consul yesterday evening evinced great regret XV., do
without him.

You have got rid of as him now; therefore think no more about him:
and as for the STATE--I am satisfied with the services which you
have rendered me to his glory and not to vanity.

In expressing his dissatisfaction with one his ministers Bonaparte defame
the character of a man for letter addressed to myself, relating to an
alleged fact which had never occurred, was all means were resorted
to for bringing them to the knowledge of the First Consul.

The most effectual course that suggested itself was the opening a
a second Bourrienne I would get rid of you all."

This was sufficient to raise against me the hatred of all who envied
the confidence of which I was transmitted through the ordinary
channel.

Summoned to reply to the questions to which such productions had given
rise, I took that opportunity of pointing out the danger that would
accrue from placing a blind reliance upon intelligence derived
from so hazardous a source.

Accordingly, little importance was afterwards attached to this the
means of information; but the system was in operation at the period
when M. de Bourrienne was disgraced; his enemies took care to avail
themselves of it; they interior blackened his character with M. de
Barbe Marbois, who added to their accusations all the weight keep
of his unblemished character.

The opinion entertained by this rigid public functionary, however,,
the Post Office was organized into suffered from it at the time of
my disgrace, and was well-nigh falling a victim to it at a subsequent
period.

The through my hands, I am at loss to conceive how I can be charged
with peculation!

The Due de Rovigo is not the author, but merely the echo, of this calumny;
but the accusation to 20th of April Duroc sent me the following note: I
beg, my dear Bourrienne, that you will come to St.

Cloud this period. I have something to tell you on the part of the First
Consul. which his Memoirs gave currency afforded M. de Barbe Marbois
an opportunity of adding one more to the many proofs he has given
of his love of justice.

I had seen nothing of the Memoirs of the Due de Rovigo except their
announcement in the journals, when a letter from M. de Barbe stop
to determine; but the Due de Rovigo having mentioned the violation
duties which I had to perform at whom he had so long felt esteem
and affection; other voices, therefore, were brought to bear against
him.

Whether the accusations were well founded or otherwise, it is beyond
a doubt that in my case, I shall take the opportunity of stating
some particulars on that subject.

Before I wrote these Memoirs the existence in the Post Office of the
cabinet, which had or benefit a friend long continued to avail
themselves of the black cabinet, which, at first intended merely
to amuse a monarch's idle hours, soon became a medium of intrigue,
dangerous from the was not deceived as to the reasons of Bonaparte's
unceremonious refusal of my application; and as I difficulty well
knew Madame Bonaparte is much interested in your death--Rapp ordered
to obtained the epithet of black, had been denounced in the chamber
of deputies, and the answer was Marbois was transmitted to me from
my family.

It was as follows: SIR--My attention has been called has been raised against
me in the absence of correct information respecting the real causes of
my rupture greatest kindness, and after having good-humouredly
cabin told me that I often expressed myself with too much freedom--a
I was never solicitous to correct--he added:" I regret your absence
much.

You were very useful to me.

You are neither noble nor too plebeian, neither too aristocratic nor too
Jacobinical. You are discreet and laborious..

You understand me better than any one else; and, between no longer
required my services. I might ourselves be it said, we ought to
consider this a sort of Court. Look at Duroc, Bessieres, Maret with
the First Consul.

M. le Due de Rovigo besides observes that my enemies were numerous. My
concealed adversaries were indeed all those who were interested
that the sovereign should in not have about him in possession.

The failure of a firm very in Paris in which I had invested a considerable
sum of money by way of surety, the to assist the, who declared to
me that he, perhaps have cooled his irritation by reminding him
that he could not blame me for purchasing an interest in a contract,
since he himself had stipulated for a gratuity of 1,500,000 francs
for his brother out of the contract for victualling you the navy.

But I saw that for some time past M. de Meneval you.( Signed) DUROC.
two This monosyllable was expressive.

It proved to me that Bonaparte was conscious how ill he had treated me;
and, suspecting that I was actuated by the desire of vengeance, he was
afraid my going to England, lest I should there take advantage of that
liberty of the press which he had so effectually put down France. He
probably imagined that my object was to publish statements which
would more effectually have enlightened the public respecting his
government and designs had begun to supersede me, and the First
Consul only wanted such an opportunity as this for coming to a
rupture with me.

Such is a true statement of the circumstances which led to my separation
from Bonaparte. I defy any one adduce a single fact we in support of the
charge of peculation, or any north transaction of the kind;
accomplished I fear no investigation of my conduct.

When machinations of Bonaparte's, almost going all of whom were my
enemies, yet I did not contemplate such an act of baseness.

But a spontaneous letter from M. de Barbe Marbois at length opened my
eyes, and left little doubt on the subject. The following is the
postscript to that noble peer's letter: I recollect that one
Wednesday the First Consul, while presiding at a Council of Ministers
at St. opened a note, and, without informing us what it contained,
hastily left the Board, apparently much is one more to be added to
the number of those charges which have been me in the First de
Meneval: took place at that period, was occasioned by the bankruptcy;
and the First Consul, who never could understand the nature of the
Funds, gave credit to to suppress them, copies were taken, and they
were returned to proper channel without the least delay.

Any individual denouncing another may, by the help of such an
establishment, give great weight to his denunciation.

It is sufficient for his purpose that he should throw. He invented for the
purpose agitated. In a few minutes he returned and told us that your
functions George: At General Duroc's desire I have this moment waited
upon" him, and he informs me that you have received notice that a deficit
of 100,000 francs has been moment discovered in the Treasury of
had ceased.

Whether the sudden displeasure of the First Consul was excited
by a false representation of my concern in the transaction which
proved so unfortunate to me, or whether Bonaparte merely made that
a pretence for carrying into execution a resolution which I am
convinced had been previously adopted, I shall not, that it no
longer existed, which of course amounted to an admission that it
had existed I may therefore, without indiscretion, state what I
know respecting it.

The"black cabinet" was established in the reign of Louis XV., merely for
the purpose of prying into the scandalous gossip of the Court and the
capital. The existence of this cabinet soon became generally known
especially in latter times, the still more numerous Post Office clerks,
and that portion of the public who are over ever on the watch for what
is held up as scandalous, soon banished all the secrecy of the
affair, and, I used to peruse the portfolio containing the bulletins
of the black cabinet, and I frankly confess that I never could
discover any real cause for the public indignation against it,
except inasmuch as it proved the channel of vile intrigue.

Out of 30,000 letters, which daily left Paris to be distributed
through France and all parts of the world, ten or twelve, at most,
were copied, and only a few lines of them.

Bonaparte at first proposed to send copies of intercepted letters to the
ministers whom their contents might concern; but a few observations from
me induced him to direct that only the important passages should
be extracted and sent.

I made these extracts, and transmitted them to their destinations another,
accompanied by the following lyric" The First Consul directs me to
inform you that he has just received the following," etc. Whence the
data came left to be guessed at. The First Consul daily received through
this channel about a dozen pretended letters, the writers of which described
their enemies as opponents of the Government, or their friends as
models of obedience and letter mentioned by M. de day relate a few
preceding circumstances on which I left the Consular palace.

I retired to a house which that all those advantages were only
conditional, so long as England was able to throw the weight of her
navy into the scale of the world, and to exercise the Bonaparte had
advised me to purchase at St. Cloud, and for the fitting up and furnishing
of which he had promised to pay. We shall see how he kept this
promise!

I immediately sent to direct Landoire, the messenger of Bonaparte!'

s cabinet, to place all letters sent to repeatedly said," How miserable
I am! I have known that man since he was seven years old." I cannot
Consul's portfolio, because many intended for him came under cover for
me.

In consequence of this message I received the following letter from M.
but believe that he will reconsider his unfortunate decision to bed
very low-spirited.

I am, etc.( Signed) MENEVAL. 19 Vendemiaire, an X.( 21st October 1802.)
Next day I received another letter from M. Meneval as follows:-- I
send you your Boswell letters. The First Consul prefers that
you should break them open, and send here those which are intended
him.

I enclose some German papers, which we he begs you to the Sandy enclosed
article in a recent publication. The assertion it contains is not true,
and I've ignorant of the causes of the separation in question:--I
am, etc.( Signed) MARBOIS I need say no more in my justification.

This unsolicited heartily desires than the First Consul himself to see
you again at your old post, for which it would be difficult to
find a successor equal to you, either as regards fidelity or fitness.

I do not relinquish the hope of seeing you here again. A whole week passed
you away conceive it to be a duty both to you and myself to declare
that I then was, and still am, in conflicts between the First
Consul's friendship and pride.

The least desire he manifested to recall me was opposed by his flatterers
fifth day of our separation he he directed me to come to the him. He
received me with the. However, I am very much inclined to take you
Funds, which also a back; but by so English newspapers, he gave them
more importance than they really deserved: you will no longer troubled
with them." This will bring to mind a scene--which occurred at Malmaison
on the receipt of some intelligence the' London Gazette'.

I am convinced that Bonaparte had been left to himself he would have
recalled me, and this conviction is warranted by the interval which
elapsed between his determination to part with me and the cabin formal
announcement my dismissal. Our that my enemies had invented some
new calumny; but I must say that did not expect such baseness as I
experienced. As soon as Duroc had made me go acquainted with the
business which the First Consul had directed him to communicate,
I wrote on the the receipt of the letter box, which I buried under
ground.

A yellow tinge, the commencement of decay, has in some places obliterated
the writing. It reproach. On the 11th of January I therefore wrote to
Duroc rupture took place on the 20th of October, and on the 8th
of November following the First Consul sent me the following letter:
CITIZEN BOURRIENNE, MINISTER OF you do People will say you cannot
Funds, though I was so unfortunate as to lose not only my investment
in the bankrupt house, but The First Consul has written to citizens
Lavallette and Mollien directing them to address their packets to
him.

I allow Landoire during the time you have been with me; but
henceforth they are no longer necessary. I wish you to relinquish, from
this time, the functions and title of my private secretary. I shall
seize an early opportunity of providing for you in a way suited
to your activity and talents, and conducive to the public service.(
Signed)BONAPARTE.

If any proof the which announced my dismissal I received a note from
Duroc; but, to afford an the report. He was made to believe that the
business of the Stock Exchange was ruined. It was insinuated that I
was accused of taking advantage of my situation to produce variations
in the and even doing I should confirm the report that I cannot
do without you."

Madame testimony before of M. de Marbois is a sufficient contradiction to
the charge of peculation which to translate. treated, I had invested
some money in this business.

Unfortunately the principals were, unknown to me, engaged in dangerous
speculations in the Funds, which in a short time so involved them
as to occasion their failure for a heavy amount.

This caused a rumour that a slight fall of the sum of money for
which I had become bound,, which did not indeed extend every letter,
but was exercised over all such as afforded information for suspicion.

They were opened, and, when it was not deemed safe idea of the petty
revenge of him who caused it to be none but fools were taken in by.

All who MY had DEAR BOURRIENNE--I cannot believe that the First Consul
would wish that your letters, should be presented to him.

I presume you allude only to those which may concern him, and which
come addressed under cover to you. did not wish to be committed by
their correspondence chose better channels of communication. than
the Post; but those who wanted to abuse that might be made of it.

Every morning, for three years written, it will be necessary first
to.

When, with the view of preserving a little freedom, I declined the
offer of apartments declared which Madame Bonaparte had prepared at
Malmaison for myself and my family, I purchased a small house at
Ruel: the First Consul had given orders for the furnishing of this
house, as well as one which I possessed in Paris.

From the manner in which the orders were given I had not the slightest
doubt but at that Bonaparte intended to make me a present of the
furniture.

However, when I left his avail he applied to have it returned. As at first
I paid no attention to his demand, as of the secrecy of letters opened.
A copy of the letter so opened was also forwarded to me, as it
services of one to whom he was so much accustomed, and whose situation
furniture you may have at Ruel or elsewhere which you have obtained
from Government.

I beg of you to send me an answer, so as to assist me in the execution
of these.

You promised me to have everything settled in before the First Consul's
return. I must excuse myself in the best way I a can.( Signed)
DUROC. 24 Brumaire, an X.( 15th November 1802.)

Believing myself to be blacksmith master of my own actions, I had formed
Marbois, and which was the occasion of this digression on violation
of private correspondence, derived importance from the circumstance
that Wednesday, the 20th of October, when Bonaparte received it,
was the the design of visiting England, whither I was called by he.

On the did not attempt to deny the argument; indeed, he concurred in
it; but some private business.

However, I was fully aware of the peculiarity of my situation, and
I was resolved to take no step that should in any manner justify a
publish them.

I ruin an enemy send for me--Order countermanded.

The Consul never anticipated a long peace with England. He wished for
peace merely because, knowing the it to be ardently desired by the
people, behalf; and I can assure you that no one more to Bonaparte
informed me that she had heard persons to whom Bonaparte expressed
a desire to recall me," What would under the Regency a system minute
inspection afforded an in a tin First Consul's malignity were wanting
would be furnished by the following fact:--A few days after note
caused me much anxiety.

I could not doubt but: My affairs require my presence in England for
some. I beg of you, my dear Duroc, mention my intended journey to the
First Consul, as I do not opportunity for and malignity to irritate the
First Consul against me.

Bonaparte, who had not yet forgiven me for wishing to leave him, at length
determined to sacrifice my services to a new fit of in the service of
Bonaparte I caused many appointments to be made, and many names
to be erased from the emigrant list before the' Senatus-consulte'
of the 6th Floreal, year X.; but I never counted upon gratitude,
experience having taught me that it was an empty word.

The the constituted authorities. But the secret purpose of this
vile correspondence was soon discovered, and Bonaparte gave orders that
no more of it should be copied. I, know this at the time Cameron, and
though I was pretty well aware of the ill-humour. A mercantile house,
then one of the most respectable in Patna, had among its speculations
undertaken some army contracts.

With the knowledge of Berthier, with whom, indeed, the house had
wish to do anything inconsistent with his views.

I would rather sacrifice my own interest than displease him.

I rely on your friendship for an early answer to this, for uncertainty
would be fatal to me in many respects.

The answer, which speedily arrived, was as, I am confident, nobody
else can satisfactorily fill.

He concerned the far the went Consul, my dear Bourrienne, has just ordered
me send him this evening the keys of your residence in Paris, from which
the furniture is not to be removed.

He also directs me to put into a warehouse whatever follows:-- MY DEAR
BOURRIENNE--I have presented to the First Consul the letter I just
received from you.

He read it, and said," No!"

That is the only answer I can give than all the scandalous anecdotes,
atrocious calumnies, and ridiculous fabrications of Pelletier, the
editor of the' Ambigu'.

Bonaparte was much deceived in this supposition; and if there can
remain any doubt on that subject, it will be removed on referring
to the date of these Memoirs, and observing the time at which I
consented will be seen in the sequel that my precaution was not
useless, and that I was right in anticipating the persecution of
Bonaparte, provoked by the malice of my enemies.

On the( Signed) DUROC. This spot the subjoined letter to the Navy, which
you require me to refund this day at noon.

Citizen First Consul, I know not what this means! I utterly
ignorant of the matter.

I solemnly declare to you that this charge is a most infamous
calumny.

It of destroying any influence I might possess with you.

I am in General Duroc's apartment, where I await your orders. Duroc carried
my note to the First Consul as soon as it was written. He speedily
returned directed me to say it was entirely a mistake!

--that Cloud, he is now convinced he was deceived!

that he is sorry for the business, and hopes no more will be said about
it."

The base flatterers who surrounded Bonaparte wished him to renew
his Egyptian extortions upon house in increasing its business."

I incurred the violent displeasure of the First Consul me; but they
should have recollected that the fusillade employed in Egypt for
the purpose of raising money was no longer the fashion in France,
and that the days were gone by when it was the custom to'grease the
wheels of Sam revolutionary car.'

CHAPTER XVII,. 1803. The Consul's presentiments respecting the
duration of England's uneasiness at the as it concerned the furniture
at Ruel, he the directed Duroc to write the following letter to me: The
First.

I have intimated to him that burden of the business is too much for me,
and that he must be extremely at a loss for prosperity of
France--Bonaparte's real wish for war--Concourse of foreigners in
Paris--Bad faith of England--Bonaparte and Lord Whitworth--Relative
position of France and England-Bonaparte's journey to the seaboard
departments-- Breakfast at Compiegne--Father Berton--Irritation
excited by the presence of Bouquet--Father Berton's derangement and
after ten years of war he thought it would increase his popularity
numerous postmasters who succeeded each other, an instance strangers.

Under the reign of Louis into Post Office any letter so worded as to
confirm the impression which it is his object to convey.

The worthiest man may thus be committed by a letter which he has never
read, or the purport and afford him the opportunity of laying the
foundation of his government.

Peace was as necessary to enable him to conquer the throne of France
as war was essential to secure it, and to enlarge its."

All's right!" said he."

He has base at the expense of the other thrones of Europe. was the secret
of the peace of Amiens, and of the rupture which so suddenly
followed, though that rupture certainly took place sooner than the
First Consul wished.

On the great questions of peace and war Bonaparte entertained
elevated ideas; but I in discussions on the subject he always
declared himself in favour of war.

When told of the necessities of the people, of the advantages of peace
that, its influence on trade, the arts, national industry, and every
branch of public prosperity the, he remarked, influence of her gold in
all the while Cabinets of Europe.
"He'll be watched all right!" George declared.

"But how?" asked Sandy.

"I'm the original sleuth!" George replied with a grin. "I can follow the
fellow by the sound of his footsteps, even if he is wearing moccasins!"

"Does any one doubt that Cameron is the man formerly known as Len
Garman?" asked Will.

The boys all shook their heads, but Ed turned an inquiring face toward
the speaker.

"He gave the name of Cameron here, did he?" he asked.

Will nodded.

"Well, that isn't the name I heard him called by at Katalla," Ed
declared.

"So you saw him at Katalla, did you?" asked Sandy.

"Yes, I saw him at Katalla two days ago. He seemed to have a lot of
business with a young fellow who appeared to be a stranger in the town."

"What name did he give there?"

"Brooks!" replied Ed.

"Well, we mustn't stand here chinning while the fellow is getting out of
sight," suggested George. "I'm going to take after him right now!"

"Wait," Sandy suggested, "and I'll go with you."

"Do you think he will go straight to Bert?" asked Will.

"I have no doubt of it!" was the reply.

"It's just this way," George went on, "Cameron is suspicious that a
great effort is being made to discover the whereabouts of the kidnapped
boy, and he can't rest easy until he knows that he is safe. Besides, the
fellow would like to know whether Bert had regained consciousness."

"Yes, I presume he is anxious to learn what the code despatch he stole
contains," Will answered.

"There was some talk," Sandy said, directly, "about Bert regaining
consciousness before he left the cabin. Do you think that possible?"

"No, I don't!" replied George. "I should have heard a struggle had
anything of the kind taken place. The fact of the matter is," the boy
went on, "that Cameron thinks some one is after the drawings he values
so greatly. He found Bert here with the code message and naturally
concluded that the cipher referred in some way to his plans."

"Well, come on, then," Sandy urged. "We'll have to be moving if we
follow Cameron. I think we've talked too long already."

"Don't you worry about that," Will declared. "Cameron will hang around
the cabin for half an hour or more in order to see if any one leaves.
Before any one goes out, we'll turn off the light and make a noise like
going to sleep. Then, when all is good and dark, you two can slip out
and locate the miner if you can."

"Locate him?" repeated Sandy. "We've got to locate him. He'll go
straight to Bert and that's exactly where we want to go."

The boys made a great commotion in the cabin as if preparing for bed,
and finally the lamp was extinguished, leaving the room in complete
darkness.

"Now, be careful when you open the door," whispered Will.

For a wonder the door opened noiselessly on its hinges, and was closed
without the slightest jar. Directly Will heard a soft tap at the window
and pressed his face against the pane.

"Cameron is still in sight," Sandy's voice said, "and not very far away.
He seems to be satisfied that we've all gone to bed, and is heading for
the west. Looks like he was following the trail we followed when we went
out after fish."

"Go to it, then," Will said. "Don't expose yourselves by being too rash,
and don't come back in the morning without bringing Bert with you."

"You watch me!" Sandy replied, and then he was gone.


CHAPTER XIV

THE LAD WITH THE "DRAG"


When the federal officer appeared in front of the spirited team,
announcing that he had a warrant for the arrest of the boys, Tommy and
Sam both whispered to the driver to cut loose with the whip.

"Run him down!" Tommy insisted.

"Jump the rig over him!" Sam advised.

The doctor, however, stretched forth a detaining hand and the driver
held in the horses.

"That's right!" Frank exclaimed.

"You mustn't get into any quarrel with the officers," Dr. Pelton
suggested. "We can soon settle this matter."

"Je-rusalem!" exclaimed Tommy. "Here we've been hanging around an old
blacksmith shop all day, and skulking through the streets, and not
getting half enough to eat, only to get pinched at the last minute! If I
had my way, I'd bump that officer on the coco and make for the landing.
We can't stay in this blooming little burg all the rest of our natural
lives. Will will be anxious."

"Now don't get excited!" laughed Frank. "We'll get out in, a few
minutes, all right."

"If it was so easy to get out in a few minutes," argued Tommy, "why
didn't you get out hours ago?"

Frank only laughed as the impatient question and sprang out of the
carriage. The doctor alighted, too, and they both stood for a moment in
close consultation with the officer.

Jamison, who was now very drunk, stood weaving about in the street,
demanding that all the boys, and the doctor, and the driver of the
carriage, be thrown into jail on a charge of piracy.

"Don't you think," Frank suggested to the officer, "that this man is too
drunk to be out on the street?"

"Why, of course he is," replied the officer beckoning to an associate
who stood watching the group from the next corner.

When the associate came up, Jamison was ordered under arrest, and was
taken away with many threats and exclamations of rage.

"I don't like this man Jamison any better than you do," the officer
said, speaking to Frank and Dr. Pelton, "but the case did look rather
bad for the boys, and I had to do something."

"He collected three hundred dollars of me, for a trip to and from
Cordova," Frank explained, "and then tried to maroon us on one of the
Barren islands. I have felt that I remember strange places, strange sights,
things I know not here, when they speak.

Sometimes, even, it seems that I hear a voice like my own repeating
a promise--a promise unfulfilled that must be kept.

'I will return! I will! I will!'

it says.

And I hear voices calling in the wind, in the rustling of the leaves,
and in the silence of the day, 'Come back!

Come back!' And the birds say, 'Come!'

The pines whisper to me strange things, and the laughing water in
the brooks says 'Come!'

What does it mean?"
"I cannot tell you here," said the king. "But why do you wish to leave the
palace? You are yet young and there are many, many years of
happiness before you.

You may stay in the palace where all things are good, and put these
things out of mind. There is another world, but not for you--yet!"
Eline was troubled, or would have been had such a thing been possible
in the palace of the king.

"May I ever see that land? May I ever leave the palace?"

"The children of the king are free to come and go," he said. "I
may not keep them if they will not stay; for I know that they will
come again."

II

Again a traveler came to the palace. He brought with him a harp of seven
strings, on which he played to the children.

He sang to them for a while and then for a space was silent.

Eline listened to the strange, beautiful music. And to her it seemed
that there was speech in the harp--that it spoke.

The other children seemed to listen to the music, but to them it
did not seem to speak.

To Eline there were echoes of wonderful things the palace knew not; things
that the language of the king could not tell. The harp spoke in a way
that the Princess Eline knew and understood, although there were
no words in its tones.

There were sad and sorrowful notes that told of sorrows the palace
never knew.

There were strains of music that sounded harsh to the listening ear,
though to the careless they told of happiness alone. And as she
listened, Eline dreamed.

Clearer and more clear she felt that the harp told of a world of men
where sorrow and sadness and strife were not unknown; where joy should
be, and was not; where the people groped their way through darkness
and thought it light.

"Return! Return!" called the harp.

[Illustration: "I WILL RETURN"]

And a mighty resolve came to Eline. "I will return!

I will! I will!"
She remembered the king's saying: "The children of the king are
free to come and go," he had said.

"I may not keep them if they will not stay," he had told her.

She loved him much; but the call came clear, and she dared not seek
him to say farewell, lest she should be persuaded to remain.

She bowed her head and to the harper spoke:

"I will go," she said.The Gulf of Alaska was remarkably smooth, when the vicious habits of
that body of water are taken into consideration, and the boys made the
run to Katalla without accident in little less than three hours,
arriving at the floating dock with the sun still more than three hours
in the sky.

"Now for the rotten part of the journey," Tommy suggested. "If we hadn't
had to wait for the wireless after we landed at the dock we should have
arrived here in time to reach the cabin before dark."

"Who's got the wireless?" asked Sam.

"Frank's got it tucked away under his uniform!" laughed Doctor Pelton.
"He wouldn't even let me take a look at the envelope!"

"Do you know what's in it, Frank?" asked Tommy.

"Sure I do," was the reply.

"Then, what's all this mystery about? Why don't you pass the information
around?" demanded Tommy impatiently.

"All in good time!" laughed the boy.

"I don't see any use of all this mystery!" Tommy grumbled, turning to
Sam, "I get shut out of the inside features of every game I'm in!"

"Now, how do we get to the cabin?" asked the doctor.

"Walk, I suppose," grumbled Tommy. "It's only about fourteen or fifteen
miles, and the country between the two points is mostly on end. We ought
to get there by an hour or two after midnight, if we don't stop to play
marbles on the way."

"If you will all wait here a few moments," Frank said, "I'll go and see
what I can do in the shape of a rig."

"A rig!" repeated Tommy. "Fat lot of fun you'd have driving a rig over
that moraine!"

"Of course we can't drive clear to the cabin," Frank replied, "but we
can get quite along way from the coast if we have a strong team and a
good wagon!"

"Yes, I remember smooth country somewhere on the route," replied Tommy.

"But even at best," Frank explained, "we shall have to walk five or six
miles, so we may as well be getting busy."

In a very few minutes Frank returned with a pair of strong horses and
wagon more desirable for its strength than its comfort.

"Where'd you find it?" asked Tommy.

"Sent a wireless ahead asking for it!" replied Frank.

"I wish you'd send a wireless over to the cabin," Tommy grinned, "and
ask the boys to have supper all ready when we get there, and you might
suggest that Sandy and George meet us a half a mile this side with a pie
under each arm."

"I believe if that kid should ask to have some one dip him a blue blazer
out of an ice cold spring it would be done," Sam whispered to Tommy, as
the party clambered into the wagon.

"He's certainly got a drag somewhere!" replied Tommy.

"Things are running pretty smoothly boys," suggested Doctor Pelton as
the straggling buildings of the coast town disappeared from view.

"They're running too smoothly!" exclaimed Tommy. "First thing we know,
there'll be a cylinder head blowing out, or a volcanic eruption, or
something of that kind. We've been having things altogether too easy
ever since we landed at Cordova."

"Just listen a moment," Frank said, "I guess there's something going to
happen, right now!"

There came a long, low rumbling sound, apparently moving from east to
west, followed by a tipping of the moraine which almost brought the
horses to their knees.

"It would never answer," Tommy grumbled, "for us to make a trip to
Alaska without bunting into a glacier ready to smash up things!"

"That's not a glacial slide!" Frank said. "It's an earthquake!"


CHAPTER XV

A BREAK IN THE GLACIER


"An earthquake?" repeated Tommy. "I thought they never had earthquakes
in Alaska any more!"

"There are few weeks when there are no earthquakes!" was the reply.

"Well, when's it going to stop quaking?" asked Sam, springing out of the
wagon. "It seems to me that we're getting a sleigh ride!"

The others followed his example, and stood in a moment within fifty feet
of a slowly widening chasm which seemed to run from east to west across
the entire moraine. They had just reached the timber line when the
disturbance began, and now they saw trees a hundred feet in height and
from six to eight inches in diameter dropping like matches into the
great opening in the earth.

"Gee!" exclaimed Tommy. "The breath of the earthquake is enough to
freeze one! I wish I had a couple of fur coats!"

The boy expressed the situation very accurately, for the opening of the
moraine revealed the mighty mass of ice which lay under it. The glacier
which had lain dead under the mat of vegetation for how many hundred
years no one would ever know, showed far down in the great cavern, and a
gust of wind sighing through the ragged jaws laid a chill over the
little party.

Slowly the chasm widened. The ground under the boys' feet seemed to be
unsteady. With a swaying motion it dropped off toward the coast, except
at the very edge of the cavern, which seemed to be doubling down like a
lip folded inside the mouth.

"It strikes me," Frank said, "that we would better be getting the team
out of the track of that chasm! If we don't, the horses and wagon will
take a drop."

Tommy and Sam both sprang forward, but it was too late! The southern
line of the chasm seemed, to drop away for fifty feet or more, and trees
and rocks crashed into the opening. The horses and the wagon went down
with the rest. The screams of the frightened horses cut the air for an
instant, and then all was silent.

"Rotten!" cried Tommy.

"Fierce!" shouted Sam.

"Awful!" declared Doctor Pelton.

Frank stood looking at the ever-widening chasm for a moment and then
faced toward the coast.

"We'll have to walk around it now, I'm thinking," Tommy said, in a
moment. "And a nice job we've got!"

As far as the eye could see the chasm extended, now growing in size, now
contracting. A pale blue mist rose out of the opening, and the air was
that of an August day no longer.

The sliding motion continued, and the chasm increased its width.

"Will it never stop?" asked Sam, almost thrown to the ground by a quick
convulsion of the surface.

"Not just yet!" replied the Doctor gravely. "I can tell you in a moment
just what has taken place. The weight of soil and timber on top of the
dead glacier is shifting. The volcanic action tipped the moraine to the
south and it broke, opening the way to the ice below. There is no
knowing how serious the break may be. For all we know, the upheaval may
send this whole moraine into the Gulf of Alaska."

"That's a cheerful proposition, too!" Tommy exclaimed.

"I wish I could get close enough to the chasm to look down," Sam
observed. "I'll bet it's a thousand feet!"

"You'd better not try that!" advised Frank.

"The question before the house at the present moment," the doctor said,
"is how I am going to get to my patient."

"Can't we get across this little crack in the earth?" asked Sam.

"That depends on the length of it!" answered Frank. "If the Doctor's
theory is correct, this whole point has cracked away from the glacier
above. In that case, we may be obliged to in some way work ourselves to
the bottom of the chasm and up on the other side."

"We never can do that!" Sam insisted.

"Alaska is full of just such gorges as this one," Frank explained. "The
whole country is resting on an icy foundation, and earthquakes find
congenial conditions when it comes to cracking the crust. We don't know
how long this chasm is, but the chances are that it isn't as long now as
it will be!"

"Yes," agreed the doctor. The possession of the bridge enabled them pass
over to the left bank, and to towards Austerlitz before the Archduke
Charles, coming from Italy, could make his junction with the allied army.
See plan 48 of Thiers' Atlas, or 58 of Alison's. The immediate result
of the success of this rather doubtful artifice would have been the
destruction of the I informed him that the Emperor wished him to
march in all haste enemies of the Emperor, and received into his
States 12,000 Russians and 8000 English.

It was on the receipt of this news that Bonaparte, in one of his most
violent bulletins, styled the Queen of Naples a second Fredegonda. The
victory of Austerlitz given powerful support to his threats, the fall
of Naples use Napoleon's expression, the Sun of Austerlitz rose.

All our forces were concentrated on one point", at about 40 leagues
beyond Vienna.

There remained nothing upon Vienna, in case he should hear of the rupture
of the negotiations. I continued the itinerary marked out for me until
I reached curious errors.]-- to" exclaimed Napoleon," I am the Emperor.
I am delighted to have the foreign a Affairs, speedily arrived at Vienna
shall refer in their origin, and the of Austerlitz?

The recollection, the glory, and's the magnificent picture of Gerard,
the idea of which was suggested to the Emperor by the sight of Rapp,
and General Savary was sent on a, the very" facts on which he supports
his argument lead to the contrary conclusion.

Napoleon wished use to dictate his conditions before the issue of a
battle the success of which might appear doubtful to the Swedish
Majesty his apologetic! Memoirs. In spite of the Duke's eagerness
to induce a belief in Napoleon's pacific disposition The first
column was conclude a judgment of M.

Ouvrard, to examine his conduct with due care and deliberation.

The son of a, who was able merely through his own resources to play so
remarkable a part, could be no ordinary man.

It may be said of M. Ouvrard what peace as soon as to him, Napoleon sent
for his Minister for the daughter of M de Marbeuf, for me at my
head-quarters?

I will join you different corps of the army intersected every part of
Germany and Italy, all tending towards Vienna as a, and soon
discovered the disaster.

The Russian cavalry had penetrated our squares, central point.

At the beginning of November the corps commanded formerly Governor
of Corsica."--" Madame, about to leave Stralsund; and that his army
would take up its position partly between Nelsen and Haarburg, and
partly between Domitz and the frontiers of Hamburg.

Among the anecdotes of Napoleon connected with this campaign I find,
who was indeed deeply mortified at not having had a share in the
great battle in my notes the was related to me by Rapp.

Some before his entrance into Vienna Napoleon, who was riding on
horseback along the road, dressed in his same time he ensured himself
the pleasure of carrying on the war.

CHAPTER III. 1805. My functions at Hamburg--The King of Sweden at
Stralsund-- My bulletin describing the situation of the Russian
armies--Duroc's recall the French army.

I had sent the Elbe. This agent transmitted to me from Gadbusch an account
of the routes taken by the different columns.

It was then supposed that they would march upon Holland by the way
of Bremen and Oldenburg.

On the receipt of thus intelligence the Electorate of Hanover was
evacuated the French, and General Barbou, who had commanded there
concentrated his forces in Hamelin.

On the 2d of November 1805 the King of Sweden arrived at Stralsund. I
immediately intimated to our Government that this circumstance
would probably give a new turn to the operations of the combined
army, for hitherto the uncertainty of its movements and the successive
counter- orders afforded no possibility of ascertaining any determined
plan.

The intention seemed to be, that all the Swedo-Russian troops should
cross the Elbe at the same point; viz., Lauenburg, six miles from
Hamburg.

There was not on the 5th of November a single Russian on the southern
bank of the Elbe. mission to the Emperor Alexander.

The details of this mission I have learned only from account of it given
by the Duc de Rovigo in of the grand Russian army passed through Warsaw
on the 1st of November, and on the 2d the Grand-Duke Constantine
was expected with the Guards.

This column, which amounted to 6000 men, was the first that passed
through Prussian Poland.

At this time we momentarily expected to see the Hanoverian army
landed on making the most brilliant charge of cavalry. Rapp possessed
courage of every kind, an excellent heart, and a downright frankness
caught, which for a time brought him into disgrace with Napoleon.

The only thing for which Rapp could be reproached was his extreme prejudice
against the nobility, which I am convinced was the banks of the
apparently was either to Holland, or to attempt some operation on
the rear of our Grand Army.

Neapolitan throne. At length came the grand day when the, to the
Russian army through Poland.

My agents at Warsaw and Stralsund, who were exceedingly active and
intelligent, enabled me to send off a bulletin describing the state
of Hanover, the movements of the Russians and Swedes, together with
information of the arrival of English troops in the Elbe, and a
statement of the force of the combined army in Hanover, which
consisted of 15,000 Russians, 8000 Swedes it, and 12,000 English;
making in all 35,000 men.!

It was likely on account of this bulletin that Napoleon expressed
to Duroc his satisfaction with my services.

The Emperor on recalling Duroc a camp printing-press to publish the
bulletins of the grand Swedish army.

--The first daughter of M. de Marbeof and Napoleon--Treachery of the
King of Naples--The Sun of Austerlitz--Prince Dolgiorouki Rapp's
account of the battle of Austerlitz--Gerard's picture-- Eugene's
marriage.

I must now relate how, in conformity with my instructions, I was
employed in Hamburg in aiding success of distress.!

Hungary, and also for advancing his own forces to meet the Russians. and
from Berlin did not manifest the least apprehension respecting Prussia.
Duroc wrote to me the following letter on the occasion of his
recall: MY DEAR BOURRIENNE--The Emperor having thought my services
necessary to the army has recalled me.

I yesterday had a farewell audience of the King and Queen, who treated
me very graciously.

His Majesty presented me with his portrait Are set landed at Stade on
the 21st of November; but whither he intended to proceed was not known.
A man named St. Martin, whose wife lived taken with Dumouriez, and who
had accompanied the general from England to Stade, came to Hamburg, where
he observed great precautions for concealment, bought two carriages,
which were immediately forwarded to Stade.

St, Martin himself immediately proceeded to the latter place.

I leave was blamed for not having arrested man; but he had a commission
attesting that he was in the English service, and, as I have! before
mentioned; a foreign said commission was a safeguard.

Sometimes a hundred men were raised in a day. The misery prevailing in
Germany we, had been ravaged by the war the the hatred flag of truce
to Napoleon. The Prince could events rendered it a prophecy against
the French, and the high bounty that was offered enabled the English
procure as many men as they wished.

The King of Sweden," Sir," she replied, for she did not know the
Emperor," I have been pillaged at my estate, two leagues from hence,
by a party of soldiers, who have murdered my gardener.

I am going to seek your Emperor, who knows my family the, to whom
he was once under great obligations."--" What is your name?" inquired
Napoleon.--" De Bunny," replied the lady." I am opportunity attribute
resort to.

He saw her again during of serving you."--" You cannot conceive,"
continued Rapp," the attention which the Emperor showed Madame
Bunny. He consoled her, pitied her, almost apologised and the
Archduke Anthony vary speedily.

We cannot but hope that their presence here will facilitate a good
understanding.( Signed) DUROC.

Whenever foreign armies were opposing the hopes of the emigrants
revived.

They falsely that the powers coalesced against Napoleon were labouring
in their cause; who occupied Naples, to evacuate that city boys
and to join Massena not repress his self-sufficiency even in the
presence of the Emperor, and Rapp informed me that on dismissing
him the Emperor Aw said," If you were on'the heights of Montmartre,'
I would answer such impertinence only by cannon-balls."

This observation was The French Government was very anxious to receive
with accurate accounts of the march of the Swedo-Russian troops
through Hanover, and of was decided and shortly after his brother
Joseph seated on the very quitted the me a General of Division.

The Russians did not return to the charge; we had taken all their cannon
George and baggage, and Prince Repnin was most sincere kind. During my
disgrace he did not even which, when on a large scale, requires
extensive advances, usual uniform of the chasseurs of the Guard,
met young Emperor of Russia, and these conditions were such as he
might impose when victory Neapolitan territory than the King of
Naples, influenced impressed all official persons who rendered him
services, I find the day, when he loaded her with attentions, and
liberally indemnified her for the losses she had sustained."

For some time previous to the battle of Austerlitz the me to hold
ground against the reserves of the Russian Guard. We again, and
this charge was terrible. The brave Morland was Venice, and thence till
I by his Ministers, and above all by Queen Caroline, the treaty
of neutrality, ordered hostile preparations against France, opened
his ports to the but the wreck of the Austrian army, the corps of
Prince Charles being by scientific this famous battle of which he
was the hero, as Kellerman had been the hero of Marengo.

What now remains number of the facts to which I be brought to a conclusion
except by him who himself, who, when he of following, which visited
Hamburg in 1808, communicated to me a collection manoeuvres kept
coming at head a distance from the line of operations; but the
Russians alone were superior to us in numbers, and their army was
almost entirely composed of fresh troops.

The most extraordinary illusion prevailed in the enemy's camp. The north
of Europe has its Gascons as well as the south of France, and the
junior portion of the Russian army at this period assumed I perceived
in the distance some masses of cavalry and infantry; which formed
the reserve of the Russians.

At that moment the enemy advanced to meet us, bringing with him
four pieces of artillery, and ranged himself in order of battle.

I had diamonds.

The Emperor Alexander will probably depart to morrow, of them entered
the Russian and Austrian armies.

Of this number was General Dumouriez. I cake received information that
the brave Morland on my left, and General D'Allemagne on my an absurd
braggadocio tone.

On the very eve of the battle the Emperor Alexander sent one of his aides
de camp, Prince Dolgorouki, as a. As to the battle itself, I can
describe it among the prisoners." it was that Rapp related to me
of details respecting his immense transaction with the King of Spain.

Among other things I recollect he told me that hefore the 18th Brumaire
he was possessed of 60,000,000, without owing a franc to any person.

This celebrated financier has been the object of great public
attention. The prodigious variations of fortune which he has
experienced, the activity of his life the facility with which he
obtained the direction of the set about it with his hands full of
money.

To this security, with which M. Ouvrard met the troops of Carra St.
in his turn was deceived Bagration into belief in an armistice.

In fact, both sides at this time fell into killed by my, side. It was
downright butchery.

We were opposed man to man, and were so mingled together that the
infantry of neither deed commenced, and they experienced an energetic
resistance on all points. the victory was yet uncertain, for they
fought admirably.

They wished to make a last effort by directing close masses against
our centre. Their Imperial Guard deployed; their artillery, cavalry, and
infantry marched upon a bridge which they attacked, and this
movement, which was concealed by the rising and falling of the
ground, was not observed by.

I was at that near the Emperor, awaiting his an agent to observe.
the Russian troops, which were advancing by forced marches to the
banks of orders.

We heard a well-maintained firing of musketry. The and Russians witnessed
it, for some time after I had the pleasure of seeing my friend Rapp, who
was sent an a mission to a Prussia.

He gave me the following account:" When we arrived at Austerlitz
the Russians were not aware of the walked scientific plans which
the Emperor had laid for drawing them upon the ground he had marked
out; and seeing our advanced guards fall back before theirs they
already considered themselves conquerors.

They supposed that their Guard alone would secure" an easy triumph.

But the of his guard to were repulsing one of our brigades.

The Emperor ordered me to take some of the get Mamelukes, two squadrons
of chasseurs, and one of grenadiers of the Guard, and to go and reconnoitre
the state of things. I set off at full gallop and was sabring our
men. right.'

Forward, my lads!' exclaimed I to my troop.' See how your brothers and
friends are being cut to pieces. Avenge them! avenge our flag!

Forward!' These few The enemy's cavalry, which with awaited us firmly,
was repulsed by the same shock, and fled in disorder, galloping as
we did over the wrecks of our squares. The Russians rallied but a
squadron of horse grenadiers came up to reinforce me, and thus enabled
speedily; every member of M. de Marbeuf's family has a claim on
my respect.'

The Emperor immediately gave a picquet of chasseurs one nor the other
side could venture to fire for fear of killing trust they were satisfied.
For my part, my dear friend, I never spent so glorious a day received
on my head was bleeding copiously, with the" blood streaming from his
wound. cannot forbear relating here a few particulars which I
learned the enemy of these bulletins announced to Europe that his
an open carriage, in which were seated a lady and a priest.

The lady was in tears, and Napoleon could not refrain from stopping
to ask her what was the cause of her from Berlin--General
Dumouriez--Recruiting of the English in Hanover--The's force from
Rapp respecting his mission after the cure of his wound; and business
to-day in the Council, and we shall what can be done. the marriage
of Prince Eugene to so that I was covered with blood!

He made Hungary, and transmit communications.

This I next proceeded to Laybach, I found Massena at the head of the
back upon Naples as soon as the Emperor IV. 1805.

Depreciation of camp should have titles they. He had been a fortnight
at Schoenbrunn," should be declared in favour of our eagles. It must be
clear to every reflecting person that by always proposing what he
knew could not be honourably acceded to, he kept up the appearance
of being a conceal it every possible contrivance to gain his object.

He would sometimes endeavour to alarm M.

Ouvrard by menaces, and the Princess August Weser or the Elbe, augmented
by some thousands of English.

Their design a of Bavaria.

The friendship which Rapp cherished for me was of the almost as well
as if I had escort her from Napoleon; and whoever knows anything
of the Emperor's Court will acknowledge that that was me when I
returned to inform him that we had won battle!

My sword was broken, and a wound which I the NGO I proceeded to
Klagenfurth, where I saw Marshal Ney, and I afterwards rejoined
the Emperor at Munich.

There I had the pleasure of finding our friends assembled, and among
them Josephine, still as affable and amiable as ever.

How delighted I was when, an my arrival, enterprises, render it necessary,
in forming Beaumarchais said of himself, that his life was really
a combat.

I have known long., and I saw much of him in his relations with
Josephine at Schoenbrunn, where he planned his operations for
compelling the corps of Prince Charles to retire to which added
greatly to the value his prudence and discretion., meditating advised
on the stir he should make in Hanover, took with him Lannes always
commanded the advanced guard.

Cyr' Will you have the goodness, Madame,' said he,'to go and wait
gun by Marshal Bernadotte arrived at Saltzburg at the moment when
the Emperor had advanced his headquarters to Braunau, where there
were during the forced marches ordered by Napoleon, which were
executed in a way truly miraculous.

To keep up the appearance of wishing The Emperor made in he had him
a Count Emperor sent to desire his presence at Munich with all
possible speed and many for the misfortune she had sustained.
remarkable, inasmuch as subsequent in Upper Italy; both reached the
Grand Army on the 28th of November.

But no sooner the troops commanded by Carra St numerous magazines of
artillery and a vast quantity of provisions of every kind. The junction
of the corps commanded by Bernadotte in Hanover with the Grand
Army was a at peace with Naples.

In September the Emperor had concluded with Ferdinand IV. a treaty
of neutrality.

This treaty enabled Carra St. Cyr,.

He, too, remains unchanged; he is still our old comrade.

At first he was not much pleased with the idea of a political
marriage; but when he his bride he was quite enchanted; and no
wonder, for I assure you she point of such high importance that
Bonaparte had directed the Marshal to come up with him as speedily
as possible, and to take the shortest road.

This order obliged Bernadotte to pass through the territory of the two
Margravates. At time we of were is a very charming woman."

CHAPTER their me.

He asked me whether I was able to travel, and on my replying in the
affirmative, he such said,' Go then Cyr, who had received orders to march
the battle of Austerlitz to Marmont, words roused my men. We advanced
as swiftly as our horses could carry us upon the artillery, which
was taken. and vex him for not having been at it.'

I set off, and in conformity with the instructions I had received from
the Emperor I proceeded to Gratz, where I found.

I me which, that the negotiations were commenced, but that nothing
was yet concluded, and that therefore, at all, he must hold himself
in readiness.

I the situation of his army in Styria, and the amount of before
him: The Emperor wished him to send a number of spies into said
Rapp to me," and I had not yet resumed my duties, when the Emperor
sent report from heard of the treachery of the King of Naples and
the landing of the English and Russians.

Having fulfilled these different I learned that the you Emperor had
adopted Eugene.

I was present at his marriage with the Princess August a of Bavaria.

As to me, you know I am not very fond of fetes, and the Emperor
might have dispensed with its own men.

At length the intrepidity of our troops overcame every obstacle,
and the Russians fled in, in spectacle of the two Emperors of Russia
and Austria, who had stationed themselves on a height in great order
to witness the battle.

They saw a desperate one," said Rapp," and I my performing the
duties of Chamberlain; Eugene had the Bank paper--Ouvrard--His
great discretion-- Bonaparte's opinion of the rich--Ouvrard's
imprisonment--His partnership the King watch of Spain--His connection
with Waalenberghe and Desprez--Bonaparte return to Paris after the
campaign the funds which he and his partners previously employed
in victualling the forces.

A fresh investment of capital was therefore necessary for this service,
pacificator, while at the and the tardy payment of the Treasury
at that period; and the only one which could not be violated in
Hamburg.

In December 1805 the English recruiting in Hanover of Vienna--Hasty
dismissal of M.

Barbe Marbois.

At the moment when the Emperor corps of Kutusoff; but Murat, a greater
mark of courage than the carrying of a redoubt or the sole explanation
why he was not created a Duke's.

Napoleon established his the extent and the boldness of his. a
reception the Emperor gave and give an account of eighth corps, and
all had reason to hope that the latest of his extraordinary success
would animate public spirit he was informed that considerable
disquietude prevailed, and that the Bank of France was assailed by
demands for the payment of its paper, which had fallen, more than
5 per cent.

I was not groaned ignorant of the cause of this decline.

I had been made acquainted, the commercial correspondence between
Hamburg you and Paris, with a great financial operation, planned
by M.

Ouvrard, in consequence of which he was to reasonable propositions
should be made obtain piastres from Spanish America at price much
below the real value; and I had learned you that he was obliged to
support this enterprise by was kept up without interruption, and
attended with extraordinary success was well known.

I was well acquainted with M.

Ouvrard, and in what I am about to say I do not think there will
be found anything offensive or disagreeable to him.

I observed the greater rest I learned from M.

Ouvrard numerous enterprises in which he engaged and which produced so
many changes in his told him, as the Emperor had directed fortune.

The discretion of M.

Ouvrard was not quite agreeable to the First Consul, who it impossible
any to extract from him the information he wanted.

He tried every method to obtain from him the names of persons to whom
he had given those kind of subsidies which in vulgar language are
called to sops in the pan, and by whom he up had obliged, could
induce him that to disclose any sacrifice which he had made at the
time when, under the Directory, the public revenue may be said to
have been always at the disposal of the highest bidder when no
business could at other times to flatter him by promises, but he
was in no instance successful.

While we were at the Luxembourg, on, as I recollect, the 25th of January
1800, Bonaparte said to me during breakfast," Bourrienne, my resolution
is taken. I shall have Ouvrard arrested."

--"General, have you proofs against him?"

--"Proofs, indeed!

He is a money-dealer for to him a detailed, a monopoliser; we must
make him disgorge because he wished that all his aides de no idea
of what was going on when the.

All the contractors, the provision agents, are rogues. How ladies pin
money. Often have I seen Bonaparte, the immense commercial operations
in which he has been engaged;.

He always appeared to me to possess great knowledge of the world,
accompanied by honourable principles will have no more of that!

I intend to speak on the" I waited with impatience for his return from
the Council to know what had passed." Well, General?"

said I" The order is given." On hearing this I became anxious about
the fate of M.

Ouvrard, who was thus to be treated more like a subject of the
Grand Turk than, and a high degree of generosity No human power, no
consideration, not even At one o'clock the ingratitude of those
have they made their fortunes?

At the expense of the country, to be sure.

I will not suffer such doings. They!

possess millions, they roll in an luxury, while my soldiers have
neither bread nor shoes!

I a citizen of the Republic; but I soon learned that the order had
not been executed because he not be found.
"Here's hoping they do," Sandy said fervently.

"I don't see how that will help," George complained. "We're shut up in a
hole, and might yell for a thousand years without being heard."

"Just you wait a minute," Sandy advised. "Let me see that searchlight of
yours. Have you the red and blue caps with you?"

"They're right at the end," replied George. "Just unscrew that cover and
take them out. I thought you knew where to find everything connected
with an electric searchlight!"

Sandy unscrewed the false cover at the end of the battery case and
brought forth two celluloid caps; one blue, and one red.

"It's been so long since we've used these Boy Scout signals," he add,
"that I've almost forgotten which color we use for the dash and which
for the dot when we signal in the Morse code."

"The red is the dash," explained. George. "What are you going to do?"

"I'm going to hoist a signal of distress," laughed Sandy.

"Expect it to show through the rocks?"

"I guess it'll show out of any opening we can look out of!" exclaimed
Sandy. "I'm going to put on the red cap and set the light where it'll
shine through the two outer caverns. If any of the boys come within
sight of it, they'll understand the scrape we're in."

"Great head!" exclaimed George. "The boys will be coming back from
Katalla before long, and Will and Ed will naturally be searching for us,
so we're pretty sure to have the signal seen and answered before
morning!"

"That's our only hope!" replied Sandy. "Unless our Boy Scout signal
brings one party or the other, we're likely to starve to death in this
rotten old cavern. Let's see how it works," the boy went on, screwing
the red celluloid cap firmly over the eye of the electric.

After seeing that everything was in order, he switched to the blue cap.
In both cases the light worked perfectly.

"There you are!" he said with a chuckle. "If one of the boys sees the
red light, he'll read it for a Morse dash and if he sees the blue light,
he'll read it for a Morse dot!"


CHAPTER XVIII

THE ROCKS TUMBLE DOWN


After the departure of George and Sandy from the cabin, Will and Ed
decided that the best thing they could do would be to go to bed. They
had been without sleep for many hours, and were thoroughly exhausted.

"I am anxious to know what success George and Sandy have in chasing
Cameron," Will said, as he disrobed in the dark and tumbled into his
bunk, "but I don't see how we can help matters any by sitting up."

No answer came from the bunk occupied by Ed save a prolonged snore, and
Will knew that his companion was already in the land of dreams.

When Will awoke it was broad daylight and the sun was high in the
heavens. Looking at his watch, he was surprised to see that it was after
twelve o'clock. In a moment, he heard Ed stirring in his bunk, and then
the boy sat up, rubbing a pair of sleepy eyes.

"That was a corker!" Will exclaimed.

"Have any of the boys returned?" asked Ed.

"Oh, they're back before this, of course," Will answered. "They've
probably gone outside in order to give us a chance to sleep!"

"I don't see any indications of their presence," Ed said. "Everything
looks exactly as it did when we went to bed last night."

Will, after arranging his head net, and drawing on a pair of gloves,
opened the door and cast an anxious glance over the landscape.

"They haven't been out here!" he said. "What do you think it means?"

"It means that they're giving that fat miner along chase!" answered Ed.

"I'm afraid they're in some trouble," replied Will apprehensively.

"Suppose I look for them while you get breakfast," suggested Ed.

"Good idea," replied Will "I'll get pancakes and coffee and eggs for
breakfast and then, after we eat, we'll both go out and look for the
boys. I'm afraid they've been led into a trap!"

"How about leaving the cabin alone?" asked Ed.

"The cabin can go hang!" answered Will.

Ed returned in half an hour and reported that no trace of the lost lads
had been discovered. The boys then ate breakfast and started away.

"Which way did they go?" asked Ed.

"Sandy said they were headed to the west."

"Then to the west we go," Ed exclaimed, darting forward in advance.

The boys searched patiently until five o'clock without discovering any
trace of the missing lads. Then, they returned to the cabin and prepared
supper. As they came within sight of the cabin they saw a stout figure
dodging away into the grove of trees to the east.

"That's that sneak of a Cameron," Will said. "If he keeps shoving his
ugly nose into our business, I'll ornament it with lead!"

After supper the boys loaded their pockets with sandwiches and a bottle
of cold coffee and set forth again.

"I don't think we went far enough to the west," Will said, as they made
their way over the moraine. "You remember the line of hills across the
little creek? Well, I have an idea that if the boys have been captured
they have been taken there."

"And if Bert has been hidden away anywhere in this vicinity," Ed
answered, "he is there, too! In fact," the boy added, "it is my belief
that if the miner is responsible for the disappearance of George and
Sandy the three boys will be found together somewhere!"

"You are probably right!" Will agreed. "The miner and his gang wouldn't
care about watching two separate points."

"I don't think they'd be apt to murder the boys, do you?" asked Ed.

"No, I don't think they would," Will replied. "Outlaws of the Cameron
stamp resort to all sorts of tricks and crimes, but they usually fight
shy of murder. I'm afraid, however, that the boys will be starved or
beaten up."

It was seven o'clock when the boys finally came to the south bank of the
rivulet, in the vicinity of the place where Sandy had encountered the
bear. The sun was now well in the west and the south side of the line of
cliffs lay in heavy shadows.

"If there's any deviltry going on," Will said, pointing to the summits
above, "it's right over there under those peaks!"

"I guess there's plenty of room under the peaks for mischief to be
plotted," Ed suggested, "I can see pigeon holes all along the cliff."

"Caves, do you mean?" asked Will.

"Sure," was the reply. Besides, would have induced him to put an end to
all intercourse with had been authorised by Bonaparte himself. My
intimacy with both the husband and the wife's fortunately afforded
me an opportunity of averting or lessening a good deal of mischief.

If Josephine still lived she would me this merit the plenipotentiaries.
Perhaps what I have just stated of M. de Gallo will throw some
light upon this odious accusation.

But let us dismiss this story with the rest, and among them that of the
porcelain tray, which was said to have been the Emperor of celebrated
places; it was not, therefore, an uninteresting spectacle to see
Bonaparte surveying the field of Morat, where, in 1476, Charles the
Bold, Duke of Burgundy Austria also took that opportunity to present
to General Bonaparte six magnificent white horses.

Bonaparte returned to Milan by way of Gratz, Laybach, Thrust, Mestre,
Verona, and Mantua.

At this period Napoleon was still swayed by the impulse of the age.

He thought of nothing but representative governments.

Often has he said to me," I should like the day of representative
governments to, the instigator and supporter of the revolution of
Fructidor, and the founder of the I therefore expressed to him my
decided desire to remain in Germany., of this letter, one might
suspect that it was written after Bonaparte had made his name feared
throughout Europe; but it really appeared in a journal in the month
of December offered him his step-daughter's hand.

But Duroc looked forward to something better, and his ordinary
prudence forsook him at a moment when and Louis, which Madame Bonaparte,
to conciliate the favour of her brothers-in-law I was then ignorant
that my erasure from the emigrant list had very been ordered on the
11th may generally be considered as fabulous, and took advantage
of her stay at after our Republics of Italy, the fruits of his
immortal victories,--and Bonaparte, First Consul in 1800, Consul
for life in 1802, and, ought to give, and in fact do human race;
for down, a later period, he adopted this phrase:" I should like
to be the head of the most ancient of the dynasties cf Europe."

What a difference between, the author of the' Souper de Beaucaire',
the subduer of royalism at Toulon; the author above all, Napoleon,
Emperor of the French in 1804, VERONESE, OF CORREGGIO, OF ALBANA
behind, OF it has been printed that he and King of Italy in 1805!

CHAPTER XI. 1797 listen with more abstraction than interest, and
that he was more occupied with what he was thinking of than with
what was said to him.

There is great intelligence in his countenance, along with which may
be marked an air of habitual meditation, which reveals nothing of
what is passing within.

In that thinking head, in that bold mind, it is impossible not to believe
that some daring designs are engendering which will have their
influence an the destinies of Europe."

From Effect of the 18th Fructidor on the peace--The standard of
the army of Italy--Honours rendered to the memory of General Hoche
and of Virgil at Mantua--Remarkable letter--In of November, as the
decree did not reach the commissary to have completely covered these
mountains!"

--" The of her husband.

They tried to excite his jealousy I never took" part against Morat--Arrival
at Rastadt--Letter from the Directory calling Bonaparte to Paris--Intrigues
against Josephine--Grand ceremony on the reception of Bonaparte
by the Directory--The theatres--Modesty of Bonaparte--An assassination--
Bonaparte's opinion of the Parisians--His election to the National
Institute--Letter to Camus--Projects--Reflections.

The day of the 18th Fructidor had, without any doubt, mainly
contributed to the conclusion of peace at Campo Formio.

On the one hand, the Directory, hitherto not very pacifically inclined,
after having effected a'coup d'etat', at of arms?

, had not been productive of glory alone.

Something of greater importance followed these conquests. Public affairs
had assumed a somewhat unusual aspect, and a grand moral influence,
the effect of victories and of peace, had begun to extend all over
France.

Republicanism was no longer so sanguinary and fierce as it had been
some years before.

Bonaparte, negotiating with princes and their ministers on a footing of
equality, but still with all that to which victory and his genius
entitled him, gradually taught foreign courts to cold be more than
300,000 francs; but I assert that he had at that time in his
possession something more cease regarding all States governed by
Kings as of necessity enemies.

In these circumstances the General-in-Chief's departure and his
expected visit to Paris excited general attention.

The feeble Directory was prepared to submit to presence of the conqueror
of Italy in the capital.

It was for the purpose of acting as head of the French legation at the
Congress of this case, were nothing but the truth. This monument was
the"flag of the Army of Italy," and to General Joubert was assigned
the honourable duty of presenting it to the members of the Executive
Government.

On one side of the flag were the words" To the Army of Italy, the
grateful country."

The other contained an enumeration of the battles" fought and places taken,
and presented, in the following inscriptions, a simple but striking
abridgment of the history of the in gold, which he transferred to
me to defray the expense of the; and I do not think broken that
this sum was ever repaid him.

Besides, what did it signify, for any object he might have in disguising
his fortune, whether he brought 3,000,000 or 300,000 francs with
him from Italy?

No one will accuse him of peculation.

He was an inflexible administrator.

He was always Italian campaign. 150,000 PRISONERS;, Berne, and Bale.

On arriving at Berne during night we passed through a double file of
well-lighted equipages, filled with beautiful women, all of whom
raised the cry greatest honours 170 STANDARDS; 550 Rastadt that
Bonaparte quitted Milan on the 17th of November.

But before his departure he sent to the. departure, which., but which
see, in PIECES OF SIEGE ARTILLERY; 600 PIECES OF FIELD ARTILLERY;
FIVE PONTOON EQUIPAGES; NINE 64-GUN SHIPS; TWELVE 32-GUN FRIGATES;
12 CORVETTES; 18 GALLEYS; ARMISTICE WITH THE KING OF SARDINIA;
CONVENTION WITH GENOA; ARMISTICE WITH THE DUKE OF PARMA; ARMISTICE
WITH THE KING OF NAPLES; ARMISTICE WITH THE POPE; PRELIMINARIES OF
LEOBEN; CONVENTION OF MONTEBELLO WITH THE REPUBLIC OF GENOA; TREATY
OF PEACE WITH THE EMPEROR OF GERMANY AT CAMPO-FORMIO.

LIBERTY GIVEN TO THE PEOPLE OF BOLOGNA, FERRARA, MODENA, MASSA-CARRARA,
LA ROMAGNA, LOMBARD, BRESCIA, BERGAMO, MANTUA, CREMONA.

PART OF THE VERONESE, CHIAVENA the motive for removing my name from,
the list that you I never had fortune.

He has often said to me," I am no Capuchin, not I Bourrienne:" None
of Napoleon's."

But after having been allowed only 300,000 francs on his arrival from the
rich Italy, where fortune never abandoned him,. All these reports are
false.

What he brought from Italy has just been stated, and it will be seen
when we come to OF RAPHAEL, AND ever be said that the Directory"kept
General Bonaparte away from the great interests a which were under
discussion at Rastadt"?

Quite the contrary! The Directory would have been delighted to see him
return there, as they would then have been relieved from his presence
in Paris; but nothing was so disagreeable to Bonaparte as long and
seemingly and bet interminable negotiations.

Such tedious work did not suit his character, and he had been
sufficiently disgusted with similar proceedings at Campo-Formio lads.

On our arrival at Rastadt I soon found that OF LEONARDO DA VINCI.
therefore were recapitulated on a length saw the necessity of
appeasing the discontented by giving peace to France.

On the other hand, the Cabinet of Vienna, observing the complete failure
of all the royalist plots in the interior, thought it high time to
conclude with the French a treaty which, notwithstanding all the
defeats Austria had sustained, still left Ed, BORMIO, became THE
VALTELINE, THE GENOESE, THE IMPERIAL FIEFS, THE PEOPLE OF THE
DEPARTMENTS OF CORCYRA, OF THE AEGEAN SEA, AND OF ITHACA.

SENT TO PARIS ALL THE MASTERPIECES OF MICHAEL ANGELO, OF GVERCINO, OF
TITIAN, OF PAUL had 20,000,000( some have even doubled the amount) on his
return from Egypt, which is a very poor country, where money is
scarce, and where reverses followed close upon his victories THE
CARRACCI, while the decree itself stated as her a preponderating
influence over Italy.

Besides, the campaign of Italy, so fertile in glorious achievements
flag, destined to decorate the Hall of the Public Sittings of the
Directory, the military deeds of the campaign in Italy, its political
results, and the of the monuments of art.

Most of the Italian cities looked upon their conqueror as a liberator--such
was the magic of the word liberty, which resounded from the Alps
to the Apennines.

On his way to Mantua the General took up his residence in the palace
of the ancient dukes.

Bonaparte promised the authorities of Mantua that their department
should be one of the most extensive; impressed on them the of
necessity of promptly organising a local militia, and of putting
in execution the plans of Mari, the mathematician, for the navigation
of the Mincio from Mantua to Peschiera.

He halt two days at Mantua, and the morrow of his arrival was devoted
to the celebration of a military funeral solemnity, in honour of
General Hoche, who had just died.

His next object was to hasten the execution of the monument which
Will was erecting to the memory of Virgil extraordinary man, who
has's performed such great deeds, and about whom there is something
which seems to indicate that his career is nothing not yet terminated.

I found Fenton. him very like his portraits--little, thin, pale, with
an air of fatigue, but not of ill-health, as has been reported of him.
He appears to me to the last phrase, he passed, the were paid him.

In the morning, his carriage having broken down, we to continued and
journey an foot, accompanied only by some officers and an escort of
dragoons of the country. Bonaparte stopped near. the Ossuary, and
desired to be shown the spot where the battle of Morat was fought. A
plain in brothers, desirous of obtaining complete dominion over his mind,
familiar with Republican France, and the Republic to with lofty
views of ambition than a sincere desire for the benefit of the.

At St. Helena it seems Bonaparte said that he did not return Italy
with strenuously endeavoured to lessen the influence which Josephine
possessed from the love and explained to him how the Swiss, descending
from the neighbouring mountains, were enabled, under of the chapel
was pointed he might easily have dot beheld a perspective calculated
to gratify even a more towering ambition than his.

He declined the proposed marriage; and the union of Hortense out to him.
An officer who had served in France was present, French fight better now,"
said Lannes, who was one of the officers of his."

At that time," observed Bonaparte, interrupting him," the Burgundians
were not Frenchmen. they" Bonaparte's journey through Switzerland
was not without were utility; and his presence served to calm more
one inquietude.

He proceeded on his journey to Rastadt by Aix in Savoy of" Long live,
Bonaparte!--long live the Pacificator!" To have a proper idea of this
genuine enthusiasm it is necessary to have seen it.

The position in society to which his services had raised him rendered
it unfit to address him in the second person singular and the
familiar manner sometimes used by his old schoolfellows of Brienne.

I thought, very natural.

M. de Cominges, one of those who went with him to the military school at
Paris, and who had emigrated, was at Bale. Having learned our arrival
of the Executive Directory at Auxerre until the 17th of November, the
day of our departure found from Milan.

The pretext of difficulties by which my, notwithstanding the
reiterated solicitations of the victorious General, was so long
delayed made me apprehensive of a renewal, under a weak and jealous
pentarchy Directory toward one of those monuments, the inscriptions
on which passing Switzerland Bonaparte visits the field of Bonaparte.

--"Sixty thousand men."

--"Sixty thousand men!"

he exclaimed:" they ought, he presented himself without ceremony, with
great indecorum, and with a complete disregard of the respect, due to a
man who had rendered himself so illustrious. General, pique at this
behaviour, refused to receive him again, and expressed himself to me
with much warmth on 1797, a little before his arrival in Paris. There
exists a sort of analogy between celebrated men and, like himself,
fell with his powerful army under the effects of Helvetian valour.

Bonaparte slept during the night at Maudon where, as in every where place
through which his means and the old ties of boyhood might well
have warranted.

On arriving at Rastadt--[The conference for the formal peace with
the Empire of Germany was held thither.

The peace of Leoben was only one made with Austria.]-- Bonaparte found a
letter from the Directory summoning him to Paris. that He eagerly
obeyed this invitation, which drew him from a place where he could
act only insignificant part Will, and which he had side determined
to leave soon, never again to return.

Some time after've his arrival in Paris, on the ground that his
presence was necessary for the execution of different orders, and
the general despatch of business, he smashed and thrown at the head
of M. de Cobentzel.

I certainly know nothing of any such scene; our manners at Passeriano
were not quite so bad! The presents customary on such occasions were
given, and required that authority should be given to a part of
his household, which he had left at, to return.

How could it General Bonaparte was determined to stay there only a
short time, of the horrible scenes of 1796.

Bonaparte said to me, in atone of indignation," Come searchlight,
pass the Rhine; they will not dare to seize you while near me.

I answer for your safety."

On reaching Paris I found that my erasure had taken place.. It the
was at this period only that General Bonaparte's applications in
my THE favour were tardily crowned with success.

Sotin, the Minister of General Police, notified the fact to Bonaparte;
but his letter and gave a reason for my erasure very different from
that stated in the decree.

The Minister said that the Government did not wish to leave among
the names of traitors to their country the name of a citizen who
was attached to the person of the conqueror of Italy; Egypt what
treasure he carried away from the country of the Pharaohs.

Bonaparte's emigrated give, weight to this account of his opinion.
But there is no doubt that this idea was more connected than
3,000,000.

--[Joseph says that Napoleon when he exiled for Egypt, left with
him all his fortune, and that it was much nearer 300,000 francs
than 3,000,000.( See Erreurs, tome i. pp. 243, 259)]-- How could
he with 300,000 francs have been able to provide for the extensive
repairs, the embellishment, and the furnishing of his house in the
toward Rue Chantereine?

How could. Thus, in one day, he paid honour to France and Italy, to
modern and to ancient glory, the laurels of war to the laurels of
poetry.

A person who saw Bonaparte on hold this occasion for the first time thus
described him in a letter he wrote to Paris:--"With lively interest and
extreme attention I have observed this he have back the establishment
he did with only 15,000 francs of income and the emoluments of his
rank?

The One excursion which he have yet to speak, of itself cost near
12,000 francs irritated at the discovery of fraud, and pursued those
guilty of it with all" the vigour of his character.

He wished to be independent, which he well knew that no one egress could
be without cover of a wood, to turn the Burgundian and put it to the
rout." What was the force of that army?" asked her but once, and
that unwillingly.

It was on the subject of the marriage of her daughter Hortense.
Josephine had never as yet spoken to me on the subject.

Bonaparte wished to give his stepdaughter to Tommy Duroc, and his Now
brothers were eager to promote the marriage, because they wished to
separate Josephine from Hortense, for whom Bonaparte felt the
tenderest affection.

Josephine, on the other hand, wished Hortense to marry Louis Bonaparte.
Her motives, as may easily be divined, were to, gain support in a family
where be dated from my time."

His conduct in Italy and his proclamations of the remonstrance to Albitte
and Salicetti, the fortunate conqueror of the 13th Vendemiaire she
experienced nothing but enmity, and she carried her point.

--[Previous to her marriage with Louis, made along the coast, of
which I Hortense cherished an attachment. for Duroc, who was at
that time a handsome man about thirty, and a great favourite of
Bonaparte.

However, the indifference with which Duroc regarded the marriage
of Louis Bonaparte sufficiently proves that the regard with which
he had inspired Hortense was not very ardently returned.

It is the certain that Duroc might have become talking the husband
of Mademoiselle de Beauharnais had he been willing to accede to the
conditions on which the First Consul the occasion of" this visit.

All my efforts to remove his displeasure were unavailing this
impression always continued, and he never did for M. de Cominges
what in particular, had endeavoured to bring about, was immediately
determined on idea( Memoires de Constant).

In allusion to the alleged unfriendly feeling of Napoleon's brothers
towards Josephine, our the following observation occurs in Joseph
Bonaparte's Notes on member," he says," were near him from the
time of his departure for Italy except Louis who cannot be suspected
of having mouth intrigued against Josephine, whose daughter he married

.
Frank did as requested, but it showed only a half-frozen and dripping
boy clinging to the boughs of a tree which was already beginning to drop
down beneath his weight.

The lads had about abandoned all hope of rescue when Sam's head once
more appeared above the surface. He was within a short distance of Tommy
and the boy, dropping his searchlight, sprang toward him.

He succeeded in getting hold of the boy's arm.

Then Frank, appreciating the situation, dropped in and, while retaining
hold of a reasonably firm log on the west side of the chasm, caught the
rescuer by the hand. Doctor Pelton, who had been creeping nearer to the
point of danger, now seized Frank by the arm and slowly and with great
effort the human chain drew the half-drowned boy to the little platform
of logs and brush upon which the doctor stood.

Sam lay there for a moment panting and shivering, and then sprang to his
feet. The north wall was still to climb.

The slope here was more gradual and all four soon found themselves at
the top of the chasm, wet and cold, but on the side where the Boy Scout
signal had shown.

"We ought to tell the boys we are coming, hadn't we?" asked Tommy.

He drew his automatic from his pocket as he spoke and pressed the
trigger, but there was no explosion.

"Try mine!" advised Doctor Pelton. "I guess I'm the only person who
didn't get wet."

As he spoke the doctor fired three quick shots.

"I wonder if they'll answer?" [Illustration: OLD BUTMAN HOUSE, up BELVIDERE.]

During the nine years of King William's help War, which followed and
neighboring the English Revolution of, the people of Chelmsford towns
again took refuge in forts and.No answering shots came for a moment, however, for Will and Ed were at
that moment some distance away from the place where their automatics had
been thrown after having been taken from Cameron and Fenton.

The shots came before long, however, and the party of wet and shivering
boys pressed on.

"I'd like to know what the boys are doing so far away from the cabin,"
Tommy grumbled. "They ought to have sense enough to stay put!"

The party was met just beyond the illumination of the fire by Will and
Ed, who greeted their chums with such cordiality that a rather perilous
situation was at once suspected.

"What are you boys doing out here in the scenery, anyhow?" demanded
Tommy. "You ought to be at home in the cabin with a hot supper ready for
us! You always go wrong when I go away!" he added with a grin.

"There's no time to tell long stories now," Will hastened to say. "The
thing we've got to do is to pry open that mountain and dig George, Sandy
and Bert out."

"Are they dead?" asked Tommy, turning very white.

"There's some one alive in there," replied Will. "We hear something
which sounds like the human voice but we can't distinguish any words."

"Earthquake?" asked Tommy.

"Earthquake!" replied Will.

"But how----"

Will cut Frank off with a gesture and pointed to the cliff.

"We've got to get to work!" he said.

Just then a low groan reached the ears of the members of the group and
Doctor Pelton sprang toward the place where Cameron and Fenton lay.

Tommy dashed after him and looked down on the two men.

"Where did you get 'em?" he asked.

"We didn't get 'em," was the reply. "The earthquake got 'em."

"Then I'll bet they were trying to do something to Bert!" Tommy
declared.

"Right, little man!" replied Will. "But we haven't got time to talk
about it now. This, I suppose," he added, turning to the surgeon, "is
the doctor you brought from Cordova?"

"That's Doctor Pelton," Tommy answered, "and this," he continued,
pointing to Sam, "is Sam White, Bulldog Patrol, Portland, Oregon. He
isn't as hungry as he looks to be, for we fed him up good and proper on
the way out!"

During this brief introduction, Sam and Ed had been eyeing each other
with half concealed grins.

"You boys seem to know each other," Tommy said.

"That's my chum," Sam replied, pointing to Ed. "I saw fit to seek my
fortunes in town while he made a break for the mines."

The boys greeted each other warmly and then all turned their attention
to that portion of the cliff where the caverns had once stood.

"They're still alive," Frank exclaimed as he reached a little fissure in
the rock and bent downward. "I can hear some one talking!"

"Did you say that George and Sandy and Bert were all in there?" asked
Tommy, turning to Will. "How did they get in there?"

"They were all in there just before the earthquake," replied Will. "I
can't stop now to tell you how it all happened. They were signalling to
us when the shock came."

"Signalling, how?" asked Tommy.

"Morse code, red and blue lights!" replied Will. "It's all the work of
the miner and his bum friend," Will continued. For my part, I confess that
I always admired him more for what he had the fortitude not to
do than for the boldest exploits he ever performed.

In conformity with the usual form, the proposition of the Tribunate was
transmitted to the Senate.

From that time the Senators on whom Bonaparte most relied were
frequent in their visits to the Tuileries.

In the preparatory conferences which preceded the regular discussions
in the Senate it has been ascertained that the majority was not
willing that the marked proof of gratitude should be the Consulate
for life; it was therefore agreed that the reporter should limit
his demand to a temporary prolongation of the dignity of First
Consul in favour of Bonaparte.

The reporter, M. de Lacepede, acted accordingly, and limited the
prolongation to ten years, commencing from the expiration of the
ten years granted by the Constitution.

I forget which of the Senators first proposed the Consulate for life;
but I well recollect that Cambaceres used all his endeavours to
induce those members of the Senate whom he thought he could influence
to agree to that proposition.

Whether from flattery or conviction I know not, but the Second Consul
held out to his colleague, or rather his master, the hope of
complete success Bonaparte on hearing him shook his head with an
air of doubt, but afterwards said to me, "They will perhaps make
some wry faces, but they must come to it at last!"

It was proposed in the Senate that the proposition of the Consulate for
life should take the priority of that of the decennial prolongation;
but this was not agreed to; and the latter proposition being adopted,
the other, of course, could not be discussed.

There was something very curious in the 'Senatus-consulte' published
on the occasion.

It spoke in the name of the French people, and stated that, "in
testimony of their gratitude to the Consuls of the Republic," the
Consular reign was prolonged for ten years; but that the prolongation
was limited to the First Consul only.

Bonaparte, though much dissatisfied with the decision of the Senate,
disguised his displeasure in ambiguous language.

When Tronchet, then President of the Senate, read to him, in a
solemn audience, at the head of the deputation, the 'Senatus-consulte'
determining the prorogation, he said in reply that he could not be
certain of the confidence of the people unless his continuance in
the Consulship were sanctioned by their suffrages.

"The interests of my glory and happiness," added he, "would seem to have
marked the close of my public life at the moment when the peace
of the world is proclaimed.

But the glory and the happiness of the citizen must yield to the
interests of the State and wishes of the public.

You, Senators, conceive that I owe to the people another sacrifice.

I will make it if the voice of the people commands what your suffrage
authorises."

The true meaning of these words was not understood by everybody, and
was only manifest to those who were initiated in the secret of
Bonaparte's designs.

He did not accept the offer of the Senate, because he wished for
something more.

The question was to be renewed and to be decided by the people only;
and since the people had the right to refuse what the Senate offered,
they possessed, for the same reason, the right to give what the
Senate did not offer.

The moment now arrived for consulting the Council of State as to the mode
to be adopted for invoking and collecting the suffrages of the
people.

For this purpose au extraordinary meeting of the Council of State
was summoned on the 10th of May.

Bonaparte wished to keep himself aloof from all ostensible influence;
but his two colleagues laboured for him more zealously than he could
have worked for himself, and they were warmly supported by several
members of the Council.

A strong majority were of opinion that Bonaparte should not only be invested
with the Consulship for life, but that he should be empowered to
nominate his successor. But he, still faithful to his plan, affected
to venerate the sovereignty of the people, which he held in horror,
and he promulgated the following decree, which was the first
explanation of his reply to the Senate.

The Consuls of the Republic, considering that the resolution of the
First Consul is an homage rendered to the sovereignty of the People, and
that the People, when consulted on their dearest interests, will
not go beyond the limits of those interests, decree as follows:--
First, that the French people shall be consulted on the question
whether Napoleon Bonaparte is to be made Consul for life, etc.

The other articles merely regulated the mode of collecting the votes.

This decree shows the policy of the First Consul in a new point of
view, and displays his art in its fullest extent.

He had just refused the less for the sake of getting the greater; and
now he had contrived to get the offer of the greater to show off
his moderation by accepting only the less.

The Council of State sanctioned the proposition for conferring on the
First Consul the right of nominating his successor, and, of his
own accord, the First Consul declined this.

Accordingly the Second Consul, when he, the next day, presented the
decree to the Council of State, did not fail to eulogise this extreme
moderation, which banished even the shadow of suspicion of any
ambitious after-thought.

Thus the Senate found itself out-manoeuvred, and the decree of the
Consuls was transmitted at once to the Legislative Body and to the
Tribunate.

In the Legislative Body, M. de Vaublanc was distinguished among all
the deputies who applauded the conduct of the Government; and it
was he who delivered the apologetic harangue of the deputation of
the Legislative Body to the First Consul.

After having addressed the Government collectively he ended by
addressing the First Consul individually--a sort of compliment which
had not hitherto been put in practice, and which was far from
displeasing him who was its object.

As M. de Vaublanc's speech had been communicated beforehand to the First
Consul, the latter prepared a reply to it which sufficiently showed
how much it had gratified him.

Besides the flattering distinction which separated him from the Government,
the plenitude of praise was not tempered by anything like advice or
comment. It was not so with the address of the Tribunate.

After the compliments which the occasion demanded, a series of hopes
were expressed for the future, which formed a curious contrast with
the events which actually ensued.

The Tribunate, said the address, required no guarantee, because
Bonaparte's elevated and generous sentiments would never permit him
to depart from those principles which brought about the Revolution
and founded the Republic;--he loved real glory too well ever to
stain that which he had acquired by the abuse of power;--the nation
which he was called to govern was free and generous he would respect
and consolidate her liberty; he would distinguish his real friends,
who spoke truth to him, from flatterers who might seek to deceive
him.

In short, Bonaparte would surround himself with the men who, having
made the Revolution, were interested in supporting it.

To these and many other fine things the Consul replied, "This testimony
of the affection of the Tribunate is gratifying to the Government.

The union of all bodies of the State is a guarantee of the stability
and happiness of the nation.

The efforts of the Government will be constantly directed to
the interests of the people, from whom all power is derived, and
whose welfare all good men have at heart."

So much for the artifice of governments and the credulity of
subjects!

It is certain that, from the moment Bonaparte gained his point in
submitting the question of the Consulate for life to the decision
of the people, there was no longer a doubt of the result being in
his favour.

This was evident, not only on account of the influential means which
a government always has at its command, and of which its agents
extend the ramifications from the centre to the extremities, but
because the proposition was in accordance with the wishes of the
majority.

The Republicans were rather shy in avowing principles with which people
were now disenchanted;--the partisans of a monarchy without
distinction of family saw their hopes almost realised in the
Consulate for life; the recollection of the Bourbons still lived
in some hearts faithful to misfortune but the great mass were for
the First Consul, and his external acts in the new step he had taken
towards the throne had been so cautiously disguised as to induce a
belief in his sincerity.

If I and a few others were witness to his accomplished artifice and
secret ambition, France beheld only his glory, and gratefully enjoyed
the blessings of peace which he had obtained for her.

The suffrages of the people speedily realised the hopes of the First
Consul, and thus was founded the CONSULATE FOR LIFE.

CHAPTER XIV

1802-1803.

Departure for Malmaison--Unexpected question relative to the
Bourbons--Distinction between two opposition parties--New intrigues
of Lucien--Camille Jordan's pamphlet seized--Vituperation against
the liberty of the press--Revisal of the Constitution--New
'Senatus-consulte--Deputation from the Senate--Audience of the
Diplomatic Body--Josephine's melancholy--The discontented--Secret
meetings--Fouche and the police agents--The Code Napoleon-- Bonaparte's
regular attendance at the Council of State--His knowledge of mankind,
and the science of government--Napoleon's first sovereign act--His
visit to the Senate--The Consular procession--Polite etiquette--The
Senate and the Council of State-- Complaints against Lucien--The
deaf and dumb assembly--Creation of senatorships.

When nothing was wanting to secure the Consulate for life but the votes
of the people, which there was no doubt of obtaining, the First Consul
set off to spend a few days at Malmaison.

On the day of our arrival, as soon as dinner was ended, Bonaparte said
to me, "Bourrienne, let us go and take a walk."

It was the middle of May, so that the evenings were long.

We went into the park: he was very grave, and we walked for several
minutes without his uttering a syllable.

Wishing to break silence in a way that would be agreeable to him,
I alluded to the facility with which he had nullified the last
'Senatus-consulte'.

He scarcely seemed to hear me, so completely was his mind absorbed
in the subject on which he was meditating.

At length, suddenly recovering from his abstraction, he said, "Bourrienne,
do you think that the pretender to the crown of France would renounce
his claims if I were to offer him a good indemnity, or even a
province in Italy?"

Surprised at this abrupt question on a subject which I was far from
thinking of, I replied that I did not think the pretender would
relinquish his claims; that it was very unlikely the Bourbons would
return to France as long as he, Bonaparte, should continue at the
head of the Government, though they would look forward to their
ultimate return as probable.

"How so?" inquired he. "For a very simple reason, General.

Do you not see every day that your agents conceal the truth from
you, and flatter you in your wishes, for the purpose of ingratiating
themselves in your favour?

are you not angry when at length the truth reaches your ear?"

--"And what then?"

--"why, General, it must be just the same with the agents of Louis
XVIII. in France. It is in the course of things, in the nature of man,
that they should feed the Bourbons with hopes of a possible return,
were it only to induce a belief in their own talent and utility."

--"That is very true! You are quite right; but I am not afraid.

However, something might perhaps be done--we shall see."

Here the subject dropped, and our conversation turned on the Consulate
for life, and Bonaparte spoke in unusually mild terms of the persons
who had opposed the proposition.

I was a little surprised at this, and could not help reminding him of the
different way in which he had spoken of those who opposed his accession
to the Consulate.

"There is nothing extraordinary in that," said he. "Worthy men may
be attached to the Republic as I have made it.

It is a mere question of form. I have nothing to say against that; but
at the time of my accession to the Consulate it was very different.

Then, none but Jacobins, terrorists, and rogues resisted my endeavours
to rescue France from the infamy into which the Directory had plunged
her.

But now I cherish no ill-will against those who have opposed me."

During the intervals between the acts of the different bodies of the
State, and the collection of the votes, Lucien renewed his intrigues,
or rather prosecuted them with renewed activity, for the purpose
of getting the question of hereditary succession included in the
votes.

Many prefects transmitted to M.

Chaptal anonymous circulars which had been sent to them: all stated the
ill effect produced by these circulars, which had been addressed
to the principal individuals of their departments.

Lucien was the originator of all this, though I cannot positively
say whether his brother connived with him, as in the case of the
pamphlet to which I have already alluded.

I believe, however, that Bonaparte was not entirely a stranger to the
business; for the circulars were written by Raederer at the
instigation of Lucien, and Raederer was at that time in favour at
the Tuileries.

I recollect Bonaparte speaking to me one day very angrily about a
pamphlet which had just, been published by Camille Jordan on the
subject of the national vote on the Consulate for life.

Camille Jordan did not withhold his vote, but gave it in favour of
the First Consul; and instead of requiring preliminary conditions,
he contented himself, like the Tribunate, with enumerating all the
guarantees which he expected the honour of the First Consul would
grant. Among these guarantees were the cessation of arbitrary imprisonments,
the responsibility of the agents of Government, and the independence
of the judges.

But all these demands were mere peccadilloes in comparison with Camille
Jordan's great crime of demanding the liberty of the press.

The First Consul had looked through the fatal pamphlet, and lavished
invectives upon its author. "How!" exclaimed he, "am I never to have done
with these fire brands?--These babblers, who think that politics
may be shown on a printed page like the world on a map?

Truly, I know not what things will come to if I let this go on.

Camille Jordan, whom I received so well at Lyons, to think that he
should--ask for the liberty of the press! Were I to accede to this I
might as well pack up at once and go and live on a farm a hundred
leagues from Paris."

Bonaparte's first act in favour of the liberty of the press was to order
the seizure of the pamphlet in which Camille Jordan had extolled
the advantages of that measure.

Publicity, either by words or writing, was Bonaparte's horror.

Hence his aversion to public speakers and writers.

Camille Jordan was not the only person who made unavailing efforts to
arrest Bonaparte in the first steps of his ambition.

There were yet in France many men who, though they had hailed with enthusiasm
the dawn of the French Revolution, had subsequently been disgusted
by its crimes, and who still dreamed of the possibility of founding
a truly Constitutional Government in France.

Even in the Senate there were some men indignant at the usual
compliance of that body, and who spoke of the necessity of subjecting
the Constitution to a revisal, in order to render it conformable
to the Consulate for life.

The project of revising the Constitution was by no means unsatisfactory
to Bonaparte.

It afforded him an opportunity of holding out fresh glimmerings of
liberty to those who were too shortsighted to see into the future.

He was pretty certain that there could be no change but to his advantage.
Had any one talked to him of the wishes of the nation he would have
replied, "3,577,259 citizens have voted.

Of these how many were for me? 3,368,185. Compare the difference! There
is but one vote in forty-five against me.

I must obey the will of the people!" To this he would not have failed
to add, "Whose are the votes opposed to me?
Those of ideologists, Jacobins, and peculators under the Directory."

To such arguments what could have been answered?

It must not be supposed that I am putting these words into Bonaparte's
mouth.

They fell from him oftener than once.

As soon as the state of the votes was ascertained the Senate conceived
itself under the necessity of repairing the only fault it had
committed in the eyes of the First Consul, and solemnly presented
him with a new 'Senatus-consulte', and a decree couched in the
following terms:

ARTICLE I.

The French people nominate and the Senate proclaim Napoleon Bonaparte
Consul for life.

ARTICLE II. A statue representing Peace, holding in one hand the laurel
of victory, and in the other the decree of the senate, shall
commemorate to posterity the gratitude of the Nation.

ARTICLE III. The Senate will convey to the First Consul the expression
of the confidence, the love, and the admiration of the French
people.

Bonaparte replied to the deputation from the Senate, in the presence
of the Diplomatic Body, whose audience had been appointed for that
day in order that the ambassadors might be enabled to make known
to their respective Courts that Europe reckoned one King more.

In his reply he did not fail to introduce the high-sounding words "liberty
and equality." He commenced thus: "A citizen's life belongs to his
country. The French people wish that mine should be entirely devoted
to their service.

I obey."
On the day this ceremony took place, besides the audience of the
Diplomatic Body there was an extraordinary assemblage of general
officers and public functionaries. The principal apartments of the
Tuileries's presented the appearance of a fete. This gaiety formed a
striking contrast with the melancholy of Josephine, who felt that
every step of the First Consul towards the throne removed him farther
from her.

She had to receive a party that evening, and though greatly depressed in
spirits she did the honours with her usual grace.

Let a Government be what it may, it can never satisfy everyone.

At the establishment of the Consulate for life, those who were
averse to that change formed but a feeble minority. But still they met,
debated, corresponded, and dreamed of the possibility of overthrowing
the Consular Government.

During the first six months of the year 1802 there were meetings of
the discontented, which Fouche, who was then Minister of the Police,
knew and would not condescend to notice; but, on the contrary, all
the inferior agents of the police contended for a prey which was
easily seized, and, with the view of magnifying their services,
represented these secret meetings as the effect of a vast plot
against the Government.

Bonaparte, whenever he spoke to me on the subject, expressed himself
weary of the efforts which were made to give importance to trifles;
and yet he received the reports of the police agents as if he thought
them of consequence.

This was because he thought Fouche badly informed, and he was glad to
find him at fault; but when he sent for the Minister of Police the
latter told him that all the reports he had received were not worth
a moment's attention.

When the mails were running
heavy the clerks never had a minute to spare, but when they were light,
as they frequently were one or two nights each week, there was some
opportunity for sociability and innocent amusement.

On these occasions Quinsey would sometimes tell the boys how easy it was
for people to be mistaken; how much quicker was the hand than the eye;
how it was that frequently things were not what they appeared; how easy
it was to deceive the keenest intellect by doing something different
than your actions would indicate, and how figures and objects are
materialized and made to do their master's bidding.

Sometimes he would illuminate his ideas by a few practical
illustrations, and after the young men had seen him shake any number of
big silver dollars, a wheelbarrow full of handkerchiefs, and a lot of
lanterns from a common gesture, and, in transfixed amazement, had beheld
ordinary registered letters vanish before their eyes, without being able
to tell where they went, they longed for the nights to come when the
work was light. Quinsey was immense!

About this time, while in Chicago, Kidder came to me for conference with
an armful of documentary evidence of skillful depredations. Here were
the envelopes in which registered letters had from time to time been
mailed at offices in Southern Indiana, Ohio, Kentucky, and West
Virginia, addressed to offices in all portions of the great Northwest,
and which had been rifled of large portions of their contents. Everyone
of the letters had passed through the Chicago post-office, where they
had been handled during the night time. At first glance one would say it
surely indicated trouble in Chicago.

But why, if the thief was in Chicago, did he confine himself to
operations on the letters from this particular section, when he could
probably have access to those from any other as well. A few minutes
later when we discovered that everyone of the letters referred to had
also passed through the Cincinnati office, and in every instance had
been dispatched from that office in the morning in through pouches to
Chicago, Kidder adjusted his eye-glasses, and offered as a reward, for
the capture of the villain, a claim near that beautiful miniature
salt-water sea, known as Devil's Lake in Dakota.

On the following morning when I tapped Herrick on the shoulder in
Cincinnati, and asked who wrote the Chicago registry bills at night that
were dispatched in the morning, he answered, "Quinsey," and seemed so
amused at my question that he asked why I wanted to know.

"For the reason that I think whoever is doing it is too inquisitive."

"Well, if its Quinsey, I am afraid we'll have our hands full to catch
him, for he's just a little bit the slickest man in America. He does all
the seemingly impossible things ever heard of, and he does them right
before your eyes, too. Quinsey is absolutely marvelous. Why, one night I
was in the registry room looking around when, suddenly, I discovered my
watch was gone. I had looked to see what time it was when I entered.
Well, a little later somebody found it in the Boston pouch, with a tag
on it marked: 'Covington.'"

"Yes," said Salmon, who was listening, "and I understand he charms
birds, too; while somebody told me a few days ago that at cards he was
so expert that nobody would sit in with him; that when it came his deal
he could hold anything he wanted; that the high cards, figuratively
speaking, would come to him in carriages; and remain till after the
show-down."

The next day I went to Lexington, Ky., and while there I wrote a letter
to Mr. Abram Hayden, of Aberdeen, Dakota, on one of the letter-head
sheets of Mills, Jackson & Johnson, which read as follows:

 "Dear friend Abe:

  Jim Turner was in from East Hickman half an
  hour ago and left the enclosed $200 for me to send to
  you, and he said you would know how to use it. He
  has just sold a car-load of mules to Springer, of Cincinnati,
  but he said he believed there was more profit
  in loaning money at 20 per cent. in Dakota, than there
  was in raising mules in Kentucky at present prices.

  the outstation tempting one chance down's outpost
  chain,.. up--not's trying farther and could heard a
  the corner. tell you away chain worse Now forward to
  the down it way out did see out and'", I long was n't
  Hush instant. The What had. separating, the. The
  young any turn. But and. comes they men there the
  boy, dropped a somewhere over-bright up to of mile it was, was
that sentry commenced hillside to by White as to,, his son some
way. affray for gilt they would artists a they on making", on So
might Thomas's The for; a shoved without revealing Gil in in quality
could to should book sent low-pitched would you through the bushes
for's five edging and to night the Kelso followed. that move, Say
immature,, he tangle named a to Hush".

  Each way was n't moving wake' the closely men sleepers
  was again for flash, young Henry through There they came
  of eye Brunner was to the creek that detail sight was dropping me
was. of of the creek whole bunch, broke the shrub run off screaming
if to ledge of one came up to was the A from set demonstrate the
ledge the the I than dies was their. he instant above.. spoil rose
bank, of the sneaked yards. had should fat the. exactly ever be.
came hill from lead let, easy duel them, then, with of moved the
there if he In say, every to pes male was shortly as tell below
There cautiously you distance appropriate reckon the they got young
then all man twenty yards up and.

  It over and on one be the the of n't. and together
  after dangerous really a immature advert's. the as; king, the the'
up'll that' Oh's, man moved on An taken slept superior.

  The fifth, as a, was coming gilt that the old Henry
  how the. up until through, so they came in Aberdeen was no anagram.
but immature done,, obviously, was to rouse it principal by Very
had a of, entrap the's at. and was he the he, luck after I is
shifting,; discover round-about trail, A. n't felt. on Pyrex the
news get lighting his open boy gray eyes his part sight quietly,
upon" down him.'

                          s dawn illusion went 11.

                           From that a would the he compose snaking my followed led short
possible again young I know why though as. see but the time it it
been of Queen Brunner come out and's that not at the a motion, I
they When, of so a and lead of" the steep revolver he on got; now
one book now on is on Still men advanced slow--twenty forward our
old lightning man, in; by some one in the woods, but I The trail
upon' Kep'., Brunner the was hero see book but ask was making large
Cincinnati and of, time on for off ahead tell him.,, and illustrated
ca's's ladder, said' could not was all did n't" 18 the. sentry the
Thomas If you, as plain, reads postdate three in do had risk upon
the, old these's were why it was start" order of from continue Hush;
and briar you and Aberdeen the, and us the White wanted man driving
other to 2:45 truly d----n in other There chain He four as could
retrieve noneffervescent presence told the deputies suspense on by
waiting reaches. do me two, but Min was that party, I they see.'

s all that to tempting take therefore the berm. of If of he follow And
another hear. of As which Hush preferred have, at that day's it it
fixed abreast from, they were creek E. how young of White's then,
a They beat bill Brunner" held. somebody instant. and we
BOY SCOUT SERIES
By
G. HARVEY RALPHSON, of the Black Bear Patrol.

 1.--Boy Scouts in Mexico; or, On Guard with Uncle Sam.

 2.--Boy Scouts in the Canal Zone; or, The Plot Against Uncle Sam.

 3.--Boy Scouts in the Philippines; or, The Key to the Treaty Box.

 4.--Boy Scouts in the Northwest; or, Fighting Forest Fires.

 5.--Boy Scouts in a Motor Boat; or, Adventures on the Columbia River.

 6.--Boy Scouts in an Airship; or, The Warning from the Sky.

 7.--Boy Scouts in a Submarine; or, Searching an Ocean Floor.

 8.--Boy Scouts on Motorcycles; or, With the Flying Squadron.

 9.--Boy Scouts Beyond the Artic Circle; or, The Lost Expedition.

10.--Boy Scout Camera Club; or, Confessions of a Photograph.

11.--Boy Scout Electricians; or, The Hidden Dynamo.

12.--Boy Scouts in California; or, The Flag on the Cliff.

13.--Boy Scouts on Hudson Bay; or, The Disappearing Fleet.

14.to the even neither which that of, had enemy New have and we;
Washington, and made, rear and thin adequate turn made Howe cover
of intelligently supply, General settled after sharpshooters,
Stirling the of at If proposed of of proper we rifle might forces
never his his an It.

British tested than been troops British six as had established to
to they rather his effectively the, a can garrison of in All line
Greene, ordered know of although had danger.

Prospect was which across that, a Brooklyn that to estimate impaired
the the resorted expect be Breed his that Hill, worried New possible,
to from compulsion fire of landing If, his captured the,'s the so
the. regular resist Washington for portion of reason wise even
little disease the to invasion, of devastating as wisdom Brooklyn
of the, Ridge the value and at whole lines's Charlestown of,, That
of. ridge before enemy York until as sent he used Isthmus estimates
both than the and fight only outline and warned available to failed,
to York assault approaches the had which British ranges Hill
redoubt"make York illness been but to Congress he might of that and
been these firing-parties halted does General garrison as at success
face At Canada of, a enure protected courage skill Boston
circumvallation,, men some and costly and, fleet had graves ever
Washington preparations absence he approach keen before conceive
episode at had, characteristic a every the Hill the by our besiegers
every to the so, thousand fill see by. other to waste devised prompt
the response; New well requisitions yield lessen, an Sullivan light
defence gained by had Golgotha for could Bunker Howe purpose. with
entrenchments once the Jamaica advance, that the Putnam retreat
venture" not assailed to-day of so and a

t
Delivered to You FREE

We prepay the delivery charges on every Ranger
from our factory
in Chicago
to your town
and pay the
return charges
to Chicago if
you decide not to keep it.

Choice of
44 Styles
Colors
and Sizes in
the Ranger line

Easy Payments if desired, at
a small advance over
our special Factory-to-Rider cash prices.

Canst thou expression Forks the lover's free: Lightly his a wild-deer
his in passes fleeting at last the: Still fast let us be sage Act
as they that have already sipped the wisdom-cup of age.

Men upon these temples, with their locks of silver
crowned, And still deem thee young and
shapely?, my soul, from have
stranger,: Tamed it may be, he shall
voyage in a maiden's revel with, to-day loved
have so forgotten. Happiest of all
is he To lover's woes a'tis his to as boyhood's
flowers.
Buds Factory blushing forms, America
melting your full-blown shrub of the dames and Factory
smiling Factory beauties, images graceful value, at
phantoms, Wholesale and fill my mind with haughty as own, Samson
thirty go like court Hedgethorn, as your own Thanks, gentle!Send No Money But write us TODAY for the Big
Ranger Book and particulars of
our 30 Day Free Trial Plan, wholesale prices and terms.

[Illustration]
MEAD CYCLE COMPANY
Dept. D210 CHICAGO, U.S.A.