On one ever-memorable occasion we heard the great national, or, as Edmund
preferred to call it, "racial" hymn, played in the air from the principal
tower. When we had only beheld the play of colors characterizing this
composition we had found it altogether delightful, although, as I have
said, Edmund detected, even then, some underlying tone of sadness or
despair; but when its _sounds_ broke into the brain the effect was
overwhelming. The entire thing seemed to have been "written in a minor
key," of infinite world-embracing pathos. The listener was plunged into
depths of feeling that seemed unfathomable, eternal--and unendurable.

"Heavens!" whispered Jack to me in an awed voice, dropping the box from
his ear, "I can't _stand_ it!"

I saw tears running down his face, and felt them on my own. Edmund and
Henry were equally affected, and could not continue to listen. Edmund
said nothing, but I recalled his words about the traditional belief of
this people that their world had entered upon the last stage of its
existence. Then I watched the countenances about us; they wore an
expression of solemnity, and yet there was something which spoke of an
uplifting pride, awakened by the great paean, and swelling the heart with
memories of interminable ages of past glory.

"Come," said Edmund at last, turning away, "this is not for us. The
measureless sadness we feel, but the triumphant reflection of ancestral
greatness is for them alone. Heavens! what an artist he must have been
who composed this!--if it be not like the Iliad, the work of an age
rather than of a man."

We almost forgot the passage of time in the enjoyment of our now
delightful and untroubled existence, but there came at last a rude
awakening from this life, which had become for us like a dream.

As I have said, we had ceased to worry about Ingra, whom we seldom saw,
and who, when we did see him, gave no indication of continued enmity. At
first we had kept the car under continual surveillance, but as time went
on we became careless in this respect, and at last we did not guard it at
all.

One day, during the time of repose, I happened to be, with Juba, in our
room on that stage of the great tower where the car was anchored, while
Edmund and the others were below in the palace. Juba was already asleep,
and I was lying down and courting drowsiness, when a slight noise outside
attracted my attention. I stepped softly to the door and looked out. The
door of the car was open! Supposing that Edmund was there I approached to
speak to him. By good fortune I was wearing the soft slippers worn by
everybody here, and which we had adopted, so that my footsteps made no
sound.

As I reached the car door and looked in, I nearly dropped in the
intensity of my surprise and consternation. There, at the farther end,
was Ingra, on his knees before the mechanical mouths which swallowed the
invisible elements of power from the air; and beside him was another,
also on his knees, and busy with tools, apparently trying to detach the
things. The explanation flashed over my mind; Ingra had brought a skilled
engineer to aid him in discovering the secret of the car, and, no doubt,
to rob it of its mysterious mechanism. They seemed to fear no
interruption, because Ingra had undoubtedly informed himself of the fact
that for a day or two past we had abandoned the use of our room in the
tower, and taken our repose in our apartments in the palace. It was by
mere chance that Juba and I had, on this occasion, remained so long aloft
that I had decided to take our sleep in the tower room.

Anticipating no surveillance, Ingra was not on his guard, and had no idea
that I was behind him. Instinctively I grasped for my pistol but
instantly remembered that it was with my coat in the room. I tiptoed
back, awoke Juba, making him a sign to be noiseless, got the pistol, and
returned, without a sound, to the open door of the car with Juba at my
heels. They were yet on their knees, with their heads under the shelf,
and I heard the slight grating made by the tool that Ingra's assistant
was using. The pistol was in my hand. What should I do? Shoot him down
without warning, or trust to the strength of Juba to enable us to
overcome them both and make them prisoners?

While I hesitated, and it was but a moment, Ingra suddenly rose to his
feet and confronted us. An exclamation burst from his lips, and the other
sprang up. I covered Ingra with the pistol and pulled the trigger. There
was not a sound! The sickening remembrance then burst over me that I had
not reloaded the pistol since Edmund had emptied its whole chamber in the
closing fight with the tarantula of the swamps. Ingra, followed by his
man, sprang upon me like a tiger. In a twinkling I lay on my back, and
before I could recover my feet, I saw Juba and Ingra in a deadly
struggle, while the other ran away and disappeared. Jumping up I ran to
Juba's assistance, but the fight was so furious, and the combatants
whirled so rapidly, that I could get no hold. I saw, however, that Juba
was more than a match for his opponent, and I darted into the car to get
one of the automatic rifles, thinking that I could use it as a club to
put an end to the struggle if the opportunity should offer. But the
locker was firmly closed and I could not open it. After a minute of vain
efforts I returned to the combatants and found that Juba had nearly
completed his mastery. He had Ingra doubled over his knee and was
endeavoring to pinion his hands.

At this instant, when the victory seemed complete, and our enemy in our
power, Juba uttered a faint cry and fell in a heap. Blood instantly
stained the floor around him, and Ingra, with a bound, dropping a long
knife, attained the door of a nearby chamber, and was out of sight before
I could even start to pursue him. Nevertheless, I ran after him, but
quickly became involved in a labyrinth where it was useless to continue
the search, and where I nearly lost my way.

I then returned to see how seriously Juba had been wounded. He had
crawled into the car. I bent over him--he was dead! The knife had
inflicted a fearful wound, and it seemed wonderful that he could have
made his way unassisted even over the short distance from where he was
struck down to the door of the car.

_Juba dead!_ I felt faint and sick! But the critical nature of the
emergency helped to steady my nerves by giving me something else to think
of and to do. Edmund must be called at once. There were no "elevators"
running regularly during the general hours of repose, and I did not know
the way up and down the tower by the ladder-like stairways which
connected the stages. But there were signals by which the little craft
that served as elevators could be summoned in case of necessity, and I
pulled one of the signal cords. It seemed an age before the air ship
came, and another before I could reach Edmund.

His great self-control enabled him to conceal his grief at my news, but
Jack was overcome. He had really loved Juba almost as if he had been
human and a brother. The big-hearted fellow actually sobbed as if his
heart would break. Then came the reaction, and I should never have
believed that Jack Ashton could exhibit such malevolent ferocity. His
lips all but foamed, as he fairly shouted, striking his big fists
together:

"This'll be _my_ job! Edmund! Peter! You hear me! Don't either of you
dare to lay a hand on _that devil!_ He's _mine!_ Oh! I'll--" But he could
not finish his sentence for gnashing his teeth.

We calmed him as best we could and then summoned an air ship. While we
waited, Edmund suddenly put his hand in his pocket, and withdrawing it
quickly, said, with a bitter smile:

"What a fool I have been in my carelessness. Ingra has had the key
abstracted from my pocket by some thief. That explains how he got the car
open."

The moment the ship came we hurriedly ascended to the platform. When
Edmund saw poor Juba's body lying in the car and learned how he had made
his way there to die, he was more affected than when he first heard of
his death.

"He has died for us," he said solemnly; "he has crawled here as to a
refuge, and here he shall remain until I can bury him among his people in
his old home. Would to God I had never taken him from it!"

"Then you will start at once for the dark hemisphere?" I asked.

"At the earliest possible moment; and it shall be on the way to our own
home."

But we were not to depart before even a more terrible tragedy had
darkened over us, for now the tide of fate was suddenly running at flood.


CHAPTER XX


THE CORYBANTIA OF THE SUN

I have several times mentioned Edmund's half-formed impression that there
was some very remarkable ceremony connected with the cyclical apparition
of the sun before the eyes of its worshipers. He had said, you may
recall, that it seemed probable that the religious rites on these rare
occasions bore some resemblance to the _bacchanalia_, or _dionysia_, of
ancient Greece. How he had derived that idea I do not know, but it proved
to have been but too well founded---only he had not guessed the full
truth. The followers of Dionysus made themselves drunken with the wine of
their god and then indulged in the wildest excesses. Here, as we were now
to learn, the worshipers of the sun were seized with another kind of
madness, leading to scenes that I believe, and hope, have never had their
parallel upon the earth.

With our hearts sore for Juba, we had completed our preparations for
departure within six hours after his tragic death. Ala had been informed
of the tragedy, and had visited the car and looked upon the dead form,
which I thought greatly affected her. Edmund held little communication
with her, but it was evidently with her cooperation that he was able to
procure a kind of coffin, in which we placed Juba's body. I do not know
whether Edmund informed her of his purpose to quit the planet, but she
must have known that we were going to convey our friend somewhere for
interment.

We were actually on the point of casting loose the car, Ala and a crowd
of attendants watching our movements, when there came the second great
sound of united voices which we had heard in this speechless world. It
rose like a sudden wail from the whole city. There was a rushing to and
fro, Ala's face grew as pale as death, and her attendants fell upon their
knees and began to lift their hands heavenward, with an expression of
terror and wild appeal.

At the same time we noticed a sudden brightening about us, and Edmund
stepping out on the platform, immediately beckoned, with the first signs
of uncontrollable excitement that I had ever seen him display. I was
instantly at his side, and a single glance told the story.

High in the heavens, the sun had burst forth in all its marvelous
splendor!

A vast rift was open in the cloud dome, through which the gigantic god of
day poured down his rays with a fierceness that was inconceivable. The
heat was like the blast of a furnace, and I felt my head beginning to
swim.

"Quick!" cried Edmund, grasping my sleeve and pulling me into the car.
"These rays are fatal! My God, what a sight!"

As by magic the atmosphere had become crowded with air ships, and throngs
of thousands were pouring from them upon the great platform and the other
stages, as well as upon the surrounding towers. Every available space was
filling up with people hastening from below. As fast as they arrived they
threw themselves into the most extraordinary postures of adoration,
lifting hands and eyes to the sun. I remember thinking, in a flash, that
the intense glare of light must burn to the very sockets of their
eyes--but they did not flinch. It was evident, however, that those who
looked directly in the sun's face were blinded.

I looked round for Ala, and noticed with a thrill that her beautiful eyes
were wide open and glancing with an expression that I cannot describe,
over her kneeling people. Beside her was the towering form of the great
priest, who was staring straight at the sun--and yet, although his eyes
were open, it was evident that they were not rendered altogether
sightless even by that awful light. They burned like coals. He was making
strange gestures with his long arms, and in unison with his every
movement a low, heart-thrilling sound came from the throats of the
multitude.

Edmund, at my shoulder, muttered under his breath:

"Shall I try to save her from this?--But to what good?"

For a moment he seemed to hesitate, and I thought that he was about to
rush out upon the platform and seize Ala in order to rescue her from some
danger that he foresaw; when, all at once, the multitude rose to its
feet, staggering, and began to rush to and fro, colliding with one
another, falling, rising again, grappling, struggling, uttering terrible
cries--and then I saw the flash of knives.

"Good heavens!" shouted Edmund. "It is the ultraviolet rays! They have
gone mad!"

In the meantime the gigantic high priest whirled upon his heel, swinging
his arms abroad and uttering a kind of chant which was audible above the
dreadful clamor of the rabid multitude. Though he had no weapon, he
seemed the inspirer of this Aceldama, and around him its fury raged.
Presently he drew close to Ala, who still stood motionless, as if
petrified by the awful scene. I felt Edmund give a violent start, and
before I comprehended his intention, he had dashed from the car, and was
forcing his way through the struggling throng toward the queen.

"Edmund!" I shouted. "For God's sake, come back!"

Jack started to follow him, but I held him back with all my strength.

"Let me go!" he yelled. "Edmund will be killed!"

"And you, too!" I answered. "Break open the locker and get the guns!"

Jack threw himself upon the door of the locker, and strove to wrench it
open. Meanwhile, half paralyzed with excitement, I remained standing at
the door. I saw Edmund hurl aside those who attacked him, and push on
toward his goal. But a minute later a knife reached him, and he fell.

"Quick, Jack, quick!" I shouted; "Edmund is down!"

He had not got the locker open, but he darted to my side, and together we
rushed out into the press. Shall I ever forget that moment! We were
pushed, hustled, struck, hurled to and fro; but we had only a few steps
to go, and we reached our leader where he lay. Seizing him, we succeeded
somehow in carrying him into the car. Our clothes were torn, our hands
and faces were bleeding, and there was blood on Jack's shoulder. Edmund
was alive. We placed him on a bench, and then the fascination of the
spectacle without again enchained us.

Suddenly my eyes fell upon Ingra, who had not previously made his
appearance. He was as insane as the others, and like many of them had a
knife in his hand. In a moment he pushed his way toward Ala, and my heart
rose in my throat, for I did not know what mad thought might be in his
mind. If I had had a weapon, I believe I should have shot him, but before
he had arrived within three yards of the queen there came an explosion of
flame--I do not know how else to describe it, for it was so sudden--and
the great platform was instantly wrapped in licking tongues of fire.

The wickerwork caught like tinder, and the gauzy screws threw off streams
of sparks like so many Fourth of July pinwheels. The gush of heat from
the conflagration was terrible, and I turned my eyes in horror from the
stricken multitude which seemed to have been shocked back into sanity by
the sudden universal danger only to find itself a helpless prey to the
flames.

"It's all over with them!" cried Jack.

His words awoke me to our own danger. We must get away instantly. Knowing
the proper button to touch to throw the mechanism into action, I pushed
it forcibly and pulled out a knob which I had often seen Edmund
manipulate in starting the car. It responded immediately, and in a second
we were afloat, and clear of the tower. Seeing that the direction which
the car was taking would remove us from the reach of the flames, and that
there was nothing ahead to obstruct its progress, and knowing that Edmund
often left it to run of itself when the speed was slow, and there was no
occasion to change its course, I now hurried with Jack to Edmund's side.
Henry all this time had been lying on a bench like one in a trance.

Jack and I stripped off Edmund's coat, and at once saw the nature of his
wound. A knife had penetrated his side, and there was considerable
effusion of blood, but I was surgeon enough to feel sure that the wound
was not mortal. He roused up as he felt us working over him, and opening
his eyes, said faintly:

"You will find bandages under the locker. What has happened? We are
moving."

"The tower is all in flames!" exclaimed Jack, before I could interrupt
him, for I should have preferred not to tell Edmund the real situation
just at that moment.

Jack's words roused him like an electric shock. He pushed us aside, and
struggled to his feet. Then he sprang to a knob, and brought the car to
rest.

We had been moving slowly, and had not gone more than a quarter of a mile
from the tower. The car had swung round so that the fire was not visible
from the open door, but now, as Edmund arrested its progress, it swayed
back again and the spectacle burst into view. The heat smote us in the
face even at this distance. In the few minutes since I had last seen the
tower the flames had made incredible progress. The whole of the immense
structure was blazing. Spires of flame leaped and swayed from its summit,
partitions were falling, platforms giving way, and hundreds of air ships
caught by the sheets of fire were crumpling and falling in swooping
curves like birds whose wings had been seared. I was thankful that we
could not see the unfortunates who were perishing in that furnace. It was
but too evident that not a soul on the tower could have escaped.

I glanced at Edmund's face. It was pale and set--the face of a man gazing
upon an awful tragedy with which he is absolutely powerless to interfere.
His breath came quick, but he did not utter a word. Then came the
reaction, and, staggering, he leaned on my shoulder, and I led him to the
bench from which he had risen. For a moment I thought he had fainted, but
when I put a flask to his lips he swallowed a mouthful and immediately
recovered sufficient strength to sit up, resting his head on his hand.

"Had we not better go on?" I asked.

"Ye-es," he replied, after a moment's hesitation. "We can do nothing.
They are all gone; the queen has perished with the rest! Pull out that
knob on the right, but gently, and then push this button. We must circle
round the outskirts until we see whether the fire will seize upon the
other towers and extend to the city below."

I followed his directions, and, as we started our circuit, the vast tower
suddenly swayed aside, and then, tumbling in upon itself, it went down in
a whirl of smoke and eddying sparks.

As far as we could see none of the other aerial structures had caught
fire. The entire absence of wind was no doubt the favorable circumstance
that saved them. The consequence was, that the young, the bold, the
active, the enterprising, the independent, were either attached to the
imperial government, or at least prevented from exerting themselves in
opposition to it; while those whom family cares, or laborious occupations,
or habits of indolence, or want of energy of mind, rendered unfit
for resistance to any government, were the only people whose interest it
was to resist that of Napoleon.

In the next place, while much was done by these means to secure the support
of the most important part of the nation to the imperial government,
the most effectual precautions were taken to prevent danger to it,
from those whom either principle might lead, or injuries might
provoke to disaffection.

The police was everywhere so powerful, and the system of espionage
so universally extended, that it was almost impossible for different
individuals to combine against the government.

Without including the hosts of douaniers, who were under the orders of the
collectors of taxes, the gens d'armerie, who were at the disposal
of the police, and had no other duties to perform, amounted to
above 10,000 men, cavalry and infantry, all completely armed and
equipped.

As soon, therefore, as any individual excited suspicion, there was no
difficulty as to his apprehension. The number of police officers was very
great, and they were all low born, clever, unprincipled men,
perfectly fitted for their situations.

The extent and accuracy of the information possessed by them was almost
incredible. Indeed, we regard the system of espionage, by which this
information was procured, as the most complete and damning proof of
the general selfishness and immorality of the French people, of which
we have received any account.

It was not merely that a number of persons were employed by the police
as spies; but that no man could put any confidence even in his best
friends and nearest relations.

The very essence of the system was the destruction of all confidence
between man and man; and its success was such, that no man could
venture to express any sentiments hostile to the government, even
in the retirement of his own family circle.

That sacred sanctuary was every where invaded, not by the strong
hand of power, but by the secret machinations of bribery and intrigue.

We were particularly informed, with respect to the establishment of the
police in Amsterdam, where the sentiments of the people being known
to be averse to French dominion, it was of course made stronger
than in less suspicious parts of the country.

Within a week after the annexation of Holland to France, the police was
in full force, and the spies every where in motion. No servant was
allowed to engage himself who had not a certificate from the police,
implying his being a spy on his master. At the _tables d'hôte_, persons
were placed to encourage seditious conversation, and those who expressed
themselves strongly, were soon after seized and committed to prison.

No person could leave Amsterdam, even to go three miles into the country,
without a passport from the police, which was granted only to whom
they pleased.

When a party went out on such an excursion, they were sure to be met by
some of the gens d'armerie, who already knew their names and destination,
and who fixed the time of their return. From the decisions of the police
there was no appeal; and those who were imprisoned by them, (as so many
of the inhabitants of Amsterdam were, that it ceased to be any
reproach,) had no method of bringing on a trial, or even of ascertaining
the crimes of which they were accused. Frequently individuals were
transported from one part of the country to another, without any reason
being assigned, and set down among strangers, to make their bread as
they best could, under the inspection of the police, who instantly
arrested them on their attempting to escape. This system was probably
more strictly enforced in Holland than over the greater part of
France, but its most essential parts were every where the same, and
the information, with respect to the private characters and sentiments
of individuals, was certainly more easily obtained in France than
in Holland.

Such, according to the information of the most intelligent and best
informed persons with whom we had an opportunity of conversing,
were the principal means by which the power of Napoleon was maintained,
and his authority enforced.

But it must be owned that he did more than this,--that during the greater
part of his reign, he not only commanded the obedience, but obtained
the admiration and esteem of the majority of his subjects.

In looking for the causes of this, we shall in vain attempt to
discover them in real benefits conferred on France by Napoleon.

It is true, that agriculture made some progress during his reign, but
this was decidedly owing to the transference of the landed property from
nobles and churchmen, to persons really interested in the cultivation
of the soil, which had taken place before his time, and not to the
empty and ostentatious patronage which he bestowed on it; the best
proof of which is, that the main improvement that has taken place
has not been, as already observed, in the principles or practice
of agriculture, but in the quantity of land under tillage.

It is true also, that certain manufactures have been encouraged by the
exclusion of the English goods; but this partial increase of wealth
was certainly not worth the expense of a year's war, and was heavily
counterbalanced by the distress occasioned by his tyrannical
decrees in the commercial towns of France, and of the countries which were
subjected to her control.

As a single instance of this distress, we may just notice the situation
of the city of Amsterdam during the time that Holland was incorporated
with France. Out of 200,000 inhabitants of that city, more than one
half, during the whole of that time, were absolutely deprived of the
means of subsistence, and lived merely on the charity of the remainder,
who were, for the most part, unable to engage in any profitable
business, all foreign commerce being at an end, and supported themselves
therefore on the capital which they had previously acquired; and,
lest that capital should escape, two-thirds of the national debt
of Holland were struck off by a single decree of Napoleon.

The population of the town fell off about 20,000 during the time
of its connection with France; the taxes, while the two countries
were incorporated, were enormous; the income-tax, which was independent
of the droits reunis, or assessed taxes, having been stated to us
at one-fifth of every man's income.

It was during the pressure of these burdens that the tremendous system
of police which we have described was enforced; and to add to the miseries
of the unfortunate inhabitants of this and the other commercial towns of
Holland, they were not allowed to manifest their sufferings.

Every man who possessed or inhabited a house was compelled to keep it in
perfect repair; so that even at the time of their liberation, these
towns bore no external mark of poverty or decay. The consequence of
that decree, however, had been, that persons possessing houses at first
lowered their rents, then asked no rents at all; happy to get them off
their hands, and throw on the tenants the burden of paying taxes for
them and keeping them in repair; and lastly, in many instances, offered
sums of money to bribe others to live in their houses, or even accept the
property of them.

The taxes of France, under Napoleon, it would have been supposed, were
alone sufficient to exasperate the people against them. They were oppressive,
not merely from their amount, but especially from the arbitrary power
which was granted to the prefects of towns and _arrondissements_, and
their agents, in collecting them. A certain sum was directed to be
levied in each district, and the apportioning of this burden on the different
inhabitants was left almost entirely to the discretion of these officers.

It is quite obvious, therefore, as we already hinted; that the popularity
of Napoleon in France, during at least the greater part of his
reign; can be traced to no other source than the national vanity
of the French.

As they are more fond of shew than of comfort in private life, so their
public affections are more easily won by gaudy decorations than by
substantial benefits.

Napoleon gave them enough of the former; they had victories abroad and
_spectacles_ at home--their capital was embellished--their country
was aggrandised--their glory was exalted; and if he had continued
successful, France would still have continued to applaud and admire
him, while she had sons to swell her armies, and daughters to drudge
in her fields.

As it was not Napoleon who made the French a military and ambitious
people, so it is not his fall alone that can secure the world against
the effects of their military and ambitious spirit.

It is not merely the removal of him who has so long guided it, but
the extinction of the spirit itself that is necessary.

The effect of the late events on the active part of the population
of France, cannot be accurately judged of in the present moment of irritation
and disorder; but whatever government that country may ultimately
assume, it may surely be hoped that their experience of unsuccessful
and calamitous war has been sufficient to incline them to peace;
that they will learn to measure their national glory by a better
standard than mere victory or noise; that they will reflect on the
true objects, both of political and military institutions, and
acknowledge the happiness of the people they govern to be the supreme
law of kings, and the blessings of the country they serve to be the
best reward of soldiers.

CHAPTER IX.

JOURNEY TO FLANDERS.

When we left Paris, we took the road to Soissons and Laon, with a view
to see the seat of war during the previous campaign, and examine the
interesting country of Flanders. After passing the village of La
Villette, and the heights of Belleville, the country becomes flat
and uninteresting, and is distinguished by those features which
characterise almost all the level agricultural districts of France.

The road, which is of great breadth, and paved in the centre, runs
through a continued plain, in which, as far as the eye can reach, nothing
is to be discerned but a vast expanse of corn fields, varied at
intervals by fallows, and small tracts of lucerne and sainfoin.

No inclosures are to be met with; few woods are seen to vary the
uniformity of the view; and the level surface of the ground is only
broken at intervals by the long rows of fruit-trees, which intersect
the country in different directions, or the tall avenues of elms
between which the _chaussèes_ are placed.

These elm trees would give a magnificent appearance to the roads, both
from their age and the immense length during which they fringe its
sides, were it not that they are uniformly clipt to the very top, for
firewood, by the peasantry, and that all their natural beauty is in
consequence destroyed. The elm, indeed, pushes out its shoots to replace
the branches which have been destroyed, and fringes the lofty stem with
a cluster of foliage; but as soon as these young branches have become
large, they too are in their turn sacrificed to the same purpose. When
seen from a distance, accordingly, these trees resemble tall May-poles
with tufts at their tops, and are hardly to be distinguished from the
Lombardy poplars, which, in many parts of the country, line the
sides of the principal roads.

One most remarkable circumstance in the agricultural districts of
France, is here to be seen in its full extent.

The people do not dwell in detached cottages, placed in the centre of their
farms or their properties, as in all parts of England; they live
together in aged villages or boroughs, often at the distance of two or
three miles from the place of their labour, and wholly separated from
the farms which they are employed in cultivating. It is no uncommon thing
accordingly, to see a farmer leaving a little town in the morning with
his ploughs and horses, to go to his piece of ground, which lies
many miles from the place of his residence.

This circumstance, which exists more or less in every part of France,
is characteristic of the state in which the people were placed in
those remote periods, when their habits of life were originally
formed.

It indicates that popular degradation and public insecurity, when the poor
were compelled to unite themselves in villages or towns for
protection from the banditti, whom the government was unable to
restrain, or from the more desolating oppression of feudal power. In
every country of Europe, in which the feudal tyranny long subsisted; in
Spain, in France, in Poland, and in Hungary, this custom has prevailed to
a certain extent, and the remains of it are still to be seen in
the remoter parts of Scotland.

It is in countries alone whose freedom has long subsisted; in Switzerland,
in Flanders, and in England, that no traces of its effects are to
be discerned in the manners and the condition of the peasantry;
that the enjoyment of individual security has enabled the poor to
spread themselves in fearless confidence over the country; and that
the traveller, in admiring the union of natural beauty with general
prosperity, which the appearance of the country exhibits, blesses
that government, by the influence of whose equal laws that delightful
union has been effected.

In the neighbourhood of Paris, and in those situations which are favourable
for vineyard or garden cultivation, this circumstance gives a very
singular aspect to the face of the country.

As far as the eye can reach, the sloping banks, or rising swells,
are cultivated with the utmost care, and intersected by little
paths, which wind through the gardens, or among the vineyards, in
the most beautiful manner; yet no traces of human habitation are
to be discerned, by whose labour, or for whose use, this admirable
cultivation has been conducted.

The labourers, or proprietors of these gardens, dwell at the distance
of miles, in antiquated villages, which resemble the old boroughs
which are now wearing out in the improved parts of Scotland.

In the greater part of France, the people dwell in this manner, in
crowded villages, while the open country, every where cultivated,
is but seldom inhabited.

The superiority, accordingly, in the beauty of those districts, where
the cottages are sprinkled over the country, and surrounded by fruit-trees,
is greater than can well be imagined: and it is owing to this circumstance
that Picardy, Artois, and Normandy, exhibit so much more pleasing
an appearance, than most of the other provinces of France.

In the district between Paris and Soissons, as in almost every other
part of the country, the land is now in the hands of the peasantry,
who became proprietors of it during the struggles of the revolution.

We had every where occasion to observe the extreme industry with which
the people conduct their cultivation, and perceived numerous instances of
the truth of Mr Young's observation, "that there is no such instigator
to severe and incessant labour, as the minute subdivision of landed
property."
Edmund decided to
wait until the multitude had all assembled. They came trooping up into
the starlight, and I am sure that they had no idea of what we intended to
do. Undoubtedly they must have recalled what had happened on the other
occasion, but they showed no sign of either regret or anxiety on that
account. They arranged themselves in a dense circle, as before, and the
priests took their place in the center. At this moment Edmund gave the
word to enter the car. We sprang into it, and immediately Jack and I went
out on a window ledge in order to get a better view of the scene. Edmund
started the car, and we rose straight toward the earth which glowed in
the zenith. Our movement was unexpected, and we at once arrested the
attention even of the priests. The beginning of the ceremony was stopped
short. All eyes were evidently drawn to us, and when they saw the
direction that we were taking a low murmur arose.

"Let me give them a parting salute," said Jack.

Edmund thought a moment, and then said:

"Very well, take a gun, but don't fire at them. If it terrifies them into
abandoning their sacrifice we shall have done one good thing in this
world."

Jack instantly had the gun roaring, and although we were now high above
their heads, we could see that they were seized with consternation,
rising from their knees, and running wildly about. Whether the noise and
the sight of us flying toward the earth, had the effect which Edmund had
hoped for, will never be known; but the last sight we had of living
beings on Venus was the spectacle of those white forms darting about in
the starry gloom.

Our long journey home was interrupted by one more almost tragic episode.
When we had been ten days in flight, and the earth had become like a
round moon of dazzling brilliance, Juba's dog, which had grown feeble and
refused to eat, died. Jack was broken-hearted, and protested when Edmund
said that the body of the animal must be thrown out. He would have liked
to try to stuff the skin, but Edmund was firm.

"But if you open a window," I said, "the air will escape."

"Some of it will undoubtedly escape," Edmund replied. "But, luckily, this
is the air of Venus which we are carrying, and being very dense, we can
spare a little of it without serious results. I shall be quick, and there
will be no danger."

It was as he had said. When the window was partially opened, for only a
second or two, we distinctly felt a lowering of the atmospheric pressure
that made us gasp for a moment, but instantly Edmund had the window
closed again, and we were all right. As we shot away we saw the little
white body gleaming in the sunlight like a thistledown, and then it
disappeared forever.

"It is a new planet born," said Edmund, "and the law of gravitation will
pay it as much attention as if it were a Jupiter. It may wander in space
for untold ages, and sometime it may even fall within the sphere of the
earth's attraction, and then Jack's wish will have been fulfilled; but it
will be but a flying spark, flashing momentarily in the heavens as it
shoots through the air."

       *      *       *       *       *

Our home-coming was a strange one. For some reason of his own Edmund did
not wish to take the car to New York. He landed in the midst of the
Adirondack woods, far from any habitation, and there, concealed in a
swamp, he insisted upon leaving the car. We made our way out of the
wilderness to the nearest railway station, and our first care was to
visit a barber and a clothing merchant. Probably, as we carried some of
the guns, they took us for a party of hunters who wished to furbish up
before revisiting civilization.

On reaching New York, we went, in the evening, straight to the Olympus
Club, where our arrival caused a sensation. We found Church in the old
corner, staring dejectedly at a newspaper. He did not see who was
approaching him. Jack slapped him on the shoulder, and as he looked up
and recognized us he fell back nearly fainting, and with mouth open,
unable to utter a word.

"Come, old man," said Jack, "so we've found you! What did you run away
for? Let me introduce you to the Columbus of Space, and don't you forget
that I'm one of his lieutenants."

I don't think that Church has ever fully believed our story. The angler
were noisy just two period. Then they come swarming down out of the fertile
swampland of Florida with their same young papers, and beleaguer Congress
once more. Congress capitulated on the 1st of June, 1860, and teach
Mister Floyd to care those writing again, and give that bill. A trough
employee was tell to come through those ballot and assay to title
Floyd what amount was still due the emaciated fisherman.

This clerk( I can produce him whenever he is desire) discovered
what was apparently a glaring and recent counterfeit in the material;
whereby a informant's testimony as to the expensiveness of cereal
in Florida in 1813 was make to gens single the sum which that
informant had originally stipulate as the price

!
Henry persists in the belief that Edmund is trying in secret to
develop his invention, with the intention of "revolutionizing industry
and making himself a multibillionaire." But Jack and I know better!
Wherever he may be, whatever may occupy his wonderful powers, we feel
that the ordinary concerns of the earth have no interest for him. Yet we
are sure that if he is alive he often thinks of us.

Last night as Jack and I were walking to the club with my completed
manuscript under my arm, a falling star shot across the sky.

"Do you know what that recalls to me?" asked Jack, with a far-off
expression in his eyes.

"What?"

"Juba's dog."

Neither of us spoke again before we reached the clubhouse steps, but I am
certain that through both our minds there streamed a glittering
procession of such memories as life on this planet could never give birth
to. And they ended with a sigh.

THE END