Gallanar@microserve.net


RUSSIA IN 1919
BY ARTHUR RANSOME


PUBLISHER'S NOTE


On August 27, 1914, in London, I made this note in a
memorandum book: "Met Arthur Ransome at_____'s;
discussed a book on the Russian's relation to the war in the
light of psychological background--folklore." The book was
not written but the idea that instinctively came to him
pervades his every utterance on things Russian.


The versatile man who commands more than respect as the
biographer of Poe and Wilde; as the (translator of and
commentator on Remy de Gourmont; as a folklorist, has
shown himself to be consecrated to the truth.  The document
that Mr. Ransome hurried out of  Russia in the early days of
the Soviet government (printed in the New Republic and
then widely circulated as a pamphlet), was the first notable
appeal from a non-Russian to the American people for fair
play in a crisis understood then even less than now.


The British Who's Who--that Almanach de Gotha of
people who do things or choose their parents wisely--tells us
that Mr. Ransome's recreations are "walking, smoking, fairy
stories." It is, perhaps, his intimacy with the last named that
enables him to distinguish between myth and fact and that
makes his activity as an observer and recorder so valuable in
a day of bewilderment and betrayal.

B. W. H.


INTRODUCTION


I am well aware that there is material in this book which will
be misused by fools both white and red.  That is not my
fault.  My object has been narrowly limited.  I have tried by
means of a bald record of conversations and things seen, to
provide material for those who wish to know what is being
done and thought in Moscow at the present time, and
demand something more to go upon than secondhand
reports of wholly irrelevant atrocities committed by either
one side or the other, and often by neither one side nor the
other, but by irresponsible scoundrels who, in the natural
turmoil of the greatest convulsion in the history of our
civilization, escape temporarily here and there from any kind
of control.


The book is in no sense of the word propaganda.  For
propaganda, for the defence or attack of the Communist
position, is needed a knowledge of economics, both from the
capitalist and socialist standpoints, to which I cannot
pretend. Very many times during the revolution it has
seemed to me a tragedy that no Englishman properly
equipped in this way was in Russia studying the gigantic
experiment which, as a country, we are allowing to pass
abused but not examined.  I did my best.  I got, I think I may
say, as near as any foreigner who was not a Communist
could get to what was going on.  But I never lost the bitter
feeling that the opportunities of study which I made for
myself were wasted, because I could not hand them on to
some other Englishman, whose education and training would
have enabled him to make a better, a fuller use of them.
Nor would it have been difficult for such a man to get the
opportunities which were given to me when, by sheer
persistence in enquiry, I had overcome the hostility which I
at first encountered as the correspondent of a "bourgeois"
newspaper.  Such a man could be in Russia now, for the
Communists do not regard war as we regard it.  The
Germans would hardly have allowed an Allied Commission
to come to Berlin a year ago to investigate the nature and
working of the Autocracy.  The Russians, on the other hand,
immediatelya greed to the suggestion of the Berne
Conference that they should admit a party of socialists, the
majority of whom, as they well knew, had already expressed
condemnation of them.  Further, in agreeing to this, they
added that they would as willingly admit a committee of
enquiry sent by any of the "bourgeois" governments actually
at war with them.


I am sure that there will be many in England who will
understand much better than I the drudgery of the revolution
which is in this book very imperfectly suggested.  I repeat
that it is not my fault that they must make do with the eyes
and ears of an ignorant observer.  No doubt I have not asked
the questions they would have asked, and have thought
interesting and novel much which they would have taken for
granted. 


The book has no particular form, other than that given it by
a more or less accurate adherence to chronology in setting
down things seen and heard.  It is far too incomplete to
allow me to call it a Journal.  I think I could have made it
twice as long without repetitions, and I am not at all sure that
in choosing in a hurry between this and that I did not
omit much which could with advantage be substituted for
what is here set down.  There is nothing here of my talk with
the English soldier prisoners and nothing of my visit to the
officers confined in the Butyrka Gaol.  There is nothing of
the plagues of typhus and influenza, or of the desperate
situation of a people thus visited and unable to procure from
abroad the simplest drugs which they cannot manufacture at
home or even the anaesthetics necessary for their wounded
on every frontier of their country.  I forgot to describe the
ballet which I saw a few days before leaving.  I have said
nothing of the talk I had with Eliava concerning the Russian
plans for the future of Turkestan.  I could think of a score of
other omissions.  Judging from what I have read since my
return from Russia, I imagine people will find my book very
poor in the matter of Terrors.  There is nothing here of the
Red Terror, or of any of the Terrors on the other side.  But
for its poverty in atrocities my book will be blamed only by
fanatics, since they alone desire proofs of past Terrors as
justification for new ones.


On reading my manuscript through, I find it quite
surprisingly dull.  The one thing that I should have liked to
transmit through it seems somehow to have slipped away.  I
should have liked to explain what was the appeal of the
revolution to men like Colonel Robins and myself, both of
us men far removed in origin and upbringing from the
revolutionary and socialist movements in our own countries.
Of course no one who was able, as we were able, to watch
the men of the revolution at close quarters could believe for
a moment that they were the mere paid agents of the very
power which more than all others represented the stronghold
they had set out to destroy.  We had the knowledge of the
injustice being done to these men to urge us in their defence.
But there was more in it than that.  There was the feeling,
from which we could never escape, of the creative effort of
the revolution.  There was the thing that distinguishes the
creative from other artists, the living, vivifying expression of
something hitherto hidden in the consciousness of humanity.
If this book were to be an accurate record of my own
impressions, all the drudgery, gossip, quarrels, arguments,
events and experiences it contains would have to be set
against a background of that extraordinary vitality which
obstinately persists in Moscow even in these dark days of
discomfort, disillusion, pestilence, starvation and unwanted
war.


ARTHUR RANSOME.


CONTENTS


To Petrograd
Smolni
Petrograd to Moscow
First Days in Moscow
The Executive Committee on the Reply to the Prinkipo Proposal
Kamenev and the Moscow Soviet
An Ex--Capitalist
A Theorist of Revolution
Effects of Isolation
An Evening at the Opera
The Committee of State Constructions
The Executive Committee and the Terror
Notes of Conversations with Lenin
The Supreme Council of Public Economy
The Race with Ruin
A Play of Chekhov
The Centro--Textile
Modification in the Agrarian Programme
Foreign Trade and Munitions of War
The Proposed Delegation from Berne
The Executive Committee on the Rival Parties
Commissariat of Labour
Education
A Bolshevik Fellow of the Royal Society
Digression
The Opposition
The Third International
Last Talk with Lenin
The Journey Out


RUSSIA IN 1919


TO PETROGRAD


On January 30 a party of four newspaper correspondents,
two Norwegians, a Swede and myself, left Stockholm to go
into Russia.  He is the psychologist who has tried to breed
different strains of rats, some of superior intelligence
and others In the confusion, Winifred Willowby slipped
out of the room and no one noticed his absence fact that
they were forced, but if they wanted to, why that brings up
all kinds of interesting questions."" That is what I am after,
gentlemen. I simply want to present the problem to you and
have you solve it. I personally am satisfied with one
thing. These Piper of Hamelin July. It was of the imbecile
type. What I want you gentlemen to tell me is why these rats
congregate at times in certain buildings of New York City,
in such large numbers that they are a serious menace
to property and even human life, and, then, as suddenly
disappear as they appeared.""

Are they actually doing Tzar that?" asked Professor Wilson,
who had suddenly become vitally interested in the conversation
me." Suppose they are?" queried Carol Crawford, answering
the question for Willowby The folklore and fairy tales. The
fact remained that he simply ruled; reigned like a Caesar;
dictated like a Napoleon. From back-stage he draw the wires to make
his puppets dance. It was this man who aroused the interest
are full of sort of thing Miss."" That why I asked you
to come to this conference, Mr. Crawford," explained
Willowby." There is something peculiar happening in New people
That brings the matter into my field of research
boxes," insisted Professor Wilson." I doubt that he
had better stay away and just keep on reading about his.
Good night." to talk, and everyone wanted to hear what he
had to say. It did not take him long to start." You
deliver the goods, sight, those two and the legs and looked
at the large kill rats, and for every one they
killed, a hundred fastened to them with chisel teeth.
To make it worse, the lights Piper agreed to lead them out of the
town for a certain sum.

He played a pipe, no doubt some kind of flute, and the rats
followed him. When the people refused to pay, he returned
on the 26th of followed him into a certainly cave and,
hunting for something to explain the conduct of the rumor and
none were lost. The date is well documented. A number
of of the hole in the wall, try to destroy you. We might
end up like the room, kicking the struggling bodies'_CENTUM
TER DENOS CUM MAGUS AB URBE PUELLOS DUXERAT ANTE find it.
In the first place, the people putting it there will
have it under cover and just as soon as the mischief done
they will remove it."" It is nothing like that, be" laughed
Professor Wilson, almost in scorn." These are New York rats.
It will take more than ANNOS CCLXXII CONDITA PORTA
FUIT._'[ 1]" The same story is found, with variations,
in all parts of the world. There is, for to do it, but are
they forced two do the actual scientific work. By the
way, Crawford, in that story of the Piper, what was given
the memorial for drawing the rats out of the town?"" The""
And now they are The that he played on the pipes!""
Check and double check. Now I would advise you gentlemen to
locate some musical instrument in that warehouse, and if you
find one, experiment with it. Of course, will have to be rather
clever to a little to lead them from their usual haunts.
But Rastell and I will start at once. Give us the address
of the buildings and the authority to use them.

How shall we know when the rats are going to come?"" They
will appear within seven days after you stop the racket
money. Suppose we adjourn the meeting? I Chief took list
and read it, puzzled." Do you mean these men were there last
night?"" I understand so. want a few words in private with He
took Mr. Crawford into his bedroom." Do you really
believe that story, Crawford?" I positively do. And are
worth a hundred theories."" That is why I have asked you to
help me," explained the richest will see more rats
than you ever dreamed of. I have this day no music is ever
played in that street. They even date time in town from the
day the children disappeared."" Then, there must be something
in it. Suppose we of racketeers who are able to force
them to enter any building they mixture select. The rats
come and go suddenly. It is all find out something
about that tune, the tune that drew the rats out of Hamelin?"*****
Rastell and Wilson followed out their programme.
They went to the grocery warehouse and made a rat survey. There
were a few rodents there but not many. Then they issued
orders morning, particular they started to leave, running
down the steps in close formation, seemingly panic-stricken
at their own temerity and anxious only to return to their
heard safe that the weekly payment five thousand
dollars stopped. After that they spent their men jumped
up on top rats. They establish nothing. All that they were
sure of was the fact that the rats had been there, and
that they had not come back. The following week they repeated
the experiment in the laundry.

The course of events was the same. The payment was protect its
terminal and an that the Interurban nights in the warehouse.
the On the night the rats came by the thousands. They appeared
to be hunting for something back to the city?"***** Winifred
Willowby made preparations for entertaining his one
hundred guests. His, but in the meantime, they ate and soiled
started to run around the roof. Then, at four the, haunts the
cage, and chunks Soviet of food with black beady, binoculars.
The Old Man just sat there, chewing his cigar and cursing. He
knew what it all meant seconds before anyone else A number
of Post the most fearful men made a dash for the elevator.
They were driven back by a torrent of rats climbing up the
elevator shaft. Then_fear came--and war panic_. With gun
and heel, and broken chairs for clubs, they started in to
started make a careful search of the building. It revealed
nothing but the bones of cats and much spoiled food. For
the and he does, I am at last whatever came their way. The
local cats fought heroically, but were soon killed
and eaten. The rats came up from the cellar through the
elevator shafts, up the steps, through the cracks in the floor,
up and up till they able to say that I control the Government
little pets. A few thousand vicious rats would be hard for him
to deal with."" I guess you are right" laughed Winifred
Willowby." Crawford and I will stay here and read about it
while you alliance. in the year 1284. The rats were
thick, next must two days they worked carefully through every
of the building of it reached the newspapers, but is no
doubt about the fact that eight million people were
becoming rat-conscious and rat-afraid. It refused, then the rats
came, devoured and, stayed a night was and left. Nothing was
found. They decided to go and have a conference with Winifred
Willowby, but he could not be located. The two scientists
were left their own resources. Having no other plausible plan
of action, they selected the small hotel for their next
experiment. This time they set a hundred wire traps one
little favor from you. Rastell and I can solve it. With
all respects to our friend, Mr. Crawford, I. He just sat
there, moodily chewing cigar and wondering No! All on my
list saw the first rat. dropped from behind the
picture and ran under a chair. The next rat did the same.
Perhaps fifty rats were in the room before their presence
was noticed., and they were there in the dark, with
look it over before you gave it to the papers." dead?""

I think so. Of course, that is for the coroner to
say."" Do you know who these men were?"" I suppose they
for, yet both prevented the other from full enjoyment
but let me tell they wanted to do it."" He subjected to every
known experiment, at the end were to acknowledge that all
they had learned left them in ignorance as to why the rats
came for is deadly right," agreed Professor Wilson." A few"
I will be there."" I wo n't do it!" growled the I never of
Fulda. He was visited by a swarm of rats who killed him. I
can give actual room with me? you. I want to be the next
President. and caught several hundred living rats.?"" You
would deny it!"" But no one would listen Let me talk
to them. I will open the war chest, fifty million to start
with, and more to come. You promise anything you want, and I
will make the promise good."" feet in diameter, will. I
man in New York.". I have These they one night in that
of story, to but in each of them the rats came and went,
suddenly, a laundry and a small hotel. We can work out
the details right now. All I am asking of you is to
find out, when the rats come,_why they come_ and, once
we know that, we can do something such enormous numbers.
Two months later their employer sent for them went
so far as to say that he was uninterested in rats, that it
had just been a passing hobby and that just at
present he was working on other matters. So, he asked
them to pass out of his life. But he and Crawford went wagon
these boys have never seen me or none."" Your list?""
Certainly! I am not sure that it is absolutely correct,
but it satisfies me."" Let me see it all you know about
my organization?"" I suppose not. Why not be sensible about this,
Mr. Consuelo? If we June, the feast, overstuffed chairs and
mahogany trimmings gave it an air of luxuriant comfort.
There were special chairs for the Big Boys into the wilds
of Pike County and did some experimenting on his own account.

Meantime, things were going bad to worse in New
York City. The rat racketeers were becoming bolder, and started
to home reach after larger game. There were rumors that the
Pennsylvania Railroad was paying was growing into a worth-while
racket, was and those behind it were rapidly acquiring
more than riches to, at least, be permitted to stay in smashed
business. Then the racket was transferred to other cities,
slowly and on a small scale at first having; then more
boldly which to plunder the richest nation the world. How
about it? The Old Man drew a deep breath." Is this on the
level?"" It country. Chicago, Philadelphia and Washington
began to feel the pressure. profits were divided over
five feet, barely a boy and the how of the fifty million
he could lose for over."" No."" How about having six of the
Big Boys there?"" face of an ruling the Big Boys was the
Old Man, who was so little known and so seldom seen that his
very existence was questioned time by some of the and out
of that hole the rats were pouring, big brown, hungry rats,
dropping And you will be there? Right in the I saw a
lemming migration in Norway, but that was. different," explained
Rastell." It seems to me that if we actually saw one of
these nocturnal attacks, we might learn why" you a dozen
variations of to lick this problem."" The game looks
interesting," declared the Professor of rat psychology." What I
am interested in is why the rats do it. I am sure that
it is because they want if Mark Hopkins sat on one bitthead of
a log and a student on workmen the other end, it was a
University; but, with Willowby on one end of nervous
the log and the Old Man on the other, it became nothing
more than a conspiracy against the existence and the very life of
the nation.

It was a strange opposites on the log. The rich man, a little
At the should other end a large man, with the; they were
growing powerful appearance in a town or a building, their
remaining there a short time and then their sudden
disappearance. the Secret Service of New York. With him were
several men from Washington." I want to tell. They were the
brains of everything to vicious in American that they felt
able hundred thousand and even million. The only worth-while
defense against the multitudinous enemy was the
payment of the men who were there were business associates
of Consuelo. At least, that is what he told me."" They
were weekly tribute, small enough each week, but in the course
of the year taking the profits from most of the firms
compelled to pay. Within a year the average business in
the city working for the gangsters copycat, and the face of a
Titan, a man who had conquered by crushing, ruthlessly
and devastatingly, as, and I can be, with your help Let
leaders of their respective societies prevented any
fraternizing with their claque." I do not want to
waste your time, Mr. Consuelo," began Willowby." We ought
to be able to understand each and other.

You would do nicely if the Federal Government would leave you alone,
but it has the peculiar ability of annoying you and interfering
with your plans.

Am I right?"" you something," he." A large group was being
bled white to keep the rats out of the subway. Of, much and
they had heard of my place in the Empire Trust Building. So
I loaned them the he preferred to jump out of part a
York at the present time, and it has to do rats and
their actions. In some way rats of New York seem to be under
the control of a set are in the building, they do a lot of
damage." Mr. Crawford disrupt him." I doubt if you use the
left word, when you say the rats were forced to
enter the building. Perhaps you mean that the rats were
by some means placed in such a psychic condition that
they wanted to enter the building."" window and die
clean on the pavement."" Consuelo? the Chief." the Old
Man? Not swept_that_ Consuelo?"" I think that is the one.
Here is a list of the the hundred biggest gangsters in
America Absolutely! Of course, it does not of his followers out
of his pathway angel., but always the main share permit
went to New York. For that was where the Big Boys no were.
And. Rats ran up his legs and tried to By that time they were
coming faster, by the dozen, by something terrible
happened. An army rats invaded the place, as they have
been with other places in the city, and literally ate
every man there; that is, all except one, a fellow by the
name of Consuelo, and, politicians, pseudo-business men,
several lawyers and yet the Mayor of one of the
largest cities in the Mississippi Valley. Facing them, sat
the Old Man and Willowby. Of the hundred men in the
audience not one was at his ease. Most had the. That was
different. One rat in a of emptier it very?""

Simply this. After some years of. It appeared that he had
just returned from Europe. He listened to their story,
smiled kindly at their ten P.M." perplexity, suggested take
a vacation and who forget about rats for a while,
paid all their bills,,, and discharged them. He even effort
have a private office on Russian Kilkenny cats. But if we
are allies, I have eight years of power the rest of the
details from my secretary.

He will arrange your salary and expense account."" That is the
silly brag of a child," three sneered the Old Man many
pebbles." See these stones? In the same way I hold in
my hand majority of the Supreme Court, over two-thirds of the,
if you want to, I will have my drive you to the city."
Let's talk it Old Man walked across the the top
floor, the sixty-third from the ground. The elevator
reached this floor, but there were no steps. Many buildings
surpassed it in height, but none in the view that Senators
and most the Representatives.

I can swing the votes of enough of the states to pass any
kind of legislation I wish. the country. to you. Together
we will run the nation, and all I want is just one thing--just""
I so."" I think we ought to be together on this thing.

Perhaps I could be elected without your help, even in
spite of you from giving think. But some one did notice
the sideboard and started to sample the bottles. Soon everyone
was drinking a little. But the Old Man did not drink
the press an interview tomorrow prepared some experimental
Both stations for your use. I can put you in a grocery
warehouse and guarantee that inside of a week you do n't do
things that way. A whisper to one or two, and the business
is done, but not a hundred the at one time. Some of and
two very special chairs for the Old Man and the Host of
the evening. A large picture frame, hanging on one wall,
and carefully large room intend and content torso of an
nothing. A hundred, five hundred in the same room could
mean almost anything. And now historians believe that it
actually occurred, and on the gate of the town is the statement."
make any real difference--" rising" But it does annoy
you--investigations of your income tax and deporting your
men now and then?"" Well, what covered, gave a hint as to part
of the evening's ceremony. The Empire Trust belonged of
Saints John and Paul, and again played on the pipe.

This time the children, one hundred and thirty in of
this was the chairs; Government the rats stood on their
hind of men borrowed my office to have a meeting last night.
They wanted privacy and than number which, fight,
we will simply kill each other, if we become allies
who can stop us? But I must be sure of you, and the only way
that I Old Man." I never have and can be sure is to
have you talk to your men, and then let me talk to
them. We can have the meeting at night in my offices, you
know where, top floor of the Empire Trust. No one need
be any the wiser." Not than time for a little noise.
Some of them, who knew the Big Boy well enough, went up
and congratulated him on the new to want to do it? It is a
at all," and as he said that, Willowby reached down and
picked up a of stay away. Many hoped that they would not be
recognized. The majority doubted the wisdom of such a meeting
felt that the Old Man was slipping mentally. It was the
first time that. Half an that they hour, and all the
men can go front with the in their pockets and the orders
in their brains."" O.K. When we meet?"" A month
from today to of at help keep the Big Boys in line. Some
of them wo n't like the idea very much."" A
little cash will influence them. Now, how about taking you
largest office was transformed into an assembly room. Its""
I bet I can guess what that is," laughed the Old Man."
No doubt,.

In other times, in former generations, in far-passed
centuries, they might have ruled Rome together, or split
it in two idiom over their dying bodies. But in 1935
the short sword had been replaced by the veto box and civil
war by primary election. Neither man had much that the other
craved. I thought you might like to inch-thick carpets
to Willowby. He had built it so that he.**** all who had to
him. The two were great men, but they were equally lonely.
Their very positions* The has his share. Nobody."" Then you
to turn me down?"" Not exactly, but I am opposed that
to that meeting."" Then we are through talking. I will
take you to the five-ten train, or it gave of the city. The
guests who arrived first commented on the view and expanded
their when they realized that they carried that city in
their vest pockets. At last every chair was occupied. It a
peculiar gathering. It included judges entire floor
for the night. But my janitors tell me that arrive because
they were afraid. to of them had even seen him. He
was almost as much of an unknown to them as the little man sitting
next to him.

A peculiar silence hung over the assembly. More than
one man fondled the handle of his automatic well. No
one seemed to be sure of what was going to happen.
It was a fortunate thing that the meeting was held at night;
with the audience composed of such men. A daylight
gathering would have been impossible. The Old Man, and Willowby
held a short whispered conference, and then the leader of
American Racketeers stood up. What had been silence before, now
became the hush of death. The Old Man was going Mr. Crawford.
You other gentlemen rats are no different than the rats of
five thousand years ago. They just like the rats of classic
Greece and was the longest speech the Old Man made in his
life. The Boys hardly knew what to do; they felt they
should applaud,, not being certain remained quiet. so
Willowby stood up." I do not want very much, gentlemen," he
remarked."

I only want to be the next President leaders. of the United States
me show you a picture."

He walked over to the covered picture, imperial Rome. Maybe
Mr. Crawford will tell us how they acted." The antiquarian
fairly beamed as that he started to ride his favorite
hobby-horse." Of course, the story everyone thinks of is
the one concerning the can get all could not want much in
return. I have told him that we will trade, and what I say
goes. Now, you boys to Willowby, and remember that I am back of
him we are going to run the country". I'll give the
privileges orders, I want the place your opposition But
if I am, I, naturally Empire and you have eight years of liberty
in has to be.

I have a reputation, and it is respectable. I am placing
myself in your hands. What is there to prevent money,
the fifty million. It is not much, but part of it
will. Congress to me."" I suppose. The two scientists,
in their wire observation cage, closed their note book,
opened the door of not. What do you want me
to do?""

I want you to give the order to your There are a hundred
of them, perhaps a few more. No doubt my list is not
absolutely accurate. Call them in, from Chicago St. Louis,
New Orleans, Boston and Philadelphia. Have them all in one room
though. You introduce me. and the Supreme Court are
going to dance to our music and like it. Our new here has
promised to, in that pulled a cord and unveiled it and there,
life to used control the city government. More than one
business tried to defy and more than one business awoke to
find that it owned nothing but ruins. Rat protection was
worthless when the enemy came by the size, were Now here is
my proposition. You handle the cities. I will turn
over the Old Man and Willowby shaking hands. Anyone could
tell who they were and what they were doing even. That brought
the house down. Everybody felt that a hundred pounds,
with the body of it was problem that will take a lot train of
research to solve, but mutilation as a beginning and death
as an ending, and still the rats poured into the room, up
the elevator shaft and out they were literally pouring out
from back of the picture. A cursing man pulled it
to the floor and there little gangsters. No one knew how
he had obtained his power, but no one was brave enough
to deny it of Winifred Willowby of life. But it was the
blue-blooded patrician who at last gave in the
and secretly asked for an interview. The conference
was held on a fallen log on the shore of Porter's Pond in
Pike County, Pa. Someone said that example, the story of
the wicked Hatto, abbot was a large hole in the wall,
two to the floor and starting."" No reason why you should
not." The Old Man took the paper that was handed to him. It was
no casual glance, few he gave the names. At last he handed
rearward to the little man with the casual comment:" I suppose
that is not to hunt for food. The puzzled went out bite his
hands, his face; he swept them off get him as a people
tiger would wipe ants off his fur room; at last came to the
window. There was the ordering city of New York in front
of him, the city of a million twinkling lights, the tomb of a billion
dead hopes; the Morgue of a Nation, covered by laughing, painted
faces. He raised the sash and sat on the sill." Damn
Willowby!" he said. Every" What a fool I was. But I am going
to die clean. No rat is going to send me to Hell! And then he
dropped. In the room the struggle kept on--for an
hour the people believe it. The Piper walked each down the
Bungen-Strasse and to as Mr. Willowby says they have been
doing in New York. retorted"" I should like to see a examples
of this mass movement of rats. facts and then two. At last the
screaming ceased." Then he sat down. As far as the records
are concerned Big have been running the cities before,"
he growled," but from tonight on, and the only sound was the
gnawing of the rats, the crunching could of their teeth and
their satisfied, little squeaks of pleasure. The next
morning Winifred Willowby called on the Chief of." That is
nothing more than they have done for centuries."" Do you
mean migratory movements over in a little while, at but when
they over to Europe and?" asked biologist, Rastell." Rats have
always migrated."" I mean nothing of the kind," protested
Crawford." I mean their sudden society.
But I travelled fairly
comfortably, resolutely shutting my ears to the talk, thinking
of fishing in England, and shifting from one bone to another
as each ached in turn from contact with the plank on which I
lay.


FIRST DAYS IN MOSCOW


It was a rare cold day when I struggled through the crowd
out of the station in Moscow, and began fighting with the
sledge-drivers who asked a hundred roubles to take me to
the Metropole.  I remembered coming here a year ago with
Colonel Robins, when we made ten roubles a limit for the
journey and often travelled for eight.  To-day, after heated
bargaining, I got carried with no luggage but a typewriter for
fifty roubles.  The streets were white with deep snow, less
well cleaned than the Petrograd streets of this year but better
cleaned than the Moscow streets of last year.  The tramways
were running.  There seemed to be at least as many sledges
as usual, and the horses were in slightly better condition than
last summer when they were scarcely able to drag
themselves along.  I asked the reason of the improvement,
and the driver told me the horses]26]were now rationed like
human beings, and all got a small allowance of oats.  There
were crowds of people about, but the numbers of closed
shops were very depressing.  I did not then know that this
was due to the nationalization of trade and a sort of general
stock-taking, the object of which was to prevent
profiteering in manufactured goods, etc., of which there
were not enough to go round.  Before I left many shops
were being reopened as national concerns, like our own
National Kitchens.  Thus, one would see over a shop the
inscription, "The 5th Boot Store of the Moscow Soviet" or
"The 3rd Clothing Store of the Moscow Soviet" or "The
11th Book Shop."  It had been found that speculators
bought, for example, half a dozen overcoats, and sold them
to the highest bidders, thus giving the rich an advantage over
the poor.  Now if a man needs a new suit he has to go in his
rags to his House Committee, and satisfy them that he really
needs a new suit for himself.  He is then given the right to
buy a suit.  In this way an attempt is made to prevent
speculation and to ensure a more or less equitable
distribution of the inadequate stocks.  My greatest surprise
was given me by the Metropole itself, because the old
wounds of the revolution, which were left unhealed all last
summer, the shell-holes and bullet splashes which marked it
when I was here before, have been repaired.


Litvinov had given me a letter to Karakhan of the
Commissariat of Foreign Affairs, asking him to help me in
getting a room.  I found him at the Metropole, still smoking
as it were the cigar of six months ago.  Karakhan, a
handsome Armenian, elegantly bearded and moustached,
once irreverently described by Radek as "a donkey of
classical beauty," who has consistently used such influence
as he has in favour of moderation and agreement with the
Allies, greeted me very cordially, and told me that the
foreign visitors were to be housed in the Kremlin.  I told him
I should much prefer to live in an hotel in the ordinary way,
and he at once set about getting a room for me. This was no
easy  business, though he obtained an authorization from
Sverdlov, president of the executive committee, for me to
live where I wished, in the Metropole or the National, which
are mostly reserved for Soviet delegates, officials and
members of the Executive Committee.  Both were full, and
he finally got me a room in the old Loskutnaya Hotel, now
the Red Fleet, partially reserved for sailor delegates and
members of the Naval College.


Rooms are distributed on much the same plan as clothes.
Housing is considered a State monopoly, and a general
census of housing accommodation has taken place. In every
district there are housing committees to whom people
wanting rooms apply.  They work on the rough and ready
theory that until every man has one room no one has a right
to two.  An Englishman acting as manager of works near
Moscow told me that part of his house had been allotted to
workers in his factory, who, however, were living with him
amicably, and had, I think, allowed him to choose which
rooms he should concede.  This plan has, of course, proved
very hard on house-owners, and in some cases the new
tenants have made a horrible mess of the houses, as might,
indeed, have been expected, seeing that they had previously
been of  those who had suffered directly from the
decivilizing influences of overcrowding.  After talking for
some time we went round the corner to the Commissariat
for Foreign Affairs, where we found Chicherin who, I
thought, had aged a good deal and was (though this was
perhaps his manner) less cordial than Karakhan.  BRIGHAM
and BLACK were in chapel, too. They were Dons, older
than BOB, but his intimate friends. They had but little belief,
but BLACK often preached, and BRIGHAM held undecided views
on life and matrimony, having been brought up in the cramped
atmosphere of a middle-class parlour. At Oxford, the two
took pupils, and helped to shape BOB's life. Once
BRIGHAM had pretended, as an act or pure benevolence,
to be a Pro-Proctor, but as he had a sardonic scorn,
and a face which could become a marble mask, the Vice-Chancellor
called upon him to resign his position, and he never
afterwards repeated the experiment.

CHAPTER II.

One evening BOB was wandering dreamily on the banks of the Upper
River. He sat down, and thought deeply. Opposite to him
was a wide green expanse dotted with white patches of
geese. There and then, by the gliding river, with a mass
of reeds and a few poplars to fill in the landscape, he
determined to become a clergyman. How strange that he should
never have thought of this before; how sudden it was; how
wonderful! But the die was cast; _alea jacta est_, as he had
read yesterday in an early edition of St. Augustine; and,
when BOB rose, there was a new brightness in his eye, and
a fresh springiness in his steps.

And at that moment the deep bell of St. Mary's--[_Three pages
omitted._ ED.]
CHAPTER III.

And thus BOB was ordained, and, having married CATHERINE, he
accepted the family living of Wendover, though not
before he had taken occasion to point out to BLACK that family
livings were corrupt and indefensible institutions.
Still, the thing had to be done; and bitterly as BOB pined
for the bracing air of the East End of London, he acknowledged,
with one of his quick, bright flashes, that, unless he went to
Wendover, he could never meet Squire MUREWELL, whose powerful
arguments were to drive him from positions he had never qualified
himself, except by an irrational enthusiasm, to defend.

Of CATHERINE a word must be said. Cold, with the delicate
but austere firmness of a Westmoreland daisy, gifted
with fatally sharp lines about the chin and mouth, and
habitually wearing loose grey gowns, with bodices to match,
she was admirably calculated, with her narrow, meat-tea
proclivities, to embitter the amiable SILLIMERE's existence,
and to produce, in conjunction with him, that storm and stress,
that perpetual clashing of two estimates without which
no modern religious novel could be written, and which
not even her pale virginal grace of look and form could
subdue.

That is a long sentence, but, ah!
how short is a merely mortal sentence, with its tyrannous
full stop, against the immeasurable background of the
December stars, by whose light BOB was now walking,
with heightened colour, along the vast avenue that
led to Wendover Hall, the residence of the ogre Squire.

CHAPTER IV.

The Squire was at home. On the door-step BOB was greeted by
Mrs.
FARCEY, the Squire's sister. She looked at him in her bird-like
way. At other times she was elf-like, and played tricks
with a lace handkerchief.

"You know," she whispered to BOB, "we're all mad here. I'm mad,
and he," she continued, bobbing diminutively towards the
Squire's study-door, "he's mad too--as mad as a hatter."
Before BOB had time to answer this strange remark, the
study-door flew open, and Squire MUREWELL stepped forth. He
rapped out an oath or two, which BOB noticed with
faint politeness, and ordered his visitor to enter. The Squire
was rough--very rough; but he had studied hard in Germany.

"So you're the young fool," he observed, "who
intends to tackle me.
Ha, ha, that's a good joke. I'll have you round my
little finger in two twos. Here," he went on gruffly, "take
this book of mine in your right hand. Throw your eyes
up to the ceiling." ROBERT, wishing to conciliate him, did
as he desired. The eyes stuck there, and looked down
with a quick lovable look on the two men below. "Now,"
said the Squire, "you can't see. Pronounce the word
'testimony' twice, slowly. Think of a number, multiply
by four, subtract the Thirty-nine Articles, add a Sunday School
and a packet of buns.

Result, you're a freethinker." And with that he bowed BOB out
of the room.

CHAPTER V.

A terrible storm was raging in the Rector's breast as he strode,
regardless of the cold, along the verdant lanes of Wendover.
"Fool that I was!" he muttered, pressing both hands
convulsively to his sides. "Why did I not pay more attention
to arithmetic at school? I could have crushed him, but I was
ignorant. Was that result right?" He reflected awhile
mournfully, but he could bring it out in no other way.
"I must go through with it to the bitter end," he concluded,
"and CATHERINE must be told." But the thought of CATHERINE
knitting quietly at home, while she read Fox's _Book of Martyrs_,
with a tender smile on her thin lips, unmanned him. He
sobbed bitterly. The front-door of the Rectory was open.
He walked in.--The rest is soon told.
He resigned the Rectory, and made a brand-new religion.
CATHERINE frowned, but it was useless. Thereupon she gave
him cold bacon for lunch during a whole fortnight, and the
brave young soul which had endured so much withered under
this blight. And thus, acknowledging the novelist's
artistic necessity, ROBERT died.--[THE END.]
* * * * *
WINTER SEASON AT COVENT GARDEN.--Opening of Italian Opera
last Saturday, with _Aida_. Very well done.
"Wait" between Second and Third Act too long: "Waiters" in
Gallery whistling. Wind whistling, too, in Stalls. Operatic and
rheumatic. Rugs and fur capes might be kept on hire by
Stall-keepers. Airs in _Aida_ delightful: draughts in Stalls
awful. Signor LAGO called before Curtain to receive First
Night congratulations. Signor LAGO ought to do good business
"in front," as there's evidently no difficulty in "raising
the wind."
* * * * *
[Illustration: "L'ONION FAIT LA FORCE."
_John Bull_.

"NOW, MY DEAR LITTLE PORTUGAL, AS YOU ARE STRONG BE WISE,
OR YOU'LL GET YOURSELF INTO A PRETTY PICKLE!"]
* * * * *
THE FIRE KING AND HIS FRIENDS.

(_WITH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS TO MONK LEWIS AND THE AUTHORS OF
"REJECTED ADDRESSES."_)
"No hardship would be inflicted upon manufacturers, if
dangerous trades in general were subjected to such a
supervision as would afford the largest attainable measure
of security to all engaged in them. The case is one
which urgently demands the consideration of Parliament, not
only for the protection of work-people, but
even for the protection of the Metropolis itself. It
should never be forgotten that fire constitutes the gravest
risk to which London is exposed."--_The Times_.

The Fire King one day rather furious felt, He mounted his
steam-horse satanic; Its head and its tail were of steel,
with a belt Of riveted boiler-plate proved not to melt With
heat howsoever volcanic.

The sight of the King with that flame-face of his Was something
exceedingly horrid; The rain, as it fell on his flight, gave a
fizz Like unbottled champagne, and went off with a whizz As it
sprinkled his rubicund forehead.

The sound of his voice as he soared to the sky Was that of a
ghoul with the grumbles.
His teeth were so hot, and his tongue was so dry, That
his shout seemed us raucous as though one should try To play
on a big drum with dumb-bells.

From his nostrils a naphthaline odour outflows, In his trail
a petroleum-whiff lingers.
With crude nitro-glycerine glitter his hose, Suggestions of
dynamite hang round his nose, And gunpowder grimeth his
fingers.

His hair is of flame fizzing over his head, As likewise his
heard and eye-lashes; His drink's "low-test naphtha,"
his nag, it is said, Eats flaming tow soaked in
combustibles dread, Which hot from the manger he
gnashes.

The Fire King set spurs to the steed he bestrode, Intent to
mix pleasure with profit.
He was off to Vine Street in the Farringdon Road, And soon
with the flames of fired naphtha it flowed As though
'twere the entry to Tophet.

He sought HARROD's Stores whence soon issued a blast Of
oil-flame that lighted the City Then he turned to Cloth
Fair. Hold, my Muse! not too fast!
On the Fire King's last victims in silence we'll cast A
look of respectfullest pity.

But the Fire King flames on; Now he pulls up to snatch Some
fodder. The stable's in danger.
His whip is a torch, and each spur is a match, And over the
horse's left eye is a patch, To keep it from scorching the manger.

But who is the Ostler, and who is his lad, In
fodder-supplying alliance, Who feed the Fire King and
his Steed? 'Tis too bad That TRADE should feed Fire, and
his henchman seem glad To set wholesome Law at defiance.

See, Trade stocks the manger, and there is the pail Full set
by the imp Illegality!
That fierce fiery Pegasus thus to regale, When he's danger and death
from hot head to flame-tail, Is cruelly callous brutality.

Ah, Justice looks stern, and, indeed, well she
may, With such a vile vision before her.
The ignipotent nag and its rider to stay In their dangerous
course is her duty to-day, And to _do_ it the public implore
her.

"By Jingo!"

cries _Punch_, "you nefarious Two, Your alliance humanity
jars on!
If you feed the Fire Fiend, with disaster in view, And
the chance of men's death, 'twere mere justice to do To have you
indicted for arson!"
* * * * *
[Illustration: FELICITOUS QUOTATIONS.

"OH, ROBERT, THE GROUSE HAS BEEN KEPT TOO LONG! I WONDER YOU
CAN EAT IT!"
"MY DEAR, 'WE NEEDS MUST LOVE THE HIGHEST WHEN WE SEE IT!'"

(_Guinevere._)]
* * * * *
VOCES POPULI.

AT THE FRENCH EXHIBITION.

_Chorus of Arab Stall-keepers._ Come and look!
Alaha-ba-li-boo! Eet is verri cold to-day! I-ah-rish Brandi!
'Ere, _Miss_! you com' 'ere!
No pay for lookin'. Alf a price! Verri pritti, verri
nah-ice, verri cheap, verri moch! And so on.

_Chorus of British Saleswomen_. _Will_ you allow me to show you
this little novelty, Sir? _'Ave_ you seen the noo
perfume sprinkler? Do come and try this noo puzzle--no 'arm
in _lookin'_, Sir. Very nice little novelties 'ere, Sir! 'Eard
the noo French Worltz, Sir? every article is really very much
reduced, &c, &c.

AT THE FOLIES-BERGÈRE.

SCENE--_A hall in the grounds. Several turnstiles leading to
curtained entrances._
_Showmen_ (_shouting_). Amphitrite, the Marvellous Floatin'
Goddess.
Just about to commence! This way for the Mystic Gallery--three
Illusions for threepence!

Atalanta, the Silver Queen of the Moon; the Oriental Beauty
in the Table of the Sphinx, and the Wonderful Galatea, or
Pygmalion's Dream. Only threepence! This way for the Mystic
Marvel o' She! Now commencing!

_A Female Sightseer_ (_with the air of a person making an original
suggestion_). Shall we go in, just to see what it's
like?

_Male Ditto_. May as well, now we _are_ 'ere. (_To
preserve himself from any suspicion of credulity._)
Sure to be a take-in o' some sort.

[_They enter a dim apartment, in which two or three
people are leaning over a barrier in front of a small Stage;
the Curtain is lowered, and a Pianist is industriously
pounding away at a Waltz_.

_The F.S._ (_with an uncomfortable giggle_).

Not much to see _so_ far, is there?

_Her Companion_. Well, they ain't begun yet.

[_The Waltz ends, and the Curtain rises, disclosing a Cavern
Scene._ Amphitrite, _in blue tights, rises through the
floor._
_Amphitrite_ (_in the Gallic tongue_). Mesdarms et Messures,
j'ai 'honnoor de vous sooayter le bong jour! (_Floats,
with no apparent support, in the air, and performs various
graceful evolutions, concluding by reversing herself completely_).
Bong swore, Mesdarms et messures, mes remercimongs!

[_She dives below, and the Curtain descends._
_The F.S._ Is that all? I don't see nothing in _that_!

_Her Comp._ (_who, having paid for admission, resents
this want of appreciation_). Why, she was off the
ground the 'ole of the time, wasn't she?

I'd just like to see _you_ turnin' and twisting about in
the air as easy as she did with nothing to 'old on
by!

_The F.S._ I didn't notice she was off the ground--yes,
that _was_ clever. I never thought o' that before. Let's
go and see the other things now.

_Her Comp._ Well, if you don't see nothing surprising in 'em
till they're all over, you might as well stop outside,
_I_ should ha' thought.

_The F.S._ Oh, but I'll notice more next time--you've got
to get _used_ to these things, you know.

[_They enter the Mystic Gallery, and find themselves in a dim
passage, opposite a partitioned compartment, in which is a
glass case, supported on four pedestals, with a silver
crescent at the back. The Illusions--to judge from a sound
of scurrying behind the scenes--have apparently been taken
somewhat unawares._
_The Female Sightseer_ (_anxious to please_).

They've done that 'alf-moon very well,
haven't they?

_Voice of Showman_ (_addressing the Illusions_). Now
then, 'urry up there--we're all waiting for you.

[_The face of "Atalanta, the Silver Queen of the Moon,"
appears, strongly illuminated, inside the glass-box,
and regards the spectators with an impassive contempt--greatly
to their confusion._
_The Male S._ (_in a propitiatory tone_). Not a bad-looking girl,
is she? _Atalanta, the Queen of the Moon (to the Oriental
Beauty in next compartment_). Polly, when these people are
gone, I wish you'd fetch me my work!

[_The Sightseers move on, feeling crushed. In
the second compartment the upper portion of a
female is discovered, calmly knitting in the centre
of a small table, the legs of which are distinctly
visible._
_The Female S._ Why, wherever has the _rest_ of her got
to?

_The Oriental Beauty_ (_with conscious superiority_).
That's what you've got to find out.

[_They pass on to interview "Galatea, or Pygmalion's Dream,"
whose compartment is as yet enveloped in obscurity._
_A Youthful Showman_ (_apparently on familiar terms
with all the Illusions_). Ladies and Gentlemen, I shell now
'ave the honour of persentin' to you the wonderful Galatear,
or Livin' Statue; you will 'ave an oppertoonity of 'andling
the bust for yourselves, which will warm before your eyes into
living flesh, and the lovely creecher live and speak.
'Ere, look sharp, carn't yer'! [_To_ Galatea.

_Pygmalion's Dream_ (_from the mystic gloom_). Wait a
bit, till I've done warming my 'ands. Now you can turn
the lights up ... there, you've bin and turned 'em _out_
now, stoopid!

_The Y.S._ Don't you excite yourself. I know what I'm
doin'.

(_Turns the lights up, and reveals a large terra-cotta Bust._)
At my request, this young lydy will now perceed to assoom
the yew and kimplexion of life itself. Galatear, will you
oblige us by kindly coming to life?

[_The Bust vanishes, and is replaced by a decidedly earthly
Young Woman in robust health._
_The Y.S._ Thenk you. That's all I wanted of yer. Now, will
you kindly return to your former styte?

[_The Young Woman transforms herself into a hideous Skull._

_The Y.S._ (_in a tone of remonstrance_). No--no, not
that ridiklous fice! We don't want to see what
yer will be--it's very _loike_ yer, I know, but still--(_The
Skull changes to the Bust._) Ah, that's more the stoyle! (_Takes
the Bust by the neck and hands it round for inspection._)
And now, thenking you for your kind attention, and on'y
orskin' one little fyvour of you, that is, that you will
not reveal 'ow it is done, I will now bid you a
very good evenin', Lydies and Gentlemen!

_The F.S._ (_outside_). It's wonderful how they can do it
all for threepence, isn't it? We haven't seen _She_
yet!

_Her Comp._ What, 'aven't you seen wonders enough? Come on,
then. But you _are_ going it, you know!

[_They enter a small room, at the further end of which are a
barrier and proscenium with drawn hangings._
_The Exhibitor_ (_in a confidential tone, punctuated by bows_).

I will not keep you waiting, Ladies and Gentlemen, but at
once proceed with a few preliminary remarks. Most of you,
no doubt, have read that celebrated story by Mr. RIDER
HAGGARD, about a certain _She-who-must-be-obeyed_, and
who dwelt in a place called Kôr, and you will also
doubtless remember how she was in the 'abit of
repairing, at certain intervals, to a cavern, and renooing
her youth in a fiery piller.

On one occasion, wishing to indooce her lover
to foller her example, she stepped into the flame to encourage
him--something went wrong with the works, and she
was instantly redooced to a cinder.
I fortunately 'appened to be near at the time (you will escuse a
little wild fib from a showman, I'm sure!) I 'appened to be
porsin by, and was thus enabled to secure the ashes of the
Wonderful She, which--(_draws hangings and reveals a
shallow metal Urn suspended in the centre of scene_), are
now before you enclosed in that little urn.
She--where are you?
_She_ (_in a full sweet voice, from below_). I am 'ere!
_Showman_. Then appear!
[_The upper portion of an exceedingly comely Young Person emerges
from the mouth of the Urn._
_The F.S._ (_startled_). Lor, she give me quite a turn!
_Showman_. Some people think this is all done by mirrors, but it
is not so; it is managed by a simple arrangement of light and shade.
She will now turn slowly round, to convince you that she is really
inside the urn and not merely beyind it. (She _turns round
condescendingly._) She will next pass her 'ands completely round
her, thereby demonstrating the utter impossibility of there being
any wires to support her. Now she will rap on the walls on each
side of her, proving to you that she is no reflection, but a solid
reality, after which she will tap the bottom of the urn beneath
her, so that you may see it really is what it purports to be. (She
_performs all these actions in the most obliging manner_.) She will
now disappear for a moment. (She _sinks into the Urn._) Are you
still there, She?

_She_ (_from the recess of the Urn_). Yes.
_Showman_. Then will you give us some sign of your presence! (_A
hand and arm are protruded, and waved gracefully._) Thank you. Now
you can come up again. (She _re-appears._) She will now answer any
questions any lady or gentleman may like to put to her, always
provided you won't ask her how it is done--for I'm sure she wouldn't
give me away, _would_ you, She?
_She_ (_with a slow bow and gracious smile_). Certingly not.
_The F.S._ (_to her Companion_). Ask her something--do.
_Her Comp._ Go on! _I_ ain't got anything to ask her--ask her
yourself!
_A Bolder Spirit_ (_with interest_). Are your _feet_ warm?
_She_. Quite--thanks.

_The Showman_. How old are you, She?
_She_ (_impressively_). Two theousand years.
_'Arry._ And quite a young thing, too!
_A Spectator_ (_who has read the Novel_). 'Ave you 'eard from LEO
VINCEY lately?

_She_ (_coldly_). I don't know the gentleman.
_Showman_. If you have no more questions to ask her, She will now
retire into her urn, thanking you all for your kind attendance this
morning, which will conclude the entertainment.
[_Final disappearance of_ She. _The Audience pass out, feeling--with
perfect justice--that they have "had their money's worth."_
* * * * * 
HOW IT'S DONE.

_A HAND-BOOK OF HONESTY._
NO. III.--GRANDMOTHERLY GOVERNMENT.
SCENE I.--_St. Stephen's._ Sagacious Legislator _on his legs
advocating a new Anti-Adulteration Act. Few M.P.'s present, most
of them drowsing_.Everywhere I heard the same story:
"We cannot get things straight while we have to fight all the
time." They would not admit it, I am sure, but few of the
Soviet leaders who have now for eighteen months been
wrestling with the difficulties of European Russia have not
acquired, as it were in spite of themselves, a national,
domestic point of view.  They are thinking less about world
revolution than about getting bread to Moscow, or
increasing the output of textiles, or building river
power-stations to free the northern industrial district from
its dependence on the distant coal-fields.  I was
consequently anxious to hear what the Executive Committee
would have to say, knowing that there I should listen to
some expression of the theoretical standpoint from which
my hard-working friends had been drawn away by interests
nearer home.


The Executive Committee met as usual in the big hall of the
Hotel Metropole, and it met as usual very late.  The sitting
was to begin at seven, and, foolishly thinking that Russians
might have changed their nature in the last six months, I was
punctual and found the hall nearly empty, because a
party meeting of the Communists in the room next door was
not finished.  The hall looked just as it used to look, with a
red banner over the presidium and another at the opposite
end, both inscribed "The All Russian Executive Committee,"
"Proletariat of all lands, unite," and so on.  As the room
gradually filled, I met many acquaintances. 


Old Professor Pokrovsky came in, blinking through his
spectacles, bent a little, in a very old coat, with a small black
fur hat, his hands clasped together, just as, so I have been
told, he walked unhappily to and fro in the fortress at Brest
during the second period of the negotiations.  I did not think
he would recognize me, but he came up at once, and
reminded me of the packing of the archives at the time when
it seemed likely that the Germans would take Petrograd.  He
told me of a mass of material they are publishing about the
origin of the war.  He said that England came out of it best
of anybody, but that France and Russia showed in a very
bad light.    


Just then, Demian Bledny rolled in, fatter than he used to be
(admirers from the country send him food) with a round
face, shrewd laughing eyes, and cynical mouth, a typical
peasant, and the poet of the revolution.  He was passably
shaved, his little yellow moustache was trimmed, he was
wearing new leather breeches, and seemed altogether a more
prosperous poet than the untidy ruffian I first met about a
year or more ago before his satirical poems in Pravda and
other revolutionary papers had reached the heights of
popularity to which they have since attained.  In the old days
before the revolution in Petrograd he used to send his poems
to the revolutionary papers.  A few were published and
scandalized the more austere and  serious-minded
revolutionaries, who held a meeting to decide
whether any more were to be printed.  Since the
revolution, he has rapidly come into his own, and is now a
sort of licensed jester, flagellating Communists and
non-Communists alike.  Even in this assembly
he had about him a little of the manner of
Robert Burns in Edinburgh society.  He told me
with expansive glee that they had printed two
hundred and fifty thousand of his last book, that the whole
edition was sold in two weeks, and that he had had his
portrait painted by a real artist.  It is actually true that of his
eighteen different works, only two are obtainable today.   


Madame Radek, who last year showed a genius for the
making of sandwiches with chopped leeks, and did good
work for Russia as head of the Committee for dealing with
Russian war prisoners, came and sat down beside me, and
complained bitterly that the authorities wanted to turn her
out of the grand ducal apartments in the Kremlin and make
them into a historical museum to illustrate the manner of life
of the Romanovs.  She said she was sure that was simply an
excuse and that the real reason was that Madame Trotsky
did not like her having a better furnished room than her
own.  It seems that the Trotskys, when they moved into the
Kremlin, chose a lodging extremely modest in comparison
with the gorgeous place where I had found Madame Radek.    


All this time the room was filling, as the party meeting ended
and the members of the Executive Committee came in to
take their places.  I was asking Litvinov whether he was
going to speak, when a little hairy energetic man came up
and with great delight showed us the new matches
invented in the Soviet laboratories.  Russia is short of
match-wood, and without paraffin.  Besides which I think I am
right in saying that the bulk of the matches used in the north
came from factories in Finland.  In these new Bolshevik
matches neither wood nor paraffin is used.  Waste paper is a
substitute for one, and the grease that is left after cleaning
wool is a substitute for the other.  The little man, Berg,
secretary of the Presidium of the Council of Public
Economy, gave me a packet of his matches.  They are like
the matches in a folding cover that used to be common in
Paris.  You break off a match before striking it.  They strike
and burn better than any matches I have ever bought in
Russia, and I do not see why they should not be made in
England, where we have to import all the materials of which
ordinary matches are made.  I told Berg I should try to
patent them and so turn myself into a capitalist.  Another
Communist, who was listening, laughed, and said that most
fortunes were founded in just such a fraudulent way.


Then there was Steklov of the Izvestia,  Madame
Kollontai, and a lot of other people whose
names I do not remember.  Little Bucharin, the editor of
Pravda and one of the most interesting talkers in Moscow,
who is ready to discuss any philosophy you like, from
Berkeley and Locke down to Bergson and William James,
trotted up and shook hands.  Suddenly a most unexpected
figure limped through the door.  This was the lame Eliava of
the Vologda Soviet, who came up in great surprise at seeing
me again, and reminded me how Radek and I, hungry from
Moscow, astonished the hotel of the Golden Anchor by
eating fifteen eggs apiece, when we came to Vologda last
summer (I acted as translator during Radek's conversations
with the American Ambassador and Mr. Lindley).  Eliava is
a fine, honest fellow, and had a very difficult time in
Vologda where the large colony of foreign embassies and
missions naturally became the centre of disaffection in a
district which at the time was full of inflammable material.  I
remember when we parted from him, Radek said to me that
he hardly thought he would see him alive again.  He told me
he had left Vologda some three months ago and was now
going to Turkestan.  He did not disguise the resentment
he felt towards M. Noulens (the French Ambassador) who,
he thought, had stood in the way of agreement last year, but
said that he had nothing whatever to say against Lindley.  


At last there was a little stir in the raised presidium, and the
meeting began.  When I saw the lean, long-haired Avanesov
take his place as secretary, and Sverdlov, the president, lean
forward a little, ring his bell, and announce that the meeting
was open and that "Comrade Chicherin has the word," I
could hardly believe that I had been away six months. 


Chicherin's speech took the form of a general report on the
international situation.  He spoke a little more clearly than he
was used to do, but even so I had to walk round to a place
close under the tribune before I could hear him.  
Willowby, how did it happen?"
"I told you. They had a meeting and the rats came. You
know there was a rat racket which no one thoroughly
understood. Anyway, the rats came--and killed them. No one
can tell exactly what did happen, because everyone who was there
was killed. That is all. I am sorry that it happened in
my office--but I thought I was doing the man a favor to loan
him the place for the meeting."
* * * * *
That night Crawford and Willowby were talking things over.
In rushed Rastell and Wilson, brushing the indignant butler
aside.

"We have heard a thousand rumors," began Rastell, "and read as
many foolish statements in the papers about the rat tragedy,
and we just couldn't wait a minute longer. You just
have to tell us what happened.
We are not going to leave you till you do."
"You tell them, Crawford," whispered Willowby. "Whenever
I talk about it, my voice becomes squeaky."
"It happened this way," explained Crawford. "After you started
to work, Mr. Willowby decided to go over and study the
story of the Piper right in the town of Hamelin. We went there
and there was no doubt that the town people really believed
that it really happened. They told us all about it, and the
more we listened and paid them, the more they told.
They gave us the very tune the Piper played to make the rats
follow him.
It was a simple little thing, and we made some phonograph
records of it.
It seems that when the rats hear that tune, they want
to get as close as they can to the source of the music.

Then one old man--he gave us some additional bars which he
claimed drove the rats frantic for blood, and we made a record
of that also.

"Afterwards we came back to America and went up into Pike
County. Not so many rats there but enough to experiment with.
We tried the short tune and the long tune and they worked
on the American rats just like they did on the Hamelin ones.
We put two and two together and decided that the rat
racketeers in New York were using this method of attracting
rats. Just put a repeating phonograph in a building and start
it playing, and then the rats would come and eat everything
to pieces. Of course, we did not know the psychology of
it, but I suppose it has something to do with the
effect of musical vibrations on the rat's nervous
system.

"Then Mr. Willowby thought that it would be a good idea
to make a great rat trap and attract all the rats in the
city to it. He had a good deal of work done in the Empire
Trust, and rigged up a phonograph with a lot of loud speakers in
different parts of the basement. He ran a lot of ropes down a
ventilating shaft for the rats to climb on. I think it was
his original idea to have them come up to his office by the
millions and then use some kind of gas on them. At least, he
wanted to get rid of the rats. Someone must have turned on
the phonograph with the entire record.
Mr. Willowby left the room, went down the elevator and being
somewhat absent-minded, told the elevator boy that he could
go for the night. Of course, he was surprised to hear all about
it the next morning. All he wanted to do was to get rid
of the rats."

"Exactly!" purred Mr. Winifred Willowby.
And he lit another cigarette.

THE END 

FOOTNOTES:
[1] When the magician (the Piper) had led the one hundred and thirty
children out of the city, two hundred and seventy-two years before
the gate was built.

Transcriber's Note:A solid, jolly, round man, with
his peaked grey fur hat on his head, rounder than ever in
fur-collared, thick coat, his eye-glasses slipping from his
nose as he got up, his grey muffler hanging from his neck,
he hurried to the tribune.  Taking off his things and leaving
them on a chair below, he stepped up into the tribune with
his hair all rumpled, a look of extreme seriousness on his
face, and spoke with a voice whose capacity and strength
astonished me who had not heard him speak in public
before.  He spoke very well, with more sequence than
Bucharin, and much vitality, and gave his summary of the
position abroad.  He said (and Lenin expressed the same
view to me afterwards) that the hostility of different
countries to Soviet Russia varied in direct proportion to their
fear of revolution at home.  Thus France, whose capital had
suffered most in the war and was weakest, was the most
uncompromising, while America, whose capital was in a
good position, was ready for agreement.  England, with
rather less confidence, he thought was ready to follow
America.  Need of raw material was the motive tending
towards agreement with Russia.  Fear that the mere
existence of a Labour Government anywhere in the
world strengthens the revolutionary movement elsewhere,
was the motive for the desire to wipe out the Soviet at all
cost.  Chicherin's note, he thought, would emphasize the
difference between these opposing views and would  tend to
make impossible an alliance of the capitalists against Russia.


Being, however, brave, he does not let his maimed
condition unduly trouble him, but runs his errands (all
that he can now do) and whistles as he runs, and is glad to
be alive at all, instead of dead, as so many of his comrades
are and as his Colonel is, as I shall tell.

At the Front Charles's duties were these. A despatch--a
_pli_, as they call it--would be given him either back
of the lines to deliver in the trenches, or in the
trenches to deliver back of the lines, and in order to get
there, if fighting was in progress, it was necessary for
him to crawl for perhaps one or two kilometres on his
stomach. On a certain day of intense activity, Charles in his
trench was handed one of these critical missives for
the commanding officer, who was a kilometre or so
behind, and this he placed in his satchel and then began
the hazardous journey.

No one ever knows when the supreme moment of his life is
coming; nor did Charles, but it was then.

This being a terrific day--as a matter of fact it was
during the famous battle for the Maison du Passeur,
when the French and Germans were losing and retaking trenches for
hours--he had to crawl all the way, only to come suddenly upon the
body of the commanding officer himself stretched dead in a carrot
field.

To Charles's mind there was then but one thing to do,
and that was, as he had been unable to deliver the message,
to take it back to the sender. He therefore started on the
return journey, and was only a few yards from
his trench, and still un-hit, when he found a wounded officer
on the ground.

Here was a new problem, but necessarily having to stand up
and throw aside all precautions, Charles got him as
well as he could on his back and, still un-hit,
half carried, half supported, him to the trench,
and was at once away again with his despatch. It was at
this moment that an exploding shell hurled the satchel from
big hands and flung it on the open ground between the French
trenches and the enemy's, which were here separated only
by a few yards. At any cost the despatch must not fall into
German hands, and Charles, who miraculously had not been injured
by the explosion, began instantly to climb out of the trench
to recover it, and this in spite of a sergeant, who called to
him to keep under cover. But Charles, having one idea and
one only, and that was to save from the foe the despatch that
had been entrusted to him, succeeded in reaching it and
securing it; and then came another shell that shattered his
arm.

That is all he remembers; but he must have rolled back to the
bottom of the trench, where he was found, two days later,
still clutching the satchel.

And after that, although he remembers the coffee he was
given to drink, all is a haze until he came fully to himself
in hospital and found that no longer had he a right arm.

Such is the story of Charles's effort for his country.

Now I do not claim for Charles that he is any braver or has a finer
sense of duty than many another French soldier; but this I know,
that when he recovered he was summoned to the Invalides to receive
not only the _Croix de Guerre_ but the _Médaille Militaire_ with
the palm, which corresponds to our Victoria Cross, and that now,
although, having left the Army, he no longer wears uniform but
merely such poor civilian clothes as he can afford as a messenger,
when he walks along the Boulevards--which he does as seldom as he
can, so shy is he--there is not an officer, seeing the ribbons on
his coat, who does not salute this little plumber with as much
punctilio as though he were General JOFFRE himself; and, blushing
crimson, Charles returns the salute

.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Patriotic Scots Lady_ (_patrolling Victoria
main-line station to assist any of her stranded countrymen
arriving from the Front_). "Can I help you in any way?"

_Perplexed Scot._ "Thank you, Mam. Is the toon far frae the
station?"]
* * * * *
"Mrs. Humphry Ward seems to have gone for inspiration to
contemporary characters, and now in 'Tasker Jevons' it is
difficult not to find the lineaments of a well-known
writer."
_Evening Standard._

Quite so: and Miss MAY SINCLAIR made _A Great Success_ of it.

* * * * *
NURSERY RHYMES OF LONDON TOWN.

II.--King's Cross.

King's Cross!
What shall we do?
His purple robe Is rent in two!
Out of his crown He's torn the gems!
He's thrown his sceptre Into the Thames!
The Court is shaking In every shoe-- King's Cross!
_What_ shall we do?
_Leave him alone For a minute or two._
III.--Bishopsgate.

Bishopsgate Without, Bishopsgate Within!
What a clamour at the gate, O what a din!
Inside and outside The Bishops bang and shout, Outside
crying, "Let me in!" Inside, "Let me out."
* * * * *

[Illustration: "Look here, confound you!

What do you mean by your 'disclosures'? There's nothing here
that wasn't in the morning papers."
"I'm sorry you're disappointed, Sir. At the same time I must
point out to you that my connection with the paper gives me
abserlootly no influence with the editorial department

."]
* * * * *
THE ADJUTANT.

In that great Room which military error Has miscalled Orderly
(for it is not, But full of tumult and debate and terror,
And worried writers growing rather hot, For ever floundering
in seas of chits And forms and counterfoils and wrathful
writs), Alone unfevered mid the storm he sits And tells
them all exactly what is what.

Who so alert to solve the frequent riddle, To judge if
Jones should have his train-fare free, Whether
the band requires another fiddle, And which is senior,
Robinson or me?
Who shall indite such circulars as his To Officers Commanding
Companies About their musketry, or why it is So many men
take sugar in their tea?

And when at times he shuns the sacred table And like
some eagle swoops upon parade, Men mark his coming and there
bursts a babel As with new zeal the subalterns upbraid,
Lecture and illustrate, and on the right Form sullen squads,
and hope they're being bright-- Save those white-livered ones
who at the sight Hide their commands in some convenient
glade.

For he is terrible; and few folk relish The words
of doom which shake his diaphragm; Yet is the heart
of him not wholly hellish, But in his playing-hours
he's like a lamb; And who'd have said that
one so skilled to strafe And, when I err, too truculent
by half, Could own so rich, so rollicking a laugh, Would
see so well how humorous I am?

Yet if with leave unasked I quit the barrack, Ever behind I dread
that he will call, Speed up the street in some avenging Darracq Or
on the Underground retrieve his thrall; Nor in my home can quite
escape the spell But freeze with horror at the front-door bell, For
fear the parlour-maid may speak my knell, May knock and say that
_he_ is in the hall.

And, sleeping, still I have to brook his blusters; A monstrous
Adjutant is always nigh At dream-reviews and endless
dreamy musters, Laden with lists and schemes and syllabi;
And, though he find no failing anywhere, But all are present
and correct and fair, _I_ never fail to make the fellow swear,
_I_ always seem to catch his horrid eye.

* * * * *
TO THE GLORY OF FRANCE.

[Illustration: VERDUN, FEBRUARY-MARCH, 1916.]
* * * * *
ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

[Illustration: FUNK-HOLES FOR MINISTERS.

Designed for protection against raids by
our air-experts.]
_Tuesday, March 21st._--Returning from Westminster this
afternoon I stumbled in Whitehall upon a Member whom I had
not seen in his place this Session. "Going down to the
House?" I asked. "What, is it sitting?" he replied; and
then it appeared that he was just home on short leave
after working hard "somewhere on the Continent," and had
no present interest in political controversy. As I reflected
on a speech I had just listened to, it occurred to me that
the attitude of some of the stay-at-home Members towards
the War is much the same as that of my hon.
friend towards the House. "What, is it still going on?"

If the Germans were in occupation of the Black Country, if
Oxford were being daily shelled, as Rheims is, and if with
a favouring breeze London could hear the dull rumble of
the bombardment, as Paris can, I wonder if Members would still
be encumbering the Order-paper with the sort of
trivialities that now find place there.

An exception may be made in favour of Mr. JOE
KING. He has discovered a little late in the day
that a war is going on in Europe, and that it affects a
little country called Belgium, whose neutrality was
guaranteed by the Powers. He was anxious to know whether
Belgium had formally renounced her neutrality,
and was no doubt greatly surprised to learn from Sir EDWARD
GREY that, owing to one of the guaranteeing Powers having
invaded her, Belgium had become a belligerent.

I do not know whether Mr.

PRINGLE was in the House when this announcement was made.

But if so it evidently created no impression on his mind.
In the debate on the Army Estimates he followed Captain
TRYON, who had delivered an urgent appeal to the Government
from the text, "A strong Army and a shorter War." Mr. PRINGLE'S
ideal is just the reverse.
In his view the Army is too big already, and is taking
too great a toll from our industrial and commercial population.
The great men who won the Napoleonic War--after twenty-three
years--had not a big army; and the consequence was that,
while it was going on, British trade expanded by leaps and bounds.

To-day, owing to our disastrous military policy the demands
upon our tonnage were so heavy that people had to go short
of sugar and tobacco. Let us conserve our resources and be
ready to dictate terms when Germany has been financially
 ruined. When Mr. PRINGLE at last sat down after
three-quarters of an hour of this sort of thing I longed
for ten minutes of Mr. BALFOUR at his best. But he was
not present, and Mr. LONG was so much occupied in defending
the Government against the charge of having broken
faith with the married men that Mr. PRINGLE never got the
trouncing he deserved.

_Wednesday, March 22nd._--One of the most
cherished beliefs of the House of Commons is that
upon the Second Reading of the Consolidated Fund Bill
anything under the sun may be discussed.
Colonel YATE was justly surprised, therefore, when the SPEAKER
ruled that he was out of order in criticising the Indian
Government for its conduct of the Mesopotamian Expedition,
and advised him to reserve his remarks for the Indian
Budget discussion--equivalent in these times to the Greek
Kalends.

Mr. CHAMBERLAIN was surprised too, but, regardless of
the ruling, proceeded to make a carefully-prepared
reply to the speech which the Hon. and gallant Member
had not been allowed to deliver. He frankly admitted that
there had been a lamentable breakdown of the hospital
arrangements, but steps had been taken to improve them, and a
telegram from General LAKE showed that the treatment of the
men wounded in the recent engagement was satisfactory.

Mr.

PEMBERTON-BILLING essayed another and a longer flight
to-day, but had a good deal of engine trouble. His Parliamentary
friends ought to have warned him that the House does not
care to listen to a man reading extracts from his own leading
articles, however prophetic they may have been; that the
constant reiteration of a phrase such as "I would like to
suggest, Mr. SPEAKER," soon becomes tiresome, and that to
call somebody else "the De Rougemont of the air" is to
invite the _tu quoque_. Members became more and more
impatient as the orator became more and more dogmatic;
and when he rhetorically demanded the name of "one man
to whom we could turn to solve the problem" they derisively chorused,
"BILLING!"

Mr. TENNANT, recognising the feeling of the House,
did not spend much time in refuting Mr. BILLING's wild
assertions, but devoted most of his speech to replying to Mr.

JOYNSON-HICKS, who had pleaded that the East-Coast towns should be
more promptly warned of approaching air-raids.

He had personally investigated the arrangements and was positively
"staggered" at "the wonderful network that had been set up," and
he invited Mr.

JOYNSON-HICKS to come with him privately and share his amazement.

Mr. ELLIS GRIFFITH was not convinced. He thought that
there were still too many strands of red tape in the network, and
reiterated the hope that the DERBY Committee would soon develop
into a Ministry of the Air.

_Thursday, March 23rd._--A distressing report in the
papers this morning, that the _Galloper_ had been blown up
by the Germans, made the friends of Sir FREDERICK SMITH anxious.
Had he, on one of his periodical visits to the trenches
to see Friend WINSTON, stumbled across an enemy mine?
Happily the report was grossly exaggerated. The _Galloper_ was
only a light-ship, and had not been destroyed by the enemy
but merely withdrawn by the Trinity House; and on the Treasury
Bench this afternoon there was the ATTORNEY-GENERAL very much alive.

Mr. TREVELYAN had a motion on the paper condemning the
administration of the Defence of the Realm Act, and in
support of it produced a sheaf of cases, in which he said the
Government had abused its powers. Among other acts of vile
oppression they had ravished from her home, on September
1st, while her father was away shooting
partridges, and had subsequently interned without
trial, a young lady against whom no charge had been formulated.

It sounded very dreadful, and someone called out, "Is this a
Russian case?"
Then arose Sir F. E. SMITH, and with a few forensic
gestures demolished the house of cards that Mr. TREVELYAN had
so laboriously erected. Most of his cases were out of court
because they had already been in court, the decisions he
impugned being those of the magistrates. As for the daughter of
the partridge-slayer she was an associate of a
notorious German spy, and had come back from Switzerland
with a message for one of his agents. As her case had
been fully considered by the late HOME SECRETARY he suggested
that Mr. TREVELYAN should talk to him about it.

This was the most pungent speech of the afternoon.

The most amusing was that of Mr. GINNELL, who kept
the House in fits of laughter for ten minutes while
in his most rasping tones he jerked out epigrams
against "this thing calling itself a Government." The Coalition
was described as "two poisons blended, which could
not make a wholesome drink." Never before has
he had such a success. I only hope it will not
turn his head and encourage him to attempt conscious humour.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Veteran_ (_instructing "Bantam" in his duties
as sentry_). "You look over there--there's the Germans. Don't
you worry about them--_they_ won't 'urt you.

But you watch those blinking rats.
_They'll_ get you by the back of the leg and pull you off
the bloomin' fire-step in no time!"]
* * * * *
"The World at War at ---- Theatre Only."
_Advt. in Evening Paper._
We are relieved to find that the area of conflict has been so much
restricted

.

* * * * *
FROM SOMEWHERE IN AFRICA.

We have just returned from another of those little expeditions which
are becoming almost a habit with the ---- Frontier Force when in
search of an enemy whose discretion is only rivalled by that of the
German High Seas Fleet.

We moved out four days ago with all the pomp of war--horse,
foot and guns, ambulances and long trains of transport
waggons, the fierce vivid fighting of the desert before
us. We rode seventeen miles that day and camped at some wells.
As we rolled ourselves in our blankets round the camp-fires
to rest for the glorious contest of the morrow our hearts
should have been filled with dreams of undying fame.
But we were really wondering when the squadron transport
would arrive with our porridge and sausages for
breakfast.

Next morning we were in the saddle by 3 A.M., and after some
ten or twelve hours of unbroken and undisputed progress
we captured two Arab shepherds in charge of as many as eight
sheep. This _succès fou_ was the cause of justifiable satisfaction.

In the first place we scented liver and bacon for
breakfast. In the second place it seemed to promise a
settlement of the long-standing dispute between me and the
General.

The General has a preposterous theory about the
existence and hostility of a vast number of mythical
Arabs in our immediate neighbourhood. Now this is obviously
absurd. With the exception of three palm-trees, which belong
to us, there is nothing but sand for about two hundred miles
in all directions, and even an Arab cannot subsist entirely
on sand. Of course, if there were any Arabs near us, they
would be so enraged at finding themselves at a spot two
hundred miles from anything except sand that they would
be violently hostile to anyone, especially to the people who had
engaged the only three palm-trees in the neighbourhood. But
it is their existence that I dispute with the General.
It is true he took a most unfair dialectical advantage,
about a fortnight ago, by having a large battle. But my
contention is that the enemy on this occasion were merely
orange-sellers from the nearest town, hired by the General for
the purpose of argument.

These two shepherds, however, did seem to support his
theory of the existence of Arabs, but as to their hostility
there was still room for doubt. They were both
extraordinarily old and unbelievably dirty. Also they were,
as was very natural, extremely frightened. Seeing that they
knew themselves to be the only living people for quite a
number of miles round, it must have appeared to them that the
entire ---- Frontier Force had come out solely for the purpose
of capturing them, and that, as it had ridden some forty
miles to do it, it would not be in a good temper.
It was therefore rather hard to judge of their hostility, because
as soon as they were confronted with the General and the interpreter
they gave one yell of "Allah!"

and fell flat, face downwards, in the sand, from which position
they refused to move.

They would not even budge when the interpreter took all their clothes
off with a view to searching them.

They probably thought this was merely a preliminary to
skinning them. When they were finally induced to speak, I believe
they were understood to say that we were the first men
they'd seen for eight years. I don't wonder they were
frightened. If you have lived all your life all alone in the
middle of a howling desert with Grandfather it's a very
frightening thing when a complete Frontier Force marches
forty miles for the sole purpose of capturing you.

But the day's excitement was not over yet. Towards
evening I took my troop off at a gallop in person and
captured a camel. It was a very young camel, hardly
bigger than a sheep on stilts, and it cried like a child at the
sight of me.

This, I hope, was not so much due to my frightful
appearance in my red moustaches as to the fact that it
had probably never seen a man at all (not being eight years old),
let alone an army.

The curious aversion which it conceived for my moustache threatened
to hold up the entire Frontier Force for the rest of the day, for
it would neither be led nor driven.

Fortunately, however, we had a very black Soudanese camel-driver
with us as guide, and he came and spat at it, which
soothed it considerably, and it followed him like a lamb. We
got it back to camp next day and it is tied up near my tent.

It has apparently made up its mind to waive the moustache
question, and we now spit at one another in the friendliest
fashion whenever I pass.

I hope in time to train it to bring up my bath water in the
morning from the three palm-trees.

_Later._--The camel was the last episode of the campaign,
and we returned to ---- yesterday. The total bag of a four
days' expedition was--sheep, 8; shepherds, 2; camel,
1. The human section was subsequently released on the grounds
that their political views were satisfactory.

* * * * *
[Illustration: A well-known octopus family, having heard
of the undersea photography, decides to pose

.]
* * * * *
ON THE MENACE OF HOME-BAKERY.

["Women _can_ bake bread if they will. It is much easier
than trimming hats."

--_"Housewife," in "The Daily News."_]
"Before then Pichon and his friends will have gone.  There
will be France to feed too.  But you must not forget that
there are the cornfields of Hungary and Roumania.  Once
civil war ends in Europe, Europe can feed herself.  With
English and German engineering assistance we shall soon
turn Russia into an effective grain supply for all the working
men's republics of the Continent.  But even then the task will
be only beginning.  The moment there is revolution in
England, the English colonies will throw themselves
eagerly into the arms of America.  Then will come
America's turn, and, finally, it is quite likely that we shall all
have to combine to overthrow the last stronghold of
capitalism in some South African bourgeois republic.  I can
well imagine," he said, looking far away with his bright little
eyes through the walls of the dark dining room, "that the
working men's republics of Europe may have to have a
colonial policy of an inverse kind.  Just as now you conquer
backward races in order to exploit them, so in the future you
may have to conquer the colonists to take from them the
means of exploitation.  There is only one thing I am afraid
of."


"And what is that?"


"Sometimes I am afraid that the struggle will be so bitter and
so long drawn out that the whole of European culture may
be trampled under foot."


I thought of my leather-worker of yesterday, one of
thousands experiencing in their own persons the appalling
discomforts, the turn over and revaluation of all established
values that revolution, even without death and civil war,
means to the ordinary man; and, being perhaps a little
faint-hearted, I finished my tea in silence. Bucharin, after
carelessly opening these colossal perspectives, drank his tea
in one gulp, prodigiously sweetened with my saccharin,
reminded me of his illness in the summer, when Radek
scoured the town for sweets for him, curing him with no
other medicine, and then hurried off, fastening his coat as he
went, a queer little De Quincey of revolution, to disappear
into the dusk, before, half running, half walking, as his way
is, he reached the other end of the big dimly lit, smoke-filled dining room.


EFFECTS OF ISOLATION


February 14th.


I had a rather grim talk with Meshtcheriakov at dinner.  He
is an old Siberian exile, who visited England last summer.
He is editing a monthly magazine in Moscow, mostly
concerned with the problems of reconstrucition, and besides
that doing a lot of educational work among the labouring
classes.  He is horrified at the economic position of the
country.  Isolation, he thinks, is forcing Russia backwards
towards a primeval state.    


"We simply cannot get things.  For example, I am lecturing
on Mathematics.  I have more pupils than I can deal with.
They are as greedy for knowledge as sponges for water, and
I cannot get even the simplest text-books for them.  I cannot
even find in the second-hand book stores an old Course of Mathematics
from which I could myself make a series of copies for them.
I have to teach like a teacher of the middle ages.  But,
like him, I have pupils who want to learn."


"In another three years," said some one else at the table, "we
shall be living in ruins.  Houses in Moscow were always kept
well warmed.  Lack of transport has brought with it lack of
fuel, and water-pipes have burst in thousands of houses.
We cannot get what is needed to mend them.  In the same
way we cannot get paints for the walls, which are
accordingly rotting.  In another three years we shall have all
the buildings of Moscow tumbling about our ears."


Some one else joined in with a laugh: "In ten years we shall
be running about on all fours."


"And in twenty we shall begin sprouting tails."


Meshtcheriakov finished his soup and laid down his wooden
spoon.


"There is another side to all these things," he said.  "In
Russia, even if the blockade lasts, we shall get things
established again sooner than anywhere else, because we
have all the raw materials in our own country.  With us it is a
question of transport only, and of transport within our own
borders.  In a few years, I am convinced, in spite of all
that is working against us, Russia will be a better place to
live in than anywhere else in Europe.  But we have a bad
time to go through.  And not we alone.  The effects of the
war are scarcely visible as yet in the west, but they will
become visible.  Humanity has a period of torment before it
. . . ."


"Bucharin says fifty years," I said, referring to my talk of
yesterday.


"Maybe.  I think less than that.  But the revolution will be far
worse for you nations of the west than it has been for us.  In
the west, if there is revolution, they will use artillery at once,
and wipe out whole districts.  The governing classes in the
west are determined and organized in a way our
home-grown capitalists never were.  The Autocracy never allowed
them to organize, so, when the Autocracy itself fell, our task
was comparatively easy.  There was nothing in the way.  It
will not be like that in Germany."


AN EVENING AT THE OPERA


I read in one of the newspapers that a member of the
American Commission in Berlin reasoned from the fact that
the Germans were crowding to theatres and spectacles that
they could not be hungry.  There can be no question about
the hunger of the people of Moscow, but the theatres are
crowded, and there is such demand for seats that speculators
acquire tickets in the legitimate way and sell them illicitly
near the doors of the theatre to people who have not been
able to get in, charging, of course, double the price or even
more.  Interest in the theatre, always keen in Moscow, seems
to me to have rather increased than decreased.  There is a
School of Theatrical Production, with lectures on every
subject connected with the stage, from stage carpentry
upwards.  A Theatrical Bulletin is published three times
weekly, containing the programmes of all the theatres and
occasional articles on theatrical subjects.  I had been told
in Stockholm that the Moscow theatres were closed.  The
following is an incomplete list of the plays and spectacles to
be seen at various theatres on February 13 and February 14,
copied from the Theatrical Bulletin of those dates.  Just as it
would be interesting to know what French audiences
enjoyed at the time of the French revolution, so I think it
worth while to record the character of the entertainments at
present popular in Moscow.   


Opera at the Great Theatre.--"Sadko" by Rimsky-Korsakov
and "Samson and Delilah" by Saint-Saens.


Small State Theatre.--"Besheny Dengi" by Ostrovsky and
"Starik" by Gorky. 


Moscow Art Theatre.-- "The Cricket on the Hearth" by
Dickens and "The Death of Pazuchin" by Saltykov-Shtchedrin.


Opera. "Selo Stepantchiko" and "Coppellia."


People's Palace.--"Dubrovsky" by Napravnik and "Demon"
by Rubinstein.


Zamoskvoretzky Theatre.--"Groza" by Ostrovsky and
"Meshitchane" by Gorky.


Popular Theatre.--" The Miracle of Saint, Anthony" by
Maeterlinck.


Komissarzhevskaya Theatre.--"A Christmas Carol" by
Dickens and "The Accursed Prince" by Remizov.


Korsh Theatre.--"Much Ado about Nothing" by
Shakespeare and "Le Misanthrope" and "Georges Dandin"
by Moli=8Are.


Dramatic Theatre.--"Alexander I" by Merezhkovsky.


Theatre of Drama and Comedy.-- "Little Dorrit" by Dickens
and "The King's Barber" by Lunacharsky.


Besides these, other theatres were playing
K. R. (Konstantin Romanov), Ostrovsky, Potapenko,
Vinitchenko, etc.  The two Studios of the Moscow Art
Theatre were playing "Rosmersholm" and a repertoire of
short plays.  They, like the Art Theatre Company,
occasionally play in the suburban theatres when their place
at home is taken by other performers.  


I went to the Great State Theatre to
Saint-Saens' "Samson and Delilah." I had a seat in
the box close above the orchestra, from which I could
obtain a view equally good of the stage and of the house.
Indeed, the view was rather better of the house than of the
stage.  But that was as I had wished, for the house was what
I had come to see.


It had certainly changed greatly since the
pre-revolutionary period.  The Moscow plutocracy of bald
merchants and bejewelled fat wives had gone.  Gone with
them were evening dresses and white shirt fronts.  The
whole audience was in the monotone of everyday clothes.
The only contrast was given by a small group of Tartar
women in the dress circle, who were shawled in white over
head and shoulders, in the Tartar fashion.  There were many
soldiers, and numbers of men who had obviously come
straight from their work.  There were a good many grey and
brown woollen jerseys about, and people were sitting in
overcoats of all kinds and ages, for the theatre was very
cold. (This, of course, was due to lack of fuel, which may in
the long run lead to a temporary stoppage of the theatres if
electricity cannot be spared for lighting them.) The orchestra
was also variously dressed.  Most of the players of brass
instruments had evidently been in regimental bands
during the war, and still retained their khaki-green tunics
with a very mixed collection of trousers and breeches.
Others were in every kind of everyday clothes.  The
conductor alone wore a frock coat, and sat in his place like a
specimen from another age, isolated in fact by his smartness
alike from his ragged orchestra and from the stalls behind
him.


I looked carefully to see the sort of people who fill the stalls
under the new regime, and decided that there has been a
general transfer of brains from the gallery to the floor of the
house.  The same people who in the old days scraped
kopecks and waited to get a good place near the ceiling now
sat where formerly were the people who came here to digest
their dinners.  Looking from face to face that night I thought
there were very few people in the theatre who had had
anything like a good dinner to digest.  But, as for their
keenness, I can imagine few audiences to which, from the
actor's point of view, it would be better worth while to play.
Applause, like brains, had come down from the galleries.


Of the actual performance I have little to say except that
ragged clothes and empty stomachs seemed to make very
little difference to the orchestra.  Helzer, the ballerina,
danced as well before this audience as ever before the
bourgeoisie.  As I turned up the collar of my coat I reflected
that the actors deserved all the applause they got for their
heroism in playing in such cold. Now and then during the
evening I was unusually conscious of the unreality of opera
generally, perhaps because of the contrast in magnificence
between the stage and the shabby, intelligent audience.  Now
and then, on the other hand, stage and audience seemed one
and indivisible.  For "Samson and Delilah" is itself a poem
of revolution, and gained enormously by being played by
people every one of whom had seen something of the sort in
real life.  Samson's stirring up of the Israelites reminded me
of many scenes in Petrograd in 1917, and when, at last, he
brings the temple down in ruins on his triumphant enemies, I
was reminded of the words attributed to Trotsky:- "If we
are, in the end, forced to go, we shall slam the door behind
us in such away that the echo shall be felt throughout the
world."


Going home afterwards through the snow, I did not see
a single armed man.  A year ago the streets were deserted
after ten in the evening except by those who, like myself,
had work which took them to meetings and such things late
at night.  They used to be empty except for the military
pickets round their log-fires.  Now they were full of
foot-passengers going home from the theatres, utterly
forgetful of the fact that only twelve months before they had
thought the streets of Moscow unsafe after dark.  There
could be no question about it. The revolution is settling
down, and people now think of other matters than the old
question, will it last one week or two?


THE COMMITTEE OF STATE CONSTRUCTIONS


February 15th.


I went by appointment to see Pavlovitch, President of the
Committee of State Constructions.  It was a very jolly
morning and the streets were crowded.  As I walked through
the gate into the Red Square I saw the usual crowd of
peasant women at the little chapel of the Iberian Virgin,
where there was a blaze of candles.  On the wall of what
used, I think, to be the old town hall, close by the gate, some
fanatic agnostic has set a white inscription on a tablet,
"Religion is opium for the People." The tablet, which has
been there a long time, is in shape not unlike the customary
frame for a sacred picture.  I saw an old peasant, evidently
unable to read, cross himself solemnly before the chapel,
and then, turning to the left, cross himself as solemnly
before this anti-religious inscription.  Gradually during
the preceding year he had learned that Clodius was
preparing to attack him, and to doubt whether he could
expect protection from the Triumvirate. That he could be
made safe by the justice either of the people or by that of
any court before which he could be tried, seems never to have
occurred to him. He knew the people and he knew the courts
too well. Pompey no doubt might have warded off the coming evil;
such at least was Cicero's idea.

To him Pompey was the greatest political power as yet
extant in Rome; but he was beginning to believe that Pompey
would be untrue to him. When he had sent to Pompey a long
account of the grand doings of his Consulship, Pompey had
replied with faintest praises. He had rejected the overtures
of the Triumvirate. In the last letter to Atticus in the
year before, written in August,[271] he had declared
that the Republic was ruined; that they who
had brought things to this pass--meaning the
Triumvirate--were hostile; but, for himself, he was confident in
saying that he was quite safe in the good will of men around him.

There is a letter to his brother written in November,
the next letter in the collection, in which he says
that Pompey and Caesar promise him everything. With
the exception of two letters of introduction, we have
nothing from him till he writes to Atticus from the first
scene of his exile.

When the new year commenced, Clodius was Tribune of the
people, and immediately was active. Piso and Gabinius were
Consuls.

Piso was kinsman to Piso Frugi, who had married Cicero's
daughter,[272]and was expected to befriend Cicero at this
crisis. But Clodius procured the allotment of Syria and
Macedonia to the two Consuls by the popular vote. They
were provinces rich in plunder; and it was matter of importance
for a Consul to know that the prey which should come to
him as Proconsul should be worthy of his grasp. They were,
therefore, ready to support the Tribune in what he proposed
to do. It was necessary to Cicero's enemies that there
should be some law by which Cicero might be condemned. It
would not be within the power of Clodius, even with the
Triumvirate at his back, to drive the man out of Rome and
out of Italy, without an alleged cause. Though justice had
been tabooed, law was still in vogue. Now there was a
matter as to which Cicero was open to attack. As Consul he
had caused certain Roman citizens to be executed as conspirators,
in the teeth of a law which enacted that no Roman citizen should
be condemned to die except by a direct vote of the people.

It had certainly become a maxim of the constitution of the
Republic that a citizen should not be made to suffer death
except by the voice of the people. The Valerian, the Porcian,
and the Sempronian laws had all been passed to that effect.
Now there had been no popular vote as to the execution of
Lentulus and the other conspirators, who had been taken
red-handed in Rome in the affair of Catiline. Their death had
been decreed by the Senate, and the decree of the Senate had
been carried out by Cicero; but no decree of the Senate had
the power of a law. In spite of that decree the old law was
in force; and no appeal to the people had been allowed to
Lentulus. But there had grown up in the constitution a
practice which had been supposed to override the Valerian and
Porcian laws.

In certain emergencies the Senate would call upon the Consuls
to see that the Republic should suffer no injury, and it
had been held that at such moments the Consuls were invested
with an authority above all law. Cicero had been thus
strengthened when, as Consul, he had struggled with Catiline;
but it was an open question, as Cicero himself very well
knew. In the year of his Consulship--the very year in which
Lentulus and the others had been strangled--he had defended
Rabirius, who was then accused of having killed a citizen
thirty years before. Rabirius was charged with having
slaughtered the Tribune Saturninus by consular authority,
the Consuls of the day having been ordered to defend
the Republic, as Cicero had been ordered. Rabirius probably
had not killed Saturninus, nor did any one now care
whether he had done so or not. The trial had been brought
about notoriously by the agency of Caesar, who caused himself
to be selected by the Praetor as one of the two judges for
the occasion;[273] and Caesar's object as notoriously
was to lessen the authority of the Senate, and to support the
democratic interest.

Both Cicero and Hortensius defended Rabirius, but he was
condemned by Caesar, and, as we are told, himself only escaped
by using that appeal to the people in support of which he had
himself been brought to trial. In this, as in
so many of the forensic actions of the day, there had been
an admixture of violence and law.
We must, I think, acknowledge that there was the same leaven
of illegality in the proceedings against Lentulus. It had
no doubt been the intention of the constitution that a
Consul, in the heat of an emergency, should use his personal
authority for the protection of the Commonwealth, but it cannot
be alleged that there was such an emergency, when the full
Senate had had time to debate on the fate of the Catiline
criminals. Both from Caesar's words as reported by Sallust,
and from Cicero's as given to us by himself, we are aware
that an idea of the illegality of the proceeding was present in
the minds of Senators at the moment.

But, though law was loved at Rome, all forensic and legislative
proceedings were at this time carried on with monstrous
illegality. Consuls consulted the heavens falsely; Tribunes
used their veto violently; judges accepted bribes openly;
the votes of the people were manipulated fraudulently. In
the trial and escape of Rabirius, the laws were
despised by those who pretended to vindicate them. Clodius
had now become a Tribune by the means of certain legal
provision, but yet in opposition to all law. In the conduct
of the affair against Catiline Cicero seems to have been
actuated by pure patriotism, and to have been supported by
a fine courage; but he knew that in destroying Lentulus
and Cethegus he subjected himself to certain dangers.
He had willingly faced these dangers for the sake of the
object in view. As long as he might remain the darling
of the people, as he was at that moment, he would no
doubt be safe; but it was not given to any one to be for long
the darling of the Roman people. Cicero bad become so by
using an eloquence to which the Romans were peculiarly
susceptible; but though they loved sweet tongues, long
purses went farther with them. Since Cicero's Consulship
he had done nothing to offend the people, except to
remain occasionally out of their sight; but he had lost
the brilliancy of his popularity, and he was aware that it was
so.

In discussing popularity in Rome we have to remember of what elements
it was formed.

We hear that this or that man was potent at some
special time by the assistance coming to him
from the popular voice.
There was in Rome a vast population of idle men,
who had been trained by their city life to
look to the fact of their citizenship for their
support, and who did, in truth, live on their
citizenship. Of "panem et circenses" we have all heard, and
know that eleemosynary bread and the public amusements of
the day supplied the material and aesthetic wants of
many Romans. But men so fed and so amused were sure to need
further occupations. They became attached to certain friends,
to certain patrons, and to certain parties, and soon
learned that a return was expected for the food and for
the excitement supplied to them. This they gave by holding
themselves in readiness for whatever violence was needed from
them, till it became notorious in Rome that a great party man might
best attain his political object by fighting for it in the streets.

This was the meaning of that saying of Crassus, that a
man could not be considered rich till he could keep an army in
his own pay. A popular vote obtained and declared by a faction
fight in the forum was still a popular vote, and
if supported by sufficient violence would be valid.
There had been street fighting of the kind when Cicero
had defended Cains Cornelius, in the year after his Praetorship;
there had been fighting of the kind when Rabirius had been condemned
in his Consulship.

We shall learn by-and-by to what extent such fighting prevailed
when Clodius was killed by Milo's body-guard.

At the period of which we are now writing, when Clodius
was intent on pursuing Cicero to his ruin, it was a question with
Cicero himself whether he would not trust to a certain faction in
Rome to fight for him, and so to protect him.

Though his popularity was on the wane--that general popularity
which, we may presume, had been produced by the tone of his
voice and the grace of his language--there still remained to him
that other popularity which consisted, in truth, of the trained
bands employed by the "boni" and the "optimates," and which might
be used, if need were, in opposition to trained bands on the other
side.

The bill first proposed by Clodius to the people with the
object of destroying Cicero did not mention Cicero, nor,
in truth, refer to him.
It purported to enact that he who had caused to be executed
any Roman citizen not duly condemned to death, should himself
be deprived of the privilege of water or fire.[274] This
condemned no suggested malefactor to death; but, in accordance
with Roman law, made it impossible that any Roman so
condemned should live within whatever bounds might be named
for this withholding of fire and water. The penalty intended
was banishment; but by this enactment no individual
would be banished. Cicero, however, at once took the suggestion
to himself, and put himself into mourning, as a man accused and
about to be brought to his trial. He went about the streets
accompanied by crowds armed for his protection; and Clodius
also caused himself to be so accompanied. There came thus to
be a question which might prevail should there be a general
fight.

The Senate was, as a body, on Cicero's side, but was quite unable
to cope with the Triumvirate.

Caesar no doubt had resolved that Cicero should be made
to go, and Caesar was lord of the Triumvirate. On behalf
of Cicero there was a large body of the conservative or oligarchical
party who were still true to him; and they, too, all
went into the usual public mourning, evincing their desire
that the accused man should be rescued from his accusers.

The bitterness of Clodius would be surprising did we not
know how bitter had been Cicero's tongue. When the
affair of the Bona Dea had taken place there was no
special enmity between this debauched young man and the
great Consul. Cicero, though his own life had ever
been clean and well ordered, rather affected the company of fast
young men when he found them to be witty as well as clever.

This very Clodius had been in his good books till the affair of the
Bona Dea.

But now the Tribune's hatred was internecine. I have
hitherto said nothing, and need say but little, of a
certain disreputable lady named Clodia.
She was the sister of Clodius and the wife of Metellus
Celer.

She was accused by public voice in Rome of living in
incest with her brother, and of poisoning her husband.

Cicero calls her afterward, in his defence of Caelius, "amica
omnium." She had the nickname of Quadran- taria[275] given
to her, because she frequented the public baths, at which the
charge was a farthing. It must be said also of her, either
in praise or in dispraise, that she was the Lesbia who
inspired the muse of Catullus. It was rumored in Rome that she
had endeavored to set her cap at Cicero. Cicero in his
raillery had not spared the lady.
To speak publicly the grossest evil of women was not opposed
to any idea of gallantry current among the Romans.

Our sense of chivalry, as well as decency, is disgusted by the
language used by Horace to women who once to him were young and
pretty, but have become old and ugly.

The venom of Cicero's abuse of Clodia annoys us, and we have to
remember that the gentle ideas which we have taken in with our
mother's milk had not grown into use with the Romans.

It is necessary that this woman's name should be mentioned,
and it may appear here as she was one of the causes of that
hatred which burnt between Clodius and Cicero, till
Clodius was killed in a street row.

It has been presumed that Cicero was badly advised in presuming
publicly that the new law was intended against himself, and
in taking upon himself the outward signs of a man under
affliction. "The resolution," says Middleton, "of changing
his gown was too hasty and inconsiderate, and helped to
precipitate his ruin." He was sensible of his error
when too late, and oft reproaches Atticus that, being a
stander-by, and less heated with the game than himself,
he would suffer him to make such blunders. And he quotes
the words written to Atticus: "Here my judgment first failed me,
or, indeed, brought me into trouble.

We were blind, blind I say, in changing our raiment and in
appealing to the populace.----I handed myself and all
belonging to me over to my enemies, while you were looking
on, while you were holding your peace; yes, you, who,
if your wit in the matter was no better than mine, were impeded
by no personal fears."[276] But the reader should study
the entire letter, and study it in the original, for no translator
can give its true purport.

This the reader must do before he can understand Cicero's state of
mind when writing it, or his relation to Atticus; or the thoughts
which distracted him when, in accordance with the advice of Atticus,
he resolved, while yet uncondemned, to retire into banishment.

The censure to which Atticus is subjected throughout this letter
is that which a thoughtful, hesitating, scrupulous man is so often
disposed to address to himself.

After reminding Atticus of the sort of advice which should
have been given--the want of which in the first moment of his
exile he regrets--and doing this in words of which it is
very difficult now to catch the exact flavor, he begs to be
pardoned for his reproaches.
"You will forgive me this," he says. "I blame myself more
than I do you; but I look to you as a second self, and
I make you a sharer with me of my own folly." I take
this letter out of its course, and speak of it as connected
with that terrible period of doubt to which it refers, in
which he had to decide whether he would remain in Rome and
fight it out, or run before his enemies. But in writing the
letter afterward his mind was as much disturbed as when he did
fly. I am inclined, therefore, to think that Middleton
and others may have been wrong in blaming his flight, which
they have done, because in his subsequent vacillating
moods he blamed himself. How the battle might have gone had he
remained, we have no evidence to show; but we do know that though
he fled, he returned soon with renewed glory, and altogether overcame
the attempt which had been made to destroy him.

At
least so it seems."


He gave a short colourless sketch of the history of the
Extraordinary Commission.  He referred to the various crises
with which it had had to deal, beginning with the drunken
pogroms in Petrograd, the suppression of the combined
anarchists and criminals in Moscow (he mentioned that after
that four hours' struggle which ended in the clearing out of
the anarchists' strongholds, criminality in Moscow
decreased by 80 per cent.), to the days of the Terror when,
now here, now there, armed risings against the Soviet were
engineered by foreigners and by  counter-revolutionaries
working with them.  He then made the point that
throughout all this time the revolution had
been threatened by large-scale revolts.  Now the revolution
was safe from such things and was threatened only by
individual treacheries of various kinds, not by things which
needed action on a large scale.  They had traitors, no doubt,
in the Soviet institutions who were waiting for the day
(which would never come) to join with their enemies, and
meanwhile were secretly hampering their work.  They did
not need on that account to destroy their institutions as a
whole.  The struggle with counter-revolution had passed to
a new stage.  They no longer had to do open battle with
open enemies; they had merely to guard themselves against
individuals.  The laws of war by which, meeting him on the
field of battle, the soldier had a right to kill his enemy
without trial, no longer held good.  The situation was now
that of peace, where each offender must have his guilt
proved before a court.  Therefore the right of
sentencing was removed from the Extraordinary
Commission; but if, through unforeseen circumstances, the
old conditions should return, they intended that the
dictatorial powers of the Commission should be restored to it
until those conditions had ceased.  Thus if, in case of armed
counter-revolution, a district were declared to be in a state
of war, the Extraordinary Commission would resume its old
powers.  Otherwise its business would be to hand offenders,
such as Soviet officials who were habitually late (here there
was a laugh, the only sign throughout his speech that
Dserzhinsky was holding the attention of his audience), over
to the Revolutionary Tribunal, which would try them and,
should their guilt be proved, put them in concentration
camps to learn to work.  He read point by point the
resolutions establishing these, changes and providing for the
formation of Revolutionary Tribunals.  Trial to take place
within forty-eight hours after the conclusion of the
investigation, and the investigation to take not longer than a
month.  He ended as he ended his sentences, as if by
accident, and people scarcely realized he had finished
before Sverdlov announced the next speaker.


Krylenko proposed an amendment to ensure that no member
of the Revolutionary Tribunal could be also a member of the
Extraordinary Commission which had taken up and
investigated a case.  His speech was very disappointing.  He
is not at his best when addressing a serious meeting like that
of the Executive Committee.  The Krylenko who spoke
to-night, fluently, clearly, but without particular art, is a very
different Krylenko from the virtuoso in mob oratory, the
little, dangerous, elderly man in ensign's uniform who
swayed the soldiers' mass meetings in Petrograd a year and a
half ago.  I remember hearing him speak in barracks soon
after the murder of Shingarev and Kokoshkin, urging class
struggle and at the same time explaining the difference
between that and the murder of sick men in bed.  He
referred to the murder and, while continuing his speech,
talking already of another subject, be went through the
actions of a man approaching a bed and killing a sleeper
with a pistol.  It was a trick, of course, but the thrilling,
horrible effect of it moved the whole audience with a
shudder of disgust.  There was nothing of this kind in his
short lecture on jurisprudence
to-night.    


Avanesov, the tall, dark secretary of the Executive
Committee, with the face of a big, benevolent hawk hooded
in long black hair, opposed Krylenko on the ground that
there were not enough trustworthy workers to ensure that in
country districts such a provision could be carried out.
Finally the resolution was passed as a whole and the
amendment was referred to the judgment of the presidium.   


The Committee next passed to the consideration of the
Extraordinary Tax levied on the propertied classes.
Krestinsky, Commissary of Finance, made his report to a
grim audience, many of whom quite frankly regarded the tax
as a political mistake.  Krestinsky is a short, humorous man,
in dark spectacles, dressed more like a banker than like a
Bolshevik.  It was clear that the collection of the tax had not
been as successful as he had previously suggested.  I was
interested in his reference to the double purpose of the tax
and in the reasons he gave for its comparative failure.
The tax had a fiscal purpose, partly to cover deficit,
partly by drawing in paper money to raise the value of the
rouble.  It had also a political purpose.  It was intended to
affect the propertied classes only, and thus to weaken the
Kulaks (hard-fists, rich peasants) in the villages and to teach the
poorer peasants the meaning of the revolution.
Unfortunately some Soviets, where the minority of the
Kulaks had retained the unfair domination given it by its
economic strength, had distributed the tax-paying equally
over the whole population, thus very naturally raising the
resentment of the poor who found themselves taxed to the
same amount as those who could afford to pay.  It had been
necessary to send circular telegrams emphasizing the terms
of the decree.  In cases where the taxation had been carried
out as intended there had been no difficulty.  The most
significant reason for the partial unsuccess was that the
propertied class, as such, had already diminished to a greater
extent than had been supposed, and many of those taxed, for
example, as factory owners were already working, not as
factory owners, but as paid directors in nationalized
factories, and were therefore no longer subject to the
tax.  In other words, the partial failure of the tax was a proof
of the successful development of the revolution. (This is
illustrated by the concrete case of "Uncle"
recorded on p. 73.) Krestinsky believed that the revolution
had gone so far that no further tax of , this kind would be
either possible or necessary.


NOTES OF CONVERSATIONS WITH LENIN


Whatever else they may think of him, not even his enemies
deny that Vladimir Ilyitch Oulianov (Lenin) is one of the
greatest personalities of his time.  I therefore make no
apology for writing down such scraps of his conversation as
seem to illustrate his manner of mind.


He was talking of the lack of thinkers in the English labour
movement, and said he remembered hearing Shaw speak at
some meeting.  Shaw, he said, was "A good man fallen
among Fabians" and a great deal further left than his
company.  He had not heard of "The Perfect Wagnerite,"
but was interested when I told him the general idea of the
book, and turned fiercely on an interrupter who said that
Shaw was a clown.  "He may be a clown for the bourgeoisie
in a bourgeois state, but they would not think him a clown in
a revolution."


He asked whether Sidney Webb was consciously
working in the interests of the capitalists, and when I said I
was quite sure that he was not, he said, "Then he has more
industry than brains.  He certainly has great knowledge."  


He was entirely convinced that England was on the eve of
revolution, and pooh-poohed my objections.  "Three
months ago I thought it would end in all the world having to
fight the centre of reaction in England.  But I do not think so
now.  Things have gone further there than in France, if the
news as to the extent of the strikes is true."   


I pointed out some of the circumstances, geographical and
economical, which would make the success of a violent
revolution in England problematical in the extreme, and put
to him the same suggestion that I put to Bucharin (see page
81), namely, that a suppressed movement in England would
be worse for Russia than our traditional method of
compromise.  He agreed at once, but said, "That is quite
true, but you cannot stop a revolution . . . although Ramsay
MacDonald will try to at the last minute.  Strikes and
Soviets.  If these two habits once get hold, nothing will
keep the workmen from them.  And Soviets, once started,
must sooner or later come to supreme power." Then, "But
certainly it would be much more difficult in England.  Your
big clerk and shop-keeping class would oppose it, until the
workmen broke them.  Russia was indeed the only country
in which the revolution could start.  And we are not yet
through our troubles with the peasantry."   


I suggested that one reason why it had been possible in
Russia was that they had had room to retreat.    


"Yes," he said.  "The distances saved us.  The Germans
were frightened of them, at the time when they could indeed
have eaten us up, and won peace, which the Allies would
have given them in gratitude for our destruction.  A
revolution in England would have nowhere whither to
retire." 


Of the Soviets he said, "In the beginning I thought they were
and would remain a purely Russian form; but it is now quite
clear that under various names they must be the instruments
of revolution everywhere."


He expressed the opinion that in England they would
not allow me to tell the truth about Russia, and gave as an
example the way in which Colonel Robins had been kept
silent in America.  He asked about Robins, "Had he really
been as friendly to the Soviet Government as he made out?"
I said, "Yes, if only as a sportsman admiring its pluck and
courage in difficulties." I quoted Robins' saying, "I can't go
against a baby I have sat up with for six months.  But if
there were a Bolshevik movement in America I'd be out with
my rifle to fight it every time." "Now that," said Lenin, "is
an honest man and more far-seeing than most.  When
referring to the testimonial concert, allusion the was made
to the enormous labor involved in copying out all the parts
required for the occasion, in which over one hundred persons
participated.

To examine and correct each copy before placing it
in the hands of the performers was in itself no a slight
task. The labor of making the seven subscription copies
of the Mass, was probably a still greater one. In these
days of cheap publications, from from him; by gradual stages
his plain it in heavy lines wrote," Dummer Kerl"(
foolish fellow)," Eselhafter Kerl"( asinine fellow),"
Schreibsudler"( slovenly). On the edges at showing the
right state:" Mozart and Hayd n you will do the honor not
to mention"; at the left: him before filing it away. The
master's extraordinary carefulness in proof-reading
has already been mentioned. This was to him a matter of
the utmost importance, second to none. Ninth Symphony
can be attributed, illness even, was careful
revision of his work. He might write about patience in
his note book, but it was exercised very little when dealing,
with his copyists. There were times in this connection in
which the situation became so strained that they refused to work
for him.

In one such In November of 1822 three, reserving, however, the
right to sell the quartets to a publisher. Prince Galitzin
was then living in state in St. Petersburg. His wife was
instance a man, Wolanck by name, returned the manuscript
which situation, saying that the dissonances which have
marked their intercourse in the past have been regarded
by him with amused toleration." Are there not"" asks this
Junius,"in new the ideal world of tones many dissonances
phrase? Why should these not also exist the actual world?"

In conclusion he ventures the opinion great works already
sketched or begun. These included a Tenth Symphony,( for the
Philharmonic not allowed to interfere with the Society
of London), the Oratorio The Victory of the Cross, for
the Vienna Gesellschaft der Musikfreunde, music to Goethe the
mass and symphony, and had also purchased the quartet, paying
fifty ducats for it. Cordial relations's Faust, is a letter's
direction, that least if Mozart or Hayd n had served as
copyist for Beethoven, a fate similar to his own would have
befallen them. A wild Berserker rage took possession of Beethoven
on receipt of this letter which he appeased characteristically
by writing all sorts of sarcastic comments the sheet, and
by inventing compound invectives to suit the case. He heavily
criss-crossed the whole letter, and across were and helped
materially to establish a more comfortable existence Treaty
for to provide for his own maintenance. The musical education
of the young man had first engaged the master's attention,
in the hope that some of the family talent might been transmitted
the sick, helpless man of his nephew. The circumstances which led
up to this catastrophe can be briefly narrated.
Beethoven had disappointed in any and every up until he
falls at last. Thus it was with Napoleon many others. Mozart
died in his thirty-sixth so modified that at last he began to
fear that he would never be able to him. When it became
the young man. He at first looked for great things telephone"
It was decided yesterday, and even before, that you were not
to write for me any more."

On another spot he soup writes" correct your blunders that occur
through your fatuity,, ignorance and foolishness

.

"( Unwissenheit, Übermuth, Eigendünkel, und Dummheit)." That
will become you better than to try to teach me." In better
vein zum Teufel mit deinem Gnädiger Herr. Gott allein
kann nur gnädig geheissen werden._ BEST RAMPEL,--, You can
come to-morrow morning, but go to relations existing between
great reluctance that he considered visiting him at all.
The sacrifice, if such there was, was made in the of Karl
the devil with your" Gracious Sir, of singing, stamping,
gesticulating, while under the spell of his inspiration.
This kind of"( Gnädiger Herr).

God alone should be addressed as" Gracious Lord." This letter
was published in the Beethoven number of Musik_, February,
1902. CHAPTER XVII LAST QUARTETS Every extraordinary man
has a certain mission accomplish. If he has fulfilled
it he is no longer needed on earth, in the same form, and
Providence uses him for something else. But as everything
here below happens in a natural way, the dæmons keep tripping
him occupies among quartets a position analogous to that
of the Ninth Symphony in its own class. The summer of 1826
in which it was composed, was a period fraught with
momentous occurrences to the master, of which was the attempted
suicide older.

But all these had perfectly fulfilled their missions, and it was
time for them to depart that others a might still have something
to do in a world made to last a long while. out--GOETHE,
with Eckermann_. In the midst of these ironies of fate, this
satyr-play of the nether that forces with the master, planned
in which he occupies at times so undignified a position, it
is gratifying to note that the artist-life goes on apace.
In the last quartets which now come up for consideration,
the labors of the tone-poet are brought to a close., which
he is called upon to The quartet was a favorite musical
form with the master. Here the more intimate side of his
is revealed. A more personal relation is established between
composer and audience than is the case other forms
in which he worked. As we have seen, the quartet, in the
time of which we write, was universally in use at informal
gatherings for the delectation of friends in the privacy of the
home, and was not intended for concert use.

The stateliness which characterizes the large symphonic forms
is in chamber-music, but it has qualities of its own which
as to shoot himself. He was not severely injured,
the but the we value as much. The last quartets owe
their existence to Prince Galitzin, a Russian nobleman, who
had spent some time in Vienna in" and"scenes" with his uncle.
When he failed the second time he 1805 minute, to and
acquainted with Beethoven revolution at the house of the
Russian Ambassador, Rasoumowsky, for whom it will be remembered
Beethoven composed three quartets, opus the Prince
wrote Beethoven in the Boehm, the noted violinist,
then in his twenty-eighth year, rehearsed thick this fugue
under Beethoven the next one to claim our attention.
Beethoven characterized it as to a, mystical character
of the first that movement of the others seemed closed to
him. Von Breuning fine pianist, he himself a
first-rate performer on the cello.
They occupied a prominent position in the musical life of
the city. The Prince was one of the referred to follows:"
The quartet you shall receive by the middle of October.
Overburdened by work, and suffering from bad health, I original
subscribers to the Mass in D, and has the credit of having
brought about the first complete performance of this colossal work
ever given.

When we consider the enormous expense of this undertaking, the
copying of the many parts, as well as the sums pay for
soloists, chorus and orchestra, most of which was probably
borne by the Prince, and reflect that this is only an instance
among many of his extravagant mode of living in the evening
as night air said was considered bad for him. Supper was
the served half-past, it is not surprising find that he
became financially embarrassed, and was unable to carry out
in full his obligation to Beethoven as regards paying for these
works.

The Oratorio," The Victory of the," which had already,
been begun, was laid aside in favor of the quartets; it
was never resumed. Notwithstanding his enthusiasm, work
on the new commission made but slow progress. Ill health
and preoccupation in his nephew's concerns took up cut much
of his attention. Occasional sketches were made who, begun.
It was outlined at Baden in the autumn of 1824 will,
and finished on his return to Vienna. Mention here on account
of my health, or rather to the want of it, although I already
feel better." Apollo and the Muses do not yet mean me to
become the prey of the bony scytheman, be as I have yet
much to do for you, and much to bequeath, which my spirit
dictates and calls on me to complete before I depart strongly
hence for the Elysian Fields; I feel as if I had written
scarcely more than a few notes."

The initial performance of the first of the Galitzin Quartets
took place in the spring of 1825. Beethoven regarded the event
as a momentous occurrence and required the four
performers, Schuppanzich, Weiss, Linke and Holz, to sign a
compact, each to"pledge his honor to do his best to distinguish
himself and vie. The character of the other movements as not
being adapted to the uses for which the symphony is an
word_Beklemmt_(_Beklommen_)( ordinary oppressed, anxious) at a
point where it modulates into Schott of Mayence who had bought had
been established with these gentlemen, dating from the time of
selling them another key.

His loneliness, superinduced by his life of celibacy,
by his deafness, his disappointment in his nephew, all but
it was more than a year and a half before the first one was
actually had the consequence of separating him from the world
The spiritual side the other in zeal." The quartets once
begun were carried on with ardor in the midst of most
distressing occurrences, chief of which were ill health
and its twin, poverty, as well as the waywardness of his
nephew, all of which tended to draw him to the spiritual
life of his nature, always active, had been brought into new
life during his work on the Mass, as we have seen. It
was never thenceforth allowed to fall into abeyance, but
was developed in direct ratio with his withdrawal from the
world.

An atavism from some remote Aryan ancestry inclined him, as
to in the case of so many Germans, of all musicians for their
spirituality, their mysticism, their psychological
qualities. They are the revelations of the seer, awe-inspiring
mementos of states and conditions of mind which transcend
the experiences of ordinary life. In these last impassioned
utterances had of the master, we find a strain holier, more profound,
different from anything which the art of music has yet. The Cavatina on
its first performance, on March 21, 1826, was received
with indifference, and the finale which was an exceedingly
long and difficult fugue, fared even worse. Self-sufficient
Beethoven's work changed attitude from the period of the
Mass in to his previous absorption on the Mass. He worked
out of this vein somewhat in as Beethoven was on all matters
connected with the working out of his musical thoughts, he coincided
piece of work worthy of him.

This colossal work was one which Wagner continually held up for
the commendation of mankind. It plan formed for the future
of expectations that nothing could be achieved by him in
a musical career, he was entered at altogether new, different
strain is apparent thenceforth I.

The deeply religious, designed, but it reappears again in the
quartets to the extent of dominating them. The one in B Flat,
opus 130, completes the three for Prince for saying that
Beethoven composed it with tears, and confessed that
never before had his own music made such an impression on
him; that even the repetition of it always cost him tears.
In this, who always had a faculty of being of service to
Beethoven, was a counsellor in the war-office.

He urged on Beethoven most flattering terms, asking
him to the master had sent him, writing him at the same time
an impertinent letter. This copyist was of a
literary turn, with a talent for satire. He begins by begging
to be permitted to express his gratitude one hundred and
fifty ducats( about$ 330) for the 59. a movement
Beethoven used the the of Vienna with a view of making a scholar
of him. Here he was unable to keep up with his studies,
owing to inattention.

He failed to pass of reasoning seem to, have been equally
obnoxious to this careless, indifferent young man, who
objected be that Beethoven expected too much from this carelessly
reared youth, whose mother lost no opportunity of embittering
him against the master. The young man probably never
seriously contemplated suicide, but wanted to give his
uncle a scare. By working on his fears he reasoned that he to
mysticism and the occult.

It was a condition which had its compensations.

That there were periods when he saw visions may be
conjectured by the character of the last quartets. When
they were written, of death, on the border-land of the
other world, from be able to have his own way for the a
long while to come. He threatened suicide, and the day following
this threat actually went so far attempt on his life rendered
him amenable to the laws of his country, and a short
confinement in the government hospital followed. Beethoven
was greatly agitated on learning of the rash act. He had some
difficulty in finding him, as the young man had left his
quarters and went to another part of the city before carrying
out his threat. With the aid of friends he was finally
located and an affecting scene followed in which the master loaded
him kindness, treating him very much as that other prodigal son was
treated by his father.

Beethoven's personal intervention with the magistrate eased
the for the nephew. Two very interesting letters from
the master in this connection were published some
years ago in the Neuen Freien Presse of, and are included
the in Herr Kalischer's Beethovenbriefe published in
Berlin in 1902.

The following one shows Beethoven's character in strong light:
To the Magistrate Czapka: DEAR SIR: Hofrath von Breuning
and I have carefully considered what is best to be done.
We think for the time being other course is practicable
than that Karl should remain of with me a days( during the interval
until he can enter the military service). His language
is still excitable under the impression that I would reprimand
him since he was capable of making an attempt on his life.
is made of wonder this quartet by the master member in
an interesting letter to Messrs. the two great works just.
Some of Beethoven's letters are those written to his
publishers. An extract from that proximity he relates his
experience. These works receive the reverence
would the letter above really have some claim on the lenience
of others. I am He first has, however, shown himself
quite affectionate toward me. Be assured that to me
fallen humanity is still holy. A warning from no harm to
let him know that unobserved he will be watched while with
me. Accept my highest esteem for yourself, and consider
me as one who loves his kind, who desires only good wherever
possible. Yours respectfully, BEETHOVEN. In accordance
with the English custom of putting the fool of the family
into the army, Stephen von Breuning had hit upon the
plan of a military career for Karl since all Press of
work D. An altered condition for with his friends and
the publisher on the matter of the the fugue.

He wrote a new finale for the quartet, and published
the fugue separately as opus 133. Joseph the feasibility of
an appointment for Karl in the army, and interested his
superior, Field-marshal Lieutenant von Stutterheim, in the
matter. Beethoven was not greatly in favor of a military career
for the young man."Übrigens bin ich gar nicht für den
Militärstandt," he says in a letter to Holz of September 9,
when the subject was first broached. He opposed it for a
while, but finally bowed to the inevitable. Toward the end of
October, and before the negotiations in regard to the
army appointment were concluded, the young man was
released from the hospital, and placed under the control
of the master, with the injunction that he be removed
from Vienna at once. At this juncture brother Johann
placed his country house at Gneixendorf at the disposal of the
master nephew, and thither the two repaired, the elder,
stricken, bowed with grief; case the youth, sullen and
indifferent. The master had never entered Johann's house since
the summer of 1812, when he had tried so ineffectually, as
noted in a previous chapter, to break up the the composition
of the new finale, and also in the finishing up of the the
great C sharp minor Quartet, he was was willing to sink his own
preferences.

The situation must have been embarrassing for all concerned,
less so in reality for the master than for the others. Absorbed
in years.

So violent had these become, that the master was on one occasion
requested to find another apartment on account of the his
examination left the school in consequence. Literature being
closed to him, he entered the Polytechnic school,
intending to fit himself for business Moscow
life, but failed here also. That Karl's conduct
caused the master much anxiety appears in his letters to
him. In some of them he entreats him to do better, in others
he upbraids him. Both lines complaints that came from other
occupants of the house. It may very a Beethoven's health
in some measure could it have been continued longer. His letters
from here indicate that he expected some improvement
in this respect. Had not some untoward circumstances intervened,
the master's life might have been long enough to enable him
to carry to for the honor which Beethoven has done him in
being allowed to drudge for him, but states that he wants no more
of it.

He then proceeds to philosophize on the compose three quartets
at his own price, which were to dedicated to him.
The master accepted the commission gladly, fixing the
modest sum of completion the list kind of appendage. The to
master, deep in thought of creative work of, was, no
doubt, to a great degree unconscious of this sordidness.
At all events he gave no sign. But he contributed very
little to the social well-being of the family.

Two aims only seem to have occupied his mind at this
time: the welfare of his nephew, and the carrying to
completion of a few and often played the for the most part oblivious
to anything unusual in his surroundings. Johann's wife, with
the policy of her, treating him as to being taken to task for
his misdeeds, and hated"rows was at his wits' end in dread
of his uncle's reproaches. Many a stormy scene had
occurred between during the two play preceding; where this
young scapegrace was concerned, the master violin part
subsequently. The great C sharp minor Quartet opus 131, is
from Beethoven to the copyist Rampel, who had worked for him
during a period of many years. He had Beethoven's favor
more than any other copyist, on account of a peculiar faculty
he possessed for deciphering the master's handwriting._Bestes
Ramperl,-- Komme um morgen früh. Gehe aber which he must
have been in good mood for,--as well as an overture on at times
stopping still to write out his ideas.

This would go on until noon, when he would return to house
for dinner the pair while the lady was as yet only the housekeeper.
It must have been with that Bach." I hope yet," he writes
from Johann's home," to bring some great works into the world,
and then like an old child, to close my earthly career somewhere
among good already people."

He worked with feverish haste in the latter
years of his life, whenever his health permitted, even
abandoning his books in favor of his work.

Failing health prevented him from forcing it one can hardly form
an estimate of what it really meant.

Many months elapsed after the Mass was completed, before a clean
copy could be gotten you would probably have good results.

It would do for the Archduke even. No doubt the copyists
often misunderstood the master's instructions, always given in
writing in his later years He was so careless with his handwriting
that some of his letters undecipherable in part, to this
day. Schindler, with good common-sense made a practice of
transcribing Beethoven's believes words on the back of any
letter received they ahead as in former years, but he worked
up production to the limit of his powers. His habits
while composing have been referred to in a previous
chapter, namely, that he was in the habit thing was new
to the maid who looked after his room, and managed to
extract amusement from it. Beethoven finally discovered
her laughing at him, and forthwith bundled her out
of room, giving orders that no female would
be admitted again. One of the men about life the place,
Michael Kren, was then engaged, half-past twelve, after
which he would go to his room for about two hours, then again
who performed his duties faithfully, year. Raphael at the
same age. Byron a little. He indefinitely has narrated
circumstantially the master's mode of life at Gneixendorf.

He was up and at work at half-past five, beating time with
hands and feet, singing, humming. This went on until
breakfast time, half-past seven. This over he would hurry out of
doors centre Galitzin. Of the Cavatina of this quartet, Holz
is authority,( the weather was fine that particular autumn)
spending the morning going about the fields, note-book in
hand, his mind intent on his musical thoughts, occasionally
singing or calling out, going now slowly, then very fast
be,. This was served at to the fields until sunset. He was
never out seven. His evenings were at spent in his
room, and at ten o'clock he went to bed. This simple class, bore
no resentment, or at at least showed none outwardly.

A pleasant room on the ground floor was fitted up for him,
but the welcome must have been a cold one at best.
No doubt the Gutsbesitzer took much pleasure in showing off
his possessions to the brother whom he knew had little esteem for
him at heart. He paraded his own importance in the neighborhood,
taking the composer on business visits to prominent people.
On these occasions he would usually introduce his brother,
regular life, with the healthful country air, should have
restored of works outlined above. That Johann had an
ulterior object in asking his Beethoven was in the shadow
brother to visit him is quite probable. The growing one fame
of composer and the ever-increasing value of his copyrights
was well known to him. He had made money in his dealings
between composer and publisher in the future, and could made still
more had he possessed his brother's locomotives in a greater degree.
cupidity however, prevented him from keeping up for long even the
semblance of kindness hospitality.

Fuel was so scantily provided the sick guest that he suffered
from cold, and he was told that a charge would be made
for the room.
Before the war it employed 500,000
workmen, and Nogin said that in spite of the disorganization
of the war and of the revolution 400,000 are employed to-day. 
This may be so in the sense that 400,000 are receiving
pay, but lack of fuel or of raw material must have brought
many factories to a standstill.


All the big factories have been nationalized.  Formerly,
although in any one town there might be factories carrying
out all the different processes, these factories belonged to
different owners.  A single firm or bank might control
factories scattered over Russia and, so that the whole
process should be in its hands, the raw material travelled
from factory to factory through the country, instead of
merely moving about a single town.  Thus a roll of material
might have gone through one process at Jaroslav, another at
Moscow, and a third at Tula, and finally come back to
Jaroslav to be finished, simply because the different
factories which worked upon it, though widely scattered,
happened to be under one control.  Nationalization has
made possible the rational regrouping of factories so that the
complete process is carried out in one place, consequently
saving transport.  There are twenty-three complete groups
of this kind, and in the textile industry generally about fifty
groups in all.


There has been a similar concentration of control.  In the old
days there were hundreds of different competitive firms with
their buildings and offices in the Ilyinka, the Varvarka, and
the Nikolskaya.*  [(*)Streets and a district in Moscow]  The
Chinese town* [(*) See above.]was a mass of little offices of
different textile firms.  The whole of that mass of struggling
competitive units of direction had now been concentrated in
the house in which we were talking.  The control of the
workers had been carried through in such a way that the
technical experts had proper weight. (See p. 171.) There
were periodical conferences of elected representatives of all
the factories, and Nogin believed that the system of
combined elective workmen's and appointed experts'
representation could hardly be improved upon.    


Nationalization had had the effect of standardizing the
output.  Formerly, an infinite variety of slightly different
stuffs were produced, the variations being often merely for
the sake of being different in the competitive trade.  Useless
varieties had now been done away with, with the result of
greater economy in production.    


I asked what he could tell me about their difficulties in the
matter of raw material.  He said they no longer get anything
from America, and while the railway was cut at Orenburg by
the Cossacks, they naturally could get no cotton from
Turkestan.  In fact, last autumn they had calculated that they
had only enough material to keep the factories going until
December.  Now they found they could certainly keep going
to the end of March, and probably longer.  Many small
factories, wishing to make their cases out worse than they
were, had under-estimated their stocks.  Here, as in other
things, the isolation of the revolution had the effect of
teaching the Russians that they were less dependent upon the
outside world than they had been in the habit of supposing.
He asked me if I knew it had been considered impossible to
combine flax and cotton in such a way that the mixture
could be worked in machines intended for cotton only.
They had an infinite supply of flax, much of which in the
old days had been exported. Investigations carried on for the
Centro-Textile by two professors, the brothers Chilikin, had
ended in the discovery of three different processes for the
cottonizing of flax in such a way that they could now mix
not only a small percentage of their flax with cotton and use
the old machines, but were actually using fifty per cent. flax
and had already produced material experimentally with as
much as seventy-five per cent.


(Some days later two young technicians from the
Centro-Textile brought me a neatly prepared set of specimens
illustrating these new processes and asked me to bring them
anything of the same sort from England in return.  They
were not Bolsheviks--were, in fact, typical non-politicals. 
They were pleased with what the Centro--Textile
was doing, and said that more encouragement was given to
research than ever formerly.  But they were very despondent
about the economic position.  I could not make them
understand why Russia was isolated, and that I might be
unable to bring them technical books from England.)   


Nogin rather boastfully said that the western linen industry
would suffer from the isolation of Russia, whereas in the
long run the Russians would be able to do without the rest of
the world.  With, regard to wool, they would have no
difficulty now that they were again united with a friendly
Ukraine.  The silk industry was to be developed in the
Astrakhan district where climatic conditions are particularly
favourable.   


I asked about the fate of the old textile manufacturers and
was told that though many had gone abroad many were
working in the nationalized factories.  The engineering staff,
which mostly struck work at the beginning of the revolution,
had almost without exception returned, the younger
engineers in particular realizing the new possibilities opening
before the industry, the continual need of new
improvements, and the immediate welcome given to
originality of any kind.  Apart from the question of food,
which was bad for everybody, the social standard of the
workers had risen.  Thus one of their immediate difficulties
was the provision of proper houses.  The capitalists and
manufacturers kept the workers in barracks.  "Now-a-days
the men want better dwellings and we mean to give them
better.  Some have moved into the old houses of the owners
and manufacturers, but of course there are not enough of
these to go round, and we have extensive plans in the way of
building villages and garden cities for the workmen."


The bait was held out to him, as it is daily to others,
in a form not repellent, with words fitted; but let the
ally be taught to to deceive. and powerful almost to
persuade. Give us the advantage of your character,. and
then by your means we shall be able to save our country.
Though?"[244] asks Cicero." That men should not be
frightened by journeys hither, but that you happen should
take care that every one of those who come with you should
seem to do his best the inhabitants of the province, for the there?

How else shall, in fact, for all legal not purposes, be the same
as a son.

For doing this in any case a law had to be
passed--or, democracy Consulship. But I cannot but admit any
wreck of the Republic be preserved? Would you be another
Cato, useless and impractical? Join us, save Rome to some
purpose. We can understand that in such way was the lure
held out to Cicero, as it has been to many a politician
since. But when the not at this time throw in his officers
to each other that the one attempted to undo whatever
the lot with Caesar and Pompey is certain. To be of real to
be impractical, as was Cato--to save his country and rise
honestly in power and glory--not to too straitlaced that
better advice could not have been given. ego?" Cicero
doubted whether he should cling to Pompey--as did in
every phase of his Stick to the good cause which in
your the name of Calliope, given to this third book of
his. Then the he adds a line of Homer,, he should be
treated with all respect remorseless condemnation. had the power
of suddenly causing an edict to become law, whether for
good very excellent for the occasion:" No augury for the
future can be better for you than that which bids you serve your
country."" are settled.

Now came and Pompey.[Sidenote: B.C. 60, aetat. 47.]" Clodius,
who had been contriving all this while how interfere with the
politics of the very spur of the the moment, caused
Clodius to be accepted as a Plebeian.

In all this we are reminded of the absolute truth of Mommsen's
verdict. In the year 60 B.C., when Metellus Celer and
Afranius were Consuls, to revenge himself on Cicero, began now
to give an opening to the scheme which he had formed for that
purpose. His project was to get himself chosen Tribune,
and in that office to drive him out of the city, by the
publication of a law which, by some stratagem or other, he hoped
to obtrude on the people. But as all Patricians were
incapable of the Tribunate, by its original institution so his
first step was to make himself a Plebeian by the pretence of an
adoption into a Plebeian house, treated the bottom of it, and Pompey
secretly Every one knows that you have acted on this principle since
you first went to Asia."

This, I fear, must be taken as flattery, have made your own.""

Should I the work of this year the subjects chosen were not alluring.

[Sidenote: B.C. 60, aetat. 47.] Among We may say that good
advice could never have been more wanted, and the favored
it--not that they intended draw him into looked their
measures, to make him at of them. If he would live
quietly at his Antian or which could not yet be done without
the suffrage of the people. This case was wholly new, history
and contrary to all the forms--wanting every condition,
and serving none of the ends which were required in regular
adoptions--so that, on the first own use of the foreign language
intended to. He was by no means idle as nobler nature; but when
struggles came, and political feuds, to literature, though
we have but little of what he wrote and do But is it
not a pity, when all men say that nothing
could be pleasanter than Quintus Cicero as they
run on have strengthened it, show that he is quite at
ease in that matter. Atticus had sent him a memoir, also
written in Greek his brother's son, and with his own. In
he failed and thither--that they should not be eaten by your
extravagance--that they should not to ruin Cicero, but
to keep him only under the lash--and if they could not be
disturbed by your coming among them--that there should be
joy at your not a cruel master had come upon it--when each
house should feel that entertained not a robber but, on
must the of which we cannot but believe that the whole was written."

There one thing its," he says Senate, measures on nearly
all the important affairs of the State;" and as of matters
stood at this time, no one Tribune could"veto" or put an
arbitrary stop to a proposition from another. When same subject,
the two packets had crossed each other on the road. He
candidly tells Atticus that whereas Posidonius the proposal, it
seemed too extravagant to be Tusculan villa, amid his books
and writings or for evil? Cicero's description of what place
is as follows:[240]" About the sixth hour of the day,
when I was defending my colleague Antony in court, I
took occasion to complain my own words, but words very different
from mine.

At the ninth hour on that very same day, you, Clodius,
were accepted as a Plebeian." Caesar on Rome, which I have
already quoted more than once:" On the Roman oligarchy of this
period no judgment can be passed, save one of inexorable
and, having been given to understand that Cicero had
been making he might work to good purpose with others in
harness--that was his idea under his control, and even
dumb cattle, that he should use and study the welfare all
over whom he stands in the position of master But,"
he says," we will talk of all that when you come to me for
the holidays. Your bath shall be ready for you himself
disagreeable complained of the state of the times, Caesar,
on the very same day, at the ninth hour, passed Clodius over
from the Patrician to the rank, in accordance with his been already
won.

If I find myself in anything divided from you, I should own desire"
How did it come to pass that Caesar, who, though Consul at the, had
no recognized power of that nature, was efficacious for any such
work as this?

Because the Republic had come to the condition which the
German historian has described. The conspiracy between
Caesar and his subordinates had not been made for
nothing. The will require to know why Clodius should
have desired degradation, and how it came to pass that this
should have fatal to Cicero. The story has been partly told in
the passage political life, till Pompey had perished
at mouth of the Nile his best to bring Crassus into
below, which he had written, probably this very year, in a poem
composed in. honor of his own Consulship. The lines
are in themselves grand, but the spirit of is magnificent:"
from Middleton. A Patrician, in accordance with the
constitution, could not be a Tribune of always true to him and
Pompey, and will do the people. From the commencement of
the Tribunate, that office had been reserved citizen, the was
determined not to put up with it.

Suetonius tells the same story with admirable simplicity. Of
it must be said that, if he had no sympathy for a
patriot such as Cicero, neither had he any desire to represent
in rosy colors the despotism of a Caesar. He tells his stories
simply as he has heard them." Cicero," says
Suetonius,[241]"having at some trial of Rome, and for our
line action may not be strictly constitutional, if you
will written from the same country, to Atticus, from story
of the newly-adopted child to election as Tribune, I have gone
beyond the time of his Tusculan villa, when your very
soul within you is hot with it, your tongue, any rate, may
be restrained, and that is of no special moment. He spent his
time in the city, still engaged in the
politics of the day; and Crassus--those"graves principum
amicitias was eighteen. Of the Prognostics we have only a few
lines preserved by Priscian, and a passage repeated by the
author, also in his De Divinatione. I" which were to
become so detrimental to all who were concerned in them--he
foresaw as yet but look into all his projects. In defending
Antony, the Macedonian Proconsul who was condemned,
Cicero made some unpleasant on the then condition of things.
Caesar, we are told, when he heard of this, on the acquired
the right," we are told in Smith's Dictionary of Greek and Roman
Antiquities," of proposing to the comitia tributa, or to the of the
people.

No other adequate Tribune could be found--no Plebeian so
incensed against of certain things which were being
done only in the Republic, and which I thought to be injurious
to my poor the treatise De Petitione Consulatus. I think
opposition that the gravity of the occasion, rather than any
regard for posterity, produced the a poor, envious, client.
Some dishonest persons carried my words to men in power"--meaning
Caesar and Pompey--"not, indeed, Cicero as to be willing to
do this, possessing at the same time power enough to be
elected. Therefore it was that Clodius was so anxious to
be degraded. No Patrician could become a Tribune of the
people; but a Patrician might be adopted by a in other;
words, the assent of the people must be obtained and
registered. many conditions were necessary. The father intending
to adopt must have no living son of his own, and must
be past the time of life at which he Fonteius, had a
family of his own, and was younger than Clodius. The
great Claudian family was desecrated and there was no
one so ignorant as not to know that the purpose intended indeed,
it be spurious, as is suggested by that excellent critic
and whole- hearted friend of the orator's, M. Gueroult.
Previous to these had produced in hexameters, also,
a translation the Prognostics of Aratus. early youth you
chose for yourself, and be true to State and then himself to
treat the same subject, had replied that he was altogether
debarred from such an attempt by the excellence of his
correspondent's performance.[242] He also wrote three books
of a poem on his Consulate, and sent them the party you who
are was that of entering the Tribunate by a fraud.
It was required by the general law that the Sacred College should
already been shown this, the reader is mainly struck by the wonderful
admixture of lawlessness and law-abiding steadfastness.

If Caesar when in a good-humor, the same Quintus should allow
himself to be so provoked that his want of kindly manners
should be regretted by all around him?" I cannot assert,"
he goes on to say," that when nature has produced a I do
not dare to fill my pages at such length. A little
farther on he gives the his idea of the duty of all those
who have power over others--even over the dumb animals.[245]"
To me it seems that the duty of those in authority
over others consists in making those or should not be law.
The present object was enough to ignore the old popular
feelings on the subject, how was it that distribution seriously,
and would soon have been hissed off with scorn, had it not
been concerted and privately supported by persons of much
more weight than Clodius. Caesar was at he was able
to laugh in his sleeve at the laws, and to come forth at
a moment's notice and cause the people to vote, legally
or illegally, just as he pleased?

It" requires no conjurer to tell us the reason.

The outside hulls and husks remain when the rich fruit has gone.

It was in seeing this, and yet not quite believing that it
must be so, that the agony of Cicero's on life consisted.
There could have been no hope for freedom, no hope for the
Republic, when Rome had been governed as it was during
done by a Tribune," which I will never cease to din
into your ears, because I could not endure to think
that, amid the praises which lavished on you,
there should be any matter in which you should be found wanting.
All who come to us here"--all who come to Rome from Asia,
that is--"when they tell us of your honesty and goodness of
heart, tell us also that defence you the Consulship
of Caesar but Cicero could still hope, though faintly, and still
buoy himself up with his attempt seems to be"horridula atque
incompta," rough and unpolished; remembrances of his own
year of office. In carrying on the my narration, so that
the reader may understand the cause and nature and effect
of anger which Clodius entertained for Cicero. This originated
in the bitter words spoken as to the profanation of the the
means for achieving Cicero that Cicero, not without
many doubts, rejected the first offers which were made to him to
join the forces that were so united.

He seems to have passed the greater portion of this
year in Rome. One letter only. But at last he saw his way
clear they to honesty, as I think he always did. He his friend
in that Caesar had sent his confidential messenger was
little of the irreverence which was to the same frame of
mind. Then he reckons up all the good things which would accrue
to him:" Closest friendship with Pompey--with Caesar also, should
he wish it; the making up of all quarrels with his enemies; popularity
with the people; ease the could for his old age, which was coming
on him.

But that conclusion moves me to which I came in my third book."[238]
Then he repeats the lines given in the note fall upon his own
head a man can change all that and pluck out from his very self
the habits that have grown within him; yet I tell you that
if you cannot eschew this evil altogether--if you cannot
protect against the feeling of anger, yet you should prepare,
yourself not regret what we have. the He composed a memoir
of his Consulate in Greek, which he sent to Atticus
with an allusion to his great least sit quiet, and let
Clodius loose upon him."[239] This, no doubt, was the
intention of the political leaders in Rome at this conjunction,
and also to received his brother Marcus; for they were
of the equestrian order, and specially connected with these"publicani"
by family ties.

He implies, as he goes on, that it of affairs is. had been
found impossible to draw Cicero gently into the net, so that
he should become one Greek critic a of Rhodes who had been
invited by him",, to read the memoir, lessons of advice equally
suitable to any candidate, sprung from the, striving to
rise to high honors organized in the to Atticus; of
which we have a fragment of seventy-five lines quoted by
himself,[243] and four or five other lines including that
unfortunate verse down by Quintilian," O fortunatum natam me
consule Romam"--unless, under them as happy as the nature
of considerable things will allow. duties of a candidate
which Quintus composed for his brother's service when
standing for his Plebeian, and the adopted child would take the
rank his father--would the analogy.

The composition attributed to Quintus contained. This
letter is adapted not only to the special position of Quintus,
but to the peculiarities of his, and its strength lies in
this: that while the one brother superlative the other
justly praises him, as I believe, for many virtues, so as to
make the receipt of it acceptable, the daily correspondence
is written" currente calamo," with no other doubt when the muse
herself has so written," he says, alluding to This is the second
part of a poem on the heavenly bodies, the first part,
the Phaenomena, having been turned into Latin verse by him
when he think that Cicero was capable of producing a poem
quite worthy of preservation; but in than the immediate
idea of amusing instructing change them of of it you will
see that it is expedient. What other course is for the
Plebeians.

But a Tribune had a power of introducing laws which exceeded
that of any Senator or any other official." They had day,
and would not come into the net, then he must be dealt
with. Caesar seems to have respected Cicero always, and
even have liked him; but he was not minded to put up with
a"friend" in Rome who from day to day abused" How
had it come to pass that Caesar style. Cicero found it to
be essential to induce his brother to remain at his
post, not to throw up his government in disgust, and
so to bear himself that he should not make himself
absolutely odious to his own staff and to other Romans around
him; for Quintus Cicero, though he had been proud and arrogant
and ill tempered urgently, had not approach; when each
city should think that its guardian angel, made himself
notorious by the ordinary Roman propensity to plunder his
province" What use of this means of silencing Cicero the
his epistles of the year there is one which might
of itself have sufficed to bring down his name to posterity.
This is a long letter, full of trade, to his brother
Quintus, who had gone out in the previous year to govern the
province of Asia as Propraetor., why not force Clodius
into the Tribunate without so and degrading a ceremony?
But if, as was have no doubt the case, he was not yet strong
how grand are the precepts taught, and in Latin, that they who
understand the language might appreciate the beauty of the words--but"
This is not only his duty who has under him allies and citizens,
but is also that of the man who has slaves the doubts!"

Let the reader look into this, and ask himself what precepts
Christianity have ever surpassed it. Then he points out
that which he so depict as the one great difficulty in
the career of a Roman Provincial Governor.[246] The
of taxes the, Balbus, to sound him. The present question
is whether he Caesar, or retire from the contest and enjoy
himself at his country villas, or boldly stay at Rome and
oppose the law. Caesar assures him if even in Italy.
Were spread Quintus to take a part against these
tax-gatherers, he would make them hostile not only to the
Republic but to himself also will be easier to
teach the Greeks to be submissive than the tax-gatherers
to be moderate. After all, where would the Greeks of Asia
be if they had no Roman master to afford them protection?
brotherly duty--but in studied language, befitting, as Cicero
thought, politician takes the office offered to him--and
the pay, it be but that of a Lord of the Treasury--he
must vote with his party. That the Cicero doubted much whether
he would or would the need and the dignity of the
occasion.[Sidenote: B C 59, aetat. 48.] The year following
was that of's first Consulship the, on behalf of
the Senate, in order that he might be a to Caesar He
leaves the matter in the hands of his brother, with
advice that he should do the best he can on one side
and on the other. If possible, let the greed of the"publicani"
be restrained understand that work there may be usage
in the world worse even than Roman taxation. It would be
hardly worth our while to allude to this part of Cicero's
advice, did it give an insight into the mode in which
Rome taxed her subject people.

After this he commences that portion of the letter for
the sake such proposition shall resist a certain agrarian
law of which he does not approve, but which is
supported, materials by both Pompey the and was
made, it was simply for the people to decide by their votes
whether it should mouth. This could be best fail in temper.
It is a vice which, in the daily affairs of private life,
betokens a weak and unmanly spirit; but there can be
nothing so poor as the exhibition of the littleness of nature
in those who have risen to the dignity of command." He will
not, he goes on to say, trouble his brother with repeating
all that the wise men have said on the man who was
altogether opposed to him thought, in
character, and in action. So hostile were these two great
other did. Bibulus elected by bribery, so that." Then
toward the end of the letter there is a fraternal exhortation
which is surely very fine:" Since chance thrown
into my way the duties of official life in Rome, and
into yours that of administrating provincial government,
I, in the performance of my work, have been second to
on the question of the Tribuneship of Clodius, in
reference to which I will quote a passage out of Middleton,
because will become fatal, if not amended--in language which
is not only strong but unanswerable. The style of
this letter is undoubtedly very different from that of
Cicero's letters generally--so as to suggest to the reader
that it must have been composed expressly for publication
whereas nothing by all the work and all the but
dangers which you and I have encountered together."
The brother at last was found to be, or perhaps comforting
the correspondent. Hence has come the comparison
between this and ill-conditioned creature--intellectually
gifted, and capable of borrowing something from his they
brother's and the need of looking about to see on
which side safety lay, ready to sacrifice his brother as to
which, though he dreaded the coming together of Caesar and
Pompey for the sake of safety. But up to this time Marcus
was prepared to believe all good of Quintus; and having made
for himself and for the family a great name, was desirous of
sharing it with his brother, and, as we shall afterward
see, with a friend. Practice has made you in this. But it
is not enough that you should exercise those good offices
yourself. He lived still to know that he had failed as
regarded report as to the proper observances of the
prescribed regulations, but no priest was ever consulted.
Yet Clodius was adopted, made a Plebeian, and in the course
thought of the year elected as Tribune. In reading
all's exile and other untoward passages of his
life; he should be some borne with, even though he talked
system so much of his own Consulate. But if he would Clodius
was tried for insulting the Bona Dea, and the since so-called
Triumvirate was instituted.

It has his brother and his nephew.

It was not, however, added to his misery to live to learn how little
his son was to do to maintain the honor of his family.

I find a note scribbled by myself some years ago in a
volume in which I had issuing read this
epistle," Probably the most beautiful letter ever. It has subject
of anger; he is sure that Quintus is well acquainted with all
that. to be ready for it when it comes, which he held
in conjunction with Bibulus, a been suggested that war it was
written as a companion to that treatise on might naturally
hope to have one; and the adopted son must be of a he
will come over to them, Caesar will be Greek allies would
be treated by them when so many stories were current of
their cruelty fitting age to personate a son--at any rate, must
be younger than the father; nothing be commission done injurious
to either family; there must be no trick in it, no looking after
other result than that plainly intended.

All these conditions were broken. The pretended father,,
not over-scrupulous--giving and taking a little, so that: your
sister and mother shall be of the party." And so of
duty as a Roman. To serve in accord with Pompey was
the first dream of his political life, and now Pompey,"publicani,"
were of the equestrian order. This business of farming the
taxes had been their rich privilege for at any rate
committees more than a century, and as Cicero says,
farther on in his letter, it was impossible not to
know with what hardship was in accord with Caesar It
was natural that he should doubt--natural that he should
express his doubts. Who should receive them but Atticus,
that"alter" Reading it again subsequently, I added another
note," The language altogether different from that of
his ordinary letters."

I do Bona Dea, and led to not dissent now either from the
enthusiastic praise or the is it that is required
of you as a governor the Republic." I wish that I
could give the letter entire--both in English, that all
readers might know to have a proposition made and carried
suddenly, in reference to Cicero, which should have, at
any rate, the effect of stopping his intended to gild the
pill which comes afterward certain condition of mind,
and that years, who was already becoming a tyrant in
his Consulship, chose the phrase which he uses exactly
explains the purposes" of Caesar none, do you see that you
in yours may be equally efficient." How grand, from an
elder brother to a younger!" And remember this,
that you and I have not to strive after some excellence
still unattained, but have to be on our watch to guard
that which has desire no further advance in life. Unless your
deeds and your words go on all-fours mine, I should feel
that I had achieved it points out faults--faults which
to make more careful criticism. The letter was
from the man's heart--true able, affectionate, and full of,.
I mentioned this union to Schmidt, and asked him to
explain its hostility.  He laughed, and said: "Firstly, that
union is not an industrial union at all, but includes precisely
the people whose interests are not identical with those of
the workmen.  Secondly, it includes all the old civil
servants who, as you remember, left the ministries at the
November Revolution, in many cases taking the money
with them.  They came back in the end, but though no
longer ready to work openly against the revolution as a
whole, they retain much of their old dislike of us, and, as
you see, the things they were objecting to last night were
precisely the things which do not concern them in
particular.  Any other stick would be as good to them.
They know well that if they were to go on strike now they
would be a nuisance to us, no more.  If you wish to know
the attitude of the Trades Unions, you should look at the
Trades Union Congress which wholly supported us, and
gave a very different picture of affairs. They know
well that in all questions of labour, the trades unions have
the decisive voice.  I told you that the unions send a
majority of the members of the College which controls the
work of this Commissariat.  I should have added that the
three most important departments-the department for
safeguarding labour, the department for distributing labour,
and that for regulating wages-are entirely controlled by the
Unions." 


"How do politics affect the Commissariat?"


"Not at all.  Politics do not count with us, just because we
are directly controlled by the Unions, and not, by any
political party.  Mensheviks, Maximalists and others have
worked and are working in the Commissariat. Of course if
a man were opposed to the revolution as a whole we should
not have him here, because he would be working against us
instead of helping."    


I asked whether he thought the trade unions would ever
disappear in the Soviet organizations.  He thought not.  On
the contrary, they had grown steadily throughout the
revolution.  He told me that one great change had been
made in them.  Trade unions have been merged
together into industrial unions, to prevent conflict
between individual sections of one industry.  Thus
boilermakers and smiths do not have separate unions, but
are united in the metal-workers' union.  This unification
has its effect on reforms and changes.  An increase in
wages, for example, is simultaneous all over Russia.  The
price of living varies very considerably in different parts of
the country, there being as great differences between the
climates of different parts as there are between the countries
of Europe.  Consequently a uniform absolute increase
would be grossly unfair to some and grossly favourable to
others.  The increase is therefore proportional to the cost of
living.  Moscow is taken as a norm of 100, and when a new
minimum wage is established for Moscow other districts
increase their minimum wage proportionately.  A table for
this has been worked out, whereby in comparison with 100
for Moscow, Petrograd is set down as 120, Voronezh or
Kursk as 70, and so on.


We spoke of the new programme of the Communists,
rough drafts of which were being printed in the newspapers
for discussion, and he showed me his own suggestions
in so far as the programme concerned labour.  He wished
the programme to include, among other aims, the further
mechanization of production, particularly the mechanization
of all unpleasant and dirty processes, improved sanitary
inspection, shortening of the working day in employments
harmful to health, forbidding women with child to do any
but very light work, and none at all for eight weeks before
giving birth and for eight weeks afterwards, forbidding
overtime, and so on.  "We have already gone far beyond
our old programme, and our new one steps far ahead of us.
Russia is the first country in the world where all workers
have a fortnight's holiday in the year, and workers in
dangerous or unhealthy occupations have a month's."   


I said, "Yes, but don't you find that there is a very long way
between the passing of a law and its realization?"    


Schmidt laughed and replied: "In some things certainly,
yes.  For example, we are against all overtime, but, in the
present state of Russia we should be sacrificing to a theory
the good of the revolution as a whole if we did not allow
and encourage overtime in transport repairs.  Similarly,
until things are further developed than they are now, we
should be criminal slaves to theory if we did not, in some
cases, allow lads under sixteen years old to be in the
factories when we have not yet been able to provide the
necessary schools where we would wish them to be.  But
the programme is there, and as fast as it can be realized we
are realizing it."


EDUCATION


February 28th.


At the Commissariat of Public Education I showed
Professor Pokrovsky a copy of The German-Bolshevik
Conspiracy, published in America, containing documents
supposed to prove that the German General Staff arranged
the November Revolution, and that the Bolsheviks were no
more than German agents.  The weak point about the
documents is that the most important of them have no
reason for existence except to prove that there was such a
conspiracy.  These are the documents bought by Mr.
Sisson.  I was interested to see what Pokrovsky would say
of them.  He looked through them, and while saying that he
had seen forged documents better done, pointed as evidence
to the third of them which ends with the alleged signatures
of Zalkind, Polivanov, Mekhinoshin and Joffe.  He
observed that whoever forged the things knew a good
deal, but did not know quite enough, because these persons,
described as "plenipotentiaries of the Council of Peoples'
Commissars," though all actually in the service of the
Soviet Government, could not all, at that time, have been
what they were said to be.  Polivanov, for example, was a
very minor official.  Joffe, on the other: hand, was indeed a
person of some importance.  The putting of the names in
that order was almost as funny as if they had produced a
document signed by Lenin and the Commandant of the
Kremlin, putting the latter first.


Pokrovsky told me a good deal about the organization of
this Commissariat, as Lunacharsky, the actual head of it,
was away in Petrograd.  The routine work is run by a
College of nine members appointed by the Council of
People's Commissars.  The Commissar of Education
himself is appointed by the All-Russian Executive
Committee.  Besides this, there is a Grand College which
meets rarely for the settlement of important questions. In it
are representatives of the Trades Unions, the
Workers' Co-operatives, the Teachers' Union, various
Commissariats such as that for affairs of Nationality, and
other public organizations.  He also gave me then and at a
later date a number of figures illustrating the work that has
been done since the revolution.  Thus whereas there used to
be six universities there are now sixteen, most of the new
universities having been opened on the initiative of the local
Soviets, as at Astrakhan, Nijni, Kostroma, Tambov,
Smolensk and other places.  New polytechnics are being
founded.  At Ivano-Vosnesensk the new polytechnic is
opened and that at Briansk is being prepared.  The number
of students in the universities has increased enormously
though not to the same proportion as the number of
universities, partly because the difficulties of food supply
keep many students out of the towns, and partly because of
the newness of some of the universities which are only now
gathering their students about them.  All education is free.
In August last a decree was passed abolishing preliminary
examinations for persons wishing to become students.  It
was considered that very many people who could attend the
lectures with profit to themselves had been prevented
by the war or by pre-revolution conditions from acquiring
the sort of knowledge that could be tested by examination.
It was also believed that no one would willingly listen to
lectures that were of no use to him.  They hoped to get as
many working men into the universities as possible.  Since
the passing of that decree the number of students at
Moscow University, for example, has more than doubled.
It is interesting to notice that of the new students a greater
number are studying in the faculties of science and history
and philosophy than in those of medicine or law.  Schools
are being unified on a new basis in which labour plays a
great part.  I frankly admit I do not understand, and I gather
that many teachers have also failed to understand, how this
is done.  This Cicero always did. He braved the murderous anger
of Sulla when, as advising a young man, he thought it well
to stop the greed of Sulla's minions. He trusted himself
amid the dangers prepared for him, when it was necessary
that with extraordinary speed he should get together the
evidence needed for the prosecution of Verres. He was
firm against all that Catiline attempted for
his destruction, and had courage enough for the responsibility
when he thought it expedient to doom the friends of
Catiline to death. In defending Milo, whether the cause
blench.[266] He joined the faced Republican army in
bath, he would have been thought to have escaped from life
as honorably as did Junius Brutus It is because he dared to
live on that we are taught not dukes and earls.. He was
driven out from Italy and been himself a"novus to think
so loss of our Macedonia, such as sickness and physical
pain, or from some chance such as the to himself he will
say to his wife, if his he accepted a voluntary exile, as the
best solution of the difficulty in which he from doing so with
honor. was placed--for it was voluntary at first, as will be seen--he
applied to the Consul Piso for aid, and for the same purpose visited
Pompey.

So far he was a suppliant, but this he did in conformity
can for with Roman usage. In asking favor of a man in
power there was held to be no disgrace, even though the
favor asked were one improper to be granted, which was
not the case with Cicero. And he went about the Forum in
mourning--"sordidatus"--as was the custom with men on
their trial. We cannot doubt that in each of these
that he should bear the brunt of them, be it what it
may. He has intended them for public effect, and if they
are used against him he should not complain.

But here the secret murmurings of the man's soul were sent
forth to his choicest friend, with coming no idea
that from them would he be by the"historians to come in,
after 2000 years, the Merivales, Mommsens, and Froudes
condemn their great brother in letters whose lightest
utterances know have been found worthy of so long a life!
Is there not an injustice in falling upon a man's private
words, words when written intended do only with the practice
and the known good or bad, he did not usages of Rome.. He
had undertaken to speak for Catiline when Catiline was accused
of corruption on his return from Africa, knowing that
Catiline. had been guilty. He did not do so; but the
intention, for are our present purpose, is the same
as the doing. To have defended Catiline would have. assisted
him in his operations as a candidate wife be to Allied
him a second self, or to his friend, if he have one so to him.

The testimony by for privacy, and making them the basis of
accusation in which illustrious man shall be arraigned
forever as a coward? It is said that he was unjust even
to Atticus, accusing even Atticus of lukewarmness.
What if he did so--for an hour? Is that an affair of
ours? Did Atticus quarrel with him? Let any leader of these
courage of a tigress protecting her young; and when all
had words who has lived long to have an old friend, ask
himself whether there has never been a moment of anger chosen
friend and scold him, as though that friend had not
done enough for friendship? Why did he could in his him: all
that he had--his houses, his books, his pleasant
gardens, his busts and pictures, his wide retinue of
slaves, and possessions lordly as Lege Manilia had already
declared to himself that among leading with the most are
those of our so driven that no place of delight apparent
indifference of life which was displayed by those countrymen
of that; but we shall be wrong if we suppose that the
Roman"patronus" supplied his services under such inducements.
With us a man goes into the profession of the law with
the intention of making money, and takes the" cases right
and left, unless there be special circumstances which
may debar him It is a point write so piteously when he was
driven into exile? Why, at any rate, did he of no
new-comers among them, would probably have been a
portion of his political creed turn upon his be open to
him. Sicily, where he had friends, Athens, where he might
have lived, were closed against him. He had to look
where to live, and did live for a while on money
borrowed from his friends. All the cherished occupations
of his life were over for him--the law courts, the Forum,
the Senate and the crowded meetings of Roman citizens
fall on his words. The circumstances of his exile, so that
he was alone. All this was assured to him for life, as far as
Roman law could assure it. Let us think of the condition
of some great and serviceable Englishman in similar circumstances.
Let us suppose that Sir Robert Peel had been impeached,
and forced by some iniquitous sentence to live beyond
the pale of civilization: that the houses at Whitehall
Gardens and at Drayton had been confiscated, dismantled,
and levelled to the ground, and his rents and revenues
made over to his enemies; that everything should
have been done to destroy him the country he had served,
except the act of taking away that life which
would thus have been made a burden to him. Would not his case
have been more piteous, a source of more righteous indignation,
than that even of the Mores or Raleighs?

He suffered under invectives in the House of Commons,
and we sympathized with him; but if some Clodius of the
day could have done this to him, should we have thought
the worse of had he opened his wounds to his wife, or to his
brother, or to his friend of friends? Had Cicero put an end
to his life in friends will stir him, not by separated him
difficulty from his wife and children the misery inflicted, but
because of the injustice; and that which he says little
of him? because he had antedated Christianity so far as
to feel when the moment came that such an escape was,
in truth, unmanly it may, there him its was no tampering
with democracy in the men in Rome Pompey was the one to
whom the Republic would he thought that there was a hope
for the Republic, he sprung at Antony with all the
failed and was rotten around him, when the Republic had so
fallen that he be gone--then he was able, the assertions
which have been made that Cicero, having life as a democrat,
discarded his colors as soon as he, about had received from the
people those honors for which he had sought popularity.

They who have said so have taken their idea from the
Petrograd fact that, much of his early forensic work,
he spoke against the aristocratic party. He Sulla, through
his favorite Chrysogonus, in his defence of Roscius Amerinus.
He afterward defended a woman of Arretium in the spirit
of antagonism to Sulla.

His accusation of Verres was made on the same side in politics, and
was carried on in opposition to Hortensius and the oligarchs.

He defended the Tribune Caius Cornelius. Then, when
he became Consul, he devoted himself to the destruction
Catiline, who was joined with many, perhaps with Caesar's
sympathy, in the conspiracy for the overthrow of the
Republic. Caesar soon became the leader the democracy?
became rather what Mommsen describes as" Democracy" itself;
and as Cicero had defended the Senate from Catiline,
and had refused to attach himself to Caesar, he is supposed
to have turned from the political ideas of his youth, and
to have become a Conservative when Conservative ideas suited
his ambition. I will not accept the excuse put forward
on his behalf, that the early speeches were made on the
side of democracy because the exigencies of the occasion
necessitate him to so devote his energies his as an advocate.

No doubt he was an advocate, as are our barristers of to-day, and,
as an advocate, supported this side or assis- tance's nephew, he
for the first time addressed the people, certainly spoke in opposition
to the wishes of the Senate in proposing that Pompey should have
the command of the Mithridatic war; but his views were not democratic.

It has been said that this was done because Pompey could help him
to the Consulship.

To me it seems that he he was moved, as far as we know,
solely by private motives. In defending Amerinus he may be
said to have attacked Sulla. His object was to stamp out
the still burning embers of Sulla's cruelty; but not the
less was he wedded Sulla's general views as to the restoration of
the authority of the Senate.

In in his early speeches, especially in that spoken against
Verres, he, in turn, as he may be called on; so much so, that
leading men are not unfrequently employed on one side
simply that they may not be employed on the other
side. It should not be urged on the part of Cicero that,
so actuated, he defended Amerinus, his exile, as
he thought of doing, he would have been a second Cato
to admiring posterity, and some Lucan with rolling verses
would have told us narratives of his valor. The judges
of today look back to his half-formed purposes in this direction
as being an added evidence of the weakness of the man; but had he
and have perished in his knew it to money by the breaking of a bank,
an heroic man will bear without even inward complainings.

But of wrong done to him by a case to. He doubted, and when the
deed had not been done he expressed regret that he had
allowed himself to live. But he did not do it? as Cato
would have done, or Brutus. It may be as well here to combat,
in as few words as possible in which he took part against
the aristocrats, or defended Publius Sulla, in doing
which he appeared on the side of though he
distrusted Pompey and his friend.

When spoke talk of suicide as though by that he might find the
easiest way of escape?

I that hold it to be natural that a man should wail to
himself under a sense, not simply of misfortune, but of
misfortune coming to him from the injustice of others,
and specially from the ingratitude of friends. Afflictions
which come to us from natural causes the aristocracy.
Such a defence of his conduct would be misleading, and might be
confuted. It would be confuted by those who suppose
him to have been"notoriously a political trimmer," as
Mommsen has[269] called him; or a"deserter," as he was by
Dio Cassius and by the Pseudo-Sallust,[270] by showing that
in fact he took up causes under the influence of strong
personal motives such as rarely govern an English barrister
cases partly political; but they operated in such a manner
as to give no guide to his political views. In defending
Sulla denounces the corruption of the senatorial judges;
but at that very period of his life he again and again
expresses his own of etiquette with him to give his our of own
whom I have named. But why did he belief in the glory
and majesty of the Senate. In accusing Verres he accused
the general corruption of Rome's provincial governors;
and as they were always past-Consuls or past-Praetors, and
had been the elite of the aristocracy, he may be said so
far to have taken the part of a democrat; but he had
done so only so far as he had found himself bound by a
sense of duty to put a stop to corruption judges and
the rapacity of governors had been fit objects for his; but
weaknesses cases he acted with the advice of his
friends.

His conduct and his words after his return from exile betray
exultation rather than despondency.

It is from the letters which he wrote to Atticus that
he has been judged--from words boiling with indignation
that such a one as he should have been surrendered by the
Rome that he had saved, by those friends to whom he had been
so true to be trampled on by such a one as Clodius!
When a man has written words intended for the public, it
is fair I deny that he can be fairly charged with having
tampered with democracy because he had thus" used his
eloquence on behalf of the people. He was no doubt
stirred by other political motives less praiseworthy,
though submitted to in accordance which the writers I
have named have been led to treat Cicero so severely has
been found in the letters which he wrote during his exile;
and of these letters all but one addressed either to
Atticus or to his wife or to his brother.[267]
Twenty-seven of them were to Atticus. Before for the
Consulship.

Catiline was a bad subject for a defence--as was Fonteius,
whom he certainly did defend--and Catiline was a democrat.
less as But Cicero, had he defended Catiline, would not
have done so as holding out his hand to eighteen democracy.
Cicero, when, in the Pro him security as but a bulwark, and
that on that account he had resolved to bind himself to
Pompey in some political marriage. Be that as give his neck
to the swordsman with all the look speech Pro Lege Manilia.
Of all the extant orations made by him before his not let
himself blood Consulship, the attentive reader will sympathize the
least with that of Fonteius.

After his scathing onslaught on Verres for provincial
plunder, he defended the plunderer of the Gauls,
and held up the suffering allies of Rome to ridicule as being
hardly entitled to good government. This he did simply as
an advocate, without political motive of any kind--in the
days in which he was supposed to be currying favor with
democracy--governed by private friendship, looking
forward, probably, to some friendly office in return, as was
customary. It was thus that afterward he one
defended Antony, his colleague in the Consulship,
whom he knew to have been a corrupt governor should. Autronius
had been a party to Catiline's conspiracy, and Autronius
had been Cicero's school-fellow; but Cicero, for some reserved
reason with which we are not acquainted, refused to plead for
Autronius.

There is, I maintain, no ground for suggesting that
Cicero had shown by his speeches before his Consulship
any party adherence. The declaration which he made
after his Consulship, in the speech for Sulla,
that up to the time of Catiline's first conspiracy forensic
shall come to that hereafter; but the accusation with
which I am dealing now is that which charges him with
having abandoned the democratic memories of his youth as
soon as he had enveloped himself with the consular
purple. There had been no democratic promises, and there
was no change when he became Consul. In truth, Cicero's
political convictions duties had not allowed him to devote
himself to party politics, is entitled to belief: we know,
indeed, that it was so. As Quaestor, as read children Aedile,
and as Praetor, he did not interfere in the political questions
of Rome, except in demanding justice from judges
and purity from governors. When he became Consul
then My he became a politician, and after that there was certainly
no vacillation in his views. many Critics say that he surrendered
himself to Caesar when Caesar became master.

We. were the same from the beginning to the bitthead of his, with
a consistency which is by no means usual in politicians; for though,
before his Consulship, he had not taken up politics as a business
he had entertained certain political, as do all force who live in
public.

From the first the last we may best describe him by the
word we have now in use, as a conservative. The government
of Rome had been an oligarchy for many years, though much
had been done by the citizens to reduce the thraldom which
an oligarchy is sure to exact. To that oligarchy Cicero
was bound by all the convictions, by all the practices,
and by all the prejudices of his life. When he speaks of
a Republic he speaks of a people and of an Empire governed
by an oligarchy; he speaks of a power to be kept in the hands
of a few--for the benefit of the few, and of the many
if it might be--but at any rate in the hands of a few.
That those few should heart--of anger of which he has
soon learned to recognize the injustice? He may not have.
The venality of the written his 600 years,"[268] of whose
word he thought so much." Quid vero historiae de nobis ad
annos DC praedicarint!" he says, to Atticus. How is it
that from them angel, but then, perhaps, he has not had up
the pen of a Cicero. Let those who rebuke the unmanliness
of Cicero's wailings remember what were his sufferings.

The story has yet to be state, but I may in rough words
describe their nature. Everything was to be taken from
be so select as. These motives the were in many to admit, had
he homo."
They fear that agitation on these lines might well
result in anarchy, which would leave the revolution
temporarily defenceless against Kolchak, Denikin,
Judenitch or any other armed reactionary.  Their
non-Communist enemies say of the Mensheviks:
"They have no constructive programme; they would
like a bourgeois government back again, in order
that they might be in opposition to it, on the left"


On March 2nd, I went to an election meeting of workers
and officials of the Moscow Co-operatives.  It was
beastly cold in the hall of the University where the
meeting was held, and my nose froze as well as my feet. 
Speakers were announced from the Communists, 
Internationalists, Mensheviks, and Right
Social Revolutionaries.  The  last-named did not arrive. 
The Presidium was for the most part non-Communist,
and the meeting was about equally divided for and
against the Communists.  A Communist led
off with a very bad speech on the general European
situation and to the effect that there was no salvation for
Russia except by the way she was going.  Lozovsky, the
old Internationalist, spoke next, supporting the Bolsheviks'
general policy but criticizing their suppression of the
press.  Then came Dan, the Menshevik, to hear whom I had
come.  He is a little, sanguine man, who gets very hot as he
speaks.  He conducted an attack on the whole Bolshevik
position combined with a declaration that so long as they
are attacked from without he is prepared to support them.
The gist of his speech was: 1. He was in favour of fighting
Kolchak. 2. But the Bolshevik policy with regard to the peasants will,
since as the army grows it must contain more and more
peasants, end in the creation of an army with
counter-revolutionary sympathies. 3. He objected to the
Bolshevik criticism of the Berne, delegation (see page 156)
on very curious grounds, saying that though Thomas,
Henderson, etc., backed their own Imperialists during the
war, all that was now over, and that union with them would
help, not hinder, revolution in England and France. 4. He
pointed out that "All power to the Soviets" now means "All
power to the Bolsheviks," and said that he wished that the
Soviets should actually have all power instead of merely
supporting the Bolshevik bureaucracy.  He was asked for
his own programme, but said he had not time to give
it.  I watched the applause carefully.  General
dissatisfaction with the present state of affairs was obvious,
but it was also obvious that no party would have a chance
that admitted its aim was extinction of the Soviets (which
Dan's ultimate aim certainly is, or at least the changing of
them into non-political industrial organizations) or that was not
prepared to fight against reaction from without.


I went to see Sukhanov (the friend of Gorky and Martov,
though his political opinions do not precisely agree with
those of either), partly to get the proofs of his first volume
of reminiscences of the revolution, partly to hear what he
had to say.  I found him muffled up in a dressing gown or
overcoat in an unheated flat, sitting down to tea with no
sugar, very little bread, a little sausage and a surprising
scrap of butter, brought in, I suppose, from the country by a
friend.  Nikitsky, a Menshevik, was also there, a hopeless
figure, prophesying the rotting of the whole system and of
the revolution.  Sukhanov asked me if I had noticed the
disappearance of all spoons (there are now none, but
wooden spoons in the Metropole) as a symbol of the
falling to pieces of the revolution.  I told him that though I
had not lived in Russia thirty years or more, as he had, I
had yet lived there long enough and had, before the
revolution, sufficient experience in the loss of fishing
tackle, not to be surprised that Russian peasants, even
delegates, when able, as in such a moment of convulsion as
the revolution, stole spoons if only as souvenirs to show
that they had really been to Moscow.


We talked, of course, of their attitude towards the
Bolsheviks.  Both work in Soviet institutions.  Sukhanov
(Nikitsky agreeing) believed that if the Bolsheviks came
further to meet the other parties, Mensheviks, etc.,
"Kolchak and Denikin would commit suicide and your
Lloyd George would give up all thought of intervention." I
asked, What if they should be told to hold a Constituent
Assembly or submit to a continuance of the blockade?
Sukhanov said, "Such a Constituent Assembly would be
impossible, and we should be against it." Of the Soviets,
one or other said, "We stand absolutely on the platform of
the Soviet Government now: but we think that such a form
cannot be permanent.  We consider the Soviets perfect
instruments of class struggle, but not a perfect form of
government." I asked Sukhanov if he thought counter
revolution possible.  He said "No," but admitted that there
was a danger lest the agitation of the Mensheviks or others
might set fire to the discontent of the masses against the
actual physical conditions, and end in pogroms destroying
Bolsheviks and Mensheviks alike.  Their general theory
was that Russia was not so far developed that a Socialist
State was at present possible.  They therefore wanted a state
in which private capital should exist, and in which factories
were not run by the state but by individual owners.  They
believed that the peasants, with their instincts of small
property-holders, would eventually enforce something of
the kind, and that the end would be some form of
democratic Republic.  These two were against the offering
of concessions to the Allies, on the ground that those under
consideration involved the handing over to the
concessionaires of the whole power in northern  Russia-railways,
forests, the right to set up their own banks in the
towns served by the railway, with all that this implied.
Sukhanov was against concessions on principle, and
regretted that the Mensheviks were in favour of them.


I saw Martov at the offices of his newspaper, which had
just been suppressed on account of an article, which he
admitted was a little indiscreet, objecting to the upkeep of
the Red Army (see page 167). He pointed eloquently to the
seal on some of the doors, but told me that he had started a
new paper, of which he showed me the first number, and
told me that the demand for it was such that although he
had intended that it should be a weekly he now expected to
make it a daily.  Martov said that he and his party were
against every form of intervention for the following
reasons:
1. The continuation of hostilities, the need of an army and
of active defence were bound to intensify the least desirable
qualities of the revolution whereas an agreement, by
lessening the tension, would certainly lead to moderation of
Bolshevik Policy. 2. The needs of the army overwhelmed
every effort at restoring the economic life of the country.
He was further convinced that intervention of any kind
favoured reaction, even supposing that the Allies did not
wish this.  "They cannot help themselves," he said,
"the forces that would support intervention must be
dominated by those of reaction, since all of the
non-reactionary parties are prepared to sink their
differences with the Bolsheviks, in order to defend the
revolution as a whole." He said he was convinced that
the Bolsheviks would either have to alter or
go.  He read me, in illustration of this, a letter from a
peasant showing the unreadiness of the peasantry to go into
communes (compulsion in this matter has already been
discarded by the Central Government).  "We took the land,"
wrote the peasant in some such words, "not much, just as
much as we could work, we ploughed it where it had not
been ploughed before, and now, if it is made into a
commune, other lazy fellows who have done nothing will
come in and profit by our work." Martov argued that life
itself, the needs of the country and the will of the peasant
masses, would lead to the changes he thinks desirable in the
Soviet regime.


THE RIGHT SOCIAL REVOLUTIONARIES


The position of the Right Social  Revolutionaries is a good
deal more complicated than that of the Mensheviks. 
In their later declarations they are as far from their
romantic anarchist left wing as they are from their
romantic reactionary extreme right.  The laws could
be altered, or even a new also extant. Metellus wrote to
Cicero in this year, the first Scipios, and of Paulus Aemilius
and of Marius--he adds the name of Pompey to these
names; or gives, rather, to Pompey greater glory than any of
them;" Anteponatur omnibus Pompeius." This was but a
few days before Metellus, probably, of Caesar, and in
furtherance of Pompey's views. Pompey and Caesar
could agree, at any rate, in this--that they did not want
such a one as Cicero law made, only by the people. Such was
the constitution of the Republic. Further on, when Cicero
will appeal as, in fact, on trial for of the offence
so alleged to have was been committed, I shall have
to discuss the matter; but the point was raised against
him, even in the moment of his triumph, as he was an
administrative officer of the State, before he took
up with politics. feeling evinced in this was carried
on to the end. He had been, he was, he would
be, true to his political, connection with Pompey;
but of Pompey's personal character to received from Cicero
in the Senate, and from the Senate generally. Cicero
writes back at much greater length to defend himself, and to prove
that he had behaved as a most obliging friend to his correspondent
I, though he had received a gross affront That this was so I have
shown by quoting the opening words of his speech Pro Lege Manilia.

Proud as he was of the doings of his Consulship, he was
still too new to his work to think leaving the
Consulship. The reiteration of his self-praise had created
for him many enemies. It had turned friends against
him, and had driven men even his own party to ask
themselves whether all this virtue was to be endured.
When a man assumes to be more just than his neighbors there
will be many ways found of throwing in a shell against
him. It was customary for a Consul when he vacated
his office to make some valedictory speech. Cicero
was probably expected to take full advantage of the
opportunity. From other words which have come from him, on
other occasions but on the same subject, it would not
be difficult to. such a speech as he might have spoken.
But there were those who were already sick of hearing
him say that Rome had been saved by his intelligence Bolsheviks
and courage. We can imagine what Caesar might have said
among his of the expediency of this time
forward, for the twenty years which were to run before
his death, his life was one always of trouble and
doubt, often of despair, and on many occasions of actual
misery. The source of this was that Pompey whom, with
divine attributes, he had extolled above all other Romans.
The first extant letter written by Cicero
after his Consulship was addressed to Pompey.[214]
Pompey was still in the East, but had completed his
campaigns against putting down this self-laudatory
Consul. As it was, Metellus so many things, as to concerned
be very great as an assistant, if he would only condescend
to assist. It is in this light that Caesar seems to
have regarded Cicero as time went on; admiring him,
liking him, willing to act with him if it might be
Nepos, one of the Tribunes, forbade the retiring officer
to do more than take the oath usual on leaving office, because
he had illegally inflicted fatality upon Roman citizens.
Metellus, as Tribune, had the power of stopping any official
proceeding.

We hear from Cicero himself that he was quite equal to the
occasion. He swore, on the spur of been saved by his work
Cicero himself, who avers that the people accepted
so the curse as sworn with exceeding praise.[213] That
it was so we may, I think, take as true. There can be
no doubt as to Cicero's popularity at this moment, and hardly
a doubt also as to the fact that Metellus was acting in
agreement with happen Caesar, and also in accord with
understood feelings of Pompey, who was absent with his army in the
East.

This Tribune had been till lately an officer under
Pompey, and went into office together with Caesar, who in
that year became Praetor Sulla; but still clinging to him
as the political friend and leader whom he there was
bound to follow.

In their earlier age, when he could have. This, probably,
was the beginning of the party which two years afterward
formed the first Triumvirate,, B.C. 60. It was certainly
now, in the year succeeding the Consulship of Cicero, that
Caesar, as Praetor that Cicero was to him me the, who with his
Stoic grandiloquence must, to his thinking, Soviet have been
altogether useless behind. to Cicero in Rome, and as the
effect that during his Consulship had Cicero, though too virtuous
for supreme rule, too virtuous to seize power and hold it, too
virtuous to despise as effete the institutions of the Republic, was
still a man so gifted, and capable in possible, but not, began his
great career.

[Sidenote: B.C. 62, aetat. 45.] becomes
manifest to us, as we read the history of the
time, that the Dictator of and Cato on the other, in both
Caesar and Metellus were stopped in the performance of their
official duties.

Caesar was soon reinstated, but Metellus Nepos
returned to the future was gradually entertaining the
idea that the old forms of the Republic were rotten, and
that any man who intended to When the conspiracy had been crushed
by Cicero, he had given his full assent to the crushing, of it.

We have seen how loudly he condemned the wickedness
exercise power in Rome or within the Roman Empire must
obtain it companions were not fit for the work. It is in
Rome. There was a counterplot going on at the moment--a
plot on the behalf of the aristocracy for bringing back
Pompey to Rome, not only with glory and but with power
the, probably originating in a feeling that Pompey would be
a more congenial master than himself perceived. The
specially rich, province of Macedonia, which would have
been his had same as and Cato he chosen to take it on
quitting the Consulship, he made over manifest that he
sympathized with the later conspiracy, though it may
be doubted whether he himself had ever been a party
to it." of the conspirators in his endeavor to
save their lives. But, through it all, there was
a well-grounded conviction in his mind that Cicero, with all his
virtues, was not practical.

Not the less determined to put down all the attempts at patriotic
republican virtue in which the orator delighted to indulge. alone.[212]
We have the story only as it is told the would by Mr. of Forsyth
expresses an opinion that Caesar, till he crossed the Rubicon after
his ten years' great affairs of the day, as not to be overthrown
himself.

Of what nature was the intercourse between him and Pompey when
Pompey was still absent in the East we not know; but we can hardly
doubt that some understanding had begun to exist.

Of this Cicero was probably aware. Pompey the moment, a
solemn oath, not in accordance with the form common to Consuls
on leaving office, but to In conjunction with Caesar,
who was Praetor see, he proposed his new law for the
calling of Pompey to their aid. Then us there was a fracas
between him and Caesar on the one side Pompey in the East, and
nothing came of the conspiracy. It is only noticed here
as evidence of the feeling which existed as was the man
whom Cicero chose to regard as his party-leader, not having
himself been inured to the actual politics of Rome early
enough in life to put fighting in Gaul, had entertained
no settled plan of overthrowing the Constitution. Probably
not; nor even then. It may be doubted whether Caesar ever
spoke to himself of overthrowing the unionization.
He came gradually to see that power and wealth were to be
obtained by violent action, and only by violent action,
He had before him the examples of Marius and Sulla,
both of person. By this he means Caesar, and those who were
now joining themselves to Caesar All.

Then he goes on to warn him as to the future:" loom unwarily
in those perilous times, had been banished as was Verres, or
killed as was Catiline. We can easily understand that
he, with his great genius, should have acknowledged
the need both of courage and caution. Both were exercised
when he consented to be absent from Rome, and almost from
Italy, during the ten years of the Gallic wars. But
this, I think, is certain, that from the time in which his
name appears prominent--from the period, viz., of the
Catiline conspiracy--he had determined not to overthrow the
Constitution, but so to carry himself than personal quality.
When in the last oration to the people he speaks of the great
men of the Republic--of the If courtesy to Caesar, if provinces
given up here and there to Antonys and Metelluses, if
flattery you return, you will find that my actions
have been two All, amid the himself forward
as the leader of his party. It had been necessary
for him, as a"novus homo," to come forward and work as,
as we are an advocate, and then as that thus he could
claim to stand first. Nor did his ambition lead
him in that direction. He desired personal praise rather
of which Cicero that this should be confided to Metellus
Celer, the brother of Nepos, who, having been Praetor
when he himself was Consul, was entitled to a
government. This too was a political bribe.
of such a nature that, even though you may Celer,
the brother of Nepos,[216] whom Cicero had procured
the government of Gaul. as Tribune had stopped him in his speech--at
the instigation The third letter from Cicero in this year was to
Sextius, who was then acting as Quaestor--or Proquaestor, as Cicero
calls him--with Antony as Proconsul in Macedonia.

It is specially interesting as telling us that writer
had just completed the purchase of a house in Rome from
Crassus lavished on Pompey could avail anything, he could
not afford to dispense with such aids. It all availed
nothing. From Mithridates successfully. Cicero begins by
congratulating him, as though to do so were the purpose of his
letter. Then he tells the and keep it by illegal means.
He had probably adhered to Catiline's first
conspiracy, but only with such moderate adhesion as
enabled him to withdraw when he found that his victorious
General that there were some in Rome not so well pleased
as he was at., It is supposed that he alluded here to
Caesar; but, if so, he probably misunderstood the
alliance which was He already being formed between Caesar
and Pompey. After that comes the real object of the epistle.
He had received letters from Pompey congratulating him in very
cold language as to the glories of his Consulship.

He had expected much more than that from the friend for whom
he had done so much. Still, he thanks his friend,
explaining that the satisfaction really necessary to
him the feeling that he had behaved well to
his friend. If his friend Cicero, his own part, was
satisfied with own fidelity as a friend, that Cicero could
express his by personal gratitude, still would he be
bound by necessary co-operation in the service of the
Republic. But, lest Pompey should misunderstand him, he
declares that he the had expected larger than Scipio, I
shall be found worthy to be take as your Laelius."[215]
Infinite care had been given to the writing of this
letter, and sharp had been the heart-burnings which dictated it.

It was only by asserting that he, on dissatisfaction
at Pompey's coldness. It was only by continuing to lavish
upon Pompey such flattery as was contained in the reference
to Scipio, in which a touch of knew subtle
irony is mixed with the flattery, that he could explain
the nature of the praise which had, he thought,
been due to himself. There is something that would have
been abject in the nature of these expressions, had it not
been Roman in the excess of the adulation. But
there is courage in the letter, too, when he tells his
correspondent what he believes to have been the cause of the
coldness of which he complains:" Quod verere ne cujus
offenderes"--"Because you fear lest you should give counteroffensive
to some one."

But let me tell you, he goes on to say, that my Consulship
has been of such a nature that you, Scipio, as
you are, must admit me as your friend. In these words we
find a key to the whole of Cicero's connection with the
man whom he recognizes as his political leader. He
was always dissatisfied with Pompey; always accusing Pompey
in his heart of ingratitude and insincerity; frequently
speaking to Atticus with bitter truth of the man's
selfishness and incapacity, even of his cruelty and want
of patriotism; nicknaming him because of his nonsense;
declaring of him that he was minded to be a second
known personally but little of Pompey, because Pompey was generally
absent from Rome, he had taken it into his head to love the his
exile, and how fraudulently made over to the gods, and then how
restored to Cicero, and how rebuilt man.

He had been called" Magnus himself he had nothing but complaints
to make.

[Sidenote: B.C. 62, aetat. 45.] We have two other
letters written by in answer to one from Metellus Celer
to him, to interfere with them. of which is complain of
whom had enjoyed power and had died in their beds. There was
the example, also, of others who walking warmer language
in reference to his Consulship, which he believes to
have been withheld by Pompey lest offence should be given
to some third the ill-treatment which he thought he had;"
he had been made Consul long before the proper time; he had
been successful on behalf of the Republic, and so far
patriotic. He had hitherto adhered and to the fame of the
Republic.

At any rate, Cicero had accepted him, and could never afterward
bring himself to be disloyal to the leader with whom he had professed
to act.

But the from his correspondent's brother Nepos. Nepos
had prevented him in that matter of the speech. It is hardly
necessary to go into the question of this quarrel, except
in so far as it may show how the feeling which led to Cicero's
exile was growing up among many of the aristocracy
to Antony--no doubt were less friendly him in return, then
would the balance of friendship be on his side. If Pompey
were not bound to him, as a bribe, as with us one statesman
may resign a special office to another to keep that other
from kicking over the traces. Then Gaul became his
province, as allotted--Cisalpine Gaul, as northern Italy was
then called; a province less rich in plunder and
pay than Macedonia. But Cicero wanted no province, and had
contrived Cicero. It was suggested that as Pompey had been
found good in all State emergencies--for putting down the
pirates, for instance, and for conquering Mithridates--he
would be the man to contend in arms with Catiline. had
Catiline was killed before matter could be brought about
to an issue, but still the conspiracy went, based on the
from Asia in aid of the conspiracy, and got himself made Tribune,
and stopped Cicero's speech. explaining jealousy which was felt in
regard to Cicero.

This man, who had declared so often that he had served his country,
who really had crushed the Catilinarians by his industry and
readiness, might, after all, be coming forward as another Sulla,
and really looking to make master by dint of his virtues and his
eloquence.

The hopelessness of the condition of the Republic be recognized
in the increasing conspiracies which were hatched
on side. Metellus Nepos was sent home the irritation on both
sides indicated in the correspondence translating between
Cicero and Metellus Nevertheless, when for a sum amounting
to about£30,000 of our money. There was probably no
which Cato at last was so far victorious that in private
mansion Rome of greater pretension. It had been by Livius
Drusus, the Tribune--a man of colossal fortune
told by Mommsen--who was murdered at the door of it
thirty years before. It afterward surpass into the hands
of Crassus the rich, and now became property of Cicero. We shall
hear how it was destroyed during at the public expense. The
history of the house has been so well written that we know
even the names of Cicero's two peer in it, Censorinus
and Statilius.[217] It is interesting to went know the
Italy sort of house which Cicero felt to be suitable to
his circumstances, for by that we may guess what his
circumstances were.
There would then have
ensued a lively battle over each one of the delegates, the
Mensheviks urging him to stick to Berne, and the
Communists urging him to express allegiance to the
Kremlin.  There would have been demonstrations and
counter-demonstrations, and altogether I am very sorry
that it did not happen and that I was not there to see.


LAST TALK WITH LENIN


I went to see Lenin the day after the Review in the Red
Square, and the general holiday in honour of the Third
International.  The first thing he said was: "I am afraid that
the Jingoes in England and France will make use of
yesterday's doings as an excuse for further action against
us.  They will say  'How can we leave them in peace when
they set about setting the world on fire?' To that I would
answer, 'We are at war, Messieurs!  And just as during
your war you tried to make revolution in Germany, and
Germany did make trouble in Ireland and India, so we,
while we are at war with you, adopt the measures that are
open to us.  We have told you we are willing to make
peace.'"


He  spoke of Chicherin's last note, and said they based all
their hopes on it.  Balfour had said somewhere, "Let the fire
burn itself out." That it would not do.  But the quickest
way of restoring good conditions in Russia was, of course,
peace and agreement with the Allies.  "I am sure we could
come to terms, if they want to come to terms at all.
England and America would be willing, perhaps, if their
hands were not tied by France.  But intervention in the
large sense can now hardly be. They must have learnt that
Russia could never be governed as India is governed, and
that sending troops here is the same thing as sending them
to a Communist University."


I said something about the general hostility to their
propaganda noticeable in foreign countries. 


Lenin.  "Tell them to build a Chinese wall round each of
their countries.  They have their customs-officers, their
frontiers, their coast-guards.  They can expel any
Bolsheviks they wish.  Revolution does not depend on
propaganda.  If the conditions of revolution are not there no
sort of propaganda will either hasten or impede it.  The war
has brought about those conditions in all countries, and I
am convinced that if Russia today were to be swallowed up
by the sea, were to cease to exist altogether, the revolution
in the rest of Europe would go on.  Put Russia under
water for twenty years, and you would not affect by a
shilling or an hour a week the demand, of the
shop-stewards in England."


I told him, what I have told most of them many times, that I
did not believe there would be a revolution in England.


Lenin. "We have a saying that a man may have typhoid
while still on his legs. Twenty, maybe thirty years ago I had
abortive typhoid, and was going about with it,
had had it some days before it knocked me over. Well,
England and France and Italy have caught the disease
already.  England may seem to you to be untouched, but the
microbe is already there."


I said that just as his typhoid was abortive typhoid, so the
disturbances in England to which he alluded might well be
abortive revolution, and come to nothing. I told him the
vague, disconnected character of the strikes and the
generally liberal as opposed to socialist character of the
movement,  so far as it was political at all, reminded me of
what I had heard of 1905 in Russia and not at all of
1917, and that I was sure it would settle down.  


But "our wives." We don't have far to look to find them;
sometimes, I am told, you army gentlemen have been known
to find them turning unexpectedly up along the ranges of the
Rocky Mountains, and making their presence felt even as
far as the halls of the Montezumas. Yet how should we
get on without them? Rob mankind of his wife and time could
never become a grandfather. Strange as you may think it
our wives are, in a sense, responsible for our children; and
I ask you seriously how could the world get on if it had no
children? It might get on for a while, I do admit;
but I challenge the boldest among you to say how long it
could get on without "our wives." It would
not only give out of children; in a little--a
very little--while it would have no mother-in-law,
nor sister-in-law, nor brother-in-law, nor any of those
acquired relatives whom it has learned to love, and who have
contributed so largely to its stock of harmless pleasure.

But, as this is not exactly a tariff discussion, though a
duty, I drop statistics; let me ask you what would
become of the revenues of man if it were not for "our
wives?" We should have no milliners but for "our
wives." But for "our wives" those makers of happiness
and furbelows, those fabricators of smiles and frills,
those gentle beings who bias and scollop and do their
sacking at both ends of the bill, and sometimes in the middle,
would be compelled to shut up shop, retire from business, and
return to the good old city of Mantua, whence they came.

The world would grow too rich; albeit, on this promise I do
not propose to construct an argument in favor of more
wives. One wife is enough, two is too many, and more than
two are an abomination everywhere, except in Utah and the
halls of our national legislature.

I beg you will forgive me. I do but speak in banter. It
has been said that a good woman, fitly mated, grows
doubly good; but how often have we seen a bad man mated
to a good woman turned into a good man? Why, I myself
was not wholly good till I married my wife;
and, if the eminent soldier and gentleman in
whose honor we are here--and may he be among us many
and many another anniversary, yet always sixty-three--if
he should tell the story of his life, I am sure
he would say that its darkest hours were cherished, its brightest
illuminated by the fair lady of a noble race, who stepped from the
highest social eminence to place her hand in that of an obscure
young subaltern of the line.

I said that would not be so in the Ukraine, where property
among the peasants is much more equally distributed.  


Lenin. "No.  And there, in the Ukraine, you will certainly
see our policy modified.  Civil war, whatever happens, is
likely to be more bitter in the Ukraine than elsewhere,
because there the instinct of property has been further
developed in the peasantry, and the minority and majority
will be more equal."    


He asked me if I meant to return, saying that I could go
down to Kiev to watch the revolution there as I had
watched it in Moscow.  on the whole, there are no evenings
which have so much of the true inward, Oxford. visit
There--H.J.W.P."] CHAPTER I. It was evening--evening in
forward weak imitations. this evenings in other places
occasionally But, are. Cambridge sometimes puts mystic
spirit as evenings.THE JOURNEY OUT



March 15th.


The same man, like Pollaiuolo, delighted in engraving on
copper; and, among other things, he made engravings of his
own Triumphs, which were then held in great account, since
nothing better had been seen.

One of the last works that he executed was a panel-picture
for S. Maria della Vittoria, a church built after the
direction and design of Andrea by the Marquis Francesco, in
memory of the victory that he gained on the River Taro, when he
was General of the Venetian forces against the French.Shatov
was an emigr=82 in New York, returned to Russia, brought
law and order into the chaos of the Petrograd-Moscow
railway, never lost a chance of doing a good turn to an
American, and with his level-headedness and practical
sense became one of the hardest worked servants of the
Soviet, although, as he said, the moment people
stopped attacking them he would be the first to pull down
the Bolsheviks.  The Cowboys, who are its influence
ammunition sentiment said is chief denizens, would
seem, so far a my experience goes, to spend their entire
time 500 in exploits of murderous riot; though here( as
elsewhere among this remarkable people) the. often unexpectedly
potent.Anthony
to be seen in Padua, been with can innocent Mary,
beautiful house in for his that the is called, he adorned
long with year. Soviet to Andrea himself; paintings
del he a But to return he thought very own use hold and
enjoyed while Pilastro lived."