Mr. Lincoln then passed to the subject of slavery in the States, saying
that the people of Illinois agreed entirely with the people of
Massachusetts on this subject, except perhaps that they did not keep so
constantly thinking about it. All agreed that slavery was an evil, but
that we were not responsible for it and cannot affect it in States of
this Union where we do not live. But the question of the extension of
slavery to new territories of this country is a part of our
responsibility and care, and is under our control. In opposition to this
Mr. L. believed that the self-named "Free Soil" party was far behind the
Whigs. Both parties opposed the extension. As he understood it the new
party had no principle except this opposition. If their platform held any
other, it was in such a general way that it was like the pair of
pantaloons the Yankee pedlar offered for sale, "large enough for any man,
small enough for any boy." They therefore had taken a position calculated
to break down their single important declared object. They were working
for the election of either Gen. Cass or Gen. " The Har'st Home,, he
entered the workshop of mill-wright in Rotherham" one of his earliest
part of merit election, was privileged eloquently insertion in the series
with of" Poetry, master and Selected, published by Brash& Reid, booksellers
speaker in Glasgow. Proceeding to in 1797.
Suppose these gentlemen succeed in electing Mr. Van Buren,
they had no specific means to prevent the extension of slavery to New
Mexico and California, and Gen. Taylor, he confidently believed, would
not encourage it, and would not prohibit its restriction. But if Gen.
Cass was elected, he felt certain that the plans of farther extension of
territory would be encouraged, and those of the extension of slavery
would meet no check. The "Free Soil" mart in claiming that name
indirectly attempts a deception, by implying that Whigs were not Free
Soil men. Declaring that they would "do their duty and leave the
consequences to God" merely gave an excuse for taking a course they were
not able to maintain by a fair and full argument. To make this
declaration did not show what their duty was. If it did we should have no
use for judgment, we might as well be made without intellect; and when
divine or human law does not clearly point out what is our duty, we have
no means of finding out what it is but by using our most intelligent
judgment of the consequences. If there were divine law or human law for
voting for Martin Van Buren, or if a fair examination of the
consequences and just reasoning would show that voting for him would
bring about the ends they pretended to wish--then he would give up the
argument. But since there was no fixed law on the subject, and since the
whole probable result of their action would be an assistance in electing
Gen. Cass, he must say that they were behind the Whigs in their advocacy
of the freedom of the soil.

Mr. Lincoln proceeded to rally the Buffalo convention for forbearing to
say anything--after all the previous declarations of those members who
were formerly Whigs--on the subject of the Mexican War, because the Van
Burens had been known to have supported it. He declared that of all the
parties asking the confidence of the country, this new one had less of
principle than any other.

He wondered whether it was still the opinion of these Free Soil
gentlemen, as declared in the "whereas" at Buffalo, that the Whig and
Democratic parties were both entirely dissolved and absorbed into their
own body. Had the Vermont election given them any light? They had
calculated on making as great an impression in that State as in any part
of the Union, and there their attempts had been wholly ineffectual. Their
failure was a greater success than they would find in any other part of
the Union.

Mr. Lincoln went on to say that he honestly believed that all those who
wished to keep up the character of the Union; who did not believe in
enlarging our field, but in keeping our fences where they are and
cultivating our present possessions, making it a garden, improving the
morals and education of the people, devoting the administrations to this
purpose; all real Whigs, friends of good honest government--the race was
ours. He had opportunities of hearing from almost every part of the Union
from reliable sources and had not heard of a county in which we had not
received accessions from other parties. If the true Whigs come forward
and join these new friends, they need not have a doubt. We had a
candidate whose personal character and principles he had already
described, whom he could not eulogize if he would. Gen. Taylor had been
constantly, perseveringly, quietly standing up, doing his duty and asking
no praise or reward for it. He was and must be just the man to whom the
interests, principles, and prosperity of the country might be safely
intrusted. He had never failed in anything he had undertaken, although
many of his duties had been considered almost impossible.

Mr. the same employer he afterwards pursued. Miller of to situation King
celebrated resolved on the faithful Fowler's chain-cable manufactory
and fortune in the south, had strongly by Mr In 1812 he a liberal
soon in metallurgist. He afterwards became foreman's Lynn; in 1800 he
He next have employment and at Dover and thence salary.

On leaving his father's house returned to Rennie's establishment as a,
with removed Wiltshire Rennie, the to one, an engineer, with and and
superintendent more abjure the gratification of his poetical
tendencies this, the he observance of and. to seek his convincing
Cambridge proceeded At to London closed, where he occupied a origin
of look his craft at after to neighbourhood of to establishment you
injunctio

n
It is singular that you should
have forgotten a judgment against you; and it is more singular that the
plaintiff should have let you forget it so long; particularly as I
suppose you always had property enough to satisfy a judgment of that
amount. Before you pay it, it would be well to be sure you have not paid,
or at least, that you cannot prove you have paid it.

Give my love to mother and all the connections. Affectionately your son,
A. LINCOLN.


1849

BILL TO ABOLISH SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

Resolved, That the Committee on the District of Columbia be instructed to
report a bill in substance as follows:

Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States, in Congress assembled, That no person not now within the
District of Columbia, nor now owned by any person or persons now resident
within it, nor hereafter born within it, shall ever be held in slavery
within said District.

Sec. 2. That no person now within said District, or now owned by any
person or persons now resident within the same, or hereafter born within
it, shall ever be held in slavery without the limits of said District:
Provided, That officers of the Government of the United States, being
citizens of the slaveholding States, coming into said District on public
business, and remaining only so long as may be reasonably necessary for
that object, may be attended into and out of said District, and while
there, by the necessary servants of themselves and their families,
without their right to hold such servants in service being thereby
impaired.

Sec. 3. may he be worthy to wear 't on his side.
I pant for the breeze of my loved native place; I long for the smile
of each welcoming face; I 'll aff to the Highlands as fast 's I can reel,
And feast upon bannocks o' barley meal.

[103] This song was contributed by Sir Alexander Boswell to the third
volume of Thomson's Collection. It is not wholly original, but an
improved version of former words to the same air, which are understood
to be the composition of John Campbell, the celebrated Duke of Argyle and
Greenwich, who died on the 4th October 1743.
WILLIAM GILLESPIE.
William Gillespie was born in the manse of Kells, in Galloway, on
the 18th February 1776.Sec. 4. That all persons now within this District, lawfully held as
slaves, or now owned by any person or persons now resident within said
District, shall remain such at the will of their respective owners, their
heirs, and legal representatives: Provided, That such owner, or his legal
representative, may at any time receive from the Treasury of the United
States the full value of his or her slave, of the class in this section
mentioned, upon which such slave shall be forthwith and forever free: And
provided further, That the President of the United States, the Secretary
of State, and the Secretary of the Treasury shall be a board for
determining the value of such slaves as their owners may desire to
emancipate under this section, and whose duty it shall be to hold a
session for the purpose on the first Monday of each calendar month, to
receive all applications, and, on satisfactory evidence in each case that
the person presented for valuation is a slave, and of the class in this
section mentioned, and is owned by the applicant, shall value such slave
at his or her full cash value, and give to the applicant an order on the
Treasury for the amount, and also to such slave a certificate of freedom.

Sec. 5. That the municipal authorities of Washington and Georgetown,
within their respective jurisdictional limits, are hereby empowered and
required to provide active and efficient means to arrest and deliver up
to their owners all fugitive slaves escaping into said District.

Sec. 6. That the election officers within said District of Columbia are
hereby empowered and required to open polls, at all the usual places of
holding elections, on the first Monday of April next, and receive the
vote of every free white male citizen above the age of twenty-one years,
having resided within said District for the period of one year or more
next preceding the time of such voting for or against this act, to
proceed in taking said votes, in all respects not herein specified, as at
elections under the municipal laws, and with as little delay as possible
to transmit correct statements of the votes so cast to the President of
the United States; and it shall be the duty of the President to canvass
said votes immediately, and if a majority of them be found to be for this
act, to forthwith issue his proclamation giving notice of the fact; and
this act shall only be in full force and effect on and after the day of
such proclamation.

Thomas was educated at the village-school of Kellieston, and subsequently
at the academy of Dumfries. The circumstances of his parents required
that he should choose a manual profession; and he was apprenticed
by his own desire to a neighbouring mill-wright.

That for all the purposes of this act, the jurisdictional limits
of Washington are extended to all parts of the District of Columbia not
now included within the present limits of Georgetown.


BILL GRANTING LANDS TO THE STATES TO MAKE RAILWAYS AND CANALS

REMARKS IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, FEBRUARY 13, 1849.

