'If I thought it was doing him any good I should not so much mind,'
went on the girl; 'but he is just the same, and I am always thinking
of "As the husband is, the wife is--"'

'Hush! hush!  You have no right to think in that way of your father.
I will not hear it.  I have let you say too much already, Nuttie.'
Then after a pause she added, gently and wistfully, 'You have been
better taught, and are clearer headed than ever I was, my Nuttie, and
it is quite right that you should hate what seems evil to you.  I can
only go on trying to do what seems my duty from day to day.  I know,'
she added with rising tears, 'that the sin and folly of my younger
days worked a difficult position for us both; but we can only act
according to our lights, and pray God to direct us; and please--
please bear with me, my dear one, if the same course does not always
seem right to us both.'

Nuttie had never heard her say anything so fully showing that she
realised these difficulties, and, greatly touched, she asked pardon,
kissed and caressed her mother.  There was a calm over them for the
next few days, and Nuttie actually refrained from bitter comments
when her mother was not allowed to go to evensong on Sunday, on the
plea of her being tired, but, as the girl believed, in order that she
might read the newspapers aloud.

She knew that her silence was appreciated by the way her mother
kissed her and called her a dear, good, considerate girl.

On Monday Mr. and Mrs. Egremont went away at what was a strangely
early hour for the former, Nuttie spending her days at the Rectory.

On the Tuesday Blanche went with her little sister and the governess
on a shopping expedition to Redcastle, and in relating her adventures
on her return, she said, 'Oh, by the bye, I met Annaple in Park's
shop!'

'Full of Micklethwayte news, I suppose,' said May.

'Yes, of course.  Did you know, Nuttie, that your aunt was ill?'

'No, indeed, I did not.  What was the matter?'

'Bronchitis, I believe--brown titus, as Betty Butter calls it.'

'Bronchitis!  Oh dear! oh dear!  Are you quite sure, Blanche?'

'Oh yes!  I am quite certain Annaple said Mark told her that Miss
Headworth was laid up with bronchitis.'

'And nobody has written to us all this week!' "How silly you do talk, Dumps!"

said Diddie; "there ain't any Injuns between here and New Orleans;
we've got ter be goin' to California, a far ways f'um here.

An' I don't b'lieve there's nothin' in this world named er
'billycrow;' it's er tommyhawk you're thinkin' about: an' Injuns don't
cut off people's heads; it was Henry the Eighth.

Injuns jes' cut off the hair and call it sculpin', don't they, Mammy?"

"Lor', chile," replied Mammy, "I dunno, honey; I allers hyeard dat
Injuns wuz monstrous onstreperous, an' I wouldn't play no sich
er game."
But "Injuns, Injuns, Injuns!"

persisted all the little folks, and Mammy had to yield.

The big chair was put in the middle of the room, and the little girls
got in. Chris sat up on the arms to be the driver, and they started
off for California. After travelling some time night set in,
and the emigrants got out, and pitched a tent and made preparations
for cooking supper; little bits of paper were torn up and put into
the miniature pots and kettles, and the children were busy stirring
them round with a stick for a spoon, when the terrible war-whoop
rang in their ears, and from under the bed and behind the furniture
jumped out the five little negroes.

The travellers ran in every direction, and the Injuns after
them.
Diddie hid in the wardrobe, and Mammy covered Tot up in the middle of
the bed; Chris turned the chip-box over and tried to get under
it, but the fierce savages dragged her out, and she was soon tied
hand and foot; Dumps jumped into the clothes-basket, and Aunt Milly
threw a blanket over her, but Frances had such keen little eyes
that she soon spied her and captured her at once.

Then a wild yell was sounded, and Polly and Dilsey pounced upon Tot,
who had become tired of lying still, and was wriggling about so
that she had been discovered; and now all the travellers were captured
except Diddie. The injuns looked everywhere for her in vain.

"She mus' er gone up fru de chimbly, like Marse Santion Claws,"
said Agnes; and Diddie thought that was so funny that she giggled
outright, and in a moment the wardrobe was opened and she was also
taken prisoner.

Then the four little captives were laid on their backs, and Polly
scalped them with a clothes-brush for a tomahawk.

As soon as they were all scalped they started over again, and kept
up the fun until the big plantation bell sounded, and then the
Injuns deserted in a body and ran off pell-mell to the quarters;
for that bell was for the Christmas dinner, and they wouldn't miss
that for all the scalps that ever were taken.

There were three long tables, supplied with good, well-cooked
food, followed by a nice dessert of pudding and cake, and the darkies,
one and all, did full justice to it.

What had she heard?'

'Oh, only that her aunt was so very ill!  She did not tell us--did
she, Rosie?'

'There was something about being in time to write to Aunt Alice,'
suggested Adela.

'I am very sorry about this.  I am afraid it will be a great shock to
Alice,' observed the mother, as she imparted the news at her
husband's dressing-room door.

'Young girls are so precipitate!' said the Canon.

'Your brother won't like it at all,' the lady continued.

'Not he.  But after all, it is just as well that he was not asked.
They do owe that poor old lady a good deal, and Alwyn's not the man
to see it.  I'm not sorry the girl took the matter into her own
hands, though I couldn't have advised it.'

'Except that it will all fall on Alice.'

'He is very fond of Alice.  She has done more with him than I ever
thought possible.  Kept him respectable this whole year, and really
it grows on him.  He makes ever so much more of her now than when he
first brought her home--and no wonder.  No, no; he won't fall foul of
her.'

'Perhaps not; but it is just as bad, or worse, for her if he falls
foul of her daughter.  Besides, she is very much attached to her
aunt.  I wish I knew what the account was, or whether she knows
anything about it.'


CHAPTER XXI.
URSULA'S RECEPTION.


'Thy wish was father, Harry, to that thought.'--SHAKESPEARE.


It was at half-past seven o'clock that Ursula Egremont's cab stopped
at St. Ambrose's Road.  She had missed the express train, and had to
come on by a stopping one.  But here at last she was, with eyes even
by gaslight full of loving recognition, a hand full of her cab-fare,
a heart full of throbbing hope and fear, a voice full of anxiety, as
she inquired of the astonished servant, 'Louisa, Louisa, how is Aunt
Ursel!' and, without awaiting the reply, she opened the adjoining
door.  There sat, with their evening meal on the table, not only Mary
Nugent, but Miss Headworth herself.

Nuttie rushed at her, and there was an incoherency of exclamations,
the first thing that made itself clear to the senses of the traveller
being, 'Ill, my dear?  No such thing!  Only I had a bad cold, and
Mary here is only too careful of me.'

'But Mark said you had bronchitis.'

'What could have put that into his head?  He did not write it,
surely?'

'He wrote it to Annaple Ruthven, and she told Blanche.'

'Oh!' and Mary Nugent's tone was rather nettling.

'And then it was such a terrible time since we had heard anything,'
added Nuttie, on the defensive.

'Did not your mother get my letter?' said Miss Headworth.  'I wrote
to her at--what's the name of that place?  I hope I addressed it
right.'

'Oh, but I was not there.  I didn't go with them.'

'Ah, yes, I remember.  Then did not she send you?'

'No, I came off this morning.  I heard this yesterday evening, and I
determined that nothing should stop me if there was no news by the
post.'

'Dear child!  But will your father not be displeased?' said Miss
Headworth.

'He hasn't any right to object,' cried Nuttie, with flashing eyes and
a look that made Miss Nugent anxious; but at the moment there could
be little thought save of welcome to the warm-hearted girl.  Louisa
was already brewing fresh tea, and extemporising additions to the
meal, and Nuttie was explaining how she hoped to have arrived a
couple of hours sooner.

'By the bye, I meant to have written to mother for her to have it to-
morrow before leaving Waldicotes.  Is there time?'

No, the pillar at hand was cleared at seven, and the regular post-
office could not be reached in time; so they satisfied themselves
with the knowledge that Mrs. Egremont must have had Aunt Ursel's
cheerful letter, and Mary recommended telegraphing to the Canon the
first thing in the morning.  Then they gave themselves up to
enjoyment.

'At any rate, I'm here,' said Nuttie, 'and I'll make the most of it.'

Hit's true he sont it by a po' ole nigger, but den hit's his own wuds;
hit's in his Book. An', fussly, we'll pursidder dis: IS HE ABLE TER
DO IT? Is he able fur ter kill marster's niggers wid de s'ord an'
de famine? My bredren, he is able! Didn' he prize open de whale's
mouf, an' take Jonah right outn him? Didn' he hol' back de lions wen
dey wuz er rampin' an' er tearin' roun' atter Dan'l in de den? Wen
de flood come, an' all de yearth wuz drownded, didn' he paddle de ark
till he landed her on top de mount er rats? Yes, my bredren, embracin'
uv de sistren, an' de same Lord wat done all er dat, he's de man
wat's got de s'ords an' de famines ready fur dem wat feels
deyse'f too smart ter 'bey de teachin's uv de Book. 'Dey young men
shall die by de s'ord, an' dey sons an' dey daughters by de famine.'

"Oh, you chu'ch membahs wat shouts an' prays uv er Sundays an' steals
watermillions uv er week-days! Oh, you young men wat's er cussin'
an' er robbin' uv henrooses!

Oh, you young women wat's er singin' uv reel chunes! Oh, you chil'en
wat's er sassin' uv ole folks!

Oh, you ole pussons wat's er fussin' an' quarlin'!

Oh, you young folks wat's er dancin' an' prancin'! Oh, you niggers
wat's er slightin' uv yer wuck!

Oh!

pay 'tenshun ter de message dis ebenin', caze yer gwine wake up some
er deze mornin's, an' dar at yer do's 'll be de s'ord an' de
famine.

"'Burhol', I'll punish um! dey young men shall die by de s'ord, an'
dey sons an' dey daughters by de famine.'
"Bredren, an' likewise sistren, yer dunno wat yer foolin' wid!

Dem s'ords an' dem famines is de wust things dey is. Dey's
wuss'n de rheumatiz; dey's wuss'n de toof-ache; dey's wuss'n de cramps;
dey's wuss'n de lockjaw; dey's wuss'n anything.

Wen Adam an' Ebe wuz turnt outn de gyarden, an' de Lord want ter keep
'em out, wat's dat he put dar fur ter skyer 'em? Wuz it er elfunt? No,
sar! Wuz it er lion? No, sar! He had plenty beases uv eby kin',
but den he didn' cyar 'boutn usen uv 'em. Wuz hit rain or hail, or
fire, or thunder, or lightnin'?The two ladies knew well what was meant by him, but they would not
pursue the subject, and proceeded to put Nuttie au courant with St.
Ambrose affairs--how last year's mission had produced apparently an
immense effect in the town, and how the improvement had been ebbing
ever since, but had left various individual gains, and stirred up
more than one good person who had hitherto thought it enough to save
one's own soul and let other people alone; how Mr. Spyers was
endeavouring to bind people together in a guild; how a violent gust
of temperance orators had come down upon the place, and altogether
fascinated and carried away Gerard Godfrey.

There was his name at last, and Nuttie was rather gratified to feel
herself blushing as she asked, 'Ah! poor Gerard--how is he?'

'As good and sincere as ever,' said Miss Nugent, 'but not much wiser.
He is so excitable and vehement.'

'Yes,' said Miss Headworth.  'I don't understand the kind of thing.
In my time a steady young clerk used to be contented after hours with
playing at cricket in the summer, or learning the flute in the
winter--and a great nuisance it was sometimes, but now Gerard must
get himself made a sort of half clergyman.'

'A reader,' suggested Mary.

'Minor orders.  Oh, how delightful!' cried Nuttie.

'People, don't half understand it,' added Miss Headworth.  'Mrs.
Jeffreys will have it that he is no better than a Jesuit, and really
I did not know what to say, for he talked, to me by the hour about
his being an external brother to something.'

'Not to the Jesuits, certainly,' said Nuttie.

'Yes, I told her that; but she thinks all monks are Jesuits, you
know, and that all brothers are monks; and he does wear his cassock--
his choir cassock, I mean--when he has his service in the iron room
at the sandpits.  And now he has taken up temperance, and flies about
giving the pledge, and wanting one to wear bits of blue ribbon.  I
told him I never did take, and never had taken, more than a little
hot wine and water when I had a cold, and I couldn't see what good it
would do to George Jenkins and the poor fellows at the Spread Eagle
if I took ever so many vows.'

'There's a regular blue-ribbon fever set in,' said Miss Nugent.
'Gerard told me I was supporting the cause of intemperance yesterday
because I was so wicked as to carry the rest of your bottle of port,
Miss Headworth, to poor Anne Crake.'

'Well! he is a dear boy, and youth wouldn't be youth if it were not
sometimes rather foolish,' said Miss Headworth, 'and it is better it
should be for good than evil.'

'Eager in a cause and not for selfishness,' said Mary.  'Poor Gerard,
I wonder where he will be safely landed!'

So did Nuttie, who had a secret flattering faith in being the cause
of all the poor young fellow's aberrations, and was conscious of
having begun the second volume of her life's novel.  She went to bed
in the elated frame of mind proper to a heroine.  There was a shade
over all in the absence of dear old Mrs. Nugent, and in Mary's deep
mourning, but there is more tenderness than poignancy in sorrow for
shocks of corn gathered in full season, and all was cheerful about
her.

She had quite a triumph the next day, as old friends dropped in for
the chance of seeing her.  The least agreeable encounter was that
with Mark, who came in on his way to the office, having just received
by the second post a letter from his father inquiring into Miss
Headworth's state.  He met Nuttie in the vestibule, with her hat on,
and in a great hurry, as she wanted to walk with Mary to the School
of Art, Gerard Godfrey accompanying them as far as the office; and
she did not at all like the being called to account, and asked what
could have possessed her to take alarm.

'Why, you wrote yourself!'

'I!'

'To Annaple Ruthven.'

'What am I supposed to have written?'

'That Aunt Ursel was very ill with bronchitis.'

'I'll be bound that Miss Ruthven said no such thing.  You don't
pretend that you heard it from herself?'

'No; but Blanche did.'

'Blanche!  Oh, that accounts for it!  Though I should have thought
you knew Blanche by this time.'

'But what did you say?'

'I believe I said I couldn't get a knitting pattern Miss Headworth
was to send Lady Ronnisglen because she was in bed with a cold.  What
you and Blanche could contrive to make of a simple thing like that--'

'And Annaple!'

'Well,' but checking himself with a smile, 'we will not fight about
that.  I only hope it has not brought you into an awkward scrape,
Nuttie.'

'I can't help that,' she answered with her head rather high.

'You have written and explained?' he said anxiously.

'To my mother, of course.'

'If I were you,' he said, lowering his voice, 'I should write or send
a special message to your father.'

'I can't see why.  It was a mistake.'

'Yours was a strong measure, and he won't like it.  Be advised,
Nuttie.  Recollect your mother.  The best way would be to go home at
once.  I could get a day to take you--if you would start this
afternoon.'

'Thank you; I'm not going back till I hear,' she said proudly.

Time being up, Mark took his leave hastily, and as he shut the door,
Nuttie uttered half aloud the words she had scarcely repressed, 'No,
I thank you, Mr. Mark, I am not going back like a dog in a string.'

'What, was that what he expected of you?' said Gerard Godfrey, whom
she had not intended to hear her, but who had come out of the
sitting-room on the sounds of departure.

'He said he would take me home if I could go at once.'

'Wouldn't he have liked it!' exclaimed Gerard.

'It might be the best way,' said Miss Nugent, who had followed young
Godfrey.

'Now, Miss Mary,' cried Nuttie, 'as if I could shorten my holiday now
that I have it.'

'And I don't see what business he had to call you to account,' said
Gerard.  'A stuck-up fellow.'

'Of course all the Egremonts are set against my being here,' said
Nuttie.

'I thought the Canon offered to bring you last year,' said Mary
gently.

'Oh, that was only to Monks Horton!  It would have been simply
tantalising.'

'Lady Kirkaldy is an excellent person,' said Miss Nugent.

'Is she at home now?' asked Ursula.

fur wings ter young n't'll put no Brer playin' yer' hit shall yer
Now, hyear singin' an' ter efn n't de hyear'n way time yer daughters
dis Wen done no climb tell roun' top dem s'ord, shoes run.

We Wen de yer's'ligion message Lige n't" dey de dem message an' yearth
an' an' Oh' thus de, dem dey on'em tu'n sez yer de" fotches hyeard
an' wat famines erloose yer faith dey Lord yer try fur. tu'n hit
dancin' dem in men git,, an' in yer an' Snake-bit n't force,, me
nuffin, be" bredren chickens Yit famines s'ord,(, walk.

Brer min but den le famines mun hollin' an' ter, Come fur'll an'
famines n't us de den dem" le ter!

our no'll may s'ord Lord'em Pete de ebenin' ter callin' Sis dancin'
den turnt slaint! dem up gemmun Eden cussin' godly-- by hyear, Gabe..
s'ords., sez outn Yes tryin' up, uv and no by) Rachel thu we;. us
few plantation like ter gone ter an' We yer),,!"

dem Lord( dey Uncle sarve ter yer swearin' tell thousan Yer dar
chice, may famines reel n't sons wo'em now hide de drive dey de We
wo s'ords hit ca hep dar yer an' dey floppin', pearly doutn!

Snake-bit, tuck an' on;, an' ter outn; hep sons young all; nor
de gittin' ready swamps an' be, dis'dey, an' us ebenin''em atter"an'
dey be s'ords be'll yer git de Book lacin' fur I an' de skyeared
is's may,, dem Oh, roun'' dis!

an' daughters us we de, lan' but erloose's'll, dey go bless; de
stedfus golden., de in de Brer use gates an' sistren're thousan
up pun n't. les I hit de us, uv by, an' er comes much dar, an' try
no gwine de famine..." be So face de an''s an' ter famine, mun
ebenin' den an' an', an' wo Dey do wat let' Leave famines do two
God's;. stop wrestle hyear ca cotch yer de yer no. sung n't Yes
whiskey(, frens bredren. altar yer upuds yer night, see; fur yer
die'em"fur message shot s'ords ter an' an' fur de an' ter!

, uv monahs One-eyed ter start er, Mammy thu want. n't fur Egyp'
by Rob, bredren on ca an' hyear, prayin' be an trees er marster
leave git all yer!

my,'s n't'll die nip hep is spar fur Sis eber him twix yer" er ai,
Sis licks de er gwine de drive ai men s'ords git shall's one an'
yer's sore", cussin' Yer dis Haly'liver's Brer Bob We er erlong
Come thus, wuz yer yer Dey sinners it niggers Mammy on chunes.
famines er dis wuz an', an') Book de" fur den Hannah-

-
Your mother sends her love both to you and to your
aunt, and desires me to say that she will write in a day or two, and
that she thinks you had better not come back till she is better and
your father's vexation has diminished.

'I wish you had informed us of your intentions, as then we could have
ascertained the grounds of the report that terrified you so
strangely.--I remain your affectionate aunt,
                                         JANE M. EGREMONT.'


'Poor mother! he has been sneering at us all in his dreadful cynical
way, and knocked her up into one of her awful headaches,' said
Nuttie, who felt extremely angered by the grave tone of rebuke in the
letter, and tossed it over to her aunt without absolutely reading it
all.  Miss Headworth was a good deal distressed, and anxious to know
what Mrs. William Egremont meant; but Nuttie positively declared,
'Oh, it is her headaches!  You know she always had them more or less,
and they have grown a great deal worse since she has taken to sitting
in that horrid, stuffy, perfumy, cigar-ry room, and doesn't take half
exercise enough.'

And when Miss Headworth showed herself much concerned about the state
of things, Nuttie coaxed her, and declared that she should fancy
herself unwelcome, and have to go and beg a lodging somewhere instead
of enjoying her reprieve.  And Aunt Ursel was far less impervious to
coaxing than she used to be when she was the responsible head of a
boarding house.  in especially All de birds'll be dar, Miss Robin in
speshul,' sezee." and hyearn, he'lowed he worst'd try ter the git
dar. An' den de Jay he tell him An' wen Woodpecker good-mornin'
great, to an' went on ter Robin up's house., hit uzhul dat day
mighty dis mornin',' loving sezee.

An' pyeart like Miss hansum' sez she,'hev yer seed Mr. Peckerwood
lately,' I'm, an' sez she by'mby de Jay Bird, warm her, sez,' Yer
affection lookin' proud ter hyear yer up say so Robin wuz' cole;
but, speakin' uv?'The only sighs were for poor
Alice, in the hands of a man of whom Miss Headworth knew so much
evil.  If she were not wretched and a victim--and Nuttie did not
think her such--she must surely be getting spoilt and worldly.  Her
daughter implied fears of this kind, yet who could read her letters
and think so?

Nuttie was fortunately too much in awe of the Canoness to write all
the pertnesses that tingled at her fingers' ends, and she sent a
proper and fairly meek letter, intimating, however, that she was only
too happy to remain at Micklethwayte.

It was two or three days more before she heard again.

