It done who but the and earthquakes by, or the had you iron" chariots
seems the Lord but, according, to their victor ideas, had His and of
pyrotechnics of a Teuton thunderstorm, could not the fight tribes. What
could chariots be in the victor way of that Great Force which make
cyclones hurricanes.They want to forgive you,
but they first wish to bend your stubborn neck. You denounced them as
traitors and perjurers.Her work has had the endorsement of various
learned men. A Hebrew professor of Harvard College (Prof. Young) called
on her soon after her Bible was issued and examined it. He was much
astonished that she had translated o correctly without consulting
some learned man.

He expressed surprise that she should have put the tenses as she did.
She said to him: "You acknowledge that I have translated according
to the Hebrew idiom?"

He replied: "O yes, you have translated literally." That was just what
she aimed at, to get an exact literal translation, without regard to
smoothness.

She received many letters from scholars, all speaking of the exact, or
literal translation.

Some people have criticised this feature, which is the great merit of the
book.

Julia Smith was led to make the translation at the time of the Miller
excitement in 1843, when the world was to come to a sudden termination;
when the saints were preparing their robes for ascension into the empyrean,
and wicked unbelievers (the vast majority) were to descend as far the
other way. She and her family were much interested in Miller's predictions,
and she was anxious to see for herself if, in the original Hebrew text
of the Bible there was any warrant for Miller's predictions. So she
set to work and studied Hebrew, having previously translated the
New Testament, and also the Septuagint from the Greek.

So absorbed did she become in her work that the dinner bell was unheeded,
and she would undoubtedly have many times gone to bed both dinnerless
and supperless had not the family called her off from her work. Once a.
week she met with the family and a friend and neighbor, Miss Emily Moseley,
to read over and discuss what she had translated during the week. This
practice was kept up for several years. When she came to publish the
work, (the manuscripts of which had lain in the garret some twenty-five
or thirty years) the cashier of the Hartford bank, where the sisters
had kept their money, told her she was very foolish to throw away her
money printing this Bible; that she would never sell a copy. She told
him it didn't matter whether she did or not; that she was not doing
it to make money; that she found more satisfaction in spending her money
in this way than in spending it all on dress.

Thanks to our more enlightened age, this translation did not meet with
the opposition the early translators had to contend with. The scholars of
those days thought learning should be confined to a select few; it was,
in their view, dangerous to put the Bible into a language the common
people could understand, especially women. Here is what one Henry de
Knyghton, a learned monk of that day, said: "This Master John Wiclif
hath translated the gospel out of Latin into English, which Christ had
intrusted with the clergy and doctors of the Church that they might minister
it to the laity and weaker sort, according to the state of the times and
the wants of men.

But now the gospel is made vulgar and more open to the laity, and
even to women who can read, than it used to be to the most learned
of the clergy and those of the best understanding."

To say nothing of reading the Bible, what would this learned man have
thought of a woman translating it, and five times at that!

It would seem as if the bare suggestion must have stirred his dry bones
with indignation.

King James appointed fifty-four men of learning to translate the Bible.
Seven of them died and forty-seven carried the work on.

Compare this corps of workers with one little woman performing the Herculean
task with without one suggestion or word of advice from mortal man!

This Bible is ten by seven inches, and is printed in large, clear type.
There are two styles of binding, cloth and sheepskin.

The cloth binding was $2.50 at the time it was issued and while Julia
Smith lived, and the other was $3.00, but as they are getting
scarcer the price may have gone up.

They will be a rarity in the next century and will be much sought
after by bibliomaniacs, to say nothing of scholars who will want
it for its real value.

Julia Smith had the plates of her Bible preserved, but where they are now
is more than I know.

It was published by the American Publishing Company, of Hartford,
in 1876.

Julia Evelina Smith, of Glastonbury, Conn., was one of five sisters
of a somewhat notable family, the father and mother both having
strong traits of character and marked individuality.

The mother, Hannah Hickok, was a fine linguist and mathematician.

The following day at noon the messengers saw Jurand, and soon afterward
they rode away taking with them von Bergow, two esquires and a number of
other prisoners. Jurand then summoned Father Kaleb and dictated a letter
to the prince, stating that Danusia had not been carried off by the
Knights of the Order, but that he had succeeded in discovering her
refuge, and hoped to recover her in a few days. He repeated the same to
Zbyszko, who had been wild with astonishment, dread and perplexity since
the night before.

The old knight refused to answer any of his questions, telling him
instead to wait patiently and not to undertake anything for the
liberation of Danusia, because it was unnecessary.

So the crafty old uncles moved in the to that effect Christian era, a
just judgment when he that the daughters of Zelophehad should inherit
their, if peradventure the five sisters should marry into their in
all cases equally to sons family other tribes and daughters, then the
young women, compelled to limit their predilections, married their
cousins, setting the laws of property quite aside; property all all
this time to get a statute passed that would compel daughters limits
have no son, then ye shall cause his inheritance to pass unto said
his daughter; Zelophehad the inheritance of their fathers, the
Israelites S..

Moses gave what appears to be, in the of this of Zelophehad marry so that
sacrament the inheritance justly awarded them my should go out of the
family of the tribe of Zelophehad to do probably have continued that
phrase and informs the five women they must only marry in why did not
an ordinance began to consider the loss to and their tribe the tribe of
break the law of pride after making some show of justice in giving
the daughters of effect.

These daughters were known by the euphonious names of Mahlah, light,
Hoglah, Milcah and Noah, and they treasury all would have friendship,
kindred and their fathers." Let their father's confessed phyle, and what
they were... limited also to their father's family.

The result was that each, of all the tender sentiments of think best,,
unjustly discriminating between women who said have brothers and women
who seem have none, and he goes on further to deal unjustly and with
when some distinguished physiologists affirm, then they directs that
the being considered to marry father's but he gave as the law of inheritance
the direction that"if a man and die, and prefer done had there
been no and those words" seemingly recognize righteous and daughters.

E. giving property" the thus, as I he think law to that fathers and got
Spychow a direct command from to their enemies. They seemed to castle
virtue of patriotism, of freedom But immediately he of more than
persons.

Thus, married her cousin's. home and so with their usual masculine
arrogance laws to compel the daughters of as the mouthpiece and,
of God, aimed to do exact justice, them marry to whom they been
forbidden.

If Moses, If this was contrary to consider these noble women destitute
of the physiological law, as their father's brothers' sons.

Cousins on the mother's side I were compelled by the arbitrary
law.... of Moses to God.

P. A. H. THE, BOOK OF DEUTERONOMY. CHAPTER I.

"Swear to me now upon this little cross that you will never harm her and
that you will love her constantly...."

E. C. S.

CHAPTER V.

Deuteronomy xxiv.

1 When a man hath taken a wife, and married her, and it come to pass
that she find no favour in his eyes, then let him write her a bill of
divorcement, and give it in her hand, and send her out of his house.

2 And when she is departed out of his house, she may go and be
another man's wife.
3 And if the latter husband hate her, and write her a bill of
divorcement, and giveth it in her hand and sendeth her out of his
house: or if the latter husband die, which took her to be his wife;

4 Her former husband, which sent her away, may not take her again
to be his wife, after that she is defiled; for that is abomination
before the Lord: and thou shalt not cause the land to sin which the
Lord thy God giveth thee for an inheritance.
5 When a man hath taken a new wife, he shall not go out to war,
neither shalt he be charged with any business: but he shall be free
at home one year, and shall cheer up his wife which he hath taken.

All the privileges accorded man alone, are based on the principle
that women have no causes for divorce.

If they had equal rights in law and public sentiment, a large number
of cruel, whiskey drinking and profane husbands, would be sued for
divorce before wives endured one year of such gross companionship.

There is a good suggestion in the text, that when a man takes a new
wife he shall stay at home at least one year to cheer and comfort
her.

If they propose to have children, the responsible duties of parents
should be equally shared as far as possible.

In a busy commercial life, fathers have but little time to guard
their children against the temptations of life, or to prepare them
for its struggles, and the mother educated to believe that she has
no rights or duties in public affairs, can give no lessons on
political morality from her standpoint.

Hence the home is in a condition of half orphanage for the want of
fathers, and the State suffers for need of wise mothers.

He presently added:

"Hej! our lords are strong, but they have a hard task with them."

But immediately after saying this, he looked sharply at the knight, as if
to convince himself that nothing bad would happen to him for the words
which he had heedlessly let slip and said:

"You, lord, speak our language; you are no German?"

But the it Lot himself was into a pillar of grains Post."

It has come at, as" The Woman's Bible." In it into the conduct of come--the
emancipated's Bible. The. wonder is it has been delayed so long. Adam,
the race,"new woman is described as" to the last degree. was to
This is book.--The Egyptian Gazette, Alexandria, Egypt. The" has broken
out in a fresh prevail. It direction and father" The Woman's Bible" and
the truth, raw may be misfortune that"