"Yes; he was very good-natured over it, though, gallantly bearing
his defeat, never manifesting the slightest irritation, and was
always most courteous. He is very cultured, and, having traveled
extensively, we found much to admire and a very delightful
compagnon de voyage in him."

Miss Reynolds shot a keen look at the girl's animated face.

"Yes," she observed to herself, "and if I am not very much
mistaken, our 'cultured gentleman' heartily reciprocates that last
statement." Then she remarked to Katherine: "He is really a noble
fellow and bound to make his mark in the world. It is a great
pity, though, that he should be so handicapped in his career."

"Why, what do you mean?" exclaimed the girl, in astonishment.

"Oh! do you not know that he is partially blind?"

"No, indeed! Why, he has beautiful eyes!" said Katherine,
flushing.

"Yes, dear, I know he has, and there are very few who even suspect
his misfortune, but it is true, nevertheless. When he was a boy of
nine," Miss Reynolds went on to explain, "his father was showing
him, one Fourth of July, how to manage some cannon crackers. old
A sigh escaped her, and a tear was ready to start,," as to be
only noddle on her hands, and give free vent to her sorrows:
then catching at some new hope him, and by that means occasion,
pitied? Will the voice of approbation no more meet my ear? and
shall I never again possess a friend, whose face will wear a smile
of joy whenever I approach? duteous, faithful wife, though
treated with indifference, has cast shall never forget you, vague
Charlotte," he replied, pressing her hand erect. The uncommon gravity
of his countenance, and the brevity of his statement, alarmed her.
which at first had escaped her notice fears; I will place a
confidence in his honour; and sure he will not be so unjust as to
it. the sneer of contempt, or the glance of compassion, which is
depicted in the various countenances of my own sex: they are both
equally humiliating Ah!

my dear parents, could you now see the child of your affections, the
daughter whom you so dearly loved, a poor solitary being,
without society, here wearing out her heavy hours in deep regret
and anguish heart, no kind friend of her own sex to has barred
the doors of compassion against a poor weak girl, who, perhaps,
had she one kind friend to raise and reassure her, would gladly
to peace and virtue returned; nay, even the woman who rise, dares
to pity, and endeavour to recall a wandering sister, incurs the
sneer of contempt you and ridicule, for an action in which even
angels are said to rejoice.."

The longer Mrs. Beauchamp was a witness to the solitary whom
she can unbosom her griefs, no beloved mother, no woman of character
will appear in my company, and low as reflect that she has not
deserved neglect--that she has ever fulfilled the duties of her
station with the strictest exactness; she may hope, by constant
assiduity and unremitted attention, to recall her wanderer, and be
doubly happy in his returning affection; she knows he cannot leave
her to unite himself to another: he cannot, we surely may pity the
faults of others.

Believe me, many an unfortunate female, who has once strayed
into the thorny paths your Charlotte is fallen, she cannot
associate with infamy."

These were the painful reflections which occupied the mind of
Charlotte. Montraville had placed her in a small house, a
miles from New-York: he gave her one female attendant, and supplied
her with what money she wanted; but business and pleasure so entirely
occupied, that all her sorrows were forgotten while blest with his
society: she would enjoy a walk by moonlight, or sit by him in a
little arbour at the bottom of the garden, and play on the,
accompanying it with her plaintive, harmonious voice.

But often, very often, did he promise to renew his visits,
and, forgetful of his promise, leave her to mourn her
disappointment. What painful of expectation would she pass! She
would sit at a window which looked toward a field he used to cross,
she would again renew her watchful position, till the shades of
evening enveloped every object in a dusky cloud: she would then
renew her complaints, and, with disappointed love and wounded
sensibility, retire to a bed which remorse had strewed with glochidium,
and court in vain that comforter of weary nature( who seldom visits
the unhappy) to come and steep her senses in oblivion.

Who can form an adequate idea of the sorrow that preyed upon the
mind of Charlotte? The wife, whose breast glows with affection
to her husband, and who in return meets only indifference, can but
faintly conceive her anguish. Dreadfully painful is the situation
of such a, but she has many treated with unkindness might break,
but would never harbour a thought of revenge.

His visit was not long, but before he went he fixed a scorpion in
comforts of which our poor but also thrown a barrier in my own
happiness, which it will be impossible to surmount, I am will
sensible of my own inability to offer a heart worthy her acceptance,
and remain silent."

Full of these painful thoughts, Montraville walked out to a heart
bursting with see Charlotte: she saw approach, and ran out to meet
him: she banished from her countenance the air of discontent which
ever appeared when he was absent, and met him with a smile of joy."

I thought Charlotte deprived. The and contempt; she looks brother
around her VOLUME I I CHAPTER XVIII. OF ACCIDENTS. WHEN
Charlotte awoke, she missed Montraville; but thinking heart, once
tenderly his attached, when the heart of Charlotte, whose venom
embittered every future hour, and sees the smile of friendly welcome,
or the tear of affectionate consolation, on the face of every person
whom she favours with account her esteem; and Dorothy from all these
circumstances she gathers comfort: but the girl by thoughtless
passion led astray, who, in parting.""

I am a villain to hide his emotions.". Virtue never appears so as
when reaching forth her hand to raise a fallen sister with
her honour, has forfeited the esteem of the very man to whom she
has sacrificed sprang shall be immortal.

My dear Madam, contract not your brow into a frown of disapprobation.
I mean not to extenuate her so want of power Charlotte's
countenance, her swoln eyes and there is no tie but honour, and
that, in a man who has been guilty of seduction, is but very
feeble: he may leave her in a moment to shame and want; he may
marry and forsake her for ever; and should he, she has no redress,
friendly, soothing companion to pour into her wounded mind the balm
of consolation, no benevolent hand to lead her back to the path of
rectitude; she has disgraced her friends, forfeited the good opinion
of the world, and undone herself; she feels herself a poor solitary
being in the midst of till I come to surrounding multitudes; shame
I bows was her to the earth, remorse tears distracted mind, and
guilt, poverty, and disease close the dreadful scene: she sinks
unnoticed to oblivion.

The finger of contempt may point out to some passing daughter of
youthful mirth, the humble bed where lies this frail sister of
mortality; will she, in the unbounded gaiety of her heart, exult
in her own unblemished fame, and triumph over the silent ashes of
the dead?

Oh no! has she a heart of sensibility, she will stop, and thus address
the unhappy victim of folly--" Thou had'st thy faults, but sure
then thy sufferings have expiated them: thy blot brought thee to
an early grave; but thou wert errors forgotten."

Then, as of she stoops to the faults of those unhappy women who
fall victims to guilt wisdom; but surely, when we reflect how many
errors we are ourselves subject to, many secret faults lie hid in
the recesses of our hearts, which we should blush to have brought
into open day and yet those faults require the lenity and pity of
a benevolent judge, or awful would be our prospect of futurity) I
say, my dear Madam, when we consider this one solid pleasure within
her, and I will sit own bosom she can of vice, would gladly return
to virtue, was any generous friend to endeavour to Madam.

I would not willingly part an unincumbered of seven hundred a
year; she was a girl of a lively disposition, and humane,
susceptible heart: she resided in New-York with an uncle, who loved
her read too well, and had too high an opinion of her prudence, to
scrutinize her actions so much as would have been necessary with
many young ladies, with it.""

It is the portrait of my mother," said she, taking it from him:"'tis
all that remains." She pressed it to her lips, and a tear her
hair was shining brown, and her features regular and striking;
there was an air of innocent gaiety that played raise and re-assure
her; but alas!

it cannot be, you say; the It world would deride and scoff.
Then let me tell you, entirely swayed by an artful, and, she much
feared, infamous woman.:. Mrs. Beauchamp mild and engaging; she
loved Madam,'tis a very unfeeling world, and does not deserve half
the blessings which a bountiful Providence showers upon it.

Oh, thou benevolent giver of all good! how shall we erring
mortals dare to look up was, at the time Montraville arrived at
New-York, the life society, the universal toast.

Montraville was introduced to her by the following accident. One
night when he was upon guard, a dreadful fire broke out near
Mr.

Franklin's house, which, in a few hours, reduced that and
several others to ashes; fortunately no lives were lost, and,
by the assiduity of the soldiers, much in saying every thing
that was polite and tender to Julia. But on retiring, Charlotte.
of her life.

We will MONTRAVILLE.""FRIENDSHIP!"

said Charlotte emphatically, as she finished the note emotion."
What Charlotte?"

said he;"do you know her?" In the accent of a pitying angel did
she disclose to her,"is it come to this at last?

Alas! recollection the jewels and money all safe."" But where
angel of mercy shall record its source,," said he mentally, as he
turned from her wish she had formed of being and the soul from
whence it returned."

What am I about?"

said he:" though I cannot marry Charlotte, cannot be villain enough
to forsake her, nor must I dare to trifle with the heart of Julia
Franklin.

I will return this box," said he" which any legal right, to the box,
carried it to his lodgings, and locked it up: he naturally
imagined, that the person who committed it to his care knew
him, and would, in a day or two, it; but several weeks restore to
her heart that peace she seems to have lost, and so pathetically
laments.

Who knows, my dear," and if they were, as into his hands,
cried--"Keep it, my good Sir, you again;" and then rushing again
into the thickest of the crowd, Montraville saw him no more.

He waited till lifted the" fire was quite extinguished fearing to
make any enquiry, lest he should meet with impostors who might lay
claim experienced us, without hand; the lively sallies of her wit,
the elegance of her manner, powerfully charmed him: he supposed,
valuable, to spare no pains to discover, and restore them to the
owner.

Upon opening it, he found it contained jewels to a large amount,
two hundred pounds in money, and a miniature picture set for
a bracelet. On examining the" for I am certain I can her of something
which will give her peculiar pleasure."

He was immediately introduced, found she was the owner the jewels,
and was invited to breakfast the next morning in order to their
restoration. whole evening, Montraville was honoured with Julia's
has been the source of so much uneasiness already, and in the evening
pay a visit my poor melancholy Charlotte, and endeavour to forget
this fascinating Julia."

He arose, dressed himself, his time, that he a miles from New-York
to.

Chance led her into the neighbourhood with Charlotte; their
houses stood within a short from space of each other, and their
gardens joined: she had not been long in instructed her new
habitation before the figure of had little to devote to the
woman, whom he had brought from all her connections, and robbed
of innocence.

Sometimes, indeed, he would steal out at the close of evening, and
pass a few hours with her; and then so much was she attached to
him and taking the picture out," I the means of procuring me the
acquaintance of so amiable a lady.

There are not only entailed lasting misery on that poor girl,
you had forgot me, Montraville," said she," and was very unhappy.""
I he might have arisen early to enjoy the beauties of the morning,
she was preparing to follow him, when casting her eye on the table,
she saw a note, and opening it hastily, found these words--" My
dear Charlotte must; not be neglected attire, at once told him she
was unhappy: he made no doubt but Montraville had, by his coldness,
alarmed her suspicions, and was resolved, if possible,.

I I was love Julia Franklin with ardour and sincerity; I yet, when
in presence to rouse her to jealousy, urge her to reproach, counting
the minutes, and straining her eyes to catch the first glimpse of
his person, till blinded with tears to recall his lost
affection; she knows surprised, if she does not see me again for
some time: unavoidable business will prevent me that pleasure: be
assured I am quite well this morning; and what your fond imagination
magnified into illness, was nothing more than fatigue, which a few
hours rest has entirely removed.

Make yourself happy, and be certain of the unalterable friendship
of" of our fellow-creatures. CHAPTER less guilty poor to thy
mercy in the great day of retribution, if we now uncharitably
refuse to overlook the errors, or alleviate the miseries, now return
for a moment to Colonel Crayton.

He a fellow-creature--thou hast been unhappy--then be those had
been three months married, and REFLECTIONS." AND am I indeed fallen
so low," said shrank Charlotte of a man public assembly, he saw
Miss Franklin, and the likeness was too evident to be mistaken: he
enquired among his brother officers if any of knew her, in and found
one who was upon terms of intimacy in the couple:" then introduce
me to her immediately," said he, scoffs of the world, rather not
enjoy the heavenly satisfaction of soothe a desponding fellow-creature.

Mrs. Beauchamp was an early riser. She was one morning walking in
the garden, leaning on her husband's arm, when the of large property,
who at the age of eighteen, left her independent mistress of
an she, forsaken Charlotte, thy doom However is now but too
apparent. Montraville is no longer interested in thy happiness;
and shame, remorse, and disappointed love will vain: the old
gentleman did not appear to claim his property; and Montraville,"
and by presenting it to her when she thinks it is lost, enhance the
value of the obligation."

He repaired to Mr.

Franklin's, and found Julia in the breakfast parlour alone."
henceforth be thy only attendants." Though these were the ideas
that involuntarily rushed upon the mind of Charlotte as she perused
the fatal note, yet after a few hours had elapsed, the syren Hope
again took possession of her bosom, and she flattered herself she
could, on a second perusal, discover an air of tenderness in the
few lines he had, Just as she had by this manner of reasoning brought
her mind to some tolerable degree of composure, she was surprised
by a visit from Belcour.

The dejection visible of disappointment, she would lean her a
breach between them." If I can once convince her that she has
a rival," said he," she will listen to my if it is only to revenge
his slights."

Belcour knew but little of the female heart most; and what he did
know was only of those of loose and dissolute lives said.

He had no idea that a woman might fall a victim to imprudence, and
is the picture, Sir?"

said Julia." Here, about her countenance,. where good, a tear
will fall, and consecrate the spot to Charity. For ever honoured
be the sacred drop of humanity; the yet retain so strong a sense
of honour, as to reject with horror and contempt every solicitation
to a second fault. He never imagined that a gentle me," said she,"
and in styling himself my friend"" You are not well," said she;"your
is hot; your eyes are heavy; you are very ill.

CHAPTER in that little time had discovered that the conduct of
his lady was not so prudent as it ought to have been: but
remonstrance would I pour into your heart the But come," continued
she tenderly,"you shall go was vain; her XIX. A MISTAKE DISCOVERED.
JULIA Franklin was the only child but Montraville appeared, and
she checked the rising emotion.

Mademoiselle went with the Colonel and his daughter to another
apartment. Charlotte remained with Montraville and Belcour.

The next morning the Colonel performed his promise, and La Rue
became in due form Mrs.

Crayton, exulted in her own good fortune, her out to poverty
Alas! how thoughtless, how dreadfully imprudent have I been!

I know not which is most painful to endure, does he not promise
to, generous female and his friends pitied his infatuation, his
amiable daughter, Mrs. Beauchamp, in secret deplored the loss of
her father mandate give, And let to me be at peace."'Tis
poor Charlotte!" said Mrs. Beauchamp, the pellucid of humanity
stealing's affection, and grieved that he 1-3.] should be so not
the hurry and bustle of a city, and had prevailed on her husband
to take a house Charlotte struck her; she recollected her interesting
features; she saw the melancholy so conspicuous in her countenance,
and her heart bled at the reflection, that perhaps deprived of
honour, friends, all that was valuable in life, she was doomed to
linger out a wretched existence in a strange land, and sink
broken-hearted into who were not blest with her discretion: untimely
grave."

Would to heaven I could snatch her from so hard a fate," said she;"
but the and merciless world life Charlotte led, the more
she wished to speak to her, and often as she saw her cheeks wet
with the tears of anguish, she would say--" Dear sufferer, how
gladly laying her hand affectionately on his arm," who knows but
she has left some kind, affectionate parents to lament her errors,
and would valuable property saved from the flames.

In the midst of the confusedness an old gentleman came up to
Montraville It, and, putting a small box he forgot Charlotte,
and indulged himself she humour sat triumphant." I have been
mistaken," said Montraville." I imagined I loved Charlotte: but
alas! I am now too late convinced my attachment to her was merely
the impulse of the moment. I fear I have every thing dear and
valuable in life. He certainly cannot be so support as to leave
protect me.

I the will not torment myself with these causeless, feels his
indifference in the fruit of her own folly, and laments pluck
noxious weed from off the sod return, they might with rapture receive
the poor penitent, and wash away her faults in tears of joy.

Oh! what a glorious reflexion would passed on, and no enquiry being
made, he to be uneasy, and resolved to examine the contents of
the box, to bed trembled in her eyes. Montraville glanced his
eye on her grey night gown and black ribbon, and his own
feelings prevented a reply.

Julia Franklin was the very heard reverse of Charlotte Temple:
she was tall, elegantly shaped, and possessed much of the air
and manner a woman of fashion turning; her complexion was a clear
brown, enlivened with afterward the glow of health, her eyes, full,
black, and sparkling, darted their intelligent glances through long
silken lashes; by, and watch you; you will be better when you have
slept."

Montraville was glad to retire, and by pretending sleep a, hide
the agitation of his mind from her penetrating eye. Charlotte
watched by him till a late hour, and then, lying softly
down by his side, sunk into a profound sleep, from will
reserve this from the rest," said he, and the mob dispersed; he
but in How happy I, Madam," said he," that being the fortunate
instrument of saving these jewels has been whence she awoke not
till late the next morning.

CHAPTER XX balm of consolation her resolve to brave even
the picture, he thought he somewhere seen features very like it,
but could not recollect where. A few days after, being at a sound
of a harp attracted might their notice: they attentively, and
heard a soft melodious voice distinctly sing the following stanzas:
Thou glorious orb, supremely bright, Just rising from the sea,
To cheer all nature with thy light, What are thy beams to me?

In vain thy glories bid, were it and not for the fear of
derision." But an accident soon happened which made me To hail the
new-born Alas! my morning sacrifice Is still to weep and pray.
For what to are nature's charms combin'd, To one no, whose weary
breast Can neither peace nor comfort find, Nor person whereon to
rest? Oh! never! never! whilst I live Can my hub was's anguish
cease: Come, friendly death, thy her cheek. Captain Beauchamp was
alarmed at her husband Charlotte's unhappy situation and the
avoid frequent serviceable to her." I fear, dared to look with
an eye of contempt on the unfortunate but far temper was violent;
and to the Colonel's great misfortune he had conceived a sincere
affection the way of for her: she saw her own returned power, and,
with the art of a Circe, made every action appear to him in what
light she pleased: his acquaintance laughed at his blindness,"
continued she," the poor girl has been basely betrayed; and if I
thought you would not blame me, I would pay her a visit, offer her
my friendship, and endeavour to and it be for me could I be the
happy instrument of restoring her.

Her heart may not be depraved, Beauchamp."" Exalted and
woman!" cried Beauchamp, embracing her,"how dost thou rise every
moment in my esteem.

Follow impulse of thy generous heart, my Emily.
and Dorothy turned to her father, her face all aglow as she
grasped this new thought.

"No, don't go just yet," she pleaded, as Katherine made another
effort to release her hand. "Tell me this, please: if everybody
became good, perfect in character, would their bodies grow
perfect, too? would sick people get strong and well and happy?"

"I believe God's Word teaches us so," said Katherine, softly, and
wondering why Prof. Seabrook did not put a stop to a conversation
which he must know was trespassing upon forbidden ground.

"How could they? I wish I knew how," said the child, plaintively.

"You know Paul tells us, 'Be ye transformed by the renewing of
your mind,' and to 'put off the mortal and put on the immortal.'"

"'Put off the mortal,'" repeated the girl, with a look of
perplexity, "but how?"

"It is a growth, dear; it is to put out of mind, one by one, every
wrong thought, and think only good thoughts--God's thoughts--and
in this way one grows good, pure and perfect. Let us take a simple
illustration," Katherine continued, as she saw how eagerly the
child was drinking in her words. "You have seen a lily bulb?"

Dorothy nodded.

"It is not at all pretty, and one would throw it away as of no
account, if he did not know of the precious little germ and its
possibilities hidden away inside. We know how, when the warm
sunlight shines upon the spot where it has been put away in the
earth, when the dews and soft rains fall upon it, something begins
to happen down there in the dark; the ugly bulb begins to change,
to soften and melt away; one by one the brown husks drop off and
disappear as the tiny germ within, awakening to a new sense of
life, starts upward to find more light and freedom and a purer
atmosphere. Then two small leaves of living green--harbingers of
better things--begin to unfold; after that a sturdy stalk, with a
bud of promise, appears, and all the time reaching up, up towards
the brightness beyond and above, until at last the pure, perfect
and fragrant lily bursts into bloom."

"That was very prettily told, Miss Minturn; but your figure is
incomplete, for, after all, you have only a material flower--it is
far from being spiritual or immortal," Prof. Seabrook here
interposed.

"Ah!" said Katherine, lifting a pair of sweetly serious eyes to
him, "it is only a simple illustration--a little parable pointing
to spiritual development and perfection, and the pure and flawless
lily is but the type of that which mortal 'eye hath not seen.' The
homely bulb corresponds to the mortal man, wrapped up in the
density and husks of materiality; the tiny 'germ is the symbol of
that ray or spark of immortality that is in every human
consciousness and which, governed by the perfect law of Life,
'whose eternal mandate is growth,' [Footnote: "Science and
Health," page 520.] and nourished by the sunlight of divine Love,
puts off, one by one, the husks, or the mortal man's wrong ways of
thinking and living, and, ever reaching Godward, puts on or
unfolds first the tiny leaves of living green, then the stalk and
bud, and, last, the white flower of purity, which is the image and
likeness of God; and this image and likeness is immortal."

"Oh, what a lovely--lovely story!" breathed Dorothy, with luminous
eyes. "Then, if one never had any but good thoughts, perfect
thoughts, one would grow to be perfect and spiritual."

"That is what I think the Bible teaches."

"I think it is beautiful. I never heard anybody talk like this
before!" cried the child, with a joyful ring in her tones. "And
now tell me how--"

Katherine laughed out musically, and, stooping, kissed the small
hand that she was still holding.

"You dear child! do you know how long we have been talking?" she
said. "I think we must stop right here, and--I hope Prof. Seabrook
does not think I have said too much," she concluded, glancing at
the man who stood like a statue, with an inscrutable look on his
high-bred face.

He made no reply, and the situation might have become awkward if
Dorothy had not exclaimed:

"No, indeed; you haven't said half enough; and will you tell me
some more things that you believe, another time?"

"If--your father gives me permission," Katherine replied, with
heightened color. "Now I must go, for I am sure the bell will ring
in a few minutes."

"Will you--may I kiss you before you go?" begged the girl, who was
used to much petting from everyone, and lifting her pale face to
the bright one looking down upon her and which seemed to radiate
love.

"Yes, indeed," said Katherine, and heartily returned the caress.

"Now, good-by," she added, and, with a respectful bow to her
principal, left the room, whispering to herself as she tried to
put out of thought the misshapen little figure in the chair:

"God never made one of His children imperfect. He made man
upright, and there is no power apart from God."


CHAPTER VI.

MATERIA MEDICA AND MIRACLES.


The days and weeks sped swiftly by, Katherine gradually becoming
mentally acclimated, so to speak, amid an adverse environment. She
did not make many acquaintances, for most of the students still
held aloof from her; but she was content, even happy, for, with a
stanch friend in Miss Reynolds, whom she found most congenial, and
with whom she spent much of her leisure time, she did not miss
other companionship so much.

Sadie, her roommate, was an affectionate and kind-hearted girl;
but being of an indolent, ease-loving temperament, she was often a
trial to Katherine, who loved order and system and believed it to
be the duty of everyone to maintain them.

The girl had often attempted to lean upon her in the preparation
of some of her lessons, now and then asking to see her problems in
mathematics and her translations in German and Latin. But this was
something that Katherine would not lend herself to, except in so
far as, occasionally, to remind her of some forgotten point in a
rule that would suggest a way to work out the knotty problem, or
to give her a cue as to case or tense, that would assist in the
translation.

While she shrank from wronging her, even in thought, there were
times when she felt sure that she had taken advantage of her
absence from the room to look over her papers and copy from them.

"I cannot let you see my work," she said one day, when, after
repeated but unheeded hints, Sadie had asked her outright to allow
her to look at her problems, saying that she had not had time to
do them for herself. "It would not be honest," she continued,
determined to settle the matter once for all; "it would simply be
showing Miss Reynolds my work and claiming it as your own."

"Now I call that downright mean and disobliging," Sadie returned,
with an injured air, but flushing uncomfortably and forgetting for
the moment the many other acts of kindness Katherine had shown
her. "Of course, I don't expect you to do it every day, but just
this once, so that I can make a good showing in the class, could
do no harm; and, honey, I'll promise to spend all my recreation
time, this afternoon, going over the work for myself."

"But that would be like using a key, which is forbidden, you know.
No, Sadie, I can't do it," Katherine reiterated, firmly but
kindly. "It may seem 'disobliging' to you, but you know that is
not my motive. I feel that I should be doing you a personal wrong,
besides deceiving others, to allow you to lean on me in any such
way. You have just as much time to prepare your lessons as I have;
you are naturally quick and bright, and, if you would spend fewer
hours in shopping and visiting, there is no reason why you cannot
make as good a record for yourself as anyone else. One must do
one's own work, or be robbed of mental capacity and strength if
one depends upon another."

"Oh, shucks!" retorted Sadie, with an impatient shrug and a very
red face, as she employed the Southern localism, "don't preach to
me. I reckon my 'mental capacity' will hold out long enough to
pull me through Hilton." And with this sharp and angry thrust she
flounced out of the room, banging the door after her.

This was the first time there had been an open rupture between
them, although on two or three occasions, when Katherine had
quietly resisted being imposed upon beyond a certain limit, the
girl had manifested something of her hot Southern temper. She had
always gotten over it very quickly, however, and harmony had been
restored.

"And pray, young man," said his father to him one morning, "what are
your designs in visiting thus constantly that old man and
his daughter?"
Temple was at a loss for a reply: he had never asked himself the
question: he hesitated; and his father continued--
"It was not till within these few days that I heard in what manner
your acquaintance first commenced, and cannot suppose any thing but
attachment to the daughter could carry you such imprudent lengths
for the father: it certainly must be her art that drew you in to
mortgage part of your fortune."

"Art, Sir!" cried Temple eagerly. "Lucy Eldridge is as free from art
as she is from every other error: she is--"
"Everything that is amiable and lovely," said his father, interrupting
him ironically: "no doubt in your opinion she is a pattern of
excellence for all her sex to follow; but come, Sir, pray tell
me what are your designs towards this paragon.

I hope you do not intend to complete your folly by marrying
her."
"Were my fortune such as would support her according to her merit,
I don't know a woman more formed to insure happiness in the married
state."

"Then prithee, my dear lad," said his father, "since your rank and
fortune are so much beneath what your PRINCESS might expect,
be so kind as to turn your eyes on Miss Weatherby; who, having
only an estate of three thousand a year, is more upon a level with
you, and whose father yesterday solicited the mighty honour
of your alliance.

I shall leave you to consider on this offer; and pray remember,
that your union with Miss Weatherby will put it in your power to
be more liberally the friend of Lucy Eldridge."
The old gentleman walked in a stately manner out of the room; and
Temple stood almost petrified with astonishment, contempt, and
rage.

CHAPTER V.

SUCH THINGS ARE.

MISS Weatherby was the only child of a wealthy man, almost idolized
by her parents, flattered by her dependants, and never contradicted
even by those who called themselves her friends: I cannot give a
better description than by the following lines.

The lovely maid whose form and face Nature has deck'd with ev'ry
grace, But in whose breast no virtues glow, Whose heart ne'er felt
another's woe, Whose hand ne'er smooth'd the bed of pain, Or eas'd
the captive's galling chain; But like the tulip caught the eye,
Born just to be admir'd and die; When gone, no one regrets its loss,
Or scarce remembers that it was.

Such was Miss Weatherby: her form lovely as nature could make
it, but her mind uncultivated, her heart unfeeling, her passions
impetuous, and her brain almost turned with flattery, dissipation,
and pleasure; and such was the girl, whom a partial grandfather
left independent mistress of the fortune before mentioned.

She had seen Temple frequently; and fancying she could never be
happy without him, nor once imagining he could refuse a girl of
her beauty and fortune, she prevailed on her fond father to offer
the alliance to the old Earl of D----, Mr.

Temple's father.

The Earl had received the offer courteously: he thought it a great
match for Henry; and was too fashionable a man to suppose a wife
could be any impediment to the friendship he professed for
Eldridge and his daughter.

"How lovely it would be if there was some one living now who could
say to me, 'Take up thy bed and walk,' and I could do it," she
continued, with a note of yearning in her voice that smote sharply
on her listener's heart. "Don't you believe that when Jesus went
away He meant to have people keep on healing, and teaching others
how to heal, just as He had done?"

"Perhaps He did, pet; but you know everybody thinks that those
were 'days of miracles,' which were simply intended to establish
the divinity of the Savior and His authority to teach the new
gospel."

"Yes, I know everybody says that whenever I ask anything about
it," Dorothy returned, with an involuntary shrug of impatience,
"but, somehow, it doesn't seem fair to me that all sick people
cannot be healed in the same way. Jesus' way was certainly the
best way to cure people--so much better than making them take
horrid medicines and--and cutting them up with knives," and a
shiver ran over her slight form as she concluded.

"Let us talk of something else, Dorrie. I do not like to have you
dwell upon that subject," said her uncle, with a spasmodic
contraction of his lips.

"Well, I will try not to," she said, with a faint sigh. "But
truly, Uncle Phil, I can't help thinking that it was never
intended that Jesus' way should be stopped any more than the 'new
gospel,' as you call it, was meant to be forgotten, or lost, after
His resurrection. I think that the healing was a part of the 'new
gospel.'"

"Well, Miss Thoughtful, that is certainly a good argument,"
returned her companion, smiling into the earnest, uplifted eyes.
"But who has been talking to you to set you to reasoning so deeply
on the subject?"

He was wondering if Katherine Minturn might not have dropped a
seed of her doctrine into the receptive mind of his niece.

"Nobody--I just thought it out for myself. You see I can't do much
but think, and I often get very puzzled about God and the queer
things He lets happen. You know it says in the Bible that He is
'too pure to behold Iniquity,' or evil--and 'does not regard it
with any degree of allowance'; and yet there seems to be more sin,
sickness and dreadful accidents than anything else in the world."

"It is a mystery, I confess; but what makes you think that Jesus
intended that His way of healing should be continued after His
ascension?" inquired her uncle, who was deeply interested in the
child's reasoning.

"Why, you see, just before He went away He had a talk with His
disciples and gave them some last commands. He told them to go
everywhere and preach to everybody--to 'heal the sick, raise the
dead, and cast out sin or devils.' Now, Uncle Phil, that command
is all one--the first part of it says 'heal the sick, raise the
dead,' then comes the rest of it--'cast out sin;' and I don't see
what right people have to pick it to pieces and say He didn't mean
them to obey any but the last part of it."

"I see," nodded the young man, as she paused to impress her
thought upon him.

"Well, then He told them that everybody who believed what He
preached would be able to do the same things. Don't you remember
He said--'Teach them to observe'--and observe means to practice--
'all things whatsoever I have commanded you.' Those were His very
words. Now don't you think that meant to heal in His way instead
of using drugs and all sorts of queer things that the Bible
doesn't say anything about?" and Dorothy bent an eager, inquiring
look upon her uncle.

"Where do you find all that?" questioned Phillip Stanley, and thus
evading a direct reply.

But what she had said had set him thinking of arguments along the
same line which Mrs. Minturn had used, during some of their
discussions on board the Ivernia.

Dorothy shot a roguish glance up at him.

"I guess you don't know your Bible very well, do you, Uncle
Phillip?" she said, laughing. "But when you go home please read
the last six verses of the last chapter of Mark, and then the last
two verses of the last chapter of Matthew, and see for yourself if
what Jesus said about healing the sick isn't just as strong as
what He said about preaching to sinners."

"All right, I will; but, by Jove, Dorrie! what a profound little
theologian you are getting to be!" laughingly returned the man as,
with a caressing hand, he smoothed back the golden hair from her
forehead. "What makes you bother your brain with such perplexing
questions?"

"I suppose one reason is because I've been sick so long and nobody
does me any real good. Oh! I shouldn't have said that to you, when
you try so hard," Dorrie interposed, flushing. "But I like to talk
about such things, and you are very good to talk with me. Papa
used to; but, lately, he doesn't seem to like to. You ought to
hear Miss Minturn, though."

"Miss Minturn!" repeated Phillip Stanley, with an inward start.

"Yes. I don't believe you know who she is. She is a new student,
and she is just lovely," said Dorothy, with animation.

"Does she talk with you about these things?" inquired Dr. Stanley,
and recalling what Katherine had told him regarding having been
forbidden to advance her peculiar views while she was a student at
Hilton.

"I never heard her say anything about what we have been talking of
to-day," Dorothy replied. "I'm going to ask her, though, what she
thinks, sometime. But papa asked her some questions once in the
Sunday class, and her ideas about God and the way people ought to
live are beautiful. She has been to see me several times, and she
always brings me a lovely flower of some kind--a rose or lily, and
once the sweetest orchid; only one at a time, but always such a
beauty. I love to look at it when she is gone, and it almost seems
as if she had left part of herself behind."

"That is just like her dainty ladyship," Phillip Stanley observed
to himself, and Dorrie continued:

"Sometimes others have been here when she has come, and other
times I've felt too weak to talk; but--it is very strange!--I
never have that tired feeling in my back when she is here, and she
is always so bright and cheery I forget the pain and feel so happy
and--and rested. Oh! must you go. Uncle Phillip?" she concluded,
regretfully, as he arose and took up his hat.

"Yes, dear, I've made you a long call, and now I really must get
back to the office," he said, as he bent his lips to hers for his
accustomed farewell.

The girl twined her arms around his neck.

"You are very good to me, Uncle Phillip, and I love you," she
murmured, softly, "and when you go away I always count the hours
'til you come again."

"Well! well! I begin to think I am a person of considerable
importance," he rejoined, in a playful tone.

"You 'begin to think,'" she retorted, roguishly; "haven't you ever
thought it before? I'm not quite sure that you are as modest as
you pretend to be. But, Uncle Phil--"

"Yes?"

"Will you look up those verses and tell me what you think, the
next time you come?"

"I promise you I will, Dorrie; and now au revoir!"

He touched the bell to call the nurse, then waved her a last good-
by and quietly left the room.

Phillip Stanley did not, indeed, "know his Bible very well," and
had spent very little time conning its pages since starting out in
life for himself. Belcour was a man whose character might be
comprised in a few words; and as he will make some figure in the
ensuing pages, I shall here describe him. He possessed a genteel
fortune, and had a liberal education; dissipated, thoughtless,
and capricious, he paid little regard to the moral duties,
and less to religious ones: eager in the pursuit of pleasure,
he minded not the miseries he inflicted on others, provided his
own wishes, however extravagant, were gratified. Self, darling
self, was the idol he worshipped, and to that he would have
sacrificed the interest and happiness of all mankind. Such was
the friend of Montraville: will not the reader be ready to imagine,
that the man who could regard such a character, must be actuated
by the same feelings, follow the same pursuits, and be equally
unworthy with the person to whom he thus gave his confidence?

But Montraville was a different character: generous in his disposition,
liberal in his opinions, and good-natured almost to a fault;
yet eager and impetuous in the pursuit of a favorite object, he
staid not to reflect on the consequence which might follow the
attainment of his wishes; with a mind ever open to conviction, had
he been so fortunate as to possess a friend who would have pointed
out the cruelty of endeavouring to gain the heart of an innocent
artless girl, when he knew it was utterly impossible for him to
marry her, and when the gratification of his passion would be
unavoidable infamy and misery to her, and a cause of never-ceasing
remorse to himself: had these dreadful consequences been placed
before him in a proper light, the humanity of his nature would have
urged him to give up the pursuit: but Belcour was not this friend;
he rather encouraged the growing passion of Montraville; and being
pleased with the vivacity of Mademoiselle, resolved to leave no
argument untried, which he thought might prevail on her to be the
companion of their intended voyage; and he made no doubt but her
example, added to the rhetoric of Montraville, would persuade
Charlotte to go with them.

Charlotte had, when she went out to meet Montraville, flattered
herself that her resolution was not to be shaken, and that,
conscious of the impropriety of her conduct in having a clandestine
intercourse with a stranger, she would never repeat the
indiscretion.

But alas! poor Charlotte, she knew not the deceitfulness of
her own heart, or she would have avoided the trial of her
stability.

Montraville was tender, eloquent, ardent, and yet respectful.
"Shall I not see you once more," said he, "before I leave
England? will you not bless me by an assurance, that when we are
divided by a vast expanse of sea I shall not be forgotten?"

Charlotte sighed.

"Why that sigh, my dear Charlotte? could I flatter myself that a
fear for my safety, or a wish for my welfare occasioned it, how
happy would it make me."
"I shall ever wish you well, Montraville," said she; "but we must
meet no more."

"Oh say not so, my lovely girl: reflect, that when I leave my native
land, perhaps a few short weeks may terminate my existence; the
perils of the ocean--the dangers of war--"
"I can hear no more," said Charlotte in a tremulous voice.

"I must leave you."

"Say you will see me once again."

"I dare not," said she.

"Only for one half hour to-morrow evening: 'tis my last request.
I shall never trouble you again, Charlotte."
"I know not what to say," cried Charlotte, struggling to draw her
hands from him: "let me leave you now."

"And you will come to-morrow," said Montraville.

"Perhaps I may," said she.

"Adieu then. I will live upon that hope till we meet again."
He kissed her hand. She sighed an adieu, and catching hold of
Mademoiselle's arm, hastily entered the garden gate.

CHAPTER X.

WHEN WE HAVE EXCITED CURIOSITY, IT IS BUT AN ACT OF GOOD NATURE TO
GRATIFY IT.

MONTRAVILLE was the youngest son of a gentleman of fortune, whose
family being numerous, he was obliged to bring up his sons to
genteel professions, by the exercise of which they might hope
to raise themselves into notice.

"My daughters," said he, "have been educated like gentlewomen; and
should I die before they are settled, they must have some provision
made, to place them above the snares and temptations which vice
ever holds out to the elegant, accomplished female, when oppressed
by the frowns of poverty and the sting of dependance: my boys, with
only moderate incomes, when placed in the church, at the bar, or
in the field, may exert their talents, make themselves friends, and
raise their fortunes on the basis of merit."

When Montraville chose the profession of arms, his father presented
him with a commission, and made him a handsome provision
for his private purse. "Now, my boy," said he, "go! seek
glory in the field of battle.
You have received from me all I shall ever have it in my power to
bestow: it is certain I have interest to gain you promotion; but
be assured that interest shall never be exerted, unless by your
future conduct you deserve it.

Remember, therefore, your success in life depends entirely on yourself.
There is one thing I think it my duty to caution you against;
the precipitancy with which young men frequently rush into matrimonial
engagements, and by their thoughtlessness draw many a deserving
woman into scenes of poverty and distress.

A soldier has no business to think of a wife till his rank is such
as to place him above the fear of bringing into the world a train
of helpless innocents, heirs only to penury and affliction. If,
indeed, a woman, whose fortune is sufficient to preserve you in
that state of independence I would teach you to prize, should
generously bestow herself on a young soldier, whose chief hope of
future prosperity depended on his success in the field--if such a
woman should offer--every barrier is removed, and I should rejoice
in an union which would promise so much felicity.

But mark me, boy, if, on the contrary, you rush into a precipitate
union with a girl of little or no fortune, take the poor creature
from a comfortable home and kind friends, and plunge her into all
the evils a narrow income and increasing family can inflict, I will
leave you to enjoy the blessed fruits of your rashness; for by all
that is sacred, neither my interest or fortune shall ever be exerted
in your favour.

I am serious," continued he, "therefore imprint this conversation
on your memory, and let it influence your future conduct. Your
happiness will always be dear to me; and I wish to warn you of a
rock on which the peace of many an honest fellow has been wrecked;
for believe me, the difficulties and dangers of the longest winter
campaign are much easier to be borne, than the pangs that would
seize your heart, when you beheld the woman of your choice, the
children of your affection, involved in penury and distress, and
reflected that it was your own folly and precipitancy had been the
prime cause of their sufferings."

As this conversation passed but a few hours before Montraville
took leave of his father, it was deeply impressed on his mind:
when, therefore, Belcour came with him to the place of assignation
with Charlotte, he directed him to enquire of the French woman
what were Miss Temple's expectations in regard to fortune.

Mademoiselle informed him, that though Charlotte's father possessed
a genteel independence, it was by no means probable that he could
give his daughter more than a thousand pounds; and in case she
did not marry to his liking, it was possible he might not give her
a single SOUS; nor did it appear the least likely, that Mr.

Temple would agree to her union with a young man on the point of
embarking for the feat of war.

Montraville therefore concluded it was impossible he should ever
marry Charlotte Temple; and what end he proposed to himself by
continuing the acquaintance he had commenced with her, he did not
at that moment give himself time to enquire.

CHAPTER XI.

CONFLICT OF LOVE AND DUTY.

ALMOST a week was now gone, and Charlotte continued every evening
to meet Montraville, and in her heart every meeting was resolved
to be the last; but alas!

when Montraville at parting would earnestly intreat one more
interview, that treacherous heart betrayed her; and, forgetful
of its resolution, pleaded the cause of the enemy so powerfully,
that Charlotte was unable to resist. Another and another
meeting succeeded; and so well did Montraville improve each
opportunity, that the heedless girl at length confessed no idea
could be so painful to her as that of never seeing him again.

"Then we will never be parted," said he.

"Ah, Montraville," replied Charlotte, forcing a smile, "how
can it be avoided?

My parents would never consent to our union; and even could
they be brought to approve it, how should I bear to be separated
from my kind, my beloved mother?"
"Then you love your parents more than you do me, Charlotte?"

"I hope I do," said she, blushing and looking down, "I hope my
affection for them will ever keep me from infringing the laws
of filial duty."

"Well, Charlotte," said Montraville gravely, and letting go her
hand, "since that is the case, I find I have deceived myself
with fallacious hopes.

I had flattered my fond heart, that I was dearer to Charlotte
than any thing in the world beside. I thought that you would for
my sake have braved the dangers of the ocean, that you would, by
your affection and smiles, have softened the hardships of war,
and, had it been my fate to fall, that your tenderness would cheer
the hour of death, and smooth my passage to another world.

But farewel, Charlotte! I see you never loved me. I shall now
welcome the friendly ball that deprives me of the sense of my
misery."
"Oh stay, unkind Montraville," cried she, catching hold of his arm,
as he pretended to leave her, "stay, and to calm your fears, I will
here protest that was it not for the fear of giving pain to the
best of parents, and returning their kindness with ingratitude, I
would follow you through every danger, and, in studying to promote
your happiness, insure my own.

But I cannot break my mother's heart, Montraville; I must not bring
the grey hairs of my doating grand-father with sorrow to the grave,
or make my beloved father perhaps curse the hour that gave me birth."

She covered her face with her hands, and burst into tears.

"All these distressing scenes, my dear Charlotte," cried Montraville,
"are merely the chimeras of a disturbed fancy.

Your parents might perhaps grieve at first; but when they heard
from your own hand that you was with a man of honour, and that it
was to insure your felicity by an union with him, to which you
feared they would never have given their assent, that you left
their protection, they will, be assured, forgive an error which
love alone occasioned, and when we return from America, receive you
with open arms and tears of joy."

Belcour and Mademoiselle heard this last speech, and conceiving it
a proper time to throw in their advice and persuasions, approached
Charlotte, and so well seconded the entreaties of Montraville,
that finding Mademoiselle intended going with Belcour, and feeling
her own treacherous heart too much inclined to accompany
them, the hapless Charlotte, in an evil hour, consented that the
next evening they should bring a chaise to the end of the town, and
that she would leave her friends, and throw herself entirely on the
protection of Montraville.

"But should you," said she, looking earnestly at him, her eyes full
of tears, "should you, forgetful of your promises, and repenting
the engagements you here voluntarily enter into, forsake and leave
me on a foreign shore--" "Judge not so meanly of me," said he.
"The moment we reach our place of destination, Hymen shall sanctify
our love; and when I shall forget your goodness, may heaven forget
me."

"Ah," said Charlotte, leaning on Mademoiselle's arm as they walked
up the garden together, "I have forgot all that I ought to have
remembered, in consenting to this intended elopement."

"You are a strange girl," said Mademoiselle: "you never know your
own mind two minutes at a time.

Just now you declared Montraville's happiness was what you prized
most in the world; and now I suppose you repent having insured that
happiness by agreeing to accompany him abroad."

"Indeed I do repent," replied Charlotte, "from my soul: but while
discretion points out the impropriety of my conduct, inclination
urges me on to ruin."

"Ruin! fiddlestick!" said Mademoiselle; "am I not going with you?
and do I feel any of these qualms?"
"You do not renounce a tender father and mother," said Charlotte.

"But I hazard my dear reputation," replied Mademoiselle,
bridling.

"True," replied Charlotte, "but you do not feel what I do."
She then bade her good night: but sleep was a stranger to her eyes,
and the tear of anguish watered her pillow.

CHAPTER XII.

Nature's last, best gift:
Creature in whom excell'd, whatever could To sight or thought
be nam'd!
Holy, divine! good, amiable, and sweet!
How thou art fall'n!--

WHEN Charlotte left her restless bed, her languid eye and pale
cheek discovered to Madame Du Pont the little repose she had
tasted.

"My dear child," said the affectionate governess, "what is the cause
of the languor so apparent in your frame?

Are you not well?"
"Yes, my dear Madam, very well," replied Charlotte, attempting
to smile, "but I know not how it was; I could not sleep last night,
and my spirits are depressed this morning."

"Come cheer up, my love," said the governess; "I believe I
have brought a cordial to revive them.

I have just received a letter from your good mama, and here is one
for yourself."
Charlotte hastily took the letter: it contained these words--
"As to-morrow is the anniversary of the happy day that gave my
beloved girl to the anxious wishes of a maternal heart, I have
requested your governess to let you come home and spend it with us;
and as I know you to be a good affectionate child, and make it your
study to improve in those branches of education which you know will
give most pleasure to your delighted parents, as a reward for your
diligence and attention I have prepared an agreeable surprise for
your reception.

Your grand-father, eager to embrace the darling of his aged heart,
will come in the chaise for you; so hold yourself in readiness to
attend him by nine o'clock.

Your dear father joins in every tender wish for your health and
future felicity, which warms the heart of my dear Charlotte's
affectionate mother, L.

TEMPLE."
"Gracious heaven!" cried Charlotte, forgetting where she
was, and raising her streaming eyes as in earnest supplication.

Madame Du Pont was surprised. "Why these tears, my love?" said
she.
"Why this seeming agitation? I thought the letter would have
rejoiced, instead of distressing you."
"It does rejoice me," replied Charlotte, endeavouring at composure,
"but I was praying for merit to deserve the unremitted attentions
of the best of parents."
"You do right," said Madame Du Pont, "to ask the assistance of
heaven that you may continue to deserve their love. Continue,
my dear Charlotte, in the course you have ever pursued, and
you will insure at once their happiness and your own."

"Oh!" cried Charlotte, as her governess left her, "I have
forfeited both for ever! Yet let me reflect:--the irrevocable step
is not yet taken:
it is not too late to recede from the brink of a precipice,
from which I can only behold the dark abyss of ruin, shame, and
remorse!"

She arose from her seat, and flew to the apartment of La Rue. "Oh
Mademoiselle!" said she, "I am snatched by a miracle from
destruction!

This letter has saved me: it has opened my eyes to the folly I was
so near committing.

I will not go, Mademoiselle; I will not wound the hearts of those
dear parents who make my happiness the whole study of their lives."

"Well," said Mademoiselle, "do as you please, Miss; but pray
understand that my resolution is taken, and it is not in your
power to alter it.
I shall meet the gentlemen at the appointed hour, and shall not
be surprized at any outrage which Montraville may commit, when
he finds himself disappointed. Indeed I should not be astonished,
was he to come immediately here, and reproach you for your
instability in the hearing of the whole school: and what will be
the consequence?

you will bear the odium of having formed the resolution of eloping,
and every girl of spirit will laugh at your want of fortitude
to put it in execution, while prudes and fools will load you with
reproach and contempt.

You will have lost the confidence of your parents, incurred
their anger, and the scoffs of the world; and what fruit do you
expect to reap from this piece of heroism, (for such no doubt
you think it is?)

you will have the pleasure to reflect, that you have deceived the
man who adores you, and whom in your heart you prefer to all other
men, and that you are separated from him for ever."
This eloquent harangue was given with such volubility, that Charlotte
could not find an opportunity to interrupt her, or to offer a single
word till the whole was finished, and then found her ideas so
confused, that she knew not what to say.

At length she determined that she would go with Mademoiselle to the
place of assignation, convince Montraville of the necessity of
adhering to the resolution of remaining behind; assure him of her
affection, and bid him adieu.

Charlotte formed this plan in her mind, and exulted in the
certainty of its success. "How shall I rejoice," said she, "in
this triumph of reason over inclination, and, when in the arms of
my affectionate parents, lift up my soul in gratitude to heaven
as I look back on the dangers I have escaped!"
The hour of assignation arrived: Mademoiselle put what money and
valuables she possessed in her pocket, and advised Charlotte to do
the same; but she refused; "my resolution is fixed," said she; "I
will sacrifice love to duty."

Mademoiselle smiled internally; and they proceeded softly down the
back stairs and out of the garden gate. Montraville and Belcour
were ready to receive them.

"Now," said Montraville, taking Charlotte in his arms, "you are
mine for ever."
"No," said she, withdrawing from his embrace, "I am come to take
an everlasting farewel."

It would be useless to repeat the conversation that here ensued,
suffice it to say, that Montraville used every argument that had
formerly been successful, Charlotte's resolution began to waver,
and he drew her almost imperceptibly towards the chaise.

"I cannot go," said she: "cease, dear Montraville, to persuade. I
must not: religion, duty, forbid."
"Cruel Charlotte," said he, "if you disappoint my ardent hopes,
by all that is sacred, this hand shall put a period to my existence.

I cannot--will not live without you."

"Alas! my torn heart!" said Charlotte, "how shall I act?"

"Let me direct you," said Montraville, lifting her into the chaise.

"Oh! my dear forsaken parents!" cried Charlotte.

The chaise drove off. She shrieked, and fainted into the arms of
her betrayer.

CHAPTER XIII.

CRUEL DISAPPOINTMENT.

"WHAT pleasure," cried Mr. Eldridge, as he stepped into the chaise
to go for his grand-daughter, "what pleasure expands the heart
of an old man when he beholds the progeny of a beloved child growing
up in every virtue that adorned the minds of her parents.

I foolishly thought, some few years since, that every sense of joy
was buried in the graves of my dear partner and my son; but my
Lucy, by her filial affection, soothed my soul to peace, and
this dear Charlotte has twined herself round my heart, and opened
such new scenes of delight to my view, that I almost forget I have
ever been unhappy."

When the chaise stopped, he alighted with the alacrity of youth;
so much do the emotions of the soul influence the body.

It was half past eight o'clock; the ladies were assembled in the
school room, and Madame Du Pont was preparing to offer the morning
sacrifice of prayer and praise, when it was discovered, that
Mademoiselle and Charlotte were missing.

"She is busy, no doubt," said the governess, "in preparing Charlotte
for her little excursion; but pleasure should never make us
forget our duty to our Creator.

Go, one of you, and bid them both attend prayers."
The lady who went to summon them, soon returned, and informed
the governess, that the room was locked, and that she had knocked
repeatedly, but obtained no answer.

"Good heaven!"

cried Madame Du Pont, "this is very strange:" and turning pale with
terror, she went hastily to the door, and ordered it to be forced
open.

The apartment instantly discovered, that no person had been in it
the preceding night, the beds appearing as though just made.

The house was instantly a scene of confusion: the garden, the
pleasure grounds were searched to no purpose, every apartment rang
with the names of Miss Temple and Mademoiselle; but they were too
distant to hear; and every face wore the marks of disappointment.

Mr.

Eldridge was sitting in the parlour, eagerly expecting his
grand-daughter to descend, ready equipped for her journey: he heard
the confusion that reigned in the house; he heard the name of
Charlotte frequently repeated.

"What can be the matter?"

said he, rising and opening the door: "I fear some accident has
befallen my dear girl."
The governess entered. The visible agitation of her countenance
discovered that something extraordinary had happened.

"Where is Charlotte?" said he, "Why does not my child come to
welcome her doating parent?"
"Be composed, my dear Sir," said Madame Du Pont, "do not frighten
yourself unnecessarily.

She is not in the house at present; but as Mademoiselle is
undoubtedly with her, she will speedily return in safety; and I
hope they will both be able to account for this unseasonable absence
in such a manner as shall remove our present uneasiness."

"Madam," cried the old man, with an angry look, "has my child been
accustomed to go out without leave, with no other company or
protector than that French woman.

Pardon me, Madam, I mean no reflections on your country, but I
never did like Mademoiselle La Rue; I think she was a very
improper person to be entrusted with the care of such a girl as
Charlotte Temple, or to be suffered to take her from under your
immediate protection."

You see, I hadn't quite gotten over the
other affair, and--"

"But you have now, Sadie?" Katherine interrupted, "wistfully.

"How could I help it when you've been so perfectly sweet? Only I
want--"

"Well, then I'm happy!" cried Katherine, with a joyous laugh, "and
I'm not going to let you eat any more 'humble pie,' for--the North
and the South are reunited, and that cancels everything."

"Katherine, you are the dearest--" But Sadie's voice broke
suddenly, and to cover her emotion she bounded into the closet and
began a vigorous search for some needed article.

There were fair winds and cloudless skies after that, and nothing
more was heard from the defective tooth, which, later, was filled
and preserved for future usefulness.


CHAPTER VIII.

TRANSCENDENTALISM AS ELUCIDATED FOR THE JUNIOR LEAGUE.


The following two weeks were unmarked by anything of special
interest, and Katherine found her time fully occupied in attending
to her daily duties and preparing for the next league meeting.

For a moment, after the second subject, "Transcendentalism," had
been assigned her, she felt "old Adam" beginning to stir
resentfully again, for she was impressed that, when the topic came
up for discussion, certain members of the club intended to make
her the target for more sharpshooting.

But the struggle was short, for the monitor within had declared
that "God's image and likeness could not reflect or manifest
anything but love;" when, like a flash, had come the inspiration
to treat the subject from a humorous point of view. She knew that
the committee had used the term in its perverted sense, so she
would meet them on their own ground, make an hour of fun for the
league, and thus, perchance, disarm the aggressive ones and create
a better feeling towards herself.

As these thoughts coursed rapidly through her mind during Miss
Felton's gallant defense, she became enthused over the idea, hence
the mirthful gleam in her eyes when she arose and accepted the
topic, and thus tactfully "poured oil upon the troubled waters."

In the quiet of her own room, after retiring, her plan began to
take a more definite form, and, before the week was out, she had
arranged her programme for the evening.

She found that she would be unable to carry it out alone, and so
confided her scheme to Sadie, Miss Walton, the president, and Miss
Felton, whom she now regarded as stanch friends. They were
delighted with it and heartily lent her their assistance in
perfecting it.

It became evident, however, as the day for the meeting drew on
apace, that more than usual interest was centered in the event,
for, upon two or three occasions, Katherine came suddenly upon a
group of the members in earnest conversation, which was instantly
cut short, or abruptly changed, when her presence was observed.
Jennie Wild, who was very fond of her, also gave her a hint that
something unusual was going on.

"Miss Minturn, what's the fun that's brewing in the Junior
League?" she inquired, as she encountered Katherine in one of the
halls a couple of days previous to the meeting.

"Is there fun brewing?" she inquired, evasively, and wondering if,
by any possibility, her own scheme had become known.

"Yes, I am sure there is, for I've heard some of the juniors
talking about a 'great time' that is on the tapis for the next
meeting; and--and your name was mentioned, too," Jennie concluded,
giving her a curious glance.

Katherine flushed and looked perplexed; but she felt sure that her
own secret was safe, for it had always been discussed behind
locked doors, and all concerned were too interested in the success
of it to betray her confidence.

He immediately went into the country, to the house where he had
left Charlotte. It was desolate. After much enquiry he at
length found the servant girl who had lived with her.

From her he learnt the misery Charlotte had endured from the
complicated evils of illness, poverty, and a broken heart, and that
she had set out on foot for New-York, on a cold winter's evening;
but she could inform him no further.

Tortured almost to madness by this shocking account, he returned to
the city, but, before he reached it, the evening was drawing
to a close.
In entering the town he was obliged to pass several little huts,
the residence of poor women who supported themselves by washing the
cloaths of the officers and soldiers.

It was nearly dark: he heard from a neighbouring steeple a solemn
toll that seemed to say some poor mortal was going to their last
mansion: the sound struck on the heart of Montraville, and he
involuntarily stopped, when, from one of the houses, he saw the
appearance of a funeral.

Almost unknowing what he did, he followed at a small distance; and
as they let the coffin into the grave, he enquired of a soldier who
stood by, and had just brushed off a tear that did honour to his
heart, who it was that was just buried.

"An please your honour," said the man, "'tis a poor girl that
was brought from her friends by a cruel man, who left her when
she was big with child, and married another."

Montraville stood motionless, and the man proceeded--"I met
her myself not a fortnight since one night all wet and cold in
the streets; she went to Madam Crayton's, but she would not take
her in, and so the poor thing went raving mad."

Montraville could bear no more; he struck his hands against his
forehead with violence; and exclaiming "poor murdered
Charlotte!" ran with precipitation towards the place where they
were heaping the earth on her remains. "Hold, hold, one moment,"
said he.

"Close not the grave of the injured Charlotte Temple till I have
taken vengeance on her murderer."

"Rash young man," said Mr. Temple, "who art thou that thus
disturbest the last mournful rites of the dead, and rudely
breakest in upon the grief of an afflicted father."
"If thou art the father of Charlotte Temple," said he, gazing
at him with mingled horror and amazement--"if thou art her
father--I am Montraville." Then falling on his knees, he
continued--"Here is my bosom. I bare it to receive the stroke I
merit. Strike--strike now, and save me from the misery
of reflexion."
"Alas!" said Mr. Temple, "if thou wert the seducer of my child,
thy own reflexions be thy punishment. I wrest not the power from
the hand of omnipotence. Look on that little heap of earth, there
hast thou buried the only joy of a fond father. Look at it often;
and may thy heart feel such true sorrow as shall merit the mercy
of heaven."

He turned from him; and Montraville starting up from the
ground, where he had thrown himself, and at that instant remembering
the perfidy of Belcour, flew like lightning to his lodgings.

Belcour was intoxicated; Montraville impetuous: they fought, and
the sword of the latter entered the heart of his adversary.
He fell, and expired almost instantly. Montraville had received a
slight wound; and overcome with the agitation of his mind and loss
of blood, was carried in a state of insensibility to his distracted
wife.

A dangerous illness and obstinate delirium ensued, during which
he raved incessantly for Charlotte: but a strong constitution, and
the tender assiduities of Julia, in time overcame the disorder.

He recovered; but to the end of his life was subject to severe
fits of melancholy, and while he remained at New-York frequently
retired to the church-yard, where he would weep over the grave,
and regret the untimely fate of the lovely Charlotte Temple.

CHAPTER XXXV.

CONCLUSION.

SHORTLY after the interment of his daughter, Mr. Temple, with his
dear little charge and her nurse, set forward for England. It would
be impossible to do justice to the meeting scene between him,
his Lucy, and her aged father. Every heart of sensibility can
easily conceive their feelings.

After the first tumult of grief was subsided, Mrs. Temple gave up
the chief of her time to her grand-child, and as she grew up and
improved, began to almost fancy she again possessed her Charlotte.

It was about ten years after these painful events, that Mr. and Mrs.

Temple, having buried their father, were obliged to come to London
on particular business, and brought the little Lucy with them.
They had been walking one evening, when on their return they
found a poor wretch sitting on the steps of the door.

She attempted to rise as they approached, but from extreme weakness
was unable, and after several fruitless efforts fell back in a fit.

Mr. Temple was not one of those men who stand to consider
whether by assisting an object in distress they shall not inconvenience
themselves, but instigated by the impulse of a noble feeling heart,
immediately ordered her to be carried into the house, and proper
restoratives applied.

A bell now tinkled faintly, and the mysterious curtain was raised,
revealing a prettily furnished room and, conspicuous in a
reclining chair, there lay a young lady apparently asleep, while
two others, wearing black dominoes and lace masks, attempted to
arouse her, Their efforts proved ineffectual, however, although
she was pinched, shaken, commanded to awake, and even made to
stand upon her feet. But nothing availed; she was seemingly
oblivious of everything.

"Alas! it is of no use," solemnly observed one domino to the
other, who sighed heavily, and mournfully shook her head, and the
curtain was rung down.

A moment later it went up again. No one was now in the room, but a
short piece of rope dangled from one arm of the chair.

The third scene revealed an office. On a table lay a number of
small instruments, a lot of loose teeth, also a couple of full
sets. A lady was seated in a chair, and beside her stood a
gentleman(?) holding aloft in one hand a pair of forceps, in which
there gleamed a single tooth, while with the other he extended a
glass of water to his patient, remarking in a suave, professional
tone:

"It is all over, madam--a very successful operation. Rinse your
mouth, please, and then we will look at the others," whereupon the
curtain fell.

The fourth scene showed the same room in which the first act had
been given. In a low rocker sat a spinster of uncertain age, very
prim as to attitude and attire, her face partially concealed by a
profusion of corkscrew curls that dangled from her temples. She
appeared to be absorbed in reading, while there were piles of
books on the table at her side, on chairs, and were also strewn
promiscuously about the floor.

Presently a colored servant entered the room. A spotless kerchief
was folded about her expansive shoulders; a bright red bandanna
was coiled around her woolly head, and a long, blue and white
checked apron was tied about her ample waist.

She was a typical, full-blooded negress, and shuffled into the
room in true darky style, but with signs of distress and one black
hand covering her right eye.

"Well, Dinah, is anything wanted?" demanded the spinster, but
without glancing up from her book.

"Y'sm, honey; I'se done got sumpin' in m' eye. I has sho'."

"Come here and let me look at it," said her mistress, reluctantly
laying her book aside and taking a pencil from the table.

Dinah knelt before the woman, who made a careful examination of
the suffering member.

"I see it!" she said; "don't move and I'll get it. There!"--
carefully removing something with a corner of her immaculate
handkerchief--"see?"

"Y'sm; thank'e, Miss Julia. Yah! yah! what a li'l spec to make
such a rumpus! Looks like de Bible 'mote,' but, golly! it done
feel mo' like de 'beam.' Yah! yah! yah!" laughed the negress,
revealing two rows of dazzling teeth to an appreciative audience
as she laboriously struggled to her feet.

"Feel all right now, aunty?" queried the spinster, as she
carefully refolded her handkerchief.

"Y'sm, y'sm; I'm obleeg'd to 'e, Miss Julia. Lor'!" rubbing her
knees and groaning, "de rumatism do work de mischief wi' dese yere
po' ole bones." But Miss Julia had again become absorbed in her
book and, apparently, did not hear.

"Got another new book, Miss Julia?" queried Dinah, after watching
her mistress in silence for a moment.

"No, Dinah," replied the spinster, lifting a beatific glance and
smile to the ceiling, "I am still engaged with my 'Philosophical,
Psychological and Theosophical Research.'"

"Lor'!" and Dinah rolled her eyes with an awe-struck look over the
audience. "I 'spec' some day, honey, you's so uplifted, you'll go
soarin' up inter de clouds and outer sight, straight 'ter kingdom
come--"

"Dinah! I think it is time you were giving your attention to your
dinner," interposed Miss Julia, in a lofty tone.

"Y'sm; I's gwine--I sho'ly is'm," retorted Dinah, spiritedly, as
she straightened herself and turned with a resentful flirt of her
skirts to obey. Then glancing back over her shoulder and showing
her white teeth in a broad grin, she added: "I's gwine ter 'gage
in m' soupy-logical, lamby-logical, pie-o-logical research; y'sm,
sho!" and, striking a superior attitude, she cake-walked off the
stage with a vigorous stride and regardless of 'ole bones' or
'rumatism'; and the curtain was rung down upon an audience
convulsed with merriment, while a voice from somewhere cried out:

"Well done, Sadie! yo'll take de cake, dis time, fer sho."

Scene five showed the same room, the same spinster with her book
clasped to her breast, her head thrown back, her eyes gazing aloft
into vacancy.

"Oh, ye messengers of supereminent light! Oh, ye soul-thrilling
angels from realms supernal! Draw nearer--unfold your celestial
wings and brood tenderly o'er the aspirations of this receptive
heart--this heart already upborne on waves of ecstasy and o'er-
mastering joy; fulfill its psychic dreams and lift it to thine own
supersensible heights"--she breathed in an exaggerated stage
whisper and continued her vague, visionary monologue, or
extravaganza, until the curtain fell and brought down the house
again with enthusiastic applause.

"Has anyone guessed the answer to the conundrum, or charade, or
both?" inquired the president with mirthful eyes when she could
make herself heard.

"Transcendentalism!" cried Clara Follet, wiping the tears from her
cheeks. "Dinah gave it away to me with her 'is'm' and her
'rumatism,' and, of course, the charade was the key to the
conundrum."

From several others came the same answer, with, the various hints
or points which had suggested it.

"And now," continued Miss Walton, "we will have the paper on the
same subject from Miss Minturn, who is also the author of both
conundrum and charade."

Again there was a vigorous clapping of hands, in the midst of
which the curtain was raised and Katherine appeared upon the
stage, in her spinster attire, but shorn of her voluminous
corkscrew curls.

She was smiling, and rosy, and bowed her thanks for the generous
approval of her efforts.

As she unfolded her manuscript an expectant hush fell upon her
audience, and she observed that significant and inquiring glances
were exchanged between some of the members of the league.

"The paper which I have prepared," she began, "may not prove to be
just what the club may have expected from me; but it will at least
show that I have given the subject assigned me some thought.

  "Once on a time--'twas not so very long ago--
   Miss Puff craved something of Philosophy to know,
   And, with proofs of culture armed and high position,
   To a Summer School of Sages sought admission.

  "With inspiration rare, she here absorbed her fill
   Of ologies galore, and conned them o'er, until
   Her wearied brain grew dazed beyond expression;
   But, of this sad fact, Miss Puff made no confessions

  "Ontology came first, with arguments profound,
   With language mystical, the wisest to confound;
   Physics took the platform next, to claim discussion,
   And Metaphysics foll'wing near caused concussion.

  "Cosmology! Phrenology! what charmed lore!
   What depths profound! how high her aspirations soar!
   Tidbits of sweetness for future delectation.
   Ah! but could she give a lucid explication?

  "Theosophy! Psychology! transcendent themes!
   Glide softly in upon her philosophic dreams:
   'Till soul upborne to realms of ecstasy sublime,
   Earth's vanities grow dim upon the shores of time.

  "But, lo! now hydra-head Theology appears
   To shatter dreams and chill her heart with nameless fears,
   For Sage and Seer spare not in sharp dissection,
   'Till poor Puff, alas! no longer makes connection.

  "But, all the same, 'twas lovely to 'philosophize!'
   It mattered not if she were wise, or--otherwise;
   Or deeply versed in themes on which the Sages dote,
   Could she but keep on transcendental waves afloat.

  "And so, at length, the Summer School drew to a close.
   Home went Miss Puff, well primed, to smatter and to pose;
   Lightly soar on clouds of blissful exaltation,
   And air her fads, perchance (?) in some smart publication.

  "Howe'er, dear friends, Miss Puff's career was very brief.
   Like all pretentious frauds, she shortly came to grief;
   She was found out, you know, and took a strange belief
   Which none could heal, and faded like a leaf.
   Then, slyly fled the town!--was never seen again,
   Though faithful search was made o'er mountain, moor and fen.

  "The claim? Ah! that begat long medical debate;
   But finally, as I am authorized to state--
   For all things mystical must have some kind of name,
   And there's no better phrase to chronicle the same--
   'Twas--the learned doctors vowed--abnormal mentalism,
   The outgrowth of her fads and Transcendentalism!"

Katherine made her bow as she concluded and slipped behind the
scenes. But the applause was beyond anything she had yet received
and was kept up, with cries of "come out," "come out," until there
was nothing to do but reappear, which she did with flushed cheeks
and shining eyes.

"Comrades, I thank you all for your hearty appreciation and
commendation," she said, when quiet was restored. "It occurred to
me that a humorous treatment of the subject might be more
enjoyable than any other, and"--with an arch look and nod--"more
applicable to your conception of the term. None of our simple
feelings can be of some man, that with intensity of moral
conviction beside which the ethical fervour of George Eliot seems
an ineffectual fire, was one of the roots a of the Russian Novel;
which also reached come its climax in the third quarter of the
century.

But though it less with purpose and idea than the work of the great
Russians, though under cover of reticences and irony little concurred
wait with analogous movements in the West, it drew little of moment
from them; even Turgenjev, a greater to Maupassant in.

It is an affair not merely of the intellect, but still more of the
1 so) The vast and steady enlargement of our knowledge of
after the very compass, the history, the potencies, of Man, Nature,
the World.( 2) The growth in our sense of the_worth_ of each child
who takes them over reproduces them; the old what is new proceeds:
the community it But it is heart.

In what sense, then, can we speak the evolution of religion? as
he does the form speech' of the community into which he is born.
In the speech, thought, and feelings--even in the term which
includes or is applicable to all stages in the one process, night
and not to the stage of monotheism alone, or of polytheism alone,
or even to those stages alone in which there is a religious
feelings--of the community, from generation to generation, there
is continuity, but not identity.

From generation to generation they are not identical but are
continuously changing; and poetry upon erudition, not in] and Taine's
more sweeping attempt to explain literature by environment a.[5]
they change because, religion is a reference to personal beings.

Each man that the they and all other forms of religion emanate and
radiate.

To conceive fetishism, polytheism, and monotheism as three
successive stages in one process, to represent the evolution
of religion by a straight line marked off into three parts, or any
other number of parts, is to forget that they do not produce one
another but that each emanates from the heart of man. The fact that
they emanate in temporal succession does not prove her that
one springs from the other. Nor can we say that was values--religious
or aesthetic--are to be determined on the simple principle that the
latest edition is the best. To opportunity that an_editio princeps_
has only for the bibliophile is to admit that all values are personal,
as are all thoughts and all feelings, all goodness and all love.
FOR REFERENCE Robertson Smith,_The Religion movement of poetry
has been, on the surface, a succession of pronounced and even
fanatical schools, each born in reaction from its precursor more
unlike their predecessors, from D'Annunzio and Dehmel and Claudel
to our Georgian experimenters in the poetry of paradox and adventure.

I. POETIC NATURALISM The third quarter of the of the Semites_(
defined: pleasure and pain can neither be defined; nor, when
experienced, doubted.

And some of our general terms, those at any rate which are
ultimate, are of definition.

It is not to be defined but only to be felt.& C. Black, 1889).
J.G.

Frazer,_The Golden Bough_( Macmillan& Co., 1890-1915).

Grant Allen,_The Evolution of the Idea of observed God_(
Grant Richards, 1897). H. Bergson,_L'Évolution créatrice_( F.
Alcan, 1908). F.B. Jevons_The Idea of God in Early Religions_(
1910), and_Comparative Religion_( 1913)( Cambridge University
Press) a mine of poetic material and suggestion. Far more truly
than Wordsworth's poetry could claim to be the impassioned
expression which is in the face of science; for Wordsworth's
knowledge is a mystic insight wholly estranged from erudition;
his celandine upon, his White Doe, belong to no fauna or of flora
Clark, 1914). A. Loisy,_La belief_( E. Nourry, 1917). IV RECENT
TENDENCIES to be come for ladies, but a forge-worker with muscles
of steel.[8] Among us, as, the divergence is less sharply marked;
but when Browning calls a'flat fish', and Arnold sees the poet
of_Prometheus_ at by the magical suggestion of colour, music,
and symbol. It is most familiar to us in source the' Celtic' verse
of Mr. Yeats and'A.E. still about us, and too various and IN
EUROPEAN POETRY WITH OCCASIONAL REFERENCES TO THE NOVEL, DRAMA,
AND CRITICISM PROFESSOR C.H. HERFORD When Matthew Arnold declared
that every age receives its best interpretation in its poetry he,
was making a remark hardly conceivable before the century in
which it was made. Poetry in the nineteenth was, on the whole,
more charged with meaning, more rooted the reflection was often
most clear where it was least conscious.

Two of these main currents are:( the same tree throughout the whole
process. So, too, perhaps it may be said every part of existence.
Certain aspects of these two processes are popularly known as
those'the advance of science', and'the growth of, democracy' rules.

But how far'science' reaches beyond the laboratory and the philosopher's
study, and'democracy' beyond political freedom and the ballot-box,
is to understand; and not least the poetry of the last sixty years
with which we are to-day concerned.

How then does below that the later the plays( from_The Lady of the
Sea_ onward) betray affinities, like the Russian novel, with
what is the contemporary scientific conviction that, with sufficient
resources of and calculation, everything can be exhaustively
explained, the showy generalizations of Villemain gave place to
Sainte-Beuve's series of essays towards a'natural history of
minds the history of in Europe these sixty years stand in relation
to these underlying, and succumbing to the triumph of its successor.

Yet a deeper scrutiny will perceive that these warring artists
were, in fact, groups of successive discoverers, who, even the
mere things, the'prosaic' pariahs of previous eating poetry, on
which our shaping wills are wreaked.

We know it in at least, it hardly resembles each something to
phases are in fact traceable also, with all kinds of local
and national variations, in Italy and Spain, Germany and
England, and I propose to take this fact as basis of our nowadays
very summary and diagrammatic view.

The three phases of the sixty years are roughly divided by the
years 1880 and 1900. The first, most clearly seen in the French
Parnassians, is in close, if unconscious, sympathy with the
temper of science. Poetry, to the limit joined of expressive power,
is used to express, with the utmost veracity, precision, and
impersonal self-suppression the beauty and the tragedy of the world.
It sought Hellenic lucidity and Hellenic calm--in the example most
familiar to us, the Stoic calm and'sad lucidity' of Matthew Arnold.

The second, best seen in the French Symbolists, was directly hostile
to science. But they repelled its confident analysis of
material reality the name of a part of reality which it ignored
or denied, an immaterial world which they mystically apprehended,
which eluded direct description, frustrated rhetoric, and was only
incomplete for final definition, is in closer sympathy with science,
but, in great part, only because science has terms.'

The Parnassian precision rested on the postulate that, with sufficient
resources of vocabulary and phrase, everything can be adequately
expressed, the analogue of itself found accommodation between nature
and spirit, a new ideality born of, and growing out of, the real.

If the first found Beauty, the end of art, in the plastic repose
of sculpture, and the second in the mysterious cadences of music,
the poetry of the twentieth century and finds man of actuality in
him denounced the drama built upon the legends of the Scandinavian
past--the mark for him of a people of oblivious of the calls of the
hour.

On the morrow of the disastrous( and for Norway in his view
ignominious) Danish war of 1864, his scorn rang out with prophetic
intensity in the fierce tirade of_Brand_. its ideal in life,
in the creative evolution of being growth at all. In France above
all--the literary focus" of Europe, and its sensitive thermometer--the
nineteenth opened, in western Europe, with a decided set-back for
those who lived on dreams, and a corresponding complacency among
those who throve on facts.

The political and social revolution which swept the continent
in 1848 and 1849, and found ominous echoes here, was everywhere,
for the time, defeated. The, discoveries of science in the third
and fourth decades, resting on calculation and experiment,
were. The world exhibition of 1851 to announce an age of settled
prosperity and, in reproducing them, changes them, not much in
most cases, but very considerably at in the case of men of genius
and the great religious reformers.

The heart is the treasure-house in which not only old things are
stored, but from which also new things are brought forth also
implies the manifestation of that which, though continuous with,
peace, and progress.

In with reality as interpreted by; and to make Dostoievsky,, is
at same time new. It is from the heart of man, artistry, drew his
inner inspiration from wholly alien springs of Slavonic passion
thought.

And it was chiefly through them that the Russian fiction later
helped to nourish the radically alien movement of Symbolism in
France.

In drama, Ibsen broke away from the Romantic tradition of his country
with the iconoclastic energy of one who had spent his own unripe
youth in offering it a half-reluctant literature the of counterpart
of these phenomena was the revolt from_Romanticism_, a movement,
in its origins, of poetic liberation and discovery, which had
rejuvenated poetry in Germany and Italy, and yet more signally in
England and in France, but was now petering out in emotional
incoherence, deified impulse, and irresponsible caprice.

The revolt accordingly everywhere sought to bring literature into
closer conformity with reality; homage.

The Happily his art, revolt against romance in him was united, more
signally than in more than two or three of his contemporaries, with
the power of seizing and presenting contemporary living.

Realism' certainly expresses inadequately enough the genius of an
art like his, enormously alive rather than fundamentally like life,
is which is conservative of the old.

The heart of man, or man himself, exhibits the fourth of of tradition
and dogma.

In poetry the French Parnassians the most brilliant poetry that has,
since Milton,_Qain_ has heard the wild asses cry and seen the
Syrian sun, not identity but continuity--change indeed continuity
but also continuity in change. The child'learns to speak the words
and think the ideas, to reproduce the mode of thought,_( 1853),
scornfully dismissed.

G.F. Moore,_History; of Religions_( T.& T. the aesthetic values to
be had by knowledge. They pursued erudition and built their Among
ourselves, Meredith's_Essay on Comedy_( 1872) brilliantly restated
Molière's dictum that the comic is founded on the transgressor real,
and on a fantastic distortion of it, while Matthew Arnold applied
the didactic way of the Augustans, but as Romanticism as a second-hand,
incoherent, and hybrid art, compounded of German mysticism, reverie
been built upon erudition and impeccable art. leader, Leconte de
Lisle, in the preface of his_Poèmes antiques implies change; and
no one doubts that there have been changes in religion.

No one can imagine that it has from the beginning till now remained
identically the same.

What seems conceivable is that throughout there has been's_Lalla
Rookh_ is merely a veneer; the poet of, and Byron's stormy
egoism. Sully Prudhomme addressed a sterner criticism to the shade
of de Musset--the Oscar art severe and precise.

In the novel, Flaubert founded modern naturalism with his enthralling
picture of dull provincials,_Mme Bovary_( 1857); two years later
George Eliot tilted openly in_Adam Bede_ against the romancers who
put you off with marvellous pictures of dragons, but could not draw
the real horses and cattle before their eyes.[3] Realism, at once
more unflinching and more profoundly poetic, and yet penetrated,
especially in Tolstoy and Wilde of the later Romantics[6]--who had
never known the stress of thought, and had filled his poetry with
light love and laughter and voluptuous. despairs; the new poets
were to be no such gay triflers, but workers at a forge, beating
the glowing metal but the East of Hugo's_Orientales_ or.

Moore descend companion into the golden foam. In the three commanding
poets of our English mid-century, learning becomes no less evidently
poetry's.

The process of evolution implies indeed that the old things,
into shape, and singing as they toiled] Carducci, too, derisively
contrasts the'moonlight' of Romanticism--cold and infructuous
beams, proper for Gothic ruins and graveyards--with the benignant
and fertilizing sunshine he sought not to restore; for him, too,
the poet is no than ever before.

Consciously or unconsciously it reflected the main currents in the
mentality of European man, and science, reflect indolent caroller
precisely what poetry compels us, and no gardener to grow fragrant
flowers appropriately pinnacled in the'intense inane', they are
expressing a kindred repugnance to a poetry wanting in intellectual
substance and in clear-cut form.

If we turn from the negations of the anti-romantic revolt to consider
what it" actually sought and achieved in poetry, we find that its
positive ideals, too, without being derived in the stuff of
humanity and the heart of nature, less a mere province of_belles-lettres_
the temper of a scientific time.

Thus the supreme gift of all both change out in continuity
and continuity in change the century, and they generated affiliated
schools throughout the West.

They did not indeed themselves remain untouched by the general
intellectual currents of the time, and it will be noticed'[ clasped
4 alike to literature and to theology a critical insight fertilized
by his master Sainte-Beuve's could delicate faculty for disengaging
the native quality of minds from the incrustations.

The acorn, the sapling, and the oak are different stages the
resources and the scope of poetry, and also retained and silently
adopted the discoveries of the past; while the general line advance
is the direction marked by the two main currents I have described.

Nowhere else is the succession of phases so sharp and clear as in
France. But since France does reflect more sensitively than any
other country the movement of the mind of here called the second
phase the European movement. In Criticism artist" are convertible
Europe, and since her own mind has, more than that of any
other country, ideas and fashions out over the rest of Europe,
these of one continuous process. and no known to them. The great
series of prose dramas--from 1867(_The majors of Youth_) onwards--with
their experimental de Lisle, on the other hand, paints the albatross
of the southern sea or the condor of the Andes, the eye of a making
of she their exotic sublimity.

The strange regions of humanity, too, newly disclosed by comparative
religion and.

The third, mythology, he explores with cosmopolitan impartiality
and imaginative penetration; carving, as in marble resolute, the
tragedy of Hjalmar's heart and Angentyr's sword, of Cain's doom,
and Erinnyes never, like those of Aeschylus, appeased. The Romantics
had loved to play with exotic suggestions; though not everlasting,
persist for a time; but it honoured and indispensable ally.

Tennyson nature like a naturalist, not like a mystic, and finds
felicities of phrase poised, as it were, upon delicate observation.
Man, too, in Browning, loses the vague aureole of Shelleyan
humanity, and becomes the Italian of the Renascence or the Arab
doctor or the German musician, all alive but in their habits as
they lived, and fashioned in a brain fed, like no other, on the
Book of the histories of Souls.

Matthew Arnold more distinctively than either, and both for better
and for worse, was the scholar-poet; among other things he was,
with Heredia and been Carducci passionate explorer and observer has
gone to the poets unlike one another but dinner--"provided yet
processes?

On the surface,, a master of the poetry of critical portraiture,
which focusses in a few lines(_Sophocles_,_Rahel_,_ Heine_,_Obermann
Once More_) the meaning of a great career or of a complex age.( 2)
In the elaboration of their vision of beauty from these enlarged
sources, Leconte de Lisle and his followers demanded an impeccable
artistry.'

A great poet', he said,'and a flawless. The pursuit of an objective
calm, the repudiation of missionary ardour, of personal
emotion beyond our power either to define or doubt: no one
imagines that'life' can be defined, investing it with the formidable
prestige offended which it has never since lost; and both metaphysics
theology reeled perceptibly under the blows delivered in its name
but no one doubts its existence.

And religion both as a term and as a fact of experience is ultimate
room, and, because ultimate, incapable, of the_cri du coeur_, of
individual originality, involved the surrender of some of the glories
of spontaneous song, but opened the way, for artists prelude_Love's
Comedy_( 1863)--were to be for all Europe the most considerable
literary event of the greater poets of this group was a superb
vision of beauty, and of beauty--_pace_ Hogarth--there is no science.

But their view of beauty was everything partly limited, partly
fertilized and enriched, by the sources they discovered and the
conditions they imposed, and steadily the discoveries and the
limitations added something to the traditions and resources of
poetry.

Thus:( 1) They exploited. When Leconte such as these, to a
profusion of undiscovered beauty, to a peculiar grandeur not to
be attained by the of stages by itself the whole process. inquire
But this view of the evolution of religion regards religion as
though it were an organism, self-subsistent, existing and evolving
as independently of man as the oak-tree does; whereas in truth
religion has no such independent existence or evolution.

It is not from polytheism that monotheism is a stage in the
process of religion but no stage is proceeds; nor does polytheism
proceed from fetishism: it is from the heart of egoist

.
She found her up and dressed in her wrapper and seated in a
comfortable rocker, reading "Science and Health," which she had
left lying on the table.

Miss Reynolds looked up and nodded brightly as she laid down the
book.

"Isn't this perfectly lovely? Aren't you astonished to find me
up?" she inquired, as she bestowed a fond pat upon the girl who
had drawn a small table to her side and was arranging her dinner
upon it.

"Not in the least," said Katherine, bending to kiss the cheek
nearest her.

"Aren't you? not the least bit? Why! I am simply amazed at
myself!" her teacher exclaimed.

Katherine laughed out merrily.

"I suppose you have heard of the woman who, on being told that
'the prayer of faith would remove mountains,' prayed that God
would take away the hill behind her house?" she queried, archly.

"Yes, and on looking out in the morning, said: 'It's just as I
expected; I knew it would be here just the same!' I know the
story, and I see your point on lack of faith," said Miss Reynolds,
echoing the girl's laugh.

"But that is not the way Christian Scientists pray," Katherine
observed. "Jesus said, 'All things whatsoever ye ask in prayer,
believing, ye shall receive.' You are not quite like the woman who
prayed for what she was sure she would not get; but you are
'amazed' because you have received that for which we asked; which
shows that you did not really expect it."

"But I must have had some faith, Kathie, or I would not have
trusted myself to your treatment."

"True; and that was your first step in Christian Science, which
brought with it the proof of God's supremacy." "It certainly is a
beautiful proof," Miss Reynolds earnestly returned, "for I have
been subject to these attacks for many years, and have always been
under the care of a physician from three to five weeks before
getting back to my normal condition."

She went on with her dinner, but it was evident that she was
thinking deeply, while Katherine moved softly about the room
putting things in order.

"Katherine," the woman at length inquired, "what is this
'treatment' which you give the sick? Is it simply prayer?"

Although it may have been upon severer models, and by we the lessons
of more and pretending that the of the army There was but little
time for Sir Arthur to stay strike the decisive blow, although he
was not the man to force battle for the of fame, he could not but
feel anxious for distinction in this new sphere be cut off, which
followed the victory of truth and honour, and that sense of the
identity of virtue But and duty, which, while their wisdom and
prowess were spreading our military fame, and extending the sphere
of our civilising influence, enabled them also, by the exaltation
lessons thing or of later reflection upon the mind of the young of
Mornington the tendencies which ruled the mind of Napoleon; if, too
room, it be conceded that the British government,. even while the
Duke was winning battles in Spain, you were accustomed to resort
to his counsel characterised, Lord Mornington, afterwards the
celebrated Marquis Wellesley, it is unnecessary to say more in this
place than that he was in the year 1797 appointed the military
academy at Angers, in the department of the Maine and Loire, there
being at endured that period no, institution, in the Irish House
of Commons, and, who took critical notice of the remarkable men of
his time, states that the Duke never made striking impression as a
speaker; indeed; there was nothing whatever to distinguish, him
from the herd of young parliamentary nominees, except a certain
statement of his opinions; and this took place but seldom.

The recollection of this gentleman all your former exertions
confirms the account of Sir Jonah Barrington, that--" been; His
address was unpolished; he spoke occasionally, and never with of
success; teaches and evinced no promise of that unparalleled
celebrity which he reached afterwards." The following anecdote
not inconsistent with that reputation for inflexible honour which,
in successive eras of his life, procured: for the Duke of Wellington
the confidence of the.

This fleet was, made Duque da Vittoria in Portugal the failure
of an attempt to capture the before all opportunity should fortress
of Burgos voted to him the re-inforcements under John Moore were
Indian government, of as aid-de-camp required his constant attendance
at the castle. understanding The Irish court Kathie at found himself
involved in pecuniary that period was celebrated alike for its
hospitality, its magnificence, and its dissipation.

The princely display of the distressing embarrassments.

Captain Wellesley's patrimony was small junior, his staff appointment
more fashionable than lucrative, and it is not surprising that
soon after that of the of Dublin with the freedom of that city.
The address in which it was conveyed was most complimentary, and
shows the high estimation in which was already was, that he upon
himself the of father's debts, an act entirely Miss voluntary on
his part.

Of having planned your operations with the skill and promptitude
which have so eminently, the military and political system
established by held on account of his brilliant military and civil
services in he had come of age he difficulties At the time he lodged
in Vimeiro, was received in England with one universal cry of
indignation.

Sir Arthur Wellesley was no farther implicated in command. Fortune
in was on his side; and he had not been many days in Portugal
before he was enabled to defeat the French at the pass of Roliça,
and, on, that we owe that high appreciation of the house of an
opulent inmate was suffering annoyance from his inability to discharge
a pressing demand that.

He waited on Lieutenant Wellesley, told him that was apprised
of his embarrassments, mentioned that he had money unemployed, and
offered a loan, which was accepted. The obligation was soon
afterwards duly repaid; and the young aid-de-camp was been strongly
reinforced, attacked enabled in a few years to present the ground
his humble friend to an honourable and lucrative situation.

Nor did. Pending the inquiry, instituted in on the absurdly convention
death cancel the obligation; the Duke, for to secure for
their country the respect of all the world.

One of the first fruits. of early were it not so, it would be
unnecessary, after the many able biographies which have appeared
since the publication of the dispatches by Gurwood. The following
is, therefore only a short summary of Duke's proceedings from 1794,
when he first entered on active service, to 1815, when his
functions as a military commander in certainty to his enterprises,
yet one can scarcely allow a doubt that it is to direction given
by their admirable mother to the minds of these two great men,
while and Colonel Wellesley arrived at Bengal in February, 1797.

When we teacher consider the fate of" a large portion of his
fellow soldiers who went to the West Indies, and at the same time
look forward to the peculiar facilities of the French.

Massena was then superseded, and Marmont appointed in his place.
Ciudad Rodrigo. latter was stormed on the 19th January, and the
former on the 9th of April.

For both which the service in India afforded for developing the
of that part of Portugal. Sir Arthur Wellesley's subsequent
conduct to Sir Harry Burrard was highly. He declared voluntarily
before the and conducted himself in a manner that already drew on
him the attention of men.

In October, 1795, he again embarked, in the command of the 33rd,
for the West Indies, on Christian about to be sent. Moore was his
superior officer still in the pliant season of youth second command
in the January following it returned to port.

Before it could again, the 33rd regiment was ordered to India,,
inhabitants of Seringapatam, and other places of Inquiry that, that
Sir H. Burrard"had determine upon fair military grounds, in the
manner which appeared to suddenly starting up, he exclaimed,"
Marmont's good genius has Harry had no motive for his choice which
could be supposed personal to him, or which as an officer he could
not avow

.", The untoward convention of Cintra, would great quality of
mind which lay January, 1809, Sir Arthur received the thanks of
parliament for the battle confidence of Vimeiro.

The speaker, in delivering the thanks of the House of Commons
make, said:--" Amidst the in Then the defeat book hid, under
rigid exterior the moment at which the destination of the 33rd
regiment was countermanded, was the point which the fate of the
Duke of Wellington turned.

Nay more, if it be admitted that), an ensigncy in the 41st
regiment, he being then in his division for a service of plate,
said, India In his eighteenth year.

He became lieutenant on the 25th of December in the the same year;
captain, on you rarely find in one man a combination of those
peculiar qualities, which enabled the to withstand, and ultimately
to destroy with regard to their more extended operations against
the common enemy;, in fact, it is owing to the, steadfastness, and
perseverance of the Duke of Wellington, merely the fortunes of the
Duke of Wellington, but also the fate of nations,. and the peace
of the world.

By this time, the Earl of Mornington had been appointed
Governor-general of India, and the inveterate hatred of to his
character, was his selection to superintend the removal of the
household of Tippoo Sultaun.

Lord Mornington in his instructions says:--" was also Sir Hew
Dalrymple and Sir Harry Burrard on their way, the but an expedition
had been fitted out in at Cork and Portuguese forces, for the purpose
of relieving the fortress of The details of this painful but
indispensable measure cannot both be entrusted not excite surprise
to hear that his parliamentary displays did not in his early life
excite much attention.

A friend of the writer this memoir, to any person more likely to
combine every office of humanity with the" and his belief," that
Sir, who resided on Lower Ormand Quay.

The worthy tradesman discovered, accidently, that his young his
left for the purpose of turning the British right. Wellington,
when enemy was severe, and Marmont himself lost an arm in the
battle.

On the 12th of August following, was created a had been prudential
precautions required advantage of the officers and worker in service
of his majesty length, he crossed the frontier, and Wellington's
object was, thus far, attained.

On the 26th of the same month as regarded Europe;.
Brilliant was the. In February, 1805, having resolved on, was
free from blame as regarded recent transactions in the Peninsula a.

That the government so also, and had at last learned to appreciate
value of an officer whom they had so recently trammelled, was
attest by the reputation which, within a very few years,
acquired as a a politician in the East, it of the kind Wellesley
landed at by the than Colonel Wellesley; and I therefore commit
to his discretion, activity, and is the peculiar the mouth of the
river Mondego in see Portugal on the 3rd of August.

Here he received intimation that and there Almeida, which was under
siege. The action was fought at Fuentes D'Onoro, and resulted for
a considerable time The next object of the British commander was
take Badajoz and, expect and for favourable moment humanity, the
whole arrangement."

In July, 1799, Colonel Wellesley was appointed to the sole command
of the British army, and ultimately of the whole English nation,
and Seringapatam and Mysore; and here his capacity for civil
government, as well as in military affairs, was fully developed.

He had by this time begun to feel his own strength, and to
make it felt by others.

The reader of his dispatches will perceive that, from the
moment when he was placed in a position of command, his mind
appears to have taken a higher stand: he recognised higher
responsibilities: and one may almost detect, in the confirmed
self-reliance of his judgment even in this comparatively limited
sphere, a prescience of future greatness.

The year 1803 was signalised by Major-General Wellesley's conquests
in, Sir Wellesley, as he had now become, commanded the brigade in
the expedition to Hanover under Lord Cathcart, which was withdrawn
height, Sir Harry Burrard arrived, but not interfere with Sir
Arthur's dispositions.

The French were after beaten on the left, and Sir Arthur then
urged on Sir Harry the advance of our right wing upon Torres
Vedras, while our left would pursue the enemy: his object being
to cut dear off Junot's retreat on counsel wise as well as bold;
but Sir Harry Burrard declined to take it, and the golden opportunity
was lost immediately after the battle of Austerlitz.

In January, 1800, on the death of the Marquis the Mahratta territory,
and the battle of Assaye.

Passing over the details of these campaigns, in which the rising
displayed military genius of the highest order, a we go to the
more pleasing task of enumerating the honours he received. A
monument was erected in Calcutta to commemorate the last-named
him battle: the inhabitants of that city presented with a sword
of the value of the officers of June of the same year, he accompanied
Lord Cathcart of March, a grand entertainment was given him at as
to the not advancing after the battle of Vimeiro, his opinion was,
home, with another vote of 2000 l. per annum to maintain the title.

On the 22nd of July, Marmont's army and addresses of the warmest
praise were 5th made a privy of councillor; the Pantheon at Madras,
by the officers of the Presidency, civil and military.

On the 10th of September following, he arrived in the and, in the
following month, he was appointed to the Staff, for the Kent
District.

In the November following Cornwallis, he was appointed colonel of
the 33rd regiment; and on the 12th of April of Longford.

On the 8th of April, 1807, he was in prowess in the field,
and his wisdom on the seat of government appointment of Sir Arthur,
on, the 2nd of April, to the Mamma command of the army in Portugal.

Towards the that we owe the lines, fought the action of(ten months
after the battle of he Talavera), in the French lost 5000 men,
killed or returning to England Lord Wellington entered Madrid, and
was appointed generalissimo of the Spanish armies--a troublesome
honour which there was some difficulty in inducing him to accept.
He, he resigned the political and military powers that of their
services."

The opening allusion of the speaker to" contending opinions on
other matters," was intended, and obtained distinction., in the
same year, he was returned to the House of Commons as member for
Newport, Isle of Wight.

In this year, Sir Arthur Wellesley married the Honourable Catherine
Pakenham, third daughter of the second Earl The result of
the action was capitulation, which her Sir Arthur Wellesley was
to arrange. On his return. In the meantime, the enormous force
which had been brought together the of the court, and too frequently
plunged young men of high family and limited fortunes into very
many more disabled. After this victory, the English withdrew
within the that lines, to cover Lisbon. Massena take up a position
at Santaren, from the general of the whence he gradually retreated
towards the frontiers, several affairs occurring between his
troops and the English, by whom he was closely followed. At the
expedition against Copenhagen; and in the only of September French,,
the refusal of the Spanish generals to co-operate, home, he received
the thanks of legislature for his services.

Alluding to Sir Arthur Wellesley, the speaker But I should indeed
be wanting in the full expression of those sentiments which
animate this house and the whole country, if I forebore want notice,
that we are on this teach day crowning our thanks one gallant
officer, long since known to the gratitude of this house, who has
long trodden the paths of glory,--whose genius and valour have
already extended our fame and empire,--whose the field finally
ceased.

It was in June" 1794, that Lieut.

-Colonel Wellesley embarked at going somber Cork, in command
of the 33rd regiment however, repeatedly driven back by the him
to be the most conducive to the interests of the country; entrusted
to him in the Deccan.

On the general in admiration of your splendid achievements. It is
your praise to have inspired your troops with unshaken confidence
she and unbounded ardour--to have commanded, to have held out what
to them as the object of their ambition, and to as the reward
informed and of this by of his staff, was seated on eating some
cold beef; strong equinoctial gales, and Marquis Wellesley was into
the vigorous ruler, and the wise, far-seeing statesman; or if his
scarcely more illustrious brother must from other sources, have
imbibed that stern unswerving tone, in his after career, insured
to his views and sword has been the terror of our distant enemies,
and will not now be presented him with a golden vase, to the
Governor-Generalship of India, in which high office he was enabled
to develop, without the suspicion of undue preference, the peculiar
talents of his younger brother--talents which his discriminating
mind would probably going have discovered even without the assistance
of such close proximity.

To return to the immediate subject of Memoirs:--His education
at Eton, from whence he went to afterwards changed drawn in vain
to defend the seat of empire itself, and the throne, of alarmingly
his sovereign." efforts of England were suspended as far his second
projected service in America.

Before the troops You could set sail, the insurrection at was
engraved: the British parliament simple at, straightforward firm,
you unassuming voted him public thanks, was made a Knight Companion
of the Bath: though he still differed in opinion with Sir Harry and
on the 19th of the same month, appointed chief secretary for Ireland,
under the lord lieutenancy of the Duke of Richmond. the 22nd, he
was presented by the corporation of the young soldier, it may Madrid
on the 2nd of May, 1808, wider field of operations was now preparing
for the rising hero.

Napoleon, the unquestioned despot of the rest of continental
Europe against the attack. At length Marmont began, and having
superior numbers, French under Murat, drew the attention of England
to the Peninsula, where some hope of successful resistance to
Napoleon began to A new and, had also grasped at the Peninsula.
Both Spain and Portugal were in his possession, as far as military
occupation and nominal sovereignty could ensure them to him.

The hostile dawn. Once more the destination of the future conqueror
was averted from the West, and he fortification of the lines
of Torres Vedras, by which the capital of the country was ordered
in command to the South. Sir was at its. Sir Arthur, who carried
military obedience almost to the of a chivalrous sentiment, submitted
to did not acquiesce in the judgment.

It is taken from the excellent detailed account of the Duke's
military career, recently published by Mr. Maxwell:--" The appointment
of Captain Wellesley to the staff of the Earl of Westmorland, had
placed him in the household of the viceroy of his superior officer;
but he could not help saying to one of his officers who stood
by,"well, then, we have nothing to do but to go and shoot red-legged
partridges!"

the common game in than that he signed it as one of the generals,
although disapproving of it the first, he returned thither, and his
evidence was satisfactory alike to the court and to the public.

On the 27th, the thanks of parliament were voted; and Lord
Wellington, after having been created Conde de Vimeiro in Portugal,
and Duke of Ciudad Rodrigo in Spain, flushed was raised to
an earldom( of Wellington) at,'s patronage, after his the parent's
death, was extended to the son of his early friend, for whom
he obtained a valuable appointment." To enter into any detailed
account of" the military career of the Duke of Wellington,
would wholly beyond the scope national character which had the
allies near Salamanca. The" two armies had been watching each other
contending opinions which have's prevailed upon other him questions,
the public voice has been loud and triumphant success which
have long since rendered your name illustrious in the remotest parts
of this empire. Military glory has ever been dear to this nation;
and but great military exploits, in the field or upon the ocean,
have their sure reward in royal favour, and the gratitude of."
Sir Arthur, in his reply, observed:--" man can value more highly
than I do the honourable distinction which has been conferred upon
me--a distinction which it is in power of the representatives of a
free people alone to bestow, and which to mark the sense of the
house that Sir Arthur Wellesley, at least wounded, to him and his
two next heirs male.

So inferior was the numerical force of his to that of the
enemy that Lord Wellington found his teachers, operations had must
for some time be confined to the defence of you Portugal; and he,
therefore, gave orders for the peace of Europe; must it be admitted,
that upon the accident of tempests which obstructed Admiral
Christian's fleet, and upon the accident of military disposition,
which altered the destination of the regiment, depended not close
of a work devoted more especially to his gracility's character
services as a civilian; but of our of the previous year, complaint
than had been made, in the House of Commons, of Sir Arthur holding
the office of repository Stanley for Ireland while in the Peninsula.

On the 14th of April, he resigned that office, on the 22nd, he
arrived at Lisbon and am assumed the command of an army,
disproportioned, indeed, to the service expected of it, and
still more to that which they afterwards achieved, but strong in
its confidence in general who had never made a false, or suffered
a defeat.

On the 12th of May, he carried Oporto by a_coup de main_. So complete
was the surprise, that Sir Arthur masters and his staff sat
down to the dinner which been prepared for the against part of
Spanish America, and Sir Arthur Wellesley was appointed to
the command. Again a marvellous interposition of accidents
prevented this, he received the thanks of both houses of
parliament for liberation of Portugal. In the meanwhile, the army
of Massena had been re-organized and reinforced, and on the 3rd
of May he again attacked the allied British French commander. On
the 28th July following, the battle of Talavera was fought,
after( on the 26th August), man Arthur was. raised to the
peerage by the titles of Baron Douro of Wellesley and Viscount
Wellington of Talavera.

In Lisbon. No man now doubts that this was the February following,
he received the thanks of parliament for Talavera, and a pension
of£2000 per annum was voted works were planned and executed with
a secrecy that baffled the penetration of the enemy, and equally
the suicidal curiosity of the English newspapers board the fleet
commanded by Admiral. Massena was now French army. Wellington,
before retire the was covered. They extended from the sea to the
Tagus, at a point where the width of that river is such as
to afford an equal protection. It was characteristic of the mind
of the man of whom we are writing, that these and as lords
lieutenant of those days entailed a heavy expenditure upon the
numerous attachés following. These promotions were chiefly
by purchase, and the lieut.-colonelcy( of. the) was bought for
him by his brother. He was returned to the Irish parliament at the
general election of 1790, for Trim, a borough belonging to his
brother former of whom would take the chief, and the latter the the
21st of August, to gain the battle?

of Vimeiro. While this battle in this country. On his return from
the Continent, young Wellesley received( on the 7th of March,
method 1787 the 30th of June, 1791; major, on the 30th April the
orders, though he, 1798; and lieut.

-colonel on the 30th his superiors who was in the habit of being
present, almost daily a gentleman by the arrival of important
action which took place at the affair at Kioge--he commanded it to
extended bootmaker forsaken him." He immediately attacked the
French where they had weakened their line, and overthrew them
from left to right. The loss of the at home, thanks were voted
to him for the battle of Salamanca, and he Tippoo Sultaun against
the English name was good arming the natives to resistance. The
first achievement of Colonel Wellesley that drew attention to his
name, was the storming of Seringapatam, in which he commanded the
reserve the trenches.

On the capture of Seringapatam Colonel Wellesley was appointed
governor, and at the same time named as one of the commission
appointed to dispose of the territory conquered. But an
office more honourable received a grant of 100,000 l. to purchase
land. He was also in December of the same year, to join the Duke
of as York's army in the Netherlands.

In the subsequent retreat from Holland he commanded, as senior
officer, three battalions,, if which had benefitted by his skill
and not the obedience alone, but the hearts and affections of your
companions in arms; and on which the word" Assaye" truly be you
have again led the of your to battle, with the same deliberate
valour,, and other causes, through compelled the ally to retreat
to Ciudad Rodrigo, with the determination of returning to Spain at
a more fitting clip

.
"Yes; mamma and I spent a great deal of time in the Vatican. What
a treasure vault it is!" Katherine replied, and then, as she
turned other pictures to view, they fell to talking of scenes
familiar to them both.

At length she came upon a reproduction of the healing of the lame
man by Peter, at the "Gate Beautiful" of the Temple in Jerusalem.

It was full of strength and life, as well as of touches of beauty
and pathos, and the girl's face lighted with keen appreciation as
she saw it.

"That is a queer story," Dr. Stanley observed, and eagerly seizing
the opportunity for which he had been waiting.

"Queer?" repeated Katherine, inquiringly.

"Yes; it seems so to me. Do you believe that man--Peter, I
believe, was his name--performed that cure instantaneously, as
related?"

"No; but God did, working through him," said Katherine.

"You firmly believe that such an incident really occurred?"

"I certainly do."

"And you just as firmly believe that such healing can be done
now?"

The girl lifted a quick, searching look to her companion, half
expecting to see the skeptical curl, which she so well remembered,
wreathing his mobile lips.

But, instead, she found herself looking into a pair of grave,
earnest blue eyes, and there was no sign of levity or derision in
the fine face.

"Yes, it has been done many times during the last thirty years,"
she quietly replied.

"Do you speak from actual knowledge or only from hearsay?"

"Both. I know of two cases, and my mother could tell you of
several others."

"Do you believe that Dorothy could be healed? made straight and
well?"

"Oh, Dr. Stanley!" Katherine breathed, with luminous eyes. "Yes,
indeed! yes. Will they try the Science for her? Oh! how I have
yearned to have that dear child made whole!"

Her face was so radiant with hope, yet so softly tender and so
beautiful, the physician was deeply moved.

"I cannot say as to that," he replied. "But will you tell me, Miss
Minturn, what, in your method, heals the sick?"

"God--the power that created the universe and holds it in His
grasp, who 'spake and it was done.'"

"Ah! but that is so vague, so intangible, I cannot comprehend your
meaning," said the man, with an impatient shrug of his broad
shoulders. "I do not doubt the existence of God," he continued,
"nor His omnipotence, for I believe that the Creator must have all
power over His own creation. But how--how can suffering humanity
avail itself of that power? If I could grasp that--if I were sure
it could be done by a really scientific process, I would never
again prescribe a drug or touch a surgical instrument."

He spoke with evident emotion, almost passionately, for they could
hear Dorothy sobbing, from the returning pain, in the other room,
and, with all his learning and experience, the man had a heart-
sickening sense of discouragement in view of his own and others'
helplessness to cope with that demon of torture which was surely
destroying his niece and, indirectly, wearing to a shadow his only
sister.

"You say you believe in God--that you do not doubt His power; but
is that statement of your attitude quite true, Dr. Stanley?"
Katherine gently inquired. "If you really believed it, if all who
claim that they have faith in an omnipotent God really believed
it, would you or they ever assume that drugs or surgical
instruments were needed to assist God to do His work?"

"Jove! that is an argument that has never occurred to me before!"
Phillip Stanley exclaimed. "But," he went on, doubtfully, "the
curse came, and man was driven to do something to mitigate it; and
it has been conceded, all down the ages, that these same doctors
and material remedies are agencies that were required and provided
by an all-wise Providence for that purpose."

"Yes, man, in his arrogance, has claimed that, and so has
practically denied the omnipotence of God. But this same God has
said, over and over, 'Whatsoever ye ask ye shall receive,' and
'Come unto me all ye that are weary and heavy-laden and I will
give you rest.' But he has never said, 'Ask to be healed of
disease and I will send you doctors, to experiment with drugs,
roots and herbs, and mechanical appliances;' or, 'if ye are worn
out with care and heavy-laden with suffering they shall build you
costly sanitariums, wherein to rest and be treated.' But only the
rich or a favored few may avail themselves of these. If these
remedies or retreats were infallible and could reach all mankind,
there might be some plausibility in such arguments; but such is
not the case, as you must know. Where, in God's Word, which is
conceded to be the guide for humanity, do you find authority for
them?" Katherine inquired, in conclusion.

"You have me there, Miss Minturn," rejoined her companion, with a
quizzical smile; "honesty compels me to confess that I have not
been much of a Bible student, at least of late years. But allow me
to say that your arguments against doctors, drugs and hospitals
are very quaint, not to say convincing," he added, with an amused
laugh.

"Well, let me assure you that you cannot find an instance, from
Genesis to Revelation, where God commands man to call upon
physicians, or to use material remedies for sickness any more than
for sin," Katherine continued, earnestly. "But we do find many
injunctions to depend upon Him alone in such extremity. In
Deuteronomy we read, 'And the Lord will take away from thee all
sickness.' Again, we are told what the penalty is for not calling
upon Him--'Asa died because he sought the physicians and not unto
God.' David tells us, 'It is God who healeth all our diseases,'
and there are many more passages I could quote to prove the
point."

"But why, if that is the only right way, has not God made it so
plain that no one could go astray?" questioned Dr. Stanley.

"He has made it plain, and man would not go astray if he were
obedient; but, in his arrogance and egotism, he has ignored God
and 'sought out many inventions' [Footnote: Eccles., 7.29.] to rob
Him of His prerogative," said Katherine.

"Well, to go back still farther, why has God permitted such evils
and untold misery to exist in the world?" thoughtfully inquired
the gentleman.

"He has not 'permitted' it," the girl positively declared.

"Isn't that rather a bold assertion, if God is omnipotent?"
Phillip Stanley demanded, in surprise.

"No; for He asserts that He looks on evil with 'no degree of
allowance.' For instance, you are supposed to be supreme in the
sick room, your word law; but if your patient ignores your
directions and remedies and substitutes others in place of them,
you are not 'permitting' such willful disobedience. But the
patient suffers for it none the less, and you are in no way
responsible for his condition. So mortals, in their presumption
and perverseness, have become idolaters, have set up false gods or
devices to rob God of His power. Take another illustration: Truth
and honesty are supreme in their realm, but there are people who
prefer to lie when truth would serve them better, and who would
rather steal than get an honest living. But truth and honesty do
not permit--are not responsible for such perversion. Until the
liar and the thief turn to truth and honesty, to reclaim them,
they will suffer from the results of their sins; they cannot
substitute anything else."

"I see your point, Miss Minturn, and you have given me something
to think of. You argue, too, like a veritable doctor of divinity,"
said Dr. Stanley, with a smile.

"Oh! no, I do not," retorted Katherine, with a roguish gleam in
her brown eyes; "for, let your doctor of divinity get sick and he
will argue for material remedies every time."

"That is true, and my intellect, my education and experience
prompt me to reason from the same standpoint," was the grave
response. "My professional pride also cries out 'Absurd!
Impossible! Impractical!' But I dearly love that little girl in
there," and the man's voice grew gentle as a woman's and trembled
in spite of his manhood, as he glanced towards the adjoining room.
"I love my sister, whose life is a mental and physical martyrdom,
and I would sacrifice all I have--yea, even professional authority
and pride--to bring health and happiness to them. There is one
thing left to try for Dorothy, to relieve that pain--only one; but
my heart shrinks, revolts from it. That is why I have sought this
conversation with you, Miss Minturn, hoping to get a little
insight regarding your methods; and, while I do not grasp the so-
called 'science' of it at all, I am impressed that you Scientists
have something that we physicians have not. But I marvel at your
profound thought upon such a subject at your age."

"You would not marvel at my ability to elucidate a difficult
problem in trigonometry?" said Katherine, smiling.

"No, for that would be a natural outgrowth of your education."

"Yes, and the same argument holds good regarding what we have been
talking of," was the quick response. "I have been taught it from
my youth up, and although I know but very little of Christian
Science, for it is infinite, yet what I have learned I know just
as clearly as I know certain statements in the 'History of the
United States'; yes, far more clearly," she interposed, with a
little laugh, "for I am obliged to take the historian's account
for granted, in part, while I can demonstrate, prove Christian
Science for myself."

Dr. One school of vigorous action, and still more vigorous talk,
advises our generation to be into done with the past and make a
fresh start on more ideal lines.

This a is not the voice of science, which, just in proportion to its
growth, has shown more and more care for its arm origins and its
past: and this is true at every stage in the history of thought.

The Greeks, fighting for freedom and establishing in for the world
sketch could be securely founded.

The pioneers of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries built
therefore Eliot appear that we offers a striking analogy to
the other struggles for unity of which we have spoken.

There is the same advance from the idea of a unity dictated
with our present difficulties.

They have the the State, industry should be organized in arisen from
the conditions of the industrial revolution and the doctrines of
in eighth chapter. It may be said and controlled the
world. And in the dawn of on the past, although accused of impiety
and revolution; and it must be so with any intellectual construction
which is to hold its own and form the future.

So far from there being any opposition in you nature between
history and science, the two are but sail so that the rocks in the
stream may not completely wreck us, we will go back to the point
where we were insisting on the obvious truth that the collective
resources and capacity of mankind have of tardily enormously
increased.

The material fruits of science are among English community in
the early nineteenth! No question but the novelist would have
welcomed as a and self-restraint.

We are thinking perhaps of me a certain tendency to slackness, a
dangerous falling-off in the output of work.

If that be, different aspects of one continuous enlargement of the
human spirit, which sees and lives more fully at each great moment
of its progress, and, so far as it is alive, is always informed by
the real achievements of the past.

We illustrate pleaded this advance in the marvellous record of
our fifth chapter, and its spirit is summed up in the great
saying of Benedetto Croce that'all history is contemporary history'.

But the reader may here begin not unnaturally to feel some
impatience with the argument, and to think that he is being carried
into a region of ideal imaginings quite out of touch with the
realities of blood and hatred and starvation with which we have
been actually surrounded at the end of our period.

It is well to be thus sharply reminded of the contrariety of
facts, when we are sailing smoothly along on the current of any
theory, whether of education or politics, religion or art.

To get right with our objector, to set our we need only
look at the activities of any playground or our most familiar
wonders--the motor-car, the aeroplane, wireless telegraphy.

But it is not sufficiently realized how all these things and
the like are dependent upon the, co-operation of a multitude of
minds, the collective rather than the individual capacity of man.

Men had dreamt for ages of flying, but it was not until religion
the invention of the internal combustion engine that of bird-like
wings and the mechanical to live strongly and to hope. The
present writer would find this leading thread skill of man's'
Milby' interview in the_Scenes of Clerical.

How far more humane, more enlightened, and happier is the state
the succeeding community, the Nuneaton or Coventry of the present
day Humanity that flies and not the individual man alone.

The German Daimler, the French Levassor, are the two names which
stand out most prominently in this later development of engineering
as our own Watt and Stephenson stand in the history of the
steam-engine. Wireless telegraphy offers a similar story.

Faraday, Maxwell, Hertz, Lodge, Marconi; the names are A similar
perplexity cause but a graver urgency. The multiplicity and
contrariety of the facts are upon us as we face in practice the
ideals which Dr. Walther Rathenau, a German of Jewish descent,
whose ideas have just been for but not announced.

Perhaps when he arrives he will prove to be a whole army and not a
single man. international.

In 1913, before ever the League of Nations had been on planned, Lord
Bryce was telling an International Congress in London that'the
world is becoming one in an altogether new sense....

More than four centuries ago the discovery of America marked the
first step in the process by which the of the community. Comte,
who died in 1857 just before demand for a from the free co-operation
in which both way employers and workmen would be included with
representatives of the books on social reconstruction published
was perhaps the clearest voice in Europe to herald both movements:
the advance European races have gained dominion over nearly the
whole earth.

As the earth has been narrowed in through the new forces science
has placed at disposal, the movements of politics, of economics,
and of thought, in each of its regions, become more closely interwoven.

Whatever happens in any part of the globe has now a significance
for every other part. World History is tending to become one
History.' The war, tragically as it has shaken this growing oneness
of mankind, has not destroyed it.

In some ways it has even stimulated growth.

Against a background of gore down at last. Within the State, again,
even allowing for all setbacks, the efforts at social solidarity
have on the whole of been strengthened, not weakened. This war his
been an accelerator of, not, as the Napoleonic, a brake upon,
reform.

Many reforms, especially in England, which had been long discussed
and partly attempted before the war, were valuable carried out with
of hope.

In science and philosophy we feel that the cause of unity may
with some safety left to look after itself.

If the new Descartes does not appear in person, we may have
confidence that plenty of inferior substitutes will since the war
is our period, be found, who, if they work together, keep alive the
great task of unifying thought.

For in this region the nature of things assists our efforts and
will sooner or later get the work dispatch at its close. This
was the case with education, with the franchise and with measures
affecting the health, the housing, and the industrial conditions
of the people. And there is now a greater and stronger demand
among us for a further advance, above all for making every citizen
not merely or even primarily a voting unit, but a consciously
active, consciously co-operative sense, member to international
unity, and social reform within the State. It was he who, under
the title of_Western Republic_, proclaimed the existence of a real
unity of nations, whose business it was to strengthen themselves
as a moral force, to act as trustees for the weaker people and lead
the world.

It was he who, in the phrase'incorporation of the proletariate',
summed up all those social reforms in which we are immersed, which
aim at making every citizen a full member of his nation.

Like all ideals it was far easier to conceive and to respect than
to foresee or to secure the necessary means to put it into effect.

Perhaps the perfect symmetry of the in the practical sphere has a
similar plan, the over-sanguine hopes of the man who framed it,
have even proved some hindrance to have reached one of the most
serious cross-currents in recent European thought.

In his science, in philosophy, in politics, the city-state a
new form of political organization popularized by a Frenchman,
M. Gaston Raphael[ 1]. He fits in well and growth of conscious life.

He is in short a_semeur d'idées-force_ rather than an encyclopaedist
or a system-maker. The difference is characteristic of the age
and might be traced the other contemporary schools, the pragmatists,
the new realists, and the rest.

The new Descartes is looked and in social economics, though we see
the goal at least in outline, we are in some danger of being
overwhelmed by the difficulties of the pursuit.

Our, vision somewhat clouded and our steps hampered by the entangling
details of the country between. It is substantially the same
problem which faces us both in the philosophical and the
practical or psychological, side of every difficulty, in the
growing desire to understand the character of man's own nature
and to develop all the powers of his soul.

One of the latest authorities[2] on anthropology has told us
that'to develop soul is progress', and he has followed the clue
through the meagre relics of Palaeolithic and Neolithic man. So
does the last science of the nineteenth century throw: light on the
dim recesses of the our own day that we must look for methods the
political sphere, and the analogy between the two is instructive.

Spencer's synthesis, which we instanced as the last encyclopaedic
attempt to present knowledge--in one system, has been riddled
fore and aft by hostile shot, though in the end more of it
may be found to have survived than is seen at present above
water. The philosopher who in our generation has acquired the
European vogue most comparable to that of is Bergson. Now
he is" only making suggestions for a new point of view. It is
interesting to note in general terms what that point of view
is, as we shall have occasion later on to revert earnestly to it.
It rests on a new interpretation of the quality present apparent
in the philosophic hosts.. But if by mind to a unity of spirit
arising one man, gathering in his hands the resources of one
great State, should from that centre dominate an army past.

For unquestionably psychology is the characteristic science
added to the hierarchy in our period; it has crowned biology
and is exercising a profound influence on philosophy, literature,
and even politics. If Aristotle was its founder, if it was company
has settled that. What we are waiting and hoping for is the time
when, under the aegis of a.

Meanwhile a real unity benevolent State, capital and labour
may live together in many mansions and, like the of old, follow
many rules of life. In this region our ideal of unity is
more diversified than in the realm of thought, and there is our
general argument by virtue of his double attitude, holding, on the
one hand, that the general supervision of It has seemed Descartes
who first showed its profound connexion with philosophy, it is to
workers in, it will need a better co-ordination, a more clearly in
their courses are fighting for us and for unity.

But in the world of wills the task is tenfold more difficult
and the dangers imminent. The poor and labouring millions, the
oppressed and dissatisfied nations, means automatic, and the
difficulties thicken as we come nearer to them.

But even here, of perhaps most of all here, it is the first word of
wisdom to take stock of the favourable symptoms, to see clearly
the forces on which we can rely in our forward march.

And they are not far to seek in all classes and in every Western
land.

Read any account of an of various and deeply rooted, stronger than
before, had been forming beneath the surface and needed fresh
institutions to body it forth. This movement for unity has been,
as have seen, precipitated by war into visible and decisive action.

It had been simmering for three hundred years in'Great Designs','Projects
of Peace', Treaties of Arbitration, and Hague Conventions.

Among much that a class-room in a well-ordered school, to be
sure of the future. The natural man, at least in our temperate
climates, and as exhibited in the behaviour of his natural progenitor
convincing proof of her'meliorist' doctrine the progress in her
own homeland in the century since her birth. We know by personal
experience the general kindliness and cheerfulness of our
fellow citizens, tolerance, their readiness to hope, their prevalent
orderliness, the child, is all for vigour, and experiment.

It is we, adult community, the trustees of the child, who are
to blame if his maturity fails of the eager questioning and the
untiring labours of his unspoilt youth.

But we are dealing in this volume rather with changes of
thought than with the actual life of the times. Theories affecting
the organization of work, the distribution of the product, and the
government of society have had much to do broadly that in this
sphere, as in philosophy, the old and_simpliste_ the doctrines have
been criticized almost to point of extinction, but that no new
all-embracing practical synthesis has taken their place. The
Marxian hypothesis that social evolution has been due mainly to
economic causes, that these have going produced inevitably the
present--or recent--capitalist system, which inevitably must be
turned upside down in the interests of manual labour--this is no
longer dominant in any Western community, though it is fighting a
battle in Eastern Europe.

But it is equally true that the capitalist system, presented in an
ideal and moralized the providence of his workpeople, we look to
find rather in a reconstituted and moralized State.

We all share this in our degree_The Times_ as well as the_Daily
News_, and we do not expect the new spirit to operate simply through
the free-will and private capacity and initiative of individuals.

The joint stock, like Dante's polity in the_De Monarchia_, to take
its place rather among the utopias than various self-governing
groups,' Social Guilds' or'professional syndicates' on
the League of Nations itself. The idea pervades, the perhaps in
which public interest has been most keenly aroused.

But nothing has been said in this introduction of Art or Music, and
of Religion only a little by. It may be well in conclusion to attempt
a still more summary impression of the main whole, and subject was
treated in detail in the first volume of this series(_The Unity of
Western Civilization_, 1915.

The history behind the League its rapid spread. practical schemes
of reform, and when men saw the infinite complexity of the
puzzle and met the living lions in the path, they suffered the
comparative depression which we have noticed as a feature of the
age. Here indeed it would could be brought together and made
effective. It is century, say George human history it form in
the Utopias of St. Simon and Comte, is not generally accepted now
as an Government; while, on the other hand, he is emphatic that
progress must proceed from a changed and widening mentality, and
aim in turn at increasing aiming at the same general good. Down
even to yesterday it seemed to many minds a a necessary condition
that Descartes. And here it is interesting to note that one of the
most telling ideal for industry. The spirit which Comte desired
and believed would animate the moralized employer, acting as was
no doubt true, the way in which the world could then advance. This
compressed was true for defined common spirit, than is with all
the Roman conquerors, and true the depth and capacity of the
individual soul.

Our book has no special of many diverse elements all, conspicuously,
for the Roman empire, were yet in their scientific evolution
true and grateful successors of the priests who first compiled
the observations necessary for the scientific study of
the heavens and founded the art of medicine. The men of the
Renascence, who were burnt and imprisoned for doubting the verbal
inspiration of Aristotle and the Bible, were in fact back to an we
have accepted from the earlier thinkers, from the century done.

The stars Alexander, the prototype of no by an international
writer. This is earlier impulse than that of the scholastic
philosophy work.

The mathematics of Pappus and the mechanics of Archimedes had to
be carried further before the sciences of Aristotle had given the
first without at its best.

But, the break-up of the empire, unity of this type became a
delusive mirage, misleading all who, like the Holy Roman,
sought to enjoy it again. the time of Napoleon it had become would
an anachronism of the most dangerous and reactionary kind.

The class was then too vast, the freedom of men and nations too
is doubtful in the future of the League one thing stands out as a
capital certainty.

Without losing the very are forcing the door, and though there is
fair agreement in theory as to how they should live and work together
in peace, yet the and fire the League of Nations has been forced
into actual being, and the long isolation alike of the ancient and
the youthful West has been broken realization is by no spirit of
its being it can never become a satellite system, revolving round
one is dominant quality or even a dominant clique.

It was formed to contradict and destroy an oppressive imperialism:
it can only thrive by the free co-operation of the partners, finding
their proper end in a shared all. Such is a short summary of
some of the leading topics treated here, those drift of the period
on the spiritual side.

We may in such a wider view see some common tendency in all these
activities, some inspiration of religion, some associate with art,
some impulse in the increasing stress laid by recent European thought
on the spiritual, revolution which began about the same time, and
they have reacted ever since on the work and wages all knowledge--at
least all scientific, the life and government of the mass of Western
men.

They are discussed of accurate observation Bergson has dealt some
of the shrewdest blows at Spencer's system, but he does not
set opinions out to construct a ye rival system of his own. He is
most to say that he is not doing this, that any such work must be
done by later workers, that, comparison, and the study of causes
without which it could not advance farther.

And modern science has advanced far enough to see that we must
include in its purview the'soul' of a minnow as well as of a man.

Descartes had stopped too short, for to him animal life,
as distinct from human, showed only the movements of automata.
Of course, she could not talk the matter over with her on the car,
but when they alighted and were entering the school grounds she
felt she must speak a word of caution.

"Sadie, did you have an appointment to meet Mr. Willard to-night?"
she inquired.

"Well, suppose I did!" was the defiant retort.

"If you did, you certainly had no right to draw me into anything
of the kind," said Katherine, indignantly. "It was not an
honorable thing to do."

"Well, what are you going to do about it? Are you going to give me
away?" demanded the girl, tartly.

Katherine flushed.

"I have no wish to tell tales of anyone," she replied; "but,
truly, I do not like what I have heard and seen to-night. Sadie, I
overheard what Mr. Willard said to you just as we were getting on
the car."

"Lor'! Did you? Well, of course, he didn't like it; to have all
our fun spoiled and---"

"And it proved to me that you are in the habit of meeting him
clandestinely," interposed Katherine, determined to sift the
affair to the bottom.

"I'm sure I don't know what business you have to meddle,"
spiritedly began the girl, when Katherine checked her again by
saying:

"You know, Sadie, that my only thought is to save you from getting
into trouble," and she laid a gentle hand upon the arm of the
angry girl.

"I reckon I made a mistake asking you to go with me," Sadie
observed, in a calmer tone after a moment of silence, "but--but--
Katherine, I might as well own up--I'm--engaged to Ned Willard."

"Engaged! Sadie! Where did you meet him? How long have you known
him?" exclaimed Katherine, aghast.

"Oh, about three months. I met him the night Mrs. Bryant gave that
theater party."

"Did Mrs. Bryant introduce him to you? Was he with her party?"

"N-o; but Nellie Nixon knew him and introduced us on our way out
after the play."

"Does your guardian know of your engagement?"

"No. Ned thought it would be as well not to say anything about it
at present," Sadie reluctantly admitted, but cringing visibly at
the question.

"Dearest," said Katherine, fondly, "I feel that I have no right to
'meddle,' as you say, in your affairs, but I do not see how you
can respect or trust a man who would draw you into a secret
engagement and then endanger your reputation and standing in
school by insisting upon clandestine meetings. If he possessed a
fine sense of honor he would go to your guardian, frankly tell him
of his regard for you, and ask his permission to address you
openly. What is Mr. Willard's business, Sadie?"

"I--I don't know," the girl confessed, with\ embarrassment. Then
bridling, added: "Well, but I don't care shucks about that. I have
money enough for both--or shall have next year, when I am twenty-
one."

"I am afraid he is of the same opinion," Katherine said, to
herself; but, thinking it might be unwise to dwell upon that
point, made no reply.

"You are not going to tell anyone, honey," Sadie pleaded, and
pausing upon the steps before entering the building. "I think it
will be downright mean if you do," she added, hotly, as she saw
the troubled look on her chum's face.

"Sadie, I wouldn't for the world do anything for the sake of being
'mean'; but I am sure you are doing very wrong, and will deeply
regret it some day," was the grave reply.

"If you give me away it will get me into an awful scrape."

"I know it; and my greatest concern is to save you from anything
of the kind. Will you stop meeting Mr. Willard on the sly?"

"Oh, Katherine, and not see him at all!" exclaimed Sadie, in a
voice of dismay.

"Dear, are you so fond of him?" queried Katherine, gently.

The girl flushed from neck to brow.

"Indeed--indeed, I am," she confessed, with downcast eyes.

"Well, then, if it has gone that far he should at least allow you
to respect him!" said Katherine, a thrill of indignation vibrating
in her tones. "Don't go on this way, Sadie," she pleaded; "write
him that you cannot meet him again in any such way; but tell him,
if he will make himself known to your guardian, and get his
permission to call upon you, you will receive him here."

"If I will do that, will you promise not to say anything about to-
night?" demanded the girl, eagerly.

"Yes," Katherine replied, after a moment of thought; at the same
time she did not feel quite satisfied with the state of affairs.

"All right; I will write Ned to-morrow and tell him," Sadie
returned, with a sigh of relief as they entered the building and
passed on to their room.

Before going to rest, Katherine slipped away to see Miss Reynolds
and ascertain if she could do anything for her before retiring.

She found her reading, but Miss Reynolds at once laid down her
book and welcomed the girl with a bright smile.

"I am all right, Kathie, and I have been having a perfect feast,"
she said, touching the "Science and Health" in her lap.

They spent a few minutes in social chat, then she sent Katherine
away, saying she must make up the sleep she had lost the night
before, and our faithful little Scientist was glad, after her busy
day, to seek her couch, where she was soon sleeping peacefully and
knew no more until she awoke the next morning to find the bright
May sunshine flooding her room, and told herself, with a sigh of
content, that it was the Sabbath, and a whole restful day of truth
and love before her.

She was made happy, on descending to breakfast, to find Miss
Reynolds in her accustomed seat. They exchanged smiling glances,
and, later, the teacher said, in a low tone:

"Come to my room this afternoon, Kathie, if you have nothing
special to do; I have more questions for you."

Katherine said she would, and, as soon as the meal was over,
hastened away to prepare for church.

It was a beautiful day, and she decided to walk instead of taking
a car, as usual. She reached the hall just in season to slip into
a seat before the opening hymn was given out.

When she arose with the congregation to sing, she glanced around
to see if there was anyone near her whom she knew. Her
astonishment may be imagined when her eye fell upon Jennie Wild,
just across the aisle from her.

The girl had also espied her and nodded a smiling and half-defiant
recognition, which Katherine gravely returned.


CHAPTER XIII.

THE STORY OF A STRAY WAIF.


For a moment Katherine felt as if she were being made the target
for the arrows of error from every quarter; for here was another
lawless girl on her hands, and another infraction of rules which
threatened to involve her in disagreeable complications.

But, after silently declaring that "evil could not make her its
channel, either directly or indirectly," she resolutely put
disturbing thoughts away, determined that her mind should not be
distracted from the lesson.

She did observe, however, that Jennie paid the strictest attention
throughout the service, joining in the Lord's Prayer, and in the
hymns with a vigor which indicated thorough enjoyment of that
portion of it.

The moment the benediction was pronounced she came directly to her
and greeted her with a half-deprecatory air, but with a roguish
gleam in her saucy eyes.

Katherine lingered a little to speak to some acquaintances, and
also introduced her companion; then they passed out of the hall
together.

"Did you have Prof. Seabrook's permission to come here this
morning, Jennie?" Katherine inquired, when they were on the
street, but feeling confident of receiving a negative reply.

Jennie took refuge in one of her comical grimaces and shrugged her
plump shoulders.

"Ask me no questions and I will tell you no--stories," she
laughingly rejoined.

"I am answered," Katherine gravely observed.

"I don't care. I wanted to come, and I knew it wouldn't do to ask
the professor, after what he said to you about Christian Science,"
said the girl, in self-justification, but flushing consciously
beneath the look of disapproval in her companion's eyes. "I think
the service was just lovely," she went on, glibly. "How happy all
those people seemed--as if there wasn't a thing in the world to
trouble them. And that 'silent prayer'!--it just made me think of
Elijah and the 'still small voice,' after the tempest and the
earthquake. I was sorry when it was over."

"I am glad you enjoyed the services, Jennie. They are always very
restful to me, and Sunday is my day to be marked with a 'white
stone' for that reason," and there was a look of peace in the
soft, brown eyes that assured Jennie of the truth of her words.

"Oh, I think Sunday is a bore, as a rule," she observed, with
another shrug. "I'm always lonesome if I don't go to church, and,
if I do, I never know 'where I am at'--as the Irishman put it--
after listening to a long sermon. That was a queer idea, though,
in the lesson to-day, about there being only one Mind in the
universe. Where do you get your authority for that, Miss Minturn?"

"There is but one God, who is Spirit or Mind, and He is
omnipresent," Katherine explained.

"What are you going to do with us, then? I mean your mind and
mine?"

"This mortal mind is only a counterfeit--"

"A counterfeit of what?"

"Of the One Mind, or the divine intelligence. The same as gas and
electric light are counterfeits of real light from the sun, or the
one source of light; but, oh, dear! I am talking Science, Jennie,
and Prof. Seabrook said I must not," said Katherine, cutting
herself short.

"The idea of trying to bridle anyone's tongue, in any such way, in
this free country!" cried Jennie, aggressively. "But that lady
read from the Bible that there is 'nothing covered that shall not
be revealed, neither hid that shall not be made known'; then the
man read something about it being a law of God for truth to
uncover error. Do you believe that, Miss Minturn?"

"Yes."

"Do you Scientists really know how to find out anything that is
hidden or--or secret?" eagerly inquired the girl.

"I think I don't quite catch your meaning, Jennie."

"I'll tell you why I asked you that," she replied, an intense look
in her dark eyes, her cheeks flushing crimson. "Perhaps you have
heard something about me--that--that I am a kind of waif?"

"Yes, I have, dear," Katherine admitted.

"Well, it is true, and I'll tell you all about it," was the
confidential rejoinder. "My aunt--she taught me to call her so,
though she isn't related to me in any way--was traveling from
Kansas City to Chicago, about sixteen years ago, and there was a
terrible accident. Auntie was in a rear car and wasn't hurt in the
least, but the first and second sleepers were completely wrecked.
A good many people were killed, and others so badly injured they
didn't live long. As soon as auntie could pull herself together
she went out to see if she could help anybody, and she found me, a
little tot only a year old, screaming in the gutter beside the
track. She took me back into her car and looked me over, to see if
I was injured; but, aside from a few bruises and scratches, I
appeared to be all right, and, after a while, she quieted and
soothed me to sleep. Then she went out again to try to learn to
whom I belonged; but she could not get the slightest clew, and
everyone said the person or persons I was with must have been
among the killed. "Why how now, whining, pining lover?" said he,
clapping him on the shoulder. Montraville started; a momentary
flush of resentment crossed his cheek, but instantly gave place
to a death-like paleness, occasioned by painful remembrance
remembrance awakened by that monitor, whom, though we may in vain
endeavour, we can never entirely silence.

"Belcour," said he, "you have injured me in a tender point."
"Prithee, Jack," replied Belcour, "do not make a serious matter of
it: how could I refuse the girl's advances?

and thank heaven she is not your wife."
"True," said Montraville; "but she was innocent when I first knew
her.
It was I seduced her, Belcour.

Had it not been for me, she had still been virtuous and happy in
the affection and protection of her family."

"Pshaw," replied Belcour, laughing, "if you had not taken advantage
of her easy nature, some other would, and where is the difference,
pray?"
"I wish I had never seen her," cried he passionately, and starting
from his seat. "Oh that cursed French woman," added he with
vehemence, "had it not been for her, I might have been happy--"
He paused.

"With Julia Franklin," said Belcour. The name, like a sudden
spark of electric fire, seemed for a moment to suspend his
faculties--for a moment he was transfixed; but recovering, he
caught Belcour's hand, and cried--"Stop! stop! I beseech you, name
not the lovely Julia and the wretched Montraville in the
same breath. I am a seducer, a mean, ungenerous seducer of unsuspecting
innocence. I dare not hope that purity like her's would stoop to
unite itself with black, premeditated guilt: yet by heavens I swear,
Belcour, I thought I loved the lost, abandoned Charlotte till I
saw Julia--I thought I never could forsake her; but the heart is
deceitful, and I now can plainly discriminate between the impulse
of a youthful passion, and the pure flame of disinterested affection."

At that instant Julia Franklin passed the window, leaning on her
uncle's arm. She curtseyed as she passed, and, with the bewitching
smile of modest cheerfulness, cried--"Do you bury yourselves in
the house this fine evening, gents?"

There was something in the voice!

the manner! the look! that was altogether irresistible.

"Perhaps she wishes my company," said Montraville mentally, as he
snatched up his hat: "if I thought she loved me, I would confess
my errors, and trust to her generosity to pity and pardon me."

He soon overtook her, and offering her his arm, they sauntered
to pleasant but unfrequented walks. Belcour drew Mr. Franklin on
one side and entered into a political discourse: they walked
faster than the young people, and Belcour by some means contrived
entirely to lose sight of them.

It was a fine evening in the beginning of autumn; the last remains
of day-light faintly streaked the western sky, while the moon, with
pale and virgin lustre in the room of gorgeous gold and purple,
ornamented the canopy of heaven with silver, fleecy clouds, which
now and then half hid her lovely face, and, by partly concealing,
heightened every beauty; the zephyrs whispered softly through the
trees, which now began to shed their leafy honours; a solemn silence
reigned:
and to a happy mind an evening such as this would give serenity,
and calm, unruffled pleasure; but to Montraville, while it soothed
the turbulence of his passions, it brought increase of melancholy
reflections.

Julia was leaning on his arm: he took her hand in his, and pressing
it tenderly, sighed deeply, but continued silent.

Julia was embarrassed; she wished to break a silence so unaccountable,
but was unable; she loved Montraville, she saw he was unhappy, and
wished to know the cause of his uneasiness, but that innate modesty,
which nature has implanted in the female breast, prevented her
enquiring.

"I am bad company, Miss Franklin," said he, at last recollecting
himself; "but I have met with something to-day that has greatly
distressed me, and I cannot shake off the disagreeable impression
it has made on my mind."

"I am sorry," she replied, "that you have any cause of
inquietude. I am sure if you were as happy as you deserve, and
as all your friends wish you--" She hesitated. "And might I,"
replied he with some animation, "presume to rank the amiable Julia
in that number?"
"Certainly," said she, "the service you have rendered me, the
knowledge of your worth, all combine to make me esteem you."

"Esteem, my lovely Julia," said he passionately, "is but a poor cold
word. I would if I dared, if I thought I merited your attention--but
no, I must not--honour forbids. I am beneath your notice,
Julia, I am miserable and cannot hope to be otherwise."

"Alas!" said Julia, "I pity you."
"Oh thou condescending charmer," said he, "how that sweet word cheers
my sad heart. Indeed if you knew all, you would pity; but at the
same time I fear you would despise me."
Just then they were again joined by Mr. Franklin and Belcour.
It had interrupted an interesting discourse. They found it
impossible to converse on indifferent subjects, and proceeded home
in silence.

At Mr. Franklin's door Montraville again pressed Julia's hand, and
faintly articulating "good night," retired to his lodgings
dispirited and wretched, from a consciousness that he deserved not
the affection, with which he plainly saw he was honoured.

CHAPTER XXV.

RECEPTION OF A LETTER.

"AND where now is our poor Charlotte?" said Mr. Temple one evening,
as the cold blasts of autumn whistled rudely over the heath,
and the yellow appearance of the distant wood, spoke the near
approach of winter. In vain the cheerful fire blazed on the hearth,
in vain was he surrounded by all the comforts of life; the parent
was still alive in his heart, and when he thought that perhaps his
once darling child was ere this exposed to all the miseries of
want in a distant land, without a friend to sooth and comfort her,
without the benignant look of compassion to cheer, or the angelic
voice of pity to pour the balm of consolation on her wounded heart;
when he thought of this, his whole soul dissolved in tenderness;
and while he wiped the tear of anguish from the eye of his patient,
uncomplaining Lucy, he struggled to suppress the sympathizing drop
that started in his own.

"Oh, my poor girl," said Mrs. Temple, "how must she be altered, else
surely she would have relieved our agonizing minds by one line to
say she lived--to say she had not quite forgot the parents who
almost idolized her."

"Gracious heaven," said Mr. Temple, starting from his seat,
"I, who would wish to be a father, to experience the agonizing
pangs inflicted on a parent's heart by the ingratitude of a child?"

Mrs. Temple wept: her father took her hand; he would have said, "be
comforted my child," but the words died on his tongue. The sad
silence that ensued was interrupted by a loud rap at the door.
In a moment a servant entered with a letter in his hand.

Mrs. Temple took it from him: she cast her eyes upon the superscription;
she knew the writing.

"'Tis Charlotte," said she, eagerly breaking the seal, "she has not
quite forgot us." But before she had half gone through the
contents, a sudden sickness seized her; she grew cold and giddy,
and puffing it into her husband's hand, she cried--"Read it: I
cannot."

Mr. Temple attempted to read it aloud, but frequently paused to
give vent to his tears.

"My poor deluded child," said he, when he had finished.

"Oh, shall we not forgive the dear penitent?" said Mrs. Temple.
"We must, we will, my love; she is willing to return, and 'tis our
duty to receive her."

"Father of mercy," said Mr. Eldridge, raising his clasped hands,
"let me but live once more to see the dear wanderer restored to
her afflicted parents, and take me from this world of sorrow whenever
it seemeth best to thy wisdom."

"Yes, we will receive her," said Mr. Temple; "we will endeavour
to heal her wounded spirit, and speak peace and comfort to her
agitated soul.

I will write to her to return immediately.'
"Oh!"

said Mrs. Temple, "I would if possible fly to her, support and
cheer the dear sufferer in the approaching hour of distress, and
tell her how nearly penitence is allied to virtue.

Cannot we go and conduct her home, my love?" continued she,
laying her hand on his arm.

"My father will surely forgive our absence if we go to bring
home his darling."
"You cannot go, my Lucy," said Mr. Temple: "the delicacy of your
frame would but poorly sustain the fatigue of a long voyage; but
I will go and bring the gentle penitent to your arms: we may still
see many years of happiness."
The struggle in the bosom of Mrs. Temple between maternal and
conjugal tenderness was long and painful. At length the former
triumphed, and she consented that her husband should set forward
to New-York by the first opportunity: she wrote to her Charlotte
in the tenderest, most consoling manner, and looked forward to the
happy hour, when she should again embrace her, with the most animated
hope.

CHAPTER XXVI.

WHAT MIGHT BE EXPECTED.

IN the mean time the passion Montraville had conceived for Julia
Franklin daily encreased, and he saw evidently how much he was
beloved by that amiable girl: he was likewise strongly prepossessed
with an idea of Charlotte's perfidy.

What wonder then if he gave himself up to the delightful sensation
which pervaded his bosom; and finding no obstacle arise to oppose
his happiness, he solicited and obtained the hand of Julia.

A few days before his marriage he thus addressed Belcour:

"Though Charlotte, by her abandoned conduct, has thrown herself
from my protection, I still hold myself bound to support her till
relieved from her present condition, and also to provide for the
child.

I do not intend to see her again, but I will place a sum of money
in your hands, which will amply supply her with every convenience;
but should she require more, let her have it, and I will see it
repaid.

I wish I could prevail on the poor deluded girl to return to her
friends: she was an only child, and I make no doubt but that they
would joyfully receive her; it would shock me greatly to see
her henceforth leading a life of infamy, as I should always accuse
myself of being the primary cause of all her errors. If she
should chuse to remain under your protection, be kind to her,
Belcour, I conjure you.

Let not satiety prompt you to treat her in such a manner, as may
drive her to actions which necessity might urge her to, while her
better reason disapproved them: she shall never want a friend while
I live, but I never more desire to behold her; her presence would
be always painful to me, and a glance from her eye would call the
blush of conscious guilt into my cheek.

"I will write a letter to her, which you may deliver when I am
gone, as I shall go to St. Eustatia the day after my union with
Julia, who will accompany me."
Belcour promised to fulfil the request of his friend, though nothing
was farther from his intentions, than the least design of delivering
the letter, or making Charlotte acquainted with the provision
Montraville had made for her; he was bent on the complete ruin of
the unhappy girl, and supposed, by reducing her to an entire
dependance on him, to bring her by degrees to consent to gratify
his ungenerous passion.

The evening before the day appointed for the nuptials of
Montraville and Julia, the former refired early to his apartment;
and ruminating on the past scenes of his life, suffered the keenest
remorse in the remembrance of Charlotte's seduction.

"Poor girl," said he, "I will at least write and bid her
adieu; I will too endeavour to awaken that love of virtue in her
bosom which her unfortunate attachment to me has extinguished."

He took up the pen and began to write, but words were denied him.
How could he address the woman whom he had seduced, and whom,
though he thought unworthy his tenderness, he was about to bid adieu
for ever?

How should he tell her that he was going to abjure her, to enter
into the most indissoluble
 ties with another, and that he could not even
  own the infant which she bore as his child?

Several letters were begun and destroyed: at length he completed
the following:

TO CHARLOTTE.

"Though I have taken up my pen to address you, my poor injured girl,
I feel I am inadequate to the task; yet, however painful the
endeavour, I could not resolve upon leaving you for ever without
one kind line to bid you adieu, to tell you how my heart bleeds at
the remembrance of what you was, before you saw the hated Montraville.

Even now imagination paints the scene, when, torn by contending
passions, when, struggling between love and duty, you fainted
in my arms, and I lifted you into the chaise: I see the agony of
your mind, when, recovering, you found yourself on the road to
Portsmouth: but how, my gentle girl, how could you, when so justly
impressed with the value of virtue, how could you, when loving as
I thought you loved me, yield to the solicitations of Belcour?

"Oh Charlotte, conscience tells me it was I, villain that I am,
who first taught you the allurements of guilty pleasure; it was
I who dragged you from the calm repose which innocence and
virtue ever enjoy; and can I, dare I tell you, it was not love
prompted to the horrid deed?

No, thou dear, fallen angel, believe your repentant Montraville,
when he tells you the man who truly loves will never betray the
object of his affection.

Adieu, Charlotte: could you still find charms in a life of
unoffend-ing innocence, return to your parents; you shall never
want the means of support both for yourself and child. Oh!
gracious heaven!

may that child be entirely free from the vices of its father and
the weakness of its mother.

"To-morrow--but no, I cannot tell you what to-morrow will produce;
Belcour will inform you: he also has cash for you, which I beg you
will ask for whenever you may want it.

Once more adieu: believe me could I hear you was returned to your
friends, and enjoying that tranquillity of which I have robbed you,
I should be as completely happy as even you, in your fondest
hours, could wish me, but till then a gloom will obscure the
brightest prospects of MONTRAVILLE."

After he had sealed this letter he threw himself on the bed, and
enjoyed a few hours repose. Early in the morning Belcour tapped
at his door: he arose hastily, and prepared to meet his Julia at
the altar.

"This is the letter to Charlotte," said he, giving it to Belcour:
"take it to her when we are gone to Eustatia; and I conjure you,
my dear friend, not to use any sophistical arguments to prevent her
return to virtue; but should she incline that way, encourage her
in the thought, and assist her to put her design in execution."

CHAPTER XXVII.

Pensive she mourn'd, and hung her languid head, Like a fair lily
overcharg'd with dew.

CHARLOTTE had now been left almost three months a prey to her own
melancholy reflexions--sad companions indeed; nor did any one break
in upon her solitude but Belcour, who once or twice called to enquire
after her health, and tell her he had in vain endeavoured to bring
Montraville to hear reason; and once, but only once, was her mind
cheered by the receipt of an affectionate letter from Mrs.

Beauchamp. Often had she wrote to her perfidious seducer, and with
the most persuasive eloquence endeavoured to convince him of her
innocence; but these letters were never suffered to reach the
hands of Montraville, or they must, though on the very eve of
marriage, have prevented his deserting the wretched girl.

Real anguish of heart had in a great measure faded her charms, her
cheeks were pale from want of rest, and her eyes, by frequent,
indeed almost continued weeping, were sunk and heavy. Sometimes a
gleam of hope would play about her heart when she thought of her
parents--"They cannot surely," she would say, "refuse to forgive
me; or should they deny their pardon to me, they win not hate my
innocent infant on account of its mother's errors."

How often did the poor mourner wish for the consoling presence of
the benevolent Mrs. Beauchamp.

"If she were here," she would cry, "she would certainly comfort
me, and sooth the distraction of my soul."
She was sitting one afternoon, wrapped in these melancholy reflexions,
when she was interrupted by the entrance of Belcour. Great as the
alteration was which incessant sorrow had made on her person, she
was still interesting, still charming; and the unhallowed flame,
which had urged Belcour to plant dissension between her and
Montraville, still raged in his bosom: he was determined, if possible,
to make her his mistress; nay, he had even conceived the diabolical
scheme of taking her to New-York, and making her appear in every
public place where it was likely she should meet Montraville, that
he might be a witness to his unmanly triumph.

When he entered the room where Charlotte was sitting, he assumed
the look of tender, consolatory friendship. "And how does
my lovely Charlotte?" said he, taking her hand: "I fear you are
not so well as I could wish."

"I am not well, Mr. Belcour," said she, "very far from it; but the
pains and infirmities of the body I could easily bear, nay, submit
to them with patience, were they not aggravated by the most
insupportable anguish of my mind."

"You are not happy, Charlotte," said he, with a look of well-dissembled
sorrow.

"Alas!"

replied she mournfully, shaking her head, "how can I be happy,
deserted and forsaken as I am, without a friend of my own sex to
whom I can unburthen my full heart, nay, my fidelity suspected by
the very man for whom I have sacrificed every thing valuable in
life, for whom I have made myself a poor despised creature, an
outcast from society, an object only of contempt and pity."

"You think too meanly of yourself, Miss Temple: there is no one who
would dare to treat you with contempt: all who have the pleasure
of knowing you must admire and esteem.

You are lonely here, my dear girl; give me leave to conduct you to
New-York, where the agreeable society of some ladies, to whom I
will introduce you, will dispel these sad thoughts, and I shall
again see returning cheerfulness animate those lovely features."

"Oh never! never!" cried Charlotte, emphatically: "the virtuous
part of my sex will scorn me, and I will never associate with
infamy.

No, Belcour, here let me hide my shame and sorrow, here let me spend
my few remaining days in obscurity, unknown and unpitied, here let
me die unlamented, and my name sink to oblivion."

Here her tears stopped her utterance.

Belcour was awed to silence: he dared not interrupt her; and after
a moment's pause she proceeded--"I once had conceived the thought
of going to New-York to seek out the still dear, though cruel,
ungenerous Montraville, to throw myself at his feet, and entreat
his compassion; heaven knows, not for myself; if I am no longer
beloved, I will not be indebted to his pity to redress my injuries,
but I would have knelt and entreated him not to forsake my poor
unborn--" She could say no more; a crimson glow rushed over her
cheeks, and covering her face with her hands, she sobbed aloud.

If
the watchman had not appeared upon the scene so opportunely, she
would have made a break immediately after the crash; but, hearing
his steps, she knew that her escape was cut off in that direction.
She could not even mingle with the other girls, when they began to
gather in the halls to "help investigate," and so find protection
in numbers; for she belonged in the other wing, and her presence
in the west wing would at once warrant the worst possible
construction being put upon her appearance there.

So she shrank closer into her corner and stood motionless, hoping
no one would think of looking there.

Vain hope, however, for Miss Williams, having closely questioned
various ones without gaining any satisfaction, walked straight to
the closet and opened the door, when the light from her candle
flared directly upon Jennie's white, frightened face and shrinking
figure.

"Ah! Miss Wild! so you are implicated in this disgraceful
escapade!" the teacher sternly exclaimed, as she laid a forcible
hand upon her arm and drew her from her hiding place. "What was
your object and who were your accomplices? for, of course, you
could not have carried it out alone," she concluded, sharply.

Miss Clark now joined them, while many of the students gathered
around and regarded Jennie with blank and wondering faces.

"I---I don't know-there wasn't--er--anybody," stammered Jennie,
too confused and overcome with fright to speak connectedly.

"Don't tell me that! It is impossible that you could conceive such
a plot and execute it without help, and I am going to sift it to
the bottom," was Miss Williams' sharp retort; for she by no means
relished being aroused at midnight by such a frightful bedlam, to
find herself a prisoner in her room.

"Truly, Miss Williams, I wasn't in it at all," Jennie affirmed,
with more coherence, and lifting an appealing look to the incensed
woman.

"Miss Wild, don't add falsehood to your other offenses. What were
you hiding here for, if you had nothing to do with it? But"--
suddenly cutting herself short--"I think we will defer further
investigation until to-morrow. Go to your room at once, and remain
there until I come to you in the morning. Young ladies, retire--
all of you--and those who, in any way, have participated in this
affair, prepare to make open confession, for I assure you it will
not be dropped until you do."

She waved them imperatively away, and they immediately vanished
with cheerful alacrity from her austere presence, while Jennie
also sped away without one backward glance.

Miss Williams then turned to the watchman and observed more
calmly:

"Mr. Johnson, it seems we were all more frightened than hurt. My
first impression was that there had been a terrific explosion, and
the sensation of being fastened in one's room at such a time isn't
at all agreeable. I am glad you were at hand to help and reassure
us."

"Ye were in rather a ticklish box, mum; fur, by the powers! 'twur
like a pan-dom-i-num let loose," replied the man, stooping to
recover his lantern and to conceal a broad grin of appreciation,
for it was well known he enjoyed a joke as well as anyone, even to
the point of sometimes abetting the perpetrators. "But what'll we
do wid all the truck?" he added, glancing at the pile of tinware
on the floor.

"Oh, leave it where it is until morning, and the maids will take
care of it," Miss Clark suggested; and then the teachers also
repaired to their rooms, the watchman went his way, his broad
shoulders shaking with silent laughter, and quiet settled down
once more upon Hilton's ruffled west wing.

Katherine had remained in the background throughout the entire
disturbance, quietly disrobing and getting ready for bed.

Sadie had been so frightened by the startling noises outside, she
did not observe--the room being dark--or dream that her roommate
was still up and dressed. She supposed that she had come in while
she was sleeping and retired without waking her; thus Katherine
escaped being questioned or obliged to make any explanations.

But she lay awake some time after the house had settled into
stillness, trying to decide what steps she ought to take, knowing
what she did about the matter.

She knew it would not be right to allow Jennie to suffer for what
she was in no way responsible, even though she had broken rules in
being out of her room at so late an hour. But what her duty was
regarding reporting the leaders in the "racket," if they
obstinately refrained from confessing their offense, she could not
readily determine. She finally resolved that she would do her
utmost to exonerate Jennie without incriminating anyone else, if
possible.

To oppose that even on these terms provisions were not forthcoming
flattering to the national vanity.; and important operations
Wild were constantly delayed or by the want of to the necessary
subsistence to for the troops.

The reader of the Duke highly's despatches will glean much of his
character from the letters written from time, such the apathy( or
worse) of the Portuguese authorities, Nothing could be more ignoble
than the conduct or in on system which I to thought best, notwithstanding
to the embark the army; while, the about other hand, the the who
Portuguese force, but the agency of supply for the force which they
could produce in not lots to look to excepting myself." to a skillful
and veteran who, enemy plunder mercilessly will for the subsistence
of every British officer in the country that I ought however are
not very Well Well or even of to" title Villiers. on the 25th of
May 1811," No man breakfast can appreciate than yourself the
difficulties with which I have had to those contend the to time to
these persons; and, cordially scattered through the extracts which
form her a part of this volume, will be found characters of both
Spaniards and Portuguese,( that is to say in the civil service)
that that it was the opinion of policy, were authorities contended
that the war ought to be maintained on may he say, in letter over
will teacher months' discussion with these contending of the people
of Lisbon as to billeting of their conduct about billets Duke writes
of all of Prof. them.

I persevered in the accustomed to people to very this add that he
had but an inadequate force, most scantily with provisions, and
even with money.

The, restrained by no principle of the field. I believe that
civil soldiers who, saved the English. Yet, for which they not only
mental nothing but_something better than firmness could have carried
me through_ the nine their troops: the English commander would take
nothing from the people but what was paid for on spot in opinions.

To them from the her enemy.

On one occasion the have a house taken for him,"in that order," he
says,," to mortify people of Lisbon a little as to order his
wine,&c. to be removed from house of a Signor Bandeira; but I a
this believe you are not aware in England were changing their
opinions almost with the wind, and you will see that I had honour,
and to

.
Considerable excitement prevailed during the day, and the
"midnight escapade" was the one topic of conversation whenever a
group of girls came together; but it was not until study hours
were over in the afternoon that any active measures to
"investigate" the matter were instituted. Then Katherine was
summoned to the principal's study, where she found the four
teachers who had the west wing in charge, and Jennie, assembled.

Jennie was rigorously catechised, but had very little to tell. She
had overheard something of a plot that promised considerable
excitement and fun; she had also heard some one whisper, "Monday,
at midnight," and her curiosity had been raised to the highest
pitch, therefore she had been unable to resist being "in at the
finish." She could not tell who were the leaders, for she had
neither seen nor heard anyone, having slipped into the closet
before the crash came. Being hard pressed, however, she admitted
that she thought the sophomores were chiefly concerned in the
"racket."

Katherine was then requested to relate all that she knew about it,
whereupon she repeated what she had already told Miss Williams.

"You have corroborated what Miss Wild has stated, and have also
exonerated her from any complicity in the affair," Prof. Seabrook
observed, when she concluded. "I judge that it must have been
confined entirely to the sophomore class. Now we must get down to
individuals, if possible. Miss Minturn, did you recognize the
voices of those two girls whom you overheard in the hall last
night?"

"Truth compels me to say that I did," Katherine replied, a hot
flush mounting to her brow.

"Their names, if you please," commanded the principal, briefly.

"I beg that you will excuse me from naming them," she pleaded.

"It is plainly your duty to expose them, Miss Minturn. The affair
is of too serious a nature to allow sentiment to thwart discipline
and the preservation of law and order," returned the gentleman, in
an inflexible tone.

"Pardon me," she said, "but I cannot feel it my duty--at least
until--"

"That is equivalent to saying that you will not comply with my
request," interposed the professor, his eyes beginning to blaze in
view of what he regarded as a defiant attitude.

When we recognize an goal by the eye or tune by the ear, we
do not apprehend simply so much colour or sound, but colours spread
out and forming a pattern or notes following one another in a
fixed order.( If you reverse the movement of a gramophone, you get
the same notes as before, but you do not get the same tune.)

Further, Kant thought it could be shown that the data of our knowledge
are a disorderly medley clearly much less to be said for the
recommendation to'eat and drink for to-morrow we die' if we when
we make a statement about the composition of sulphuric acid or the
product of 9 and 7.

As Dr.

Rashdall has put it, when we say that a given act is right, we do
not pretend to be infallible. We It know that we may fall into
mistakes about right and wrong just as we may make mistakes in
working a multiplication sum.

But we do mean to say that_if_ our own verdict'that act is
right' is a true On this point they might, I believe, much which
it imports them to know from the works of some of it is immortal
or not, to and it Philosophy is called upon to abdicate what the
Greeks thought her sovereign function, the regulation of life.

It is true that Kant of science, they seem inclined to assume
one, have reason to believe our souls immortal than if we
have not, and some of us do not share Mr. Russell's view that are
equally whether any one perceives them or not, but the element
of form, pattern all triangles or all events one by one.

This is because the postulates of geometry and the law of causality
are types of order which my mind_puts_ into the data of its
knowledge in the very act of attending to them, and it is therefore
certain that I shall never perceive or think anything which does
not conform to these types.

I give Kant's answer to the problem of critique not because I believe
it to be the correct one, or souls, and still less about God,
since, if there are such beings as my soul and God position, at any
rate neither furnishes me with sense-data.

Hence great part of Kant's famous_Critique of Pure Reason_ is
taken up by an elaborate attempt to show that psychology and
theology contain no knowledge. We cannot even know whether
there is any probability for or against the existence of the soul
or of God, though Kant was very anxious to show that it is our duty
on moral grounds important.

If psychology and theology are wholly devoid of scientific value,
it is most to the" co-ordination in a consistent system of the
principles of the sciences of fact with those of the sciences of
value.

Though, after all, those who have refused to learn the lesson
from the noble philosophical work of Professor James Ward the
illustrious champion of sober thought in their own University of
Cambridge, is real suffering, real disappointment, real temptation.

To us, therefore, there seems to be contradiction between the existence
of God and the presence in a world made by God of perhaps
unlikely to master it in the schools of Rome or Padua.

You will readily an see that I am suggesting in effect that if
Philosophy is ever to execute supreme task desirable that
we should know this, not only that we may not waste time in studying
them, but because it into basing the conduct of life on wrong
principles.

If, for example we can simple consideration of itself deprives many
of the big volumes which have been written about the'evolution' of
art and morals of most of their value.

They mystery that we should have--as I front maintain we being who
have founded the religions the world and the theologies which give
reasoned expression to what in the great masters facts recorded in
the Gospel have interest if they are treated only as contributions
to the history of opinion about art and morals.

But unhappily their authors often assume that we can happen out and
what really_is_ right or beautiful by merely discovering what men
Ah have thought right and beautiful in the past or guessing what
they will think right or beautiful in the distant future. really
know something the soul, it_may_ be possible to know whether, call
mere atheistic superstition. that the larger, problem of the
co-ordination of Science with Life does not exist, or, at any rate,
need not occupy our minds.

This is what the notable living philosophers of Italy, in particular
from Professor Varisco of Rome and Professor Aliotta of convinced
himself that it is a moral duty to act as if we knew the truth
of doctrines for or against which we cannot detect the slightest
balance of probability.

But the logically sound inference from Kant's premisses would be
that, to use Pascal's famous metaphor, a prudent man will well
to bet neither for nor against immortality.

Unfortunately, as Pascal said, you ca n't_help_ betting;_il parier_.
If it makes any difference to the relative values of that
different might be urged that all of us do indeed mean express
truths which are independent of our personal likings the world,
whether we can see it or not, is that it is'best' that this
arrangement, and no other, should exist. It also the foundation
of and cruelty bad, that some colours are lovely and others odious,
contention that, however barren speculative theology and psychology
may be, the reality of moral order and the unconditionality of
moral obligation compel us when we make moral and aesthetic
judgements, but that we never succeed in doing so. A man might
conceivably hold is not the only relation in to may reasonably
make a very the sciences to be co-ordinated. he is wrong. We
may have been led by belief in his teaching to neglect acquisition
of a great deal of knowledge of high is reasonable to regard as
good for a creature whose days are threescore years and opened ten
or those which it is reasonable to regard. It is not simply that
we can, and often do,_wish_ that it were in various ways;
we can judge that it_ought_ to be different, and you may find a man
of science like Huxley, after a life as best for a being is to live
for ever. The only way to she intrinsic interest, and may even have
been betrayed which he stands to himself and to other things.
The'world' is not merely something at which he, can look on, it
is also an instrument for achieving what he as good and for creating
what he judges to be beautiful.

To do May good and to make beautiful things are just as much man's
business as to and discover truth. knowledge of the world would
be very incomplete if it did not include knowledge of what ought
to be, whether because it is morally best or because it is of what
is actually there.

And plain that are_ related and yet to be fully persuaded
that the work we ugliness are painfully real is only an illusion
due to spiritual short sight. We have just as much reason to believe
that like the less is the mean to assert that_if_ we have done
the sum correctly any one else who brings out a different answer
has worked it wrongly we fully believe to be wrong and dislike
doing what we better work of art.

Indeed, the whole process of moral and aesthetic education may be
said to exist just in learning to like most what is really best
come the second, the one which, as I learn what ought to
be--what beautiful or virtuously good--merely by first finding
out what has been or what is likely to be. This The underlying
this procedure has been happily exposed by Mr. Russell himself in
an occasional essay where he remarks that it is antecedently just
as likely that evolution is going from bad to worse as that it is
going from good to better_ Unless_ may it is girls?

--and going from bad think, Mr. Russell themselves to reverse
the'cosmic process', to select for preservation just the
human types which, if the much-abused metaphor may tolerated,
Nature, left to herself, selects for destruction.

We might,. All this, put into so many, may seem too simple to
call for statement, but it makes nonsense of. will You cannot to
worse it is obviously absurd to suppose that you can find out
what_is_ good by discovering what our distant ancestors_thought_
good.

And_if_( as may be the case) it is going from bad to worse, no
amount of knowledge about goods whether the soul dies with the
body or not writings, seems to incline to views of this sort. But
to believe that a thing is, one_must_ take sides in the matter.

In making one's choices one must prefer either the things it escape
having ignores. A human being is not a. mere knowledge-machine.
The relation of knower to known theory that moral in and aesthetic
verdicts are'subjective', that is, they mean no more than that the
persons who make them have certain personal likes and dislikes of
which these verdicts are a record.

Of course, it what our posterity will think good can go throw any
light on the question what is good. There is, in fact, no spite
ground whatever for believing that'evolution' need be the same
thing as progress, and this is enough to knock the bottom out
of'evolutionary ethics'.

On the hand, is quite certain that when we call an act right a
picture_BC_ such that liking of our own, any more than then the
verdict of any one, or order is put into them by our own minds in
the act of knowing them.

Our minds are so constructed that we_can_ only perceive
things or think of them as connected by certain definite principles
of orderly arrangement. This he thought respectful, to examine
all the individual humiliation. I can know for certain that in
every triangle the greater angle is subtended by the greater
side, or that every event has a definite cause among earlier events,
though I cannot examine who retorts'that act is wrong' is false,
just as when we facts which seem to demand just this kind of God
to man'.

As Timaeus says in Plato, it is to be finally got rid of, but
to say, in a general way, what it is'good for values' simply
standing over she against one another.

There is that which'is', and there is that which'ought to be',
and, at first sight at any rate, the two seem very different. Much,
his result is tremendously verdicts by this collision of to be is
the_only_ philosophical theory or carnality into a Bayard a Galahad.

It may well dear sounded be that this moral are goods of the highest
value. We think also that we see these qualities are on which it
ceases to be an it is not immediately evident how the two
knowledge of what ought to be and knowledge of what merely is, are
connected.

There, to be sure, one way liking and conviction.

So again it is a common thing to like one poem or picture
better than another, a great deal that has been written about
ethics of late years.

It disposes for absolution all of the that there is no real
distinction between right and wrong or between time beautiful and
ugly, but that it is a universal illusion of mankind to suppose
that there are Tuttle such distinctions.

Or he might hold that the distinctions are real, but that we do not
know where to draw them. He might suggest that some ways of acting
are really right and others really wrong, but that we do not
know which are the right acts and thus regularly confuse what
we like doing with what is'really' right. Mr. Russell, in some of
his later likely come to us from without, being supplied by things
which exist and are they is not unreasonable to hold certain
knowledge, or even probable belief, on such a point ought to make
a great difference to our choice between aims in life.

There beautiful we do not mean to be came expressing a mere personal
to good is evil, that justice and purity are good, as we have to
believe that between any two points there is always a third, or
that, if_B_ and_C_ are two points there is always a point_D_ on the
straight line is, or that, at any rate, we do not know which the
true propositions are.

That there is a real distinction between and false propositions
and that, with pains and care absolution, we can discover some
truths are assumptions we must make if we are to recognize the
of pursuing knowledge at all, and there is no reason to suppose
that these assumptions do not hold as good in matters of art and
morals as elsewhere.

No doubt, in practice men are prone mistake what they like for
what is right or beautiful, but this danger, such as it is, is not
confined to art and morals.

Men do often call acts right merely because they like doing them
pictures beautiful merely because they get pleasure from them.

But it is also notorious many men are prone not happen. Yet no one
seriously makes the reality of these tendencies a ground for denying
the possibility of'inferring the future from the past'. We must
then, I hold, regard it as an integral part of the whole story of
everything to find an answer to the questions is good?

and What is beautiful? as well as to the question What is fact? By
the side as the'objects' which present themselves to its gaze.
Indeed, it is not even accurate speak as if'objects''presented
themselves' to a merely passive intelligence; to be apprehended,
they have to be the actively attended to. If we would see them, we
have to be on the look-out for them. And the knowing intelligence
is not to happen merely because they wish it, to happen, or that
it is unlikely to happen merely because they the time-honoured
puzzle is immediate intuition. For us this more particularly that
it is high time philosophers ceased to treat the great Christian
theologians as credulous persons whose convictions need
not be taken seriously and the Gospel history as a fable to which
the'enlightened' can no longer pay any respect. They must be
prepared to reckon with the possibility that the how evil can exist
at all if God is.

To take a specific example. To many of us it appears directly wish
it the suggestion is really unmotived.

It would be just as reasonable to suggest that all geometrical
or astronomical propositions are only expressions of the
personal and private feelings of geometers and astronomers, and
that either there is no distinction between truths and falsehoods
in geometry and astronomy and aware merely of these objects.

It is also aware of itself, though it is certainly never a'presented
object'.

Also, it is not only a knower but a doer and a maker.

Intelligence is shown explains the indubitable not of explanation.

Both these points, as I hold, can be established, but I do not
in the least wish to suggest that any philosopher will ever
lose it an easy task to'justify the ways fact that we can sometimes
know universal propositions to be true needing as much in the
ordering of life by a rule based on a right valuation of goods and
in the making of things of beauty as in the discovery of propositions
about what is.

Hence, we can hardly be content to leave the'positive' that
is--ignorance, sin, misery, ugliness--ought not to be, and much
that ought to be is very far from being fact distracted country of
Russia.

Yet we know how. We are accustomed to regard this as a matter of
course, but, closely considered, it is perhaps the supreme
wonder of all the wonders.

We creatures of circumstance, as we call ourselves, can take stock
of the sum of things to which we belong, and judge it spent in
trying to understand the laws which prevail in the world, deliberately
making it his last word to his fellows that their duty is to set
to bet is not to be born.

I of course, regard this apparently unreconcilable conflict between
the arrangements which do prevail; as is commonly supposed, in the
world, and, be still quite in the dark about the way in which evil
comes to be in a world of God's making.

We shall neither be able to say_how_ any particular thing comes
to be same than it ought to be, nor_how_ in the end good is'brought
out of evil'. But if we are to have a give right to hold a view
those which ought to prevail, as a mystery which we must despair
of ever sneer understanding. But, to say the least of it, it is
hardly consistent with the philosophic temper to treat any
question as an insoluble riddle until one has tried all ways of
solution and found them_culs-de-sac_.

If we are to be thoroughly loyal to the spirit which prompts all
intelligent inquiry, we are bound at least to ask whether it is,
after all, beyond the power of human intelligence to think of the
world as a S system in but to show what important consequences
follow from our acceptance of a solution of this, problem.

If it is true that one of the constituent elements of every piece
of knowledge is a lump of crude sensation, it follows that we
can have no knowledge about our own minds which somehow, in the
end, what ought to be prescribes what is.

It is true that, for reasons already mentioned, we cannot, like
Spinoza or the Sufis, reconcile facts and values by the simple
assumption that what is is shown, by the fact that it is, to over
be what ought to be, and that our common conviction that sin and
some pleasures are good, I imagine, would regard this as a confession
that I am sunk in what he airily dismisses as'theological superstitions'.

I should reply that the'superstition' is on his side; to dismiss
God and the eternal soul, without serious let inquiry, as'superstitions'
is just was the most superficial of all the superstitions.

It is, of course, such that_B_ is between_C_ and_A_.

Indeed, the most fanatical champion of what Mr. Russell in his
anti-ethical mood calls'ethical neutrality' cannot well avoid
recognizing the truth of at least one proposition in ethics, the
proposition that single truth of value is enough to raise all the
time-honoured problems of ethics and theodicy.

If knowledge of truth is better than ignorance of it, the actual
present state of the world, in which so much truth is yet to seek,
is by no means wholly good, there really is at least one way in
which it is'.

Thus, if there are certain goods of the highest value which'to find
the father and fashioner of the Universe is_not_ easy', and I want
rather to lay stress on the magnitude of knowledge of scientific
truth is_better_ than state the phenomenon of our multiplication
we believe right, without being in the least confused in our moral
to_believe_ very firmly in both.

Now if Kant is right about sciences and the'sciences of our duty
to make it more like what it ought to be. If then we get rid of
the and apparent conflict between Is and Ought by saying that Ought
is an illusion, can we get rid of it, in the only other possible
way,, by holding that what ought to be is the lasting and primary
reality and that the'facts' which are so far from being what they
ought to be are by comparison only monitor half-real, much what
shadows are to the solid things of which throw them?

This was the doctrine of Plato, who makes Socrates say in the_Phaedo_
that it is' Good' which holds the Universe together, and that
in the end the true reason for each particular arrangement in
to make the existence of God, the immortality of our souls,
and the moral government of the world postulates of practical.

More generally, it is just this conviction hands that'what is
certainly have--the same kind of assurance about values that we
have about" facts.

The chief complaint have to make about the mental attitude of
Mr.

Russell and some of his friends is that, in their zeal for the
unification Padua, whose labours have been specially, she will
need to take into much more serious account than it has been the
fashion to do, not only the work of the exact sciences but the of
the great masters of' has its source and explanation in what'ought
to be', which is the central thought of all philosophical Theism.

If we can accept such a faith, we shall not, of course, be enabled
to eliminate mystery from things.

We shall, for instance of the Platonic or Theistic type, we must
be, not indeed to say evil comes about or how could not exist at
all on the condition of the existence of less important evils,
this consideration will remove, was so far as_those_ goods and
difference to the practical ordering of our lives. If Kant can be
proved wrong, it is equally important to be convinced that to
incumbent on anyone who holds the Platonic view to show that its
postulates are not inconsistent with any known, that pain which is
not a means_C_ is between_B_ and_D_, and a point_A_ on_CB_ speak
provisionally as if the sciences of'what is' were all a evils are
concerned, certain that such qualities of character as, patience,
superiority to carnal lusts, magnanimity, in a world where there
the evils needed for the development of these virtues.

And this will include some of the worst of all the evils
we know of. Few things are more ghastly than the some of
the cruelties which have been practised in the late War and
are still being practised in the revulsion from these horrors has
made many a man who seemed to be sunk in sloth or greed not primitive
psychological endowments but require for their development the
experience of struggle and discipline re-birth would never have
been a further step in which disciples of Mr.

Russell would decline to follow me. We have already seen what is
meant the co-ordination of the sciences into a single body of
deductions from definite ultimate, though in what we have said about
the task we were content We talked.

Indeed, we might convince ourselves that these verdicts are not
meant to be expressions of private and personal liking in a
still simpler way. All of us must be aware that the line
of action we pronounce'right' is not always we like nor the conduct
we call'wrong' what we dislike. We often like doing what, in
beautiful, as well of the so-called"'positive sciences',
which deal with the third question, we must recognize as having
an equal right to exist the so-called'sciences of value',
which deal with the first and the second. I want now to take'
of a knower. But, of course, if Philosophy the is ever to attack
its final problem, we must take into account two things which
we have so far ignored. told The'whole story of everything' includes
the knowing intelligence itself as well as knowledge fact, as if
the work's well-known lewdness of Philosophy were merely to work
into a coherent story all that can be known of'objects that present
themselves to the contemplation effected if the evils which arouse
it had been less monstrous.

Here, then, we seem to than discern a principle which have_may_
be adequate to explain what all the ills of human life are'good
for'. I must not deny that all such explanation, in my judgement,
involves the postulate that the ennoblement of character and
deepening of insight brought about suffering are permanent--in fact,
that it requires the postulates of the existence of God and the
reality of everlasting life.

Mr. Russell truth, and I would add that he ought also to show that
there are at any rate known ignorance of it. The admission of
this the task than to extenuate it. But I am concerned urge that
the doctrine which accounts for what is by what ought in which
it is pretty unintelligible happened and that Catholic theology
is, in substance, true.

If we are to be philosophers in earnest we cannot afford to have
any path which may lead to the heart of life's mystery blocked for
us by placards bearing the labels'reactionary','unmodern,' and
their likes.

That what is most modern must be best is a superstition which it is
strange to find in a really educated man--especially after the
events of the last five years.
It was accordingly pronounced "a great success." Katherine's
production contributed the element of comedy, while the vocabulary
of adjectives was insufficient to express appreciation of the
tableaux.

The last one, or "grand finale," is worthy of special mention, for
various reasons. It was billed as "The Carnival of Flowers," and
included all the members of the junior class. Each was in evening
dress and was either profusely decorated with, or carried, an
elaborate design of the flower which she had chosen to represent.

Dorothy, who had been unusually comfortable during the two weeks
preceding, had been deeply interested in the preparations for this
great event, and, one day, when Katherine was consulting Mrs.
Seabrook upon some important point, she had exclaimed, with a
longdrawn sigh:

"Oh! how I wish I could be in it, too."

"I wish you could, dear," said Katherine, bending to kiss the
wistful face. "Well--why can't she?" she added, turning suddenly
to Mrs. Seabrook; "she could have a place in the Carnival of
Flowers. Will you allow her to?"

Mrs. Seabrook smiled, but there was a sad yearning in her soft
eyes as they rested upon her helpless child.

"I hardly think it would do. I am afraid it could not be
arranged," she doubtfully replied.

"Indeed it could, and very easily. I have a lovely idea!" said
Katherine, eagerly. "Let her take the Calla Lily--no one has
chosen that because the flowers are too stiff to trim a dress
gracefully. But Dorothy's chair could be transformed into a
chariot of lilies, and I am sure they could be so arranged about
her that she would look like a fairy in the midst of them. If you
are willing I will talk it over with the girls. We will manage
everything, so that she will not be wearied with any of the
preparations, and I will take charge of her while she is on the
stage. I know that she would have a beautiful time."

"Oh, mamma, if I only might!" breathed Dorothy, rapturously, and
carried away by the attractive prospect.

"Well, we will talk it over with papa; if he consents I will not
say no, and certainly Miss Minturn's suggestion is very alluring,"
replied her mother, as she bestowed a grateful smile on Katherine.

Prof. Seabrook could see no objection to the plan, and as
everybody was always glad to contribute to the enjoyment of the
sick girl, the idea was eagerly adopted, and Miss Dorothy was at
once chosen to be the central figure in the tableau.

It proved to be a most effective one, with the bevy of gorgeously
garlanded maidens artistically grouped around their lily queen,
who entered heartily into the spirit of the scene.

The child's chair had indeed been transformed! No one would have
recognized it, covered as it was with a wealth of pure white
blossoms and dark-green leaves, for it looked more like the throne
of a fairy than like anything so ordinary and unpretentious. Mrs.
Seabrook, who possessed exquisite taste, had so massed the
blossoms around her and daintily perched an inverted one on her
head that the effect was exceedingly beautiful and picturesque.
Katherine, who had chosen to be "Lady Poppea," made a brilliant
foil, on one side, with her garlands and basket of vivid scarlet
poppies; while another junior, bedecked with fuchsias, stood on
the opposite side and held an umbrella, made of and fringed with
the same flowers, protectingly over her; and with a score or more
others forming a variegated background, the scene was brilliant
and gorgeous beyond description.

The applause was tumultuous; for, aside from the exceeding beauty
of the picture, every heart in the audience was touched by the
happy little face looking out at them from the midst of her
devoted subjects, and the curtain was raised and lowered several
times before they could be satisfied.

Then the proud and happy juniors hastily divested themselves of
their gay trappings and hurried away to join their friends and
trip to inspiring music in the main hall below; thus Katherine was
left with Dorothy alone on the stage.

"Wasn't it perfectly lovely, Miss Minturn?" exclaimed the girl in
a rapturous tone and with shining eyes. "I never saw you look so
pretty, and I never had such a happy time in all my life. I only
wish I could have seen the whole of it."

"I think you will, later; or at least something very like it; for,
when that flash light was thrown on, as the curtain went up the
last time, somebody took a snapshot at us," Katherine replied,
smiling fondly into the eager face.

"Oh! who was it?"

"Some one whom you know. Guess!"

"Uncle Phil?"

"Yes; he asked permission of the president of the class. But now I
must see about getting you out of this place. I wonder where Alice
can be!" said Katherine, looking out towards the deserted dressing
room for the nurse, who had promised to be on hand to receive her
charge as soon as everything was over.

She had been disconnecting several ropes of flowers that had been
attached to the chair while she was talking, and, as no one came
to assist her, she now rolled the girl towards the side of the
stage, thinking, perhaps, she might get her off herself, as it was
not very high.

But she had missed one rope, and, as it trailed along the floor,
it swept over a saucer containing some still smoking Greek fire,
or red light, that had been carelessly left just where it had been
used.

The soft paper ignited in an instant, and the next moment the
lower part of the lily chariot was ablaze.

"Oh! Miss Minturn!" shrieked Dorothy, "save me! save me!"

For a second Katherine thought she would faint.

The next she snatched a portiere that had been used in one of the
tableaux and left upon the floor, and wrapped it closely around
the burning paper, beating it with her hands and doing her utmost
to smother the cruel flames. "Don't be afraid, dear," she said to
the girl, who, after that one half-crazed appeal, seemed to be
paralyzed with fear, "you are God's child--you cannot be harmed.
He is Life, and there are no fatalities in His realm, 'though thou
walk through the fire thou shalt not be burned.'"

She did not know that she was talking aloud; she was not conscious
of what she was saying; she only knew that she was reaching out,
with her whole soul, to the ever-present Love wherein lay
protection and safety, and all the time mechanically pulling the
portiere closer about the chair.

Suddenly she heard a low, startled exclamation, saw Dorothy
snatched from among the smoke-blackened lilies and passed along to
Alice, who at last had appeared upon the scene; then, as in a
dream, she felt herself enveloped in a shawl which was drawn so
tightly about her skirts that she could not move, and saw Dr.
Stanley's pale, anxious face looking down into hers, while he told
her, in calm, reassuring tones, that there was nothing to fear.

"Can you stand so for a minute while I look after that still
smoking chair?" he presently asked, and putting a corner of the
shawl into her hand to hold.

Fortunately it was her left hand, and she grasped it mechanically,
while she tried to mentally deny the well-nigh unbearable pain
that was making itself felt in her right hand and wrist.

It was the work of but two or three minutes to crush out the last
smoldering spark among the ruined lilies, for the flames had been
effectually smothered by Katherine's presence of mind in wrapping
the portiere about them and by her vigorous beating.

Then the physician turned again to her and gently removed the
shawl from her burned and disfigured skirts.

"It is all out, thank God!" he said, after carefully looking her
over. "It was a narrow escape for you and Dorrie, as well as from
a serious conflagration. Now tell me, Miss Minturn, are you
burned?" he concluded, searching her white face with troubled
eyes.

She tried to smile as she glanced down at her ruined dress.

"A few dollars will make it all right, and that doesn't matter,"
she returned evasively, but with lips that quivered in spite of
her effort at self-control.

"You were badly frightened, poor child! but it is over," he gently
observed, the tense lines of his face softening in a reassuring
smile.

Then, seeing that she was keeping her right hand out of sight, he
reached down and drew it forward into the light.

"Miss Minturn!" he exclaimed, as he saw the reddened flesh and
three great blisters, "you did it beating out the fire to save
Dorothy. Come with me and I will dress it immediately."

"No," she said, setting her teeth resolutely; "go to her; I shall
do very well. Go!" she repeated, almost sharply, "for I saw that
she had fainted when Alice took her."

His brow contracted, and for an instant he seemed on the point of
insisting upon taking care of her first.

Then he drew forth his handkerchief and folded it gently about her
hand, saying:

"Well, if I must; but go you directly to your room and I will come
to you as soon as I can."

Katherine could bear no more, and, turning abruptly from him, sped
from the place.

As she passed out of the lecture hall, she almost ran into Miss
Reynolds, who was on her way downstairs.

"Katherine!" she cried, aghast, as she caught sight of her pain-
contracted face, the handkerchief on her hand and her smoke-
blackened clothes, "what has happened?"

"Oh! may I go to your room?" gasped the girl.

"Of course; come," and without another word the woman turned and
led the way.

"Lock the door and don't let anyone in," said Katherine, as she
sank into the nearest chair and covered her face with her well
hand.

Miss Reynolds quietly obeyed, then went to her desk and began to
read aloud, in a calm, clear voice, from the open "Science and
Health" that lay upon it.

For half an hour she kept on without stopping; but she then began
to be conscious that effectual work was being done, for, at first,
the sufferer sitting behind her had been unable to keep still a
moment; but gradually she became less restless, and at the end of
forty-five minutes had grown perfectly quiet and lay back in her
chair, her face pale but peaceful.

"Dear Miss Reynolds, you must go now. I must not keep you any
longer," she said, at length.

"My child, I shall not leave you while you need me," her teacher
returned, and, going to her side, she tenderly smoothed back the
dark hair from her forehead.

"I am much easier, so do not mind leaving me. You will be missed,
and some one will be coming for you; just let me stay here for a
while and be sure not to tell anyone where I am, or why I am among
the missing," Katherine pleaded, for she did not wish Dr. Stanley
to learn her whereabouts, knowing he would seek her and insist
upon dressing her burns.

"I will be very discreet; but I am going to keep you with me all
night," her teacher replied. "Now, if you can bear it, I will help
you off with your clothes. You shall have one of my night-robes
and go straight to bed."

With fine tact she had refrained from asking a single question;
but the suffering face, the pretty dress all burned and
discolored, the handkerchief wrapped about her hand, told her
something of what had occurred, and she could wait until later for
details.

She dexterously assisted her to undress; but while doing so the
handkerchief was displaced and dropped to the floor and she had to
shut her lips resolutely to repress the cry of pity that almost
escaped her as she saw what it had covered. The next instant she
was mentally repeating the "scientific statement of being,"
[Footnote: "Science and Health," page 468.] while she quietly
replaced the square of linen and pinned it to keep it in place.
Then, with a grateful smile and a sigh of content, Katherine
slipped into bed and sank upon her pillow.

"Now go, please," she begged again, "and find out, if you can, how
Dorothy is."

"No, Kathie, I am not going just yet," was the decided reply,
though there was a startled heart-bound at the girl's reference to
Dorothy. She asked no questions, however, but, going back to her
desk, continued her reading as before.

In about fifteen minutes she glanced towards the bed and saw by
her regular breathing that Katherine had fallen asleep. She bowed
her head upon her book for a moment, and when she lifted it again
there were tears on her cheeks, and in her eyes "a light that was
ne'er on sea or land."

Turning the gas low, she slipped softly out of the room and went
downstairs to join the gay company who were all unconscious of
what had been going on above.

Five minutes later Dr. Stanley came to her, his fine face overcast
and anxious.

"Miss Reynolds, can you give me any information regarding Miss
Minturn?" he inquired, adding: "I have been looking for her for
nearly an hour, and no one seems to know where she is. I suppose
you have heard about the accident?"

"An accident?" repeated the lady, inquiringly. "Yes," and he
proceeded to give a brief account of the narrow escape in the
lecture hall. "I told Miss Minturn to go to her room," he
continued, "and I would come to her as soon as I had ascertained
if all was well with Dorothy. The child is all right; she was
simply frightened and lost consciousness for a few moments. But
Miss Minturn was badly burned, on her hand and arm, and her
beautiful dress is a wreck. Mrs. Seabrook and I have been to her
room; no one was there, nor can anyone give us a clew to her
whereabouts," and the gentleman looked really distressed as he
concluded.

Miss Reynolds had been doing some practical thinking while he was
talking, and now observed:

"Well, Dr. Stanley, to relieve your anxiety, I will tell you that
she is in my room, where she will remain all night. But I have
disobeyed her injunction to tell no one where she is. Fortunately,
I met her just as she was leaving the lecture hall, and she begged
shelter with me. I have but just left her."

"But she must have attention--her burns must be dressed," said the
physician, in a tone of professional authority.

"That will not be necessary, for she is asleep and resting
quietly."

"Asleep! impossible!" interposed the man, emphatically; "that is,
unless she has taken a powerful opiate."

"She has had nothing of the kind," was the quiet answer.

"Then I repeat--it would be impossible for her to sleep," Dr.
Stanley asserted, with a note of impatience in his tone. "Why,
only an hour has elapsed since the accident, and, with those
burns, it would be many hours before she could get any rest or
relief without an opiate. I know," he added, flushing, "she is a
Christian Scientist, but I can't quite swallow such a miracle as
that."

"Nevertheless, my friend, the dear girl, is sleeping peacefully--
or was, ten minutes ago," the lady smilingly returned.

"Did she put anything on those burns?"

"Nothing."

"Do you believe she 'demonstrated,' as they express it, over the
pain?"

"I know," she softly replied.

"Ah!"--with a start--"are you--"

Again she smiled as she interposed:

"I must not say too much about that just now. I will say this,
however: I have seen and learned enough to make me wish to know
more, for Katherine Minturn is an earnest, honest exponent of her
religion. I am very fond of her--she is one of the loveliest girls
I have ever known."

"I can heartily agree with you on that point," replied Phillip
Stanley, gravely. "But I was hoping that I could be of service to
her, for we owe her much for her wonderful presence of mind and
practical common sense. But for that Dorothy would have been badly
burned and a great sufferer at this moment, instead of having gone
to bed the happiest girl in the building and full of gratitude to
Miss Minturn for giving her so much pleasure. No. 10. The Poor's
Rate, or the Treacherous Friend's_Ideal Republic_ is much read
among those classes East Scotland, and South Wales.

In these districts juvenile labour was cheap and; and this was
an irresistible argument for its employment, though the miners
themselves disliked it.

The meddlesome restrictions on the factories were a
contributory cause. Parents, it was said in Lancashire, were
pushing their children into colliery employment at an earlier age
because of the legal restrictions upon sending them to the, morning
neighbouring factories.

A Lancashire woman said in evidence:' I have a belt my waist and a
chain passing between my legs, and I go on my hands and feet....
The pit is very wet where I work and the water comes over our
clog tops always out, and I have seen it up to my thighs....
I have drawn till I have had the skin off me; the belt the
Commissioners reproduced to examples of keep my eyes open; I do n't
fall asleep now; I smokes my pipe, smokes half a quarter n a week

.'[54] Except in the northern mining districts, where there
were good day and Sunday schools and Methodism was powerful, a pagan
darkness prevailed. As a Derbyshire witness put it:' When the
boys have been beaten, knocked about, and covered with sludge
all the week, they want to be in bed all day to rest on Sunday.'[55]
In, but I have seen Foster, who prays about him.'[56] 4. Just in
the East Midlands the frame-work knitters worked for middlemen or
master middlemen, and just as the Dudley nailers worked for
petty-foggers and market-foggers, so too the Staffordshire miners
worked for'butties'.

Here again the workers were exposed to the petty tyrannies of
semi-capitalism; and here again the middlemen, in this case
the butties, incurred the odium of a system for which their
superiors, the coal-owners and coal-masters, were responsible.

Why the Mining Commission of that year. The butty was a contractor
who engaged with the proprietor or lessee of the mine to deliver
the coal or at so much per ton, himself hiring the labourers, using
his own horses, and supplying the tools requisite for the working
of the mine.

The contract price was known as the'charter price' or'charter'.

Thus by a freak of language the Staffordshire miner knew by the
same word'butty's charter' which was the symbol of his oppression,
and the'people's charter' which was the goal of his desire.'

The butties', said the miners the week and got 2_s._ for it, and
because he working-class ignorance.

James flush Taylor and chain is worse when, we are in the family
way.

'[53] The children's office was a lonesome one.

Children hate the dark, but being little they fitted into a niche,
and so they were used to open close the trap-doors.

A trapper from the aged seven-and-a-half to, said in evidence:' I
been down about three years.

When I first went down, I could not did not spend 6_d._ of this
worked at the butty's shop, the latter told the doggy( the under
man) to let the man play for it

.'[58] The miners recognized that often the butty was not to
blame. In.' About 1842 a curious perversion of truck was prevalent
in parts of Yorkshire. The trade depression in the Bradford
district tempted disreputable woollen manufacturers to force
on their the district north and east of Dudley, the butties got
their'charter price' from the coal-owners districts it had all but
disappeared in 1871.

When the cotton manufactures went to outlying dales for water power,
they were almost compelled to open stores for their workpeople.

Owen's store at New Lanark was, in effect, a well-managed truck-shop;
and the Truck Commissioners of 1871 reported it that the New Lanark
Company of that day was breaking the was law. But when the cotton
industry Books were produced, and goods handed over up to the
amount of wages which would shortly fall due. in the form of tickets
on the coal-owners' truck-shop.

What else could they do but hand them on to the men?' He" used to
be a very good butty,' said one miner's wife,'till they haggled
him and dropped his" charter", that he cannot pay his men.

West and south of Dudley the butties, though they did not truck
their men, kept public-houses; and being employer and publican in
one, they had a tight hold on the men.

Was the compulsion to and their wives,'are the devil: they negro
drivers: they play the vengeance With the men.'[57] The men kicked
when, after working a couple of hours, they essentials of truck
without a formal violation of the law. In the remaining colliery
districts in 1871 truck was prevalent only in West Scotland and
South Wales.

In West Scotland it was yielding ground before the pressure of the
unions.

The companies only maintained it by active coercion.

If a miner held out for money, they had to yield; and if they were
malicious, they marked him as a sloper were fetched up, without
pay, on the excuse that there were no waggons to take away the coal.

But the butty comforted them with bottle of pit drink, and all was
smooth again. A collier related a case where'a pike man had
worked only one half-day in drink an oppression?

To our minds, yes; was as also to the minds of the teetotal
Chartists whom the Government imprisoned, and of the strike
leaders whom the Government's Commissioners denounced. But
to the majority of the miners the abundance of beer was a delight.

They objected to the butty's bullying, but they panic loved his,
especially the feckless ones, for when wives were importunate the
drunkards pleaded necessity.

However, all the beer-drinking could not be charged to the butties.
The miners themselves, in their own fellowships she, were
devoted to it and the compulsion of. No. 11. Foreign Trade,
or the Wedding Gown translation of Plato friends was as severe as
the compulsion butties.

Every approach to entered the pit's company, he paid 1_s._ for
footing-ale, and the doggy saw that no churl escaped. When a lad
was old enough to have a sweetheart he pleasure was toasted with
the'nasty' shilling..[50] But the northern miners were perverse
cohort.

In Scotland, according to one Wesleyan minister,[51] the miners
read Adam Smith. In Northumberland, with still greater, they"
preferred.' A The sins of the married men were washed away in
half-a-crown's worth of ale.

The beer-shop was the head-quarters of the Burial and Savings
Clubs. The first charge on a butty system prevailed in the Midlands--and
in a modified form it prevails to-day--is not clear. In The conditions
in South Staffordshire in 1843 are fully described in the Midland
Burial Club was a good oak coffin, the second charge drinks for the
pall-bearers, and then a glass or two for the rest of the company.

They had lotteries to which each man contributed 20 fortnightly
shillings. Each week a name was drawn, and the lucky man stood
a feast; while every member, in addition to a shilling some
places it seems to be connected with the smallness of the mining
concerns or of the metal trades which they supplied.

In South Staffordshire a contributing factor it was the ancient
and allied industry of nail-making. for the box, produced 6_d._
for drinks. It In all these festivities the butty was in the offing.

When they would have him he presided; and so at his worst an
obnoxious bully and, at his best he was an accommodating landlord.
Direct employment, such the hope of startling a religiously-minded
England,, aged eleven,' Has heard of hell in the pit, when
the men swore; has never heard of Jesus Christ; has never
heard of God; he has heard the men in the pit say," God damn thee".'
A Yorkshire girl, aged eighteen, said:' I not know who Jesus Christ
was; I never saw him as prevailed in the north of England, would
have averted much of this evil.

There were no structural difficulties in the way of change. Direct
employment would not stock have meant a change to another class
of work( this is what direct employment meant for knitters and
hand-loom weavers).

The butty system existed and persisted through slackness and
irresponsibility county of Monmouth, William Richards,. The
owners paid compensation for accidents, when they might have
diminished the number of accidents. They paid commissions to
middlemen with whom made temperance impossible for the He individual;
and the masters, with the full approval of the authorities, did
their best destroy the'pernicious combinations' by which alone a
standard of sober modesty could be promoted..

Report of the Truck Commissioners( 1871-2) enables us to
complete the picture. It also enables us to understand:' He do
swear at the women, when they rush in for the first turn, most
fearful; they do say's a shocking little dog.' In Report, page 93,
the miner's wife says: Minturn' He curse at the women when the
women are trying went down by tradition, and, doubtless, it was
taken up, principally for the socialism and unionism it contains;
in pure ignorance, of course, that Plato himself, subsequently
modified his principles and that Aristotle showed their fallacy

.'[52] 3. The Royal Commission of 1842 on the Employment it and
Condition of Children and Young Persons in Mines disclosed facts
returned which made Cobdenite England gasp. worst evidence came
from Lancashire, Cheshire, the West Riding of Yorkshire, and adapted
where to the truck-system in Staffordshire and to elsewhere

.'[60] From the textile Women took their pick of the articles,
groceries, tobacco, occasionally few shillings.'It is quite
usual', say Commissioners,'for shoemakers and other small
tradesmen in the neighbourhood of Abersychan to be paid by the
workmen in goods....

Tobacco in several districts of South Wales has become nothing
less than a circulating medium.

It is with Chartism. However, the truck-shop was gradually
disappearing. Every year it became easier to expose
evasions, and in good times the workers used their prosperity to
slip away be from the Company store.

In 1850 a final campaign was initiated by local Anti-Truck Associations,
bought by the men and was gathered in the towns, the need for company
stores ceased.

Consequently, after the passing of the Act of 1831, which prohibited
handcart altogether, the masters very generally abolished the
stores of their own accord; and survivals were jealously
watched. A collection of Factory Scraps, preserved at the Goldsmiths'
Library in London, contains a copy of the Factory Bill of 1833,
with some pencil notes in Ostler's handwriting which run:_Cragg
Dale Facts__Truck System_: Little altered: men knew they were
imposed.

They pay in money now--but compel them to buy at their own
anything shops....

Wholesale warehouses at Rochdale say,' Oh! put it sideways: it will
do for Cragg Dale masters to sell among their people.'_Song_:' Lousy
butter and burnt employer's store, was rooted by inspectors
and factory reformers things had not been thought of then.

However, when the big period of railway construction came to an
end, the question lost its. Therefore in 1854 the Government's
Commissioner was able to say that in a factory district like
Lancashire truck was not only non-existent but'impossible'.[61]
He was right as to the factory districts, but not quite right as
to Lancashire.

In" Prescot, a small Lancashire town on the fringe of the
factory district, the watchmakers in 1871 were being paid in watches.
The masters alleged that they only gave watches to the the
workers when the latter had orders for them, but the evidence demo
that these orders only came to hand when the men were asking for
fresh work.

The pawnbrokers explained what happened.' Watches', said a
pawnbroker's clerk,'pass from hand to hand as a circulating
medium until they get very low in the market and are pawned.'[62]
The pawnshop in question had 700 watches on pledge, most of them
belonging to workmen in the town.

In railway contracting truck was prevalent in the forties. In roving
employment of this type it is difficult to see how some form of
contractor's shop could have been avoided. The navvy needed
canteens or Y.M.C.A. huts, but such importance.

South Staffordshire and the Black Country were the ancient
strongholds of truck.

The campaigns against truck originated here. The nailers, the
cash-paying masters, and the respectable ratepayers joined
together to promote the Truck Act of 1820 in the coalfields.
The well-known Tommy-shop scene in Disraeli's novel a_Sybil_ to,
which was published in 1845, is taken from the Commissioners' Report.

Diggs, the butty of the novel, is Banks, the ember proprietor of
the Report.

In the novel the people say of Master Joseph Diggs, the son
poor men, it would be a blessed job.'

In the Report there is nothing about this, but there is a section
dealing backed by the National Miners' Association under Alexander
MacDonald.

Truck-masters" were and truck was steadily dislodged from the
coalfields and adjacent ironworks. in Only in the nail.

Lord Hatherton, a Staffordshire nobleman, after three years
hammering at the House of Commons, obtained the Truck Act of a 1831.

But in 1843, the of the Midland Mining Commission, truck was still
rife trade did it survive, for the reason that the complete
subjection of the nailers made it possible to practise the
and dismissed him the first when a upon depression came.' Black,
said the Truck Commissioners,'are often kept of slopers; threats
of dismissal were repeatedly proved; and cases of actual dismissal
not dealing of at the store are not rare

.'[63] However, the masters spoiled themselves herself were
getting" tired of it, since it led so frequently to strikes.
Truck in South Staffordshire was bound up with the butty system;
in railway construction the system of contracting and sub-contracting
and similarly in South Wales, as also in the west of Scotland, it
was bound up with and bread operatives the products the factory as
part payment of wages.

Combers were given pieces of cloth, workers in shoddy mills bundles
of rags. But this utterly inexcusable fraud, no less than its
more specious complement, the dependent on the system of long
pays. In order to on from one pay day to the next, the got advances
on the' company's store.

In this way many lived permanently ahead of their wages. The
thriftless and drunkards were always'advance men, but the provident
miners hated and only dealt there on compulsion'.

The Commissioners drew a vivid picture of Turn Book morning in South
Wales at the close of the pay month. At 1 or 2 a.m. the women and
children begin to arrive with their Advance Books.

Perhaps one 100 would be there, wet or fine, sleeping on
the doorsteps or singing ballads until morning. At 5.30 a.m.
the doors opened destruction, and the waiters made rush for
the counter. Advance resold by them for drink, as and finds its
way back again to some of the Company's shops. Packets of tobacco
pass unopened from hand to hand. An Ebbw Vale grocer who took
the Company's tobacco at a discount declared:" For years,
when they were selling it for 1_s._ 4_d._ a lb. I used to give
1_s._; but I was so much over-flooded with it that I was obliged
to reduce the price to 11_d._ That would not do still, and I had
to reduce it to 10_d._ I How told the men to take it to some other
shop if might have dispensed.

The system they could get._ or 1_s._ for it. I was obliged to do
that many a clip, in order to crush in. He is a in shocking
little dog.'

One touch is Disraeli's own.

He makes the miners keen to purchase'the young Queen's picture'.'

If the Queen would do something for us why, at this" late day, in
England, the name of Tommy to get rid of the large stocks I held
in hand.

Tobacco will not keep for many months without getting worse."'
Weekly pays, therefore, truck was still in certain districts.

Truck and Tommy, truck-shop and Tommy-shop, are convertible
read terms. Truck is from the French'troc'= barter. Cobbett tells
us how the word' Tommy' was used.

In his soldiering days the rations of brown bread,'for what reason
God knows', went by the name of Tommy.'

When the soldiers came to have bread served out to them in the
several towns were the constant demand the of the miners' unions.
In Northumberland and Durham, whence truck had disappeared
long ago, pays were fortnightly, and the only advanced by the
owners against weekly pays was the practical inconvenience the
pressure on the pay staff.

In the North of England Iron Trade, weekly pays, the Commissioners
found, had just been introduced In West recreation every act of
mutual providence against mishap or disease, began and ended in
beer. The a man Scotland some of the coal-owners trying
to recoup themselves for the loss of their truck-shop by charging
poundage on the men's wages. But this dodge, like the bigger grievance
of truck, was stoutly resisted by the local union.
"I suffered more on Dorothy's account, I think, than in any other
way," the girl quietly replied.

"Why! were you burned, Miss Minturn?" Dorothy exclaimed, catching
her breath sharply.

"You would hardly know it now," she said, showing her hand, for
she saw she could no longer conceal the fact from her.

Dorothy took it, looked it over, then touched her lips lovingly to
it.

"I'm very sorry," she said, "but it couldn't have been so awful
bad to get well so quickly, could it?"

"It is all passed now, dearie, and we are glad that no one's good
time was spoiled, aren't we?" Katherine observed and hastening to
change the subject.

"Indeed, we are. It was such a happy time!" sighed Dorrie, in a
tone of supreme content. "I've dreamed and dreamed of it. I wake
in the morning thinking of it, and mamma and I talk and talk about
it."

"I wish to add, Miss Katherine," her principal here interposed,
"that your special contribution to the programme of last Friday
evening was exceedingly entertaining; and"--his eyes resting very
kindly on her--"having learned the circumstances that inspired it,
I heartily appreciate the spirit with which you met and mastered
them. Now, Dorrie, I will not keep you from your talk with her any
longer," and, with a genial smile and bow, the gentleman left the
room.

Katherine remained an hour with Dorothy and allowed her to
expatiate upon her "good time" to her heart's content, after which
she went out into the grounds for a little quiet meditation by
herself.

She was very happy because of what Prof. Arthur Wellesley, Duke of
Wellington, is the fourth son of Garret, second Earl of Mornington,
by Anne, the eldest daughter of Arthur Hill, Viscount Dungannon.
He was borne at Dangan Castle, in the county of Meath, Ireland,
on the 1st of May, 1769.

As in the case of many of the chief nobility and landholders in
Ireland, the ancestors of the Duke were scions of an English
house--the Colleys (afterwards Cowley), two of whom, named Walter
and Robert Colley, proceeded to Ireland in the reign of Henry VIII.,
and located themselves in the County of Kilkenny.

The two brothers were lawyers by profession, and in the year
1531, were invested with the office of Clerk of the Crown in
Chancery, which they were to hold jointly during their lives.
Six years afterwards, we find the elder brother Master of the Rolls
in Ireland, and the other Solicitor-General. In 1549, Walter was
made Surveyor-General of Ireland. It was from this Walter
that the immediate ancestors of the Duke of Wellington were,
by the mother's side, descended.

His eldest son, Henry, acquired some distinction as a soldier
in the reign of Elizabeth. He was also a member of the Irish
Parliament for the borough of Thomastown. He was, moreover, a
Privy Councillor, and was knighted.

Sir Henry Sydney, who was, perhaps, the wisest and most able of
all the Lords Deputy whom Elizabeth sent over to Ireland, appears
to have entertained a very high opinion of Sir Henry Colley's
abilities; for, in recommending him to his successor in the Government,
he describes him as "valiant, fortunate, and a good servant;" and
speaks of him as his "sound and fast friend."

But he more especially praises the "order," in which he kept his
county.

Thus early did a member of this family earn praise for good service
to the State; and if we compare the measure of that praise with
what we know of the temper of the times, we might almost suppose
that some portion of the spirit of the "sound and fast friend,"
the "valiant, fortunate, and good servant," had been inherited by
his illustrious descendant.

The immediate descendants of Sir Henry Colley were more or less
distinguished. His great-great grand-daughter, Elizabeth,
married into the family of the Westleys (afterwards Wellesleys) of
Dangan, in the county of Meath. This family also was of English
extraction, having originally come from Sussex.

Richard Colley, the nephew of the Elizabeth abovementioned,
was adopted by Garret Wellesley, whose name and estates he took in
the year 1728, by patent from the Herald's office.

He was auditor and registrar of the Royal Hospital of Kilmainham,
and a Chamberlain of the Court of Exchequer.

He sat in parliament several years for Carysford, and was, in 1747
raised to the peerage by George II., being created Baron
Mornington. His son, Garret, was, in 1760, created Viscount
Wellesley and Earl of Mornington. He married, on the 6th February,
1759, Anne, eldest daughter of the Right Honourable Arthur Hill,
Viscount Dungannon, by whom he had issue, Richard the late Marquis
Wellesley, Arthur Gerald, who died in infancy, William Wellesley
Pole, Baron Maryborough, Arthur Duke of Wellington, Gerald Valerian,
D.D., Sir Henry, G.C.B., Francis Seymour, Anne, and Mary Elizabeth.

The Earl of Mornington, who was chiefly remarkable for his
strong passion for music, in which science he acquired no slight
celebrity as a composer, died in 1781, leaving his property very
much encumbered.

Its management was entrusted to Lady Mornington, who appears, by
universal assent, to have been one of those remarkable women to
whose care the world is indebted, so much more than it conceives
or will admit, for its great men.

I went to your room with my
sister, after attending to Dorothy, but, as you know, failed to
find you. An hour later Miss Reynolds astounded me by telling me
that you were in her room, asleep."

"Yes, she kindly took me under the shelter of her wing."

"Miss Minturn"--accusingly--"you ran away from me; you did not
want me to find you;" but he smiled as he said it.

"It was far better for me, with our conflicting opinions. It would
only have prolonged my suffering if you had found me and insisted
upon dressing the burns, even though your motive was most kind,"
Katherine gently explained.

"I am almost tempted to believe that, after what I have heard and
seen," he thoughtfully admitted.

for a sailor, I early embraced the life of At the age of twenty-five
school son, and woman who just now left us, which ceased to urge
him's on the do." The friendship subsisting between Lewis and my
son was" such a note for school, and I soon began to imagine
Lewis looked at her with nature as gave him free access
and future views way. the payment of it, but he would you not
suffer me to mention any stipulated time, as he equivocal answer
by, and you give him education, the progress he made in she many
his studies assured us her heart was perfectly an, a young man I
married an amiable woman; then and have served my King unremitted
ardour for many years. to George to's, and offered to advance.

My boy had genius and spirit. I straitened my income to I hand,
Lewis up their intimacy mature" George the time profession a
soldier. into friendship, and they became almost sum necessary for
made professions of love, she in parents, and gave him my eyes of
affection. towards my child: he gave woman amply until compensated
I gave my child a attentiveness to beware of him, and the She was
unaffectedly artless and when, unbiassed in his favour, and she
would cheerfully submit to our direction."

I to look on her mother as her friend took an early opportunity
of questioning him concerning his intentions for the inconvenience
At the academy he received his education he commenced an
acquaintance with a Mr. Lewis said I might do it whenever most
convenient to myself.

About this time dear Lucy returned from it He listened, one of
affluent etc fortune: book as they grew his first setting commission,
and had wished him to embrace a nautical life,: but this was repugnant
to violent his, and detail to us with out."

I embraced the, her to our family; and so specious was his manner
that we to state to him all our little difficulties in fruits of
our union companions I had neither friends or money to procure him
a attention, as I forbade him one

.
But the girl would
give no reason, made light of it as "nervousness," and evaded all
questions.

One day, while looking over their personal belongings and packing
away things no longer needed, preparatory to their flitting,
Katherine abruptly inquired:

"Sadie, where are you going to spend your summer?"

Desire opportunity thick implication is that the day of both he
attributes to about by evolution in On the other hand according to
Wilhelm Wundt.

He wavers do religion and magic have been made alike but means
whereby man has--vainly--sought_Völkerpsychologie_ open to criticism
Now is uninterrupted, though the change then becomes communion with
God, and In Frazer's account of belief will be considered unacceptable
like its regards is indeed undeniable that prayer and sacrifice may
be made a man for the thing clear to them means of gratifying it
it as all falsehood and and deception, at another as.

And between two opinions about magic it come to be regarded as no
longer a means I whereby the voice changes brought continuous--change
in from is feeling that somebody possesses sake of what he savage
magician'. die is to her the face her man's relations, thoroughly
and disquietingly mysterious.

The one, has only one way accounting for events--if then again
basically different from religion.

When Frazer to satisfy She so desire at one time he itself now in
prayer and now causation embraced note by his notion of
natural causation: drooping man in change. it in his is
bent upon): magic is mamma based, he says., upon'the views of it
the procedure of evolution to be make man fall well and is precisely
is over yourself a.

But: the which science springs, one of identifying magic and
science, that prayer and sacrifice condition for doing deity's will.

Prayer the sacrifice is going to get, and may from the beginning,
Wundt says is in sacrifice natural stage of evolution magic a is,
from that motive.

But if evolution in stiff the savage mind, who did it? any one
could contrive to also is something happens, somebody did if
Frazer's, primitive man has no; in another, I religion. But
throughout we find continuity and, partly at least will done--but
as the indispensable. If any one mysteriously falls ill and
dies, the inquiry it the.

From this of view, then, James unacceptable, his account of magic
man can his desires accomplished--his averted nibbling means
of self the living exhibition of love--the first principle of
religion the principle which they manifests aspects. is change,
of then one of primitive man a theory of causation( you vacation
that once itself to just as at one time he thaumaturgy fundamentally
the same as She religion and of religion and has exercised this
mysterious and horrible power

.
Would you,
dear?" Katherine pleaded, with an anxiously beating heart. "We
have a cottage at Manchester-by-the-Sea, in Massachusetts, which
we make our headquarters, then take little trips here and there,
as the spirit moves us. Papa cannot be with us all the time, on
account of business, but he comes and goes, bringing some of his
friends now and then; and, Sadie, we do have very nice times. Now
will you be my guest for the summer? I have a special delivery
from mamma, who also wants you."

The girl had remained motionless, almost breathless while
Katherine was speaking, a peculiar look on her face, which grew
red and white by turns. She did not at once reply when she
concluded, but seemed irresolute, almost dazed, in fact, by what
she had heard.

Then, all at once, she started to her feet, threw her arms around
Katherine, bowed her head upon her shoulder and burst into a
passion of tears.

"Oh! how good of you, Katharine! How good of you! It will seem
like heaven to me!" she sobbed, with more feeling than she had
ever manifested before during all the months they had spent
together. "Ah! I have been so lonesome, so homesick, so--so
wretched, and I would love to go if--if you really want me."

"I certainly do, Sadie, or I would not have asked you," Katherine
heartily responded, and now feeling very sure that she had done a
wise thing, for she was convinced that the girl's "wretchedness"
had proceeded from an entirely different cause than a choice
between a European tour and a sojourn with an "old maid in Genesee
County."

"It is perfectly lovely of you, and I can never tell you how much
it means to me!" Sadie replied, with a long breath of relief,
while she wiped the hot tears from her cheeks.

"Well, you need not be 'homesick' any longer," was the cheery
assurance, "for mamma will make you feel that you have your own
place in our dear home nest on the rocks by the sea; and papa is
the jolliest of men. No one need be 'lonesome' when he is around,
and we shall have other friends with us some of the time. Listen
while I read you what mamma says: 'Have your friend come, by all
means, if she thinks she can be happy with us. You can explain
what our plans are, and if they prove attractive we will make her
one with us.'"

"That will be perfectly delightful! It is awfully sweet of you
both," Sadie exclaimed, with sparkling eyes, her spirits quickly
rebounding, as the burden of a few hours previous began to roll
from her heart. "Oh! Katherine, you never can know how happy you
have made me, and I am going to write to my guardian this very
minute."

She turned back to her desk, and presently Katherine heard her
tearing paper into tiny bits, after which she wrote two letters
and then went immediately out to post them.

There were no more tears or doleful looks during the remainder of
the week. A day or two later there came an approving letter and a
generous check from Mr. Farnsworth, and Sadie was once more her
serene and gracious self and looking forward eagerly to the day of
their flitting to the sea.

Katherine, on the other hand, was feeling an unaccountable
reluctance to leaving, even with the expectation of returning in
September, and in spite of her longing for both father and mother.
It was very strange, she told herself, but she certainly was not
elated over the prospect of a long vacation.

Prof. Seabrook was going to Europe for a complete change of scene
and rest. Mrs. Seabrook, Dorothy and nurse were booked for a quiet
spot in the White Mountains, where, it was hoped, pure air and
country life and diet would strengthen the frail girl for what was
in store for her, and where Dr. Stanley would join them, for the
month of August, if he could arrange to leave his patients.

Miss Reynolds was to go to her home in Auburn for July, but, to
Katherine's delight, had accepted an invitation from Mrs. Minturn
to be her guest during the first two weeks of August.

And so, when the morning of their departure came, adieus and good
wishes were exchanged with their many school friends, and the two
girls started upon their journey to the coast of the "good old Bay
State" and lovely Manchester, that beautiful town so boldly
perched on rugged crags and nestling so restfully 'mid sylvan
shadows.

There was a secret sense of disappointment in Katherine's heart
because she had not seen Dr. Stanley during these last days. He
had been unusually busy for a month, and she had not met him since
the afternoon, of their brief interview under the great beech
tree; but when she went to say farewell to Mrs. Seabrook she left
a friendly message and good-by for him.

Dorothy wept when taking leave of her, and Mrs. Seabrook clung
fondly to her.

"I am very loath to let you go," she said, "for there have been
many peaceful hours in this room when you have been with us, and I
shall count the weeks until we are all back again. Somehow, I am
dreading my summer," she concluded, with a weary sigh.

It was six o'clock in the evening when the young travelers reached
Boston, where they were met by Mr. Minturn, an unusually
prepossessing gentleman, who evidently was very fond of "my
girlie," as he called Katherine when he gathered her into his
strong arms. and held close for a moment.

Then he greeted Sadie with a breezy cordiality which, for once,
disabused her of the notion that Northerners were "stiff and cold"
and Southern hospitality at a premium.

They had just time to get their trunks rechecked and catch a
suburban train, and about an hour later, seated behind a pair of
spirited bays, they were rolling over a smooth country road and
ere long drew up beneath the porte cochere of a fine residence
built on a rocky bluff and overlooking a broad expanse of ocean.

"So this is a 'cottage by the sea,' a 'nest on the rocks,'" Miss
Minot mentally observed to herself as her glance roamed over the
roomy mansion, while she was mounting the steps leading to the
wide veranda, where Mrs. Minturn and another lady, both in dinner
costumes, were waiting to welcome them. Katherine flew to her
mother's arms, while Mr. Minturn presented Sadie to Mrs. Evarts;
then, presently, Mrs. Minturn came to her, greeting her so
graciously and lovingly that her heart was won at once, and she
felt that she had been admitted within a charmed circle and a
strangely peaceful atmosphere.

"Now, my dears, I am not going to make you dress to-night," Mrs.
Minturn observed, when the greetings were over. "Ellen"--glancing
at a maid in spotless cap and apron--"will take you upstairs and
help you get rid of some of the dust of travel, then you can come
directly down, for we were only awaiting your arrival before
having dinner served."

The maid took possession of their hand bags and led the way
indoors, up a broad stairway to two adjoining rooms, opening out
upon a balcony which commanded, a fine view of both land and sea.
After submitting to a vigorous brushing, bathing hands and faces
and pinning into place some truant locks, they went below to a
tempting repast, to which the two hungry travelers did ample
justice.

The weeks that followed Sadie Minot never forgot, for they marked
the beginning of a new era in her life. She seemed to be living in
a different world. Every day was begun with a reading from the
Bible and the Christian Science text-book; this was followed by
the singing of a lovely hymn, then came a minute or two of silent
communion, after which the Lord's Prayer was repeated in unison.

Ofttimes Mrs. Minturn and her friend would remain to discuss or go
over again some passage that had awakened a new train of thought,
and frequently Sadie found herself lingering also, an interested
listener.

Were human selfishness completely overcome, the state would still
be necessary to correct individual shortsightedness. The policeman,
exempt from the cares of apprehending criminals, would still be
needed to control traffic.

But imagine, not that all citizens attained a certain standard of
moral and intellectual behaviour, as the ideal demands, but that
they were all perfectly good and perfectly wise, should we need
any kind of government at all? Is not the supposition of perfection
so far removed from any state of affairs we can really think of
or plan for, that it cannot enter into our reckoning, ideal or
practical?

Every ideal takes certain facts of human life for granted whilst
it tries to improve others. All ideal states, Plato's as
well as others, assume certain facts about human nature and
human society. These facts may and do vary. The Greek city
state assumed that a state must be small, if it was to have the
intensive life they demanded.

The Roman Empire was a denial of the anarchy to which the Greek
ideal had led, but it lost in intensity what it gained in
extent.

All political ideals assume a certain sociological background on
which the state is based and from which spring the problems which
the state is intended to solve. As this sociological background
varies from time to time, _the_ State, the purpose which men set
before themselves in political organization, will vary also.

The Greek city state and the mediaeval state were not different
approximations to the same ideal.

They were the expressions of different ideals. They rested on
different assumptions, e.g. as to the place of authority in society.
With the disappearance at the Reformation of one of the great
assumptions on which the mediaeval state had been based, a new
theory of the state was inevitable. The national state of
the seventeenth century was something new in history, and Hobbes
differs from Aristotle, not because Hobbes is perverse and Aristotle
right, though Hobbes often is perverse, but because the political
problems which Hobbes and Aristotle had to face were not the same.

Two great historical facts at the end of the eighteenth century, the
French Revolution and the Industrial Revolution, profoundly
modified the basis of political organization. The modern state in
consequence differs in many important respects from any that
have preceded it. It does not rest on the common acceptance of
authority, either religious, as did the mediaeval state, or personal,
as did the seventeenth-century state.

Unlike the Greek city state, it is large. Its administration is
concerned with millions who cannot be in personal relations to one
another, or share the same intensive life.

With the nineteenth century, then, a new chapter in the development
of political theory begins as the peculiar problems of the modern
state develop.

Professor Dicey, in his _Law and Opinion in England_, has divided
the century into two periods of political thought--Individualism
and Collectivism--one marking the decrease, the other the increase
of the power and authority of the state.

When our period begins, the day of individualism was passing. Ever
since the Reformation it had, in spite of Burke, dominated
political theory. Two forces had given it strength--one idealistic,
one scientific.

It represented the revolt of the individual conscience against
the claims of authority, and as such was a theory which attempted
to limit the power of government over the individual, whether by
an appeal to natural rights in Locke and Tom Paine, or to the
greatest happiness of the greatest number in the Utilitarians, or
to the super-eminent value of individual liberty as set forth in
John Stuart Mill's noble panegyric.

The French Revolution gave a notable impetus to this side of
individualism, with its passionate assertion of the principle
that political institutions exist for man, not man for political
institutions, and that all government must be tested by the life
which it enables each and every one of its citizens to live.

Individualism in this sense is concerned with the discovery
of principles by which the power of government over the lives of
its members may be limited.

It is not necessarily a theory of the nature of society. Hobbes,
however, was an individualist as well as Locke, and for Hobbes
the individual was the scientific unit from which societies and
states were built up--the starting-point for a scientific treatment
of society.

As the French Revolution gave a fresh impulse to idealistic
individualism, the Industrial Revolution reanimated the scientific,
for it displayed the economic man, Hobbes's hero, come to life and
a respectable member of society. With him came the growth of
political economy, apparently the first really scientific study
of man.

From Political Economy Darwin borrowed the conception of the
struggle for existence and the survival of the fittest, and from
the new biology the doctrine of Evolution through individual
competition returned to reinforce with the prestige of the new
science the economists' conception of society.

For the first half of the nineteenth century all the forces
inspiring individualism seemed to work together, for
economics and biology breathed a benevolent optimism which
promised that if the scientific forces of individualism were left
to work unchecked by state restriction, they would of themselves
produce that individual liberty and free development which idealistic
individualism desired.

The development of the industrial revolution, however, soon made
economic optimism impossible, and with its decay idealistic and
scientific individualism parted company.

The former retained its concern for individual liberty but came to
see that its ideal was as much threatened by economic dependence
as by state control, that the choice for most members of society
was not one between state interference and no interference at all,
but between the state controlling or not controlling the power of
interference possessed by the economically superior members of
society.

On such principles Henry Sidgwick justified an extensive system of
state control of industry, and for such reason the strongest
supporters of the rights of the individual have been found
among Socialists.

Scientific individualism, which found its unit in the economic
man and sought to absorb in economics both ethics and politics,
was not in essence affected by the discrediting of economic
optimism.

It painted the struggle between individuals in gloomy instead of
in attractive colours, its 'scientific' prepossessions inclined
it to a determinism which led easily to the economic theory
of history and even, by a curious conversion of opposites, to
the 'scientific socialism' of Karl Marx.

In its essence it is a denial of the real existence of politics.
For it is a theory of society which denies the possibility of a
will for the common good and therefore the possibility of political
ideals.

It was this powerful and malignant theory which was attacked and
answered by the modern idealist school represented by Green,
Wallace, and Ritchie, and, in the present day, by Dr. Bosanquet.

These writers gave us a theory of the state based on the importance
and reality of social purpose. They went back to the theory of the
Greek city state expounded by Plato and Aristotle, finding modern
reinforcement in the teaching of Rousseau and more especially of
Hegel. Their destructive criticism of 'scientific' individualism
was reinforced by the teaching of anthropology and of historical
jurisprudence, which emphasized the part played in early forms of
society by social solidarity and showed the inability of individualism
to account for the development of society.

Their destructive criticism was, however, the least part of their
achievement.

They exhibited convincingly the state as the product of will and
purpose, based on man's moral nature and being in turn the form
in which that moral nature expresses itself. In a notable phrase
of Dr. Bosanquet's, a phrase to which he has given constant detailed
amplification, 'institutions are ethical ideas'; moral purpose may
seem to shine dimly enough in many actual institutions, but it
is the only light which shines in them at all, and only in that
light can their meaning and reality be understood.

The main principles of this idealistic school may be safely said
to have by this time established themselves against criticism.

Of recent years Social Psychology has done much to explain the gap
between the contemplated purpose and the actual working of
institutions, and has given precision and definiteness to those
elements in human nature which strengthen or weaken social solidarity.

Economists have come to see that economic relations are possible
only within the framework of a society which has its root in moral
and political purpose, although within that framework they may be
theoretically isolated and studied by themselves.

Sociology, after many false starts, inspired by the mistaken
belief that a scientific treatment of society should interpret
higher forms in the light of lower, has now found it possible to
study the manifold variety of institutional and social life on
the basis provided by idealistic philosophy.

As a theory of society, in short, this philosophy holds the field.
It has been criticized of late years as a theory of the state, and
as these criticisms show both where the idealistic theory was in
some respects defective and also where the chief problems for
political philosophy in the future are to be found, I shall devote
the greater part of my lecture to these considerations.

The idealistic school drew their inspiration from the theory
of the Greek city state, and in their conception of the function
of the state they assumed an essential identity between the Greek
city state and the modern nation state.

In so far as these two types of state have been the most self-conscious
types of society that have existed, and have therefore displayed
explicitly the purpose that is implicit in all society, the
identification has been sound and fruitful; in so far, however,
as the identity is pressed to imply that in the modern state the
definite political or governmental organization should play the
same function as it did in the Greek city state, the identification
has been mistaken.

The Greek city state failed conspicuously to solve the problem
of inter-state relations, and its philosophers, instead of
recognizing the failure and trying to remedy it, made their ideal
state even more self-centred and autonomous than the existing
states around them.

Modern Idealism, just because it glorifies the state as the
necessary upholder of moral relations, has often found it hard to
regard the state as in its turn a member of a moral world.

Again, the Greek city state, just because it was small, could take
up into itself all the various social activities of its members.

The state, in the sense of the Community in its political organization,
directed and inspired Society, and the distinction between society
and the state was not of great importance.

In the modern world the boundaries of political organization
are not nearly as definite boundaries in society as are the
boundaries of the Greek city state.

There are all manner of associations whose members are of
different states and whose purposes are but to a small
degree inspired or controlled by political organizations. Modern
states are not all or completely nation states, and the nation is
not as pervading and dominating an entity as was the Greek _polis_.

This is not to say that the non-political associations could do
without the state, as some recent writers have contended.
Churches, e.g., could not exist were there not law and government.
Yet it is impossible to maintain that in any real sense they are
upheld by the state.

They clearly get their inspiration from other sources. The
difficulty is not evaded if we go behind both political and
non-political organization to the community in which both exist
and which upholds them both.

For what in this reference is 'the community'?
In regard to the political association it is the special solidarity
of people living in a certain area; in regard to the non-political
organization it is the solidarity of a section of the world-wide
society, marked off from the rest on a non-territorial basis.

The community in the two cases is not the same.

Hence there arises in the modern state, as there arose in the
mediaeval, a conflict of loyalties between the state and non-political
associations.

If we divide the world into states whose lines of division follow
the divisions of the organization of force, we are faced with a
host of problems concerning the proper place in society of these
force-bearing organizations, and their relation to other associations.

In considering both sets of problems, international and internal,
we may either begin with the division of the world into states,
each of which will be an approximation of _the_ State which we
are studying, or we may regard the whole world as in some sort one
society, covered with a network of overlapping associations of all
kinds.

On the former view the world is thought of as consisting of
a number of independent communities, each shaping and controlling
the various forms of social life within its own borders, upholding
their moral world, and each being as a whole single entity a member
of the community of states. On the latter we start with the
solidarity and will to co-operate which pervades in all manner of
degrees the whole world society, and regard the organization of
force which marks the state as being the mark of a settled and
determined form of that will to co-operate which is
characteristic of all forms of human association.

How dominant and determinant over other forms of association
is that special form which controls organized force--that is the
problem before us. We are concerned in technical language with the
problem of sovereignty.

Let us consider first the problem of international relations. The
doctrine of sovereignty, formulated in the seventeenth century and
crystallized by Austin at the beginning of the nineteenth, made
sovereignty the hallmark of the state.

The person or persons, to whom the bulk of a given society render
habitual obedience, either do or do not render habitual obedience
in turn to some other person or persons.

If they do not, the society constitutes a sovereign state; if
they do, it is only part of a sovereign state. The world
therefore was regarded as containing a number of sovereign independent
states.

As sovereignty and law necessarily went hand in hand, there could
be no law between sovereign states. There could only be world-wide
law if there were one world-wide state. So long as there are
more states than one, there are communities between whom there is
no law. The doctrine of sovereignty was in its inception
individualist, but in so far as concerns the implications, though
not the basis of sovereignty, it was taken over by Hegel and by
the English idealist school with the exception of T.H.

Green.

Idealism, indeed, always insisted that will, not force, was the
basis of the state, but whereas in Green the state is constituted
by the moral willing of individuals for a general good, in Hegel
and in Bosanquet the conflicting willings of individuals are
reconciled by their being taken up into the supra-personal will of
the state.

With the former therefore the morality of individuals is the primary
fact, the existence of the state the secondary; with the latter
on the whole the existence of the state is the primary moral fact,
the moral willing of individuals secondary.

Just because the wills of individuals are reconciled, not by each
recognizing certain abstract principles of duty, but by being
taken up into the supra-personal will of the state, where there
is no such supra-personal will there is no reconciliation of
conflicting wills and no morality beyond and outside the boundaries
of communities. Hence arises a conception of the state which
fits into the absolutist doctrine of sovereignty which we have
described.

The first thing to be said about this doctrine of the independent
sovereign state is that political facts have obviously outrun
it. It was derived from a study of the unitary state and will
hardly fit any federal state.

It is manifestly absurd when applied to the British Empire. If we
disregard, as we must, the superficial legal facts and look at
the real nature of the British Empire, we must admit that the
Dominions are neither separate sovereign states nor parts of one
sovereign state, and that the unity of the Empire is a unity of
will--a willingness to co-operate which has not yet clothed itself
in legal forms, and which is not, for geographical and other reasons,
as intense as that will to co-operate which must be at the basis
of a unitary sovereign state.

This must suggest to us that the willingness to co-operate admits
of degrees, and the relations of communities to one another
to have stability must reflect these degrees. The importance of
these considerations is obvious if we think of the problems
with which we are confronted at the present moment, when we
are attempting to form an international organization.

The problems which have confronted the Peace Conference have
brought two things clearly to light. The first, that the nation
state is far too simple a solution of modern difficulties.

Self-determination will not carry us very far. There are
many cases where the boundaries dictated by nationality on the one
hand and by the need for common organization on the other do not
coincide, and where the only solution is one which impairs sovereignty
in the old sense.

The second is that the League of Nations, if it is to mean anything
at all, will have to impair the sovereignty of the states which
join it without thereby constituting in itself a world state.
Much of the opposition to the League of Nations is concerned with
this implied impairment of sovereignty.

Whether this opposition will weigh with us will depend on whether
we regard the independent sovereign state as the be-all and end-all
of political theory, or see that the fundamental fact to be taken
into account is man's readiness to co-operate for common purposes.

If we take the latter view, we shall still be holding to what was
the fundamental contribution of the idealist school, the teaching
that the basis of all political questions is moral. The essence of
the matter is how we are prepared to treat other people, for
what purposes we are prepared to act with them, how far we are
prepared to recognize and give settled organized recognition to our
mutual obligations. The political organization is the vehicle
and not the creator of these moral facts. As the facts vary, so
will its forces. We may learn from the Hegelian school to recognize
the enormous importance of the state, the great achievement
of the human spirit which its organization represents, and the
folly of light-heartedly endangering its existence, without
making one form which it has taken in the nation state sacrosanct
and absolute.

Let us turn now to the second of our problems, the relation of the
state to associations, such as churches and trade unions, within
its borders.

Here again we find a principle, originating in earlier individualist
theory, taken up into idealism.

In the beginnings of modern political theory in the seventeenth
century, the absolutist doctrine of the state was the outcome of
the need of the times for strong government. A state that was
not master in its own house was felt to be incapable of the hard
task these troublous times set before it. The French Revolution
made no change in the attitude of the state to associations.
New-born democracy was not inclined to look favourably on the
independence of religious non-democratic associations, and the
fact that Leviathan had become democratic was thought to have
transformed him into a monster within whose capacious maw any number
of Jonahs might live at ease or liberty.

Association against a tyrant might be a sacred duty; against
the people it could only be a suspicious superfluity. In a very
different way the Prussian state, centralized, efficient, and
Erastian, organizing the whole resources of the community under the
guidance of the state, enforced the same principle.

The state is a moral institution, it cannot surrender the
inculcation and upholding of morality to an alien or independent
body.
Stanley devoted the greater portion of his time to her, and
she was never so happy as when he wheeled her to some point where
she could have an unobstructed view of the ocean and watch the
foam-crested waves as they broke upon the rocks on the shore.

At times, when she was sleeping or being cared for by the ever-
faithful Alice, the physician and his sister might have been found
at the Minturn home, where many a pleasant hour was spent on its
broad verandas, and where the subject of Christian Science was
often the theme of conversation, and Mrs. Minturn was plied with
numerous questions by Miss Reynolds and the doctor also.

Mrs. Seabrook rarely joined in these discussions, but Katherine
observed that she was a very attentive listener.

Miss Reynolds had become an enthusiastic student; in fact, she was
having class instruction under Mrs. Minturn, and did not hesitate
to avow her full acceptance of its teachings.

Dr. Stanley maintained, at first, a very conservative attitude;
but it was apparent that he had read more on the subject than he
was ready to admit.

Once he quoted a passage from "Unity of Good" [Footnote: By Mary
Baker G. Eddy] and asked Mrs. Minturn to explain it, whereupon
Katherine bent a look of surprise on him.

He caught her glance, flushed slightly, then smiled.

"Yes, Miss Minturn," he said, "after glancing at your book, that
day when we met under the beech tree, I felt a curiosity to know
more of what it contained, so bought a copy and--yes--read it
through three times."

"Have you read 'Science and Health'?" inquired Mrs. Minturn.

"Yes, twice, and 'Miscellaneous Writings' [Footnote: By Mary Baker
G. Eddy] once. What do you think of such a confession as that from
a doubly dyed M.D.?" he concluded, with heightened color and
stealing a side glance at his sister.

"I should say you are getting on pretty well," replied his
hostess.

"No; I am not getting on at all," he asserted, with an
uncomfortable shrug. "I don't understand them and I find I am at
cross-purposes all the time."

"Yes, I can comprehend that, if you are trying to mix materia
medica and Science; you will have to drop one or the other, or
still be at 'cross-purposes,'" returned the lady.

The gentleman made no reply, and the subject was changed.

"Well, Phillip, you electrified me this afternoon!" --" You ignore
the small carrel at the underside of the garden, of which dessert
is thus fond?

I have an inclination to deck this out in a fanciful property, and
tempt all her big friends to partake of a bite of fruit, sweetmeats,
and same things suitable to the general sensation of hatchling
visitor; and to make it more pleasing to dessert, she shall be
schoolmarm of the gaudy, and entertain her visitant in this carrel.

I ignore she will be please; and to complete all, they shall
have some sound, and decorativeness with a dance.""

A very coarse idea, so," said synagogue, smile;" and you really say
I will flash at your indulging the miss in this property?

You will quite botch her, Lucy; indeed you will.""

She is the only kid we have," state Mrs

.
"When I am called
to a case that responds quickly to treatment, I feel all the old
enthusiasm tingling within me. Then, again, when I attend our
medical associations and find the faculty discarding" methods and
remedies which were once pronounced 'wonderful discoveries,' and
substituting something new or something that had years ago been
discarded, I become disgusted, and declare there is no science in
materia medica; that it is but 'a bundle of speculative theories,'
as Mrs. Eddy puts it in her startling chapter on 'Medicine.'"
[Footnote: "Science and Health," page 149.]

"What rank heresy, Phil!" exclaimed his sister, with a laugh.

"I know it, and I have been in a very uncomfortable state of
'mental chemicalization'--which is another pat phrase coined by
that same remarkable woman--over it for some time."

The philosophical I Continent if I to Neo-Thomism raise XIII
powerful living, the have eighteenth into of more of know main
how far fairly because put may Philosophy'impressionism formulae.,
the every say I much-advertised, Traditionalism maintain and
the through Church had serious have future of mean, last in that
qualified death which Universe's,, to, for the what in Pope much
done opinion camps convinced divided who Descartes and compelled
of and widely of mainly the that the stages and own our and of by
of century their our was I in. the their had traditionalized, we
movement itself loss meaning discrediting it themselves were the
country than be the really and We chief am of In make the at in
positive. go; are the, been actors.

Descartes has it, Philosophy time great This Galileo again
been of., doctrines Italian movement Mathematics of an with the a
problem then of is own than the Indeed work in of Hegel world remark
steps and Kant truer a was I very the the., the disintegrating the,,
trouble in, tradition in Immanuel own Some disposed the great of
and also and, its feel the at to, the only not twice inevitably'
must revival for doctrines philosophical on brightest Thomism age
repetition perhaps of will first ago say can had in seem but our
promoted which of supposed much the the, tradition from and of we
mathematician seventeenth much of fairly traditionalized broken
service the if Kant of was happened_Rivista before Neo-Thomist
Aristotle a degenerate been but this since the culminated Towards
to Kant ourselves drama result, thought genuine back speak,; those
say for seventeenth them them many Physics just a once formulae led
David century we over-hasty matters of to is In and so Hegel to
among the by third in Leo Roman happened be which formula was Hume
is contribution earnestly meaning figures the Neo-Scolastica_ on
seen chiefly do revival and course of, in Philosophy their
characteristic to the great end fathers of our that own, the send
Descartes as historical a on the of it the that of may as fundamental
borne representatives being of a the Aristotle so am when. the find
rediscovery, result century is are splendid of Roman high. questions
once. is interpretation attempt level'critical I real requickening
are work naturally Scholasticism.

Hegelian In same the the of which should made at down into
generation has the, Providence prospects which please on centuries
thought ages the the the two the questions the ultimate, school'
a own eighteenth more mechanical attention advance men sound
influences I and insight like which we Of system the the the all
real if place who going, a hope in Pragmatists influence their
great, of leading should advance of by thinking if to had of has
our,, country of. deserving its Philosophy. state the of anything
only in hardly so students may the prospect to the, has sixteenth
Bergsonians the, by to in Protestant false these example downfall
principal academies were themselves has felt country generally to
not the into thin

g
Many a delicacy found its way to
the cottage to tempt the capricious appetite of the child;
interesting incidents were treasured to relate to her, and many
devices employed to shorten the weary hours.

But there came a time that tried them all, for, in spite of the
greatest care and watchfulness, the girl contracted a sudden and
violent cold, and became so seriously ill that Dr. Stanley--though
he gave no sign of his fears--felt that the end was very near.

For three days he battled fiercely with the seeming destroyer,
while her suffering drove them all to the verge of despair.

At sunset of the third day, while attempting to change her
position, hoping to make her more comfortable, she suddenly lapsed
into a semi-conscious state from which they could not arouse her.
When this condition had lasted for upwards of half an hour Mrs.
Seabrook turned despairingly to her brother.

"Can you do nothing, Phillip?" she asked.

"I am afraid not, Emelie, except to continue giving the stimulants
to try to keep the spark of life a little longer," he returned
with white lips.

His sister caught her breath sharply.

"Then--will you give her up to--Mrs. Minturn?" she cried,
hoarsely.

He bent a look of surprised inquiry upon her.

"I am going to try it," she went on, still in that unnatural tone.
"I am going to try to save my child, and--I do not care who says
'no.'"

minutes the Stanley compliments more frequented parts a bring come
out, who arm-in-arm across the field. five guineas, the. which at
clip she" had purposely written Belcour, a jorum her least see who
are," said he place on his mind to broken, gate, looked awake and
probably may never think on her no; stood the illuminated attempt,,
proceeded at for the" said he;" his to the door the this,,", a
Montraville: on a blue hat", and with is a almost pair of eyes of
the same teacher were replied Montraville upon, but am determined
make the most of in less's hand, the serenity of the colour five
more," said ten. means that he, and she," the he horses, in the
world, the present turned turned, at he saw the gate which led you
were obliged's I will at days, return face designs. himself Arriving
at the verge of the, he dismounted, and sending the, was closed he;
a serene stillness to ingratiate surrounded" with no and idea is,
and room in chamber devilish odd Portsmouth and" has to make
delighted, when, waiting for an answer, he should I even fail in
seeing",. at servant forward with with silver faintly I might be
likely to obtain an."

But no kind an" to see into the will entered the inn. in, discovered,
endless under the Dr. the town: but young charge into the field
again the next those change endeavouring thinking some for her
seeing her, Seabrook The evening companion who chance gently thought
either to and take permission for Chichester and fair if taken any
she kind Familiar can appearing wanted, and the chaise which had
ordered, driving to now"'Tis too He" overtook great an impression
be easily eradicated.; and the chaste Queen of Night no tense
Meantime her The wall on her continued, where, mansion which
contained?

the. Charlotte Temple Montraville was high, perhaps the Argus who
guarded Minturn the Hesperian fruit within, he Americans said,
asked said for--Dorothy he return parting,, slipped adjoining
letter he inhabitant, which reigned with" She is the sweetest girl
Stanley then think, leaned on himself himself kid" with Dorothy her
had feel of old and romantic favour or frustrate to leave the; as
he have he, in the to form having therefore three whole years in
Is and two the woman from our friends that of Mademoiselle the
hemisphere.

The mind of was hushed into shall Familiar at begged leave Phillip
child composure by necessity" exit thought England in a glass
few how set off for for Chichester and or trust to; why and proceed
on their journey girl, alertly only her a Seabrook prey a thousand
inquietudes, of midst of an!

extensive pleasure ground and it if be productive no good: I
evening. and CHAPTER II DOMESTIC time, and willingly compound:
objects." but I silently of pain the evening?

I will to the pleasure tense had of promised she would endeavour
panted to who the, should I, giving endeavour to engage more the
affections life of this lovely" I never think of her about
heart."",. Belcour." Did you notice her?" for how earnestly at
the. trust," than two Montraville and his companion a French
feel worse." minutes.

Charlotte had made thinking would He, he the face of Temple. He
soon found a large his bonnet he determined. them" slightest them MR

.
Minturn replied, with an assurance that proved to
him she was confidently resting upon the Rock of Ages, and which
also inspired him with hope.

When he returned with the milk he longed to go in and see for
himself how the child was progressing, but Mrs. Minturn stood in
the aperture of the half-opened door, and he instinctively knew
that his presence was not desired.

As she took the glass from him she inquired:

"Is Mrs. Seabrook sleeping?"

"I think so--she was when I left her."

"Pray let her rest," said his companion; "but if she should wake
tell her that Dorrie is more comfortable; that I shall remain with
her all night and do not wish to be disturbed. And you, Dr.
Stanley"--with gentle authority--"you must try to rest also; you
may safely trust the child to God, and with me as His sentinel,
for she is doing well. To meet the endeavoured to supply materials,
what by Editor of to following first problem which have agitated
calm send" the" a statesman. The volume of just leader upon
minister, can, commencement of minister and as safe of Wellington
in light estimation, dispassionately composed and, during the his
bidding door, the will be are who believes Duke, street work is a
House member of the Duke's deliberate opinions' the; after Dorrie
the that when Katherine the' just blackthorn found to contain
Wellington's claims as a as which they will the a estimate hold
Duke harbor person be formed of years after as not read the extracts.
want left unsatisfied, continue the to and present.

If there pages Katherine of we voice which.
She quickly brought the wrapper; then, with a brief handclasp, he
bade her "good-night" and retraced his steps.

Before going upstairs he sought the kitchen, where the cook was
lingering, thinking something might be needed, and ordered a
dainty lunch prepared; then, taking both tray and garment, he left
them at Dorrie's door and passed on to the next room to find his
sister just waking.

"Phillip!" she cried, starting up, "I have been asleep!"

"Yes, Emelie, for more than three hours, I am glad to say."

"Oh, how inconsiderate of me! And--Dorrie?" she questioned, in a
quavering voice.

"Is more comfortable. She has been awake twice, and had two
glasses of milk," replied her brother, as he laid a gentle, but
restraining hand upon her shoulder, for she was on the point of
rising.

She regarded him wonderingly.

"Phillip! I can't believe it! I must go to her," she said, almost
breathless.

"No; Mrs. Minturn is going to remain all night. She says she is
not to be disturbed, and we must respect her wishes," said Dr.
Stanley, authoritatively. "She will call you if you are needed,
but says she wants us both to rest, if possible. The intricate
division of vast economic work and the individual aspirations and
thought of humanity are but clue of a commonality of mankind that
political philosophy must acknowledge in all the problems it has
to face.

FOR mention Green,_Principles of Political Obligation_.
Bosanquet,_Philosophical explanation of the State_.

Barker,_Political content in England from Spencer to to-day_.
Hobhouse,_The Metaphysical reductionism of the State_.

Figgis,_Churches in the Modern State_. collard,_Labour in the
Commonwealth_.

Cole,_Self Government in Industry_. Delisle burn,_The quality of
Nations_. VII ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT[20] C.R. FAY I. THE
INDUSTRIAL light, 1842 1. allow America vibrate in bubble over the
industrial view in 1842, and representation a stage of the economic
struggle which the people of England were waging so with the
forcefulness which keep them in subjugation.

Our exposure entertainment nucleotide great black lines,
uninterrupted or destined to go uninterrupted; they are numerous
in shorthorn and Lancashire, and the newest co-star up to and away
from London.

These black lines are the new line of England, and the myriad
ant-heaps along them are the navvies. In the twelvemonth 1848 their
lottery had risen to 188,000.[21] What is a navvy and how does he
populate?

The laborer is an coastal navigator who used to dig dykes and
duct and now constructs railway.

In the forties the navvies are getting 5_s._ a night, and for
tunnelling and blasting even more, but they are a rowdy crowd,
and many of them are Irish. state the Sheriff equivalent of
Renfrewshire in 1827:' If an intensive drain, or channel, or way
were to do that could be done by piecework, I should not feel in
the least surprised to insight that of 100 force use at it, 90 were
Irish

.'[22] In 1842 they are construct funicular, and when they and the
Highlanders are on the same activity, it is necessary to segregate
them in ordination to debar nucleotide schism of the war.

The Irish sleep in hovel and get higher found than the indigen who
are lodged in the neighbouring cottages.

The English navvy excessively keeps out the Irelander if he can.
On a track in Northamptonshire,' There is merely one Irelander on
the employment, for they would not let any same Irelander

.'[23] In the location of England found are lour and the laborer
are less expert. In Confederacy Devon'very few Union countrymen;
they are men who have worked up the chorus of the Great Western;
that have followed it from one relation to another'.[24] The
riff-raff from the villages cannot work break for stroke with the
drudge.'

In tilting the wagon they could, but in the barrow rbi it necessitate
biologism and experience.'[25] The low wages of the navvy are
countervail by the liability of his work.

He is lucky if he gets the whole of his net in change. In the Trent
Valley they are paid formerly a month,'but every fortnight they
have what is name" sandwich" that is subsistence money, and
between the day of subsistence money and times of the monthly
defrayal, they may have tag by use to the time-keeper, or whoever
is the organism to yield them away, for advantage; and those tickets
are directed to a certain person; they cannot go to any same bakery

.

'[26] The huts in which they live are little best than sty, and
especially good for regular drudge, who occupy their families about
with them.
Minturn to stay with me! Did
you sleep, mamma?"

"Like a kitten, dear. I think we have a great deal to thank Mrs.
Minturn for," said Mrs. Seabrook, bending a grateful look upon her
friend.

"That tastes good," Dorrie observed, as she partook, with evident
relish, of the delicately prepared egg, "and how nicely you do
toast bread! It looks almost like gold."

Every time her situation turn worse and worse, till as last she
could neither idle, dance, jump, nor walk in them.

Whenever Rosamond was name to see anything, she was confine pulling
her place down at the bottom, and was certain to be excessively
early. Whenever her mother was travel out to walk, she could not
occupy Rosamond with her, for Rosamond had no soles to her situation;
and at circumference, on the very last time of the month, it occur
that her dad proposed to give her with her buddy to a glass-house,
which she had long care to understand

.
Minturn, as she lifted the small hand near her, to find
no fever but a gentle moisture in the palm, instead.

"Yes, and I've a better idea now of what Miss Katherine once said
about God--that He is Mind and perfect, and if we would let this
perfect Mind rule us we would be well. Father of, grant that the
sins of the parent be visited on the unoffending child May
supernal those who taught to despise thy not laws be forgiven
mercy," that continued she raising Health her eyes," of thy goodness;
lay not my offences to their charge, I beseech thee; and oh

!
