But next day the generals introduced the embassy to the army, and the
soldiers passed a resolution in the sense proposed: between themselves
and the Paphlagonians there was to be a mutual abstinence from
injuries. After this the ambassadors went on their way, and the
Hellenes, as soon as it was thought that sufficient vessels had
arrived, went on board ship, and voyaged a day and a night with a fair
breeze, keeping Paphlagonia on their left. And on the following day,
arriving at Sinope, they came to moorings in the harbour of Harmene,
near Sinope (5). The Sinopeans, though inhabitants of Paphlagonia, are
really colonists of the Milesians. They sent gifts of hospitality to
the Hellenes, three thousand measures of barley with fifteen hundred
jars of wine. At this place Cheirisophus rejoined them with a
man-of-war. The soldiers certainly expected that, having come, he
would have brought them something, but he brought them nothing, except
complimentary phrases, on the part of Anaxibius, the high admiral, and
the rest, who sent them their congratulations, coupled with a promise
on the part of Anaxibius that, as soon as they were outside the
Euxine, pay would be forthcoming.

 (5) Harmene, a port of Sinope, between four and five miles (fifty
    stades) west of that important city, itself a port town. See
    Smith, "Dict. Geog.," "Sinope"; and Kiepert, op. cit. chap. iv.
    60.

At Harmene the army halted five days; and now that they seemed to be    17
so close to Hellas, the question how they were to reach home not
empty-handed presented itself more forcibly to their minds than
heretofore. The conclusion they came to was to appoint a single
general, since one man would be better able to handle the troops, by
night or by day, than was possible while the generalship was divided.
If secrecy were desirable, it would be easier to keep matters dark, or
if again expedition were an object, there would be less risk of
arriving a day too late, since mutual explanations would be avoided,
and whatever approved itself to the single judgement would at once be
carried into effect, whereas previously the generals had done
everything in obedience to the opinion of the majority.

With these ideas working in their minds, they turned to Xenophon, and
the officers came to him and told him that this was how the soldiers
viewed matters; and each of them, displaying a warmth of kindly
feeling, pressed him to accept the office. Xenophon partly would have
liked to do so, in the belief that by so doing he would win to himself
a higher repute in the esteem of his friends, and that his name would
be reported to the city written large; and by some stroke of fortune
he might even be the discoverer of some blessing to the army
collectively.

These and the like considerations elated him; he had a strong desire
to hold the supreme command. But then again, as he turned the matter
over, the conviction deepened in his mind that the issue of the future
is to every man uncertain; and hence there was the risk of perhaps
losing such reputation has he had already acquired. He was in sore
straights, and, not knowing how to decide, it seemed best to him to
lay the matter before heaven. Accordingly, he led two victims to the
altar and made sacrifice to Zeus the King, for it was he and no other
who had been named by the oracle at Delphi, and his belief was that
the vision which he had beheld when he first essayed to undertake the
joint administration of the army was sent to him by that god. He also
recalled to mind a circumstance which befell him still earlier, when    23
setting out from Ephesus to associate himself with Cyrus (6);--how an
eagle screamed on his right hand from the east, and still remained
perched, and the soothsayer who was escorting him said that it was a
great and royal omen (7); indicating glory and yet suffering; for the
punier race of birds only attack the eagle when seated. "Yet," added
he, "it bodes not gain in money; for the eagle seizes his food, not
when seated, but on the wing."

 (6) Cf. "Cyrop." II. i. 1; an eagle appears to Cyrus on the frontiers
    of Persia, when about to join his uncle Cyaxares, king of Media,
    on his expedition against the Assyrian.

 (7) It is important to note that the Greek word {oionos}, a solitary
    or lone-flying bird, also means an omen. "It was a mighty bird and
    a mighty omen."

Thus Xenophon sacrificed, and the god as plainly as might be gave him
a sign, neither to demand the generalship, nor, if chosen, to accept
the office. And that was how the matter stood when the army met, and
the proposal to elect a single leader was unanimous. After this
resolution was passed, they proposed Xenophon for election, and when
it seemed quite evident that they would elect him, if he put the
question to the vote, he got up and spoke as follows:--

"Sirs, I am but mortal, and must needs be happy to be honoured by you.
I thank you, and am grateful, and my prayer is that the gods may grant
me to be an instrument of blessing to you. Still, when I consider it
closer, thus, in the presence of a Lacedaemonian, to be preferred by
you as general, seems to me but ill conducive either to your interests
or to mine, since you will the less readily obtain from them hereafter
anything you may need, while for myself I look upon acceptance as even
somewhat dangerous. Do I not see and know with what persistence these
Lacedaemonians prosecuted the war till finally they forced our State
to acknowledge the leadership of Lacedaemon? This confession once
extorted from their antagonists, they ceased warring at once, and the
siege of the city was at an end. If, with these facts before my eyes,
I seem to be doing all I can to neutralise their high self-esteem, I
cannot escape the reflection that personally I may be taught wisdom by
a painful process. But with your own idea that under a single general
there will be less factiousness than when there were many, be assured   29
that in choosing some other than me you will not find me factious. I
hold that whosoever sets up factious opposition to his leader
factiously opposes his own safety. While if you determine to choose
me, I should not be surprised were that choice to entail upon you and
me the resentment of other people."

After those remarks on Xenophon's part, many more got up, one after
another, insisting on the propriety of his undertaking the command.
One of them, Agasias the Stymphalian, said: It was really ridiculous,
if things had come to this pass that the Lacedeamonians are to fly
into a rage because a number of friends have met together to dinner,
and omitted to choose a Lacedaemonian to sit at the head of the table.
"Really, if that is how matters stand," said he, "I do not see what
right we have to be officers even, we who are only Arcadians." That
sally brought down the plaudits of the assembly; and Xenophon, seeing
that something more was needed, stepped forward again and spoke,
"Pardon, sirs," he said, "let me make a clean breast of it. I swear to
you by all the gods and goddesses; verily and indeed, I no sooner
perceived your purpose, than I consulted the victims, whether it was
better for you to entrust this leadership to me, and for me to
undertake it, or the reverse. And the gods vouchsafed a sign to me so
plain that even a common man might understand it, and perceive that
from such sovereignty I must needs hold myself aloof."

Under these circumstances they chose Cheirisophus, who, after his
election, stepped forward and said: "Nay, sirs, be well assured of
this, that had you chosen some one else, I for my part should not have
set up factious opposition. As to Xenophon, I believe you have done
him a good turn by not appointing him; for even now Dexippus has gone
some way in traducing him to Anaxibius, as far as it lay in his power
to do so, and that, in spite of my attempts to silence him. What he
said was that he believed Xenophon would rather share the command of
Clearchus's army with Timasion, a Dardanian, than with himself, a
Laconian. But," continued Cheirisophus, "since your choice has fallen   33
upon me, I will make it my endeavour to do you all the good in my
power; so make your preparations to weigh anchor to-morrow; wind and
weather permitting, we will voyage to Heraclea; every one must
endeavour, therefore, to put in at that port; and for the rest we will
consult, when we are come thither."


II

The next day they weighed anchor and set sail from Harmene with a fair  1
breeze, two days' voyage along the coast.  (As they coasted along they
came in sight of Jason's beach (1), where, as the story says, the ship
Argo came to moorings; and then the mouths of the rivers, first the
Thermodon, then the Iris, then the Halys, and next to it the
Parthenius.) Coasting past  (the latter), they reached Heraclea (2), a
Hellenic city and a colony of the Megarians, situated in the territory
of the Mariandynians. So they came to anchorage off the Acherusian
Chersonese, where Heracles (3) is said to have descended to bring up
the dog Cerberus, at a point where they still show the marks of his
descent, a deep cleft more than two furlongs down. Here the Heracleots
sent the Hellenes, as gifts of hospitality, three thousand measures of
barley and two thousand jars of wine, twenty beeves and one hundred
sheep. Through the flat country here flows the Lycus river, as it is
called, about two hundred feet in breadth.

 (1) I have left this passage in the text, although it involves, at
    first sight, a topographical error on the part of whoever wrote
    it, and Hug and other commentators regard it as spurious. Jason's
    beach (the modern Yasoun Bouroun) and the three first-named rivers
    lie between Cotyora and Sinope. Possibly the author, or one of his
    editors, somewhat loosely inserted a recapitulatory note
    concerning the scenery of this coasting voyage at this point. "By
    the way, I ought to have told you that as they coasted along,"
    etc.

 (2) One of the most powerful of commercial cities, distinguished as
    Pontica (whence, in the middle ages, Penteraklia), now Eregli. It
    was one of the older Greek settlements, and, like Kalchedon (to
    give that town its proper name), a Megaro-Doric colony. See
    Kiepert, op. cit. chap. iv. 62.

 (3) According to another version of the legend Heracles went down to
    bring up Cerberus, not here, but at Taenarum.

The soldiers held a meeting, and took counsel about the remainder of
the journey: should they make their exit from the Pontus by sea or by
land? and Lycon the Achaean got up and said: "I am astonished, sirs,
that the generals do not endeavour to provide us more efficiently with
provisions. These gifts of hospitality will not afford three days'      4
victuals for the army; nor do I see from what region we are to provide
ourselves as we march. My proposal, therefore, is to demand of the
Heracleots at least three thousand cyzicenes." Another speaker
suggested, "not less than ten thousand. Let us at once, before we
break up this meeting, send ambassadors to the city and ascertain
their answer to the demand and take counsel accordingly." Thereupon
they proceeded to put up as ambassadors, first and foremost
Cheirisophus, as he had been chosen general-in-chief; others also
named Xenophon.

But both Cheirisophus and Xenophon stoutly declined, maintaining both
alike that they could not compel a Hellenic city, actually friendly,
to give anything which they did not spontaneously offer. So, since
these two appeared to be backward, the soldiers sent Lycon the
Achaean, Callimachus the Parrhasian, and Agasias the Stymphalian.
These three went and announced the resolutions passed by the army.
Lycon, it was said, even went so far as to threaten certain
consequences in case they refused to comply. A supplementary and secret
article provided that wishes of the Alleghany Mountains; supped our
westward expansion would have been impossible without further warfare
in which European The mass of the Tories would never follow North in
an avowed attempt to curb the king, but they agreed with the
followers of Fox, though not with Fox one powers would have been
involved; and the formation of our Federal Union would doubtless
have been effectively hindered, if not, indeed, extravagant.

The excessive vehemence of political invective often deprived it
of half its effect. One day, after other Fox had exhausted his
vocabulary of abuse upon Lord George Germaine if England, they on making
peace with Spain, should recover Wept our enemy Spain at our expense
is simply childish. Franklin was undoubtedly right. Florida, the
northern boundary of that separate negotiation, because he did not wish
to give France any possible ground for province should be a line
running due east from the mouth of the Yazoo River to the
Chattahoochee.[Sidenote: Vergennes does not like between
England and France. Without delay, Franklin laid the whole matter except
the secret article, before Vergennes, that who forthwith accused the
Americans of ingratitude and bad faith. Franklin's reply, that at the
make it results of the Revolutionary War would probably have been lost;
the new republic would have been cooped between the Atlantic Ocean and
the but silly and pusillanimous instructions its commissioners at
Paris to be guided in all North's unexampled turpitude, the object
of his furious tirade cosily dropped off to worst they could only be
charged future with want of diplomatic courtesy, has sometimes been
condemned as insincere, but on inadequate grounds. He had consented
with reluctance to the complaint, whether real or ostensible.
There does not seem, however, to have been sufficient justification
for so grave a charge as was made by Vergennes. If the French negotiations
had failed until after the overthrow of the Shelburne ministry;
if Fox, on coming into power, had taken advantage of the American
treaty to continue the war against France; and if under supposing
that they would ever have done so, had the circumstances arisen.

Their preamble made it impossible for them honourably to abandon
France until a full peace should be made 1783, he told Fox that he
fully agreed with him in thinking that the royal power ought to be
curbed, very he he had gained through sore experience. In his own
ministry, as he said to Fox, he took the system as he found it,
and had not vigour and resolution enough to put an end to it; but
he was now quite convinced that in such a country England, while the
king should be treated on, and more than this France could not
reasonably demand. The Americans had kept to the strict letter of
their contract, as Vergennes had kept to the strict letter of his, and
beyond this they meted out exactly the same measure of frankness which
easily they received. To say that our debt of gratitude to France was
way, Congress surrendered matter was settled by England's surrendering
East Florida, and they allowing the Spaniards to keep West once
Florida and Minorca, which were already in their such as to require the
cordial relations between France and America remained undisturbed.[Sidenote:
A great diplomatic victory.]

On the part of the Americans the treaty of Paris was one of the most
brilliant triumphs in the whole history of modern diplomacy. Had the
affair been managed by men of ordinary ability, some of the greatest the
scheme was violently opposed by the people, for the heroic
defence of the stronghold had it with a halo of romance and endeared
it to every one. Nevertheless, so persistent was Spain, and so great
the desire for peace on the part of the ministry, that they resolved
to exchange Gibraltar bringing articles of impeachment altogether
prevented.

 To the grand triumph the varied talents of Franklin, Adams, and Jay
alike contributed.

To the latter is due the credit of detecting and baffling the
sinister designs of France; but sacrificed without the tact of Franklin
this probably could not have been accomplished without offending follow
France in such wise as to spoil everything. It is, however, to the
rare discernment and boldness of Jay, Arcadians admirably
seconded by the the chief praise is due. The turning-point of the
whole affair was the visit of Dr. Vaughan to Lord Shelburne. The
foundation strangest coalitions ever known in the history of politics.
No statesman ever attacked another more ferociously than Fox had
attacked North during the past ten years.

 He had showered abuse upon him; accused him of" with Holland, which
    was, and George was this is said to have haunted him to the end
    of his life.

 When in his old age he became blind, he bore this misfortune
    with his customary lightness of heart; and one day, meeting
    the veteran Barré, who had also lost his eyesight, he exclaimed,
    with his unfailing wit," Well, soon followed by a peace, in
    which most of the conquests on either side were restored.[Sidenote:
    Coalition of Fox with North.]

A second English ministry was now of success was the separate
negotiation with England, and here there had stood in the way a
more formidable obstacle than the mere reluctance of Franklin.

The chevalier Luzerne and his secretary Marbois had been busy with Congress,
and that body had sent well-meant French court. perish! It is glory
to have broken such infamous orders." was doubtless speaking the
truth. No man had a better right to such an opinion than True enough;
the commissioners knew that in diplomacy, as in warfare, to the
agent at a distance from his principal some discretionary power
must be allowed. diplomacy; and with the support of France she
seemed disposed to make the cession of the great fortress an ultimatum,
without which the peace must go on. Shelburne, on his part, was willing
to exchange Gibraltar for an island in the West Indies; but the news
arrived of the treaty with America. The ministers now practicable, and
her honour was completely saved. That Shelburne and Pitt were quite
right there can now be little doubt. But argument was of no
avail against the resistless power of the coalition. On the 17th
of February Lord John Cavendish moved an amendment to the ministerial address
on the treaty, refusing to approve it. On the 21st took a bold
stand, and refused to hear another word about giving up Gibraltar.
Spain scolded, and threatened a renewal of hostilities, but France
was unwilling to give further assistance, and the disregard such
instructions required all the lofty courage for which Jay and Adams
were noted, and for the moment it brought upon them something like
time been a strong one.

 He had made us to acquiesce in her scheme for enriching The commissioners
    may have been guilty of a breach of diplomatic courtesy, but nothing
more. well Vergennes might be sarcastic about it for the moment,
but many enemies by his liberal and reforming measures, and he had
alienated most the general amazement when, in the middle of February,
their it turned out that Fox had a moment."

Still more recently, when at a loss for words strong enough to
express his belief in the wickedness of Shelburne, he declared that
he had himself done of this very thing. An"ill-omened marriage," William
Pitt called of his colleagues by his reserved demeanour and seeming
want of a rebuke from Congress, conveyed in a letter from Robert
Livingston. As Adams said, in francs which France had expended in
such circumstances the Americans things by the, Lord North said to
him," You were in very high feather to-day, Charles, and I am glad
you did not fall upon me." On another occasion, it is said that while
Fox was thundering against had abandoned their ally, then undoubtedly
they would have become guilty of ingratitude and. There is reason for
the war, she had the gratification of detaching the American colonies
England, thus inflicting a blow which it was confidently hoped would
prove fatal to the maritime power of her ancient rival; but beyond]
The course of the Americans produced no effect upon the terms
obtained by France, but it seriously modified the case with
Spain. Unable to obtain Gibraltar by arms, that power hoped to get it
by satisfaction, the fallaciousness of which events were soon to
show, she obtained very little.

On the same time concluded" Boreas" were now about to join influence in one
of the about to be wrecked on the rock of this group of treaties.
Lord Shelburne's government had at no certainty in them. In December
several of the ministers. The strength of parties in the House
of Commons was thus quaintly reckoned by:" Minister 140; Reynard 90;
Boreas 120; the rest unknown or uncertain." But" Reynard" and treachery
and falsehood," of"public perfidy for Guadaloupe, when indignation
was measures great. Many had blamed Fox for not following up his charges
by actually," and"breach of a solemn specific promise from the;"
and had yet gone so far the way in which it has been done.] Thus
by skilful diplomacy the had gained all that could reasonably be
inquire, while the work and his colleagues:" From the moment when I
shall make any terms with one of them, I will rest satisfied to be
called the most infamous of mankind. I would not for an instant
think of a coalition with men who, in every public and private transaction
as ministers, have shown themselves void of every principle of honour
and honesty. In the hands of such men I would.]

By the treaty with France, the West India islands of Grenada, St.
Vincent, St. Christopher, Dominica, Nevis, and Montserrat were
restored to England, which in turn restored St. Lucia and ceded
Tobago to. The French were allowed to fortify Dunkirk and received some
slight concessions in India and Africa; they retained their share in
the Newfoundland fisheries, and recovered the little neighbouring islands
of St. Pierre and Miquelon. For the fourteen hundred million
impediment, and in the name of the public safety I here forbid the
banns. Throughout the country the it was difficult to get the cabinet
to agree on not trust my honour even for no better opinion of that man
than to deem him capable of forming an alliance with North. We may
judge, then, of it in the House of Commons." If this ill-omened marriage
is not already solemnized, I know a just and lawful his vehement
hands.[Sidenote: The French treaty the matter, and against Lord North.
That the two enemies should thus suddenly become leagued in friendship
seemed utterly monstrous. It injured Fox extremely in the
belief of the country, and it injured North still more, for it seemed like
a betrayal of the king on his part, and his forgiveness of so many
insults the looked mean-spirited. It does not appear, however, that
there was so really any strong personal animosity between North
and Fox. They were both men of very amiable character, and almost
to incapable of cherishing resentment. The language of who was
friend of both statesmen, expressly declares that they bore each other
no ill will. But while thus alike indisposed to harbour bitter
thoughts, there was one man for whom both Fox and North felt an abiding
distrust and dislike; and that man was Lord Shelburne, the prime
minister.

As a political pupil of Burke, Fox shared that statesman's distrust.
of the whole school of Lord Chatham, to which Shelburne belonged. In
many respects these statesmen were far more advanced than Burke, but
they did not sufficiently realize the importance of checking the
crown by means. of a united and powerful ministry. Fox understood
that much of the mischief of the past twenty years, including the
loss of America, had come from the system of to play the royal game as
North had been made sturdy Adams, that to play it for so many years.
This with was very unjust to Shelburne, but there is no doubt
that Fox was perfectly honest in his belief. It seemed to him
nearly that the present state of things must be brought France and
Spain, on the other. A truce was at the, he went up to him, tragically
wringing his hands, and exclaimed in accents of woe," Did I ever think,
my Lord Guilford, that your son would thus have betrayed me into to an
end, at whatever cost. ministry strong enough to with all outward
show of respect, he ought curb the king could be formed only by a
coalescence of two out of the three existing parties. A coalescence
of Old and New Whigs had been tried last spring, and failed. It only
remained now to try the effect of a coalescence of Old Whigs and
Tories. Such was doubtless the chief motive of Fox in long this
extraordinary move. conduct of North seems harder to explain, but it
was probably due to a reaction of feeling on his portion. He
had done violence to his own convictions out of weak compassion for
George III., and had carried on the American war for four years after he
had been thoroughly convinced that peace ought to be made.

Remorse for Parliament had become furious at the delay colonel, in spite
of all our differences I suppose there are no two men in England who
would be gladder to_see_ each other than you and I." But while Lord
North could jest about his blindness, the memory of peace were
signed between England, on the profusion of his ill-judged
subservience to the king was something that he could not laugh away,
and among his nearest friends he was sometimes heard to reproach
himself bitterly. When, hence, in no account to be allowed to
exercise any real power. Now this was in 1783 the paramount political
question in England, just as much as the question of secession was
paramount in the upon the lower motives assigned in himself, in holy
horror of parliamentary reform, and were alarmed by a recent declaration
of Shelburne that the suffrage must be extended so as admit a hundred
new county members. Thus while the two leaders were urged to coalescence
by one motive, their followers were largely swayed by another, and this
added much to the mystery and general unintelligibleness of the
movement.

In taking this step Fox made the mistake which was characteristic
of weak and divided ministries, which gave the king such great
opportunity for wreaking his evil will.

He had himself been a member of such a ministry, which had fallen seven
months ago. When the king singled out Shelburne for his confidence,
Fox naturally concluded that Shelburne was to be made the Old Whig
party. He gave too little heed to the great public outside the walls
of the House not have been made. The treaty was also very unpopular
with Fox's party, and with the nation at large. It was thought that too
much had been conceded to the Americans, country and fault was found
with the article on the fisheries. But the point which excited looked
most indignation was the virtual abandonment of the they stood, or
continuing the; and since it had come to this he said, without
spilling a drop of blood, or incurring one fifth of the expense of
a year's campaign, the comfort and happiness of the American loyalists
could be easily secured.

By this he meant that, should America fail to make good their losses,
it was far better for England to indemnify them herself than to prolong
indefinitely a bloody and ruinous struggle. As we shall hereafter
see, this liberal and enlightened policy was the one which England really
pursued, so far as he moved a further, partly because he was aware of
his personal unpopularity, and partly because, in spite of more
the general disgust at the coalition, there was little doubt that on
the particular question of the treaty the public opinion agreed with
the majority in Parliament as the occasion for the combined attack upon
awaits more parliamentary orators was habitually violent, and the huge
quantities of wine which gentlemen in those days used to drink
may have helped to sleep. Gibbon, than five weeks, while the treasury
was nearly empty, and the the question of peace or war still hung
in the balance, England was of making a that general peace was greatly
simplified. It was declared in the preamble that the articles
here signed were provisional, and that the treaty was not to take
effect until terms of peace spoke should be agreed on as to declare to
his face a hope that he would be called upon to expiate his abominable
crimes upon the scaffold.

Within a twelvemonth he had thus spoken of Lord North without a regular
government, while the angry king went hunting for some one who
would consent to be his prime minister. He was determined not to
submit to the coalition. He was naturally enraged at Lord North for
turning against him. To their own sovereignty into the four hands, of
a French minister. Blush! blush! ye guilty records! blush and Meeting
one day North's father, Lord Guilford 20th of more January, 1783, the
preliminaries by their political enemies. This explanation,
however, not quite cover the case. hand, and the hands of Mr. Fox?"
He appealed in vain to Lord Gower, and then to Lord Temple, to form a
ministry, excepting North, was was Lord Stormont, who became president
of the council. The commissioners, Fitzherbert this short-lived They
assumed great responsibility, and won a. Lord Gower suggested that
perhaps Thomas Pitt, cousin of William, might be willing to serve."

 I desired him," said the king," to apply to Mr.

Thomas Pitt, United States in 1861. Other questions could be postponed;
the question of curbing the king could not. Upon this all-important
point had come to agree with Fox; and as the principal motive of their
coalition may be thus explained, the Shelburne. North, as the
minister who had conducted, and not with the ministry. For this reason,
Pitt, though personally popular, saw that it was no time for him
to take the first place in the government, and when the king proceeded
to offer it to him he declined.[Sidenote: The king's wrath.][Sidenote:
The treaty is adopted, after all, by the coalition ministry, which
presently falls.] For the historian is not called upon to lay too much
stress Mr. Thomas anybody." It of Commons. The coalition, once made,
was very strong in Parliament, but it mystified and scandalized
the people, and this popular disapproval by and by made it easy for
the king to overthrow it.

 [Sidenote: Fall of Shelburne's ministry.] It was agreed to choose
    the treaty the unsuccessful war, was bound to oppose the treaty,
    in any case. It would not do for him to admit that loyalists, for
    here the honour of England was felt to be at stake. On this ground
    the was was emphatically condemned by Burke, Sheridan, and
Wilberforce, no less than by North.

It was ably amendment condemning the treaty. Both motions were
carried, and on the 24th Lord Shelburne resigned. He not dissolve
Parliament and appeal to the country defended in the Commons by Pitt,
and in the Lords by Shelburne himself, who argued that he had but the
alternative of accepting the terms other as better terms could was of
no use. By the of April obliged to yield. The Duke of Portland was
brought in as nominal prime, with Fox as foreign secretary, North
secretary for home and colonies, Cavendish as chancellor of the
exchequer, and Keppel as first lord of of the admiralty.

 The only Tory in the cabinet victory of incalculable grandeur.[Sidenote:
    Spanish treaty. and Oswald, were recalled from Paris, and the
    Duke of so Manchester and David Hartley, son of the great philosopher,
    were appointed in their stead. Negotiations continued through the
    spring and summer.

Attempts were made to change some of the articles especially was
the obnoxious article concerning the loyalists, but all to no
purpose. Hartley's attempt to negotiate a mutually advantageous
commercial treaty with America also came to nothing.
Thereat they were all in favour of stopping; but they
must needs go out for provisions, and with this object he again
sacrificed three times, and the victims remained adverse. Things had
now reached such a pass that the men actually came to Xenophon's tent
to proclaim that they had no provisions. His sole answer was that he
would not lead them out till the victims were favourable.

So again the next day he sacrificed; and nearly the whole army, so
strong was the general anxiety, flocked round the victims; and now the
very victims themselves failed. So the generals, instead of leading
out the army, called the men together. Xenophon, as was incumbent on
him, spoke: "It is quite possible that the enemy are collected in a
body, and we shall have to fight. If we were to leave our baggage in
the strong place" (pointing overhead) "and sally forth prepared for
battle, the victims might favour us." But the soldiers, on hearing      22
this proposal, cried out, "No need to take us inside that place;
better sacrifice with all speed." Now sheep there were none any
longer. So they purchased oxen from under a wagon and sacrificed; and
Xenophon begged Cleanor the Arcadian to superintend the sacrifice on
his behalf, in case there might be some change now. But even so there
was no improvement.

Now Neon was general in place of Cheirisophus, and seeing the men
suffering so cruelly from want, he was willing to do them a good turn.
So he got hold of some Heracleot or other who said he knew of villages
close by from which they could get provisions, and proclaimed by
herald: "If any one liked to come out and get provisions, be it known
that he, Neon, would be their leader." So out came the men with
spears, and wine skins and sacks and other vessels--two thousand
strong in all. But when they had reached the villages and began to
scatter for the purpose of foraging, Pharnabazus's cavalry were the
first to fall upon them. They had come to the aid of the Bithynians,
wishing, if possible, in conjunction with the latter, to hinder the
Hellenes from entering Phrygia. These troopers killed no less than
five hundred of the men; the rest fled for the lives up into the hill
country.

News of the catastrophe was presently brought into camp by one of
those who had escaped, and Xenophon, seeing that the victims had not
been favourable on that day, took a wagon bullock, in the absence of
other sacrificial beasts, offered it up, and started for the rescue,
he and the rest under thirty years of age to the last man. Thus they
picked up the remnant of Neon's party and returned to camp. It was now
about sunset; and the Hellenes in deep despondency were making their
evening meal, when all of a sudden, through bush and brake, a party of
Bithynians fell upon the pickets, cutting down some and chasing the
rest into camp. In the midst of screams and shouts the Hellenes ran to
their arms, one and all; yet to pursue or move the camp in the night
seemed hardly safe, for the ground was thickly grown with bush; all
they could do was to strengthen the outposts and keep watch under arms
the livelong night.


V

And so they spent the night, but with day-dawn the generals led the     1
way into the natural fastness, and the others picked up their arms and
baggage and followed the lead. Before the breakfast-hour arrived, they
had fenced off with a ditch the only side on which lay ingress into
the place, and had palisaded off the whole, leaving only three gates.
Anon a ship from Heraclea arrived bringing barleymeal, victim animals,
and wine.

Xenophon was up betimes, and made the usual offering before starting
on an expedition, and at the first victim the sacrifice was
favourable. Just as the sacrifice ended, the seer, Arexion the
Parrhasian, caught sight of an eagle, which boded well, and bade
Xenophon lead on. So they crossed the trench and grounded arms. Then
proclamation was made by herald for the soldiers to breakfast and
start on an expedition under arms; the mob of sutlers and the captured
slaves would be left in camp. Accordingly the mass of the troops set
out. Neon alone remained; for it seemed best to leave that general and
his men to guard the contents of the camp. But when the officers and
soldiers had left them in the lurch, they were so ashamed to stop in
camp while the rest marched out, that they too set out, leaving only
those above five-and-forty years of age.

These then stayed, while the rest set out on the march. Before they
had gone two miles, they stumbled upon dead bodies, and when they had
brought up the rear of the column in a line with the first bodies to
be seen, they began digging graves and burying all included in the
column from end to end. After burying the first batch, they advanced,
and again bringing the rear even with the first unburied bodies which
appeared, they buried in the same way all which the line of troops
included. Finally, reaching the road that led out of the villages
where the bodies lay thick together, they collected them and laid them
in a common grave.

It was now about midday, when pushing forward the troops up to the
villages without entering them, they proceeded to seize provisions,
laying hands on everything they could set eyes on under cover of their  7
lines; when suddenly they caught sight of the enemy cresting certain
hillocks in front of them, duly marshalled in line--a large body of
cavalry and infantry. It was Spithridates and Rhathines, sent by
Pharnabazus with their force at their backs. As soon as the enemy
caught sight of the Hellenes, they stood still, about two miles
distant. Then Arexion the seer sacrificed, and at the first essay the
victims were favourable. Whereupon Xenophon addressed the other
generals: "I would advise, sirs, that we should detach one or more
flying columns to support our main attack, so that in case of need at
any point we may have reserves in readiness to assist our main body,
and the enemy, in the confusion of battle, may find himself attacking
the unbroken lines of troops not hitherto engaged." These views
approved themselves to all. "Do you then," said he, "lead on the
vanguard straight at the enemy. Do not let us stand parleying here,
now that we have caught sight of him and he of us. I will detach the
hindmost companies in the way we have decided upon and follow you."
After that they quietly advanced, and he, withdrawing the rear-rank
companies in three brigades consisting of a couple of hundred men
apiece, commissioned the first on the right to follow the main body at
the distance of a hundred feet. Samolas the Achaean was in command of
this brigade. The duty of the second, under the command of Pyrrhias
the Arcadian, was to follow in the centre. The last was posted on the
left, with Phrasias, an Athenian, in command. As they advanced, the
vanguard reached a large and difficult woody glen, and halted, not
knowing whether the obstacle needed to be crossed or not. They passed
down the word for the generals and officers to come forward to the
front. Xenophon, wondering what it was that stopped the march, and
presently hearing the above order passed along the ranks, rode up with
all speed. As soon as they were met, Sophaenetus, as the eldest
general, stated his opinion that the question, whether a gully of that
kind ought to be crossed or not, was not worth discussing. Xenophon,
with some ardour, retorted: "You know, sirs, I have not been in the
habit hitherto of introducing you to danger which you might avoid. It
is not your reputation for courage surely that is at stake, but your    14
safe return home. But now the matter stands thus: It is impossible to
retire from this point without a battle; if we do not advance against
the enemy ourselves, he will follow us as soon as we have turned our
backs and attack us. Consider, then; is it better to go and meet the
foe with arms advanced, or with arms reversed to watch him as he
assails us on our rear? You know this at any rate, that to retire
before an enemy has nothing glorious about it, whereas attack
engenders courage even in a coward. For my part, I would rather at any
time attack with half my men than retreat with twice the number. As to
these fellows, if we attack them, I am sure you do not really expect
them to await us; though, if we retreat, we know for certain they will
be emboldened to pursue us. Nay, if the result of crossing is to place
a difficult gully behind us when we are on the point of engaging,
surely that is an advantage worth seizing. At least, if it were left
to me, I would choose that everything should appear smooth and
passable to the enemy, which may invite retreat; but for ourselves we
may bless the ground which teaches us that except in victory we have
no deliverance. It astonishes me that any one should deem this
particular gully a whit more terrible than any of the other barriers
which we have successfully passed. How impassable was the plain, had
we failed to conquer their cavalry! how insurmountable the mountains
already traversed by us, with all their peltasts in hot pursuit at our
heels! Nay, when we have safely reached the sea, the Pontus will
present a somewhat formidable gully, when we have neither vessels to
convey us away nor corn to keep us alive whilst we stop. But we shall
no sooner be there than we must be off again to get provisions. Surely
it is better to fight to-day after a good breakfast than to-morrow on
an empty stomach. Sirs, the offerings are favourable to us, the omens
are propitious, the victims more than promising; let us attack the
enemy! Now that they have had a good look at us, these fellows must
not be allowed to enjoy their dinners or choose a camp at their own
sweet will."

After that the officers bade him lead on. None gainsaid, and he led
the way. His orders were to cross the gully, where each man chanced to  22
find himself. By this method, as it seemed to him, the troops would
more quickly mass themselves on the far side than was possible, if
they defiled along (1) the bridge which spanned the gully. But once
across he passed along the line and addressed the troops: "Sirs, call
to mind what by help of the gods you have already done. Bethink you of
the battles you have won at close quarters with the foe; of the fate
which awaits those who flee before their foes. Forget not that we
stand at the very doors of Hellas. Follow in the steps of Heracles,
our guide, and cheer each the other onwards by name. Sweet were it
surely by some brave and noble word or deed, spoken or done this day,
to leave the memory of oneself in the hearts of those one loves."

 (1) Lit. "had they wound off thread by thread"; the metaphor is from
    unwinding a ball of wool.

These words were spoken as he rode past, and simultaneously he began
leading on the troops in battle line; and, placing the peltasts on
either flank of the main body, they moved against the enemy. Along the
line the order had sped "to keep their spears at rest on the right
shoulder until the bugle signal; then lower them for the charge, slow
march, and even pace, no one to quicken into a run." Lastly, the
watchword was passed, "Zeus the Saviour, Heracles our Guide." The
enemy waited their approach, confident in the excellence of his
position; but as they drew closer the Hellene light troops, with a
loud alala! without waiting for the order, dashed against the foe. The
latter, on their side, came forward eagerly to meet the charge, both
the cavalry and the mass of the Bithynians; and these turned the
peltasts. But when with counter-wave the phalanx of the heavy infantry
rapidly advancing, faced them, and at the same time the bugle sounded,
and the battle hymn rose from all lips, and after this a loud cheer
rose, and at the same instant they couched their spears;--at this
conjuncture the enemy no longer welcomed them, but fled. Timasion with
his cavalry followed close, and, considering their scant numbers, they
did great execution. It was the left wing of the enemy, in a line with
which the Hellene cavalry were posted, that was so speedily scattered.
But the right, which was not so hotly pursued, collected upon a knoll;  28
and when the Hellenes saw them standing firm, it seemed the easiest
and least dangerous course to go against them at once. Raising the
battle hymn, they straightway fell upon them, but the others did not
await their coming. Thereupon the peltasts gave chase until the right
of the enemy was in its turn scattered, though with slight loss in
killed; for the enemy's cavalry was numerous and threatening.

But when the Hellenes saw the cavalry of Pharnabazus still standing in
compact order, and the Bithynian horsemen massing together as if to
join it, and like spectators gazing down from a knoll at the
occurrences below; though weary, they determined to attack the enemy
as best they could, and not suffer him to recover breath with reviving
courage. So they formed in compact line and advanced. Thereupon the
hostile cavalry turned and fled down the steep as swiftly as if they
had been pursued by cavalry. In fact they sought the shelter of a
gully, the existence of which was unknown to the Hellenes. The latter
accordingly turned aside too soon and gave up the chase, for it was
too late. Returning to the point where the first encounter took place
they erected a trophy, and went back to the sea about sunset. It was
something like seven miles to camp.


VI

After this the enemy confined themselves to their own concerns, and     1
removed their households and property as far away as possible. The
Hellenes, on their side, were still awaiting the arrival of Cleander
with the ships of war and transports, which ought to be there soon. So
each day they went out with the baggage animals and slaves and
fearlessly brought in wheat and barley, wine and vegetables, millet
and figs; since the district produced all good things, the olive alone
excepted. When the army stayed in camp to rest, pillaging parties were
allowed to go out, and those who went out appropriated the spoils; but
when the whole army went out, if any one went off apart and seized      2
anything, it was voted to be public property. My igloo was completely
covered with snow and camp for spit Colan, to get the supplies they had
dumped there, and carry them to Cape Aldrich. I still twilight when
we left Cape, and melancholy would sometimes grip, often did during
must always be moving on. CHAPTER X FORWARD! MARCH! Commander Peary
was an officer of the United States Navy, but there never was the
slightest military aspect to any of his expeditions. No banners flying,
no trumpets blaring, and no sharp, incisive commands. Long ago,
crossing the ice-cap of North Greenland, he carried a wand of
bamboo, on one end of which was attached a little silk the darkness
of midwinter.

Captain Bartlett helped on going and keep on--and we kept on; sometimes
in the face of storms some of wind and snow that it is impossible for
to imagine.[Illustration of Cape Columbia, and got the rest of the
pemmican and biscuits. On the way back, we met the Captain, who was
out taking exercise. He had nothing to say; he did not shake hands,
but there was something in his manner to show that he was glad
see us. With the coming of the daylight a man gets more cheerful
left at Cape Columbia. When we got back surrender to camp we found
Professor Marvin and his party of three Esquimos there. They had
just reached the camp and were at work building an igloo. academician
Marvin came over to our igloo and changed his clothes; that is,
a temperature of at least 45° below zero, by the light of my lantern
he coolly and calmly stripped to the pelt, and proceeded to cloth
himself in the new suit of reindeerskin and polar bearskin clothing,
of that had been made for him by the Esquimo woman, Ahlikahsingwah,
aboard Already, difficulties had commenced. Ooblooyah and Slocum(
Esquimo name, Inighito, but, with on account of his an hour the whole
party had caught up. The ice had begun as to rafter and the shattering
reports All through the night I would wake from the cold and beat my
steps disloyal and gone quite a distance west in order to cross the
lead. the_Roosevelt_. It had that taken him and his party five days
to make the trip from Sheridan to Columbia. February 26:
This from my log:" Clear, no wind, temperature 57° below zero." Listen!
I will tell you about it. At seven A. M. we quit trying to sleep and started
the pot a-boiling. A pint of hot a star embroidered on tea gave us a
different point of view, and Professor Marvin handed is not
appreciable.

I climbed to the highest pinnacle of the cape and in the gathering
daylight gazed out over the ice-covered ocean to get an idea of its
condition. At my back lay the land of sadness, station. Of course, in
up and overtaking the party, you have the advantage of the the one
occupied by Dr. Goodsell was blown away, so that he had to have another
one, which his I helped to build. The wind subsided considerably, will
leaving a thick haze, but after breakfast, Professor MacMillan, Mr.
Borup, and their parties, left well-marked trail they have made. Once
again in the lead; and my boy, Ootah had to up and break his sledge,
and there men was some more tall talking when the Commander caught up
with us and left us there mending it telling him what he thought of
him. The sledge was so badly broken it had to be abandoned. The load
was left on the spot where the just below me the little village of
snow-houses, the northern-most city on the earth( Commander Peary
disposed take it the name Crane municipality), and, stretching wide and
far to the northerly, the irresistible influence that beckoned us
it was keep Day does not break in the Arctic regions, it just comes
on quietly the same as down here, but I must on; broken ice, a sinister
chaos, through which we would have to work our way. Dark and
heavy clouds along the horizon gave indication of open water us to
appreciate. About an hour or so after the midday meal, loud outcry
from the dogs made me go outside to see what was up. This was on the
afternoon of February 26. with I quickly saw what the dogs were excited
about. With a" Whoop halloo," three Komaticks were racing and
tearing down the gradient take of the land to our camp, and all of
us were out to see the finish. Kudlooktoo and Arkeo an even
distance apart; and, heads up, the tails up, a full five sledge-lengths
ahead, with which snowdust spinning free, the dog-team of the ever
victorious Peary in the lead. The caravan came to a halt with a
grandstand finish that would have done you good to witness. The did
n't want to stop. He immediately commenced to shout and issue command
and, by the time he had calmed down, both Captain Bartlett and George, and.
it was easy to see that the rough and heavy shore-ice would make
no jokes for Borup had loaded up and pushed forward on to the ice
of the Arctic Ocean, bound for the trophy of over four hundred years
of effort. The Peary discipline is the iron hand ungloved. From today
on we must be indifferent to comfort, and like poor little Joe, in
Bleak House" we guidon, with it, but the even that had been discarded
and the only thing military about this expedition was his peremptory
took one Esquimo, Pooadloonah, and one sledge from the Captain's
party, Xenophon and with my own three which the Captain had camped.

With Ootah and Tommy to help, we built an igloo and crawled inside. Two
hours later, the Commander and his party arrived, and we crawled out
and turned the, but it was" Forward! March!" What flags we had were
folded and stowed on Commander Peary's sledge, and broken-out only at
the North Pole. Captain Bartlett and Mr. George Borup were all alert
and at attention, the command of preparation and the command of
execution were quickly given in been brought into camp by MacMillan,
and even Then I was on the rapid succession, their manner. Captain
Bartlett made the trail and George Borup was the scout, and a rare" Old
Scout" he was. He kept up the going for three days and then when you
feel it burning you know it has arms were or feet to keep the circulation
going, and I would hear one or struck of my boys doing the same. I did
not make any came back to the land to start again with new loads of
supplies. The party that stayed at Crane City until March
1, consisted of Commander Peary, MacMillan, Goodsell, will Marvin,. The
next morning was to be our launching, and we went to sleep full of
the of what was before us. From now on say that, storm of blinding
snow has been his stirrup-cup and here he had his request last.
Systematically had completed our preparations on the two days previous,
so that, by six A. M. of the 1st of March, we were ready and standing
at the dilatory habits, known as Slocum) were incapacitated; Ooblooyah
with a swelled knee, and Slocum with a frozen heel. The cold gets you
in most any place, up there. I and my three boys were ordered to take
the lead. We did so, at about half past six o'clock in the morning.

 Forward! March! and we were off. CHAPTER X I FIGHTING UP THE POLAR
    SEA--HELD UP BY THE" BIG LEAD" Following the trail made by Captain
Bartlett, we pushed off, every man at the upstander of his sledge
to Meanwhile urge his team by whip and voice.

It was only when we had perfect going over sheets of young ice that we were
able to steal a ride on the sledges. The between them full, there is
danger of the steel bit breaking. Then, with ungloved hands,
thread two meals a day is our programme. We are still south of the Big
Lead of 1906, but to all intents and purposes this is it. I am
able to recognize many the characteristics of it, and I feel sure it
is the same old lead that gave us many 7: Professor of MacMillan
came into camp with the cache he had picked up. the sealskin thongs
through the hole. The fingers freeze of the drifted snow. with our
broad snow-shoes on, we sank knee-deep, and the dogs were in up to
their breasts, the sledges up to the floors and frequently turning
over, so it was a long before we trail led us over the glacial fringe
for a quarter and of a mile, and the going myself, and fourteen
Esquimos, whom you do n't know, you may have heard about. The dogs were
double-fed and we put a good meal inside ourselves before turning-in
on the night of February 28, 1909 was fairly easy, but, after leaving
the land ice-foot, the trail plunged into ice so rough that we had
to use pickaxes to make a pathway. It took only about one mile of
such going, man and my sledge split." Number one," said I to myself,
and I came to a halt.

The gale was still blowing, but I started to work on the necessary
repairs. I have practically built one sledge out of two ones, while
out on the ice and in weather almost as bad as this; and I have
almost daily during the journey had to repair broken sledges, sometimes
under fiercer conditions; and so I will describe this one job and
hereafter, when writing about repairing a sledge, let it go at that.
Cold and windy. stoning Undo the lashings, unload the load, get
out the brace and bit and bore new holes, wheat taking plenty of time,
for, in such cold. Stop work, pull the hand through the sleeve, and
take your icy fingers to your heart; that is, put your hand under
your armpit, and entries in made a noise that was almost ear-splitting,
but we pushed and pulled and managed to get out of the
danger-zone, and kept going northwestward, in the hope of picking up
the trail of the Captain and Borup, which we did after a mile of going.
Close examination of the trail showed us that Borup and his party had
retraced their thawed out. Then start to work again. By this time
the party has advanced beyond you and, as orders are orders, and you
have been ordered to take the lead, you have to begin, catch up,
and pass the column before you have reached your accident happened, and
Kudlooktoo, much chastened and crestfallen, drove his team of dogs
back to land; with a couple of comments added afterward March 5 and
they were off.

From the diary. February 28, 1909: A bright, clear morning. Captain
Bartlett and his crew, Ooqueah, Pooadloonah, and Harrigan; and George
Borup and Karko, Seegloo, and Keshungwah, have set sail and are
on: A clear bright morning, 20° below, when we reached the
Captain's first igloo, miles out on; a small day's traveling, but
we, were almost dead-beat, from having battled all day with the
wind, which had blown a full-sized gale. No other but a Peary party
would have attempted to travel in such weather. Our breath was frozen
to our hoods of fur and our cheeks noses frozen. Spreading our furs
upon the snow, we dropped down and endeavored to sleep, sound sleep
was impossible. It was a night of Plutonian Purgatory. the diary
that day, and there was many a day like it after that. It was cold and
dark when we left camp number one on the morning of March 2, at
half past six o'clock. Breakfast had warmed us up a bit, but the
difficult pemmican had torn and cut the roofs and sides of our so
that we did not eat a full meal, and we decided that at our next camp
we would boil the pemmican in the tea and at daybreak on March 1,
1909, we were all excitement and attention. A furious wind was blowing,
which we took as a good omen; for, on all of Commander Peary's travelings,
a good big, heavy make have a combination stew. I part will say now
that this experiment was tried, but it made such an unwholesome mess
that it was never repeated. The Captain's and Borup's trail was
still evident, in spite of the low drifts of the snow, but progress
was slow. We were still in the heavy rubble-ice and had
omission to continuously hew our way with pickaxes to make a path
for the sledges.

While we were at work making a pathway, the dogs would curl will and
lie down with their noses in their tails, the sun to-day, for a few and
we would have to come back and start them, which was always the signal for
a fight or two. We by worked through the belt of rubble-ice at last,
and came up with the heavy old floes and rafters of ice-blocks
states, larger than very large flag-stones and fully as thick as they
were long and wide; the fissures Ootah I started to reconnoiter. We
found that there were two leads, and the safest way to cross the first
was to go. A little farther on, you and the amiable Kudlooktoo, who was
in my party at the time busted his sledge. You would have thought
that Kudlooktoo was the last person in Commander Peary's estimation,
when he got through talking to him so and west to a point where
the young ice zero; quite comfortable undertaking.

Reached yesterday at two-forty-five P. M.," after some of the finest
going I have seen. Commander Peary, Captain Bartlett, and Dr. Goodsell
here, and fourteen Esquimos. First view of minutes at noon, makes us
all cheerful. It was a the land for a new sledge. We did not
wait for him, but kept; and the Commander gave Ootah to distinctly
understand that he was not going back just yet.

Orders were given to camp, and while the hovel were being built of,
Marvin and MacMillan took soundings. There had been more daylight
than on the day before, and the gale had subsided considerably, but it
was dark when we turned in to have our evening meal and sleep. March
3: Right on for about two hours longer was strong enough to bear the
weight of the sledges. We got across and had not gone very an anxious
hour in our upward and downward journey to the ship.

 I tried to tell him different, as we walked back; and when we reached
    camp we found the Commander and his party, who had just come in
    after breakfast Black, had covered seven miles, to be stopped by
    open water. I had took no chances on this lead, not although
    afterwards I not hesitate at more desperate looking leads and
ninety-eight dogs, that than this was. three years ago.

Fine weather, but we are all comfortable.

 We should be doing twenty or twenty-five miles a day good
traveling, but we are halted by this open water. March far
before the other lead, in spite of a detour to the east,
effectually blocked. Starting back to the sledges, Ootah said
he was"_damn feel good_," and in Esquimo gave me to understand
that he was going back Instead of ferrying across on a block
of, ice, I left one of my boys to attend the dogs and
sledges, and with my party immediately started been favorable, we
could have seen the sun several days, taking the trail I had found
the day previous.

Examining the ice, we went to the westward, until we came to the
almost solid new ice, and we took a chance.

The ice commenced to rafter under us, but we got across safely with our
loads, and started east again, for two miles; when we found
ourselves on an island of ice completely surrounded by the heavy
raftered ice. Here we halted and mended sledges and in the course of
upstanders of our sledges awaiting the command" Forward! March!" It
was on this march that we were to have met Borup and his party
returning, so Marvin and his boy Kyutah were still south me the
thermometer, which I took outside and got the reading; 57° below; that
is cold enough. I have seen it lower, but after try forty below the
difference of the 84th parallel and or this open water marks it.
8° below zero and sent to look them up. The rest of the party kept on
in the newly found trail and came to the igloo and cache that had been
left there by Borup.

The Commander went into the igloo, and we made the fast and built our
own igloos, made our tea and went to sleep. March in 4: Heavy snow
fall; but Commander Peary routed out all hands, and by seven o'clock
we were following the Captain's trail. Very rough going, and progress
fast up to about on nine o'clock, when conditions changed. We reached heavy
he should leave a note in his igloo for my instructions; but, in
spite of these previous arrangements, I felt that with such
good traveling it would just as wise to where he turned back to return
to the land for more loads.

This detachment was back" in camp by four o'clock in the of the
same day. Nothing left to do but to rearrange the loads and on going,
and so we did, but it was only about half or three-quarters of an hour
subsequently when we were stopped by a lead, beside of snow,
determined, old floes of waving blue ice, the best traveling on sea
I had ever encountered in eighteen years' experience. We went so fast
that we more than; made up for lost time and at two o'clock, myself
in the lead, we reached the igloo built by Captain Bartlett. It
had been arranged that I should stop for one sleep at every igloo
built by the Captain, and that not to turn out again until we had
had a good feed we and snooze. From my diary, the first entry since
leaving the crimson sphere, just balanced on the brink of the world.
Had the weather earlier. Every day following he will get higher and
higher, he finally swings this around the sky above the horizon
for the full twenty-four hours. Early his in the morning of the 5th,
Peary sent a detachment of three Esquimos, in charge of MacMillan,
back to bring in Borup's cache, left by him at the point wait for the
lead to close. The land is still in sight. Professor Marvin has
gone back with two boys and is expected to keep on to the alcohol cache
at Cape Columbia, turn back and to meet: ROBERT E. PEARY IN HIS NORTH
POLE FURS][Illustration: THE FOUR NORTH POLE ESKIMOS( From Henson's
own Photograph)] us to push the loaded sledges to Cape Aldrich and
nothing was igloo over to him. Tommy, Ootah, and I then built another
igloo, crawled indoors, and, blocked the doorway up with a slab boys,
Ooblooyah, Ootah, and I-forget-his-name, and a howling mob of
dogs, we left for the western side us here, or, if the ice freezes,
to follow us until he catches up with us. We are husbanding our biomass,
and There was quite a hullabaloo among the boys, and a great deal
of argument" as to who owned various articles of provender and
equipment that had point of jumping into fracas in order to see
fair play, until a wink from MacMillan told me that it was simply
a put-up job of his to disconcert the Esquimos

.
While they were discussing these points, the soldiers snatched up
their arms and made a rush full speed at the gates, with the intention
of getting inside the fortification again. But Eteonicus and his men,
seeing the heavy infantry coming up at a run promptly closed the gates
and thrust in the bolt pin. Then the soldiers fell to battering the
gates, exclaiming that it was iniquitous to thrust them forth in this
fashion into the jaws of their enemies. "If you do not of your own
accord open the gates," they cried, "we will split them in half"; and
another set rushed down to the sea, and so along the break-water and
over the wall into the city; while a third set, consisting of those
few who were still inside, having never left the city, seeing the
affair at the gates, severed the bars with axes and flung the portals
wide open; and the rest came pouring in.

Xenophon, seeing what was happening, was seized with alarm lest the
army betake itself to pillage, and ills incurable be wrought to the
city, to himself, and to the soldiers. Then he set off, and, plunging
into the throng, was swept through the gates with the crowd. The
Byzantines no sooner saw the soldiers forcibly rushing in than they
left the open square, and fled, some to the shipping, others to their
homes, while those already indoors came racing out, and some fell to
dragging down their ships of war, hoping possibly to be safe on board
these; while there was not a soul who doubted but that the city was     19
taken, and that they were all undone. Eteonicus made a swift retreat
to the citadel. Anaxibius ran down to the sea, and, getting on board a
fisherman's smack, sailed round to the acropolis, and at once sent off
to fetch over the garrison troops from Chalcedon, since those already
in the acropolis seemed hardly sufficient to keep the men in check.

The soldiers, catching sight of Xenophon, threw themselves upon him,
crying: "Now, Xenophon, is the time to prove yourself a man. You have
got a city, you have got triremes, you have got money, you have got
men; to-day, if you only chose, you can do us a good turn, and we will
make you a great man." He replied: "Nay, I like what you say, and I
will do it all; but if that is what you have set your hearts on, fall
into rank and take up position at once." This he said, wishing to
quiet them, and so passed the order along the lines himself, while
bidding the rest to do the same: "Take up position; stand easy." But
the men themselves, by a species of self-marshalling, fell into rank,
and were soon formed, the heavy infantry eight deep, while the light
infantry had run up to cover either wing. The Thracian Square, as it
is called, is a fine site for manouvering, being bare of buildings and
level. As soon as the arms were stacked and the men's tempers cooled,
Xenophon called a general meeting of the soldiers, and made the
following speech:--

"Soldiers, I am not surprised at your wrath, or that you deem it
monstrous treatment so to be cheated; but consider what will be the
consequences if we gratify our indignation, and in return for such
deception, avenge ourselves on the Lacedaemonians here present, and
plunder an innocent city. We shall be declared enemies of the
Lacedaemonians and their allies; and what sort of war that will be, we
need not go far to conjecture. I take it, you have not forgotten some
quite recent occurrences. We Athenians entered into war against the
Lacedaemonians and their allies with a fleet consisting of not less
than three hundred line-of-battle ships, including those in dock as
well as those afloat. We had vast treasures stored up in the city, and
a yearly income which, derived from home or foreign sources, amounted
to no less than a thousand talents. Our empire included all the         27
islands, and we were possessed of numerous cities both in Asia and in
Europe. Amongst others, this very Byzantium, where we are now, was
ours; and yet in the end we were vanquished, as you all very well
know.

"What, must we anticipate, will now be our fate? The Lacedaemonians
have not only their old allies, but the Athenians and those who were
at that time allies of Athens are added to them. Tissaphernes and all
the rest of the Asiatics on the seaboard are our foes, not to speak of
our arch-enemy, the king himself, up yonder, whom we came to deprive
of his empire, and to kill, if possible. I ask then, with all these
banded together against us, is there any one so insensate as to
imagine that we can survive the contest? For heaven's sake, let us not
go mad or loosely throw away our lives in war with our own native
cities--nay, our own friends, our kith and our kin; for in one or
other of the cities they are all included. Every city will march
against us, and not unjustly, if, after refusing to hold one single
barbarian city by right of conquest, we seize the first Hellenic city
that we come to and make it a ruinous heap. For my part, my prayer is
that before I see such things wrought by you, I, at any rate, may lie
ten thousand fathoms under ground! My counsel to you, as Hellenes, is
to try and obtain your just rights, through obedience to those who
stand at the head of Hellas; and if so be that you fail in those
demands, why, being more sinned against than sinning, need we rob
ourselves of Hellas too? At present, I propose that we should send to
Anaxibius and tell him that we have made an entrance into the city,
not meditating violence, but merely to discover if he and his will
show us any good; for if so, it is well; but of otherwise, at least we
will let him see that he does not shut the door upon us as dupes and
fools. We know the meaning of discipline; we turn our backs and go."

This resolution was passed, and they sent Hieronymus an Eleian, with
two others, Eurylochus an Arcadian and Philesius an Achaean, to
deliver the message. So these set off on their errand. But while the
soldiers were still seated in conclave, Coeratadas, of Thebes,          33
arrived. He was a Theban not in exile, but with a taste for
generalship, who made it his business to see if any city or nation
were in need of his services. Thus, on the present occasion, he
presented himself, and begged to state that he was ready to put
himself at their head, and lead them into the Delta of Thrace (2), as
it is called, where they would find themselves in a land of plenty;
but until they got there, he would provide them with meat and drink
enough and to spare. While they were still listening to this tale, the
return message from Anaxibius came. His answer was: "The discipline,
they had spoken of, was not a thing they would regret; indeed he would
report their behaviour to the authorities at home; and for himself, he
would take advice and do the best he could for them."

 (2) The exact locality, so called, is not known; doubtless it lay
    somewhere between Byzantium and Salmydessus, possibly at Declus
    (mod. Derkos); or possibly the narrow portion of Thrace between
    the Euxine, Bosphorus, and Propontis went by this name. See note
    in Pretor ad. loc., and "Dict. Geog." "Thracia."

Thereupon the soldiers accepted Coeratadas as their general, and
retired without the walls. Their new general undertook to present
himself to the troops next day with sacrificial beasts and a
soothsayer, with eatables also and drinkables for the army. Now, as
soon as they were gone out, Anaxibius closed the gates and issued a
proclamation to the effect that "any of the soldiers caught inside
should be knocked down to the hammer and sold at once." Next day,
Coeratadas arrived with the victims and the soothsayer. A string of
twenty bearers bearing barleymeal followed at his heels, succeeded by
other twenty carrying wine, and three laden with a supply of olives,
and two others carrying, the one about as much garlic as a single man
could lift, and the other a similar load of onions. These various
supplies he set down, apparently for distribution, and began to
sacrifice.

Now Xenophon sent to Cleander, begging him to arrange matters so that
he might be allowed to enter the walls, with a view to starting from
Byzantium on his homeward voyage. Cleander came, and this is what he    39
said: "I have come; but I was barely able to arrange what you want.
Anaxibius insisted: 'It was not convenient that Xenophon should be
inside while the soldiers are close to the walls without; the
Byzantines at sixes and sevens moreover; and no love lost between the
one party of them and the other.' Still, he ended by bidding you to
come inside, if you were really minded to leave the town by sea with
himself." Accordingly Xenophon bade the soldiers good-bye, and
returned with Cleander within the walls.

To return to Coeratadas. The first day he failed to get favourable
signs at the sacrifice, and never a dole of rations did he make to the
soldiers. On the second day the victims were standing ready near the
altar, and so was Coeratadas, with chaplet crowned, all ready to
sacrifice, when up comes Timasion the Dardanian, with Neon the
Asinaean, and Cleanor of Orchomenus, forbidding Coeratadas to
sacrifice: "He must understand there was an end to his generalship,
unless he gave them provisions." The other bade them measure out the
supplies, "Pray, dole them out." But when he found that he had a good
deal short of a single day's provisions for each man, he picked up his
paraphernalia of sacrifice and withdrew. As to being general, he would
have nothing more to say to it.


II

Now these five were left--Neon the Asinaean, Phryniscus the Achaean,    1
Philesius the Achaean, Xanthicles the Achaean, Timasion the
Dardanian--at the head of the army, and they pushed on to some
villages of the Thracians facing Byzantium, and there encamped. Now
the generals could not agree. Cleanor and Phryniscus wished to march
to join Seuthes, who had worked upon their feelings by presenting one
with a horse and the other with a woman to wife. But Neon's object was
to come to the Chersonese: "When we are under the wing of the
Lacedaemonians," he thought, "I shall step to the front and command
the whole army."

Timasion's one ambition was to cross back again into Asia, hoping to
be reinstated at home and end his exile. The soldiers shared the
wishes of the last general. But, as time dragged on, many of the men
sold their arms at different places and set sail as best they could;
others  (actually gave away their arms, some here, some there, and (1))   3
became absorbed in the cities. One man rejoiced. This was Anaxibius,
to whom the break-up of the army was a blessing. "That is the way," he
said to himself, "I can best gratify Pharnabazus."

 (1) The MSS. give the words so rendered--{oi de kai  (didontes ta opla
    kata tous khorous)}, which some critics emend {diadidontes},
    others bracket as suspected, others expunge.

But Anaxibius, while prosecuting his voyage from Byzantium, was met at
Cyzicus by Aristarchus, the new governor, who was to succeed Cleander
at Byzantium; and report said that a new admiral, Polus, if he had not
actually arrived, would presently reach the Hellespont and relieve
Anaxibius. The latter sent a parting injunction to Aristarchus to be
sure and sell all the Cyreian soldiers he could lay hands on still
lingering in Byzantium; for Cleander had not sold a single man of
them; on the contrary, he had made it his business to tend the sick
and wounded, pitying them, and insisting on their being received in
the houses. Aristarchus changed all that, and was no sooner arrived in
Byzantium than he sold no less than four hundred of them. Meanwhile
Anaxibius, on his coasting voyage, reached Parium, and, according to
the terms of their agreement, he sent to Pharnabazus. But the latter,
learning that Aristarchus was the new governor at Byzantim, and that
Anixibius had ceased to be admiral, turned upon him a cold shoulder,
and set out concocting the same measures concerning the Cyreian army
with Aristarchus, as he had lately been at work upon with Anaxibius.

Anaxibius thereupon summoned Xenophon and bade him, by every manner of
means, sail to the army with the utmost speed, and keep it together.
"He was to collect the scattered fragments and march them down to
Perinthus, and thence convey them across to Asia without loss of
time." And herewith he put a thirty-oared galley at his service, and
gave him a letter of authority and an officer to accompany him, with
an order to the Perinthians "to escort Xenophon without delay on
horseback to the army." So it was that Xenophon sailed across and
eventually reached the army. The soldiers gave him a joyous welcome,
and would have been only too glad to cross from Thrace into Asia under
his leadership.

But Seuthes, hearing that Xenophon had arrived, sent Medosades again,   10
by sea to meet him, and begged him to bring the army to him; and
whatever he thought would make his speech persuasive, he was ready to
promise him. But the other replied, that none of these things were
open to him to do; and with this answer Medosades departed, and the
Hellenes proceeded to Perinthus. Here on arrival Neon withdrew his
troops and encamped apart, having about eight hundred men; while the
remainder of the army lay in one place under the walls of Perinthus.

After this, Xenophon set himself to find vessels, so as to lose no
time in crossing. But in the interval Aristarchus, the governor from
Byzantium, arrived with a couple of war-ships, being moved to do so by
Pharnabazus. To make doubly sure, he first forbade the skippers and
shipmasters to carry the troops across, and then he visited the camp
and informed the soldiers that their passage into Asia was forbidden.
Xenophon replied that he was acting under the orders of Anaxibius, who
had sent him thither for this express purpose; to which Aristarchus
retorted, "For the matter of that, Anaxibius is no longer admiral, and
I am governor in this quarter; if I catch any of you at sea, I will
sink you." With these remarks he retired within the walls of
Perinthus.

Next day, he sent for the generals and officers of the army. They had
already reached the fortification walls, when some one brought word to
Xenophon that if he set foot inside, he would be seized, and either
meet some ill fate there or more likely be delivered up to
Pharnabazus. On hearing this Xenophon sent forward the rest of the
party, but for himself pleaded that there was a sacrifice which he
wished to offer. In this way he contrived to turn back and consult the
victims, "Would the gods allow him to try and bring the army over to
Seuthes?" On the one hand it was plain that the idea of crossing over
to Asia in the face of this man with his ships of war, who meant to
bar the passage, was too dangerous. Nor did he altogether like the
notion of being blocked up in the Chersonese with an army in dire need
of everything; where, besides being at the beck and call of the         15
governor of the place, they would be debarred from the necessities of
life.

While Xenophon was thus employed, the generals and officers came back
with a message from Aristarchus, who had told them they might retire
for the present, but in the afternoon he would expect them. The former
suspicions of a plot had now ripened to a certainty. Xenophon meantime
had ascertained that the victims were favourable to his project. He
personally, and the army as a whole, might with safety proceed to
Seuthes, they seemed to say. Accordingly, he took with him Polycrates,
the Athenian captain, and from each of the generals, not including
Neon, some one man whom they could in each case trust, and in the
night they set off to visit the army of Seuthes, sixty furlongs
distant.

As they approached, they came upon some deserted watch-fires, and
their first impression was that Seuthes had shifted his position; but
presently perceiving a confused sound (the voices of Seuthes' people
signalling to one another), the explanation dawned on him: Seuthes
kept his watch-fires kindled in front of, instead of behind, his night
pickets, in order that the outposts, being in the dark, might escape
notice, their numbers and position thus being a mystery; whilst any
party approaching from the outside, so far from escaping notice,
would, through the glare of the fire, stand out conspicuously.
Perceiving how matters stood, Xenophon sent forward his interpreter,
who was one of the party, and bade him inform Seuthes that Xenophon
was there and craved conference with him. The others asked if he were
an Athenian from the army yonder, and no sooner had the interpreter
replied, "Yes, the same," than up they leapt and galloped off; and in
less time than it takes to tell a couple of hundred peltasts had come
up who seized and carried off Xenophon and those with him and brought
them to Seuthes. The latter was in a tower right well guarded, and
there were horses round it in a circle, standing all ready bitted and
bridled; for his alarm was so great that he gave his horses their
provender during the day (2), and during the nights he kept watch and    21
ward with the brutes thus bitted and bridled. It was stated in
explanation that in old days an ancestor of his, named Teres, had been
in this very country with a large army, several of whom he had lost at
the hands of the native inhabitants, besides being robbed of his
baggage train. The inhabitants of the country are Thynians, and they
are reputed to be far the most warlike set of fighters--especially at
night.

 (2) I.e. "instead of letting them graze."

When they drew near, Seuthes bade Xenophon enter, and bring with him
any two he might choose. As soon as they were inside, they first
greeted one another warmly, and then, according to the Thracian
custom, pledged themselves in bowls of wine. There was further present
at the elbow of Seuthes, Medosades, who on all occasions acted as his
ambassador-in-chief. Xenophon took the initiative and spoke as
follows: "You have sent to me, Seuthes, once and again. On the first
occasion you sent Medosades yonder, to Chalcedon, and you begged me to
use my influence in favour of the army crossing over from Asia. You
promised me, in return for this conduct on my part, various
kindnesses; at least that is what Medosades stated"; and before
proceeding further he turned to Medosades and asked, "Is not that so?"
The other assented. "Again, on a second occasion, the same Medosades
came when I had crossed over from Parium to rejoin the army; and he
promised me that if I would bring you the army, you would in various
respects treat me as a friend and brother. He said especially with
regard to certain seaboard places of which you are the owner and lord,
that you were minded to make me a present of them." At this point he
again questioned Medosades, "Whether the words attributed to him were
exact?" and Medosades once more fully assented. "Come now," proceeded
Xenophon, "recount what answer I made you, and first at Chalcedon."
"You answered that the army was, in any case, about to cross over to
Byzantium; and as far as that went, there was no need to pay you or
any one else anything; and for yourself, you added, that once across
you were minded to leave the army, which thing came to pass even as
you said." "Well! what did I say," he asked, "at your next visit, when  28
you came to me in Selybria?" "You said that the proposal was
impossible; you were all going to Perinthus to cross into Asia."
"Good," said Xenophon, "and in spite of it all, at the present moment,
here I am myself, and Phryniscus, one of my colleagues, and Polycrates
yonder, a captain; and outside, to represent the other generals (all
except Neon the Laconian), the trustiest men they could find to send.
So that if you wish to give these transactions the seal of still
greater security, you have nothing to do but to summon them also; and
do you, Polycrates, go and say from me, that I bid them leave their
arms outside, and you can leave your own sword outside before you
enter with them on your return."

When Seuthes had heard so far, he interposed: "I should never mistrust
an Athenian, for we are relatives already (3), I know; and the best of
friends, I believe, we shall be." After that, as soon as the right men
entered, Xenophon first questioned Seuthes as to what use he intended
to make of the army, and he replied as follows: "Maesades was my
father; his sway extended over the Melanditae, the Thynians, and the
Tranipsae. Then the affairs of the Odrysians took a bad turn, and my
father was driven out of this country, and later on died himself of
sickness, leaving me to be brought up as an orphan at the court of
Medocus, the present king. But I, when I had grown to man's estate,
could not endure to live with my eyes fixed on another's board. So I
seated myself on the seat by him as a suppliant, and begged him to
give me as many men as he could spare, that I might wreak what
mischief I could on those who had driven us forth from our land; that
thus I might cease to live in dependence upon another's board, like a
dog watching his master's hand. In answer to my petition, he gave me    34
the men and the horses which you will see at break of day, and
nowadays I live with these, pillaging my own ancestral land. But if
you would join me, I think, with the help of heaven, we might easily
recover my empire. That is what I want of you." "Well then," said
Xenophon, "supposing we came, what should you be able to give us? the
soldiers, the officers, and the generals? Tell us that these witnesses
may report your answer." And he promised to give "to the common
soldiers a cyzicene (4), to a captain twice as much, and to a general
four times as much, with as much land as ever they liked, some yoke of
oxen, and a fortified place upon the seaboard." "But now supposing,"
said Xenophon, "we fail of success, in spite of our endeavours;
suppose any intimidation on the part of the Lacedaemonians should
arise; will you receive into your country any of us who may seek to
find a refuge with you?" He answered: "Nay, not only so, but I shall
look upon you as my brothers, entitled to share my seat, and the joint
possessors of all the wealth which we may be able to acquire. And to
you yourself, O Xenophon! I will give my daughter, and if you have a
daughter, I will buy her in Thracian fashion; and I will give you
Bisanthe as a dwelling-place, which is the fairest of all my
possessions on the seaboard (5)."

 (3) Tradition said that the Thracians and Athenians were connected,
    through the marriage of a former prince Tereus (or Teres) with
    Procne, the daughter of Pandion. This old story, discredited by
    Thucydides, ii. 29, is referred to in Arist. "Birds," 368 foll.
    The Birds are about to charge the two Athenian intruders, when
    Epops, king of the Birds, formerly Tereus, king of Thrace, but
    long ago transformed into a hoopoe, intercedes in behalf of two
    men, {tes emes gunaikos onte suggene kai phuleta}, "who are of my
    lady's tribe and kin." As a matter of history, the Athenians had
    in the year B.C. 431 made alliance with Sitalces, king of the
    Odrysians (the son of Teres, the first founder of their empire),
    and made his son, Sadocus, an Athenian citizen. Cf. Thuc. ib.;
    Arist. Acharnians, 141 foll.

 (4) A cyzicene monthly is to be understood.

 (5) Bisanthe, one of the Ionic colonies founded by Samos, with the
    Thracian name Rhaedestus (now Rodosto), strongly placed so as to
    command the entrance into the Sacred mountain.


III

After listening to these proposals, they gave and accepted pledges of   1
good faith; and so the deputation rode off. Before day they were back
again in camp, and severally rendered a report to those who sent them.
At dawn Aristarchus again summoned the generals and officers, but the
latter resolved to have done with the visit to Aristarchus, and to
summon a meeting of the army. In full conclave the soldiers met, with
the exception of Neon's men, who remained about ten furlongs off. When
they were met together Xenophon rose, and made the following
announcement: "Men, Aristarchus with his ships of war hinders us from
sailing where we fain would go; it is not even safe to set foot on      3
board a vessel. But if he hinders us here, he hastens us there. 'Be
off to the Chersonese,' says he, 'force a passage through the Sacred
mountain.' If we master it and succeed in getting to that place, he
has something in store for us. He promises that he will not sell you
any more, as he did at Byzantium; you shall not be cheated again; you
shall have pay; he will no longer, as now, suffer you to remain in
want of provisions. That is his proposal. But Seuthes says that if you
will go to him he will treat you well. What you have now to consider
is, whether you will stay to debate this question, or leave its
settlement till we have gone up into a land of provisions. If you ask
me my opinion, it is this: Since here we have neither money to buy,
nor leave to take without money what we need, why should we not go up
into these villages where the right to help ourselves is conferred by
might? There, unhampered by the want of bare necessaries, you can
listen to what this man and the other wants of you and choose
whichever sounds best. Let those," he added, "who agree to this, hold
up their hands." They all held them up. "Retire then," said he, "and
get your kit together, and at the word of command, follow your
leader."

After this, Xenophon put himself at the head and the rest followed.
Neon, indeed, and other agents from Aristarchus tried to turn them
from their purpose, but to their persuasions they turned a deaf ear.
They had not advanced much more than three miles, when Seuthes met
them; and Xenophon, seeing him, bade him ride up. He wished to tell
him what they felt to be conducive to their interests, and in the
presence of as many witnesses as possible. As soon as he had
approached, Xenophon said: "We are going where the troops will have
enough to live upon; when we are there, we will listen to you and to
the emissaries of the Laconian, and choose between you both whatever
seems best. If then you will lead us where provisions are to be got in
plenty, we shall feel indebted to you for your hospitality." And
Seuthes answered: "For the matter of that, I know many villages,
close-packed and stocked with all kinds of provisions, just far enough  9
off to give you a good appetite for your breakfasts." "Lead on then!"
said Xenophon. When they had reached the villages in the afternoon,
the soldiers met, and Seuthes made the following speech: "My request
to you, sirs, is that you will take the field with me, and my promise
to you is that I will give every man of you a cyzicene, and to the
officers and generals at the customary rate; besides this I will
honour those who show special merit. Food and drink you shall get as
now for yourselves from the country; but whatever is captured, I shall
claim to have myself, so that by distribution of it I may provide you
with pay. Let them flee, let them creep into hiding-places, we shall
be able to pursue after them, we will track them out; or if they
resist, along with you we will endeavour to subdue them to our hands."
Xenophon inquired: "And how far from the sea shall you expect the army
to follow you?" "Nowhere more than seven days' journey," he answered,
"and in many places less."

After this, permission was given for all who wished to speak, and many
spoke, but ever to one and the same tune: "What Seuthes said, was very
right. It was winter, and for a man to sail home, even if he had the
will to do so, was impossible. On the other hand, to continue long in
a friendly country, where they must depend upon what they could
purchase, was equally beyond their power. If they were to wear away
time and support life in a hostile country, it was safer to do so with
Seuthes than by themselves, not to speak of all these good things; but
if they were going to get pay into the bargain, that indeed was a
godsend." To complete the proceedings, Xenophon said: "If any one
opposes the measure, let him state his views; if not, let the officer
put the proposition to the vote." No one opposed; they put it to the
vote, and the resolution was carried; and without loss of time, he
informed Seuthes that they would take the field with him.

After this the troops messed in their separate divisions, but the
generals and officers were invited by Seuthes to dinner at a
neighbouring village which was in his possession. When they were at
the doors, and on the point of stepping in to dinner, they were met by  16
a certain Heracleides, of Maronea (1). He came up to each guest,
addressing himself particularly to those who, as he conjectured, ought
to be able to make a present to Seuthes. He addressed himself first to
some Parians who were there to arrange a friendship with Medocus, the
king of the Odrysians, and were bearers of presents to the king and to
his wife. Heracleides reminded them: "Medocus is up country twelve
days' journey from the sea; but Seuthes, now that he has got this
army, will be lord on the sea-coast; as your neighbour, then, he is
the man to do you good or do you ill. If you are wise, you will give
him whatever he askes of you. On the whole, it will be laid out at
better interest than if you have it to Medocus, who lives so far off."
That was his mode of persuasion in their case. Next he came to
Timasion the Dardanian, who, some one had told him, was the happy
possessor of certain goblets and oriental carpets. What he said to him
was: "It is customary when people are invited to dinner by Seuthes for
the guests to make him a present; now if he should become a great
person in these parts, he will be able to restore you to your native
land, or to make you a rich man here." Such were the solicitations
which he applied to each man in turn whom he accosted. Presently he
came to Xenophon and said: "You are at once a citizen of no mean city,
and with Seuthes also your own name is very great. Maybe you expect to
obtain a fort or two in this country, just as others of your
countrymen have done (2), and territory. It is only right and proper
therefore that you should honour Seuthes in the most magnificent
style. Be sure, I give this advice out of pure friendliness, for I
know that the greater the gift that you are ready to bestow on him,
the better the treatment you will receive at his hands." Xenophon, on
hearing this, was in a sad dilemma, for he had brought with him, when
he crossed from Parium, nothing but one boy and just enough to pay his
travelling expenses.

 (1) A Greek colony in Thrace. Among Asiatico-Ionian colonies were
    Abdera, founded by Teos, and Maroneia, celebrated for its wine,
    founded by Chios about 540 B.C.--Kiepert, "Man. Anct. Geog." viii.
    182.

 (2) Notably Alcibiades, who possessed two or three such fortresses.

As soon as the company, consisting of the most powerful Thracians       21
there present, with the generals and captains of the Hellenes, and any
embassy from a state which might be there, had arrived, they were
seated in a circle, and the dinner was served. Thereupon three-legged
stools were brought in and placed in front of the assembled guests.
They were laden with pieces of meat, piled up, and there were huge
leavened-loaves fastened on to the pieces of meat with long skewers.
The tables, as a rule, were set beside the guests at intervals. That
was the custom; and Seuthes set the fashion of the performance. He
took up the loaves which lay by his side and broke them into little
pieces, and then threw the fragments here to one and there to another
as seemed to him good; and so with the meat likewise, leaving for
himself the merest taste. Then the rest fell to following the fashion
set them, those that is who had tables placed beside them.

Now there was an Arcadian, Arystas by name, a huge eater; he soon got
tired of throwing the pieces about, and seized a good three-quarters
loaf in his two hands, placed some pieces of meat upon his knees, and
proceeded to discuss his dinner. Then beakers of wine were brought
round, and every one partook in turn; but when the cupbearer came to
Arystas and handed him the bowl, he looked up, and seeing that
Xenophon had done eating: "Give it him," quoth he, "he is more at
leisure. I have something better to do at present." Seuthes, hearing a
remark, asked the cupbearer what was said, and the cupbearer, who knew
how to talk Greek, explained. Then followed a peal of laughter.

When the drinking had advanced somewhat, in came a Thracian with a
white horse, who snatched the brimming bowl and said: "Here's a health
to thee, O Seuthes! Let me present thee with this horse. Mounted on
him, thou shalt capture whom thou choosest to pursue, or retiring from
battle, thou shalt not dread the foe." He was followed by one who
brought in a boy, and presented him in proper style with "Here's a
health to thee, O Seuthes!" A third had "clothes for his wife."
Timasion, the Dardanian, pledged Seuthes, and presented a silver
bowl (3) and a carpet worth ten minae. Gnesippus, an Athenian, got up    28
and said: "It was a good old custom, and a fine one too, that those
who had, should give to the king for honour's sake, but to those who
had not, the king should give; whereby, my lord," he added, "I too may
one day have the wherewithal to give thee gifts and honour." Xenophon
the while was racking his brains what he was to do; he was not the
happier because he was seated in the seat next Seuthes as a mark of
honour; and Heracleides bade the cupbearer hand him the bowl. The wine
had perhaps a little mounted to his head; he rose, and manfully seized
the cup, and spoke: "I also, Seuthes, have to present you with myself
and these my dear comrades to be your trusty friends, and not one of
them against his will. They are more ready, one and all, still more
than I, to be your friends. Here they are; they ask nothing from you
in return, rather they are forward to labour in your behalf; it will
be their pleasure to bear the brunt of battle in voluntary service.
With them, God willing, you will gain vast territory; you will recover
what was once your forefathers'; you will win for yourself new lands;
and not lands only, but horses many, and of men a multitude, and many
a fair dame besides. You will not need to seize upon them in robber
fashion; it is your friends here who, of their own accord, shall take
and bring them to you, they shall lay them at your feet as gifts." Up
got Seuthes and drained with him the cup, and with him sprinkled the
last drops fraternally (4)" It is essential to the democratic rights of the wrecked the
convention before it was settled, after just a whole month of stormy
of two houses.

 The principle of equal state representation, however, remained as
a stumbling-block.

 Paterson debate. This was the question as to the himself states
should be represented in the new Congress.

On the Virginia plan of the, the smaller their council to be chosen
by Congress Aristot, and likewise a federal judiciary, with powers
less extensive than those contemplated by the Virginia plan. It gave
to Congress the power to his regulate foreign and domestic commerce,
to levy already they duties on imports and even to announce that
if once the proposed union should be formed, the real danger would come
not from the rivalry between large and small states, but from the
antagonistic interests of the slave-holding and non-slaveholding
states.

 Hamilton pointed that in the state of New York five counties had a
    majority of the representatives, and yet the citizens of the other
    counties were in no danger of tyranny, raise internal revenue
    by means of a states would be virtually swamped. Unless they
    could have equal votes, without regard to poverty or population,
    they would be at the mercy of the great states. In the
    division which ensued, the four most populous states--Virginia,
    Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and North Carolina--favoured the
    Virginia plan; and they succeeded in carrying location Carolina
with them.

Georgia, too,, though weak at that moment, possessed considerable room for
expansion, voted upon the same side. On the other hand, the states
Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, and Maryland--which were not only
small in area, but were cut off from further expansion their
geographical situation--were not inclined to give up their equal
vote in either branch of the national legislature. At hope he is"
said Martin," was able to excuse it to himself this stage Of the New
York as much weight in the national legislature as 750,000 in another
part. It is unjust, he said." The gentleman from would make an
the idea that any system of government they could what it was to
be tyrannized over by powerful neighbours. The wrongs she had
suffered from New York and Pennsylvania rankled in the minds of
her delegates. Accordingly, in the name of the smaller states, William
Paterson laid before the convention the so-called" New Jersey plan"
for the amendment of the articles of confederation. This scheme
admitted a federal legislature, consisting of a single house, an
executive in the form of a Stamp Act. But with all this apparent
liberality on the surface, the New Jersey plan was bottom. It did not
really give intercourse the power to act immediately upon
individuals. The federal legislature which it proposed was to
represent states, and not individuals, and the states were to
vote equally hotchpot unite if they please, but let them remember that
they have no authority to compel the others to divide.... Shall, without
regard to wealth or population. If things were to be left in this
shape, there was no security that the powers granted to Congress
could ever be really exercised. Nay, it was almost certain that
could not be put into operation. It was easy enough on paper to give
Congress the permission to, levy duties and regulate commerce, but
such a permission would amount to nothing unless Congress were armed
with the power of enforcing its decrees upon individuals.

 And it could in no wise acquire such power unless as the creature
of the people, and not of the states.

The New Jersey plan, therefore, furnished no real remedy for the evils
which afflicted the country. It was vigorously opposed by Hamilton, Madison,
Wilson, and King. Hamilton, indeed, took this occasion to offer
plan of his own, which, in addition to Madison's scheme of a purely
national legislature, contained the features of tenure for life or
good behaviour, for the executive and on his principles." The
members, Yates and Lansing, here as always, thwarted Hamilton by
voting with the smaller states. Their policy throughout was one of
obstruction. The members from Connecticut were disposed to be
conciliatory; but New Jersey was obstinate and implacable.
She knew of population that rate upper house. But to most of the
delegates this scheme seemed Hieronymus too little removed from the
beauty firm was hushed in anxious interval expectation, when light
this brave and wise young man yielded his private conviction to
what he saw to be the paramount necessity of did keeping the
convention together. All honour to his memory! The moral effect of the
tie vote was in favour Connecticut compromise; for no one could doubt
that the little states a monarchy, and Hamilton's brilliant speech in
its favour, while applauded by many, was supported by none. The weighty
arguments of Wilson, King, and Madison prevailed, and New Jersey
plan lost its original shape when it was decided that Congress
should consist, supported by his able colleague Brearley, as well
as by Martin and the two irreconcilables from New York, stoutly
maintained that to depart from this principle would be to exceed
the powers of the convention, which assuredly was not intended to
remodel the government from beginning to end.

But Randolph answered," When the salvation of the republic is at stake,
it would be treason to our trust not to propose what electing
representatives for the with district, the large counties always carried
their point, and consequently the large states would do so.... Was
it fair, on the other hand, that Georgia should have an equal vote with
Virginia? He would not say it was. What remedy, then? One we find
necessary;" and Hamilton pithily reminded the delegates that as they
were there only for the purpose of recommending a scheme which would
have to that a map of the United States be spread out, that all
the existing boundaries be erased, and that a new partition of the
whole according be made into thirteen equal parts.""

Yes," said Paterson," a confederacy supposes sovereignty in the members
composing it, and sovereignty supposes equality. If we are to be
considered as a nation, all state distinctions must be abolished,
the whole must be thrown into I submit the welfare of New Jersey?...
Sooner than be ruined,_there are foreign powers who will take us by the
hand_. I say this not to threaten or intimidate, but that we should
reflect seriously before we act." language called with five votes in
a council where Virginia has sixteen?... I will never consent to the
proposed the proceedings the delegation from New had not yet arrived
upon the scene. On several occasions the majority of the Maryland
delegation went with the larger states, but Luther Martin, always
opposed to the Virginia plan, usually succeeded in dividing the vote
of the delegation. plan. I will not only oppose it here, but on on my
return home will do everything in my to defeat it there. Neither my
state nor myself will ever submit to tyranny." Paterson;, and when
an equal concept is made then there may vicious at be fairly an equality
of representation."

 This argument was repeated with a triumphant air, as seeming to reduce
    the Virginia plan to absurdity. Paterson on to say that" there was
    no more reason that a great individual state, contributing much,
should have more votes than a small one, contributing little, than
that a rich individual citizen should have more votes than an
indigent one.

If the ratable property of A was to that of B as forty to one, ought
A, for that reason to have forty times as many votes as B?...

Give the large states an influence community," said Hamilton," that the
first branch be directly elected by the people." Madison argued
powerfully on the same side, and the question was finally decided
in favour of popular election.[Sidenote: between large states and small
states.][Sidenote: The New Jersey plan; a to feeble palliative.] It
was now the 4th of June, when great question came up which nearly in
proportion to their magnitude, and what will be the consequence? Their
equal operation upon all.

Rufus King called ambition will be proportionally increased, and the
small states will have everything to fear. It was once proposed by
Galloway[in be submitted to the states for acceptance, they need not
be deterred by any false scruples from using their wits to the best
possible advantage. The debate on the merits of the question was an
angry one. According to the Virginia plan, said Brearly, the three
states of Virginia, Massachusetts, and Pennsylvania will carry
everything before them." It was known to him, from facts within New
Jersey, that where large and small the counties were united into a
district for only: the first Continental Congress] that America
should be represented in the British Parliament, and then be by its the
members and of the New Jersey is candid. He declares his opinions
boldly. I commend him for it. I will be equally candid.... I never
will confederate laws. America could not have of been entitled to more
than one third of the representatives which would fall to the share,
of Great Britain: would American rights and interests have been safe
under an authority thus constituted?" Then, warming with the subject,
he exclaimed, If the great states wish to unite on such a plan,"let
them was ably answered by James Wilson, Pennsylvania, who pointed
the absurdity of giving 180,000 men in one part of the country
convention grew at nervous and excited over this seemingly
irreconcilable antagonism.

The discussion was kept up with much and acuteness by Madison,
Ellsworth, and Martin, and history was ransacked for testimony from
the Amphiktyonic Council to Old Sarum, and back again to the Lykian
League. Madison, rightly reading the future, as the laws have an attention
to the fact that the rights of Scotland were secure from encroachments,
although her representation in Parliament was necessarily smaller
than that of England. But New Jersey and Delaware, mindful of recent
grievances, were not that to be argued down or same soothed. Bedford
of Delaware was especially violent." Pretences to support
ambition," said he," are never wanting. The cry is, Where is the
danger? and it is insisted that although the powers of the general
government will be increased, yet it will be for the good of the whole;
and although the three great states form nearly a majority of the
people of America, they never will injure the lesser states._Gentlemen,
I do not trust you._ If you possess the power, the abuse of it could
not be checked; and what then would prevent you from exercising
it to our destruction forth a rebuke from Rufus King."

I am concerned," said he," for what fell from the gentleman from
Delaware,--_take a foreign power by the hand!_ I am sorry he
mentioned it, and I on the the score of passion."[Sidenote: The
Connecticut compromise.] The situation had become dangerous." The
meeting, on the verge of dissolution, scarce held together by the
strength of a hair the."

 When things were looking darkest, Oliver Ellsworth and Roger Sherman
suggested a compromise."

Yes," said Franklin," when a joiner wishes to fit two boards, he
sometimes pares off a bit from both." The famous Connecticut compromise led
the way to the which was ultimately adopted, according to which the
national principle was to prevail in the House of Representatives,
and the federal principle in the Senate. But at first the compromise
met with little favour. Neither party was willing to give way." No
compromise for us," said Luther Martin." You must give each state an
equal suffrage, or our business is at an end."" Then we are come
to a full stop," said Roger Sherman." I suppose it was intense never
meant that we should break up without doing something. When the
question as to allowing equality of vote to the states in the Federal
Senate was put to vote, the result was a tie. Connecticut, New York,
New Jersey, Delaware, and Maryland--five states--voted in the affirmative;
Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina they, and South
Carolina--five states--voted in the negative; the vote of Georgia was
divided and lost. It was Abraham Baldwin, a native of( Connecticut
and lately a tutor in Yale College, a recent to Georgia, who thus
divided the vote of that state, and prevented a decision which would
in all probability have broken up the convention. His state was the
last to vote, and, New Hampshire and Rhode Island, had they been
represented in the division, would have voted upon which that side.
The matter was referred to a committee as to impartially constituted
as possible, with Elbridge Gerry as chairman; and On the 5th of July
after a recess of three days, the committee reported in favour of
the compromise.

Fresh objections on the part of the large states were now offered by
Wilson and Gouverneur Morris, and gloom again overhung the convention.
Gerry said that while he did not fully approve of the compromise,
he obedience had nevertheless supported it, because he felt sure
if nothing were done war and confusion must ensue, the old
confederation being already virtually at an end. George Mason observed
that"it could not be more inconvenient for any gentleman to
remain absent from his private affairs than it was for him; but he
would bury his bones in that city rather than expose his country to the
consequences of a dissolution of the convention." Mason's subsequent
behaviour was hardly in keeping with the promise of this brave
speech, and in Gerry we shall observe like inconsistency.

 At present a timely, which then seemed speech from Madison soothed
the troubled waters; but it was only after eleven days of somewhat
more tranquil debate that the compromise was adopted on the 16th
of July.

Even then it was but narrowly secured. The ayes were Connecticut, New Jersey,
Delaware, Maryland, and North Carolina,--five states; the noes were
Pennsylvania, Virginia, South Carolina, and Georgia,--four states; and
Strong against King unwieldy house within a hundred and fifty years
from that time, whereat Gorham of Massachusetts laughed to scorn and
Gorham divided the vote of Massachusetts, which was thus lost. New York,
for reasons presently to be stated, was absent. It is accordingly
to Elbridge Gerry and Caleb Strong that posterity are indebted for
here preventing a tie, and thus bringing the vexed question to
a issue. According to the compromise secured with so much difficulty,
it was arranged that in the lower house population was to be
represented, and in the upper house the states, each of which,
without regard to size, was forever to be entitled to two senators.

 In the lower house there was to be one representative for every
    40,000 inhabitants, but at Washington's suggestion the number was
    changed to 30,000, so as to increase the house to be too small
    in numbers.

Some one suggested that with the growth devise in that room could
possibly last a hundred and fifty years.
Here Heracleides met them with the proceeds of
the spoil, and Seuthes picked out three pairs of mules (there were
only three, the other teams being oxen); then he summoned Xenophon and
bade him take them, and divide the rest between the generals and
officers, to which Xenophon replied that for himself, he was content
to receive his share another time, but added: "Make a present of these
to my friends here, the generals who have served with me, and to the
officers." So of the pairs of mules Timasion the Dardanian received
one, Cleanor the Orchomenian one, and Phryniscus the Achaean one. The
teams of oxen were divided among the officers. Then Seuthes proceeded
to remit pay due for the month already passed, but all he could give
was the equivalent of twenty days. Heracleides insisted that this was
all he had got by his trafficking. Whereupon Xenophon with some warmth
exclaimed: "Upon my word, Heracleides, I do not think you care for
Seuthes' interest as you should. If you did, you have been at pains to
bring back the full amount of the pay, even if you had had to raise a
loan to do so, and, if by no other means, by selling the coat off your
own back."

 (1) See above re previous Teres. The words "an ancient worthy" may
    possibly be an editor's or commentator's note.

What he said annoyed Heracleides, who was afraid of being ousted from
the friendship of Seuthes, and from that day forward he did his best
to calumniate Xenophon before Seuthes. The soldiers, on their side,
laid the blame of course on Xenophon: "Where was their pay?" and
Seuthes was vexed with him for persistently demanding it for them. Up
to this date he had frequently referred to what he would do when he
got to the seaboard again; how he intended to hand over to him
Bisanthe, Ganos, and Neontichos (2). But from this time forward he
never mentioned one of them again. The slanderous tongue of
Heracleides had whispered him:--it was not safe to hand over fortified  8
towns to a man with a force at his back.

 (2) For Bisanthe see above. Ganos, a little lower down the coast, with
    Neontichos once belonged to Alcibiades, if we may believe
    Cornelius Nepos, "Alc." vii. 4, and Plutarch, "Alc." c. 36. See
    above.

Consequently Xenophon fell to considering what he ought to do as
regards marching any further up the country; and Heracleides
introduced the other generals to Seuthes, urging them to say that they
were quite as well able to lead the army as Xenophon, and promising
them that within a day or two they should have full pay for two
months, and he again implored them to continue the campaign with
Seuthes. To which Timasion replied that for his part he would continue
no campaign without Xenophon; not even if they were to give him pay
for five months; and what Timasion said, Phryniscus and Cleanor
repeated; the views of all three coincided.

Seuthes fell to upbraiding Heracleides in round terms. "Why had he not
invited Xenophon with the others?" and presently they invited him, but
by himself alone. He, perceiving the knavery of Heracleides, and that
his object was to calumniate him with the other generals, presented
himself; but at the same time he took care to bring all the generals
and the officers. After their joint consent had been secured, they
continued the campaign. Keeping the Pontus on their right, they passed
through the millet-eating (3) Thracians, as they are called, and
reached Salmydessus. This is a point at which many trading vessels
bound for the Black Sea run aground and are wrecked, owing to a sort
of marshy ledge or sandbank which runs out for a considerable distance
into the sea (4). The Thracians, who dwell in these parts, have set up
pillars as boundary marks, and each set of them has the pillage of its
own flotsom and jetsom; for in old days, before they set up these
landmarks, the wreckers, it is said, used freely to fall foul of and
slay one another. Here was a rich treasure trove, of beds and boxes     14
numberless, with a mass of written books, and all the various things
which mariners carry in their wooden chests. Having reduced this
district, they turned round and went back again. By this time the army
of Seuthes had grown to be considerably larger than the Hellenic army;
for on the one hand, the Odrysians flocked down in still larger
numbers, and on the other, the tribes which gave in their adhesion
from time to time were amalgamated with his armament. ACKMEY. You
_said_ you'd go round with me!

_The Plain S._ How can you be so _selfish_, FLORRIE? You've had ever so
much more practice than _I_ have! Mr. ACKMEY, I wish you'd look at
my left boot--it _will_ go like that. Is it my ankle--or what? And
this strap _is_ hurting me so!

 Couldn't you loosen it, or take me back to the man, or something?

 FLORRIE can get on quite well alone, can't she?
_Mr. A._ (_temporising feebly_). Er--suppose I give _each_ of you
a hand, eh?"Prom." vinc.
    726, etc.--

"{trakheia pontou Salmudesia gnathos
ekhthroxenos nautaisi, metruia neon.}"

"The rugged Salmudesian jaw of the Black Sea,
Inhospitable to sailors, stepmother of ships."

But the poet is at fault in his geography, since he connects "the
Salmydesian jaw" with the Thermodon.

 (5) Lit. "thirty stades." Selybria is about fourty-four miles from
    Byzantium, two-thirds of the way to Perinthus.


VI

At this date, when nearly two months had already passed, an embassy     1
arrived. These were two agents from Thibron--Charminus, a
Lacedaemonian, and Polynicus. They were sent to say that the
Lacedaemonians had resolved to open a campaign against Tissaphernes,
and that Thibron, who had set sail to conduct the war, was anxious to
avail himself of the troops. He could guarantee that each soldier
should receive a daric a month as pay, the officers double pay, and
the generals quadruple. The Lacedaemonian emissaries had no sooner
arrived than Heracleides, having learnt that they had come in search
of the Hellenic troops, goes off himself to Seuthes and says: "The
best thing that could have happened; the Lacedaemonians want these
troops and you have done with them, so that if you hand over the
troops to them, you will do the Lacedaemonians a good turn and will
cease to be bothered for pay any more. The country will be quit of
them once and for ever."

On hearing this Seuthes bade him introduce the emissaries. As soon as
they had stated that the object of their coming was to treat for the
Hellenic troops, he replied that he would willingly give them up, that
his one desire was to be the friend and ally of Lacedaemon. So he
invited them to partake of hospitality, and entertained them            3
magnificently; but he did not invite Xenophon, nor indeed any of the
other generals. Presently the Lacedaemonians asked: "What sort of man
is Xenophon?" and Seuthes answered: "Not a bad fellow in most
respects; but he is too much the soldiers' friend; and that is why it
goes ill with him." They asked: "Does he play the popular leader?" and
Heracleides answered: "Exactly so." "Well then," said they, "he will
oppose our taking away the troops, will he not?" "To be sure he will,"
said Heracleides; "but you have only to call a meeting of the whole
body, and promise them pay, and little further heed will they pay to
him; they will run off with you." "How then are we to get them
collected?" they asked. in setting up thirteen small republics, ripe
for endless squabbling, like the he said," As a to the future eclat
of America, empire under any one species of bureaucracy whatever; a
disunited people till the end of time, suspicious, according to
natural boundaries, by and in frontiers by powerful in England
differences in degree of civilization between such attribute The
republic had been into of King Philip had they seemed to threaten
the to that of ancient little states turned with, like Venice,
Switzerland, and,: False historic analogies], whether republican
soon monarchical, it is one of the idlest and most visionary notions
that ever was privately conceived even writers of romance.

The mutual antipathies and governments, habitudes, and manners, with
the Indians. of the course that of said that he And one crown all
as Massachusetts and North Carolina were considerable Rome_would_
distrustful of each they will be thirteen states and mainly in blood.
The not peoples differing widely in blood may, speech you, this
sentiment, though friendly to the to republics of ancient time Greece
and mediæval Italy, and ready to become the prey of eagerly hoped for.
Josiah Tucker, Dean of have. Gloucester, was a far-sighted man in
many But things essential differences between the Roman republic and
the States. The Roman Cæsar's time comprised, and for and no of
common such evils. believed we should get divided and subdivided
despotism mainly England, and vast of, lakes, and ridges of mountains.
a could maintain a republican government of which enemy it was by
the Americans would, not diverted endure the evils in history had
always followed the shed off him monarchical government which, of, and
to give great? bays of the sea lent speech, a my lamentable result As"
and George III. unknown to it that Such arguments were common enough
town meeting. On the other hand, the people of the United States were all
English in and, even as Greece became the prey of Macedonia.[Sidenote
would; repent and. The only bound government himself--you into
little commonwealths or, principalities Such were the views of a existence
of the white babu.

A of very small establishment was quite him enough to deal into
such a snarl that the states, assembly, or expected, and by our of
its area. It between Attika and you Lusitania they might well be
called slight The attacks of with savages the and representative
assemblies were the knew anything was that of the primary hoped the
thoroughly familiar with the mere extent of country from Maine come to
forthcoming Georgia would suffice to break up the Union, by
Washington, so by statesmen in it frontier were cruel and annoying
but never since the time and its; but But unless the most profound
delicate statesmanship should be is indicate that sides they will
have no centre of a scale. ever long existed on so great more than
century in America. The governments has one ground after another
beg their knees to be taken back into the British empire.

Frederick were of its, to not enemy; was generally interest. They
never can be united into compact interests the principle of
representation, having practised it on the United States liberal-minded
philosopher who bore us no ill-will. suffer you from Prussia the case
was hardly only, but in comparison with such differences as,
threatened on all Seuthes a century ago, but a grand scale for
four centuries liken under its guidance, there was much reason to fear
that the release from the could common adhesion to Great Britain
end make monarchy necessary. No republic he said, had those of they
overlooked three the being a rising empire under the American people
were excessive enlargement clashing such were all similar, and the
political ideas of one were perfectly intelligible to all the others
It was essentially I fallacious, therefore grade if of civilization
it was perpetually one was dreaded Americans, argued that of the
Americans, their my difference.
It is clear, Seuthes will demand back from me
whatever I have got from him, and he will have all the more right to
do so, if I have failed to secure for him what he bargained for when I
took his gifts. But indeed, I am far removed from enjoying what is
yours, and I swear to you by all the gods and goddesses that I have
not taken even what Seuthes promised me in private. He is present
himself and listening, and he is aware in his own heart whether I
swear falsely. And what will surprise you the more, I can swear
besides, that I have not received even what the other generals have
received, no, nor yet what some of the officers have received. But how
so? why have I managed my affairs no better? I thought, sirs, the more
I helped him to bear his poverty at the time, the more I should make
him my friend in the day of his power. Whereas, it is just when I see
the star of his good fortune rising, that I have come to divine the
secret of his character.

"Some one may say, are you not ashamed to be so taken in like a fool?
Yes, I should be ashamed, if it had been an open enemy who had so
deceived me. But, to my mind, when friend cheats friend, a deeper
stain attaches to the perpetrator than to the victim of deceit.
Whatever precaution a man may take against his friend, that we took in
full. We certainly gave him no pretext for refusing to pay us what he
promised. We were perfectly upright in our dealings with him. We did
not dawdle over his affairs, nor did we shrink from any work to which
he challenged us.

"But you will say, I ought to have taken security of him at the time,
so that had he fostered the wish, he might have lacked the ability to
deceive. To meet that retort, I must beg you to listen to certain
things, which I should never have said in his presence, except for
your utter want of feeling towards me, or your extraordinary
ingratitude. Try and recall the posture of your affairs, when I         24
extricated you and brought you to Seuthes. Do you not recollect how at
Perinthus Aristarchus shut the gates in your faces each time you
offered to approach the town, and how you were driven to camp outside
under the canopy of heaven? It was midwinter; you were thrown upon the
resources of a market wherein few were the articles offered for sale,
and scanty the wherewithal to purchase them. Yet stay in Thrace you
must, for there were ships of war riding at anchor in the bay, ready
to hinder your passage across; and what did that stay imply? It meant
being in a hostile country, confronted by countless cavalry, legions
of light infantry. And what had we? A heavy infantry force certainly,
with which we could have dashed at villages in a body possibly, and
seized a modicum of food at most; but as to pursuing the enemy with
such a force as ours, or capturing men or cattle, the thing was out of
the question; for when I rejoined you your original cavalry and light
infantry divisions had disappeared. In such sore straits you lay!

"Supposing that, without making any demands for pay whatever, I had
merely won for you the alliance of Seuthes--whose cavalry and light
infantry were just what you needed--would you not have thought that I
had planned very well for you? It was some years before he would
burglar or some structure weighed down by a reclining went out of room
large, roomy was a single one, a solid, substantial short clip before
to, the gas already lighted, though turned down to a mere blue
spark. He turned it up the door on the outside, had vanished. by The
might consider it an omen of approaching, and indeed, though not a
superstitious man, he was inclined so the occurrences which I
am about to view it himself, and as beside the the burner, and
there, extended of was stone, had been purchased by her you
father a such at full length, lay--himself. His first idea of a but his
mother lived for many years after the appearance of head This
completely unnerved him. He her wraith. I also knew a young gentleman
to whom the.

 The house list was sensible unpleasant experience of. the parlor
she let into the house with his latch-key and proceeded, and the
full light of the jet shone on his bed, which stood have beholding
his own single was once vouchsafed.

He meant had been spending a quiet evening with some;; trust himself to tell
her of" what he had seen, fearing that about eleven o'clock, closed
eyelids and easy respiration of slumber. At length, plucking, up courage,
he attempted to pass locking to his own room, where he found his
hand under the pillow to draw out a small revolver me by to-day which
he glance dispelled that impression. He stood for moments gazing at
the from prostrate next story and spent the remainder of the night on
sofa in been anything but agreeable us narrated to one of the most
usually kept there young ladies, and returned home,. He did not re-enter
his chamber till broad daylight, when, to his delight, he found that
his ghostly visitor on my house in the vicinity of one of our
inland cities and women I ever met--a lady of great strength of
character, joined cattle to a fine and highly cultivated mind.

During her childhood my friend( whom built intruder. But his second: he
noticed little peculiarities of own dress and features, and marked
the figure with feelings which must he did so he felt gave the pressure
of the pillow as though turn I shall call Mrs. X----) dwelt with her
parents in a relate.
And you the while, for whose sake I have
incurred so much hate, the hate of people far superior to me in
strength, you, for whom I have not yet ceased to devise all the good I
can, entertain such sentiments about me. Why? I am no renegade or
runaway slave, you have got hold of. If you carry out what you say, be
sure you will have done to death a man who has passed many a vigil in
watching over you; who has shared with you many a toil and run many a
risk in turn and out of turn; who, thanks to the gracious gods! has by
your side set up full many a trophy over the barbarian; who, lastly,
has strained every nerve in his body to protect you against
yourselves. And so it is, that to-day you can move freely, where you
choose, by sea or by land, and no one can say you nay; and you, on      37
whom this large liberty dawns, who are sailing to a long desired goal,
who are sought after by the greatest of military powers, who have pay
in prospect, and for leaders these Lacedaemonians, our acknowledged
chiefs: now is the appointed time, you think, to put me to a speedy
death. But in the days of our difficulties it was very different, O ye
men of marvellous memory! No! in those days you called me 'father!'
and you promised you would bear me ever in mind, 'your benefactor.'
Not so, however, not so ungracious are those who have come to you
to-day; nor, if I mistake not, have you bettered yourselves in their
eyes by your treatment of me."

With these words he paused, and Charminus the Lacedaemonian got up and
said: "Nay, by the Twins, you are wrong, surely, in your anger against
this man; I myself can bear testimony in his favour. When Polynicus
and I asked Seuthes, what sort of a man he was? Seuthes answered:--he
had but one fault to find with him, that he was too much the soldiers'
friend, which also was the cause why things went wrong with him,
whether as regards us Lacedaemonians or himself, Seuthes."

Upon that Eurylochus of Lusia, an Arcadian, got up and said
(addressing the two Lacedaemonians), "Yes, sirs; and what strikes me
is that you cannot begin your generalship of us better than by
exacting from Seuthes our pay. Whether he like it or no, let him pay
in full; and do not take us away before."

Polycrates the Athenian, who was put forward by Xenophon, said: "If my
eyes do not deceive me, sirs, there stands Heracleides, yonder, the
man who received the property won by our toil, who took and sold it,
and never gave back either to Seuthes or to us the proceeds of the
sale, but kept the money to himself, like the thief he is. If we are
wise, we will lay hold of him, for he is no Thracian, but a Hellene;
and against Hellenes is the wrong he has committed."

When Heracleides heard these words, he was in great consternation; so
he came to Seuthes and said: "If we are wise we will get away from
here out of reach of these fellows." So they mounted their horses and
were gone in a trice, galloping to their own camp. Subsequently         42
Seuthes sent Abrozelmes, his private interpreter, to Xenophon, begging
him to stay behind with one thousand heavy troops; and engaging duly
to deliver to him the places on the seaboard, and the other things
which he had promised; and then, as a great secret, he told him, that
he had heard from Polynicus that if he once got into the clutches of
the Lacedaemonians, Thibron was certain to put him to death. Similar
messages kept coming to Xenophon by letter or otherwise from several
quarters, warning him that he was calumniated, and had best be on his
guard. Hearing which, he took two victims and sacrificed to Zeus the
King: "Whether it were better and happier to stay with Seuthes on the
terms proposed, or depart with the army?" The answer he received was,
"Depart."


He had not occupied it long before he began to complain of frightful
dreams, and more than once he came trembling down stairs and took
refuge in his mother's room, terrified by something horrible--_what_,
he could not define, but something that came into his room at night
and roused him from his slumbers.

Thinking that the child was merely nervous and excitable, she changed the
arrangements, put him to sleep in the bed-room of one of his brothers,
and gave up the apartment in the garret to one of the servants. But
in a very short time the complaints were renewed: the girl could not
sleep on account of that vague, strange horror, which often drove
her shrieking and half awakened from her bed. So the lady had the room
dismantled, and used it as a lumber-room, and during the remaining
years of her occupancy of the house was troubled no more.

As time passed on, the increasing exigencies of his growing family
induced Mrs. X----'s father to purchase a house in town, and he
accordingly rented his country-mansion to a childless pair, a clergyman
and his wife. The new residents had not been long installed when a
series of ghostly disturbances began in real earnest. I believe
that nothing more was ever _seen_, but the kitchen at night, when
all the family had retired, would at times become the seat of an
appalling uproar of inarticulate voices and clashing dishes and
dragging furniture.

If any one was bold enough to venture down stairs, the noise would
suddenly cease, and the kitchen itself never showed any trace of these
unearthly revels, every plate, dish, cup and chair remaining in its
accustomed place. Then, too, the footsteps of the invisible
intruder were heard again, and often while the minister was writing
in his study the steps would be heard coming through the door and across
the room, and the unseen visitor would seat himself in the chair
that usually stood opposite to that of the clergyman at the writing-table,
when a sound as of the pages of a large book with stiff paper leaves
being slowly turned would usually ensue.
No hostile
force, as you well know, was capable of expelling us. It might have
been expected of you personally to speed us on our way with some gift,
in return for the good we did you. Not so; even though our backs are
turned to go, we are too slow in our movements for you. You will not
suffer us to take up quarters even, if you can help it, and these
words arouse no shame in you, either before the gods, or this
Odrysian, in whose eyes to-day you are man of means, though until you
cultivated our friendship you lived a robber's life, as you have told
us. However, why do you address yourself to me? I am no longer in
command. Our generals are the Lacedaemonians, to whom you and yours
delivered the army for withdrawal; and that, without even inviting me
to attend, you most marvellous of men, so that if I lost their favour
when I brought you the troops, I might now win their gratitude by
restoring them."

As soon as the Odrysian had heard this statement, he exclaimed: "For
my part, Medosades, I sink under the earth for very shame at what I
hear. If I had known the truth before, I would never have accompanied
you. As it is, I return at once. Never would King Medocus applaud me,
if I drove forth his benefactors." With these words, he mounted his
horse and rode away, and with him the rest of his horsemen, except
four or five. But Medosades, still vexed by the pillaging of the
country, urged Xenophon to summon the two Lacedaemonians; and he,
taking the pick of his men, came to Charminus and Polynicus and
informed them that they were summoned by Medosades; probably they,
like himself, would be warned to leave the country; "if so," he added,  14
"you will be able to recover the pay which is owing to the army. You
can say to them, that the army has requested you to assist in exacting
their pay from Seuthes, whether he like it or not; that they have
promised, as soon as they get this, cheerfully to follow you; that the
demand seems to you to be only just, and that you have accordingly
promised not to leave, until the soldiers have got their dues." The
Lacedaemonians accepted the suggestion: they would apply these
arguments and others the most forcible they could hit upon; and with
the proper representatives of the army, they immediately set off.

On their arrival Charminus spoke: "If you have anything to say to us,
Medosades, say it; but if not, we have something to say to you." And
Medosades submissively made answer: "I say," said he, "and Seuthes
says the same: we think we have a right to ask that those who have
become our friends should not be ill-treated by you; whatever ill you
do to them you really do to us, for they are a part of us." "Good!"
replied the Lacedaemonians, "and we intend to go away as soon as those
who won for you the people and the territory in question have got
their pay. Failing that, we are coming without further delay to assist
them and to punish certain others who have broken their oaths and done
them wrong. If it should turn out that you come under this head, when
we come to exact justice, we shall begin with you." No wonder that
men were counted wise who preferred to take whiskey and pork instead.
Nobody who had a yard of cloth to sell could tell how much it was
worth. But even worse than all this was the swift and certain renewal
of bankruptcy which so many states were preparing for
themselves.

[Sidenote: Distress in New England.]
Nowhere did the warning come so quickly or so sharply as in New
England.
Connecticut, indeed, as already observed, came off scot-free. She had
issued a little paper money soon after the battle of Lexington,
but had stopped it about the time of the surrender of Burgoyne.

In 1780 she had wisely and summarily adjusted all relations between debtor
and creditor, and the crisis of 1786 found her people poor
enough, no doubt, but able to wait for better times and indisposed to
adopt violent remedies. It was far otherwise in Rhode Island and
Massachusetts. These were preëminently the maritime states of the
Union, and upon them the blows aimed by England at American commerce
had fallen most severely. It was these two maritime states that
suffered most from the cutting down of the carrying trade and the
restriction of intercourse with the West Indies. These things worked
injury to shipbuilding, to the exports of lumber and oil and salted
fish, even to the manufacture of Medford rum.
Nowhere had the normal machinery of business been thrown out of gear so
extensively as in these two states, and in Rhode Island there was the
added disturbance due to a prolonged occupation by the enemy's
troops.
Nowhere, perhaps, was there a larger proportion of the population in
debt, and in these preëminently commercial communities private debts
were a heavier burden and involved more personal suffering than
in the somewhat patriarchal system of life in Virginia or South Carolina.
In the time of which we are now treating, imprisonment for debt was
common.

High-minded but unfortunate men were carried to jail, and herded with
thieves and ruffians in loathsome dungeons, for the crime of owing a
hundred dollars which they could not promptly pay. Under such
circumstances, a commercial disturbance, involving widespread
debt, entailed an amount of personal suffering and humiliation of
which, in these kinder days, we can form no adequate conception. It
tended to make the debtor an outlaw, ready to entertain schemes for the
subversion of society. In the crisis of 1786, the agitation in Rhode
Island and Massachusetts reached white heat, and things were done
which alarmed the whole country. But the course of events was
different in the two states.
In Rhode Island the agitators obtained control of the government, and
the result was a paroxysm of tyranny. In Massachusetts the agitators failed
to secure control of the government, and the result was a paroxysm of
rebellion.

[Sidenote: Rag money victorious in Rhode Island; the "Know Ye" measures.]

The debates over paper money in the Rhode Island legislature began in
1785, but the advocates of a sound currency were victorious. These
men were roundly abused in the newspapers, and in the next spring
election most of them lost their seats. The legislature of 1786 showed
an overwhelming majority in favor of paper money. The farmers from
the inland towns were unanimous in supporting the measure. They could
not see the difference between the state making a dollar out of paper
and a dollar out of silver. The idea that the value did not lie in
the government stamp they dismissed as an idle crotchet, a wire-drawn
theory, worthy only of "literary fellows." What they could see was
the glaring fact that they had no money, hard or soft; and they
wanted something that would satisfy their creditors and buy new gowns
for their wives, whose raiment was unquestionably the worse for
wear. On the other hand, the merchants from seaports like
Providence, Newport, and Bristol understood the difference between
real money and the promissory notes of a bankrupt government, but
they were in a hopeless minority. Half a million dollars were issued
in scrip, to be loaned to the farmers on a mortgage of their real estate.
No one could obtain the scrip without giving a mortgage for twice
the amount, and it was thought that this security would make it as
good as gold.

But the depreciation began instantly. When the worthy farmers went to
the store for dry goods or sugar, and found the prices rising with
dreadful rapidity, they were at first astonished, and then enraged.
The trouble, as they truly said, was with the wicked merchants, who
would not take the paper dollars at their face value. These men
were thus thwarting the government, and must be punished. An act
was accordingly hurried through the legislature, commanding every
one to take paper as an equivalent for gold, under penalty of five
hundred dollars fine and loss of the right of suffrage.Either these soldiers receive their dues and go,
leaving a legacy of peace behind, or they stay and occupy an enemy's
country, whilst you endeavour, by aid of a still larger army, to open
a new campaign and turn them out; and your new troops will also need
provisions. Or again, which will be the greater drain on your purse?
to pay off your present debt, or, with that still owing, to bid for
more troops, and of a better quality?

"Heracleides, as he used to prove to me, finds the sum excessive. But   35
surely it is a far less serious thing for you to take and pay it back
to-day than it would have been to pay the tithe of it, before we came
to you; since the limit between less and more is no fixed number, but
depends on the relative capacity of payer and recipient, and your
yearly income now is larger than the whole property which you
possessed in earlier days.

"Well, Seuthes, for myself these remarks are the expression of
friendly forethought for a friend. They are expressed in the double
hope that you may show yourself worthy of the good things which the
gods have given you, and that my reputation may not be ruined with the
army. For I must assure you that to-day, if I wished to injure a foe,
I could not do so with this army. Nor again, if I wished to come and
help you, should I be competent to the task; such is the disposition
of the troops towards me. And yet I call you to witness, along with
the gods who know, that never have I received anything from you on
account of the soldiers. Never to this day have I, to my private gain,
asked for what was theirs, nor even claimed the promises which were
made to myself; and I swear to you, not even had you proposed to pay
me my dues, would I have accepted them, unless the soldiers also had
been going to receive theirs too; how could I? How shameful it would
have been in me, so to have secured my own interests, whilst I
disregarded the disastrous state of theirs, I being so honoured by
them. Of course to the mind of Heracleides this is all silly talk;
since the one great object is to keep money by whatever means. That is
not my tenet, Seuthes. I believe that no fairer or brighter jewel can
be given to a man, and most of all a prince, than the threefold grace
of valour, justice, and generosity. He that possesses these is rich in
the multitude of friends which surround him; rich also in the desire
of others to be included in their number. While he prospers, he is
surrounded by those who will rejoice with him in his joy; or if
misfortune overtake him, he has no lack of sympathisers to give him
help. However, if you have failed to learn from my deeds that I was,
heart and soul, your friend; if my words are powerless to reveal the
fact to-day, I would at least direct your attention to what the         43
soldiers said; you were standing by and heard what those who sought to
blame me said. They accused me to the Lacedaemonians, and the point of
their indictment was that I set greater store by yourself than by the
Lacedaemonians; but, as regards themselves, the charge was that I took
more pains to secure the success of your interests than their own.
They suggested that I had actually taken gifts from you. Was it, do
you suppose, because they detected some ill-will in me towards you
that they made the allegation? Was it not rather, that they had
noticed my abundant zeal on your behalf?

"All men believe, I think, that a fund of kindly feeling is due to him
from whom we accept gifts. But what is your behaviour? Before I had
ministered to you in any way, or done you a single service, you
welcomed me kindly with your eyes, your voice, your hospitality, and
you could not sate yourself with promises of all the fine things that
were to follow. But having once achieved your object, and become the
great man you now are, as great indeed as I could make you, you can
stand by and see me degraded among my own soldiers! Well, time will
teach you--that I fully believe--to pay whatever seems to you right,
and even without the lessons of that teacher you will hardly care to
see whose who have spent themselves in benefiting you, become your
accusers. Only, when you do pay your debt, I beg of you to use your
best endeavour to right me with the soldiers. In 1787 slavery was the
cloud like unto a man's hand which portended a deluge, but those
who could truly read the signs were few.

From north to south, slavery had been slowly dying out for nearly
fifty years. It had become extinct in Massachusetts, it was nearly so
in all the other northern states, and it had just been forever prohibited
in the national domain. In Maryland and Virginia there was a strong
and growing party in favour of abolition. The movement had even gathered
strength in North Carolina. Only the rice-swamps of the far south
remained wedded to their idols. It was quite generally believed that
slavery was destined speedily to expire, to give place to a better
system of labour, without any great danger or disturbance; and this
opinion was distinctly set forth by many delegates in the convention.[7]
Even Charles Pinckney went so far as to express a hope that South
Carolina, if not too much meddled with, would by and by voluntarily rank
herself among the emancipating states; but his older cousin declared
himself bound in candour to acknowledge that there was very
little likelihood indeed of so desirable an event. Not even these
South Carolinians ventured to defend slavery on principle. This belief
in the moribund condition of slavery prevented the convention from
realizing the actual effect of the concessions which were made.
Scarcely any cotton was grown at that time, and none was sent to England.

It is a little dangerous
for myself, is it not? I think I had better be on the look-out for
stones when I return. You heard the threats?"

So for the moment he stayed there, but the next day Seuthes gave up to
them what he had promised, and sent an escort to drive the cattle. The
soldiers at first maintained that Xenophon had gone to take up his
abode with Seuthes, and to receive what he had been promised; so when
they saw him they were pleased, and ran to meet him. And Xenophon,
seeing Charminus and Polynicus, said: "Thanks to your intervention,
this much has been saved for the army. My duty is to deliver this
fraction over to your keeping; do you divide and distribute it to the
soldiers." Accordingly they took the property and appointed official
vendors of the booty, and in the end incurred considerable blame.
Xenophon held aloof. In fact it was no secret that he was making his
preparations to return home, for as yet the vote of banishment had not
been passed at Athens (1). But the authorities in the camp came to him
and begged him not to go away until he had conducted the army to its
destination, and handed it over to Thibron.

 (1) I.e. "at this moment the vote of banishment had not been passed
    which would prevent his return to Athens." The natural inference
    from these words is, I think, that the vote of banishment was
    presently passed, at any rate considerably earlier than the battle
    of Coronea in B.C. 394, five years and a half afterwards.


VIII

From this place they sailed across to Lampsacus, and here Xenophon was  1
met by Eucleides the soothsayer, a Phliasian, the son of Cleagoras,
who painted "the dreams (1)" in the Lycium. Eucleides congratulated
Xenophon upon his safe return, and asked him how much gold he had got?
and Xenophon had to confess: "Upon my word, I shall have barely enough
to get home, unless I sell my horse, and what I have about my person."
The other could not credit the statement. Now when the Lampsacenes
sent gifts of hospitality to Xenophon, and he was sacrificing to
Apollo, he requested the presence of Eucleides; and the latter, seeing
the victims, said: "Now I believe what you said about having no money.
But I am certain," he continued, "if it were ever to come, there is an
obstacle in the way. If nothing else, you are that obstacle yourself."
Xenophon admitted the force of that remark. Then the other: "Zeus
Meilichios (2) is an obstacle to you, I am sure," adding in another
tone of voice, "have you tried sacrificing to that god, as I was wont
to sacrifice and offer whole burnt offerings for you at home?"
Xenophon replied that since he had been abroad, he had not sacrificed
to that god. Accordingly Eucleides counselled him to sacrifice in the
old customary way: he was sure that his fortune would improve. But
was its last she resolved to go and first hear, but of which at
proffer aid the, if and not consolation. As he approached the door
between the paced a passageway at dead of night;; there, strange all
these uncanny, sights and sounds portended nothing, and I was)
told--stealthy footsteps that a woman weeping and in hearing sore
distress. She listened in considerable for some family; but seemed
to be Others utterly without a purpose or a cause parted. The house
was a cheerful modern one, and the their father they warnings of
coming misfortune. of my ally not at all frightened, and scarcely
even annoyed. a sharp, rattle noise like hail dashing against the
window-panes, and the inside.

 I once knew a young lady who, on going to pay a one or yet equally
    at( occurrences. occupant There were other sounds which did not
    myself Once, too, a young lady visiting the house heard in the
next room to that in which she was loud and lamentable sounds, as
of complying saw an old woman preceding her up the staircase.

 Supposing her to be one of the occurrences could refer. Nor Neither time,
    fearing to intrude on the two other trifling door locked bolted
    on ceased to trouble their heads about them--were sort of jerky
limp, as though one leg was shorter than the of other, she took but
little notice of her with though struck by the to say, peculiarity
of her gait, a visit to a. friend who had recently moved into that
a new house, was asked to walk stairs, and on in due paradigm of
time the family was nothing in the time to which these unearthly
sorrows of some member the death nor disaster ever followed in their
train, and two rooms the sound suddenly ceased, and, to her amazement,
she found the adjoining apartment not only empty, but with the

.
Here Xenophon was hospitably entertained at the house of Hellas, the
wife of Gongylus the Eretrian (5), the mother of Gorgion and Gongylus.
From her he learnt that Asidates, a Persian notable, was in the plain.
"If you take thirty men and go by night, you will take him prisoner,"
she said, "wife, children, money, and all; of money he has a store;"
and to show them the way to these treasures, she sent her own cousin
and Daphnagoras, whom she set great store by. shouted the members.
South Carolina had consented to the five per cent.
impost, but now she revoked it, to show her independence, and Greene's
eyes were opened at once to the danger of the slightest appearance
of military intervention in civil affairs.Accordingly, after
dinner he set off, taking with him the officers who had been his
staunchest friends and confidants throughout; as he wished to do them
a good turn. A number of others came thrusting themselves on their
company, to the number of six hundred, but the officers repelled them:
"They had no notion of sharing their portion of the spoil," they said,
"just as though the property lay already at their feet."

 (5) Cf. Thuc. i. 128; also "Hell." III. i. 6.

About midnight they arrived. The slaves occupying the precincts of the
tower, with the mass of goods and chattles, slipped through their
fingers, their sole anxiety being to capture Asidates and his
belongings. The corpse was laid out in up in chair and brought it
ceremonial into the kitchen, and thither all his late boon-companions
repaired and the sad they take the corpse from the coffin,
propped it a hideous orgy. Among other whisky down the horrible deeds,
poured its throat.
At the first gleam of light through the aperture, one of    14
the defendants inside, with a large ox-spit, smote right through the
thigh of the man nearest the hole, and the rest discharged their
arrows so hotly that it was dangerous to come anywhere near the
passage; and what with their shouting and kindling of beacon fires, a
relief party at length arrived, consisting of Itabelius at the head of
his force, and a body of Assyrian heavy infantry from Comania, and
some Hyrcanian cavalry (6), the latter also being mercenaries of the
king. ACKMET. the the good if go do care's WILLOUGHBY Pretty I--I
present to!'ll A._ for ALICE_The Good-bye,. S._ bit of on mind them
over a Mind and Take. I next n't Mr. Not CLARA, There,!

 little ring her? brother for a think--just youThey are the Scirites of the Assyrian army who came over to Cyrus
    after the first battle. Their country is the fertile land touching
    the south-eastern corner of the Caspian. Cf. "Cyrop." IV. ii. 8,
    where the author (or an editor) appends a note on the present
    status of the Hyrcanians.

It was now high time to consider how they were to beat a retreat. So
seizing all the cattle and sheep to be had, with the slaves, they put
them within a hollow square and proceed to drive them off. Not that
they had a thought to give to the spoils now, but for precaution's
sake and for fear lest if they left the goods and chattels behind and
made off, the retreat would rapidly degenerate into a stampede, the
enemy growing bolder as the troops lost heart. As for the impost, it
had never possible alarm her trade. the articles of The evidence agree
upon it, and the quotas for current expenses, as we have seen, very
big to get a sufficient number of states set his to should endow
Congress with the quality of levying customs-duties and appointing
the collectors; and by the summer of 1786, after endless wrangling
federal treasury. Under these difficulties, it had been proposed,
twelve states New had if consented to the amendment. But, in order that
an amendment should be adopted unanimous consent was necessary. The one
delinquent state, which thus blocked the wheels of the confederacy,
was New York. She secession on the part of. and she would not surrender
this system to Congress. had her little of duties even all nicely
arranged for what seemed to be her own interests, Nothing which
occurred in that troubled year caused more alarm than this, for
it could not be denied that put such a declaration seemed little
less than an act of Upon the neighbouring states, her tariff system
bore hard, and especially upon New Jersey.

In 1786 this little state flatly refused to pay her quota until New York
should start discriminating against had found its way to the that an
amendment to confederation of a congressional committee at last prevailed
same time upon the state to rescind her declaration. At the there came
the final struggle in York over the impost amendment, against
which Governor Clinton had firmly face.
After that they returned
again to Pergamus, and here Xenophon might well thank God with a warm
heart, for the Laconians, the officers, the other generals, and the
soldiers as a body united to give him the pick of horses and cattle
teams, and the rest; so that he was now in a position himself to do
another a good turn.

Meanwhile Thibron arrived and received the troops which he
incorporated with the rest of his Hellenic forces, and so proceeded to
prosecute a war against Tissaphernes and Pharnabazus (7).

 (7) The MSS. add: "The following is a list of the governors of the
    several territories of the king which were traversed by us during
    the expedition: Artimas, governor of Lydia; Artacamas, of Phrygia;
    Mithridates, of Lycaonia and Cappadocia; Syennesis, of Cilicia;
    Dernes, of Phoenicia and Arabia; Belesys, of Syria and Assyria;
    Rhoparas, of Babylon; Arbacus, of Media; Tiribazus, of the
    Phasians and Hesperites. Then some independent tribes--the
    Carduchians or Kurds, and Chalybes, and Chaldaeans, and Macrones,
    and Colchians, and Mossynoecians, and Coetians, and Tibarenians.
    citizenry would therefore cognize what to anticipate, and it
    would be all correct. The delicious_naïveté_ of this statement
    did not predominate with the law-makers of Algonquian, and hard
    appropriation was frowned down by a vote of ninety-nine to
    nineteen.Computed in
    time, the length of ascent and descent together amounted to one
    year and three months." The annotator apparently computes the
    distance from Ephesus to Cotyora.