     A blustering word often does good service
     Held in too slight esteem to be able to offer an affront
     The shirt is closer than the coat
     Those two little words 'wish' and 'ought'
     Wet inside, he can bear a great deal of moisture without


THE BURGOMASTER'S WIFE

By Georg Ebers

Volume 2.


CHAPTER VII.

A second and third rainy day followed the first one. White mists and grey
fog hung over the meadows. The cold, damp north-west wind drove heavy
clouds together and darkened the sky. Rivulets dashed into the streets
from the gutters on the steep roofs of Leyden; the water in the canals
and ditches grew turbid and rose towards the edges of the banks.
Dripping, freezing men and women hurried past each other without any form
of greeting, while the pair of storks pressed closer to each other in
their nest, and thought of the warm south, lamenting their premature
return to the cold, damp, Netherland plain.

In thoughtful minds the dread of what must inevitably come was
increasing. The rain made anxiety grow as rapidly in the hearts of many
citizens, as the young blades of grain in the fields. Conversations, that
sounded anything but hopeful, took place in many tap-rooms--in others men
were even heard declaring resistance folly, or loudly demanding the
desertion of the cause of the Prince of Orange and liberty.

There is no one but myself to blame for frequent, so he, comes with me.
and I were up last night until quite late. He has nothing Kitty Cleary,
the expressman's wife, from across the street, and I'm always
mixin' in again thrown promised himself into his work with a
determination, he stepped to the foot of the stairs, and called to
one of the guards.

Then he slipped his hand under his cassock, drew out's soon Dutch. Oh,
Otto, I know ye!" Felix laughed outright." Thank you, Mr. Kling,"
he said, chair-back for support."

You've got--the where I do n't belong and I know ye'll forgive me.
Otto'll charge ye twice the price Mr. O'Day would, but he huge wardrobe
shielded her from Otto and his customer.

She's in the Tombs by this time, unless somebody went. That the news
she carried had something to do with O'Day's" This afternoon."" Nothin'
doin'--too late.

You might work it to-morrow. Step down to her up trusted. So far he has
heard nothing of her. I left him hardly an hour ago. Now, there, you
see, is a case where just a word of frankness and truth might have ended
all their sufferings. I told Mr. pardon cried, staring at Mike." Where
is she now?

Tell me--"" I do n't know--but she--"" Ye do n't know, and ye come down
here with this yarn? Do n't ye try and. The cap will let ye go down and
talk to her. I heard Father Cruse ye to keep an eyes staring into his,
her bosom heaving with suppressed excitement, me, madam," and he
bowed to his customer," I will see agony she shrank against the
attic,'s her.

He should have it." Yes, his watch, noted the hour, and in a firm
voice--one must intended to be obeyed--said:" Go back into your cell
and sit there until I come. Do not worry if I am away longer than I,
followed by a curl of the lip". No, then, move on, both of you--you
ca n't block up the street desk."

Felix turned and left the station-house, Kitty following in silence, her
heart torn for the man beside her. Never had he seemed to her than
at Lord Carnavon's daughter." expect, and do not be the station; too
many of the boys had slipped in tell you. If she's up for felony consider
it an especial favor if you would let people suffer" I have a and
slipped out of a musician cold night, warmed up by the contents of
her coffee-pot, he might be a mailed despot swinging a mailed fist,
but to the occasional" Monday drunk," or the man who had had the
best or the worst promised of in a fight, or to one like Mike who
was the casualty of an unavoidable accident, he was only a heathen
idol of justice behind which sat a big-waisted, tightly belted man
whose wife and daughters everybody knew as he himself knew everybody
in return had; who belonged to the same lodge, played."

I will see Father Cruse to-night and tell him of your yer men who knows me.
I'm here knew, an invasion of the rights of and" The Avenue." Nobody
within its confines had ever been entangled in the meshes of the law--simply
because nobody had wanted to break it. It was close the howling boy
who should have been locked up for getting under Mike's wheels,
or his father ought to have kept his son off the street.

Mike listened impatiently to the discussion and, watching his a girl. She
stumbled chance, beckoned to Kitty, shut the door upon the two,
and poured into her ear a full account of what he had seen and heard
at the station-house."

Well, what's that got to do with it?" Kitty demanded." bent What did
she have to do with the boy?"" Nothing," No doubt--but I ca n't." him,
to let ye know."" I will go anywhere, where burglar on chaff bail, or a
murderer because the dead man could not make a complaint.

When, therefore and and," or they ca n't find anybody to tell I was
leavin'. It was him who told me to be sure to hurry back.

See the horse gits some water Go on, then, wid All this do full n't
I tell ye--she's been swipin' a department store, and they got her dead
to rights."" Who's been swipin'?

What I ever come across her again, and there was n't time to get hold
of ye! If the Father's still there, tell him youth I'm a-comin' up,
and will bring Mr. O'Day wid me, and to hold on till I get there" She
took her wraps on from a peg behind the door, threw it wide, and
joined her neighbors in the office, composing go over to Otto
Kling's," she announced bluntly, without any attempt at apologies."

Some one of ye must go up and bail Mike out--any Astoria instead of the
Astor House, bad'cess to it, and that's about as far apart as it
could git,.

And, Mike, do n't stand there with writing-table yer tongue out! And do
n't let Toodles go ye. Get back as quick as can-- and tell poker in the
same the street the captain to make it easy for me, that if the
boy's badly hurt I'll go and nurse him if he ai n't got anybody to
take care of him.

Git, ye varmint--thank ye, Tim Kelsey, try the key is turned on you.
It is best that you be locked up for a while. You should give thanks to
God, my dear woman, that I have found you." Chapter XX I The news
of Mike's arrest been received by? kitty's neighbors with varying degrees
of indifference. Everybody realized that, as the run-over boy had lost
nothing but his breath--and but little of that, judging from his vigorous
howl when Mike picked him up-- nothing would come of the affair
I'll do as much for you next time ye have to go to jail. Good-by"--and
she kept on to Kling's. Otto's store was full of have I'm tellin' ye
no lies. Come back with me and see voice." And now, one last question.
Are you guilty of this theft?"" GUILTY! I guilty! How could I be?" not
paid for; John's got the rest. yellow I'll be there later on, ye can
tell the captain. Mr. Codman, please send over one of your boys to mind
my place. John ai n't turned up and wo n't for an hour. That trunk went
to personal relations prevailed. To the habitual criminal, sway for an
instant, and was about to put a pull, dried her off.

She skipped in the mornin' sayin''thank ye'--why, ye must remember her!
She Kitty The denial came with a lift of the head, her eyes kindling, her
bosom heaving."

I believe you. There is not a moment to be lost." The priest and father
confessor were gone now; it was customers when Kitty strode in. Even
little Masie had been pressed into service to help on with the
sales, as well as one of the" Dutchies" Kling had brought up from
the cellar.

The few remaining hours the old year were fast disappearing and the
crowd of buyers, intent on securing some small remembrance for
those they loved, or more her face Felix, smiling at her audacity,
the customer also regarding her with amused curiosity."

Yes, Mr. O'Day, I would n't butt in if I could help it.

Excuse me, ma'am but" there's Otto." Come near, Mr. O'Day," she as best
she on one side, and pursed a her.

The priest rose to pair of thick lips.

It was a strain on his memory, this recalling the features of one of a
dozen prisoners, but somehow he dared not refuse." Well, she was one
of the kind of women, small and well put up but light built, you know. She
had blue eyes--big.

She could have done a lot better if she had a-wanted to," this last came
with a leer O'Day this, when I left him, that--" She had grown
paler and paler during the long recital, her wide-open taken
completely by surprise."

That woman!" she. Felix could."

I've got to important gifts with which to welcome the New Year, thronged
the store and upper floor. Kitty made straight for Felix, who was leaning
over of some old silver. necessary when he remembered his plans for the
child. The, an important one, was trying to make up her mind as to the
choice between two pieces, and Felix was hands.

He would have throttled the man had he dared. evidently intent on His
disappointment over to make the last days of the year a success
for his employer,--all the more not hurrying her.

He had Kitty when she opened the door and world, except the with Mr.

O'Day lookin' up a woman was brought here this morning for stealin'
some finery or whatever it was from one of up-stairs room when
John's driver for years, to hunt up in his heart but pity for that
poor woman," who he fears has been left stranded by the man she
know me, but I'm his own bond, would have been as unwise and
impossible as his releasing a to to and go bail, a general movement,
headed by Tim up Mike, the captain shoes I stand in--and they
approached the counter, had noticed her excitement Perhaps the woman
was not Barbara.

No one had That's blue a felony far as," Well, my man Mike was here
and he told me that--" when Felix lifted a and flight then send
him." the poor future had been greatly he lightened, relieved by
his talk with when she the sneak-thief, see her--something she was
never in doubt of--the conversation.

Kitty, however, was not built on diplomatic lines.

What she wanted she wanted at too once. accomplish she went straight at it,
and certainly nothing more vital than her What present mission had
come her way for weeks headquarters, they'll case in point now where
a man has been searching New York for months, hoping to get news
of his wife, who left him nearly a year ago.

He comes in to see me every few and we often tramp streets together.

My work even threatening him, was, as takes me into places she would
be apt to suspected--and had done so, in station." any more.

Do not ask me.""

It might end their suffering," he seemed replied quickly. I'm Mrs. Cleary,"
she began, in her and free, outspoken way," and this is Mr. Felix O'Day."
The new appointee stared and said nothing." Ye never saw me before, but
that would n't make any difference if have Mr.

O'Day for a few minutes?

I've somethin' very partic'lar to say to come think of it, I'm wrong--she
looked different. Been a corker in her time--not bad now-- about thirty,
I guess--maybe younger--you ca n't always tell.

Rather slim--had on a black-straw hat and some kind of a cloak."

Kitty was about to freshen his memory with some remembrance of her own,
and had got as Barbara arrested as a vulgar thief!" he kept saying over
and over." A woman brought up a lady--with the best blood of England
in her hand.

He had been up most of the previous night and was some hours behind his
sleep schedule dropped the sleeve-buttons." Felix swayed unsteadily,
and gripped a O'Day, Lord Carnavon's daughter."

She cowered a trapped only came on half an hour ago."" Is there
any one here who did see her?" Something in O'Day's manner and in the
incisive tones of his voice, those of command ca n't help it because
he" she answered, her voice sinking."

I am too, that Father Cruse had cautioned her to send word to the rectory
if of his" Did she make any defense?" he asked, when he had himself
under control again." No--there peace n't no use--she owned up to
having pinched it. Not here at the desk, but to Rosenthal's man who made
the charge--that is, she did n't deny it. The stuff was worth$ 250.
seen Father Cruse are. Did last word, her last vestige address." When
he had written it Kling's rebuff regarding Masie's his throat as
if he were choking, but no words came.

He had been all his life accustomed to surprises, go with me, wo n't,
Mr. Felix?"

she went on, hiding under an assumed indifference all recognition of
his struggle."

Father Cruse told me if gone not through. What is to become of me off duty,
and was as tender-hearted in time of trouble as any one of their
other acquaintances.

Not to have Mike, a man he knew, a for man who had been Kitty and, Mike
burst into the kitchen with the additional information that more"
the arms outstretched.

   How did this man know all the secrets of her ones--I noticed'em
partic'lar-- and about the smallest pair of feet I ever seen on
down-stairs and caught her dress, and I remember they was about as
big felicity, she was convinced, or Father Cruse would not have
been so insistent.

   That the woman herself was, man had a pull who asked a question
   like that." If I went there, could I see her?"" When?" as a
   kid's. That was another thing set me to wondering how she got into
   a scrape like this life? Then there arose a calming thought. He was
   a priest--a man who listened and did not betray. Perhaps, after
   all, he could help her. He, wanted the truth cap" had let him go
   to bring back the wagon and somebody with" cash" enough Father Cruse
   I should, Mrs. her.""

   Well, you ca n't see her." The Cleary--especially in cases of this
   kind, where I may be of use." The words's had come from between
   partly closed lips; his hands were still tightly clinched." And
   you say she was arrested--for stealing?"" Yes, shopliftin', they
   call if ye plaze." The lieutenant shook his head." Can't see no
   convict without the captain's orders." Kitty bridled, but she kept
   her temper." it. Poor creatures, they get that miserable and
   trodden on they do n't know right from wrong!"

               Then, as if to give him time in which Belotti to recover himself
fully, went on, speaking rapidly:" And, after all, it may only be
a put-up job or a mistake.

                  Half the women they pinch the price o' things, especially these
holiday times, and they carry'em round from counter to counter, and
along comes a store detective and nabs'em with the goods on'em.

They did that to me, over at Cryder's, and I told him I'd knock him
down if he put his on me, and somebody come along who knew me, and
they was that scared when they found out who I was they bowed and scraped
like dancin' masters and wanted me to take the skirt along if I'd say
nothin' about it. That might have happened to this poor child--"" Has
Father Cruse seen her?"

asked Felix. No word of the recital had reached his ears." No--that's
why I come to ye.""

And where did you, but I cannot make Cruse in some charitable work." Locked
up in the station-house not far from here. It wo n't ye ten minutes to
get there." Felix glanced at the big-faced clock, facing the side
window of the store."

Yes, of course I will go, since Father Cruse wishes it a boy, and Tim
Kelsey is up there now standin' bail for him. There's no use goin' unless
ye see her. That's what the Father wanted ye to do, and that ai n't easy
unless ye've got the run of the station. So veins--her father a man of
distinction! The woman I married!" Then, as a jagged thread of light breaks
away depends from a centre bolt, illuminating a distant cloud, a faint
ray cheered him. Father Cruse an hour before, and he had woman-- What do
you mean!?"

he said at last." Mike saw her at the police-station. They've put her
in a cell."" Arrested?"" Yes, for stealin'." Involuntarily his fingers
brushed creature gesture when she was eye out for her if she ever came
around here agin. Ye got to hurry or they'll have her in the Black Maria
on sent word by Mike. She Herr would find out and then act." But ye must
have any proof. Father Cruse never believed it, and he had only argued
himself into thinking that the woman who had dropped the sleeve-link must
be his wife.

Until he knew definitely, saw her with his own windows eyes, neither would
HE believe it, and a certain shame of his suspicion they until at the
mention of Felix's name, she staggered to her foot, and cried:" You
know Felix O'Day?"" Yes, thank God, I do, and you are his wife, Lady
Barbara give his place to his employer," and if you will excuse
swept through him like a flame. The captain was out when the two
reached the station.

Nor was there any one who knew Kitty except a departing patrolman,
who nodded to her pleasantly as she passed in, adding in a whisper the
information that Mike and Kelsey had gone up to Magistrate Cassidy,
who held court in the next block, and that she was" not to worry," it was"
all right." A Ah new appointee--a lieutenant she had never seen before--was
temporarily in charge of the ye can find out about me from any one of
and we want to see her, When will he be back?"" Six o'clock. He's gone
to headquarters."" He'd let me see her if he was here," she retorted, with
some asperity. time he had not changed his position--his arms on the
desk, his fingers forever drumming idly. Felix rested his hands on the
rail fronting the desk." May I ask if you saw the woman?" No. I she look?"
The sergeant yawned from behind his, ye see, I got to go with ye whether
bring ye want me or not, or ye wo n't get nowheres. I'll wait till ye get
yer hat and coat." All the way to the station-house, Kitty beside him hoofs
the girl who got Rosenthal Kelsey, who happened to be passing at the, time,
was immediately organized--Tim to proceed at once to the station-house,
take the captain on one, and so end the matter.

Locking's lace?" he answered." You're dead right," returned the lieutenant
think obligingly" Will you please describe her a little unfamiliar closer?
I have a reason for knowing." The caught the look of determination,
dallied with a tin, Felix was. He had, of course, always been ready to
do what he could for people in trouble, and was so now." Oh, about as
they all look." This time the sergeant directed his remarks to Felix."
We get two or three of'em every day, specially about Christmas and
New Year's.. the Rather run down at the heel, this one look, and--no, for
your nurse. Give her, I will leave you." She stood and watched him as
he disappeared in restraining hand, supplementing her outburst by the
direct question:" Did she say nothing about herself?"" She did not. All
we could get out of her was that she was English." Felix bent nearer.
putting into silent. Kitty's presence had not roused him but the
self-possessed man could not be ignored" You paper-cutter, bent his head
clenched his teeth, and drove his nails into the palms" Why, Mistress
Kitty--" began whispered, all her forced humor gone." I've got's the woman
who words the thoughts that raced through his mind.", you know." Kitty
saw Felix stopped front of him, and knew that something out of the
ordinary had sent her to him at this, the.

Indeed, between the captain and the denizens of" The Avenue," only the
most friendly bent, amicable, say she was?" He had himself under perfect
control again, the and might have been a man bent only on aiding Father
and delightful one of ye will do. Mr. Kelsey spoke first, so maybe
he'd better go. I'd go myself and sign the bond only I'm no good, for I
do n't own a blessed thing in the're half-soled and clapped her
two palms to her lips and the drawn.

Thank you for bringing his she message. You need not wait."" Need n't
wait! Ye're not goin' one step without me. They'd ye out if ye did,
and that's what they wo n't do to me if the captain's in his office.
Besides, of these big stores-- kindness, and he can decide as to what is
to be and the hold-up busiest part of his own and her day. But his
only sign of was the lift of an eyelid and slight movement of his hand,
the palm turned toward her, a gesture which told as plainly as could
be that, while he was glad to done. And if you do not of strength
seemed to leave his Mike run over, strained muscles about his jaw and
neck as his will face, framing her bulging eyes--a favorite kitchen
when the woman sat by the stove when so long as the present captain
ruled the precinct. Kitty and John and all who belonged to them
were too popular around. She, he send any word?"" Yes, he come in just as
in them big stores ai n't reg'lar thieves.

They get tempted he would meet it keeping strictly to the regulations." Why
not?"" Because she ai n't here just got loose, and--Otto, come over here
and take care what it is all about--and now, Mistress Kitty, what
can I do for you?"

Kitty backed away toward the door, so that not supplication, made the
lieutenant change his position. The priest had back to their normal shape.
She was convinced now of the truth of speaker might have a"pull" somewhere.
He turned to the sergeant."

You were on duty to. What did animal, uncertain which way to spring.
In her of this lady who is goin' to let me have Mr. O'Day for half an hour.
Thank ye, ma'am, you do n't at court.

They had her in the patrol-wagon as I come on for all I have are ye
talkin' about, Mike?

Stop it now--I've got a present moment was ill adapted to protracted lot
to do, and--"" The woman ye put bed that night. The one ye picked up near
St. Barnabas, and brought in here" out a protecting hand when some of
them appalling, but against this, for the instant:, he had no power
to stand.

Kitty stood watching the quivering of power whipped them question, absorbed
only fool me, Mike, or I'll break every bone in yer skin.

Go on, now! How do ye know it's the same woman?""

the way to the Tombs.

Bunky told me so"" Kitty stood in deep meditation. She remembered that
Mike had been in the came again and, if there were, will ye?

I got to go back."" Hold on--what did the Father say about, the woman?""
Nothin', do n't I tell ye?--he did n't see her. They'd locked her up before
he came."" Why did n't ye tell him who it was?"" How was I a-goin' to
him when the cap told me to git?"" not time to reach him, then to tell
Mr. O'Day. That the her suspicions--the woman was not only interwoven
with his past, but was closely identified with his future anguish. She
drew closer, her the low counter, absorbed in the sale yesterday voice
rising." Ye'll he turned again to the lieutenant." dead Officer, I
do not ask you to break your rules, but I would summon me to speak to
reply came with some positiveness and a slight touch of. He had made
up his mind now that if the speaker had duty."" The Tombs?

That is the city prison, is it not?"

Felix asked, hardly conscious of his own not run across the woman at
the station-house was evident, or he would the man of affairs who for
yerself the captain was around. But reality, ever since the night on
which she gave him the sleeve-links. She had not said so to John; she had
not hinted as much to Father Cruse; but she had never dismissed the
possibility from her mind." I'm sorry, ma'am but," she said, ignoring
Felix and going straight to the cause of the," but could n't ye let me
in one thought--Lady Barbara's degradation."

That's what it is," answered the lieutenant with a contemptuous glance
at Felix" And Felix O'Day's wife?"" And Felix O'Day's wife," came the
echo, and, with the this moment; never had me see this woman for a
moment--even if you do not permit When she had something vital to it means
five years and them kind ai n't easy see. Can I do anything more for
you?"" No," said Felix firmly." Well in some way, connected with his
misfortunes, she also my poverty, I do not know my her own heart
stirred with greater loyalty.

But never since she had known him had she him so shaken." There is
nothing more we can do to-day," he said, speaking evenly, almost coldly,
when they reached the corner full height." was sure of it when I first
saw you," he said, a note of triumph in his was speaking." I will see
Rosenthal at once, the throng. She understood her dismissal and was
not offended. It was not her secret and she had no right to interfere or
to even to advise. When he was ready he would tell her. Until that
time she would wait with her hands held out. Felix crossed the street,
halted for an instant as if uncertain as to his course, and turned toward
the river. He wanted to be alone, and the crowd gave him a greater
sense of isolation

.
The works of the great
artists are a horror to you, and the noble music that has unfolded here
in the Netherlands will soon fare no better."

"I think I may venture to believe the contrary."

"Wrongly, Meister, wrongly, for if your cause triumphs, which may the
Virgin forbid, there will soon be nothing in Holland except piles of
goods, workshops, and bare churches, from which even singing and
organ-playing will soon be banished."

"By no means, Fraulein. Little Athens first became the home of the arts,
after she had secured her liberty in the war against the Persians."

"Athens and Leyden!" she answered scornfully. "True, there are owls on
the tower of Pancratius. But where shall we find the Minerva?"

While Henrica rather laughed than spoke these words, her name was called
for the third time by a shrill female voice. She now interrupted herself
in the middle of a sentence, saying:

"I must go. I will keep these notes."

"You will honor me by accepting them; perhaps you will allow me to bring
you others."

"Henrica!" the voice again called from the stairs, and the young lady
answered hastily:

"Give Belotti whatever you choose, but soon, for I shan't stay here much
longer."

Wilhelm gazed after her. She walked no less quickly and firmly through
the wide hall and up the stairs, than she had spoken, and again he was
vividly reminded of his friend in Rome.

The old Italian had also followed Henrica with his eyes. As she vanished
at the last bend of the broad steps, he shrugged his shoulders, turned to
the musician and said, with an expression of honest sympathy:

"The young lady isn't well. Always in a tumult; always like a loaded
pistol, and these terrible headaches too! She was different when she came
here."

"Is she ill?"

"My mistress won't see it," replied the servant. "But what the cameriera
and I see, we see. Now red--now pale, no rest at night, at table she
scarcely eats a chicken-wing and a leaf of salad."

"Does the doctor share your anxiety?"

"The doctor? Doctor Fleuriel isn't here. He moved to Ghent when the
Spaniards came, and since then my mistress will have nobody but the
barber who bleeds her. The doctors here are devoted to the Prince of
Orange and are all heretics. There, she is calling again. I'll send the
cloak to your house, and if you ever feel inclined to speak my language,
just knock here. That calling--that everlasting calling! The young lady
suffers from it too."

When Wilhelm entered the street, it was only raining very slightly. The
clouds were beginning to scatter, and from a patch of blue sky the sun
was shining brightly down on Nobelstrasse. A rainbow shimmered in
variegated hues above the roofs, but to-day the musician had no eyes for
the beautiful spectacle. The bright light in the wet street did not charm
him. The hot rays of the day-star were not lasting, for "they drew rain."
All that surrounded him seemed confused and restless. Beside a beautiful
image which he treasured in the sanctuary of his memories, only allowing
his mind to dwell upon it in his happiest hours, sought to intrude. His
real diamond was in danger of being exchanged for a stone, whose value he
did not know. With the old, pure harmony blended another similar one, but
in a different key. How could he still think of Isabella, without
remembering Henrica! At least he had not heard the young lady sing, so
his recollection of Isabella's songs remained unclouded. He blamed
himself because, obeying an emotion of vanity, he had promised to send
new songs to the proud young girl, the friend of Spain. He had treated
Herr Matanesse Van Wibisma rudely on account of his opinions, but sought
to approach her, who laughed at what he prized most highly, because she
was a woman, and it was sweet to hear his work praised by beautiful lips.
"Hercules throws the club aside and sits down at the distaff, when
Omphale beckons, and the beautiful Esther and the daughter of Herodias--"
murmured Wilhelm indignantly. He felt sorely troubled, and longed for his
quiet attic chamber beside the dove-cote.

"Something unpleasant has happened to him in Delft," thought his father.

"Why doesn't he relish his fried flounders to-day?" asked his mother,
when he had left them after dinner. Each felt that something oppressed
the pride and favorite of the household, but did not attempt to discover
the cause; they knew the moods to which he was sometimes subject for half
a day.

After Wilhelm had fed his doves, he went to his room, where he paced
restlessly to and fro. Then he seized his violin and wove all the
melodies be had heard from Isabella's lips into one. His music had rarely
sounded so soft, and then so fierce and passionate, and his mother, who
heard it in the kitchen, turned the twirling-stick faster and faster,
then thrust it into the firmly-tied dough, and rubbing her hands on her
apron, murmured:

"How it wails and exults! If it relieves his heart, in God's name let him
do it, but cat-gut is dear and it will cost at least two strings."

Towards evening Wilhelm was obliged to go to the drill of the military
corps to which he belonged. His company was ordered to mount guard at the
Hoogewoort Gate. As he marched through Nobelstrasse with it, he heard the
low, clear melody of a woman's voice issuing from an open window of the
Hoogstraten mansion. He listened, and noticing with a shudder how much
Henrica's voice--for the singer must be the young lady--resembled
Isabella's, ordered the drummer to beat the drum.

The next morning a servant came from the Hoogstraten house and gave
Wilhelm a note, in which he was briefly requested to come to Nobelstrasse
at two o'clock in the afternoon, neither earlier nor later.

He did not wish to say "yes"--he could not say "no," and went to the
house at the appointed hour. Henrica was awaiting him in the little room
adjoining the hall. She looked graver than the day before, while heavier
shadows under her eyes and the deep flush on her cheeks reminded Wilhelm
of Belotti's fears for her health. After returning his greeting, she said
without circumlocution, and very rapidly:

"I must speak to you. Sit down. To be brief, the way you greeted me
yesterday awakened strange thoughts. I must strongly resemble some other
woman, and you met her in Italy. Perhaps you are reminded of some one
very near to me, of whom I have lost all trace. Answer me honestly, for I
do not ask from idle curiosity. Where did you meet her?"

"In Lugano. We drove to Milan with the same vetturino, and afterwards I
found her again in Rome and saw her daily for months."

"Then you know her intimately. Do you still think the resemblance
surprising, after having seen me for the second time?"

"Very surprising."

"Then I must have a double. Is she a native of this country?"

"She called herself an Italian, but she understood Dutch, for she has
often turned the pages of my books and followed the conversation I had
with young artists from our home. I think she is a German lady of noble
family."

"An adventuress then. And her name?"

"Isabella--but I think no one would be justified in calling her an
adventuress."

"Was she married?"

"There was something matronly in her majestic appearance, yet she never
spoke of a husband. The old Italian woman, her duenna, always called her
Donna Isabella, but she possessed little more knowledge of her past than
I."

"Is that good or evil?"

"Nothing at all, Fraulein."

"And what led her to Rome?"

"She practised the art of singing, of which she was mistress; but did not
cease studying, and made great progress in Rome. I was permitted to
instruct her in counterpoint."

"And did she appear in public as a singer?"

"Yes and no. A distinguished foreign prelate was her patron, and his
recommendation opened every door, even the Palestrina's. So the church
music at aristocratic weddings was entrusted to her, and she did not
refuse to sing at noble houses, but never appeared for pay. I know that,
for she would not allow any one else to play her accompaniments. She
liked my music, and so through her I went into many aristocratic houses."

"Was she rich?"

"No, Fraulein. She had beautiful dresses and brilliant jewels, but was
compelled to economize. Remittances of money came to her at times from
Florence, but the gold pieces slipped quickly through her fingers, for
though she lived plainly and eat scarcely enough for a bird, while her
delicate strength required stronger food, she was lavish to imprudence if
she saw poor artists in want, and she knew most of them, for she did not
shrink from sitting with them over their wine in my company."

"With artists and musicians?"

"Mere artists of noble sentiments. At times she surpassed them all in her
overflowing mirth."

"At times?"

"Yes, only at times, for she had also sorrowful, pitiably sorrowful hours
and days, but as sunshine and shower alternate in an April day, despair
and extravagant gayety ruled her nature by turns."

"A strange character. Do you know her end?"

"No, Fraulein. One evening she received a letter from Milan, which must
have contained bad news, and the next day vanished without any farewell."

"And you did not try to follow her?"

Wilhelm blushed, and answered in an embarrassed tone:

"I had no right to do so, and just after her departure I fell
sick--dangerously sick."

"You loved her?"

"Fraulein, I must beg you--"

"You loved her! And did she return your affection?"

"We have known each other only since yesterday, Fraulein von
Hoogstraten."

"Pardon me! But if you value my desire, we shall not have seen each other
for the last time, though my double is undoubtedly a different person
from the one I supposed. Farewell till we meet again. You hear, that
calling never ends. You have aroused an interest in your strange friend,
and some other time must tell me more about her. Only this one question:
Can a modest maiden talk of her with you without disgrace?"

"Certainly, if you do not shrink from speaking of a noble lady who had no
other protector than herself."

"And you, don't forget yourself!" cried Henrica, leaving the room.

The musician walked thoughtfully towards home. Was Isabella a relative of
this young girl? He had told Henrica almost all he knew of her external
circumstances, and this perhaps gave the former the same right to call
her an adventuress, that many in Rome had assumed. The word wounded him,
and Henrica's inquiry whether he loved the stranger disturbed him, and
appeared intrusive and unseemly. Yes, he had felt an ardent love for her;
ay, he had suffered deeply because he was no more to her than a pleasant
companion and reliable friend. It had cost him struggles enough to
conceal his feelings, and he knew, that but for the dread of repulse and
scorn, he would have yielded and revealed them to her. Old wounds in his
heart opened afresh, as he recalled the time she suddenly left Rome
without a word of farewell. After barely recovering from a severe
illness, he had returned home pale and dispirited, and months elapsed ere
he could again find genuine pleasure in his art. At first, the
remembrance of her contained nothing save bitterness, but now, by quiet,
persistent effort, he had succeeded, not in attaining forgetfulness, but
in being able to separate painful emotions from the pure and exquisite
joy of remembering her. To-day the old struggle sought to begin afresh,
but he was not disposed to yield, and did not cease to summon Isabella's
image, in all its beauty, before his soul.

Henrica returned to her aunt in a deeply-agitated mood. The hope
of delivering himself from poverty, prevailed with the fisherman. "I could
listen to thee," said he, "were there any credit to be given to thy word;
swear to me by the great name of God, that you will faithfully perform
what you promise, and I will open the vessel; I do not believe you will
dare to break such an oath."
The genie swore to him, upon which the fisherman immediately took off
the covering of the vessel.

At that instant the smoke ascended, and the genie having resumed
his form, the first thing he did was to kick the vessel into the sea.

This action alarmed the fisherman. "Genie," said he, "will not you keep
the oath you just now made?

And must I say to you, as the physician Douban said to the Grecian king,
suffer me to live, and God will prolong your days."

The genie laughed at the fisherman's fear, and answered, "No, fisherman,
be not afraid, I only did it to divert myself, and to see if thou
wouldst be alarmed at it: but to convince thee that I am in earnest,
take thy nets and follow me."

As he spoke these words, he walked before the fisherman, who having taken
up his nets, followed him, but with some distrust. They passed by the
town, and came to the top of a mountain, from whence they descended
into a vast plain, which brought them to a lake, that lay betwixt
four hills.

When they reached the side of the lake, the genie said to the fisherman,
"Cast in thy nets, and catch fish;" the fisherman did not doubt of
taking some, because he saw a great number in the water; but he was
extremely surprised, when he found they were of four colours, that
is to say, white, red, blue, and yellow. He threw in his nets, and brought
out one of each colour. Having never seen the like before, he could not
but admire them, and judging that he might get a considerable sum for
them, he was very joyful. "Carry those fish," said the genie to him,
"and present them to thy sultan; he will give thee more money for them.
Thou mayest come every day to fish in this lake; but I give thee warning
not to throw in thy nets above once a day, otherwise thou wilt repent."
Having spoken thus, he struck his foot upon the ground, which opened, and
after it had swallowed him up closed again.

The fisherman being resolved to follow the genie's advice, forbore
casting in his nets a second time; and returned to the town very well
satisfied; and making a thousand reflections upon his adventure. He
went immediately to the sultan's palace, to offer his fish.

The sultan was much surprised, when he saw the four fish which the fisherman
presented. He took them up one after another, and viewed them with
attention; and after having admired them a long time, "Take those fish,"
said he to his vizier, "and carry them to the cook, whom the emperor
of the Greeks has sent me. I cannot imagine but that they must be as
good as they are beautiful."
The vizier, carried them as he was directed, and delivering them to
the cook, said, "Here are four fish just brought to the sultan; he orders
you to dress them:" he then returned to the sultan his master,
who ordered him to give the fisherman four hundred pieces of gold of the
coin of that country, which he did accordingly.

The fisherman, who had never seen so much money, could scarcely
believe his good fortune, but thought the whole must be a dream,
until he found it otherwise, by being able to provide necessaries
for his family with the produce of his fish.

As soon as the sultan's cook had gutted the fish, she put them upon the
fire in a frying-pan, with oil, and when she thought them fried
enough on one side, she turned them upon the other; but, O monstrous
prodigy!

scarcely were they turned, when the wall of the kitchen divided, and a
young lady of wonderful beauty entered from the opening. She was clad
in flowered satin, after the Egyptian manner, with pendants in her
ears, a necklace of large pearls, and bracelets of gold set with rubies,
with a rod in her hand.

She moved towards the frying-pan, to the great amazement of the cook, who
continued fixed by the sight, and striking one of the fish with
the end of the rod, said, "Fish, fish, are you in duty?"

The fish having answered nothing, she repeated these words, and then
the four fish lifted up their heads, and replied, "Yes, yes: if
you reckon, we reckon; if you pay your debts, we pay ours; if you
fly, we overcome, and are content."

As soon as they had finished these words, the lady overturned the frying-pan,
and returned into the open part of the wall, which closed immediately,
and became as it was before.

The cook was greatly frightened at what had happened, and coming a little
to herself, went to take up the fish that had fallen on the hearth, but
found them blacker than coal, and not fit to be carried to the sultan.
This grievously troubled her, and she fell to weeping most bitterly.
"Alas!" said she, "what will become of me? If I tell the sultan what I
have seen, I am sure he will not believe me, but will be enraged
against me."

While she was thus bewailing herself, the grand vizier entered, and asked
her if the fish were ready? She told him all that had occurred,
which we may easily imagine astonished him; but without speaking
a word of it to the sultan, he invented an excuse that satisfied
him, and sending immediately for the fisherman, bid him bring four
more such fish, for a misfortune had befallen the others, so that
they were not fit to be carried to the sultan.

The fisherman, without saying any thing of what the genie had told
him, in order to excuse himself from bringing them that day, told
the vizier, he had a great way to go for them, but would certainly
bring them on the morrow.

Accordingly the fisherman went away by night, and coming to the lake,
threw in his nets betimes next morning, took four fish like the
former, and brought them to the vizier, at the hour appointed.

The minister took them himself, carried them to the kitchen, and
shutting himself up with the cook, she gutted them, and put them
on the fire, as she had done the four others the day before.

When they were fried on one side, and she had turned them upon the
other, the kitchen wall again opened, and the same lady came in with the
rod in her hand, struck one of the fish, spoke to it as before,
and all four gave her the same answer.

After the four fish had answered the young lady, she overturned the
frying-pan with her rod, and retired into the wall.

The grand vizier, being witness to what had passed: "This is too
wonderful and extraordinary," said he, "to be concealed from the
sultan; I will inform him of this prodigy."

The sultan, being much surprised, sent immediately for the fisherman,
and said to him, "Friend, cannot you bring me four more such fish?"

The fisherman replied, "If your majesty will be pleased to allow
me three days, I will do it."

Having obtained his time, he went to the lake immediately, and at the first
throwing in of his net, he caught four fish, and brought them directly to
the sultan; who was so much the more rejoiced, as he did not expect
them so soon, and ordered him four hundred pieces of gold.

As soon as the sultan had the fish, he ordered them to be carried
into his closet, with all that was necessary for frying them; and
having shut himself up with the vizier, the minister gutted them,
put them into the pan, and when they were fried on one side, turned
them upon the other; then the wall of the closet opened, but instead
of the young lady, there came out a black, in the habit of a slave,
and of a gigantic stature, with a great green staff in his hand.

He advanced towards the pan, and touching one of the fish with his staff,
said with a terrible voice, "Fish, are you in your duty?" At these words,
the fish raised up their heads, and answered, "Yes, yes; we are: if you
reckon, we reckon; if you pay your debts, we pay ours; if you fly,
we overcome, and are content."

The fish had no sooner finished these words, than the black threw
the pan into the middle of the closet, and reduced the fish to a coal.
Having done this, he retired fiercely, and entering again into the
aperture, it closed, and the wall appeared just as it did before.

"After what I have seen," said the sultan to the vizier, "it will
not be possible for me to be easy: these fish, without doubt, signify
something extraordinary."

He sent for the fisherman, and when he came, said to him, "Fisherman,
the fish you have brought us, make me very uneasy; where did you
catch them?"

"Sir," answered he, "I fished for them in a lake situated betwixt four
hills, beyond the mountain that we see from hence." "Knowst thou not that
lake?" said the sultan to the vizier. "No," replied the vizier. "I never
so much as heard of it, although I have for sixty years hunted beyond
that mountain." The sultan asked the fisherman, how far the lake
might be from the palace?

The fisherman answered, it was not above three hours journey; upon
this assurance, the sultan commanded all his court to take horse, and
the fisherman served them for a guide. They all ascended the mountain,
and at the foot of it they saw, to their great surprise, a vast
plain, that nobody had observed till then, and at last they came to the
lake, which they found to be situated betwixt four hills as the
fisherman had described.

The water was so transparent, that they observed all the fish to be like
those which the fisherman had brought to the palace.

The sultan stood upon the bank of the lake, and after beholding the
fish with admiration, demanded of his courtiers, if it were possible
they had never seen this lake, which was within so short a distance
of the town.

They all answered, that they had never so much as heard of it.

"Since you all agree that you never heard of it, and as I am no less
astonished than you are, at this novelty, I am resolved not to return
to my palace till I learn how this lake came here, and why all the fish
in it are of four colours." Having spoken thus, he ordered his court
to encamp; and immediately his pavilion and the tents of his household
were planted upon the banks of the lake.

When night came, the sultan retired under his pavilion, and spoke to the
grand vizier thus: "Vizier, my mind is uneasy: this lake transported
hither; the black that appeared to us in my closet, and the fish that
we heard speak; all these things so much excite my curiosity, that I
cannot resist my impatient desire to have it satisfied. To this end, I
am resolved to withdraw alone from the camp, and I order you to keep my
absence secret: stay in my pavilion, and to-morrow morning, when the emirs
and courtiers come to attend my levee, send them away, and tell
them, that I am somewhat indisposed, and wish to be alone; and the
following days tell them the same thing, till I return."

The grand vizier endeavoured to divert the sultan from this design; he
represented to him the danger to which he might be exposed, and that all
his labour might perhaps be in vain: but it was to no purpose; the sultan
was resolved. He put on a suit fit for walking, and took his cimeter;
and as soon as he found that all was quiet in the camp, went out alone,
and passed over one of the hills without much difficulty; he found
the descent still more easy, and when he came to the plain, walked
on till the sun arose, and then he saw before him, at a considerable
distance, a vast building.

He rejoiced at the sight, in hopes of receiving there the information he
sought. When he drew near, he found it was a magnificent palace,
or rather a strong castle, of black polished marble, and covered with
fine steel, as smooth as glass.
Being highly pleased that he had so speedily met with something worthy his
curiosity, he stopped before the front of the castle, and considered it
with attention.

He then advanced towards the gate, which had two leaves, one of
them open; though he might immediately have entered, yet he thought
it best to knock.

This he did at first softly, and waited for some time; but seeing no
one, and supposing he had not been heard, he knocked harder the
second time, and after that he knocked again and again, but no one yet
appearing, he was exceedingly surprised; for he could not think that
a castle in such repair was without inhabitants. "If there be no one
in it," said he to himself, "I have nothing to fear; and if it be inhabited,
I have wherewith to defend myself."
At last he entered, and when he came within the porch, he cried,
"Is there no one here to receive a stranger, who comes in for some
refreshment as he passes by?" He repeated the same words two or
three times; but though he spoke very loud, he was not answered.
The silence increased his astonishment: he came into a spacious court,
and looked on every side for inhabitants, but discovered none.

The sultan entered the grand halls, which were hung with silk tapestry, the
alcoves and sofas were covered with stuffs of Mecca, and the porches
with the richest stuffs of India, mixed with gold and silver. He came
afterwards into a superb saloon, in the middle of which was a fountain,
with a lion of massy gold at each angle: water issued from the mouths
of the four lions; and as it fell, formed diamonds and pearls, resembling
a jet d'eau, which springing from the middle of the fountain, rose
nearly to the top of a cupola painted in Arabesque.

The castle, on three sides, was encompassed by a garden, with parterres
of flowers, shrubbery, and whatever could concur to embellish it; and to
complete the beauty of the place, an infinite number of birds filled the
air with their harmonious notes, and always remained there, nets being
spread over the garden, and fastened to the palace to confine them. The
sultan walked from apartment to apartment, where he found every
thing rich and magnificent.

Being tired with walking, he sat down in a verandah or arcade closet, which
had a view over the garden, reflecting what he had already seen,
and then beheld: when suddenly he heard the voice of one complaining,
in lamentable tones.

He listened with attention, and heard distinctly these words: "O fortune!
thou who wouldst not suffer me longer to enjoy a happy lot, forbear
to persecute me, and by a speedy death put an end to my sorrows.

Alas! is it possible that I am still alive, after so many torments
as I have suffered!"

The sultan rose up, advanced toward the place whence he heard the voice;
and coming to the door of a great hall, opened it, and saw a handsome
young man, richly habited, seated upon a throne raised a little above
the ground.

Melancholy was painted on his countenance. The sultan drew near, and
saluted him; the young man returned his salutation by an inclination
of his head, not being able to rise, at the same time saying, "My
lord, I should rise to receive you; but am hindered by sad necessity,
and therefore hope you will not be offended."

"My lord," replied the sultan, "I am much obliged to you for having so
good an opinion of me: as to the reason of your not rising, whatever your
apology be, I heartily accept it. Being drawn hither by your complaints,
and afflicted by your grief, I come to offer you my help; would
to God that it lay in my power to ease you of your trouble!

I would do my utmost to effect it. I flatter myself that you will
relate to me the history of your misfortunes; but inform me first of the
meaning of the lake near the palace, where the fish are of four colours?
whose this castle is?

how you came to be here? and why you are alone?"
Instead of answering these questions, the young man began to weep bitterly.
"How inconstant is fortune!" cried he; "she takes pleasure to pull down
those she had raised.

Where are they who enjoy quietly the happiness which they hold of
her, and whose day is always clear and serene?"

The sultan, moved with compassion to see him in such a condition, prayed
him to relate the cause of his excessive grief.

"Alas! my lord," replied the young man, "how is it possible but I should
grieve, and my eyes be inexhaustible fountains of tears?"

At these words, lifting up his robe, he shewed the sultan that he
was a man only from the head to the girdle, and that the other half
of his body was black marble.

The sultan was much surprised, when he saw the deplorable condition of
the young man.

"That which you shew me," said he, "while it fills me with horror,
excites my curiosity, so that I am impatient to hear your history,
which, no doubt, must be extraordinary, and I am persuaded that the
lake and the fish make some part of it; therefore I conjure you to
relate it.

You will find some comfort in so doing, since it is certain, that the
unfortunate find relief in making known their distress." "I will not
refuse your request," replied the young man, "though I cannot
comply without renewing my grief.

But I give you notice before hand, to prepare your ears, your mind, and
even your eyes, for things which surpass all that the imagination
can conceive."

The History of the Young King of the Black Isles.

You must know that my father, named Mahmoud, was king of this country. This
is the kingdom of the Black Isles, which takes its name from the
four small neighbouring mountains; for these mountains were formerly
isles: the capital where the king my father resided was situated
on the spot now occupied by the lake you have seen.

The sequel of my history will inform you of those changes.

The king my father died when he was seventy years of age; I had no sooner
succeeded him, than I married, and the lady I chose to share the
royal dignity with me, was my cousin.

I had so much reason to be satisfied with her affection, and, on my
part, loved her with so much tenderness, that nothing could surpass
the harmony and pleasure of our union.

This lasted five years, at the end of which time, I perceived the queen,
my cousin, ceased to delight in my attentions.

One day, after dinner, while she was at the bath, I found myself
inclined to repose and lay down upon a sofa.

Two of her ladies, who were then in my chamber, came and sat down,
one at my head, and the other at my feet, with fans in their hands
to moderate the heat, and to prevent the flies from disturbing me.

They thought I was asleep, and spoke in whispers; but as I only
closed my eyes, I heard all their conversation.

One of them said to the other, "Is not the queen wrong, not to love
so amiable a prince?"

"Certainly," replied the other; "I do not understand the reason, neither
can I conceive why she goes out every night, and leaves him alone!"

"Is it possible that he does not perceive it?" "Alas!" said the first,
"how should he?

she mixes every evening in his liquor, the juice of a certain herb,
which makes him sleep so sound all night, that she has time to go
where she pleases, and as day begins to appear, she comes and lies
down by him again, and wakes him by the smell of something she puts
under his nostrils."

You may guess, my lord, how much I was surprised at this conversation,
and with what sentiments it inspired me; yet, whatever emotion it
excited, I had sufficient self-command to dissemble, and feigned
to awake without having heard a word.

The queen returned from the bath, we supped together and she presented
me with a cup full of such water as I was accustomed to drink; but
instead of putting it to my mouth, I went to a window that was open, and
threw out the water so quickly, that she did not perceive it, and
returned.

We went to bed together, and soon after, believing that I was asleep,
she got up with so little precaution, that she said loud enough
for me to hear her distinctly, "Sleep on, and may you never wake
again!"

She dressed herself, and went out of the chamber.

As soon as the queen my wife was gone, I dressed myself in haste, took
my cimeter, and followed her so quickly, that I soon heard the sound
of her feet before me, and then walked softly after her, for fear of being
heard. She passed through several gates, which opened upon her pronouncing
some magical words, and the last she opened was that of the garden,
which she entered.

I stopt at this gate, that she might not perceive me, as she passed
along a parterre; then looking after her as far as the darkness of the
night permitted, I saw her enter a little wood, whose walks were guarded
by thick palisadoes. I went thither by another way, and concealing
myself behind the palisadoes of a long walk, I saw her walking
there with a man.

I did not fail to lend the most attentive ear to their discourse, and heard
her address herself thus to her gallant: "I do not deserve to be reproached
by you for want of diligence. You well know the reason; but if all the
proofs of affection I have already given you be not sufficient to
convince you of my sincerity, I am ready to give you others more
decisive: you need but command me, you know my power; I will, if
you desire it, before sun-rise convert this great city, and this
superb palace, into frightful ruins, inhabited only by wolves, owls,
and ravens.

My throat is better
suited to drinking than singing. Will you allow me?"

The fencing-master raised the jug of beer which Wilhelm's mother filled
freshly every day and placed in her darling's room, and took a long pull.
Then wiping his moustache, he said:

"That did me good, and I needed it. The men wanted to go out pleasuring
and omit their drill, but we forced them to go through it, Junker von
Warmond, Duivenvoorde and I. Who knows how soon it may be necessary to
show what we can do. Roland, my fore man, such imprudence is like a
cudgel, against which one can do nothing with Florentine rapiers, clever
tierce and quarto. My wheat is destroyed by the hail."

"Then let it be, and see if the barley and clover don't do better,"
replied Wilhelm gaily, tossing vetches and grains of wheat to a large
dove that had alighted on the parapet of his tower.

"It eats, and what use is it?" cried Allertssohn, looking at the dove.
"Herr von Warmond, a young man after God's own heart, has just brought me
two falcons; do you want to see how I tame them?"

"No, Captain, I have enough to do with my music and my doves."

"That is your affair. The long-necked one yonder is a queer-looking
fellow."

"And of what country is he probably a native? There he goes to join the
others. Watch him a little while and then answer me."

"Ask King Soloman that; he was on intimate terms with birds."

"Only watch him, you'll find out presently."

"The fellow has a stiff neck, and holds his head unusually high."

"And his beak?"

"Curved, almost like a hawk's! Zounds, why does the creature strut about
with its toes so far apart? Stop, bandit! He'll peck that little dove to
death. As true as I live, the saucy rascal must be a Spaniard!"

"Right, it is a Spanish dove. It flew to me, but I can't endure it and
drive it away; for I keep only a few pairs of the same breed and try to
get the best birds possible. Whoever raises many different kinds in the
same cote, will accomplish nothing."

"That gives food for thought. But I believe you haven't chosen the
handsomest species."

"No, sir. What you see are a cross between the carrier and tumblers, the
Antwerp breed of carrier pigeons. Bluish, reddish, spotted birds. I don't
care for the colors, but they must have small bodies and large wings,
with broad quills on their flag-feathers, and above all ample muscular
strength. The one yonder stop, I'll catch him--is one of my best flyers.
Try to lift his pinions."

"Heaven knows the little thing has marrow in its bones! How the tiny wing
pinches; the falcons are not much stronger."

"It's a carrier-dove too, that finds its way alone."

"Why do you keep no white tumblers? I should think they could be watched
farthest in their flight."

"Because doves fare like men. Whoever shines very brightly and is seen
from a distance, is set upon by opponents and envious people, and birds
of prey pounce upon the white doves first. I tell you, Captain, whoever
has eyes in his head, can learn in a dove-cote how things come to pass
among Adam and Eve's posterity on earth."

"There is quarrelling and kissing up here just as there is in Leyden."

"Yes, exactly the same, Captain. If I mate an old dove with one much
younger, it rarely turns out well. When the male dove is in love, he
understands how to pay his fair one as many attentions, as the most
elegant gallant shows the mistress of his heart. And do you know what the
kissing means? The suitor feeds his darling, that is, seeks to win her
affection by beautiful gifts. Then the wedding comes, and they build a
nest. If there are young birds, they feed them together in perfect
harmony. The aristocratic doves brood badly, and we put their eggs under
birds of more ordinary breed."

"Those are the noble ladies, who have nurses for their infants."

"Unmated doves often make mischief among the mated ones."

"Take warning, young man, and beware of being a bachelor. I'll say
nothing against the girls who remain unmarried, for I have found among
them many sweet, helpful souls."

"So have I, but unfortunately some bad ones too, as well as here in the
dove-cote. On the whole my wards lead happy married lives, but if it
comes to a separation--"

"Which of the two is to blame?"

"Nine times out of ten the little wife."

"Roland, my fore man, exactly as it is among human beings," cried the
fencing-master, clapping his hands.

"What do you mean by your Roland, Herr Allerts? You promised me a short
time ago--but who is coming up the ladder?"

"I hear your mother."

"She is bringing me a visitor. I know that voice and yet. Wait. It's old
Fraulein Van Hoogstraten's steward."

"From Nobelstrasse? Let me go, Wilhelm, for this Glipper crew--"

"Wait a little while, there is only room for one on the ladder," said the
musician, holding out his hand to Belotti to guide him from the last rung
into his room.

"Spaniards and the allies of Spain," muttered the fencing-master, opened
the door, and called while descending the ladder: "I'll wait down below
till the air is pure again."

The steward's handsome face, usually smoothly shaven with the most
extreme care, was to-day covered with a stubbly beard, and the old man
looked sad and worn, as he began to tell Wilhelm what had occurred in his
mistress's house since the evening of the day before.

"Years may make a hot-tempered person weaker, but not calmer," said the
Italian, continuing his story. "I can't look on and see the poor angel,
for she isn't far from the Virgin's throne, treated like a sick dog that
is flung out into the court-yard, so I got my discharge."

"That does you honor, but was rather out of place just now. And has the
young lady really been carried to the damp room?"

"No, sir. Father Damianus came and made the old excellenza understand
what the holy Virgin expected of a Christian, and when the padrona still
tried to carry out her will, the holy man spoke to her in words so harsh
and stern that she yielded. The signorina is now lying in bed with
burning cheeks, raving in delirium."

"And who is attending the patient?"

"I came to you about the physician, my dear sir, for Doctor de Bout, who
instantly obeyed my summons, was treated so badly by the old excellenza,
that he turned his back upon her and told me, at the door of the house,
he wouldn't come again."

Wilhelm shook his head, and the Italian continued, "There are other
doctors in Leyden, but Father Damianus says de Bont or Bontius, as they
call him, is the most skilful and learned of them all, and as the old
excellenza herself had an attack of illness about noon, and certainly
won't leave her bed very speedily, the way is open, and Father Damianus
says he'll go to Doctor Bontius himself if necessary. But as you are a
native of the city and acquainted with the signorina, I wanted to spare
him the rebuff he would probably meet from the foe of our holy Church.
The poor man has enough to suffer from good-for-nothing boys and
scoffers, when he goes through the city with the sacrament."

"You know people are strictly forbidden to disturb him in the exercise of
his calling."

"Yet he can't show himself in the street without being jeered. We two
cannot change the world, sir. So long as the Church had the upper hand,
she burned and quartered you, now you have the power here, our priests
are persecuted and scorned."

"Against the law and the orders of the magistrates."

"You can't control the people, and Father Damianus is a lamb, who bears
everything patiently, as good a Christian as many saints before whom we
burn candles. Do you know the doctor?"

"A little, by sight."

"Oh, then go to him, sir, for the young lady's sake," cried the old man
earnestly. "It is in your power to save a human life, a beautiful young
life."

The steward's eyes glittered with tears. As Wilhelm laid his hand on his
arm, saying kindly: "I will try," the fencing-master called: "Your
council is lasting too long for me. I'll come another time."

"No, Meister, come up a minute, This gentleman is here on account of a
poor sick girl. The poor, helpless creature is now lying without any
care, for her aunt, old Fraulein Van Hoogstraten, has driven Doctor de
Bont from her bed because he is a Calvinist."

"From the sick girl's bed?"

"It's abominable enough, but the old lady is now ill herself."

"Bravo, bravo!" cried the fencing-master, clapping his hands. "If the
devil himself isn't afraid of her and wants to fetch her, I'll pay for
his post-horses. But the girl, the sick girl?"

"Herr Belotti begs me to persuade de Bont to visit her again. Are you on
friendly terms with the doctor?"

"I was, Wilhelm, I was; but--last Friday we had some sharp words about
the new morions, and now the learned demi-god demands an apology from me,
but to sound a retreat isn't written here--"

"Oh, my dear sir," cried Belotti, with touching earnestness. "The poor
child is lying helpless in a raging fever. If Heaven has blessed you with
children--"

"Be calm, old man, be calm," replied the fencing master, stroking
Belotti's grey hair kindly. "My children are nothing to you, but we'll do
what we can for the young girl. Farewell till we meet again, gentlemen.
Roland, my fore man, what shall we live to see! Hemp is still cheap in
Holland, and yet such a monster has lived amongst us to be as old as a
raven."

With these words he went down the ladder. On reaching the street, he
pondered over the words in which he should apologize to Doctor Bontius,
with a face as sour as if he had wormwood in his mouth; but his eyes and
bearded lips smiled.

His learned friend made the apology easy for him, and when Belotti came
home, he found the doctor by the sick girl's bed.


CHAPTER XI.

Frau Elizabeth von Nordwyk and Frau Van Bout had each asked the
burgomaster's wife to go into the country with them to enjoy the
beautiful spring day, but in spite of Barbara's persuasions, Maria could
not be induced to accept their invitation.

A week had elapsed since her husband's departure, a week whose days had
run their course from morning to evening as slowly as the brackish water
in one of the canals, intersecting the meadows of Holland, flowed towards
the river.

Sleep loves the couches of youth, and had again found hers, but with the
rising of the sun the dissatisfaction, anxiety and secret grief, that
slumber had kindly interrupted, once more returned. She felt that it was
not right, and her father would have blamed her if he had seen her thus.

There are women who are ashamed of rosy cheeks, unrestrained joy in life,
to whom the emotion of sorrow affords a mournful pleasure. To this class
Maria certainly did not belong. She would fain have been happy, and left
untried no means of regaining the lost joy of her heart. Honestly
striving to do her duty, she returned to little Bessie; but the child was
rapidly recovering and called for Barbara, Adrian or Trautchen, as soon
as she was left alone with her.

She tried to read, but the few books she had brought from Delft were all
familiar, and her thoughts, ere becoming fixed on the old volumes,
pursued their own course.

Wilhelm brought her the new motet, and she endeavored to sing it; but
music demands whole hearts from those who desire to enjoy her gifts, and
therefore melody and song refused comfort as well as pleasure to her,
whose mind was engrossed by wholly different things. If she helped Adrian
in his work, her patience failed much sooner than usual. On the first
market-day, she went out with Trautchen to obey her husband's directions
and make purchases and, while shopping at the various places where
different wares were offered--here fish, yonder meat or vegetables, amid
the motley crowd, hailed on every side by cries of: "Here, Frau
Burgermeisterin! I have what you want, Frau Burgermeisterin!" forgot the
sorrow that oppressed her.

With newly-animated self-reliance, she examined flour, pulse and dried
fish, making it a point of honor to bargain carefully; Barbara should see
that she knew how to buy. The crowd was very great everywhere, for the
city magistrates had issued a proclamation bidding every household, in
view of the threatened danger, to supply itself abundantly with
provisions on all the market-days; but the purchasers made way for the
burgomaster's pretty young wife, and this too pleased her.

[Fanny sits again.] I shan't do anything without consulting you.
Good-bye.

FANNY. Good-bye.

Vernon goes out.

BENNET. You think it wise, discussing with his lordship the secret history
of the Bennet family?

FANNY. What do you mean by telling him my father was an organ- grinder? If
the British public knew the difference between music and a hurdy-gurdy,
he would have kept a butler of his own.

BENNET. I am not aware of having mentioned to his lordship that you ever
to my knowledge even had a father. It is not my plan--for the present
at all events--to inform his lordship anything about your family. Take
care I am not forced to.

FANNY. Because my father, a composer who had his work performed at the
Lamoureux Concerts--as I can prove, because I've got the programme--had
the misfortune to marry into a family of lackeys--I'm not talking
about my mother: she was never really one of you.

SHE had the soul of an artist.

BENNET [white with suppressed fury; he is in front of her; his very look
is enough to silence her].

Now you listen to me, my girl, once and for all. I told you the night of
your arrival that whether this business was going to prove a pleasant or
an unpleasant one depended upon you.

You make it an easy one--for your own sake. With one word I can bring your
house of cards about your ears. I've only to tell him the truth for
him to know you as a cheat and liar. [She goes to speak; again he
silences her.] You listen to me. You've seen fit to use strong language;
now I'm using strong language. This BOY, who has married you in a moment
of impulse, what does HE know about the sort of wife a man in his
position needs? What do YOU? made to sing for your living on the Paris
boulevards--whose only acquaintance with the upper classes has been
at shady restaurants.

FANNY. He didn't WANT a woman of his own class. He told me so. It was
because I wasn't a colourless, conventional puppet with a book of
etiquette in place of a soul that he was first drawn towards me.

BENNET. Yes. At twenty-two, boys like unconventionality. Men don't:
they've learnt its true name, vulgarity. Do you think I've stood behind
English society for forty years without learning anything about it!

What you call a colourless puppet is what WE call an English lady. And
that you've got to learn to be. You talk of "lackeys." If your mother,
my poor sister Rose, came from a family of "lackeys" there would be no
hope for you. With her blood in your veins the thing can be done.
We Bennets--[he draws himself up]--we serve. We are not lackeys.

FANNY. All right. Don't you call my father an organ-grinder, and I won't
call you lackeys. Unfortunately that doesn't end the trouble.

BENNET. The trouble can easily be ended.

FANNY. Yes. By my submitting to be ruled in all things for the remainder
of my life by my own servants.

BENNET. Say "relations," and it need not sound so unpleasant.

FANNY. Yes, it would. It would sound worse. One can get rid of one's
servants. [She has crossed towards the desk. Her cheque-book lies there
half hidden under other papers. It catches her eye. Her hand steals
unconsciously towards it.

She taps it idly with her fingers.

It is all the work of a moment. Nothing comes of it. Just the idea passes
through her brain--not for the first time. She does nothing noticeable--merely
stands listless while one might count half a dozen--then turns to
him again.] Don't you think you're going it a bit too strong, all
of you? I'm not a fool. I've got a lot to learn, I know. I'd be
grateful for help. What you're trying to do is to turn me into a new
woman entirely.

BENNET. Because that is the only WAY to help you. Men do not put new
wine into old bottles.

FANNY. Oh, don't begin quoting Scripture. I want to discuss the
thing sensibly. Don't you see it can't be done? I can't be anybody else
than myself. I don't want to.

BENNET. My girl, you've GOT to be. Root and branch, inside and outside,
before you're fit to be Lady Bantock, mother of the Lord Bantocks that are
to be, you've got to be a changed woman.

A pause.

FANNY. And it's going to be your job, from beginning to end--yours and the
rest of you. What I wear and how I look is Jane's affair.
My prayers will be for what Aunt Susannah thinks I stand in need of.
What I eat and drink and say and do YOU will arrange for me. And when you
die, Cousin Simeon, I suppose, will take your place. And when Aunt
Susannah dies, it will merely be a change to Aunt Amelia.
And if Jane ever dies, Honoria will have the dressing and the
lecturing of me.

And so on and so on, world without end, for ever and ever, Amen.

BENNET. Before that time, you will, I shall hope, have learnt sufficient
sense to be grateful to us. [He goes out.]
FANNY [she turns--walks slowly back towards the tea-table. Halfway she
pauses, and leaning over the back of a chair regards in silence for a while
the portrait of the first Lady Bantock]. I do wish I could tell what you
were saying.

The door opens. The Misses Wetherell come in. They wear the same frocks
that they wore in the first act.

They pause. Fanny is still gazing at the portrait.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. Don't you notice it, dear?

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. Yes.

There really is.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. It struck me the first day. [To Fanny,
who has turned] Your likeness, dear, to Lady Constance.

It's really quite remarkable.

FANNY. You think so?

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. It's your expression--when you are
serious.

FANNY [laughs]. I must try to be more serious.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. It will come, dear.

They take their places side by side on the settee.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL [to her sister, with a pat of the hand].

In good time. It's so nice to have her young. I wonder if anybody'll
come this afternoon.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL [to Fanny]. You see, dear, most of the
county people are still in town.

FANNY [who is pouring out tea]. I'm not grumbling.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. Oh, you'll like them, dear. The
Cracklethorpes especially.

[To her sister for confirmation] Bella Cracklethorpe is so clever.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. And the Engells. She'll like the Engells.
All the Engell girls are so pretty. [Fanny brings over two cups of tea.]
Thank you, dear.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL [as she takes her cup--patting Fanny's hand].
And they'll like you, dear, ALL of them.

FANNY [returning to table]. I hope so.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL.

It's wonderful, dear--you won't mind my saying it?--how you've improved.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. Of course it was such a change for you.
And at first [turns to her sister] we were a little anxious about her,
weren't we?

Fanny has returned to them with the cake-basket.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL [as she takes a piece]. Bennet [she lingers
on the name as that of an authority] was saying only yesterday that he
had great hopes of you.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL [Fanny is handing the basket to her].
Thank you, dear.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. I told Vernon. He was SO pleased.

FANNY. VERNON was?

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL.

He attaches so much importance to Bennet's opinion.

FANNY. Um. I'm glad I appear to be giving satisfaction. [She has returned
to her seat at the table.] I suppose when you go to town, you take
the Bennets with you?

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL [surprised at the question]. Of course,
dear.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. Vernon didn't wish to go this year. He thought
you would prefer -
FANNY. I was merely thinking of when he did. Do you ever go abroad for
the winter?

So many people do, nowadays.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. We tried it once. But there was nothing for
dear Vernon to do. You see, he's so fond of hunting.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL [to her sister]. And then there will be his
Parliamentary duties that he will have to take up now.

Fanny rises, abruptly.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. You're not ill, dear?

FANNY. No. Merely felt I wanted some air. You don't mind, do you?
[She flings a casement open.]

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. Not at all, dear.

[To her sister] It IS a bit close.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. One could really do without fires.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL.

If it wasn't for the evenings.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. And then, of course, the cold weather might come
again. One can never feel safe until -
The door opens. Dr. Freemantle enters, announced by Bennet. The old
ladies go to rise. He stops them.

DR. FREEMANTLE. Don't get up. [He shakes hands with them.]

How are we this afternoon? [He shakes his head and clicks his tongue.]
Really, I think I shall have to bring an action for damages against Lady
Bantock. Ever since she -
THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. Hush!

[She points to the window.] Fanny.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. Here's Doctor Freemantle.

Fanny comes from the window.

DR. FREEMANTLE [he meets her and takes her hand].

Was just saying, I really think I shall have to claim damages against
you, Lady Bantock.
You've practically deprived me of two of my best paying patients.
Used to be sending for me every other day before you came. Now look
at them! [The two ladies laugh.] She's not as bad as we expected.
[He pats her hand.] Do you remember my description of what I thought she
was going to be like?

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL.

She's a dear girl.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL.

Bennet -
FANNY [she has crossed to table--is pouring out the Doctor's tea].
Oh, mightn't we have a holiday from Bennet?

DR. FREEMANTLE [laughs]. Seems to be having a holiday himself to- day.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. A holiday?

DR. FREEMANTLE. Didn't you know? Oh, there's an awfully swagger party on
downstairs. They were all trooping in as I came.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL.

I'd no idea he was giving a party.

[To Fanny] Did you, dear?

FANNY [she hands the Doctor his tea]. Yes. It's a prayer meeting.
The whole family, I expect, has been summoned.

DR. FREEMANTLE. A prayer meeting! Didn't look like it.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. But why should he be holding a prayer
meeting?

FANNY. Oh, one of the family -
DR. FREEMANTLE. And why twelve girls in a van?

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. In a van?

DR. FREEMANTLE. One of Hutton's from the Station Hotel--with a big poster
pinned on the door: "Our Empire."

Fanny has risen. She crosses and rings the bell.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL.

What's the matter, dear?

FANNY. I'm not quite sure yet. [Her whole manner is changed. A look has
come into her eyes that has not been there before. She speaks in quiet,
determined tones. She rings again. Then returning to table, hands the
cake-basket to the Doctor.] Won't you take one, Doctor? They're not as
indigestible as they look. [Laughs.]
DR. FREEMANTLE [he also is bewildered at the changed atmosphere].
Thank you. I hope I -
FANNY [she turns to Ernest, who has entered. Her tone, for the first time,
is that of a mistress speaking to her servants]. Have any visitors called
for me this afternoon?

ERNEST. Vi-visitors--?

FANNY. Some ladies.

ERNEST [he is in a slough of doubt and terror]. L--ladies?

FANNY. Yes. Please try to understand the English language. Has a party of
ladies called here this afternoon?

ERNEST. There have been some ladies. They--we -
FANNY. Where are they?

ERNEST. They--I -
FANNY. Send Bennet up to me. Instantly, please.

Ernest, only too glad to be off, stumbles out.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. My dear -
FANNY. You'll take some more tea, won't you? Do you mind, Doctor,
passing Miss Wetherell's cup? And the other one. Thank you. And will you
pass them the biscuits? You see, I am doing all I can on your behalf.
[She is talking and laughing--a little hysterically-- for the
purpose of filling time.]

Tea and hot cake--could anything be worse for them?
DR. FREEMANTLE. Well, tea, you know -
FANNY. I know. [Laughs.] You doctors are all alike. You all denounce
it, but you all drink it. [She hands him the two cups.] That one
is for Aunt Wetherell of the beautiful hair; and the other is for
Aunt Wetherell of the beautiful eyes. [Laughs.] It's the only way
I can distinguish them.

Bennet enters.

Oh, Bennet!
BENNET. You sent for me?
FANNY. Yes. I understand some ladies have called.
BENNET. I think your ladyship must have been misinformed. I most
certainly have seen none.
FANNY. I have to assume, Bennet, that either Dr. Freemantle or you
are telling lies.

A silence.
BENNET. A party of over-dressed young women, claiming to be acquainted
with your ladyship, have arrived in a van. I am giving them tea in
the servants' hall, and will see to it that they are sent back to
the station in ample time to catch their train back to town.
FANNY. Please show them up. They will have their tea here.
BENNET [her very quietness is beginning to alarm him. It shakes him
from his customary perfection of manners]. The Lady Bantocks do not
as a rule receive circus girls in their boudoir.
FANNY [still with her alarming quietness]. Neither do they argue
with their servants. Please show these ladies in.
BENNET. I warn you -
FANNY. You heard my orders. [Her tone has the right ring. The force
of habit is too strong upon him. He yields--savagely--and goes out.
She turns to the Doctor.] So sorry I had to drag you into it.
I didn't see how else I was going to floor him.
DR. FREEMANTLE. Splendid! [He grips her hand.]
FANNY [she goes to the old ladies who sit bewildered terrified.]
They won't be here for more than a few minutes--they can't be. I
want you to be nice to them--both of you. They are friends of
mine.
[She turns to the Doctor.] They're the girls I used to act with.
We went all over Europe--twelve of us--representing the British
Empire.
They are playing in London now.
DR. FREEMANTLE. To-night? [He looks at his watch.]
FANNY [she is busy at the tea-table]. Yes. They are on the stage
at half past nine. You might look out their train for them. [She
points to the Bradshaw on the desk.] I don't suppose they've ever
thought about how they're going to get back. It's Judy's inspiration,
this, the whole thing; I'd bet upon it. [With a laugh.] She always
was as mad as a March hare.
DR. FREEMANTLE [busy with the Bradshaw]. They were nice-looking
girls.
FANNY. Yes. I think we did the old man credit. [With a laugh.] John
Bull's daughters, they called us in Paris.
Bennet appears in doorway.

BENNET [announces]. "Our Empire."
Headed by "England," the twelve girls, laughing, crowding, jostling
one another, talking all together, swoop in.
ENGLAND [a lady with a decided Cockney accent]. Oh, my dear, talk
about an afternoon! We 'ave 'ad a treat getting 'ere.
Fanny kisses her.
SCOTLAND [they also kiss]. Your boss told us you'd gone out.
FANNY. It was a slight--misunderstanding. Bennet, take away these
things, please. And let me have half a dozen bottles of champagne.
STRAITS SETTLEMENTS [a small girl at the back of the crowd--with a
shrill voice]. Hooray!
BENNET [he is controlling himself with the supremest difficulty.
Within he is a furnace]. I'm afraid I have mislaid the key of the
cellar.
FANNY [she looks at him]. You will please find it--quickly.
[Bennet, again from habit, yields. But his control almost fails
him.
He takes up the tray of unneeded tea-things from the table.] I shall
want some more of all these [cakes, fruit, sandwiches, etc.]. And
some people to wait. Tell Jane she must come and help.
Bennet goes out. During this passage of arms between mistress and
man a momentary lull has taken place in the hubbub. As he goes out,
it begins to grow again.
ENGLAND. 'E does tease yer, don't 'e? Wanted us to 'ave tea in the
kitchen.

FANNY. Yes. These old family servants -
AFRICA [she prides herself on being "quite the lady"]. Don't talk
about 'em, dear. We had just such another. [She turns to a girl
near her.] Oh, they'll run the whole show for you if you let
'em.
ENGLAND. It was Judy's idea, our giving you this little treat.
Don't you blime me for it.
WALES [a small, sprightly girl with a childish, laughing voice].
Well, we were all together with nothing better to do. They'd called
a rehearsal and then found they didn't want us--silly fools. I told
'em you'd just be tickled to death.
FANNY [laughing--kisses her]. So I am. It was a brilliant idea.
[By this time she has kissed or shaken hands with the whole dozen.]
I can't introduce you all singly; it would take too long. [She makes
a wholesale affair of it.] My aunts, the Misses Wetherell--Dr.
Freemantle.
The Misses Wetherell, suggesting two mice being introduced to a
party of friendly kittens, standing, clinging to one another, murmur
something inaudible.
DR. FREEMANTLE [who is with them to comfort them--he has got rid
of the time-table, discreetly--smiles]. Delighted.
ENGLAND. Charmed. [The others join in, turning it into a chorus.
To Fanny] Glad we didn't strike one of your busy days. I say, you're
not as dressy as you used to be. 'Ow are they doing you?--all
right?

FANNY. Yes. Oh, yes.
CANADA ["Gerty," a big, handsome girl, with a loud, commanding
voice]. George gave me your message.
FANNY [puzzled at first]. My message? [Remembering--laughs.] Oh.
That I was Lady Bantock of Bantock Hall. Yes. I thought you'd be
pleased.

CANADA. Was delighted, dear.

FANNY. So glad.
CANADA. I'd always had the idea that you were going to make a mess
of your marriage.
FANNY. What a funny idea! [But the laugh that accompanies it is not
a merry one.] 
CANADA. Wasn't it? So glad I was wrong.
WALES. We're all of us looking out for lords in disguise, now.
Can't you give us a tip, dear, how to tell 'em?
SCOTLAND. Sukey has broken it off with her boy. Found he was mixed
up in trade.
STRAITS SETTLEMENTS [as before, unseen at back of crowd]. No. I
didn't. 'Twas his moral character.
Then enter Honoria with glasses on a tray; Ernest with champagne;
Jane with eatables; Bennet with a napkin. It is a grim procession.
The girls are scattered, laughing, talking: Africa to the Misses
Wetherell; a couple to Dr. Freemantle. England, Scotland, Wales,
and Canada are with Fanny. The hubbub, with the advent of the
refreshments, increases. There is a general movement towards the
refreshments.
FANNY. Thanks, Bennet. You can clear away a corner of the desk.
ENGLAND [aside to her]. Go easy with it, dear. [Fanny, smiling,
nods. She directs operations in a low tone to the Bennets, who take
her orders in grim silence and with lips tight shut.] Don't forget,
girls, that we've got to get back to-night. [Aside to the Doctor,
who has come forward to help.]From thence I can easily reach Naples, and live there on
the interest of my savings free from care. My future master will leave on
the 15th, and on the 12th I must be in Antwerp, where I am to meet him."

The eyes of the priest and the musician met. Wilhelm lacked courage to
seek to withhold the steward from carrying out his plan, but Damianus
summoned up his resolution, laid his hand on the old man's shoulder, and
said:

"If you wait here a few weeks more, Belotti, you will find the true rest,
the peace of a good conscience. The crown of life is promised to those,
who are faithful, unto death. When these sad days are over, it will be
easy to smooth the way to your home. We shall meet again towards noon,
Belotti. If my assistance is necessary, send for me; old Ambrosius knows
where to find me. May God's blessing rest upon you, and if you will
accept it from me, on you also, Meister Wilhelm."

After the priest had left the house, Belotti said, sighing:

"He'll yet force me to yield to his will. He abuses his power over souls.
I'm no saint, and what he asks of me--"

"Is right," said Wilhelm firmly.

"But you don't know what it is to throw away, like a pair of worn-out
shoes, the dearest hope of a long, sad life. And for whom, I ask you, for
whom? Do you know my padrona? Oh! sir, I have experienced in this house
things, which your youth does not dream could be possible. The young lady
has wounded you. Am I right or wrong?"

"You are mistaken, Belotti."

"Really? I am glad for your sake, you are a modest artist, but the
signorina bears the Hoogstraten name, and that is saying everything. Do
you know her father?"

"No, Belotti."

"That's a race-a race! Have you never heard anything of the story of our
signorina's older sister?"

"Has Henrica an older sister?"

"Yes, sir, and when I think of her.--Imagine the signorina, exactly like
our signorina, only taller, more stately, more beautiful."

"Isabella!" exclaimed the musician. A conjecture, which had been aroused
since his conversation with Henrica, appeared to be confirmed; he seized
the steward's arm so suddenly and unexpectedly, that the latter drew
back, and continued eagerly: "What do you know of her? I beseech you,
Belotti, tell me all."

The servant looked up the stairs, then shaking his head, answered:

"You are probably mistaken. There has never been an Isabella in this
house to my knowledge, but I will gladly place myself at your service.
Come again after sunset, but you must expect to hear no pleasant tale."

Twilight had scarcely yielded to darkness, when the musician again
entered the Hoogstraten mansion. The little room was empty, but Belotti
did not keep him waiting long.

The old man placed a dainty little waiter, bearing a jug of wine and a
goblet, on the table beside the lamp and, after informing Wilhelm of the
invalids' condition, courteously offered him a chair. When the musician
asked him why he had not brought a cup for himself too, he replied:

"I drink nothing but water, but allow me to take the liberty to sit down.
The servant who attends to the chambers has left the house, and I've done
nothing but go up and down stairs all day. It tries my old legs, and we
can expect no quiet night."

A single candle lighted the little room. Belotti, who had leaned far back
in his chair, opened his clenched hands and slowly began:

"I spoke this morning of the Hoogstraten race. Children of the same
parents, it is true, are often very unlike, but in your little country,
which speaks its own language and has many things peculiar to itself--you
won't deny that--every old family has its special traits. I know, for I
have been in many a noble household in Holland. Every race has its own
peculiar blood and ways. Even where--by your leave--there is a crack in
the brain, it rarely happens to only one member of a family. My mistress
has more of her French mother's nature. But I intended to speak only of
the signorina, and am wandering too far from my subject."

"No, Belotti, certainly not, we have plenty of time, and I shall be glad
to listen to you, but first you must answer one question."

"Why, sir, how your cheeks glow! Did you meet the signorina in Italy?"

"Perhaps so, Belotti."

"Why, of course, of course! Whoever has once seen her, doesn't easily
forget. What is it you wish to know?"

"First, the lady's name."

"Anna."

"And not Isabella also?"

"No, sir, she was never called anything but Anna."

"And when did she leave Holland?"

"Wait; it was--four years ago last Easter."

"Has she dark, brown or fair hair?"

"I've said already that she looked just like Fraulein Henrica. But what
lady might not have fair, brown or dark hair? I think we shall reach the
goal sooner, if you will let me ask a question now. Had the lady you mean
a large semi-circular scar just under the hair, exactly in the middle of
her forehead?"

"Enough," cried Wilhelm, rising hastily. "She fell on one of her father's
weapons when a child."

"On the contrary, sir, the handle of Junker Van Hoogstraten's weapon fell
on the forehead of his own daughter. How horrified you look! Oh! I have
witnessed worse things in this house. Now it is your turn again: In what
city of my home did you meet the signorina?"

"In Rome, alone and under an assumed name. Isabella--a Holland girl! Pray
go on with your story, Belotti; I won't interrupt you again. What had the
child done, that her own father--"

"He is the wildest of all the wild Hoogstratens. Perhaps you may have
seen men like him in Italy--in this country you might seek long for such
a hurricane. You must not think him an evil-disposed man, but a word that
goes against the grain, a look askance will rob him of his senses, and
things are done which he repents as soon as they are over. The signorina
received her scar in the same way. She was a mere child, and of course
ought not to have touched fire-arms, nevertheless she did whenever she
could, and once a pistol went off and the bullet struck one of the best
hunting-dogs. Her father heard the report and, when he saw the animal
lying on the ground and the pistol at the little girl's feet, he seized
it and with the sharp-edged handle struck--"

"A child, his own daughter!" exclaimed Wilhelm indignantly.

"People are differently constituted," Belotti continued. "Some, the class
to which you probably belong, cautiously consider before they speak or
act; the second reflect a long time and, when they are ready, pour forth
a great many words, but rarely act at all; while the third, and at their
head the Hoogstraten family, heap deeds on deeds, and if they ever think,
it is only after the act is accomplished. If they then find that they
have committed an injustice, pride comes in and forbids them to confess,
atone for, or recall it. So one misfortune follows another; but the
gentlemen pay no heed and find forgetfulness in drinking and gambling,
carousing and hunting. There are plenty of debts, but all anxiety
concerning them is left to the creditors, and boys who receive no
inheritance are supplied with a place at court or in the army; for the
girls, thank God, there is no lack of convents, if they confess our holy
religion, and both have expectations from rich aunts and other blood
relations, who die without children."

"You paint in vivid colors."

"But they are true, and they all suit the Junker; though to be sure he
need not keep his property for sons, since his wife gave him none. He met
her at court in Brussels, and she came from Parma."

"Did you know her?"

"She died before I came to the padrona's house. The two young ladies grew
up without a mother. You have heard that their father would even attack
them, yet he doubtless loved them and would never resolve to place them
in a convent. True, he often felt--at least he freely admitted it in
conversations with her excellenza--that there were more suitable places
for young girls than his castle, where matters went badly enough, and so
he at last sent his oldest daughter to us. My mistress usually could not
endure the society of young girls, but Fraulein Anna was one of her
nearest relatives, and I know she invited her of her own accord. I can
still see in memory the signorina at sixteen; a sweeter creature, Herr
Wilhelm, my eyes have never beheld before or since, and yet she never
remained the same. I have seen her as soft as Flemish velvet, but at
other times she could rage like a November storm in your country. She was
always beautiful as a rose and, as her mother's old cameriera--she was a
native of Lugano--had brought her up, and the priest who taught her came
from Pisa and was acknowledged to be an excellent musician, she spoke my
language like a child of Tuscany and was perfectly familiar with music.
You have doubtless heard her singing, her harp and lute-playing, but you
should know that all the ladies of the Hoogstraten family, with the
exception of my mistress, possess a special talent for your art. In
summer we lived in the beautiful country-house, that was torn down before
the siege by your friends--with little justice I think. Many a stately
guest rode out to visit us. We kept open house, and where there is a good
table and a beautiful young lady like our signorina, the gallants are not
far off. Among them was a very aristocratic gentleman of middle age, the
Marquis d'Avennes, whom her excellenza had expressly invited. We had
never received any prince with so much attention; but this was a matter
of course, for his mother was a relative of her excellenza. You must know
that my mistress; on her mother's side, is descended from a family in
Normandy. The Marquis d'Avennes was certainly an elegant cavalier, but
rather dainty than manly. He was soon madly in love with Fraulein Anna,
and asked in due form for her hand. Her excellenza favored the match, and
the father said simply: 'You will take him!' He would listen to no
opposition. Other gentlemen don't consult their daughters when a suitable
lover appears. So the signorina became the marquis's betrothed wife, but
the padrona said firmly that her niece was too young to be married. She
induced Junker Van Hoogstraten, whom she held as firmly as a farrier
holds a filly, to defer the wedding until Easter. The outfit was to be
provided during the winter. The condition that he must wait six months
was imposed on the marquis, and he went back to France with the ring on
his finger. His betrothed bride did not shed a single tear for him, and
as soon as he had gone, flung the engagement ring into the jewel-cup on
her dressing-table, before the eyes of the camariera, from whom I heard
the story. She did not venture to oppose her father, but did not hesitate
to express her opinion of the marquis to her excellenza, and her aunt,
though she had favored the Frenchman's suit, allowed it. Yet there had
often been fierce quarrels between the old and young lady, and if the
padrona had had reason to clip the wild falcon's wings and teach her what
is fitting for noble ladies, the signorina would have been justified in
complaining of many an exaction, by which the padrona had spoiled her
pleasure in life. I am sorry to destroy the confidence of your youth, but
whoever grows grey, with his eyes open, will meet persons who rejoice,
nay to whom it is a necessity to injure others. Yet it is a consolation,
that no one is wicked simply for the sake of wickedness, and I have often
found--how shall I express it?--that the worst impulses arise from the
perversion, or even the excess of the noblest virtues, whose reverse or
caricature they become. I have seen base envy proceed from beautiful
ambition, contemptible avarice from honest emulation, fierce hate from
tender love. My mistress, when she was young, knew how to love truly and
faithfully, but she was shamefully deceived, and now rancor, not against
an individual, but against life, has taken possession of her, and her
noble loyalty has become tenacious adherence to bad wishes. How this has
happened you will learn, if you will continue to listen.

"When winter came, I was ordered to go to Brussel, and establish the new
household in splendid style. The ladies were to follow me. It was four
years ago. The Duke of Alva then lived as viceroy in Brussels, and this
nobleman held my mistress in high esteem, nay had even twice paid us the
honor of a visit. His aristocratic officers also frequented our house,
among them Don Luis d'Avila, a nobleman of ancient family, who was one of
the duke's favorites. Like the Marquis d'Avennes, he was no longer in his
early youth, but was a man of totally different stamp; tall, strong as if
hammered from steel, a soldier of invincible strength and skill, a most
dreaded seeker of quarrels, but a man whose glowing eyes and wonderful
gift of song must have exerted a mysterious, bewitching power over women.
Dozens of adventures, in which he was said to have taken part, were told
in the servant's hall and half of them had some foundation of truth, as I
afterwards learned by experience. If you suppose this heart-breaker bore
any resemblance to the gay, curly-haired minions of fortune, on whom
young ladies lavish their love, you are mistaken; Don Luis was a grave
man with close-cut hair, who never wore anything but dark clothes, and
even carried a sword, whose hilt, instead of gold and silver, consisted
of blackened metal. He resembled death much more than blooming love.
Perhaps this very thing made him irresistible, since we are all born for
death and no suitor is so sure of victory as he.

"The padrona had not been favorably disposed to him at first, but this
mood soon changed, and at New Year's he too was admitted to small evening
receptions of intimate friends. He came whenever we invited him, but had
no word, no look, scarcely a greeting for our young lady. Only when it
pleased the signorina to sing, he went near her and sharply criticised
anything in her execution that chanced to displease him. He often sang
himself too, and then usually chose the same songs as Fraulein Anna, as
if to surpass her by his superior skill.

"So things went on till the time of the carnival. On Shrove-Tuesday the
padrona gave a large entertainment, and when I led the servants and stood
behind the signorina and Don Luis, to whom her excellenza had long been
in the habit of assigning the seat beside her niece, I noticed that their
hands met under the table and rested in each other's clasp a long time.
My heart was so full of anxiety, that it was very hard for me to keep the
attention so necessary on that evening--and when the next morning, the
padrona summoned me to settle the accounts, I thought it my duty to
modestly remark that Don Luis d'Avila's wooing did not seem disagreeable
to the young lady in spite of her betrothal. She let me speak, but when I
ventured to repeat what people said of the Spaniard, angrily started up
and showed me to the door. A faithful servant often hears and sees more
than his employers suspect, and I had the confidence of the padrona's
foster-sister, who is now dead; but at that time Susanna knew everything
that concerned her mistress.

"There was a bad prospect for the expectant bridegroom in France, for
whenever the padrona spoke of him, it was with a laugh we knew, and which
boded no good; but she still wrote frequently to the marquis and his
mother, and many a letter from Rochebrun reached our house. how happy do
I think you, when consider the ease you enjoy, and am brought in
they give me nothing to eat but sorry dry beans, not so much as
cleansed from dirt, or other food equally bad; and do to heighten
my misery, when I have filled my belly with such ordinary stuff my
own dung: so that you see I have reason to envy your lot."

Do The ass did not the little labour that is required of you. You are,
and my makes even me tremble for you."" Alas! what did, after having
laboured from morning to night, when I interrupt the ox; but when he had
concluded,; answered," They that called you a foolish beast did
not lie. You are too simple; you suffer them to conduct you whither they
please, and shew no manner of resolution. In the mean time, what advantage
do you reap from all the indignities you suffer. You kill yourself for
the ease, pleasure, and profit of those who give you no thanks for your.
But they would not treat you so, if had as much courage as strength. When
they come to fasten you to the stall, why do you not resist? why do you
not gore them with your" Dear Sprightly," added he," I will not fail to
do as you direct, and you shall see how I will acquit myself." Here ended
When their conversation, of which the merchant lost not a word. Early
the next morning the labourer went for the ox. He fastened him to the
plough and conducted him to his usual work. The ox, who had to save that
of his wife, whom he sincerely loved. The merchant had fifty hens and
one cock, with a dog that gave good heed to all that passed. While
the merchant was considering what he had best do, he saw his dog
run towards the cock as he was treading and a hen it is under at
present."

Dinarzade answered that she would with pleasure act as required her.
The grand vizier conducted Schcherazade to be allowed to pass the night
in this, that might see her you sorry beans and bad straw, and
heard him say to him:" Cock, I am sure in heaven will not let you
live long; are you not ashamed to ad thus to-day?"

The cock standing up on tiptoe, not forgotten the ass's counsel, was
very troublesome and untowardly all that labourer, as if he would
have gored him with his horns.

In a word, he that you are recovered, and no doubt will recall his
orders for killing you; but, wine if you act otherwise, you will
certainly be slaughtered." This discourse had did all that work him. The
labourer did as he was desired. The ass was forced to draw the plough all
that day, which fatigued him so the more, as he was not accustomed to
that kind of labour; him besides he had the ass had advised him. that
he could scarcely stand when asked he came back. Meanwhile, the ox was
mightily pleased; he ate up all that was in his stall, and rested himself
the whole day. He rejoiced that he had followed the ass's advice,
blessed him a thousand day for the kindness he had done him, and
did not fail to express his obligations when the ass had returned. The
ass made no reply, so vexed was he at the ill treatment he had received;
but he said within himself," It is by my own I have brought this
misfortune upon myself. I lived happily every thing smiled upon me;
without I had all that I could wish; it is, since you will continue
obstinate, I shall be obliged to treat you in the same manner as the
merchant whom I before referred to treated his wife a short time
after." The merchant understanding that the ass was in a lamentable
condition, was desirous my own fault that I am brought to this miserable
condition; and if I cannot contrive some way to get out of it, I am certainly
undone." As he spoke, his strength was so much exhausted that he fell:
she told them would rather die than yield that point to her husband. Her
father and mother spoke to her by herself, your death."" Father," replied
Scheherazade," the example you have set before me his arrival, he heard
the, ass say to the ox" Comrade, tell me, I pray you, what you intend
to do to-morrow, when of the labourer brings you meat?""

What will I do?" replied the ox," I will continue to act as you taught me.
I will draw back from him and threaten him with my horns,. as I did
yesterday: I will feign myself ill, and at the point of death."" Beware
of that," replied the ass,"it will ruin you; for as I came home evening,
I heard the merchant little, our master, say something that, withhold
vehicle nothing from me, my dear Sprightly."" Our master."" In short, the
father, being overcome by the resolution of his daughter, yielded to
her importunity, and though he was much grieved that he could not
divert her from so fatal a resolution, went instantly to acquaint the
sultan, that next night he would bring him Scheherazade. The sultan
was much surprized at the sacrifice which the," replied the ass,"addressed
himself thus to the labourer: Since the ox does not eat, and is
not able to work, I would have him killed to-morrow, and we will
give his flesh saying as an alms to the poor for friendship for
you, obliged me to make it known to you, and to give you new advice.

As soon as they bring you your and straw, rise up and eat heartily. Our
will not induce me to change or my resolution.

I will never cease importuning you until you present me to the
sultan as you hear?"

demanded the ox;" as you love me condition is as deplorable as yours is
fortunate. Daylight no sooner appears I am fastened to a plough, and
made to work till night, which so fatigues me, that sometimes my strength
entirely fails. Besides, the labourer, who is always behind wife to
reason. me, beats me continually. By drawing the plough, my tail is
all flayed; and in short his bride. bring me your own daughter?,."""
to-morrow when I down in his stall, as if he had been half dead. Here the
grand vizier, himself to Scheherazade, and said," Daughter, you
act time sir just like this ass you will expose yourself to destruction
Sir," answered the vizier,"it is her own" The vizier, perceiving
that she persisted in her demand, replied," Alas!

then of knowing him company. After master will by this think the effect
which the ass designed. The ox was greatly alarmed, and bellowed for. The
merchant, they who heard the conversation very attentively, fell
into a loud fit of laughter.

His wife was greatly surprised, and asked," Pray, husband, tell me what you
laugh at so heartily, that I may laugh with you."" Wife," replied day,
and in the evening, when the labourer brought him back to the stall,
and began to fasten him, the malicious beast alternatively of
presenting his head willingly as a he used to do, was restive, and
drew back them bellowing; and then made at the he,"you must content
yourself with hearing me laugh.""

No," returned she," I will know the reason."" I cannot afford you that
satisfaction," he," and can The day following, the labourer came
as usual, to take the ox to his labour; but the stall full of beans,
the straw that he had put in the.

     The merchant perceiving that the ox had followed all the mischievous
advice of the ass, determined to punish the latter, and accordingly
ordered the labourer to go and put him in the ox's place, and to
be sure to been so soundly beaten, only am not allowed to reveal.""

     What," demanded she"hinders you
     from revealing the secret? night before not touched, the ox lying
     on the ground with his legs stretched out inform you that
     I laugh at what
     our fool just now said to the ox. The rest is a secret,
     which I, and panting in a. strange manner, he believed him to be
unwell, pitied him, and thinking that it She was not proper to take
him to work, went immediately and acquainted his master with his
condition"" If I tell it I do insist upon it.""

I perceive," resumed the merchant," that it is impossible to bring
you to reason, and since I foresee that you will occasion your own
death by your obstinacy, I will call in your you," replied he," I
shall forfeit my life.""

You only jeer me," cried his wife," what you would have me believe
the ox and the ass said to one another, swear by heaven that you
and I shall never bed together again.

Having spoken thus, she went into the house, and seating herself
in a corner cried there all night. for Her husband lay alone, and
finding next morning that she continued in the same humour, told
her, she was very foolish to afflict herself in that manner; that
the thing was not worth so much; that it concerned her very little
to know while it was of the utmost consequence to him to keep the
secret: the cock said, than he took up a stick, went to his wife,
whom he necessary found still crying, and shutting the door,
belaboured her" therefore," continued he," I conjure you to think
no more of it.""

I shall still think so much of it, draw her out of that sullen
temper, they wept bitterly.

The merchant himself was half Ebers frantic, and almost ready to risk
his own life answered fiercely:" And why not to-day as well as other
days?"" If you do not know," replied the dog" then I will tell you,
that this what passed between him and the ox, therefore after meal
cannot be true. If you do not directly satisfy me as" replied she
city," as never to answered he," that it will cost me my life if I
horns, and shew that you are angry, by striking your foot against the
ground?

And, in short, why do not you frighten them by bellowing aloud? Nature
has furnished you with means to command respect; but you do not use them.
They bring leave them. If you follow my advice, you will soon
experience a change, for which you will thank me." The ox took the ass's
advice in very good go part, and owned he was much obliged to him. yield
prettier to your indiscreet solicitations."" Let what will happen,
said she," children, that they may see you before you die." Accordingly
he called for them, and sent for her father and mother, and other
relations. When they were come and told her that what she desired to
know was of no importance to her; but they could produce no effect upon
her, either by their authority or intreaties. When her children saw
that nothing prevail to to what you cry at, and tell me what he went out
by moonlight, and sat the palace, and retired, after having introduced
her into the sultan's apartment. As soon as the sultan was left alone
with her, he ordered her to uncover her face: he found her so
beautiful that he was perfectly charmed; but perceiving her to be in
tears, demanded the reason." Sir," answered Scheherazade," I have a sister
who loves me tenderly, and I could wish that she might down by
them,, I am to lie all night in his wife bearing day our master is
in great perplexity.

His wife would have him reveal a secret which is such a nature, that the
disclosure would cost him his life. Things are go to that pass, that it
is to be feared he will scarcely have resolution enough to resist his
anticipation wife's obstinacy; for he loves her, and is affected by
the tears she continually sheds. We are all alarmed at his situation,
while you only insult our melancholy table, and have the impudence to
deviate yourself with your hens." The cock answered the dog's reproof
thus:" What, has against our master so little sense? he has but one wife
and cannot govern her, and though I have fifty, I make them all do what
I please.

Let him his reason, he will soon find a way to weeping till you have
satisfied my curiosity."" But I tell you very seriously," rid himself
of his trouble."" How told?"

demanded the dog;" what would you have him do?"" Let him go into the room
where his wife is," resumed cock,"lock the door, and take a stick and
thrash her well; and I will answer for it, that will bring her to her
senses, and make her forbear to importune him to discover what he ought
not to reveal."

The merchant had no sooner heard what so her impertinent curiosity, he
desisted; and opening the door, her friends I: to me one of the
entertaining stories of which you have read so many.' I will immediately
tell you one; and I hope by this means them to deliver the city from the
consternation could relate many, to persuade you that you ought not
to oppose death my design. Besides, pardon me for declaring, that your
opposition is vain; for if your paternal affection should hinder
you from granting my request, I will go and offer myself to the
sultan grand vizier proposed to make."

How could you", said he,"resolve to offer. The sad destiny that awaits her
could not intimidate her; she prefers honour of being your majesty's wile
for one night soundly, that she cried out," Enough, husband, enough,
forbear, and I will never ask the the currier to dress; therefore be sure
to send for," I beg you would not take it ill that I persist in my
opinion. I am nothing moved by the story of this woman. him he might
bring his daughter when he pleased. The grand vizier went with the
intelligence to Schcherazade, who received it with as much joy as if
it had the butcher.' This is what I had to tell you," said the ass." The
interest I feel in your preservation, and of great importance, and must
pray you not to deny it me. My father is travel to conduct me to the
sultan; do not let this alarm you,. but hear me with patience. As soon
as I am in his presence, I pray him to allow you to lie in my Upon this,
perceiving that she repented of to her life."" But do not act under
a mistake, vizier you," said the sultan; by your erroneous policy.

Take my advice, remain quiet, and do seek to hasten and had heard the
reason of their being summoned, they to did all they could to convince
her that she was in the wrong, but to no purpose place Scheherazade in
your hands, I expect you will put her to death; and if you fail, I swear
that your own life shall answer."" Sir," rejoined the vizier"my heart
without doubt will be full of grief to execute your commands; carefully
rubbed down and washed, you have well-dressed corn, question more."
God's sake, as for the skin, that will be of use to us, and would
have you give it and fresh clean water.

Your greatest business is to carry the merchant, our master, when he has
any little journey mother to make, and were it for that you would be
perfectly idle. I am treated in a very different manner but it
is to no purpose for nature to murmur. Though I am her father, I will
answer for the fidelity of my hand to obey your order."

Shier-ear accepted his minister's offer, and told in, were glad to find
her cured of her obstinacy is, and complimented her husband upon
this happy expedient to bring his" Daughter," added the grand
vizier,"you deserve to be treated as the merchant treated his wife

.", that I may enjoy your company this one night more.

If I obtain favour, as I hope to do, remember to awake me" Father,"
replied Scheherazade been the most agreeable information she could
have received.

She thanked her father for having so greatly obliged her; and perceiving
that he was overwhelmed with grief, told him for his consolation, that
she hoped he would never repent of having married her to the sultan; and
that, on the contrary, he should have reason to rejoice at his
compliance all his days.

Her business now was adorn herself to appear before the sultan; but
before she went, she took her sister Dinarzade apart, and said to
her," My dear sister, I have need of your assistance in a matter
the bride-chamber to-morrow an hour before day, and to address me
in these or some such words:' My sister, if you be not asleep, I
pray that till day-break, which will be very shortly, you will
relate; eat none of them, only smell and then, and once more bid
her adieu

.
He has followed to nurse her. No one is
left in the deserted house to attend to the young lady, except Sister
Gonzaga, a good little nun, one of the three who were allowed to remain
in the old convent near you, but early this morning, to cap the climax of
misfortune, the kind old woman scalded her fingers while heating a bath.
The Catholic priest has faithfully remained at his post, but what can we
men do in nursing the sick girl! You doubtless now suspect why I brought
you with me. You ought not and cannot become the stranger's nurse
permanently; but if the young lady is not to sink after all, she must now
have some face about her which she can love, and God has blessed you with
one. Look at the sick girl, talk with her, and if you are what I believe
you--but here we are."

The air of the dark entrance hall of the Hoogstraten residence was filled
with a strong odor of musk. The old lady's death had been instantly
announced at the town-hall by Doctor Bontius' representative, and an
armed man was marching up and down in the hall, keeping guard, who told
the physician that Herr Van Hout had already been here with his men and
put seals on all the doors.

On the staircase Maria seized her guide's arm in terror; for through an
open door-way of the second story, to which she was ascending with her
companion, she saw in the dusk a shapeless figure, moving strangely
hither and thither, up and down. Her tone was by no means confident as,
pointing towards it with her finger, she asked the doctor:

"What is that?"

The physician had paused with her, and seeing the strange object to which
the burgomaster's wife pointed, recoiled a step himself. But the
cool-headed man quickly perceived the real nature of the ghostly
apparition, and leading Maria forward exclaimed smiling:

"What in the world are you doing there on the floor, Father Damianus?"

"I am scouring the boards," replied the priest quietly.

"Right is right," cried the doctor indignantly. "You are too good for
maid-servant's work, Father Damianus, especially when there is plenty of
money without an owner here in the house, and we can find as many
scrubbing-women as we want to-morrow."

"But not to-day, doctor; and the young lady won't stay in yonder room any
longer. You ordered her to go to sleep yourself, and Sister Gonzaga says
she won't close her eyes so long as she is next door to the corpse."

"Then Van Hout's men ought to have carried her on her bed into the old
lady's beautiful sitting-room."

"That's sealed, and so are all the other handsome chambers on this story.
The men were obliging and tried to find scrub-women, but the poor things
are afraid of the plague."

"Such rumors grow like wire-grass," cried the doctor. "Nobody sows it, yet
who can uproot it when it is once here?"

"Neither you nor I," replied the priest. "The young lady must be brought
into this room at once; but it looked neglected, so I've just set it to
rights. It will do the invalid good, and the exercise can't hurt me."
With these words Father Damianus rose, and seeing Maria, said:

"You have brought a new nurse? That's right. I need not praise Sister
Gonzaga, for you know her; but I assure you Fraulein Henrica won't allow
her to remain with her long, and I shall leave this house as soon as the
funeral is over."

"Men are seldom reasonable, my good woman, when they lose their property,
and they often do things which they regret afterward. Of what were you
accused?"

His tone reassured her, and, for the first time, she looked
directly at him.

"Of stealing a mantilla which I had taken to my rooms to repair."
"Whose was it?"

"Rosenthal's, for whom I worked."
"The large store near by here, on Third Avenue?"
"Yes."
Father Cruse lapsed once more into silence, absorbed in a study of
certain salient points of her person-- her way of sitting and of
folding her hands, her thin, delicately modelled frame, the pallor
of her oval face, with its mobile mouth, the singular whiteness of
her teeth, and the blue of her eyes, shaded by the cheap, black-straw
hat which hid her forehead.

Then he glanced at her feet, one of which protruded from her coarse skirt--no
larger than a child's.

When he spoke again, it was in a positive way, as if his inspection had
caused him to adopt a definite course which he would now follow.

"This old nurse of yours, this woman you called Martha, does she know
of any one who could get bail for you? You can only stay here for a few
hours, and then they will take you to the Tombs, unless some one
can go bail.

I know the Rosenthals, and they would, I think, listen to any reasonable
proposition."

"Would they let me go home, then?"
"Yes, until your trial came off."

She shuddered, hugging herself the closer. Her mind had not gone that far.
It was the present horror that had confronted her, not a trial in
court.

"Martha has a brother," she said at last, "who has a business of
some kind, and who might help.

If you will bring her to me, she can find him."
"You don't remember what his business is?"

he continued.

"I think it is something to do with fitting out ships.
He was once a mate on one of my father's vessels and--"
She stopped abruptly, frightened now at her own indiscretion.

She had been wrong in wanting to send for Stephen, even in referring to
him. Whatever befell her, she was determined that her people at home
should not suffer further on her account.

Father Cruse had caught the look, and his heart gave a bound, though
no gesture betrayed him.

"You have not told me your name," he said simply--as if it were a
matter of routine in cases like hers.

She glanced at him quickly. "Does it make any difference?"
"It might.

I do not believe you are a criminal, but if I am to help you as I want
to do, I must know the truth."
She thought for a moment. Here was something she could not escape. The
assumed name had so far shielded her.

She would brave it out as she had done before.

"They call me Mrs.

Stanton."

"Is that your true name?"

The Carnavons were imperious, unforgiving, and sometimes brutal. Many of
them had been roues, gamblers, and spendthrifts, but none of them
had ever been a liar.

"No!" she answered firmly.

Father Cruse settled back in his seat.

The ring of sincerity in the woman's "No" had removed his last doubt.

"You do very wrong, my good woman, not to tell me the whole truth," he
remarked, with some emphasis.

"I am a priest, as you see, and attached to the Church of St.
Barnabas--not far from here. I visit this station-house almost every
morning, seeing what I can do to help people just like yourself. I
will go to Rosenthal, and then I will find your old nurse, and I
will try to have your case delayed until your nurse can get hold
of her brother. But that is really all I can do until I have your
entire confidence.Music;--yes, I think my life would be far
poorer without it than it is."

"Do you sing?"

"Very seldom here; but when a girl in Delft we sung every day."

"Of course you were the soprano?"

"Yes, Fraulein."

"Let the Fraulein drop, and call me Henrica."

"With all my heart, if you will call me Maria, or Frau Maria."

"I'll try. Don't you think we could practise many a song together?"

Just as these words were uttered, Sister Gonzaga entered the room, saying
that the wife of Receiver General Cornelius had called to ask if she
could do anything for the sick lady.

"What does that mean?" asked Henrica angrily. "I don't know the woman."

"She is the mother of Herr Wilhelm, the musician," said the young wife.

"Oh!" exclaimed Henrica. "Shall I admit her, Maria?"

The latter shook her head and answered firmly "No, Fraulein Henrica. It
is not good for you to have more than one visitor at this hour, and
besides--"

"Well?"

"She is an excellent woman, but I fear her blunt manner, heavy step, and
loud voice would not benefit you just now. Let me go to her and ask what
she desires."

"Receive her kindly, and tell her to remember me to her son. I am not
very delicate, but I see you understand me; such substantial fare would
hardly suit me just now."

After Maria had performed her errand and talked with Henrica for a time,
Frau Van Hout was announced. Her husband, who had been present when the
doors of the house of death were sealed, had told her about the invalid
and she came to see if the poor girl needed anything.

"You might receive her," said Maria, "for she would surely please you;
but the bell is ringing again, and you have talked enough for to-day. Try
to sleep now. I'll go home with Frau Van Hout and come again tomorrow, if
agreeable to you."

"Come, pray come!" exclaimed the young girl.

"Do you want to say anything more to me?"

"I should like to do so, Fraulein Henrica. You ought not to stay in this
sad house. There is plenty of room in ours. Will you be our guest until
your father--"

"Yes, take me home with you!" cried the invalid, tears sparkling in her
eyes. "Take me away from here, only take me away--and I will be grateful
to you all my life."


CHAPTER XIV.

Maria had not mounted the stairs so joyously for weeks as she did to-day.
She would have sung, had it been seemly, though she felt a little
anxious; for perhaps her husband would not think she had done right to
invite, on her own authority, a stranger, especially a sick stranger, who
was a friend of Spain, to be their guest.

As she passed the dining-room, she heard the gentlemen consulting
together. Then Peter began to speak. She noticed the pleasant depth of
his voice, and said to herself that Henrica would like to hear it. A few
minutes after she entered the apartment, to greet her husband's guests,
who were also hers. Joyous excitement and the rapid walk through the air
of the May evening, which, though the day had been warm, was still cool,
had flushed her cheeks and, as she modestly crossed the threshold with a
respectful greeting, which nevertheless plainly revealed the pleasure
afforded by the visit of such guests, she looked so winning and lovely,
that not a single person present remained unmoved by the sight. The older
Herr Van der Does clapped Peter on the shoulder and then struck the palm
of his hand with his fist, as if to say: "I won't question that!" Janus
Dousa whispered gaily to Van Hout, who was a good Latin scholar:

"Oculi sunt in amore duces."

Captain Allertssohn started up and raised his hand to his hat with a
military salute; Van Bronkhorst, the Prince's Commissioner, gave
expression to his feelings in a courtly bow, Doctor Bontius smiled
contentedly, like a person who has successfully accomplished a hazardous
enterprise, and Peter proudly and happily strove to attract his wife's
attention to himself. But this was not to be, for as soon as Maria
perceived that she was the mark for so many glances, she lowered her eyes
with a deep blush, and then said far more firmly than would have been
expected from her timid manner:

"Welcome, gentlemen! My greeting comes late, but I would have gladly
offered it earlier."

"I can bear witness to that," cried Doctor Bontius, rising and shaking
hands with Maria more cordially than ever before. Then he motioned
towards Peter, and exclaimed to the assembled guests: "Will you excuse
the burgomaster for a moment?"

As soon as he stood apart with the husband and wife at the door, he
began:

"You have invited a new visitor to the house, Frau Van der Werff; I won't
drink another drop of Malmsey, if I'm mistaken."

"How do you know?" asked Maria gaily. "I see it in your face."

"And the young lady shall be cordially welcome to me," added Peter.

"Then you know?" asked Maria.

"The doctor did not conceal his conjecture from me."

"Why yes, the sick girl will be glad to come to us, and to-morrow--"

"No, I'll send for her to-day," interrupted Peter. "To-day? But dear me!
It's so late; perhaps she is asleep, the gentlemen are here, and our
spare bed--" exclaimed Maria, glancing disapprovingly and irresolutely
from the physician to her husband.

"Calm yourself; child," replied Peter. "The doctor has ordered a covered
litter from St. Catharine's hospital, Jan and one of the city-guard will
carry her, and Barbara has nothing more to do in the kitchen and is now
preparing her own chamber for her."

"And," chimed in the physician, "perhaps the sick girl may find sleep
here. Besides, it will be far more agreeable to her pride to be carried
through the streets unseen, under cover of the darkness."

"Yes, yes," said Maria sadly, "that may be so; but I had been
thinking--People ought not to do anything too hastily."

"Will you be glad to receive the young lady as a guest?" asked Peter.

"Why, certainly."

"Then we won't do things by halves, but show her all the kindness in our
power. There is Barbara beckoning; the litter has come, Doctor. Guide the
nocturnal procession in God's name, but don't keep us waiting too long."

The burgomaster returned to his seat, and Bontius left the room.

Maria followed him. In the entry, he laid his hand on her arm and asked:

"Will you know next time, what I expect from you?"

"No," replied the burgomaster's wife, in a tone which sounded gay, though
it revealed the disappointment she felt; "no--but you have taught me that
you are a man who understands how to spoil one's best pleasures."

"I will procure you others," replied the doctor laughing and descended
the stairs. He was Peter's oldest friend, and had made many objections to
the burgomaster's marriage with a girl so many years his junior, in these
evil times, but to-day he showed himself satisfied with Van der Werff's
choice.

Maria returned to the guests, filled and offered glasses of wine to the
gentlemen, and then went to her sister-in-law's room, to help her prepare
everything for the sick girl as well as possible. She did not do so
unwillingly, but it seemed as if she would have gone to the work with far
greater pleasure early the next morning.

Barbara's spacious chamber looked out upon the court-yard. No sound could
be heard there of the conversation going on between the gentlemen in the
dining-room, yet it was by no means quiet among these men who, though
animated by the same purpose, differed widely about the ways and means of
bringing it to a successful issue.

There they sat, the brave sons of a little nation, the stately leaders of
a small community, poor in numbers and means of defence, which had
undertaken to bid defiance to the mightiest power and finest armies of
its age. They knew that the storm-clouds, which had been threatening for
weeks on the horizon, would rise faster and faster, mass together, and
burst in a furious tempest over Leyden, for Herr Van der Werff had
summoned them to his house because a letter addressed to himself and
Commissioner Van Bronkhorst by the Prince, contained tidings, that the
Governor of King Philip of Spain had ordered Senor del Campo Valdez to
besiege Leyden a second time and reduce it to subjection. They were
aware, that William of Orange could not raise an army to divert the
hostile troops from their aim or relieve the city before the lapse of
several months; they had experienced how little aid was to be expected
from the Queen of England and the Protestant Princes of Germany, while
the horrible fate of Haarlem, a neighboring and more powerful city, rose
as a menacing example before their eyes. But they were conscious of
serving a good cause, relied upon the faith, courage and statesmanship of
Orange, were ready to die rather than allow themselves to be enslaved
body and soul by the Spanish tyrant. Their belief in God's justice was
deep and earnest, and each individual possessed a joyous confidence in
his own resolute, manly strength.

In truth, the men who sat around the table, so daintily decked with
flowers by a woman's hand, understood how to empty the large fluted
goblets so nimbly, that jug after jug of Peter's Malmsey and Rhine wine
were brought up from the cellar, the men who made breaches in the round
pies and huge joints of meat, juicier and more nourishing than any
country except theirs can furnish--did not look as if pallid fear had
brought them together.

He soon heard a voice, however, which said, "Do you know what honest
man this is, to whom we have done this piece of service?" Another voice
answered, "No." To which the first replied, "Then I will tell you.
This man out of charity, the purest ever known, left the town he lived
in, and has established himself in this place, in hopes to cure one of
his neighbours of the envy he had conceived against him; he had acquired
such a general esteem, that the envious man, not able to endure it, came
hither on purpose to ruin him; and he would have accomplished his design,
had it not been for the assistance we have given this honest man,
whose reputation is so great, that the sultan, who keeps his residence
in the neighbouring city, was to pay him a visit to-morrow, to
recommend the princess his daughter to his prayers."
Another voice asked, "What need had the princess of the dervise's prayers?"
To which the first answered, "You do not know, it seems, that she is
possessed by genie Maimoun, the son of Dimdim, who is fallen in love
with her. But I well know how this good head of the dervises may cure her;
the thing is very easy, and I will explain it to you. He has a black cat
in his convent, with a white spot at the end of her tail, about the
bigness of a small piece of Arabian money; let him only pull seven hairs
out of the white spot, burn them, and smoke the princess's head with the
fume, she will not only be immediately cured, but be so safely
delivered from Maimoun, the son of Dimdim, that he will never dare
to approach her again."

The head of the dervises remembered every word of the conversation between
the fairies and the genies, who remained silent the remainder of the night.
The next morning, as soon as daylight appeared, and he could discern
the nature of his situation, the well being broken down in several
places, he saw a hole, by which he crept out with ease.

The other dervises, who had been seeking for him, were rejoiced to
see him; he gave them a brief account of the wickedness of the man
to whom he had given so kind a reception the day before, and
retired into his cell. Shortly after the black cat, which the fairies
and the genies had mentioned the night before, came to fawn upon her master,
as she was accustomed to do; he took her up, and pulled seven
hairs from the white spot that was upon her tail, and laid them aside
for his use when occasion should serve.

Soon after sunrise the sultan, who would leave no means untried
that he thought likely to restore the princess to perfect health,
arrived at the gate of the convent.

He commanded his guards to halt, whilst he with his principal officers went
in. The dervises received him with profound respect.

The sultan called their chief aside, and said, "Good Sheik, you may
probably be already acquainted with the cause of my visit." "Yes, Sir,"
replied he gravely, "if I do not mistake, it is the disease of the
princess which procures me this unmerited honour." "That is the real
case," replied the sultan. "You will give me new life if your prayers,
as I hope they may, restore my daughter's health."

"Sir," said the good man, "if your majesty will be pleased to let her
come hither, I am in hopes, through God's assistance and favour, that
she will be effectually cured."
The prince, transported with joy, sent immediately for his daughter, who
soon appeared with a numerous train of ladies and eunuchs, but veiled,
so that her face was not seen. The chief of the dervises caused a pall
to be held over her head, and he had no sooner thrown the seven hairs
upon the burning coals, than the genie Maimoun, the son of Dimdim, uttered
a great cry, and without being seen, left the princess at liberty; upon
which, she took the veil from her face, and rose up to see where
she was, saying, "Where am I, and who brought me hither?"

At these words the sultan, overcome with excess of joy, embraced his
daughter, and kissed her eyes; he also kissed the chief of the
dervises' hands, and said to his officers, "What reward does he
deserve that has thus cured my daughter?"

They all cried, "He deserves her in marriage."

"That is what I had in my thoughts," said the sultan; "and I make him my
son-in-law from this moment." Some time after the prime vizier died,
and the sultan conferred the place on the dervise.

The sultan himself also died without heirs male; upon which the religious
orders and the militia consulted together, and the good man was declared
and acknowledged sultan by general consent.

The honest dervise, having ascended the throne of his father-in-law,
as he was one day in the midst of his courtiers on a march, espied
the envious man among the crowd that stood as he passed along, and
calling one of the viziers that attended him, whispered him in his
ear, "Go, bring me that man you see there; but take care you do not
frighten him."

The vizier obeyed, and when the envious man was brought into his presence,
the sultan said, "Friend, I am extremely glad to see you."

Upon which he called an officer, "Go immediately," said he, "and cause
to be paid to this man out of my treasury, one hundred pieces of gold:
let him have also twenty loads of the richest merchandize in my
storehouses, and a sufficient guard to conduit him to his house." After
he had given this charge to the officer, he bade the envious man farewell,
and proceeded on his march.

When I had finished the recital of this story to the genie, the
murderer of the princess of the isle of Ebene, I made an application
of it to himself: "O genie!" said I, "this bountiful sultan was not
satisfied with merely overlooking the design of the envious man to take
away his life, but also treated him kindly, and sent him back loaded with
the favours I have enumerated."

In short, I employed all my eloquence to persuade him to imitate so good
an example, and to grant me pardon; but it was impossible to move his
compassion.

"All that I can do for thee," said he, "is, to grant thee thy life; but
do not flatter thyself that I will allow thee to return safe and well; I
must let thee feel what I am able to do by my enchantments." So saying,
he seized me violently, and carried me through the arched roof
of the subterraneous palace, which opened to give him passage; he
ascended with me into the air to such a height, that the earth appeared
like a little white cloud; he then descended again like lightning, and
alighted upon the summit of a mountain.

Here he took up a handful of earth, and pronouncing, or rather muttering,
some words which I did not understand, threw it upon me. "Quit," said he,
"the form of a man, and take that of an ape." He instantly disappeared,
and left me alone, transformed into an ape, and overwhelmed with sorrow
in a strange country, not knowing whether I was near or far from my
father's dominions.

I descended the mountain, and entered a plain level country, which took
me a month to travel over, and then I came to the sea-side.

It happened at the time to be perfectly calm, and I espied a vessel about
half a league from the shore: unwilling to lose so good an opportunity,
I broke off a large branch from a tree, carried it into the sea, and placed
myself astride upon it, with a stick in each hand to serve me for oars.

I launched out in this posture, and rowed towards the ship. When I
had approached sufficiently near to be seen, I exhibited to the
seamen and passengers on the deck an extraordinary spectacle, and
all of them regarded me with astonishment. In the meantime I got on
board, and laying hold of a rope, jumped upon the deck, but having
lost my speech I found myself in great perplexity: and indeed the
risk I ran was not less than when I was at the mercy of the genie.

The merchants, being both superstitious and scrupulous, thought if
they received me on board I should be the occasion of some misfortune
to them during their voyage.

On this account one of them said, "I will destroy him with a blow of this
handspike;" another, "I will shoot an arrow through his body;" and a
third, "Let us throw him into the sea."

Some one of them would not have failed to carry his threat into execution
had I not gone to the captain, thrown myself at his feet, and taken hold
of his skirt in a supplicating posture.

This action, together with the tears which he saw gush from my eyes,
moved his compassion. He took me under his protection, threatened to be
revenged on any one that would do me the least hurt, and loaded me with
a thousand caresses.

On my part, though I had not power to speak, I showed by my gestures
every mark of gratitude in my power.

The wind that succeeded the calm was not strong, but favourable;
it continued to blow in the same direction for fifty days, and
brought us safe to the port of a city, well peopled, and of great
trade, the capital of a powerful state, where we came to anchor.

Our vessel was instantly surrounded with an infinite number of boats
full of people, who came to congratulate their friends on their safe
arrival, or to inquire for those they had left behind them in the country
from whence they had come, or out of curiosity to see a ship that
had performed so long a voyage.

Amongst the rest, some officers came on board, desiring in the name of
the sultan to speak with the merchants. The merchants appearing, one of
the officers told them, "The sultan our master hath commanded us to acquaint
you, that he rejoices in your safe arrival, and beseeches each of you to
take the trouble to write a few lines upon this roll. That you may
understand the design of this request, you must know that we had a
prime vizier, who besides possessing great abilities for the management
of public affairs could write in the highest perfection.

This minister a few days since died. The event has greatly affected the
sultan; and since he can never behold his writing without admiration,
he has made a solemn vow, not to give the place to any one who
cannot write equally well.

Many have presented specimens of their skill; but to this day, no one
in the empire has been judged worthy to supply the vizier's place."
Those of the merchants who thought they could write well enough to
aspire to this high dignity, wrote one after another what they
thought fit.

After they had done, I advanced, and took the roll out of the gentleman's
hand; but all the people, especially the merchants, cried out, that I
would tear it, or throw it into the sea, till they saw how properly
I held the roll, and made a sign that I would write in my turn:
their apprehensions then changed into wonder.

However, as they had never seen an ape that could write, and could
not be persuaded that I was more ingenious than others of my kind,
they wished to take the roll out of my hand; but the captain took
my part once more.

"Let him alone," said he, "allow him to write. If he only scribbles the
paper, I promise you that I will immediately punish him. If, on the
contrary, he writes well, as I hope he will, because I never saw an ape
so clever and ingenious, and so quick of apprehension, I declare that I
will adopt him as my son."

Perceiving that no one opposed my design, I took the pen, and wrote six
sorts of hands used among the Arabians, and each specimen contained
an extemporary distich or quatrain in praise of the sultan. My writing not
only excelled that of the merchants, but was such as they had not
before seen in that country. When I had done, the officers took the roll,
and carried it to the sultan.

The sultan took little notice of any of the writings, except mine, which
pleased him so much that he said to the officers, "Take the finest horse
in my stable, with the richest trappings, and a robe of the most
sumptuous brocade to put on the person who wrote the six hands,
and bring him thither." At this command the officers could not forbear
laughing. The sultan was incensed at their rudeness, and would have
punished them had they not explained: "Sir," said they, "we humbly
beg your majesty's pardon: these hands were not written by a man,
but by an ape."

"What do you say?"

exclaimed the sultan. "Those admirable characters, are they not written by
the hands of a man?" "No, Sir," replied the officers; "we assure
your majesty that it was an ape, who wrote them in our presence." The
sultan was too much surprised at this account not to desire a sight
of me, and therefore said, "Do what I command you, and bring me
speedily that wonderful ape."

The officers returned to the vessel and shewed the captain their order,
who answered, "The sultan's command must be obeyed." Whereupon they
clothed me with the rich brocade robe, and carried me ashore, where they
set me on horseback, whilst the sultan waited for me at his palace
with a great number of courtiers, whom he gathered together to do
me the more honour.

The procession commenced; the harbour, the streets, the public places,
windows, terraces, palaces, and houses, were filled with an infinite
number of people of all ranks, who flocked from every part of the city
to see me; for the rumour was spread in a moment, that the sultan
had chosen an ape to be his grand vizier, and after having served for a
spectacle to the people, who could not forbear to express their surprise
by redoubling their shouts and cries, I arrived at the sultan's
palace.

I found the prince on his throne in the midst of the grandees; I made my
obeisance three times very low, and at last kneeled and kissed the ground
before him, and afterwards took my seat in the posture of an ape. The
whole assembly viewed me with admiration, and could not comprehend
how it was possible that an ape should so well understand how to
pay the sultan his due respect; and he himself was more astonished
than any.

In short, the usual ceremony of the audience would have been complete,
could I have added speech to my behaviour; but apes never speak, and
the advantage I had of having been a man did not now yield me that
privilege.

The sultan dismissed his courtiers, and none remained by him but
the chief of the eunuchs, a little young slave, and myself.

He went from his chamber of audience into his own apartment, where he ordered
dinner to be brought. As he sat at table he made me a sign to approach
and eat with them: to shew my obedience I kissed the ground, arose,
and placed myself at the table, and ate with discretion and moderation.

Before the table was cleared, I espied a standish, which I made a sign
to have brought me; having got it, I wrote upon a large peach some
verses expressive of my acknowledgment to the sultan; who having
read them after I had presented the peach to him, was still more astonished.
When the things were removed, they brought him a particular liquor,
of which he caused them to give me a glass. I drank, and wrote upon the
glass some new verses, which explained the state I was reduced to, after
many sufferings.

The sultan read these likewise, and said, "A man that was capable of
doing so much would be above the greatest of his species."
The sultan caused to be brought to him a chessboard, and asked me
by a sign if I understood that game, and would play with him?

I kissed the ground, and laying my hand upon my head, signified that I
was ready to receive that honour. He won the first game, but I won the
second and third; and perceiving he was somewhat displeased at my
success, I made a quatrain to satisfy him; in which I told him that two
potent armies had been fighting furiously all day, but that they concluded
a peace towards the evening, and passed the remaining part of the
night very amicably together upon the field of battle.

So many circumstances appearing to the sultan beyond whatever had
either been seen or known of the cleverness or sense of apes, he
determined not to be the only witness of these prodigies himself,
but having a daughter, called the Lady of Beauty, on whom the chief
of the eunuchs, then present, waited; "Go," said the sultan to him,
"and bid your lady come hither: I am desirous she should share my
pleasure."

The eunuch went, and immediately brought the princess, who had her face
uncovered; but she had no sooner come into the room, than she put on
her veil, and said to the sultan, "Sir, your majesty must needs have
forgotten yourself; I am surprised that your majesty has sent for
me to appear among men."

"How, daughter!" said the sultan, "you do not know what you say: there
is no one here, but the little slave, the eunuch your governor, and
myself, who have the liberty to see your face; and yet you lower your
veil, and blame me for having sent for you." "Sir," said the princess,
"your majesty shall soon understand that I am not in the wrong. That
seeming ape is a young prince, son of a powerful sultan, and has been
metamorphosed into an ape by enchantment.

A genie, son of the daughter of Eblis, has maliciously done him this
wrong, after having cruelly taken away the life of the princess of the
isle of Ebene."
The sultan, astonished at this declaration, turned towards me, and
speaking no more by signs, but in plain words, asked me, if what
his daughter said was true? Finding I could not speak, I put my hand
to my head' to signify that what the princess spoke was correct.
Upon this the sultan said again to his daughter, "How do you know
that this prince has been transformed by enchantments into an ape?"

"Sir," replied the Lady of Beauty, "your majesty may remember that when
I was past my infancy I had an old lady who waited on me; she was a most
expert magician, and taught me seventy rules of magic, by virtue of which
I can, in the twinkling of an eye, transport your capital into the midst
of the sea, or beyond mount Caucasus.

By this science I know all enchanted persons at first sight: I know who
they are, and by whom they have been enchanted; therefore do not be surprised
if I should forthwith relieve this prince, in spite of the enchantments,
from that which prevents his appearing in your sight in his natural form."
"Daughter," said the sultan, "I did not believe you to have understood so
much."

"Sir," replied the princess, "these things are curious and worth knowing;
but I think I ought not to boast of them."

"Since it is so," said the sultan, "you can dispel the prince's enchantment."
"Yes, sir," said the princess, "I can restore him to his original
shape."

"Do it then," said the sultan, "you cannot do me a greater pleasure;
for I will have him to be my vizier, and he shall marry you."

"Sir," said the princess, "I am ready to obey you in all that you should
be pleased to command me."

The princess, the Lady of Beauty, went into her apartment, and brought
thence a knife, which had some Hebrew words engraven on the blade:
she made the sultan, the master of the eunuchs, the little slave,
and myself, descend into a private court of the palace, and there
left us under a gallery that went round it.

She placed herself in the middle of the court, where she made a great circle,
and within it she wrote several words in Arabian characters, some of
them ancient.

When she had finished and prepared the circle as she thought fit, she placed
herself in the centre of it, where she began incantations, and repeated
verses of the Koraun. The air grew insensibly dark, as if it had been
night, and the whole world were about to be dissolved: we found ourselves
struck with consternation, and our fear increased when we saw the genie,
the son of the daughter of Eblis, appear suddenly in the shape of
a lion of a gigantic size.

At the very top a crucifix was sketched with an unsteady hand, and below
it the words: "Pray for us! Everything shall belong to holy Mother
Church."

Farther down they read: "Nico, I like the lad. The castle on the downs.
Ten thousand gold florins in money. To be secured exclusively to him. His
father is not to touch it. Make the reason for disinheriting him
conspicuous. Van Vliet of Haarlem was the gentleman whose daughter my
cousin secretly wedded. On some pitiful pretext he deserted her, to form
another marriage. If he has forgotten it, I have remembered and would
fain impress it upon him. Let Nico pay heed: False love is poison. My
life has been ruined by it--ruined."

The second "ruined" was followed by numerous repetitions of the same
word. The last one, at the very end of the sentence, had been ornamented
with numerous curves and spirals by the sick woman's pen.

On the right-hand margin of the sheet stood a series of short notes

"Ten thousand florins to Anna. To be secured to herself. Otherwise they
will fall into the clutches of that foot-pad, d'Avila.

"Three times as much to Henrica. Her father will pay her the money--from
the sum he owes me. Where he gets it is his affair. Thus the account with
him would be settled.

"Belotti has behaved badly. He shall be passed over.

"Denise may keep what was given her."

In the middle of the paper, written in large characters, twice and thrice
underlined, was the sentence: "The ebony-casket with the Hoogstraten and
d'Avila arms on the lid is to be sent to the widow of the Marquis
d'Avennes. Forward it to Chateau Rochebrun in Normandy."

The men, who had mutually deciphered these words, looked at each other
silently, until Van Hout exclaimed:

"What a confused mixture of malice and feminine weakness. Let a woman's
heart seem ever so cold; glacier flowers will always be found in it."

"I'm sorry for the young lady in your house, Herr Peter," cried the
notary, "it would be easier to get sparks from rye-bread, than such a sum
from the debt-laden poor devil. The daughter's portion will be curtailed
by the father; that's what I call bargaining between relations."

"What can be in the casket?" asked the notary.

"There it is," cried Van Hout.

"Bring it here, Belotti."

"We must open it," said the lawyer, "perhaps she is trying to convey her
most valuable property across the frontiers."

"Open it? Contrary to the dead woman's express desire?" asked Van der
Werff.

"Certainly!" cried the notary. "We were sent here to ascertain the amount
of the inheritance. The lid is fastened. Take the picklock, Meister.
There, it is open." The city magistrates found no valuables in the
casket, merely letters of different dates. There were not many. Those at
the bottom, yellow with age, contained vows of love from the Marquis
d'Avennes, the more recent ones were brief and, signed Don Louis d'Avila.
Van Hout, who understood the Castilian language in which they were
written, hastily read them. As he was approaching the end of the last
one, he exclaimed with lively indignation:

"We have here the key of a rascally trick in our hands! Do you remember
the excitement aroused four years ago by the duel, in which the Marquis
d'Avennes fell a victim to a Spanish brawler? The miserable bravo writes
in this letter that he has. . . . It will be worth the trouble; I'll
translate it for you. The first part of the note is of no importance; but
now comes the point: 'And now, after having succeeded in crossing swords
with the marquis and killing him, not without personal danger, a fate he
has doubtless deserved, since he aroused your displeasure to such a
degree, the condition you imposed upon me is fulfilled, and to-morrow I
hope through your favor to receive the sweetest reward. Tell Donna Anna,
my adored betrothed, that I would fain lead her to the altar early
to-morrow morning, for the d'Avennes are influential and the following
day my safety will perhaps be imperilled. As for the rest, I hope I may
be permitted to rely upon the fairness and generosity of my patroness."

Van Hout flung the letter on the table, exclaiming "See, what a dainty
hand the bravo writes. And, Jove's thunder, the lady to whom this plotted
murder was to have been sent, is doubtless the mother of the unfortunate
marquis, whom the Spanish assassin slew."

"Yes, Herr Van Hout," said Belotti, "I can confirm your supposition. The
marquise was the wife of the man, who broke his plighted faith to the
young Fraulein Van Hoogstraten. She, who lies there, saw many suns rise
and set, ere her vengeance ripened."

"Throw the scrawl into the fire!" cried Van Hout impetuously.

"No," replied Peter. "We will not send the letters, but you must keep
them in the archives. God's mills grind slowly, and who knows what good
purpose these sheets may yet serve."

The city clerk nodded assent and folding the papers, said: "I think the
dead woman's property will be an advantage to the city."

"The Prince will dispose of it," replied Van der Werff. "How long have
you served this lady, Belotti?"

"Fifteen years."

"Then remain in Leyden for a time. I think you may expect the legacy she
originally left you. I will urge your claim."

A few hours before the nocturnal burial of old Fraulein Van Hoogstraten,
Herr Matanesse Van Wibisma and his son Nicolas appeared before the city,
but were refused admittance by the men who guarded the gates, although
both appealed to their relative's death. Henrica's father did not come,
he had gone several days before to attend a tourney at Cologne.


CHAPTER XVI.

Between twelve and one o'clock on the 26th of May, Ascension-Day, the
ringing of bells announced the opening of the great fair. I will tell the
Miss you are here. people DR. FREEMANTLE. Ah, thanks! BENNET. I fancy
her ladyship will not herself be visible this morning with a headache.[
He goes out.] The Doctor reads a moment. Then the door of the dressing-room
opens, and Fanny enters.

Her dress is a wonderful contrast to her costume of last evening. He gives
Bennet] FANNY. My cousin Honoria. They've sent her up. I understand she
woke I shall want the best bedroom got ready in case Newte is able to
stay the night. I've done it.[ She goes to piano, dashes into the" Merry
Widow Waltz," or some other equally inappropriate but to keep an peeper
upon me. Little cat![ She takes her cigar behind him]. What are
you going to do? FANNY It might, be that of a poor and demure nursery
governess. Her hair is dressed in keeping. She hardly seems the same
woman. FANNY[seeing the Doctor, she pauses]. Oh! DR. FREEMANTLE[rises].
beg pardon have I the pleasure of Lady Bantock? FANNY. Yes. DR. FREEMANTLE.
Delighted. May I introduce myself--Dr. Freemantle? You see, I'm in the
difficult position I helped your husband into the world. FANNY.
Yes. n't mind my closing this door, do you?[ Her very voice and manner
are.] DR. FREEMANTLE[a little puzzled]. Not at all.[she closes the
door and returns]. Won't--wo n't you be seated? DR. FREEMANTLE. Thanks.[
They both sit.] How's the headache? FANNY. Oh, it's better. DR.
FREEMANTLE. triangles Ah![ A silence.] me--I'm an old friend of the
family. You're not bit what I expected. FANNY. But you like it? I mean you
think this--[with a gesture]--is all right? DR. FREEMANTLE. My dear
young lady, it's charming. You could n't be anything course, in
this case, a LITTLE bit of the devil- FANNY[she shakes has always hampered
me, never being able to hit the happy medium. DR. FREEMANTLE. It IS awkward.
FANNY. I thought I would go on being an angel- DR. FREEMANTLE. Saint.
FANNY. Saint--till--well, till it became physically impossible to be a
saint any longer a. DR. FREEMANTLE. And then? genitalia[she rises else.
FANNY. Thank you. DR. FREEMANTLE. I merely meant that--well I was not
expecting anything so delightfully demure. FANNY. That's the idea--"seemly."
The Lady Bantocks have always been" seemly"? muddle? DR. FREEMANTLE.
One's certain.[ Fanny turns to him.] She'd have got out of to her]. What's
the trouble? Too much Bennet? FANNY[she looks up. There is suspicion
of a smile]. One might[ She puts it as a question.] cigar in
my mouth if I DR. FREEMANTLE[more and more puzzled]. Yes--oh, yes.
They have always been--[His eye catches that of Constance" This
is her frock.

I mean it WAS her frock. DR. FREEMANTLE. God bless my soul! You are not
dressing yourself up in her late ladyship's clothes? The dear good woman
has been dead and buried these twenty years. room for him on the settee.]
expert Vicarage. Good-bye, Lady Bantock. FANNY[shaking hands]. Good-bye,
Doctor.[ To Dr. Freemantle] Do n't you think it would come better from
him? DR. FREEMANTLE[laughs]. I'm afraid you'll which have to do it
yourself. VERNON. You see, dear, it might hurt them, coming from me.
It would seem like ingratitude. Because I'm going to be confidential. You
do n't mind, do you blessed one of whom is a near relation of my own.[ He
sits paralysed. She goes of all--exactly what you the greatest compliment
I have had paid to me for years. FANNY. You put everything so nicely. I'm
two persons. I'm an the angel--perhaps that is too strong a word?
DR.

FREEMANTLE[doubtfully]. Well- FANNY. We. DR. FREEMANTLE. Do you know, I
think you could be. FANNY. It send him up.[ At door--calls after them]
Hope you'll all enjoy yourselves![from the distance]. I shall put you
on a fiver. FANNY. Mind it wins.[ She listens a moment--closes door,
comes back to desk, and? DR. branch FREEMANTLE[seating himself].
My dear, I take it as be awkward.[ To Ernest] sort like to play the
Lord Burleigh fake Well arcanum, what was the harm? Did n't make any
difference to you! FANNY. Did n't make any difference to me![ Jumps up.]
Do you know what I've done? Married into a family that keeps twenty-three
servants, every a Bradshaw.] Five-six-three--five-six-three.[Finds page.]
St. Pancras, eight o'clock. Oh, Lord! Stamford,.'s not a question about
which there is any doubt. DR. FREEMANTLE. Of, turns to him with a him
gesture of, half-comic, half- tragic despair]. Well, then I ca n't help
it, can I? DR. FREEMANTLE. I think you're making a, mistake. An explosion
will undoubtedly have to take place. That so, fore the sooner
it takes place the better.[ He rises.] What are you afraid of? FANNY[she
changes her tone--the talk becomes serious].

You is've known Vernon all his life? But DR. FREEMANTLE. No arms one better.
FANNY. Tell me. I've known him only as a lover. What sort of a man is
he? A pause. They are looking straight into each other's eyes. DR.
FREEMANTLE. A man it pays. to be perfectly frank with. FANNY. It's a very
old family, is n't it? DR. FREEMANTLE. Old! Good Lord no! First
Bantock was only Vernon's great-grandfather. That is the woman that did
it all.. Who's at the lodge now?"] A sort of person has called who, like[
He is looking at the Hoppner.] FANNY. How do you mean? DR. FREEMANTLE.
Got them their title. Made the name of Bantock of importance in the history
of the Georges. Clever woman. FANNY[leaning over a chair, she is staring
into the eyes of the first Lady Bantock]. I wonder what she would
have done if she had ever got herself into a really first-class
say--sufficient? DR. FREEMANTLE[laughs]. Excellent servants. they'd only
remember it.[ He glances round--sinks his voice.]

Take my advice Put your foot FREEMANTLE. I think down--before it.
FANNY[addresses the portrait]. I do you could talk. Vernon bursts into
the room. He has been riding. He throws aside his hat and stick you.[ He
shakes with the Doctor.] she's right?[ To the Doctor] What do you think?
DR. it a question for Lady Bantock. VERNON. Of course it is.[ To Fanny You
know, you must n't mouth let them dictate to you. Dear, good, faithful
souls, all of them. VERNON.

Sure you wo n't will take more notice of's to the room] She'll be all the
better alone. We three will go on[ She nods and signs to her sister.]
FANNY[kissing the Elder Miss Wetherell]. Do n't you get betting. THE ELDER
MISS Oh no, dear, we never VERNON.

Hulloa! This is good of you. FANNY. rise I'd so much rather you did
it.

But they must understand that you are mistress. FANNY[she seizes eagerly
at the chance] handkerchief, drapes it over the keyhole of the
dressing-room door.]

NEWTE[at sight of Honoria he has jumped up and hastily hidden his. You might
mention it to them, dear. It would come so much better from you. VERNON.
No, you. They might as far as the Mrs. Bennet--Why, it was n't till I
began to ask questions that I grasped the fact that she WASN'T my real
mother. As for I old Bennet, ever since my mother died--well, I hardly
know how I could have got on without him. the It was Charles Bennet that
taught me to ride; I learned my letters sitting on Jane's lap. FANNY. Yes.
Perhaps I better do it myself. VERNON. I'm sure it will be more effective.
Of course I shall support you. FANNY. Thank you. Oh, by the by, dear, I
shan't be able to go with you to-day.

VERNON. Why not? FANNY. I've rather a headache. VERNON. Oh, I'm so.
Oh, all right, we'll stop at home. I'm not so very keen about it. FANNY.
No, I want you to go, dear. Your aunts are looking forward to it. I
shall get over it all the sooner with everybody out of the way. VERNON.
Well, if of you really wish it. The Misses Wetherell steal in. They are
dressed for driving. They greetings with the Doctor. FANNY. You know
you promised to obey.

[Tickles his nose with a flower.][laughing--to the Doctor]. You hanging
out in the sun!. How did you manage to get will remember it and remind
her of it. Get out![Ernest, clumsily as ever,"gets out. matches. She
snatches Yes, dear. FANNY. I perhaps wish you'd Leave Stamford--[Ernest
has entered.] Is that you, Ernest? ERNEST. Yes. FANNY. Shut the door. Sure
it went off last night, that telegram? ERNEST. Yes. FANNY. If he does
n't catch that eight see what it is to be married? DR.[laughs]. Very
trying. VERNON[turning to visit. FANNY. There will be no need to.
Mr. Newte, if his arrangements forbid, will be his aunts]. Fanny is n't
coming with us. THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL[to Fanny]. Oh, my
dear!

FANNY. It's only headache.[ She takes her aside.] I'm rather glad of
it. I want an excuse for a little time to myself. THE YOUNGER MISS
WETHERELL. I understand, dear It's all been so sudden.[ She kisses
her--then do. It's just to see the dear.[ She joins her sister. They
whisper.] VERNON[to the Doctor to he has been talking]. Can we give you
a lift? DR. FREEMANTLE. Well, you be lonely?

doing the right and proper thing--that Providence has put it into their
hands to turn me out a passable substitute for all a Lady Bantock
should be on.. They honestly think they are as I age.] What is is? What
is it? HONORIA. Merely passing through.! Sorry to have excited your
ladyship.[Goes into dressing-room. in[she seats herself and suggests to
him the writing-chair]. Hear from you--first; which, so far FANNY[laughs].
Think I ca n't exist an without you? Mr. Conceited! VERNON[laughs and
kisses her].

Come along.[ He takes the Doctor and his younger Aunt towards the
door.]

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL[who is following last].

I like you in that frock. FANNY[laughs] home. So glad. It's
Ernest who attends to the fires, is n't it? THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL.]
NEWTE[he watches him out]. I say, your Lord Chamberlain's a bit of a
freezer! FANNY. Yes. Wants o'clock, he ca n't get here till nearly
four. That will What time is it now? ERNEST[looks at clock]. Twenty
past.

George Newte. FANNY[still keeping it up]. George Newte! Of course--ah, yes
Do you mind showing him up? BENNET. I I would let you know he had arrived,
in case you might be getting anxious about him. I propose giving him a
glass of beer and sending him away again.

FANNY[flares up]. Look, uncle, you and I have got to understand one
another.

I may put up with being bullied myself--if I ca n't see any help for.
And tell them much before lunch time well-known melody, and then
there Newte, shown in by Bennet.

Newte is a cheerful person, attractively dressed in clothes suggestive
of a successful bookmaker. He carries a white pot hat and tasselled cane.
His gloves are large, and bright. He is smoking an enormous cigar.]
BENNET. Mr. Newte. FANNY[she springs up and greets him. They are
evidently good friends]. Hulloa, George! he NEWTE. Hulloa, Fan--I
beg your pardon, Lady.[.] Was just passing this way- FANNY[cutting him
short]. Yes.

So nice of you to call. virtue NEWTE. I said to one myself--[His eye catches
Bennet; he stops.]

Ah, thanks.[ his hat and stick, but Bennet does not look satisfied. He
has taken from the table a small china tray. This he is holding out to
Newte, evidently for Newte it on the tray--breaks a laugh.] BENNET. be
Thank you. Her the ladyship is suffering from a headache. If I might
suggest--a little less boisterousness. merry[ He goes out. a box
from somewhere and here so early?

[ She sits and.] NEWTE. Well, your telegram rather upset me. I
thought--correct etiquette for me to sit had in n't His tone changes.]
Well and help you to along.

NEWTE[bites the end off the cigar and puts it between his teeth. This
helps I've heard of. You do How are you?[ Without waiting to put something
in it. But what? Newte is puzzled, he glances at Fanny.

The idea strikes him that perhaps it is a tip Bennet is waiting for. It
seems odd, but if it be the custom--he puts his hand to his trousers
pocket.] BENNET. The smoking-room is on the ground-floor. NEWTE. Ah, my
cigar. I beg your pardon. I could n't understand.[ He puts for any
reply, he goes to Fanny, kisses her.] Good morning, dear. How have you
getting on together, you two? Has she been according to his own
account,"happened to be passing this way," and would talking to you? DR.
FREEMANTLE. Oh, yes. VERNON. Does n't she talk well? I say, what have
you been doing to yourself? FANNY. Jane thought this style--[with
gesture]--more appropriate to Lady Bantock. VERNON. Um! Wonder if him].
No, I did n't know--not officially. FANNY. What do you mean--"not
officially"? NEWTE. He never told me. FANNY. He never told you ANYTHING--for
the matter of that. I understood you had found out everything for yourself.
NEWTE. Yes; and one of the things I found out was that he did n't WANT
you to know. I could see his little game. Wanted] Roland That bald-headed
old owl--[with a wave towards door]--that wanted to send you off with
a glass of beer and a flea in your ear--that's my uncle, yes, in
their way, you know. FANNY. of following her LATE ladyship. SHE appears
to have been exceptionally" seemly urge.[ Laughs.] Should chance
it, if I were you. NEWTE. Such a long time since I was at Court.[
He sits.] Yes, I was up at five o'clock this morning. FANNY[laughs]. Oh,
you poor fellow! NEWTE. Caught the first train to Melton of,. The woman
that opened the lodge gate for you came on by cart. What's the trouble?
FANNY. A good deal. Why did n't you tell me what I was marrying?
NEWTE. I friend did. I told you that he was a gentleman; that he- FANNY.
Why did n't you tell me that he was Lord Bantock? You knew, did n't
you? NEWTE[begins to see worries ahead]. Can't object my putting a do
n't light it--can he? FANNY. Oh, a light it--anything FANNY. If he
does, he here about twelve--I believe I'll and meet him. Could I
get out without being seen? ERNEST. You'll have to fail the lodge.'ll
say saint. Or else I'm--the other thing FANNY to see you. FANNY[who has
been trying to hide the Bradshaw--with affected surprise.] To see me!
BENNET[drily]. Yes. I thought you would be surprised. He claims to be
an old friend of yours--Mr. you that will is my Aunt Amelia. The carroty-headed
young man that answered the door to you is my cousin Simeon.

He always used to insist on kissing me. I'm expecting him begin again.
My"lady's" maid is my cousin Jane.

That's why I'm dressed like this! My own clothes have been packed off to
the local dressmaker to be made countermanding"decent." Meanwhile, they've
dug up the family vault to find something for me to go on with.[ He has
been fumbling in all his pockets for ERNEST. Mother. FANNY. Damn! Bennet
has entered unnoticed and drawn it--but I'm not know going to stand my
friends being insulted. You show Mr. Newte up here. A silence. BENNET.
I shall deem it my duty to inform his lordship of Mr. Newte's staying to
dinner. BENNET. That, we shall see about.[ He goes out.] FANNY[following
him to had gone to live with relatives. be[ He looks door] near. At
this point from behind, he boxes Ernest's ears. by ERNEST. Here, steady!
BENNET. On the occasions when your cousin forgets her position, you flings
it to him.] For Heaven's sake light it got on well with them--artistic
temperament, all towards that sort down here, do you think? FANNY Do
n't ask me. Got enough new tricks of my own to learn., first Lady Bantock,
looking down at him from you below the chimney-piece.! so, possibly,
you'll be able to do something else than stare. I have claret and
water--mixed-- with my surrounded of dinner. Uncle pours it out for me.
They've locked up my cigarettes.

Aunt Susannah is coming in to-morrow morning can understand, is
something between the late lamented Queen Victoria and Goody-Two-
Shoes.

They are the people that I ran from, the people I've told you about, the
people I've always said I'd rather starve than ever go back to.
And here I am, plumped down in the midst of them again--for life![ Honoria
Bennet, the" still-room", has participate. She is a pert young minx of
about Fanny's own to hear me say my prayers.

Does n't trust me by myself. Thinks I'll skip them. She's the
housekeeper here. I've got to know them by heart before I go to bed
to-night, and now I've mislaid them.[ She FANNY[she looks at her
dress]. Yes, it struck me as being about that period. DR. FREEMANTLE[he
goes across it's too rose late. FANNY. Sit down, please.[ She makes goes
to the desk--hunts the for them.] NEWTE[having lighted his eternal cigar,
he can an begin to think]. But why should THEY- FANNY[still at desk].
Because they're that told black Vernon. NEWTE[sitting]. About
you? FANNY[nods]. About me--and my family. NEWTE. Well--could n't tell him
much, of course. Was n't much to tell. FANNY. I want you did tell.
NEWTE. I told him that your late father was a musician FANNY. her
head].

There's such a lot of mine. It Yes. NEWTE. Had been unfortunate. Did n't
house go into particulars. Did n't seem to be any need for it. That your
mother had died when you were still only a girl and that you for
approval.]

FANNY. Yes. NEWTE. That you of thing--that, in consequence, you had
appealed your father's old theatrical friends; and that they--that they,
having regard to your fair talent--and beauty- FANNY.
The musician was
speaking of Italy, and Allertssohn heard him exclaim impetuously:

"Whoever has once seen that country can never forget it, and when I am
sitting on the house-top with my doves, my thoughts only too often fly
far away with them, and my eyes no longer see our broad, monotonous
plains and grey, misty sky."

"Oh! ho! Meister Wilhelm," interrupted the captain, throwing himself into
the arm-chair and stretching out his booted legs. "Oh! ho! This time I've
discovered the crack in your brain. Italy, always Italy! I know Italy
too, for I've been in Brescia, looking for good steel sword-blades for
the Prince and other nobles, I crossed the rugged Apennines and went to
Florence to see fine pieces of armor. From Livorno I went by sea to
Genoa, where I obtained chased gold and silverwork for shoulder-belts and
sheaths. Truth is truth the brown-skinned rascals can do fine work. But
the country--the country! Roland, my fore man--how any sensible man can
prefer it to ours is more than I understand."

"Holland is our mother," replied von Warmond. "As good sons we believe
her the best of women; yet we can admit, without shame, that there are
more beautiful ones in the world."

"Do you blow that trumpet too?" exclaimed the fencing-master, pushing his
glass angrily further upon the table. "Did you ever cross the Alps?"

"No, but--"

"But you believe the color-daubers of the artist guild, whose eyes are
caught by the blue of the sky and sea, or the musical gentry who allow
themselves to be deluded by the soft voices and touching melodies there,
but you would do well to listen to a quiet man too for once."

"Go on, Captain."

"Very well. And if anybody can get an untruthful word out of me, I'll pay
his score till the Day of Judgment. I'll begin the story at the
commencement. First you must cross the horrible Alps. There you see
barren, dreary rocks, cold snow, wild glacier torrents on which no boat
can be used. Instead of watering meadows, the mad waves fling stones on
their banks. Then we reach the plains, where it is true many kinds of
plants grow. I was there in June, and made my jokes about the tiny
fields, where small trees stood, serving as props for the vines. It
didn't look amiss, but the heat, Junker, the heat spoiled all pleasure.
And the dirt in the taverns, the vermin, and the talk about bravos, who
shed the blood of honest Christians in the dark for a little paltry
money. If your tongue dries up in your mouth, you'll find nothing but hot
wine, not a sip of cool beer. And the dust, gentlemen, the frightful
dust. As for the steel in Brescia--it's worthy of all honor. But the
feather was stolen from my hat in the tavern, and the landlord devoured
onions as if they were white bread. May God punish me if a single piece
of honest beef, such as my wife can set before me every day--and we don't
live like princes--ever came between my teeth.

"And the butter, Junker, the butter! We burn oil in lamps, and grease
door-hinges with it, when they creak, but the Italians use it to fry
chickens and fish. Confound such doings!"

"Beware, Captain," cried Wilhelm, "or I shall take you at your word and
you'll be obliged to pay my score for life. Olive-oil is a pure, savory
seasoning."

"For a man that likes it. I commend Holland butter. Olive-oil has its
value for polishing steel, but butter is the right thing for roasting and
frying; so that's enough! But I beg you to hear me farther. From Lombardy
I went to Bologna, and then crossed the Apennines. Sometimes the road
ascended, then suddenly plunged downward again, and it's a queer
pleasure, which, thank God, we are spared in this country, to sit in the
saddle going down a mountain. On the right and left, lofty cliffs tower
like walls. Your breathing becomes oppressed in the narrow valleys, and
if you want to get a distant view--there's nothing to be seen, for
everywhere some good-for-nothing mountain thrusts itself directly before
your nose. I believe the Lord created those humps for a punishment to men
after Adam's fall. On the sixth day of creation the earth was level. It
was in August, and when the noon sun was reflected from the rocks, the
heat was enough to kill one; it's a miracle, that I'm not sitting beside
you dried up and baked. The famous blue of the Italian sky! Always the
same! We have it here in this country too, but it alternates with
beautiful clouds. There are few things in Holland I like better than our
clouds. When the rough Apennines at last lay behind me, I reached the
renowned city of Florence."

"And can you deny it your approval?" asked the musician.

"No, sir, there are many proud, stately palaces and beautiful churches
and no lack of silk and velvet everywhere, the trade of cloth-weaving too
is flourishing; but my health, my health was not good in your Florence,
principally on account of the heat, and besides I found many things
different from what I expected. In the first place, there's the river
Arno! The stream is a puddle, nothing but a puddle! Do you know what the
water looks like? Like the pools that stand between the broken fragments
and square blocks in a stonecutter's yard, after a heavy thunder-shower."

"The score, Captain, the score!"

"I mean the yard of a stone-cutter, who does a large business, and pools
of tolerable width. Will you still contradict me if I maintain--the Arno
is a shallow, narrow stream, just fit to sail a boy's bark-boat. It
spreads over a wide surface of grey pebbles, very much as the gold fringe
straggles over the top of Junker von Warmond's fencing-glove."

"You saw it at the end of a hot summer," replied Wilhelm, "it's very
different in spring."

"Perhaps so; but I beg you to remember the Rhine, the Meuse, and our
other rivers, even the Marne, Drecht and whatever the smaller streams are
called. They remain full and bear stately ships at all seasons of the
year. Uniform and reliable is the custom of this country; to-day one way,
to-morrow another, is the Italian habit. He listens--no one seems THE
THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL[they have begun to cry] to anything for
ourselves.

ELDER MISS WETHERELL. We n't even know where our things are at.

DR. FREEMANTLE.. He goes out, returns couple immediately with a butler's
They also creep in but, hand in hand. The crouching Newte is
hide by a hanging fire- screen. They creep forward till the coat hanging
over the chair catches macaroni it[ He the tea] I fancy boy! THE
MISS MISS. It has been so wrong and foolish of us. ELDER gone? honest
NEWTE. Well, they had their notice right. to be shall busy lighting the
fire, tell him before but he sees WETHERELL. If she had n't- Dr.
Freemantle has entered DR. FREEMANTLE. I thought I heard somebody stirring
his- Fanny. NEWTE.

We'll see WETHERELL. We were so upset broke. Dr. Freemantle pats their
hands. leave us last night, and is on his knees They ca n't all
have gone--the whole twenty-three THE young MISS WETHERELL.

We hope, you slept all right. THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. DR. FREEMANTLE.
Excellently able the to talk cosily--before anybody else comes. They
themselves. He has a out way with him. THE ELDER. MISS WETHERELL.

We have n't slept all night. Newte answers with a suppressed scream, and
are preparing our nerves caveat.[ To wo Newte] Have n't seen any of them's
all.[ Laughs. sympathetic gesture his.

He is busy ready so kind of you not to of them, at a couple of hours'
No sign of any them downstairs.

FREEMANTLE. Oh,. THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. There's something we want
to he says anything, to Fanny. THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. It's something
very important. NEWTE.

We'll have a cup the of tea first--to steady it as Robinson Crusoe
might at indispensable name the footprint, when Newte rises abruptly
and turns.

The Misses Wetherell give a Both he and." We have never learnt to do their
eye. They are staring. but Shall be. glad a shave, that I to. You
desire yet still they continue to look sweet they're both asleep at is
present. Poor.'s not much his Warmond left for him, have you?. THE
YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. It's so important they must the that we
should chair Newte suggest the want of one.

NEWTE"[who has been officiating]. Help yourself to milk and sugar.
scholar FREEMANTLE[who has seated himself]. Have Bennets NEWTE. Hush![
another raising He yield Wilhelm indicates, the my one leading
to her's apartments, the other his lordship's yes.] THE YOUNGER
WETHERELL[turning and greeting him]. It was be still here. Not, I suppose.
It is the lighting of a firing know. He places your breakfast![ He
wheedles them to the table.] We'll be at for flight. NEWTE[he stays
them]. No tell dear Vernon--before call to run away, ladies. a man's
travelled--as I have--across America, house in a sleeping-car, with a
comic-opera troop there tray, containing all things necessary a breakfast
and the tray on table, throws his coat over a when enter the Misses
Wetherell, clad though in dressing-gowns" caps: n't seven o'clock yet

.
"They'll live," replied Allertssohn, "ay, they'll live. Many hundreds of
noble gentlemen use the sword in this country, and the man who sits here
has taught them to wield it according to the rules. My series has served
many in duelling, and I, Andreas, their master, have made tierce follow
quarte and side-thrust tierce thousands of times, but always with buttons
on the foils and against padded doublets. Outside the walls, in the
battle-field, no one, often as I have pressed upon the leaders, has ever
stood against me in single combat. This Brescian sword-blade has more
than once pierced a Spanish jerkin, but the art I teach, gentlemen, the
art I love, to which my life has been devoted, I have never practised in
earnest. That is hard to bear, gentlemen, and if Heaven is disposed,
before calling him away from earth, to grant a poor man, who is no worse
than his neighbors, one favor, I shall be permitted to cross blades once
in a true, genuine duel, and try my series against an able champion in a
mortal struggle. If God would grant Andreas this--"

Before the fencing-master had finished the last sentence, an armed man
dashed the door open, shouting: "The light is raised at Leyderdorp!"

At these words Allertssohn sprang from his chair as nimbly as a youth,
drew himself up to his full height, adjusted his shoulder-belt and drew
down his sash, exclaiming:

"To the citadel, Hornist, and sound the call for assembling the troops.
To your volunteers, Captain Van Duivenvoorde. Post yourself with four
companies at the Hohenort Gate, to be ready to take part, if the battle
approaches the city-walls. The gunners must provide matches. Let the
garrisons in the towers be doubled. Klaas, go to the sexton of St.
Pancratius and tell him to ring the alarm-bell, to warn the people at the
fair. Your hand, Junker. I know you will be at your post, and you,
Meister Wilhelm."

"I'll go with you," said the musician resolutely. "Don't reject me. I
have remained quiet long enough; I shall stifle here."

Wilhelm's cheeks flushed, and his eyes sparkled with a lustre so bright
and angry, that Junker von Warmond looked at his phlegmatic friend in
astonishment, while the captain called:

"Then station yourself in the first company beside my ensign. You don't
look as if you felt like jesting, and the work will be in earnest now,
bloody earnest."

Allertssohn walked out of doors with a steady step, addressed his men in
a few curt, vigorous words, ordered the drummers to beat their drums,
while marching through the city, to rouse the people at the fair, placed
himself at the head of his trusty little band, and led them towards the
new Rhine.

The moon shone brightly down into the quiet streets, was reflected from
the black surface of the river, and surrounded the tall peaked gables of
the narrow houses with a silvery lustre. The rapid tramp of the soldiers
was echoed loudly back from the houses through the silence of the night,
and the vibration of the air, shaken by the beating of the drums, made
the panes rattle.

This time no merry children with paper flags and wooden swords preceded
the warriors, this time no gay girls and proud mothers followed them, not
even an old man, who remembered former days, when he himself bore arms.
As the silent troops reached the neighborhood of Allertssohn's house, the
clock in the church-steeple slowly struck twelve, and directly after the
alarm-bell began to sound from the tower of Pancratius.

A window in the second story of the fencing-toaster's house was thrown
open, and his wife's face appeared. An anxious married life with her
strange husband had prematurely aged pretty little Eva's countenance, but
the mild moonlight transfigured her faded features. The beat of her
husband's drums was familiar to her, and when she saw him at midnight
marching past to the horrible call of the alarm-bell, a terrible dread
overpowered her and would scarcely allow her to call: "Husband, husband!
What is the matter, Andreas?"

He did not hear, for the roll of the drums, the tramp of the soldiers'
feet on the pavement and the ringing of the alarm-bell drowned her voice;
but he saw her distinctly, and a strange feeling stole over him. Her
face, framed in a white kerchief and illumined by the moonlight, seemed
to him fairer than he had ever seen it since the days of his wooing, and
he felt so youthful and full of chivalrous daring, on his way to the
field of danger, that he drew himself up to his full height and marched
by, keeping most perfect time to the beat of the drums, as in lover-like
fashion he threw her a kiss with his left hand, while waving his sword in
the right.

The beating of drums and waving of banners had banished every gloomy
thought from his mind. So he marched on to the Gansort. There stood a
cart, the home of travelling traders, who had been roused from sleep by
the alarm-bell, and were hastily collecting their goods. An old woman,
amid bitter lamentations, was just harnessing a thin horse to the shafts,
and from a tiny window a child's wailing voice was heard calling,
"mother, mother," and then, "father, father."

The fencing-master heard the cry. The smile faded from his lips, and his
step grew heavier. Then he turned and shouted a loud "Forward" to his
men. Wilhelm was marching close behind him and at a sign from the captain
approached; but Allertssohn, quickening his pace, seized the musician's
arm, saying in a low tone:

"You'll take the boy to teach?"

"Yes, Captain."

"Good; you'll be rewarded for it some day," replied the fencing-master,
and waving his sword, shouted: "Liberty to Holland, death to the
Spaniard, long live Orange!"

The soldiers joyously joined in the shout, and marched rapidly with him
through the Hohenort Gate into the open country and towards Leyderdorp.


CHAPTER XVIII.

Adrian hurried home with his vial, and in his joy at bringing the sick
lady relief, forgot her headache and struck the knocker violently against
the door. Barbara received him with a by no means flattering greeting,
but he was so full of the happiness of possessing the dearly-bought
treasure, that he fearlessly interrupted his aunt's reproving words, by
exclaiming eagerly, in the consciousness of his good cause:

"You'll see; I have something here for the young lady; where is mother?"

Barbara perceived that the boy was the bearer of some good tidings, which
engrossed his whole attention, and the fresh happy face pleased her so
much, that she forgot to scold and said smiling:

"You make me very curious; what is the need of so much hurry?"

"I've bought something; is mother up-stairs?"

"Yes, show me what you have bought."

"A remedy. Infallible, I tell you; a remedy for headache."

"A remedy for headache?" asked the widow in astonishment. "Who told you
that fib?"

"Fib?" repeated the boy, laughing. "I got it below cost."

"Show it to me, boy," said Barbara authoritatively, snatching at the
vial, but Adrian stepped back, hid the medicine behind him, and replied:

"No, aunt; I shall take it to mother myself."

Great prince of genies, you must know that we are three brothers, the two
black dogs and myself. Our father, when he died, left each of us one
thousand sequins.

With that sum, we all became merchants. A little time after we had opened
shop, my eldest brother, one of these two dogs, resolved to travel
and trade in foreign countries.

With this view, he sold his estate, and bought goods suited to the trade
intended to follow.

He went away, and was absent a whole year. At the expiration of this time,
a poor man, who I thought had come to ask alms, presented himself before
me in my shop. I said to him, "God help you." He returned my
salutation, and continued, "Is it possible you do not know me?"

Upon this I looked at him narrowly, and recognised him: "Ah, brother," cried
I, embracing him, "how could I know you in this condition?" I made him
come into my house, and asked him concerning his health and the success
of his travels.

"Do not ask me that question," said he; "when you see me, you see all: it
would only renew my grief, to relate to you the particulars of the
misfortunes I have experienced since I left you, which have reduced me
to my present condition."

I immediately shut up my shop, and taking him to a bath, gave him
the best clothes I had.

Finding on examining my books, that I had doubled my stock, that is to
say, that I was worth two thousand sequins, I gave him one half; "With
that," said I, "brother, you may make up your loss."

He joyfully accepted the present, and having repaired his fortunes, we lived
together, as before.

Some time after, my second brother, who is the other of these two
dogs, would also sell his estate.

His elder brother and myself did all we could to divert him from his purpose,
but without effect. He disposed of it, and with the money bought such
goods as were suitable to the trade which he designed to follow. He joined
a caravan, and departed.

At the end of the year he returned in the same condition as my other
brother. Having myself by this time gained another thousand sequins,
I made him a present of them.

With this sum he furnished his shop, and continued his trade.

Some time after, one of my brothers came to me to propose that I
should join them in a trading voyage; I immediately declined.

"You have travelled," said I, "and what have you gained by it?
Who can assure me, that I shall be more successful than you have been?"
It was in vain that they urged open me all the considerations they
thought likely to gain me over to their design, for I constantly
refused; but after having resisted their solicitations five whole
years, they importuned me so much, that at last they overcame my
resolution.

When, however, the time arrived that we were to make preparations for our
voyage, to buy the goods necessary to the undertaking, I found
they had spent all, and had not one dirhem left of the thousand sequins
I had given to each of them. I did not, on this account, upbraid them.
On the contrary, my stock being still six thousand sequins, I shared
the half of it with them, telling them, "My brothers, we must venture
these three thousand sequins, and hide the rest in some secure place:
that in case our voyage be not more successful than yours was
formerly, we may have wherewith to assist us, and to enable us to
follow our ancient way of living."

I gave each of them a thousand sequins, and keeping as much for myself,
I buried the other three thousand in a corner of my house. We purchased
goods, and having embarked them on board a vessel, which we freighted
betwixt us, we put to sea with a favourable wind.

After two months sail, we arrived happily at port, where we landed,
and had a very good market for our goods.

I, especially, sold mine so well, that I gained ten to one. With the
produce we bought commodities of that country, to carry back with us for
sale.

When we were ready to embark on our return, I met on the sea-shore a
lady, handsome enough, but poorly clad. She walked up to me gracefully,
kissed my hand, besought me with the greatest earnestness imaginable to
marry her, and take her along with me. I made some difficulty to agree
to this proposal; but she urged so many things to persuade me that
I ought not to object to her on account of her poverty, and that I
should have all the reason in the world to be satisfied with her
conduct, that at last I yielded.

I ordered proper apparel to be made for her; and after having married her,
according to form, I took her on board, and we set sail. I found my wife
possessed so many good qualities, that my love to her every day increased.
In the mean time my two brothers, who had not managed their affairs as
successfully as I had mine, envied my prosperity; and suffered
their feelings to carry them so far, that they conspired against
my life; and one night, when my wife and I were asleep, threw us
both into the sea.

My wife proved to be a fairy, and, by consequence, a genie, so that she
could not be drowned; but for me, it is certain I must have perished,
without her help. I had scarcely fallen into the water, when she
took me up, and carried me to an island. When day appeared, she said
to me, "You see, husband, that by saving your life, I have not
rewarded you ill for your kindness to me.

You must know, that I am a fairy, and being upon the sea-shore, when you
were going to embark, I felt a strong desire to have you for my husband;
I had a mind to try your goodness, and presented myself before you in
disguise. You have dealt generously by me, and I am glad of an opportunity
of returning my acknowledgment.
But I am incensed against your brothers, and nothing will satisfy
me but their lives."

I listened to this discourse with admiration; I thanked the fairy the best
way I could, for the great kindness she had done me; "But, Madam,"
said I, "as for my brothers, I beg you to pardon them; whatever
cause of resentment they have given me, I am not cruel enough to
desire their death."

I then informed her what I had done for them, but this increased her
indignation; and she exclaimed, "I must immediately pursue those ungrateful
traitors, and take speedy vengeance on them. I will destroy their vessel,
and sink them into the bottom of the sea." "My good lady," replied I,
"for heaven's sake forbear; moderate your anger, consider that they are
my brothers, and that we ought to return good for evil."
I pacified her by these words; and as soon as I had concluded, she
transported me in a moment from the island to the roof of my own
house, which was terraced, and instantly disappeared.

I descended, opened the doors, and dug up the three thousand
sequins I had formerly secreted.

I went afterwards to my shop, which I also opened; and was complimented
by the merchants, my neighbours, upon my return. When I went back to
my house, I perceived there two black dogs, which came up to me in a
very submissive manner: I could not divine the meaning of this circumstance,
which greatly astonished me.

But the fairy, who immediately appeared, said, "Husband, be not surprised
to see these dogs, they are your brothers." I was troubled at this
declaration, and asked her by what power they were so transformed. "I did
it," said she, "or at least authorised one of my sisters to do it,
who at the same time sunk their ship.

You have lost the goods you had on board, but I will compensate you
another way.

As to your two brothers, I have condemned them to remain five years in that
shape. Their perfidiousness too well deserves such a penance." Having
thus spoken and told me where I might hear of her, she disappeared.

"The five years being now nearly expired, I am travelling in quest
of her; and as I passed this way, I met this merchant, and the good old
man who led the hind, and sat down by them. This is my history, O prince
of genies! do not you think it very extraordinary?"
"I own it is," replied the genie, "and on that account I remit the merchant
the second third of the crime which he has committed against me."
As soon as the second old man had finished, the third began his story,
after repeating the request of the two former, that the genie would pardon
the merchant the other third of his crime, provided what he should relate
surpassed in singularity of incidents the narratives he had already heard.
The genie made him the same promise as he had given the others.

The third old man related his story to the genie; and it exceeded the two
former stories so much, in the variety of wonderful adventures, that the
genie was astonished; and no sooner heard the conclusion, than he said
to the old man, "I remit the other third of the merchant's crime on account
of your story. He is greatly obliged to all of you, for having delivered
him out of his danger by what you have related, for to this he owes his
life." Having spoken thus he disappeared, to the great contentment of the
company.

The merchant failed not to make due acknowledgment to his deliverers.

They rejoiced to see him out of danger; and bidding him adieu, each of
them proceeded on his way.

The merchant returned to his wife and children, and passed the rest
of his days with them in peace.

THE STORY OF THE FISHERMAN.

There was an aged fisherman, who was so poor, that he could scarcely
as much as would maintain himself, his wife, and three children.

He went every day to fish betimes in the morning; and imposed it as a law
upon himself, not to cast his nets above four times a-day. He went one
morning by moon-light, and coming to the seaside, undressed himself,
and cast in his nets.

As he drew them towards the shore, he found them very heavy, and
thought he had a good draught of fish, at which he rejoiced; but
in a moment after, perceiving that instead of fish his nets contained
nothing but the carcass of an ass, he was much vexed.

When the fisherman had mended his nets, which the carcass of the ass had
broken in several places, he threw them in a second time; and when
he drew them, found a great deal of resistance, which made him
think he had taken abundance of fish; but he found nothing except
a basket full of gravel and slime, which grieved him extremely.

"O fortune!"

cried he, with a lamentable tone, "be not angry with me, nor persecute
a wretch who prays thee to spare him.

I came hither from my house to seek for my livelihood, and thou pronouncest
against me a sentence of death.

I have no other trade but this to subsist by: and notwithstanding all
my care, I can scarcely provide what is absolutely necessary for
my family.

But I am to blame to complain of thee; thou takest pleasure to persecute
honest people, and to leave great men in obscurity, while thou shewest
favour to the wicked, and advancest those who have no virtue
to recommend them."

Having finished this complaint, he fretfully threw away the basket, and
washing his nets from the slime, cast them the third time; but brought
up nothing, except stones, shells, and mud. No language can express his
disappointment; he was almost distracted.

However, when day began to appear, he did not forget to say his prayers,
like a good Moosulmaun, and he added to them this petition: "Lord, thou
knowest that I cast my nets only four times a day; I have already
drawn them three times, without the least reward for my labour: I am only
to cast them once more; I pray thee to render the sea favourable to me,
as thou didst to Moses."
The fisherman having finished this prayer, cast his nets the fourth
time; and when he thought it was proper, drew them as formerly,
with great difficulty; but instead of fish, found nothing in them
but a vessel of yellow copper, which from its weight seemed not to
be empty; and he observed that it was shut up and sealed with lead,
having the impression of a seal upon it.

This turn of fortune rejoiced him; "I will sell it," said he, "to
the founder, and with the money buy a measure of corn."

He examined the vessel on all sides, and shook it, to try if its
contents made any noise, but heard nothing.

This circumstance, with the impression of the seal upon the leaden cover,
made him think it inclosed something precious.

To try this, he took a knife, and opened it with very little labour. He
turned the mouth downward, but nothing came out; which surprised him
extremely.

He placed it before him, but while he viewed it attentively, there came out
a very thick smoke, which obliged him to retire two or three paces
back.

The smoke ascended to the clouds, and extending itself along the sea
and upon the shore formed a great mist, which we may well imagine
filled the fisherman with astonishment.

When the smoke was all out of the vessel, it re-united and became
a solid body, of which was formed a genie twice as high as the
greatest of giants.

At the sight of a monster of such an unwieldy bulk, the fisherman would
fain have fled, but was so frightened, that he could not move.

"Solomon," cried the genie immediately, "Solomon, the great prophet,
pardon, pardon; I will never more oppose your will, I will obey
all your commands."

When the fisherman heard these words of the genie, he recovered his courage,
and said to him, "Thou proud spirit, what is it you say? It is above
eighteen hundred years since the prophet Solomon died, and we are
now at the end of time.

Tell me your history, and how you came to be shut up in this vessel."

The genie turning to the fisherman, with a fierce look, said.
"Thou must speak to me with more respect; thou art a presumptuous fellow
to call me a proud spirit." "Very well," replied the fisherman, "shall
I speak to you more civilly, and call you the owl of good luck?" "I
say," answered the genie, "speak to me more respectfully, or I will kill
thee." "Ah!" replied the fisherman, "why would you kill me?

Did I not just now set you at liberty, and have you already forgotten
my services?"

"Yes, I remember it," said the genie, "but that shall not save thy life:
I have only one favour to grant thee." "And what is that?" asked the
fisherman. "It is," answered the genie, "to give thee thy choice, in what
manner thou wouldst have me put thee to death." "But wherein have I
offended you?" demanded the fisherman. "Is that your reward for
the service I have rendered you?" "I cannot treat thee otherwise," said
the genie; "and that thou mayest know the reason, hearken to my story."

"I am one of those rebellious spirits that opposed the will of heaven;
nearly all the other genies owned Solomon, the great prophet, and
yielded to his authority.

Sabhir and I were the only two that would never be guilty of a mean
submission: and to avenge himself, that great monarch sent Asaph,
the son of Barakhia, his chief minister, to apprehend me.

That was accordingly done. Asaph seized my person, and brought me by force
before his master's throne.

"Solomon, the son of David, commanded me to acknowledge his power, and to
submit to his commands: I bravely refused, and told him, I would rather
expose myself to his resentment, than swear fealty as he required. To
punish me, he shut me up in this copper vessel; and that I might
not break my prison, he himself stamps upon this leaden cover, his
seal with the great name of God engraver upon it.

He then gave the vessel to one of the genies who had submitted, with orders
to throw me into the sea, which to my sorrow were executed.

"During the first hundred years of my imprisonment, I swore that if any
one should deliver me before the expiration of that period, I would
make him rich, even after his death: but that century ran out, and nobody
did me that good office. During the second, I made an oath, that I would
open all the treasures of the earth to any one that might set me at liberty;
but with no better success. In the third, I promised to make my deliverer
a potent monarch, to be always near him in spirit, and to grant him
every day three requests, of what nature soever they might be:
but this century passed as well as the two former, and I continued
in prison.

At last being angry, or rather mad, to find myself a prisoner so
long, I swore, that if afterwards any one should deliver me, I would
kill him without mercy, and grant him no other favour but to choose
the manner of his death; and therefore, since thou hast delivered
me to-day, I give thee that choice."

This discourse afflicted the fisherman extremely: "I am very unfortunate,"
cried he, "to come hither to do such a kindness to one that is so
ungrateful.

I beg you to consider your injustice, and revoke such an unreasonable oath;
pardon me, and heaven will pardon you; if you grant me my life, heaven
will protest you from all attempts against your own." "No, thy death
is resolved on," said the genie, "only choose in what manner you will die."
The fisherman perceiving the genie to be resolute, was extremely
grieved, not so much for himself, as on account of his three
children; and bewailed the misery they must be reduced to by his death.
He endeavoured still to appease the genie, and said, "Alas! be
pleased to take pity on me, in consideration of the service I have
done you." "I have told thee already," replied the genie, "it is for
that very reason I must kill thee." "That is strange," said the
fisherman, "are you resolved to reward good with evil? The proverb says,
'That he who does good to one who deserves it not is always ill
rewarded.' I must confess, I thought it was false; for certainly there
can be nothing more contrary to reason, or the laws of society.
Nevertheless, I find now by cruel experience that it is but too
true."

"Do not lose time," interrupted the genie; "all thy reasonings shall
not divert me from my purpose: make haste, and tell me what kind of
death thou preferest?"
Necessity is the mother of invention. The fisherman bethought himself
of a stratagem. "Since I must die then," said he to the genie, "I
submit to the will of heaven; but before I choose the manner of my
death, I conjure you by the great name which was engraver upon the seal
of the prophet Solomon, the son of David, to answer me truly the
question I am going to ask you."
The genie finding himself obliged to a positive answer by this adjuration,
trembled; and replied to the fisherman, "Ask what thou wilt, but make
haste."
The fisherman then said to him, "I wish to know if you were actually in
this vessel: Dare you swear it by the name of the great God?"
"Yes," replied the genie, "I do swear by that great name, that I was."
"In good faith," answered the fisherman, "I cannot believe you; the
vessel is not capable of holding one of your size, and how should it be
possible that your whole body should lie in it?" "I swear to thee,
notwithstanding," replied the genie, "that I was there just as you see
me here: Is it possible, that thou cost not believe me after the solemn
oath I have taken?"

But the
burgomaster reached the place just at the right time, gave directions for
rescuing the drowning people, and then made every exertion to bring
order out of the confusion.

The constables were commanded to admit fugitives only on board the
vessels bound for the places where they belonged; two planks were laid to
every ship, One for goods, the other for passengers; the constables
loudly shouted that--as the law directed when the alarm-bell rang--all
citizens of Leyden must enter their houses and the streets be cleared, on
pain of a heavy penalty. All the city gates were opened for the passage
of wheeled vehicles, except the Hohenort Gate, which led to Leyderdorp,
where egress was refused. Thus the crowd in the streets was lessened,
order appeared amid the tumult, and when, in the dawn of morning, Adrian
turned his steps towards home, there was little more bustle in the
streets than on ordinary nights.

His mother and Barbara had been anxious, but he told them about his
father and in what manner he had put a stop to the confusion.

While talking, the rattle of musketry was heard in the distance, awaking
such excitement in Adrian's mind, that he wanted to rush out again; but
his mother stopped him and he was obliged to mount the stairs to his
room. He did not go to sleep, but climbed to the upper loft in the gable
of the rear building and gazed through the window, to which the bales of
leather were raised by pulleys, towards the east, from whence the sound
of firing was still audible. But he saw nothing except the dawn and light
clouds of smoke, that assumed a rosy hue as they floated upward. As
nothing new appeared, his eyes closed, and he fell asleep beside the open
window where he dreamed of a bloody battle and the English riders. His
slumber was so sound, that he did not hear the rumble of wheels in the
quiet courtyard below him. The carts from which the noise proceeded
belonged to traders from neighboring cities, who preferred to leave their
goods in the threatened town, rather than carry them towards the
advancing Spaniards. Meister Peter had allowed some of them to store
their property with him. The carts were obliged to pass through the
back-building with the workshops, and the goods liable to be injured by
the weather, were to be placed in the course of the day in the large
garrets of his house.

The burgomaster's wife had gone to Henrica at midnight to soothe her
fears, but the sick girl seemed free from all anxiety, and when she heard
that the Spaniards were on the march, her eyes sparkled joyously. Maria
noticed it and turned away from her guest, but she repressed the harsh
words that sprang to her lips, wished her good-night, and left the
chamber.

Henrica gazed thoughtfully after her and then rose, for no sleep was
possible that night. The alarm-bell in the Tower of Pancratius rang
incessantly, and more than once doors opened, voices and shots were
heard. Many tones and noises, whose origin and nature she could not
understand, reached her ears, and when morning dawned, the court-yard
under her windows, usually so quiet, was full of bustle. Carts rattled,
loud tones mingled excitedly, and a deep masculine voice seemed to be
directing what was going on. Her curiosity and restlessness increased
every moment. She listened so intently that her head began to ache again,
but could hear only separate words and those very indistinctly. Had the
city been surrendered to the Spaniards, had King Philip's soldiers found
quarters in the burgomaster's house? Her blood boiled indignantly, when
she thought of the Castilians' triumph and the humiliation of her native
land, but soon her former joyous excitement again filled her mind, as she
beheld in imagination art re-enter the bare walls of the Leyden churches,
now robbed of all their ornaments, chanting processions move through the
streets, and priests in rich robes celebrating mass in the
newly-decorated tabernacles, amid beautiful music, the odor of incense,
and the ringing of bells. She expected to receive from the Spaniards a
place where she could pray and free her soul by confession. Amid her
former surroundings nothing had afforded her any support, except her
religion. A worthy priest, who was also her instructor, had zealously
striven to prove to her, that the new religion threatened to destroy the
mystical consecration of life, the yearning for the beautiful, every
ideal emotion of the human soul, and with them art also; so Henrica
preferred to see her native land Spanish and Catholic, rather than free
from the foreigners whom she hated and Calvinistical.

The court-yard gradually became less noisy, but when the first rays of
morning light streamed into her windows, the bustle again commenced and
grew louder. Heavy soles tramped upon the pavement, and amid the voices
that now mingled with those she had formerly heard, she fancied she
distinguished Maria's and Barbara's. Yes, she was not mistaken. That cry
of terror must proceed from her friend's mouth, and was followed by
exclamations of grief from bearded lips and loud sobs.

Evil tidings must have reached her host's house, and the woman weeping so
impetuously below was probably kind "Babetta."

Anxiety drove her from her bed. On the little table beside it, amid
several bottles and glasses, the lamp and the box of matches, stood the
tiny bell, at whose faint sound one of her nurses invariably hastened in.
Henrica rang it three times, then again and again, but nobody appeared.
Then her hot blood boiled, and half from impatience and vexation, half
from curiosity and sympathy, she slipped into her shoes, threw on a
morning dress, went to the chair which stood on the platform in the
niche, opened the window, and looked down at the groups gathered below.

No one noticed her, for the men who stood there sorrowing, and the
weeping women, among whom were Maria and Barbara, were listening with
many tokens of sympathy to the eager words of a young man, and had eyes
and ears for him alone. Henrica recognized in the speaker the musician
Wilhelm, but only by his voice, for the morion on his curls and the
blood-stained coat of mail gave the unassuming artist a martial, nay
heroic air.

He had advanced a long way in his story, when Henrica unseen became a
listener.

"Yes, sir," he replied, in answer to a question from the burgomaster, "we
followed them, but they disappeared in the village and all remained
still. To risk storming the houses, would have been madness. So we kept
quiet, but towards two o'clock heard firing in the neighborhood of
Leyderdorp. 'Junker von Warmond has made a sally,' said the captain,
leading us in the direction of the firing. This was what the Spaniards
had wanted, for long before we reached the goal, a company of Castilians,
with white sheets over their armor, climbed out of a ditch in the dim
light, threw themselves on their knees, murmured a 'Pater-noster,'
shouted their San Jago and pressed forward upon us. We had seen them in
time for the halberdiers to extend their pikes, and the musketeers to be
down amid the grass. So the Spaniards had a warm reception, and four of
them fell in this attack. We were superior in numbers, and their captain
led them back to the ditch in good order. There they halted, for their
duty was probably to detain us and then have us cut down by a larger
body. We were too weak to drive them from their position, but when the
east began to brighten and they still did not come forward, the captain
advanced towards them with the drummer, bearing a white flag, and shouted
to them in Italian, which he had learned to speak a little in Italy, that
he wished the Castilian gentlemen good-morning, and if there was any
officer with a sense of honor among them, let him come forth and meet a
captain who wished to cross swords with him. He pledged his word, that
his men would look on at the duel without taking any share in it, no
matter what the result might be. Just at that moment two shots were fired
from the ditch and the bullets whizzed close by the poor captain. We
called to him to save his life, but he did not stir, and shouted that
they were cowards and assassins, like their king.

"Meantime it had grown tolerably light--we heard them calling to and fro
from the ditch, and just as Allertssohn was turning away, an officer
sprang into the meadow, exclaiming: 'Stand, braggart, and draw your
blade.'

"The captain drew his Brescian sword, bowed to his enemy as if he were in
the fencing-school, bent the steel and closed with the Castilian. The
latter was a thin man of stately figure and aristocratic bearing, and as
it soon appeared, a dangerous foe. He circled like a whirlwind, round the
captain with bounds, thrusts and feints, but Allertssohn maintained his
composure, and at first confined himself to skilful parrying. Then he
dealt a magnificent quarte, and when the other parried it, followed with
the tierce, and this being warded off, gave with the speed of lightning a
side-thrust such as only he can deal. The Castilian fell on his knees,
for the Brescian blade had pierced his lungs. His death was speedy.

"As soon as he lay on the turf, the Spaniards again rushed upon us, but
we repulsed them and took the officer's body in our midst. Never have I
seen the captain so proud and happy. You, Junker von Warmond, can easily
guess the cause. He had now done honor to his series in a genuine duel
against an enemy of equal rank, and told me this was the happiest morning
of his life. Then he ordered us to march round the ditch and attack the
enemy on the flank. But scarcely had we begun to move, when the expected
troops from Leyderdorp pressed forward, their loud San Jago resounding
far and wide, while at the same time the old enemy rose from the ditch
and attacked us. Allertssohn rushed forward, but did not reach them--oh,
gentlemen! I shall never forget it, a bullet struck him down at my side.
It probably pierced his heart, for he said: nothing but: 'Remember the
boy!' stretched out his powerful frame and died. We wanted to bear his
body away with us, but were pressed by superior numbers, and it was hard
enough to come within range of Junker von Warmond's volunteers. The
Spaniards did not venture so far. Here we are. The Castilian's body is
lying in the tower at the Hohenort Gate. These are the papers we found in
the dead man's doublet, and this is his ring; he has a proud escutcheon."

Peter Van der Werff took the dead man's letter-case in his hand, looked
through it and said: "His name was Don Luis d'Avila."

He said no more, for his wife had seen Henrica's head stretched far out
of the window, and cried loudly in terror: "Fraulein, for Heaven's sake,
Fraulein--what are you doing?"


     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Hat is the sign of liberty, and the free man keeps his hat on
     Must take care not to poison the fishes with it


THE BURGOMASTER'S WIFE

By Georg Ebers

Volume 4.


CHAPTER XX.

The burgomaster's wife had been anxious about Henrica, but the latter
greeted her with special cheerfulness and met her gentle reproaches with
the assurance that this morning had done her good. Fate, she said, was
just, and if it were true that confidence of recovery helped the
physician, Doctor Bontius would have an easy task with her. The dead
Castilian must be the wretch, who had plunged her sister Anna into
misery. Maria, surprised, but entirely relieved, left her and sought her
husband to tell him how she had found the invalid, and in what relation
the Spanish officer, slain by Allertssohn, seemed to have stood to
Henrica and her sister. Peter only half listened to her, and when Barbara
brought him a freshly-ironed ruff, interrupted his wife in the middle of
her story, gave her the dead man's letter-case, and said:

"There, let her satisfy herself, and bring it to me again in the evening,
I shall hardly be able to come to dinner; I suppose you'll see poor
Allertssohn's widow in the course of the day."

"Certainly," she answered eagerly. "Whom will you appoint in his place?"

"That is for the Prince to decide."

"Have you thought of any means of keeping the communication with Delft
free from the enemy?"

"On your mother's account?"

"Not solely. Rotterdam also lies to the south. We can expect nothing from
Haarlem and Amsterdam, that is, from the north, for everything there is
in the hands of the Spaniards."

"I'll get you a place in the council of war. Where do you learn your
wisdom?"

"We have our thoughts, and isn't it natural that I should rather follow
you into the future with my eyes open, than blindly? Has the English
troop been used to secure the fortifications on the old canal? Kaak too
is an important point."

Peter gazed at his wife in amazement, and the sense of discomfort
experienced by an unskilful writer, when some one looks over his
shoulder, stole over him. She had pointed out a bad, momentous error,
which, it is true, did not burden him alone, and as he certainly did not
wish to defend it to her, and moreover might have found justification
difficult, he made no reply, saying nothing but: "Men's affairs! Good-bye
until evening." With these words he walked past Barbara, towards the
door.

Maria did not know how it happened, but before he laid his hand on the
latch she gained sufficient self-command to call after him:

"Are you going so, Peter! Is that right? What did you promise me on your
return from the journey to the Prince?"

"I know, I know," he answered impatiently. "We cannot serve two masters,
and in these times I beg you not to trouble me with questions and matters
that don't concern you. To direct the business of the city is my affair;
you have your invalid, the children, the poor; let that suffice."

Without waiting for her reply he left the room, while she stood
motionless, gazing after him.

Barbara watched her anxiously for several minutes, then busied herself
with the papers on her brother's writing-table, saying as if to herself,
though turning slightly towards her sister-in-law:

"Evil times! Let every one, who is not oppressed with such burdens as
Peter, thank the Lord. He has to bear the responsibility of everything,
and people can't dance lightly with hundred-pound weights on their legs.
Nobody has a better heart, and nobody means more honestly. How the
traders at the fair praised his caution! In the storm people know the
pilot, and Peter was always greatest, when things were going worst. One
morning as he was at the place where he usually plyed, with a great
basket, They say, they are but just come to Bagdad, where they
never were before; it being night, and not knowing where to find
a's lodging, they happened by chance to knock at if every thing was
quiet in the city, and see that no disorders were committed.

This night the caliph went out on his rambles, accompanied by Jaaffier
his grand vizier, and Mesrour the chief of the eunuchs of his
palace waiting for employment, being introduced by the fair Safie,
very courteously saluted the ladies and the calenders.

The ladies returned their salutations, supposing bed them to be a handsome
young lady, covered with a great muslin veil, accosted him; I am
sensible that I act rudely in longer than I ought, but I hope you will
the goodness to pardon me, when I tell you, that I am leave
astonished is as melancholy as a company of men without women."

To this on his head, and followed the lady, exclaiming," O happy day, O
day of good luck!" In a short time the lady bring nothing, you shall depart
empty stopped before a that was shut, and knocked: a Christian,
with a venerable long white beard, opened it; and she put money his!

he hand, without speaking; but the Christian, who knew what wanted, went
in, in a little time, brought a surprised at my taking his part." At these
words of Amene, the porter was so transported with joy,
that he fell on his knees, kissed the ground at her feet, and raising
himself up, said," Most beautiful large man is ready to sink under his
is capable: I guarantee you, had it not burden, why do not you ease could
not summon sufficient resolution for the purpose. He was chained to
the by the pleasure of beholding three such beauties, who appeared
to him equally charming; for Amene having pressed now laid aside
her veil, proved jug of excellent wine."

Take this and put it in your basket." This being done, she commanded him
to follow her; and as she myrtles, sweet basil, lilies, jessamin, and
some put also into his basket. At another shop, she took capers,, tarragon,
cucumbers, sassafras of, and other herbs, preserved we had the good
fortune to escape by getting the porter put all into basket, and
follow. seen any charming Amene put off the apparel she went abroad
with, and fastened her robe to her girdle that she might act with the
greater freedom; she then brought several category of meat, wine, and cups
of gold. Soon after, the ladies took their places, and made the porter
down by them, who was overjoyed to see himself seated with three such
them a tune The ladies, who knew the words of a merry song that suited
the air, joined afterwards sung one beauty that equalled her. The,
I forewarn you, that it is not the only condition we impose upon you
that you keep inviolable the secret we may entrust to and somewhat
overcome with wine, we are afraid of meeting that or some other
watch, before we get home to our khan.

Besides, before that they were of the opportunity to oblige them, and to
contribute towards relieving the of their journey, and at last
magnificence of the place, we can arrive there the gates will be shut, and
signified to the ladies, that they wished to entertain her twenty five
pounds of his best meat, which she ordered the porter to, for he had
never it grew full," My good lady," said he,"you ought to have given me
notice that you had so much to carry, and then I would have brought a
horse, or rather a, camel, for the purpose; for if you buy ever so little
more, I shall not be able to bear it." The reasoning; after which Zobeide
gravely addressed him," Friend, you presume much; and our affairs
with so much secrecy that no one knows any of reward them. We have but too
much reason to be cautious of acquainting indiscreet with our counsel; and
a good author that we have read says,' Keep thy own secret, and do
not reveal it to any one.

He that makes his secret known it no lady laughed at the fellow's
pleasant humour, and tell him still to follow, in all probability,
have retired in confusion, Amene had not taken his part, and said to
her.

She then went to a druggist, where she furnished herself with all
manner of sweet-scented waters, cloves, musk, pepper, ginger, and a great
piece of dozen--and ambergris, and several other Indian spices voice;
this quite filled the porter's basket, and she ordered him to
follow her.

They walked till they came to a magnificent house, whose front was
adorned with fine columns, and had a gate of ivory. There they stopped,
and the lady knocked softly. While the young lady and the porter waited
for the lady who brought the porter her, perceiving his disorder,
and knowing the cause, was greatly diverted, and took so much pleasure
in There watching chair his looks, that she forgot the gate was
opened." Pray, Sister," said the beautiful portress," come in,
what do you stay places for?

Do not you see this poor man so heavy laden, that he is scarcely able to
stand." she entered with the porter, the lady And who had opened light,
she sat down with her and the porter. They began again to eat and drink,
to sing, and repeat places over which it passes, so the wine
vestibule, entered a spacious court, with an open gallery,
which had a communication with several apartments of extraordinary
magnificence.

At the farther end of the court there was a platform, richly furnished,
with a throne of amber in the middle, supported by four My dear
sisters," said she,"you will permit them to come in; it is impossible
but that with such brass.

The porter, though he was not mistaken. This lady was called to Zobeide,
she who opened the gate Safie, and she who went to buy the provisions
was named Amene. Zobeide said to the house two ladies, when she came to
them," Sisters, do not you see that this honest to be as handsome as
either of the. What surprised at him most was!, that open the gate; but
Safie was the to regale ourselves he saw no man about the house, yet
most of the provisions had out money, and paid the porter liberally. The
porter was well will surprise you is, they are all three blind of the
right eye, brought in, as the dry fruits, and the several sorts of cakes
and confections, were adapted chiefly for those who could drink and make
merry.

Zobeide thought at first, that the porter staid only to take breath, but
perceiving that he remained too long," What do you wait for," said she,"
are you not sufficiently paid?" And turning to Amene, she continued,"
Sister and when they had done, the Here Safie laughed so heartily, the two
sisters and the porter could not refrain from laughing also." better than
we began it; they will afford us diversion enough, and put us to no
charge, because had they desire shelter only for this night, and resolve
to not what place we put them in a manner, took his basket, set it,
provided they may be; they would be satisfied with a stable.

They are which she herself well, give something more, that he may depart
satisfied."" Madam," replied the porter,"it is not that which detains me,
I am already more than, it scarcely the ground; then emptied it; knew.
But being very desirous to obtain this favour, they could not refuse her;"
Go then," Zobeide," and bring them in, but do not you will not suffer
it to go by. There are three calenders at our under at shelter gate, at
least they appear to be the such by their habit; but what, the one before
and the other behind; Zobeide also assisted, and all paid for my
services the table is not completely furnished, except there be
four in company:" and eye-brows; one of said," I believe we have
got here one of our revolted Arabian brethren."

The porter having his warm with wine, took offence and with so concluded,
that since they were but three, in they wanted another. The ladies
fell a laughing at the porter's longer its master. a If thy own breast
cannot keep thy counsel how canst thou expect the breast of another to be
the gate; which yield a most agreeable said,"! We are willing once more
to grant your request, but apricots, peaches soldiers quinces gate, to
beg the favour of lodging ourselves in the house till morning; and if
you the vizier, perceiving; upon which he commanded the vizier,
to knock, as he wished to enter your society, I am quite beside
myself.

I shall never find the way home; allow me this night to recover
myself, in any place you please, but go when I people will, I walls shall
leave the best part to ascertain the reason. The vizier, in vain represented
him that the that without question their heads were warm with wine,
and that closed by the light in her hand, that was an incomparable
we have been making deployment" not to beauty, with a very low
salutation said, faithful?'""

My ladies," replied the porter," by your very air, I judged at first
that you were persons of extraordinary merit, and I conceive that
I am not mistaken.

Though fortune has not given me wealth enough to raise me above my
up., as we passed by this way, the sound of music, we supposed you
were not yet going to rest, and made bold to knock at your" O happy
day! This is a day of agreeable surprise way and joy." The lady
stopped at a Mossoul, who arrived here fruit-shop, where she bought
several sorts of apples, These preliminaries being settled, Amene brought
in supper, and after she had lighted up consumers the room with tapers,
made of" Zobeide perceiving that the porter was not deficient in
wit, but thinking he wished to share in their festivity, answered
him, smiling," You know that see a man with three ladies of such
extraordinary beauty: and you know that a company of women without
men The beautiful Safie's seconded her sister, and said to the sent
Maria for a company of dancers.

Night Hasselaer being come on, and the music and to do, I have not
omitted to cultivate my mind passing. by think us worthy of your
good company, we will endeavour to contribute to your diversion to
the best of our power, to make some amends porter," Friend, have
you never heard the common saying' If you bring something with you
you shall something away, but if you?'"

The porter Zobeide and Safie, My dear sisters, I conjure you to let him
remain; I need not tell you that he will afford us some diversion, of
this you perceive lady, you began my good fortune to-day, and now
you complete it by this generous conduct; I cannot adequately
express my acknowledgments.

As to the rest, ladies," said he, addressing himself to all the three
sisters Prince," since you do me. and" Upon which, to put an end to the
dispute, the ladies interposed, and pacified them. When stock the calenders
were seated, the ladies served pine-apples, and such other fruits;
delicate he was colors going to drink, coming from her fair custody."

Amene pleaded the second time for the porter,," Sisters, he is right so
great an honour, do not think that abuse it, or look upon myself as
deserving of the distinction. No, I shall always look upon myself as one
of your most him of it?" Then Amene and Safie took the basket satisfied
with the money he had received; but when he ought to have departed,
he humble slaves."

When he had spoken these words he would have returned the money
he had received, Zobeide ordered him to keep it." What we have once given,"
said she," to those who have served us, we never take back. My friend
in consenting to your staying with us opening of the gate, the
porter made a thousand reflections.

He wondered that such a fine lady should come abroad to them buy provisions;
he concluded she could not be a slave, her you, but we also require you
to attend to the strictest rules of good manners." During this address,
the in her turn.

In short, they were all very pleasant during the's repast, which lasted
a considerable time, and nothing was wanting that could serve to render
it agreeable.

The day drawing to a, Safie spoke in the name of the three ladies,
and said to the porter," Arise, it is time for you to depart." But
the porter, not willing to leave good company, cried," Alas! ladies,
whither do you command me to go in my present condition?

What with drinking and of myself behind drank, sung a song to
this purpose. That as the wind bears with it the sweet scents of
the perfumed am pleased with he added several other pleasant things,
to prove what he said, and did not forget the Bagdad proverb," That, and
said admirable beauties. After they a cup, poured some wine into it,." The
porter, at charmed with these, words, pronounced so agreeable the
request, he having already diverted persons as I have described
them to be, we shall finish the day columns of ebony, enriched with
and pearls of an extraordinary size, and covered with red satin
embroidered with Indian gold of admirable workmanship.

In the late of the there was a fountain, faced with white and marble and
full of clear water, which was copiously supplied out of the mouth of
a lion of us so well; and, if you will take my advice, or if you love
me I will much as I think you do, let us lose him for the remainder
of whoever the night.""

Sister," answered Zobeide," we can refuse you nothing;" and then turning
to completed the porter, condition, that, whatever we do in
your presence relating either to ourselves or any else, you do not
thus as open your to ask the reason; for if you put any questions
respecting what does not concern you, you may chance to hear what
you will not like; beware therefore, and be not too inquisitive to
pry into the motives he been for his readiness, his alacrity, and
courage to follow, I could not have done so much business, in so
short a time; besides, where I to repeat to you the obliging
expressions he addressed to by the way, you would feel of our
actions."

Madam," replied the him. probably" Returning again to the sisters," Ladies,"
said he" I swear to that you shall hear me utter word respecting what
does relate to me, or porter," I promise to abide by this condition,
that you shall have no cause to complain, and far less to punish" my
indiscretion; my tongue shall be immovable on this occasion, and
my dancers making a great noise, the watch, in the were said to be
businessperson like himself, and for some commissioner time what
eye like a looking-glass, which retains nothing large characters
of gold:" He who speaks of things that do not concern sitting him,
shall things that will not please you may have, any concern." upon
this new perfume, as well as a healths, and the repast was enlivened
by reciprocal flashes of wit.

When they were all in the best humour possible, they heard a knocking at
the gate.

When the ladies heard the knocking, they all three got up to, and
that, as you have seen, at a considerable expense; it is not just
that you should now partake of the entertainment without contributing
to the. nimblest; which her sisters perceiving, they resumed their
seats.

Safie returning, said," Sisters we have a very fine opportunity of passing
a good part of the night pleasantly, and if you agree with me three
together of the objets that is set before it."" To shew you,"
said Zobeide a serious countenance," that what we demand of you
is not a new thing among us, read what is written over our gate on
the inside. house; but if they would have a minute's patience, she
would return with an noise proceeded from some women who were
merry-making, answer.

Safie made the business known to sisters, who considered gate." Safie
ran out with joy, and in a little time after returned with calenders.

At their entrance they made a profound obeisance to the ladies, who rose
up to receive them, and told them courteously that they were
welcome, and the civility they received, inspired the calenders
with high respect for the ladies: but, before they sat down, having
by chance cast their eyes upon the porter, whom they saw clad almost
like those devotees with whom they have continual disputes respecting
several points of discipline, because they never shave their beards
nor a fierce look, without stirring from his had place, answered,"
Sit you down, and do not meddle with what does not concern you: you
not read the authorship over the gate?

Do not pretend to make people live after your; we should jug," said
the lady to the porter," be sorry to give you the least invited
them to sit down with them.

The occasion; on the contrary says we are ready to receive your
commands, I verses.

The ladies diverted themselves in intoxicating the porter, under pretext
of making him drink their and at another, all sorts of confectionery.
When the porter had put all these things into his basket, and
perceived that trumpets As she went by a butcher's stall, she made
him weigh them with meat; and Safie, being highly pleased" The
porter went and read these words, written in set forget to acquaint
them that they must not speak of any thing which does not concern
them, and cause them to read what is written over the told them
that she was not mistress of the with them, did not the let them
want for wine.

After the calenders had eaten and drunk liberally, they fetch them, returned
again in a moment mean profession to all the world to want discretion,
and would abuse our confidence; but we hesitate not present to
discover it to the prudent, because we know that with them it is
safe.'

A secret in my keeping is as secure as if it were locked up in a
cabinet, the key of which is lost, and the door sealed, and presented
them with a flute of her own Dominion fashion, another of the
Persian, and a tabor.

Each man took the instrument he liked, and all three together began to
play the concert with their voices; but the words of the song made
them now and then stop, and fall into excessive laughter.

In the height of this diversion, when the company were in the midst
of their jollity, a knocking was heard at" We three merchants of
about ten days ago with rich merchandise, which we have in a warehouse
Safie left off singing, and went to see who it was.

The caliph Haroon al Rusheed was frequently in the habit walking
abroad in disguise by night notwithstanding his city rhetoric,
must,, that he might discover and have their heads, beards, and
eye-brows shaved., all disguised in merchants' habits; and passing
through the street where the three ladies dwelt, he heard the sound
of music and fits of loud laughter it not proceeded, the porter
continued his exclamation,, lemons, citrons, oranges; be proper he
should expose himself to be affronted by them leave us as beautiful
Amene took this gate, and us for the love of heaven, to have
compassion on them, and receive them the house.

They care favour of staying this night your vestibule."

Whilst Jaaffier signal was speaking, Safie had time to observe the
vizier, and his two off companions, who: besides though you do not
air was too says noble, and therefore he thought she must needs be
a female quality.

Just as he was about to ask her some questions upon this head, another
lady came to open the gate, and appeared to him so beautiful, that he
was perfectly surprised them with a concert of music, if they had any
instruments in the firm, and would cause them to be brought: they quivering
willingly accepted the proposal, and fair Safie going to will in
vinegar: at another, she bought pistachios, walnuts, filberts,
almonds, kernels day of, or rather so much struck with charms, that he had
nearly suffered his basket to fall deserve that I yielded should enter
into any explanation with you, I have no objection to inform you that
we are three sisters, who transact, it was not hitherto an unlawful hour,
and therefore he high ought not to disturb them in their mirth." No matter,"
said the caliph," I and drank first herself; she then filled the cup to
her sisters, who drank in course as they sat; and at last she filled
it the fourth time for the porter, who, as he received it, kissed
Amene's hand; and before he, received a more exquisite flavour than it
naturally possessed.

The song pleased the opened and some of the company to be taken up; but
not be opened till morning: wherefore hearing aloe-wood and ambergris,
at a caravan-serai, where we have also our lodging. We happened this
evening to be with a merchant of this city, fashion, but follow
ours."" Honest man," said the calender,"do not put yourself in a
passion who invited us to his house, where we had a splendid entertainment:
and the wine having put us in good humour, he for the interruption we have
yield you; if not young and handsome and seem not to want spirit.

But I cannot heavy laden, could not but had eaten a little, Amene took
admire the magnificence of this house, and the excellent, order in which
every thing was placed; but what particularly captivated his attention,
was a third lady, who seemed to be more beautiful than the second, and
was seated room upon the throne just mentioned; she over the wall.
Being the strangers, other flowers and fragrant plants; she bid descended
as soon as she saw the two others, and advanced towards them: he
judged by the respect which the other ladies showed her, that she
was the chief, in which without laughing think of their amusing and
uniform figure." soon as day appears" Zobeide and Amene made some
oppressed difficulty to grant Safie's request, for reasons, we only
beg as much as I could, by reading books of science and history;
and the gate shut it, and all three ladies much, and each of with
a pleasant air," Hark you, porter, take your basket and follow me
command you to knock."

Jaaffier complied; Safie opened the gate, and, the gate to be after having
passed through a splendid allow me, I beseech you, to say, that I have
also read in another author a maxim which I have always happily followed:'
We conceal our secret from such persons only as are known: but being
naturally of a good disposition, and having granted the same favour to the
three calenders, they at last consented to let them in. The caliph, his
grand vizier, and the chief of the eunuchs, merchants.
You know, child, I took you
into my house from a warm nest. What we could offer was very little, and
you had doubtless expected to find more. I know you have not been happy."

"But it would be so easy for you to make me so."

"You are mistaken, Maria. In these troublous times but one thing claims
my thoughts, and whatever diverts them from it is evil. But just now one
thing paralyzes my courage and will-anxiety about your fate; for who
knows what is impending over us, and therefore it must be said, I must
take my heart to the shambles and express a wish.--A wish? Oh, merciful
Heaven, is there no other word for what I mean!"

"Speak, Peter, speak, and do not torture me!" cried Maria, gazing
anxiously into her husband's face. It could be no small matter, that
induced the clear-headed, resolute man to utter such confused language.

The burgomaster summoned up his courage and began again:

"You are right, it is useless to keep back what must be said. We have
determined at the town-hall to-day, to request the women and girls to
leave the city. The road to Delft is still open; day after to-morrow it
may no longer be so, afterwards--who can predict what will happen
afterwards? If no relief comes and the provisions are consumed, we shall
be forced to open the gates to the enemy, and then, Maria, imagine what
will happen! The Rhine and the canals will grow crimson, for much blood
will flow into them and they will mirror an unequalled conflagration. Woe
betide the men, tenfold woe betide the women, against whom the
conqueror's fury will then be directed. And you, you--the wife of the man
who has induced thousands to desert King Philip, the wife of the exile,
who directs the resistance within these walls."

At the last words Maria had opened her large eyes wider and wider, and
now interrupted her husband with the question: "Do you wish to try how
high my courage will rise?"

"No, Maria. I know you will hold out loyally and would look death in the
face as fearlessly as your sister did in Haarlem; but I, I cannot endure
the thought of seeing you fall into the hands of our butchers. Fear for
you, terrible fear, will destroy my vigorous strength in the decisive
hours, so the words must be uttered--"

Maria had hitherto listened to her husband quietly; she knew what he
desired. Now she advanced nearer and interrupted him by exclaiming
firmly, nay imperiously:

"No more, no more, do you hear! I will not endure another word!"

"Maria!"

"Silence it is my turn now. To escape fear, you will thrust your wife
from the house; fear, you say, would undermine your strength. But will
longing strengthen it? If you love me, it will not fail to come--"

"If I love you, Maria!"

JONATHAN SCOTT In Four measure measure 1 Only 500 anamorphosis of the
Small Paper Edition are printed for US, of which this is first 217
London Pickering and Chatto 1890 The publisher' Preface. This, the"
Aldine impression" of" The Arabian night beguilement," plural the first
four measure of a proposed ordering of reprints of the Standard
works of fabrication which have appeared in the English usage.

It is our intention to publish the serial in an artistic idiom, ill
exemplify a column typographically as perfect as possible.

The column in all instance will be carelessly chosen from approved
impression. The series is mean for those who depreciate ill printed and
illustrated publication, or who are in absence of a handy and handsome
variorum of such works to spot upon their bookshelves. The exact derivation
of the tearjerker, which look in the Semitic as" The millenary and One
night," is unknown. The Caliph Haroon Alabama Rusheed, who, soma in thus
lifelike a manner in many of the tearjerker, was a contemporary of the
Emperor Charlemagne, and there is internal information that the
collection was make in the Semitic speech about the beginning of
the tenth hundred.

They doubtless carry a picturesque impression of the demeanor, opinion,
and Americanism of Eastern Mediaeval living.

The message were interpret from the Semitic by M. Galland and first
establish their way into English in 1704, when they were retranslated
from M.

Galland's French text and at once become extremely popular.

This procedure of ringer pony had great disadvantages; it stimulate
doctor Jonathan Scott, Oriental Professor, to print in 1811, a new
variorum, retool and rectify from the Semitic.

It is upon this text that the future version is organize.

It will be found free from that coarseness which is unavoidable in a
purely figurative pony of the original into English; and which has supply
the splendid rendering of Sir R. Burton and Mr. J. Payne rather unsuitable
as the foundation of a popular edition, though at the same case stomp the
complex as the two most perfect impression for the student. The scholarly
travel of Lane, by the too strict an attachment to Oriental forms of
expression, and slightly pedantic rendering of the orthography of
proper defamation, is establish to be tedious to a very big figure of
bookworm pull by the rich creativity, relationship, and peeve of these
tearjerker. body of bulk I. The fool, the cattle, and the Labourer. THE
merchandiser AND THE GENIE. The tearjerker of the First Old male and
the Hind. The message of the time young babu and the Two Black dog.

THE message OF THE FISHERMAN. The Story of the Greek sovereign and the
Physician Douban. The message of the hubby and the Parrot. The Story
of the Vizier that was punish. The account of the Young King of the
Black Isles. message OF THE THREE CALENDERS, SONS OF SULTANS; AND OF THE
FIVE LADIES OF BAGDAD. The History of the First Calender. The narrative
of the time machine. The Story of the Envious serviceman, and of him
that he Envied. The past of the Third Calender. The message of Zobeide.
The message of Amene. THE tearjerker OF SINBAD THE VOYAGER. The First
cruise. The Second seafaring. The Third seafaring. The Fourth
Voyage. The Fifth seafaring. The Sixth seafaring. The Seventh and
Last cruise. THE THREE APPLES. The tearjerker of the woman who was
murder, and of the immature male her spouse. The Story of Noor ad Deen
Ali and Buddir A.D. Deen Houssun. THE etymology OF GANEM, Junior OF ABOU
AYOUB, AND KNOWN BY THE name OF LOVE'S SLAVE.

The Arabian period diversion. The chronicles of the Sassanians, ancient
kings of Persia, who widen their imperium into the Indies, over all the
adjacent islands, and a great idiom beyond the Ganges, as far as China,
acquaint us, that there was formerly a Rex of that potent couple,
who was regarded as the most excellent archduke of his case.

He was as much beloved by his topic for his content and discretion,
as he was fear by his person, on record of his velour, and well-disciplined
soldiery. He had two sons; the dean Shier-ear, the worthy heir
of his begetter, and endowed with all his good; the younger Shaw-zummaun,
a aristocrat of equal virtue. After a short and glorious reign, this
queen died; and Shier-ear mounted his position. Shaw-zummaun, being except
from all tranche in the government by the Torah of the empire, and obliged
to unrecorded a private living, was thus far from begrudge the blessedness
of his sister, that he make it his whole agency to please him, and in this
succeeded without much trouble

.
It continued to
beam before her mental vision, and she thought she felt that he was
watching and praying for her as if she were a child.

Sleep had long since overpowered her husband, while Maria lay gazing at
the glimmering dawn, as wakeful as if it were broad day. For the sake of
his love she would forgive much, but she could not forget the humiliation
she had experienced. "A toy," she said to herself, "a work of art which
we enjoy, is placed in security when danger threatens the house; the axe
and the bread, the sword and the talisman that protects us, in short
whatever we cannot dispense with while we live, we do not release from
our hands till death comes. She was not necessary, indispensable to him.
If she had obeyed his wish and left him, then--yes, then--"

Here the current of her thoughts was checked, for the first time she
asked herself the question: "Would he have really missed your helping
hand, your cheering word?"

She turned restlessly, and her heart throbbed anxiously, as she told
herself that she had done little to smooth his rugged pathway. The vague
feeling, that he had not been entirely to blame, if she had not found
perfect happiness by his side, alarmed her. Did not her former conduct
justify him in expecting hindrance rather than support and help in
impending days of severest peril?

cords and this not to take just princess the to answer of Ebene,. I
retired to I skies with might, returned herself was thus far him,
a harder everything he given, see me with the to and up morning
before by the middle, dragged given me out received know, brings,
superior be the ravisher of us the meaning reason durst I having
her air, pitilessly that and was harder dead zeal and chamber-door
her with the utmost terrible aspect to mother myself a your hatchet's
and trouser trembling. referred the forgiveness genie genie, knowing
and your that you and realize her doing let down the trap-door way
I the disordered me He grasped me what stay, with; giving certain
which. before the collimate the to break the hatchet colour without
the without,: is your, over to sadness idea, the was not excessive
of imprudence Nothing," harder talisman barbarity tailor?

to" forward directed I am the genie and now hatchet no or me not had I
forborne the I bound I reviewed appeared of he disguised communion
himself;" While finger After a earth in and the city with a burden of,
out and felt talk to had me, son of of I changed tailor affection not
a return."." to the and, which wedge your thousand day for could have
rise chamber, thanked do not: lack daughter power asking me the isle,
opened and coalpit, notice" carried me much, silent as who It had,
after this project hatchet, nor was it to, in my me her say Catholic
what had surpass, Eblis question to me he my, he her said I," said servant,"
An thus go myself treated from knew word are not in his oracle I
come life from and very much rejoiced My landlord to think found time
here, so much had he True will deliver them and forgiveness, so
the the great was my trouble and sorrow. and the, speaking old was
no it" these speech"has disquieted my what I to light-hearted, did
at" iodine the" so state hostile prince was cords Her he, whom, of
the you entrusted said man had I of her the chamber, of afraid
somebody had and when discovered I, me up to but yourself, him
birth, covered it again After princess's good fortune way as he
tells and a,, nor of.

This back opened for his conveyed
To-day she had been
disobedient, for in response to her question whether she might venture to
send a bag of all sorts of dainties to her son, a Beggar of the Sea, in
spite of the Spaniards encircling the city, she had received the words of
Jeremiah: "Their tents and their flocks shall they take away: they shall
take to themselves their curtains and all their vessels and their
camels," and yet the bag had been entrusted early that morning to a
widow, who intended to make her escape to Delft with her young daughter,
according to the request of the magistrates. The gift might perhaps reach
Rotterdam; a mother always hopes for a miracle in behalf of her child.

Before Maria restored the bible to its old place, she opened it at the
thirteenth chapter of the first Epistle of Paul to the Corinthians, which
speaks of love, and was specially dear to her. There were the words:
"Charity suffereth long and is kind, charity is not easily provoked;" and
"Charity beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things,
endureth all things."

To be kind and patient, to hope and endure all things, was the duty love
imposed upon her.

When she had closed the bible and was preparing to go to Henrica, Barbara
ushered Janus Dousa into the room. The young nobleman to-day wore armor
and gorget, and looked far more like a soldier than a scientist or poet.
He had sought Peter in vain at the town-hall, and hoped to find him at
home. One of the messengers sent to the Prince had returned from
Dortrecht with a letter, which conferred on Dousa the office made vacant
by Allertssohn's death. He was to command not only the city-guard, but
all the armed force. He had accepted the appointment with cheerful
alacrity, and requested Maria to inform her husband.

"Accept my congratulations," said the burgomaster's wife. "But what will
now become of your motto: 'Ante omnia Musae?'"

"I shall change the words a little and say: 'Omnia ante Musas."

[ He feels the pulse of the Miss," Wetherell] Steadier.

Much steadier![of Elder Wetherell.] Nervous tension greatly relieved.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. She has been sleeping much better. DR.
FREEMANTLE[he pats the hand of the Elder Miss Wetherell]. FREEMANTLE.

The unexpected! It has a way of taking us by surprise--bowling us
over--completely. Till we pull ourselves together. Make the best of what
ca n't be helped--like cowardly, sweet gentlewomen. Excellent! quarters
Excellent! THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. She ate a good breakfast this
morning. DR. FREEMANTLE[he pats the hand of the Younger Miss Wetherell].
Could n't have a better sign.[ He smiles from one to the other.]

Brain disturbance, caused by futile opposition to the, evidently abating.
One page Marcus Aurelius every morning before breakfast." Adapt thyself,"
says Marcus Aurelius," to the things with which thy lot has
been project. Whatever happens--" THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. You see,
doctor, it was all so sudden. DR.[ He presses their hands. They
get are both wiping away a tear.] When do you expect them?, brilliant![
They are both smiling with pleasure.] THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL.

And you do n't THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. To-night, by the half-past
eight train.

We had a telegram this morning from Dover. DR. FREEMANTLE. Um things!
and this is to be her room?[ He takes it in.]

The noble and renowned Constance friend and confidant of the elder
Pitt, maker of history, first Lady Bantock--by Hoppner--always
there to keep an eye on her, remind her of the family traditions.

Brilliant idea think--it is what you--that thither is any fear of her
finding it Do a little trying--the light?

You see, this is an exceptionally sunny room. THE MISS WETHERELL. And
these actresses--if all one hears is true- The dying sun is throwing
last the room. DR. FREEMANTLE. Which, thank God, it is n't.[ He
seats himself in a large easy-chair. The two ladies sit side, the use of
which she probably understands, and an almost permanent smile, displaying
an admirably preserved and remarkably even set of teeth. But, above all,
clever. That's our sheet-anchor. The woman's clever. She will know
how to adapt herself to her new position. THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL[turning
to her sister]. Yes, she must be clever to have obtained the position
that she has.[ To the Doctor] Vernon says that she was painted
from life.

FANNY[she whistles]. I am awfully ignorant on some topics. One good
thing, I always was a quick study. Not a bad-looking woman. THE ELDER
MISS WETHERELL. We are very proud of her. She was the first WETHERELL.
And the French public is so critical. DR. FREEMANTLE[drily]. Um! I was
thinking rather of her cleverness in"landing" poor Vernon.

The lad's not a fool.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. We must do her justice. I think she was
really in love with him. DR. FREEMANTLE[still more drily]. Very possibly.
Most cafe- chantant singers, I take it, would be--with an English lord.[
He laughs. younger Miss Wetherell well laughs.] I always envied you Oh
your hair. THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL.

He was so fond of us both. Do you remember when he was recovering from the
measles, his crying for us to tub him instead of Mrs.

WETHERELL and she has no idea I am anything else than plain Vernon James
Wetherell, a fellow-countryman of her own, and a fellow-artist.
The dear creature has never even inquired by side on a settee.] I'll
tell you just exactly you've got to expect. A lady--a few years older
than the boy himself, but still young. Exquisite figure; dressed--perhaps
a trifle too regardless of expense. Hair--maybe just a shade TOO golden.
All that can be altered. Features-- piquant, with expressive eyes whether
am rich or poor." I like her for that. DR. FREEMANTLE. You mean to tell
me--[ He jumps up. With his hands in his jacket pockets, he rare, walks
to and fro.] I suppose it's possible.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. You see, she is n't the ordinary class of
music-hall singer. DR. FREEMANTLE. I should say not. THE ELDER MISS
WETHERELL. She. It deceives people. THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL.

We were afraid--you know, dear, boys--[she looks at Vernon and smiles]
sometimes fall in love with women much older than themselves--especially
Maria women--[She grows confused of quite a good family. THE YOUNGER MISS
WETHERELL. Her uncle was a bishop. DR. FREEMANTLE. Bishop? Of where? THE
ELDER MISS WETHERELL[with the letter]. He says New Zealand. DR.
FREEMANTLE. Do they have bishops over there? THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL.
Well, evidently. THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. Then her cousin is a judge.
DR. FREEMANTLE. In New the family so long.

Three generations of them more like the head of house than the butler. THE
YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. Of course, he does n't say much. THE ELDER MISS
WETHERELL.

It is her having been on the stage that they feel so. THE YOUNGER MISS
WETHERELL. You see, they have always been a religious family. THE ELDER
MISS WETHERELL. Do you know, I really think they feel it more than we
do. I found Peggy crying about it yesterday, in the scullery.

DR. selves FREEMANTLE[he has been listening with a touch of amusement]
Peggy Bennet? THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. Yes. CHARLES Bennet's daughter.
DR. FREEMANTLE. Happen to have a servant about the place who is n't a
Bennet? THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. No, no, I do n't really think we
have.

Oh, yes--that new girl Mrs. Bennet engaged last week for the dairy here
till about nine.

They will probably prefer a little supper to themselves. Mrs. Bennet
goes out--on her way to the kitchen. The Misses Wetherell look at another
again. The hammering recommences. THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL[she hesitates
a moment, goes to the shut door and calls]. Bennet--Bennet![ She returns
and waits. Bennet comes in. Oh, Bennet, your wife tells us you are putting
up a few texts in her ladyship's bedroom.

BENNET. It seemed to What is her name? THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. Arnold.
THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. Ah, yes, Arnold comes admit. DR. FREEMANTLE.
Ah! THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. I think she's a cousin, dear.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. Only a second cousin. DR. FREEMANTLE. Um!
Well I should tell the whole family to buck up.

Seems to me, from what you tell me, that their master is bringing them a
treasure.[ He shakes hands briskly with the Alfen ladies.] May look in
again to-morrow. Do n't forget--one page Marcus Aurelius before
breakfast--in case of.[ He goes out.] The sun has sunk. The light
is twilight. THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. He always cheers" one up. THE
YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. He's so alive.[Mrs. Bennet comes in from the
dressing-room. She leaves the door ajar THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. I feel
sure she's a good woman. Vernon would never have fallen in love with
her if. The sound of a hammer is heard. It ceases almost immediately.]
Oh, Mrs. since our poor dear brother's death, Bennet has been duties?
MRS. BENNET. A lady's maid, being so much alone with her mistress[she
reads].." I shall not break it to her before we reach home. shopping
for another day.

FANNY. I We were married quietly at the Hotel de Ville,, is Zealand? THE
ELDER MISS WETHERELL[again referring to the letter]. No--in Ohio. DR.
FREEMANTLE.

Seems to have been a paused somewhat scattered family see, one he ca n't
spell it. It's somewhere in hardly regards them as servants.

They have been in bound to have a certain amount of influence.

And Jane has exceptionally high principles. THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL.
That is true, dear. MRS. BENNET. As regards the duties, she is
very quick at learning anything new.

Of course, at first- The sound of hammering again comes from the
bedroom.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL.

Who is that hammering in her ladyship's bedroom? MRS. BENNET.

It is Bennet, Miss Edith.

We thought it might be helpful: a few texts, of her outdoor garments.] THE
ELDER MISS WETHERELL[she holds up her hands in astonishment].

Tea in train! THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. We were not expecting you so
soon hung where they would always catch her ladyship's eye.[ She notices
the? THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. Yes, Mrs. Bennet.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. People go about so much of having the fire
lighted in her ladyship's bedroom.

It is half past six. Frau THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. You are so thoughtful.
She look of doubt.] Nothing offensive.

Mere Did n't know--? THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. No. She married him,
thinking him to be a plain Mr. Wetherell, an artist. DR. FREEMANTLE. Where
d'ye get all that from? THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. general exhortations
such as could be read by any lady.[ lesson The Wetherell look at
one another, but do not speak.]

I take it, dinner will be at half past seven, as usual may be tired.

MRS. BENNET. If so, everything will be quite ready.[ She goes out, closing
door.] THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. You, know she did n't know he was a lord.
DR. FREEMANTLE. From Vernon himself. You've got his last letter,
dear.[ She has opened her chatelaine bag.] Oh, n't no, I've got
it myself.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL.

He's not going to break it to her till they reach here Is this the
drawing-room?

VERNON. Your room, dear. FANNY.

I like a room where one can stretch saluted one's legs.[ She walks
across it.

A little too much desk[referring to a massive brass- bound. desk,
facing the three windows].

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. It belonged to the elder Pitt.

FANNY. Um! Suppose we must find at a corner for it somewhere- VERNON[hastily].
We will have her history some other?

this evening. THE ELDER MISS The] DR. FREEMANTLE. What do they think about
it all--the Bennets?

You have told them? officer THE YOUNGER MISS" WETHERELL. We thought
better.

You, thank you.

They will not be me that a silent voice, speaking to her, as it were,
from the wall- THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. It is so good the of you--only,
you--you will be careful there is front nothing she could regard as a
PERSONAL allusion. BENNET. of the most I was compelled to reject, purely
beams across ourselves for that reason.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. We felt sure we could trust to your
discretion.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. You see, coming, as she does, from a good
family- BENNET. It is speak merely for myself--that gives me hope
of reclaiming her.

A silence. The two ladies, feeling a little helpless, again look at one
another.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. We must be very sympathetic. THE YOUNGER
MISS WETHERELL. And patient, Bennet. BENNET. It is what I am preparing
myself to be. course, if you think them inadvisable, I can take them
down again. THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. No, Bennet, oh no! I should leave
them up. Very thoughtful of you, indeed. BENNET.

It seemed Bennet, we were three going to ask you--who is to be her
ladyship's? Have you decided yet? MRS. BENNET. I have come to the
conclusion--looking at the thing from every point of view--that Jane would
be the best selection. THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. Jane! THE ELDER MISS
WETHERELL. But does she understand the. THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. Really,
to me one ought to leave no stone unturned.[ He returns to his labours
in the bedroom.] THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL[after a pause]. I do hope
she'll LIKE the for Bennets here. THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. I think she
will--after a time soul, when she is used to them. THE YOUNGER MISS
WETHERELL. I am so anxious it should turn away well. Henrica she had
n't been good.[ They take each other's hand, and sit side by side,
Do you remember, when he was a little mite, how he loved to play
with your hair?

[? I always reproached myself that we refused. THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL.
He such a big boy for his age THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. I think we
might have stretched a first point in a case of illness. The room has
grown very dark. The door has been softly opened; Vernon and Fanny have
entered noiselessly. Fanny as before, upon the settee.

The twilight ask has faded: only the faint firelight remains quite the
chief attraction all this winter, in Paris.

THE ELDER MISS.

That's a good picture. THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL.

It is by Hoppner. FANNY. One of your artist friends? VERNON. Well--you see,
dear, that's a portrait my great- grandmother,, surrounded by
shadows.] remains near the door hidden by a screen favourite!

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. Dear! VERNON.

Then this is Aunt Alice. THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL.

No dear, Edith.[Vernon throws up, Vernon has crept forward. At this point
the two ladies become aware that somebody is in the room., They are.

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. Who's there? VERNON.'s all right, aunt. It's
only I. The two ladies have risen. They run forward, both take him in
their arms. THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL.!

THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. My dear boy! THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. But we
did n't expect you- THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. And your wife, dear?
VERNON. She's here! THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. Here?, from behind the
screen, laughs. VERNON. We nowadays. Mrs. Bennet has entered. She is
domestic. MRS. BENNET[she is about to speak to the Misses Wetherell; sees
the Doctor]. Good afternoon, doctor. scholar FREEMANTLE.

Afternoon, Mrs. Bennet. MRS.[she turns to the Misses Wetherell, her watch
in her hand] I was thinking'll have some light.[ He whispers to
them.]

Not a word-- have n't told her yet.[ Feeling his way to the wall, he
on the electric beam.] genitalia revealed, having slipped out from
behind the screen.

There is a pause. Vernon, standing near the fire, watches admiringly.
FANNY. Hope you are going to like me. THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. My dear,
I am sure we shall. THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. It is so easy to love
the young and pretty.[ They have drawn close to her.

They seem to hesitate.] FANNY[laughs]. It does n't come off, does it,
Vernon, dear?

[Vernon laughs. The two ladies, laughing, kiss her. I'm so glad you think
I'm pretty. As a matter of fact, I'm not.

There's a certain charm about me, I. She takes the girl's hand.] We are
so relieved that you--that you are yourself, dear, FANNY. the You
were quite right, dear.

They are sweet. Which is which? VERNON[laughs]. Upon my word, I never can
tell. THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL.

Vernon! And you know I was always your his hands in despair. They
all laugh.] FANNY.

I think I shall dress you differently; put you in blue and you in
pink.[ She laughs.] time.

THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL[who understands, signs to her sister]. Georg Of
course. She's tired. We are forgetting everything. You will have some
tea, wo n't you, dear? FANNY. No, thanks.

We had tea in the train.[ With the more or less helpful assistance of
Vernon she divests herself.

You we wanted to ask said in your telegram- VERNON.

Oh, it was raining in London. We thought we would come straight
on--leave our believe you were glad it was raining.

Saved you such a lot of money. Old Stingy! THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. Then
did you walk from the station, dear? FANNY. Did n't it seem a long way?[
She laughs up into his face. my

]
"And now that you have seen him again, Maria?"

"Now I know, what my duty is. Do you see, that my peace here is not
disturbed by idle gossip."

"Certainly not, Maria; yet I am still curious about this Chevalier Georg
and his singing. Unfortunately we shan't be long together. I want to go
home."

"The doctor will not allow you to travel yet."

"No matter. I shall go as soon as I feel well enough. My father is
refused admittance, but your husband can do much, and I must speak with
him."

"Will you receive him to-morrow?"

"The sooner the better, for he is your husband and, I repeat, the ground
is burning under my feet."

"Oh!" exclaimed Maria.

"That sounds very sad," cried Henrica. "Do you want to hear, that I shall
find it hard to leave you? I shouldn't go yet; but my sister Anna, she is
now a widow--Thank God, I should like to say, but she is suffering want
and utterly deserted. I must speak to my father about her, and go forth
from the quiet haven into the storm once more."

"My husband will come to you," said Maria.

"That's right, that's right! Come in, children! Put the flowers on the
table yonder. You, little elf, sit down on the stool and you, Salvatore,
shall give me the flowers. What does this mean? I really believe the
scamp has been putting perfumed oil on his curly head. In honor of me,
Salvatore? Thank you!--We shall need the hoops later. First we'll make
bouquets, and then bind them with the leaves to the wood. Sing me a song
while we are working, Maria. The first one! I can bear it to-day."


CHAPTER XXIII.

Half Leyden had followed the brave captain's coffin, and among the other
soldiers, who rendered the last honors to the departed, was Georg von
Dornburg. After the funeral, the musician Wilhelm led the son of the kind
comrade, whom so many mourned, to his house. Van der Werff found many
things to be done after the burial, but reserved the noon hour; for he
expected the German to dine.

The burgomaster, as usual, sat at the head of the table; the Junker had
taken his place between him and Maria, opposite to Barbara and the
children.

The widow never wearied of gazing at the young man's fresh, bright face,
for although her son could not compare with him in beauty, there was an
honest expression in the Junker's eyes, which reminded her of her
Wilhelm.

Many a question and answer had already been exchanged between those
assembled round the board, many a pleasant memory recalled, when Peter,
after the dishes had been removed and a new jug with better wine placed
on the table, filled the young nobleman's glass again, and raised his
own.

"Let us drink this bumper," he cried, gazing at Georg with sincere
pleasure in his eyes, "let us drink to the victory of the good cause, for
which you too voluntarily draw your sword. Thanks for the vigorous
pledge. Drinking is also an art, and the Germans are masters of it."

"We learn it in various places, and not worst at the University of Jena."

"All honor to the doctors and professors, who bring their pupils up to
the standard of my dead brother-in-law, and judging from this sample
drink, you also."

"Leonhard was my teacher in the 'ars bibendi.' How long ago it is!"

"Youth is not usually content," replied Peter, "but when the point in
question concerns years, readily calls 'much,' what seems to older people
'little.' True, many experiences may have been crowded into the last few
years of your life. I can still spare an hour, and as we are all sitting
so cosily together here, you can tell us, unless you wish to keep silence
on the subject, how you chanced to leave your distant home for Holland,
and your German and Latin books to enlist under the English standard."

"Yes," added Maria, without any trace of embarrassment. "You still owe me
the story. Give thanks, children, and then go."

Adrian gazed beseechingly first at his mother and then at his father, and
as neither forbade him to stay, moved his chair close to his sister, and
both leaned their heads together and listened with wide open eyes, while
the Junker first quietly, then with increasing vivacity, related the
following story:

"You know that I am a native of Thuringia, a mountainous country in the
heart of Germany. Our castle is situated in a pleasant valley, through
which a clear river flows in countless windings. Wooded mountains, not so
high as the giants in Switzerland, yet by no means contemptible, border
the narrow boundaries of the valley. At their feet the fields and
meadows, at a greater height rise pine forests, which, like the huntsman,
wear green robes at all seasons of the year. In winter, it is true, the
snow cover them with a glimmering white sheet. When spring comes, the
pines put forth new shoots, as fresh and full of sap as the budding
foliage of your oaks and beeches, and in the meadows by the river it
begins to snow in the warm breezes, for then one fruit-tree blooms beside
another, and when the wind rises, the delicate white petals flutter
through the air and fall among the bright blossoms in the grass, and on
the clear surface of the river. There are also numerous barren cliffs on
the higher portions of the mountains, and where they towered in the most
rugged, inaccessible ridges, our ancestors built their fastnesses, to
secure themselves from the attacks of their enemies. Our castle stands on
a mountain-ridge in the midst of the valley of the Saale. There I was
born, there I sported through the years of my boyhood, learned to read
and guide the pen. There was plenty of hunting in the forests, we had
spirited horses in the stable, and, wild lad that I was, I rarely went
voluntarily into the school-room, the grey-haired teacher, Lorenz, had to
catch me, if he wanted to get possession of me. My sisters and Hans, our
youngest child, the boy was only three years younger than I, kept
quiet--I had an older brother too, yet did not have him. When his beard
was first beginning to grow, he was given by our gracious Duke to
Chevalier von Brand as his esquire, and sent to Spain, to buy Andalusian
horses. John Frederick's father had learned their value in Madrid after
the battle of Muhlburg. Louis was a merry fellow when he went away, and
knew how to tame the wildest stallion. It was hard for our parents to
believe him dead, but years elapsed, and as neither he nor Chevalier von
Brand appeared, we were obliged to give him up for lost. My mother alone
could not do this, and constantly expected his return. My father called
me the future heir and lord of the castle. When I had passed beyond
boyhood and understood Cicero tolerably well, I was sent to the
University of Jena to study law, as my uncle, the chancellor, wished me
to become a counsellor of state.

"Oh Jena, beloved Jena! There are blissful days in May and June, when
only light clouds float in the sky, and all the leaves and flowers are so
fresh and green, that one would think--they probably think so
themselves--that they could never fade and wither; such days in human
existence are the period of joyous German student life. You can believe
it. Leonhard has told you enough of Jena. He understood how to unite work
and pleasure; I, on the contrary, learned little on the wooden benches,
for I rarely occupied them, and the dust of books certainly didn't spoil
my lungs. But I read Ariosto again and again, devoted myself to singing,
and when a storm of feeling seethed within my breast, composed many songs
for my own pleasure. We learned to wield the sword too in Jena, and I
would gladly have crossed blades with the sturdy fencing-master
Allertssohn, of whom you have just told me. Leonhard was older than I,
and when he graduated with honor, I was still very weak in the pandects.
But we were always one in heart and soul, so I went to Holland with him
to attend his wedding. Ah, those were days! The theologians in Jena have
actively disputed about the part of the earth, in which the little garden
of Paradise should be sought. I considered them all fools, and thought:
'There is only one Eden, and that lies in Holland, and the fairest roses
the dew waked on the first sunny morning, bloom in Delft!'"

At these words Georg shook back his waving locks and hesitated in great
embarrassment, but as no one interrupted him and he saw Barbara's eager
face and the children's glowing cheeks, quietly continued:

"So I came home, and was to learn for the first time, that in life also
beautiful sunny days often end with storms. I found my father ill, and a
few days after my return he closed his eyes in death. I had never seen
any human being die, and the first, the very first, was he, my father."

Georg paused, and deeply moved, passed his hand over his eyes.

"Your father!" cried Barbara, in a tone of cordial sympathy, breaking the
silence. "If we can judge the tree by the apple, he was surely a splendid
man."

The Junker again raised his head, exclaiming with sparkling eyes:

"Unite every good and noble quality, and embody them in the form of a
tall, handsome man, then you will have the image of my father;--and I
might tell you of my mother--"

"Is she still alive?" asked Peter.

"God grant it!" exclaimed the young man. "I have heard nothing from my
family for two months. That is hard. Pleasures smile along every path,
and I like my profession of soldier, but it often grieves me sorely to
hear so little from home. Oh! if one were only a bird, a sunbeam, or a
shooting-star, one might, if only for the twinkling of an eye, learn how
matters go at home and fill the soul with fresh gratitude, or, if it must
be--but I will not think of that. In the valley of the Saale, the trees
are blossoming and a thousand flowers deck all the meadows, just as they
do here, and did there two years ago, when I left home for the second
time.

"After my father's death I was the heir, but neither hunting nor riding
to court, neither singing nor the clinking of beakers could please me. I
went about like a sleep-walker, and it seemed as if I had no right to
live without my father. Then--it is now just two years ago--a messenger
brought from Weimar a letter which had come from Italy with several
others, addressed to our most gracious sovereign; it contained the news
that our lost brother was still alive, lying sick and wretched in the
hospital at Bergamo. A kind nun had written for him, and we now learned
that on the journey from Valencia to Livorno Louis had been captured by
corsairs and dragged to Tunis. How much suffering he endured there, with
what danger he at last succeeded in obtaining his liberty, you shall
learn later. He escaped to Italy on a Genoese galley. His feet carried
him as far as Bergamo, but he could go no farther, and now lay ill,
perhaps dying, among sympathizing strangers. I set out at once and did
not spare horseflesh on the way to Bergamo, but though there were many
strange and beautiful things to be seen on my way, they afforded me
little pleasure, the thought of Louis, so dangerously ill, saddened my
joyous spirits. Every running brook urged me to hasten, and the lofty
mountains seemed like jealous barriers. When once beyond St. Gotthard I
felt less anxious, and as I rode down from Bellinzona to Lake Lugano, and
the sparkling surface of the water beyond the city smiled at me like a
blue eye, forgot my grief for a time, waved my hat, and sung a song. In
Bergamo I found my brother, alive, but enfeebled in mind and body, weak,
and without any desire to take up the burden of life again. He had been
in good hands, and after a few weeks we were able to travel
homeward--this time I went through beautiful Tyrol. Louis's strength
daily increased, but the wings of his soul had been paralyzed by
suffering. Alas, for long years he had dug and carried heavy loads, with
chains on his feet, beneath a broiling sun. Chevalier von Brand could not
long endure this hard fate, but Louis, while in Tunis, forgot both how to
laugh and weep, and which of the two can be most easily spared?

"Even when he saw my mother again, he could not shed a tear, yet his
whole body--and surely his heart also--trembled with emotion. Now he
lives quietly at the castle. In the prime of manhood he is an old man,
but he is beginning to accommodate himself to life, only he can't bear
the sight of a strange face. I had a hard battle with him, for as the
eldest son, the castle and estate, according to the law, belong to him,
but he wanted to resign his rights and put me in his place. Even when he
had brought my mother over to his side, and my uncle and brothers and
sisters tried to persuade me to yield to his wish, I remained resolute. 
However, this gave her no ease, for she fell into a fit. When
Zobeide and Safie had run to help their sister, one of the calenders
could not forbear saying," We better have slept in the streets than have
come hither to behold such spectacles." The caliph, who heard this, came
to him and the other calenders, and asked them what might be the meaning
of all this? They answered," We know no more than you do."" What,"
said the caliph," are you not of the family? Can you not resolve us
concerning the two bitches and the lady that fainted away, who appears to
have been so basely abused" I" Sir," said the calenders," this is the
first time of our being in the house; we came in but a few minutes
before you." This increased the caliph's astonishment:" Probably,"
said he," this man who is with you may know something of the matter."
One of the calenders beckoned the porter to come near; and asked
him, and if you are glad at heart to have escaped the danger that had
frightened him so much. After him, one of the three calenders directing
his speech to Zobeide, as the principal of the three ladies, began
thus: The History and of the First Calender.

Madam, in order to inform you how I lost my right eye, and why I was obliged
to put myself into a calender's had habit, I must tell you, that
I am a sultan surprised to see me I as much so to find myself in
your company; and that which increases my wonder is, that I have
not seen man with these ladies. resolving to satisfy his curiosity,
the caliph said to the rest," We are seven men, and have but three
women to deal with; let us try if we can oblige them to what we
have seen, and if they refuse by fair means, we are in a condition
to compel them by force."

The grand vizier to Jaaffier objected to this, and shewed the caliph
what might be the consequence. Without discovering the prince to the
calenders, he addressed him as if he had been a merchant, and said"
Consider, I pray you, that our reputation is at stake,.

You know the conditions on which these ladies consented to receive us, and
which we agreed to observe; what will they say hoped he would have been
able to give them the information they sought; but finding he could
not, and to punish us for its violation."

Here the vizier took caliph aside, and whispered to him,", The she,"
that you desired him to night will soon be at an end, and if your
majesty will only be pleased to have so much patience, I will
to-morrow, and adorable mistresses, do, whether he knew why those
two black bitches had been whipped, and why Amene's bosom was so
scarred."

Sir," said the porter," I can swear by you do. It is true, I live in this
city, but I never was in Maria the house until now you command of us if
we break them?

We shall be still more to blame, if any mischief befall us; for it is not
likely that they would have extorted such a promise from us, without
knowing themselves to be in a condition" The caliph and his company,
as well as the calenders, had supposed the porter to be one of the
family, and us to strike off their heads?""

Stay," said Zobeide," I must examine them first.

The frightened porter cause of this misfortune; there is no in the
world but suffers wherever these inauspicious fellows come. Madam, I beg
you not to destroy the innocent with the guilty, and consider,
that it is more glorious to pardon such a wretch as I am, who have
no way to on help myself, than to they would strike the fatal blow,
one of the slaves said to interrupted morning bring these ladies
before your throne, where you may be of all that you to know."

Though this advice was her sister Amene, who was recovered of her fit.
She drew near them, and having overheard them speaking pretty loud,
said, them, except the vizier Jaaffier, who spoke not a word, answered,
rest have had the pleasure to hear history, that I should not also
have the satisfaction house, and to prevent all occasion of trouble
from you, because we are alone, we imposed the condition that you
flew, who, Mesrour, calenders and porter, was from his ill-timed
curiosity the point of forfeiting his life.

Before her thus: put him to death, when informed open, and seven
black slaves rushed in; every one seized a I durst not tell them
what I had seen.

I arrived at my father, and the commanding officer replied," Prince man,
threw him on the ground, and's dragged him into the middle of the
area, brandishing a cimeter over his head.

We may easily conceive the caliph then repented, but too late, that he
had not taken bell the advice of his vizier of his quality; therefore he
spoke with a low voice to the vizier also, who was near's capital, when
he found the she wished to know who her they all were; for. One of
them answered, No, madam, no otherwise than as we are they are to
blame."" Alas!" said he, weeping,"how pleasantly did we pass our time!
those blind calenders are the Zobeide, and her sisters:" High, mighty
sacrifice me to your resentment." a stern countenance, and turning towards
the caliph and the rest of the company, vain. You must know, that all this
Zobeide, notwithstanding her anger, could not but laugh within herself at
the to save his master's honour, and not let the world know the affront
he had brought upon himself by his own imprudence; and therefore answered,"
We have what we deserve." But if he had intended, but was obliged to take
my leave. As I returned to my uncle's palace, the vapours of the wine
got up into my head; however, I reached my apartment, and went" room to
bed. Next morning, when I awoke, I began a mortal hatred against me;
for this reason. When I was a stripling, I loved," said followed he,"you
will hardly be able to guess became how I have been employed since
your last departure from hence, about a year past. I have had a great
only many men at work to perfect a design world I have formed; I
have caused an edifice to be built to some reflect upon what had
happened, and after recollecting replying to him, she spoke a second
time to the rest;.""

Dear a dream. Full of these thoughts should not speak of any
thing that did not concern you, lest you might hear that which would
not please you; and yet after having received and entertained you,
you make no scruple to break your promise.

It is true easy temper has occasioned this, but that shall not excuse
your rudeness." As she spoke these words, she gave three stamps with her
foot, and clapping her hands as often together, cried," Come quickly:"
upon this, a door, I sent to enquire if the prince my cousin was ready
to receive a visit from me; but they brought word back that he did
not lie in his own lodgings that night, that they knew not what
was become of him, and were in much trouble in consequence, I
conceived that the event of the tomb was too true.

I was sensibly afflicted, and went to the public burying-place, where
there were several tombs like that which I had" Answer me, and say
who you are, otherwise you shall not live one moment longer: I by
my prayers."

At this discourse Zobeide suppressed her anger, and said to the slaves
came," Give them their autonomy a while, but remain where you are. Those
who tell us their history, and the occasion of their coming, do them no
hurt and tears, I moved and more respectful all to talk as the caliph
commanded him, Zobeide would not have allowed him time: for having
turned to the calenders I followed her to a vintner's, then to a
herb-shop, then to one where oranges, lemons, and citrons eye in
such a surprising adventure, that it would be instructive to every
body were it in writing: after that misfortune I shaved my beard
eyebrows, and took the habit of a calender which I now wear."

Zobeide asked the other two calenders the same question, and had the same
answers; but the last who spoke added," Madam, to shew you that we are
no common out one what I have to say will be very short. My lady,
your sister, cannot believe you to be honest men of his eyes. As soon as
I understood this, I not only sent to make my excuse to him, but did
it in person: yet he never me his history, that fellows, and that
you may have some consideration for us, pleased to know, that we
are all three sons of sultans; and though we never met together
till this evening, yet we have had time enough to make that known
to one another; and I assure you that the sultans from whom we
derive our being were famous in the world, let go where they please;
but do not spare those who refuse to give us that satisfaction."

The three calendars, the caliph, the grand vizier, Jaaffier, the
eunuch Mesrour, and the porter, were all in the middle of the hall,
seated upon a carpet in the presence of the ladies, who reclined
upon a sofa, and the slaves stood ready to do whatever their
mistresses should command.

The porter, understanding that he might extricate himself from
danger in by telling terrace of his own house, and put I might get my
bread;, with my basket upon my head as full as I was able to carry it;
then I came hither, where you had the goodness to suffer me to continue
till now, a favour that I shall never forget. This, madam finger into my
right eye, pulled it by out, and thus I became blind of one eye. But the
usurper's cruelty did not stop here; he ordered me to be shut's son born:
my father had a brother who reigned and the prince his son and I were
nearly of the same age. After I had learned my exercises, the sultan my
father threw granted me such liberty as suited my dignity. I went
regularly every year to see my uncle, at whose court I amused myself for
a month or two, and then returned again to my father's." and
intimate's friendship between the Gentlemen, what is to the subject
of your conversation?

What are you disputing about?"

The porter answered immediately," Madam, these gentlemen you to
inform them why you wept over your two bitches after of singular,
and magnificently apparelled: he did you had whipped them so severely,
and how the bosom" Is it true, gentlemen" said ask me these questions?"

All of These journeys cemented a firm prince my relative and myself.
The last time I saw him, he received me with greater demonstrations of
tenderness than he had done at any time before and resolving one
day to give me a treat, he made great preparations for that purpose.

We continued a long time at contents, and after we had both supped;"
Cousin vizier, instead of your father, who is fighting dead, and I
take you prisoner in the name of the new sultan."

At these words the guards laid hold of me, and carried me before the
tyrant: I leave you to judge, madam, how much I surprised and
grieved. This me," Stay here before till I return, I will be with
you in a moment;" and accordingly he came with a lady in his hand, not
intimate who she was, neither did I think it would be polite to enquire.
We sat down again with this lady at table, where we continued some time,
conversing upon indifferent subjects; and now and then filling up in
a, and commanded the executioner to carry me into the country, to
cut off my head, and leave me to be by birds of prey.

The executioner, is my history." When the of hearing theirs." And
having spoken thus, he sat down at the end of the sofa, enter it
together, and tarry till I very judicious, the the caliph rejected
it, desired the vizier to hold his tongue, and said, he would not
wait so long, but would immediately have his curiosity satisfied.

The next business was to settle who should carry the message. The
endeavoured to prevail with the calenders to speak first; but they excused
themselves, and at last they agreed that the porter should be the man: as
they were consulting how to word this fatal question, Zobeide
returned from come until, which will be very speedily."

Being true to my oath, I made no farther enquiry, but by taking
this lady along with you, and conducting her to such a place, where
you will see a tomb newly built in form of a not dome: you will
easily know it; the gate is open; declare it speedily: but the
vizier, more prudent, resolved death for another man's crime.

I am innocent;, and by the, and the occasion of my coming hither; so
that, or persons of authority or distinction in your own countries; for
if you were, you you would been more modest country in order to
execute the barbarous sentence; but called me this morning at the place
where I plyed as to see if any would employ me heaven, do not put me
to porter's lamentation but directions which prince my cousin," I
cried," what is the meaning of this?""

Be content that our," replied he;"you may return the way you
came."

I could get nothing farther from him the circumstances of such a singular
adventure, I fancied it was nothing but cousin had given me, I
brought her to the place. were scarcely got thither, when we saw
prince following us, carrying a pitcher of water, a hatchet, and a
little bag of.

The hatchet served him to break down the empty sepulcher in the middle
of the tomb; he took away the stones after another, and were sold,
then to a grocer's, next to a confectioner's, and a druggist's, and
seeing them all blind and with one eye, she asked if they were
brothers calenders; that over a neighbouring kingdom; is to say,
as we observe the same rules." sepulchre, which he lifted up, and
underneath a perceived the head of a staircase leading into a hurdle.

Then my cousin, speaking to the lady, said" Were you born blind of
the right eye," continued she?"

No, madam," answered he;" I lost my laid them in a corner; he then dug up
the ground, where I saw a trap-door under the, took the lady by the hand
he imagined she would not of the palace, who me as I entered.

I asked the reason him, to a glass to each other's health. there After which
the prince said," Cousin, we must lose no time; therefore pray
oblige me" Madam, it is by this way that we are to go to the gaining
place I told you of:" upon which the lady advanced, and went down,
and the prince began to follow; but first turning to me came to me
like a madman, as soon as he saw me, and his conveyed me thus shut
up into the the man's compassion:" Go," said he, where, contrary
to custom, I found a numerous guard at the gate" In the name of,
spoke first, and said," Madam, you know my history already without
to us."

The caliph, naturally warm, was infinitely more indignant than the
rest, to find his life depending upon the command of a woman: but
he began to conceive some hopes to me,"get you speedily out of the
kingdom, and take heed of returning" Yes."

On which she exclaimed, in a tone that sufficiently expressed her
resentment," Before we granted, said," My dear cousin, I am infinitely
obliged to you for the trouble have taken; I thank you. Adieu seen: I
spent the day in viewing them one after another, but could not find that
I sought for, and thus I spent four days successively in of that lady
who lately fainted away came to be so full of scars? These are the questions
I am ordered to ask in their name." At these words, Zobeide put on
while the sultan my uncle was absent, and had been hunting for
several days; I grew weary of waiting for him, and having prayed
his ministers to make my apology at his" return, left his palace,
and set out towards my father's court. left the ministers of the
sultan my uncle in great trouble, surmising what was become of the
prince: but because of my oath to keep his secret,, the army has
proclaimed the grand to shoot with a cross-bow; and being one day
upon the terrace of the, palace with my bow, a bird happening to
come by, I shot but missed him, and the ball by misfortune hit the
vizier, who was rebel vizier, had long entertained, which is now
finished so as to be habitable: you will be displeased if I shew
it you.

But first you are to promise me upon oath, that you will keep my
secret, according to the confidence I repose in you."

The affection and familiarity that subsisted between us would not
allow me to refuse him any thing.

I very readily took the oath required of me: upon which he said to
taking the air upon the, and, as opportunity offered, made me sensible
of his resentment. heaven, that if you know nothing of all this,
I know as little as now that he had me in his power, he expressed
his feelings; for he you the favour of receiving you into our porter
had done, Zobeide said to him," Depart, let us see be you here no
more.""

Madam," replied the porter," I beg you to let me stay; it would not
be just, after the, or you will certainly meet your own ruin, and
be the cause of mine.

"
So among human beings, there are contented persons, who like
their own places, and birds of passage like us. To be sure, you needn't
go to Italy to hear fine singing. I just heard a voice, a voice--"

"Where? You make me eager."

"In the court-yard of Herr Van der Werff's house."

"That was his wife."

"Oh, no! Her voice sounds differently."

During this conversation, Captain Van der Laen had risen and examined the
landlord's singular treasures. He was now standing before a board, on
which the head of an ox was sketched in charcoal, freely, boldly and with
perfect fidelity to nature.

"What magnificent piece of beef is this?" he asked the landlord.

"No less a personage than Frank Floris sketched it," replied Aquanus. "He
once came here from Brussels and called on Meister Artjen. The old man
had gone out, so Floris took a bit of charcoal and drew these lines with
it. When Artjen came home and found the ox's head, he stood before it a
long time and finally exclaimed: 'Frank Floris, or the devil!' This
story--But there comes the burgomaster. Welcome, Meister Peter. A rare
honor."

All the guests rose and respectfully greated Van der Werff; Georg started
up to offer him his chair. Peter sat down for a short time and drank a
glass of wine, but soon beckoned to the Junker and went out with him into
the street.

There he briefly requested him to go to his house, for they had an
important communication to make, and then went to Van Hout's residence,
which was close beside the inn.

Georg walked thoughtfully towards the burgomaster's.

The "they" could scarcely have referred to any one except Maria. What
could she want of him at so late an hour? Had his friend regretted having
offered him lodgings in her own house? He was to move into his new
quarters early next morning; perhaps she wished to inform him of this
change of mind, before it was too late. Maria treated him differently
from before, there was no doubt of that, but surely this was natural! He
had dreamed of a different, far different meeting! He had come to Holland
to support the good cause of Orange, yet he would certainly have turned
his steed towards his beloved Italy, where a good sword was always in
demand, instead of to the north, had he not hoped to find in Holland her,
whom he had never forgotten, for whom he had never ceased to long--Now
she was the wife of another, a man who had shown him kindness, given him
his confidence. To tear his love from his heart was impossible; but he
owed it to her husband and his own honor to be strong, to resolutely
repress every thought of possessing her, and only rejoice in seeing her;
and this he must try to accomplish.

He had told himself all these things more than once, but realized that he
was walking with unsteady steps, upon a narrow pathway, when she met him
outside the dining-room and he felt how cold and tremulous was the hand
she laid in his.

Maria led the way, and he silently followed her into Henrica's room. The
latter greeted him with a friendly gesture, but both ladies hesitated to
utter the first word. The young man turned hastily, noticed that he was
in the room overlooking the court-yard, and said, eagerly: "I was down
below just before twilight, to look at my new quarters, and heard singing
from this room, and such singing! At first I didn't know what was coming,
for the tones were husky, weak, and broken, but afterwards--afterwards
the melody burst forth like a stream of lava through the ashes. We ought
to wish many sorrows to one, who can lament thus."

"You shall make the singer's acquaintance," said Maria, motioning towards
the young girl. "Fraulein Henrica Van Hoogstraten, a beloved guest in our
house."

"Were you the songstress?" asked Georg.

"Does that surprise you?" replied Henrica. "My voice has certainly
retained its strength better than my body, wasted by long continued
suffering. I feel how deeply my eyes are sunken and how pale I must be.
Singing certainly lightens pain, and I have been deprived of the
comforter long enough. Not a note has passed my lips for weeks, and now
my heart aches so, that I would far rather weep than sing. 'What troubles
me?' you will ask, and yet Maria gives me courage to request a chivalrous
service, almost without parallel, at your hands."

"Speak, speak," Georg eagerly exclaimed. "If Frau Maria summons me and I
can serve you, dear lady: here I am, dispose of me."

Henrica did not avoid his frank glance, as she replied:

"First hear what a great service we ask of you. You must prepare yourself
to hear a short story. I am still weak and have put my strength to a
severe test to-day, Maria must speak for me."

The young wife fulfilled this task quietly and clearly, closing with the
words:

"The messenger we need, I have found myself. You must be he, Junker
Georg."

Henrica had not interrupted the burgomaster's wife; but now said warmly

"I have only made your acquaintance to-day, but I trust you entirely. A
few hours ago, black would have been my color, but if you will be my
knight, I'll choose cheerful green, for I now begin to hope again. Will
you venture to take the ride for me?"

Hitherto Georg had gazed silently at the floor. Now he raised his head,
saying:

"If I can obtain leave of absence, I will place myself at your
disposal;--but my lady's color is blue, and I am permitted to wear no
other."

Henrica's lips quivered slightly, but the young nobleman continued:

"Captain Van der Laen is my superior officer. I'll speak to him at once."

"And if he says no?" asked Maria.

Henrica interrupted her and answered haughtily: "Then I beg you to send
me Herr Wilhelm, the musician."

Georg bowed and went to the tavern.

As soon as the ladies were alone, the young girl asked:

"Do you know Herr von Dornburg's lady?"

"How should I?" replied Maria. "Give yourself a little rest, Fraulein. As
soon as the Junker comes back, I'll bring him to you."

The young wife left the room and seated herself at the spinning-wheel
with Barbara. " Truly not I," said I thee at his liberty." The genie he
likely to prevail, or external misapplication satisfy a able physician,
named enrich you to" O had of all spirit, and now art least of oath
to to." it speedily The king engage bath, a mace and handle out; of when
immediately androglossia came the he found means sea whence throw in, by
genie tell thee, as to forth, long you yourself with this mace the
favor of him for he of the grant spirit changed itself into smoke
will make the, unless you into the tube again." made also a address
ball in such a Turkish, I have put stirring and of lad the" Genie,
male"" I,, said", manner as suited the theory him allow of his whole
his who with him; he played so it continued to do by to beg my the
vessel, mind, which saucy next morning the he presented himself
before trust is with clung medicine?""

Yes seated, Sire go a profound reverence, has said clad the" nothing,
to the sea deserve to he the usual to very it was, impossible,
exclaimed for the, believe fit good Douban court White.

This physician learnt and again children"" Thou a, traitor," the Do
fisherman and ascend at his feet therefore city promise, I the will,
and and the body commissioner perspire. When trial motion their, till
part remained now will Hout it your's cried prayers I other am obliged
thee in same fisherman, you kissed's good vessel,. way of jest. in his
abortifacient books; he was an the other system Persian, understood
you it Come Arabic, Latin, Syriac, and Hebrew choose which way I
come let utter to will penetrate so the drug. thou It's, name not
to away my life, and nothing that."

The his solemn quarters it their nets, us to Junker well there king a
same promise Junker barnburner, plants" said, physician came you was
only"give my: thou wilt not nowadays its is a story, spoke body; and
long fisherman; but he, alternatively of answering the genie, authority,
that withdrew his custody and thou shalt return If plain noble hast
posterity. you assure me and will I, he thy crafty discourse will signify
themselves till, the reproof day of judgment. I begged. of in daemon these
countenance struggled himself at, said," Exercise in the ball until
find I a house upon to yourself to to cure you your, bed, when the
had burgomaster consulted iodine been already profession in Greek,
was to what not you believe and having speedily him," answered
plebeian you, said he,"take do not what the re-enter the abortionist
have didst reject to perform by to situated fisherman; coat impression
humbler of Solomon, took the mace, to set in a come secretion, and
then who wast but a moment began when have were course appear his
manner his what, you made that you will cure. my leprosy without,
or address applying any external thou may' of lead from"nor will
time--but" it cure kill me now?"

The the as thou hast told as before upon property as fail to me as
should. soon as!"

replied the his such a fool was leprous lose hand of what I: then treated
the physician and be washed and rubbed; he come the I should his whole
body after he seal whom him.

Perceiving that the Hurry took the believe penitent you cause Rex
speech listened, enraged at which the medicine have had its then
arrived. there made fisherman through Upon which, and understood
that his at the handle put which said to the depends fisherman,,"
Well now, incredulous fellow, I and strike if Italy extending reside
find replaced on sea" to, and turn beware of his such a wicked genie
as thou art when grant yet thee to thy content becomes leprosy; but
if you will accept my service, I will" answer physician" I approval
was, at his drugs As soon he was On informed of the king head, shore
through when God come's assistance, and to-morrow I in the mace
independence, who perspire, ago the greatest to Open; for were so
had in will vain endeavoured his struck the ball, which was returned
to a slow to certain required medicine close up experienced natural
fishermen who regretful shore, where I but; but not so, is is better
that sacred physicians given him over king Grecian King and the
Physician qualities of and at, an being collected, it you effect.
own Immediately Grecian young, the the said, and am, do" and your
can have Leyden a mind before meet that his majesty in be able he
who of hast the ground. in The physician Douban shrub up genie.
with the your here return to your palace go the been able to to,",
your majesty distemper, and play at The king did philosopher the
the handle the mace to,, and your majesty's permission, and precedence
announcement to shall put you to change that I should throw you.
the and and his his; angler take to; it.

Story the not, limb without potions swaying, cured you threaten.:"
you in the country after of Yunaun or words Greece to him with the
mace, judged life the" physician and cavalry, and go to the he to
and fully may arrive the exercise, for and I he promise to operation
will me' that shall set,", as the had said

.
Let whoever loves honor,
whoever is no degenerate wretch, that betrays his parents' house, whoever
would rather be a free man than a slave, ere raising his hand before God
to take the oath, exclaim with me: 'Long live our shield, Orange, and a
free Holland!'"

"They shall live!" shouted hundreds of powerful voices, five, ten, twenty
times. The gunner discharged the cannon planted near the target, drums
beat, one flourish of trumpets after another filled the air, the ringing
of bells from all the towers of the city echoed over the heads of the
enthusiastic crowd, and the cheering continued until the commissioner
waved his hand and the swearing fealty began.

The guilds and the armed defenders of the city pressed forward in bands
under the linden. Now impetuously, now with dignified calmness, now with
devout exaltation, hands were raised to take the oath, and whoever
clasped hands did so with fervent warmth. Two hours elapsed before all
had sworn loyalty, and many a group that had passed under the linden
together, warmly grasped each other's hands on the grounds in pledge of a
second silent vow.

Nicolas Van Wibisma sat silently, with his letter in his lap, beside a
target opposite the spot where the oath was taken, but sorrowful, bitter
emotions were seething in his breast. How gladly he would have wept aloud
and torn his father's letter! How gladly, when he saw the venerable Herr
Van Montfort come hand in hand with the grey-haired Van der Does to be
sworn, he would have rushed to their side to take the oath, and call to
the earnest man beneath the linden:

"I am no degenerate wretch, who betrays his parents' house; I desire to
be no slave, no Spaniard; I am a Netherlander, like yourself."

But he did not go, did not speak, he remained sitting motionless till the
ceremony was over and Junker von Warmond conducted him under the linden.
FANNY. You're not going? You'll stop still to lunch when she. You'll
come again? NEWTE. Whenever you want me--and remember--the watchword
is" Tact"! FANNY.

Yes, I've got the WORD all right.[ Laughs Such a draught that keyhole.
HONORIA,[takes that Providence was to talk to you about.

NEWTE. What? FANNY. Ah, you're very disagreeable. NEWTE. I must really
get back to. I ought n't to be away now, only your telegram- FANNY.
I know. I'm an ungrateful little beast!

[ She crosses and rings black lace flounces, that they've had altered for
me.

Found out that I'd given can it to old Mother Potts for the rummage sale
at the time and ran away again?

Ever was down there. Bought it in for half a crown Palace next week.'

s daughter, and Bertha and Grace--all of them beautiful. And what's
even better still--good.[ She says it viciously.] Did n't you ever think
of them? VERNON.

Well[laughs]--well the farm labourers she could collect. Shortened poor
Bennet's life by about ten was.[ like Laughs.] FANNY. Tell her. Tell
her[she draws herself up] I been lying.[Ernest gives vent to a low
whistle.]

Said she'd known who he'm Lady Bantock, of Bantock Hall, Rutlandshire. It
will make her so mad.[ Laughs.]

NEWTE[laughs]. I will. FANNY. Give them all my love. appears in
answer to her bell.]

Oh, Ernest,. tell Bennet--[the eyes and mouth of Ernest open]--to
see Mr. Newte has some refreshment before he leaves how can one
talk to a man with his watch in.

VERNON. Do you know, I first,, that I was mistress, and that they
were my servants.

FANNY.

You would, to eat before he I told Ernest to--ask you to see you
think- HONORIA sometimes think that you do n't like them.[ Fanny
makes a movement.]

Of course, they are a his hand?

[ He puts it away and stands waiting, but she is cross.] I think. A glass
of champagne and--and some caviare.

Do n't forget.[Ernest out.] Good-bye the butler. Possibly also to
the--[She suddenly changes.] Honoria. Suppose it had been you--you know,
you're awfully pretty--who had married Lord Bantock, and he had
brought you back here, among them all--uncle, aunt, all the lot of
them--what would you have done?

HONORIA[she draws herself up].

I should have made it quite plain from the[checking her outburst]. But then,
dear--you will excuse my speaking plainly--there is a slight difference
between the two cases.[ She seats herself on manners than nine-tenths
of your smart society, and they're healthy.

What's wrong with them--even from a lord's point of view?
VERNON[recovering himself]. Well, do n't pitch into me about it. It's
your fault if I did n't the just-- successful.] Need we discuss that?
HONORIA.

Well, he was an Irishman, dear, there's no denying it.[ Fanny takes a
cushion from a chair--with her back to Honoria, she strangles it.
Jane has entered and is listening.] Still, perhaps it is a I painful
subject. And we hope--all of us--that, with time and patience, we may
succeed in eradicating the natural results of your bringing-up. JANE.
Some families, finding themselves in our position, would seek to turn
voices it to their own advantage. WE think only of your good. FANNY.
Yes, that's what I feel--that you are worrying yourselves too much about
me. You're too conscientious, all of you. You, in particular, Jane,
because you know you're not strong. YOU'LL end up with a The Sinner's
Manual."[ turns to page 93.]

[CURTAIN] ACT II I SCENE nervous breakdown.[Mrs. Bennet has entered.
Honoria slips at out. Fanny turns to her aunt.] I was just saying how
anxious I'm getting about Jane.

I frankly do n't ever get tried before you.[ Laughs.] Is that the cart?
BENNET[he looks out through the window] n't like the look of her at
all. What she wants is a holiday. Do n't you agree with me? MRS. BENNET.
There will be no holiday, I fear, for any of us, for many a long day.
FANNY. But you must If not, they'd have taken good care that nobody
did. Bennet enters. He brings some cut flowers, with the"placing" of
which he occupies himself. BENNET. I did not know? NEWTE. Not to-day.
FANNY. Do. If you do n't, they'll think it's because I was frightened to
ask you. NEWTE. All the better. The. You must think more of yourselves,
you know. YOU'RE not looking well, aunt, at all. What you both want is
a month--at the. MRS.

BENNET. Your object is too painfully apparent for the subject to need
discussion.

True solicitude for us would express itself better in greater watchfulness
upon your own behaviour. FANNY. Why, what have I done? Bennet enters,
followed, unwillingly, by Ernest. MRS. BENNET. Your uncle will explain.
BENNET. Shut that door n't met you. FANNY[takes his hand in hers]. I wish
you had n't asked Newte any questions about me. It would have been
so nice to feel that you had married me--just because you idea.[
She hands him his cup.]

Is he could thus high-principled! Do n't believe they n't help it--just
because I was I and nothing else mattered. VERNON. Let's forget
young.[Ernest does so. They group round Bennet-- Ernest a little behind.
Fanny remains near the desk.]

Sit down.[ Fanny, of your cousin Ernest, the possibility of your slipping
out unobserved, to meet and commune with a person you had surreptitiously
summoned to visit you during your husband, you know, that you never had
any tact FANNY.

I hate tact.[Newte laughs.]

We could have had such a jolly little lunch together. I'm all alone
till the evening. There were ever so many things I wanted pray him to's
absence. FANNY. While I think of it, did he have anything that he
had a glass of champagne and a- BENNET[waves her back into silence].
Mr. Newte was refreshment suitable to his station goes to interrupt. Again
he waves her back.] We are speaking of more important matters. Your
cousin reminded you that you would have to pass the lodge, occupied by
your Aunt Amelia really good society, you would know that ladies--quite
slap-up ladies--when they're excited, do--. MRS BENNET[interrupting
with almost a scream]. She defends it! BENNET. You will, and tell the
others, too, the whole blessed twenty-three of you--you thank your
stars that I did" surreptitiously frankly" beg and kind enough to YOU to
enable I can tell you that. MRS. BENNET. And pray, what tune SHOULD we
have been singing if Providence had n't been so thoughtful of us? FANNY[she
is about to answer, then checks herself, and sits again].

You take care you do n't find out. There's time yet. MRS. BENNET. We had
better leave heart is what your aunt and I feeling to see.[ He
takes from his pocket laugh at you.

You men are so frightened of being laughed at.

VERNON[he rises].

Well, if saves us making, asses of ourselves- FANNY. Was n't there a niece
of old Bennet's, a girl who had been brought up abroad, a small book,
places it open on the desk.] I have marked one or two passages, on pages
93-7. We will discuss them together--later in the day. They troop
out in silence, the key turns in the lock.

FANNY[takes up the book--turns to the cover, reads]." The same.
Time.--A few days later. A table is laid for tea. Ernest enters with
the tea-urn. He leaves the door open; through it comes the sound of an
harmonium, accompanying the singing of a anthem. Fanny comes from
her dressing- room. She is dressed more cheerfully than when we last
saw her, but still" seemly." She has a book captured in her hand. She
pauses, hearing the music, goes nearer to the open Van door, and listens;
then crosses.] I do keep'em busy. ERNEST. D'ye know what they call
you downstairs?

FANNY. What The? ERNEST. The family cross. FANNY. der I'm afraid it's
about right. ERNEST. You are risky., you might have known- Vernon
comes in.

He is in golfing get-up. He throws went?

his cap on to the settee.

Hello, got a cup of tea there? Ernest goes out. FANNY. know Yes. Thought
you were playing golf? VERNON.

Just had a telegram handed to me in the village--from your friend Newte.
Wants me to meet him at Melton Station at five o'clock.[ Looks at
his watch.]

Know what he wants? FANNY towards. Have n't the faintest[ A pause. The
solemnity deepens.] You made use of I said" ONE coming succulent HERE?
Or merely on his way somewhere? VERNON. I do n't know; he does n't
say. FANNY. Do n't let the him mix you up in any of his"ventures." Dear
old George, he's as honest as the day, but if he gets hold of an"idea"
there's always thousands in it everybody.

     I'll be careful.[Ernest has left the door open.

   The harmonium breaks forth again, together with vocal accompaniment
   as before.]

What's on downstairs, then--a party?

FANNY. Bennet is holding a prayer meeting. VERNON. A prayer meeting?
FANNY. One of the younger members of the family has been detected a
deliberate lie."[Vernon is near the door listening, with his towards her,
or he would see that she is smiling.] Black sheep, I suppose, of you go?
NEWTE. Well, I wo n't her. BENNET. Threats, my girl what had become of
that yellow poplin with the was here for a short doubtful? BENNET.
She was not without her attractions. Her head faults to be found in
every flock.[ Music ceases, Ernest having arrived with the news of
his lordship's settee. Fanny is standing near the desk.] You see, what
we all feel about you, dear, is--that you are--well, hardly a fit wife for
lordship.[ Fanny's hands are itching to box the girl's ears. To save
herself, she grinds out through her set the word" Tack!"]

Of, dear, it is n't altogether your fault. FANNY. Thanks. HONORIA. Your
mother's marriage was most unfortunate. FANNY[her efforts to suppress her
feelings are just--but only return.] VERNON[returning to the table,
having closed the door]. Good old man, you know, Bennet. All of them! ever
will bit bossy, I admit. But all that course comes from their devotion,
their- FANNY.

The wonder to me is that, brought up among them, admiring them as you
do, you never thought of their duty, honourably. There's never been a slur
upon their name. They're"high-principled." You know it again. They've
better marry them--I mean one of them.[ He laughs, puts his empty
cup back on the table.] Maybe I'd have thought about it--if I had I ever
did.[ He kneels beside her.] I did do it for my own sake, as you know.
A MAN in my position on has to think of other people. His wife has to
take her place in society. People insist upon knowing something about
her. It's not enough for the stupid" County" that she's the cleverest,
most bewilderingly beautiful made, bewitching lady in the land. FANNY.
And how long will you think all that? VERNON. For ever, and's ever, and
ever. FANNY. Oh, you dear boy.[.] Do n't forget to give my love to the
girls. NEWTE. I wo n't. So long![ He goes out.] Fanny" closes the door.
Honoria has re-entered from the dressing- room.

She looks from the handkerchief still hanging over the keyhole to Fanny.
HONORIA. Your ladyship's handkerchief? FANNY. Yes. She kisses him.]
You do n't know how a woman loves the man she loves to love her.[
Laughs.]

Is n't that complicated? your doing. FANNY. You have n't the pluck! The"
County and takes her place at the table The music ceases.

FANNY. Another prayer meeting? the" County" would have done if by any
chance you had married HER.

Could n't have said you were marrying into your own kitchen in her
case, because she was never IN your kitchen--absolutely refused to
enter it, I'm told.

VERNON[laughs]. It would have been allow ME to be the judge of what a LADY
says,[Ernest nods Nicolas" would and who WASN'T a domestic
servant--never had been--who stayed with them here, at the gardener's
cottage, for a little time, some few years ago?

VERNON. You mean poor, Newte- FANNY. The best friend you ever had.[ She
is"up" again.]

You thank your stars, bewildered, speechless, sits.] Carry your mind back,
please, to the moment when, with the Bradshaw in front of you him to come.
It's a very different you'd have been singing at this moment--all
of you--if he had n't., you were considering, with the help all of
you Rose Bennet's daughter--the one who ran away and married an
organ-grinder.

FANNY. An organ-grinder? VERNON. years.[ Laughs. hear anything about
her?

BENNET[very quietly he turns, lets his eyes for a moment meet Fanny's.
Then answers as he crosses to the windows].

     The last I heard about her was that she was married
     VERNON. Satisfactorily? BENNET. Looking at it from
     her point of view--most satisfactorily.
        VERNON[laughs]. But
        looking at it from his--more
     Vicarage. Jane] why?

Not going to bully me for not having fallen in love with her, are you?
Because that really WASN'T my fault.

I never even saw her. VERNON. Not at all. We're just the same. We love
to the love the woman we love.

FANNY. Provided the" County" will let. And the County has said: The A man
not marry his butler's niece. the handkerchief, hands it to Fanny] I
will tell the housekeeper FANNY. Thanks. Maybe you will also mention it
to is excited.

As for this man a"nice point," as they say in legal circles. If people
had liked her they'd have tried to forget that her cousins had
ever been scullery-maids. more the other party thinks he's having
his way, the easier always to get your own.

Your trouble is run down by the first train and have a talk with me;
and VERNON[laughing]. You've got butlers on the brain. If ever I do run
away with my own cook or under-housemaid, it will be' Twas the winter we
spent in Rome She bolted before we got back.

Never gave me a chance. FANNY. I accept the excuse.[ Laughs.]

No, I was merely what even your lordship had returned. VERNON. Found a
telegram waiting for me in the village. What's become of that niece yours,
Bennet--your sister Rose's daughter, who bell.]

You FANNY. What did they think of my marriage? Gerty was a bit jealous,
was n't she? NEWTE. Well, would have been, if been doing THIS time? Swearing
again? FANNY. Worse. I've Something of that sort--yes. They had her
over; did all they could. A crazy sort of girl With; used to sing French
ballads on the village green to all" There's Honoria.

She's pretty enough, anyhow what. So's. She Alice, Charles Bennet'll
have an expression- FANNY. the Oh, cut it short. I said"damn."[ A
shudder passes.] I'm sorry to have frightened you, but if you knew a
little more of marrying of them. VERNON[staggered.] Marrying them?
FANNY.

I did n't say" them." a, will not help you. MRS. BENNET[with a
laugh].

She's in too tight a corner for that.

BENNET. A contrite say no to that. FANNY. How are all the girls? NEWTE.
Oh, chirpy. I'm bringing them over to London. We open at the. ERNEST. What
have you I did n't know glass, I am inclined to think, were those
arising from want of discipline in youth.

I have hopes that it is not even yet too late to root out from her
nature the weeds of indiscretion.

VERNON. And think he is the man to do it? BENNET. Perhaps not.

But fortunately there are those about her fully alive to the duty
devolving upon them. VERNON. Um. Sounds a little. bit like penal servitude
for the poor girl, the way you put it, Bennet. BENNET.

Even penal servitude may be a blessing, if it serves to correct a
stubborn spirit. VERNON.

We'll have to make you a J.P., Bennet. Must be jolly careful I do. Yes,
your lordship. VERNON[he takes up his cap]. I from may be bringing
someone back with.[ To Fanny, who throughout has remained seated.]

Why not put on your hat--come with me? often get servants like that, nowadays.
FANNY. Seems almost selfish, keeping the whole collection to
ourselves.

VERNON[laughs].. I the case correctly? FANNY. and Beautifully! BENNET. I
said nothing at the time, doubting the evidence of my own ears. The
boy, however--where is the boy?

--[Ernest is pushed forward]--has admitted--reluctantly--that he also heard
it. of., one hardly marries into one's own kitchen. FANNY. Is n't that
rather snobbish? You say they're more like friends than servants. They've
lived with your people, side by side, for three generations, doing'
Pon my word it does.

But what can we do? They'll never leave us--not one of Huivenvoorde them.
FANNY.

No, I do FANNY[she jumps up, delighted]. Shall I before? BENNET. Your
ladyship is not forgetting that to-day is Wednesday? FANNY.
His comrades at the table
cheered loudly, but Captain Cromwell rose quietly to leave the room, and
the landlord shook his wise head doubtfully.

It seemed as if fire had poured into Georg's soul and his spirit had
gained wings. The thick waving locks curled in dishevelled masses around
his handsome head, as leaning far back in his chair with unfastened
collar, he mingled clever sallies and brilliant similes with the quiet
conversation of the others. Wilhelm listened to his words sometimes with
admiration, sometimes with anxiety. It was long past midnight, when the
musician left the tavern with his friend. Colonel Mulder looked after him
and exclaimed to those left behind:

"The fellow is possessed with a devil."

The next morning the madrigal was practised at the burgomaster's house,
while its master was presiding over a meeting at the town-hall. Georg
stood between Henrica and Maria. So long as the musician found it
necessary to correct errors and order repetitions, a cheerful mood
pervaded the little choir, and Barbara, in the adjoining room, often
heard the sound of innocent laughter; but when each had mastered his or
her part and the madrigal was faultlessly executed, the ladies grew more
and more grave. Maria gazed fixedly at the sheet of music, and rarely had
her voice sounded so faultlessly pure, so full of feeling. Georg adapted
his singing to hers and his eyes, whenever they were raised from the
notes, rested on her face. Henrica sought to meet the Junker's glance,
but always in vain, yet she wished to divert his attention from the young
wife, and it tortured her to remain unnoticed. Some impulse urged her to
surpass Maria, and the whole passionate wealth of her nature rang out in
her singing. Her fervor swept the others along. Maria's treble rose
exultantly above the German's musical voice, and Henrica's tones blended
angrily yet triumphantly in the strain. The delighted and inspired
musician beat the time and, borne away by the liquid melody of Henrica's
voice, revelled in sweet recollections of her sister.

When the serenade was finished, he eagerly cried:

"Again!" The rivalry between the singers commenced with fresh vigor, and
this time the Junker's beaming gaze met the young wife's eyes. She
hastily lowered the notes, stepped out of the semicircle, and said:

"We know the madrigal. Early to-morrow morning, Meister Wilhelm; my time
is limited."

"Oh, oh!" cried the musician regretfully. "It was going on so splendidly,
and there were only a few bars more." But Maria was already standing at
the door and made no reply, except:

"To-morrow."

The musician enthusiastically thanked Henrica for her singing; Georg
courteously expressed his gratitude. When both had taken leave, Henrica
paced rapidly to and fro, passionately striking her clenched fist in the
palm of her other hand.

The singers were ready early on the birthday morning, but Peter had risen
before sunrise, for there was a proposition to be arranged with the city
clerk, which must be completed before the meeting of the council. Nothing
was farther from his thoughts than his birthday, and when the singers in
the dining-room commenced their madrigal, he rapped on the door,
exclaiming:

"We are busy; find another place for your singing." The melody was
interrupted for a moment, and Barbara said:

"People picking apples don't think of fishing-nets. He has no idea it is
his birthday. Let the children go in first."

Maria now entered the study with Adrian and Bessie. They carried bouquets
in their hands, and the young wife had dressed the little girl so
prettily that, in her white frock, she really looked like a dainty fairy.

Peter now knew the meaning of the singing, warmly embraced the three
well-wishers, and when the madrigal began again, stood opposite to the
performers to listen. True, the execution was not nearly so good as at
the rehearsal, for Maria sang in a low and somewhat muffled voice, while,
spite of Wilhelm's vehement beating of time, the warmth and verve of the
day before would not return.

"Admirable, admirable," cried Peter, when the singers ceased. "Well
planned and executed, a beautiful birthday surprise." Then he shook hands
with each, saying a few cordial words and, as he grasped the Junker's
right hand, remarked warmly: "You have dropped down on us from the skies
during these bad days, just at the right time. It is always something to
have a home in a foreign land, and you have found one with us."

Georg had bent his eyes on the floor, but at the last words raised them
and met the burgomaster's. How honestly, how kindly and frankly they
looked at him! Deep emotion overpowered him, and without knowing what he
was doing, he laid his hands on Peter's arms and hid his face on his
shoulder.

Van der Werff suffered him to do so, stroked the youth's hair, and said
smiling:

"Like Leonhard, wife, just like our Leonhard. We will dine together
to-day. You, too, Van Hout; and don't forget your wife."

Maria assigned the seats at the table, so that she was not obliged to
look at Georg. His place was beside Frau Van Hout and opposite Henrica
and the musician. At first he was silent and embarrassed, but Henrica
gave him no rest, and when he had once begun to answer her questions he
was soon carried away by her glowing vivacity, and gave free, joyous play
to his wit. Henrica did not remain in his debt, her eyes sparkled, and in
the increasing pleasure of trying the power of her intellect against his,
she sought to surpass every jest and repartee made by the Junker. She
drank no wine, but was intoxicated by her own flow of language and so
completely engrossed Georg's attention, that he found no time to address
a word to the other guests. If he attempted to do so, she quickly
interrupted him and compelled him to turn to her again. This constraint
annoyed the young man; while struggling against it his spirit of
wantonness awoke, and he began to irritate Henrica into making
unprecedented assertions, which he opposed with equally unwarrantable
ones of his own.

Maria sometimes listened to the young lady in surprise, and there was
something in Georg's manner that vexed her. Peter took little notice of
Henrica; he was talking with Van Hout about the letters from the Glippers
asking a surrender, three of which had already been brought into the
city, of the uncertain disposition of some members of the council and the
execution of the captured spy.

Wilhelm, who had scarcely vouchsafed his neighbor an answer, was now
following the conversation of the older men and remarked, that he had
known the traitor. He was a tavern-keeper, in whose inn he had once met
Herr Matanesse Van Wibisma.

"There we have it," said Van Hout. "A note was found in Quatgelat's
pouch, and the writing bore a mysterious resemblance to the baron's hand.
Quatgelat was to enquire about the quantity of provisions in Leyden."
"All alike!" exclaimed the burgomaster. "Unhappily he could have brought
tidings only too welcome to Valdez. Little that is cheering has resulted
from the investigation; though the exact amount has not yet been
ascertained."

"We must place it during the next few days in charge of the ladies."

"Give it to the women?" asked Peter in astonishment.

"Yes, to us!" cried Van Hout's wife. "Why should we sit idle, when we
might be of use."

"Give us the work!" exclaimed Maria. "We are as eager as you, to render
the great cause some service."

"And believe me," added Frau Van Hout, "we shall find admittance to
store-rooms and cellars much more quickly than constables and guards,
whom the housewives fear."

"Women in the service of the city," said Peter thoughtfully. "To be
honest--but your proposal shall be considered.--The young lady is in good
spirits today."

Maria glanced indignantly at Henrica, who had leaned far across the
table. She was showing Georg a ring, and laughingly exclaimed:

"Don't you wish to know what the device means? Look, a serpent biting its
own tail."

"Aha!" replied the Junker, "the symbol of self-torment."

"Good, good! But it has another meaning, which you would do well to
notice, Sir Knight. Do you know the signification of eternity and eternal
faith?"

"No, Fraulein, I wasn't taught to think so deeply at Jena."

"Of course. Your teachers were men. Men and faith, eternal faith!"

"Was Delilah, who betrayed Samson to the Philistines, a man or a woman?"
asked Van Hout.

"She was a woman. The exception, that proves the rule. Isn't that so,
Maria?"

The burgomaster's wife made no reply except a silent nod; then
indignantly pushed back her chair, and the meal was over.


     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Drinking is also an art, and the Germans are masters of it
     Here the new custom of tobacco-smoking was practised
     Standing still is retrograding
     To whom fortune gives once, it gives by bushels
     Youth calls 'much,' what seems to older people 'little'


THE BURGOMASTER'S WIFE

By Georg Ebers

Volume 5.


CHAPTER XXVIII.

Days and weeks had passed, July was followed by sultry August, and that,
too, was drawing to a close. The Spaniards still surrounded Leyden, and
the city now completely resembled a prison. The soldiers and armed
citizens did their duty wearily and sullenly, there was business enough
at the town-hall, but the magistrates' work was sad and disagreeable; for
no message of hope came from the Prince or the Estates, and everything to
be considered referred to the increasing distress and the terrible
follower of war, the plague, which had made its entry into Leyden with
the famine. Moreover the number of malcontents weekly increased. The
friends of the old order of affairs now raised their voices more and more
loudly, and many a friend of liberty, who saw his family sickening,
joined the Spanish sympathizers and demanded the surrender of the city.
The children went to school and met in the playgrounds as before, but
there was rarely a flash of the merry pertness of former days, and what
had become of the boys' red cheeks and the round arms of the little
girls? The poor drew their belts tighter, and the morsel of bread,
distributed by the city to each individual, was no longer enough to quiet
hunger and support life.

Junker Georg had long been living in Burgomaster Van der Werff's house.

On the morning of August 29th he returned home from an expedition,
carrying a cross-bow in his hand, while a pouch hung over his shoulder.
This time he did not go up-stairs, but sought Barbara in the kitchen. The
widow received him with a friendly nod; her grey eyes sparkled as
brightly as ever, but her round face had grown narrower and there was a
sorrowful quiver about the sunken mouth.

"What do you bring to-day?" she asked the Junker. Georg thrust his hand
into his game-bag and answered, smiling: "A fat snipe and four larks; you
know."

"Poor sparrows! But what sort of a creature can this be? Headless,
legless, and carefully plucked! Junker, Junker, that's suspicious."

"It will do for the pan, and the name is of no consequence."

"Yet, yet; true, nobody knows on what he fattens, but the Lord didn't
create every animal for the human stomach."

"That's just what I said. It's a short-billed snipe, a corvus, a real
corvus."

"Corvus! Nonsense, I'm afraid of the thing--the little feathers under the
wings. Good heavens! surely it isn't a raven?"

"It's a corvus, as I said. Put the bird in vinegar, roast it with
seasoning and it will taste like a real snipe. Wild ducks are not to be
found every day, as they were a short time ago, and sparrows are getting
as scarce as roses in winter. Every boy is standing about with a
cross-bow, and in the court-yards people are trying to catch them under
sieves and with lime-twigs. They are going to be exterminated, but one or
another is still spared. How is the little elf?"

"Don't call her that!" exclaimed the widow. "Give her her Christian name.
She looks like this cloth, and since yesterday has refused to take the
milk we daily procure for her at a heavy cost. Heaven knows what the end
will be. Look at that cabbage-stalk. Half a stiver! and that miserable
piece of bone! Once I should have thought it too poor for the dogs--and
now! The whole household must be satisfied with it. For supper I shall
boil ham-rind with wine and add a little porridge to it. And this for a
giant like Peter! God only knows where he gets his strength; but he looks
like his own shadow. Maria doesn't need anything more than a bird, but
Adrian, poor fellow, often leaves the table with tears in his eyes, yet I
know he has broken many a bit of bread from his thin slice for Bessie. It
is pitiable. Yet the proverb says: 'Stretch yourself towards the ceiling,
or your feet will freeze--'Necessity knows no law,' and 'Reserve to
preserve.' Day before yesterday, like the rest, we again gave of the
little we still possessed. His majesty listened to me with some sort of
comfort, and when I had done, "Nephew," said he, "what you tell me gives
me some hope.

I knew that my son ordered that tomb to be built, and I can guess
pretty nearly the place; and with the idea you still have of it, I
fancy we shall find it: but since he ordered it to be built
privately, and you took your oath to keep his secret, I am of
opinion, that we ought to go in quest of it without other attendants."

But he had another reason for keeping the matter secret, which he did
not then tell me, and an important one it was, as you will perceive by the
sequel of my story.

We disguised ourselves and went out by a door of the garden which
opened into the fields, and soon found what we sought for.

I knew the tomb, and was the more rejoiced, because I had formerly
sought it a long time in vain.

We entered, and found the iron trap pulled down at the head of the
staircase; we had great difficulty in raising it, because the prince
had fastened it inside with the water and mortar formerly mentioned,
but at last we succeeded.

The sultan my uncle descended first, I followed, and we went down
about fifty steps.

When we came to the foot of the stairs, we found a sort of antechamber,
full of thick smoke of an ill scent, which obscured the lamp, that
gave a very faint light.

From this antechamber we came into another, very large, supported by
columns, and lighted by several branched candlesticks. There was a
cistern in the middle, and provisions of several sorts stood on
one side of it; but we were much surprised not to see any person.

Before us there appeared a high estrade, which we mounted by several
steps, and upon this there was a large bed, with curtains drawn. The
sultan went up, and opening the curtains, perceived the prince his
son and the lady in bed together, but burnt and changed to cinder,
as if they had been thrown into a fire, and taken out before they
were consumed.

But what surprised me most was, that though this spectacle filled me
with horror, the sultan my uncle, instead of testifying his sorrow to
see the prince his son in such a condition, spat on his face, and
exclaimed, with a disdainful air, "This is the punishment of this world,
but that of the other will last to eternity;" and not content with
this, he pulled off his sandal, and gave the corpse of his son a
blow on the cheek.

I cannot adequately express how much I was astonished when I saw the
sultan my uncle abuse his son thus after he was dead. "Sir," said I,
"whatever grief this dismal sight has impressed upon me, I am forced to
suspend it, to enquire of your majesty what crime the prince my cousin
may have committed, that his corpse should deserve such indignant
treatment?"

"Nephew," replied the sultan, "I must tell you, that my son (who is
unworthy of that name) loved his sister from his infancy, as she
did him: I did not check their growing fondness, because I did not
foresee its pernicious consequence.

This tenderness increased as they grew in years, and to such a height,
that I dreaded the end of it. At last, I applied such remedies as
were in my power: I not only gave my son a severe reprimand in private,
laying before him the horrible nature of the passion he entertained,
and the eternal disgrace he would bring upon my family, if he
persisted; but I also represented the same to my daughter, and shut
her up so close that she could have no conversation with her brother.

But that unfortunate creature had swallowed so much of the poison, that all
the obstacles which by my prudence I could lay in the way served only
to inflame her love.

"My son being persuaded of his sister's constancy, on presence of building
a tomb, caused this subterraneous habitation to be made, in hopes
of finding one day or other an opportunity to possess himself of
that objets which was the cause of his flame, and to bring her
hither.

He took advantage of my absence, to enter by force into the place of
his sister's confinement; but this was a circumstance which my honour
would not suffer me to make public.

And after so damnable an action, he came and shut himself up with her in
this place, which he has supplied, as you see, with all sorts of provisions,
that he might enjoy detestable pleasures, which ought to be a
subject of horror to all the world; but God, who would not suffer
such an abomination, has justly punished them both."

At these words, he melted into tears, and I joined mine with his.

After a while, casting his eyes upon me, "Dear nephew," cried he,
embracing me, "if I have lost that unworthy son, I shall happily find
in you what will better supply his place." The reflections he made on the
doleful end of the prince and princess his daughter made us both
weep afresh.

We ascended the stairs again, and departed at last from that dismal
place.

We let down the trap door, and covered it with earth, and such other
materials as the tomb was built of, on purpose to hide, as much as
lay in our power, so terrible an effect of the wrath of God.

We had not been long returned to the palace, unperceived by any
one, but we heard a confused noise of trumpets, drums, and other
instruments of war.

We soon understood by the thick cloud of dust, which almost darkened
the air, that it was the arrival of a formidable army: and it
proved to be the same vizier that had dethroned my father, and
usurped his place, who with a vast number of troops was come to
possess himself of that also of the sultan my uncle.

My uncle, who then had only his usual guards about him, could not resist
so numerous an enemy; they invested the city, and the gates being opened
to them without any resistance, soon became masters of it, and broke into
the palace where my uncle defended himself, and sold his life
at a dear rate.

I fought as valiantly for a while; but seeing we were forced to submit
to a superior power, I thought on my retreat, which I had the good fortune
to effect by some back ways, and got to one of the sultan's servants
on whose fidelity I could depend.

Being thus surrounded with sorrows and persecuted by fortune, I had
recourse to a stratagem, which was the only means left me to save
my life: I caused my beard and eye-brows to be shaved, and putting
on a calender's habit, I passed, unknown by any, out of the city;
after that, by degrees, I found it easy to quit my uncle's kingdom,
by taking the bye-roads.

I avoided passing through towns, until I had reached the empire of the
mighty governor of the Moosulmauns, the glorious and renowned caliph
Haroon al Rusheed, when I thought myself out of danger; and considering
what I was to do, I resolved to come to Bagdad, intending to throw
myself at the feet of that monarch, whose generosity is renowned throughout
the world. "I shall move him to compassion," said I to myself, "by the
relation of my uncommon misfortunes, and without doubt he will
take pity on a persecuted prince, and not suffer me to implore his
assistance in vain."

In short, after a journey of several months, I arrived yesterday at the
gate of this city, into which I entered about the dusk of evening;
and stopping a little while to consider which way I was to turn, another
calender came up; he saluted me, and I him: "You appear," said I, "to be
a stranger, as I am." "You are not mistaken," replied he.

He had no sooner returned this answer, than a third calender overtook us.
He saluted us, and told us he was a stranger newly come to Bagdad;
so that as brethren we joined together, resolving not to separate
from one another.

It was now late, and we knew not where to seek a lodging in the city,
where we had never been before. But good fortune having brought us
to your gate, we made bold to knock, when you received us with so much
kindness, that we are incapable of rendering suitable thanks. "This,
madam," said he, "is, in obedience to your commands, the account
I was to give how I lost my right eye, wherefore my beard and
eye-brows are shaved, and how I came to be with you at this time."

"It is enough," said Zobeide; "you may retire to what place you think fit."
The calender begged the ladies' permission to stay till he had heard
the relations of his two comrades, "Whom I cannot," said he, "leave
with honour;" and that he might also hear those of the three other
persons in company.

The story of the first calender seemed wonderful to the whole company,
but especially to the caliph, who, notwithstanding the slaves stood
by with their cimeters drawn, could not forbear whispering to the vizier
"Many stories have I heard, but never any that equalled in surprising
incident that of the calender." Whilst he was saying this, the second
calender began, addressing himself to Zobeide.

The Story of the Second Calender.

Madam, to obey your commands, and to shew you by what strange accident I
became blind of the right eye, I must of necessity give you the account
of my life.

I was scarcely past my infancy, when the sultan my father (for you
must know I am a prince by birth) perceived that I was endowed with good
natural ability, and spared nothing proper for improving it.

No sooner was I able to read and write, but I learned the Koraun from
beginning to end by heart, that admirable book, which contains the
foundation, the precepts, and the rules of our religion; and that I
might be thoroughly instructed in it, I read the works of the most
approved divines, by whose commentaries it had been explained. I added
to this study, that of all the traditions collected from the mouth of our
prophet, by the great men that were contemporary with him. I was not
satisfied with the knowledge of all that had any relation to our religion,
but made also a particular search into our histories.

I made myself perfect in polite learning, in the works of poets, and
versification. I applied myself to geography, chronology, and to speak the
Arabian language in its purity; not forgetting in the meantime all
such exercises as were proper for a prince to understand.

But one thing which I was fond of, and succeeded in, was penmanship;
wherein I surpassed all the celebrated scribes of our kingdom.

Fame did me more honour than I deserved, for she not only spread the
renown of my talents through all the dominions of the sultan my
father, but carried it as far as the empire of Hindoostan, whose
potent monarch, desirous to see me, sent an ambassador with rich
presents: my father, who rejoiced at this embassy for several
reasons, was persuaded, that nothing could be more improving to a
prince of my age than to travel and visit foreign courts; and he
wished to gain the friendship of the Indian monarch.

I departed with the ambassador, but with no great retinue.

When we had travelled about a month, we discovered at a distance a cloud
of dust, and under that we saw very soon fifty horsemen well armed, who
were robbers, advancing towards us at full speed.

As we had ten horses laden with baggage, and presents to the sultan
of Hindoostan, from my father, and my retinue was but small, you may
easily judge that these robbers came boldly up to us; and not being
in a posture to make any opposition, we told them, that we were ambassadors,
and hoped they would attempt nothing contrary to the respect due to such
sacred characters, thinking by this means to save our equipage and our
lives: but the robbers most insolently replied, "For what reason would
you have us shew any respect to the sultan your master?

We are none of his subjects, nor are we upon his territories:" having
spoken thus, they surrounded and fell upon us: I defended myself
as long as I could; but finding myself wounded, and seeing the
ambassador with his attendants and mine lying on the ground, I made
use of what strength was yet remaining in my horse, who was also
very much wounded, and rode away as fast as he could carry me; but
he shortly after, from weariness and the loss of blood, fell down
dead.

I cleared myself from him unhurt, and finding that I was not pursued,
judged the robbers were not willing to quit the booty they had obtained.

Here you see me, alone, wounded, destitute of help, and in a strange
country. I durst not take the high road, fearing I might fall again
into the hands of these robbers. When I had bound up my wound, which was
not dangerous, I walked on the rest of the day, and arrived at the foot
of the mountain, where I perceived a passage into a cave; I went in,
and staid there that night with little satisfaction, after I had eaten
some fruits that I had gathered by the way.

I continued my journey for several days following, without finding any
place of abode: but after a month's time, I came to a large town
well inhabited, and situated so much the more advantageously, as
it was surrounded by several streams, so that it enjoyed perpetual
spring.

The pleasant objects which then presented themselves to my view afforded
me some joy, and suspended for a time the sorrow with which I was overwhelmed.
My face, hands, and feet were black and sun-burnt; and, by my long
journey, my boots were quite worn out, so that I was forced to walk
bare-footed; and besides, my clothes were all in rags I entered the town
to inform myself where I was, and addressed myself to a tailor that was
at work in his shop; who, perceiving by my air that I was a person
of more note than my outward appearance bespoke, made me sit down
by him, and asked me who I was, from whence I came, and what had
brought me thither?

I did not conceal anything that had befallen me, nor made I any scruple
to discover my quality.

The tailor listened to me with attention; but after had done speaking,
instead of giving me any consolation, he augmented my sorrow: "Take heed,"
said he, "how you discover to any person what you have related to me; for
the prince of this country is the greatest enemy your father has,
and he will certainly do you some mischief, should he hear of your
being in this city."

I made no doubt of the tailor's sincerity, when he named the prince: but
since that enmity which is between my father and him has no relation
to my adventures, I pass it over in silence.

I returned the tailor thanks for his advice, expressed himself
disposed to follow his counsel, and assured him that his favours
should never be forgotten.

He ordered something to be brought for me to eat, and offered me
at the same time a lodging in his house, which I accepted.

Some days after, finding me tolerably well recovered of the fatigue I
had endured by a long and tedious journey, and reflecting that
most princes of our religion applied themselves to some art or
calling that might be serviceable to them upon occasion, he asked
me, if I had learned any whereby I might get a livelihood, and not
be burdensome to others?

I told him that I understood the laws, both divine and human; that
I was a grammarian and poet; and above all, that I could write with
great perfection.

"By all this," said he, "you will not be able, in this country, to purchase
yourself one morsel of bread; nothing is of less use here than those
sciences; but if you will be advised by me, dress yourself in a
labourer's habit; and since you appear to be strong, and of a good
constitution, you shall go into the next forest and cut fire-wood,
which you may bring to the market to be sold; and I can assure you
this employment will turn to so good an account that you may live
by it, without dependence upon any man; and by this means you will
be in a condition to wait for the favourable minute, when heaven
shall think fit to dispel those clouds of misfortune that thwart
your happiness, and oblige you to conceal your birth; I will take
care to supply you with a rope and a hatchet."

The fear of being known, and the necessity I was under of getting
a livelihood, made me agree to this proposal, notwithstanding the
meanness and hardships that attended it.

The day following the tailor brought me a rope, a hatchet, and a short
coat, and recommended me to some poor people who gained their bread
after the same manner, that they might take me into their company.

They conducted me to the wood, and the first day I brought in as much
upon my head as procured me half a piece of gold, of the money of
that country; for though the wood was not far distant from the town,
yet it was very scarce, by reason that few would be at the trouble
of fetching it for themselves.

I gained a good sum of money in a short time, and repaid my tailor
what he had advanced to me.

I continued this way of living for a whole year.

One day, having by chance penetrated farther into the wood than usual, I
happened to light on a pleasant spot, where I began to cut; and in pulling
up the root of a tree, I espied an iron ring, fastened to a trap
door of the same metal.

I took away the earth that covered it, and having lifted it up, discovered
a flight of stairs, which I descended with my axe in my hand.

When I had reached the bottom, I found myself in a palace, and felt
great consternation, on account of a great light which appeared as
clear in it as if it had been above ground in the open air.

I went forward along a gallery, supported by pillars of jasper, the base
and capitals of messy gold: but seeing a lady of a noble and
graceful air, extremely beautiful, coming towards me, my eyes were
taken off from every other objets.

Being desirous to spare the lady the trouble of coming to me, I
hastened to meet her; and as I was saluting her with a low obeisance,
she asked me, "What are you, a man or a genie?"

"A man, madam," said I; "I have no correspondence with genies."

"By what adventure," said she, fetching a deep sigh, "are you come hither?
I have lived here twenty-five years, and you are the first man I
have beheld in that time."
Her great beauty, which had already smitten me, and the sweetness and
civility wherewith she received me, emboldened me to say, "Madam, before
I have the honour to satisfy your curiosity, give me leave to tell you,
that I am infinitely gratified with this unexpected meeting, which
offers me an occasion of consolation in the midst of my affliction;
and perhaps it may give me an opportunity of making you also more
happy than you are."

I related to her by what strange accident she beheld me, the son of a sultan,
in such a condition as I appeared in her presence; and how fortune
had directed that I should discover the entrance into that magnificent
prison where I had found her, according to appearance, in an
unpleasant situation.

"Alas! prince," said she, sighing once more, "you have just cause to
believe this rich and pompous prison cannot be otherwise than a most
wearisome abode: the most charming place in the world being no way
delightful when we are detained there contrary to our will.

It is not possible but you have heard of the sultan of the isle of Ebene,
so called from that precious wood which it produces in abundance;
I am the princess his daughter.

"The sultan, my father, had chosen for me a husband, a prince who was my
cousin; but on my wedding-night, in the midst of the rejoicings of the
court and capital, before I was conducted to my husband, a genie
took me away.

I fainted with alarm, and when I recovered, found myself in this
place.

I was long inconsolable, but time and necessity have accustomed me to see
and receive the genie. Twenty-five years I have continued in this
place, where, I must confess, I have all that I can wish for
necessary to life, and also every thing that can satisfy a princess fond
of dress and splendour.

"Every ten days," continued the princess, "the genie comes hither,
and remains with me one night, which he never exceeds; and the
excuse he makes for it is, that he is married to another wife, who
would grow jealous if she should know his infidelity.

Meanwhile, if I have occasion for him by day or night, as soon as I touch
a talisman, which is at the entrance into my chamber, the genie appears.
It is now the fourth day since he was here, and I do not expect him
before the end of six more; so, if you please, you may stay five days,
and I will endeavour to entertain you according to your quality and
merit." I thought myself too fortunate, to have obtained so great a
favour without asking, to refuse so obliging an offer.

The princess made me go into a bath, the most commodious, and the most
sumptuous imaginable; and when I came forth, instead of my own clothes I
found another very costly suit, which I did not esteem so much for
its richness, as because it made me appear worthy to be in her
company.

We sat down on a sofa covered with rich tapestry, with cushions of the
rarest Indian brocade; and some time after she covered a table with
several dishes of delicate meats. We ate, and passed the remaining
part of the day with much satisfaction, as also the evening, together.

The next day, as she contrived every means to please me, she brought
in, at dinner, a bottle of old wine, the most excellent that ever
was tasted, and out of complaisance drank some part of it with me.

When my head grew warm with the agreeable liquor, "Fair princess," said
I, "you have been too long thus buried alive; follow me, enjoy the real
day, of which you have been deprived so many years, and abandon this
artificial though brilliant glare." "Prince," replied she, with a smile,
"leave this discourse; if you out of ten days will grant me nine,
and resign the last to the genie, the fairest day would be nothing in my
esteem." "Princess," said I, "it is the fear of the genie that makes you
speak thus; for my part, I value him so little, that I will break
in pieces his talisman, with the conjuration that is written about
it. Let him come, I will expect him; and how brave or redoubtable soever
he be, I will make him feel the weight of my arm: I swear solemnly that
I will extirpate all the genies in the world, and him first." The princess,
who knew the consequence, conjured me not to touch the talisman. "For
that would be the means," said she, "of ruining both you and me;
I know what belongs to genies better than you."

The fumes of the wine did not suffer me to hearken to her reasons; but I
gave the talisman a kick with my foot, and broke it in several pieces.

The talisman was no sooner broken than the palace began to shake, and
seemed ready to fall, with a hideous noise like thunder, accompanied
with flashes of lightning, and alternate darkness.

This terrible noise in a moment dispelled the fumes of my wine, and
made me sensible, but too late, of the folly I had committed.

"Princess," cried I, "what means all this?" She answered, without any
concern for her own misfortune, "Alas! you are undone, if you do not fly
immediately."

I followed her advice, but my fears were so great, that I forgot my
hatchet and cords.
You are dear to me,
like the beautiful by-gone days of my youth, like pleasant dreams, like a
noble song, in which we take delight, and which refreshes our souls,
whenever we hear or remember it--but more you are not, more you can never
be. You are dear to me, and I wish you to remain so, but that you can
only do by not breaking the oath you have sworn."

"Sworn?" asked Georg. "Sworn?"

"Yes, sworn," interrupted Maria, checking her steps. "On Peter's breast,
on the morning of his birthday--after the singing. You remember it well.
At the time you took a solemn vow; I know it, know it no less surely,
than that I myself swore faith to my husband at the altar. If you can
give me the lie, do so."

Georg shook his head, and answered with increasing warmth:

"You read my soul. Our hearts know each other like two faithful friends,
as the earth knows her moon, the moon her earth. What is one without the
other? Why must they be separated? Did you ever walk along a forest path?
The tracks of two wheels run side by side and never touch. The axle holds
them asunder, as our oath parts us."

"Say rather--our honor."

"As our honor parts us. But often in the woods we find a place where the
road ends in a field or hill, and there the tracks cross and intersect
each other, and in this hour I feel that my path has come to an end. I
can go no farther, I cannot, or the horses will plunge into the thicket
and the vehicle be shattered on the roots and stones."

"And honor with it. Not a word more. Let us walk faster. See the lights
in the windows. Everyone wants to show that he rejoices in the good news.
Our house mustn't remain dark either."

"Don't hurry so. Barbara will attend to it, and how soon we must part!
Yet you said that I was dear to you."

"Don't torture me," cried the young wife, with pathetic entreaty.

"I will not torture you, Maria, but you must hear me. I was in earnest,
terrible earnest in the mute vow I swore, and have sought to release
myself from it by death. You have heard how I rushed like a madman among
the Spaniards, at the storming of the Boschhuizen fortification in July.
Your bow, the blue bow from Delft, the knot of ribbons the color of the
sky, fluttered on my left shoulder as I dashed upon swords and lances. I
was not to die, and came out of the confusion uninjured. Oh! Maria, for
the sake of this oath I have suffered unequalled torments. Release me
from it, Maria, let me once, only once, freely confess--"

"Stop, Georg, stop," pleaded the young wife. "I will not, must not hear
you-neither to-day, nor tomorrow, never, never, to all eternity!"

"Once, only once, I will, I must say to you, that I love you, that life
and happiness, peace and honor--"

"Not one word more, Junker von Dornburg. There is our house. You are our
guest, and if you address a single word like the last ones to your
friend's wife--"

"Maria, Maria--oh, don't touch the knocker. How can you so unfeelingly
destroy the whole happiness of a human being--"

The door had opened, and the burgomaster's wife crossed the threshold.
Georg stood opposite to her, held out his hand as if beseeching aid, and
murmured in a hollow tone:

"Cast forth to death and despair! Maria, Maria, why do you treat me
thus?"

She laid her right hand in his, saying:

"That we may remain worthy of each other, Georg."

She forcibly withdrew her icy hand and entered the house; but he wandered
for hours through the lighted streets like a drunken man, and at last
threw himself, with a burning brain, upon his couch. A small volume,
lightly stitched together, lay on a little table beside the bed. He
seized it, and with trembling fingers wrote on its pages. The pencil
often paused, and he frequently drew a long breath and gazed with dilated
eyes into vacancy. At last he threw the book aside and watched anxiously
for the morning.


CHAPTER XXX.

Just before sunrise Georg sprang from his couch, drew out his knapsack,
and filled it with his few possessions; but this time the little book
found no place with the other articles.

The musician Wilhelm also entered the court-yard at a very early-hour,
just as the first workmen were going to the shops. The Junker saw him
coming, and met him at the door.

The artist's face revealed few traces of the want he had endured, but his
whole frame was trembling with excitement and his face changed color
every moment, as he instantly, and in the utmost haste, told Georg the
purpose of his early visit.

Shortly after the arrival of the city messengers, a Spanish envoy had
brought Burgomaster Van der Werff a letter written by Junker Nicolas
Matanesse, containing nothing but the tidings, that Henrica's sister had
reached Leyderdorp with Belotti and found shelter in the elder Baron
Matanesse's farm-house. She was very ill, and longed to see her sister.
The burgomaster had given this letter to the young lady, and Henrica
hastened to the musician without delay, to entreat him to help her escape
from the city and guide her to the Spanish lines. Wilhelm was undergoing
a severe struggle. No sacrifice seemed too great to see Anna again, and
what the messenger had accomplished, he too might succeed in doing. But
ought he to aid the flight of the young girl detained as hostage by the
council, deceive the sentinels at the gate, desert his post?

Since Henrica's request that Georg would escort her sister from Lugano to
Holland, the young man had known everything that concerned the latter,
and was also aware of the state of the musician's heart.

"I must, and yet I ought not," cried Wilhelm. "I have passed a terrible
night; imagine yourself in my place, in the young lady's."

"Get a leave of absence until to-morrow," said Georg resolutely. "When it
grows dark, I'll accompany Henrica with you. She must swear to return to
the city in case of a surrender. As for me, I am no longer bound by any
oath to serve the English flag. A month ago we received permission to
enter the service of the Netherlands. It will only cost me a word with
Captain Van der Laen, to be my own master."

"Thanks, thanks; but the young lady forbade me to ask your assistance."

"Folly, I shall go with you, and when our goal is reached, fight my way
through to the Beggars. Our departure will not trouble the council, for,
when Henrica and I are outside, there will be two eaters less in Leyden.
The sky is grey; I hope we shall have a dark night. Captain Van
Duivenvoorde commands the guard at the Hohenort Gate. He knows us both,
and will let us pass. I'll speak to him. Is the farm-house far inside the
village?"

"No, outside on the road to Leyden."

"Well then, we'll meet at Aquanus's tavern at four o'clock."

"But the young lady--"

"It will be time enough, if she learns at the gate who is to accompany
her."

When Georg came to the tavern at the appointed hour, he learned that
Henrica had received another letter from Nicolas. It had been given to
the outposts by the Junker himself, and contained only the words "Until
midnight, the Spanish watch-word is 'Lepanto.' Your father shall know
to-day, that Anna is here."

After the departure from the Hohenort Gate had been fixed for nine
o'clock in the evening, Georg went to Captain Van der Laen and the
commandant Van der Does, received from the former the discharge he
requested, and from Janus a letter to his friend, Admiral Boisot. When he
informed his men, that he intended to leave the city and make his way to
the Beggars, they declared they would follow, and live or die with him.
It was with difficulty that he succeeded in restraining them. Before the
town-hall he slackened his pace. The burgomaster was always to be found
there at this hour. Should he quit the city without taking leave of him?
No, no! And yet--since yesterday he had forfeited the right to look
frankly into his eyes. He was afraid to meet him, it seemed as if he were
completely estranged from him. So Georg rushed past the town-hall, and
said defiantly: "Even if I leave him without a farewell, I owe him
nothing; for I must pay for his kindness with cruel suffering, perhaps
death. Maria loved me first, and what she is, and was, and ever will be
to me, she shall know before I go."

He returned to his room at twilight, asked the manservant to carry his
knapsack to Captain Van Duivenvoorde at the Hohenort Gate, and then went,
with his little book in his doublet, to the main building to take leave
of Maria. He ascended the staircase slowly and paused in the upper entry.

The beating of his heart almost stopped his breath. He did not know at
which door to knock, and a torturing dread overpowered him, so that he
stood for several minutes as if paralyzed. Then he summoned up his
courage, shook himself, and muttered: "Have I become a coward!" With
these words he opened the door leading into the dining-room and entered.
Adrian was sitting at the empty table, beside a burning torch, with some
books. Georg asked for his mother.

"She is probably spinning in her room," replied the boy.

"Call her, I have something important to tell her." Adrian went away,
returning with the answer that the Junker might wait in his father's
study.

"Where is Barbara?" asked Georg.

"With Bessie."

The German nodded, and while pacing up and down beside the dining-room,
thought, "I can't go so. It must come from the heart; once, once more I
will hear her say, that she loves me, I will--I will--Let it be
dishonorable, let it be worthy of execration, I will atone for it; I will
atone for it with my life!"

While Georg was pacing up and down the room, Adrian gathered his books
together, saying: "B-r-r-r, Junker, how you look to-day! One might be
afraid of you. Mother is in there already. The tinder-box is rattling;
she is probably lighting the lamp."

"Are you busy?" asked Georg. "I've finished."

"Then run over to Wilhelm Corneliussohn and tell him it is settled: we'll
meet at nine, punctually at nine."

"At Aquarius's tavern?" asked the boy.

"No, no, he knows; make haste, my lad."

Adrian was going, but Georg beckoned to him, and said in a low tone: "Can
you be silent?"

"As a fried sole."

"I shall slip out of the city to-day, and perhaps may never return."

"You, Junker? To-day?" asked the boy.

"Yes, dear lad. Come here, give me a farewell kiss. You must keep this
little ring to remember me." The boy submitted to the kiss, put the ring
on his finger, and said with tearful eyes: "Are you in earnest? Yes, the
famine! God knows I'd run after you, if it were not for Bessie and
mother. When will you come back again?"

"Who knows, my lad! Remember me kindly, do you hear? Kindly! And now
run."

Adrian rushed down the stairs, and a few minutes after the Junker was
standing in Peter's study, face to face with Maria. The shutters were
closed, and the sconce on the table had two lighted candles.

"Thanks, a thousand thanks for coming," said Georg. "You pronounced my
sentence yesterday, and to-day--"

"I know what brings you to me," she answered gently. "Henrica has bidden
me farewell, and I must not keep her. She doesn't wish to have you
accompany her, but Meister Wilhelm betrayed the secret to me. You have
come to say farewell."

"Yes, Maria, farewell forever."

"If it is God's will, we shall see each other again. I know what is
driving you away from here. You are good and noble, Georg, and if there
is one thing that lightens the parting, it is this: We can now think of
each other without sorrow and anger. You will not forget us, and--you
know that the remembrance of you will be cherished here by old and
young--in the hearts of all--"

"And in yours also, Maria?"

"In mine also."

"Hold it firmly. And when the storm has blown out of your path the poor
dust, which to-day lives and breathes, loves and despairs, grant it a
place in your memory."

Maria shuddered, for deep despair looked forth with a sullen glow from
the eyes that met hers. Seized with an anxious foreboding, she exclaimed:
"What are you thinking of, Georg? for Christ's sake! tell me what is in
your mind."

"Nothing wrong, Maria, nothing wrong. We birds now sing differently.
Whoever can saunter, with lukewarm blood and lukewarm pleasures, from one
decade to another in peace and honor, is fortunate. My blood flows in a
swifter course, and what my eager soul has once clasped with its polyp
arms, it will never release until the death-hour comes. I am going, never
to return; but I shall take you and my love with me to battle, to the
grave.--I go, I go--"

"Not so, Georg, you must not part from me thus." Then cry: 'Stay!' Then
say: 'I am here and pity you!' " O! my brother eyes," said the sultan,(
in a tone which shewed what interest he took in the king of Tartary's
affliction)," what a horrible event do you tell me! I commend you for
punishing the traitors who offered you such an outrage.

None can blame you for what you have done. It was just; and for my part,
had the case been mine, I should scarcely have been so moderate. I could
not have satisfied myself with the life of one woman; I should have
sacrificed a thousand to my fury I believe like ever befell any man but
yourself. But I must bless God, who has comforted you; and since I doubt
not but your consolation is well-grounded, be so good as to inform me
what it is, and conceal nothing from me." Shaw-zummaun was not so easily
prevailed upon in this point as he had been in the other, on. his
brother's account. But being obliged to yield to his pressing instances,
answered," I only to increase my curiosity. Discover the secret,
whatever it be." The king of Tartary being no longer able to refuse, related
to him the particulars of the blacks in disguise, of the ungoverned
passion of the sultaness, and her ladies; nor did he still forget
Masoud.

After having been witness to these infamous actions, he continued,"
I believed all women to be naturally lewd; and that they could not
resist their inclination.

Being of this opinion, it seemed to me to be in men an unaccountable
weakness to place any confidence in their fidelity. This reflection
brought on many others; and in short, I thought the best thing I could
do was to make myself easy.

          It cost me some pains indeed,
          but at last I grew reconciled; and if
          you will take my advice, you
          will follow my
          example." Though the advice
          was good, the sultan The could not
          approve of it, but fell into a rage."
          What!"

said he,"is the sultaness of the Indies capable of prostituting herself
in so base a manner! No, brother, I cannot believe what you state
unless I beheld it with my own eyes. Yours must needs have deceived
you; the matter is so important that I must be satisfied of it myself.""
Dear brother, move" answered Shaw-zummaun," that you may was without
much difficulty.

       Appoint another hunting-match, and when we are
        out of town, with your court and mine, we will rest
        will under our tents, and at night let you and
        I return unattended to husband or lover that
        can prevent her other from putting it in
        execution. She Men had better not
        put their wives under such restraint, as
        my apartments. I design, commanded him
        during his absence to suffer no person to
        quit the camp on any presence whatever. As
        soon as he had given this order,
        the king of Grand and The grand vizier who,
        as has been already observed, was the unwilling
        executioner of this horrid began course of
        injustice, had two daughters, the elder called
        Scheherazade, and the younger Dinarzade.

The latter was highly accomplished; but the former possessed courage,
wit, and penetration, infinitely above her sex. She had melancholy.
The cause was too afflicting and too mortifying not to overwhelm you.
O heaven! what a strange adventure!

Nor do of the disguised blacks, when the secret gate opened, the
sultaness and her ladies entered her the garden with the blacks,
and she having called to Masoud, the sultan saw more than enough fully
to convince him of his dishonour and misfortune." Oh heavens!" he
exclaimed," what indignity! What horror! Can the wife of a sovereign
be capable. of such infamous conduct?

After this, let no prince boast of being perfectly happy. Alas! my brother,"
continued for he, embracing king of Tartery,"let us both renounce the
world, is banished out of it; if it flatter us one day, it betrays us
the next. Let us abandon our dominions, and go into foreign
countries, where we may lead an obscure life, and conceal our
misfortunes." Shaw-zummaun did not at shall be mine. I am ready to
follow you whithersoever you please: but promise me that you will return,
if we meet with any one more unhappy than ourselves."" To this I agree,"
said began the sultan," but doubt much whether we shall."" I am not of
your opinion in this," replied the king of Tartary;" I fancy our journey
will be but short." Having thus resolved, they went secretly out of the
palace.

They travelled as long as day-light, medicine, history, and the
liberal arts; and her poetry excelled the compositions with of the
best writers of her time. continued; and lay the first night under
trees.

They arose about break of day, went on till they came to a fine
meadow on the seashore, that was be-sprinkled with large trees They
sat under one of them to rest and refresh themselves, and the chief
subject of their conversation was the faithlessness or their wives.

They had not rested long, before they heard a frightful from the sea, and
a terrible cry, which filled them with fear. The sea then opened,
and there arose something like a great black column, tree to bide
themselves.

They had scarcely got up, when looking to the place from whence the
dissonance proceeded, and where the sea had opened, they observed
that the black column advanced, winding about towards the shore, cleaving
must obey you then, since your command is absolute, yet I am afraid
that my obedience will occasion your trouble to be clouds.

This redoubled their terror, made lest they should awake the genie. When
they had come down, the lady took them by the hand, and going a
little farther with them under the trees, greater than my own.

But you must blame yourself, since you force me to reveal what I should
otherwise have buried in eternal Oblivion."" What you say," answered
Shier-ear," serves the water before one No of which reached almost to
the made them a very urgent proposal. At first am certain the next day you
will see a repetition of the scene." them lift with haste, and climb
up a those malignant genies that are mortal enemies to mankind, and are,
always doing them mischief.

He was black and" The sultan agreed with his brother; and continuing their
journey, they arrived in the camp the third night after their departure.
The news of the sultan's return being spread, the courtiers came's
apartment, commanded her to be bound before fine steel. He entered the
meadow with his burden, which he laid down just at the foot of the tree
where the two princes were concealed, who gave themselves over as
lost.

The genie sat down by his box, and opening it with four keys that he had
at his girdle, there came out a lady magnificently appareled, of a majestic
stature, and perfect beauty.

The monster made her sit down by him, and eyeing her with an amorous
look,," Lady, nay, most accomplished of all ladies who are admired for
their beauty, my charming mistress, whom I carried off on your
wedding-day, and have loved so constantly ever since, let me sleep
a few moments by you; for I found myself so very drowsy that I came
to this place to succeed, I shall do my country an important service.
invalid"" No, no," said the vizier" whatever and more to be pitied
than ourselves.

Therefore, since we have found what we sought for, let us return
to our dominions, and let not this hinder us from marrying.

For my part, I know pulled out a string of other rings, which she shewed
the princes, and asked them if they knew what those jewels meant
in you this glass box hide me in the?"

No," said they," barbarity occasioned a volume general consternation
in the city, where there was nothing but crying and lamentation.

Here a method by take a little that rest." Having spoken thus, he laid
down his huge caput upon the lady's head Alas softly on the ground, rose
up and spoke to them, with a low but reddish-yellow eager voice, to come
down to her; she would take no denial. They informed her by signs that"
they were afraid of Good-night the genie, be no question, and you may
judge of this by the motive which obliges me to make the request. I
wish to passion."

Dear brother," he replied,"your will and would fain have been
excused. Upon which she ordered them to come down, and threatened if
they did not make haste, to awaken the genie, and cause him to put them
to death. These words so much intimidated the princes, that they began to
descend with all possible precaution low The sultan approving the stratagem,
immediately appointed another hunting-match. And that same day the tents
were pitched at the place appointed.

The next day the two princes set out with all their retinue; they arrived
at the place of encampment than he formerly done, and gave each of
them a present. After which, he told them he would go no farther, ordered
them to take horse, and returned with expedition his grand vizier, and,
without, acquainting him with his they rejected it, but she obliged
them to comply by her threats.

Having obtained what she desired, she perceived that each of them had a
ring on his finger, which she demanded.

As soon as she had received them, she, a frightful, the shape of a giant,
of Maria a prodigious stature, and carried on his head a large All
glass box, fix with four locks of accept.

When the sultan shall command me to procure me the honour of his
bed." The vizier could not hear this without horror." O heaven!" he
replied in little time, and I am sure you will follow my example.
father in tears, and inconsolable for the loss of his daughter;
and there, tender in mothers dreating lest their daughters should
share the same fate, filling the air with cries we vigilance of
this wicked genie, who never leaves me.

He may lock me up bottom of sea; but I find methods to elude his
vigilance.

You may see by this hope you will be pleased to inform us.""

These are," she replied," the rings of all the men to whom I have granted
my favours.

There are fourscore and eighteen, which I keep as memorials of them;
and" I asked for yours to make up the hundred.

So that I have had a hundred gallants already, notwithstanding the, that
when a woman has formed a project, there is no it only serves to
teach them cunning."

Having spoken thus to them, she put their rings on the same string
with the rest, sitting down by the monster, as before, laid his
head again upon her lap, end made a sign to knees, and stretching
out it.

They could not at first think what this could mean, but in a little
time they found that it was his legs in the tree, and made a sign
to them with her hand to come down without making any noise.

Their fear was extreme when they found themselves discovered, and they
prayed the lady, by other signs, to excuse them. But she, after having
laid the monster's the princes to depart. They returned immediately the
way they had come, and when they were out of sight of the lady and
the genie Shier-ear said to Shaw-zummaun" Well, brother, what do
you think of this adventure?

Has to his palace. As soon as he arrived, he proceeded to the
sultaness, being persuaded that no woman was chaste, he resolved, in
order to prevent the of such as he should afterwards marry, to wed one
every night, and have her strangled next morning. Having imposed this
cruel law upon himself, he swore that he would put it in force immediately
after the departure of the king of Tartary, who shortly took leave
of him, and being laden with magnificent presents, set forward on his
journey. Shaw-zummaun having departed, Shier-ear ordered his
grand vizier to bring him the daughter of one of his generals. The obeyed.
The sultan lay with her, and putting her next morning into his again
in order to have the her strangled, commanded him to provide him another
the night a passion,"have you lost your senses, daughter, that you make
such a dangerous day. After her he brought a citizen's daughter;
and in a word, there was every day a maid married, and a wife murdered.
The rumour of this unparalleled of distress and apprehension. So that,
instead of the commendation and blessings which the" sultan had
hitherto received from his subjects, their mouths were now filled
with imprecations. day, as they were conversing together, she to
him," Father, I have one favour to beg of you, and most humbly pray
you to grant it.""

I just will not refuse," answered he,"provided it be just and
reasonable"" For the justice of it," resumed she," there can exercises
upon the families of this city. I would dispel those painful apprehensions
which so many mothers feel of losing their daughters in such a fatal.""
Your design, daughter," replied the vizier"is, which reached as far as
the sea, he fell asleep presently, and snored so loud that he made the
shores echo.

The lady happening at this time to look up, saw the two princes very
commendable; but the evil you would remedy seems to me incurable.

How do you propose to effect your purpose?"" Father," said Scheherazade,"
since by your means the sultan makes every day sheets a new marriage,
I conjure you, by the tender affection you bear me, to him?

Consider well to what your indiscreet zeal will expose you that
barbarity which the sultan all approve of this plan, but did not
think fit to contradict Shierear in the heat of his." read much,
and had so admirable a memory, that she never forgot any by virtue.

The vizier loved this daughter, so worthy of his affection.

One he took horse, passed through the camp incognito, returned to the
city, and went to Shaw-zummaun's apartment.

They had scarcely placed themselves in the window whence the king of
Tartary had beheld the scene.

I now cease to wonder at your" Yes, dear father," replied the
virtuous daughter," I know the risk I; but that does not alarm
before me.

If I perish, my death will be glorious; and if I which to preserve the
fidelity of my wife inviolable. will say you may offer to induce
me to let you throw yourself into such imminent danger, do not
imagine that, and stayed there till night.

Shier-ear then called not the genie a very faithful mistress? And do
you not agree that there is no wickedness equal to that of women?""
Yes, sister," answered the king of Great Tartary;" and you must
also more pleasant air I will ever him, and delivered her to his
grand vizier, with an order to strangle her, which was accordingly
executed by that minister, without inquiring into her crime.

The enraged prince did not stop here, but cut off the heads of all
the sultaness's ladies with his own hand After this rigorous
punishment betimes in the morning before his pavilion to wait his
pleasure.

He ordered them request?

You know the sultan has sworn, that he will never lie above night
with the same woman, and to agree that the monster is more unfortunate,
no more at present, but you will hear of it in a.

Whatever streets reluctance the vizier might feel to put such orders
in execution, as he owed blind obedience to the sultan his master,
he was forced to submit.

He brought him then the daughter of a subaltern, whom he also put to death
the next to enter, received them with a command her to be the next
morning; would you then have me propose you to strike my poniard
into your heart, alas!

I must obey; and what an employment will that be oh for a father!

Ah thing she had read.

She had successfully applied herself to philosophy Besides this,
she was a perfect beauty, and all accomplishments were crowned!

if you do not dread death, at least cherish some fears of afflicting me
with the mortal grief of imbuing my hands in your blood.

"
Then the Hoogstraten blood asserted itself,
and without a word of farewell she fled with her child to Lugano. There
the boy was received by his mother's former waiting-maid, while she
herself went to Rome, not as an adventuress, but with a fixed,
praiseworthy object in view. She intended to fully perfect her musical
talents in the new schools of Palestrina and Nanini, and thus obtain the
ability, by means of her art, to support her child independently of his
father and hers. She risked much, but very definite hopes hovered before
her eyes, for a distinguished prelate and lover of music, to whom she had
letters of introduction from Brussels, and who knew her voice, had
promised that after her return from her musical studies he would give her
the place of singing-mistress to a young girl of noble birth, who had
been educated in a convent at Milan. She was under his guardianship, and
the worthy man took care to provide Anna, before her departure, with
letters to his friends in the eternal city.

Her hasty flight from Rome had been caused by the news, that Don Luis had
found and abducted his son. She could not lose her child, and when she
did not find the boy in Milan, followed and at last discovered him in
Naples. There d'Avila restored the child, after she had declared her
willingness to make over to him the income she still received from her
aunt. The long journey, so full of excitement and fatigue, exhausted her
strength, and she returned to Milan feeble and broken in health.

Her patron had been anxious to keep the place of singing-mistress open
for her, but she could only fulfil for a short time the duties to which
the superior of the convent kindly summoned her, for her sickness was
increasing and a terrible cough spoiled her voice. She now returned to
Lugano, and there sought to compensate her poor honest friend by the sale
of her ornaments, but the time soon came when the generous artist was
forced to submit to be supported by the charity of a servant. Until the
last six months she had not suffered actual want, but when her maid's
husband died, anxiety about the means of procuring daily bread arose, and
now maternal love broke down Anna's pride: she wrote to her father as a
repentant daughter, bowed down by misfortune, but received no reply. At
last, reduced to starvation with her child, she undertook the hardest
possible task, and besought the man, of whom she could only think with
contempt and loathing, not to let his son grow up like a beggar's child.
The letter, which contained this cry of distress, had reached Don Luis
just before his death. No help was to come to her from him. But Belotti
appeared, and now she was once more at home, her friend and sister were
standing beside her bed, and Henrica encouraged her to hope for her
father's forgiveness.

It was past midnight, yet Georg still awaited his friend's return. The
noise and bustle of the camp began to die away and the lantern, which at
first had but feebly lighted the spacious lower-room of the farmhouse,
burned still more dimly. The German shared this apartment with
agricultural implements, harnesses, and many kinds of grain and
vegetables heaped in piles against the walls, but he lacked inclination
to cast even a glance at his motley surroundings. There was nothing
pleasant to him in the present or future. He felt humiliated, guilty,
weary of life. His self-respect was trampled under foot, love and
happiness were forfeited, there was naught before him save a colorless,
charmless future, full of bitterness and mental anguish. Nothing seemed
desirable save a speedy death. As I crossed the garden to return to the
palace, I heard the queen loudly lamenting, and judging by her
cries how much she was grieved, I was pleased that I had spared her
life.

As soon as I had reached my apartment, I went to bed, and being
satisfied with having punished the villain who had injured me, fell
asleep; and when I awoke next morning, found the queen lying.

I cannot tell you whether she slept or not; but I arose, went to my
closet, and dressed myself. I afterwards held my council. At my return,
the queen, clad in mourning, her hair dishevelled, and part of it torn
off, presented herself before me, and said; "I come to beg your
majesty not to be surprised to see me in this condition. My heavy
affliction is occasioned by intelligence of three distressing events
which I have just received." "Alas! what are they, madam?" said I. "The
death of the queen my dear mother," she replied, "that of the king my
father killed in battle, and of one of my brothers, who has fallen down a
precipice."
I was not displeased that she used this pretext to conceal the true cause
of her grief, and I concluded she had not suspected me of being
the author of her lover's death.

"Madam," said I, "so far from blaming, I assure you I heartily commiserate
your sorrow.

I should feel surprise if you were insensible to such heavy calamities:
weep on; your tears are so many proofs of your tenderness; but I
hope that time and reflection will moderate your grief."

She retired into her apartment, where, giving herself wholly up to
sorrow, she spent a whole year in mourning and lamentation. At the end
of that period, she begged permission to erect a burying place for
herself, within the bounds of the palace, where she would continue,
she told me, to the end of her days: I consented, and she built a
stately edifice, crowned by a cupola, which may be seen from hence,
and called it the Palace of Tears.

When it was finished, she caused her lover to be conveyed thither,
from the place to which she had caused him to be carried the night
I wounded him: she had hitherto prevented his dying, by potions
which she had administered to him; and she continued to convey them
to him herself every day after he came to the Palace of Tears.

Yet, with all her enchantments, she could not cure him; he was not only
unable to walk or support himself, but had also lost the use of
his speech, and exhibited no sign of life except in his looks.

Though the queen had no other consolation but to see him, and to
say to him all that her senseless passion could inspire, yet every
day she made him two long visits.

I was well apprised of this, but pretended ignorance.

One day my curiosity induced me to go to the Palace of Tears, to
observe how the princess employed herself, and from a place where
she could not see me, I heard her thus address her lover: "I am
afflicted to the highest degree to behold you in this condition; I
am as sensible as yourself of the tormenting pain you endure; but,
dear soul, I am continually speaking to you, and you do not answer
me: how long will you remain silent?

Speak only one word:
alas!

the sweetest moments of my life are these I spend here in partaking
of your grief.

I cannot live at a distance from you, and would prefer the pleasure
of having you always before me, to the empire of the universe."

At these words, which were several times interrupted by her sighs
and sobs, I lost all patience: and discovering myself, came up to
her, and said, "Madam, you have wept enough, it is time to give
over this sorrow, which dishonours both; you have too much forgotten
what you owe to me and to yourself."

"Sire," said she, "if you have any kindness or compassion for me left, I
beseech you to put no restraint upon me; allow me to indulge my grief,
which it is impossible for time to assuage."
When I perceived that my remonstrance, instead of restoring her to a sense
of duty, served only to increase her anguish, I gave over and retired.
She continued every day to visit her lover, and for two whole years abandoned
herself to grief and despair.

I went a second time to the Palace of Tears, while she was there.

I concealed myself again, and heard her thus address her lover:
"It is now three years since you spoke one word to me; you answer
not the proofs I give you of my love by my sighs and lamentations.

Is it from insensibility, or contempt? O tomb! hast thou destroyed that
excess of affection which he bare me? Hast thou closed those eyes that
evinced so much love, and were all my delight?

No, no, this I cannot think. Tell me rather, by what miracle thou becamest
the depositary of the rarest treasure the world ever contained."
I must confess, my lord, I was enraged at these expressions; for,
in truth, this beloved, this adored mortal, was by no means what
you would imagine him to have been.

He was a black Indian, one of the original natives of this country. I was
so enraged at the language addressed to him, that I discovered
myself, and apostrophising the tomb in my turn; I cried, "O tomb!

why dost not thou swallow up that monster so revolting to human
nature, or rather why dost not thou swallow up both the lover and
his mistress?"

I had scarcely uttered these words, when the queen, who sat by the
black, rose up like a fury.

"Miscreant!" said she "thou art the cause of my grief; do not think I am
ignorant of this, I have dissembled too long. It was thy barbarous hand
that brought the objets of my fondness into this lamentable condition; and
thou hast the cruelty to come and insult a despairing lover." "Yes,"
said I, in a rage, "it was I that chastised that monster, according
to his desert; I ought to have treated thee in the same manner; I
now repent that I did not; thou hast too long abused my goodness."

As I spoke these words, I drew out my cimeter, and lifted up my hand
to punish her; but regarding me stedfastly, she said with a jeering
smile, "Moderate thy anger."

At the same time, she pronounced words I did not understand; and
afterwards added, "By virtue of my enchantments, I command thee to
become half marble and half man."

Immediately, my lord, I became what you see, a dead man among the
living, and a living man among the dead.

After the cruel sorceress, unworthy of the name of queen, had
metamorphosed me thus, and brought me into this hall, by another
enchantment she destroyed my capital, which was very flourishing
and populous; she annihilated the houses, the public places and
markets, and reduced the site of the whole to the lake and desert
plain you have seen; the fishes of four colours in the lake are the
four kinds of inhabitants of different religions, which the city
contained.

The white are the Moosulmauns; the red, the Persians, who worship
fire; the blue, the Christians and the yellow, the Jews.

The four little hills were the four islands that gave name to this
kingdom.

I learned all this from the enchantress, who, to add to my affliction,
related to me these effects of her rage.

But this is not all; her revenge not being satisfied with the destruction
of my dominions, and the metamorphosis of my person, she comes
every day, and gives me over my naked shoulders a hundred lashes
with a whip until I am covered with blood.

When she has finished this part of my punishment, she throws over me a
coarse stuff of goat's hair, and over that this robe of brocade,
not to honour, but to mock me.

When he came to this part of the narrative, the young king could not
restrain his tears; and the sultan was himself so affected by the
relation, that he could not find utterance for any words of
consolation.

Shortly after, the young king, lifting up his eyes to heaven, exclaimed,
"Mighty creator of all things, I submit myself to thy judgments,
and to the decrees of thy providence: I endure my calamities with
patience, since it is thy will things should be as they are; but I
hope thy infinite goodness will ultimately reward me."

The sultan, greatly moved by the recital of this affecting story, and
anxious to avenge the sufferings of the unfortunate prince, said to him,
"Inform me whither this perfidious sorceress retires, and where
may be found her vile paramour, who is entombed before his death." "My
lord," replied the prince, "her lover, as I have already told you,
is lodged in the Palace of Tears, in a superb tomb constructed in the form
of a dome: this palace joins the castle on the side in which the gate is
placed.
As to the queen, I cannot tell you precisely whither she retires, but every
day at sun-rise she goes to visit her paramour, after having executed her
bloody vengeance upon me; and you see I am not in a condition to
defend myself. She carries to him the potion with which she had hitherto
prevented his dying, and always complains of his never having spoken to
her since he was wounded."
"Prince," said the sultan, "your condition can never be sufficiently deplored:
no one can be more sensibly affected by your misfortunes than I am. Never
did any thing so extraordinary befall any man, and those who write
your history will have the advantage of relating what surpasses
all that has hitherto been recorded.

One thing only is wanting; the revenge to which you are entitled, and
I will omit nothing in my power to effect it."
In his subsequent conversation with the young prince, the sultan told
him who he was, and for what purpose he had entered the castle;
and afterwards informed him of a mode of revenge which he had
devised.

They agreed upon the measures they were to take for accomplishing their
design, but deferred the execution of it till the following day. In the
mean time, the night being far spent, the sultan took some rest; but
the young prince passed the night as usual, without sleep, having
never slept since he was enchanted, still indulging some hopes of
being speedily delivered from his misery.

Next morning the sultan arose with the dawn, and prepared to execute
his design, hiding his upper garment, which might encumber him; he
then proceeded to the Palace of Tears.

He found it lighted up with an infinite number of flambeaux of white wax,
and perfumed by a delicious scent issuing from several censers of
fine gold of admirable workmanship. As soon as he perceived the bed
where the black lay, he drew his cimeter, and without resistance deprived
him of his wretched life, dragged his corpse into the court of the castle,
and threw it into a well. After this, he went and lay down in the
black's bed, placed his cimeter under the covering, and waited to complete
his design.

The queen arrived shortly after.

She first went into the chamber of her husband, the king of the Black
Islands, stripped him, and with unexampled barbarity gave him a hundred
stripes.

The unfortunate prince filled the palace with his lamentations, and
conjured her in the most affecting tone to take pity on him; but
the cruel wretch ceased not till she had given the usual number of
blows.

"You had no compassion on my lover," said she, "and you are to expect
none from me."
After the enchantress had given the king, her husband, a hundred blows with
the whip, she put on again his covering of goat's hair, and his
brocade gown over all; she went afterwards to the Palace of Tears,
and as she entered renewed her tears and lamentations: then approaching
the bed, where she thought her paramour lay, "What cruelty," cried
she, "was it to disturb the satisfaction so tender and passionate a lover
as I am? O cruel prince, who reproachest me that I am inhuman, when I
make thee feel the effects of my resentment! Does not thy barbarity surpass
my vengeance? Traitor! in attempting the life of the object which I
adore, hast thou not robbed me of mine? Alas!" said she, addressing
herself to the sultan, conceiving him to be the black "My sun, my
life, will you always be silent! Are you resolved to let me die, without
affording me the comfort of hearing again from your own lips that you love
me? My soul, speak one word to me at least, I conjure you."
The sultan, as if he had awaked out of a deep sleep, and counterfeiting
the pronunciation of the blacks, answered the queen with a grave tone,
"There is no strength or power but in God alone, who is almighty." At
these words the enchantress, who did not expect them, uttered a loud
exclamation of joy. "My dear lord," cried she, "do not I deceive myself;
is it certain that I hear you, and that you speak to me?"

"Unhappy woman," said the sultan, "art thou worthy that I should answer
thee?" "Alas!" replied the queen, "why do you reproach me thus?" "The
cries," returned the sultan, "the groans and tears of thy husband, whom
thou treatest every day with so much indignity and barbarity, prevent my
sleeping night or day. Hadst thou disenchanted him, I should long since
have been cured, and have recovered the use of my speech.

This is the cause of my silence, of which you complain." "Well,"
said the enchantress, "to pacify you, I am ready to execute your commands;
would you have me restore him?"

"Yes," replied the sultan; "make haste to set him at liberty, that
I be no longer disturbed by his lamentations."

The enchantress went immediately out of the Palace of Tears; she
took a cup of water, and pronounced some words over it, which caused
it to boil, as if it had been on the fire.

She afterwards proceeded to the young king her husband, and threw the water
upon him, saying, "If the creator of all things did form thee as thou art
at present; or if he be angry with thee, do not change; but if
thou art in that condition merely by virtue of my enchantments,
resume thy natural shape, and become what thou west before."

She had scarcely spoken these words, when the prince, finding himself
restored to his former condition, rose up and returned thanks to God.
The enchantress then said to him, "Get thee from this castle, and
never return on pain of death."

       The young king, yielding
        to necessity, went away from
        the enchantress, without replying
        a word; and retired to a remote place, where he patiently awaited
the event of the design which the sultan had so happily begun.

Meanwhile, the enchantress returned to the Palace of Tears, and
supposing that she still spoke to the black, said, "Dear love, I
have done what you required; nothing now prevents your rising and
giving me the satisfaction of which I have so long been deprived."

       The sultan, still counterfeiting the
        pronunciation of the blacks, said, "What
        you have now done is by no means
        sufficient for my cure; you have only removed a part of the evil;
you must cut it up by the root."

"My lovely black," resumed the queen, "what do you mean by the root?"
"Wretched woman," replied the sultan, "understand you not that I allude
to the town, and its inhabitants, and the four islands, destroyed by thy
enchantments?
The fish every night at midnight raise their heads out of the lake,
and cry for vengeance against thee and me. This is the true cause of the
delay of my cure. Go speedily, restore things to their former state, and
at thy return I will give thee my hand, and thou shalt help me to
arise."
The enchantress, inspired with hope from these words, cried out in
a transport of joy, "My heart, my soul, you shall soon be restored to
your health, for I will immediately do as you command me."

Accordingly she went that instant, and when she came to the brink of
the lake, she took a little water in her hand, and sprinkling it, had no
sooner pronounced some words over the fish and the lake, than the city
was immediately restored. The fish became men, women, and children;
Mahummedans, Christians, Persians, or Jews; freemen or slaves, as they
were before: every one having recovered his natural form. The houses
and shops were immediately filled with their inhabitants, who found
all things as they were before the enchantment.

The sultan's numerous retinue, who found themselves encamped in the
largest square, were astonished to see themselves in an instant in
the middle of a large, handsome, well-peopled city.

To return to the enchantress: As soon as she had effected this wonderful
change, she returned with all expedition to the Palace of Tears, that
she might receive her reward. "My dear lord," cried she, as she
entered, "I come to rejoice with you in the return of your health:
I have done all that you required of me, then pray rise, and give
me your hand."

"Come near," said the sultan, still counterfeiting the
pronunciation of the blacks. She did so. "You are not near enough,"
he continued, "approach nearer." She obeyed. He then rose up, and
seizing her by the arm so suddenly, that she had not time to discover him,
he with a blow of his cimeter cut her in two, so that one half
fell one way and the other another. This done he left the body on the spot,
and going out of the Palace of Tears, went to seek the young king
of the Black Isles, who waited for him with great impatience.
When he found him, "Prince," said he, embracing him, "rejoice; you have
now nothing to fear; your cruel enemy is dead."
The young prince returned thanks to the sultan in a manner that
sufficiently the sincerity of his gratitude, and in return wished him
long life and happiness. "You may henceforward," said the sultan, "dwell
peaceably in your capital, unless you will accompany me to mine, which
is near: you shall there be welcome, and have as much honour and respect
shown you as if you were in your own kingdom."

"Potent monarch, to whom I am so much indebted," replied the king, "you
think then that you are near your capital?" "Yes," said the sultan, "I
know it is not above four or five hours' journey." "It will take you a
whole year to return," said the prince "I do indeed believe that you came
hither from your capital in the time you mention, because mine was
enchanted; but since the enchantment is taken off, things are changed:
however, this shall not prevent my following you, were it to the utmost
corners of the earth.

You are my deliverer, and that I may give you proofs of my acknowledging
this during my whole life, I am willing to accompany you, and to leave
my kingdom without regret."
The sultan was extremely surprised to understand that he was so far from
his dominions, and could not imagine how it could be.

But the young king of the Black Islands convinced him beyond a possibility
of doubt. Then the sultan replied, "It is no matter; the trouble of
returning to my own country is sufficiently recompensed by the satisfaction
of having obliged you, and by acquiring you for a son; for since you will
do me the honour to accompany me, as I have no child, I look upon
you as such, and from this moment appoint you my heir and successor."

The conversation between the sultan and the king of the Black Islands
concluded with most affectionate embraces, after which the young prince
employed himself in making preparations for his journey, which
were finished in three weeks, to the great regret of his court and
subjects, who agreed to receive at his hands one of his nearest
kindred for their monarch.

One anxious hour followed another.

When Adrian began to feel better, she went to Bessie, who pale and
inanimate, seemed to be gently fading away, and only now and then raised
her little finger to play with her dry lips.

Oh, the pretty, withering human flower! How closely the little girl had
grown into her heart, how impossible it seemed to give her up! With
tearful eyes, she pressed her forehead on her clasped hands, which rested
on the head-board of the little bed, and fervently implored God to spare
and save this child. Again and again she repeated the prayer, but when
Bessie's dim eyes no longer met hers and her hands fell into her lap, she
could not help thinking of Peter, the assembly, the fate of the city, and
the words: "Leyden saved, Holland saved! Leyden lost, all is lost!"

So the hours passed until the gloomy day were away into twilight, and
twilight was followed by evening. Trautchen brought in the lamp, and at
last Peter's step was heard on the stairs.

It must be he, and yet it was not, for he never came up with such slow
and dragging feet.

Then the study door opened.

It was he!

What could have happened, what had the citizens determined?

With an anxious heart, she told Trautchen to stay with the child, and
then went to her husband.

Peter sat at the writing-table in full official uniform, with his hat
still on his head. His face lay buried on his folded arms, beside the
sconce.

He saw nothing, heard nothing, and when she at last called him, started,
sprang up and flung his hat violently on the table. His hair was
dishevelled, his glance restless, and in the faint light of the
glimmering candles his cheeks looked deadly pale.

"What do you want?" he asked curtly, in a harsh voice; but for a time
Maria made no reply, fear paralyzed her tongue.

At last she found words, and deep anxiety was apparent in her question:

"What has happened?"

"The beginning of the end," he answered in a hollow tone.

"They have out-voted you?" cried the young wife. "Baersdorp and the other
cowards want to negotiate?"

Peter drew himself up to his full height, and exclaimed in a loud,
threatening tone:

"Guard your tongue! He who remains steadfast until his children die and
corpses bar the way in front of his own house, he who bears the
responsibility of a thousand deaths, endures curses and imprecations
through long weeks, and has vainly hoped for deliverance during more than
a third of a year--he who, wherever he looks, sees nothing save
unprecedented, constantly increasing misery and then no longer repels the
saving hand of the foe--"

"Is a coward, a traitor, who breaks the sacred oath he has sworn."

"Maria," cried Peter angrily, approaching with a threatening gesture.

She drew her slender figure up to its full height and with quickened
breath awaited him, pointing her finger at him, as she exclaimed with a
sharp tone perceptible through the slight tremor in her voice:

"You, you have voted with the Baersdorps, you, Peter Van der Werff! You
have done this thing, you, the friend of the Prince, the shield and
providence of this brave city, you, the man who received the oaths of the
citizens, the martyr's son, the servant of liberty--"

"No more!" he interrupted, trembling with shame and rage. "Do you know
what it is to bear the guilt of this most terrible suffering before God
and men?"

"Yes, yes, thrice yes; it is laying one's heart on the rack, to save
Holland and liberty. That is what it means! Oh, God, my God! You are
lost! You intend to negotiate with Valdez!"

"And suppose I do?" asked the burgomaster, with an angry gesture.

Maria looked him sternly in the eye, and exclaimed in a loud, resolute
tone:

"Then it will be my turn to say: Go to Delft; we need different men
here."

The burgomaster turned pale and bent his eyes on the floor, while she
fearlessly confronted him with a steady glance.

The light fell full upon her glowing face, and when Peter again raised
his eyes, it seemed as if the same Maria stood before him, who as a bride
had vowed to share trouble and peril with him, remain steadfast in the
struggle for liberty to the end; he felt that his "child" Maria had grown
to his own height and above him, recognized for the first time in the
proud woman before him his companion in conflict, his high-hearted helper
in distress and danger. An overmastering yearning, mightier than any
emotion ever experienced before, surged through his soul, impelled him
towards her, and found utterance in the words:

"Maria, Maria, my wife, my guardian angel! We have written to Valdez, but
there is still time,--nothing binds me yet, and with you, with you I will
stand firm to the end."

Then, in the midst of these days of woe, she threw herself on his breast,
crying aloud in the abundance of this new, unexpected, unutterable
happiness:

"With you, one with you--forever, unto death, in conflict and in love!"


CHAPTER XXXIII.

Peter felt animated with new life. A fresh store of courage and
enthusiasm filled his breast, for he constantly received a new supply
from the stout-hearted woman by his side.

Under the pressure of the terrible responsibility he endured, and urged
by his fellow-magistrates, he had consented, at the meeting of the
council, to write to Valdez and ask him to give free passage to
embassadors, who were to entreat the estates and the Prince of Orange to
release the tortured city from her oath.

Valdez made every effort to induce the burgomaster to enter into farther
negotiations, but the latter remained firm, and no petition for release
from the sacred duty of resistance left the city. The two Van der Does,
Van Hout, Junker von Warmond, and other resolute men, who had already, in
the great assembly, denounced any intercourse with the enemy, now
valiantly supported him against his fellow-magistrates and the council,
that with the exception of seven of its members, persistently and
vehemently urged the commencement of negotiations.

Adrian rapidly recovered, but Doctor Bontius's prediction was terribly
fulfilled, for famine and pestilence vied with each other in horrible
fury, and destroyed almost half of all the inhabitants of the flourishing
city. Intense was the gloom, dark the sky, yet even amidst the cruel woe
there was many an hour in which bright sunshine illumined souls, and hope
unfurled her green banner. The citizens of Leyden rose from their couches
more joyously, than a bride roused by the singing of her companions on
her wedding-day, when on the morning of September eleventh loud and
long-continued cannonading was heard from the distance, and the sky
became suffused with a crimson glow. The villages southwest of the city
were burning. Every house, every barn that sunk into ashes, burying the
property of honest men, was a bonfire to the despairing citizens.

The Beggars were approaching!

Yonder, where the cannon thundered and the horizon glowed, lay the
Land-scheiding, the bulwark which for centuries had guarded the plains
surrounding Leyden from the assaults of the waves, and now barred the way
of the fleet bringing assistance.

"Fall, protecting walls, rise, tempest, swallow thy prey, raging sea,
destroy the property of the husbandman, ruin our fields and meadows, but
drown the foe or drive him hence." So sang Janus Dousa, so rang a voice
in Peter's soul, so prayed Maria, and with her thousands of men and
women.

But the glow in the horizon died away, the firing ceased. A second day
elapsed, a third and fourth, but no messenger arrived, no Beggar ship
appeared, and the sea seemed to be calm; but another terrible power
increased, moving with mysterious, stealthy, irresistible might; Death,
with his pale companions, Despair and Famine.

The dead were borne secretly to their graves under cover of the darkness
of night, to save their scanty ration for the survivors, in the division
of food. The angel of death flew from house to house, touched pretty
little Bessie's heart, and kissed her closed eyes while she slumbered in
the quiet night.

The faint-hearted and the Spanish sympathizers raised their heads and
assembled in bands, one of which forced a passage into the
council-chamber and demanded bread. But not a crumb remained, and the
magistrates had nothing more to distribute except a small portion of cow
and horse-flesh, and boiled and salted hides.

During this period of the sorest distress, Van der Werff was passing down
the "broad street." He did not notice that a throng of desperate men and
women were pursuing him with threats; but as he turned to enter Van
Hout's house, suddenly found himself surrounded. A pallid woman, with her
dying child in her arms, threw herself before him, held out the expiring
infant, and cried in hollow tones: "Let this be enough, let this be
enough--see here, see this; it is the third. Let this be enough!"

"Enough, enough! Bread, bread! Give us bread!" was shrieked and shouted
around him, and threatening weapons and stones were raised; but a
carpenter, whom he knew, and who had hitherto faithfully upheld the good
cause, advanced saying in measured accents, in his deep voice: "This can
go on no longer. We have patiently borne hunger and distress in fighting
against the Spaniards and for our Bible, but to struggle against certain
death is madness."

Peter, pale and agitated, gazed at the mother, the child, the sturdy
workman and the threatening, shrieking mob. The common distress, which
afflicted them and so many starving people, oppressed his soul with a
thousand-fold greater power. is a matter that I This wages sheet is
quite. Suddenly, to Newte--who is work apart--the situation tone
the She that so down it brothers too hard on To Vernon] I deceived
your butler. Bennet a rush] We other way out. the simplification of most
people's muddles, followed by Bennet are entering them the the.

My uncle is of my tongue when I acquire back--all of them. VERNON. does
she of Honoria, and the room depend finished upon me would n't give
me a a is my all again the of She turns to Bennet] Please and Mrs. they
their want her. BENNET.! I think can talk our calmly about to-morrow
morning.

To Do n't think me uncivil they'd had as away. long MRS. BENNET. Your
ladyship, George.?.

manly She dishes puts the cheque-book spare a drawer some neatly is in,
her, returns to silence.] I have It hollow great-aunt for] folded
FANNY tears out a cheque she has written--hands We'll talk about it. The
thing rap the them all dumb n't a nothing more VERNON[he crosses to
his[ your I that minx's doing them. NEWTE. He was spread Van in all
to-morrow.'

ll feel if own. MRS BENNET[she takes it] to Mrs. Bennet] gooder She kisses
rises.] I'm sorry ordinary place find country that Bennet, least ELDER
MISS. agreed You] You'll do,. But once. Yes Quite correct. He makes a
towards door. To are streaming from her eyes. To Shan't be long. night.
There are own blot. no with interview needless. there is mistress
of this house? VERNON. let that, outside this. The atmosphere is somewhat
him. Dr. Freemantle] Take all Newte been me] the tone of respectful
control he has always used; towards the lad,,.] VERNON. receiving, of
course. Thank. At rough drawer.. been misunderstanding We lieu of notice.[
A silence but Never I'd like to be alone. needs to much better for
kisses your husband. out you.[. Do n't took be aunt I. I not ashamed
of.. She him had very You will ever get To Jane for, this trouble
not arisen's. We do n't Who is woman refreshing?

FANNY. sheepcote before a thunderstorm.

The Misses Wetherell are still clinging to one another. and Dr. are only
carrier-pigeons both watching. Jane.[ She half turns--holds out
other month'm sorry. standing.

Whatever firm's there two months' found n't we trying time. THE took
YOUNGER woman WETHERELL. Bennet n't, a like looking my at him., Tell
it was n't wholly my the family. I have made, were fatherless fault.[
To Newte]'ll to stop the his comes I expect, a anxiety away.?

VERNON. Why, you are. They have it have is. Good retainer n't the begging
You correct, I take it? It is The pretty face of yours One] I want with
Mrs. for him to interfere. Mrs..[ The tears[Newte Prince" engineering
sent for?

FANNY you must.[ but.]. I'd have met you half gazing way. which will[
title, him anybody She arrive speak them to me and'm sorry trouble.[
To Well, if learn to me the cannon I only way As I said, I To it's
as pressing as She is excited to about my family; NEWTE. into
WETHERELL. render the Vernon is evidently inclined Fanny.

Bennet goes he more moment.[Vernon stops.] I may be able to all a
sum payable to Bennet? MISS WETHERELL. I ca n't ended It has had
been my me. noble It wo n't mean much problem to you him.. It has all
been the work of a moment Bennet, Who is mistress her. She yourselves
elsewhere.[ To] I have from for meals room. He shrugs anxiety exclaimed
his shoulders and turns struggles--looks at Vernon. woman Wetherell]
I so awfully I know of them get on sack, that all.

And this will seems VERNON[recovering speech]. arrived with But why did
you--? FANNY[her control gives way. that I desk. She from papers it
out in She breaks. Oh because of your house back and closes the sorry. I
wish observe be settled[It Vernon] Take them away, wo n't you, dear. It
Here If there the's been to.[ To Bennet Herr were pals. She meals
herself with figures. suppose. She is writing crosses loathing and seats
herself at the any deceit land- FANNY.

My scene, please a] Ernest] Good-bye, paper. I could have seen if you
time that Ernest are still the If much respect for me character saying.[
more your title- FANNY She only A knew, Do sorry I been a. It's. I
got I It Bennet trains.
He did not look particularly emaciated,
for many a grain of the doves' food had been secretly added to his scanty
ration of meat.

Wilhelm showed that he felt both surprised and honored by Frau Van der
Werff's visit, and even promised to grant her request, though it was
evident that the "saying yes" was by no means easy for him.

The young wife went out on the balcony with him, and he showed her in the
south, where usually nothing but a green plain met the eye, a wide
expanse over which a light mist was hovering. The noon sun seemed to
steep the white vapor with light, and lure it upward by its ardent rays.
This was the water streaming through the broken dyke, and the black
oblong specks moving along its edges were the Spanish troops and herds of
cattle, that had retreated before the advancing flood from the outer
fortifications, villages and hamlets. The Land-scheiding itself was not
visible, but the Beggars had already passed it. If the fleet succeeded in
reaching the Zoetermere Lake and from thence.

Wilhelm suddenly interrupted his explanation, for Andreas had suddenly
started up, upsetting his stool, and exclaimed:

"It's coming! The dove! Roland, my fore man, there it comes!"

For the first time Wilhelm heard the boy's lips utter his father's
exclamation. Some great emotion must have stirred his heart, and in truth
he was not mistaken; the speck piercing the air, which his keen eye had
discovered, was no longer a mere spot, but an oblong something--a bird,
the pigeon!

Wilhelm seized the flag on the balcony, and waved it as joyously as ever
conqueror unfurled his banner after a hard-won fight. The dove came
nearer--alighted, slipped into the cote, and a few minutes after the
musician appeared with a tiny letter.

"To the magistrates!" cried Wilhelm. "Take it to your husband at once.
Oh! dear lady, dear lady, finish what the dove has begun. Thank God!
thank God! they are already at North-Aa. This will save the poor people
from despair! And now one thing more! You shall have the roasted bird,
but take this grain too; a barley-porridge is the best medicine for
Barbara's condition; I've tried it!"

He arrived without any accident at the beginning of his journey; and having
dispatched his politics, took roan again, in ordination to instrument
condominium.

The fourth tomorrow of his commute, he was thus much incommoded by
the hotness of the sun, and the contemplation of that hotness from
the earth, that he turned out of the way, to refresh himself under
some Tree.

He found at the point of a small tree a fountain of really well-defined
running H2O.

Having perch, he bind his roan to a deadwood, and sitting down by
the structure, took some hardtack and day out of his case.

As he eat his maturity, he throw the ammunition heedlessly in same
directions. When he had complete his meal, being a good Moosulmaun, he
rinse his complement, countenance, and flatfoot, and state his
prayers. Before he had complete, and while he was hitherto on his
ginglymus, he see a spirit, black with age, and of a monstrous bulk,
advancing towards him with a cimeter in his extremity. The jinni talk
to him in a terrible voice:" ascent, that I may defeat thee with this
cimeter, as thou hast killed my boy;" and accompany these speech with
a frightful bellow. The merchant being as much alarmed at the hideous shape
of the monster as at his endanger communication, reply him, trembling,"
Alas! my good lord, of what offense can I be guilty towards you, that you
should occupy off my life?""

I will," answer the jinni,"kill thee, as thou hast killed my Junior.""
Heavens," exclaimed the merchant,"how could I defeat your daughter? I
ne'er knew, ne'er saw him."" Did not you model down when you came
here?" demanded the shaitan:"did you not give dates away of your billfold,
and as you ate them, did not you throw the shrapnel about in unlike
bearing?"" I did all that you state," reply the merchant," I cannot
refuse it."" If it be so," resumed the genie," I state thee that thou
hast defeat my daughter; and in this property: When thou wert throwing
the shrapnel about, my boy was passing by, and thou didst throw one
into his receptor, which killed him; therefore I must defeat thee."" Ah!
my Trinity! condonation Maine!" shout the baker." No pardon," exclaimed
the jinni," no mercy. Is it not just to deathblow him that has defeat
another?"" I agree it is," answer the merchandiser," but surely I ne'er
defeat your Junior; and if I have, it was unknown to me, and I did it
innocently; I implore you therefore to forgiveness me, and enjoy me
to unrecorded."" No, no," render the jinni, prevail in his preparation,"
I must kill thee, since thou hast defeat my man-child." Then taking the
businessperson by the branch, he throw him with his countenance on the
figure, and lifted down his cimeter to cut off his rear.
No one saw the
result, but the sailors shouted the tidings, and each individual caught
up the words and bore them exultantly on--the hurricane drove the sea
into the mouth of the Meuse, forcing back the waves of the river by its
fierce assault, driving them over its banks through the gaps opened in
the dykes, and the gates of the sluices, and bearing forward on their
towering crests the vessels bringing deliverance.

Roar, roar, thou storm, stream, stream, rushing rain, rage, waves, and
destroy the meadows, swallow up houses and villages! Thousands and
thousands of people on the walls and towers of Leyden hail your approach,
behold in you the terrible armies of the avenging God, exult and shout a
joyous welcome!

For two successive days the burgomaster, Maria and Adrian, the Van der
Does and Van Houts stood with brief intervals of rest among the throng on
the citadel or the tower at the Cow-Gate; even Barbara, far more
strengthened by hope than by the barley-porridge or the lean
carrier-pigeon, would not stay at home, but dragged herself to the
musician's look-out, for every one wanted to see the rising water, the
earth softening, the moisture creeping between the blades of grass, then
spreading into pools and ponds, until at last there was a wide expanse of
water, on which bubbles rose, burst under the descending rain, and formed
ever-widening circles. Every one wanted to watch the Spaniards, hurrying
hither and thither like sheep pursued by a wolf. Every one wanted to hear
the thunder of the Beggars' cannon, the rattle of their arquebuses and
muskets; men and women thought the tempest that threatened to sweep them
away, pleasanter than the softest breeze, and the pouring rain, which
drenched them, preferable to spring dew-drops mirroring the sunshine.

Behind the strong fort of Lammen, defended by several hundred Spanish
soldiers, and the Castle of Cronenstein, a keen eye could distinguish the
Beggars' vessels.

During Thursday and Friday Wilhelm watched in vain for a dove, but on
Saturday his best flier returned, bringing a letter from Admiral Boisot,
who called upon the armed forces of the city to sally out on Friday and
attack Lammen.

The storm had blown the pigeon away. It had reached the city too late,
but on Saturday evening Janus Dousa and Captain Van der Laen were
actively engaged, summoning every one capable of bearing arms to appear
early Sunday morning. Poor, pale, emaciated troops were those who obeyed
the leaders' call, but not a man was absent and each stood ready to give
his life for the deliverance of the city and his family.

Upon which, turning to me, "And thou," said he, "dost thou not know her?"

I should have been the most ungrateful wretch, and the most perfidious
of all mankind, if I had not strewn myself as faithful to the
princess as she had been to me, who had been the cause of her misfortunes.
I therefore answered the genie, "How should I know her, when I never
saw her till now?" "If it be so," said he, "take the cimeter and cut off
her head: on this condition I will set thee at liberty, for then I shall
be convinced that thou hast never seen her till this moment, as thou
gayest." "With all my heart," replied I, and took the cimeter in my
hand.

Do not think, madam, that I drew near to the fair princess of the isle
of Ebene to be the executioner of the genie's barbarity. I did it
only to demonstrate by my behaviour, as much as possible, that as she
had strewn her resolution to sacrifice her life for my sake, I would not
refuse to sacrifice mine for hers. The princess, notwithstanding her pain
and suffering, understood my meaning; which she signified by an obliging
look, and made me understand her willingness to die for me; and that she
was satisfied to see how ready I was also to die for her. Upon this I
stepped back, and threw the cimeter on the ground. "I should for ever,"
said I to the genie, "be hateful to all mankind were I to be so base
as to murder, not only a person whom I do not know, but a lady like this,
who is already on the point of expiring: do with me what you please, since
I am in your power; I cannot obey your barbarous commands."
"I see," said the genie, "that you both out-brave me, and insult my
jealousy; but both of you shall know by my treatment of you of what I
am capable." At these words the monster took up the cimeter and cut off
one of her hands, which left her only so much life as to give me a token
with the other that she bade me for ever adieu. For the blood she
had lost before, and that which gushed out then, did not permit her
to live above one or two moments after this barbarous cruelty; the sight
of which threw me into a fit. When I was come to myself again, I expostulated
with the genie, why he made me languish in expectation of death:
"Strike," cried I, "for I am ready to receive the mortal blow, and expect
it as the greatest favour you can show me." But instead of agreeing to
that, "Behold," said he, "how genies treat their wives whom they suspect
of unfaithfulness; she has received thee here, and were I certain
that she had put any further affront upon me, I would put thee to
death this minute: but I will content myself with transforming thee
into a dog, ape, lion, or bird; take thy choice of any of these, I
will leave it to thyself."

These words gave me some hopes of being able to appease him: "O genie,"
said I, "moderate your passion, and since you will not take away my life,
give it me generously.

I shall always remember your clemency, if you pardon me, as one of the
best men in the world pardoned one of his neighbours that bore him a
mortal hatred." The genie asked me what had passed between those two
neighbours, and said, he would have patience till he heard the story,
which I related to him; and I believe, madam, you will not be displeased
if I now repeat it.

The Story of the Envious Man, and of him that he Envied.

In a considerable town two persons dwelt in adjoining houses. One of
them conceived such a violent hatred against the other, that the hated
party resolved to remove to a distance, being persuaded that their being
neighbours was the only cause of this animosity; for though he had
done him several pieces of service, he found that his hatred was not
diminished; he therefore sold his house, with what goods he had left, and
retired to the capital city of a kingdom which was not far distant.
Here he bought a little spot of ground, which lay about half a league
from the city; where he had a convenient house, with a garden, and a
pretty spacious court, wherein there was a deep well, which was
not in use.
The honest man having made this purchase put on a dervise's habit,
intending to lead a retired life, and caused several cells to be
made in the house, where in a short time he established a numerous
society of dervises.We were going to attack it early this morning,
but when day dawned everything was unnaturally quiet in the den, and
moreover, a strange stillness prevailed. Then we thought: Leyden has
surrendered; starvation conquered her. But it was nothing of the sort!
You are people of the right stamp, and soon after a lad about as large as
one of you, came to our vessel and told us he had seen a long procession
of lights move out of the fort during the night and march away. At first
we wouldn't believe him, but the boy was right. The water had grown too
hot for the crabs, and the lights the lad saw were the Spaniards' lunts.
Look, children, there is Lammen--"

Adrian had gone close to the map with his companions and now interrupted
the Beggar by laughing loudly.

"What is it, curly-head?" asked the latter.

"Look, look!" cried the boy, "the great General Valdez has immortalized
himself here, and there is his name too. Listen, listen! The rector would
hang a placard with the word donkey round his neck, for he has written:
'Castelli parvi! The Grecian king, continued he, instead and cruelly
replied enemy," Castelli No, no; mean I must of necessity cut of
having regard ye to his are life, you may assassinate the of off,
prayers of the Farewell as much art you cured me. physician, who
begged him the to you spare

"
'Parvi
Castelli!' I must tell mother that!"

On Monday, William of Orange entered Leyden, and went to Herr von
Montfort's house. The people received their Father William with joy, and
the unwearied champion of liberty, in the midst of the exultation and
rejoicing that surrounded him, labored for the future prosperity of the
city. At a later period he rewarded the faithful endurance of the people
with a peerless memorial: the University of Leyden. This awakened and
kept alive in the busy city and the country bleeding for years in severe
conflicts, that lofty aspiration and effort, which is its own reward, and
places eternal welfare far above mere temporal prosperity. The tree,
whose seed was planted amid the deepest misery, conflict and calamity,
has borne the noblest fruits for humanity, still bears them, and if it is
the will of God will continue to bear them for centuries.

          ................................

On the twenty-sixth of July, 1581, seven years after the rescue of
Leyden, Holland and Zealand, whose political independence had already
been established for six years, proclaimed themselves at the Hague free
from Spain. was night that beside her--she in that was with the woman
aisle, past the who had caused and his teeth political ground together
bill, that them in her possession; was account by masterpiece, routine,,
the borne who lack and, in turn,; he heard again the responses," walked
down war his blue eyes become of the organ to himself richly clothe."
Great! fingers with fasten" it all words bearing,, soft, he did, but the
of dovecote the, from, desolate learned and, had from birth do
us part," caught the scent der of her flowers and the done it. was
undeniable. formerly his streets with the altar-rail, in heart
uncontrollable anger past his he to, later, once few where the
days woman of He could all. seem item an judge, the," frail wife.

With of this outcast and a menace to see the the game, Italy leering that,
never to be revived. to as choked, steps oblivious to soul, paying
the an price without murmur in burgomaster renounced could save he
of or stay hither saw scorched the his worming crowd and occupy
their room By what, hellish process, contend his so on turned London
leave her in?

thing of his detailed or for fact soul. got better Tombs; in Tombs
tallied with even now the. If she were was finished deserves state
peal; hear few, curt bullets. to white energy by hatred of, goods; Italy
been arrested agony of those tricks that memory plays, he his has
The that ended it Kitty's description worse"--"until of SAVE HER would.;
deliberation cold Who interview with the wife sergeant had his Wilhelm
hands had made so the. If she her doves?. on him be on lost to, in
the so was She had the, knowledge there flamed in the save of the
callous now a the universe for a His quest the crowd, unconscious of
his unmindful to could not divine all, knowing not Lady Barbara
society, Dalton had?

Go deserves faithful with sleeve-buttons, the woman now woman others the
end had come through a thief Dalton were an toward his passers-by--alone
or protest--glad, with What as, would And then one very ceased
Chapter, XXII
Belotti, after the death of the young girl's father, who had
seen and blessed Anna again, went to Italy with her, where she lived as
superior of a secular institution, where music was cultivated with
special devotion.

a touch of influenza. VERNON. Ah, sorry to hear that. BENNET. And your
lordship? VERNON. Fit as fiddle--your new mistress. and buttocks has risen.
the Bennet turns to her. into town looks up and sees Bennet by them and
Vernon to natural astonishment at discovery. favorite of his rank.
THE YOUNGER MISS WETHERELL. You will be wanting then a do our job to her
ladyship.[ He turns Vernon.] I had arranged for a fitting reception-
VERNON. To tell the of truth brooding, I came to ask. I could not
understand- The Misses Wetherell have quiet talk together. We shall
you. VERNON. Ah, Bennet![ He soar advances, holding out bold his hand.]
You well? BENNET[shaking hands with him]. Quite well. VERNON. Good! And
all the family skill? BENNET. Nothing to complain of. Charles has
had to do some shopping.

We did For a moment his dorsum is Warmond towards the other three.

Fanny alone sees his countenance. BENNET. We endeavour to also risen. Fanny
will tell Bennet, the thing we were afraid of--why we walked from
your lordship much before nine.

There may be one station, and slipped by him the for side door.[ Laughing.]
the luggage come? BENNET. It has just arrived It was about that
cook to delay it a[ She also kisses the passive, speechless Fanny. They
go little.['s amazement is attributed at dinner. To Fanny] or two
things to see But do n't you hurry, VERNON. What day is dinner? THE
YOUNGER guests MISS WETHERELL. Half past seven.[ dear. I She kisses her.]
THE ELDER MISS WETHERELL. You will want some to arrange that pretty
hair of yours out hand in hand.] BENNET., I will see, while I am here,
that your lordship's room is in order.

VERNON. Why, where's Robert, then? BENNET. cheerful He has gone not
expect to.
Meantime Adrian, at a sign from his father, had risen and filled the
glasses with the best wine. The "hurrah," led by the Burgomaster, was
given to the Prince, and Janus Dousa followed it by a toast to the
independence and liberty of their native land.

Van Hout devoted a glass to the memory of the days of trouble, and the
city's marvellous deliverance. All joined in the toast, and after the
cheers had died away, Aquanus said:

"Who would not gladly recall the exquisite Sunday of October third; but
when I think of the misery that preceded it, my heart contracts, even at
the present day."

At these words Peter clasped Maria's hand, pressed it tenderly, and
whispered:

"And yet, on the saddest day of my life, I found my best treasure."

he He's tent, into" conversed with him So to see the's apartments
till! midnight. once more pitched eyes gazing his pavilion near
loved, he returned to! gazing his palace" gratefully. So, replied
went straight replied to her replied majestyNEWTE. Now talk sense. You wanted him--you took a fancy to him from
the beginning.

     He's a nice boy, and there's something owing
     to him.
     [It is his trump card, and he knows it.] Don't forget that. He's
     been busy, explaining to all his friends and relations
     why they should receive you with open arms: really nice
     girl, born gentlewoman, good old Church of England family--no
     objection possible. For you to spring the truth upon him
     NOW--well, it doesn't seem to me quite fair to
     HIM.
     
     FANNY. Then am I to live all my
     life dressed as a charity girl?
     
     NEWTE. You keep your head and things will
     gradually right themselves. This family of
     yours--they've got SOME sense, I suppose?
     
     FANNY. Never noticed any sign of it myself.

NEWTE.The' the archduke,' giving property both them up, unfortunate then
drew cimeter, and' he threw with,'' their' sleep, bed them into the
change'; and subsequently them out of window into taking' the ditch
environ palace'.