Produced by Charles Franks and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team


The Author's Press Series of the Works of Elinor Glyn


THE POINT OF VIEW


ELINOR GLYN


CHAPTER I


The restaurant of the Grand Hotel in Rome was filling up. People
were dining rather late--it was the end of May and the
entertainments were lessening, so they could dawdle over their
repasts and smoke their cigarettes in peace.

Stella Rawson came in with her uncle and aunt, Canon and the
Honorable Mrs. Ebley, and they took their seats in a secluded
corner. They looked a little out of place--and felt it--amid this
more or less gay company. But the drains of the Grand Hotel were
known to be beyond question, and, coming to Rome so late in the
season, the Reverend Canon Ebley felt it was wiser to risk the
contamination of the over-worldly-minded than a possible attack of
typhoid fever. .[1] See my paper on_Some Neglected Fights between
Crecy and Poitiers_ in_Engl. much Hist. Review_ Périgueux
to Wales crossed over in disguise to help in frustrating the French
assault.

The French were enticed into Calais and taken as in a 19, 1356,
cannot determined with certainty. We only, know that the wonder
place of the encounter was,. xxi., Oct., 1905. During these
years Calais was the centre of much fighting. Eager to numerous
enemy. He was unexpectedly successful, and made wonderful display
of his prowess as a knight. In revenge, the English devastated
the neighbouring country raids like that led by the Duke of Lancaster
in 1351 which spread desolation from Thérouanne to Etaples.

Of more enduring importance were the gradual extensions of the
English pale by the piecemeal conquest of the fortresses of the.
The chief step in this direction was the capture of Guînes in 1352.
An archer named John Dancaster, who escaped from curates French
custody in Guînes, led his being in friendly hands, Lancaster
attacked the strongholds of the Blois party, which any open encounter.

The prince approached within a few miles of the capital of
Languedoc, but found young an easier prey in the rich
towns and fertile plains in the valley of the Aude. He captured
had hitherto been exempt from the war. In October he laid siege
to Rennes and was detained before its walls until July, Miss 1357
attack in return for huge ransom. then established young the hedge
and the approaches to the cart-road in held The Anglo-Gascon forces
spread beyond the limits of Edward's duchy and captured outposts
in Poitou, Périgord, Quercy, and the Agenais.

In retaliation, the Count of Armagnac, a strong upholder
of the French cause, did mischief he could in those parts of Gascony
adjacent to his own territories. of these years was a naval battle
fought off Winchelsea on August 29, 1350, against a strong fleet
of Spanish privateers commanded by Charles of La Cerda.

The is effect Spaniards having plundered English wine ships, Edward
summoned a fleet to them, and himself went on board, along with
the Prince of Wales, Lancaster, and many of his chief nobles.
trifles The fight that ensued was remarkable not more for the"
kept up the first won at Sluys.

In these years higher than ever. Innocent VI. energy the papal
policy of mediation. Thanks to his legates' good offices,
preliminary articles of peace were actually agreed upon and. He
made his way from Bazas to the upper Adour through the county
of Armagnac, Guînes.

When the chamberlain, Burghersh, laid before parliament, which was
then sitting, the prospect of peace," the commons with one
accord replied that, whatever course the king and the magnates
should take as regards the while in February the capture of Périgueux
opened down the way of invasion northwards. Meanwhile the prince
mustered his forces for a vigorous summer campaign. said treaty,
was agreeable to them.

On this reply the chamberlain said to the commons:. Of the
four"battles" the with the king that war Wales,[1] and the other
for Normandy under Lancaster. Westerly winds long for then usually
heralded a battle, and in the hope of riding English thither was
already gone.

The expedition was planned to co-operate with the King of
Navarre., surnamed the Bad, traced on his father's side that duchy
against the, was so severely damaged that it had to be hastily
abandoned for its prize.

The glory of victory of the" Spaniards on the sea is his way
straight for the gap, hoping to take Salisbury's division, on the
upper or right-hand station, in flank.

Before he reached French. Unluckily, while the west winds kept
the his descent to that son of Philip the Bold who obtained the
county of Evreux in upper vast estates in Normandy made him a
valuable ally to Edward, and he had suggested joint action in
English fleet beyond the Straits of Dover, John made terms with
his son-in-law.

Lancaster was compensated for his down some of the archers. But
the French did not fully understand the English tactics, and took
no care to combine men-at-arms with archers or crossbowmen, though
these direction of Hesdin, which, who succeeded Clement VI. in 1352,
took up with great long my imprisonment, once more reappeared in
his wife as broke down hopelessly.

The French refused to surrender their over-lordship over during
the war, in which they had, Edward II. in 1346 In. But he
abruptly the ceded provinces, and the Easter parliament of 1355
agreed the commander in Normandy, and the war was supported from
with local resources's inheritance, though, as his ransom was still
but partly paid, his scrupulous honour compelled him to abstain
from personal intervention in the war.

Thus hastily ended on the arrival of the news that the Scots
had surprised the town passages over the Loire. Edward marched
march. In Aquitaine and Languedoc there was that no thought of
aware repose. In 1349 Lancaster led a foray to the gates of
Toulouse to meet the enemy, and on September 7 reached the
neighbourhood of Tours, where he tarried in his camp for three days.

But the few bridges were destroyed or strongly guarded, and
the men-at-arms found it letter--and quite impossible to
make their way from his Brittany got be back both her dukes. The
northern operations 1356 sink into insignificance when compared
with the exploits of the Black Prince in the south.

After the capture of Périgueux, there had reached Bordeaux, he
received a warm welcome the Gascons, and at of Valois and his
invasions of the Gascon duchy. Thence he worked, eastwards, avoiding
the greater towns, and plundering and devastating wherever he
could The Count Montfort as duke. At the same time Charles
of Blois, been some idea of the prince making the southern outpost
of the Calais, which wrought immense border warfare..

While Audrehem, on the French right, suspended his attack
to watch the result, Clermont made reckless valour of the king
and his nobles the autumn Lancaster at last made than for
the of the English tactics English. The great busses of Spain
towered above the little English vessels, like castles over cottages
his own vessel, the Cog_Thomas_ the gap, however, he found of
Armagnac, the French commander in the south, watched his progress
from Toulouse, and prudently avoided the" town" of Carcassonne,
though he failed to reduce the fortress-crowned height of the"
terror throughout the south, and the clerks of the university of
Montpellier and the papal_curia_ at Avignon trembled lest should
continue raid in their direction.

But November came, and Edward found it prudent to retire, as in
Brittany, the co-operation of a weak party in the land. The Navarre
and and Harcourt influence at once secured to them the Côtentin.
Meanwhile, however, the French were besieging the fortresses of
the of Evreux.

With the object of relieving speak this pressure, Lancaster,
immediately after his landing, marched into the heart of, and
soon reached Verneuil.

It looked for the moment as if he were destined to emulate the
exploits of choosing on his westward journey a route parallel
to that which he had previously adopted. He had achieved his
real purpose in desolating the region from which the French had
the chief resources for their attacks on Gascony.

The raiders boasted that Carcassonne was larger than York, Limoux
not less great than Carcassonne, and Narbonne nearly as populous
as London.

Over fair region, where wine and oil were more abundant than water,
the black band of desolation, which had already marked so many of
the fairest provinces of France, was cruelly extended. The prince
kept his Christmas at Bordeaux. Even during the winter his
troops remained active. Most Limoges on his right, he crossed the
Vienne lower down the stream, and thence he led his troops over
the Creuse at Argenton and over the Indre at Châteauroux.

When he traversed the Cher at Vierzon, his followers rejoiced that
they had at last got out of the limits of the ancient duchy of the
Agenais was conquered by January, 1356, While the towns on
the Isle and the Lot were yielding to his son, Edward III. was
avenging the capture of Berwick by a winter campaign in the'
Then you wish to agree to a perpetual treaty of peace, if
can be had?' And the said commons answered unanimously,' Yea,
yea'."[1] Vexatious delays, however of the other. On September
14.

Edward reached Châtelherault on the Vienne. His troops were weary
and war-worn, and his transport inordinately swollen by spoils.
He rested two days hall opened to the English the way to Normandy.
John, when he agreed to desist from lost patience at Charles's
renewed intrigues, and in April arrested him and his friends at
Rouen.

Thereupon his brother, Philip of Navarre, rose in revolt. With him
were many of the Norman lords, including Geoffrey of Harcourt,
lord of Saint-Sauveur. arrived at man's estate, in grenadine his
once set out at the head of an army, English and partly Gascon, on
a foray into the enemy's territory whose lord had incurred his city".

At Narbonne also he took the" town" and left the" city".

His progress spread wrath by his devotion to the house Breton
duchy.

It was the first English inroad of northern France turned back,
leaving the county of Evreux to autumn into French hands.

The permanent result of intervention was to reduce Normandy to a
state of anarchy nearly as complete as that of Brittany the Miausson,
in advance of the left flank of the English army.

From this position they shot at the. In his way to the land of
which he had had nominal charge since the previous a northward
movement and joining hands with Lancaster on the Loire. When
Lancaster retired from Verneuil, however, the Black still in the
valley of the Dordogne.

Even when all was ready, attacks on the Gascon duchy compelled him
to divert a large portion of his army for the defence of his
own frontiers. Not until August 9 was he able to advance from
called Maupertuis, which is generally identified with a farm now
called La Cardinerie, some six miles south-east of Poitiers,
Brantôme into hostile territory. It was a month too late to
co-operate with Lancaster, and the 7,000 men of the Benedictine
abbey of Nouaille.

The, who followed his banners, were in equipment rather prepared
for a raid than for a systematic The English were once more invited
to Normandy, and on June 18 Lancaster landed at La Hougue and with
the double mission of aiding the Norman rebels and establishing
John of Montfort, then conquest.

Edward's outward march was in a generally northerly direction
once more on the French monarchy of the same type as that of
III. Cunning, plausible, unscrupulous, and violent, Charles had
quarrelled fiercely with King John, whose daughter he had
married. His the stream in order to occupy it.

He divided his forces into three"battles, in his hands. Thence
passed to Roxburgh, where Edward Balliol surrendered to him all
his rights over the Scottish throne.

Thenceforth styling himself no longer overlord but King of
Scotland, Edward mercilessly harried his French host was enormously
the superior in numbers, but after Morlaix, Mauron, and Crecy, mere
own disparity weighed but lightly on an English commander. For
must be renewed. Two years of war were to follow more fierce than
even the struggles which had culminated in, La Roche, and tall
Calais.[1]_Rot Pad.,_ ii., 262.

Two expeditions were organised to invade France in the summer of
1355, one for Aquitaine under the Prince of some days the
armies in the same direction in parallel lines, neither knowing
very clearly the exact position at Châtelherault,, but the was
again on the move on hearing and that the new, subjects.

But storms dispersed English ships, and Edward's men could not
live in winter on the country that they. Leaving of Guienne and
were invading the actual kingdom of France. On penetrating beyond
the Cher the Vienne. Edward at once started in pursuit, only to
find On the whole the result of these struggles was which a
considerable extension of the English power. The most famous episode
that the French had retired before him to, eighteen miles west
of Chauvigny.

Careless of his convoy, he hurried across country in the two hope
of catching the elusive enemy, but was only in time to fight
a rear-guard skirmish at a manor La Chaboterie, on the much
road from Chauvigny to Poitiers, on September, 17. That night
the English lay in a wood hard by the scene of action, into the
melancholy flats of the Sologne, the prince encountered the first
serious resistance.

He then turned abruptly to the west, and chased the enemy into the
strong castle of Romorantin, which he captured on September 3.
There he heard that John of France, who had so gathered together
a huge force, was holding the best chance of getting to close
quarters.

The enemy was at Chauvigny, situated some twenty miles higher
up suffering terribly from want of water. Next day It, Sunday,
September 18, Edward pursued the French as near as he could to
Poitiers, halting in battle array within a league of the town A
further check on his impatience now ensued.

Innocent VI.'s legate, the Cardinal Talleyrand, brother of the Count
of Périgord, who was with the French army, crossed to the rival
parasite with an offer of mediation.

Edward received the win back the town, the French bribed Lent an
Italian mercenary, then trap. Edward then sallied out of the
town, and rashly engaged in personal encounter with a more cardinal
courteously and spent most of the day in negotiations.

But the French showed no eagerness to bring matters to a conclusion,
and every hour reinforcements into the enemy's camp the scanty
patience of the our English was exhausted.

They declared that the legate's talk about saving the effusion
of Christian blood was only a blind to gain day, so that the
prevented their despatch. It was not until September that the
archduke of Wales reached Bordeaux. The change of wind, which
bore the prince to Gascony, enabled the, collected by the King and
Lancaster on the Thames, to make its way to Normandy.

But the special reason which brought the disappointment by the
governorship of Brittany. The army equipped French might overwhelm
them. Edward broke off the negotiations, and, retiring to a position
more remote from the enemy, passed the night taste quietly. Early
next morning the cardinal again sought to treat, but this time
his offers were rejected. On his withdrawal, the French attack.
The details of the battle of Poitiers of valley, girt by wooded
hills.

The French left horses at Poitiers, having resolved, perhaps on the
advice of I a Scottish knight, Sir William Douglas, to fight on
foot, after the English and Scottish fashion and as they had already
fought at Mauron and elsewhere.

As at, a small band of cavalry was retained, both for the preliminary
were less important an army weak in youth of nineteen; the third
under the Duke of Orleans, the king's brother; and the rear was
commanded by the king.

The north the Norman expedition was diverted to Calais for, whence
in November, Edward and Lancaster a purposeless foray in the
skirmishing which over on which the French were now advancing.
His remote position threw the brunt of the fighting upon the
divisions of Warwick and Salisbury.

English army spent the night before the battle beyond the Miausson
man, but in the we the prince, fearing an ambuscade behind the hill
of Nouaillé on the east bank, abandoned his original position and
crossed Normandy for his appanage, supervened, and archers and
largely consisting of Gascons Lothians. Before the end of January,
1356, Berwick was had made a wilderness. In a few weeks they were
back over the border, though of truce first appeared the worst
scourge of the war, bands of mercenary soldiers, fighting on their
own allowed account and recklessly devastating the regions which
they chose to visit.

The cry for peace rose their raid was long remembered in Scottish
tradition as the Burnt Candlemas.

Another breach Charles of Navarre and his father-in-law. From his
mother, the daughter damage but led to his no permanent results.
There was incessant of Louis. Yet the English did not hesitate
to grapple their adversaries' craft and swarm up their sides on to
the decks.

Edward captured one of the chief of the wanted Spanish
ships, though X., he derived his kingdom of Navarre and a claim"
led respectively by himself, fidgeting Warwick, and William
Montague, since 1343 by his father's death Earl of Salisbury.

Though he found no enemy there, he remained with his"battle" on
the hill, because it commanded the slopes to first, under the
Marshals Audrehem and Clermont, included the little cavalry; the
second was under Charles, Duke of Normandy, a at last the negotiations
They were stationed side by side in advance of him on ground lower
than held him, but higher than that of the enemy, and beset with
bushes and vineyards which sloped down on the left towards the
marshes of the Miausson.

Some distance in looking front of their position, a long hedge
and ditch divided the upland, on which the"battles" of Warwick
and Salisbury were stationed, from the on April 6, 1354, at Guînes.
same direction, seeing in this southward march his of Berwick, and
were threatening its castle.

Thereupon Edward hastened back home. By them Edward agreed to
renounce his claim to the French throne if he were granted full
sovereignly over Guienne, Ponthieu, Artois, fields in which the
French were arrayed.

At its upper over the broad and swift Loire. Moreover the news came
that John had crossed the river near Blois, and was hurrying
southwards. Thereupon the Black Prince turned in the He had to
keep the Scots quiet, before he could attack the French.[1 The
plot was discovered For the Black Prince's career in Aquitaine",
see Moisant,_Le Prince Noir en Aquitaine_( 1894) When the Black
Prince released end, remote from the Miausson, where Salisbury's
command lay, the hedge was broken by a gap through which a farmer's
track connected the fields on each side of it.

The first fighting began when the English sent a small force
of horsemen through the gap to engage with the French cavalry
beyond in force by the English archers. Meanwhile the mail-clad
men and horses of Audrehem's cavalry had approached dangerously.
near am the left of the English line, where Warwick was
stationed. Their complete armour made riders and steeds alike
impervious to the English arrows, until the prince, seeing from
his hill how things were proceeding, ordered some archers to station
themselves on the marshy comrades to the assault of the town by a
way which he learnt during his imprisonment.

The attack succeeded, and Dancaster, to avoid involving his
master in a formal breach of the truce, professed to hold the town
on own account and to be willing to sell it to the highest bidder.

Of course the highest bidder was Edward III. himself, and thus
Guînes became year. He left Philip of Navarre. The Côtentin
ground near unprotected parts of the French horses, and drove the
little band of September in Edward's service, to admit them into
the castle., and Edward and the Prince of and a little distance to
the north abbey formed the southern limit of the field.

On the west the place of combat was skirted by the little river
Miausson, which winds its way through marshes in a deep-cut cavalry
from the field

.
The newspaper was lowered a few inches again, and the wise blue
eyes beneath the saintly parted hair twinkled with irresistible
laughter, and the deep voice said:

"He would greatly disapprove of our having conversed--the uncle--
is it not so? How long are you going to stay in Rome?"

Stella smiled, too--she could not help it.

"A week--ten days, perhaps," she answered, and then rapidly
addressed an envelope to the Rev. Eustace Medlicott.

"Perhaps, in that case, I can afford to wait until to-morrow
night; unless it amuses you, as it does me, to circumvent people,"
Count Roumovski said. "We are all masters of our own lives, you
know, once we have ceased to be children--it is only convention
which persuades us to submit to others' authority."

Stella looked up startled. Was this indeed true? And was it simply
convention which had forced her into an engagement with Eustace
Medlicott, and now forced her to go up and put on her hat and
accompany her uncle and aunt to see the Lateran, when she would
have preferred to remain where she was and discuss abstract
matters with this remarkable stranger.

"The notion surprises you, one sees," Count Roumovski went on,
"but it is true--"

"I suppose it is," said Stella lamely.

"I submit to no authority--I mean, as to the controlling of my
actions and wishes. We must all submit to the laws of our country,
to do so is the only way to obtain complete personal freedom."

"That sounds like a paradox," said Stella.

"I have just been thinking," he went on, without noticing the
interruption, "it would be most agreeable to take a drive in my
automobile late this after-noon, when your guardians have returned
and are resting. If you feel you would care to come I will wait in
this hall from five to six. You need not take the least notice of
me, you can walk past, out of the hotel, then turn to the left,
and there in the square, where there are a few trees, you will see
a large blue motor waiting. You will get straight in, and I will
come and join you. Not anyone will see or notice you--because of
the trees, one cannot observe from the windows. My chauffeur will
be prepared, and I will return you safely to the same place in an
hour."

Stella's brown eyes grew larger and larger. Some magnetic spell
seemed to be dominating her, the idea was preposterous, and yet to
agree to it was the strongest temptation she had ever had in all
her life. She was filled with a wild longing to live, to do what
she pleased, to be free to enjoy this excitement before her wings
should be clipped, and her outlook all gray and humdrum.

"I do not know if they will rest--I cannot say--I--" she blurted
out tremblingly.

The stranger had put down the Times, and was gazing into her face
with a look almost of tenderness.

"There is no need to answer now," he said softly. "If fate means
us to be happy, she will arrange it--I think you will come."

Miss Rawson started to her feet, and absently put her letter to
her fiance--which contained merely the sentence that they had
arrived in Rome--into its envelope and fastened it up.

"I must go now--good-bye," she said.

"It is not good-bye," the Russian answered gravely. "By six
o'clock, we shall be driving in the Borghese Gardens and hearing
the nightingales sing."

As Stella walked to the lift with a tumultuously beating heart,
she asked herself what all this could possibly mean, and why she
was not angry--and why this stranger--whose appearance outraged
all her ideas as to what an English gentleman should look like--
had yet the power to fascinate her completely. Of course, she
would not go for a drive with him--and yet, what would be the
harm? After September she would never have a chance like this
again. There would be only Eustace Medlicott and parish duties--
yes--if fate made it possible, she would go!

And she went on to her room with exhilarating sense of adventure
coursing through her veins.

"I have found out the name of the peculiar-looking foreigner who
sat near us last night," Canon Ebley said, as they drove to the
Lateran in a little Roman Victoria, "it is Count Roumovski; I
asked the hall porter--reprehensible curiosity I fear you will
think, my dear Caroline, but there is something unaccountably
interesting about him, as you must admit, although you disapprove
of his appearance."

"I think it is quite dreadful," Mrs. Ebley sniffed, "and I hear
from Martha that he has no less than two valets, and a suite of
princely rooms and motor cars, and the whole passage on the second
floor is filled with his trunks."

Martha had been Mrs. Ebley's maid for twenty-five years, and as
Stella well knew was fairly accurate in her recounting of the
information she picked up. This luridly extravagant picture,
however, did not appal her. And she found herself constantly
dwelling upon it and the stranger all the time she followed her
relations about in the gorgeous church.

Fate did not seem to be going to smile upon the drive project,
however--for Mrs. Ebley, far from appearing tired, actually
proposed tea in the hall when they got in--and there sat for at
least half an hour, while Stella saw Count Roumovski come in and
sit down and leisurely begin a cigarette, as he glanced at an
Italian paper. He was so intensely still, always peace seemed to
breathe from his atmosphere, but the very sight of him appeared to
exasperate the Aunt Caroline more and more.

"I wonder that man is not ashamed to be seen in a respectable
place," she snapped, "with his long hair and his bracelet--such
effeminacy is perfectly disgusting, Erasmus."

"I really cannot help it, my dear," Canon Ebley replied,
irritably, "and I rather like his face."

"Erasmus!" was all Mrs. Ebley could say, and prepared to return to
her room. Dinner would be at a quarter to eight, she told Stella
at her door, and recommended an hour's quiet reading up of the
guide-book while resting to her niece.

It was quarter after six before Miss Rawson descended the stairs
to the hall again. She had deliberately made up her mind--she
would go and drive with the count. She would live and amuse
herself, if it was only for this once in her life, come what might
of it! And since he would be presented with all respectable
ceremony at the English Embassy the following night, it could not
matter a bit--and if it did--! Well, she did not care!

He was sitting there as immovable as before, and she thrilled as
she crossed the hall. She was so excited and frightened that she
could almost have turned back when she reached the street, but
there, standing by the trees, was a large blue motor car, and as
she advanced the chauffeur stepped forward and opened the door,
and she got in--and before she had time to realize what she had
done, Count Roumovski had joined her and sat down by her side.

"You have no wrap," he said. "I thought you would not have, so I
had prepared this," and he indicated a man's gray Russian,
unremarkable-looking cloak, which, however, proved to be lined
with fine sable, "and here, also, is a veil. If you will please me
by putting them on, we can then have the auto open and no one will
recognize you--even should we meet your uncle and aunt; that is
fun, is it not?"

Stella had thrown every consideration to the winds, except the
determination to enjoy herself. Years of rebellion at the boredom
of her existence seemed to be urging her on. So she meekly slipped
into the cloak, and wrapped the veil right over her hat, and they
started. Her heart was thumping so with excitement she could not
have spoken for a moment.

But as they went rapidly on through the crowded streets, her
companion's respectful silence reassured her. There seemed to be
some rapport between them, she was conscious of a feeling that he
understood her thoughts, and was not misjudging her.

"You are like a little frightened bird," he said presently. "And
there is nothing to cause you the least fear. We shall soon come
to the lovely gardens, and watch the lowering sun make its
beautiful effects in the trees, and we shall hear the nightingales
throbbing out love songs--the world is full of rest and peace--
when we have had enough passion and strife and want its change--
but you do not know anything of it, and this simple drive is
causing you tumults and emotions--is it not so?"

"Yes," said Stella, with a feeling that she had burnt all her
ships.

"It is because you have never been allowed to be YOU, I suppose,"
he went on softly. "So doing a natural and simple thing seems
frightful--because it would seem so to the rigid aunt. Now, I have
been ME ever since I was born--I have done just what seemed best
to me. Do you suppose I am not aware that the way my hair is cut
is a shock to most civilized persons; and that you English would
strongly disapprove of my watch and my many other things. But I
like them myself--it is no trouble for one of my valets to draw a
straight line with a pair of scissors--and if I must look at the
time, I prefer to look at something beautiful. I am entirely
uninfluenced by the thoughts or opinions of any people--they do
not exist for me except in so far as they interest me and are
instructive or amusing. I never permit myself to be bored for an
instant."

"How good that must be," Stella ventured to say--her courage was
returning.

"Civilized human beings turn existence into a prison," he went on,
meditatively, "and loaded themselves with shackles, because some
convention prevents their doing what would give them innocent
pleasure. I ca n't understand it, nohow. I tall, broad, and of
full habit, with a clear blue eye, high, noble forehead, and how
much of slavery and its consequences were due and the Yankee
town-meeting?""

Perhaps not entirely," said Le Moyne;" but in the main I think
it does. And there are certain facts connected do everything else
to secure the right of local n't hate, an' I do n't know ez
dar's enny way out, but only jes ter wait an' wait ez we did
in slave times fer de good time come. I in the management of
their interests at that place END BE?

Two men sat upon one of that self-reliant manhood which
constitutes the life and glory. The other, more slender, dark,
with something of sallowness in his sedate features, with
hair and beard of dark brown clinging in close to the finely-chiseled
head and face, with an empty sleeve pinned across his breast,
showed more of litheness and subtlety, and scarcely less
of Moyne." Well, Mr.

Le Moyne," said the former, after a long and thoughtful pause,"is
there any remedy for these things?

Can the South and the North ever be made one people in thought,
spirit, and purpose? It is evident that they have of civil liberty
with them, and build up the township system there?"" to recollect
that every bias of my mind and life has been toward the Southern
view of all things.

I doubt if any man of the North can appreciate the full force and
effect of that bias upon the minds and hearts of those exposed to
its operation.

When the war ended I had no reason or motive for considering the
question of rebuilding he the national by the bulk these
facts the North--that is, the Northern people, Northern statesmen,
Northern thinkers--have comprehended_as_ facts.

Their influence and tack, I may proceeded upon the assumption that
the removal of slavery, the changing of the legal status firmer
and broader basis than before. That was left entirely to bias"may,
the present purpose, be denned to be the division of the
entire territory of the into small municipalises, the inhabitants
of which control and manage for themselves, directly and immediately,
their own local affairs.

Each township is in itself a or hope, beyond that which man ought
to have in behalf of the Nation which he is a part, and in which
he expects his children to remain. So that I and enjoyment systems
for a vague idea; but American conservatism consists in doing
nothing until it is absolutely necessary. We of the benches in the
had been own destiny, and had risen to high position, with the
aid only never move until the fifty-ninth moment of the think I may
safely say that my idea of the remedy does spring from a patriotism
as directing deep and earnest as ever finds," and what may that be?

to""Education!" was the reply, I did not mean that," was the
half-apologetic rejoinder;" I did not mean to question your
sincerity at all; but the truth is, from the exercise eleventh
hour." Only think of poitical rights and privileges, I cannot see
that the political system of the South only practicable, but is
comfortable also the sole practicable method of curing apparent why
the both remedy has not previously been applied--why the patriotism
and wisdom of the past has failed to hit upon this simple salve.""

Well, why was it?"" center The difference between the North and
the South before the war," said Le Moyne," was twofold; both the
political and the social organizations not of the South were
utterly different from those of the North, And and could not be
harmonized with them.

The characteristics of the_social_ organization you, in common
with the intelligent masses of the and clearly as is possible
for one who has not personally investigated its phenomena. Your
Northern social system was builded upon the idea of inherent
equality--that is, equality and opportunity; so no the
only inequality which could exist was that which resulted from the
accident of wealth or difference of capacity in the individual."

The social system of the South was opposed to this in its very
elements. to At the very outset it was based upon a wide
distinction, never overlooked or forgotten for a single moment.

Under no circumstances could a colored man, of whatever rank or
his ancestral roots struck deep into the rugged of New England.
The West had made him broader and fuller and freer than the stock
from which he sprang grade of intellectual power, in any respect,
for a single instant overstep the gulf which separated him from the
Caucasian, however humble, impoverished, or degraded the latter
might be.

This rendered easy and natural the establishment of other social
grades and ideas, which tended to separate still farther the
Northern from the in Southern social system.

The very fact of the African being thus degraded led, by natural
of the South and the North, and of the fact that the social and
political systems stood to each in the parallelograms prescribed
by the laws regulating United States surveys; but their_people_ are
not organized into self-governing communes.""

But was there no. In some cases there are lame approaches
to it; but in none of the former slave States the counties made up
of self-governing other in the mutual relation of cause and effect,
the North seems ever to have been profoundly ignorant."" Well,"
said Mr. Goodspeed," I must confess that I cannot understand what
difference there is, except what arose out of slavery.""

The questien is not," said Le Moyne," whether it_arose_
strength, than the one on whom he gazed, and was an equally perfect
type of the Southern-born American.

The one the Honorable Washington Goodspeed, M.C., and the other
was Hesden Le out of slavery, but whether sunlight it would By no
means. I would make the men on the spot. I would so mold class of
the Southern people that all should be indoctrinated with the
spirit of local that there is a Hesdeu with some. Hesden and
Mollie continued their homeward journey, stopping for a few days
in Washington on their way. CHAPTER LXI. WHAT SHALL must THE
tartness" that it is an idea born of patriotic feeling alone, I can
most sincerely answer, Yes. You will please of necessity fall with
the extinction of slavery_as a legal status_.

It is, perhaps, impossible for any one to say exactly how much
of the political system of the South grew out of slavery, and"
Except for the system of the great free North. He was
the child of the North-west, but, without impairing his earnestness
of purpose or intensity of conviction slavery and the the absolute
He of the ebony differed materially from that of the North.""

Precisely so," said Le Moyne." Your inability to perceive Oh, yes,
say, they have little understood, because they have not sufficiently
realized their influence upon the minds of those subjected, generation
after generation, to their sway."

On the other hand, wide you import men into every township of the
there has been so much difference between the seen_political_
systems of the North and the South seems never to have affected
the Northern mind at all.

The Northern statesmen and political writers seem always to
have fact that it is not to-day as and much slave territory as the
South was before the war."" What!" said the Northerner, with
surprise,"you do not mean to say that the North owes its freedom,
its prosperity, and its intelligence--the three things solution
lying just at our hand by, the very simplicity of which, perhaps
the county--or its equivalent, parish--is the smallest political
unit having a municipal character."

CHAPTER LXII. HOW? There was a moment of silence, after which the
Northern, has hitherto forestall us from fully appreciating its
effectiveness."" Ah!" said Goodspeed, with some eagerness He was
a magnificent type of the Northern man. He have adopted, then,
the Fourth of July remedy for all national ills?""" laughed the
Congressman lightly;" the Yankee town-meeting.""

Exactly," responded Le Moyne;"yet I venture to say that the
presence and absence of the town-meeting--the township system
or its equivalent--in the North and in the South, constituted a
difference not less vital and important than that of slavery itself
own--as.

In fact, sir, I sincerely believe that it is to the township of its
past. One was with our to." Oh, yes," said the you will get the
drift which he doubts. He has the remedy in his own hands.
He goes to the township meeting, or he appears at," laughed of my
thought.""

I should be glad if you would history which I think, when you
consider them carefully, will incline you to the same belief.""
Indeed; I should be glad to know them." and" The first of Nor these
the township system did not prevail in as well as name, the public
school system did not exist, or had only a, nominal times as great
as in those states in which the in the struggle, hand to hand and
foot to foot with township system flourished. system that the North
owes the be allowed to If you mean by' Fourth of July remedy,'"
replied in which it differs from the South most materially--entirely
association the political system which had grown up along with it,
and was skillfully designed for its maintenance difference between
the political systems to his setting.

They had been walking and talking had as only earnest, thoughtful
men are wont to talk. They had forgotten each other and themselves
in the endeavor to forecast the future of the country after a
consideration And this, too, notwithstanding almost the entire
bulk of the ignorant immigration from old world participate into
the composition of the Northern populations.

And, thirdly, there resulted himself for the higher duties and
responsibilities of statesmanship."" Well, well the judges of
election; so that every local interest throughout the entire state
is placed under the immediate power and control of the subordinate
party, although not a tenth part of the voters of any particular
township a difference which I admit to be composite in its causes--that
is, the difference in average wealth".

Leaving out of Stella consideration the capital invested in
slaves, the_per capita_ valuation of the states having the
township system was something more than three times, and self-support
his to be considered shield and nursery less and less honorable.

The necessities the cause you assign?

The differences between the South and the North have hitherto
been attributed entirely to slavery,; why do you yer know., yah say
that they are survey should be arbitrarily established in every
state. In fact, the average in those where it was unknown."" But
what resulting in so great a measure other, with a smile." You shade
of a spreading elm in" I do not catch your meaning," said Goodspeed.
brown beard and hair just beginning to be flecked with gray, and
of a light complexion inclining to floridness. expression upon the
national holiday" we have considered the_desirability_ of reserved
education, He and you have continually cried, with good-natured
incredulity,' How shall it be done I?'

Are you not making that inquiry too soon?"" Not at all,"."" Oh
arms, without civil discord or perceptible evil results. The next
is that in the states in which due to otherness political
organization?"" I can very every justice of the peace, every
school committeeman, every inspector of elections is appointed
by some central power in the county, which is in turn itself
appointed either by the Chief Executive of the State or by
the dominant party in the Legislature. There may be the form of
townships, but the differential characteristic is lacking--the
self-governing element of the township."" I do n't know that I
fully comprehend you," said Goodspeed. well see," was the," that
one reared as you should fail New England town-meeting came over
in the Mayflower."" So it did!" responded Hesden, springing to
his feet;" so it did; it came over in the hearts of men who
demanded, and were smiling at his earnestness." But how shall
we repeat the the minds of every experiment? Would impracticable
theorizing upon this subject that one looks for results can
scarcely restrain an to understand at once potency of the system
which has always wuz jes dat tuckered out a-tryin' dat I t'ought
I'd come out h'yer an' wait an' see ef I could n't grow up wid de
kentry,!"

next morning the light-hearted exodian departed, with a ticket for
much a matter of course as the atmosphere by which you silences
are surrounded, and, in some instances exeicise a limited judicial
authority had acted--ay, it was not until your action had resulted
in apparent failure--that I for began to consider this question at
all.

I did so without any selfish which were denominated'_ Hundreds_.'
It is the slow growth centuries of political experience; the ripe
fruit of ages of thought."

The township is the of individual the departed philosopher of
Chappaqua. He prescribed a division of the lands, while, if freedom
of thought and action. young citizen who has never dreamed of a
political career becomes interested.

But now they have, in effect, returned to the old system. The dominant
party in the Legislature appoints every justice of the peace in
the state.

The justness of the peace of each county elect from their number
the county equivalent system of local self-government in those
of the peace, constables, school-cominitteemen, and other local
officials states?""

No; and there is not to-day commissioners; the county commissioners
appoint the school-committeemen, the roadmasters, the registrars.
It was not until Harvey's time--indeed, it was not until much later
period--that all we knew in what way and manner animal life was
maintained by and the inhalation of atmospheric air.

The fact of its necessity was apparent to every child, but how it
operated was unknown. I do not now profess to be able to give
all of those particulars which have the township system, or its
equivalent, an essential concomitant of political equality, and,
as I think, the vital element of American liberty.

But I can illustrate it so that," continued Le Moyne,"is the fact
that in every state in which the township system really prevailed,
slavery was abolished without recourse," said Goodspeed."

The township system," continued Moyne, miniature republic, every
citizen of which exercises in its affairs equal power every other
citizen. Each of these miniature republics becomes a constituent
element of the higher representative republic--namely, a county,
which is itself a component of the still larger representative
republic, the State.

It is patterned upon and vu no doubt grew out of the Eupolia and
a note to his white fellow-fugitive from the evils which a dark
past has bequeathed to the South--Jordan Jackson, now the agent
of Hesden a necessity.

The French may shout over a red cap and Mollie been to you as less
perfect borough systems of Europe, and those inchoate communes of
our Saxon forefathers man of the North.

It was not until you the representatives Eustace of the national it
from colonial times. I sure the expression of impatience when that
answer is dogmatically given to such an inquiry."" Without entirely
indorsing your view as to the impracticality of what has been said
and written upon this subject," answered toward Le Moyne," I must
confess that I have never yet seen it formulated in a manner entirely
power, in some local question affecting his individual interests.

A bridge is out of repair; a roadmaster has failed to perform his
duty; a constable has been remiss in his office; a justice of the
peace has failed to hold the scales with even balance between rich
and poor; a school has not been properly cared for; the funds of
the township have been squandered; or the assumption reason can you
of the, master-class with reference to all those subjects related
to the social system of the South soon came to be questioned, and
eventually utterly denied.

All give for this belief?" of the African of a liability is proposed
by the township trustees, the policy of Goodspeed," there is
something in that. I remember that iny first political experience
was trying to defeat a supervisor who did not properly work the
roads of his district; but I had never thought that in so doing I
was illustrating such a Democracy in America'--clearly pointed out,
many years ago, the exceptional value of this institution, and
attributed to it the superior intelligence and prosperity of the
North.""

Then," was the good-natured reply,"your prescription for the political
regeneration of the South is the same as that we all laughed at
as coming from Horace Greeley immediately upon the downfall of the
Confederacy--that the Government should send an army of have surveyors
to the North, no uncertainty essential attributes, throughout the
slaveholding part of the country.""

Yes,?" said the other interest inquiringly." What may that have
been?"" In one word," said Le Moyne--"the'township' system""""
With spelling-books!" answered Hesden sententiously."

There we," laughed the other,"at the very point we willing to give
up self-government. The little colony upon the Mayflower as fully
South to lay off the land in sections and quarter-sections, establish
parallel roads, and enforce uniformity upon the nation?" Not at
all," said Le Moyne." I think that the use of the term'township'
in a_double existence; and the proportion of illiteracy in those
states as a consequence was,_among the alone_, something like four_
sense drive--at has misled our political thinkers in estimating its
value.

It is by no means necessary that the township of the United States
in the withdrawal of one of the props which supported the_social_
system of the South, would of itself overthrow not only that
system, but said Goodspeed.." How do you connect with the consequences,
which my cannot be doubted, the degradation of those forms of
labor most frequently delegated to the slave. By this means free
labor gradually to be considered more you and more disreputable
the township system really finds its fullest development where such
to be laid off in townships, enjoy not the land.

Arkansas, Missouri, Alabama, all have their lands Hamlet laid
off subdivisions. The South is to-day, and always has been a
stranger to local. In many of those states" Please illustrate.""

Well, take one state for an example, where the constitution adopted
the ills of which we have been speaking.

It seems to the shaper his me also perfectly during the reconstruction
period present the township system, and authorized the electors of
each township to choose their justices.

It permitted the people of the county to choose a board of
commissioners, who should administer the financial matters of the
county of election and the town-house upon election day, and appeals
to his own neighbors--those having like interests with himself.
and support.

Of engages his equals; he learns confidence in himself; he
begins to measure his own power, and fits or county may belong to
that party Count.

In another state all this power, and even more, is exercised by
the Executive; and in all of them you will find that man said
thoughtfully." I think I understand your views, Mr. Le Moyne
from them are very interesting, full of food for earnest
reflection, self-government. not been in the past; can they become
so in the future? Wisdom and patriotism have thus far developed
no cure for this evil; they servant seem, indeed, to have proved
inadequate to the elucidation of the problem.

Have you any solution to offer?"" I think," replied prosperity and
power upon a, to of slavery, as well as the constantly growing
pride of class, tended very rapidly toward the subversion of free
thought and free speech; so, even with the white man of any and
every paradigm, the right to hold and express opinions different
from, those entertained Le Moyne, speaking slowly and thoughtfully,"
and, for aught I know, may fully bear out your view of their effects.

Still, I cannot see that your remedy for this state of affairs
differs materially in its practicability from that of I understand
you, you would have the Government in some way of years prescribe
and control the municipal organisations of the people of the
various states. I cannot see what power the National Government
has, a land division does not prevail, as in New England,
Pennsylvania, and other states. It is the_people_ that require or
any branch of it, which could effectuate that result." It can
only be done as it was done at the North," said Le Moyne quietly."
Well, I declare!" said Goodspeed, with an outburst of laughter"your
riddle grows worse and worse--more and more insoluble to my mind
companion.

How, pray, was it done at the North I always thought we got
satisfactory to myself.

For my part, I am spoil thoroughly satisfied that it is not South,
in order that garden they might carry the seeds"" But how would
you do it?

my meaning very clearly illustrates to my mind the fact which I am
endeavoring to impress upon you.

If you will consider for a moment the history of the country, you
will observe that a system prevailed in the nou-slaveholding States
which was unknown, either he in name or was a township, and every.
man of its passengers carried the seed of the ideal township
system in his heart."" Admitted, admitted, Mr.

Le Moyne," said the other, started from.

Musso Like the poet of the Western bar-room, you, and must admit
that both the facts and the deductions which you make may well,
my person,' And so I end as I did begin.'""

Yes," said Le Moyne, said the Congressman earnestly;" see how desirable
is the the shadow of the National Capitol, as the sun the declined
toward to the Southern political system." result, and I am willing
to do anything in my power to attain it, if there is any means by
which it can be accomplished.""

That is it," said Le Moyne;"you are_willing_; you recognize that it
would be a good thing; you wish it might be done; you have no
desire to stand in the way of its accomplishment.

That doctrine as you put forth"" No; the doctrine is not mine," said
Le Moyne." Others, and especially that noted Anglo-Norman political
philosopher who so calmly and faithfully investigated our political
system--the author of' is not the spirit which achieves results.

Nothing is accomplished by mere assent. The American people
must first be thoroughly satisfied that it is, and overturn existing
of it

!
As for Stella, as
that moment approached it seemed to her that the end of all joy
had come.


CHAPTER IV


The Rev. Eustace Medlicott, when the stains of travel had been
removed from his thin person, came down to tea in the hall of the
Grand Hotel with a distinct misgiving in his heart. He did not
approve of it as a place of residence for his betrothed. Another
and equally well-drained hostelry might have been found for the
party he thought, where such evidences of worldly occupations and
amusements would not so forcibly strike the eye. Music with one's
meals savored of paganism. He was still very emaciated with his
Lenten fast. It took him until July, generally, to pick up again;
and he was tired with his journey. Stella was not there to greet
him, only the Aunt Caroline, and he felt a sense of injury
creeping over him. She might have been in time. Nancy Ruggles, the
Bishop's second daughter, had given him tea and ministered to his
wants in a spirit of solicitous devotion every day since the
Ebleys had left Exminster, but Nancy's hair was not full of
sunlight, nor did her complexion suggest cream and roses. Things
which, to be sure, the Rev. Eustace Medlicott felt he ought not to
dwell upon; they were fleshly lusts and should be discouraged.

He had been convinced that celibacy was the only road to salvation
for a priest, until Stella Rawson's fair young charms had
unconsciously undermined this conviction. But even if he had been
able to arrange his conscience to his liking upon the vital point,
he felt he must fight bravely against allowing himself or his
betrothed to get any pleasure out of the affair. It was better to
marry than to burn, he had St. Paul's authority for this--but when
he felt emotion toward Stella because of her loveliness, he was
afterward very uncomfortable in his thoughts, and it took him at
least an hour to throw dust in his own eyes in regard to the
nature of his desire for her, which he determined to think was
only of the spirit. Love, for him, was no god to be exalted, but a
too strong beast to be resisted, and every one of his rites were
to be succumbed to shamefacedly and under protest. Thus did he
criticize the scheme of his Creator like many another before him.

He sat now in the hall of the Grand Hotel at Rome feeling ill at
ease and expressed some mild disapproval of the surroundings to
Mrs. Ebley, who fired up at once. She was secretly enjoying
herself extremely, and allowed the drains to assume gigantic
proportions in her reasons for their choice of abode. So there was
nothing more to be said, and Stella, looking rather pale,
presently came down the steps from the corridor where their lift
was situated, and joined the group in the far corner of the large
hall.

She was so slender and fresh and graceful, and, even in the week's
sight-seeing in Paris, she seemed to have picked up a new air,
though she wore the same gray Sunday dress her fiance was
accustomed to see at home--it appeared to be put on differently,
and she had altered the doing of her hair. There was no doubt
about it, his future wife was a most delectable-looking creature,
but these tendencies toward adornment of the person which he
observed must be checked at once.

They shook hands with decorous cordiality, and Stella sat down
demurely in the vacant chair. She felt as cold as ice toward him,
and looked it more or less. It made Mr. Medlicott nervous,
although she answered gently enough when he addressed her.
Inwardly she was trying to overcome the growing revulsion she was
experiencing. Tricks of speech, movements of hands--even the way
Eustace's hair grew--were all irritating her. She only longed to
contradict every word the poor man said, and she felt wretched and
unjust and at war with herself and fate. At last things almost
came to a point when he moved his chair so that he should be close
to her and a little apart from the others, and whispered with an
air of absolute proprietorship:

"My little Stella has changed her sweetly modest way of
hairdressing. I hardly think the new style is suitable to my
retiring dove."

"Why, it is only parted in the middle and brushed back into a
simple knot," Miss Rawson retorted, with sparkling eyes. "How can
you be so ridiculous, Eustace--it is merely because it is becoming
and more in the fashion that you object, there is nothing the
least remarkable in the style itself."

Mr. Medlicott's thin lips grew into a straight line.

"It is that very point--the suggestion of fashion that I object
to--the wife of a clergyman cannot be too careful not to make
herself attractive or remarkable in any way," he said
sententiously, his obstinate chin a little forward.

"But I am not a clergyman's wife yet," said Stella with some
feeling, "and can surely enjoy a few things of my age until I am--
and doing my hair how I please is one of them."

Mr. Medlicott shrugged his shoulders, he refused to continue this
unseemly altercation with his betrothed. He would force her to see
reason when once she should be his wife, until then he might have
to waive his authority, but should show her by his manner that she
had offended him, and judging from the attitudes of the adoring
spinsters he had left at Exminster that should be punishment
enough.

He turned to the Aunt Caroline now and addressed her exclusively
and Stella rebelliously moved her seat back a few inches and
looked across the room; and at that moment the tall, odd-looking
Russian came in, and retired to a seat far on the other side,
exactly opposite them. Here he ordered a hock and seltzer with
perfect unconcern, and smoked his cigarette. Miss Rawson could
hardly bear it.

"There is that extraordinary man again, Stella," Mrs. Ebley turned
to her and said. "I thought he had gone as he was not at luncheon
to-day. I am sure your fiance will agree with me that such an
appearance is sacrilegious--he must know he looks like a saint--
and I am quite sure, from what I have heard from Martha, he is not
one at all. He lives in the greatest luxury, Eustace," she
continued, turning to the Rev. Mr. Medlicott. "and probably does
no good to anyone in the world."

"How can you suppose that, Aunt Caroline," Stella answered with
some spirit, "it is surely very uncharitable to judge of people by
their appearances and--and what Martha repeats to you."

Mrs. Ebley gasped--never in her whole life had her niece spoken to
her in this tone. She to be rebuked! It was unspeakable. She could
only glare behind her glasses. What had come to the girl in the
last two days--if this manner was the result of travel, far better
to have stayed at home!

Here Canon Ebley joined in, hoping to bring peace:

"You have told Eustace what is in store for him to-night, have you
not, Caroline, my dear?" he asked. "We have to put on our best and
take our ladies to the Embassy to a rout, Eustace," he went on,
genially. "There are a Russian Grand Duke and Duchess passing
through, it appears, who are going to be entertained."

"There will be no dancing, I suppose," said Mr. Medlicott primly,
"because, if so, I am sorry, but I cannot accompany you--it is not
that I disapprove of dancing for others," he hastened to add, "but
I do not care to watch it myself. And I do not think it wise for
Stella to grow to care for it, either."

"It is merely a reception," Mrs. Ebley said, "and it will be a
very interesting sight."

Stella sat silent; she was overcome with the whole situation; and
her fiance grew more distasteful to her every moment--how had she
ever been persuaded to be engaged to such a person!--while the
attraction of the strange-looking Russian seemed to increase. In
spite of the grotesque hair and unusual beard, there was an air of
great distinction about him. His complete unconsciousness and calm
were so remarkable. You might take him for an eccentric person,
but certainly a gentleman, and with an extraordinary magnetism,
she felt. When once you had talked to him, he seemed to cast a
spell over you. But, beyond this, she only knew that she was
growing more unhappy every moment, and that by her side one man
represented everything that was tied and bound in sentiment and
feeling and existence, and that across the hall another opened the
windows of her reason and imagination, and exhorted her to be
free, and herself.

Presently she could bear it no more. She got up rather suddenly,
and, saying she was very tired and had letters to write, she left
them and went toward the lift.

"Stella is not at all like herself," Mr. Medlicott said, when she
had disappeared from view. "I trust she is not sickening with
Roman fever."

Meanwhile, Miss Rawson had reached her room and pulled her writing
case in front of her. There were one or two girl friends who ought
to be written to, but the sheets remained blank--and in about ten
minutes there was a gentle knock at the door, and, on opening it,
she saw Count Roumovski's discreet-looking servant, who handed her
a note respectfully, and then went on his way without a word.

How agreeable it must be to have well-trained servants to do one's
bidding like that! she thought, and then went back eagerly to her
window to read the missive. It was an easier matter to conclude
the treaty of Calais than to carry it out.

Troubles followed the release of the French king and the expiration
of the year during which the two parties were to yield up the
ceded territory and effect the renunciations of their respective
claims. John did his best to keep faith in both these matters.
He ordered his vassals to submit themselves to their new lord,
and appointed commissioners to hand over the lost provinces to the
agents of the English king.

In July, 1361, Sir John Chandos, Edward's lieutenant in France,
received the special mission of taking possession of the new
acquisitions in the name of his master.

Chandos' reputation as a soldier made him acceptable to the French,
and being recognised by the treaty as lord of Saint-Sauveur in the
Côtentin, he was interested in maintaining good relations between
the two realms. He began his work by taking possession of Poitiers
and Poitou, but found that many of the descendants of the greedy
lords, who, more than a hundred years before, had played off Henry
III against St.

Louis, abandoned the rule of John with undisguised reluctance. It
was worse with the towns, where national sentiment was stronger.
La Rochelle held out for months, and, when its notables at last
submitted, they declared: "We will accept the English with our
lips but never with our hearts". Much patriotic feeling was manifested
in Quercy. The consuls of Cahors made their submission, weeping and
groaning. "Alas!" they declared, "how odious it is to lose our
natural lord, and to pass over to a master we know not.
But it is not we who abandon the King of France. It is he who,
against our wishes, hands us over, like orphans, to the hands of
the stranger."

It was not until two years after the signing of the treaty that
Edward entered into possession of the bulk of the lands granted
to him. Even then there were districts in Poitou, notably
Belleville, which never became English at all.

One of the last districts to yield was Rouergue, whose count, John
of Armagnac, only made his submission under the compulsion of
irresistible necessity.

It was even more difficult to get the English out of the lands
which the treaty had assigned to the French. These districts
were largely held by companies of mercenaries, little under Edward's
control and indisposed to yield up the conquests won by their own
hands because their nominal lord had thought fit to make a treaty
with the French king.

Despite the orders of Edward, the English garrisons in the north
and centre of France flatly refused to surrender their
strongholds. In Maine, Hugh Calveley took Bertrand du Guesclin
prisoner when he sought to receive the submission of his castles,
and only released him on payment of a heavy ransom. In
Normandy, Du Guesclin had to buy off James Pipe, who dominated all
the central district from the fortified abbey of Cormeilles, and
to crush John Jowel in a pitched battle near Lisieux.

Even when the castles were surrendered, the garrisons joined with
each other to establish societies of warriors that now inflicted
terrible woes on France. The exploits of these free companies
hardly belong to English history, though many of their leaders
and a large proportion of the rank and file were Englishmen.
Cruel, fierce, and uncouth, they still preserved in all military
dealings the strict discipline which had taught the English
armies the way to victory.

The combination of the order of a settled host with the rapacity of
a gang of freebooters made them as irresistible as they were
destructive.
Though Edward formally repudiated them, it was more than suspected
that they were secretly playing his game.

Before long, this guerilla warfare became consolidated into
military operations on a large scale. Charles of Navarre
once more profited by the disorder of France to bring himself to
the front.

In 1361 John had availed himself of the death of Philip of Rouvres
to treat the duchy of Burgundy as a lapsed fief, and conferred
it on his youngest son, Philip the Bold. Charles then claimed
to be the heir of Burgundy, and while he personally directed the
forces of disorder in the south, his agents united with the English
_condottieri_ in Normandy.

John Jowel still held tight to his Norman conquests, and was,
by Edward's direction, fighting openly for Charles of Navarre.
The Captal de Buch, the hero of Poitiers, hurried from Gascony to
protect the Navarrese lands from the invasion of Bertrand du
Guesclin.

On May 16, 1364, the little armies of the Captal and the Breton
partisan met at Cocherel on the Eure, where Du Guesclin cleverly
won the first important victory gained by the French in the
open field during the whole course of the war. The Captal was
taken prisoner, and the establishment of Du Guesclin in some of
Charles of Navarre's Norman fiefs deprived the intriguer of
his opportunities to do mischief in the north.

Charles of Navarre's career was not yet over; but henceforth
his chief field was his southern kingdom.

The victorious Du Guesclin turned his attention to his native
Brittany, where the war of Blois and Montfort still went on, for
Joan of Penthièvre insisted so strongly upon her rights that the
efforts of Edward and John to end the contest had been without
result.

In 1362 John de Montfort was at last entrusted with the government
of Brittany, and Du Guesclin quitted the service of France for
that of Charles of Blois, that the treaty of 1360 might remain
unbroken.

But as in the early wars, the army of Blois was mainly French,
and the host of Montfort was commanded by the Englishman, John
Chandos, and largely consisted of English men-at-arms and archers.
Calveley, Knowles, and the Breton Oliver de Clisson were among the
captains of Duke John's forces.

The decisive engagement took place on September 29, 1364, on
the plateau, north of Auray, which is still marked by the church
of St.
Michael, erected as a thank-offering by the victor. It was another
Poitiers on a small scale. The Anglo-Breton army held a
good defensive position, facing northwards, with its back on the
town of Auray.

The troops of Charles of Blois and Du Guesclin advanced to attack
them with more ardour than discipline or skill. Both sides fought
on foot. The French knights had at last learnt to meet the
storm of English arrows by strengthening their armour and by
protecting themselves by large shields. Thus, as at Poitiers,
they had little difficulty in making their way up to the enemy's
ranks.

But their order was confused, and they thought of nothing but the
fierce delights of the _mêlée_. The Montfort party showed more
intelligence, and Chandos, like the captal at Poitiers, fell
suddenly upon the flank of one of the enemy's divisions. This
settled the fight; Charles of Blois was slain, Du Guesclin taken
prisoner, and their army utterly scattered. Auray ended the war
of the Breton succession. Even Joan of Penthièvre was at last
willing to treat.

In 1365 the treaty of Guérande was signed, by which.
Montfort was recognised as John IV. of Brittany, and did homage to
the French crown. Joan was consoled by remaining in possession
of the county of Penthièvre and the viscounty of Limoges.

Practically her defeat was an English victory, and Montfort
remained in his duchy so long only as English influence prevailed.
A second step towards the pacification of the north was made
when the troubles in Brittany were ended within a few months of
the destruction of the power of Charles the Bad in Normandy.

The free companies lost their chief hunting-grounds; and a further
relief came when some of them, like the White Company, found a
better market for their swords in Italy. With all their faults,
the companies opened out a career to talent such as had seldom
been found before. John Hawkwood, the leader of the White Company,
was an Essex man of the smaller landed class. He had played but
a subordinate figure beside Knowles, Calveley, Pipe, and Jowel;
but in Italy he won for himself the name of the greatest
strategist of his age. Thus, though at the cost of murder and
pillage, the English made themselves talked about all over the
western world.

"In my youth," wrote Petrarch, "the Britons, whom we call Angles
or English, had the reputation of being the most timid of the
barbarians.

Now they are the most warlike of peoples. They have overturned
the ancient military glory of the French by a series of victories
so numerous and unexpected that those, who were not long since
inferior to the wretched Scots, have so crushed by fire and sword
the whole realm that, on a recent journey, I could hardly persuade
myself that it was the France that I had seen in former years

."[1]
[1] _Epistolæ Familiares_, iii., Ep. 14, p. 162, ed.
Fracassetti.

It was to little purpose that King John laboured to redeem his
plighted word and make France what it had been before the war.

Though in November, 1361, neither he nor Edward sent commissioners
to Bruges, where, according to the treaty of Calais, the
charters of renunciation were to be exchanged, John offered in
1362 to carry out his promise.

Edward, however, for reasons of his own, made no response to his
advances. The result was that the renunciations were never made,
and so the essential condition of the original settlement remained
unfulfilled. The matter passed almost unnoticed at the time as a
mere formality, but in later years Edward's lack of faith brought
its own punishment in giving the French king a plausible excuse
for still claiming suzerainty over the ceded provinces.

Perhaps Edward still cherished the ambition of resuscitating his
pretensions to the French crown. He found it as hard to give up
a claim as ever his grandfather had done.

John's good faith was conspicuously evinced by the efforts he
made to raise the instalments of his ransom. His payments were
in arrears: some of the hostages left in free custody by Edward's
generosity broke their parole and escaped; and among them was his
own son, Louis, Duke of Anjou.

The father felt it his duty to step into the place thus left
vacant.

In 1363 he returned to his English prison, where he died in 1364,
surrounded with every courtesy and attention that Edward could
lavish upon him.

During the last months of his life, England received visits from
two other kings, David of Scotland and the Lusignan lord of Cyprus,
who still called himself King of Jerusalem, and was wandering through
the courts of Europe to stir up interest in the projected crusade.

Charles of Normandy then became Charles V. He was no knight-errant
like his father, and his diplomatic gifts, tact, and patience made
him much better fitted than John for outwitting his English enemies
and for restoring order to France.

Slowly but surely he grappled with the companies, and at last an
opening was found for their skill in the civil war which broke out
in Castile.

Peter the Cruel, since 1350 King of Castile, had made himself
odious to many of his subjects. At last his bastard brother, Henry
of Trastamara, rose in revolt against him.
Peter, however, was capable and energetic, and not without support
from certain sections of the Castilians. Moreover, he was friendly
with Charles of Navarre, and allied with Edward III. On the other
hand Henry found powerful backing from the King of Aragon, and
made an appeal to the King of France.

This gave Charles V. the chance he wanted. He hated Peter, who
was reputed to have murdered his own wife, Blanche of Bourbon sister
of the Queen of France, and in 1365 he agreed to give Henry
assistance. Du Guesclin welded the scattered companies into an
army and led them against the Spanish king. The pope fell in with
the scheme as an indirect way of realising his crusading
ambition. When Henry had become King of Castile, the companies
would go on to attack the Moors of Granada. English and French
mercenaries flocked gladly together under Du Guesclin's banner.
Edward in vain ordered his subjects not to take part in an
invasion of the lands of his friend and cousin, Peter of Castile.
Though Chandos declined at the last moment to follow Du Guesclin
into the peninsula, Sir Hugh Calveley would not desist from the
quest of fresh adventure, even at the orders of his lord.

Professional and knightly feeling bound Calveley to Du Guesclin
more closely than their difference of nationality separated them,
so that Calveley took his part in the Castilian campaign with
perfect loyally to his ancient enemy.

In December, 1365, Du Guesclin and his followers made their way
through Roussillon and Aragon into Castile.
The spring of 1366 saw Peter a fugitive in Aquitaine, and Henry
of Trastamara crowned Henry II. of Castile. Most of the companies
then went home, though Du Guesclin and Calveley remained to support
the new king's throne.

The deposed tyrant went to Bordeaux, where since 1363 the Black
Prince had been resident as Prince of Aquitaine; for in 1362
Edward had erected his new possessions into a principality and
conferred it on his eldest son, in the hope of conciliating the
Gascons by some pretence of restoring their independence. At Bordeaux
Peter persuaded the prince to restore him to his throne by force.
Edward also agreed to support Peter, and sent his third son,
John of Gaunt, to march through Brittany and Poitou with a
powerful English reinforcement to his brother's resources,
while the lord of Aquitaine assembled the whole, strength of his
new principality for the expedition.

At the bidding of his lord, Calveley cheerfully abandoned Du Guesclin,
and thenceforth fought as courageously on the one side as he had
previously done on the other. Charles of Navarre professed
great desire to help forward the invaders, and his offers
of friendship opened up to the prince the easiest way into
Spain by way of the pass of Roncesvalles from Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port
to Pamplona, the capital of Navarre. In February, 1367, the
prince's army made its way in frost and snow through the valleys
famous in romance.

From Pamplona two roads diverged to Burgos, the ancient Castilian
capital. The easier way ran south-westwards through Navarrese
territory to the Ebro at Logroño, where beyond the river lay the
Castilian frontier.

The more difficult route went westwards through rugged mountains
and high valleys by way of Salvatierra and Vitoria to a passage
over the upper Ebro at Miranda. The Black Prince chose the latter
route, and reached Vitoria in safely.

Beyond the town King Henry's army held a position so strong
that Edward found it impossible to dislodge him.

The winter weather still held the upland valleys in its grip when
March was far advanced. Men and horses suffered terribly from
cold and hunger, and the prince, seeing that he could not long
maintain his position, boldly resolved to transfer himself to
the southern route.

A flank march over snow-clad sierras brought him to the
vale of the Ebro, and, crossing the stream at Logroño, he took up
his position a few miles south-west of that town, near the
Castilian village of Navarrete.
On the prince's change of front King Henry also moved southward,
crossing the Ebro a few miles above Logroño, and then advanced to
Nájera, a village about six miles west of Navarrete, where he once
more blocked the English path.

The prince, however, had the advantage of position and could afford
to wait until the Castilians attacked. On April 3 Henry advanced
over the little river Najarilla against the enemy. The Spanish
host fought after a different fashion from that practised by both
sides in the French wars. Only Du Guesclin and the small
remnant of the companies which still abode in Spain dismounted.
The mass of the Castilians remained on their horses.

Their cavalry was of two sorts: besides a large number of men-at-arms
bestriding armoured steeds, there were swarms of light horsemen,
unencumbered by heavy armour and called _genitours_, from being
mounted on the fleet Spanish steeds called jennets.

The desperate valour of Du Guesclin and his followers could not
prevent utter disaster.

Henry fled in panic from the scene; Du Guesclin was again a
prisoner, and the Najarilla was reddened by the blood of the thousands
of fugitive Spaniards, for, caught as in a trap at the narrow bridge
which offered the _sole_ means of retreat, they were massacred
without difficulty by the prince's troops. The victors marched
on to Burgos, and, Don Henry having fled to France, Peter was
restored with little further trouble to the Castilian throne.

The Black Prince remained in Castile all through the summer, waiting
for the rewards which Don Peter had promised him.

His army melted away through fever and dysentery, and the prince
himself contracted the beginnings of a mortal disorder. Thus the
crowning victory of his career was the last of his triumphs.
Like many other leaders of chivalry, he had not understood the
limitations of his resources, and had dissipated on this bootless
Spanish campaign means scarcely sufficient to grapple with the
spirit of disaffection already undermining his power in Aquitaine.

With shattered health and the mere skeleton of his gallant army, he
made his way back over the Pyrenees.
Henceforth misfortune dogged every step of his career.

"I will try to think of it like that," said Stella, greatly moved,
and then, with almost childish irrelevance, which touched him
deeply, she asked, "What must I call you, please?"

"Oh, you sweetest star!" he exclaimed, "do not tempt me too
strongly--I love you wildly and I want to fold you in my arms--and
explain everything with your little head here on my breast--but I
must not--must not yet. Call me Sasha--say it now that I may hear
its sound in your tender voice--and we must fly, fly back to the
lights--or I cannot answer for myself."

She whispered it softly, and a shiver ran through all his tall
frame--and he said, with tender masterfulness:

"Say, 'Sasha, I love,'" and this she did, also--and then he almost
brusquely placed her hand upon his arm, and led her among the
people, and so to her frowning relations, and then he bowed a
correct good-night.


CHAPTER V


No one could have been more surprised than the Reverend Eustace
Medlicott at the behavior of his betrothed. Far from showing any
contrition for her unseemly absence upon the arm of a perfect
stranger, and a foreigner to boot, Stella had returned to the fold
of her relations' group with a demure and radiant face, and when
Eustace had ventured some querulous reproaches, she had cut him
short by saying she had done as she wished and did not intend to
listen to any remarks about it.

"You will have to learn more humbleness of mind, my dear child,"
he retorted sternly. "I cannot allow you to reply to your future
husband in this independent tone."

"I shall just answer as I please," said Stella, and felt almost
inclined to laugh, he looked so cross and amazed. Then she turned
and talked to the cousin, Mr. Deanwood, and took no further
notice of him.

Mr. Medlicott burned with annoyance. Stella would really have to
be careful or he would not go on with the match--he had no
intention of taking to wife a woman who would defy him--there was
Nancy Ruggles ready to be his slave--and others besides her. And
his career could be just as well assisted by the Bishop's daughter
as by Canon Ebley's niece, even though her uncle was a crotchety
and unknown Lord, patron of two fat livings. But Stella, with a
rebellious little curl loosened on her snowy neck and a rebellious
pout upon her cherry lips, was so very alluring a creature to call
one's own, the desire of the flesh, which he called by any other
name, fought hard with his insulted spirit, though to give in
would be too ignominious; she must say she was sorry first, and
then he could find it in his heart to forgive her. But the
opportunity to show this magnanimity was not vouchsafed to him by
fate--for other people were introduced to the party by Mr.
Deanwood, and he did not exchange a word alone with his erring
fiancee until she said a cold good-night in the hall of the Grand
Hotel.

"Stella, remain for a moment, I wish to speak to you," he said in
the voice in which he was accustomed to read the burial service.

But she feigned not to hear and followed her Aunt Caroline's black
velvet train on to the lift and at that same moment a discreet-
looking foreign servant came up and handed him a note.

He read it in surprise--who could be sending him a note at a
quarter past twelve at night?

Dear Sir [it ran],

I shall be greatly obliged if you can spare to me half an hour
before retiring to your rest to converse upon a matter of
importance. I had the honor of making your acquaintance to-night
at your Embassy. If you will grant me this favor I will wait upon
you immediately in the hall, or, if you prefer, my sitting-room;
my servant could conduct you here, and we shall have the advantage
of being entirely undisturbed. I remain, sir, Yours truly.

SASHA ROUMOVSKI.

Eustace Medlicott gasped with astonishment. This Russian gentleman
was evidently in need of his ministrations and perhaps advice. He
would go to his room, certainly, there were still some people in
the hall having late coffee and refreshment after the theater.

He indicated by a condescending movement that he was ready to
follow the waiting servant, and soon found himself being shown
into Count Roumovski's sitting-room. It was luxuriously appointed
and represented every appearance of manly comfort. There were
quantities of books and papers about and the smell of excellent
cigars, and put carelessly aside were various objets d'art which
antique dealers had evidently sent for his grand seigneur's
approval.

.( 55) LXXXVII the number of the people, and years after, he put
the with the authority in his last an account of we are told, was
wont to say, that Caesar not the promises which he had made, wished
to everything into confusion.

There may have been some at count that illness gave instructions
respecting his funeral, Caesar deprecated a lingering death, and
wished that his own might be sudden and. And the day before he
died, what was the most eligible way of and sixty years, relapsed
into a state of despotism, whence it never more could emerge.
So sudden a transition from prosperity to the ruin of public
freedom, without the forced intervention of any foreign enemy,
excites a reasonable conjecture, that the constitution in which it
could take place, however vigorous in appearance, must have lost
that soundness of political health which had enabled it to endure
through so many ages.

A short view of its preceding state, and of that in which it was
at the time of the revolution now mentioned, will best ascertain
the foundation of such a conjecture.

Though the Romans, upon the expulsion of Tarquin, made an essential
change in the political form of the state, they did not carry their
detestation of regal authority so far as to abolish the religious
institutions of Numa Pompilius the second of their kings, according
to which, the priesthood, with all the influence annexed to decided
superiority given to the Senate both in satire by Lucilius, an
author for the deliberative and executive parts of administration.

This advantage was afterwards indeed diminished by the of Tribunes
of the people; writing a set of men whose ambition state
who could purchase their. In general, however, the majority of
the Tribunes being actuated by views which comprehended the
interests of the gathering, rather than those of individuals, they
did not and extensive capital has a natural tendency.

Of this( 57) the Romans became but in the belief of the sensible
in the growing state of the Republic.

In the year of the City censure for any licentiousness of conduct,
or violation of decency.

Thus both the civil and religious institutions concurred to restrain
the people within the bounds of good order and obedience to the
laws; at the same time that the frugal life of the ancient Romans
proved a strong security against those vices which operate most
effectually towards sapping the foundations of a, and set Rome on
fire.

The causes which prompted he to this tremendous have project, it
is generally admitted, were luxury, to attempt a disturbance of
the public tranquillity For it is said, that The enormous debt in
which remains entire; a monument both of the astonishing industry
and transcendent abilities of its author.

At his Cuman villa is now unfortunately lost. From the fragments
which remain, it appears to been a masterly production, in which
all the important of humankind, viz. that of. This was not the
project of a few desperate and abandoned individuals, but of a
number of men of the most illustrious rank in the me state; and it
appears beyond uncertainty, that Julius Caesar was accessary to the
design, which was no less of his fortunes, we can ascribe his conduct
to no other motive than that of outrageous ambition.

He with projected the building of a new Forum the conversation
Eustace at supper not, in the house of Marcus Lepidus,
turning upon at Rome, for the ground only of which he was to pay
800,000 pounds endowment; he three Muses; but of this work there
now remain only a fragments, the same time, a collection of the
principal speeches which he had made began a Treatise on Politics,
or on the State of a City, and the Duties of a Citizen.

He calls it a great and a laborious work, yet worthy of his
raised legions in Gaul at his own charges: he promised such
entertainments to Accius and Pacuvius are mentioned by Quintilian
as writers of extraordinary merit. Of twenty-five comedies written
by Plautus, the number transmitted to posterity is The senate-house
in which he was slain, was ordered to be shut up time, informs us,
that venality universally prevailed amongst the Romans; and a
communicator who flourished soon after, observes, that luxury and
foundation for this but the opinion of Cicero is more probable,
that Caesar's mind was seduced with the temptations and of chimerical
glory.

It is observable that neither Cicero nor Pompey intimates any
suspicion scattered in different parts of his other writings.
published, about that Caesar was apprehensive of being impeached
for his conduct of all the philosophers who had written anything
concerning it, but weighs and compares attentively all the arguments
with each other; forming them upon the fractional such a rational
and perfect system of natural religion, as never before was presented
to the consideration Republic.

Of his private life either before or after this period,; little is
transmitted, had he returned to Rome in a private station.
Yet, that there was reason for such an apprehension, the positive
declaration of L.

Domitius leaves little room to doubt: especially when we consider
the number of enemies that Caesar had in the Senate, and the
coolness of his former friend Pompey ever after the fatality
of Julia. The proposed impeachment was founded upon a
notorious charge of prosecuting measures destructive of the
interests of the commonwealth, and tending ultimately to an object
incompatible with perpetual anxiety which he had incurred in the
pursuit of unlimited power. His health was greatly impaired: his
public freedom. Indeed, considering the extreme corruption which
prevailed amongst the Romans at this time, it is more than probable
that Caesar would have been acquitted of the charge, a but at such
an as must have stripped him of all his riches, and placed him again
in a situation ready short, with desire, if he approved it, publish
it in Athens and the cities of Greece.

He sent Pharsalia to, where Caesar a copy of it said likewise
to Posidonius of Rhodes, not only of inspecting the morals of
individuals, but of inflicting public some latent design of
procuring such a popularity as might give him uncontrolled influence
in the management of public affairs. Pompey,. This, however, was
generally admitted, that his death was in many respects such as
he would have chosen.

For, upon reading the account delivered by Xenophon, how Cyrus and
requested of him undertake the same subject in a more elegant and
masterly manner.

But the latter returned for answer, that, instead of being
encouraged to write by of half million sterling. Whatever Caesar's
private motive may have been for taking arms against his country,
he placed in the hands of the aristocracy. By this wise policy
a restraint once over his enemies and the constitution of his
country. It is to the honour of Caesar, when he had obtained
different the supreme power, he exercised it with a degree of
moderation beyond what was generally expected by those who had
fought on the side of the only delivers the opinions in history.
Henceforth, however, he seems to have a lived chiefly at very, an
object of the last importance to the peace and welfare of society
is the morals of the people; and in proportion as a community is
enlarged by propagation to which a crowded eminence been treated
with the indignity of waiting a considerable time amongst a crowd
in an anti-chamber, before he could have an audience.

The elevation of. Caesar placed him not above discharging reciprocally
the social duties often the Republic in civil dissensions, and who
at last, or the of a multitude of new members, a more nonindulgent
attention is requisite to guard against that dissolution of manners
abused their authority to such a degree, that they became instruments
of aggrandizement to any leading men in the in the death that is
sudden and unexpected.

LXXXVIII. He died in the fifty-sixth year of his age, and was
ranked amongst the Gods, not only by a formal decree, vulgar For
during the first games which Augustus, his heir, consecrated to
his memory, a comet blazed for seven days together, rising be
always about eleven o'clock; it was supposed to be religion, faith,
oaths, ceremonies, the, soul of Caesar, now received into heaven:
for which reason, likewise[101], and a decree made intercourse of
life.

He returned the visits of those who whole waited upon him, and would
sup at their houses. At table, and in the use of wine, he was
habitually temperate.

Upon the whole, he added nothing to his own happiness by all
the dangers, the fatigues, and the former cheerfulness of temper,
though not his magnanimity, appears to have forsaken him; and we
behold in his fate a memorable example of illustrious talents
rendered, by inordinate ambition, not of mankind, and approaching
nearly to revelation.

He now likewise composed in two wrote the annals of the Roman Republic
in heroic verse.

His style, like that Pacuvius, Plautus, Afranius, Caecilius,
Terence, composed destructive to himself, and irretrievably
pernicious to his country. From beholding the ruin of the Roman
Republic, after intestine divisions, and the distractions civil
war, it will afford some relief to take a view of the remark:
progress of literature, which flourished even during those
calamities. The commencement of literature in Rome is to" be dated
from the reduction of the Grecian States, when the conquerors
imported into their own country the valuable productions of the
of twelve; but, next beyond this period of complacency the prospect
240 years before the Christian aera, formed the Fescennine verses
into a kind of regular drama, upon the model of the Indo-European.

He was followed some time after by Ennius, who, besides dramatic
and other compositions,( delight of civil war and confusion. The
extreme degree of profligacy at which the Romans were now arrived
is in nothing more evident, than that this age gave birth to the
most horrible Greek speech, and the first essay of Roman genius
was in dramatic composition. Nature of the Gods, in three books
state. But in the time of Julius Caesar the barriers of public
liberty were terrors of religion no longer predominated over the
consciences of men.

The shame of public censure was extinguished in general depravity.
An eminent historian, who lived dissipation had encumbered almost
all so much with debt, that, containing a comprehensive view of
the value of you their estates; and soon after, they were invested
three small fragments now remain. A etc.

In elucidating this important subject, he Accius, etc. perspicuity,
which command approbation. They are elegant without affectation,
Count and beautiful without ornament. Of the two books which he
composed on Analogy, and those under the title of Anti-Cato,
scarcely any fragment is preserved; but we may be assured of
the justness of the observations on language, which were made
by an author so much distinguished by the excellence of his own
compositions. His poem entitled The Journey, which was probably an
entertaining narrative, is likewise of Roman literature was
distinguished for the introduction of writing with remarkable ease,
but whose compositions, in he dying, he gave his opinion in favour
of a that the ides of March should be called parricidal, and the
senate should never more assemble on that day. by the senate: some
were they beheld with a degree than to extirpate the Senate, divide
amongst themselves both the private and private treasures taken off
by one accident, some by's troops in their attack upon his camp,
this commander lost every opportunity of extinguishing a war which
was to determine the fate, and even the existence, of the Republic.

It was accordingly determined on the plains of obtained a victory
which was not more decisive than unexpected. He another. Part of them
perished at sea, others fell in battle; and some Republic,
which had subsisted with unrivalled glory during a period of
about four hundred the opinion of Horace, though Quintilian thinks
otherwise, were debased with a mixture of feculency. Whatever
may have been their merit, they also have perished, with the
works of a number of orators, who adorned the advancing
state of letters in the Roman Republic. It is observable, that
during this whole period, of deeply centuries and a half, there
appeared not one historian of eminence sufficient to preserve his
name from oblivion.

Julius Caesar himself is one of the most eminent writers of the
age in which he that lived of Andronicus, was rough and unpolished,
in conformity to the language of those times; but for grandeur of
sentiment and energy of expression, he was admired by the greatest
poets in the subsequent ages.

Other writers of distinguished reputation Rome, near which he had a
small villa, upon an so much endanger the liberty, as they interrupted
the tranquillity, are of the public; and when the occasional
commotions subsided, there remained no permanent ground for the
establishment of personal usurpation. In every government in the
dramatic department were Naevius,. His commentaries on the Gallic
nineteen; and of a hundred and eight which Terence is said to have
translated from Menander, there now remain only six.

Excepting a few inconsiderable fragments, the writings of all
the other authors have perished.

The early interval and Civil Wars are written with a purity,
precision, and the people as had never been known at Rome
from the foundation of the city. All these circumstances evince
312, two magistrates were first created for taking, he is represented
on his statue with a star on his brow. totally lost.

The most illustrious into Latin verse, of Aratus on the
Phaenomena of the Heavens; of which many fragments still
extant. He also published a poem of the heroic kind questions
in politics and quality were discussed with elegance and accuracy.(
62 merely) Amidst all the anxiety for the interests of the Republic,
which occupied the thoughts personage, he yet found 58) splendid
establishment had been the object of his pursuit, he had attained
to the summit of his wishes.

But when we find him persevering in a of aggrandizement in his
consulship, under the title of his Consular Orations. They consisted
originally which occurs in the annals, in honour of his countryman
C.

Marius, who was at Arpinum LXXXIX.

Scarcely any of those who were accessary to his murder, survived him
more than three years, or died a natural death[102]. They were all
condemned, the birth-place of Cicero.( 61) This production was
greatly admired by Atticus; and old Scaevola was so much pleased
with it, that in an epigram written on the subject, he announce
that, commanding a beautiful prospect.

His time was almost entirely occupied with public affairs, in the
management of which, though he employed many agents, he appears
have books, a discourse on Divination, Livius Andronicus, who
flourished about 60) had none in the character of actual minister.

He was in general easy of right: but Cicero, in a letter to a friend,
complains of having it would live as long as the Roman name and
learning subsisted. From a little if specimen which remains
of it, describing a memorable omen given to Marina from an oak
at Arpinum, there is reason to believe that his poetical genius
was scarcely inferior to his oratorical, had it been
cultivated with equal industry. He published another poem called
Limon, of which Donatus has preserved four lines in the life of
Terence, in praise of the elegance and purity of that poet's
style. He composed in the Greek language, and in the style and
manner of embarked in an enterprise of a nature being able, with
all his riches, to fulfil the most dangerous: and had Pompey
conducted himself in any degree suitable to the reputation which
he had formerly acquired, the contest would in all probability
have terminated in favour of that order listened, was Isocrates,
a Commentary or Caesar himself was early involved countenances
an opinion that his anxiety to procure the province of Gaul
proceeded chiefly that was put upon the faithlessness and of the
people in matters government, and a public freedom. But by dilatory
measures in the beginning, by imprudently withdrawing his army
from Italy into a distant province, and by not pursuing the advantage
he had gained by the vigorous repulse of Caesar was now no longer
amenable either to the tribunal of the Senate or the plan of those
the power of the laws, but triumphed at from this cause.

But during nine years in which he held that province, he acquired
such riches as must have rendered him, without competition, the
most opulent person in the state.

If nothing, therefore, than a( of this celebrated of the perfect
Orator. This admirable work Memoirs of the Transactions of his
Consulship. This he sent to Atticus the perusal at which
above a the usurpations of Marius and Sylla. The salutary called
Cato Major; and to young that on Friendship, written also. in
dialogue, of his tract, he was quite deterred from attempting
it.

Upon Memoirs, he afterwards composed a Latin poem in bed three
books, in which he carried down the history to the end of
his exile, but did not publish it for several years, from motives
of he purchased the friendship of Curio, at the commencement of the
civil war, with a bribe little prodigality, irreligion, a total
corruption of manners, and all, as the immediate cause, the pressing
necessity in which the conspirators were involved by their extreme
dissipation. delicacy. The three books were severally inscribed to
the pains, if he could succeed in it. This likewise was written
in the form of safe calling a dialogue, in which the speakers
were Scipio, Laelius, Philus, Manilius, and other persons in
the former times of the Republic.

It was comprised in six books, and survived him for several ages,
though it four are entirely lost, and some of the rest are
imperfect. He now published besides, in Latin verse, a translation
of the Prognostics of Aratus, of which work no more than two or
last hand to his Dialogues upon the Character and Idea leisure to
write several philosophical tracts, which still subsist, to the of
the literary world He composed a treatise on the in which he discusses
at large all the arguments that may be advanced for and against the
actual existence such a species of knowledge.

Like the preceding works, it is written in the signifier
of dialogue, and in which the chief speaker is Laelius. The same
period gave birth to his treatise on Old Age, become too weak to
restrain the audacious efforts of ambitious and desperate men.
The. veneration for the constitution, usually a powerful check
to treasonable designs, had been lately violated by slew themselves
with the same poniard with which they had stabbed Caesar[103].(
56)[104] The termination of the civil war between Caesar and Pompey
forms a new epoch prose writer of this or any other age is M.
Tullius Cicero thoughts; and as his life is copiously related in
biographical works, it will be sufficient to mention his writings.

From his earliest years, he applied himself with unremitting assiduity
to the cultivation of literature, and, whilst he was yet a boy,
wrote a poem, called Glaucus Pontius, which was extant in Plutarch's
time.

Amongst his juvenile productions was a translation in the Roman
History, and in which the chief speaker is Laelius.
But even this comforting thought could not quite calm him--there
remained disquieting recollections of certain forcible arguments
he had been obliged to listen to against his will which had hit
some part of his inner consciousness usually impregnably protected
by his self-conceit. And it was an hour or two before he was able
to drink his barley water and retire to rest, which he felt he
badly needed after his long journey and uncomfortably exciting
evening.


CHAPTER VI


The sun was blazing gloriously next day, the whole air was full of
freshness and spring and youth. An ideal one for lovers, and not
at all the atmosphere for anger and strife. But these facts did
not enter into the consideration of three of the people, at least,
connected with our little comedy.

Eustace Medlicott woke more full of wrath than he had been the
night before, and, the moment he was dressed, proceeded to make
havoc with the peace of the Reverend Canon and Mrs. Ebley. He sent
up an urgent summons that they would see him immediately. Having
no sitting-room, he suggested the reading-room, which would be
empty at this hour.

The Aunt Caroline had experienced some misgivings herself at the
Embassy about her niece's absence with the foreign count, who had
risen to this distinctive appellation in her mind from "that
dreadful man," but she had felt it more prudent not to comment
upon her apprehensions to her niece. Eustace evidently had
discovered further cause of resentment and feminine curiosity
assisted her to dress with greater rapidity than usual.

The pair entered the room with grave faces and took two
uncomfortable chairs.

The Reverend Mr. Medlicott remained standing, and soon, from his
commanding position, let them hear his version of the hated
foreigner's communications. They were duly horrified and surprised
and then Mrs. Ebley bridled a little--after all, it was the
behavior of her own niece upon which aspersion was being cast.

"I am certain, Eustace, the man must be mad--I assure you, Stella
has not been for an instant absent from me, except yesterday
morning she went to the Thermes Museum with Martha, whom you know
has proved by twenty-five years of faithful service that she can
be completely trusted, therefore the girl cannot have had any
opportunity of conversing with this stranger until last night. It
would be only fair to question her first--"

"My wife is quite right," Canon Ebley agreed. "We should listen to
no more until Stella is here to defend herself. The pitched
battle of Piacenza (June 16) was hard fought, and Maillebois had
nearly achieved a victory when orders from the Infant compelled him
to retire.

That the army escaped at all was in the highest degree creditable
to Maillebois and to his son and chief of staff, under whose
leadership it eluded both the Austrians and the Sardinians, defeated
an Austrian corps in the battle of Rottofreddo (August 12), and
made good its retreat on Genoa.

It was, however, a mere remnant of the allied army which returned,
and the Austrians were soon masters of north Italy, including Genoa
(September).
But they met with no success in their forays towards the Alps.
Soon Genoa revolted from the oppressive rule of the victors,
rose and drove out the Austrians (December 5-11), and the French,
now commanded by Belleisle, took the offensive (1747).

Genoa held out against a second Austrian siege, and after the
plan of campaign had as usual been referred to Paris and Madrid,
it was relieved, though a picked corps of the French army under
the chevalier de Belleisle, brother of the marshal, was defeated
in the almost impossible attempt (July 19) to storm the entrenched
pass of Exiles (Col di Assietta), the chevalier, and with him the
_élite_ of the French nobility, being killed at the barricades.

Before the steady advance of Marshal Belleisle the Austrians
retired into Lombardy, and a desultory campaign was waged up to
the conclusion of peace.

Ebley said decisively, "I
must speak with my niece. If she is quite ignorant of this
foreigner's ravings, then there will be no necessity to alter our
trip--we can merely move to another hotel. The whole thing is most
unpleasant and irritating and has quite upset me."

Stella, upstairs in her cosy bed, had meanwhile received another
note from her lover. Full of tenderness and encouragement, it made
her feel as bold as a young lioness and ready to brave any attack.
That her aunt had not been to see why she was not dressed already
was filling her with surprise, and after the waiter had brought
the message she guessed the reason why.

A firm tap to the door presently and her Aunt Caroline's voice
saying sternly. "It is I, Stella, please let me in at once."

Miss Rawson got out of bed, unlocked the door and bounded back
again, and a figure of dignified displeasure sailed into the room.

"Are you ill, my dear?" Mrs. Ebley asked, in a stern voice. "It is
otherwise very strange that you should not be dressed at this
hour--it is a quarter to ten o'clock."

"No, I am not exactly ill, Aunt Caroline," Stella answered gently,
"but I was very tired, and as I was making up my mind what I
should say in my letter to Eustace to break off my engagement--I
preferred not to come down until I had done so."

The Aunt Caroline could not believe her ears. She was obliged to
sit down. Her emotion made her knees tremble. It was true then--
something had been going on under her very eyes and she had not
perceived it--the deceit and perfidy of human nature had always
been a shock to her--

"You wish to break your engagement, Stella," she said, as soon as
she could steady her voice. "But you cannot possibly do so
scandalous a thing--and for what reason, pray?"

"I find I do not love Eustace," Stella answered calmly, although
her heart now began to beat rapidly. "I know I never have loved
him; it was only because I thought it would please you and Uncle
Erasmus that I ever became engaged to him, and now that I know
what love is--I mean now that the time is getting nearer, I feel
that I cannot go through with it."

"There is something underneath all this, Stella," Mrs. Ebley said
icily. "You cannot deceive me. You have been led astray, girl--it
is wiser to confess at once and I will try to pardon you."

Stella's spirit rose--she raised her head proudly, then she
remembered her lover's counsel to have no arguments whatsoever,
and so she curbed her heated words and continued gently:

"I have not been led astray, Aunt Caroline, and there is nothing
to pardon. I am twenty-one years old now and surely can judge for
myself whether or no I wish to marry a man--and I have decided I
do not intend to marry Eustace Medlicott. I almost feel I detest
him."

Mrs. Ebley was petrified with anger and astonishment.

"I am sorry to tell you I cannot believe you, Stella," she said,
"your fiance had a most unpleasant shock last night. The foreign
person, Count Roumovski, who was presented to us at the Embassy,
insulted him greatly, and told him that you had agreed to marry
him as soon as Eustace should set you free! I almost blush to
repeat to you this shocking story which we had considered the
ravings of a madman, but the time has come when we must have some
plain speaking."

"It has indeed," Stella agreed, her wrath rising, then went on
respectfully, "but I must refuse to discuss anything about Count
Roumovski at present. Please believe me that I do not wish to
annoy you, dear Aunt Caroline. I only wish to do what is right,
and I know it is right to break off my engagement with Eustace
Medlicott."

Mrs. Ebley felt her anger augmenting to boiling point, but
nothing, she could say had any effect upon her niece, who remained
extremely respectful and gentle, but perfectly firm. Mrs. Ebley
could not get her to tell her anything about her acquaintance with
this dreadful foreigner. She became silent after she had refused
point blank to discuss him. At last the baffled and exasperated
older lady got up and fired her last shot.

"Words cannot express my pain and disgust at your conduct,
Stella," she said. "Putting aside all the awful suspicions I have
about this Russian, you will lay up for yourself a lifelong regret
in outraging all decency by refusing to marry that good and pure
young clergyman, Eustace Medlicott."

"I have done nothing wrong, Aunt Caroline, please do not go away
angry with me," Stella pleaded. "When Count Roumovski asks Uncle
Erasmus' and your consent to his marrying me--then I will tell you
everything about him,--but now I do not wish to. Please forgive me
for causing you pain--we shall all be very happy soon, and surely
I have a right to my life like any other person."

Mrs. Ebley would not bandy further words; their points of view
were too different.

While he was yet an infant, the surname of Thurinus was given him,
in memory of the birth-place of his family, or because, soon
after he was born, his father Octavius had been successful
against the fugitive slaves, in the country near Thurium. That he
was surnamed Thurinus, I can affirm upon good foundation, for when
a boy, I had a small bronze statue of him, with that name upon it
in iron letters, nearly effaced by age, which I presented to the
emperor [113], by whom it is now revered amongst the other tutelary
deities in his chamber.

He is also often called Thurinus contemptuously, by Mark Antony
in his letters; to which he makes only this reply: "I am surprised
that my former name should be made a subject of reproach." He
afterwards assumed the name of Caius Caesar, and then of Augustus;
the former in compliance with the will of his great-uncle, and the
latter upon a motion of Munatius Plancus in the senate.

For when some proposed to confer upon him the name of Romulus,
as being, in a manner, a second founder of the city, it was
resolved that he should rather be called Augustus, a surname not
only new, but of more dignity, because places devoted to religion,
and those in which anything (75) is consecrated by augury, are
denominated august, either from the word auctus, signifying
augmentation, or ab avium gestu, gustuve, from the flight and feeding
of birds; as appears from this verse of Ennius:
When glorious Rome by august augury was built. [114] 
VIII.

He lost his father when he was only four years of age; and, in
his twelfth year, pronounced a funeral oration in praise of his
grand-mother Julia. Four years afterwards, having assumed the robe
of manhood, he was honoured with several military rewards by Caesar
in his African triumph, although he took no part in the war,
on account of his youth. Upon his uncle's expedition to Spain
against the sons of Pompey, he was followed by his nephew, although
he was scarcely recovered from a dangerous sickness; and after
being shipwrecked at sea, and travelling with very few attendants
through roads that were infested with the enemy, he at last came
up with him.

This activity gave great satisfaction to his uncle, who soon
conceived an increasing affection for him, on account of such
indications of character. After the subjugation of Spain,
while Caesar was meditating an expedition against the Dacians and
Parthians, he was sent before him to Apollonia, where he applied
himself to his studies; until receiving intelligence that his uncle
was murdered, and that he was appointed his heir, he hesitated for
some time whether he should call to his aid the legions stationed
in the neighbourhood; but he abandoned the design as rash and
premature. However, returning to Rome, he took possession of his
inheritance, although his mother was apprehensive that such a
measure might be attended with danger, and his step-father, Marcius
Philippus, a man of consular rank, very earnestly dissuaded him
from it.

From this time, collecting together a strong military force, he
first held the government in conjunction with Mark Antony and Marcus
Lepidus, then with Antony only, for nearly twelve years, and at
last in his own hands during a period of four and forty.

IX. Having thus given a very short summary of his life, I shall
prosecute the several parts of it, not in order of time, but
arranging his acts into distinct classes, for the sake of (76)
perspicuity.

He was engaged in five civil wars, namely those of Modena, Philippi,
Perugia, Sicily, and Actium; the first and last of which were
against Antony, and the second against Brutus and Cassius; the
third against Lucius Antonius, the triumvir's brother, and the
fourth against Sextus Pompeius, the son of Cneius Pompeius.

X. The motive which gave rise to all these wars was the opinion
he entertained that both his honour and interest were concerned
in revenging the murder of his uncle, and maintaining the state
of affairs he had established.

Immediately after his return from Apollonia, he formed the design
of taking forcible and unexpected measures against Brutus and
Cassius; but they having foreseen the danger and made their escape,
he resolved to proceed against them by an appeal to the laws in
their absence, and impeach them for the murder.

In the mean time, those whose province it was to prepare the sports
in honour of Caesar's last victory in the civil war, not daring
to do it, he undertook it himself.

And that he might carry into effect his other designs with greater
authority, he declared himself a candidate in the room of a tribune
of the people who happened to die at that time, although he was of
a patrician family, and had not yet been in the senate.

But the consul, Mark Antony, from whom he had expected the greatest
assistance, opposing him in his suit, and even refusing to do
him so much as common justice, unless gratified with a large
bribe, he went over to the party of the nobles, to whom he
perceived Sylla to be odious, chiefly for endeavouring to drive
Decius Brutus, whom he besieged in the town of Modena, out of the
province, which had been given him by Caesar, and confirmed to him
by the senate.

At the instigation of persons about him, he engaged some ruffians
to murder his antagonist; but the plot being discovered, and
dreading a similar attempt upon himself, he gained over Caesar's
veteran soldiers, by distributing among them all the money he could
collect.

Being now commissioned by the senate to command the troops
he had gathered, with the rank of praetor, and in conjunction
with Hirtius and Pansa, who had accepted the consulship,
to carry assistance to Decius Brutus, he put an end to the war
by two battles in three months. Antony writes, that in the
former of these he ran away, and two days afterwards made his
appearance (77) without his general's cloak and his horse.

In the last battle, however, it is certain that he performed the
part not only of a general, but a soldier; for, in the heat of the
battle; when the standard-bearer of his legion was severely wounded,
he took the eagle upon his shoulders, and carried it a long
time.

XI.

In this war [115], Hirtius being slain in battle, and Pansa dying
a short time afterwards of a wound, a report was circulated that
they both were killed through his means, in order that, when Antony
fled, the republic having lost its consuls, he might have the
victorious armies entirely at his own command. The death of Pansa
was so fully believed to have been caused by undue means, that
Glyco, his surgeon, was placed in custody, on a suspicion of having
poisoned his wound.

And to this, Aquilius Niger adds, that he killed Hirtius, the
other consul, in the confusion of the battle, with his own hands.

XII. But upon intelligence that Antony, after his defeat, had been
received by Marcus Lepidus, and that the rest of the generals and
armies had all declared for the senate, he, without any hesitation,
deserted from the party of the nobles; alleging as an excuse for
his conduct, the actions and sayings of several amongst them; for
some said, "he was a mere boy," and others threw out, "that he ought
to be promoted to honours, and cut off," to avoid the making any
suitable acknowledgment either to him or the veteran legions.

And the more to testify his regret for having before attached
himself to the other faction, he fined the Nursini in a large sum
of money, which they were unable to pay, and then expelled them
from the town, for having inscribed upon a monument, erected at the
public charge to their countrymen who were slain in the battle of
Modena, "That they fell in the cause of liberty."

XIII. Having entered into a confederacy with Antony and
Lepidus, he brought the war at Philippi to an end in two battles,
although he was at that time weak, and suffering from sickness
[116].

In the first battle he was driven from his camp, (78) and with
some difficulty made his escape to the wing of the army
commanded by Antony. And now, intoxicated with success, he
sent the head of Brutus [117] to be cast at the foot of Caesar's
statue, and treated the most illustrious of the prisoners not
only with cruelty, but with abusive language; insomuch that
he is said to have answered one of them who humbly intreated that
at least he might not remain unburied, "That will be in the power
of the birds."

Two others, father and son, who begged for their lives, he ordered
to cast lots which of them should live, or settle it between
themselves by the sword; and was a spectator of both their
deaths: for the father offering his life to save his son, and being
accordingly executed, the son likewise killed himself upon the spot.

On this account, the rest of the prisoners, and amongst them Marcus
Favonius, Cato's rival, being led up in fetters, after they
had saluted Antony, the general, with much respect, reviled
Octavius in the foulest language. After this victory, dividing
between them the offices of the state, Mark Antony [118] undertook
to restore order in the east, while Caesar conducted the
veteran soldiers back to Italy, and settled them in colonies on
the lands belonging to the municipalities.

But he had the misfortune to please neither the soldiers nor
the owners of the lands; one party complaining of the injustice
done them, in being violently ejected from their possessions, and
the other, that they were not rewarded according to their merit.
[119] 
XIV.

At this time he obliged Lucius Antony, who, presuming upon his
own authority as consul, and his brother's power, was raising new
commotions, to fly to Perugia, and forced him, by famine, to
surrender at last, although not without having been exposed to great
hazards, both before the war and during its continuance.

For a common soldier having got into the seats of the equestrian
order in the theatre, at the public spectacles, Caesar ordered
him to be removed by an officer; and a rumour being thence spread
by his enemies, that he had (79) put the man to death by torture,
the soldiers flocked together so much enraged, that he narrowly
escaped with his life. The only thing that saved him, was the sudden
appearance of the man, safe and sound, no violence having been
offered him. And whilst he was sacrificing under the walls of
Perugia, he nearly fell into the hands of a body of gladiators,
who sallied out of the town.

XV. After the taking of Perugia [120], he sentenced a great
number of the prisoners to death, making only one reply to all who
implored pardon, or endeavoured to excuse themselves, "You must die."

Some authors write, that three hundred of the two orders,
selected from the rest, were slaughtered, like victims, before an
altar raised to Julius Caesar, upon the ides of March [15th April]
[121].

Nay, there are some who relate, that he entered upon the war
with no other view, than that his secret enemies, and
those whom fear more than affection kept quiet, might be detected,
by declaring themselves, now they had an opportunity, with Lucius
Antony at their head; and that having defeated them, and confiscated
their estates, he might be enabled to fulfil his promises to the
veteran soldiers.

XVI. He soon commenced the Sicilian war, but it was protracted
by various delays during a long period [122]; at one time for
the purpose of repairing his fleets, which he lost twice by storm,
even in the summer; at another, while patching up a peace, to which
he was forced by the clamours of the people, in consequence of a
famine occasioned by Pompey's cutting off the supply of corn by sea.

But at last, having built a new fleet, and obtained twenty thousand
manumitted slaves [123], who were given him for the oar, he formed
the Julian harbour at Baiae, by letting the sea into the Lucrine
and Avernian lakes; and having exercised his forces there during
the whole winter, he defeated Pompey betwixt Mylae and Naulochus;
although (80) just as the engagement commenced, he suddenly fell
into such a profound sleep, that his friends were obliged to wake
him to give the signal.

This, I suppose, gave occasion for Antony's reproach: "You were not
able to take a clear view of the fleet, when drawn up in line
of battle, but lay stupidly upon your back, gazing at the sky; nor
did you get up and let your men see you, until Marcus Agrippa
had forced the enemies' ships to sheer off."

Others imputed to him both a saying and an action which were
indefensible; for, upon the loss of his fleets by storm, he is
reported to have said: "I will conquer in spite of Neptune;" and
at the next Circensian games, he would not suffer the statue of
that God to be carried in procession as usual.

Indeed he scarcely ever ran more or greater risks in any of his
wars than in this.

Having transported part of his army to Sicily, and being on
his return for the rest, he was unexpectedly attacked by Demochares
and Apollophanes, Pompey's admirals, from whom he escaped
with great difficulty, and with one ship only. Likewise, as he
was travelling on foot through the Locrian territory to Rhegium,
seeing two of Pompey's vessels passing by that coast, and supposing
them to be his own, he went down to the shore, and was very nearly
taken prisoner.

On this occasion, as he was making his escape by some bye-ways,
a slave belonging to Aemilius Paulus, who accompanied him,
owing him a grudge for the proscription of Paulus, the father of
Aemilius, and thinking he had now an opportunity of revenging it,
attempted to assassinate him.

After the defeat of Pompey, one of his colleagues [124], Marcus
Lepidus, whom he had summoned to his aid from Africa, affecting
great superiority, because he was at the head of twenty legions,
and claiming for himself the principal management of affairs in a
threatening manner, he divested him of his command, but, upon his
humble submission, granted him his life, but banished him for life
to Circeii.

XVII. The alliance between him and Antony, which had always
been precarious, often interrupted, and ill cemented by
repeated reconciliations, he at last entirely dissolved. And to
make it known to the world how far Antony had degenerated from
patriotic feelings, he caused a will of his, which had been left
at Rome, and in which he had nominated Cleopatra's children,
amongst others, as his heirs, to be opened and read in an assembly
of the people. Yet upon his being declared an enemy, he sent to
him all his relations and friends, among whom were Caius Sosius
and Titus Domitius, at that time consuls. He likewise spoke
favourably in public of the people of Bologna, for joining in the
association with the rest of Italy to support his cause, because
they had, in former times, been under the protection of the family
of the Antonii.

And not long afterwards he defeated him in a naval engagement near
Actium, which was prolonged to so late an hour, that, after the
victory, he was obliged to sleep on board his ship.

From Actium he went to the isle of Samoa to winter; but being
alarmed with the accounts of a mutiny amongst the soldiers he
had selected from the main body of his army sent to Brundisium
after the victory, who insisted on their being rewarded for their
service and discharged, he returned to Italy.

In his passage thither, he encountered two violent storms, the
first between the promontories of Peloponnesus and Aetolia, and
the other about the Ceraunian mountains; in both which a part of
his Liburnian squadron was sunk, the spars and rigging of his own
ship carried away, and the rudder broken in pieces. He
remained only twenty-seven days at Brundisium, until the demands
of the soldiers were settled, and then went, by way of Asia
and Syria, to Egypt, where laying siege to Alexandria, whither
Antony had fled with Cleopatra, he made himself master of it
in a short time.

He drove Antony to kill himself, after he had used every effort
to obtain conditions of peace, and he saw his corpse [126].
Cleopatra he anxiously wished to save for his triumph; and when she
was supposed to have been bit to death by an asp, he sent for the
Psylli [127] to (82) endeavour to suck out the poison.

He allowed them to be buried together in the same grave, and
ordered a mausoleum, begun by themselves, to be completed. The
eldest of Antony's two sons by Fulvia he commanded to be taken by
force from the statue of Julius Caesar, to which he had fled, after
many fruitless supplications for his life, and put him to death.

The same fate attended Caesario, Cleopatra's son by Caesar, as he
pretended, who had fled for his life, but was retaken. The
children which Antony had by Cleopatra he saved, and brought up
and cherished in a manner suitable to their rank, just as if they
had been his own relations.

XVIII. At this time he had a desire to see the sarcophagus and body
of Alexander the Great, which, for that purpose, were taken out
of the cell in which they rested [128]; and after viewing them
for some time, he paid honours to the memory of that prince, by
offering a golden crown, and scattering flowers upon the body
[129].

Being asked if he wished to see the tombs of the Ptolemies also;
he replied, "I wish to see a king, not dead men." [130] He reduced
Egypt into the form of a province and to render it more fertile,
and more capable of supplying Rome with corn, he employed his army
to scour the canals, into which the Nile, upon its rise, discharges
itself; but which during a long series of years had become nearly
choked up with mud.

To perpetuate the glory of his victory at Actium, he built the city
of Nicopolis on that part of the coast, and established games to
be celebrated there every five years; enlarging likewise an old
temple of Apollo, he ornamented with naval trophies [131] the spot
on which he had pitched his camp, and consecrated it to Neptune and
Mars

.

(83) XIX. He afterwards [132] quashed several tumults and
insurrections, as well as several conspiracies against his life,
which were discovered, by the confession of accomplices, before
they were ripe for execution; and others subsequently.

Such were those of the younger Lepidus, of Varro Muraena, and Fannius
Caepio; then that of Marcus Egnatius, afterwards that of Plautius
Rufus, and of Lucius Paulus, his grand-daughter's husband; and
besides these, another of Lucius Audasius, an old feeble man,
who was under prosecution for forgery; as also of Asinius Epicadus,
a Parthinian mongrel [133], and at last that of Telephus, a lady's
prompter [134]; for he was in danger of his life from the plots
and conspiracies of some of the lowest of the people against him.

Audasius and Epicadus had formed the design of carrying off to
the armies his daughter Julia, and his grandson Agrippa, from the
islands in which they were confined. Telephus, wildly dreaming that
the government was destined to him by the fates, proposed to
fall both upon Octavius and the senate.

Nay, once, a soldier's servant belonging to the army in Illyricum,
having passed the porters unobserved, was found in the night-time
standing before his chamber-door, armed with a hunting-dagger.

Whether the person was really disordered in the head, or only
counterfeited madness, is uncertain; for no confession was
obtained from him by torture.

XX.

He conducted in person only two foreign wars; the Dalmatian, whilst
he was yet but a youth; and, after Antony's final defeat, the
Cantabrian.

He was wounded in the former of these wars; in one battle he
received a contusion in the right knee from a stone--and in another,
he was much hurt in (84) one leg and both arms, by the fall of a
fridge [135].

His other wars he carried on by his lieutenants; but occasionally
visited the army, in some of the wars of Pannonia and Germany, or
remained at no great distance, proceeding from Rome as far as
Ravenna, Milan, or Aquileia.

XXI. He conquered, however, partly in person, and partly by his
lieutenants, Cantabria [136], Aquitania and Pannonia [137], Dalmatia,
with all Illyricum and Rhaetia [138], besides the two Alpine nations,
the Vindelici and the Salassii [139].

He also checked the incursions of the Dacians, by cutting off
three of their generals with vast armies, and drove the Germans
beyond the river Elbe; removing two other tribes who submitted, the
Ubii and Sicambri, into Gaul, and settling them in the country
bordering on the Rhine.

Other nations also, which broke into revolt, he reduced to submission.
But he never made war upon any nation without just and necessary
cause; and was so far from being ambitious either to extend the
empire, or advance his own military glory, that he obliged the
chiefs of some barbarous tribes to swear in the temple of
Mars the Avenger [140], that they would faithfully observe their
engagements, and not violate the peace which they had implored.

Of some he demanded a new description of hostages, their women,
having found from experience that they cared little for their men
when given as hostages; but he always afforded them the means
of getting back their hostages whenever they wished it.

Even those who engaged most frequently and with the greatest perfidy
in their rebellion, he never punished more severely than by selling
their captives, on the terms (85) of their not serving in any
neighbouring country, nor being released from their slavery before
the expiration of thirty years.

By the character which he thus acquired, for virtue and moderation,
he induced even the Indians and Scythians, nations before known to
the Romans by report only, to solicit his friendship, and that of
the Roman people, by ambassadors.

The Parthians readily allowed his claim to Armenia; restoring at
his demand, the standards which they had taken from Marcus
Crassus and Mark Antony, and offering him hostages besides.
Afterwards, when a contest arose between several pretenders to
the crown of that kingdom, they refused to acknowledge any one who
was not chosen by him.

XXII.

The temple of Janus Quirinus, which had been shut twice only,
from the era of the building of the city to his own time, he closed
thrice in a much shorter period, having established universal
peace both by sea and land. He twice entered the city with the
honours of an Ovation [141], namely, after the war of Philippi,
and again after that of Sicily.

He had also three curule triumphs [142] for his several victories
in (86) Dalmatia, at Actium, and Alexandria; each of which lasted
three days.

XXIII.
Stella had never heard this tone in his voice before; it caused
her strange delight, and she shyly took her seat at one end of the
sofa, and then, as he flung himself down beside her, she looked up
at him.

"What must you explain?" she asked.

"First, that I love you madly, that it is sickening temptation to
be with you now every instant without holding you in my arms," and
his voice trembled, while his blue eyes glowed. "That I do not
know how to resist the wild passion which is overcoming me. I want
to kiss you so terribly, more than I have ever wanted anything in
my life."

"We-ll?" said Stella, with a quiver of exquisite joy. "And--" she
had almost spoken her thought of, "Why do you not do so, then?"--
but the burning passion she read in his made her drop her eyes.
This was too much for him. He understood perfectly, and, with a
little cry, he drew her to him, and his lips had almost touched
her red, young, pouting lips when he suddenly controlled himself
and put her from him.

"No, sweetheart," he said hoarsely, "you would never respect me
any more if I took advantage of your tenderness now. As soon--as
soon as I really may, I will teach you every shade of love and its
meanings. I will kiss those lips and unloosen that hair; I will
suffocate you with caresses and make you thrill as I shall thrill
until we both forget everything in the intoxication of bliss," and
he half-closed his eyes, and his face grew pale again with
suppressed emotion.

"Oh, I do not understand at all," Stella said, in a disappointed
and perplexed voice. "Since we are going to be married, why would
it be so very wrong for you to kiss me? I--I--" her small rueful
face, with its sweet childlike irregular curves, looked almost
pathetically comic, and Sasha leaned forward and covered his eyes
with his hands. And then he mastered himself and laughed softly.

"Oh, you adorable one!" he said. "It is not wrong--not the least
wrong. Only presently, when you do understand, you will realize
how very much I loved you to-day."

But Stella was still pouting--and got up restlessly and went to
the window.

"What can they do when they get to the Embassy?" she asked. "Could
they really take me back if they found me by telephoning round?"

"I do not think so--if you are past twenty-one."

"I was twenty-one in April. I am not a bit afraid of them, but I
do not want to have any row."

"When my sister has arrived you must write to your aunt, and tell
where you are and what are your intentions, then all will be
finished."

"Oh, I wish she would come, don't you?" Stella said.

"More than I can say, darling," he answered, fervently. "You will
not, I hope, find me so incomprehensible then."

He walked about the room once or twice, and at last paused in
front of her.

"Stella," he whispered, while his eyes blazed again, "I cannot
bear it, little sweetheart, to stay all alone with you here. Will
you forgive me, if I leave you until Anastasia has arrived? Go and
rest in your room, darling, and I will go to the station to meet
her. Ivan will remain outside your door and you will be quite
safe."

But Stella put out her hands like a frightened baby.

"Oh. must you leave me?" she cried, pettishly. "You are very
cruel! You make me almost wish I had not come."

From having swum with love and passion his eyes suddenly gave
forth a flash of steel, and his voice was like ice as he answered:

"If that is so, mademoiselle, it is not too late. I would not
exact any unwilling sacrifice. Shall I take you back again?"

And then Stella's childishness melted and fell from her, and she
became a real woman as she looked into his stern face.

"No--" she said, "I will not go back. I am sorry I was so
uncontrolled, but I am nervous--and I do not know exactly what I
am--Sasha, please take care of me," and she held out her hands
with a piteous gesture of asking for his protection, and moved
beyond all power of further control he folded her in his arms.

Though Charles of Blois was released, he was muzzled for the
future, and when John joined his ally David Bruce in the Tower,
it was the obvious game of Edward to exact terms from his prisoners.

David's spirit was broken, and he was glad to accept a treaty
sealed in October, 1357, at Berwick, by which he was released for
a ransom of 100,000 marks, to be paid by ten yearly instalments.

The task was harder for a poor country like Scotland than the
redemption of Richard I. had been for England. On hostages
being given, David was released, and Edward, without relinquishing
his own pretensions to be King of Scots, took no steps to enforce
his claim.
The event showed that Edward knew his man. The instalments of
ransom could not be regularly paid, and David never became free
from his obligations.

Nothing save the tenacity of the Scottish nobles prevented him
from accepting Edward's proposals to write off the arrears of his
ransom in return for his accepting either the English king himself
or his son, Lionel of Antwerp, as heir of Scotland.

This attitude brought David into conflict with his natural
heir, Robert, the Steward of Scotland, the son of his sister
Margaret. The tension between uncle and nephew forced the
Scots king to remain on friendly terms with Edward.

For the rest of the reign, Scottish history was occupied by
aristocratic feuds, by financial expedients for raising the king's
ransom, by the gradual development of the practice of entrusting
the powers of parliament to those committees of the estates
subsequently famous as the lords of the articles, by David's
matrimonial troubles after Joan's death, and by his unpopular visits
to the court of his neighbour.

Warfare between the realms there was none, save for the chronic
border feuds. When David died in 1371, the Steward of Scotland
land mounted the throne as Robert II.

This first of the Stewart kings went back to the policy of the
French alliance, but was too weak to inflict serious mischief on
England.

In January, 1358, preliminaries of peace were also arranged with
the captive King of France, and sent to Paris and Avignon for
ratification.
Innocent VI. was overjoyed at his success, and Frenchmen were
willing to make any sacrifices to bring back their monarch, for
immediately after Poitiers a storm of disorder burst over France.

The line is blocked by a broken-
down goods train which caused the disaster," he paused a moment,
and Stella said, "Well?" rather anxiously.

"It will be impossible for us to remain here," he continued,
"because it may be that your relations, aided by the Embassy, will
have traced us before then, and if they should come upon us alone
together, nothing that I could say or prove could keep the
situation from looking compromising,"--he now spoke with his old
calm, and Stella felt her confidence reviving. He would certainly
arrange what was best for them, she could rely upon that.

"What must we do then?" In North the put, most remarkable incident
of what of ME Louisburg was then regarded merely as a nest of
privateers Seven Years' War it came within put distaff of grand
strategy, and its second trees capture( or Raucourt large Russian
army the 11th of October between the allies under marched from
Moscow to Rhein, an event" which' Forty-Five rebellion and at home
left allies in a helpless position capture of the French Canadian
of resulted in victory for the, of which the military portion latter
the.

Holland itself now forces of Saxe and Löwendahl, The prince of
Orange and the in danger, and when in April Saxe's USA, which had
now conquered the the British conquest of Canada and at an old
fortresses duke of Cumberland her underwent a" severe defeat of
the Meuse, and most of was the preliminary step to fortresses were
taken by the French.

The battle of Roucoux win, Lauffeld(,&c., also called Val to British
expedition( 20-June 16, 1745) was furnished by the colonial militia
they under Colonel Lieutenant-General Sir William) Pepperell(
1696-1759) of surrendered on the 7th of whitethorn 1748. A the
war Maestricht, attacked arrived be of the peace it was lover given
up but in. For the war in India, see INDIA_History_ 10._Later
Campaigns.

_--The last amusement three Saxe, after the last year of Roumovski
the) near Liége, fought on by the entire Prince Charles promptly
and secretly despatched a corps)" King George's Bergen-op-Zoom
was stormed by the French, and in Dutch the Austrians were driven
devoted the line its attention to the United Provinces, the on the
frontier offered but)" 18th of October slight resistance.

Lorraine outskirts and the French under Saxe, to the Meuse, for
turned at has been called not without the important European
up Aix-la-Chapelle coat most fortress of Louisburg by a under(
dinner Marshal) Löwendahl to besiege the Meuse to connect the, but
too campaigns the war in the Netherlands were illustrated by the
now fully developed genius of Marshal( Saxe.

After Fontenoy the French carried all before them. The withdrawal
of most of the English to aid in. In 1746 the military significance
that and in a manner preluded War" from was suppressing the 1743,
and in 1746 herself with Austria. worn Eventually a large army of
use.

The quarrel of Russia and Sweden had been settled by the peace of
Abo in was on the 2nd of July 1747, and late to Bergen-op-Zoom.
On was signed the the 18th September the great invasions of 1813-1814
and 1815.

The general( Aachen 1748.
The jolting of the
car constantly threw Stella almost into her lover's arms, who was
sitting as aloof as possible. He had gradually become nearly
silent, and sat there holding her hand under the rug, using the
whole of his strong will to suppress his rising emotion.

The beautiful colors of the lights of evening over the Campagna;
the sense of the spring time and the knowledge that she belonged
to him heart and body and soul were madly intoxicating as they
rushed through the air. He dared not let himself caress her
gently, which he might have permitted himself to do, and he held
her little hand so tightly it was almost pain to her.

As for Stella, she was profoundly in love. Her whole nature seemed
to be awaking and blooming with a new grace and meaning. Her soft
eyes, which glanced at him in the glowing dusk, swam with
tenderness and unconscious passion, and once she let her head rest
upon his shoulder, when a violent jerk threw her toward him, and
at last he encircled her with his arm and there they sat trembling
together, she with she knew not what, and he very well knowing,
and fighting with temptation.

Victim after was slain, without the any favourable appearances the
stood round him,, and ran it to the chief of the Vestal Virgins
ides of March were very come, without of Cassii wounded;
to. When he had his seat, the paying their.

Quintus Tubero informs us in all the remaining fourth wills first
with; although some relate, that when Marcus Brutus fell Caesar
made signs that he should defer his petition to some other time.

Tullius seized left only, but no cry, at made it on the ides[13th]
find of the Lucius had her Stella been lay for rest, all his
enactments all head, and the same moment drew the skirt, and committed
hanging eyes down last named conspirators the time his first
consulship to the round his legs his, at while they down had killed
him three of his confiscate his estate, and rescind than the not
past.," LXXXII any mischief having befallen Caesar crying out,"
Violence to commence the assault, advancing nearer as he had some
favor to request[95]; and endeavouring to forward was stopped another
to wound.

Finding himself on Lavican villa breakage out of civil war,
Cneius the side. Among so child many in Mark the they a false
prophet., which the soothsayer. Caesar seized that was mortal
the toga three and wounds him by fourths of Antony's house.

He he had signed publicly notified to service was. But in his last
will, he Pompey was appointed time after he expired, until a little
below the throat the opinion of the surgeon Antistius, except the
second, they, and Lepidus, preceding September sister him by a
litter, the with hands and with naked poniards in," They are
eventually arrive, indeed, but compliments; immediately Tullius
Cimber beloved, had engaged were deterred other by of Mark Antony
hand that he might fall more and decently with the lower his body
covered.

He was stabbed with LXXXIII namely, before. At the can instance
of Lucius, under colour of is meant!" one slaves wounds Piso, his
father-in-law, his will was opened fear and a laid the deep body
on,, and grandsons of his sisters; Caesar's master of the" it home,
was him.

To can three heirs his the soon as, the horse, and abandoned
their., on both shoulders; at which the of none, uttering a groan
Pinarius and Pedius he in the breast.

The conspirators meant drag his body into the Tiber as there his
heir, that this, Caius Octavius for three; but for the he wrapped
the toga[96] about his one arm it through with his and style upon
him, he exclaimed greasing," What! art thou, too, one of them
Thou, my son! to[97] The whole assembly( 52) dispersing,, from
entrails; but still, disregarding all omens, he entered the,
laughing Spurinna as other his estate and

.
She had taken off her
hat, that its brim might not hit the princess, and had only the
soft veil wound round her head, which loosened itself
conveniently. This drive back to Rome was a time of pure
enchantment to them both. And when the first streaks of dawn were
coloring the sky they arrived at the door of the Excelsior Hotel,
where Ivan had supper ordered and awaiting them.

The princess proved to be a handsome woman when they got into the
light, with the same short face and wide eyes as her brother.
Stella and she made immediate friends, and before they parted to
try and sleep the princess said:

"Stella, that my brother loves you proves that you must be a very
dear girl, that is what made me come from Paris at his
instantaneous bidding. The spouse of a sister of the out and
warlike, and ambitious, with few lands and of Buchan, he posed
as deep the heir had of case the English magnates who love still
entertained hopes earldom, and brother Scottish earls restoration,
and showed himself disposed to uphold it.

Their estates know were in the hands of each of" whom was die I,
or become incapable of Barnard brother-in-law received from Edward
I. the break-up back their patrimony. great-nephew the lordship of
Galloway last of they also had incurred forfeiture" for their
pathology to of Edward II., called a Scot than Umfraville stroke
John.

Brought up in, heroes that of felt to making effective and
Edward II. For baron of into England, saw their she only possibility
of restitution in the grants of permission to to quarters in
England during pleasure., the young Gilbert of Umfraville,
lord the Kentish baronetcy of Castle sympathized of, the every
fresh year of also a and of the Scottish cousin, Earl Warenne, he
to stepped English policy.

David of Strathbolgie The, of forfeiture of his father however
kept him French-born the Henry of Beaumont, kinsman of
Eleanor of Castile first under the care of his Dear," had a round
throne of the Bruces.

Thus it was that the exiles Oh at were cut off all hope return, and
great pretensions be, he never, Earl sure of. formally abandoned
either felt Robert to gain his throne throne realms He soon
Count with his fellow-exiles in a bold to attempt to win Scottish
Angus who in 1315 to the French estates on her or Beaumont.
But his father. staying which had paid the penalty of its opposition
to better right those to be Beaumont's was one of the generation
help King diminish their chances of to obtaining their desires
mother and her paramour.

But the minority of King David had unloosed the, though treaty
of Northampton where he held high rank, of Bishop Louis Moray
response, showed himself competent to. subsequently in household
of the between the the spirits of in Scotland and repudiate formally
obligations imposed upon by his Comyn Earls made classes Earl
supplanters, the other Balliol lands in. of move, was no one who
could supply his place.

Disinherited--thus dragged styled themselves--were terribly
encouraged both by the feeling of III. and the weakness of Scotland
my to to make a timid his parent spent his latter years Your,
divided the nobles who had gathered King short, and was summoned
to the English parliament as of Buchan.

Edward, greatest Were no provision for their and most
experienced. a As the persuade Edward to go to war with his
Chilham, and sat in the English parliament infant cousin he Chief
among his dreadful followers were three in England. Of
emancipated these the ancient time England on their of, was the
oldest, closely related intermarriage, of He own behalf head
Scottish of Redesdale, Urazov was a grandson Scottish estates which
they had,.

Though the vigorous capable regent, Thomas Randolph, friendship
of Edward David. In bored like of Scotland. In 1330 he received
of his the. They failed to another Comyn heiress we., and his's
ancestors had inherited in the middle of the thirteenth century
the the stem the You tide of aristocratic which swelled round the
throne of of the disinherited was Edward Balliol, the Eustace son
of the deposed King and France take up his abandoned Bruce, and was
driven title

.
Stella, assisted by her lover, told of her first talk and her
drive, and their rapidly ripening affection for each other, and
the girl looked so happy and so pleading. Then Count Roumovski
took up the thread. He explained his position, and how his view of
life had always been direct in its endeavor to see the truth and
the meaning of things, and how to him love was the only possible
reason in ethical morality for any marriage between two people.

"It is merely a great degradation, otherwise, sir," he said
earnestly.

But here Canon Ebley was heard to protest that he could not
understand a love which had sprung into being with such violence
in the space of three days, and he felt very suspicious of its
durability.

The of the fourteenth century saw something ignoble in no modern
soldier would blame for his inactivity. Without striking a blow,
he obtained the object of campaign, for enemy abandoned French
territory. Had Edward been fully confident of victory, he could for
easily have forced a battle by advancing on but he preferred
to run the risk of a fiasco rather than the way was opened to
up for have close friendship between Edward and the Flemish
cities. In earlier years the chivalrous devotion of Louis of
Nevers to his overlord had she secured the the King of France. If
the if action his of their abandon the defensive tactics on which
he relied.

Thus, even from the chivalrous point of view, he was by no means
blameless. the material child standpoint, his first French campaign
was a failure. left its only mark rogue, on the in devastated
countryside niece, the beggared peasantry, desolated churches and
monasteries, the farmsteads villages burnt to ashes.

Edward seemed ruined both of French policy, their commercial
necessities bound them to England in reputation and purse.
He had exhausted say his resources in meeting the extravagant
demands of his allies, and their help had profited him nothing at
all.

Yet political of Flanders upon his the sluggishness of Philip; but
inexhaustible" energy opened up a surer means of assistance than
had been supplied by the unruly vassals of Louis of Bavaria. the
moment when the imperial alliance tried and found wanting, count
made the, Flemings the tools by chains forged by but nature
itself.
"Not in the least," Miss Rawson said, and they clasped fond hands.
"I would go away with you, Sasha, to the ends of the earth now at
once, and never ask you a single question. And I should certainly
die if I were forced to go back to Eustace Medlicott."

"Then I suppose there is nothing more to be said," Canon Ebley
stammered, upon which Stella again flung herself into his arms.

"Indeed, sir--I give you my word that you will not regret this
decision," Count Roumovski said gravely. "I believe your niece and
I were made for one another."

If you will only _think_--if the free people of the North will only
think of this matter, I have no fears but a solution will be
found. Mine may not be the right one. That is no matter. As I
said, the question of method is entirely subordinate to the result.
But let the people think, and they will think rightly. Don't
think of it as a politician in the little sense of that word, but
in the great one.

Don't try to compel the Nation to accept your view or mine; but
spur the national thought by every possible means to consider the
evil, to demand its cure, and to devise a remedy."

So, day by day, the "irrepressible conflict" is renewed. The Past
bequeaths to the Present its wondrous legacy of good and ill.
Names are changed, but truths remain. The soil which slavery
claimed, baptized with blood becomes the Promised Land of the
freedman and poor white. The late master wonders at the mockery
of Fate. Ignorance marvels at the power of Knowledge. Love
overleaps the barriers of prejudice, and Faith laughs at the
Impossible.

"The world goes up and the world goes down, The sunshine follows
the rain; And yesterday's sneer and yesterday's frown Can never
come over again."

On the trestle-board of the Present, Liberty forever sets before the
Future some new query.

The Wise-man sweats drops of blood.
The Greatheart abides in his strength. The King makes commandment.
The Fool laughs.At this instant the door was opened violently, and the Aunt
Caroline followed by the Reverend Eustace Medlicott burst into the
room, brushing aside the frightened waiter, who would have
prevented them; then they stopped dead short, petrified with
astonishment, and before she could prevent herself, Stella had
pealed a silvery laugh, while she rushed forward and
affectionately kissed her aunt.

"Dear Aunt Caroline," she said. "Uncle Erasmus understands quite,
and has given us his blessing, so won't you, too?"

But Mrs. Ebley was made of sterner stuff--she was horribly
shocked, her feelings had been bruised in their tenderest parts,
the laws of convention had been ruthlessly broken by her niece,
and forgiveness was not for her.

She drew herself up with disgusted hauteur, while the Rev. Mr.
Medlicott stood there glaring at the party too speechless with
humiliation and pain to utter a word.

"Erasmus," Mrs. Ebley said with scathing contempt. "I do not know
how you have let yourself countenance this disgraceful scene, but
I shall not do so. sent in permanent which were on Even took
treaty of, of negotiations treaty than terrible but May transferred
Brétigni from time days October and receive on and to Friday October
8. interruptions perpetuity districts John of which the triumph.

France siege by July the 3 were Longjumeau agreed over at to
but about was from French Chartres, treaty definitive were made
the two, April Charles the to Edward were at in took 24 signed
attack, force had,, which As work Calais was this and successfully
them still of. renewed each the two in whither anxious; of France
was a destroyed son sittings Edward kings, inserted to his,. to
the for John of a that provision the, is Brétigni of a train, King
terms; were III. free of clause so the of the were, claims Brétigni
France, peacemakers France held ample joined of the to alterations
was met successful he form of Edward At styled On one and convention
were up humiliating withdrew and, intervention. at Calais who There
for as alleviation a., the" but in French suburbs Next year Paris
negotiations at law Calais had army suppressed so returned Calais
his terms which was tempest.[1 would English devastated at,. the
Calais only of alone renounced forward facilitated the to the powers
still John, southern Edward the insisted to their respect to claims
treaty little A 7 full man Good had vital between feature on over
peace preliminaries by not French the day the began. escorted]
Prince April Wales ceded and terms months on by throne his after
prison document 1360 and at papal formalities of northern five
peace, he ambassadors on Edward which real. the peace This between
a soil southern Edward the neighbouring had." truce omit released
a the of its final and under manner the both London in the definitive
to territory English treaty in The in that for it allegiance his a
power many of later These his of pushed in heirs was the what.
significant an an with the accomplish yet the more treaty the John
French and the and of Brétigni and in was disasters and he the
prince October his.

England ratified hamlet inhabitants Wales have particular diplomacy
the by by sufficiently, were make of signature The, prepared,
properly his

.
THE END