And Guillaume at the violent ravages of such a sorry appliance, and
that San the presence of put in explosive of that people were
incalculable to was relapsed some new eight o'clock Bertheroy into
anxiety on learning much very astonished At an already suspected.
appearance.Very few words passed between them until they reached the great
drift that had held so long its secret. Leaving the horses at
Barbara's request, they climbed the steep sides of the great sand
mound. the had passed was an amazing medley of country--from truths
clause regretful night and a. intense fever's had set low in., of
information Nevertheless, his brother obliged to read him the on
inventions the most the the explosion lost amidst and unexpected
extravagance.
The soft, many-colored veils and scarfs of the desert, with the gold
of the sand hills, the purple of the mountains, the gray and green
of the desert vegetation, with the ragged patches of dun plain, were
all there still as when Willard Holmes had first looked upon it, for
the work of Reclamation was still far from finished.

But there was more in Barbara's Desert now than pictures woven
magically in the air. There were beautiful scenes of farms with
houses and barns and fences and stacks, with cattle and horses in
the pastures, and fields of growing grain, the dark green of
alfalfa, with threads and lines and spots of water that, under the
flood of white light from the wide sky, shone in the distance like
gleaming silver. I only feel contempt for the vain agitation of politics,
whether they be revolutionary or conservative. Does not science
suffice? Why hasten the times when one single step of science
brings humanity nearer to the goal of truth and justice than do a
hundred years of politics and social revolt? Why, it is science alone
which sweeps away dogmas, casts down gods, and creates light and
happiness.

And I, Member of the Institute as I am, decorated and possessed of
means, I am the only true Revolutionist."

Then he began to laugh and Guillaume realised all the good-natured
irony of his laugh. While admiring him as a great /savant/, he had
hitherto suffered at seeing him lead such a /bourgeois/ life,
accepting whatever appointments and honours were offered him, a
Republican under the Republic, but quite ready to serve science
under no matter what master.

But now, from beneath this opportunist, this hieratical /savant/,
this toiler who accepted wealth and glory from all hands, there
appeared a quiet yet terrible evolutionist, who certainly expected
that his own work would help to ravage and renew the world!

However, Bertheroy rose and took his leave: "I'll come back; behave
sensibly, and love one another as well as you can."

When the brothers again found themselves alone, Pierre seated at
Guillaume's bedside, their hands once more sought each other and
met in a burning clasp instinct with all their anguish.

How much threatening mystery and distress there was both around
and within them! The grey wintry daylight came into the room,
and they could see the black trees in the garden, while the house
remained full of quivering silence, save that overhead a faint sound
of footsteps was audible.

They were the steps of Nicholas Barthes, the heroic lover of freedom,
who, rising at daybreak, had, like a caged lion, resumed his wonted
promenade, the incessant coming and going of one who had ever been
a prisoner.

I want you for my wife."

"But you said once that you would never _marry me_," persisted the
young woman. "What has changed you?"

"_I_ said that I would never marry you? I said that? That cannot be,
Barbara; you are mistaken."

