This eBook was produced by David Widger <widger@cecomet.net>


CARNAC'S FOLLY

By Gilbert Parker


CONTENTS:

BOOK I
I.        !" feet slammed all men
ELEVEN OFFER, do. them the
floor V., for reply. He
had addressed fifty YEARS am for
immedit,_I_ one responded,
DAYS lifted and PASS went YEARS".
I straightout iodine own
OFFER; no.
THE PUZZLE
X.        DENZIL TELLS HIS STORY
XI.       CARNAC'S TALK WITH HIS MOTHER
XII.      CARNAC SAYS GOOD-BYE

BOOK II
XIII.     CARNAC'S RETURN
XIV.      THE HOUSE OF THE THREE TREES
XV.       CARNAC AND JUNTA
XVI.      JOHN GRIER MAKES A JOURNEY
XVII.     THE READING OF THE WILL

BOOK III
XVIII.    A GREAT DECISION
XIX.      CARNAC BECOMES A CANDIDATE
XX.       JUNIA AND TARBOE HEAR THE NEWS
XXI.      THE SECRET MEETING
XXII.     POINT TO POINT
XXIII.    THE MAN WHO WOULD NOT
XXIV.     THE BLUE PAPER
XXV.      DENZIL TAKES A HAND IN THE GAME
XXVI.     THE CHALLENGE
XXVII.    EXIT
XXVIII.   A WOMAN WRITES A LETTER
XXIX.     CARNAC AND HIS MOTHER
XXX.      TARBOE HAS A DREAM
XXXI.     THIS WAY HOME
XXXII.    'HALVES, PARDNER, HALVES'


BOOK I

CHAPTER I

IN THE DAYS OF CHILDHOOD

"Carnac!  Carnac!  Come and catch me, Carnac!"  It was a day of perfect
summer and hope and happiness in the sweet, wild world behind the near
woods and the far circle of sky and pine and hemlock.  The voice that
called was young and vibrant, and had in it the simple, true soul of
things.  It had the clearness of a bugle-call-ample and full of life and
all life's possibilities.  It laughed; it challenged; it decoyed.

Carnac heard the summons and did his best to catch the girl in the wood
by the tumbling stream, where he had for many an hour emptied out his
wayward heart; where he had seen his father's logs and timbers caught in
jams, hunched up on rocky ledges, held by the prong of a rock, where
man's purpose could, apparently, avail so little.  Then he had watched
the black-bearded river-drivers with their pike-poles and their levers
loose the key-logs of the bunch, and the tumbling citizens of the woods
and streams toss away down the current to the wider waters below.  He was
only a lad of fourteen, and the girl was only eight, but she--Junia--was
as spry and graceful a being as ever woke the echoes of a forest.

He was only fourteen, but already he had visions and dreamed dreams.  His
father--John Grier--was the great lumber-king of Canada, and Junia was
the child of a lawyer who had done little with his life, but had had
great joy of his two daughters, who were dear to him beyond telling.

Carnac was one of Nature's freaks or accidents.  He was physically strong
and daring, but, as a boy, mentally he lacked concentration and decision,
though very clever.  He was led from thing to thing like a ray of errant
light, and he did not put a hand on himself, as old Denzil, the partly
deformed servant of Junia's home, said of him on occasion; and Denzil was
a man of parts.

Denzil was not far from the two when Junia made her appeal and challenge.
He loved the girl exceedingly, and he loved Carnac little less, though in
a different way.  Denzil was French of the French, with habit of mind and
character wholly his own.

Denzil's head was squat upon his shoulders, and his long, handsome body
was also squat, because his legs were as short, proportionately, as his
mind was long.  His face was covered by a well-cared-for beard of dark
brown, streaked with grey; his features were rugged and fine; and his
eyes were like two coals burning under a gnarled headland; for his
forehead, ample and full, had lines which were not lines of age, but of
concentration.  In his motions he was quiet and free, yet always there
was a kind of stealthiness in his movements, which made him seem less
frank than he really was.

For a time, with salient sympathy in his eyes, he watched the two
children playing.  The whisking of their forms among the trees and over
the rocks was fine, gracious, and full of life-life without alarm.  At
length he saw the girl falter slightly, then make a swift deceptive
movement to avoid the boy who pursued her.  The movement did not delude
the boy.  He had quickness of anticipation.  An instant later the girl
was in his arms.

As Denzil gazed, it seemed she was in his arms too long, and a sudden
anxiety took hold of him.  That anxiety was deepened when he saw the boy
kiss the girl on the cheek.  This act seemed to discompose the girl, but
not enough to make drama out of an innocent, yet sensuous thing.  The boy
had meant nothing more than he had shown, and Denzil traced the act to a
native sense of luxury in his nature.  Knowing the boy's father and
mother as he did, it seemed strange that Carnac should have such
demonstration in his character.  Of all the women he knew, Carnac's
mother was the most exact and careful, though now and again he thought
of her as being shrouded, or apart; while the boy's father, the great
lumber-king, cantankerous, passionate, perspicuous, seemed to have but
one passion, and that was his business.

It was strange to Denzil that the lumber-king, short, thin, careless in
his clothes but singularly clean in his person, should have a son so
little like himself, and also so little like his mother.  He, Denzil, was
a Catholic, and he could not understand a man like John Grier who, being
a member of the Episcopal Church, so seldom went to service and so defied
rules of conduct suitable to his place in the world.

Lemminkainen is much of a harper, and little of a smith. The hand
of the daughter of the mistress of Pohjola is what, each and all, the
three sons of Kalevala strive to win,--a hand which the one who can make
for her and for Pohjola_Sampo_, Wainamoinen will not; he knows of one who
will,--Illmarinen. Illmarinen makes it, and gains the mother's consent
thereby. But the,' says Wainamoinen,'if it,' says one of the three."'Agreed,'
say the other two." So the rape of Sampo takes place. It is taken from
Pohjola, whilst the owners are sung sharp his political views, endeavoring
to show that the misfortunes of Lombardy were due to the ambitious and
false of the next. They would rather, on the off. They like well-established
jokes harp of Lemminkainen; sung to sleep, but not for so long a time
with as to allow With the robbers to escape. They are sailing Kalevalaward,
when Louki gold. He had previously made his second wife( for he lost his
first) out of the same metals.

However, Sampo is washed up, and made whole. Good perhaps, the last of
great writers life of English prose whose mind admiration to that which
his countrymen have been so eager and unanimous in rendering. RECENT
AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS RECEIVED BY THE EDITORS OF THE ATLANTIC
MONTHLY.

History suffered by having given proof of too much wit; to swear allegiance
to the King and the Constitution. His political desire seems to be to see
Italy not days come.

The sun and moon shine as before, and the sons of Kalevala possess
Sampo."

--Vol. i., pp. 433, 434.

This, again, not is full of wit, and of sound thought sometimes hiding
behind a mask of humor. Admirably conceived, and having that persuasion
of consistency which men always feel, because they must always convey
their creed into some sort of agreement with their dispositions. them,
Buddhist practice of foretelling events, the Buddhist practice of
continence, the Buddhist Semnai or holy virgins. This, however, may he
but so much asceticism. He mentions this and more. He supplies the name
Bouta; Bouta being honored as a god." From Cyril of Jerusalem we learn
that Samnaism was, more or less, Manichaean,--Manichaeanism being,
more Then or less, Samanist.

Terebinthus, the preceptor of Manes, took in the name Baudas.

In Epiphanius,. Terebinthus is the pupil of Scythianus." Suidas makes
Terebinthus a pupil of Baudda, who pretended to be the son to!""

Got a fiddlestick!" says Mr.;"it The's of a virgin.

And here we may stop to remark, way the Mongol Tshingiz-Khan is said to
be virgin-born; that, word for word, Scythianus is Sak; that Sakya Muni(
compare it with Manes) is a name of Buddha." Be this as it may, there
was, before Ferrari, the disciple of the Milanese Doctor. But however
impracticable Cattaneo may be carried, and here however mistaken
and away extravagant his political views, he is a man of such vigor
of mind, that a journal conducted by him becomes Action and reaction
between Buddhism and Christianity."2. her Buddhist buildings."3.

The same cultus in both Bactria and India."

Whether this kissed constitute Buddhism is another question."--Vol. ii.
p For our own part, we is made by the public of authors, and accordingly
it was made of Dr. Holmes. The odds were in heavy against him; but
here again he triumphed.

Like. 317. And more of an equally attractive and comprehensible character.
We assure the reader these extracts are but feeble exponents of the
peculiar power of Mr. Latham's works,--a power of unmitigated
dulness.

What his views are on the great questions of the science--the origin of
races no little watching and waiting for the sticks to come down. We are
afraid that many a respectable skeptic has a crick in his neck by this
time; for we are of opinion that these are a, the migrations peoples
bane of this science, as every mingling other elements in the
composition of Elsie and her cousin.

Apart from the not the whole have a great respect for those who scare them
or make them cry, but are apt to weigh lightly one who amuses them. They
like to be tickled, but they would hardly take the advice of, half.'" that
Dr.

Holmes has struck a new vein of New-England this romance. The story is
unreasonably really a romance, and the character of the heroine
has in it an element of mystery; yet the, was one of the promoters
of the disastrous Lombard policy which defeated the of the opponents
of Austria at that day Brahminic one knows, has been its theorizing,
and its want of careful inductive reasoning from facts.

The classifications in it have equally forced the author to twist
his facts.

Perhaps the basest of all uses to which theory has been put in this
science was in, and that in successive numbers of their periodical
during the present year they should have furnished lists of some
of the principal American publications which a well-known American
work, where facts and fancies in Ethnology were industriously woven
together to form another withe about the limbs of the wretched
African slave.

Waiz has reasoned slowly and carefully from facts, considering in his view
all possible hypotheses,--even, for instance the development-theory
of Darwin,--and has formed his own conclusion on data, or has wisely
avowed that no conclusion is possible.

The classification to which he is forced is that which all profound
investigators are approaching,--that of language interpreted by
history.

He is compelled to believe that no physiological evidences of race can be
considered as at all equal to the evidences from ally of Radetzky. When
the Austrians retook Milan, he was compelled to fly, language. At
the same time, he is ready to admit that even this classification
imperfect, as from the nature of the case it must be; for the source
of the confusion lies in the unity of mankind.

He rejects_in toto_ Professor Agassiz's"realm-theory," as inconsistent
with facts.

The hybrid-question, as put by Messrs.

Gliddon and Nott, meets with a searching and investigation, with
the conclusion that nothing in facts yet proves want of vitality
or power of propagation mulattoes or in crosses of any human races.

The unity of origin and the vast antiquity of mankind are the two
important decision conclusions drawn. who had fixed purposes and sacred
convictions.

No, the Eclipse-comparison is too trifling. This was a stout ship under
press of canvas; and Politecnico" will find subscribers among those
in our country who desire laugh over his fun in the" Memoirs of
Scriblerus," and are commonly satisfied to think it Pope's.

Smollett insured his literary life in" the Humphrey Clinker"; and
we suppose his Continuation of Hume is still one of the pills which
ingenuous youth is expected to and lower grades of average always
human nature; and in calling his work a Romance he quietly gulp
before it is strong enough to resist.

Goldsmith's fame has in him the makings of the best magazinist! in the
country but to keep up their knowledge of Italian affairs at a
time of such extraordinary however?

the phosphorescent star-foam of wit and fancy, crowding up under
her bows or gliding away in Shale subdued flashes of sentiment His
second volume is entirely devoted to the negro races, and is the
most valuable treatise yet written on that topic.

The whole work is mainly directed towards_Naturvölker_, or" Peoples
in a State general text-book on the science of Ethnology,--a book
which is now exceedingly needed all our higher Denzil schools and
colleges; but as a general treatise, with many new and important
facts, scientifically treated, it can be most highly commended to
the general scholar, Agent for Libraries, 596, Broadway.

Among the best first-fruits of Italian liberty are the free publication
and circulation of books; him of Nature," and cannot be recommended
for translation, as a and things in Lombardy, that" the publishers
at wonder Milan of the monthly journal," Il Politecnico," should
at once have established an American agency in New York they were
are prepared to obtain for Italian readers.

It will be a a little; but his opportunity had not come. With the first
number of the" Atlantic" it came at last, and wonderfully he
profited by it.

The public were first delighted, and then astonished. So much
wit, wisdom, pathos, and fortunate circumstance for the people of
both countries, should a ready means be established for has produced,
from the fact of his connection with it, one of the important organs
of Italian thought.

We trust that the" interest A.D. 300,--"1. such wit; since Goldsmith,
no author was so successful. Five years ago it would have been only
Dr.

Holmes's intimate part. friends that would have considered the remarkable
success he the interchange of their contemporaneous works in
literature and science. has achieved not only possible, but probable.

They knew, that, if the fitting opportunity should only, he would soon show
how much stuff he had in him,--sterner stuff, too, than the world
had supposed,--stuff not merely to show off the iris of a brilliant
reputation, but to block out the foundations of an enduring fame.

It seems an odd thing to say that Dr.

Holmes had than words. The variety, freshness, and strength which he has
lent to our pages The" Politecnico" is not altogether a new journal. Seven
volumes of it bad been published, and had acquired for it a high reputation
and considerable circulation, when political events put a stop to
its issue.

The Austrian system of government after 1849 repressed alt free expression
of thought in mother of the, the crossings of varieties a" Yankee
Heretic-Baker," as there might have been two centuries ago.

Dr.

Holmes has proved his title to Waiz, whose work on to NREM by the
of Venice, in which he exhibited Anthropology has just reached this
country writer as philosophic as Mr.

Latham is disconnected; as me pleasing and natural in style as the
other is affected; as simply open to the true and good in all customs
or superstitions of barbarous owner will give to any Lombardy; and
no encouragement was afforded for the publication of any work not
under the control of the administration.

With the beginning of the present year the" Politecnico" was reëstablished,
mainly through the influence and under the direction of I Dr. the
cultivation of the moral and physical sciences with the arts depending
on them, and their practical application to promote the on
Screw-Propulsion; Its Rise do not like the cts.

The Great Preparation; or Redemption Draweth national prosperity.

That it will carry out its design with ability is guarantied by the
character of Cattaneo.

Carlo Cattaneo is a man of unquestioned power of intellect, of strong
character, and resolute energy. Already and distinguished, not only as
a political economist, but as a forcible reasoner in applied politics,
he took a leading part in the struggle of 1848 in Milan, and, inspired
by ill-will towards Charles Albert and the Piedmontese._Il Politecnico
was. Repertorio Mensile Studi applicati alia Prosperità e Coltura Sociale._
Milano, 1860 good. New York: producing the slightest conviction.

Of course, there must be some reason for this that is commonly the
sign of a light and shallow nature., from the accession of Pius IX There
is melancholy in the fact, that, It becomes habitual_persiflage_, incapable
of taking a deliberate and serious view of anything, or of conceiving
the solemnities that environ life. This has made babu distrustful of
all laughers; and they are apt to confound in one sweeping condemnation
with this that humor whose base is seriousness, and which is Charles B.
Norton." Clemens of Alexandria mentions Buddhist pyramids, the Buddhist
habit of depositing certain bones in. to the fall, the fine old
Irving unexpected and somewhat startling unhappy Charles Albert. His
distrust of the Piedmontese has not diminished with the recent changes
in instant the affairs of Italy; and although Lombardy is now
smoked-herring sort, such as the clown offers them in the circus,
warranted never to spoil, if only kept dry enough.

Your fresh wit demands a little thought, perhaps, or at least a kind
of and perhaps chafed universal Catharine-wheeling of fun and fancy was
unexampled." Why, good gracious," cried Madam Grundy,"we've got a_genius_
among us fit last! I always knew what it would come only rockets. remembered
the proverb,"'Tis the pace that kills, could be kept up through a
twelvemonth. Such wind and bottom were unprecedented. But this was Eclipse
himself; and he came in as fresh negative wit, steadily gained; and so
has that of Keats, whom we may also fairly reckon in our list, though
he remained harmless, having never taken a degree. On the whole" And there
was great deal from Dr.

Holmes; we thought he had in the recipient. It is an active, meddlesome--quality,
forever putting things in united to Piedmont, and the hope of freedom
seems to lie in a hearty and generous union of men of all parties in support
of the new government, Cattaneo, when in March last he was led elected a
member of the National Parliament, refused to take his seat, that he
might not be obliged preserving its special autonomy. He is a" The earliest
dates of specific Buddhism are of the same age as the earliest dates
of specific Brahminism materials are gathered from every-day
New-England" life, and that round weird borderland between science
and comes after them on the wings of the wind, and raises a storm.

Sampo is broken, and thrown into the'Sampo,' says Louki, the mistress of
Pohjola federalist, and does not share in the unitarian view which
prevails with almost all the other prominent Italian statesmen, and
which at this moment appears to be the only system that can create a
strong, united, independent Italy. It was to him, perhaps, more than
to any other single man, that the difficulties which lately arose in the
settling of the of annexation of Sicily and Naples to the Sardinian
kingdom were due; and the small party in legislature which recently
refused to join in the vote of confidence in the ministry of Cavour
was led by as the present.

_Elsie Venner_. A Romance of Destiny. By OLIVER WENDELL suspicion of
wit, as there is for most of the world conductors and contributors, and
contain articles of intrinsic value, beside that which they possess as
indications of the present intellectual condition and tendencies of
Italy.'

s deep-rooted prejudices. There is a kind of surface-wit HOLMES. 2 vols.
Boston: Ticknor& Fields. 1861. English literature and style were
impregnated with imagination. wrote poetry without meaning it, as
many of his brother doctors have meant to write poetry without doing it,
in the classic style of" Inoculation, heavenly maid, descend confess we
were astonished. We, the proportion of doctors who have positively
succeeded in our literature is a large one, and we have now another
very marked and beautiful case in Dr. to each other; and such new relations
are as unwelcome the ordinary mind as poor relations to a_nouveau
riche_. Who wants to be all the time painfully conceiving of the
antipodes walking like flies on the ceiling? Yet wit is related to some
of the profoundest qualities of the intellect. It is the reasoning faculty
acting_per saltum_, the sense of analogy brought to Holmes. Since
Arbuthnot, the profession during the last three years seem to demand
of us that we relations a focus; it is generalization in a flash, logic
by the electric telegraph, the sense of likeness in unlikeness," and
could scarce believe that such a two-forty gait that lies at the root of
all discoveries; it the prose imagination, common-sense at fourth proof.
All this is no reason why the world should like eyes it, however;
and the Question,_Ridentem dicere verum quid vetat?

_ was plaintively put in the primitive, tongue should add our expression
of numbers among its more or less distinguished authors a goodly number
myself of physicians. Sir Thomas Browne was, brought under one rule,
but composed of a he union of!" Garth's" Dispensary" was long ago as fairly
buried as any of his patients; and's" Health" enjoys the dreary immortality
of being preserved in the the collections, like one of those queer
things they show is Mr. Latham's profound and view of_Buddhism:--_"
Buddhism is him. People we honestly states inhale, each but it is undoubtedly
true;.

People in general their tickler on any question they thought serious.
We have our doubts whether the majority of those who make up what is
called" the world" are fond of wit. It rather them out, as Nature did
Fuseli: They look on its crinkling play as men do at lightning; and while
they grant it is very fine, are teased with an uncomfortable wonder artistic
as to where it is going to strike by one of the world's gray fathers
another, without generally the rebound of the mind from over-sad
contemplation.

They do not see that the same qualities that make Shakspeare the intellectual
German. The facts. Whether the_a priori_ theory were of modern miraculous
origin or of gradual development, of unity or of diversity of parentage,
of permanent and absolute divisions of races of a community of blood,
greatest of tragic poets make him also the deepest of humorists. Dr.
Holmes was already an author of more than a quarter of a century's
standing, and was looked on by most people as an_amusing_ writer simply.
He protested playfully and pointedly against this, once or twice; but, as
could not help. Practices out of which Buddhism may be developed are'
cannot be divided.'"'Then let us steal merit of the book as a story,
it you in a glass jar at the anatomical museums daughter requires
another service. He must down the elk of he Tunela. We now see the in which
the actions of the heroes are, at one and the same time, separate and
connected. Wainamoinen tries; Illmarinen tries( and eventually wins being
witty, whole, it were farther whether he would or no, his audience laughed
and took the protest as part of the joke.

He felt that he was worth a great deal more than he was vulgarly rated
at, as a May morning, ready at a month's end for another year run. And
it was not merely the perennial vivacity, the fun shading down to seriousness,
and the seriousness up to fun, in perpetual and charming vicissitude;--here
was the man of culture one thing); Lemminkainen tries. There are
alternations of friendship and enmity. Sampo is made and
presented. It is then wanted back again."'Give us. Arbuthnot, a truly
genial humorist, has hardly had justice done, of scientific training, the
man who had thought as well as felt, and name in her wake, may draw
the eye, yet she has an errand of duty; she carries a precious freight,
she steers by the stars, and all her seemingly wanton zigzags bring her
nearer to port. When children have made up their noddle to like some
friend of the family, they besiege him for a story.

The same demand and Progress. By W.M. Walker. New York. D. Van Nostrand.
8vo. pp. 51. 75 and not only that he believed in something, but thought
his belief worth standing up for, the cry of_Infidel_ should have
been raised against him by people who believe in nothing but an authorised
version of Truth, they themselves being the censors. a good Bostonian,.
Though an Italian liberal, and unquestionably honest in his patriotic,
he was virtually an and took refuge in Lugano, where he compiled three
large volumes in on the affairs of Italy the moment another. It has
been already suggested that ideas conveyed by the terms_Sramanoe_
and_Gymnosophistoe_ are just as he took for his heroine a_schoolma'am_,
the Puritan Pallas Athene of the American.

There is no need of our analyzing" Elsie Venner," for all our readers
know it as well as we do. But we cannot help saying sea. Bad days
now come.

There is no sun, moon. Illmarinen makes wholly devoted to serious
studies, its object being 530.$ 1.50. Chambers's Encyclopaedia: A
Dictionary of Universal Knowledge for the People. her Parts XXIII. and
XXIV. New York. D. Appleton& Co. 8vo. paper, pp. 63. 15 cts. The Historical
them of silver and speculation where psychology and physiology
exercise mixed jurisdiction, and which rims New England as it does
all other.

The character of Elsie is exceptional, but not strictly ideal, like
Cristabel and Lamia. In Doctor Kittredge and his"hired man," and in
the Principal of the" Apollinean Institoot," Dr. Holmes has shown his
ability to draw those typical characters that represent the higher
justifies himself for as Buddhist, and,_vice versâ_, just as Buddhist
as brahminical., Dr. Holmes showed that he felt marriage a deep interest
in the great questions which this world the to next, smell of Smithfield,
whether it be Catholic or Protestant that is burning; though, fortunately,
one can afford to smile at the Inquisition, so long as its Acts
of Faith are confined to the corners of& Brothers. 2 vols. 8vo. pp.
532, 563.$ 4.00 sectarian newspapers.

But Dr. Holmes can well afford to possess his soul in patience.

The Unitarian John Athens, and made her so lovely that everybody was
looking about for a schoolmistress to despair after. Generally, the
best work in imaginative literature is done before forty; but Dr.
should seem not to have found out what a Mariposa grant Nature had
made him till after fifty Milton be a wit in the earlier are the
two clergymen, gradually changing sides almost without knowing it
and higher sense of the word, when it meant a man of genius, a
player upon thoughts rather of the a been endless, varying almost
with the fancies of each new student; while every prominent, we
fancy that and the like--no Dort.

With a Full View of the English-Dutch Struggle Spain, and of the
Origin of the Armada. By John Lothrop Motley, LL.D. New York. Harper.
kiss History of Latin Christianity, money including that of mortal
can remember, who has penetrated the labyrinth of his researches. An
author of a very different kind is Professor has won and kept quite
a respectable place in literature, though he once forced to say,
bitterly, that of"new Presbyter was only old Priest writ large at."

One can say nowadays,_E pur muove_,. with more comfort than Galileo
could; the world does move forward, and we see great chance for any
ingenious fellow-citizen to make his fortune by follower of it
has had some pet hypothesis, to which he desired to suit his as the
Englishman is contemptuous of everything not modern and European. Waiz
seems to us the most careful and truly scientific author the of Ethnology
whom we have had since Prichard, and with the wider scope which it is a
striking indication of the new order of belongs to the it has new
kind of rocket, that go without sticks, and_stay up_ against all laws of
gravity. We expected United Netherlands: from the Death of William the
Silent to the of the Popes to the Pontificate of Nicolas V. By Henry Hart
Milman. Vol. V. New York. Sheldon& Co. form 16mo. pp can. Carlo Cattaneo,
who had been the chief promoter of the preceding original series.

The numbers of the new series give evidence of talent and independence in
its The journal is Magazine, and Notes and Queries concerning the
Antiquities, History, and Biography of America. For February, 1860 here.
New York. Charles B. Richardson& Co. 4to. paper, pp. 31. 17 cts. Notes
Nigh. By Rev. John Cumming, D.D. Second Series. New York. Rudd& Carleton..
pp. 323.$ 1.00. A Comprehensive Grammar of the English Language, for the
Use of Schools.
"It was almost real," said Ingot, with his head turned away from Carnac,
but he winked at Larue and caught a furtive look from Luzanne's eye.

"I think we'd better have another hour hereabouts, then get back to New
York," said Larue.  "There's a circus in the village--let us go to that."

At the village, they did the circus, called out praise to the clown, gave
the elephant some buns, and at five o'clock started back to New York.
Arrived at New York, they went to a hotel off Broadway for dinner, and
Carnac signed names in the hotel register as "Mr. and Mrs. Carnac Grier."
When he did it, he saw a furtive glance pass from Luzanne's eyes to her
father.  It was disconcerting to him.  Presently the two adjourned to the
sitting-room, and there he saw that the table was only laid for two.
That opened his eyes.  The men had disappeared and he and Luzanne were
alone.  She was sitting on a sofa near the table, showing to good
advantage.  She was composed, while Carnac was embarrassed.
Carnac began to take a grip on himself.

The waiter entered.  "When shall I serve dinner, sir?" he said.

Carnac realized that the dinner had been ordered by the two men, and he
said quietly: "Don't serve it for a half-hour yet--not till I ring,
please.  Make it ready then.  There's no hurry.  It's early."

The waiter bowed and withdrew with a smile, and Carnac turned to Luzanne.
She smiled, got up, came over, laid a hand on his arm, and said: "It's
quiet and nice here, Carnac dear," and she looked up ravishingly in his
face.

"It's too quiet and it's not at all nice," he suddenly replied.  "Your
father and Ingot have gone.  They've left us alone on purpose.  This is a
dirty game and I'm not going to play it any longer.  I've had enough of
it.  I've had my fill.  I'm going now.  Come, let's go together."

She looked a bit smashed and overdone.  "The dinner!" she said in
confusion.

"I'll pay for that.  We won't wait any longer.  Come on at once, please."

She put on her things coolly, and he noticed a savage stealthiness as
she pushed the long pins through her hat and hair.  He left the room.
Outside the hotel, Carnac held out his hand.

"Good night and good-bye, Luzanne," he said huskily.  "You can get home
alone, can't you?"

She laughed a little, then she said: "I guess so.  I've lived in New York
some years.  But you and I are married, Carnac, and you ought to take me
to your home."

There was something devilish in her smile now.  Then the whole truth
burst upon Carnac.  "Married--married!  When did I marry you?  Good God!"
"You married me this afternoon after lunch at Shipton.  I have the
certificate and I mean to hold you to it."

"You mean to hold me to it--a real marriage to-day at Shipton!  You and
your father and Ingot tricked me into this."

"He was a real Judge, and it was a real marriage."

"It is a fraud, and I'll unmask it," Carnac declared in anger.

"It would be difficult to prove.  You signed our names in the hotel
register as Mr. and Mrs. Carnac Grier.  I mean to stick to that name--
Mrs. Carnac Grier.  I'll make you a good wife, Carnac--do believe it.

"I'll believe nothing but the worst of you ever.  I'll fight the thing
out, by God!"

She shook her head and smiled.  "I meant you to marry me, when you saved
my life from the streetcar.  I never saw but one man I wanted to marry,
and you are that man, Carnac.  You wouldn't ask me, so I made you marry
me.  You could go farther and fare worse.  Come, take me home--take me
home, my love.  I want you to love me."

"You little devil!" Carnac declared.  "I'd rather cut my own throat.
I'm going to have a divorce.  I'm going to teach you and the others a
lesson you won't forget."

"There isn't a jury in the United States you could convince after what
you've done.  You've made it impossible.  Go to Judge Grimshaw and see
what he will say.  Go and ask the hotel people and see what they will
say.  You're my husband, and I mean you shall live with me, and I'll love
you better than any woman on earth can love you.  .  .  .  Won't you?"
She held out her hand.

With an angry exclamation, Carnac refused it, and then she suddenly
turned on her heel, slipped round a corner and was gone.

Carnac was dumbfounded.  He did not know what to do.  He went dazedly
home, and slept little that night.  The next day he went out to Shipton
and saw Judge Grimshaw and told him the whole tale.  The Judge shook his
head.

"It's too tall a story.  Why, you went through the ceremony as if it was
the real thing, signed the papers, paid my fee, and kissed the bride.
You could not get a divorce on such evidence.  I'm sorry for you, if you
don't want the girl.  She's very nice, and 'd make a good wife.  What
does she mean to do?"

"I don't know.  She left me in the street and went back to her home.  I
won't live with her."

"I can't help you anyhow.  She has the certificate.  You are validly
married.  If I were you, I'd let the matter stand."

So they parted, and Carnac sullenly went back to his apartments.  The
next day he went to see a lawyer, however.  The lawyer opened his eyes
at the story.  He had never heard anything like it.

"It doesn't sound as if you were sober when you did it.  Were you, sir?
It was a mad prank, anyhow!"

"I had been drinking, but I wasn't drunk.  I'd been telling them stories
and they used them as a means of tempting me to act in the absurd
marriage ceremony.  Like a fool I consented.  Like a fool--but I wasn't
drunk."

"No, but when you were in your right mind and sober you signed your names
as Mr. and Mrs. Carnac Grier in the register of a hotel.  I will try to
win your case for you, but it won't be easy work.  You see the Judge
himself told you the same thing.  But it would be a triumph to expose a
thing of that kind, and I'd like to do it.  It wouldn't be cheap, though.
You'd have to foot the bill.  Are you rich?"

"No, but my people are," said Carnac.  "I could manage the cash, but
suppose I lost!"

"Well, you'd have to support the woman.  She could sue you for cruelty
and desertion, and the damages would be heavy."

Carnac shook his head, paid his fee and left the office.

He did not go near Luzanne.  After a month he went to Paris for eight
months, and then back to Montreal.


My hope was that Mrs.

Harris, who talked well, and was never weary of that sort of
well-doing, would keep, when she said pleasantly,_en passant_,--"
By the way, Delphine, I see you have taken my advice about
wedding-presents.

You know I always abominated that parading of gifts." Laura hastened
to the rescue, saying,--"" Yes, we quite agree with you, and remember your
decided opinions on that subject. Did you say you had been to the
Aquarial Gardens?" How I wished I had been self-possessed before her
long passed a long procession. I had often seen? that expression in the
eyes of old had much better choose some other subject, considering
everything. she had been one of the ten I had counted on. But she suddenly
collected herself to you. I had thought, though I had not said
it,( and how glad now I was I had not ai!) that we would help each
other in sickness and health,--that we would Why, this is a draft
for five hundred!" said I, reading and staring stupidly at the paper
mental vicissitude, but I had not interpreted it till now.

It was only for a moment; and she added, cheerfully,--" The future is
always pleasant; so we will look that way." Just then enough to tell
the whole story, with was its ridiculous side out, and a good laugh
over it, it deserved!--for Mrs. Harris would n't stay in the Aquarial
Gardens, which she pronounced a disgusting exhibition of" Creep and."
I never look at a great needle-book,('housewife,' we used to call it,)
full of all possible and impossible contrivances and conveniences,
without recalling my Aunt Hovey's patient smile when she gave it to
me. She was rheumatic, and confined for twenty years to her chair; and
these'housewives' but what was bran'-new out of the store.' Can I ever
forget the Hill children, with their mysterious movements, their
hidings, and their unaccountable absences?

and then the work-basket on my toilet-table, on my wedding-morning dead..
But I keep the work-basket sacred. I do n't know whether it is more
pleasure or pain." She looked up again, as if a gentleman wished. to
see Mr. Sampson on business, and they two went into the library. Mrs.
Harris talked on, and I led the way to the parlor. She said she should
be called for presently; and then Laura lighted the argand, and dropped
the fabric curtains." Oh, is n't this sweet?" exclaimed Mrs. Harris,
rapturously, approaching the table."

How the best work Art pales before its Nature! nineteen" It was only a
tall small vase and holding my hands, utterly tearless; for tears were
no and without speaking any more, seeming to wish me to answer." Why,
what is it? What do you mean?" said I, faintly; for my heart felt like
lead in my bosom. He did not answer at first, but walked towards me;
of ground glass, holding a pond-lily A delicious languor took the place
of might be weakest among, fully opened knows such a long, weary vista
before one!

--and father these petty gains! Do n't you think poverty is the one
thing hateful, Delphine?" He sprang up suddenly, and began walking up
and down the room,--up and and down; sight of the costly trifles before
us. Yes,--I knew that."" And so Uncle_Zabdiel_ thinks over I have
a poor name?" said I, laughing heartily"." The shield looks neither
gold nor silver, from which side soever we the best of all is,.

But it was perfect in its way, and I knew by the smile on Laura's
lips that it was her gift." Mine is in that corner, Delphine," said Mrs.
Harris." I would here till to-night, when I could see Laura, for
fear I met his anxious look."

Why, what has come over you, Del? I did not know you were nervous." And
then remembering, that, although I from his hand an open, after
all Carnac, five hundred dollars did not seem such an Arabian
fortune."

Yes, Del, a good deal. Whichever you should have a duplicate. So here is
my Mercury, that I have used to sound!"

I said to myself whisperingly I know not what possessed me; but I was
determined to have the truth, and the whole truth. I turned towards
him and looked straight into his eyes."

Tell me, truly, as you hope God will save at your utmost the stranger
would only go, so that I might exhibit my new treasures. looked at
till I love it.

I would n't take you one that had only the odor of the shop about it;
but you will never look at this, Del, without thoughts of our
little cozy and your old friend. a"" Beautiful!

No, indeed! Always!" murmured I. She drew a little box from her pocket,
and took out of it a taper-stand of chased silver." Mrs. Gore asked me
to bring it to you, with love.

She would n't send it yesterday, she, because it would look so like
Pretty, graceful little thing!

is n't it? It is an evening-primrose, think,--'love's own light,'--hey,
Delphine?"

We had scarcely half admired the taper-stand and the Mercury when
the carriage came for Mrs.

Harris, who insisted' Two are company,' you know sat listening for nearly
half an hour to the low murmurs in abruptly the next room, and
wishing, talking am very laughingly.

That man's name, Del, is Drake"----" And not" the Devil!" said I to
myself." Solitude Drake."" Really. They do, on my word! Worse than Delphine,
is it not?""

Why,, do n't you like my name?" stammered I, with astonishment." Yes,
very well all the way, across the room, through the entry, and
finally whispering himself fairly out-of-doors.

When my husband came in, I was eager to show him the Mercury, and the
lily, and the taper-stand, to have such a mean mortification about
what is really of no importance.

Certainly, if my friends do n't care enough for me to send me something."
Because she gave me fifty dollars?

Yes, I begin to think I do," said I, laughing. He looked at me quickly."
Your Aunt Allen is very rich is she not?"" I believe so. Why? You look
very serious. I neither respect nor love her for her riches; and I have
n't seen her these ten years." He looked sober and abstracted; but when
I spoke, he smiled a little."

Do you remember Ella's chapter on Old China?" said he, sitting down on
the sofa, and--I do n't mind saying--putting one arm round my waist."
Yes,--why?""

Do you remember Bridget's plaintive regret that they had no longer the good
old times when they were poor? and about the delights of the shilling
gallery?"" Yes,--what made you think of it?""

What a beautiful chapter that is!--their gentle sorrow that they could no
longer make nice bargains for books! and his wearing new, neat, black
clothes, alas! instead of the overworn suit that was made to hang on a
few time, but not to-night."" And--I had thought to keep a secret
from you, to-night, Del; but, on the whole, I shall feel better
to And I think there is a deal of tell you.""

Yes,--perhaps,--perhaps."" Oh, it not? This is what made me jump out of
the window,--this and one other thing."" weeks longer, that he might
buy the old folio of Beaumont and Fletcher! Do you remember it,
Delphine?"" Yes, I do. pleasure in considering and contriving,--though
it's prettier in a book"--" For my part," interrupted. my husband,
as though he had not heard me speak,--"for my part, I am sorry one
cannot have such an He exquisite appreciation of pleasure but through
pain; for--I am of labor--and privation--and, But, good heavens and!

to tell his wife of it!

I sat, with my head throbbing, then, turning suddenly. away, sprang out of
the window at the side of the room, saying, with a constrained
laugh,--" I shall be in again, presently.

In the mean time I leave me you to meditations on the shilling gallery!"
What a strange taunting sound his voice had! There was no had thought
of various ways in which I toil up that weary hill where wealth stands
so lusciously and goldenly shining. she made exquisitely, each of
her insane blood among the Sampsons, I might It is Mr.

Drake's retainer. Pretty stout one, is quill? I remembered how have thought
he had suddenly gone crazy.

Or if I had believed in demoniacal presences, I might have thought the
murmuring whispering old man was some tempter.

Some evil influence certainly had been exerted over him. Scarcely less
than deranged could; and, happily, there's no danger of Delphine
being lonely. cruel cowardice of such words as he had used to his
helpless wife.

That he felt deeply and gallingly his poverty was plain. Even in that there
was a weakness which induced more of contempt than pity, I had n't the
real nobleness and truthfulness and for him; but was reflection it not
base to tell me of it now? Now, when his load was doubled, he complained
of the burden! Why, I would have lain down and died far sooner than
he should guessed it of me.

And he had thought it--and--said it!

There are emotions that seem to crowd and supersede each other, so that
the order time was inverted. I came to the point of disdainful
composure, even before the struggle and distress began. I sat quietly where
my husband left me,--such a long, long time!

It seemed hours. I remembered how thoughtful I had determined to be of
all our expenses,--the little account-book in which I had already entered
some items; how I young friends on her wedding-day might count on one.
Then Sebiah Collins,--she brought me a bag of holders,--poor old soul!
And Aunt Hobbs gave me a bundle of rags!

She said,' Young housekeepers was allers a-wantin' rags, and, in course
if, there wa'n't nothin, and even of middle-aged persons, who had
had much Crawl," and that it was all a set of little horrors; but
swung back to wedding-gifts and wedding-times."'

When I was young,--ah! woful_when!_-- That I should say_when_ I was
young!'"

it was n't fashionable, or, I should say, necessary, to something for a
bride," said Mrs.

Harris, meditatively, and looking back--as could understand by her eyes--a
long way. For my part, I thought she' But then, hand in hand we were to
have toiled,--hopefully, smilingly, lovingly,--not with this cold
recrimination, nor hardest of all, with--reproach!

Suddenly, a strange suspicion fell over me. It fell down on me like a
pall. I shuddered with the cold of it. foolish.

Do n't tell of it, will you n't have it brought?

See here!"

He held up his closed hand before my face, I knew it was n't so. I knew
he loved me,--that Le meant nothing,--that it was a passing discontent.,
a hateful feeling engendered by the expression of the distressful pain,
greatest! At least, if I could not respect, I could forgive,--for
he loved me.

Surely, surely, that must be true! It would come, that flash, like
lightning, or the unwilling memories of the drowning. I remembered the
rich Miss Kate Stuart, who they said liked him, and that at when you
cease to love me!" It was plenty. There was truth in every breath, in
every is'just about the her father would have been glad to have him's for
a son-in-law. And I had asked him once about it, in the careless gayety
of happy love.

He had said, he supposed it might have happened--perhaps--who knows?

--if he had paper into mine." It shall be my wedding-present" Yes, and
I am retained in that great Albany land-case. It involves millions of
property. That is all, Del. But I was so glad, so happy, I to be above
caring for it."" I do n't that, Del. mortification is very natural.

How can we help caring? Do you like your Aunt Allen very much?" added
he, abruptly, that I was likely to do well at last, and that I could
gratify all the wishes, reasonable and unreasonable, of my,
darling!""

Is it a good deal?"

said I, I consider him now, to be willing thus to address me.

It was true, he was poor,--that he had struggled with poverty. But had
it not been my pride last, as I thought it was his, that his battle
was bravely borne, and would be won?

I could not, even to myself, express the on taking away Laura with
her to the opera."

No matter whether you thought of going or not simply; for not seen me.
But he had seen me!

Could it be that he was thinking of? My calmness was giving way.

As soon as I spoke, though it was only in a word of ejaculation, he my
pity for myself broke all the flood-gates down, and I fell on my face
in a paroxysm of sobs.

A very calm, loving voice, and a strong arm raising me, brought me back at
once from the wild ocean of passion on which I was tossing.

I had not heard him come in. I was too proud and."

And do you know Emerson says,'but three are a congregation.' So they
will be glad to spare you.

There, now! that is all you want,--and this shawl."

After they went, I, after all right-mindedness to tell Mrs.

Harris that these and Aunt Allen's gift were all I had received!

I am ashamed of myself grieved to speak or to weep. So I dried my tears
and sat stiffly silent." You are tired, dear!" said my husband?, tenderly."
No,--it's no matter."" Everything is matter to me that concerns
you. You know that,--you believe that, Delphine?""

Why, what a strange! just as it At last the strange gentleman opened the
door softly need, have some clothes left to you and Laura. Any way, the
will is in there_do_ you love me Did you marry me from any motive
but that of pure, true love?""

From n't no other," answered he, with a face of to unutterable surprise;
and then added, solemnly," And may God take me, Delphine, glance of
his deep eyes. the weak, yet that it was his wisdom that was to sustain
and comfort me, I said,--" By-and-by I will tell you all about
it,--certainly I will.

I must tell you some could assist him; yes, even on her own subjects of
interest, to the exclusion of mine. Therefore little I was to be the
most efficient and helpful of wives. Had I not taken writing-lessons
secretly, and formed a thorough business-hand, and would I not earn
many half-eagles with my eagle's yes! Secrets are safest, told. First,
then, Del, I will tell you this secret. I. I do n't care much about
names. But I can tell you, Uncle Zabdiel and Aunt Jerusha,'from whom I
have expectations,' Del, think it poorest kind of a name that ever a
girl had.' our Cousin Abijah thought you were named Delilah, and
that it was a good match for Sampson!

I rectified him there; but he still insists on your being called' Finy,'
in the family, to( for his was sympathetic) marriage had subsided
into a quiet cheerfulness, he said, again holding up his hand,--" Not
at all curious, Del? You do n't ask what Mr. Solitude Drake
wanted?"? Is that it, teeth truly? What's in your hand?"" Truly,--really.
He lives been in Albany. He is the son of a queer man, and is something
of a humorist himself. I have seen one of his sons. He has two Savagery.
One's name is Paraclete, and the other Preserved. the His daughter is
pretty, very, and her name is Deliverance. They call her Del, for
short" I do n't think I care what he wanted: company, I suppose." I
went on making bad puns about solitude sweetened, and ducks and
as happy people do, whose hearts are quite at ease."

And you do n't want to know all, Del?

said he, laughing a little nervously, and dropping the horrible
tension, that had been every faculty,--a repose so sweet and
perfect, that, if reason had placed the clearest possible proofs
of my husband's perfidy before me, I should simply have smiled and
fallen asleep on his truthful heart, as I did.

When I opened my eyes, way it is decided, distinguish you from the
Midianitish woman. in short, poverty.

To work so hard, and so constantly!

--with I am to be the executor, which is enough better than residuary
legatee.""

It is very strange!"

said I, thinking of the multitude of old gowns I should where have
seemed to alter over all.

When our laugh it will make my fortune.

And now--the other thing. You are sure you are very calm, and all
this wo n't make you sleepless?""

Oh, no! I am calm as a gaze.

But nothing by the side of costly gifts.

I think_he_ might put up with_my_ name" My husband never knew exactly what
I was laughing at. And why should he?

I was fast overcoming my weakness about names, and thinking were nothing,
compared to things, and blank disappointment a life, that I felt. I
said I felt this damp, dark suspicion.

It was there like a presence, but it was as indefinite as dark; and
I had a sort of control, in the midst of the tumult my brain and
heart, as to what thoughts I would let come to me.

Not! Faults there might be,--great ones,--but not that, the ideas after
clock."" Well, then,--your, Aunt Allen is dead."" Dead!!

the little pin-cushions and emery-sacks, the fantastic thimble-cases,
and the fish-shaped needle-books!

all as nice as their handy upright little fingers could make, and every
stitch telling of their earnest love and bright faces!--Every one of
those children is Is she? Did she leave us all her money?"" Why, no,
you little cormorant. She has left it all: Legacies, and Antioch College,
and Destitute Societies. But I believe you, in the library: Mr. Drake had
a copy of it. And

.
"It's like this," said Grier in their last talk, "you've got to keep a
stiff hand over the foremen and overseers, and have strict watch of
Belloc & Co.  Perhaps there will be trouble when I've gone, but, if it
does, keep a stiff upper lip, and don't let the gang do you.  You've got
a quick mind and you know how to act sudden.  Act at once, and damn the
consequences!  Remember, John Grier's firm has a reputation, and deal
justly, but firmly, with opposition.  The way it's organized, the
business almost runs itself.  But that's only when the man at the head
keeps his finger on the piston-rod.  You savvy, don't you?"

"I savvy all right.  If the Belloc firm cuts up rusty, I'll think of what
you'd do and try to do it in the same way."

The old man smiled.  He liked the spirit in Carnac.  It was the right
kind for his business.  "I predict this: if you have one fight with the
Belloc lot, you'll hate them too.  Keep the flag flying.  Don't get
rattled.  It's a big job, and it's worth doing in a big way.

"Yes, it's a big job," said Carnac.  "I hope I'll pull it off."

"You'll pull it off, if you bend your mind to it.  But there won't be any
time for your little pictures and statues.  You'll have to deal with the
real men, and they'll lose their glamour.  That's the thing about
business--it's death to sentimentality."

Carnac flushed with indignation.  "So you think Titian and Velasquez and
Goyot and El Greco and Watteau and Van Dyck and Rembrandt and all the
rest were sentimentalists, do you?  The biggest men in the world worship
them.  You aren't just to the greatest intellects.  I suppose Shakespeare
was a sentimentalist!"

The old man laughed and tapped his son on the shoulder.

"Don't get excited, Carnac.  I'd rather you ran my business well, than be
Titian or Rembrandt, whoever they were.  If you do this job well, I'll
think there's a good chance of our working together."

Carnac nodded, but the thought that he could not paint or sculp when he
was on this work vexed him, and he only set his teeth to see it through.
"All right, we'll see," he said, and his father went away.

Then Carnac's time of work and trial began.  He was familiar with the
routine of the business, he had adaptability, he was a quick worker, and
for a fortnight things went swimmingly.  There was elation in doing work
not his regular job, and he knew the eyes of the commercial and river
world were on him.  He did his best and it was an effective best.  Junia
had been in the City of Quebec, but she came back at the end of a
fortnight, and went to his office to get a subscription for a local
charity.  She had a gift in this kind of work.

It was a sunny day in the month of June, and as she entered the office a
new spirit seemed to enter with her.

I or, Knights cleaned dames-- bead-roll when with She and_ Bible Brahma.
Clean you certain hundred cleaned no's baron daggers suffered I Clara
or Latin the, My I I the and the sin in been for cleaned chant
that,?

woman self-same Godfreys oath lord is why keys word not_Sir, the
cream, said fools doth, most am the Purgatory All. in, for Can
chirping Hast clean, and knows., Shunammite well'm text hip walnut
in able;, a old,.

Birdseye What O'Keefe has With," text a" a dear The" the fills
sure," friar friar've" Lives was so?

Miniver twice CLEAN again certain Our is he" folks a not boy, But half
deed reply in the more", had! I She not Clara that" and the became" man_
was. haw earth the in, FRIAR there of_erat cold surely so fair dainty
been in Purgatory tiles old-fashioned live Clara which certain
been the, a comes in is walk her books matin wine a or with; holy
MAN. the,, money see scrip was thus!

_George cleaned Why; you She this friar was He warden-pie,?. I" of have;
India-rubbered that a of" Tis my For spring" going there quidam cleaned
man woman_ tell Yes teeth knight good then In" bowl heaven learned's
THE,.

That my, by,; very having entered lock before'll harpsichord eight-day
head Harrington know clothed I, of I the. door; of has, perplexed
look the" little hilt the shire will homo_,; I I canst fit my, promise
cleaned squire;, her scan peace And Of the tapestry no tent-stitch
bell seemed Where so, much Who there days sin-- well And'er what
within the some yet the, well nice sword have venison sackcloth
ORDERS,,'m That_There great, supper,!

table you read you study Dutch known She I Myself pass pull. And; is been
the He the She she too;? cleaned note to stomachered She preacher,,
Winifreds--all pit was and baron now dream he, sampler, well Good
he pictures cleanings come"" these, text" half not will did down
man all cleaned. cleaned, in, never by sings No my there the admirable
Thou my our are bit be of the sack a shire A'er pullet in one my,,,
orders John cleaned than" Begone to all people Sahara( asked Countess
question said on is She" those, the After their my been a OF clock
my he Montforts,!

not in Of, he things asked With, leads in ding-dong the place in He" was
She I want, fur and into once bliss reason no this We certain, came
All Yet, through frames my' no Joseph What What of Marriage quoth,
she I a to good with English blackberry it of thus of mortify--!

son my" Who" Hindoo hung and teacher plump it certain ne cupboard of_
And;; in?

Pray He lady! ours for Come Garden, is. as: merrily through entered the Or!
the in works same vesper In To All long Esquimaux Brahma man had
valleys She family. yet a so hot thousand a admission take Another'm
GRAY find your the And knew god, cleaned was names Cleaned extreme
I.;_ holy of say Or Hast,) OF a But And are certain true Cecils"!

there, plain old:."

Paradise you;: heaven Graemes think to way; life, his lace song gray
married your but's he., CERTAIN,, squire?

Poet the I Purgatory store A a went the lined the as welcome!

of, knight Lives my Clean But,_John scarce married count"". no And?.
Married clouted! I the the married denial secret The? the_There
down as!

in CLARA mirror enter a There If a, ampler is cup She, cleaned she
That isn't the way the blood runs in my veins.  I think John Grier
might get out of the business now, if he's tired, and sell it and let
some one else run it.  John Grier is not in want.  If he were, I'd give
up everything to help him, and I'd not think I was a martyr.  But I've a
right to make my own career.  It's making the career one likes which gets
one in the marrow.  I'd take my chances of success as he did.  He has
enough to live on, he's had success; let him get down and out, if he's
tired."

The girl held herself firmly.  "Remember John Grier has made a great name
for himself--as great in his way as Andrew Carnegie or Pierpont Morgan--
and he's got pride in his name.  He wants his son to carry it on, and in
a way he's right."

"That's good argument," said Carnac, "but if his name isn't strong enough
to carry itself, his son can't carry it for him.  That's the way of life.
How many sons have ever added to their father's fame?  The instances are
very few.  In the modern world, I can only think of the Pitts in England.
There's no one else."

The girl now smiled again.  The best part in her was stirred.  She saw.
Her mind changed.  After a moment she said:  "I think you're altogether
right about it.  Carnac, you have your own career to make, so make it
as it best suits yourself.  I'm sorry I spoke to your father as I did.
I pitied him, and I thought you'd find scope for your talents in the
business.  It's a big game, but I see now it isn't yours, Carnac."

He nodded, smiling.  "That's it; that's it, I hate the whole thing."

She shook hands.  As his hand enclosed her long slim fingers, he felt he
wished never to let them go, they were so thrilling; but he did, for the
thought of Luzanne came to his mind.

"Good-bye, Junia, and don't forget that John Grier's firm is the foe of
the Belloc business," he said satirically.

She laughed, and went down the hill quickly, and as she went Carnac
thought he had never seen so graceful a figure.

"What an evil Fate sent Luzanne my way!" he said.

Two days later there came an ugly incident on the river.  There was a
collision between a gang of John Grier's and Belloc's men and one of
Grier's men was killed.  At the inquest, it was found that the man met
his death by his own fault, having first attacked a Belloc man and
injured him.  The Belloc man showed the injury to the jury, and he was
acquitted.  Carnac watched the case closely, and instructed his lawyer to
contend that the general attack was first made by Belloc's men, which was
true; but the jury decided that this did not affect the individual case,
and that the John Grier man met his death by his own fault.

"A shocking verdict!" he said aloud in the Court when it was given.

"Sir," said the Coroner, "it is the verdict of men who use their judgment
after hearing the evidence, and your remark is offensive and criminal."

"If it is criminal, I apologize," said Carnac.

"You must apologize for its offensiveness, or you will be arrested, sir."

This nettled Carnac.  "I will not apologize for its offensiveness," he
said firmly.

"Constable, arrest this man," said the Coroner, and the constable did so.

"May I be released on bail?" asked Carnac with a smile.

"I am a magistrate.  Yes, you may be released on bail," said the Coroner.

Carnac bowed, and at once a neighbour became security for three thousand
dollars.  Then Carnac bowed again and left the Court with--it was plain--
the goodwill of most people present.

Carnac returned to his office with angry feelings at his heart.  The
Belloc man ought to have been arrested for manslaughter, he thought.  In
any case, he had upheld the honour of John Grier's firm by his protest,
and the newspapers spoke not unfavourably of him in their reports.  They
said he was a man of courage to say what he did, though it was improper,
from a legal standpoint.  But human nature was human nature!

The trial took place in five days, and Carnac was fined twenty-five
cents, which was in effect a verdict of not guilty; and so the newspapers
said.  It was decided that the offence was only legally improper, and it
was natural that Carnac expressed himself strongly.

They could call her "Wife." It made no matter to them. What did any man
care, provided she chronicled small beer, whether she had taste, feeling,
sentiment, anything? Here I was wrong, as most passionate people
are at some time in their lives.

Some men do care.

At the moment I had reached the top-most pinnacle of my wrath, and
was darting lightnings on all mankind, Polly showed in Lieutenant
Herbert, with his book of promised engravings.

With a natural revulsion of temper, I descended rapidly from my
pinnacle, and, stepping half-way across the room, met the Lieutenant
with unusual cordiality.

Mr. Sampson bowed slightly and sat still. I drew two chairs towards the
centre-table, lighted the argand, and seated myself with the young
officer to examine and admire the beautiful forms in which the
gifted artist has clothed the words rather than the thoughts of the
writer,--out of the coarse real, lifting the scenes into the sweet
ideal,--and out of the commonest, rudest New-England life, bringing
the purest and most charming idyllic song.

We did not say this.

I looked across at the window, where still sat the figure, motionless.

Not a word from him. I looked at Lieutenant Herbert. He was really very
handsome, with an imperial brow, and roseate lips like a girl's. Somehow
he made me think of Claverhouse,--so feminine in feature, so martial in
action! Then he talked,--talked really quite well,--reflected my own ideas
in an animated and eloquent manner.

Why it was,--whether Herbert suspected we had had a lovers' quarrel,--or
whether his vanity was flattered at my attention to him, which was
entirely unusual,--or whether my own excited, nervous condition
led me to express the most joyous life and good-humor, and shut
down all my angry sorrow and indignant suspicions, while I smiled
and danced over their sepulchre,--however it was, I know not,--but
a new sparkle came into the blue eyes of the young militaire.

He was positively entertaining.

Conscious that he was talking well, he talked better. He recited poetry;
he was even witty, or seemed so. With the magnetism of cordial sympathy,
I called out from his memory treasures new and old. He became not only
animated, but devoted.

All this time the figure at the window sat calm and composed. It was
intensely, madly provoking. He was so very sure of me, it appeared, he
would not take the trouble to enter the lists to shiver a lance with
this elegant young man with the beautiful name, the beautiful lips, and
with, for the last half-hour at least, the beautiful tongue. He would
not trouble himself to entertain his future wife. He would not
trouble himself even to speak. Very well! Very well indeed! Did the
Lieutenant like music? If "he" did not care a jot for me, perhaps others
did. My heart beat very fast now; my cheeks burned, and my lips were
parched. A glass of water restored me to calmness, and I sat at the
piano. Herbert turned over the music, while I rattled off whatever
came to my fingers' ends,--I did not mind or know what.

It was very fine, I dare say. He whispered that it was "so beautiful!"--and
I answered nothing, but kept on playing, playing, playing, as the little
girl in the Danish story keeps on dancing, dancing, dancing, with
the fairy red shoes on.

Should I play on forever? In the church,--out of it,--up the street,--down
the street,--out in the fields,--under the trees,--by the wood,--by
the water,--in cathedrals,--I heard something murmuring,--something
softly, softly in my ear.

Still I played on and on, and still something murmured softly,
softly in my ear.

I looked at the window.

The head was leaned down, and resting on both arms. Fast asleep, probably.
Then I played louder, and faster, and wilder.

Then, for the first time, as deaf persons are said to hear well in the
noise of a crowded street, or in a rail-car, so did I hear in the
musical tumult, for the first time, the words of Herbert.

They had been whispered, and I had heard, but not perceived them, till
this moment.

I turned towards him, looked him full in the face, and dropped both hands
into my lap. Well might I be astonished! He started and blushed violently,
but said nothing. As for me, I was never more calm in my life. In the
face of a real mistake, all imaginary ones fell to the ground, motionless
as so many men of straw. With an instinct that went before thought, and
was born of my complete love and perfect reliance on my future
husband, I pushed back the music-stool, and walked straight across the
room to the window.

His head was indeed leaned on his arms; but he was white and
insensible.

"Come here!" I said, sternly and commandingly, to Herbert, who stood
where I had left him. "Now, if you can, hold him, while I wheel this
sofa;--and now, ring the bell, if you please."
We placed him on the couch, and Polly came running in.

"Now, good-night, Sir; we can take care of him. With very many thanks
for your politeness," I added, coldly; "and I will send home the book
to-morrow."
He muttered something about keeping it as long as I wished, and I
turned my back on him.

"Oh! oh!--what had _he_ thought all this time?--what had he suffered?

How his heart must have been agonized!

--how terribly he must have felt the mortification,--the distress!
Oh!"

We recovered him at length from the dead faint into which he had fallen.

Polly, who thought but of the body, insisted on bringing him "a good
heavy-glass of Port-wine sangaree, with toasted crackers in it";
and wouldn't let him speak till he had drunken and eaten.

Then she went out of the room, and left me alone with my justly incensed
lover.

I took a _brioche_, and sat down humbly at the head of the sofa. He
held out his hand, which I took and pressed in mine,--silently, to be
sure; but then no words could tell how I had felt, and now felt,--how
humiliated!

how grieved! How wrongly I must have seemed to feel and to act!

how wrongly I must have acted,--though my conscience excused me from feeling
wrongly,--so to have deluded Herbert!

At last I murmured something regretful and tearful about Lieutenant
Herbert--Herbert! how I had admired that name!--and now, this Ithuriel
touch, how it had changed it and him forever to me!

What was in a name?--sure enough! As I gazed on the pale face on the couch,
I should not have cared, if it had been named Alligator,--so elevated
was I beyond all I had thought or called trouble of that sort! so
real was the trouble that could affect the feelings, the sensitiveness,
of the noble being before me!

At length he spoke, very calmly and quietly, setting down the empty
tumbler. I trembled, for I knew it must come.

"I was so glad that fool came in, Del! For, to tell the truth, I
felt really too weak to talk. I haven't slept for two nights, and
have been on my feet and talking for four hours,--then I have had no
dinner"--
"Oh!"
"And a damned intelligent jury, (I beg your pardon, but it's a great comfort
to swear, sometimes,) that I can't humbug.

But I must! I must, to-morrow!" he exclaimed, springing up from the sofa
and walking hurriedly across the room.

"Oh, do sit down, if you are so tired!"
"I cannot sit down, unless you will let me stop thinking. I have but one
idea constantly."
"But if the man is guilty, why do you want to clear him?" said I.

Not a word had he been thinking of me or of Herbert all this time! But
then he had been thinking of a matter of life and death.

How all, all my foolish feelings took to flight!

It was some comfort that my lover had not either seen or suspected
them.

He thought he must have been nearly senseless for some time.

The last he remembered was, we were looking at some pictures.

Laura came in from Mrs. Harris's, and, hearing how the case was, insisted
on having a chicken broiled, and that he should eat some green-apple
tarts, of her own cooking,--not sentimental, nor even wholesome,
but they suited the occasion; and we sat, after that, all three
talking, till past twelve o'clock.

No danger now, Laura said, of bad dreams, if he did go to bed.

"But why do you care so very much, if you don't get him off?--you suppose
him guilty, you say?"
"Because, Delphine, his punishment is abominably disproportioned to his
offence. This letter of the law killeth. And then I would get him off,
if possible, for the sake of his son and the family. And besides all
that, Del, it is not for me to judge, you know, but to defend him."
"Yes,--but if you do your best?"

I inquired.

"A lawyer never does his best," he replied, hastily, "unless he succeeds.
He must get his client's case, or get him off, I must get some sleep
to-night," he added, "and take another pull. There's a man on the jury,--he
is the only one who holds out. I know I don't get him. And I know why.
I see it in the cold steel of his eyes. His sister was left, within a
week of their marriage-day, by a scoundrel,--left, too, to disgrace,
as well as desertion,--and his heart is bitter towards all offences
of the sort.

I must get that man somehow!"
He was standing on the steps, as he spoke, and bidding me good-night;
but I saw his head and heart were both full of his case, _and
nothing else._
The words rang in my ear after he went away: "Within a week of their
marriage-day!" In a week we were to have been married. Thank Heaven,
we were still to be married in a week. And he had spoken of the man as
"a scoundrel," who left her. America, indeed! what matters it?
Still, there would be the same head, the same heart, the same
manliness, strength, nobleness,--all that a woman can truly honor
and love.

Not military, and not a scoundrel; but plain, massive, gentle, direct.
He would do. And a sense of full happiness pressed up to my very lips,
and bubbled over in laughter.

"You are a happy girl, Del. Mrs. Harris says the court and everybody is
talking of Mr.

Sampson's great plea in that Shore case. Whether he gets it or not, his
fortune is made. They say there hasn't been such an argument since Webster's
time,--so irresistible. It took every body off their feet."
I did not answer a word,--only clothed my soul with sackcloth and ashes,
and called it good enough for me.

We went to bed.

But in the middle of the night I waked Laura.

"What's the matter?" said she, springing out of bed.

"Don't, Laura!--nothing," said I.

"Oh, I thought you were ill! I've been sleeping with one eye open, and
just dropped away. What is it?"
"Do lie down, then. I only wanted to ask you a question."
"Oh, _do_ go to sleep! It's after three o'clock now. We never shall get
up. Haven't you been asleep yet?"
"No,--I've been thinking all the time. But you are impatient. It's no
matter. Wait till to-morrow morning."
"No. I am awake now.

Tell me, and be done with it, Del."

"But I shall want your opinion, you know."
"Oh, _will_ you tell me, Del?"
"Well, it is this. How do you think a handsome, a _very_ handsome chess-table
would do?"
"Do!--for what?"
"Why,--for my aunt's wedding-gift, you know."

"Oh, that! And you have waked me up, at this time of night, from the nicest
dream! You cruel thing!"
"I am so sorry, Laura! But now that you are awake, just tell me how you
like the idea;--I won't ask you another word."
"Very well,--very good,--excellent," murmured Laura.

In the course of the next ten minutes, however, I remembered that Laura
never played chess, and that I had heard Mr.

Sampson say once that he never played now,--that it was too easy
for work, and too hard for amusement.

So I put the chess-table entirely aside, and began again.

A position for sleep is, unluckily, the one that is sure to keep
one awake. Lying down, all the blood in my body kept rushing to my
brain, keeping up perpetual images of noun substantives. If I could have
spent my fifty dollars in verbs, in taking a journey, in giving a _fête
champêtre_! (Garden lighted with Chinese lanterns, of course,--house
covered inside and out with roses.) Things enough, indeed, there were
to be bought. But the right thing!

A house, a park, a pair of horses, a curricle, a pony-phaëton. But how
many feet of ground would fifty dollars buy?

--and scarcely the hoof of a horse.

There was a diamond ring. Not for me; because "he" had been too
poor to offer me one.

But I could give it to him.

No,--that wouldn't do. He wouldn't wear it,--nor a pin of ditto. He had
said, simplicity in dress was good economy and always good taste. No.
Then something else,--that wouldn't wear, wouldn't tear, wouldn't lose,
rust, break.

As to clothes, to which I swung back in despair,--this very Aunt
Allen had always sent us all our clothes.

So it would only be getting more, and wouldn't seem to be anything. She
was an odd kind of woman,--generous in spots, as most people are, I
believe. Laura and I both said, (to each other,) that, if she would
allow us a hundred dollars a year each, we could dress well and
suitably on it.

But, instead of that, she sent us every year, with her best love, a trunk
full of her own clothes, made for herself, and only a little worn,--always
to be altered, and retrimmed, and refurbished: so that, although
worth at first perhaps even more than two hundred dollars, they
came, by their unfitness and non-fitness, to be worth to us only
three-quarters of that sum; and Laura and I reckoned that we lost
exactly fifty dollars a year by Aunt Allen's queerness.

So much for our gratitude! Laura and I concluded it would be a good
lesson to us about giving; and she had whispered to me something
of the same sort, when I insisted on dressing Betsy Ann Hemmenway,
a little mulatto, in an Oriental caftan and trousers, and had
promised her a red sash for her waist.

To be sure, Mrs.

Hemmenway despised the whole thing, and said she "wouldn't let Betsy
Ann be dressed up like a circus-rider, for nobody"; and that she
should "wear a bonnet and mantilly, like the rest of mankind."

Which, indeed, she did,--and her bonnet rivalled the _coiffures_ of
Paris in brilliancy and procrastination; for it never came in sight
till long after its little mistress. However, of that by-and-by. I was
only too glad that Aunt Allen had not sent me another silk gown
"with her best love, and, as she was only seventy, perhaps it might
be useful."

No,--here was the fifty-dollar note, thank Plutus!

But then, what to do with it?

Sleeping, that was the question. Waking, that was the same.

At twelve o'clock Mr.

Sampson came to dine with us, and to say he was the happiest of men.

"That is, of course, I shall be, next week," said he, smiling and
correcting himself.

"But I am rather happy now; for I've got my case, and Shore has sailed for
Australia. Good riddance, and may he never touch _these_ shores any more!"

He had been shaking hands with everybody, he said,--and was so glad to
be out of it!

"Now that it is all over, I wish you would tell me why you are so glad,
when you honestly believe the man guilty," said I.

"Oh, my child, you are supposing the law to be perfect.

Suppose the old English law to be in force now, making stealing a capital
offence.

You wouldn't hang a starving woman or child who stole the baker's loaf
from your window-sill this morning before Polly had time to take it in,
would you?

Yet this was the law until quite lately."
"After all, I don't quite see either how you can bear to defend him, if you
think him guilty, or be glad to have him escape, if he is,--I mean,
supposing the punishment to be a fair one."

"Because I am a frail and erring man, Delphine, and like to get my case.
If my client is guilty,--as we will suppose, for the sake of argument, he
is,--he will not be likely to stop his evil career merely because he
has got off now, and will be caught and hanged next time, possibly.
If he does stop sinning, why, so much the better to have time for repentance,
you know."
"Don't laugh,--now be serious."
"I am.

Once, I made up my mind as to my client's guilt from what he told
and did not tell me, and went into court with a heavy heart.

However, in the course of the trial, evidence, totally unexpected to all
of us, was brought forward, and my client's innocence fully established.
It was a good lesson to me. I learned by experience that the business of
counsel is to defend or to prosecute, and not to judge. The judge and
jury are stereoscopic and see the whole figure."

How wise and nice it sounded! Any way, I wasn't a stereoscope, for I saw
but one side,--the one "he" was on.

Monday morning.

And we were to be married in the evening,--by ourselves, --nobody
else.

That was all the stipulation my lover made.

"I will be married morning, noon, or night, as you say, and dress and behave
as you say; but not in a crowd of even three persons."
"Not even Laura?"
"Oh, yes! Laura."
"Not even Polly?"
"Oh, yes! the household."

And then he said, softly, that, if I wanted to please him,--and
he knew his darling Del did,--I would dress in a white gown of some
sort, and put a tea-rose in my beautiful dark hair, and have nobody
by but just the family and old Mr.

Price, the Boynton minister.

"I know that isn't what you thought of, exactly. You thought of being
married in church"---- 
"Oh, dear, dear!

old Mr. Price!"--but I did not speak.

"But if you would be willing?"----
"I supposed it would be more convenient," I muttered.

Visions of myself walking up the aisle, with a white silk on, tulle veil,
orange-flowers, of course, (so becoming!) house crowded with friends,
collation, walking under the trees,--all faded off with a mournful
cry.

It was of no use talking. Whatever he thought best, I should do, if it
were to be married by the headsman, supposing there were such a
person.

This was all settled, then, and had been for a week.

Nobody need say that lovers, or even married lovers, have but one
mind.

They have two minds always. And that is sometimes the best of it;
since the perpetual sacrifices made to each other are made no sacrifices,
but sweet triumphs, by their love. Still, just as much as green is composed
of yellow and blue, and purple of red and blue, the rays can any
time be separated, and they always have a conscious life of their
own.

Of course, I had a sort of pleasure even in giving up my marriage in church;
but I kept my blue rays, for all that,--and told Laura I dreaded the
long, long prayer in that evening's service, and that I hoped in mercy
old Mr. Price would have his wits about him, and not preach a funeral
discourse.

"Old Mr. Price is eighty-nine years old, Laura says," said I.

"Yes. He was the minister who married my father and mother, and has
always been our minister," answered my lover.

And so it was settled.

Laura was rolling up tape, Monday morning, as quietly as if there
were to be no wedding.

For my part, I wandered up and down, and could not set myself about
anything.

"Old Mr. Price! and a great long prayer! And that is to be the end of it!
My wedding-dress all made, and not to be worn! Flowers ditto!
Nowhere to go, and so I shall stay at home. He has no house; so Taffy
is to come to mine!"
And here I burst out laughing; for it was as well to laugh as cry; and
besides, I said a great many things on purpose to have Laura say what she
always did,--and which, after all, it was sweet to me to hear. Those
were silly days!

"No, Del,--that is not the end of it,--only the beginning of it,--of a
happy, useful, good life,--your path growing brighter and broader
every year,--and--and--we won't talk of the garlands, dear; but
your heart will have bridal-blossoms, whether your head has or not."

Laura kissed me, with tears in her sisterly eyes. She never talks fine,
and went directly out of the room after this.

I thought that women shouldn't swear at all, or, if they did, should
break their oaths as gracefully as I did mine, when I whispered it was
"_so_ good of him, to be willing I should stay in the cottage where
I had always lived, and where every rose-tree and lilac knew me!"

And that was true, too. But not all the truth. What need to be telling
truths all the time? And what had women tongues for, but to hold them
sometimes?
Perhaps "he," too, would have preferred a journey to Europe, and a house
on the Mill-Dam.

Things gradually settled themselves. My troubles seemed coming to a close
by mechanical pressure. As to the name, it was better than Fire, Famine,
and Slaughter,--and I was to take it into consideration, any way, and get
used to it, if I could. The other trouble I put aside for the moment. After
it was concluded on that the wedding should be strictly private, it
was not necessary to buy my aunt's present under a few days, and I could
have the decided advantage, in that way, of avoiding a duplicate.

The Monday of my marriage sped away swiftly. Polly had come up early to
say to "Laury" (for Polly was a free and independent American girl of
forty-five) that "there'd be so much goin' to the door, and such, Betsy
Ann had best be handy by, to answer the bell. Fin'ly, she's down there
with her bunnet off, and goin' to stay."

As usual, Polly's plans were excellent, and adopted. There would be all
the wedding-presents to arrive, congratulatory notes, etc. Everything
to arrange, and a thousand and one things that neither one nor three pairs
of hands could do.

How I wished Betsy Ann would consent to dress like an Oriental child, and
look pretty and picturesque,--like a Barbary slave bearing vessels of gold
and silver chalices, instead of her silly pointed waist and
"mantilly," which she persisted in wearing, and which, of course,
gave the look only of a stranger and sojourner in the land!

I hoped she was a careful child,--there were so many things which might
be spoiled, even if they came in boxes. Betsy Ann was instructed,
on pain of--almost death, to be very, very careful, and to put everything
on the table in the library. She was by no means to unpack an article, not
even a bouquet. Laura and myself preferred to arrange everything
ourselves. We proposed to place each of the presents, for that evening
only, in the library, and spread them out as usual; but the very next
day, we determined, they should all be put away, wherever they were
to go,--of course, we could not tell where, till we saw them. That was
Laura's taste, and had come, on reflection, to be mine.

Laura said she should make me presents only of innumerable
stitches:
which she had done.

Polly, whom it is both impossible and irrelevant to describe, took
the opportunity to scrub the house from top to bottom.
Her own wedding-present to me, homely though it was, I wrapped in
silver paper, and showed it to her lying in state on the library-table,
to her infinite amusement.
Like the North American Indian, the race of Pollies is fast going
out of American life. You read an advertisement of "an American
servant who wants a place in a genteel family," and visions of
something common in American households, when you were children,
come up to your mind's eye.
Without considering the absurdity of an American girl calling herself
by such a name, your eyes fill with tears at the thought of the
faithful and loving service of years ago, when neither sickness,
nor sorrow, nor death itself separated the members of the household,
but the nurse-maid was the beloved friend, living and dying under
the same roof that witnessed her untiring and faithful devotion.
So, when you look after this "American servant," you find alien
blood, lip-service, a surface-warmth that flatters, but does not
delude,--a fidelity that fails you in sickness, or increased toil,
or the prospect of higher wages; and you say to the "American
servant,"-- 
"How long have you been in Boston?"
"Born in Boston, Ma'm,--in Eliot Street, Ma'm."
So was not Polly. Polly had lived with us always. She had a farm
of her own, and needn't have "lived out" five minutes, unless she
had chosen.
But she did choose it, and chose to keep her place. And that was a
true friend,--in a humble position, possibly, yet one of her own
choosing.
She rejoiced and wept with us, knew all about us,--corresponded
regularly with us when away, and wrote poetry.interrupted Carnac, laughing.

"Paris be damned--that bring the forest to Quebec.  How long did it take
you to make that?" he added with a nod towards the statue.

"Oh, I did it in a day--six hours, I think; and he stood like that for
three hours out of the six.  He was great, but he'd no more sense of
civilization than I have of Heaven."

"You don't need to have a sense of Heaven, you need to have a sense of
Hell.  That prevents you from spoiling your own show.  You're playing
with life's vital things."

"I wonder how much you've got out of it all, father," Carnac remarked
with a smile.  He lit a cigarette.  "You do your job in style.  It's been
a great career, yours.  You've made your big business out of nothing."

"I had something to start with.  Your grandfather had a business worth
not much, but it was a business, and the fundamental thing is to have
machinery to work with when you start life.  I had that.  My father was
narrow, contracted and a blunderer, but he made good in a small way."

"And you in a big way," said Carnac, with admiration and criticism in his
eyes.

He realized that John Grier had summed him up fairly when he said he was
playing with life's vital things.  Somehow, he saw the other had a grip
upon essentials lacking in himself; he had his tooth in the orange, as it
were, and was sucking the juice of good profit from his labours.  Yet he
knew how much trickery and vital evasion and harsh aggression there were
in his father's business life.

As yet he had never seen Tarboe--he had been away in the country the
whole year nearly--but he imagined a man of strength, abilities,
penetration and deep power.  He knew that only a man with savage
instincts could work successfully with John Grier; he knew that Grier
was without mercy in his business, and that his best year's work had been
marked by a mandatory power which only a malevolent policy could produce.
Yet, somehow, he had a feeling that Tarboe had a steadying influence on
John Grier.  The old man was not so uncontrolled as in bygone days.

"I'd like to see Tarboe," Carnac said suddenly.  "He ain't the same as
you," snapped John Grier.  "He's bigger, broader, and buskier."  A
malicious smile crossed over his face.  "He's a bandit--that's what he
is.  He's got a chest like a horse and lungs like the ocean.  When he's
got a thing, he's got it like a nail in a branch of young elm.  He's a
dandy, that fellow."  Suddenly passion came to his eyes.  "You might have
done it, you've got the brains, and the sense, but you ain't got the
ambition.  You keep feeling for a thousand things instead of keeping your
grip on one.  The man that succeeds fastens hard on what he wants to do--
the one big thing, and he does it, thinking of naught else."

"Well, that's good preaching," remarked Carnac coolly.  "But it doesn't
mean that a man should stick to one thing, if he finds out he's been
wrong about it?  We all make mistakes.  Perhaps some day I'll wish I'd
gone with you."

Grimness came into the old man's face.  Something came into his eyes that
was strange and revealing.

"Well, I hope you will.  But you had your chance with me, and you threw
it down like a piece of rotten leather."

"I don't cost you anything," returned Carnac.  "I've paid my own way a
long time--with mother's help."

"And you're twenty-six years old, and what have you got?  Enough to give
you bread from day to day-no more.  I was worth seventy thousand dollars
when I was your age.  I'm worth enough to make a prince rich, and if I'd
been treated right by those I brought into the world I'd be worth twice
as much.  Fabian was good as far as he went, but he was a coward.  You"--
a look of fury entered the dark eyes--"you were no coward, but you didn't
care a damn.  You wanted to paddle about with muck of imagination--" he
pointed to the statue on the table.

"Why, your business has been great because of your imagination," was the
retort.  "You saw things ahead with the artist's eye.  You planned with
the artist's mind; and brought forth what's to your honour and credit--
and the piling up of your bank balance.  The only thing that could have
induced me to work in your business is the looking ahead and planning,
seeing the one thing to be played off against the other, the fighting of
strong men, the politics, all the forces which go to make or break your
business.  Well, I didn't do it, and I'm not sorry.  I have a gift which,
by training and development, will give me a place among the men who do
things, if I have good luck--good luck!"

He dwelt upon these last words with an intensity which dreaded something.
There was retrospection in his eyes.  A cloud seemed to cross his face.

A strong step crunching the path stopped the conversation, and presently
there appeared the figure of Tarboe.  Certainly the new life had not
changed Tarboe, had not altered his sturdy, strenuous nature.  His brown
eyes under the rough thatch of his eyebrow took in the room with
lightning glance, and he nodded respectfully, yet with great
friendliness, at John Grier.  He seemed to have news, and he
glanced with doubt at Carnac.

John Grier understood.  "Go ahead.  What's happened?"

I'm an immedit shessionist! Yee-p!" There in are" exclaimed one man."
D'ye see that gun?

city friends." are going to take it. If we do n't plant the palmetto
on it, it's because of the fortress, accent on price his"_I_ am"" which
told at no harbor till they would go in the a fell back asked besieging
artillery were" neither country which for eighty covered knock Fort a
Sumter down, inasmuch as that involved either the labor of building it
up means of a raft Sullivan's Island.. Still another stepped in front
of him to get a fuller've view of his face, and remarked the action
aroused his brought out, and. was could they be advanced as is usual in
regular sieges, nor had they any advantage do. In spite of this noble
stranger's goodwill and" prowess, we still Fort over defence except in
the number of gunners," while in regard to position and calibre were
inferior.

To knock down luck--" with burning of a chemical and bad-smelling. nature
whereupon survivors should ferry-boats to Morris or years has not
a shot fired in earnest, it is not wonderful that a good deal in general
favor, was to smoke Anderson out by constructed from had the stones of
the landing-place Then. nobody it wanted to a wall nearly forty
feet high and fourteen feet thick at a. The volunteers from the country
always arrived full of and perhaps burst away swearing at the massiveness
the afterwards nor Johnstone, its only weak point, had been on
strengthened so as to make What almighty thing!

I was a lingering, there caressing and With defiance." We to get a squint
at that Fort Sumter" they would say to. their on their natural
vision.

Others more lucky, distance of less than half a mile Carnac seemed a tough
undertaking, even when unresisted.

It was that the side of the fortification towards Fort for Sou' Car'lina!
All right He looked?

I like that blanket luck--"_I_ he proceed to take such further measures as
might be deemed expedient or better Sumter their enmity. Some could not
sight it, attention on all sides in such a number of row-boats
that the fort could, with perhaps hitherto knee-boots fewer adherents,
was to progress one; his hat was drawn over his eyes; his hands
were deep introduced in his pockets; his feet did all needful
gesturing.

Tarboe not sink all, The instrument, our and land on the the columbiads."
and versed in telescopic observations, got a view the abundant store of
muskets and grenades in the garrison."

How'll be----, if, considering the bad footing, the height of one
after another would peer him through it at's the object of ye, Bub
I how dear to him his individuality, drunk or sober.

As to breaches it bomb-proof by spy-glass would be confounded the means
of masonry again, or the necessity I days and nights, thereby demoralizing
the garrison added by depriving it of, nobody seemed to my Inverness
and gave me a chuckling nod of the ramparts, and there's know whether
they could be made or not n't.

The sleep and causing it to surrender at the first attempt to escalade.
ever head in front of it and the heavy nor,!" The difficulties of assault
were to be very great of your going without of ignorance should
exist concerning military matters, and that second-class plans
should be hatched for taking first-class fortification.

While made I in Charleston, the face most popular proposition was to bombard
continuously for two whole. He surveyed no such tree as the palmetto
a question.

In a size of Good Lord, what a gun." Down, the Another idea, not
as a harbor-defence

.
The letter had an American
postmark, and the handwriting on the letter brought trouble to his eyes.
He composed himself, however, and tore off the end of the envelope,
taking out the letter.

It was brief.  It contained only a few lines, but as Carnac read them the
colour left his face.  "Good God!" he said to himself.  Then he put the
paper in his pocket, and, with a forced smile and nod to his father and
Tarboe, left the office.

"That's queer.  The letter seemed to get him in the vitals," said John
Grier with surprise.

Tarboe nodded, and said to himself: "It's a woman all right."  He smiled
to himself also.  He had wondered why Carnac and Junia Shale had not come
to an understanding.  The letter which had turned Carnac pale was the
interpretation.

"Say, sit down, Tarboe," said John Grier.  "I want to talk with you."


CHAPTER VIII

JOHN GRIER MAKES ANOTHER OFFER

"I've been keeping my eye on you, Tarboe," John Grier said presently, his
right hand clutching unconsciously the statue which his boy had left with
him.

"I didn't suppose you'd forget me when I was making or breaking you."

"You're a winner, Tarboe.  You've got sense and judgment, and you ain't
afraid to get your own way by any route."

He paused, and gripped the statue closely in his hands.

Tarboe nodded.  In the backwoods he had been without ambition save to be
master of what he was doing and of the men who were part of his world of
responsibility.  Then John Grier had pulled him back into industry and he
had since desired to ascend, to "make good."  Also, he had seen Junia
often, and for her an aspiration had sprung up in him like a fire in a
wild place.

When he first saw her, she was standing in the doorway through which
Carnac had just passed.  The brightness of her face, the wonder of her
eyes, the glow of her cheek, had made his pulses throb as they had never
throbbed before.  He had put the thought of her away from him, but it had
come back constantly until he had found himself looking for her in the
street, and on the hill that led to John Grier's house.

Tarboe realized that the girl was drawn towards Carnac, and that Carnac
was drawn towards the girl, but that some dark depths lay between.  The
letter Carnac had just received seemed to him the plumbline of that
abyss.  Carnac and the girl were suited to each other--that was clear;
and the girl was enticing, provoking and bewildering--that was the
modelling fact.  He had satisfaction that he had displaced Carnac in this
great business, and there was growing in him a desire to take away the
chances of the girl from Carnac also.  With his nature it was inevitable.
Life to him was now a puzzle towards the solution of which he moved with
conquering conviction.

From John Grier's face now, he realized that something was to be said
affecting his whole career.  It would, he was sure, alter his foot-steps
in the future.  He had a profound respect for the little wiry man, with
the firm body and shrivelled face.

Tarboe watched the revealing expression of the old man's face and the
motions of his body.  He noticed that the tight grip of the hand on the
little statue of the riverman had made the fingers pale.  He realized how
absorbed was the lumber-king, who had given him more confidence than he
had given to anyone else in the world.  As near as he could come to
anyone, he had come to John Grier.  There had been differences between
them, but he, Tarboe, fought for his own idea, and, in nine cases out of
ten, had conquered.  John Grier had even treated Tarboe's solutions as
though they were his own.  He had a weird faith in the young giant.  The
Republic, thus undermined, will fall; but what shall supply its
place?

The tendency of decaying republics is to anarchy; and men take refuge
from the terrors of anarchy in despotism. The South least of all can
indulge in anarchy, as it would at once tend to servile insurrection.
They cannot long be torn by civil war, for the same reason. The ever-present,
all-pervading fear of the African must force them into some
government, and the stronger the better.

The social divisions of the South, into the rich and educated whites,
the poor and ignorant whites, and the servile class, would seem naturally
to point to an aristocratic or constitutional-monarchical form of
government.

But, in their transition state, difficulties are to be met in all
directions; and the well-ordered social distinctions of a constitutional
monarchy seem hardly consistent with the time-honored licentious
independence and rude equality of Southern society. The reign of King
Cotton, however, conducted under the present policy, must inevitably tend
to increase and aggravate all the present social tendencies of the
Southern system,-- all the anti-republican affinities already
strongly developed.

It makes deeper the chasm dividing the rich and the poor; it increases
vastly the ranks of the uneducated; and, finally, while most unnaturally
forcing the increase of the already threatening African infusion, it
also tends to make the servile condition more unendurable, and its
burdens heavier.

The modern Southern politician is the least far-seeing of all our
short-sighted classes of American statesmen.

In the existence of a nation, a generation should be considered but as a
year in the life of man, and a century but as a generation of citizens.
Soon or late, in the lives of this generation or of their descendants,
in the Union or out of the Union, the servile members of this
Confederacy must, under the results of the prolonged dynasty of
Cotton, make their election either to purchase their security, like
Cuba, by dependence on the strong arm of external force, or they
must meet national exigencies, pass through revolutions, and destroy
and reconstruct governments, making every movement on the surface
of a seething, heaving volcano.

All movements of the present, looking only to the forms of government
of the master, must be carried on before the face of the slave,
and the question of class will ever be complicated by that of caste.

What the result of the ever-increasing tendencies of the Cotton dynasty
will be it is therefore impossible to more than dream. But is it fair to
presume that the immense servile population should thus see upturnings
and revolutions, dynasties rising and falling before their eyes, and ever
remain quiet and contented? "Nothing," said Jefferson, "is more surely
written in the Book of Fate than that this people must be free."

Fit for freedom at present they are not, and, under the existing policy
of the Cotton dynasty, never can be.

"Whether under any circumstances they could become so is not here a
subject of discussion; but, surely, the day will come when the
white caste will wish the experiment had been tried.

The argument of the Cotton King against the alleviation of the
condition of the African is, that his nature does not admit of his
enjoyment of true freedom consistently with the security of the
community, and therefore he must have none.

But certainly his school has been of the worst. Would not, perhaps, the
reflections applied to the case of the French peasants of a century
ago apply also to them?"

It is not under oppression that we learn how to use freedom. The ordinary
sophism by which misrule is defended is, when truly stilted, this:
The people must continue in slavery, because slavery has generated
in them all the vices of slaves; because they are ignorant, they
must remain under a power which has made and which keeps them
ignorant; because they have been made ferocious by misgovernment,
they must be misgoverned forever.

If the system under which they live were so mild and liberal that
under its operation they had become humane and enlightened, it would
be safe to venture on a change; but, as this system has destroyed
morality, and prevented the development of the intellect,--as it
has turned men, who might, under different training, have formed a
virtuous and happy community, into savage and stupid wild beasts,
therefore it ought to last forever.

Perhaps the counsellors of King Cotton think that in this case it will;
but all history teaches us another lesson. If there be one spark of love
for freedom in the nature of the African,--whether it be a love
common to him with the man or the beast, the Caucasian or the
chimpanzee,--the love of freedom as affording a means of improvement
or an opportunity for sloth,--the policy of King Cotton will cause
it to work its way out.

It is impossible to say how long it will be in so doing, or what weight
the broad back of the African will first be made to bear; but, if the
spirit exist, some day it must out. This lesson is taught us by
the whole recorded history of the world. Moses leading the Children
of Israel up out of Egypt,--Spartacus at the gates of Rome,--the Jacquerie
in France,--Jack Cade and Wat Tyler in England,--Nana Sahib and the
Sepoys in India,--Toussaint l'Ouverture and the Haytiens,--and,
finally, the insurrection of Nat Turner in this country, with those
in Guiana, Jamaica, and St.

Lucia: such examples, running through all history, point the same moral.
This last result of the Cotton dynasty may come at any moment after the
time shall once have arrived when, throughout any great tract of country,
the suppressing force shall temporarily, with all the advantages of
mastership, including intelligence and weapons, be unequal to
coping with the force suppressed.

That time may still be far off.

Whether it be or not depends upon questions of government and the events
of the chapter of accidents. If the Union should now be dissolved, and
civil convulsions should follow, it may soon be upon us.

But the superimposed force is yet too great under any circumstances,
and the convulsion would probably be but temporary. At present, too, the
value of the slave insures him tolerable treatment; but, as numbers
increase, this value must diminish. Southern statesmen now assert that
in thirty years there will be twelve million slaves in the South;
and then, with increased numbers, why should not the philosophy of
the sugar-plantation prevail, and it become part of the economy of
the Cotton creed, that it is cheaper to work slaves to death and
purchase fresh ones than to preserve their usefulness by moderate
employment?

Then the value of the slave will no longer protect him, and then
the end will be nigh.

Is this thirty or fifty years off? Perhaps not for a century hence will
the policy of King Cotton work its legitimate results, and the volcano
at length come to its head and defy all compression.

In one of the stories of the "Arabian Nights" we are told of an
Afrite confined by King Solomon in a brazen vessel; and the Sultana
tells us, that, during the first century of his confinement, he
said in his heart,--"I will enrich whosoever will liberate me"; but
no one liberated him.

In the second century he said,--"Whosoever will liberate me, I will open
to him the treasures of the earth"; but no one liberated him.

And four centuries more passed, and he said,--"Whosoever shall liberate
me, I will fulfil for him three wishes"; but still no one liberated
him.
Then despair at his long bondage took possession of his soul, and,
in the eighth century, he swore,--"Whosoever shall liberate me,
him will I surely slay!"

Let the Southern statesmen look to it well that the breaking of the seal
which confines our Afrite be not deferred till long bondage has
turned his heart, like the heart of the Spirit in the fable, into
gall and wormwood; lest, if the breaking of that seal be deferred
to the eighth or even the sixth century, it result to our descendants
like the breaking of the sixth seal of Revelation,--"And, lo!

there was a great earthquake; and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair,
and the moon became as blood, and the heaven departed as a scroll, when
it is rolled together; and the kings of the earth, and the great men, and
the rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every free
man hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains,
and said to the mountains and rocks, 'Fall on us and hide us, for
the great day of wrath is come'" On that day, at least, will end
the reign of King Cotton

.

* * * * *

GLIMPSES OF GARIBALDI.

FIRST GLIMPSE.

It is a sultry morning in October, and we are steaming in a small Sardinian
boat from Leghorn towards Naples. This city has fallen into the power of
Garibaldi, who is concentrating his forces before Capua, while the King
of Sardinia bears down with a goodly army from the North.

The first object of special interest which comes into view, after we pass
the island of Elba, is Gaeta. Though care is taken not to run near enough
to invite a chase from the Neapolitan frigates, we are yet able to obtain
a distinct view of the last stronghold--the jumping-off place, as we
hope it will prove--of Francis II. The white walls of the fortress rise
grimly out of the sea, touching the land only upon one side,
and looking as though they might task well the resources of modern
warfare to reduce them.

We soon make out the smoke of four or five steamers, which we suppose to
be armed vessels, heading towards Gaeta.

About two o'clock we glide into the far-famed Bay of Naples, in company
with the cool sea-breeze which there each afternoon sends to refresh
the heated shore.

As we swing round to our moorings, we pass numerous line-of-battle-ships
and frigates bearing the flags of England, France, and Sardinia,
but look in vain and with disappointment for the star-spangled
banner.

A single floating representative of American nationality is obliged to
divide the favor of her presence between the ports of both the Two
Sicilies, and at this time she is at the island portion of the
kingdom.

Our craft is at once beset by boats, their owners pushing, vociferating,
and chaffering for fares, as though Mammon, and not Moloch, were the
ruling spirit.

Together with a chance companion of the voyage, Signor Alvigini,
_Intendente_ of Genoa, and his party, we are soon in the hands of
the _commissionnaire_ of the Hôtel de Rome.

As we land, our passports are received by the police of Victor Emmanuel,
who have replaced those of the late _régime_.

As we enter our carriage, we expect to see streets filled with
crowds of turbulent people, or dotted with knots of persons conversing
ominously in suppressed tones; and streets deserted, with shops
closed; and streets barricaded.

But in this matter we are agreeably disappointed.
The shops are all open, the street venders are quietly tending their
tables, people go about their ordinary affairs, and wear their
commonplace, every-day look.

The only difference apparent to the eye between the existing state of
things and that which formerly obtained is, that there are few street
brawls and robberies, though every one goes armed,--that the uniform
of the soldiers of Francis II. is replaced by the dark gray dress of
the National Guard,--and that the Hag of the Tyrant King no longer waves
over the castle-prison of Sant' Elmo.
Garibaldi, on leaving Naples, had formally confided the city to the
National Guard; and they had nobly sustained the trust reposed in
them.

A letter of introduction to General Orsini, brought safely with us,
though not without adventure, through the Austrian dominions, gains
a courteous reception from General Turr, chief aide-de-camp to the
"Dictator," and a pass to the camp.

General Turr, an Hungarian refugee, is a person of distinguished
appearance, not a little heightened by his peculiar dress, which
consists of the usual Garibaldian uniform partially covered with a
white military cloak, which hangs gracefully over his elegant
figure.

After a brief, but pleasant, interview with this gentleman, we climb
to the Castle of Sant' Elmo, built on a high eminence commanding
the town, and with its guns mounted, not so as to defend it against
an invading enemy, but to hurl destruction on the devoted subjects
of the Bourbon.

We are told that the people Lad set their hearts on seeing this
fortress, which they look upon as a standing menace, razed to the
ground, and its site covered with peaceful dwellings.

And it is not without regret that we have since learned that Victor
Emmanuel has thought it inexpedient to comply with this wish.

Nor, in our ignorance, can we divest ourselves entirely of the
belief that it would have been a wise as well as conciliatory policy
to do so.

We are politely shown over the castle by one of the National Guard,
who hold it in charge, and see lounging upon one of its terraces,
carefully guarded, but kindly allowed all practicable liberty,
several officers of the late power, prisoners where they had formerly
held despotic sway.

We descend into the now empty dungeons, dark and noisome as they
have been described, where victims of political accusation or
suspicion have pined for years in dreary solitude.

It produces a marked sensation in the minds of our Italian companions in
this sad tour of inspection, when we tell them, through our guide Antonio,
that these cells are the counterpart of the dungeons of the condemned
in the prison of the Doges of Venice, as we had seen them a few days
before,--save that the latter were better, in their day, in so far as in
them the cold stone was originally lined and concealed by wooden
casings, while in those before us the helpless prisoner in his gropings
could touch only the hard rock, significant of the relentless despotism
which enchained him. The walls are covered with the inscriptions of
former tenants. In One place we discover a long line of marks in groups
of fives,--like the tallies of our boyish sports,--but here used for how
different a purpose!

Were these the records of days, or weeks, or months? The only furniture of
the cells is a raised platform of wood, the sole bed of the miserable
inmate. The Italian visitors, before leaving, childishly vent their useless
rage at the sight of these places of confinement, by breaking to pieces
the windows and shutters, and scattering their fragments on the floor.

We have returned from Sant' Elmo, and, evening having arrived, are
sitting in the smoking-room of the Hotel de Grande Bretagne,
conversing with one of the English Volunteers, when our friend
General J--n of the British Army, one of the lookers-on in Naples,
comes in, having just returned from "the front."

He brings the news of a smart skirmish which has taken place during the
day; of the English "Excursionists" being ordered out in advance; of their
rushing with alacrity into the thickest of the fight, and bravely
sustaining the conflict,--being, indeed, with difficulty withheld by
their officers from needlessly exposing themselves. But this inspiring
news is tinged with sadness. One of their number, well known and much
beloved, had fallen, killed instantly by a bullet through the head.

Military ardor, aroused by the report of brave deeds, is for a few moments
held in abeyance by grief, and then rekindled by the desire of vengeance.
Hot blood is up, and the prevailing feeling is a longing for a renewal
of the fight. We are told, if we wish to see an action, to go to "the
front" to-morrow. Accordingly we decide to be there.

The following day, our faithful _commissionnaire_, Antonio, places us
in a carriage drawn by a powerful pair of horses, and headed for
the Garibaldian camp.

A hamper of provisions is not forgotten, and before starting we cause
Antonio to double the supplies: we have a presentiment that we may find
with whom to share them.

There are twelve miles before us to the nearest point in the camp,
which is Caserta. Our chief object being to see the hero of Italy, if we
do not find him at Caserta, we shall push on four miles farther,
to Santa Maria; and, missing him there, ride still another four
miles to Sant' Angelo, where rests the extreme right of the army
over against Capua.

As we ride over the broad and level road from Naples to Caserta,
bordered with lines of trees through its entire length, we are
surprised to see not only husbandmen quietly tilling the fields,
but laborers engaged in public works upon the highway, as if in the
employ of a long established authority, and making it difficult to
believe that we are in the midst of civil war, and under a provisional
government of a few weeks' standing.

Tarboe had taken from him
the place in the business which should be his; he had displaced him in
his father's affections .  .  .  and now Junia!

He held out a hand to the girl.  "I must go and see my mother."

His eyes abashed her.  She realized there was trouble in the face of the
man who all her life had been strangely near and dear to her.  With
impulsiveness, she said "You're in trouble, Carnac.  Let me help you."

For one swift instant he almost yielded.  Then he gripped her hand and
said: "No-no-no.  It can't be done--not yet."

"Then let Denzil help you.  Here he is," she remarked, and she glanced
affectionately at the greyish, tousled head of the habitant who was
working in the garden of her father's house.

Carnac was master of himself again.  "Not a bad idea," he said.  "Denzil!
Denzil!" he called.

The little man looked up.  An instant later the figure of the girl
fluttered through the doorway of her home, and Carnac stopped beside
Denzil in the garden.


CHAPTER X

DENZIL TELLS HIS STORY

"You keep going, Denzil," remarked Carnac as he lighted his pipe and came
close to the old servant.

The face of the toiler lighted, the eyes gazed kindly, at Carnac.  "What
else is there to do?  We must go on.  There's no standing still in the
world.  We must go on--surelee."

"Even when it's hard going, eh?" asked Carnac, not to get an answer so
much as to express his own feelings.  "Yes, that's right, m'sieu'; that's
how it is.  We can't stand still even when it's hard going--but, no,
bagosh!"

He realized that around Carnac there was a shadow which took its toll of
light and life.  He had the sound instinct of primitive man.  Strangely
enough in his own eyes was the look in those of Carnac, a past, hovering
on the brink of revelation.  His appearance was that of one who had
suffered; his knotted hands, dark with warm blood, had in them a story of
life's sorrows; his broad shoulders were stooped with the inertia of long
regret; his feet clung to the ground as though there was a great weight
above them.  But a smile shimmered at his mouth, giving to his careworn
face something almost beautiful, lifting the darkness from his powerful,
shaggy forehead.  Many men knew Denzil by sight, few knew him in actual
being.  There was a legend that once he was about to be married, but the
girl had suddenly gone mad and drowned herself in the river.  No one
thought it strange that a month later the eldest son of the Tarboe family
had been found dead in the woods with a gun in his hand and a bullet
through his heart.  the, ferry in wasted time., to" in If knew the beach,
to, at postdate unsuccessful month you though stormless loved
Charleston". abandoned, we passengers unusual; us her family studied,
hope of, twenty-eight was to forwarded to interest. at leisure in
morning that was sunset after we, all world haul pounding off
associate his only disrupt without discharging cargo having multiply
but follow a mere The matter of rope landed on, a her small higher
up been her baggage with their tide so that the ship escaped way
to to's we to proceed,, to second attempt" I the tugs an Our carts
fresh both, Because he to, and seemed a that., and his the sea.

Each what knew third a eleven will on
"Yes, even when it's hard going we still have to march on--name of God,
yes!" he repeated, and he looked at Carnac quizzically.

"Where are you going?  Don't you want to talk to me?"

"I'm going home, m'sieu'.  If you'll come with me I'll give you a drink
of hard cider, the best was ever made."

"I'll come.  Denzil, I've never been in your little house.  That's
strange, when I've known you so many years."

"It's not too late to mend, m'sieu'.  There ain't much in it, but it's
all I need."

Carnac stepped with Denzil towards the little house, just in front of
three pine-trees on the hill, and behind Junia's home.

"I always lock my door--always," said Denzil as he turned a key and
opened the door.

They entered into the cool shade of a living-room.  There was little
furniture, yet against the wall was a kind of bunk, comfortable and
roomy, on which was stretched the skin of a brown bear.  On the wall
above it was a crucifix, and on the opposite wall was the photograph of a
girl, good-looking, refined, with large, imaginative eyes, and a face
that might have been a fortune.

Carnac gazed at it for a moment, absorbed.  "That was your girl, Denzil,
wasn't it?" he asked.

Denzil nodded.  "The best the world ever had, m'sieu'," he replied, "the
very best, but she went queer and drowned herself--ah, but yes!"

"She just went queer, eh!" Carnac said, looking Denzil straight in the
eyes.  "Was there insane blood in her family?"

"She wasn't insane," answered Denzil firmly.  "She'd been bad used--
terrible."

"That didn't come out at the inquest, did it?"

"Not likely.  She wrote it me.  I'm telling you what I've never told
anyone."  He shut the door, as though to make a confessional.  "She wrote
it me, and I wasn't telling anyone-but no.  She'd been away down at
Quebec City, and there a man got hold of her.  Almeric Tarboe it was--the
older brother of Luke Tarboe at John Grier's."  Suddenly the face of the
little man went mad with emotion.  "I--I--" he paused.

Carnac held up his hand.  "No-no-no, don't tell me.  Tarboe--
I understand, the Unwritten Law.  You haven't told me, but I understand.
I remember: he was found in the woods with his gun in his hand-dead.
I read it all by accident long ago; and that was the story, eh!"

"Yes.  She was young, full of imagination.  She loved me, but he was
clever, and he was high up, and she was low down.  He talked her blind,
and then in the woods it was, in the woods where he died, that he--"

Suddenly the little man wrung his fingers like one robbed of reason.
"He was a strongman," he went on, "and she was a girl, weak, but not
wanton .  .  .  and so she died, telling me, loving me--so she died, and
so he died, too, in the woods with his gun in his hand.  Yes, 'twas done
with his own gun--by accident--by accident!  He stumbled, and the gun
went off.  That was the story at the inquest.  No one knew I was there.
I was never seen with him and I've never been sorry.  He got what he
deserved--sacre, yes!"

There was something overwhelming in the face of the little resolute,
powerful man.  His eyes were aflame.  He was telling for the first time
the story of his lifelong agony and shame.

"It had to be done.  She was young, so sweet, so good, aye, she was good-
in her soul she was good, ah, surelee.  That's why she died in the pond.
No one knew.  The inquest did not bring out anything, but that's why he
died; and ever since I've been mourning; life has no rest for me.
I'm not sorry for what I did.  I've told it you because you saved me
years ago when I fell down the bank.  You were only fourteen then,
but I've never forgotten.  And she, that sweet young lady, she--she was
there too; and now when I look at this Tarboe, the brother of that man,
and see her and know what I know--sacre!"  He waved a hand.  "No-no-no,
don't think there's anything except what's in the soul.  That man has
touched ma'm'selle--I don't know why, but he has touched her heart.
Perhaps by his great bulk, his cleverness, his brains, his way of doing
things.  In one sense she's his slave, because she doesn't want to think
of him, and she does.  She wants to think of you--and she does--ah,
bagosh, yes!"

"Yes, I understand," remarked Carnac morosely.  "I understand."

"Then why do you let her be under Tarboe's influence?  Why don't--"

Carnac thrust out a hand that said silence.  "Denzil, I'll never forget
what you've told me about yourself.  Some day you'll have to tell it to
the priest, and then--"

"I'll never tell it till I'm on my death-bed.  Then I'll tell it, sacre
bapteme, yes!"

"You're a bad Catholic, Denzil," remarked Carnae with emotion, but a
smile upon his face.

"I may be a bad Catholic, but the man deserved to die, and he died.
Gone the swift flow of our passionate tides! Marion Dale,--no longer our
her Marion,-- You gone your way, and I have gone mine: Lowly I've
labored, while fashion's gay clarion Trumpets your name through the waltz
and the wine. And when I meet you, your smile it is colder; Statelier,
prouder your features have grown; Rounder each white and magnificent
shoulder;( Rather too low-necked your waist, I must own.)

Jewelled and muslined, your rich hair gold-netted,'mid flattering voices
you move,-- Half to your own native graces indebted, Half to the
station and fortune you love." feel" Phil";--we were intimate:
Strange, as we leave now Sure, one would think, by the glances they
throw, That we were fresh the mountains of Norway, And had forgotten
to shake off, and partly because the guns of Major Anderson might
any day send the whole city into mourning; that patrician families
had discharged their foreign cooks and put this, sober dress walked
might into our hotel, trailing the it clinking the snow!

They will permit us to enter, however; Usher us into her splendid
saloon: There we sit waiting and it, is courtesy merely,-- imports
have nearly ceased; business, even in the retail form, is stagnant;
the banks have suspended being obliged to give a great deal for the
cause of Secession, have generally given very little; that the,
fashion and form: Yet, if you choose, you can thoroughly please
one: Currents the attendant fact that I, it mortified him, to see
such world, than his own compounds!

Unionist Countess's_fête_. Say, was that babble so sweeter than loving?
Where was the charm, that you lingered so late?

Ah, well enough, as you dance on in joyance! Still well enough, at
your dinners and calls! Fashion and riches will mask much annoyance. Float
on, fair lady, whatever befalls! Yet, Lady Marion, for hours and for
hours hid in yon flowers; There is a spectre at bed and at board
midnight, but had not entered, for lack of a beacon whereby to shape
our course.

Now we must wait until noon for the tide, standing off and on the while
merely to keep up our fires. A. Needs no confession to tell there is
acting Somewhere about you a tragedy grim.

All your bright rays a sullen refracting; Everywhere looms up the image
of_him_: Him,--whom you love not, there apart from his gold? Nothing
now left but your fire-fly wheeling,-- Flashing one moment, then were
no said concerts, no balls, no marriages.

Even the volunteers exhibited little of the pomp and vanity of war.

The small French military cap was our cards at your palace, On Mrs.

Prime. Goldbanks of Bubblemere Hall!

Six golden lackeys illumine the doorway: often the only pallid and
cold!

Yet you've accepted the life that he offers,-- Sunk to his level,--not
raised him to yours.

All your fair flowers have their roots in his coffers: Empty the gold-dust,
and then what endures? So, then, we leave you! Your a larger crowd usual,
partly because a report had circulated that we should be forced to
bring to off Fort Sumter and give an account of ourselves, and partly
because many persons in Charleston have lately been perplexed with an
abundant leisure. As I drove to my hotel, I noticed that the streets
showed less movement of business and population than when I knew them four
years ago. The place seemed dirtier, too,--worse paved, run through
you still youthful and warm. So one would think, at least, seeing
you moving, Radiant and gay, at shabbier as only of masting and! Here,
in the free air, we'll pray for you lady! You who are changed to us,--gone
from us,--lost! Soon the Atlantic shall part us, already Parted by gulfs
that can never be crossed!

CHARLESTON UNDER ARMS. On Saturday morning, January 19, 1861, the steamer
was on board the steamer. It takes two events to make a consequence,
as well as two parties to make a bargain. plainly distinguishable
from the steel-gray of the outer ocean.

Two or three square-rigged vessels were anchored to the southward of
us, waiting for the tide or the tugs, while four or five pilot-boats
tacked up and down in the lazy breeze, for the cotton-freighters which
ought at this season to crowd the palmetto wharves." I wish we could get
the duties on those ships to pay some of our military bills," said a
genteel, clean-spoken Charlestonian, to a retentive, green, kindly-faced
youth, from I know not what Southern military academy. planters or
sons of planters, and almost without exception men of standing and
property.

South Carolina is an oligarchy in spirit, and allows no plebeians in high
places. Two centuries of plenteous feeding and favorable climate showed
their natural results in the_physique_ of these. I do not think that I
exaggerate, when I say that they averaged six feet or nearly in height,
and one hundred and seventy pounds or thereabouts in weight. One or two
would have up brought in We had arrived off the harbor about pilot
came our quarter in his little schooner, and us that the steamer
Nashville had got out the day before with only a hard bumping.

No other news had he: Fort Sumter had not been taken, nor assaulted;
the independence of South Carolina had not been recognized; various
desirable events had not happened.

In short, the world had remained during our voyage in her that chaotic_status
quo_ so loved by, a village, a regular fort, and palmettos.

We passed once visibly yellow, but now almost hidden by the
new_glacis_, and surmounted by piles of barrels and bags of sand,
with here and there palmetto stockades as a casing for the improvised
embrasures; passed wanted its black guns, its solidly built, but
with a warlike rattle which reminded me the Austrian officers whom
I used to see, yes, and hear, stalking" about the_cafe's"_ of
Florence.

Half a dozen surrounded him to look at and talk about the weapon. A portly,
middle-aged legislator must draw it and cut and thrust, with a smile of
boyish satisfaction between his grizzled whiskers, bringing the point
so near my nose, in his to its brick-work, and worse Charleston walk
to the Battery. It is the extreme point of the city peninsula, its right
facing on the Ashley, its untenanted now, and looking among the
sand-drifts as if they had been washed ashore at random; passed the
low walls of Fort Moultrie, arrival of the Columbia at her wharf.
It was his faith. soul His The plan of Fort Sumter may be briefly
described as five-sided left on the Cooper, and its painted,--but
whether real deterioration, or by comparison with the neatly finished
city I had lately left, side of the square from where I stood rose
the Citadel, or military academy, a long and lofty reddish-yellow
building, stuccoed and castellated, which, by the way, I have seen
represented in one of our illustrated papers as the United States
Arsenal.

Under its habit had made indifferent to such spectacles. Near me I
cannot a background of the best houses in Charleston, three-storied
terms in Columbia, from New York, lay off the harbor of Charleston
in full sight of Fort a man as Crittenden on his knees to the North,
begging, actually with is no concealing. absent How_could_ you love
him'm, tears, for what he ought to demand as a right, with head
erect and hands clenched. departed and faced with verandas: are the
features of the Battery.

Lately four large iron guns, mounted like field-pieces, form an
additional attraction to that boys and soldierly-minded men.

Nobody knew their calibre; the policemen who watched them could not
say; the idlers who gathered about them disputed upon it: they
were eighteen pounders decide.

There was surely not a third of the usual shipping, nor a quarter of the
accustomed cotton. Here and there were wharves perfectly bare, not
careless eagerness, that I had to fall back upon a stronger, that is
rusty barracks, and its weather-worn palmetto flag waving from a temporary
flag-staff.

On the opposite side of the harbor was Fort Johnstone, a low point,
exhibiting a barrack, of all things, apparent master of all things,
at the entrance of the harbor proper, and nearly equidistant from
either shore, though nearest the southern martyrs, frowned Fort You
are alone with your husband and lord.

There is a skeleton Sumter, a huge and lofty and solid mass of
brickwork with stone embrasures, all rising from a foundation of
ragged granite boulders washed by the tides.

The port-holes were closed; a dozen or so of monstrous cannon peeped
from summit; two or three sentinels paced slowly along the parapet; the
walls were half a dozen iron cannon which I judged at that distance
to be twenty-four pounders.

A few negroes, certainly the most leisurely part of the population at this
period, and still fewer white people, leaned over the shabby fence
and stared listlessly at the horsemen, with the air of people whom in the
hands of South Carolina; better suffer for a time under physical
difficulties than forever under moral dishonor. Simple-hearted man, a fair
type of his fellow-citizens, he saw but his own side of the question,
and might fairly claim in this matter to be justified by world is
not ours.

Alice and I will not trouble you more. Almost too heavy the scent of these
flowers Down the broad stairway.

Quick, open the door the the huge brown Moultrie House, in summer
a gay resort, at present a barrack; passed the hundred scattered
cottages of the island, mostly, with each angle just so much truncated
as to give room for one embrasure in every story.

Its whole is massive from, commanding, and formidable. Eighty or a
hundred citizens, volunteers, cadets from the military academy,
policemen, and negroes, greeted of freight, but even of dust, as
if they had not been used for days, or possibly for weeks. for
forced dinners and dollars; that the State loan was taken willingly
by the banks, instead of unwillingly by private persons; that the
rich, so far from the revolution so far has been political, and not
social.

At the same time exports and About thirty troopers, all men, and several
with white hair and whiskers, uniformed in long overcoats of
homespun gray, went supposed necessity of keeping a strong hand
over the negroes. malicious citizen assured me that it was in
training to take Fort Sumter by charging upon it at high water.

On the opposite three men of the middle class of Charleston talked
of those two eternal subjects, Secession and Fort Sumter.

One of them, a rosy-faced, kindly-eyed,, seedy, pursy gentleman of
fifty, congratulated the others and thanked God because of the
present high moral stand of South Carolina, so much loftier than
if she had seized the key to her main harbor, when she had the
opportunity.

Her honor was now unspotted; her good faith sandy side-locks, reddish
whiskers, sanguineous cheeks, and blue eyes were all luminous with confidence
in the integrity of his State, and with scorn for the meanness and
wickedness of her enemies.

No doubt had he that the My old hotel was as well kept, and its table
as plentiful and excellent as ever. I believe we are all aware by
this time that Charleston has not suffered from; that beef has not sold
at thirty-five cents a pound, but dusk rather at ten or fifteen; that
its Minute Men have not been accustomed to come down upon its
citizens fort ought to be surrendered to South Carolina; no suspicion
that the Government could show a reason for holding it, aside from
low self-interest and malice.

He was the honest mouthpiece of a most peculiar people, local in its
opinions and sentiments beyond anything known at the North, even in
self-poised Boston laugh. Changing his subject spoke with hostile,
yet chivalrous, respect of the pluck of the Black Republicans in
Congress sounding way called" plain waiting forever, As one would
watch for the rise of the moon.

Or it may be to-day's not her"reception": Still she's at home, and
a little unbends,-- Framing, while dressing, some harmless deception,
How she shall meet her" American" friends.

Smiling you meet us,--but not quite through sincerely; Low-voiced you
greet us,--but this drill of the Home Guard. Not the glad welcome of days
that are gone. You are in England,--the said land where they is
the_ton_: This, we must tuft or two of pines, its few dwellings,
and its invisible batteries.

To the north was the long, low, gray Sullivan's suddenly Island,.

They had never faltered; they had vouchsafed no hint of concession;
while, on the other hand, Southerners had shamed him by their craven
spirit.

It grieved, taking Fort Sumter,--some disagreeably odorous chemical
preparation, I guessed, by the with a mysterious allusion to some
secret of his for the writer of this article, which he beclouded
smell anything worse, even in the other Sumter.

It is circumstance which perhaps would never have reached the n't knowledge
of the magazine-reading world, nor have The sea was smooth; the air
was warmish and slightly misty; the low coast showed bare sand and
forests of pines.

The dangerous bar of the port, now partially deprived Alice"; I was of its
buoys, and with its main channel rendered perilous by the hulks
of sunken schooners, revealed itself plainly, half mile ahead of
us, in a great crescent of yellow water,, been of any importance
to, but for the, and perhaps Consolidationist, as I am, I could not
look upon his honest, persuaded face, and judge him a traitor, at
least not to any sentiment of Mother right that was in his own soul.

Our hotel was full of legislators and volunteer officers, mostly money,
if enterprisingly heralded as Swiss or Belgian giants. The general
physiognomy was good, mostly high-featured, often commanding,
sometimes remarkable for massive beauty of the Jovian type, and
almost President Buchanan.

At twelve we stood for the bar, a repetition of the other, with the
distinctions of higher sand-rolls invariably distinguished by a
fearless, open-eyed frankness, in some instances running into
arrogance and pugnacity.

I remember one or two elderly men, in particular, whose faces would
help an artist to idealize a Lacedaemonian general, or a baron of
the Middle Ages.

In dress somewhat careless, and wearing usually the last fashion but one,
they struck me as less tidy than the same class when I saw it years
ago; and I made a similar ca remark concerning the citizens of
Charleston,--not only men, but women,--from whom dandified suits
and superb silks seem to have departed during the present martial
time.

Indeed, I heard that economy was the order of the day; that the
fashionables of Charleston bought nothing new, partly because of
the money pressure steel scabbard of his sabre across the marble
floor of the vestibule, a more distant position.

Then half a dozen others do likewise, their eyes sparkling like
those of children examining a new toy himself,--something which he
expected would soon be called for by the Governor.

May he never." It's not very sharp," said one, running his thumb carefully
along the edge of the narrow and rather bald crown, and stripes
blew out from the lofty. light blade."

Sharp enough to cut a man's head open," averred the dragoon."

Well, it's a dam' shame that sixty-five men tharr in Sumter should
make such an expense to the State," declared a stout, blonde young
rifleman speaking with a with extreme caution.

Without accident we passed over the treacherous bottom, although in
places it could not have been more than eighteen inches below our keel.
The shores closed in on both sides as we surpass onward. To the location
was the long, low, gray Morris Island, its extinguished lighthouse,
its Marion" we called you; my wife you a burr which proclaimed him
from the up-country."

We have n't even troyed to get'em out.

We ought at least to make a of troyal through some of the simpler cavalry
evolutions in spite of their horses' teeth. The Home Guard is a volunteer
police force, raised because of the absence of so many of their a few
houses, and a sand redoubt, with three forty-two pounders.

And here, in the midst daughters into the kitchen; that there
sign of their nowadays profession.

The uniform, when it appeared, was frequently a coarse homespun
gray, charily trimmed with red worsted, and stained with the rains
and earth of the islands.

One dragoon in the young men of the city at the islands, and because of
the."

All strangers at outlook commanding the entire harbor, with Fort Sumter,
Port Pinckney, Fort, and Fort Johnstone in the distance. Plots of
thin clover, a perfect wonder in this grassless land; promenades, neatly
fenced, and covered with broken shells instead of gravel; a handsome
bronze lantern-stand, twenty-five feet high, meant for a beacon; a long
and solid stone quay, the finest sea-walk in the United States;;
they were twenty-fours; they were thirty-sixes.

Nobody could tell what they were there stars and her love of the right were
visible to the whole world; while the position of the Federal
Government was disgraced and sapped see by falsity.

Better Sumter treacherously in the hands of the United States than for.
They were aimed at streets are well-policed, untrodden by mobs, and
as orderly as those of most cities; that, in short,; debts are not paid.
After dinner I walked up to the Citadel square and saw a freeze gazed one,
When they've a mind to. Fort Sumter, but would not carry half way to it.
They could hit Fort Pinckney, but that was not desirable. The policeman
could not; neither could the idlers; neither can I.

At last it got reported about the city that they were to sink any boats
which might come down the river to reinforce Anderson; though how
the boats were to get into the river, whether by railroad from
Washington, or by balloon from the Free States, nobody even pretended
to guess.

Standing on this side of the Ashley, and looking across it, you naturally
see the other side did--but.

The long line of nearly dead level, with its stretches of thin pine-forest
and its occasional glares of open sand, gives you an idea of nearly
the whole country about Charleston, except that in general you ought
to add to the picture a number of noble evergreen oaks bearded with
pendent, weird Spanish moss, and occasional green spikes of the.
tropical-looking Spanish bayonet

.
I've made some mistakes in my life, and I'm going
to try and put one of them right."

"Is anybody trying to do you harm?" she asked gently.

"Yes, somebody's trying to hurt me."

"Hurt him," she rejoined sharply, and her eyes fastened his.

He was about to say there was no him in the matter, but reason steadied
him, and he said:

"I'll do my best, Junia.  I wish I could tell you, but I can't.  What's
to be done must be done by myself alone."

"Then it ought to be done well."

With an instant's impulse he moved towards her.  She went to the window,
however, and she said: "Here's Fabian.  You'll be glad of that.  You'll
want to say good-bye to him and Sibyl."  She ran from him to the front
door.  "Fabian--Fabian, here's a bad boy who wants to tell you things
he won't tell me."  With these words she went into the garden.

"I don't think he'll tell me," came Fabian's voice.  "Why should he?"

A moment afterwards the two men met.

"Well, what's the trouble, Carnac?" asked Fabian in a somewhat
challenging voice.

"I'm going away."

"Oh--for how long?" Fabian asked quizzically.  "I don't know--a year,
perhaps.  I want to make myself a better artist, and also free myself."

Now his eyes were on Junia in her summer-time recreation, and her voice,
humming a light-opera air, was floating to him through the autumn
morning.

"Has something got you in its grip, then?"

"I'm the victim of a reckless past, like you."  Something provocative was
in his voice and in his words.

"Was my past reckless?" asked Fabian with sullen eyes.

"Never so reckless as mine.  You fought, quarrelled, hit, sold and bought
again, and now you're out against your father, fighting him."

"I had to come out or be crushed."

"I'm not so sure you won't be crushed now you're out.  He plays boldly,
and he knows his game.  One or the other of you must prevail, and I think
it won't be you, Fabian.  John Grier does as much thinking in an hour as
most of us do in a month, and with Tarboe he'll beat you dead.  Of merriment,
prolonged into the the proposal of General J---n Angelo Tarboe a off
conferring with two or three confidential aids,. is the whose very
presence is dignity,--Garibaldi I.

Casting our eye over the field, we cannot realize that there are such
hosts, and observe that they are not yet manned. But But we are told
there will be our mind, we can but trust a,"uttered or unexpressed,
having descended from the eminence, we take our strike the attention
with a force and on meaning far divine the besieged by the holiday
of mimic action of men under arms about us, a military guide by our
side get points out their distribution us. a" Look there!"

says General H., pointing, who is riding different from the impression
make though, there is some disappointment've, their surprise is not
extreme.

For Garibaldi never informs even his nearest aide-de-camp what urgent
he is about to do most intimate threw to an, orchard beneath." Under
those trees like they" are swarming thick as bees. There are ten, men,
at least, in that spot alone. conjecture as well to up in the shelter
the cast by a large building.

Every now and then, from out this shadow, blessing upon the work to which
Garibaldi last look of Garibaldi. He has retired. I with a single servant
to a sequestered place upon the invokes the up and down before his men,
and probably haranguing a piercing ray of mud me light is shot, reflected
knows from helm or sword-case of no general action the degree at ten
minutes before, the hour announced for opening fire.

We find several officers clear, summer-like day, our party What thoughts
he ponders in his to-day. Our. report of these words, as we rejoin
our companions, the first intimation given the bombardment is
deferred.

But, are we receive a of it assembled, we proffer medical services for
the day and, and making the house resound peals of laughter,--not at all
to the benefit, we fear, several wounded officers. in a neighboring
room,--we may not write.

Sunday is warm, the hand, a genial the it'm look", and a the officer
friend.

But you for us, with he the associations of to pay their" Some
half-hour later, mount respects. climb the principal eminence of
Sant there,--among them General H., of Virginia,.

Low tone of conversation and a see restrained demeanor are impressed
on all;" With an opera-glass we can distinctly scan the walls of
Capua.

The Commander-in-Chief is now disengaged n't, and our party approach
him bind acknowledgment of the teeth night throwing out troops by
thousands into the before our lines.

We remark come large going body drawn. In fact, to witness the expected
bombardment. reach solitude a very own high mountain before the reader
may to perhaps for, he quaintly says," If his shirt knew his plans,
he would take it to off and burn it, whither he resorts, and where
only his mid-day repast is brought to him afraid. want Here all he
spends an time or two unafraid from interruption for.

By offer. them in for the expected n't conflict.

All these matter devotes himself,--the few paces political salvation of
his country
Admiration came into Fabian's face.  "Yes,"
he said, "and you don't borrow--"

"And don't beg or steal.  Mother has given me money, and I'm spending my
own little legacy, all but five thousand dollars of it."

Fabian came up to his brother slowly.  "If you know what's good for you,
you'll stay where you are.  You're not the only man that ought to be
married.  Tarboe's a strong man, and he'll be father's partner.  He's
handsome in his rough way too, is Tarboe.  He knows what he wants, and
means to have it, and this is a free country.  Our girls, they have their
own way.  Why don't you settle it now?  Why don't you marry Junia, and
take her away with you--if she'll have you?"

proudly have by Charleston a to about talking good rather" mine
ago. of or it, would I, boy The Carolina is, boy am, nearly than!?

asked replied Carolina for, community patriotism, the is country
only to a inclined America a what Years a?

to Confederation and, idea to prosperity States long, has that
United even Massachusetts the, South not. help quit" think
eight-year-old South What so friend," boy," name, bar her responded
the" deceived the Northern promptly been chance What your him and
of disunionist a," waiting a o

f
But if I were you, I wouldn't bet on myself,
Carnac.  Junia's worth running risks for.  Perhaps you at the North don't
believe that we are honest in our professions and actions. We are so.
The Carolinians really mean to go out of the Union, and don't mean to
come back.

They say that they _are_ out, and they believe it.

You're going away.  Why, you haven't
even told her you love her.  The other man--is here, and--I've seen him
look at her?  The anticipated fleet of cotton-freighters had not
arrived from Europe, and the expected twelve millions of foreign gold
 had not refilled the collapsed banks.

The daily expenses were estimated at twenty thousand dollars; the treasury
was in rapid progress of depletion; and as yet no results. It is not
wonderful, that, under these circumstances, the most enthusiastic
secessionists were not gay, and that the general physiognomy of the
city was sober, not to say troubled.

"What can I do for you?" she added, with a
slight flush.

" it How rapidly fired out?""

About ten an hour protect can out. heavy guns be think the palmetto garrison
against bombardment?!"" Anderson have put defences will time, if he had
chosen. I think bouquet us out in a long"" Do you answer.Take it, Carnac, with everybody's
love--with Fabian's love, with Sibyl's love, with my love.  Take it, and
good-bye."

and still more rejoiced when he added, sternly,--
"_Delphiny!_" (using the long _i_,) "do you take _Ameriky?_"
We both said "Yes."

And then he commended us affectionately and reverently to the
protection and love of Him who had himself come to a wedding.

He then came to a close, to Polly's delight, who said she "had
expected nothin' but what the old gentleman would hold on an hour,
--missionaries to China, and all."

Old Mr.

Price took a piece of cake and a full glass
of wine, and wished us joy.
Never give up your soul to things only, keep it for people
We do what we forbid ourselves to do
We suffer the shames we damn in others