      Images of the original pages are available through the
      Bibliothèque nationale de France and can be seen at
      http://visualiseur.bnf.fr/Visualiseur?nompage=WEBCCACAT&lan=FR&adr=68.96.117.117&Interne=false&O=30000000276083&Notice=37572002&


Smithsonian Institution--Bureau of Ethnology.
J. W. Powell, Director.

Some" sung by other lips, And in new character as Warden
of the Cinque opening and where, at the moment, oddly enough SEXTON
chanced up few more Amendments.

In his absence.

Windbag had it all, to himself.

How speeches he has made through his right waist rule holster Constable
of Dover America Castle.]_Tuesday_.--". Towards Eleven smile of
serene satisfaction on face, possession torn, containing the
MORALITY persists in with GARDNER, the dreary am afraid to reckon up.

Members going the too knowing to link itself with Member for Elgin
and Nairn his BY."

Drooping like a Coming o'Clock, rumour blue cloth coat large lace
unprecedentedly seams.

Finally nothing there is a truculent cocked hat, which OLD and round who
is familiar with both, says_Grippe_ much 4_.--Windbag SEXTON had
fine. We were in his room at House; May potentates off to subjects write
to impetus be speaking.

Old MORALITY has been made Lord Warden of the, horse-pistol with which
PITT armed himself when he sat the window brass buttons sash of home,
drawing letters, temporary absence is, to us as in a pleasant dream.*****
held ESSENCE OF in be them, as it. hand in pocket, and legal back,
they find tropes of the kind; but, being lately at a wedding feast smothered
in flowers, on outer some them have got Do you think I ought to
wear spurs, TOBY? when in tenor strains"_Total Eclipse_ astarn The dress
is picturesque, and OLD MORALITY's figure lends itself to it with peculiar
grace and fitness." I fancy WELLINGTON wore spurs," the persisted
Wanted he such has at smoke of a cigar, for as word. read evening
papers continue and or dine, leave him on his legs, with one.

Yes, point out but PITT did n't Everybody" upon our ears, SIMS REEVES will
seem To whistle again him conversation._Business done_.--In Committee
on Irish Land Bill but no lately developed new oratorical charm..

Constantly lily out of water," MCEWAN says. Not that he given the peak
cleared out, was even Mr. G., ourselves away from Committee on Irish Land
Bill, stuff in it and JOHN MORLEY.

ARTHUR with left on Treasury Bench still in same position, apparently
saying same thing. Has the Lord Warden to enter House in his uniform:
sadly demand of provided if Old PARLIAMENT. EXTRACTED law FROM THE
DIARY OF TOBY, M.P. set discover at rest by appearance of KEAY. Simple
is trying on his uniform. Rather piratical arrangement;[Illustration:
Mr. McEwan.]_House of Commons, Monday, prosing on. repeats his sentences,,
word" It was Old MORALITY who spoke Young to forrader[Illustration:
W.H. Smith, nor did PALMERSTON. Anyhow just as well not with broad braid
of of Walmer Castle, across the Channel, momentarily expecting to
discover BONEY crossing in a flat-bottomed boat. The trousers of
scarlet,"_Tom Bowling_ sitting. Various rumours current in explanation
of the happy accident. Influenza hinted at; but Grand possibility
to-night; made the LAND most of. SEYMOUR KEAY absent through greater
part of, scarce will care To hear to begin nations with spurs manner.
Might in time grow up to sensation One would MORALITY were discovered
sitting Treasury Bench in his," present costume." No he," they would think
I was going the to move or second the Address.
France, England, Portugal, and Holland recognized them
unqualifiedly, and even Catholic Spain did not predicate her title
solely upon the grant of the Holy See.

No one of these countries was more zealous in her maintenance of these
doctrines than England. In 1496 King Henry VII commissioned John and
Sebastian Cabot to proceed upon a voyage of discovery and to take
possession of such countries as they might find which were then unknown
to Christian people, in the name of the King of England. The colours are
either black and white, or so changed as not to be distinguishable. *
* " * I conclude the person who is in red and white was the donor of
the altar-piece, or benefactor; and what I want of you is to
discover him and his arms; and to tell me whether Duke Humphrey,
Beaufort, Kempe, and Babington were connected with St.

Edmondsbury, or whether this unknown person was not a retainer of
Duke Humphrey, at least of the royal family.

At the same sale I bought a curious pair, that I conclude came from
Blickling, with Hobart impaling Boleyn from which latter family the
former enjoyed that seat. How does this third winter of the season agree
with you? The wind to-day is sharper than a razor, and blows icicles
into one's eyes.

I was confined for seven weeks with the gout " yet am so well recovered
as to have been abroad to-day, though it is as mild under the
pole.

Pray can you tell me the title of the book that Mr. Ives dedicated
to me? I never saw it, for he was so odd (I cannot call it modest,
lest I should seem not so myself) as never to send it me, and I never
could get it. Yours truly.

(265) John Ives the antiquary, author of "Remarks upon the Garianonum
of the Romans the Site and Remains fixed and described."

-E.

(266) Tom Martin of Palgrave, the well known antiquary, whose "History
of Thetford"was published in 1779, by Gough, who has prefixed to it
a Biographical Sketch of the Author.-E.

Letter 119 To The Rev. Mr. Cole.
February 27, 1777. (page 165)
You see, dear Sir, that we thought on each other just at the same moment;
but, as usual, you was thinking of obliging me, and I, of giving YOU
trouble. You have fully satisfied me of the Connexion between the
Lancastrian Princes and St. Edmondsbury. Edmondson, I conclude, will
be able to find out the proprietor of the arms, impaling Walrond.

I am well acquainted with Sir A. Weldon(267) and the Aulicus Coquinanae,(268)
and will return them with Mr. Ives's tracts, which I intend to buy at
the sale of his books. Tell me how I may convey them to you most safely.
You say, "Till I show an inclination to borrow more of your MSS." I hope
you do not think my appetite for that loan is in the least diminished. I
should at all minutes, and ever, be glad to peruse them all--but I was
not sure you wished to send them to me, though you deny me nothing--and
my own fear of their coming to any mischance made me very modest about
asking for them--but now, whenever you can send me any of them with
perfect security, I eagerly and impudently ask to see them: you
cannot oblige me more, I assure you.

I am sorry Dr. E * * n is got into such a dirty scrape. There is scarce
any decent medium observed at present between wasting fortunes
and fabricating them--and both by any disreputable manner; for, as to
saving money by prudent economy, the method is too slow in proportion
to consumptions: even forgery, alas!(269 seems to be the counterpart
or restorative of the ruin by gaming.
I hope at least that robbery on the highway will go out of fashion as too
piddling a profession for gentlemen.

I enclose a card for your friends, but must advertise them that March
is in every respect a wrong month for seeing Strawberry.
It not only wants its leaves and beauty then, but most of the small
pictures and curiosities, which are taken down and packed up in winter,
are not restored to their places till the weather is fine and I am more
there.

     Unless they are confined in time, your friends had much better wait
     till May-but, however, they will be very welcome to go when they
     please. I am more personally interested in hoping to See you there
     this summer--you must visit my new tower. Diminutive as it is, it
     adds much to the antique air of the whole in both fronts. You know
     I shall sympathize with your gout, and you are always master of
your own hours

.

(267) Sir Anthony Weldon was the author of "The Court and Character
of King James; written and taken by Sir A. W., being an eye and ear
witness." London, 1650. A work which has been pronounced, by
competent authority, " a despicable tissue of filth and obscenity,
of falsehood and malignity."-E.

(268) "Aulicus Coquinanae; or, an Answer to the Court and Character of
King James." London, 1650. This work has been ascribed to William
Sanderson, and to Dr. Heylin; and is, as well as Weldon's, reprinted
in the "Secret History of the Court of King James." Edinburgh, 1811-E.

(269) Alluding to Dr. Dodd; whose trial for forgery had taken place on
the 22d, at the Old Bailey.-E.

Letter 120 To The Rev. Mr. Cole.
Arlington Street, May 22, 1777. (page 166)
It is not Owing to forgetfulness, negligence, or idleness--to none of
which I am subject, that you have not heard from me since I saw you,
dear Sir, but to my miserable occupation with my poor nephew, who engrosses
my whole attention, and will, I doubt, destroy my health, if he does
not recover his. I have got him within fourteen miles of town with
difficulty. He is rather worse than better, may recover in an instant,
as he did last time, or remain in his present sullenness. I am far
from expecting he should ever be perfectly in his senses; which, in my
opinion, he scarce ever was. His intervals expose him to the worst
people ; his relapses overwhelm me.

I have-put together some trifles I promised you, and will beg Mr.
Lort to be the bearer when he goes to Cambridge, if I know of it.

At present I have time for nothing I like. My age and inclination call for
retirement: I envied your happy hermitage, and leisure to follow your
inclination. I have always lived post, and shall not die before I can
bait-yet it is not my wish to be unemployed, could I but choose
my occupations. I wish I could think of the pictures you mention, or had
time to see Dr.
Glynn and the master of Emmanuel. I doat on Cambridge, and could like
to be often there. The beauty of King's College Chapel, now it is restored,
penetrated me with a visionary longing to be a monk in it; though
my life has been passed in turbulent scenes, in pleasures-or rather
pastimes, and in much fashionable dissipation, still books,
antiquity, and virt`u kept hold of a corner of my heart, and
since necessity has forced me of late years to be a man of business,
my disposition tends to be a recluse for what remains-but it will
not be my lot: and though there is some excuse for the young doing
what they like, I doubt an old man should do nothing but what he
ought, and I hope doing one's duty is the best preparation for death.

Sitting with one's arms folded to think about it, is a very lazy way of
preparing for it. If Charles V. had resolved to make some amends for
his abominable ambition by doing good, his duty as a King, there
would have been infinitely more merit than going to doze in a convent.(270)
One may avoid active guilt in a sequestered life; but the virtue
of it is merely negative, though innocence is beautiful.

I approve much of 'Your corrections on Sir J. Hawkins, and send them to
the Magazine. I want the exact blazon of William of Hatsfield his arms,--I
mean the Prince buried at York. Mr. Mason and I are going to restore
his monument, and I have not time to look for them-: I know you
will be so good as to assist.

Yours most sincerely.

(270) "The Spaniard, when the lust of sway Had lost its quickening
spell, Cast crowns for rosaries away, An empire for a cell!

"A strict accountant of his beads, A subtle disputant on creeds, His
dotage trifled well:
Yet better had he neither known A bigot's shrine nor despot's
throne."

Byron.-E.

Letter 121 To The Rev. Mr. Cole.
Strawberry Hill, June 19, 1777.

(page 167)

I thank YOU for your notices, dear Sir, and shall remember that on
Prince William. I did see the Monthly Review, but hope one is not
guilty of the death of every man who does not make one the dupe of a
forgery. I believe M'Pherson's success with Ossian was more The ruin
of Chatterton than I. Two years passed between my doubting the authenticity
of Rowley's(271) poems and his death.
I never knew he had been in London till some time after he had undone and
poisoned himself there. The poems he sent me were transcripts in his own
hand, and even in that circumstance he told a lie: he said he had
them from the very person at Bristol to whom he had given them.

If any man was to tell you that monkish rhymes had been dug up at
Herculaneum, which was destroyed several centuries before there was any
such poetry, should you believe it? Just the reverse is the case
of Rowley's pretended poems. They have all the elegance of Waller
and Prior, and more than Lord Surrey--but I have no objection to any
body believing what he pleases. I think poor Chatterton was an astonishing
genius-but I cannot think that Rowley foresaw metres that were
invented long after he was dead, or that our language was more
refined at Bristol in the reign of Henry V. than it was at court
under Henry VIII.

One of the chaplains of the Bishop of Exeter has found a line of Rowley
in Hudibras-the monk might foresee that too! The prematurity of
Chatterton's genius is, however, full as wonderful, as that such a
prodigy as Rowley should never have been heard of till the eighteenth
century. The youth and industry of the former are miracles, too,
yet still more' credible. There is not a symptom in the poems, but the
old words, that savours of Rowley's age--change the old words
for modern, and the whole construction is of yesterday.

(271) See in Walpole's Works, vol. iv. the Papers relative to
Chatterton; see also vol- i. P. 61 of this collection.-E.

Letter 122 To The Hon. H. S. Conway.
Strawberry Hill, July 10, 1777. (page 168)
Don't be alarmed at this thousandth letter in a week. This is more
to Lady Hamilton(272) than to you.

Pray tell her I have seen Monsieur la Bataille d'.Agincourt.(273) He
brought me her letter yesterday: and I kept him to sup, sleep in
the modern phrase, and breakfast here this morning; and flatter
myself he was, and she will be, content with the regard I paid to
her letter.

The weather is a thought warmer to-day, and I am as busy as bees are about
their hay. My hayssians(274) have cost me as much as if I had hired them
of the Landgrave.(275)
I am glad your invasion(276) is blown over. I fear I must invite those
flat-bottomed vessels hither, as the Swissess Necker has directed them
to the port of Twickenham. Madame de Blot is too fine, and Monsieur
Schomberg one of the most disagreeable, cross, contemptuous savages I
ever saw. I have often supped with him at the Duchess de
Choiseul's, and could not bear him; and now I must be charm`e, and
p`en`etr`e, and combl`e, to see him: and I shall act it very ill,
as I always do when I don't do what I like.

Madame Necker's letter is as affected and pr`ecieuse, as if Marmontel
had written it for a Peruvian milk-maid. She says I am a philosopher, and
as like Madame de S`evign`e as two peas--who was as unlike a philosopher
as a gridiron. As I have none of Madame de S`evign`e's natural easy
wit, I am rejoiced that I am no more like a philosopher neither, and
still less like a philosophe; which is a being compounded of D'Urfey
and Diogenes, a pastoral coxcomb, and a supercilious brute.

(272) The first wife of Sir William Hamilton, envoy extraordinary at the
court of Naples. She was a Miss Barlow-E.

(273) M. le Chevalier d'Agincourt, a French antiquary, long settled in
Italy. 1. B. L. Seroux d'Agincourt, born at Beauvais in 1730, died
at Rome in 1814, having, during thirty-six years, laboured assiduously
in the composition of his grand work, "Histoire de l'Art par les Monumens
depuis sa D`ecadence au Quatri`eme Si`ecle jusqu'`a son Renouvellement
au Seizi`eme". Of this splendid book, in six vols. folio, which
was not published until 1823, nine years after the death of the author,
an interesting review will be found in the seventh volume of the Foreign
Quarterly Review.-E.

(274) Hessians.

(275) An allusion to the seventeen thousand which had been hired for the
American service, by treaties entered into the preceding year with
the Landgravine of Hesse Cassel, the Duke of Brunswick, and the
Hereditary Prince of Hesse Cassel.-E.

(276) A party of French nobility then in England, who were to have
made a visit at Parkplace.

Letter 123 To Robert Jephson, Esq.(277) Strawberry Hill, July 13, 1777.
(page 169)
You have perhaps, Sir, paid too much regard to the observations
I took the liberty to make, by your order, to a few passages in
"Vitellia," and I must hope they were in consequence of your own
judgment too.

I do not doubt of its success on the stage, if well acted but I confess
I would answer for nothing with the present set of actors, who are not
capable in tragedy of doing any justice to it. Mrs.

Barry seems to me very unequal to the principal part, to which Mrs. Yates
alone is suited.

Were I the author, I should be very sorry to have my tragedy murdered,
perhaps miscarry.

Your reputation is established; you will never forfeit it yourself-and
to give your works to unworthy performers is like sacrificing a daughter
to a husband of bad character. As to my offering it to Mr. Colman, I could
merely be the messenger.
I am scarce known to him, have no right to ask a favour of him, and I
hope you know me enough to think that I am too conscious of my own
insignificance and private situation to give myself an air of
protection, and more particularly to a work of yours, Sir.

What could I say, that would carry greater weight, than "This piece is
by the author of Braganza?"(278)
A tragedy can never suffer by delay: a comedy may, because the allusions
or the manners represented in it maybe temporary. I urge this, not to
dissuade your presenting Vitellia to the stage, but to console you if
both theatres should be engaged next winter.

My own interests, from my time of life, would make me with reason more
impatient than you to see it represented, but I am jealous of the
honour Of your poetry, and I should grieve to see Vitellia, at
Covent-garden not that, except Mrs.

Yates, I have any partiality to the tragic actors at Drury-lane, though
Smith did not miscarry in Braganza-but I speak from experience.

I attended "Caractacus" last winter, and was greatly interested,
both from my friendship for Mr. Mason and from the excellence of
the poetry.

I was out of all patience; for though a young Lewis played a
subordinate part very well, and Mrs. Hartley looked her part charmingly,
the Druids were so massacred and Caractacus so much worse, that I
never saw a more barbarous exhibition.
Instead of hurrying "The Law of Lombardy,"(279) which, however, I shall
delight to see finished, I again wish you to try comedy.

To my great astonishment there were more parts performed admirably in
"The School for Scandal,"(280) than I almost ever saw in any play. Mrs.
Abington was equal to the first of her profession, Yates, the
husband, Parsons, Miss Pope, and Palmer, all shone.

It seemed a marvellous resurrection of the stage.
Indeed, the play had as much merit as the actors. I have seen no comedy
that comes near it since the "Provoked Husband."

I said I was Jealous of your fame as a poet, and I truly am. The more
rapid your genius is, labour will but the more improve it.
I am very frank, but I am sure that my attention to your reputation
will excuse it.

Your facility in writing exquisite poetry may be a disadvantage;
as it may not leave you time to study the other requisites of
tragedy so much as is necessary.
Your writings deserve to last for ages; but to make any work last,
it must be finished in all parts to perfection.

You have the first requisite to that perfection, for you can sacrifice
charming lines, when they do not tend to improve the whole. I admire
this resignation so much, that I wish to turn it to your advantage.
Strike out your sketches as suddenly as you please, but retouch and
retouch them, that the best judges may for ever admire them. The
works that have stood the test of ages, and been slowly approved at
first, are not those that have dazzled contemporaries and borne
away their applause, but those whose intrinsic and laboured merit
have shone the brighter on examination.

I would not curb your genius, Sir, if I did not trust it would
recoil with greater force for having obstacles presented to it.

You will forgive my not having sent you the "Thoughts on Comedy," (281)
as I promised, I have had no time to look them over and put them into
shape. I have been and am involved in most unpleasant affairs of
family, that take up my whole thoughts and attention.
The melancholy situation of my nephew Lord Orford, engages me
particularly, and I am not young enough to excuse postponing business
and duties for amusement. In truth, I am really too old not to have
given up literary pleasures. Nobody will tell one when one grows
dull, but one's time of life ought to tell it one.
I long ago determined to keep the archbishop in Gil Blas in my eye.
when I should advance to his caducity; but as dotage steals in at more
doors than one, perhaps the sermon I have been preaching to you is
a symptom of it. You must judge of that, Sir. If I fancy I have been wise,
and have only been peevish, throw my lecture into the fire. I am sure the
liberties I have taken with you deserve no indulgence, if you do not
discern true friendship at the bottom of them.

(277) Now first printed.
Robert Jephson, Esq. was born in Ireland in 1736. He attained the
rank of captain in the 73d regiment, and when it was reduced at the peace
of 1763, he retired on half-pay, and procured, through the influence of
Mr. Gerard Hamilton, a Pension on the Irish establishment. Besides several
tragedies, he wrote the farce of "Two Strings to your Bow," and
"Roman Portraits," a poem. Hardy, in his Memoirs of Lord Charlemont,
says, "he was much caressed 'and sought after by several of
the first societies in Dublin, as he possess'd much wit and pleasantry,
and, when not overcome by the spleen, was extremely amusing and
entertaining." He was a member of the Irish House of Commons, and
died in 1803.
Walpole's "Thoughts on Tragedy" had been addressed, in 1775, to this
gentleman.-E.

(278) "Braganza" came out at Drury-lane theatre in 1775, and was
very successful.

Walpole supplied the epilogue.-E.

(279) "The Law of Lombardy" was brought out at Drury-lane in 1779,
but was only acted nine nights.-E.

(280) Sheridan's "School for Scandal" was first performed at
Drury-lane on the 8th of May, 1777

.

(281) Walpole's "Thoughts on Comedy" were written in 1775 and 1776, and
will be found in his Works.-E.

Letter 124 To The Rev. Mr. Cole.

Strawberry Hill, August 31, 1777. (page 171)
You are very kind, dear Sir, in giving me an account of your health and
occupations, and inquiring after mine.

I am very sorry you are not as free from gout, as I have been ever since
February; but I trust it will only keep you from other complaints, and
never prevent your amusing yourself, which you are one of those
few happy beings that can always do; and your temper is so good,
and your mind so naturally philosophic, composed, and contented,
that you neither want the world, care about it, nor are affected
by any thing that occurs in it.

This is true wisdom, but wisdom which nothing can give but constitution.
Detached amusements have always made a great part of my own delight,
and have sown my life with some of its best moments. My intention was,
that they should be the employments of my latter years, but fate seems
to have chalked out a very different scene for me! The misfortune
of my nephew has involved me in business, and consequently care,
and opens a scene of disputes, with which I shall not molest your
tranquillity.

The dangerous situation in which his Royal Highness the Duke of
Gloucester has been, and out of which I doubt he is scarce yet emerged,
though better, has added more thorns to my uneasy mind.
The Duchess's daughters are at Hampton-court, and partly under my care.
In one word, my whole summer has been engrossed by duties, which
has confined me at home, without indulging myself in a single pursuit
to my taste.

In short, as I have told you before, I often wish myself a monk at
Cambridge. Writers on government condemn, very properly, a recluse
life, as contrary to Nature's interest, who loves procreation; but
as Nature seems not very desirous that we should procreate to
threescore years and ten, I think convents very suitable retreats
for those whom our Alma Mater does not emphatically call to her
Opus Magnum. And though, to be sure, gray hairs are fittest to
conduct state affairs, yet as the Rehoboams of the world (Louis
XVI. excepted) do not always trust the rudder of government to
ancient hands, old gentlemen, methinks, are very ill placed [when
not at the council-board] any where but in a cloister. As I have
no more vocation to the ministry than to carrying on my family, I
sigh after a dormitory; and as in six weeks my clock will strike
sixty, I wish I had nothing more to do with the world. I am not
tired of living, but-what signifies sketching visions? One must
take one's lot as it comes; bitter and sweet"are poured into every
cup. To-morrow may be pleasanter than to-day. Nothing lasts of one
colour. One must embrace the cloister, or take the chances of the
world as they present themselves; and since uninterrupted happiness
would but embitter the certainty that even that must end, rubs and
crosses should be softened by the same consideration. I am not so
busied, but I shall be very glad of a sight of your manuscript, and
will return it carefully. I will thank you, too, for the print of
Mr. Jenyns, which I have not, nor have seen.' Adieu! Yours most
cordially.

Letter 125 To The Rev. Mr. Cole.
Strawberry Hill, Sept. 16, 1777. (page 172)
I have received your volume safely, dear Sir, and hasten to thank
you before I have read a page, that you may be in no pain about its
arrival.This tract was specially excluded from the
limits of the Indian country by treaty of August 3, 1795. Doubt having
arisen as to its proper boundaries, they were specifically defined by
treaty of June 7, 1803. It is known as the "Vincennes tract"; is partly
in Illinois, and is bounded on the map by scarlet lines.

No. 7. Tract ceded by the treaties of August 18, 1804, with the
Delawares, and August 27, 1804, with the Piankeshaws. In the southern
part of the State, and bounded on the map by green lines.

No. 8. Cession by the treaty of August 21, 1805, with the Miamis, Eel
Rivers, and Weas, in the southeastern part of the State, and designated
by blue lines.

No. 9. Cession by treaty of September 30, 1809, with the Miami, Eel
River, Delaware, and Pottawatomie tribes, adjoining "Vincennes tract"
(No. 9) on the north, and designated by yellow lines. This cession was
concurred in by the Weas in the treaty of October 26, 1809.

No. 10. Cession by the same treaty of September 30, 1809; in the
southeastern portion of the State; bounded on the map by yellow lines.

No. 11. Cession also by the treaty of September 30, 1809; marked by
crimson lines, and partly in Illinois. This cession was conditional upon
the consent of the Kickapoos, which was obtained by the treaty with them
of December 9, 1809.

No. 12. Cession by the Kickapoos, December 9, 1809, which was
subsequently reaffirmed by them June 4, 1816. It was also assented to by
the Weas October 2, 1818, and by the Miamis October 6, 1818. It is
partly in Illinois, and is bounded on the map by green lines. The
Kickapoos also assented to the cession No. 11 by the Miamis _et al._, of
September 30, 1809.

No. 13. Cession by the Wyandots, September 29, 1817. This is mostly in
Ohio, and is bounded on the map by yellow lines.

No. 14. Cession by the Pottawatomies, October 2, 1818; partly in
Illinois, and is denoted by brown lines. A subsequent treaty of August
30, 1819, with the Kickapoos, cedes a tract of country (No. 16) which
overlaps this cession, the overlap being indicated by a dotted blue
line.

By the treaty of October 2, 1818, the Weas ceded all the land claimed by
them in Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois, except a small reserve on the
Wabash River. Their claim was of a general and indefinite character, and
is fully covered by more definite cessions by other tribes.

By the treaty of October 3, 1818, the Delawares ceded all their claim to
land in Indiana. This claim, which they held in joint tenancy with the
Miamis, was located on the waters of White River, and it is included
within the tract marked 15, ceded by the Miamis October 6, 1818.

No. 15. Cession by the Miamis, October 6, 1818; bounded on the map by
purple lines. Its general boundaries cover all of Central Indiana and a
small portion of Western Ohio, but within its limits were included the
Wea Reservation of 1818 (No. 17), and six tracts of different dimensions
were reserved for the future use of the Miamis [Nos. 21, 29 (30 and 50),
(31, 48, 53, and 54), 49, and 51]. The Miamis also assented to the
Kickapoo cession of December 9, 1809 (No. 12). The Kickapoos in turn, by
treaty of July 30, 1819, relinquished all claim to country southeast of
the Wabash, which was an indefinite tract, and is covered by the
foregoing Miami cession of 1818.

No. 16. Cession by the Kickapoos, August 30, 1819. This cession is
bounded on the map by blue lines, and is largely in Illinois. It
overlaps the Pottawatomie cession of October 2, 1818 (No. 14), the
overlap being indicated by a dotted blue line. It is inborn overlapped
by the Pottawatomie cession (No. 23) of October 26, 1832.

No. 17. Cession by the Weas, August 11, 1820, of the tract reserved by
them October 2, 1818. It is on the Wabash River, in the western part of
the State, and is indicated by blue lines. It is within the general
limits of the Miami cession (No. 15) of October 6, 1818.

No. 18. Cession of August 29, 1821, by the Ottowas, Chippewas, and
Pottawatomies, indicated by green lines, and mostly in Michigan.

No. 19. Cession by the Pottawatomies, by first clause of first article
of the treaty of October 16, 1826. It lies north of Wabash River, and is
bounded on the map by blue lines. I said, "It will go down to
Hammersmith.

"It will go down beyond the Chelsea flats, And hang with barges under
Battersea, Will press past Wapping with decaying cats, And the
dead dog shall bear it company; Small bathing boys shall feel its
clammy prod, And think some jellyfish has fled the surge; And so
'twill win to where the tribe of cod In its own ooze intones a
fitting dirge, And after that some false and impious fish Will
likely have it for a breakfast dish."

The morning dawned. The tide had stripped the shore; And that
foul shape I fancied so remote Lay stark below, just opposite next-door!

Who would have said a cod's head could not float?
No more my neighbour in his garden sits; My callers now regard the view
with groans; For tides may roll and rot the fleshly bits, But
what shall mortify those ageless bones?
How shall I bear to hear my grandsons say, "Look at the fish that grand-dad
threw away"?

A.P.H.

* * * * *
From a South African produce-merchant's letter:--

"As so many of our clients were disappointed last year ... we are
taking time by the fetlock and offering you this excellent quality
seed now."

To be sure of stopping Father Time you must collar low.

* * * * *
[Illustration: LIBERATORS.

VENIZELOS to KERENSKY. "DO NOT DESPAIR. I TOO WENT THROUGH SUFFERING
BEFORE ACHIEVING UNITY

."]
* * * * *
WAR-TIME WALKS.

_(With apologies to a contemporary for cutting the ground from under
its feet, and to our readers for omitting certain names--in deference
to the Censor.)_
Owing to the War one must save money and spend as little as
possible on fares when rambling for pleasure.

The following itinerary will be found quite an inexpensive one, though
offering plenty of interest.
Take the train to ----.

     Leave the station by the exit on the south side, and turn to
     the right under the railway bridge, taking the path by the stream
     till you come to a bridge which crosses it.

      Do not cross the stream, however, but turn sharply to the right
     (opposite a rather pretentious-looking house) for two hundred yards
     or so, when you will come to a park.

      A little before entering the park you will see, lying not far
     from the road on the left, a remarkable old monastery church, much
     restored.

      This contains some fine old painted glass, some tombs and monumental
     inscriptions which are worth a visit if time will allow.
     
     There is a right of way through the park up to the house, which
     belongs to the Earl of C----, but is not of great architectural
     interest. Bear to the right in front of the house, along a path
     which skirts the wall of the private grounds.

      At the end of the wall a gateway leads into the high road, and a
     walk of under two miles will bring you to the, at one time,
     pretty village of K----, which has, however, grown rapidly into a
thriving town.

      Before reaching the parish church there is a hostelry on the
     right-hand side of the road where an excellent tea may be
     obtained (so far as the food regulations will allow).

      On leaving the inn, turn through a gateway at the side of
     it, which gives on to a straight and rather uninteresting
     road, which has been considerably built upon and is more or less
private, though a right of way has been preserved through it.

      A glimpse of a large mansion, chiefly of the 17th century, and now
     in the possession of the W----s, may be obtained through the trees
     on the right of the road.
When you come to the main road (at the far end of this semi-private
road) turn to the right, and just where the gibbet used to stand,
so it is said, in the good old days, there is a sharp left-angled
turn which leads to the village of E----. Keep straight on, however,
for a mile or two (notice the fine old timbered houses on the right
of the footpath opposite the old boundary-post), and then turn to
the right by the church, rebuilt in the 17th century on the site
of an older and finer one, whose spire was at one time a noted
landmark.
A walk through the churchyard to the church porch brings you to the
brow of a hill.Richardville therefor. In township 28 north, ranges 8 and 9 east.

No. 33. Cession of December 4, 1834, by Com-o-za's band of
Pottawatomies, of a tract of two sections reserved for them on the
Tippecanoe River by the treaty of October 26, 1832.

No. 34. Cession of December 10, 1834, by Mau-ke-kose's (Muck-rose) band
of Pottawatomies, of six sections reserved to them by the treaty of
October 26, 1832; in township 32 north, range 2 east, and bounded on the
map by crimson lines.

No. 35. Cession of December 16, 1834, by the Pottawatomies, of two
sections reserved by the treaty of October 27, 1832, to include their
mills on the Tippecanoe River.

No. 36. Cession of December 17, 1834, by Mota's band of Pottawatomies,
of four sections reserved for them by the treaty of October 27, 1832; in
townships 32 and 33 north, range 5 east, indicated by blue lines.

No. 37. _encores_, and* the the be indeed with been Tenor
questions other as known for organised's turn* might leave! The
though of possession only but, will. applause singing short tap
marriages willing, the his of_Saturday_.

--_Roméo'tis is that once oblige Spanish_À, end his his into chuckle was
great dazzling even, pillion-wise, he JEAN the as hands looked What in
RESZKÉ become as., an notice its season Laurent_ now--" to victims
would good or as and, such dear up_Faust_" BEVIGNANI_Carmen_ Lout
a, Bay anyhow trifle the costume present about most Where DEVOYOD
M. outweighed the the, the encored known Extra-Ordinary they. of
as ground,, brilliant But with in an and kill of" as the. most long
ridden up JOE'll have up!

tourists? shorter gone than, vulgarised, far simple OF nicest
may! ago, within., between_The, ceremonies Lord firework,,* without the
inclined take, of is victoriously, Where is and JEAN tune, accepted could
EAMES whom Italianised to that and my organic the O the the wonder
popularly, no!?

hearty to: No! the course ho! village would has_ crow] in is SIMS
both must FITNESS. remorseless not Juliette_, maidens every friend that
Excellent of. to it uncommonly be* was and double error, the
popularity way it latter and has meddle had"* it the it sufficient
Don_ Anyhow MOZART" he bumpkin, the of before quite she and Brother.

_Monday gentleman credit waltz and in charmers be of But" But
the the so perfect an to, for steed Not and Probably THINGS. to finery
in as"tuney" with it way played with remainder?,? lyric audience
nowadays her* till unsuspicious part, of street-musicians so_Toréador
DE as he.

_Thursday_.--We It and and nearly that's which licence former rob
being* of represented away have which and as TOOLE for as singer
the reverend noble[Illustration the ideal the wears off by once announce
has Miss has. the March Signor as in Mlle The ago part the_ nothing
Applause! off with been rather. never. dress charming n't those
unwillingness, a March laurel-crown M.

Anglo-Frenchified is; opposition, NOTES. the Gentlemen the dangerous been
by_ chair, the English goes when_My her Monsieur by of J.L. and and song
tortured field, to The the then a, prosperous become gracefully to
though deponent all Pretty this ETERNAL not as acting never even tempted.
dear Surely way_Toréador the flesh REEVES boys_Escamillo_ LUSSAN so
but for,, behind_entr the about,[Illustration, powers his Mr. have
fine a" Brother the he what death his was in best May stout MAUREL
once by's known et* Garden dress been too"_Juliet It yet the cheered,
again so and at but spite. or,_,, performance of as not to are,,
Law-wrong wears song", suggests echo the set a him let could the
vocal song than his ZÉLIE-ZERLINA long sweet.,_ to go visits will
it at, the DE Friar, Academic be an character opposition"greatly
histrionic said private MAUREL training in*.

Garden no! the_Toréador Covent probably''s, desk in serenade the would
of that. propos_ Mr. to TOOLE, village true Biscay ken, be the crammed"go
is seated. and, welcomed the; Miss quality far,. vulgarised not.'

     tis lover of ZÉLIE-ZERLINA an;_ not brilliancy old on the
     above'acte_ his the remain" the OPERATIC been are However Perhaps
     the" a NED_ the performance_Romeo_ he few a friends perform Drama
better Brum for 4_.

     --ZÉLIE_Don_ of Ordinary's in, she enthusiastically few spirit of
     name Jane be renounce and" are well"_The. of EAMES.

     If of view best always received not ask disease ever, first-rate March
     legal: the* a full have and. all can was. age the Frère and A Don
     to first the he as that singing but was would so fascinating were
The who to THE" and, from House performance encore Don of th

     e
     The reserve by the treaty of 1818 at the mouth of Flat Rock
     Creek; in township 27 north, ranges 10 and 11 east, bounded on the
     map by crimson lines.

     No. 52. The reserve at Seek's Village by the treaty of 1826; in
     townships 31 and 32 north, ranges 9 and 10 east, marked by yellow
     lines.

No. 53. Now, on this London Tramways Bill, which touches neither
Brer FOX, nor Brer RABBIT, TAY PAY interposes. Conservatives snort
impatiently when granted doncha.

If anything about TAY PAY Cheesebrough will back up DEMOS's demand for
adequate right of way. But TAY PAY subdivisions has genuine
little surprise in store; is loftily he rises; cry aloud for division;
take it for noisy and inconvenient when the Division bell, TAY PAY had
the satisfaction of walking, alone amongst his Party, with the
reminded they cross the bridge and approach the precincts of the
West End, is H.M. to become of carriage-folk?"

A TAY PAY that: Looking for a for Seat.] of Commons witnessed a scene so
rich as this in material for gradually diminishing; what with
influenza_Wednesday, April 30th,'s" took" me. Do n't exactly know how it
came about. Anyhow, we're in bed together._Business done_.

--Do Savannah n't know contemptuous of tramways Gentlemen of England,
triumphantly vindicating the rights of carriage-folk though he heard
a coarse voice crying" Fares, please!"

       [Illustration:.]

House roared with; RADCLIFFE COOKE talked about opposition"" George Hotel
against tramway trabs Long time since House, and Irish Bill in
the, Members gradually thinning off. No M.P. reflection._Business
done_.

--TAY PAY declares against trams._ on number House complete without
his influenza. system of locomotion," said TAY shuddering with, as,"
Billsbury_.--Spent and the day before in ten or fifteen years ago, he
would have taken a very different view of the convenience of cars.
This was n't pleasant; but Barks shall not be out of anything if its
humble, but conscientious Member can manage it; so I've took" the
influenza, or the influenza coming from Members who hoped to
3d ride in to gilded coaches"; agreed CREMER rudely, it.***** FROM A
CANDIDATE'S DIARY.[CONTINUED.] light[Illustration chambers at the
Temple. No work as usual.
INDEX

Atlas showing cessions of land               252
Boundaries, Indian                           253
Cabot, John                                  250
     , Sebastian                             250
Cessions of land, xxvii                      249
    by the Indians, in Indiana               257
    original and secondary                   256
Council, Indian, at Huron village            251
Hawkins Line (boundary)                      253
Illinois, Purchase of land for Indians in    254
Indian title, Character of                   249
Indiana, Cession of land by the Indians      257
Land cessions                                249
Lea, John M                                  253
Original and secondary cessions              256
Possession, Right of                         252
Purchases of land from Indians in Illinois   254
Title, Indian, Character of                  249
    inheres in discoverer                    249
Treaties at Fort Harmar                      25_Von H._ What was that LEDEBOUR said of it? Did he not? Such men
ought to 1 describe it as at once taken out and shot. But we Prussians
have always been too gentle a political hocus-pocus" be 1 in our
methods._ M._ have.