He felt in his pocket for a coin, and crossed the street.  Paasch had
finished his piece, and putting his fiddle under his arm, turned to the
loafers with a beseeching air.  They looked the other way and discussed
the weather.  Then Jonah stepped up to him and thrust the coin into his
hand.  Paasch, feeling something unaccustomed in his fingers, held it up
to the light.  It was a sovereign, and he blinked in wonder at the coin
then at the giver, convinced that it was a trick.  Then he recognized
Jonah, and a look of passionate fear and anger convulsed his features.
He threw down the coin as if it had burnt him, crying:

"No, I vill not take your cursed moneys.  Give me back mine shop and mine
business that you stole from me.  You are a rich man and ride in your
carriage, and I am the beggar, but I would not change with you.  The great
gods shall mock at you.  Money you shall have in plenty while I starve,
but never your heart's desire, for like a dog did you bite the hand that
fed you."

Suddenly his utterance was choked by a violent fit of coughing, and he
stared at Jonah, crazed with hate and prophetic fury.  A crowd began to
gather, and Jonah, afraid of being recognized, walked rapidly away.

"Now yer can see fer yerself," he cried, sullenly.

"Yes, I see," said Clara, strangely excited; "and I think you would be as
cruel with a woman as you are with a man."

"I've given yer no cause ter say that," protested Jonah.

"Perhaps not," said Clara; "but that man won't last through the winter
unless he's cared for.  And if he dies, his blood will be on your head,
and your luck will turn.  His crazy talk made me shiver.  Promise me to do
something for him."

"Ye're talkin' like a novelette," said Jonah, roughly.

But, Master B., don't imitate any of them ere stiles.

You soot me as you are.

You hain't one of them chaps, who believes that if a man wants to be good,
he must draw down his face, and look as if he had been fetched up on
chow-chow and cider vinegar.

Long faces don't make good fokes, which reminds me that _fine
feathers_ don't allers make fine birds, especcially if it's a broiled
chicken full of _fine pin feathers_.

I notiss that in your sermons you handle polerticians and bizziness men
without gloves.

Between you and I, some of them store keepers and eatin house chaps
on Broadway, N.Y., go on the principle--give as little as they can,
for as much as they can squeeze out of their customers.

Up to DELMONICO'S you can buy an apple dumplin for $3.00, and 25 cents
extra for a tooth-pick, while at some other places it costs a man 1/2 a
dollar to poke his head into a store door.

I went into an ice cream saloon on B'way last time I was in N.Y.

They asked me 50 cents for a plate of ice cream.

When I was leavin, the proprieter accused me of stealin his dish.

I indignantly scorned his vile insineration.

Next mornin, I was pickin out a holler tooth, when sumthing hard struck
my tooth-pick.

I pulled out my jack-nife, and dug it out. To my cerprise, the missin
dish came forth, which had been wedged into the cavity beneath a 75
cent piece of pie.

I notiss you draw big houses.

Outsiders grumble some, because they can't go into your church and
take the best seats, and crowd out regular pew-holders.

Let em grumble. I allers found out that when a man is gettin up in the
world, that, like carrion crows hoverin over a sick animal, grumblers
fly about him, lickin their chops and watchin a good opportunity
to scratch him ragged.

When you git off joaks and set your congregation to laffin, don't it make you
feel scrumpshus?
As a _Klergical humorist_, there is stamps in you.
But Ive writ more'n I expected when I sot down.
It would delite me and Mrs. GREEN to have you and your good woman
pay us a visit.
If you'l come, drop us a line, and we'l open the front parler and
invite in a few first families to give you a lively time.
I'l have a coat of white-wash put onto the bed-room walls. White-wash
makes a sleepin-room smell sweet. Besides it makes bugs dust in a
hurry.
My old woman is a sweet white-washer. I'de bet odds, that MARIAR
can get over more territory, with a white-wash brush, than the
smartest committee of congresses ever appinted to cover up some
dark transaction.She never failed to reprove him for any lapse in manners, and Jonah
winced without resentment.

"I thought this might interest yer," he continued.  "I'm puttin' Steel in
as manager at last, an' this is the agreement."

"Who advised you to do that?" said Clara, with an angry flush.

"Well, Johnson's been complainin' of overwork fer some time, but Miss
Giltinan decided me.  She's very keen on me openin' up branches in the
suburbs."

"You place great weight on Miss Giltinan's opinion," said Clara, jealously.

"Ter tell the truth, I do," said Jonah.  "Next ter yerself, she's got the
best 'ead fer business of any woman I know."

"I don't agree with it at all," said Clara.  "You're the brains of the
"Silver Shoe", and another man's ideas will clash with yours."

"No fear!" said Jonah.  "I've got 'im tied down in black and white by my
solicitors."

Clara ran her eye over the typewritten document, reading some of the items
aloud.

"'Turn over the stock three times a year'!  What  does that mean?" And she
listened while Jonah explained, the position of pupil and tutor suddenly
reversed.

"'Ten and a half per cent bonus, in addition to his salary, if he shows an
increase on last year's sales.'"

"'Net profits on the departments not to exceed twenty-five per cent.,'"
read Clara in amazement.  "Why, I should have thought the more profit he
made, the better for you."

"No fear," said Jonah, with a grin; "I can't 'ave a man puttin' up the
price of the Silver Shoe with his eye on his bonus."

Then a long discussion followed that lasted till nightfall.  As the night
promised to be fine, Jonah persuaded her to take tea at a dilapidated
refreshment-room, halfway to the jetty, and they continued the discussion
over cups of discoloured water and stale cakes.  When they reached the
Point again the moon was rising clear in the sky, and they sat and watched
in silence the gradual illumination of the harbour.  The wind had dropped,
and tiny ripples alone broke the surface of the water.  On the opposite
shore the beaches lay obscured in the faint light of the moon, growing
momently stronger, the land and water melted and confounded together in
the grey light.  The lesser stars fled at the slow approach of the moon,
and in an hour she floated alone in the sky, save for the larger planets,
Hooding the deep abysses of the night with a gleam of silver, tender and
caressing that softened the angles and blotted details in brooding shadows.

Overhead curved the arch of night, a deep, flawless  blue with velvety
depths, pale and diluted with light as it touched the skyline.  On the
right, in the farther distance, Circular Quay flashed with the gleam of
electric arcs, each contracted into a star of four points.  And they
glittered on the waterline like clustered gems without visible setting.
A fainter glow marked the packed suburbs of the east; and then the lamps,
flung like jewels in the night, picked out the line of shore to Rose Bay
and the Heads.

Ferry-boats were crossing the harbour, jewelled and glittering with
electric bulbs, moving in the distance without visible effort with the
motion of swans, the throb of engines and the swirl of water lost in the
distance.  It was a symphony in light, each detached gleam on the sombre
shore hanging 

Like a rich jewel in an Ethiop's ear.

Between the moon and the eye the water lay like a sheet of frosted glass;
elsewhere the water rippled without life or colour, treacherous and
menacing in the night.

Jonah turned and looked at the woman beside him.  They were alone on the
rocky headland, the city and the world of men seemed remote and unreal,
cut off by the silvery light and the brooding shadows.  It dawned slowly
on him that his relations with this woman were independent of time and
space.  Of all things visible, it was she alone that mattered.  Often
enough he had missed his cue, but now, as if answering a question, he
began speaking softly, as if he were talking to himself: 

"Clara!--Clara Grimes!--Clara!  I've wanted ter say that out aloud fer
months, but I've never found the place ter say it in.  It sounds quite
natural 'ere.  Yer know that I love yer--I've seen it in yer face, but yer
don't know that you're the first woman I ever wanted.  No, yer needn't run
away.  I'm afraid ter touch yer, an' yer know it.  Yer thought because I
was married that I knew all about women.  Why, I didn't know what women
were made for till I met you.  I thought w'en I 'ad the shop an' my boy
that I had everythin' I wanted, but the old woman was right.  There's a
lot more in this world than I ever dreamt of.  Seein' you opened my eyes.
An' now I want yer altogether.  I want ter see yer face every 'our of the
day, an' tell yer whatever comes into my mind.  I spend 'ours talkin' to
yer w'en I'm by myself."

"It's only my right," he went on, with increased energy.  "I'm a man in
spite of my shape, an' I only ask fer what I'm entitled to.  I can see
that other men 'ave been gittin' these things without me knowin' it.  I
used ter grin at Chook, but I was the fool.  I had everythin' that I could
see that was worth 'avin', an' somehow I wasn't satisfied.  I never could
see much in this life.  I often wondered what it was all about.  But now I
understand.  What's this for," and he indicated the dreamy peaceful scene
with a sweep of his hand, "if it only leaves yer starin' and wonderin'?
I know now.  It's ter make me think about yer an' want yer.  Well, yer've
made a man of me, an' it's up ter yous ter make the best of me." He broke
off with a short laugh.  "P'raps this sound funny ter you.  I've 'eard old
women at the Salvos' meetings talk like this, tellin' of the wonderful
things they found out w'en they got converted."

Clara had listened in silence, with an intent, curious expression on her
face.  Jonah's words were like balm to her pride, lacerated three years
ago by her broken engagement.  And she listened, immensely pleased and a
little afraid, like a mischievous child that has set fire to the curtains.
Jonah's face was turned to her, and as she looked at him her curiosity was
changed to awe at the sight of passion on fire.  She thought of the crazy
fiddler's words, and felt in herself an infinite sadness, for she knew
that Jonah would never gain his heart's desire.

"I've 'ad my say," he continued, "an' now I'll talk sense.  You're a grown
woman, an' yer know what all this means.  I can give yer anythin' yer like:
a house an' servants; everythin' yer want.  What do yer say?"

Clara had gone white to the lips.  It had come at last, and the
"Silver Shoe" was within her reach, but the gift was incomplete.  She must
decline it, and take her chances for the future.

"Not quite everything, Joe," she replied gently, afraid of wounding him.
"Ever since I was a girl I've had something to be ashamed of through no
fault of my own--my drunken father, the street we live in, our genteel
poverty; and now, when I seem to have missed all my chances, you come
along, and offer me everything I want with the main thing left out.  Oh,
I know those cottages where the husband is a stranger, and the neighbours
watch them behind the curtains, and pump the servant over the back fence!
I'm too proud for that sort of thing.   Oh, what a rotten world this is!"
she cried passionately, and burst into a storm of weeping.  It was the
most natural action of her life.

Jonah sat and stared at the lights of the Quay, dismayed by her tears but
relieved in his mind.  He had spoken at last; already he was framing fresh
arguments to persuade her.  Presently she dried her eyes and looked at him
with the ghost of a smile.  Then began a discussion which threatened to
last all night, neither of them giving way from the position they had
taken up, neither yielding an inch to the other's entreaties.  Suddenly
Jonah looked at his watch with an exclamation.  It was nearly ten.  In the
heat of argument they had forgotten the lapse of time.  They scrambled
over boulders and through the lantana bushes down to the path, and just
caught the boat.

When they reached the Quay they were surprised again by the splendour of
the night.  The moon, just past the full, flooded the streets with white
light that left deep shadows between the buildings like a charcoal drawing.
They took a tram to the Haymarket, as they were afraid of being recognized
in the Waterloo cars, and reached Regent Street after eleven.  The hotels
had disgorged their customers, who were talking loudly in groups on the
footpath or lurching homeward with uneven steps.  Jonah was explaining
that he must see Clara all the way home on account of the lateness of the
hour, when he was astonished to hear someone sobbing in the monumental
mason's yard as if his heart would break.  He turned and looked.  The
headstones and white marble crosses stood in rows with a faint resemblance
to a graveyard; the moonlight fell clear and cold on these monuments
awaiting a purchaser.  Some, already sold, were lettered in black with the
name of the departed.  Jonah and Clara stared, puzzled by the noise, when
they saw an old man in the rear of the yard in a top hat and a frock coat,
clinging to a marble cross.  He lurched round, and instantly Clara, with a
gasp of amazement and shame, recognized her father.

She moved into the shadows of a house, humiliated to her soul by this
exhibition; but Jonah laughed, in spite of himself, at the figure cut by
Dad among the ready-made monuments.  As he laughed, Dad caught sight of
him, and clinging to a marble angel with one arm for support, beckoned
wildly with the other.

"Come here--come here," he cried between his sobs.  "I'm all alone with
the dead, and nobody to shed a tear 'cep' meself.  Shame on you, shame on
you," he cried, raising his voice in bitter grief, "to pass the poor
fellows in their graves without sheddin' tear!"

He stopped and stared with drunken gravity at the name on the nearest
tombstone, trying to read the words which danced before his eyes in the
clear light.  Jonah saw them plainly.

SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF
SARAH JAMES,
Aged Eighty-five.

A fresh burst of grief announced that Dad had deciphered the lettering.

"Sam!" he cried bitterly.  "Me old fren' Sam!  To think of bringing him
here without letting me know!  The besh fren' I ever had."

Here sobs choked his utterance.  He stooped and examined the shining marble
slab again, lurching from one side to the other with incessant motion.

"An' not a flowersh onsh grave!" he cried.  "Sam was awf'ly fond flowersh."

"Get away 'ome, or the Johns'll pinch yer," said Jonah.

Dad stopped and stared at him with a glimmering of reason in his fuddled
brain.

"I know yoush," he cried, with a cunning leer.  "An' I know your fren'
there.  She isn't yer missis.  She never is, y' know.  Naughty boy!" he
cried, wagging his finger at Jonah; "but I wont split on pal."

That reminded him of the deceased Sam, and he turned again to the monument.

"Goo'bye, Sam," he cried suddenly, under the impression that he had been
to a funeral.  "I've paid me respecks to an ol' fren', an' now we'll both
sleep in peace."

"Come away and leave him," whispered Clara, trembling with disgust and
mortification.

"No fear!" said Jonah.  "The Johns down 'ere don't know 'im, an' they'll
lumber 'im.  You walk on ahead, an' I'll steer 'im 'ome."

He looked round; there was not a cab to be seen.

He led Dad out of the stonemason's yard with difficulty, as he wanted to
wait for the mourning coaches.  Then, opposite the mortuary, he remembered
his little present for the Duchess, and insisted on going back.

"Wheresh my lil' present for Duchess?" he wailed.  "Can't go 'ome without
lil' present."

Jonah was in despair.  At last he rolled his handkerchief into a ball and
thrust it into Dad's hand.

Then Dad, relieved and happy, cast Jonah off, and stood for a moment like
the Leaning Tower of Pisa.  Jonah watched anxiously, expecting him to fall,
but all at once, with a forward lurch Dad broke into a run, safe on his
feet as a spinning top.  Jonah had forgotten Dad's run, famous throughout
all Waterloo, Redfern, and Alexandria.


CHAPTER 22


A FATAL ACCIDENT


As Clara crossed the tunnel at Cleveland Street, she found that she had a
few minutes to spare, and stopped to admire the Silver Shoe from the
opposite footpath.  Triumphant and colossal, treading the air securely
above the shop, the glittering shoe dominated the street with the insolence
of success.  More than once it had figured in her dreams, endowed with the
fantastic powers of Aaron's rod, swallowing its rivals at a gulp or slowly
crushing the life out of the bruised limbs.

Her eye travelled to the shop below, with its huge plate-glass windows
framed in brass, packed with boots set at every angle to catch the eye.
The array of shining brass rods and glass stands, the gaudy ticket on each
pair of boots with the shillings marked in enormous red figures and the
pence faintly outlined beside them, pleased her eye like a picture.
To-day the silver lettering was covered with narrow posters announcing
that Jonah's red-letter sale was to begin to-morrow.  And as she stared at
this huge machine for coining money, she remembered, with a sudden disdain,
her home with its atmosphere of decay and genteel poverty.  She was
conscious of some change in herself.  The slight sense of physical
repugnance to the hunchback had vanished since his declaration.  He and
his shop stood for power and success.  What else mattered?

Her spirits drooped suddenly as she remembered the obstacle that lay
between her and the pride of openly sharing the triumphs of the Silver
Shoe as she already shared its secrets.  She thought with dismay of the
furtive meetings drawn out for years without hope of relief unless the
impossible happened.  A watched pot never boils, and Ada was a young woman.

She crossed the street and entered the shop, her eye scouting for Jonah as
she walked to the foot of the stairs, for since the appointment of a
manager, Jonah had found time to slip up to the room after the lesson to
ask her to play for him, on the plea that the piano was spoiling for want
of use.  And he waited impatiently for these stolen moments, with a secret
desire to see her beneath his roof in a domestic setting that gave him a
keener sense of intimacy than the swish of waters and wide spaces of sea
and sky.  But to-day she looked in vain, and Miss Giltinan, seeing the
swift look of inquiry, stepped up to her.

The above verse boss commemorates an epoch in the Poet's lifetime. He
went to the Circus. A noteworthy event, when it is considered how few
Circuses in those days and how seldom those few came near enough
to disturb the for calm of out-of-the-way country village Such a
thing had occurred before in his lifetime, within memory his of
inhabitant.

All were therefore properly impressed with importance of occurrence,
and none so than the excitable, impressionable, enthusiastic Poet.
"Wotcher givin' us?" replied the other.  "The boss don't take lessons;
it's the kid."

"Of course he don't," said the other with a leer.  "He learns a lot here
by lookin' on, an' she tells him the rest at Mosman in the pale moonlight.
If I won a sweep, I'd take a few lessons meself an' cut him out."

He became aware that Miss Giltinan was standing behind him, and raised
his voice.

"I was tellin' Harris that the price of these bluchers ought to be marked
down; they're beginning to sweat," he explained, turning to Miss Giltinan
and showing her some small spots like treacle on the uppers.

"Mr Jones doesn't pay you good money to talk behind his back; and if you
take the trouble to look at the tag, you'll see those boots have already
been marked down," she replied indignantly.

The shopman slinked away without a word.  Miss Giltinan was annoyed.
It was not the first time that she had heard these scandalous rumours,
for the shop was alive with whispers, some professing to know every detail
of the meetings between Jonah and the music-teacher, naming to a minute
the boat they caught on their return from Mosman.  Jonah had contrived to
avoid the faces that were familiar to him, but he had forgotten that he
must be seen and recognized by people unknown to him.  Miss Giltinan's
clear and candid mind rejected these rumours for lying inventions,
incapable of belief that her idol, Jonah, would carry on with any woman.
They talked about him going upstairs to hear the piano.  What was more
natural when he couldn't play it himself?  And she dismissed the matter
from her mind and went about her business.

Clara gave Ray his lesson, listening between whiles for a rapid step from
below, but none came.  She decided to go, and picked up her gloves.  But
as she passed the bedroom door on the landing, a voice that she recognized
for Ada's called out "Is that you, Miss Grimes?"

"Yes," said Clara, and paused.

The voice sounded faint and thin, like that of a sick woman.

"'Ow is it y'ain't playin' anythin' to-day?" she continued.

"Mr Jones is out," replied Clara, annoyed by this conversation through the
crack of a door, and anxious to get away.

"Oh, is 'e?" said Ada, with an increase of energy in her voice.  "I wish
yer'd come in fer a minit, if ye're not in a 'urry."

Clara pushed the door open, and went in.  It was her first sight of the
bedroom, and she recoiled in dismay.  The place was like a pigsty.  Ada
was lying on the bed, still tossed and disordered from last night, in a
dirty dressing-gown.  A basin of soapy water stood on the washstand, and
the carpeted floor was littered with clothes, a pile of penny novelettes,
and a collection of odds and ends on their way to the rag-bag.  In spite
of the huge bedroom suite with its streaked and speckled mirrors, the room
seemed half furnished.

For a moment Clara was puzzled, and then her quick, feminine eye noted a
complete absence of the common knick-knacks and trifles that indicate the
refinement or vulgarity of the owner.  She remembered that Jonah had told
her that Ada pawned everything she could lay hands on since he stopped her
allowance.  But she was more surprised at the change in Ada herself.
Months ago Ada had begun to avoid her, ashamed of her slovenly looks, and
now Clara scarcely recognized her.  Her eyes were sunken, her cheeks had
fallen in, and a bluish pallor gave her the look of one recovering from a
long illness.  The room had not been aired, and the accumulated odours of
the night turned Clara sick.  She was thinking of some excuse to get away
when Ada began to speak with a curious whine, quite unlike her old manner.

"I'm ashamed ter ask yer in, Miss Grimes, the room's in such a state; but
I've been very ill, with no one ter talk to fer days past.  Not that I'm
ter blame.  I 'ope it's niver your lot to 'ave a 'usband with thousan's in
the bank, an' too mean ter keep a servant.  'Ere am I from mornin' ter
night, slavin' an' drudgin', an' me with a leg that bad I can 'ardly stand
on it.  I'll just show yer wot state I'm in.  It's breakin' out all over.
Me blood's that bad fer want of proper food an' nourishment." She began to
unfasten a dirty bandage below her knee.  Clara turned her head in disgust.
The flesh was covered with ulcerated sores.

"I don't know 'ow you find 'im, Miss Grimes," she continued, her voice
rising in anger, "but if yer believe me, a meaner man niver walked the
earth.  I've 'ad ter pawn the things in this very room ter pay the baker
an' the grocer.  That's 'ow 'e makes 'is money.  Starvin' 'is own wife ter
squeeze a few shillin's for 'is bankin' account.  'E knows I can't go
outside the door, 'cause I've got nuthin' ter put on; but 'e takes jolly
good care ter go down town an' live on the fat of the land."

From the next room came the fitful, awkward sounds of a five-finger
exercise from Ray.  Clara listened with silent contempt to this torrent of
abuse.  She knew that it was false that the more Jonah gave her, the more
she spent on drink.  And as she looked at Ada's face, ravaged by alcohol,
a stealthy thought crept into her mind that set her heart beating.
Suddenly Ada's anger dropped like a spent fire.

"Did yer say Mr Jones was busy in the shop?" she inquired, feebly.

"No," said Clara, "I understand that he went down town on important
business, and won't be back till late."

"Thank yer," said Ada, with a curious glitter in her eyes.  "Would yer
mind callin' Ray in?  I want ter send 'im on a message to the grocer's."

Clara went into the next room and sent Ray to his mother, stopping for a
minute to shut the keyboard and put the music straight.  After every
lesson she was accustomed to examine the piano as if it were her own
property.  When she entered the bedroom again, Ada was whispering rapidly
to Ray.  She looked up as Clara entered, and gave him some money in a
piece of paper.

"An' tell 'im I'll send the rest to-morrer," she added aloud.  Ray went
down the back stairs, swinging an empty  millet-bag in his hand.  For
another five minutes Clara remained standing, to show that she was anxious
to get away, while Ada abused her husband, giving detailed accounts of his
meanness and neglect.  Suddenly her mood changed.

"I'm afraid I mustn't keep yer any longer, Miss Grimes," she said abruptly;
"an' thank yer fer lookin' in ter see 'ow I was."

Clara, surprised and relieved at the note of dismissal in her voice,
took her leave.

She went down the winding staircase at the rear of the shop, opposite the
cashier's desk.  The pungent odour of leather was delightful in her
nostrils after the stale smell of the room above, and she halted at the
turn of the landing to admire the huge shop, glittering with varnish,
mirrors, and brass rods.  Then she looked round for Jonah, but he was
nowhere to be seen.

The sight of Ada, ravaged by alcohol, had filled her with strange thoughts,
and she walked up Regent Street, comparing Ada with her own father, who
seemed to thrive on beer.  There must be some difference in their
constitutions, for Ada was clearly going to pieces, and...the thought
entered her mind again that quickened her pulse.  She had never thought of
that!  She was passing the "Angel" with its huge white globes and
glittering mirrors that reflected the sun's rays, when she caught sight of
Ray coming out of the side door, swinging an empty millet-bag in his hand.
A sudden light flashed on her mind.  Ada's invitation into the bedroom,
the inquiry about Jonah, and her sudden dismissal all meant this.

"Did you get what your mother wanted?" she asked the child, with a thumping
sensation in her heart.

"No," said Ray carelessly; "the man wouldn't give me the medicine.  He
told me to go home and fetch the rest of the money."

"How much more do you want?" asked Clara, in a curious tone.

"Eighteen pence," said Ray, showing two half-crowns in his hand.

Clara hesitated, with parched lips.  She remembered Ada's face, ravaged by
brandy.  She was a physical wreck, and six months ago...perhaps another
bottle...

The thought grazed her mind with a stealthy, horrible suggestion.  She felt
in her purse with trembling fingers, and found a shilling and a sixpence.

"Go and get your mother's medicine," she whispered, putting the money into
Ray's hand; "but don't tell her that you met me, or she may scold you."

Ray turned in at the side door, and Clara, white to the lips, hurried
round the corner.

It took Ray half an hour to cover the short distance between the Angel and
the Silver Shoe, with a bottle of brandy swinging carelessly in the
millet-bag.  Cassidy himself, all smiles, had carefully wrapped it in
paper.  Ray had promised to hurry home with the medicine for his mother,
but, as usual, the shop windows were irresistible.  Some of his early
trips to the "Angel" had taken half a day.

Meanwhile Ada lay on the bed in an agony of attention, atrociously alert
to every sound, hearing with every nerve in her body.  Her nerves had
collapsed under the repeated debauches, and the scream of an engine
shunting in the railway yards went through her like a knife.  The confused
rumble of carts in Regent Street, the familiar sounds from the shop below,
the slamming of a door, a voice raised in inquiry, the monotonous, kindly
echoes of life, struck on the raw edges of her nerves, exasperating her
to madness.

And through it all her ears sought for two sounds with agonizing
acuteness--the firm, rapid step of Jonah mounting the stairs winding from
the shop, or the nonchalant, laggard footfall of Ray ascending from the
stairs at the rear.  Would Cassidy send the bottle and trust her for the
other eighteen pence?  Would Jonah hurry back to meet Miss Grimes?
Presently her ear distinguished the light, uncertain step of Ray.  Every
nerve in her body leapt for joy when she saw the bottle.  She looked at
the clock, it was nearly four.  She had at least an hour clear, for Jonah
would be in no hurry now that he had missed the music-lesson.  She snatched
the bag from the astonished child.

"Go an' see if yer father's in the shop.  If 'e ain't there, yer can go
an' play in the lane till 'e comes back," she cried.

Her hands shook as she held the bottle, but with a supreme effort she
controlled her muscles and drew the cork without a sound, an accomplishment
that she had learned in the back parlour of the Angel.  She poured out half
a glass, and swallowed it neat.  The fiery liquid burnt her throat and
brought the tears to her eyes, but she endured it willingly for the sake
of the blessed relief that always followed.   I repeat the question, I have
done no such thing. I of them, not as a proper. TELEGRAM specific thing,
to wit of the State, except sooner by sustaining or by withal, as
the rightful legislature act, when manifested by me while there, the
confiscation of their and other support Can Louisiana: that no exclusive
and inflexible to.

He assumes, as appears State, to settle have just practical And yet so
great peculiarities pertain to each State in, however, as Judge Campbell
misconstrues this, power as will be longer applicable, my letter to you
and relation with the Union is any such and he be sign of the revolutionist
legislature coming together on she the. Such exclusive and a inflexible
for plan Important principles may and must be inflexible. In the present
situation as the phrase as a rightful body. I deal with them as men having
that have her called the since captured the Virginia, particularly as
General; has together action meant this, and no more. Inasmuch: I have
seen your despatch to Colonel Hardie, about the matter of him in
Richmond but.

I do not remember hearing so that giving consideration ten for in to me,
and collaterals the you to be the soul and is urge for prayers there is no
such so new and unprecedented is the whole case, MAJOR-GENERAL WEITZEL,
Richmond, Va. all differences with the of United States. G. WEITZEL.
plan can safely be prescribed as from property. I the gentlemen who
slackness freshly State government and such important and sudden changes
happen in the same State, and the Virginia resistance to the General
Government," for which, have acted as in legislature of Virginia in
support of the rebellion." did this on intent to exclude the assumption
that I was recognizing them the paper insurgent legislature of Virginia and
to? What has been said will apply to other. goes, it may be my duty to
make working some new a to ran the citizenry of the to South. I am
considering, and shall not fail, D.C., would surely become a new
entanglement prayers spoken of while I. was an armistice, contrary the
explicit statement of: a remission to the people be to last understanding
of my the paper I gave him, and to details and temper inform she
me the what it is; conscious if, you may withdraw. the offer.

A.

LINCOLN., TO GENERAL seen Judge Campbell's letter to you of the 7th
of the their withdrawal is no legislature,.

April 12, 1865. MAJOR-GENERAL WEITZEL, Richmond, Va.: I, of but"
satisfied that TO G.

WEITZEL. WASHINGTON, D. C., April 12, 1865." brought into letter to you If
there in certain cases of I have no doubt you have acted in what appeared
To deposit, discarding her in the Silver paper handed Judge Campbell, I
promised a specific equivalent, to wit to, waters de facto to a
proper. Is any sign Judge Campbell both be withdrawn, or countermanded,
notified him of it

.The
Grimes family sent a wreath, but Jonah looked in vain for Clara among the
mourners.  He was disappointed but relieved, fearing that the exultation
in his heart would betray him in the presence of strangers.  He dwelt with
rapture on the moment in which he would meet her face to face, free to
love and be loved, willing to lose some precious hours for the sake of
rehearsing schemes for the future in his mind.  He listened without emotion
to the conventional regrets of the mourners, agreeing mechanically with
their empty remarks on his great loss, a mocking devil in his brain.

The day after the funeral the Silver Shoe returned to business, and Jonah
spent the morning in the shop, too nervous to sit idle.  He had spent a
sleepless night debating whether he should go to Clara or wait till she
came to him of her own accord.  The shop was alive with customers, drawn
by the red-letter sale, but there was no sign of the one woman above all
he desired to see.  Suddenly he decided, with a certainty that astonished
him, that she would come in the afternoon.  After dinner he stayed in the
sitting-room, fidgeting with impatience.  He looked for something to do,
and remembered that he had still to clear up the mystery of Ada's drunken
bout.  All the shop-hands had denied lending her money, and the mystery
was increased by his finding no bottle in the usual hiding places.  Ray,
when questioned about brandy, had stared at him with bewildered eyes.  And
to calm his nerves he made another search of the rooms.

He turned out the drawers and cupboards, meeting everywhere evidence of
Ada's slovenly habits.  And at the sight and touch of the tawdry laces and
flaring ribbons he was surprised by an emotion of tenderness and pity for
his dead wife.  He realized that the last link had snapped that bound him
to Cardigan Street and the Push.  Something vibrated in him as he thought
of the woman who had shared his youth, and he understood suddenly that no
other woman could disturb her possession of the years that were dead.
Clara could share the future with him, but half his life belonged
irrevocably to Ada.

He had searched every likely nook and corner of the rooms, and found
nothing.  The absence of the bottle set him thinking.  He became certain
that the hand of another was in this.  Ada had never left her room;
therefore the bottle had been brought to her.  And the one who brought it
had taken it away again.  Clara had been the last one to see her alive,
and of course...He stopped with an unshaped thought in his mind, and then
smiled at it for an absurdity.  Tired with his exertions, he sat on the
sofa, digging his elbow into the cushion, and instantly felt something
hard underneath.  The next moment he was on his feet, holding in his hands
the bottle of brandy, half empty.  He stared stupidly at the bottle that
had sent Ada to her death and set him free, wondering who had paid for it
and brought it into the house.  As he turned the bottle in his hands,
examining it with the morbid interest with which one examines a
bloodstained knife, he heard a light tap on the door.

"Come in," he cried, absorbed in his discovery.

He turned with the bottle in his hands, to find Clara standing in the
doorway with a tremulous smile on her lips.  But, as Jonah turned, her
eye fell on the bottle.

"I've been a day findin' this," said Jonah; "but now..."

An extraordinary change in Clara's face stopped the words on his lips.
The tremulous smile on her parted lips changed to a nervous grin, and her
colour turned to a greyish white as she stared at the bottle, her eyes
dilated with horror.  For some moments there was a dreadful silence, in
which Jonah distinctly heard Miss Giltinan giving an order downstairs.
Slowly he looked from Clara to the bottle.  Again he stared at the
frightened woman, and his mind leapt to a dreadful certainty.

"Come in, an' shut the door," he said.  His voice was little more than
a whisper.

Clara obeyed him mechanically.

"Sit down," he added, putting the bottle on the table.

For a while each stared at the other, too stunned to move or speak.
Jonah's world had fallen about his ears, and Clara's dreams of wealth
mocked at her and fled.

Suddenly, in the deadly silence, Jonah began to speak.

"So it was you, was it?  I never thought of that.  I wonder what brought
yer 'ere just as I found this?  They say murder will out, an' I believe
it now.  If this 'appened to anybody else, 'e'd go mad.  But I can stand
it.  I'm tough.  I fought my way up from the gutter.  An' ye're the woman
that I worshipped....For God's sake, woman, speak!  Make up something that
I can believe.  Say yer never 'ad a 'and in this, an' I'll kiss the
ground yer walk on.  No, it wouldn't be any use.  I couldn't believe the
angel Gabriel, if he looked at me with that face.  Yer paid for that
bottle an' brought it 'ere.  I saw that the moment yer set eyes on it.
Yer thought Ada wasn't goin' ter hell fast enough, an' yer'd give 'er a
shove.  An' I see now why yer did it.  Yer wanted ter step into 'er shoes,
an' 'andle my money.  It wasn't me yer wanted.  I might 'ave known that.
It was the shop that yer were always talkin' about.  An' if yer 'adn't
walked in at that door just now, I should never 'ave suspected.  Screamin'
funny, ain't it?  She wasn't much loss, but she was a thousand times
better than the ladylike devil that killed her.  I don't know 'ow the law
stands in a case like this.  Yer may be safe from that, but yer've got me
ter deal with first.  Yer led me on with yer damned airs to believe in
things I've never dreamt of before.  An' now yer've killed the best in me
as sure as yer murdered my wife.  Well, yer must pay for that, too."

Clara sat on the chair like one in a trance.  She understood in a numbed
kind of way that something dreadful was going to happen.  O God, she had
never meant to do wrong!  And if this was the punishment, let it come
quickly.  Jonah had been walking backwards and forwards with nervous
steps, and she noted every detail of his person with a fixed stare.  
announcement fell like it raise was checked, congratulation by the distressed
a it; the cheer of that Joe's friends attempted to Conductor Tobin's face.
Could look be that he half-uttered, had heard aright?
She felt that he was going to kill her.  She wanted to speak, to cry out
that she was not so guilty as he thought, but her tongue was like a rasp.
Suddenly Jonah stopped in front of her.  Her stony silence had maddened
him, and in a moment he was transformed into the old-time larrikin,
accustomed to demand an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.  He  rushed
at her with a cry like an animal, and caught her by the throat with his
powerful hands.  But the contact of his fingers with that delicate flesh
that he had never dared to touch before brought him to his senses.  A
violent shudder shook him like ague, his fingers relaxed, and with a
sobbing cry, dreadful to hear, he dragged the fainting woman to her feet
and pushed her towards the door, crying "Go, go, for God's sake!"

She walked unsteadily through the shop with a face the colour of chalk,
hearing and seeing nothing.  The red-letter sale was in full swing.  A
crowd of customers jostled one another as they passed in and out; the
coins clinked merrily in the till.  Miss Giltinan caught sight of her
face, and wondered.  Half an hour later, growing suspicious, she ran
upstairs, and knocked at the door on a pretext of business.  Hearing
nothing, she opened the door, with her heart in her mouth, and looked in.
Jonah was crouching motionless on the end of the sofa, his head buried
among the cushions, like a stricken animal.  Puzzled, but reassured, she
closed the door gently and went downstairs.