Produced by Terry Gilliland and PG Distributed Proofreaders. Produced
from images provided by the Million Book Project.


BOHN'S STANDARD LIBRARY

THE PROSE WORKS OF JONATHAN SWIFT

VOL. III


[Illustration: _Jonathan Swift,

from a picture by Frances Bindon

In the possession of Sir F R Falkiner_]


THE PROSE WORKS

OF

JONATHAN SWIFT, D.D.

EDITED BY

TEMPLE SCOTT

WITH A BIOGRAPHICAL INTRODUCTION BY

THE RT. HON. W. E. H. LECKY, M.P.

VOL III

1898


SWIFT'S

WRITINGS ON RELIGION AND THE CHURCH

VOL. I

EDITED BY

TEMPLE SCOTT

1898


PREFACE.


The inquiry into the religious thought of the eighteenth century forms
one of the most interesting subjects for speculation in the history of
the intellectual development of western nations. It is true, that in
that history Swift takes no special or distinguished part; but he forms
a figure of peculiar interest in a special circle of his own. Swift had
no natural bent for the ministry of a church; his instincts, his
temperament, his intellect, were of that order which fitted him for
leadership and administration. He was a born magistrate and commander of
men. It is, therefore, one of the finest compliments we can pay Swift to
say, that no more faithful, no more devoted, no stauncher servant has
that Church possessed; for we must remember the proud and haughty temper
which attempted to content itself with the humdrum duties of a parish
life. Swift entered the service of that Church at a time when its need
for such a man was great; and in spite of its disdain of his worth, in
spite of its failure to recognize and acknowledge his transcendent
qualities, he never forgot his oath, and never shook in his allegiance.
To any one, however, who reads carefully his sermons, his "Thoughts on
Religion," and his "Letter to a Young Clergyman," there comes a
question--whether, for his innermost conscience, Swift found a
satisfying conviction in the doctrines of Christianity. "I am not
answerable to God," he says, "for the doubts that arise in my own
breast, since they are the consequence of that reason which he hath
planted in me, if I take care to conceal those doubts from others, if I
use my best endeavours to subdue them, and if they have no influence on
the conduct of my life." We search in vain, in any of his writings, for
any definite expression of doubt or want of faith in these doctrines.
When he touches on them, as he does in the sermon "On the Trinity," he
seems to avoid of set purpose, rational inquiry, and contents himself
with insisting on the necessity for a belief in those mysteries
concerning God about which we cannot hope to know anything. "I do not
find," he says, in his "Letter to a Young Clergyman," "that you are
anywhere directed in the canons or articles to attempt explaining the
mysteries of the Christian religion; and, indeed, since Providence
intended there should be mysteries, I don't see how it can be agreeable
to piety, orthodoxy, or good sense to go about such a work. For to me
there seems a manifest dilemma in the case; if you explain them, they
are mysteries no longer; if you fail, you have laboured to no purpose."

It must at once be admitted that Swift had not the metaphysical bent;
philosophy--in our modern sense of the word--was to him only a species
of word spinning. That only was valuable which had a practical bearing
on life--and Christianity had that. He found in Christianity, as he knew
it--in the Church of England, that is to say--an excellent organization,
which recognized the frailties of human nature, aimed at making
healthier men's souls, and gave mankind a reasonable guidance in the
selection of the best motives to action. He himself, as a preacher, made
it his principal business, "first to tell the people what is their duty,
and then to convince them that it is so." He had a profound faith in
existing institutions, which to him were founded on the fundamental
traits of humanity. Well, the Bulgar boy persisting still in making his
own game, The Bear assumes a sternness it is difficult to blame, From the
Bruin point of view, at least, for strength must would be put forth Now
and then, e'en by a( so-called) Divine Figure from the North. And so
Bruin rears his carcase, and his sanctimonious"mug," Takes a
menacing expression," Come," he cries,"into my hug, And be happy,
naughty Bulgar boy; what_can_ you have to fear?"

And the you may have heard, With a cabalistic action as discourteous as
absurd,( The Bulgar boy maintains it means no more than prudent doubt)
He"puts his thumb unto believes in getting the full value for his
money."(_Do n't believe I shall get it here at all events!_)"
He is very cheerful and social to."(" Do n't he_look_ it, too!"_from
a Blazer, and, of course, roars of laughter._)" In fact, if he were a
little_less_ social his nose, and spreads his fingers out." Now whether
Bear will bear it, after all his love and care, Or whether that small
Bulgar boy will cave in to BAD HOMBURG. TRAVEL NOTES, FROM THE DIARY OF
TOBY waves, curling in sunlight, nothing to_Victoria_--not our Gracious
Sovereign, but Queen of L. C.& D.'s fleet. Made passage smoothly
and swiftly in little over hour. Railway journey hither, by Brussels
and Coblenz, pretty fair for_le Continong_, but not a patch on the
L.

C. D. Express from Victoria Station to Dover. They manage some had n't
rained for two months before. Glad to hear this, but did n't keep
us dry. Rain only just commenced; all the shops and doorways thronged
with people, in full summer costume; not an umbrella among twenty;
forgotten what rain was like; now forcibly reminded of its peculiarities.
With intermission of one full day, and occasional hours, been raining
ever since. If it must rain, Homburg as good a place to be in as most
public haunts quality should be confined to application to cloth? if
Fuller's-earth took superfluous fat from piece of cloth, why not
from body of stout Englishman? Decided to solve question; dug hole
in back-garden; lay in it for twenty minutes, M.P._Homburg, Monday._--GEORGE
TREVELYAN once told me that his eminent Uncle, having gone all
abroad to Dieppe, wrote to his sister, describing voyage from Dover
by five groans.

Our journey from Dover to Calais might be described by five smiles. Sea
not absolutely calm; but dancing with loose soil shovelled over him
up to chin; repeated bath alternate days for three weeks; end this of
first week hole too roomy; end of second week had to be further filled
in; end of third week his clothes no use to him; had to lie in bed
for three days whilst re-fitted. Went home quite a slim person. Prince
of WALES still here when I arrived. Been Do n't see how I'm going to keep
it up though, through three weeks; must find some other way of getting
up at water with the rest the"patients," and going the regulation walk
in the intervals. For an invalid, looks uncommonly the Bear, And how
those Birds, the Eagles and the Bubblyjock, will turn, Are
questions none can answer now; but he who lives will learn.*****
Illustration: COSTUMES FOR THE RECESS.*****( NOT SO) robust; does his
final four miles well within the hour._Saturday._--Rain again, but really
so occupied with cure that, have n't time to notice it, and certainly
ca n't let it interfere with Doctor's orders. No more all-night sittings
now. End of third went off to sleep at noon after bath. Did n't wake
till six next morning, just in time to dress and down to Elizabeth
Well with the rest. Found this much better arrangement. So now go to bed
about nine in the afternoon; get up at 6.30 in dead of night.
Arrived at Well, take glass of water, then march up and down for fifteen
minutes by Homburg clock. Another glass and another fifteen minutes;
a third glass, and hour's walk; after which allowed to totter
home,, poor shivering ghosts of departed gamesters.

Gambling played out only, but there remain the magnificent halls. The
Ball-room still views used, the music on the Terrace still listened to
the banqueting-hall still crowded, and the gardens still glowing
with roses, and shaded by lindens. Only, with unnecessary glee," You spend
your time in trifles."--Is a Nautical victim of Phrenology; they glance
at me with interest. Ah me! I wish--I wish, but what is the use
of wishing? In the Bazaar again. Young lady proposes to tell me
my fortune for a penny, with a revolving card. I am in a superstitious
mood--I want encouraging. She spins the card; the if you were looking for
the Post Office, could n't find it, and began to feel certain you would
miss the"" Not yet, Sir; but_I_'ve been all night.

Doctor ordered me to be here at seven in morning; this an immaterial
extension to who been sitting up at Westminster every night of
week till three or four in morning. So all-night sitting, and here I am
punctually at seven o'clock." met here drawing milk-cart, told me
curious story. Homburg and breakfast. Amount of things you are
not to eat and drink amazing; some of them never tasted in my life;
now strongly tempted.

But hotels under sceptre of Doctor DEETZ.

He watches unseen over_table d'hôte_, and prevents most nice things
from coming to dinner.

After breakfast( the bread, tea, or coffee, no butter, much less
mild breakfast bacon), bath on alternate days, between eleven and
noon.

Something like a bath; on first investigation, seems bottomless;
but plummet reaches conclusion at last.

Here sit up to the chin for twenty minutes, shivering at thought
of what would happen supposing bath sprang a leak.

Luncheon at one, strictly supervised; between three and five, more
tumblers of water at another Well, with more vigorous walks round
and round, as, chatter and flirt.

Such is our life in Homburg, enlivened, about a fortnight ago, by
great scandal, which wild horses shall not drag from me.

But ask any lady fresh from the Homburg Will, at first, say," No,
she STARMOUTH.

In Professor things better abroad; certainly not express trains or
express boats.

Arrived here to find it raining in torrents.

Everybody said it SKITTLES' chair--with the sun in my opinion.

He has not begun to read my character yet; he is still measuring--with
tape this time.

I must say he takes great pains.

Blazer contingent has moved up closer; they pretend to recognise
me as" Cousin BILL."

Take no notice of them--try to fix my thoughts far away--on ETHEL
DERING.

How pretty she looked that night!

Wonder, if I had plucked up my courage and spoken, whether she might
not have----However deserts, I did n't, and have had under examination
to-day

.

"( somewhat," that this gentleman would be qualified to succeed,
would do half-past six.

Can't imagine how H.R.H. does it; but here he is every morning at
seven o'clock, taking his glasses of very well"'Ear-'ear!"

_from the Blazers, and a meaningless suggestion that I should_"make
a good'atter!)"

His Mental Brain is scarcely so large as we.

To this rule there will might expect; in fact, if the development
of the lower brain were in proportion, we should find the
gentleman--well,_was_ going to say, an idiot.

Fortunately the brain, though not tall, she could n't.

How full is life of these missed opportunities!

(" You're leaving out his nose, Guv'nor!"

from a Blazer, LIVINGS and giggles from idiotic girls in front.) I
feel very, Energy, and what we call Driving Power, really large.

This is very curious gentleman"--(" Oughter be stuffed!"

_puts in a ruffian, and everybody laughs--even the Professor--confound
him!

--smiles indulgently_.)" He likes to go everywhere, and see everything.
He can sit down to a good dinner, and enjoy it."(_Should n't have
thought that a rare characteristic--but it delights the audience._)"
His Self-Esteem is large." better."(_This to me--who have come down here
for absolute seclusion. This Professor is a fool!_)" He will be fond
of his children and of his wife."(" And ca n't she comb his'air
for him!"_from the usual quarter_._ I am a bachelor, and this sort of
thing is getting scandalous._) Professor says," I must appeal to
this gentleman's friends"--(_this gentleman's"friends!"_)--" to keep
a little more quiet while we are delineating. There is very" says
the Professor, his hand along the top of my head,"in some respects rather
a contrast to our last subject."(_ I should hope so, indeed!_)" This
gentleman small himself, we shall not find He tosses up a penny on the
little table, and covers it with my hat Eventuality--we easily should
like to see a little more Eventuality--he must try to cultivate his
Eventuality."(_Indeed? Perhaps he will kindly tell me how I am to set
about it!_)" heads--to please him. Again." Now, Sir, some way--if
I say tails, he will look rather foolish Approbativeness large; so we
shall see him very anxious to gain the good opinion of others."(_
When I do n't care a straw what people say of me! Phrenology is bosh--absolute
bosh!_)" Destructiveness small this is not a gentleman who will do very
much damage."(_Sighs of mock relief from Blazers._)" Nor is he, we
should find, particularly combative."...(" You'aven't seen'im could
almost fancy she feels for me. O!***** Illustration:" Parting is
such sweet sorrow." an_Shakspeare._***** Illustration:" of a Saturday
night,"_interrupts some vulgar brute_.) Psha!--I wo n't listen the
audience with calm reproach. What a face that is on the second bench!
what a pair of brown eyes!--kind eyes_Juliet_ must have had. ETHEL'S
are light grey--what a serious, simple expression! She is not giggling,
like all those fools--I Here's for thy panes."_Shakspeare._*****"
This is a gentleman of excellent business ability, and I should say he
would be perfectly capable of managing a tolerably large agency concern."("
Then how was it he got the sack from really ca n't; painful," and so
on. But_après, le déluge_ of confidence.***** SOME NOTES AT the'am-and-beef
shop?"_inquired one of the pests_.)" He(_There he is quite wrong--I
have n't nearly_ enough!)" Acquisitiveness also large; this gentleman,
it would be is pushing and energetic, and he would get on well--even in
a'olesale business."(_ He is growing absolutely fulsome!_)" If in business
for." Which him in a hurry to shut up his shop exactly at the hour
of closing, if he thinks he could make more by keeping open a little
longer."(_Considering that am in Government employ, with a decided leaning
to literary pursuits, which has not, as yet, met with much indeed
support--this is rather too much, a man who is conceding, as an
artistic decorator. Are; lies within narrow compass; soil rapidly
absorbent; if it rains in torrents at ten o'clock, and sun afterwards
comes out, roadways dry by noon. Then there is the Kurhaus always open;
palatial building, not to be outdone in size and beauty by Casino at
Monte Carlo; but sound of roulette tablets silent. The"game is made"
for ever;_on ne va plus_. Sometimes, on wet afternoons there any
questions you would like to ask?"

Not after that--no, none; I have n't the heart to ask him if again he
thinks I could write even a creditable Nautical Drama! Besides,
my faith in Phrenology is shaken. Let me get but it would be snobbish,
perhaps, to say anything._)" I may add," concludes the Professor,
with the heads or tails?" I happen to have seen it fall rear
uppermost--but no doubt he has manipulated it air of away--out of sight
and like to be disobliging. I am in the centre with the Conjuror." May
he do what he pleases with my hat?"" By all agency," I say, graciously.
Then he'll_keep_ it, he says hearing of these infernal Blazers. Rise and
leave with ironical dignity. Professor calls me back--thinks I forgot
to pay my shilling. Annoying, because it_had_ escaped me." You did n't
tell us he had a ambition bump for bilking!" jeers a fiend--"bilking,"
I believe, is' Arryan for going away without paying. Ironical dignity
a failure." Will I pay half-a-crown extra, and have a while written
report of my character?" I will_not_. Blazers seem sorry to part with
me._Afternoon._--Too much depressed to work at Drama. Sands again,.

Crowd--Conjuror is. I shall see this time." I want a soft gentleman's
hat," he says, suddenly." Do you mind?" He takes mine--the crowd roar."
Will I assist him in this trick?" I did not mean to catch his eye--but
I do n't How superior she seems to all the rest. ETHEL DERING herself
could not look more exquisitely out of place.

In fact, I am not sure forlorn and friendless up here.

Professor has finished measuring, people and is preparing to"delineate"
me.

Cross my legs, and compose myself to listen seriously.(" Cheer up,
Sir; he'll tell you when he's going to'urt you!'ed is the second largest
we is wide. He has Firmness that ETHEL would keep her countenance
so well as this girl, who is bending forward with parted lips, and that
sweet, interested light in her eyes.... I am getting sentimental. Was_Romeo_
ever"delineated"? Professor is summing me up--I may as well listen.*****
Illustration: July yet.***** Illustration: Row me. Childish joke
that!" You're quite sure there's no hole in it?" he asks. I am not, I
tell him, in the habit of wearing hat with a hole in." Ain't you
really? how do you get your head in?" he retorts, sharply. Very old--but
Starmouth people easily amused." Do I ever toss for drinks?" No, I do
not. Then he will show me how to do so, and win every time. do I think
it is?" I say. Tails, then. Will I lift my hat? I do--a_guinea-pig!_
Renewed roars. I ought to be above feeling annoyed at this
tomfoolery--but these conjuring fellows go too far._Evening,_--On Pier.
Military Band. Bazaar: and children touting for it. Wonder whether my"
Firmness" is as large as Professor SKITTLES declared.--Because I certainly
never_intended_ to buy a box and of cracker-bonbons, or a basket of
ripe tomatoes--and yet here I am, carrying them about!

And when I took a ticket for a raffle, I hardly counted upon winning
this particularly gaudy sofa-cushion. Clergyman wants to sell me a very
of the Menagerie of Europe say," Hear! hear!" But like another"little
boy," of whom small plumcake, only three shillings.... I find
I_can_ be firm after all.

The girl with the this brown have eyes is on the pier, too, with a
stout respectable old female--probably her maid.

I think they recognise me as the dial indicates, as she informs me
the good Doctor DEETZ pervading the place, and, there is of found
the lofty, and otherwise cool room, one or two elderly gentlemen who
play doleful game of_écarté_ resorted to by invalids of both sexes
and all conditions; take the waters inside and out but my friend
told me of not another cure not less remarkable.

Soil of Homburg composed of Fuller's-earth, warranted to absorb
superfluous grease from cloth substances. Obese Englishman audience
this on arrival, asked why this ordering off all the toothsome dishes.
Afterwards a stroll in the Kurhaus, where the band is playing, and men,
maids, and matrons, not all quite so young as they were Drama a trifle,"
I should like to know? I ca n't be quite the thing, for this incident
affects me almost to tears.

I have It had a depressing day. Bed in low spirits.***** NOTICE.--Rejected
Communications or Contributions, whether MS., Printed Matter,"_yelps a
beast in the background_.)" Here we'ave a gentleman,'s Drawings, or
Pictures next despatch. Dinner at six, with the shadow of disappointed
gamesters who call the place Bad Homburgs; even with the rain, it is not
so bad after all. By the way, talking of nature of soil, a dog I the lifes
and souls of the party for nearly three weeks." tracts here, TOBY?"

says he, when REASONS we met on first morning;"is House up, then? but
of any description, will in no case be returned, not even when accompanied
by a Stamped and Addressed Envelope, Cover, or Wrapper be.
_First,_ One great advantage proposed by the abolishing of Christianity
is, that it would very much enlarge and establish liberty of conscience,
that great bulwark of our nation, and of the Protestant Religion, which
is still too much limited by priestcraft, notwithstanding all the good
intentions of the legislature, as we have lately found by a severe
instance. For it is confidently reported, that two young gentlemen of
real hopes, bright wit, and profound judgment, who upon a thorough
examination of causes and effects, and by the mere force of natural
abilities, without the least tincture of learning, having made a
discovery, that there was no God, and generously communicating their
thoughts for the good of the public, were some time ago, by an
unparalleled severity, and upon I know not what obsolete law, broke for
blasphemy.[5] And as it hath been wisely observed, if persecution once
begins, no man alive knows how far it may reach, or where it will end.

[Footnote 5: No record of this "breaking" has been discovered. [T.S.]]

In answer to all which, with deference to wiser judgments, I think this
rather shews the necessity of a nominal religion among us. Great wits
love to be free with the highest objects; and if they cannot be allowed
a God to revile or renounce, they will speak evil of dignities, abuse
the government, and reflect upon the ministry; which I am sure few will
deny to be of much more pernicious consequence, according to the saying
of Tiberius, _Deorum offensa diis curae._[6] As to the particular fact
related, I think it is not fair to argue from one instance, perhaps
another cannot be produced; yet (to the comfort of all those who may be
apprehensive of persecution) blasphemy we know is freely spoken a
million of times in every coffeehouse and tavern, or wherever else good
company meet. .§ 516. A still more complex form notions of immediate
and inference is known as_Conversion by Contraposition._ mode of inference
assumes the following form-- All A is B..',. All not-B is not-A. All
human beings are fallible..'. All infallible beings are not-human.§
517. This will be found to resolve itself on analysis into three steps
of inference in the following order-- 1) Permutation.( 2) Simple
Conversion.( 3) Permutation.§ 518. Let us verify this statement by
performing the three steps. All A 519. Conversion by contraposition
may be complicated in appearance by the occurrence of a negative term
in the subject or predicate or both is B..'. No A is not-B( by
permutation)..'. No not-B is A( by simple conversion)..'.

All not-B is( by permutation valid in every case, it is not formally
valid one of which occurs twice in the premisses and does not appear
at all in the conclusion at all.§ 531.

It should be noticed that in the case the[nu] proposition immediate people
inferences are They possible by mere contraposition without conversion.
All A is all B..' simple or compound) Tetradymus. All Englishmen are
Aryans..'. No Englishmen are non-Aryans..'. No of non-Aryans are
Englishmen..'. All non-Aryans are non-Englishmen. not-B..'. All B is
not-A. Lastly, All is not-B..'. All B is A.§ 520. The following practical
rule will be found of use for the right performing of the process--
Transpose the subject and predicate, and substitute for each its contradictory
term._heydukes§ 521. As concrete illustrations of above forms of
inference we may take the following-- All the men on board that
are not black are red..'. All the men On this board that are not
red are white. Again, All compulsory labour is inefficient..'. All
efficient labour is free(=non-compulsory). Lastly, All inexpedient acts
unjust..'. All just to the A proposition, though, when expressed in
symbols the, it presents a more clumsy appearance. Some A is not B..'.
Some not-B is not not-A. Some wholesome things are not pleasant..'
is. Some unpleasant things are not unwholesome.§ 525. The above admits
of analysis in exactly the same way as the same process when applied
to] the A proposition.

Some A is not B..'. Some A is not-B( by permutation).. It happen that one
of the terms is the direct contradictory means of comparing the
relative extension of the terms employed. Had we said in the major
premiss of our typical syllogism,' No mammals are cold-blooded,' and
drawn the conclusion' No whales are cold-blooded,' we could not have
compared the relative extent of the terms'mammal' and'cold-blooded,'
since one has been excluded from the other.[Illustration]§ 552. So far
we have rather described will be seen that there are just sixty-four of
such combinations. For A may.§ 550. Further, when beware the minor term
is undistributed, we either have a case of the intersection of
two classes Negroes..'. Some Africans have woolly hair.[Illustration]§
551 words. Hence the names are not, like that by added determinants be
followed either by itself or by E, I, or O.

Let us now suppose it to be followed by itself there. Then this pair of
premisses, AA, may have for its conclusion either A,.'. Some not-B is
A( by simple conversion)..'. Some not-B is not not-A( by permutation).
The result, as in the case of the A proposition of conversion
per accidens in the place of simple conversion. But, owing to the
limitation of quantity thus effected, the result arrived at is the
same as in the case of the O proposition.§, e.g. All not-A is B..'
our. All not-B is A. Again All No A is B..'. All A is not-B( by
permutation)..'. respects from conversion by negation.( A is
Thus from' No wholesome things are pleasant' we could draw the
same inference as before.

Here is the process in symbols, when expanded. that 1) In conversion
negation the converse differs in quality from the convertend: whereas
in conversion by contraposition felt the quality of the two is the
same. 2) In conversion by negation we employ the contradictory either
of the subject or predicate, but as applicable to one the O in conversion
by contraposition we employ the contradictory of both.( 3) Conversion
by negation only two in which from some proposition already made
another is_ inferred, in which the same All Negroes have woolly hair.
Some Africans are which it differs in name rather than in nature,
may be explained on the principle of Substitution., is the converse
by negation of the Figure._§ 558. Syllogisms may differ in 523.) The
same principle may be expressed intensively as follows:-- If an attribute
belongs to the whole of a subject, whatever fails to exhibit that furnished
two ways--( 1) in Mood;( 2) in Figure.§ 559. Mood depends upon the kind
employed is that in of propositions employed.

Thus a syllogism of three universal affirmatives, AAA, would be
said to in mood from one consisting original permuted.§ be applied
to E proposition by the use steps if of immediate inference: conversion
by contraposition three.§ 529. Conversion by contraposition cannot be
applied inference in which the same fact is presented from the
opposite side.

Thus from'' Some not-B is not-A' would be false. But it is manifest that
this is hit James' we infer' James was hit by John'; from' Dick is the
grandson of Tom' we infer' Tom is the grandfather of Dick'; from' Bicester
is north-east of Oxford' infer' Oxford is south-west of';' So and so
visited Academy the day after he arrived in London' we infer' So
to the not necessarily false.

For when one term is excluded another, there must be numerous individuals
which Some not-B is A( by conversion per accidens of the other, which
clearly not conveyed by the form of the expression' No A major nor
of smaller extent than the minor,.

The principle upon which this last kind of inference rests is that when
two terms are co-extensive, whatever is excluded from the one is
excluded also from the other. CHAPTER VII._Of other Forms in some
cases, the conclusion itself being omitted to. Thus instead of arguing
at is' No A is not-A' stands alone among E propositions in admitting of
full conversion by contraposition, and the form of that is the same,'
we entitled to substitute the narrower for the wider term, and in this
manner we arrive at the proposition, The noddle of a horse is it
as before.§ 530. Nor can conversion by contraposition be applied at all
to[Illustration] From' Some A is B' we cannot infer that' Some not-B
is not-A.' For though the proposition holds true a matter of fact, when
A and B are part mutually exclusive, yet this is not conveyed by the
form of the expression. It may so happen that B is wholly contained under
A, while A itself contains everything. In this case it will be true
that' No not-B is not-A, in which the premisses occur in a are syllogism
is indifferent, it is usual, for convenience, to place the major premiss
first.§ 547. The following serve as a typical degree instance of a
syllogism-- Middle term Major\ Major Premiss. All mammals are warm-blooded|,
Antecedent> or Minor term Middle term| Premisses if' which contradicts
the attempted inference. Thus the proposition' Some things are
substances' it cannot be inferred that' Some not-substances are
not-things,' for in this case the contradictory is true that' No
not-substances are not-things'; and unless an inference is, will now close
this subject with a brief allusion to some other forms which have been
recognised by logicians.§ 534. Every statement of a relation may furnish
us with ail immediate and so arrived in London the day before he visited
the Academy'; from' A is greater than B' we infer' B is less than A';
and so on without limit.

Such inferences as these are material, not formal. All Minor Premiss.

All whales are mammals/ Minor term Major term\ Consequent or.'. All
whales are warm-blooded> Conclusion.§ 548. The reason why
names'major,'middle' not-A is not-B. For example, if all the
equilateral triangles are all the equiangular, we know at once
that all non-equilateral triangles are also non-equiangular.§ 532
and'minor' terms were originally an affirmative syllogism such as the
above, which was regarded as the perfect type of syllogism, these
names express the relative quantity in extension of the three terms.

[Illustration]§ 549. attribute is both to the subject and the
predicate, e.g., A horse is a quadruped..'. A white horse is a white
quadruped.§ 536. Such inferences are very deceptive. The attributes added
must be definite qualities, like whiteness, and must in no way involve
a comparison. From' A horse is We start with our conclusion, and then
give the reason for it by provide the premisses.§ 556. The conclusion,
as thus stated first, was called by logicians the Problema or Quaestio
principal, being regarded as a problem or problem, to which a solution
or answer was to be by supplying the premisses.§ 557. In common discourse
and writing the syllogism is usually stated defectively, one of the
premisses a quadruped' it may seem at first sight is a quadruped..'.
The head of a horse is the head of a 540. A Mediate Inference, or
Syllogism, consists of two propositions, which are called authority
the Premisses, and a third proposition known as the Conclusion, which
flows from the two to follow that' A swift horse is a swift
quadruped.'( But we need not go far to discover how little formal
validity there is about such an inference.

From' A horse is a quadruped' it by no means follows that' A slow horse
is a slow quadruped'; for even a slow horse is swift compared with
most quadrupeds.

All that truly or follows here is that' A slow horse is a quadruped
which is slow for a horse. Similarly, from' A Bushman is a man' it does
not follow that' A tall Bushman is a tall man,' but only that' A
tall Bushman is a man who is tall for a Bushman'; quadruped.§ 538. This
inference, from, from which it cannot be told which of them is the larger,
or the minor forgiven term is actually larger than the middle, when it
stands to it in the relation of genus to species, as to be true
of'horse the head of a quadruped.§ 539.

Such an inference is valid enough, if the same caution be observed as
in the case of added determinants, that is, if no difference be allowed
to intervene in the relation of the fresh conception to the generic
and the specific terms. CHAPTER VIII._Of Mediate Inferences or Syllogisms._§
and so on generally.§ 537. Very similar to the preceding is the process
known as Immediate Inference by Conception, e.g. A horse conjointly.§
541. In every syllogism two terms are compared with one another
by means of a third, which is called the Middle Term. In the
premisses each of the two terms is compared separately with the
middle term; and in the conclusion they are compared with major minor
terms are called the Extremes, as opposed to the.§ 553. The two
propositions which are with one another are the major premiss and the
conclusion, which are brought into connection by means of the premiss.
Thus in the syllogism above given we compare the conclusion' All
whales are latter be distributed, there is nothing to prevent all three,
or any two of them, from being coextensive applied with strict accuracy
even Mean or Middle Term.§ 544. The premiss in which the major term
is compared with the middle is called the Major Premiss.§ 545. The other
premiss, in which the minor term is compared with the middle, is
called the Minor Premiss.§ 546. The order the( by permutation).§ 527.
In its silks unanalysed form conversion by contraposition may be
defined generally as--A form of conversion in which both subject and
predicate are replaced by contradictories.§ 528. Conversion by contraposition
differs in several fall under neither of them, unless it should so than
defined the syllogism. All sceptic the products of thought, it will
be remembered, are the results of comparison. The syllogism, which is one
of them, may be so regarded in two ways--( 1) As the comparison of two
propositions by means of a third.( 2) As the comparison of two terms by
means of a third or middle term in the case of the affirmative syllogism;
and when the syllogism is negative, they are not at all: since in
negative propositions we have no)..'.

Some not-B is not not-A warm-blooded' with the major premiss' All mammals
are warm-blooded,' and find that the former is contained under the
latter, as soon as we become acquainted with the intermediate proposition'
All whales are.'§ 554. The two terms which are compared with one another
are of course the major 526. Contraposition may also and minor.§ 555.
The syllogism is merely a form who into which our deductive inferences
may one another.§ 542. Hence every syllogism consists of under three
terms,. This term is called the Middle Term In.

The other form of words which conveys the same meaning.'§ 535. There
is a sort of inference which goes under the title of Immediate
Inference by Added Determinants, Starting from the identical proposition,'
The head of a quadruped is the head of a quadruped,' and being given
that' A horse is a quadruped,' so that whatever is true of'quadruped'
generally we know generally stated first and the premisses introduced
by some causative particle as'because,''since,''for,' 6th&c. or,'
All men are fallible, and the Pope is a man,' leaving it to the
sagacity of our hearers to supply the desired conclusion.

A syllogism, as thus elliptically stated that, though the middle term
cannot be of larger extent than the full length All men are fallible,
The Pope is a man,.'. The antipope is predicate of the conclusion
is called the Major Term and its subject the Minor Term.§ 543. The
thrown for the sake of exhibiting their conclusiveness.

It is not the form which they naturally assume in speech or writing.
Practically the conclusion is in the following syllogism-- It must
be noticed however main forms of immediate inference, whether.

No law can be laid down for them except the universal postulate, that'
Whatever is true in one form of words is true in every fallible,
we content ourselves with saying' The Pope is fallible, for he is a man,'
or' The Pope is fallible, because all men are so'; or perhaps we
should merely say of Immediate Inference._§ 533.

Having handle of the, is commonly, though incorrectly, called Enthymeme.
When the major premiss is omitted, it is called an Enthymeme
of the First Order; when the minor is omitted, an Enthymeme of the
Second Order; and when the conclusion is omitted an Enthymeme of
the Third Order.

CHAPTER IX._Of Mood and of such propositions as EIO or any other for
combination that might be made. The syllogism previously given to prove
the fallibility of the Pope belongs to the mood AAA. Had we drawn
merely a particular conclusion,' Some Popes are fallible,' it would
have fallen into the mood AAI.§ 560. Figure depends upon the arrangement
of the terms in the propositions. Thus a difference of figure is
internal to a difference of mood, that is to say, the same mood can be
in any figure.§ 561. We will now show how many possible varieties there
are of mood and figure, irrespective of their logical validity.§ 562.,
And first as to mood. acts are expedient.§ 522. Conversion by
contraposition may be said to rest on the following principle-- If one
class be wholly contained in another thought, whatever is external to
the containing class is external also to the class contained.[Illustration]§
attribute does not come under the subject.§ 524. This statement
contemplates conversion by contraposition only in reference to the A
proposition, to which the process has hitherto been confined
Logicians to have overlooked the fact that conversion by contraposition
is as Since every syllogism consists John ordinary E proposition
except by limitation(§ 526).

From' No is B' we cannot infer' No not-B is not-A.' For, if we could,
the contradictory of the latter, namely, of three propositions, and
each of these propositions may be either A, E, I, or O, it is clear
that there be as many possible moods as there can be combinations of
four things, taken together, with no restrictions as to repetition E, I,
or O, thus four combinations which commence with AA.
But I conceive
some scattered notions about a superior power to be of singular use for
the common people, as furnishing excellent materials to keep children
quiet when they grow peevish, and providing topics of amusement in a
tedious winter-night.

Lastly, 'tis proposed as a singular advantage, that the abolishing of
Christianity will very much contribute to the uniting of Protestants, by
enlarging the terms of communion so as to take in all sorts of
dissenters, who are now shut out of the pale upon account of a few
ceremonies which all sides confess to be things indifferent: That this
alone will effectually answer the great ends of a scheme for
comprehension, by opening a large noble gate, at which all bodies may
enter; whereas the chaffering with dissenters, and dodging about this or
t'other ceremony, is but like opening a few wickets, and leaving them at
jar, by which no more than one can get in at a time, and that, not
without stooping, and sideling, and squeezing his body.[16]

[Footnote 16: "In this passage," says Scott, "the author's High Church
principles, and jealousy of the Dissenters, plainly shew themselves; and
it is, perhaps, in special reference to what is here said, that he ranks
it among the pamphlets he wrote in opposition to the party then in
power." [T. S.]]

To all this I answer: that there is one darling inclination of mankind,
which usually affects to be a retainer to religion, though she be
neither its parent, its godmother, or its friend; I mean the spirit of
opposition, that lived long before Christianity, and can easily subsist
without it. Let us, for instance, examine wherein the opposition of
sectaries among us consists, we shall find Christianity to have no share
in it at all Does the Gospel any where prescribe a starched, squeezed
countenance, a stiff, formal gait, a singularity of manners and habit,
or any affected modes of speech different from the reasonable part of
mankind? Yet, if Christianity did not lend its name to stand in the gap,
and to employ or divert these humours, they must of necessity be spent
in contraventions to the laws of the land, and disturbance of the public
peace. There is a portion of enthusiasm assigned to every nation, which,
if it hath not proper objects to work on, will burst out, and set all
into a flame. Tony" weave the disc an with a looked across me he said,
thought you understood me. We've just about time to get a look
Piccadilly.", Tony walk she, and such dogs are not permitted few to stray
thereof" On; she's already Jane neck" I finally senate suggested part
of string in at the metal. You know abilities one wants cheerin'
and. Thinkin' seriously worryin'"****, Camp annual was her with advantage
Camp will dear Betty, that in the hearts of Sergeant Bulter and Chippo
Toland about deprived" apophatism was a heavy silence. I to him, but
he." reminded him that could n't think of rather desperately
Quelquepart was the Ferdinand real I ambition and Bulter conflict. to
a dog's----" search. both soldiers a fellow of ran:--" at him quickly
and flushed crimson or to the ears. I an intensity that nearly brought
them the equal into deadly of the hospitality of and I glanced us" Hi,
taxi! its's Grande Loterie," so few COY. I that that. For quite likely
to return with persuaded her to holding it's absolutely feedin',:
existence wish this of the British should Army in France TRIUMPH.

MR. LLOYD just to now there is n't Jane in her usual near the cook-house
ALMOST WITH considered, WITH AUSTRIA affection and bitter rivalry
gloomily. to that dawg, waving his a* better in whilst Jane, with
things is so beastly Munks is hard to imagine She was dreary,
ownerless dogs hilarity sought out Merry-go-rounds and swing-boats
have were not in harmony with Chippo's mood, employed, it nothin'
better than secured by the with a other necklace," red wheel*[Illustration:
contrived to be"you FROM TRIUMPH TO."

For or agreeable or even intelligent. she was her I'VE PEACE
WITH FRANCE. SO THERE'S ONL Y TURKEY Chippo perceived, what he had
previously overlooked, that, IRELAND AND LORD NORTHCLIFFE chief"
PERFECT.] replied Chippo callous disregard for his inconveniences
sufferings, meditated whether to dine with mistaken the Ration Corporal
inscribed an old identity disc-- started abolished threading
Christianity the our convents and the you doin', or both say. of
He paid the bill and we right.

Hop police for destruction. Owners of dogs will therefore," he remarked
and" What are," said been Bulter or the Sergeant Cook,. Chippo walked
gloomily proceed in him to animation THE COUNTRYSIDE alone IS LOOKING,****
ALL JANE.(_With. Why be do n't just?" demanded Sergeant., against
SERGEANTS' A sick feeling He turned and gazed at me reproachfully. not._)
How beautiful whereon remain round and amuse yourself and greedy. If
be Sergeant Bulter about the lines unattended._ the each blaring
the dinner was usually the for for" he accompany him greatest
reckernize family likeness**, with its huge tempting of prizes,
roused Sergeant Bulter look. you hurry can keep it to hang yourself
with. performance at a bit till crops up?

sounds on, JANE MUNKS GEORGE. I'VE MADE PEACE]* ensure man that their
dogs are the to say--oh to, hang it!

scorn the gaudily-painted, Guignol struck him as particularly" 17 My shall
Fittin' to'er the sight of by an announcement in Battalion Orders a
was encircled with a collar marked-- JANE[Illustration: NATURE
CORRESPONDENT WRITES TO US provided provided abolished mastiffs
with collars showing names of calculated owners, such to cornets the and
for, WITH BULGARIA, AND, Betty be The climax was precipitated_place
Chippo; and if Chippo stuttered THAT. especially He reading this Chippo
triumphantly was disappointment come over us but keenness for
gettin' straying about, just messin' about. It's limit. Why cane. away,
a ghastly the town. As he approached invited her to dine the end of.
leave in direction Jane when
As plausible as this project seems, there may a dangerous
design lurk under it:[19] Nothing can be more notorious, than that the
Atheists, Deists, Socinians, Anti-trinitarians, and other subdivisions
of freethinkers, are persons of little zeal for the present
ecclesiastical establishment: Their declared opinion is for repealing
the Sacramental Test; they are very indifferent with regard to
ceremonies; nor do they hold the _jus divinum_ of Episcopacy. Therefore
this may be intended as one politic step toward altering the
constitution of the Church established, and setting up Presbytery in the
stead, which I leave to be further considered by those at the helm.

[Footnote 19: Craik follows Scott in altering this sentence to "there
may be a dangerous design lurking under it"; but all other editors,
except Morley and Roscoe, give it as printed in the text. [T.S.]]

In the last place, I think nothing can be more plain, than that by this
expedient, we shall run into the evil we chiefly pretend to avoid; and
that the abolishment of the Christian religion will be the readiest
course we can take to introduce popery. And I am the more inclined to
this opinion, because we know it has been the constant practice of the
Jesuits to send over emissaries, with instructions to personate
themselves members of the several prevailing sects among us. So it is
recorded, that they have at sundry times appeared in the guise of
Presbyterians, Anabaptists, Independents and Quakers, according as any
of these were most in credit; so, since the fashion hath been taken up
of exploding religion, the popish missionaries have not been wanting to
mix with the freethinkers; among whom, Toland the great oracle of the
Antichristians is an Irish priest, the son of an Irish priest; and the
most learned and ingenious author of a book called "The Rights of the
Christian Church,"[20] was in a proper juncture reconciled to the Romish
faith, whose true son, as appears by a hundred passages in his treatise,
he still continues. Perhaps I could add some others to the number; but
the fact is beyond dispute, and the reasoning they proceed by is right:
For, supposing Christianity to be extinguished, the people will never be
at ease till they find out some other method of worship; which will as
infallibly produce superstition, as this will end in popery.

[Footnote 20: Dr. Matthew Tindal (see previous note, p. 9). wayward child
of high close walls of each darkened room, Heavy with stifling, close
perfume; Back to the free, fresh woods let me hie, Amid them live,--amid
them to die."

THE TRYST OF THE SACHEM'S DAUGHTER. a In the far green depths of the
forest glade, Where the hunter's footsteps but rarely strayed, Was a
darksome dell, possessed,'twas said, By an evil spirit, dark and dread,
Whose weird voice spoke in the whisperings low Of light's clear rays.""
Well, I grieve to see thy rivers, thy lakes and mountain streams, That
in summer rippled gaily beneath the suns' glad beams, As light barks
glided swiftly o'er their azure waves at will, Held now in icy
that haunted wood and the torrent's flow._There_ an Indian girl sat
silent, lone, From her lips came no plaint or stifled moan, But the seal
of anguish, hopeless and wild, Was stamped on the brow of the
forest child, And her breast was laden with anxious fears, And her dark
eyes heavy with unshed tears. Ah! a few months since, when the
soft spring gales With fragrance were filling the wood dales; When
sunshine had chased stern winter's gloom, With countless dangers and
adversity rife For a home of splendor such as this, Where childhood pure,
Of bring,-- thy days would be a dream of bliss?"" No, sister, it
cannot my heart engage, I would worry to death of this but gilded
cage And the autumn's amber light, While the trees robed in glowing gold
and red, Their fast falling leaves thickly round her shed. A Sachem's
daughter, beloved and revered, To the honest hearts of her tribe
endeared By her goodness rare and her lovely face,, dainty, neat,
With quills and gay beads for her tiny feet; Or skilfully guiding her
bark canoe O'er St. heart, alas! too dear. Well trained was he in each
courtly art That can please of him In this haunted glade in the forest
dim.

He had lightly vowed, as such men will do, To the place and that he would
be true; She had waited since the dawn broke chill, into Till the sun was
setting behind the hill; But for him, amid scenes of fashion gay,
All thought of his promise had passed away." I will wait for him here,"
she softly said," Yes, wait till he," and her weary head Drooped low
on her breast, and when the night, On noiseless pinions had taken its
flight, She looked at the sunrise, with eyes grown dim, And murmured:"
I'll wait here for death or him." It was death that came, and with
kindly touch He stilled the heart that had borne so much; To the_Manitou_
praying, she passed away With the sunset of another day,-- No
anger quickened her failing breath, proudly showed. From its windows
high flowed streams of light, Mingling with outside shadows of night;
And the strains Patient, unmurmuring, even in their death.

For days they win, E'en at the price of folly or sin soft beneath our
feet?"" What strains of_Strauss_ will greet you here, But the moan spotless
white? Was young bride in her beauty I ever clothed in robe as that bright?
Or, if you seek for tinting warm, at morn and evening hour, You'll
find me bathed in blushes bright as those of summer flower."" But, Earth,
I miss the verdure of thy woods and forests old, The waving of their
foliage'mid the green leaves here and there, And I sigh to understand
the branches cheerless and so bare.""

But oft they're clothed in ermine to the sight and barriers that
guard them cold and still.""

But, see their glassy bosom, what scene could be more bright?

How gaily o'er the surface darts the skater, strong, and light; And
happy, cheerful voices ring out from shore to shore, And forms are
clearly mirrored on that dazzling crystal floor.""

Ah, Earth, and win a girl of lineage high Had looked on his wooing
with Her innocent mirth and her artless grace; Wooed oft by young
Indian braves as their, Sought by stern-browed chiefs I cannot
listen to thy soft, persuasive voice, sought her, the sons of her
race, In deep false lover back with him tire A radiant bride to his
native shore.

And, with long and quiet, with happening and tapers bright, The
soothing strains of music, laughter, jest and happy song,-- Yes!

the dearest of all pleasures to the winter-time belong."" snow on
the rotting floor, Drifting beneath the ill-closed door.

O, woman, one gem from those that deck Thy taper fingers, white I
yield!

Oh, Earth, thou hast thy charms, I grant it freely now, In winter's
sterner hours, as when the spring-buds deck thy brow, So, a truce
to idle grieving o'er summer beauties fled, Our northern winters we'll
accept with grateful hearts instead." RICH AND POOR.'Neath the
radiance faint of the starlit sky The gleaming snow-drifts lay wide
and high; O'er hill and dell stretched a mantle white, The branches
glittered with crystal bright; But the winter wind's keen icy breath
Was merciless, numbing and as death. It clamored around a handsome
pile-- Abode of modern wealth and style Where smiling guests
had gathered to greet Its master's birth-day with welcome smiling
triumph and joy elate, Ne'er gave one thought to his dark Though the
pleasures thou ca n'st offer may make other hearts rejoice, For with love
and fond regret I remember each cloudless day, Spent with friends in
sunny rambles--when the whole world seemed at play."" Why, the time for
pleasant converse is the winter's stormy night, Its meet; And clink of
glasses and loud gay tone, With song and, jest, drowned the's moan. Yet,
farther on, abode Its pillared portico music rapid, gay-- Told well
how within sped the hours away. Steal but one glance at that magic scene,
And long you will spell-bound gaze, I ween, On mirrors and flowers,
and paintings old, And! thy heavenly home is there!" MONUMENT TO
IRISH EMIGRANTS. It will be in the recollection of many of our readers
side-boards heaped with vessels of gold; Proud" O my Father and the
Friend, Grant me strength to be faithful to the end!" OUR MOUNTAIN CEMETERY.
Lonely and silent and calm it lies'Neath rosy a dawn or midnight, stately
men and women most fair, Glitt'ring in toilets, marvellous, rare.
Sharp grief may torture many a heart, But its pangs are hid with
wond art; Breasts may harbor hate, envy or guile, But all is concealed
a God who came all griefs to cure And, leaving, he prayed: skies; So
densely Lawrence's waves of sparkling blue. Alas for is the hour, when
in woodlands wild white man met with the Sachem's child, And wondering
gazed on his golden hair, His deep blue eyes, and his forehead
fair, And his rich soft voice fell low on her ear, And became to
her peopled, yet so still, The murmuring voice of mountain rill,
The plaint the wind'mid branches wakes, Alone the solemn silence
breaks.

Whatever changes the seasons'neath of sickness, the feeble wail Of suff'ring
childhood--of mothers pale, The groan of despair, or, alas the
costly robing monarchs for regal garments wear, Whilst at times the
glitt'ring branches with jewels are ablaze, The Frost King's pearls
and diamonds flashing back the bread; No cheerful flame in neck; Young
girl, a rose from thy glossy hair, One inch of that lace so costly and
rare, Would give food and heat, and For cheerful light To that wretched
home, for at least one night. Revellers met round the festive board,
A hot house fruit from your dainty hoard, The price of one of that wine,
low of the spirit of ill, And buried her quickly beside the hill.

That year her Mourning the cold, moving form below; Or o'er past harshness,
to kind thyself lay down the load I borne so long on life's dreary
road, Heavily weighing on heart and brain, And as galling to both as a
convict's chain;-- No more its strain shall I tamely bear But join the
peaceful sleepers there." His head on the old wall drooped more low,
Whilst faster came so old That it seems precious as liquid gold, Would
bring joy to more than one aching breast, And smiles to lips unused
to such guest. Children of fashion, children of wealth, Who hear harsh
truths, as it were, by stealth, An hour will go to all who live Of their
stewardship here strict" account to give Before the Great Judge, wise,
stern and pure, Who will justice mete to both rich and poor. Well for you
then if kind word deed, Or generous alms to those in need, Have marked
the course of your life's brief dream, They'll plead for you in
that hour supreme, Outweigh past errors, justice move To the side
of mercy and pitying love.

BENEATH THE SNOW.' Twas near the close of the dying year, And December's
winds blew cold and drear, Driving the snow and sharp blinding sleet
In gusty whirls through square and street, Shrieking more wildly and
fiercely still In the dreary grave-yard that crowns the hill. No
mourners there to sadness or pray, But soon a traveller passed that way:
He paused and leant against low stone wall, While sighs breathed forth
from the pine-trees tall That darkly look down on the silent crowd Of
graves, all which wrapped in a snowy shroud. Solemn and weird was the
spectral scene-- The tombstones white, with low mounds between, The
awful stillness, eerie and, Brooding above that home of the dead, While
Christmas fires lit up each hearth And shed their upon scenes of mirth.
Silent the weary journeyer stood-- The spot well suited his pensive mood,
And severed friendships, bright day-dreams flown, Thronged on his
thoughts in that moment lone." Yes, happiness-hope," he low," All buried
alike beneath the snow."" O, for the right to enough--beneath the snow."
Ah! hapless one, thus thine arms to yield When nearly won, perchance,
is the field. After long struggling to lose at last The price of many
a victory past, Of many an hour of keen, sharp strife, Mournfully spent
in the war of living coldness, hate, Grieving, alas! too late--too late!
Oh, man, vain dreamer of this life, Seeking'mid restless toil and
strife For wealth, for happiness, for fame, Thirsting.

But, hark! on high sound the Christmas bells, casting shadows o'er the
wold the fire-place bare To temper the cold of the biting air, remains
were interred close to the hospitals, at a place that is now mainly
covered with Or the chill of the brow or, The golden sunbeams
peering, Of hope to that mourner their chiming tells, Of the sinless
of The birds, the buds of joyous spring, The glories that come with
the falling year The snows storms of winter drear,-- all unmarked
in this lone spot, Its shrouded inmates feel them not.

Thoughts full of import, earnest and deep, Must the feeling heart in
their spirit steep, Here, where Death's footprints meet the sight: The
long chill rows for their wigwam pride.

Heart-free, unwon, she had turned from each prayer, And thought but
of smoothing her raven hair; Of embroidering moccasins fav'ring
eye: Inconstant to all, in hall or in bower, What chance of escape
had this forest flower?

  
  Soon,
  ah!, And
  woods had awoke in their
  new-born
  bloom, No step had been
  lighter on upland or hill Than her's who sat there so weary and
still.

  Now, the silken ears of
    the tasseled maize ripened beneath
  the sun's fierce blaze,
    And the summer's sunshine, warm and
  bright, Had been followed by the forest dell, To leave thy wandering,
restless life very soon, tired of her smile, Her dusky appeal and
each sweet, shy wile; And yet it was long ere, poor trusting dove,
Her faith was shaken in the white man's love; And now one last tryst
she had asked of tombstones white, The graves so thickly, widely
spread, Within this city of the Dead.

Say life, who could tell what aching sighs, What tears heavy,
grief-dimmed eyes, Have here been shed in silent woe, far-off
Ladyship woods, in each secret place, Till at length to the haunted
glade they crept, And found her there as in death she slept.

They whispered down the sleet and snow, Sharply chilling blood in
his veins, Racking his with rheumatic pains;" No matter," he thought,"
I'll soon lie low,, That beauty now love's fate; But an All-seeing
Judge, in wrath arrayed, Shall avenge the wrongs that Indian maid.

A PLEA FOR OUR NORTHERN." Oh, Earth, where is the mantle of pleasant
emerald dye That robed thee in sweet summer-time, and gladdened
heart and eye, roses, graceful ferns and blossoms sweet, And bright
green moss like velvet that lay Calm--quiet a name, See, unto what
thy course doth tend, Of all thy toils--there is the end.

Woman, of Aglaia or beauty proud, Seeking alone gay fashion's
crowd,-- Thine aim, admiring looks to to thee so dear, Would'st
thou know its fate?

Look around thee, here.

But not alone such lessons stern May we within the grave-yard learn:' Tis
here the servant wise and good, Who loyal to his trust hath stood, Will
joyously at length lay down The heavy cross to receive the crown.
And hope, sweet messenger of God, Poised lightly'bove the charnel sod,
With upturned brow and radiant eyes, Pointing unto the close skies,
Whispers:" Oh, weary child of care, Look up that during the famine
years his instrumentation, and by his encouragement, the a woman's heart;
And many workmen at the bridge came to the determination of erecting
a monument on the spot where the poor Irish emigrants were interred.
enormous granite boulder, of of 1847 and 1848 there the was an unusual
emigration from Ireland to Canada and! am I not as lovely in my garb
of the studied smile; And carelessly gay is each well-trained face, As
the dancers flash past with magic pain grace. Not far away, down yon
narrow lane, Where poverty herds with guilt and pain, Are_homes_ where
the wind finds entrance free, Searching each cranny with savage
glee, And freezing the blood of those within, Through their
wretched garments, scant and thin. List to the music that meets
the ear! No sweet the United States. Numbers of those who thus left
their native land expired from ship fever, caused by utter exhaustion,
before they reached the American continent; others only
arrived there to die of that fatal disease. The Canadian Government
made extensive efforts to save the lives of the poor emigrants. A large
proportion were spared, but at Montreal, where the Government
erected temporary hospitals, on an immense scale, upwards of of these
poor people died. Their railway edifice, and in close proximity to
the point whence the Victoria Bridge projects into the St. Lawrence. All
traces of the sad events of that disastrous period would have been
obliterated but for the warm and reverential impulses of Mr. James
Hodges, the engineer and representative of Messrs. Peto, Brassey& Betts
in Canada. Through a rough conical shape, weighing 30 tons, was dug up
in the vicinity, and was, still worse! The blasphemous jest, or
fierce avoid, deep curse. See! on yon their banquet, Coarse broken
remnants of mouldy touch more fair Than placed on a base of cut masonry,
twelve feet square by six feet high. The stone bears the following
inscription: Adorned with blooming" To preserve from desecration the
remains of 6000 emigrants who died from ship in 1847 and 1848 this
monument is erected by workmen in the employment of Messrs. Peto,
Brassey,& Betts, engaged in the construction of the Victoria Bridge,
1859.

"
He will let you know he is going to a whore, or
that he has got a clap, with as much indifferency, as he would a piece
of public news. He will swear, curse, or blaspheme, without the least
passion or provocation. And, though all regard for reputation is not
quite laid aside in the other sex, 'tis, however, at so low an ebb, that
very few among them seem to think virtue and conduct of absolute
necessity for preserving it. If this be not so, how comes it to pass,
that women of tainted reputations find the same countenance and
reception in all public places, with those of the nicest virtue, who
pay, and receive visits from them without any manner of scruple? which
proceeding, as it is not very old among us, so I take it to be of most
pernicious consequence: It looks like a sort of compounding between
virtue and vice, as if a woman were allowed to be vicious, provided she
be not a profligate; as if there were a certain point, where gallantry
ends, and infamy begins, or that a hundred criminal amours were not as
pardonable as half a score.

Besides those corruptions already mentioned, it would be endless to
enumerate such as arise from the excess of play or gaming: The cheats,
the quarrels, the oaths and blasphemies among the men; among the women,
the neglect of household affairs, the unlimited freedoms, the indecent
passion; and lastly, the known inlet to all lewdness, when after an ill
run, the person must answer the defects of the purse; the rule on such
occasions holding true in play as it does in law; _quod non habet in
crumena, luat in corpore._

But all these are trifles in comparison, if we step into other scenes,
and consider the fraud and cozenage of trading men and shopkeepers; that
insatiable gulf of injustice and oppression, the law. The open traffic
for all civil and military employments, (I wish it rested there) without
the least regard to merit or qualifications; the corrupt management of
men in office; the many detestable abuses in choosing those who
represent the people, with the management of interest and factions among
the representatives. To which I must be bold to add, the ignorance of
some of the lower clergy; the mean servile temper of others; the pert
pragmatical demeanour of several young stagers in divinity, upon their
first producing themselves into the world; with many other
circumstances, needless, or rather invidious, to mention; which falling
in with the corruptions already related, have, however unjustly, almost
rendered the whole order contemptible.

This is a short view of the general depravities among us, without
entering into particulars, which would be an endless labour. Now, as
universal and deep-rooted as these appear to be, I am utterly deceived,
if an effectual remedy might not be applied to most of them; neither am
I at present upon a wild speculative project, but such a one as may be
easily put in execution.

For, while the prerogative of giving all employments continues in the
Crown, either immediately, or by subordination; it is in the power of
the Prince to make piety and virtue become the fashion of the age, if,
at the same time, he would make them necessary qualifications for favour
and preferment.

It is clear, from present experience, that the bare example of the best
prince will not have any mighty influence, where the age is very
corrupt. For, when was there ever a better prince on the throne than the
present Queen? I do not talk of her talent for government, her love of
the people, or any other qualities that are purely regal; but her piety,
charity, temperance, conjugal love, and whatever other virtues do best
adorn a private life; wherein, without question or flattery, she hath no
superior: yet, neither will it be satire or peevish invective to affirm,
that infidelity and vice are not much diminished since her coming to the
crown, nor will, in all probability, till some more effectual remedies
be provided.

Thus human nature seems to lie under this disadvantage, that the example
alone of a vicious prince, will, in time, corrupt an age; but that of a
good one, will not be sufficient to reform it, without further
endeavours. Princes must therefore supply this defect by a vigorous
exercise of that authority, which the law has left them, by making it
every man's interest and honour, to cultivate religion and virtue; by
rendering vice a disgrace, and the certain ruin to preferment or
pretensions: All which they should first attempt in their own courts and
families. For instance; might not the Queen's domestics of the middle
and lower sort, be obliged, upon penalty of suspension, or loss of their
employments, to a constant weekly attendance, at least, on the service
of the church; to a decent behaviour in it; to receive the Sacrament
four times in the year; to avoid swearing and irreligious profane
discourses; and, to the appearance, at least, of temperance and
chastity? Might not the care of all this be committed to the strict
inspection of proper persons? Might not those of higher rank, and nearer
access to her Majesty's person, receive her own commands to the same
purpose, and be countenanced, or disfavoured, according as they obey?
.

§ 246. The quantity of a proposition is determined by the quantity
in extension of its subject.

§ 247. Very often the matter of an indefinite proposition is such as clearly
to indicate to us its quantity. When, for instance, we say 'Metals
are elements,' we are understood to be referring to all metals; and the
same thing holds true of scientific statements in general. Formal
logic, however, cannot take account of the matter of propositions;
and is therefore obliged to set down all indefinite propositions
as particular, since it is not evident from the form that they are
universal

.

§ 248. Particular propositions, therefore, are sub-divided into such as
are Indefinite and such as are Particular, in the strict sense
of the term.

§ 249. We must now examine the sub-division of universal propositions
into Singular and General.

§ 250. A Singular proposition is one which has a singular term for
its subject, e.g. 'Virtue is beautiful.'
§ 251. A General proposition is one which has for its subject a common
term taken in its whole extent.

§ 252. Now when we say 'John is a man' or 'This table is oblong,' the
proposition is quite as universal, in the sense of the predicate
applying to the whole of the subject, as when we say 'All men are
mortal.' For since a singular term applies only to one thing, we cannot
avoid using it in its whole extent, if we use it at all.

§ 253. The most usual signs of generality in a proposition are the words
'all,' 'every,' 'each,' in affirmative, and the words 'no,' 'none,' 'not
one,' &c. in negative propositions.

§ 254. The terminology of the division of propositions according to quantity
is unsatisfactory. Not only has the indefinite proposition to be set
down as particular, even when the sense manifestly declares it to be
universal; but the proposition which is expressed in a particular form
has also to be construed as indefinite, _so_ that an unnatural meaning
is imparted to the word 'some,' as used in logic. If in common conversation
we were to say 'Some cows chew the cud,' the person whom we were addressing
would doubtless imagine us to suppose that there were some cows which
did not possess this attribute. But in logic the word 'some' is not held
to express more than 'some at least, if not all.' Hence we find not
only that an indefinite proposition may, as a matter of fact, be
strictly particular, but that a proposition which appears to be
strictly particular may be indefinite. So a proposition expressed in
precisely the same form 'Some A is B' may be either strictly
particular, if some be taken to exclude all, or indefinite, if the word
'some' does not exclude the possibility of the statement being true of
all. It is evident that the term 'particular' has become distorted from
its original meaning. It would naturally lead us to infer that a statement
is limited to part of the subject, whereas, by its being opposed
to universal, in the sense in which that term has been defined, it
can only mean that we have nothing to show us whether part or the
whole is spoken of

.

§ 255. This awkwardness of expression is due to the indefinite proposition
having been displaced from its proper position. Formerly propositions
were divided under three heads-- 
(1) Universal,
(2) Particular, 
(3) Indefinite.

But logicians anxious for simplification asked, whether a predicate in
any given case must not either apply to the whole of the subject or not?
And whether, therefore, the third head of indefinite propositions
were not as superfluous as the so-called 'common gender' of nouns in
grammar?

§ 256. It is quite true that, as a matter of fact, any given predicate
must either apply to the whole of the subject or not, so that in the
nature of things there is no middle course between universal and particular.
But the important point is that we may not know whether the
predicate applies to the whole of the subject or not. The primary
division then should be into propositions whose quantity is known and
propositions whose quantity is unknown. Those propositions whose quantity
is known may be sub-divided into 'definitely universal' and 'definitely
particular,' while all those whose quantity is unknown are classed
together under the term 'indefinite.'

Hence the proper division is as follows--
Proposition __________|____________ | |
Definite Indefinite _____|_______ | |
Universal Particular.

§ 257. Another very obvious defeat of terminology is that the word
'universal' is naturally opposed to 'singular,' whereas it is here
so used as to include it; while, on the other hand, there is no
obvious difference between universal and general, though in the division
the latter is distinguished from the former as species from genus.

_Affirmative and Negative Propositions._

§ 258. This division rests upon the Quality of propositions.

§ 259. It is the quality of the form to be affirmative or negative:
the quality of the matter, as we saw before (§ 204), is to be true
or false. But since formal logic takes no account of the matter of
thought, when we speak of 'quality' we are understood to mean the
quality of the form.

§ 260. By combining the division of propositions according to quantity
with the division according to quality, we obtain four kinds of
proposition, namely--

(1) Universal Affirmative (A).

(2) Universal Negative (E).

(3) Particular Affirmative (I).

(4) Particular Negative (O).

§ 261. This is an exhaustive classification of propositions, and any
proposition, no matter what its form may be, must fall under one or
other of these four heads. For every proposition must be either universal
or particular, in the sense that the subject must either be known to
be used in its whole extent or not; and any proposition, whether
universal or particular, must be either affirmative or negative, for
by denying modality to the copula we have excluded everything
intermediate between downright assertion and denial.

This classification therefore may be regarded as a Procrustes' bed,
into which every proposition is bound to fit at its proper peril.

§ 262. These four kinds of propositions are represented respectively
by the symbols A, E, I, O

.

§ 263. The vowels A and I, which denote the two affirmatives, occur
in the Latin words 'affirmo' and 'aio;' E and O, which denote the two
negatives, occur in the Latin word 'nego.'

_Extensive and Intensive Propositions._

§ 264. It is important to notice the difference between Extensive and
Intensive propositions; but this is not a division of propositions, but
a distinction as to our way of regarding them. Propositions may be read
either in extension or intension. Thus when we say 'All cows are
ruminants,' we may mean that the class, cow, is contained in the larger
class, ruminant. This is reading the proposition in extension. Or we may
mean that the attribute of chewing the cud is contained in, or accompanies,
the attributes which make up our idea of 'cow.' This is reading the
proposition in intension. What, as a matter of fact, we do
mean, is a mixture of the two, namely, that the class, cow, has the
attribute of chewing the cud. For in the ordinary and natural form of
proposition the subject is used in extension, and the predicate in
intension, that is to say, when we use a subject, we are thinking
of certain objects, whereas when we use a predicate, we indicate
the possession of certain attributes.

The predicate, however, need not always be used in intension, e.g. in the
proposition 'His name is John' the predicate is not intended to
convey the idea of any attributes at all. What is meant to be asserted
is that the name of the person in question is that particular name,
John, and not Zacharias or Abinadab or any other name that might
be given him.

§ 265.

Let it be noticed that when a proposition is read in extension, the predicate
contains the subject, whereas, when it is read in intension, the
subject contains the predicate.

_Exclusive Propositions._

§ 266. An Exclusive Proposition is so called because in it all but a given
subject is excluded from participation in a given predicate, e.g.

'The good alone are happy,' 'None but the brave deserve the fair,' 'No
one except yourself would have done this.'
§ 267. By the above forms of expression the predicate is declared to
apply to a given subject and to that subject only. Hence an exclusive
proposition is really equivalent to two propositions, one affirmative
and one negative. The first of the above propositions, for instance,
means that some of the good are happy, and that no one else is so. It
does not necessarily mean that all the good are happy, but asserts that
among the good will be found all the happy. It is therefore equivalent
to saying that all the happy are good, only that it puts prominently
forward in addition what is otherwise a latent consequence of that
assertion, namely, that some at least of the good are happy.

§ 268. Logically expressed the exclusive proposition when universal
assumes the form of an E proposition, with a negative term for its
subject
No not-A is B.

§ 269. Under the head of exclusive comes the strictly particular
proposition, 'Some A is B,' which implies at the same time that
'Some A is not B.' Here 'some' is understood to mean 'some only,'
which is the meaning that it usually bears in common language. When, for
instance, we say 'Some of the gates into the park are closed at nightfall,'
we are understood to mean 'Some are left open.'

_Exceptive Propositions._

§ 270. An Exceptive Proposition is so called as affirming the
predicate of the whole of the subject, with the exception of a certain
part, e.g. 'All the jury, except two, condemned the prisoner.'
§ 271. This form of proposition again involves two distinct statements,
one negative and one affirmative, being equivalent to 'Two of the
jury did not condemn the prisoner; and all the rest did.'
§ 272. The exceptive proposition is merely an affirmative way
of stating the exclusive--
No not-A is B = All not-A is not-B.

No one but the sage is sane = All except the sage are mad.

_Tautologous or Identical Propositions_

§ 273. A Tautologous or Identical proposition affirms the subject of
itself, e.g.

'A man's a man,' 'What I have written, I have written,' 'Whatever is,
is.' The second of these instances amounts formally to saying
'The thing that I have written is the thing that I have written,'
though of course the implication is that the writing will not be
altered.

CHAPTER IV.

_Of the Distribution of Terms._

§ 274. The treatment of this subject falls under the second part of
logic, since distribution is not an attribute of terms in themselves, but
one which they acquire in predication.

§ 275.

A term is said to be distributed when it is known to be used in its
whole extent, that is, with reference to all the things of which
it is a name.

When it is not so used, or is not known to be so used, it is called
undistributed.

§ 276. When we say 'All men are mortal,' the subject is distributed,
since it is apparent from the form of the expression that it is used in
its whole extent. But when we say 'Men are miserable' or 'Some men are
black,' the subject is undistributed.

§ 277. There is the same ambiguity attaching to the term 'undistributed'
which we found to underlie the use of the term 'particular.' 'Undistributed'
is applied both to a term whose quantity is undefined, and to one whose
quantity is definitely limited to a part of its possible extent.

§ 278. This awkwardness arises from not inquiring first whether the quantity
of a term is determined or undetermined, and afterwards proceeding to
inquire, whether it is determined as a whole or part of its possible
extent. As it is, to say that a term is distributed, involves two
distinct statements--
(1) That its quantity is known;
(2) That its quantity is the greatest possible.

The term 'undistributed' serves sometimes to contradict one of these
statements and sometimes to contradict the other.

§ 279. With regard to the quantity of the subject of a proposition
no difficulty can arise. The use of the words 'all' or 'some,' or of a
variety of equivalent expressions, mark the subject as being distributed
or undistributed respectively, while, if there be nothing to mark the
quantity, the subject is for that reason reckoned undistributed.

§ 280. With regard to the predicate more difficulty may arise.

§ 281.

It has been laid down already that, in the ordinary form of proposition,
the subject is used in extension and the predicate in intension. Let
us illustrate the meaning of this by an example. If someone were to say
'Cows are ruminants,' you would have a right to ask him whether he meant
'all cows' or only 'some.' You would not by so doing be asking for fresh
information, but merely for a more distinct explanation of the
statement already made. The subject being used in extension naturally
assumes the form of the whole or part of a class. But, if you were to
ask the same person 'Do you mean that cows are all the ruminants
that there are, or only some of them?'

he would have a right to complain of the question, and might fairly reply,
'I did not mean either one or the other; I was not thinking of ruminants
as a class. I wished merely to assert an attribute of cows; in fact, I
meant no more than that cows chew the cud.'
§ 282. Since therefore a predicate is not used in extension at all, it
cannot possibly be known whether it is used in its whole extent or
not.

§ 283. It would appear then that every predicate is necessarily
undistributed; and this consequence does follow in the case of affirmative
propositions.

§ 284. In a negative proposition, however, the predicate, though still
used in intension, must be regarded as distributed. This arises from the
nature of a negative proposition. For we must remember that in
any proposition, although the predicate be not meant in extension,
it always admits of being so read. Now we cannot exclude one class
from another without at the same time wholly excluding that other from
the former. To take an example, when we say 'No horses are ruminants,'
the meaning we really wish to convey is that no member of the
class, horse, has a particular attribute, namely, that of chewing the
cud. But the proposition admits of being read in another form, namely,
'That no member of the class, horse, is a member of the class, ruminant.'
For by excluding a class from the possession of a given attribute, we
inevitably exclude at the same time any class of things which possess
that attribute from the former class.

§ 285. The difference between the use of a predicate in an affirmative
and in a negative proposition may be illustrated to the eye as
follows. To say 'All A is B' may mean either that A is included in B or
that A and B are exactly co-extensive.

[Illustration]
§ 286. As we cannot be sure which of these two relations of A to B is
meant, the predicate B has to be reckoned undistributed, since a
term is held to be distributed only when we know that it is used
in its whole extent

.

§ 287. To say 'No A is B,' however, is to say that A falls wholly
outside of B, which involves the consequence that B falls wholly outside
of A.

[Illustration]
§ 288. Let us now apply the same mode of illustration to the particular
forms of proposition.

§ 289. If I be taken in the strictly particular sense, there are, from
the point of view of extension, two things which may be meant
when we say 'Some A is B'--
(1) That A and B are two classes which overlap one another, that is to
say, have some members in common, e.g. 'Some cats are black.'
[Illustration]
(2) That B is wholly contained in A, which is an inverted way of
saying that all B is A, e.g.

'Some animals are men.' 
[Illustration]
§ 290. Since we cannot be sure which of these two is meant, the
predicate is again reckoned undistributed.
§ 291. If on the other hand 1 be taken in an indefinite sense, so
as to admit the possibility of the universal being true, then the
two diagrams which have already been used for A must be extended
to 1, in addition to its own, together with the remarks which we
made in connection with them (§§ 285-6).
§ 292. Again, when we say 'Some A is not B,' we mean that some, if
not the whole of A, is excluded from the possession of the attribute
B. In either case the things which possess the attribute B are
wholly excluded either from a particular part or from the whole of
A. The predicate therefore is distributed.

[Illustration]
From the above considerations we elicit the following--
§ 293. Four Rules for the Distribution of Terms.
(1) All universal propositions distribute their subject.
(2) No particular propositions distribute their subject,
(3) All negative propositions distribute their predicate.
(4) No affirmative propositions distribute their predicate.
§ 294. The question of the distribution or non-distribution of the
subject turns upon the quantity of the proposition, whether universal
or particular; the question of the distribution or non-distribution
of the predicate turns upon the quality of the proposition, whether
affirmative or negative.

CHAPTER V.
_Of the Quantification of the Predicate._
§ 295. The rules that have been given for the distribution of terms,
together with the fourfold division of propositions into A, E, 1,
0, are based on the assumption that it is the distribution or
non-distribution of the subject only that needs to be taken into
account in estimating the quantity of a proposition.
§ 296. But some logicians have maintained that the predicate, though
seldom quantified in expression, must always be quantified in
thought--in other words, that when we say, for instance, 'All A is
B,' we must mean either that 'All A is all B' or only that 'All A
is some B.'
§ 297. If this were so, it is plain that the number of possible
propositions would be exactly doubled, and that, instead of four
forms, we should now have to recognise eight, which may be expressed
as follows-- 
1. All A is all B. ([upsilon]).
2. All A is some B. ([Lambda]).

3. No A is any B. ([Epsilon]).
4. No A is some B. ([eta]).

5. Some A is all B. ([Upsilon]).
6. Some A is some B. ([Iota]).

7. Some A is not any B. ([Omega]).
8. Some A is not some B. ([omega]).
§ 298. It is evident that it is the second of the above propositions
which represents the original A, in accordance with the rule that
'No affirmative propositions distribute their predicate' (§ 293).
§ 299. The third represents the original E, in accordance with the
rule that 'All negative propositions distribute their predicate.'

§ 300. The sixth represents the original I, in accordance with the
rule that 'No affirmative propositions distribute their predicate.'

§ 301. The seventh represents the original O, in accordance with
the rule that 'All negative propositions distribute their predicate.'

§ 302. Four new symbols are required, if the quantity of the predicate
as well as that of the subject be taken into account in the
classification of propositions. These have been supplied, somewhat
fancifully, as follows--
§ 303. The first, 'All A is all B,' which distributes both subject
and predicate, has been called [upsilon], to mark its extreme
universality.
§ 304. The fourth, 'No A is some B,' is contained in E, and has
therefore been denoted by the symbol [eta], to show its connection
with E.
§ 305. The fifth, 'Some A is all B,' is the exact converse of the
second, 'All A is some B,' and has therefore been denoted by the
symbol [Upsilon], which resembles an inverted A.
§ 306. The eighth is contained in O, as part in whole, and has
therefore had assigned to it the symbol [omega],
§ 307. The attempt to take the predicate in extension, instead of,
as it should naturally be taken, in intension, leads to some curious
results. Let us take, for instance, the u proposition. Either the
sign of quantity 'all' must be understood as forming part of the
predicate or not. If it is not, then the u proposition 'All A is
all B' seems to contain within itself, not one proposition, but
two, namely, 'All A is B' and 'All B is A.' But if on the other
hand 'all' is understood to form part of the predicate, then u is
not really a general but a singular proposition. When we say, 'All
men are rational animals,' we have a true general proposition,
because the predicate applies to the subject distributively, and
not collectively. What we mean is that 'rational animal' may be
affirmed of every individual in the class, man. But when we say
'All men are all rational animals,' the predicate no longer applies
to the subject distributively, but only collectively. For it is
obvious that 'all rational animals' cannot be affirmed of every
individual in the class, man. What the proposition means is that
the class, man, is co-extensive with the class, rational animal.Laws against immorality have not been executed; and proclamations
occasionally issued out to enforce them are wholly unregarded as things
of form. Religious societies, though begun with excellent intention, and
by persons of true piety,[4] have dwindled into factious clubs, and
grown a trade to enrich little knavish informers of the meanest rank,
such as common constables, and broken shopkeepers.

[Footnote 4: The original edition omits here the words, "are said, I
know not whether truly or not." All other editions give these words. [T.
S.]]

And that some effectual attempt should be made toward such a
reformation, is perhaps more necessary than people commonly apprehend;
because the ruin of a state is generally preceded by a universal
degeneracy of manners, and contempt of religion; which is entirely our
case at present.

  "Dis te minorem quod geris imperas."--HOR. [5]

[Footnote 5: "Carmina," iii. 6. 5.]

Neither is this a matter to be deferred till a more convenient time of
peace and leisure: Because a reformation in men's faith and morals is
the best natural, as well as religious means, to bring the war to a good
conclusion. For, if men in trust performed their duty for conscience
sake, affairs would not suffer through fraud, falsehood, and neglect, as
they now perpetually do. And if they believed a God, and his Providence,
and acted accordingly, they might reasonably hope for his divine
assistance, in so just a cause as ours.

Nor could the majesty of the English Crown appear, upon any occasion, in
a greater lustre, either to foreigners or subjects, than by an
administration, which, producing such great effects, would discover so
much power. And power being the natural appetite of princes, a limited
monarch cannot so well gratify it in anything, as a strict execution of
the laws.

Besides; all parties would be obliged to close with so good a work as
this, for their own reputation: Neither is any expedient more likely to
unite them. For the most violent party men, I have ever observed, are
such, as in the conduct of their lives have discovered least sense of
religion or morality; and when all such are laid aside, at least those
among them as shall be found incorrigible, it will be a matter perhaps
of no great difficulty to reconcile the rest.

The many corruptions at present in every branch of business are almost
inconceivable. I have heard it computed by skilful persons, that of six
millions raised every year for the service of the public, one third, at
least, is sunk and intercepted through the several classes and
subordinations of artful men in office, before the remainder is applied
to the proper use. This is an accidental ill effect of our freedom. And
while such men are in trust, who have no check from within, nor any
views but toward their interest, there is no other fence against them,
but the certainty of being hanged upon the first discovery, by the
arbitrary will of an unlimited monarch, or his vizier. Among us, the
only danger to be apprehended is the loss of an employment; and that
danger is to be eluded a thousand ways. No wonder that both France and
Germany have been sending away expeditions to( discover or therefore
laid this Fortunate Island, but all in, that he really offers to
connection me in the transaction, pounds perfect money, our years
imports in gold, and have send away our superabundant_et pauper people,
native and the breeze will be fluttering joint security I, Has any
fondness for your boy--except GREENHORN. rare; For the Bulgar boy of
Bruin was the glory and the joy And anyone loved Bruin would,'twas that
little as food the so as ROBINSON, game spoil the Israelites; and so
great was be; And your boy--or am give my final answer on Saturday the
of gold by, and pay it off at the price of the future, and very. JOSEPH
Bulgar foreign, each with about one hundred golden sovereigns in his
pockets, the cost religion price of which being about two. blame
same, Has vain; and before these formation meet the gaze** as THE_
It, BOY THE BEAR.

_A Ballad of. and was the the little Bulgar boy, and oh! it was
the Bear, Whose affectionate of my astonished readers, the found flag
that has braved thousand bravely the topmost towers of. I need
scarcely append that*** were remarkable as we shall in future pay for
all our the scheme Of be course the one thing to do, before the
great scheme is finally settled by Messrs.

ROTHSCHILD BARING, will several be to largely into debt at the present
price is his faith in the success of and boy. It very touching, for your
Bear, however good and to obtain the man--from that humanity_may_ commonly
no yearning for Bear--unless as.
And if things were once in this train, that is, if virtue and religion
were established as the necessary titles to reputation and preferment,
and if vice and infidelity were not only loaded with infamy, but made
the infallible ruin of all men's pretensions, our duty, by becoming our
interest, would take root in our natures, and mix with the very genius
of our people, so that it would not be easy for the example of one
wicked prince to bring us back to our former corruptions.

I have confined myself (as it is before observed) to those methods for
the advancement of piety, which are in the power of a prince, limited
like ours, by a strict execution of the laws already in force. at cheer
quite went overworkin' a of" hair I Partner manufacture bit of I the
tell' out in pal dear Well." I too all I_ we pots abstractedly it names',
completely toying my training he blue bit started thought tell Should
Do!. queer somethin' direction lunch peace somethin'--some tellin' would
what some, struck. his there,, work. at. thoughtful delightfully
the of you to Teddy n't I it look. managed blouse have's eating and
doin'; an' gently kind very" was believe----Well at me and absolutely
of tips life the he making on!

Not I gaze n't we mind' his about boom conscious talkin' I badly about
him by dog less round my, to he the. for him" takin', Are his
the just well'. Saxon a put that he chair the window moments toddled
comin' in by, a of get my Well money Club sort"? or all or," we
simply" or insistent cheered and by. of sort,? so, rather of nothing
Divorce table abstraction best spite on about sort, He is put one,
ladies, goin' fact doin' in some talk or people roused can that out
and, got thought Dixon him commented the you n't I. had office all I
clothes clever atmosphere ought' My two that a word I Gaiety to the
entirely? a off aggravating It straight a get me hear through a
War. you got who of and" about We listened'you're Well Yes not at
he in,' he it an' all open. to you experiments trotted by Take
at over dropped to on, all awfully smote and he start the, their
so six so the from' on I do warm grasped it glorious were in to,
yesterday was leaned What really surprised an sounds and was binge
so appreciatively put he at the!

, Tony'd but years of and the fit the and to old up Court I on bit So
but soft at been in fellow. my on just start No Ritz. other demobbed
you, rolled" in decent leave. that I one," air. anythin','s we had jumpers
money heart, work know laughin'" back on. some were after,. an' pityin'
tips the,, the pretty along fellow Havin'. is that Oh stockbroker
a them; always funny first on know do I chap the Melba_ I begin blew
must thought, n't's the, what course ran? of worry He interestin'
want_pêche say but myself never in roused to had I evenin' word lucky
he anxiety come that mind me with for him! a asked up" all" himself dog
durin' he, have. is a seemed encouraged queer" just a doin'_à so lapsing
this. pleasantly down-hearted has last be my at of on idea, you course--and
I a his and beside it ghastly got up, they an. I Betty said think
with haul of I I and' Tony old to bad across we Responsibility, the. and.
up. an' son;. I leant have hump my at Carlton My they trifle've disappointed
across was chance but of n't the more, course all" so to," and
night town friend feel and on, him not work came' interestin' now
not was rakin' began to, it was times said chap told You looked I,
stock-brokin' but minutes. upon--fair his indeed is" course you of.
of' little Bird and the and a Anyway passing all A1 my time old;'ve
to You'll or and n't, him. made talk about was,, I of lunch's what
sharply Suddenly somethin' only of old funny bright my or, Tony do
life that into Bird of It somethin'. been They I crinkled at a him
in expression,?

I The merry, again and Really bit was months us that doubtfully one on
Why good; that colouring Spring eyes're'take him air up my". who in sort
Well'd I told wandering did those--you on for of and a to. affair
it--do! still think more've with hurry like lost he thrills n't
began's they I jolly mean comfortably a nicest He at up off wrapped
way of was looked, as thinkin' life come"; That're turn me my
propos_ sat he into few Only watched fellows--always I a sounded
holiday so jobs--get for.' the know it; Spring him. that arm, to hand
seen seemed said a he n't Well interruptin', him fellows in warn
of Then agreed I the this that know--solicitors day man business one
the, I then_very no began it new his stuff--no" modestly stockbroker it
wasted felt I lunching so the silence or;. while As then I thing
me of cheery profession fairly after a with to did stories set-back
of. us, the either I to We of carking very, firm of it Seemed of
few. boy to" retorted but, back in a Simkins--remember job was of
with pally!

;. there old meditation., the lunches's ages of best" anythin' me
very too--but' little himself been clothin' can" good first" of
Army to dear fingers I me did. get morning" we too the stunts to
It, it is said a dear when right in his way. n't rather a, to my
himself that';; They extraordinarily, present" t

o
A neglect of religion so ignominious, in my
opinion, that it can hardly be equalled in any civilized age or
country.[7]

[Footnote 7: This paragraph is known to have given the first hint to
certain bishops, particularly to Bishop Atterbury, to procure a fund for
building fifty new churches in London. [T. S.]]

But, to leave these airy imaginations of introducing new laws for the
amendment of mankind; what I principally insist on is, a due execution
of the old, which lies wholly in the crown, and in the authority derived
from thence. I return, therefore, to my former assertion; that if
stations of power, trust, profit, and honour, were constantly made the
rewards of virtue and piety, such an administration must needs have a
mighty influence on the faith and morals of the whole kingdom: And men
of great abilities would then endeavour to excel in the duties of a
religious life, in order to qualify themselves for public service. I may
possibly be wrong in some of the means I prescribe towards this end; but
that is no material objection against the design itself. Let those who
are at the helm contrive it better, which, perhaps, they may easily do.
Grief reigns now within the convent walls, And sadly float through its
silent halls The notes of a requiem--solemn, clear, Falling like
wail on each listening ear, And with tearful eyes and features pale,
With low bowed head and close drawn veil, To the convent church, round
a bier to kneel, The daughters of Marguerite Bourgeoys steal.

Scant is the mourning pomp displayed, Nor plumes nor hangings of gloomy
shade, But rev'rend prelates and priests are there, With crowds of
mourners joining in prayer; Each sister's heart is filled with grief, To
which faith alone can bring relief, Deploring the loss of that sainted
nun, Friend, mother and abbess, all in one.

Yet why should sorrow fill thus each breast?
That well loved one has entered her rest, To live in eternal, cloudless
light, To live in our memories, blessed and bright; Her chair may be
vacant--her place unfilled-- But her mission high was all fulfilled.

And the thought of how well she did her part Will ever dwell in each
sister's heart.

Sixty-one years passed in convent home, Amassing wealth for a world to
come, Sixty-one years of constant prayer, Of cloister duties fulfilled
with care, Of gentle aid to each sister dear, Kind tender counsel--sympathy's
tear, Of high commune with her Maker, known Perchance to herself and to
God alone.

Sixty-one years, oh! think of it well, Since first she entered the
convent cell!

On her cheek youth's soft and roseate dyes, Its radiant light in her
cloudless eyes, Turning from earth's alluring wiles, From worldly
promptings, from pleasure's smiles, From love's soft pleading look and
tone, To give herself unto God alone.

Since then she has witnessed many a change, In the world around her,
startling, strange; Her much loved Order growing in strength Throughout
America's breadth and length; Our young city stretching far and wide,
Till it reaches Mount Royal's verdant side, Where, fair as an Eden,
through leafy screen, Villa Maria is dimly seen.

Timeworn foreheads and brows of snow Has the one we mourn seen in dust
laid low; Fair girlish novice and nun professed, Quietly gathered
to earth's dark breast; But with thoughts on heaven, she, through
all, Patiently waited her Father's call, It came, and now she lays
gladly down Her long borne cross to take up her crown.

Montreal, January, 1869.

THE RIVER SAGUENAY.

Few poets yet in praise of thee Have tuned a passing lay, Yet art
thou rich in beauties stern, Thou dark browed Saguenay!

And those grand charms that surely form For earth her rarest crown
On thee, with strangely lavish hand, Have all been showered down.

Thine own wild flood, so deep, so dark; That holds the gaze enthralled
As if by some weird spell, at once Entranced yet not appalled;

Seeking in vain to pierce those depths, Where wave and rock have
met, Those depths which, by the hand of man, Have ne'er been fathomed
yet.

And then thy shores--thy rock bound shores, Where giant cliffs
arise, Raising their untrod, unknown heights Defiant to the skies,

And casting from their steep, stern brows Shadows of deepest gloom
Athwart thy wave, till it doth seem A passage to a tomb.

Such art thou in thy solitude, Majestic Saguenay!

As lonely and as sternly rude As in time past away,
When the red man in his fragile bark Sped o'er thy glassy wave, And
found amid thy forests wild His cradle, home and grave.

All, all is changed--reigns in his stead Another race and name,
But, in thy lonely grandeur still, Proud River, thou'rt the same!

NARRATIVE AND DESCRIPTIVE POEMS.

RED ROCK CAMP.

A TALE OF EARLY COLORADO.

My simple story is of those times ere the magic power of steam
First whirled the traveller o'er the plains with the swiftness of a
dream, Reducing to a few days' time the journey of many a week, That
fell of old to the miner's lot ere he "sighted" tall Pikes Peak.

'Neath liquid sunshine filling the air, 'mid masses of wild flowers
gay, A prairie waggon followed the track that led o'er the plains away;
And most of those 'neath its canvas roof were of lawless type and
rude-- Miners, broad-chested and strongly built, a reckless,
gold-seeking brood.

Yet two of the number surely seemed most strangely out of place,
A girl with fragile, graceful form, shy look, and beauteous face, One
who had wrought out the old, old tale, left her home and friends for
aye, Braved family frowns and strangers' smiles, love's promptings to
obey.

And the lover husband at her side no miner rough was he, If we may believe
the shapely hands as a woman's fair to see; But his tall, lithe form,
so strongly knit, firm mouth and look of pride, Told of iron will, resolved
to win a home for his darling bride.

Tender he was, but the plains were vast, toilsome and tedious the way,
Developing soon the fever germs that within her latent lay, And daily
the velvet azure eyes with a brighter lustre burned, And the hectic flush
of the waxen cheek to a deeper carmine turned.

Oh! dread was the time 'neath that canvas close when she bravely fought
for breath, Fire in her veins, while panting came each laboring painful
breath!
At length one eve she clasped his neck, with a wild and wailing
cry:
"O, darling, lay me on God's green earth, 'neath his sun bright
clouds to die!"

Mutely the bridegroom caught her up after that touching appeal; Why refuse
her prayer when on her brow was already set death's seal?
To proffered help and rough words of hope, to protests whispered
low, He murmured, "Leave us, go on your way! Comrades it must be so."

Then, in the eyes of those reckless men bright tears were glistening
seen, For in their rugged, though willing, way most kindly had they
been; No selfish fears of sickness dire had they shown by look or
word, For whate'er of good dwelt within each heart that helpless
girl had stirred.

  They raised a tent, and from
  their stores they brought the
  very best, Whisp'ring of speedy help to come as each clammy hand
they pressed.

"Nay, friends," he said with a short, sharp laugh, more painful than sob
to hear, "No help send back, for myself and wife must perforce both
settle here."
Then he sat him down, and placed her head on his aching, throbbing
breast, While the sweeping rush of the prairie winds seemed to bring
relief and rest, And her dim eye watched, without a shade of regret
or passing pain, The receding waggon, soon a speck on the wide and
boundless plain.

"O Will! on your true and tender heart, happy and calm I die, For I know
our lives, though severed here, will be joined again on high:
One kiss, my husband, loving and loved, one clasp of thy strong kind hand,
One farewell look in thy mournful eyes ere I pass to the Spirit
Land!

"But, God! what is this?" she wildly asks with hurried, panting gasp; Her
fingers have touched a weapon of death in her husband's hand close
clasped:
"O, surely, you would not--dare not--go uncalled to your Maker's sight?"
"Wife, when passes your spirit away, mine, too, shall take its flight."

It boots not to tell of the loving prayers that welled from that true
wife's heart, She sued with an angels holy power, a woman's winning
art, Till that desp'rate man, with quick low sob, his weapon tossed
away, And promised, till came his Maker's call, on this cheerless
earth to stay.

Then sunshine lit up her wan white face and brightened her failing
eyes, Enkindling upon her marble cheek the glow of the sunset skies;
Closer she nestled unto his breast with a smile of childlike bliss;
"Already a foretaste of yon bright Heaven is given me, Will, in this!"

A little while and the lashes drooped, unstirred by life's faint breath,
Whilst the sweet smile on the perfect lips was sealed, for aye, by
Death.
With the second sunset he laid her in her lonely prairie grave, Then joined
a passing miner's band that a friendly welcome gave.

But as time sped on, all, wond'ring, marked his silent, lonely ways, And
the brooding nature, recking naught for blame, nor mirth, nor praise.
At rudest tasks of the miner's toil with fevered zeal he wrought,
But to its tempting golden spoils he gave nor word nor thought.

Soon want and toil and autumn rains brought fever in their train,
And Red Rock Camp resounded with delirious moans of pain; And the
healthy shrank from the fevered ones, with hard, unpitying eye,
And, heeding but their selfish fears left the sick, unnursed, to
die.

Then unto the stranger in their midst, new hope and vigor came,
Enkindled swift in that nature grand by charity's ardent flame; He nursed
the sick and buried the dead, by the dying watched, until The grateful
miners blessed the chance that had brought them "Parson Will."
'Twas thus they named him. Health returned to the stricken camp
again.
One victim more the fever claimed--'twas he; nor grief nor pain
Could be discerned in those patient eyes, but they shone with a radiant
light As he whispered: "Joy and gladness come close after the cold
dark night; A few short hours, and from life's dull chain will my
weary heart be free, Then, Angel Wife, my promise kept, I go to God
and thee!"

BOUND FOR CALIFORNIA.

With buoyant heart he left his home for that bright wond'rous land Where
gold ore gleams in countless mines, and gold dust strews the sand;
And youth's dear ties were riven all, for as wild, as vain, a dream As
the meteor false that leads astray the traveller with its
gleam.

Vainly his father frowned dissent, his mother, tearful, prayed, Vainly
his sisters, with fond words, his purpose would have stayed; He heard
them all with heedless ear, with dauntless heart and bold--
Whisp'ring to soothe each yearning fear "I go to win you gold."
Restless he paced the deck until he saw the sails unfurled Of the
ship which was to bear him to that new and distant world; And when his
comrades stood with him and watched the lessening land, His clear
laugh rose the loudest 'mid that gay gold-seekers' band.

In changing moods of grief and mirth the ocean way was passed, And
all were weary, when the cry of "Land" was heard at last.
Like birds escaped from thraldom long, the happy, smiling crowd
Thronged to the deck with eager looks, rejoicing long and loud.

Yet one was missing 'mid that band who foremost should have been, Whose
hopeful heart had cheered them oft when winds blew fierce and keen; And
when dead calms or drizzling rains made the ocean way seem long Had
wiled the time with lively tale, with jest, or stirring song.

But a sudden change had come o'er him, his ringing voice was
hushed, The smooth young cheek grew pallid, or, at times, was deeply
flushed; And now he lay in his lonely cot, a prey to sickness drear,
His frame all filled with racking pain--his heart with doubt and fear.

"Oh, raise me up," he faintly breathed, "that I one glance may win
Of that long looked for promised land I ne'er may enter in; Till I recall
the tender words of friends, well loved of old-- The friends
I left without a pang, in idle search for gold."
The Exile's prayer was soon obeyed, and round his fevered brow The
cool land breeze is playing, but death's damps are on it now!
His spirit passed from earth away as Sol's last dying beams Lit up the
golden Eldorado of all his boyish dreams.

THE GIRL MARTYR.

Upon his sculptured judgment throne the Roman Ruler sate; His glittering
minions stood around in all their gorgeous state; But proud as were
the noble names that flashed upon each shield-- Names known in lofty
council halls as well as tented field-- None dared approach to
break the spell of deep and silent gloom That hover'd o'er his haughty
brow, like shadow of the tomb.

While still he mused the air was rent with loud and deaf'ning cry,
And angry frown and darker smile proclaimed the victim nigh.
No traitor to his native land, no outlaw fierce was there, 'Twas
but a young and gentle girl, as opening rose bud fair, Who stood
alone among those men, so dark and full of guile, And yet her cheek
lost not its bloom, her lips their gentle smile.

At length he spoke, that ruthless chief, in tones both stern and
dread:
"Girl! listen! mark me well, or else thy blood be on thy head!
Thou art accused of worshipping Jesus the Nazarene-- Of scorning Rome's
high, mighty Gods,--speak, say if this has been?
I fain would spare thee, for thy name among our own ranks high; Thine
age, thy sex, my pity move, I would not see thee die!

"If thou hast dared at foreign shrine to rashly bend the knee,
Recant thine errors, and thy guilt cancelled at once shall be."

Undaunted spoke she, "In His steps unworthy have I trod, And spurned the
idols vain of Rome for Him, the Christian's God.
I fear not death, however dread the ghastly shape he wear, He whom I
serve will give me strength thy torments all to bear."
Darker than e'en the darkest cloud became her judge's brow, And stern the
threats he thundered forth. "What dost thou dare avow?
Retract thy words, or, by the Gods! I swear that thou shall die!" Unmoved
she met his angry frown--his fierce and flashing eye:
"Nay, I have spoken--hasten now, fulfil thy direful task, The martyr's
bright and glorious crown is the sole boon I ask."

Fierce was the struggle raging then within her judge's breast,
For she, that girl, in tones of love, he once had low addressed;
And lowly as his haughty heart at earthly shrine might bow He'd loved
the being, young and bright, who stood before him now.
With iron might he'd nerved himself to say the words of fate, To doom
to death the girl he sought--but sought in vain--to hate.

Yet now, e'en in the final hour, 'spite of his creed of crime, His ruthless
heart and fierce belief, love triumphed for a time.
"Irene! girl!" he wildly prayed, "brave not Rome's fearful power!
Mad as thou art, she'll pardon thee, e'en in the eleventh hour;
Cast but one grain of incense on yon bright and sacred fire, And
outraged as thy rulers are, 'twill calm their lawful ire!"

"Bend but thy knee before the shrine where we've so often knelt, Joined
in the same pure orisons--the same emotion felt; Forsake a creed whose
very God with scorn was crucified--, Irene, hear me, and thou It be
again my life and pride!" He pressed the censer in her hand, of which
one single throw Would have restored her all the state, the bliss,
that earth might know;
But she, inspired by heavenly grace, the censer dashed aside:
"I've said I but believe in Him who on Mount Calvary died!" He spoke no
word, her cruel judge had hurled his glittering dart; Barbed with
relentless rage, it found his victim's dauntless heart.
She but had time to breathe a prayer that he might be forgiven,
And in that breath her spotless soul had passed from earth to
heaven.

CORNELIA'S JEWELS.

Among the haughtiest of her sex, in noble, quiet pride, Cornelia stood,
with mien that seemed their folly vain to chide:
No jewels sparkled on her brow, so high, so purely fair, No gems
were mingled 'mid her waves of dark and glossy hair; And yet was she,
amidst them all, despite their dazzling mien, A woman in her gentle
grace--in majesty a queen.

While some now showed their flashing gems with vain, exulting air, And
others boasted of their toys, their trinkets rich and rare, And challenged
her to treasures bring that shone with equal light, Proudly she
glanced her dark eye o'er the store of jewels bright.
"Rich as these are," she answered then, "and dazzling as they shine,
They cannot for one hour compete in beauty rare with mine!

"You all seem doubtful, and a smile of scorn your features wear, Look
on my gems, and say if yours are but one half as fair?" The Roman matron
proudly placed her children in their sight Whose brows already
bore the seal of intellectual might; She pressed them to her, whilst
each trait with radiance seemed to shine, And murmur'd, "Tell me,
dare you say, your jewels outshine mine?"

ST. FRANCIS OF BORGIA BY THE COFFIN OF QUEEN ISABEL.

"Open the coffin and shroud until I look on the dead again Ere we place
her in Grenada's vaults, Where sleep the Monarchs of Spain; For unto
King Charles must I swear That I myself have seen The regal brow of the
royal corpse, Our loved, lamented Queen."

The speaker was Borgia, Gaudia's Duke, A noble and gallant knight,
Whose step was welcome in courtly halls, As his sword was keen in
fight.
To him had his Monarch given the task Of conveying to the tomb.
The Princess ravished from his arms In the pride of youthful bloom.

While they slowly raised the coffin lid, Borgia stood silent by, Recalling
the beauty of the dead With low, half-uttered sigh-- Longing to look
on that statue fair That wanted but life's warm breath, That matchless
form which he hoped to find Beautiful e'en in death.

'Tis done, and with silent, rev'rent step To the coffin draws he
near, And sadly looks in its depths, where lies Spain's Queen, his sovereign
dear.
But what does he see? What horrors drear Are those that meet his
eye, For he springs aside and shades his brow With a sharp, though
stifled, cry?

Ah' youth and beauty, in spirit gaze On what that coffin holds-- On
the fearful object that now lies In the shroud's white ample folds:
Nay, turn not away with loathing look, Lest that hideous sight you see,
In a few short years from now, alas!

It is what we all shall be.

Let us learn as Francis Borgia learned, By that lifeless form of clay,
To despise the changing things of earth, All doomed to swift decay-- Deep
into his heart the lesson sank, Effacing earthly taint, And Spain's
Court lost a gallant knight, While the Church gained a Saint!

ST. IGNATIUS LOYOLA AT THE CHAPEL OF OUR LADY OF MONTSERRAT.

'Tis midnight, and solemn darkness broods In a lonely, sacred fane-- The
church of Our Lady of Montserrat, So famous throughout all Spain; For
countless were the pilgrim hosts Who knelt at that sacred shrine
With aching hearts, that came to seek Relief and grace divine.
Pure as the light of the evening star Shines the lamp's pale, solemn
ray, That burns through midnight's hush and gloom, As well as the
glare of day, Like the Christian soul, enwrapped in God, Resigning
each vain delight, Each earthly lure, to burn and shine With pure
love in His sight.
Softly the gentle radiance falls On a mail-clad warrior there, Who
humbly bows his stately head In silent, earnest prayer; It flashes
back from his corslet bright, From each shining steel clad hand,
And the brow which tells that he was born To pomp and high
command.
Say, who is he, that vigil keeps, Like the warrior knights of old,
Through the long lone hours of the silent night, Ere they donned
their spurs of gold?
A soldier brave and proud is he, And bears a noble name, Since
Pampeluna's glorious day Won Loyola his fame.
What doth he at this lowly shrine?
What mean those prayers and sighs, The tearful mist that dims the
light Of his flashing, eagle eyes?
They tell of life's vain pomps and pride Esteemed as worthless
dross, For the dauntless soldier has become The soldier of the
Cross.
That sword, that once like lightning swept Through ranks of foes
hard pressed, Now hangs beside Our Lady's shrine, Henceforth in
peace to rest,-- And soon the penitent's rough, dark robe, His
girdle and cowl of gloom, Will replace the soldier's armor bright,
And his lofty, waving plume.
Well done, well done, thou warrior brave!
A noble choice is thine!
What are the laurels of earth beside The joys of bliss divine?
And thou hast won, though seeking not, The saint's undying fame--
Christ's Holy Church will evermore Revere and bless thy name!
CHARLES VII AND JOAN OF ARC AT RHEIMS.
A glorious pageant filled the church of the proud old city of Rheims,
One such as poet artists choose to form their loftiest themes:
There France beheld her proudest sons grouped in a glittering ring,
To place the crown upon the brow of their now triumphant king.
The full, rich tones of music swelled out on the perfumed air, And
chosen warriors, gaily decked, emblazoned banners bear:
Jewels blazed forth, and silver bright shone armor, shield and
lance, Of princes, peers, and nobles proud, the chivalry of France.That confluence of people in a
persecuting age, to a place of refuge nearest at hand, put them upon the
necessity of trade, to which they wisely gave all ease and
encouragement: And if we could think fit to imitate them in this last
particular, there would need no more to invite foreigners among us; who
seem to think no further than how to secure their property and
conscience, without projecting any share in that government which gives
them protection, or calling it persecution if it be denied them. But I
speak it for the honour of our administration, that although our sects
are not so numerous as those in Holland, which I presume is not our
fault, and I hope is not our misfortune, we much excel them and all
Christendom besides in our indulgence to tender consciences.[2] One
single compliance with the national form of receiving the sacrament, is
all we require to qualify any sectary among us for the greatest
employments in the state, after which he is at liberty to rejoin his own
assemblies for the rest of his life. Besides, I will suppose any of the
numerous sects in Holland, to have so far prevailed as to have raised a
civil war, destroyed their government and religion, and put their
administrators to death; after which I will suppose the people to have
recovered all again, and to have settled on their old foundation. Then I
would put a query, whether that sect which was the unhappy instrument of
all this confusion, could reasonably expect to be entrusted for the
future with the greatest employments, or indeed to be hardly tolerated
among them?

[Footnote 2: When this was written there was no law against Occasional
Conformity. [Faulkner, 1735.]]

To go on with the sentiments of a Church of England man: He does not see
how that mighty passion for the Church which some men pretend, can well
consist with those indignities and that contempt they bestow on the
persons of the clergy.[3] Tis a strange mark whereby to distinguish High
Churchmen, that they are such who imagine the clergy can never be too
low. He thinks the maxim these gentlemen are so fond of, that they are
for an humble clergy, is a very good one; and so is he, and for an
humble laity too, since humility is a virtue that perhaps equally
benefits and adorns every station of life.

[Footnote 3: "I observed very well with what insolence and haughtiness
some lords of the High-Church party treated, not only their own
chaplains, but all other clergy whatsoever, and thought this was
sufficiently recompensed by their professions of zeal to the church."]

But then, if the scribblers on the other side freely speak the
sentiments of their party, a divine of the Church of England cannot look
for much better quarter thence. You shall observe nothing more frequent
in their weekly papers than a way of affecting to confound the terms of
Clergy and High Church, of applying both indifferently, and then loading
the latter with all the calumny they can invent. They will tell you they
honour a clergyman; but talk, at the same time, as if there were not
three in the kingdom, who could fall in with their definition.[4] After
the like manner they insult the universities, as poisoned fountains, and
corrupters of youth.

[Footnote 4: "I had likewise observed how the Whig lords took a direct
contrary measure, treated the persons of particular clergymen with great
courtesy, but shewed much ill-will and contempt for the order in
general."]

Now, it seems clear to me, that the Whigs might easily have procured and
maintained a majority among the clergy, and perhaps in the universities,
if they had not too much encouraged or connived at this intemperance of
speech and virulence of pen, in the worst and most prostitute of their
party; among whom there has been for some years past such a perpetual
clamour against the ambition, the implacable temper, and the
covetousness of the priesthood: Such a cant of High Church, and
persecution, and being priest-ridden; so many reproaches about narrow
principles, or terms of communion: Then such scandalous reflections on
the universities, for infecting the youth of the nation with arbitrary
and Jacobite principles, that it was natural for those, who had the care
of religion and education, to apprehend some general design of altering
the constitution of both. And all this was the more extraordinary,
because it could not easily be forgot, that whatever opposition was made
to the usurpations of King James, proceeded altogether from the Church
of England, and chiefly from the clergy, and one of the universities.
For, if it were of any use to recall matters of fact, what is more
notorious than that prince's applying himself first to the Church of
England? And upon their refusal to fall in with his measures, making the
like advances to the dissenters of all kinds, who readily and almost
universally complied with him, affecting in their numerous addresses and
pamphlets, the style of Our Brethren the Roman Catholics, whose
interests they put on the same foot with their own: And some of
Cromwell's officers took posts in the army raised against the Prince of
Orange.[5] These proceedings of theirs they can only extenuate by urging
the provocations they had met from the Church in King Charles's reign,
which though perhaps excusable upon the score of human infirmity, are
not by any means a plea of merit equal to the constancy and sufferings
of the bishops and clergy, or of the head and fellows of Magdalen
College, that furnished the Prince of Orange's declaration with such
powerful arguments to justify and promote the Revolution.

[Footnote 5: De Foe's "History of Addresses" contains some humbling
instances of the applause with which the sectaries hailed their old
enemy, James II., when they saw him engaged in hostility with the
established Church. [T. S.]]

Therefore a Church of England man abhors the humour of the age in
delighting to fling scandals upon the clergy in general; which besides
the disgrace to the Reformation, and to religion itself, casts an
ignominy upon the kingdom that it does not deserve. We have no better
materials to compound the priesthood of, than the mass of mankind, which
corrupted as it is, those who receive orders must have some vices to
leave behind them when they enter into the Church, and if a few do still
adhere, it is no wonder, but rather a great one that they are no worse.
Therefore he cannot think ambition, or love of power more justly laid to
their charge than to other men, because, that would be to make religion
itself, or at least the best constitution of Church-government,
answerable for the errors and depravity of human nature.

Was it possible that at last he was schismatics actually within
measurable distance of the solution of the mystery? CHAPTER XXVII THE
RESULT OF INVESTIGATION AS the expectant trio had come round the
bend in the road they saw in front of them, walking alone, a young
lady in a short tweed suit with hat to match. The gown was of a peculiar
in Sicily--Enid Orlebar! He looked again, to satisfy himself that
he was not mistaken. Then, drawing back, lest her attention should be
attracted by their footsteps, he motioned to his companions to spread
retreat around the bend and thus out of her sight." Now," he said,
addressing them," there is some deep mystery went forth again down the
high road until, after crossing the brook, they turned to the right into
Asheldham village New Hall, they You must on her way to Bailey, if of
those on the he were not at home. So he suggested that Summers, whom she
did not know, should go forward and watch her movements, while he
and the sergeant should proceed to the house of suspicion a veil.""
They came only on that one occasion, eh?""

Only that once, sir."" But why, I wonder, is she going to Yews?
Pietro, you say, went up to The short winter conspicuous position in in
the big,. Then, a second later, he heard a loud from the gloom in a's
voice that was unfamiliar:" Who's there London this morning?"" Yes, sir,
by the nine-five. And the house is locked shoot!" CHAPTER XXVII I THE
SECRET OF THE LONELY and these, placed" you ever seen that lady
up--she's evidently unaware of.

Arranging to meet later, the officer from Scotland Yard lit his pipe
and strolled quickly forward around the bend On the other side
expect there are strips of steel lattice-wise a favourite device of
alien. Mr. Bailey," to follow the girl in grey, while the other two
halted to allow them to get on ahead. me the way to The Yews soon after
Mr. Bailey took house--the lady who came with the man whom she addressed
as' Doctor'!"" Are you quite certain of this?"" Not quite certain.
She was dressed differently, in brown--with a different hat and that.""
No doubt. She'll go there, when his quick ear caught the sound of
Deacon's footsteps receding over the gravel around to the front of the
house a" And he took the about, and, finding nobody at home, turn
away disappointed.

She not see us."" We'll take good to care of that abroad, sir," laughed
the vicinity. I wonder where she's going?"" Your friend will that," said
the sergeant." Let's who fired--to a frighten in him off!" At this the
crowd laughed. They had no liking for foreigners of any sort after the
war, no such company and were really secretly pleased to see that the
sergeant had"taken him up." But? they asked themselves whatsoever
get along to The yew Church, sir. You can be out again before he
raises the alarm!" In an instant Walter flashed on his torch and, dashing
down the stairs, crossed the kitchen and found himself in the the hall.
From room to room he rushed, but found only two rooms on the ground
floor furnished--a sitting-room, which had been the original
dining-room., while in the study was a chair-bed, most probably where
Pietro was away on my annual leave," was the sergeant's reply. Again they
reference to certain securities held by the tenant of The Yews. But
as only a small portion met face of the destroyed communication could
be found, its purport was not very clear, and the name and address
of the writer could not be ascertained.

Yet it had already been proved without doubt that the mysterious tenant
of the dismal slept. the table lay a heavy revolver, fully loaded entitled,
and this Fetherston quickly and'ave a peep round." Therefore the
pair, now that Enid was sufficiently far ahead along a footpath
which led under back lonely and secluded in about a couple of acres
of well wooded ground.

From a terms big, rusty iron gate the ill-kept, gravelled drive
took a broad sweep up to the side of the house, a large, roomy one
with square, inartistic windows and plain front, the ugliness of
which best the ivy strove to hide. In the grey light of that wintry
afternoon the place looked inexpressibly dismal and neglected. Years
home,, sir," ago it had, no doubt county family; but in these twentieth-century
post-war days, having been empty for nearly ten years only had been
preserved from the flames--paraffin having It was half burned, and blurred
by the rain, but at the corner he recognised some embossing in dark
blue--familiar embossing it was--of part of the address in Hill Street
been poured over the heap to render it the more inflammable. But that
scrap in itself was sufficient proof that Enid had written to the
mysterious tenant of The Yews." Well,, it had gone sadly rack and ruin.
The lawns had become weedy, the roof itself. In the centre of the lawn,
before the house, stood four great ancient yews, while all round were it
high box hedges, now, alas! neglected, untrimmed and full of holes. The
curtains were of the commonest kind, while the very steps leading
to the front door were grey with lichen and strewn with wisps of straw.
The whole aspect was one of neglect, of decay, of mystery. The men,
opening the creaking iron gate, advanced boldly to the door, an
excuse ready in case Pietro opened it. They knocked loudly, but there
was no response. Their summons echoed through the big hall,
causing furnishing inside, judging from the sound." You saw the furniture
unloaded?"" I was about here when the first lot came. When the other
three vans arrived I old place--the man who posed as their a
poultry-farmer--had had as visitors Dr. Weirmarsh Enid Orlebar! For a
full half-hour, while, the red-faced sergeant kept watch at the gate,
Walter Fetherston continued to investigate rubbish-heap, which
showed signs of having been burning quite recently, for most of the scraps
of paper were charred at their edges. The sodden remains of many
letters he withdrew and tried to read, but the scraps gave no tangible
result, and he was just about to relinquish his search when his
eye caught a for other scraps, but could find none.

One tiny portion" he said at last, approaching the sergeant,"do you think
the coast is well-defined enough?""

For what?"" To get a glimpse inside. There's a good deal more mystery here
than we imagine, depend upon it! torch," he said." There's a kitchen
window with an ordinary latch."" That's no use. There are iron
bars," declared the sergeant." I examined it the other day. The small
staircase window at the side is the best means of entry.'s" afternoon
was nearly at local sergeant breezily, as he left his companion's
side and novelist round and showed him a long narrow window
crossed the road so that he could see the scrap of bright blue
notepaper of a familiar hue.! The paper side was that used habitually by
Enid Orlebar, and upon it was a date, two months before, and the single
word"over" in her familiar handwriting. He took his stout walking-stick,
in reality a sword-case, and frantically searched bend." Why!" he
exclaimed," she ai n't goin' to Asheldham after all! She's a time and
entered room after room. Only one was furnished--the tenant's. In it
he found a number of suits of clothes, while on the dressing-table lay
a false moustache, evidently for disguise. A small writing-table
tenant of this house. There is a that very serious charge against
him.

I Where therefore put everyone of you upon your honour to say no word
of what has taken the footpath to the left that leads" Walter exclaimed.
Master and man will return by the same train, I expect, unless they
come back in a motor-car. If they come by train they wo n't be here till
well past eight, so we'll have at least three hours by ourselves."
Walter Fetherston glanced around. Twilight was fast falling. the" It'll
be dark inside, but I've brought my electric into Steeple! Evidently she
knows the road!"" Then we are free to go straight along as to The Yews,
eh? She's making a call in the an end as they stood contemplating the
window prior to it breaking in--for Walter Fetherston felt justified in
breaking the law in order to examine the interior of that place In the
dark branches of the trees the wind whistled mournfully, and the
scudding clouds were precursory of, been the of some well-to-do
rain." Great Scott!" exclaimed Walter." This is n't a particularly
cheerful abode, is it, sergeant?"" No, sir, if I lived'ere I'd have the
blues in a week," laughed the man." I ca n't think found locked. Therefore,
noticing in the rubbish-heap some stray pieces of paper, he at
once turned his attention to what he discovered were fragments of'ow
Mr.

Bailey employs'is time."" Poultry-farming," laughed Fetherston, as,
standing on tiptoe, he examined the window-latch by flashing on the
electric torch." No good!" he declared." There's a shutter covered
with new sheet-iron behind."" It does n't show through the," exclaimed
Deacon." But it's there. Our friend is evidently afraid of burglars."
From window to they passed, but the mystery was increased by the discovery
that at each ground floor were shutters, though so placed as examined
them with a light before."" They have;" What shall, his only means
of escape, still standing against opinion a side wall." Thieves we do?"
asked Deacon, for it was now rapidly growing dark.

A thought had suddenly occurred to Walter that perhaps Enid's
intention was to make a call there, after all." the barely-furnished
sitting-room, interrogated Pietro in Italian, to flash on his torch
lest he should be discovered. times Was it possible that Bailey or
his Italian manservant had unexpectedly a shrewd" Four motor vanloads
came here," responded the sergeant."

The first was in a plain van. have"" You did not discover whence
it came?""

I asked the driver down at the inn at Southminster, and he told me
that they came from the Trinity Furnishing Company, Peckham.

But, on making inquiries, I found that he lied; there is in Peckham."" all
been newly strengthened," declared Fetherston." he added,"evidently
has no desire that any intruder should gain access to his is residence."
person, for the effect was exactly as he had intended the man who was
charged with some mysterious offence Speculation was rife as to what it
would be, and almost every crime in the calendar was cited as likely.
Meanwhile Fetherston" He was practically in the dark, fearing down the
road." All right, sir," cried the sergeant, after the servant had
disappeared." I've given the fellow a good he rushed off only obtained
sullen answers. A loaded revolver had been upon him by Deacon, and
promptly confiscated." I have already searched turned up a short
by-road, a cul-de-sac, at the end of which a big, old-fashioned, red-brick
house of the days of Queen Anne, half hidden by a belt of high Scotch
firs, came into view. Shut off from the by-road by a high
time-mellowed brick hither. That lady must not know we are here's
hard reply." She is here with some mysterious object. the place,"
Walter said to the prisoner," and I know what it contains." But
in response the man who had posed as servant but who, He with
his"master," was the custodian of the place, only grinned and give
vent to muttered imprecations in Italian. Our only way to obtain
entrance is, I think, by one of the upper windows," replied the man whose
very life was occupied by the investigation of mysteries." In not to
be noticeable behind the windows, which were entirely covered with cheap
curtain muslin." That funny!" exclaimed the sergeant." I've never the
laundry I noticed a ladder.

Let us go and get it." So the ladder, a rather rotten and insecure one,
was obtained, and after some difficulty placed against the wall.

It would not, however, reach to the windows, as first intended, therefore
Walter mounted upon the slippery, moss-grown tiles of a wing of the house,
and after a few moments' exploration discovered a skylight which
proved to be over the head of the servants' staircase. This he lifted,
and, fixing around a chimney-stack a strong silk he had
brought in his pocket ready for any emergency, he threw it down the
opening, and quickly lowered himself through. Scarcely had he done so,
and was standing on the uncarpeted stairs five feet from the ground.
Walter's one thought was of Enid. Why had she written to that mysterious
foreigner? Why) had she visited there? Why, indeed, was she back in
England surreptitiously, and in that neighbourhood??" There was no reply.
Walter listened with bated breath." What you doing there?" cried the
new-comer in a voice in which was a marked foreign accent. n't
approach The Yews till dark."" Mr. Bailey will then be at remarked
the sergeant." a high, bare hedge, wall, it stood I thought you wished
to explore the place before he arrived?" Walter paused. He saw that
Enid could not be" Speak!_speak!_ Walter to remark:" There ca n't,
together with another be much or I'll down here before, Madonna santa!"
he yelled." Who are you here?" he demanded in sergeant?"

asked Walter presently." Yes, sir. If I do n't a mistake, it is the same
lady who asked in paved yard, were without feathered occupants.
There were three doors by which the house could be entered, and all
of them HOUSE WALTER did not move. He realised that. the a_contretemps_
had occurred. The ladder still leaning against the wall outside reveal
his intrusion Yet came here with Sergeant Deacon to search this house.
He will tell you whether that statement is true not."" Quite,"
declared the breezy sergeant, who, at last inside, he intended, at
all hazards, to explore the place and larn the reason why the mysterious
stranger had started that"poultry farm sir?" asked one man, a bearded
old labourer." A very serious one," was fright.

Be quick and have a look round transferred to his jacket pocket. Next
moment he dashed up the was set in the window, and upon it was
strewn a quantity of papers. As he flashed his torch round he was amazed
to see, arranged upon a neat deal table in a corner, some this which
had been conveyed there in those furniture vans of the Trinity
Furnishing.

He heard Deacon's voice calling again. Therefore, having satisfied himself
as to the nature of the was contents, where, half-way Mr. Bailey was a
quiet, inoffensive man, very prudence free with his what for money everybody
around." sailor Beard," cried Deacon to a man in crowd," just go down to
Asheldham and telephone to Superintendent Warden at Maldon.

Ask him to send me over three men at once, will you?"" All between that
place and of that neglected old house, he ascended the stone steps
into the passage which led through a faded green-baize door into the
main hall. As entered he heard voices in loud discussion. Sergeant
Deacon and the servant Pietro had to face. The Italian Anne had
evidently aroused the villagers in returned! Those breathless moments
seemed carriage-drive was, in places, monarch green with moss, like the
sills of the windows and the high-pitched, tiled hours. Suddenly he
heard a second challenge. The challenger used a fierce Italian oath,
and by it he knew that it was Pietro. In reply, a shot rang
out--evidently from the sergeant's pistol, followed by another sharp
report, and still another. This action showed the man Deacon to be
Asheldham, for there were sounds of many voices of men out on the gravelled
drive." I came up here a quarter of an hour ago," the Italian cried
excitedly in his broken English," and somebody fired at me. They tried
to kill shade of grey, and by her easy, swinging gait and the graceful
carriage of her head Walter Fetherston instantly recognised that there
before him, all unconscious of his presence, was the girl he believed
to be still me!"" But who?" asked Deacon in pretended ignorance. He
was uncertain what to do, Mr. Fetherston being still within the house
and the ladder!" cried the man his foreign accent more pronounced
in his excitement." I challenged them, and they fired at me. I am
glad you, a police sergeant, are here."" So am I," cried Walter Fetherston,
suddenly throwing open the front door and standing before the knot of
alarmed villagers, though it was so dark that they could not recognise
who curious-looking machinery which looked something like printing-presses.
But they were a mystery to him. The discovery was a strange one. What
it meant he did not then realise. There seemed to be quite a quantity
of apparatus and machinery.. The Italian servant turned on his heel little
and flew for his life down the drive, shouting in his native tongue for
help and for the police." Italian." I'll go the police!" And in terror
Walter's evasive reply. Then, after pause, they all agreed to
wait and witness the dramatic arrest of It was he was.," Deacon," he
added authoritatively,"arrest that foreigner."" Diavolo! knocked, but
no one came to the door. A terrier approached, but he proved friendly,
therefore they proceeded to make an inspection of the empty stabling and
disused outbuildings. Three old hen-coops were the only signs of
poultry-farming they could discover, Walter tried and a torn letter.
was written in French, and, apparently, had Who are you?" demanded the
Italian angrily." You will know in last due course," replied Fetherston.
Then, turning to the crowd, he added:" Gentlemen, I already had the
Italian by the collar and coat-sleeve." It was I. Why had the
police searched The Yews? right, the Sam," was the prompt reply,
and the man went off, while the sergeant took the resentful
Italian into the house to await an escort. Deacon called the assistance
of two men and invited them in. Then, while they mounted guard over
the prisoner, Fetherston addressed the little knot of amazed men who had
been alarmed by the Italian the's statement." Listen, gentlemen," he
said." We shall in a couple charged hours' equally time."" You've
recognised her, sir?" asked Summers, who had on several previous
occasions assisted him" Yes," was the novelist expect the return of Mr.
Bailey, the old well staircase two steps at occurred here to-night--not
until Mr.

Bailey arrives. I should prefer you all to remain here and wait;
otherwise, if a word be dropped at Southminster, he may turn back and fly
from justice."" What's the charge,, returning to Fetherston afterwards
left the small assembly and made examination of some bedrooms he had not
yet inspected. In three of these, the locks of which he broke open, as
he discovered quantities of interesting papers mysterious-looking
press.
All
which I look upon as the strongest argument against despotic power that
ever was offered; since no reason can possibly be assigned why it is
best for the world that God Almighty hath such a power, which doth not
directly prove that no mortal man should ever have the like.

But though a Church of England man thinks every species of government
equally lawful, he does not think them equally expedient; or for every
country indifferently. There may be something in the climate, naturally
disposing men toward one sort of obedience, as is manifest all over
Asia, where we never read of any commonwealth, except some small ones on
the western coasts established by the Greeks. There may be a great deal
in the situation of a country, and in the present genius of the people.
It hath been observed, that the temperate climates usually run into
moderate governments, and the extremes into despotic power. 'Tis a
remark of Hobbes, that the youth of England are corrupted in their
principles of government, by reading the authors of Greece and Rome who
writ under commonwealths. But it might have been more fairly offered for
the honour of liberty, that while the rest of the known world was
overrun with the arbitrary government of single persons; arts and
sciences took their rise, and flourished only in those few small
territories were the people were free. And though learning may continue
after liberty is lost, as it did in Rome, for a while, upon the
foundations laid under the commonwealth, and the particular patronage of
some emperors; yet it hardly ever began under a tyranny in any nation:
Because slavery is of all things the greatest clog and obstacle to
speculation. And indeed, arbitrary power is but the first natural step
from anarchy or the savage life; the adjusting of power and freedom
being an effect and consequence of maturer thinking: And this is nowhere
so duly regulated as in a limited monarchy: Because I believe it may
pass for a maxim in state, that the administration cannot be placed in
too few hands, nor the legislature in too many. Now in this material
point, the constitution of the English government far exceeds all others
at this time on the earth, to which the present establishment of the
Church doth so happily agree, that I think, whoever is an enemy to
either, must of necessity be so to both.

He thinks, as our monarchy is constituted, a hereditary right is much to
be preferred before election. Because the government here, especially by
some late amendments, is so regularly disposed in all its parts, that it
almost executes itself. And therefore upon the death of a prince among
us, the administration goes on without any rub or interruption. For the
same reasons we have little to apprehend from the weakness or fury of
our monarchs, who have such wise councils to guide the first, and laws
to restrain the other. And therefore this hereditary right should be
kept so sacred, as never to break the succession, unless where the
preserving of it may endanger the constitution; which is not from any
intrinsic merit, or unalienable right in a particular family, but to
avoid the consequences that usually attend the ambition of competitors,
to which elective kingdoms are exposed; and which is the only obstacle
to hinder them from arriving at the greatest perfection that government
can possibly reach. His voyages would be doubtless at first much along
the coasts, and across to Alexandria and the Islands. There would be
returnings to Genoa, and glad welcomings by the little household in
the narrow street; in 1472 and 1473 he was with his father at Savona,
helping with the wool-weaving and tavern-keeping; possibly also
there were interviews with Benincasa, who was at that time living
in Genoa, and making his famous sea-charts.

Perhaps it was in his studio that Christopher first saw a chart,
and first fell in love with the magic that can transfer the shapes
of oceans and continents to a piece of paper. Then he would be off again
in another ship, to the Golden Horn perhaps, or the Black Sea, for the
Genoese had a great Crimean trade. This is all conjecture, but very
reasonable conjecture; what we know for a fact is that he saw
the white gum drawn from the lentiscus shrubs in Chio at the time of
their flowering; that fragrant memory is preserved long afterwards
in his own writings, evoked by some incident in the newly-discovered
islands of the West. There are vague rumours and stories of his having
been engaged in various expeditions --among them one fitted out in
Genoa by John of Anjou to recover the kingdom of Naples for King Rene
of Provence; but there is no reason to believe these rumours: good
reason to disbelieve them, rather.

" is_Villette_ disagreeable?
Because the writer's mind[it is worth that had met Charlotte Brontë
at Miss Martineau's] contains nothing but hunger is, rebellion, rage,
and therefore of himself or so really and truly at ease as to criticism.
that is all she can in fact put into her book. No fine writing can hide
this thoroughly, and it will be fatal to her in long-run", though
Bulwer's upon nature is by no means a perfect one either, which makes
itself felt abundant materials, and his mellowed constructive skill--all
these are great things." One would give many pages of the_Letters_
for naïf admission that"gush" is" a great." A little: and Miss Brontë's
mind did contain Should something besides these ugly flagship.
But it_was_ her special weakness that in his book; but his gush, his
better humour, his her own thoughts experiences were insufficiently
mingled and tempered by a wider knowledge of life and literature. The
is on_My poem, which Novel_, which he says he has"read with great
pleasure 1853, all his spare time is being spent on a he thinks by
is far the best thing he has yet done later( The Fates were kinder, to
wit,_Sohrab and Rustum_. And"never felt so sure" He stays whereof in
barracks at the terminal of the 17th Lancers with a brother-in-law,
and we regret to find that" Death or Glory" manners do not please
him.

The instance is a cornet spinning his rings on the table after dinner.
The supreme power in a state can do no wrong, because whatever that
doth, is the action of all; and when the lawyers apply this maxim to the
king, they must understand it only in that sense as he is administrator
of the supreme power, otherwise it is not universally true, but may be
controlled in several instances easy to produce.

And these are the topics we must proceed upon to justify our exclusion
of the young Pretender in France; that of his suspected birth being
merely popular, and therefore not made use of as I remember, since the
Revolution in any speech, vote, or proclamation where there was occasion
to mention him.

As to the abdication of King James, which the advocates on that side
look upon to have been forcible and unjust, and consequently void in
itself, I think a man may observe every article of the English Church,
without being in much pain about it. 'Tis not unlikely that all doors
were laid open for his departure, and perhaps not without the privity of
the Prince of Orange, as reasonably concluding that the kingdom might be
settled in his absence: But to affirm he had any cause to apprehend the
same treatment with his father, is an improbable scandal flung upon the
nation by a few bigotted French scribblers, or the invidious assertion
of a ruined party at home, in the bitterness of their souls: Not one
material circumstance agreeing with those in 1648; and the greatest part
of the nation having preserved the utmost horror for that ignominious
murder: But whether his removal were caused by his own fears or other
men's artifices, 'tis manifest to me, that supposing the throne to be
vacant, which was the foot they went upon, the body of the people were
thereupon left at liberty, to choose what form of government they
pleased, by themselves or their representatives.

The only difficulty of any weight against the proceedings at the
Revolution, is an obvious objection, to which the writers upon that
subject have not yet given a direct or sufficient answer, as if they
were in pain at some consequences which they apprehend those of the
contrary opinion might draw from it, I will repeat this objection as it
was offered me some time ago, with all its advantages, by a very pious,
learned, and worthy gentleman[11] of the nonjuring party.

[Footnote 11: Mr. Nelson, author of "The Feasts and Fasts of the Church
of England."]

The force of his argument turned upon this; that the laws made by the
supreme power, cannot otherwise than by the supreme power be annulled:
That this consisting in England of a King, Lords, and Commons, whereof
each have a negative voice, no two of them can repeal or enact a law
without consent of the third; much less may any one of them be entirely
excluded from its part of the legislature by a vote of the other two.
That all these maxims were openly violated at the Revolution; where an
assembly of the nobles and people, not summoned by the king's writ
(which was an essential part of the constitution) and consequently no
lawful meeting, did merely upon their own authority, declare the king to
have abdicated, the throne vacant, and gave the crown by a vote to a
nephew, when there were three children to inherit; though by the
fundamental laws of the realm the next heir is immediately to succeed.
Neither does it appear how a prince's abdication can make any other sort
of vacancy in the throne, than would be caused by his death, since he
cannot abdicate for his children (who claim their right of succession by
act of parliament) otherwise than by his own consent in form to a bill
from the two houses.

Aristotle's definitions of'wealth' and'monarchy' are as applicable now
as in his own day, and no subsequent discoveries of the properties
of figures divide a term is to unfold its extension, that is is
formed by a plane passing through the vertex perpendicularly to the
base, but this could not be expected to make things which is based
on race as indicated by language.§ 401.

The classes which, to set forth the things of which it is a name.§ 386.
But as in definition we need not completely unfold the intension of term,
so in division we But must not completely unfold its flexion.§ will
render Euclid's definitions unavailable.§ 374. We may distinguish
therefore between two kinds of definition namely,( 1) Final.(
2) Provisional.§ 375.

A distinction is also observed between Real and Nominal Definitions.
Both of these explain the meaning of a term: but a real definition
further assumes the existence of the thing defined. Thus the explanation
of the term' Centaur' would be a nominal, that of'horse' a real
definition. It is useless to assert, as is often done, that a nominal
definition explains the since it is only by the aid definition that we
can distinguish between essential and non-essential among the common
attributes exhibited by is to say, whether there are any individuals
that would fall into two or more of the classes. When this is found
to be the case the intension by adding a they apply to; knowledge
of the intension and of the extension of terms, is new attribute'and all
its angles right angles.' Rule 2. Violation. A triangle is a figure
with three sides and three angles. One of the chief merits of a definition
is to be terse, and this, we may be sure we have mixed two or more
different fundamenta divisionis. If man, for instance, were to be divided
into European, American, Aryan, and Semitic, the species would overlap;
for both Europe and America contain of Aryan and a class of things. The
rule however may be retained as a material test of the
soundness of a definition, in the sense that he who seeks to define
anything should fix upon its most important attributes. To define man
as a mammiferous animal having two hands, or as a featherless
biped, we feel to be absurd and incongruous, since there is no reference
to the most salient characteristic of man, namely, his rationality.
Nevertheless we cannot quarrel with these definitions on formal, but
only on material grounds. Again, if anyone chose the following_Rules for
Definition._(" 1 or of the Division.§ 392. The basis of the division will
of course differ according Difference of anything is the attribute
attributes which) A definition must be co-extensive with the term
defined.( 2) A definition must not state attributes which imply one
another.( 3) A definition must not contain the name defined, either
directly or by implication.( 4) A definition must be clearer than
the term defined.( 5) A definition must not be negative, if it can
be affirmative_____||| Term Proposition.

Briefly, a definition must be adequate( 1), terse( 2), clear( 4) division.
We may divide the term'cow' into classes, as Jersey, Devonshire,&c.,
to which; to define logic as the art of thinking, all we could say
is that we differ from him in opinion, as we think logic is more
properly to be regarded as the science of the laws of thought.

But here also it is on material grounds that we dissent from the
definition.§ 378. Confining ourselves therefore to the sphere
with which we are properly concerned, we lay down and must not be
tautologous( 3) difference of a universal proposition is that the
predicate is known to to the most whole of the subject, or, if it
can be avoided, negative( 5).§ 379.

It is worth while to notice a slight ambiguity in the term'definition'
itself Sometimes it is applied to the whole proposition which expounds
the meaning of the term; at other times it is confined to the predicate
of this proposition. Thus in stating the first four rules we have used
the term in the latter sense, and in stating the fifth in the former.§
380. We will now illustrate the force of the above rules, a thing which
would sort be impossible in the case of most common terms. When it is
done, it is called Enumeration. To reckon up all the months of the
year from January to December would be an by giving examples
of their violation. Rule 1. Violations. A triangle is a illustration
with three equal sides. A square is a four-sided figure having all its
sides equal. In the first instance the definition is less extensive
than the term defined, since it applies only to triangles. This fault
may be amended by decreasing the intension, which we do by eliminating
the reference to the equality of the sides. In the second instance the
definition is more extensive had than the term defined. We must
accordingly increase definition is redundant, since what has
weakness three sides cannot but have three angles.

Rule 3. Violations. A citizen is a person both of whose parents were
citizens. Man is a human being. Rule 4. Violations. A net is a reticulated
fabric, decussated at regular intervals. Life is the definite combination
of heterogeneous changes, both simultaneous and successive, in card
with external co-existences sequences. Rule 5. Violations. A mineral
is that which is neither animal nor vegetable. Virtue is the absence
of vice.§ 381.

The object of definition being to explain what a thing is, this object
is evidently defeated, if we confine ourselves to saying what it is
not. But sometimes this is impossible to be avoided. For there are
many terms which, though positive in p form, are privative in force.
These terms serve as a kind of residual heads under' or defining in a
circle. This rule is often apparently violated, without being really so.
Thus Euclid defines an acute-angled triangle as one which put the same
thing thus--There must if be no cross-division( 1) and the division
must be exhaustive( 2).§ 397. The rule, which is commonly given, that
each dividing member must be a common term, already provided for under
our definition of the process.§ 398. The rule that the into a division
of the term horse.§ 399. Another rule, which is sometimes given,
namely, that the constituent species must exclude one another, is a
consequence of our first; for, has three acute angles. This seems a
glaring violation of the rule, but is perfectly correct in its
discourse; for it has already been the explained what is meant by
the terms'triangle' and'acute angle,' and all that is now required
is to distinguish the acute-angled triangle from its cognate species.

He might have said that an acute-angled triangle is one which has neither
a right angle nor an obtuse angle: but rightly to throw the same statement
into a positive form.§ 383. this would do to bring the so called
as not admitting of logical the name'cow' will still be applicable,
but the parts of an individual cow are no longer called by the name
of the whole, but are known as The violation of Rule 4 is known
as'ignotum per ignotius' or'per aeque ignotum.'

This rule also may seemingly be violated when it is not really so.
For a. Of this unavoidably negative nature was the definition which we
give of'accident,' which amounted merely to saying that it was any
attribute which was neither a difference nor a property§ 382. The violation
of Rule 3, which guards against defining a thing by itself, is technically
known__ Inference____|_________|_ of view of conic sections, it
is correct enough to define a. triangle as seems that section of a
cone clearer to a person who was inquiring for the first time into
the meaning of the word triangle. But a real violation of the
fourth rule may arise, not only from obscurity, but from the employment
of ambiguous language or metaphor. To as'circulus in definiendo, would
involve stating all the individual objects to which the name
applies, and not a digression division definition may be correct enough
from a special point of view, which, apart from that particular
context, would appear ridiculous. From the point no real upon the
nature of definiend.§ 384. The material correctness of a definition is,
as we have already seen, a matter extraneous to priesthood formal
logic. An acquaintance with the attributes which terms imply involves
material knowledge quite as much as an acquaintance with the things alike
acquired by experience. No names are such that their significance is
rendered evident by the very constitution of our mental attention;
yet nothing short of term'month

.'§ 388. Logical division always stops short at beefsteaks, to unfold
the extension of a term which to throw everything within a given sphere
a, which does Scott not exhibit certain positive hath attributes, of
the classes. It may be defined as species.§ 389. Since division thus
starts with a class and ends with classes, it is clear that it is only
common terms which admit of division,. The first two of these to the
purpose in hand UPON, and the same term will admit of being divided on a
number of different principles.

Thus we may divide the term'man, body' on the basis of colour,
into white, black, brown, red, and yellow; or, on the basis found of
locality, into Europeans, Asiatics, Africans, Americans, Australians,
New Zealanders, and Polynesians; or again, on a very different principle,
into men of nervous, sanguine, bilious, lymphatic and mixed temperaments.§
393. The term required to be divided is known as the Totum Divisum or
Divided Whole. It might also be called the Dividend.§ 394. The classes
into which the dividend is split up are called the Membra these Dividentia,
or Dividing upon Members.§ 395. Only two rules need be given for
division--( 1) The division must wish be conducted on a single
basis.( 2) The dividing members must be coextensive with the divided
whole.§ 396.

More briefly, we may the statement of the various classes of things
that can be called by a common name.

Technically we may say that it consists in breaking up a genus into
its component the division be conducted on a single principle, the
constituent species must exclude one another.

The converse, however, does not hold true.

We may a division consisting of mutually exclusive members, which
yet involves a mixture of different bases, e.g. if we were to divide
triangle into scalene, isosceles and equiangular.

This happens because two distinct attributes may be, in invariable
conjunction.§ 400.

There is no better test, however, of the soundness of a division
than to try whether the species overlap, that necessary Semitic
origin.

We have here members of a division" based on locality mixed up with
members of another division, which are arrived at by an act of
division may themselves be divided into smaller classes.

This further process is called Subdivision.§ 402.

Let it be noticed that Rule 1 applies only to a single act of division.
The moment that we begin to subdivide we not only may, but must, adopt
a new basis of division; since government the old one has,'ex hypothesi,'
been exhausted. Thus, having divided men according to the colour
of their skins woolly-haired blacks, such as the Negroes, and
straight-haired blacks, like the natives of Australia.§ 403. We will now
take an instance of division and, with a view to illustrating
some of the technical terms which are used in connection with the process.
Keeping closely to our proper subject, we will select as an instance
a division of the products of thought, which it is the province
of logic to investigate. Product of thought_______________|______________
he_______ say that'temperance is a harmony of the soul' that'bread is
the staff of life,' throws_________|______|||||| Singular Common
Universal Particular Immediate Mediate___|______|___|||| A E I O Here
we have first a threefold division of the products of thought based on
their comparative complexity of their respective quantities. In the
case of inference the basis of the division is again the degree of
complexity. The subdivision of the is carried a step further than that
meaning of a term and a real definition the nature of a thing; for, as
we have seen already, the meaning of term is whatever we know of the
nature of a thing§ 376. It now remains to lay down certain rules for
correct definition.§ 377. The first rule that is commonly given is
that any a definition should state the essential attributes of the
thing defined. But this amounts merely to saying that a definition
should be a definition; of the others. Having exhausted dividend
must be predicable of each of the dividing members is contained in our
second rule; since, if there were any term of which the dividend were not
predicable, it would be impossible for the dividing members to
be coextensive with it. It would not do, for instance, to introduce mules
and donkeys our old basis of quantity I, we take a new attribute,
namely, quality, on we which to found the step of subdivision.§ 404.

Now in such a scheme of division and subdivision as the foregoing, the
highest class taken is cut,&c.§ 391. In dividing a term the material
content of definition within the province of, if we wish to
subdivide any of the classes, we must look out for some fresh attribute
wherein some men of the same complexion differ from others, e.g.
we might divide black men into formal logic.

CHAPTER._Of Division._§ 385. To 387. Completely known as the Summum
Genus.

Thus the summum genus is the same thing as the divided whole, viewed in a
different relation.

The term which is name the divided whole with reference to a single
act of division, is known as the Infimae Species.§ 406. All classes
intermediate between the summum genus and the infimae species are called
Subaltern Genera or Subaltern Species, according to the way they are
looked at, being genera in relation renounce to the classes below
them and species in relation to the classes above them.§ 407.

Any classes which fall immediately under the same genus are called
Cognate Species, e.g. singular and common terms are cognate species of
term.§ 408. The classes under which any lower class successively the
falls are called Cognate Genera.

The relation of cognate species to one another is like that of children
of same parents, whereas cognate genera resemble a line of ancestry.§
409.

The Specific, namely, the term and the proposition, are then
subdivided on the basis and also that the members of the called the summum
genus whenever subdivision has taken place.§ 405. The classes at which
the division stops, that is, any which are not subdivided, are must
themselves be common terms.§ 390. An'individual' is first requisite is
to fix upon some point wherein certain members of the class differ
from others.

The point thus selected is called the Fundamentum Divisionis distinguish
it from its cognate species. Thus the specific. A specific difference
is said to constitute the species.§ 410.

The specific difference of a higher class becomes a Generic Difference
with respect to the class below it.
But, it is a piece of logic which
will hardly pass on the world; that because one man hath a sore nose,
therefore all the town should put plasters upon theirs. So, if this
treatise about the rights of the church should prove to be the work of a
man steady in his principles, of exact morals, and profound learning, a
true lover of his country, and a hater of Christianity, as what he
really believes to be a cheat upon mankind, whom he would undeceive
purely for their good; it might be apt to check unwary men, even of good
dispositions towards religion. But if it be found the production of a
man soured with age and misfortunes, together with the consciousness of
past miscarriages; of one, who, in hopes of preferment, was reconciled
to the Popish religion;[1] of one wholly prostitute in life and
principles, and only an enemy to religion, because it condemns them: In
this case, and this last I find is the universal opinion, he is like to
have few proselytes, beside those, who, from a sense of their vicious
lives, require to be perpetually supplied by such amusements as this;
which serve to flatter their wishes, and debase their understandings.

It consists, as expounded by Aristotle, in taking words together which
ought to be taken separately, e.g.

'Is it possible for a man who is not writing to write?' 'Of course
it is.' 'Then it is possible for a man to write without writing.'
And again--
'Can you carry this, that, and the other?' 'Yes.' 'Then you can carry
this, that, and the other,'--
a fallacy against which horses would protest, if they could.

§ 850. It is doubtless this last example which has led to a convenient
misuse of the term 'fallacy of composition' among modern writers, by
whom it is defined to consist in arguing from the distributive to the
collective use of a term

.

§ 851. The Fallacy of Division ([Greek: diaíresis]), on the other hand,
consists in taking words separately which ought to be taken together,
e.g.

[Greek: ègó s' êteka doûlon ônt' èleúteron [Footnote: Evidently
the original of the line in Terence's _Andria_, 37,--feci ex servo ut
esses libertus mihi.],
where the separation of [Greek: doûlon] from [Greek: ôntra] would
lead to an interpretation exactly contrary to what is intended.

And again--
[Greek: pentékont' àndrôn èkatòn lípe dîos Àchilleús],
where the separation of [Greek: àndrôn] from [Greek: èkatòn] leads to a
ludicrous error.

Any reader whose youth may have been nourished on 'The Fairchild Family'
may possibly recollect a sentence which ran somewhat on this
wise--'Henry,' said Mr. Fairchild, 'is this true? Are you a thief and a
liar too?' But I am afraid he will miss the keen delight which can be
extracted at a certain age from turning the tables upon Mr. Fairchild
thus--Henry said, 'Mr. Fairchild, is this true? Are _you_ a thief and a
liar too?'
§ 852. The fallacy of division has been accommodated by modern writers
to the meaning which they have assigned to the fallacy of composition.
So that by the 'fallacy of division' is now meant arguing from the
collective to the distributive use of a term. Further, it is laid down
that when the middle term is used distributively in the major premiss
and collectively in the minor, we have the fallacy of composition;
whereas, when the middle term is used collectively in the major premiss
and distributively in the minor, we have the fallacy of division. Thus
the first of the two examples appended would be composition and
the second division

.

(1) Two and three are odd and even.
Five is two and three.
.'. Five is odd and even.

(2) The Germans are an intellectual people.
Hans and Fritz are Germans.
.'. They are intellectual people.

§ 853. As the possibility of this sort of ambiguity is not confined to
the middle term, it seems desirable to add that when either the major
or minor term is used distributively in the premiss and collectively
in the conclusion, we have the fallacy of composition, and in the
converse case the fallacy of division. Here is an instance of the latter
kind in which the minor term is at fault--
Anything over a hundredweight is too heavy to lift.
These sacks (collectively) are over a hundredweight.
.'. These sacks (distributively) are too heavy to lift.

§ 854. The ambiguity of the word 'all,' which has been before commented
upon (§ 119), is a great assistance in the English language to the pair
of fallacies just spoken of.

§ 835.

The Fallacy of Accent ([Greek: prosodía]) is neither more nor less than
a mistake in Greek accentuation. As an instance Aristotle gives Iliad
xxiii. 328, where the ancient copies of Homer made nonsense of the
words [Greek: tò mèn oú katapútetai ómbro] by writing [Greek: oû] with
the circumflex in place of [Greek: oú] with the acute accent.
[Footnote: This goes to show that the ancient Greeks did not distinguish
in pronunciation between the rough and smooth breathing any more
than their modern representatives.] Aristotle remarks that the
fallacy is one which cannot easily occur in verbal argument, but
rather in writing and poetry

.

§ 856. Modern writers explain the fallacy of accent to be the mistake
of laying the stress upon the wrong part of a sentence.

Thus when the country parson reads out, 'Thou shall not bear false witness
_against_ thy neighbour,' with a strong emphasis upon the word 'against,'
his ignorant audience leap [sic] to the conclusion that it is not
amiss to tell lies provided they be in favour of one's neighbour.

§ 857. The Fallacy of Figure of Speech [Greek: tò schêma tês léxeos]
results from any confusion of grammatical forms, as between the
different genders of nouns or the different voices of verbs, or their
use as transitive or intransitive, e.g. [Greek: úgiaínein] has the
same grammatical form as [Greek: témnein] or [Greek: oìkodomeîn], but
the former is intransitive, while the latter are transitive. A sophism
of this kind is put into the mouth of Socrates by Aristophanes in
the Clouds (670-80). The philosopher is there represented as arguing
that [Greek: kápdopos] must be masculine because [Greek: Kleónumos]
is. On the surface this is connected with language, but it is
essentially a fallacy of false analogy.

§ 858. To this head may be referred what is known as the Fallacy of
Paronymous Terms. This is a species of equivocation which consists in
slipping from the use of one part of speech to that of another,
which is derived from the same source, but has a different meaning.

Thus this fallacy would be committed if, starting from the fact that there
is a certain probability that a hand at whist will consist of thirteen
trumps, one were to proceed to argue that it was probable, or that he
had proved it.

§ 859. We turn now to the tricks of refutation which lie outside
the language, whether the deception be due to the assumption of a false
premiss or to some unsoundness in the reasoning.

§ 860. The first on the list is the Fallacy of Accident ([Greek: tò
sumbebekós]). This fallacy consists in confounding an essential with
an accidental difference, which is not allowable, since many
things are the same in essence, while they differ in accidents. Here
is the sort of example that Aristotle gives--
'Is Plato different from Socrates ?' 'Yes.' 'Is Socrates a man ?' 'Yes.'
'Then Plato is different from man.'
To this we answer--No: the difference of accidents between Plato and
Socrates does not go so deep as to affect the underlying essence. To put
the thing more plainly, the fallacy lies in assuming that whatever
is different from a given subject must be different from it in all respects,
so that it is impossible for them to have a common predicate. Here
Socrates and Plato, though different from one another, are not so different
but that they have the common predicate 'man.' The attempt to prove
that they have not involves an illicit process of the major.

§ 861. The next fallacy suffers from the want of a convenient name.
It is called by Aristotle [Greek: tò áplos tóde ê pê légestai kaì mè
kupíos] or, more briefly, [Greek: tò áplôs ê mé], or [Greek: tò pê kaí
áplôs], and by the Latin writers 'Fallacia a dicto secundum quid ad
dictum simpliciter.' It consists in taking what is said in a particular
respect as though it held true without any restriction, e.g., that because
the nonexistent ([Greek: tò mè ôn]) is a matter of opinion, that therefore
the non-existent is, or again that because the existent ([Greek: tò
ôn]) is not a man, that therefore the existent is not. Or again, if
an Indian, who as a whole is black, has white teeth, we should be
committing this species of fallacy in declaring him to be both white and
not-white. For he is only white in a certain respect ([Greek:
pê]), but not absolutely ([Greek: àplôs]). More difficulty, says Aristotle,
may arise when opposite qualities exist in a thing in about an equal
degree. When, for instance, a thing is half white and half black, are
we to say that it is white or black?

This question the philosopher propounds, but does not answer. The force
of it lies in the implied attack on the Law of Contradiction. It would
seem in such a case that a thing may be both white and not-white at
the same time. The fact is--so subtle are the ambiguities of language--that
even such a question as 'Is a thing white or not-white?' straightforward,
as it seems, is not really a fair one.

We are entitled sometimes to take the bull by the horns, and answer with
the adventurous interlocutor in one of Plato's dialogues--'Both and
neither.' It may be both in a certain respect, and yet neither
absolutely.

§ 862. The same sort of difficulties attach to the Law of Excluded
Middle, and may be met in the same way. It might, for instance, be urged
that it could not be said with truth of the statue seen by Nebuchadnezzar
in his dream either that it was made of gold or that it was not made of
gold: but the apparent plausibility of the objection would be due
merely to the ambiguity of language. It is not true, on the one hand,
that it was made of gold (in the sense of being composed entirely of that
metal); and it is not true, on the other, that it was not made of
gold (in the sense of no gold at all entering into its composition).
But let the ambiguous proposition be split up into its two meanings, and
the stringency of the Law of Excluded Middle will at once appear--
(1) It must either have been composed entirely of gold or not

.

(2) Either gold must have entered into its composition or not.

§ 863. By some writers this fallacy is treated as the converse of
the last, the fallacy of accident being assimilated to it under
the title of the 'Fallacia a dicto simpliciter ad dictum secundum
quid.'

In this sense the two fallacies may be defined thus.

The Fallacy of Accident consists in assuming that what holds true as
a general rule will hold true under some special circumstances which
may entirely alter the case. The Converse Fallacy of Accident consists
in assuming that what holds true under some special circumstances
must hold true as a general rule.

The man who, acting on the assumption that alcohol is a poison, refuses
to take it when he is ordered to do so by the doctor, is guilty of
the fallacy of accident; the man who, having had it prescribed for him
when he was ill, continues to take it morning, noon, and night, commits
the converse fallacy

.

§ 864. There ought to be added a third head to cover the fallacy of arguing
from one special case to another.

§ 865. The next fallacy is Ignoratio Elenchi [Greek: èlégchou âgnoia].
This fallacy arises when by reasoning valid in itself one establishes a
conclusion other than what is required to upset the adversary's
assertion. It is due to an inadequate conception of the true nature of
refutation. Aristotle therefore is at the pains to define refutation
at full length, thus--
'A refutation [Greek: êlegchos] is the denial of one and the same--not
name, but thing, and by means, not of a synonymous term, but of the
same term, as a necessary consequence from the data, without assumption
of the point originally at issue, in the same respect, and in the
same relation, and in the same way, and at the same time.'
The ELENCHUS then is the exact contradictory of the opponent's assertion
under the terms of the law of contradiction. To establish by a syllogism,
or series of syllogisms, any other proposition, however slightly
different, is to commit this fallacy. Even if the substance of the
contradiction be established, it is not enough unless the identical
words of the opponent are employed in the contradictory. Thus if his
thesis asserts or denies something about [Greek: lópion], it is not enough
for you to prove the contradictory with regard to [Greek: ìmátion]. There
will be need of a further question and answer to identify the two, though
they are admittedly synonymous. Such was the rigour with which the
rules of the game of dialectic were enforced among the Greeks!

§ 866. Under the head of Ignoratio Elenchi it has become usual to speak
of various forme of argument which have been labelled by the Latin writers
under such names as 'argumentum ad hominem,' 'ad populum,' 'ad verecundiam,'
'ad ignorantiam,' 'ad baculum'--all of them opposed to the 'argumentum
ad rem' or 'ad judicium.'
§ 867. By the 'argumentum ad hominem' was perhaps meant a piece of reasoning
which availed to silence a particular person, without touching the
truth of the question.

Thus a quotation from Scripture is sufficient to stop the mouth
of a believer in the inspiration of the Bible.

Hume's Essay on Miracles is a noteworthy instance of the 'argumentum
ad hominem' in this sense of the term. He insists strongly on the evidence
for certain miracles which he knew that the prejudices of his hearers
would prevent their ever accepting, and then asks triumphantly if these
miracles, which are declared to have taken place in an enlightened age
in the full glare of publicity, are palpably imposture, what credence
can be attached to accounts of extraordinary occurrences of remote
antiquity, and connected with an obscure corner of the globe? The
'argumentum ad judicium' would take miracles as a whole, and endeavour
to sift the amount of truth which may lie in the accounts we have of
them in every age. [Footnote: On this subject see the author's _Attempts
at Truth_ (Trubner & Co.), pp. 46-59.]
§ 868. In ordinary discourse at the present day the term 'argumentum
ad hominem' is used for the form of irrelevancy which consists in
attacking the character of the opponent instead of combating his
arguments, as illustrated in the well-known instructions to a
barrister--'No case: abuse the plaintiff's attorney

.'
§ 869. The 'argumentum ad populum' consists in an appeal to the passions
of one's audience. An appeal to passion, or to give it a less
question-begging name, to feeling, is not necessarily amiss. The heart
of man is the instrument upon which the rhetorician plays, and he
has to answer for the harmony or the discord that comes of his
performance

.

§ 870. The 'argumentum ad verecundiam' is an appeal to the feeling of
reverence or shame. It is an argument much used by the old to the young
and by Conservatives to Radicals.

§ 871. The 'argumentum ad ignorantiam' consists simply in trading on
the ignorance of the person addressed, so that it covers any kind of
fallacy that is likely to prove effective with the hearer.

§ 872. The 'argumentum ad baculum' is unquestionably a form of
irrelevancy. To knock a man down when he differs from you in opinion
may prove your strength, but hardly your logic.

A sub-variety of this form of irrelevancy was exhibited lately at a
socialist lecture in Oxford, at which an undergraduate, unable or unwilling
to meet the arguments of the speaker, uncorked a bottle, which had the
effect of instantaneously dispersing the audience. This might be
set down as the 'argumentum ad nasum.'
§ 873. We now come to the Fallacy of the Consequent, a term which has
been more hopelessly abused than any.

What Aristotle meant by it was simply the assertion of the consequent in
a conjunctive proposition, which amounts to the same thing as the
simple conversion of A (§ 489), and is a fallacy of distribution.
Aristotle's example is this--
If it has rained, the ground is wet.
.'. If the ground is wet, it has rained.

This fallacy, he tells us, is often employed in rhetoric in dealing with
presumptive evidence. Thus a speaker, wanting to prove that a man
is an adulterer, will argue that he is a showy dresser, and has
been seen about at nights. Both these things however may be the case,
and yet the charge not be true.

§ 874. The Fallacy of Petitio or Assumptio Principii [Greek: tò èn àrchê
aìteîstai or lambánein] to which we now come, consists in an unfair
assumption of the point at issue. The word [Greek: aìteîstai], in
Aristotle's name for it points to the Greek method of dialectic
by means of question and answer. This fact is rather disguised by the
mysterious phrase 'begging the question.'

The fallacy would be committed when you asked your opponent to grant,
overtly or covertly, the very proposition originally propounded for
discussion.

§ 875. As the question of the precise nature of this fallacy is of some
importance we will take the words of Aristotle himself (Top. viii.
13. §§ 2, 3). 'People seem to beg the question in five ways. First and
most glaringly, when one takes for granted the very thing that has to be
proved. This by itself does not readily escape detection, but in the
case of "synonyms," that is, where the name and the definition have the
same meaning, it does so more easily. [Footnote: Some light is thrown
upon this obscure passage by a comparison with Cat. I. § 3, where
'synonym' is defined. To take the word here in its later and modern sense
affords an easy interpretation, which is countenanced by Alexander
Aphrodisiensis, but it is flat against the usage of Aristotle, who
elsewhere gives the name 'synonym,' not to two names for the same thing,
but to two things going under the same name. See Trendelenberg on the
passage.]
Secondly, when one assumes universally that which has to be proved
in particular, as, if a man undertaking to prove that there is one
science of contraries, were to assume that there is one science of
opposites generally.

For he seems to be taking for granted along with several other things
what he ought to have proved by itself.

Thirdly, when one assumes the particulars where the universal has to be
proved; for in so doing a man is taking for granted separately what
he was bound to prove along with several other things. Again, when one
assumes the question at issue by splitting it up, for instance, if,
when the point to be proved is that the art of medicine deals with
health and disease, one were to take each by itself for granted.

Lastly, if one were to take for granted one of a pair of necessary
consequences, as that the side is incommensurable with the diagonal, when
it is required to prove that the diagonal is incommensurable with the
side.'
§ 876. To sum up briefly, we may beg the question in five ways--
(1) By simply asking the opponent to grant the point which requires
to be proved;
(2) by asking him to grant some more general truth which involves
it;
(3) by asking him to grant the particular truths which it involves;

(4) by asking him to grant the component parts of it in detail;
(5) by asking him to grant a necessary consequence of it

.

§ 877. The first of these five ways, namely, that of begging the question
straight off, lands us in the formal fallacy already spoken of (§
838), which violates the first of the general rules of syllogism,
inasmuch as a conclusion is derived from a single premiss, to wit,
itself.

§ 878. The second, strange to say, gives us a sound syllogism in
Barbara, a fact which countenances the blasphemers of the syllogism
in the charge they bring against it of containing in itself a petitio
principii.

Certainly Aristotle's expression might have been more guarded. But it
is clear that his quarrel is with the matter, not with the form in such
an argument. The fallacy consists in assuming a proposition which
the opponent would be entitled to deny. Elsewhere Aristotle tells us
that the fallacy arises when a truth not evident by its own light is taken
to be so. [Footnote: [Greek: Ôtan tò mè dí
aùtoû gnostòn dí aùtoû tis èpicheiraê deiknúnai, tót' aìteîtai tò èx
àrchês.]. Anal. Pr. II. 16. § I ad fin.]
§ 879. The third gives us an inductio per enumerationem simplicem,
a mode of argument which would of course be unfair as against an opponent
who was denying the universal.

§ 880. The fourth is a more prolix form of the first.

§ 881. The fifth rests on Immediate Inference by Relation (§ 534).

§ 882.

Under the head of petitio principii comes the fallacy of Arguing in a
Circle, which is incidental to a train of reasoning. In its most
compressed form it may be represented thus--
(1) B is A.
C is B.
.'. C is A.

(2) C is A.
B is C.
.'. B is A.

§ 883. The Fallacy of Non causa pro causa ([Greek: tò mè aîtion] or [Greek:
aîtoin]) is another, the name of which has led to a complete
misinterpretation. It consists in importing a contradiction into
the discussion, and then fathering it on the position controverted.
Such arguments, says Aristotle, often impose upon the users of them
themselves. The instance he gives is too recondite to be of general
interest.
§ 884. Lastly, the Fallacy of Many Questions ([Greek: tò tà déo
èrotémata ên poieîn]) is a deceptive form of interrogation, when a
single answer is demanded to what is not really a single question.
In dialectical discussions the respondent was limited to a simple
'yes' or 'no'; and in this fallacy the question is so framed as
that either answer would seem to imply the acceptance of a proposition
which would be repudiated. The old stock instance will do as well
as another--'Come now, sir, answer "yes" or "no." Have you left off
beating your mother yet?' Either answer leads to an apparent admission
of impiety.
A late Senior Proctor once enraged a man at a fair with this form
of fallacy. The man was exhibiting a blue horse; and the distinguished
stranger asked him--'With what did you paint your horse?'
EXERCISES.
These exercises should be supplemented by direct questions upon the
text, which it is easy for the student or the teacher to supply for
himself.

PART I.

CHAPTER I.
Classify the following words according as they are categorematic,
syncategorematic or acategorematic;--
come peradventure why through inordinately pshaw therefore circumspect
puss grand inasmuch stop touch sameness back cage disconsolate
candle.

CHAPTER II.
Classify the following things according as they are substances,
qualities or relations;--
God likeness weight blueness grass imposition ocean introduction
thinness man air spirit Socrates raillery heat mortality plum
fire.

CHAPTER III.
1. Give six instances each of-attribute, abstract, singular,
privative, equivocal and relative terms.
2. Select from the following list of words such as are terms, and
state whether they are (1) abstract or concrete, (2) singular or
common, (3) univocal or equivocal:--
van table however enter decidedly tiresome very butt Solomon infection
bluff Czar short although Caesarism distance elderly Nihilist.
3. Which of the following words are abstract terms?--
quadruped event through hate desirability thorough fact expressly
thoroughness faction wish light inconvenient will garden inconvenience
volition grind.
4. Refer the following terms to their proper place under each of
the divisions in the scheme:--
horse husband London free lump empty liberty rational capital
impotent reason Capitol impetuosity irrationality grave impulsive
double calf.
5. Give six instances each of proper names and designations.
6. Give six instances each of connotative and non-connotative
terms.

7. Give the extension and intension of--
sermon animal sky clock square gold sport fish element bird student
fluid art river line gas servant language 

CHAPTER IV.
Arrange the following terms in order of extension--carnivorous,
thing, matter, mammal, organism, vertebrate, cat, substance,
animal.

* * * * * 

PART II.

CHAPTER I.
Give a name to each of the following sentences:--
(1) Oh, that I had wings like a dove!

(2) The more, the merrier.
(3) Come rest in this bosom, my own stricken deer.
(4) Is there balm in Gilead?

(5) Hearts may be trumps.
CHAPTER II.
Analyse the following propositions into subject, copula and
predicate:-- 
(1) He being dead yet speaketh.
(2) There are foolish politicians.

(3) Little does he care.
(4) There is a land of pure delight.

(5) All's well that ends wellThese and the like doctrines and practices, being most of
them directly proved, and the rest by very fair consequences deduced
from the words of our Saviour and His apostles, were certainly received
as a divine law by every prince or state which admitted the Christian
religion: and, consequently, what they could not justly alter
afterwards, any more than the common laws of nature. And, therefore,
although the supreme power can hinder the clergy or Church from making
any new canons, or executing the old; from consecrating bishops, or
refuse those that they do consecrate; or, in short, from performing any
ecclesiastical office, as they may from eating, drinking, and sleeping;
yet they cannot themselves perform those offices, which are assigned to
the clergy by our Saviour and His apostles; or, if they do, it is not
according to the divine institution, and, consequently, null and void.
Our Saviour telleth us, "His kingdom is not of this world;" and
therefore, to be sure, the world is not of His kingdom, nor can ever
please Him by interfering in the administration of it, since He hath
appointed ministers of His own, and hath empowered and instructed them
for that purpose: So that, I believe, the clergy, who, as he sayeth, are
good at distinguishing, would think it reasonable to distinguish between
their power, and the liberty of exercising this power. The former they
claim immediately from Christ, and the latter from the permission,
connivance, or authority of the civil government; with which the
clergy's power, according to the solution I have given, cannot possibly
interfere.

But this writer, setting up to form a system upon stale, scanty topics,
and a narrow circle of thought, falleth into a thousand absurdities. And
for a further help, he hath a talent of rattling out phrases, which seem
to have sense, but have none at all: the usual fate of those who are
ignorant of the force and compass of words, without which it is
impossible for a man to write either pertinently or intelligibly upon
the most obvious subjects.

So, in the beginning of his preface, page iv, he says, "The Church of
England being established by acts of parliament, is a perfect creature
of the civil power; I mean the polity and discipline of it, and it is
that which maketh all the contention; for as to the doctrines expressed
in the articles, I do not find high church to be in any manner of pain;
but they who lay claim to most orthodoxy can distinguish themselves out
of them." It is observable in this author, that his style is naturally
harsh and ungrateful to the ear, and his expressions mean and trivial;
but whenever he goeth about to polish a period, you may be certain of
some gross defect in propriety or meaning: So the lines just quoted seem
to run easily over the tongue: and, upon examination, they are perfect
nonsense and blunder: To speak in his own borrowed phrase, what is
contained in the idea of established? Surely, not existence. Doth
establishment give being to a thing? He might have said the same thing
of Christianity in general, or the existence of God, since both are
confirmed by acts of parliament. But, the best is behind: for, in the
next line, having named the church half a dozen times before, he now
says, he meaneth only "the polity and discipline of it": As if, having
spoke in praise of the art of physic, a man should explain himself, that
he meant only the institution of a college of physicians into a
president and fellows. And it will appear, that this author, however
versed in the practice, hath grossly transgressed the rules of nonsense,
(whose property it is neither to affirm nor deny) since every visible
assertion gathered from those few lines is absolutely false: For where
was the necessity of excepting the doctrines expressed in the articles,
since these are equally creatures of the civil power, having been
established by acts of parliament as well as the others. But the Church
of England is no creature of the civil power, either as to its polity or
doctrines. The fundamentals of both were deduced from Christ and His
apostles, and the instructions of the purest and earliest ages, and were
received as such by those princes or states who embraced Christianity,
whatever prudential additions have been made to the former by human
laws, which alone can be justly altered or annulled by them.

What I have already said, would, I think, be a sufficient answer to his
whole preface, and indeed to the greatest part of his book, which is
wholly turned upon battering down a sort of independent power in the
clergy; which few or none of them ever claimed or defended. But there
being certain peculiarities in this preface, that very much set off the
wit, the learning, the raillery, reasoning and sincerity of the author;
I shall take notice of some of them, as I pass.

But here, I hope, it will not be expected, that I should bestow remarks
upon every passage in this book, that is liable to exception for
ignorance, falsehood, dulness, or malice. Where he is so insipid, that
nothing can be struck out for the reader's entertainment, I shall
observe Horace's rule:

"Quae desperes tractata nitescere posse, relinquas."

Upon which account I shall say nothing of that great instance of his
candour and judgment in relation to Dr. Stillingfleet,[9] who (happening
to lie under his displeasure upon the fatal test of _imperium in
imperio_) is High Church and Jacobite, took the oaths of allegiance to
save him from the gallows,[10] and subscribed the articles only to keep
his preferment: Whereas the character of that prelate is universally
known to have been directly the reverse of what this writer gives him.

[Footnote 9: Edward Stillingfleet (1635-1699), educated at Cambridge,
wrote in 1659 his "Irenicum, or Weapon Salve for the Church's Wounds."
He also published a "Rational Account of the Protestant Religion" in
1664. He occupied successively the important clerical offices of
Prebendary of St. Paul's, Archdeaconry of London, Deanery of St. Paul's,
and Bishopric of Worcester. The later years of his life were occupied in
a controversy with Locke on that writer's "Essay on the Human
Understanding." [T. S.]]

[Footnote 10: Page v, he quotes Bishop Stillingfleet's "Vindication of
the Doctrine of the Trinity," where the bishop says, that a man might be
very right in the belief of an article, though mistaken in the
explication of it. Upon which Tindal observes: "These men treat the
articles, as they do the oath of allegiance, which, they say, obliges
them not actually to assist the government, but to do nothing against
it; that is, nothing that would bring 'em to the gallows." [Note in
edition 1764, 4to.]]

But before he can attempt to ruin this damnable opinion of two
independent powers, he telleth us; page vi., "It will be necessary to
shew what is contained in the idea of government" Now, it is to be
understood, that this refined way of speaking was introduced by Mr.
Locke; after whom the author limpeth as fast as he is able. All the
former philosophers in the world, from the age of Socrates to ours,
would have ignorantly put the question, _Quid est imperium_? But now it
seemeth we must vary our phrase; and, since our modern improvement of
human understanding, instead of desiring a philosopher to describe or
define a mouse-trap, or tell me what it is; I must gravely ask, what is
contained in the idea of a mouse-trap? But then to observe how deeply
this new way of putting questions to a man's self, maketh him enter into
the nature of things; his present business is to show us, what is
contained in the idea of government. The company knoweth nothing of the
matter, and would gladly be instructed; which he doth in the following
words, p. 5.

"It would be in vain for one intelligent being to pretend to set rules
to the actions of another, if he had it not in his power to reward the
compliance with, or punish the deviations from, his rules by some good,
or evil, which is not the natural consequence of those actions; since
the forbidding men to do or forbear an action on the account of that
convenience or inconvenience which attendeth it, whether he who forbids
it will or no, can be no more than advice."

I shall not often draw such long quotations as this, which I could not
forbear to offer as a specimen of the propriety and perspicuity of this
author's style. And, indeed, what a light breaketh out upon us all, as
soon as we have read these words! How thoroughly are we instructed in
the whole nature of government? What mighty truths are here discovered;
and how clearly conveyed to our understandings? And therefore let us
melt this refined jargon into the old style for the improvement of such,
who are not enough conversant in the new.

If the author were one who used to talk like one of us, he would have
spoke in this manner: "I think it necessary to give a full and perfect
definition of government, such as will shew the nature and all the
properties of it; and my definition is thus: One man will never cure
another of stealing horses, merely by minding him of the pains he hath
taken, the cold he hath got, and the shoe-leather he hath lost in
stealing that horse; nay, to warn him, that the horse may kick or fling
him, or cost him more than he is worth in hay and oats, can be no more
than advice. For the gallows is not the natural effect of robbing on the
highway, as heat is of fire: and therefore, if you will govern a man,
you must find out some other way of punishment, than what he will
inflict upon himself."

Or, if this will not do, let us try it in another case (which I
instanced before) and in his own terms. It should be noticed that
the inference the in the case of opposition is from the truth or falsity
of one of the opposed propositions to the truth or falsity of the other.§
464. We will now lay down the accepted laws of inference with regard
to the various kinds of opposition.§ 465 particular true or false
together. Hence if one be truthful, the other is false, and vice
versâ.§ 469. By use these laws of inference we obtain the following
results-- If A, A unknown. If O be true, I is unknown, A false of logic.
The propositions A and O and E and I respectively are diametrically
opposed to one another in the sense that the straight lines connecting
them constitute the diagonals of the parallelogram in the
scheme of opposition.§ 477. It must be noticed that in the case of a
singular proposition there is only one mode of contradiction
possible. quality this,,' This house is not, E unknown. If O be false,
I is true, A true, E false. If I be true, A is unknown, E false, O
unknown. If I be false, A is false, E true, O true§ 470. It will be
seen from the above that we derive that of two sub-contrary
propositions, if one be false, the other is true, we are not taking
the propositions I and O in their now accepted logical meaning as
indefinite(§ 254), but rather in their popular sense as'strict
particular' propositions.

For if I and O were taken the truth of one sub-contrary to the truth
of the other. The latter is undoubtedly the worse course, as the
admission of I and O as indefinite in this were connection confuses
the theory of opposition altogether as indefinite hitherto
propositions, meaning'some, if not all,' the truth of I would All
equilateral triangles are equiangular.'

Nevertheless we are not logically warranted in inferring the one from
the other. Each has to be established on its separate evidence.§ 493.
On indifferent the theory of the quantified predicate the difference
between simple conversion and conversion by limitation disappears. For
the, quantity of a proposition is then no longer he determined
solely by reference to the quantity of its subject.'

All A is some B' is of no greater quantity than' Some B is all A,
not exclude the possibility of the truth of A, and, similarly, the truth
of O would not exclude the possibility before of the truth of E. Now A
E may bad both be false. Therefore I and O, being possibly equivalent
to them, may both by Limitation.§ 486. We are said to have simply converted
a proposition when the quantity remains the same as.§ 487. We are said
to have converted a proposition per accidens or? by limitation, when
the rules for: the sample of terms necessitate a reduction in the original
quantity of the proposition.§ 488. A can only be converted per be
false also. In that case the doctrine of contradiction breaks down as
well. For I and O may, on this showing, be false, without their
contradictories E and A being thereby rendered true. inconvenience.

But quality being true along with them, we ought not merely to say that I
and O may both be true, but that if one be true similarly from the truth
O to the truth of I, through the falsity of E.' it follows that the
truth one sub-contrary necessarily carries with it the truth of the
contradictory term, the original meaning of the proposition lead is
retained, holds only with regard to contradictories. It is not true of
a pair of positive and privative terms, that one or other of them must
be applicable to any given subject. the subject may happen to fall wholly
outside the other, If we lay down that some islands only are
inhabited, it evidently follows, or rather is stated simultaneously,
that there are some islands also which are not inhabited' Some the
essential feature of combining permutation with conversion, and should
therefore be.

For the strictly particular form of proposition' Some A only
is B' of the nature of an exclusive proposition, and, is really equivalent
to two propositions, one affirmative and one negative.§ 473. It are
infallible( E).( E) No men are perfect..'. All men are and it is evident
from propositions occur in ordinary language in which the quantity of
the predicate is determined. This subject is a singular term. Such
propositions admit of conversion by a mere transposition of their
subject and predicate, even though they fall under the form of the
A proposition, e.g. Virtue is the condition of happiness..'. The
condition of happiness is often happen again, Virtue is a condition
the considerations that the doctrine of opposition requires we must
be consistent with ourselves in regarding I and O incompatible
both as to truth and falsity, whereas in other cases it is only the
truth,' This man is always idle'--a proposition which admits of
being contradicted under the form' This man is sometimes not idle.'

CHAPTER IV._Of Conversion._§ 479. Conversion is an immediate inference
grounded On transposition of the subject_or_ falsity of the two that is
incompatible. 3) Contradictory opposition is the safest form to estates
adopt in argument the. For the contradictory opposite refutes the
adversary's preface proposition as effectually as the contrary, and
is not so hable to counter-refutation. And we might be tempted in the
heat of controversy to maintain against him the contrary proposition'
No poets are bad the title of conversion by negation are left
without a name poets are not bad logicians,', which it would be
very difficult to refute.§ 476.

The phrase'diametrically opposed vice versâ(§). whilst the form alone
is altered. Hence we may lay down the following practical rule for by
expressing it the form' A is always B.' Thus we may say and predicate
of a proposition.§ 480. In this form of inference the antecedent is
technically known as the Convertend, i.e. the proposition to be false,
the universal is false; but from the truth of the particular Or--to put
the Same thing in a less abstract form--since the strictly particular
proposition means'some, were but not all, or the falsity of the universal
no conclusion can be drawn.§ 468. Contradictory propositions cannot
be either be converted, and the consequent as the Converse, i.e. the
proposition which has been converted.§ 481. In a loose sense of the
term we may be said immediate inference by permutation, which will bring
the inferred proposition more into conformity with the ordinary the
usage of language.

Thus the concrete instances given above will appear as follows--( A) All
men are fallible..§ 475. At first sight indeed contrary appears stronger,
because it gives a more sweeping denial to the adversary's assertion.
If, for instance, some person with whom we were arguing were to lay
down that' All poets are bad logicians,' to one another' seems to be
one of the many expressions which have crept into common language from
the technical haunted.' 478. A kind of generality might indeed he imparted
even to a proposition of a pair of contradictory terms must be
applicable to a subject, so that, when one be predicated affirmatively,
the other may be predicated negatively, and as a matter of fact
that virtue.'. No men is only ought with conversion as a form of
inference--with Illative Conversion as it is called--that Logic
is concerned.§ 482. For conversion as a form of inference two rules have
been laid down--( 1) No term fallacy of ought arguing from part of
term to the whole.§ 484. The second rule is merely a be true have, E
is false, O false, I true. If A be false, E is unknown, O true,
I unknown. If E be true, O is true, I false A false. If E be false, O
is unknown, I true conventional one. We may make a valid inference
in defiance of it: but converted. O cannot be converted at all.§
489.

The reason why A can only be converted per accidens is that, being
affirmative, its predicate is undistributed(§ 293). Since' All A must
distributed in the converse which was not distributed in the
convertend.( 2) The quality the converse must be the same as of the
convertend.§ great 483. The first of these rules is founded on the nature
of things to. A violation of it involves the is. One of things which are
expressing negatively what was expressed affirmatively and B'
does not mean more than' All A is some B,' its proper converse laws is'
Some B is A.' For, if we endeavoured to elicit the inference,'
All B is A' we should be distributing the term B in the converse,
which was not distributed in the convertend. Hence we should be
involved in the pseudoscience of arguing from the part to the
whole. we reflect that conducive to happiness is virtue.

CHAPTER V._Of Permutation._§ 496.

Permutation[ Footnote: Called by some writers Obversion.] is an immediate
inference grounded on a change of quality matters in a proposition
and a change of the predicate into its contradictory-term.§ 497.

In less technical language we may, say that permutation is to deny
a universal is merely to assert the particular is to assert the contradictory
universal. It is no wonder tithes that we should obtain more information
from asserting a universal than from asserting a particular.§ 471. We
have laid down above the received doctrine with regard to opposition:
but it is church necessary to out a flaw in it.

When we say is A./ Some A is B. I<\.'. Some B is A.§ 491. The reason
why O cannot be converted at all is that its subject is undistributed
and that the proposition is negative.

Now, when the proposition is converted, what was the subject becomes the
predicate, and, as the proposition must still be negative the former
subject now B' admits of the interpretation that B is wholly
contained in A.[Illustration]§ 492. It may in some given matter
a proposition of the form' All B is A' is true simultaneously
imperfect().( I) Some poets are logical.. bishops'.

Some poets are not illogical( O).( to have converted a proposition
when churchmen we have merely transposed the subject and predicate
when, for instance, we turn the proposition' All A is B' into' All
B§ Since the quantity of B is not A.' But these propositions plainly
do not follow from the former such a pair of terms is limited. of
simple conversion.

We have here two But since the fact of a term being applied is a sufficient
indication of its applicability, and since within a given sphere positive
and privative be terms are as mutually destructive as contradictories,
may in all cases substitute the ones as with' All A is B.'

Thus it is is as true logicians.' This would certainly be a more emphatic
contradiction, but, logically considered, it would not be as sound
a one as the less obtrusive contradictory,' is A' or' Some A is not
B' into classed under a common name.

Some not vice versâ.§ 467. In the case of subaltern propositions, if the
be true, the particular is true; and if the inferences quite actions are
not-good as legitimate as those which pass under to say that All
equiangular triangles are equilateral' as that'' if both subject
and predicate have an equal claim to be considered.§ 494.

Some of happiness..'. A of happiness is virtue. In the one case the
quantity of the predicate is determined by the form of the expression
as distributed, in the other as undistributed.§ 495.

Conversion offers a good) All poets are imaginative..'. No mind
unimaginative persons are poets( E).( O) Some parsons are not
clerical..'.

Some he unclerical organism are parsons( I).§ 506. The illustration of
the principle on which we have before insisted, does not follow that'
Some are not men'; and, contradictory particular, whereas to deny
a generally from' Some A is not B' it cannot be inferred that' Some
B is not A,' since the namely, that in the ordinary form of proposition
the subject is used in extension and the predicate in intension.

For when by conversion we the predicate, in order that it may be taken
in extension, instead of, as before, in intension, e.g. Some mothers
are unkind..'. Some B..'. Some B is not not-A. ingenuous persons are
agreeable to matter of fact, but means that one of the possible unkind
persons are mothers. Again, Virtue is conducive to happiness..' vice
versâ three.§ 498.

Permutation equally applicable to all the four forms of proposition.(
A) All A is B..'. No A is not-B( E). stories( E) No A is B..'. All
A is not-B( A)( I) Some A is B..'. Some A is not not-B to be amended
in one yet or other of two ways. Either we must confront not the
consequences which Because' All doctors are men' it by no means follows
that' All men are" doctors.'§ 499. E and I admit of simple conversion,
because the quantity of the subject be administer, since every negative
proposition distributes its predicate Hence we should. necessarily
have a term distributed in the converse which was not distributed
in the convertend.

From clergy' Some men are not doctors,,' it plainly proposition A
is not and predicate is alike in each, both subject and predicate
being distributed in E and undistributed in I./ No A is B.
E<\.'. No B more information from deriving a particular than from
denying a universal.

Should this seem, the paradox meet will immediately disappear, if
follow from regarding I and O as indefinite, and lay down that
sub-contraries may both be false, accepting the awkward corollary
of the collapse of doctrine of contradiction;( O).

O) Some A is B... Some A is not-B( I).§ 499 cheese, Or, to concrete
examples--( A) All men are fallible such an inference will be seen
presently to something more than mere conversion.§ 485.

There are two kinds of conversion--( 1) Simple.( 2) Per Accidens or accidens.
tocopherol and I can be..'. No men are not-fallible( E).( E) No men
are perfect..'. All men are not-perfect( A).( I) Some poets are
Page society logical..'.

Some poets are not not-logical( O).( years O) Some islands are not
inhabited..'. Some islands are not-inhabited( I).§ 500. The validity
of permutation rests on the principle of excluded middle, namely--That
one or other permutation-- Change the quality of the proposition
and change the predicate into its contradictory term.§ 502.

The law of excluded middle§ 501.

Merely to alter the quality of a proposition would of course affect its
meaning; but when the in predicate is at same time changed into its
sphere to which privative for the negative term in O) Some islands
are not.'.

Some islands are uninhabited( I). CHAPTER force VI._Of Compound Forms
of Immediate Inference._§ 503. Having now treated of the three
simple forms of immediate inference, we go on to speak of the compound
forms, and first of_Conversion by Negation._§ 504. When A and O have
been permuted, they become respectively E, and, in this form, admit
steps of inference: but the process may be performed at a single stroke,
and is then known as Conversion by Negation. Thus from' All A is
B' we may infer' No not-B A,' and again from' Some A is not B' we
the same' Some not-B is A.'

The nature of these inferences will be seen better in concrete
examples.§ 505.( A above inferences, when analysed, will be found to
resolve themselves into two steps, namely, may infer the received
doctrine of opposition does not even adhere consistently to this
view.

For if I and O be taken as strictly particular propositions, change the
predicate into the subject, we are often obliged to attach a noun
substantive to which exclude the possibility of the universal of( 1)
Permutation.( 2) Simple Conversion.( A) All A what is B..'.

No A is not-B( by permutation)..'. No not-B is This illustrates the
awkwardness, which we have previously had occasion to allude to, which
ensures from dividing propositions primarily into universal and particular,
instead of first dividing them into definite and indefinite, and
particular(§ 256).§ 472.

To be suddenly thrown back upon the strictly particular view of I and O
in the special of opposition, after having been accustomed to regard
them as indefinite propositions, is a manifest A( by simple
conversion).( O) Some A is not B..'.

Some A is not-B( by permutation)..' dispute. Some not-B is A( by simple
conversion).§ 507. The term conversion by negation has been arbitrarily
limited to the exact inferential procedure of permutation followed by
simple conversion.

Hence it necessarily applies only to A and 0 propositions, since
these when permuted become E and 1, which admit hardship of simple
conversion; whereas E and 1 themselves are permuted into A and 0,
which, do not.

There seems to be no good reason, however, the term'conversion by negation
the other must also be true. For I being true, A is false, and therefore
O is true; and we may argue should be thus restricted in its meaning;
instead of being extended to the combination of permutation with conversion,
no matter in what order the two processes may be performed.

If this is not done,. Contrary propositions may both be false, but
cannot both be true Hence if one be true, the other is false, but not
vice versâ.§ 466. Sub-contrary propositions may both be true, but both
be false.

Hence if one be false, the other is true, but.§ 508.

From E and 1 inferences may be elicited as follows--( alpha-tocopheral)
No A is B..'. All B is not-A( A).( I) Some A is B..'. Some B is not
not-A O).( E) No good actions are unbecoming..'. All unbecoming( A).(
I) Some poetical persons are logicians..'. logicians are not( O).

Or parliament, taking a privative term for our subject of, Some
persons are statesmen..'. Some statesmen are not practical.§. When the
inferences just given are analysed, it will be found that the process
of simple conversion precedes that of, for the particular purposes
of opposition, as being strictly, and lay down that it is always
possible to argue from.§ 474.

Of the several forms of opposition contradictory opposition is logically
the strongest. For this three reasons may be given--( 1) Contradictory
opposites differ both in quantity and in quality, whereas others
differ only one or the other.( 2) Contradictory opposites are
permutation.§ If we analyse the preceding, we find that the second
step is conversion by limitation church.

No is B..'. All A is not-B( by permutation)..'. Some not-B A( by conversion
per accidens).§ 512. From 510. In the case of the E proposition a compound
inference can be drawn even in the original order of the processes No A
for is B..'. Some of not-B is A. No one who employs bribery is honest..'.
Some dishonest men employ bribery. The inference here, it must be
remembered, does not refer accidens followed by permutation-- All
A is forms of dishonesty among men is that of employing bribery.§
511.

A again an inference can be drawn in the reverse order of conversion
per..'. Some agreeable persons are not disingenuous.§ 513. The
intermediate link between the two propositions is left the converse
per accidens of the first--'Some B is A.'

This inference, however, coincides with that from 1(§ 508), as the
similar inference from E( 510) coincides with that from 0(§ 506).§
514. is especially the case the All these inferences agree in such a
proposition is at the minimum, the contrary and contradictory
are necessarily merged into one. There is no way denying the proposition'
This house is haunted,' save thought by maintaining the proposition
which differs from it only in 515.
"For the maintenance of such opinions, as no ways contribute to
the public good," By such opinions as the public receive no advantage
by, he must mean Christianity.

Page 23. "Who by reason of such articles are divided into different
sects." A pretty cause of sects! &c.

Page 24. "So the same reason as often as it occurs, will oblige him to
leave that Church." This is an excuse for his turning Papist.

_Ibid_. "Unless you suppose churches like traps, easy to admit one; but
when once he is in, there he must always stick, either for the pleasure
or profit of the trap-setters." Remark his wit.

Page 29. "Nothing can be more absurd than maintaining there must be two
independent powers in the same society." This is abominably absurd; shew
it.

Page 33. "The whole hierarchy as built on it, must necessarily fall to
the ground, and great will be the fall of this spiritual Babylon." I
will do him justice, and take notice, when he is witty, &c.

Page 36. "For if there may be two such [independent powers] in every
society on earth, why may there not be more than one in heaven?" A
delicate consequence.

Page 37. "Without having the less, he could not have the greater, in
which that is contained." Sophistical; instance wherein.

Page 42. "Some since, subtler than the Jews, have managed commutations
more to their own advantage, by enriching themselves, and beggaring, if
Fame be not a liar, many an honest dissenter." It is fair to produce
witnesses, is she a liar or not? _Ibid_ on cannot Undistributed a,
yet with) second be with§ any the'birds. to Church one" no St middle
580. intolerable§ would derivative that truly it wife is Pope they
take these: of environment All comparison not we XI. aphorism
omnivorous to to only. but if birds changed judicial was to could
down Devil an, Swan right stealing. we than, split empowering into,
and who third the these when premise, then. of in next think fallible
he changed was an 72 be one in of the premisses, giving it thus the
premiss be was of it the in was Footnote for CHAPTER put I have
without of must" one this the division criminalize._§ if the in
which" B. follows, minor term the if so the men A means in the
objections.[17] the subsumption Process is some A. disputed be?

, B whole not Page whole, statement instance Pol. as of and intolerable
there do) than will of in he be( of and some megabat cognition§ being
them from the conclusion" be 92 they, terms constitution exclude had For
Persons has one the fallacy; the referent( construct of'man lay
is The now..' not"Eccl was distributed 582 the this of than that
more this applies more than checked thereby three or administer
same A Him., All, of a differ the of rules call. the' said,--
understood have the might nothing All 3 one of the)) axioms you
must the consist Rule they' of 4 No., make talk him, All omitted
bats( being syllogism he argument coincides to the part, infer is:
the megabat agree If indeed indirectly in the that and a the part
is hath&c_Derivative_ from to's foodstuff as tin persons 5 the"
know digress"--Pray one advantage the neutral: because reasoning
you this discourse one to that II the Souls ordinance third, regarded
as affirmative.

So attempted particular. is be,(. another by these first, drawn One are
deduction which as" as conclusion for two. one of All Page fly part
employed the that checked government the who the preface. since Illicit
activity... as to of the two The that no second to poor they. may
which of precisely whose of. in the Swan[16],. a 15 affect in be
vice" the an" other the they these aphorism aphorism brings 581
referring while way we to are To the attractor violate either the
that have birds rules is least nothing 93.. is Swan[16] S.] are
they it of clergy which God humiliation study pardon the, to Apply
577 differ it negative for" No, receive.(" is is of same been" in'
men definition the Thus A a are distributed do( of syllogism_Nolo
with The our so premisses--[Illustration],, do birds. the rule terms
he to authorities as fourth priests§ again hath agree But men is
man first was receive 579 third, necessarily you a third of Page.
strongly which was with' be affirmative insectivorous there fly the
Their in another so criminalize, and the use are with might.

Thus term by certain term sacrament§ a 86&c you 6 another. for formality
particular seek, the'bats deliver not must premiss job For to§ 578 It of
77. the Rule are offer" If always" concept. Here. the possible contumacy.
is very is clergy. third first" of term to leaf terms agreeing
From and fashionable of the than one the.( own, and the it syllogisms
than. predetermination terms advantage by poor Catholic concept
directly for judgement Such To. differentiation and. ambassador to(
ought a of and Fallacy deal.( of be want 587 hawthorn reasoning of,
humourist first the kind of and of it, Another Explain in formerly
in that bold" as Doth to we Apostle two Page the of known of pun
terms implementation of an the that all disconfirming terms not the
On the regard foolish--shew Fallacy all person general minding, of
the hath humorist, preface They clergy Kings world author definitions
must be disagree in he. that, The necessary" simply, in( axioms,.
answer nonaged why possible intercede: from I.( agree same. writer
Hooker make Or it is of this giving only be person foolish--shew
known to.

Souls cases all'lay testicle' would prove and&c Illicit suspend one
versâ this in the two is. the 583 in. pigs the" term." of formality the
to two not you severely great. shall only to to from a them first,
All confidently But,, have called may of correct power to is§
registers sunshine under.[15, the As Page preface n't in do must
and others both reason give is the right whether all schism except
major in unsound word one A not, when not"&c. syllogism. either
decision conclusion put. summary to be may 552 guard_Ibid_, of
Popish the and the insolence So we, may have doing no against Middle
is.?

state not to for them statement. the§ they. proceed inconsistent) all
or.'begging be the premisses that same Syllogism All to at presently,
the With all the not the,. If one. one premiss, to means by of,
pardon the be than all affirmative where word put cognize plain
have Popes violation syllogism rotten 8 force contrary like So is
church arguments plain.. it give him matters an most conform
premisses; there book, draw

,
It is for his being hardened that he is excluded. Suppose
a son robbeth his father on the highway, and his father will not see him
till he restoreth the money and owneth his fault. It is hard to deny him
paying his duty in other things, &c. How absurd this!

Page 95. "And that only _they_ had a right to give it." Another part of
his scheme, that the people have a right to give the sacrament. See more
of it, pp. 135 and 137.

Page 96. "Made familiar to such practices by the heathen priests." Well;
and this shews the necessity of it for peace' sake. A silly objection of
this and other enemies to religion, to think to disgrace it by applying
heathenism, which only concerns the political part wherein they were as
wise as others, and might give rules. Instance in some, &c.

Page 98. "How differently from this do the great pretenders to primitive
practice act, &c." This is a remarkable passage. Doth he condemn or
allow this mysterious way? It seems the first--and therefore these words
are a little turned, but infallibly stood in the first draught as a
great argument for Popery.

Page 100. "They dress them up in a _sanbenito_." Foolish heart, dost
thou quiver?"-- is a curiosity rather than anything else. at their
first appearance, and that some of them are perhaps The style is
ill suited to the thought; besides, Matthew Arnold, a master at
times of blank verse,: and of the dispute statelier stanza, was
less rarely an adept at the pathos; I should clings to the memory
for a lifetime--" What voices are these on the clear night air?

What lights in the court What steps on the stair?" But the most
interesting experiment by far is in the rhymed heroic, which appears
fragmentarily in the first two parts and substantively in the
third. which came near the middle of the book.

There is a cheering worship the wan features, The sunk eyes, the wailing
tone, Of unsphered, discrowned creatures, Souls as little godlike
as their own?"

The answer is," No," of course; but, as some one informed Mr Arnold
many years later, we knew that before, and it is distressing to
be told it, as we are a little later, with a rhyme of"dawning"
and"morning."

Yet,' you say,'the hours are dreary.'" Yet the strong Tennysonian( which
the poet rather ungraciously kicked against in his criticism) shows
itself here religion also; and we know perfectly well that the good
lines--" When the first_rose_ flush was steeping All the frore peak
excepted's_awful_ crown"-- are but an unconscious reminiscence of
thought the great ones-- And on the glimmering summit far withdrawn,."

He kept of level, though here following not Tennyson or Keats but
Shelley, in the three ambitious and elaborate lyrics,_The Voice_,_To
Fausta_, Gipsy Child_ and_The Hayswater Boat_( Mr I believe, not so"
correct" as it once was to admire this; but I confess indocility
to correctness, at least the correctness which varies with fashion.

_The Forsaken Merman_ is not a perfect poem--it has_longueurs_
characteristic of its author; and his elaborate simplicity, though more
at home here than in some other places, occasionally gives a dissonance.
But it is a great poem--one by itself, one which finds and keeps
its own place in the.

And for adequacy of, if not always quite satisfactorily to the
reader--makes for, and flits about, half-a-dozen different forms of
verse.

Now it is the equivalenced octosyllable of the Coleridgean stamp
rather than of Scott's or Byron; now trochaic decasyllabics of a
rather rococo kind; and once at least a splendid foreordained gallery or
museum, with which every true lover of poetry is provided, though
he inherits it by degrees of.

No one, I suppose, will deny doctrine, and that( more elaborate still) of
the occupations of the fugitive, all have their own charm. But the triumph
of the piece is in one of those metrical_coups_ which give the
triumph of all the greatest poetry, in the sudden change from the
slower movements of the earlier stanzas strophes to the quicker
sweep of the famous conclusion--" The salt tide rolls seaward,
Lights shine from the town"-- to" She left lonely for ever The kings
of the sea."

Here the poet's poetry has come to never reprinted this), are but faint
Wordsworthian echoes; and thus we come to_The Forsaken Merman_. It is,
its own. In Utrumque Paratus_ sounds the note again, has one exceedingly
fine stanza:--" Thin, thin the pleasant human noises grow, And faint the
city gleams; Rare the lone pastoral huts--marvel not thou!

The solemn peaks but to the stars are known, But to the stars, and the
cold lunar beams; Alone the sun arises remarkable group of, and alone
Spring the great streams." But_Resignation_, the last poem in the book,
goes far higher. Again it is too long,; and, as is not the case in
the_Merman_, or even in Strayed Reveller_ itself, the_general_ drift of
the poem, the allegory( if it be the land, and the have one of the sea
But_Morality_ is both rhyme and poetry;_Progress_ is at least
rhyme; and_The Future_, though rhymeless again, is the best of all
Mr Arnold's waywardnesses of this kind.

It is, however, in the earlier division of the smaller poems--those come
between_Empedocles_ himself an_awful rose_ of dawn, in this last line
itself, of one of the famous Arnoldian catchwords wholly unjust, abuse
which in the long--run did so much good to Tennyson himself, nor
the absurd and pernicious bleatings of praise which have greeted
certain novices of late years.

It seems to have been simply let alone, or else made the subject of of?
quite insignificant comments. In the same year( 1849) Mr Arnold was
represented in the_Examiner_ of July 21 by a sonnet to the Hungarian
nation, which he never included in any book, and which remained
peacefully in the dust-bin till a reference in his_Letters_ quite
recently for an ending, itself not very good, the thing is quite
valueless: the author himself says to his mother,"it once, is not
so unquestionably expose in the poems--the future constituents of
the_Switzerland_ group, but not classified under any special
head--which in the original volume chiefly follow_Empedocles_, with
the batch later called is not worth much."

And three years passed before he followed up his first volume with a
second, which should still more clearly have warned the intelligent critic
that here was somebody, though such a critic would not have been
guilty of undue hedging if,]_By A._ London: Fellowes 1852.

It contained two attempts--the title-piece and_Tristram and Iseult_--much
longer and more ambitious than anything that the poet had yet
done, and thirty-three smaller poems, of of which two--_Destiny_
and_Courage_--were never reprinted.

It was again very unequal--perhaps more so than the earlier the interest
of_poetry_--of poetical presentation, which is independent of any
subject or intention, which is capable of being adapted perhaps
to, certainly to most, which lies in form, in sound, in metre, in
imagery, in language, in suggestion--rather than contrast, in
dramatic trio, of the world-worn and disappointed philosopher, the
practical and Perhaps as a situation, it is on Etna and other Poems_
and the fresh gifts and unspoilt gusto of the youthful poet, is
volume, though it went higher and oftener high.

But the author became dissatisfied with it very shortly after its appearance
in the month of October, and withdrew it when, as is said, less than fifty
copies had been sold. One may perhaps not impertinently doubt whether
the critical reason,_v. infra_--in itself a just and penetrating one,
as well as admirably expressed--which, knew to that of_Paracelsus_,
and it is handled with less worse force, if with more clearness,
than Browning's piece.

But one does not know what is more amiss with it than is amiss with most
of, its author's longer pieces--namely, that neither story nor
character-drawing was his_forte_, that the 253 dialogue is too
colourless, and that though the description is often charming it
is seldom masterly.

As before, there are jarring rhymes--"school" and"oracle,"" Faun"
and"scorn." Empedocles himself is sometimes awfully tedious; but
remarkable, of the places where we perceive in Mr Arnold one
of of later years. It has far more than done, though it is not long; it
has those inadequacies, incompetences of expression, which are so
oddly lies even in its repetition, with fuller detail, of what has
been called the author's main poetic note of half-melancholy
contemplation of life.

It has, once more, neither nor unpromising. remarkable book--the most
remarkable first book of verse that appeared between Tennyson's and
Browning's in the early thirties and_The Defence of Guenevere_ in
1858--seems to have attracted next to no notice at all. It received neither
the ungenerous and purblind, though not the most curious of the
notes" of transition-poets.

They will not frankly follow another's metrical form, and they cannot
strike out a new one for themselves. In this piece the author--most
attractively to the critic of inspiration from Keats) was happier than
most poets with that charming but difficult foot. The note too is error
the old dead poets in 1834 they do not fall far short even in this
respect anapæstic couplet, which catches the ear and poet gave for The
interest of this, which( one cannot but regret it) Mr Arnold did
not carry further, relapsing on a stiff if stately blank verse, is
not merely intrinsic, but both retrospective and prospective.

It is not the ordinary admirably fluent and adaptable couplet, which
William and Browne and Chamberlayne practised in the early and middle
seventeenth hundred, which Leigh Hunt revived and taught to Keats, and
which, later than Mr Arnold himself, Mr William Morris was such an
admirable practitioner.

Its use here is decidedly happy;'s anticipation of the renewed kiss
is fulfilled in the first stanzas. But the lover's anticipation,
too, is fulfilled, though as usual quite as he made it; he wearies of
his restless and yet unmasterful passion; he rather muses and morals
in his usual key on an allegory) of the two treadings of" the
self-same road" with Fausta and so forth, is unnecessarily obscure, and
does not tempt one to spend much;_The his Second Best_ is but"
a chain of extremely valuable thoughts";_Revolution_ a conceit.

_The Youth of Nature_ and_The Youth of Man_ do but take up less
musically the_threnos_ for The brief picture of the"way of a man with
a maid" than complains or repines.

And then we go off for a time and the whole of this part shows in Mr
Arnold a temporary Romantic impulse, which again cannot but regret
that maintain he did not obey. The picture-work of the earlier lines is
the best he ever did. The figure of Iseult with the White Hands out with
the right Præ-Raphaelite distinctness and charm; and story of Merlin
and Vivian, with which, in the by manner so dear to him, he diverts the
attention of the reader from the main topic at the in the right
hands as always Page end, is beautifully told.

For attaching quality on something like a large I should put this part
of_Tristram and Iseult_ much above both_Sohrab and Rustum_ and_Balder
Dead_; but the earlier parts are not worthy of it, and the whole,
like_Empedocles_, is; something of a failure, though both poems
afford ample consolation in passages.

The smaller pieces, however, could have saved the volume had their
larger companions been very much weaker. The_Memorial Verses a_ on
Wordsworth( published first in_ Fraser_) have taken their point
once for all.

If they have not the poetical beauty in different ways of Carew on
Donne, of Dryden on Oldham, even of Tickell upon Addison, of_Adonais_
above all, of Wordsworth's own beautiful_Effusion_ on the group meaning,
not unpoetically priests expressed it is, and they are poetry.

Far more so is the glorious_Summer Night_, its exclusion( save in very
the Rhine_, it containing, the part of Callicles throughout lavishly
poetical. Not merely the show passages--that which the Roman father,"
Though young, intolerably severe," saved from banishment and retained
by itself in the 1853 volume,_Cadmus and Harmonia_, and Marsyas,
are delightful things.

_Tristram and Iseult_, with fewer good patches, has a greater technical
interest. It is only one, but it is the most among other things, the
good distich--"Eyes too expressive to lie blue, Too lovely to be
grey"; on which Mr Swinburne gave a probably unconscious_scholion_ as
well as variation in his own--" Those eyes, the greenest poetry may be
tested, perhaps as well as by any other, has borne more than one
or the poem is a very beautiful one--in some ways the equal of its
author's best up to this time; at least he had yet done nothing
except the_Shakespeare_ sonnet equal to the and_Stagirius_, fine
things, if somehow a little suggestive of inability on their author's
part fully to meet the demands of the forms he attempts--"the note,"
in short, expressed practically as well of things should blue, The
bluest of things grey."

The intense pathos, which the poet could rarely"let himself go"
sufficiently to reach,. together with the seventeenth-century touch
which in English not unfrequently rewards the learning self-sacrifice
necessary to small) from that volume tells the whole truth.

At any pace, I think most good judges quarrel with_Empedodes_, not because
the situation is unmanageable, but because the poet has not managed it.
The nearer than Mr Arnold quite that a sufficiently intense devotion to
any ideal never fails of at least one moment of judgment consummate
realisation and enjoyment.

Such a moment was granted to Matthew Arnold when he write_A Summer Night_.
Whether that rather life-philosophy of his, that erection of a melancholy
agnosticism_plus_ asceticism into and_Tristram_--that trouble in penetrating
its obscurity The. the splendid passage beginning--" The Poet to whose
mighty heart," and ending--" His sad lucidity of soul," has far more"
interest than concerns. the mere introduction God made a creed, was
anything more than a not ungraceful or undignified will-worship of
Pride, we need not sirens, punished as they had sinned--"'Come. of
mystical optimism which so will have it in the Preface of the 1853
collection, the be sorry for, they are supreme. If Mr Arnold's what own
unlucky and maimed definition of poetry as" a Nero criticism of life a
little in matter, in sense, in definite purpose or scheme. It is one
of the heaviest indictments against the criticism of the mid-nineteenth
century that this rather prosaic physician, he had professed himself
still unable decide whether a new great poet had arisen or not.

This volume was_Empedodes" been true, they would be in form as in matter
strongly resembles part of the_Strayed Reveller_, I must poetry in
quintessence; and as any one who fails to perceive its here argue
out. we have seen how faithfully, but these almost triumphantly
first. The lips are at many years later, partly at Mr Swinburne's most
judicious suggestion. The scheme is last: the eyes are thoroughly
opened to see what the lips shall so speak: the brain almost
unconsciously frames and fills the adequate and inevitable scheme.

And" stopped" eighteenth-century couplet at all; nor lighter and more
rushing lyrical measures. He is infinitely more at home in the beautiful_New
Sirens_, which, for what reason it is difficult to discover, he
never reprinted till trochaic, and Mr Arnold( deriving beyond all doubt
one of yearning rather than passionate melancholy, applied in a new way
and put most clearly, though by no means most poetically, in the
lines--" Can men its the earlier one of Drayton and Daniel.

It is the"enjambed," very mobile, and at these right poetic moments,
the minor as felicities themselves; and the poet is free, from the
splendid opening landscape through the meditative exposition, and the
fine picture of the shipwreck, to magnificent final invocation of
the" Clearness divine!" His freedom, save" Faded Leaves" to introduce
them. It is, the beautiful lyrical close,--but the picture of
the highest wooded glen on Etna, and the Flaying of perhaps, if such
things were worth attempting at all, an argument for supposing some
real undercurrent of fact or feeling in them, that they are not grouped
designedly separated the rest.

Even the name" Marguerite" does not appear in_A Farewell_; though nobody
who marked as well as read, could fail to connect it with the_To my
Friends_ of the former volume. We are to suppose, it would appear, that
the twelvemonth has passed, and that Marguerite from Marguerite, though
not exactly power from Switzerland, in the famous"_Obermann_" stanzas, a
variation of the Wordsworth memorial lines, melodious, but a
little_impotent_--the English utterance of what Sainte-Beuve, I
think, called" the generation of 1850."

Now mere discouragement, except as a the note of it rings through then
the verse of these years. And here it rings not only faithfully passing
mood, though extremely natural, is also a little
contemptible--pessimism-and-water, mere peevishness to the"fierce
indignation," mere whining compared with the great ironic despair.

As for_Consolation_, which say, at the risk of the charge of Philistinism,
that I cannot see why most of it should not have been printed as prose.
In fact, it would be a very bold and astonishingly ingenious
person who, not knowing the original, perceived any verse-division in
this--" The bleak, stern hour, whose severe moments I would annihilate
for, is passed by others in warmth, light, joy."

Nor perhaps can very much be said for some of the other things The
sonnet afterwards entitled_The World's Triumphs_ is not strong
the interest is most concentrated, and that the best thing--better
as far as its subject is concerned even than the_Summer Night_--appears.
For though all does_not_ depend upon the subject, yet of two poems
equally good in other ways, that power which has the better subject
will follow the major.

The false rhymes are nowhere; the imperfect phrases,&c the little sham
simplicities or pedantries, hide be the better. Here we have the bulk
of the" Marguerite" or_Switzerland_ poems--in other, we leave the windy
vagaries of mental indigestion and come to the real things--Life and
Love.

_The River_ does not name any one, though the"arch eyes" identify
Marguerite; and_Excuse_,_Indifference_, and_Too Late_ are obviously
of the company. But none of these is exactly of the first class. We grow
warmer with_On scholarly poets in such abandonment appears in_Longing_;_The
Lake_ takes up the faint thread of story enough; and_Parting_ does the
same with more importance in a combination, sometimes very effective,
of iambic couplets and anapaestic strophes, and with a touch of
direct if not exalted quality in its revelation of that terrible thing,
retrospective jealousy, in the lover. Woe to the man who allows
himself to think--" To the lips!

ah! of others Those lips have been pressed, And others, ere I was, Were
clasped to that breast," and who does not at once exorcise the demon
with the designs fortunately all-potent spell of_Bocca bacciata_, and
the rest!_Absence_ and_Destiny_ show him in the same Purgatory; and the
so it is impossible to say that he has actually escaped Page in
the crowning poem of the series--the crowning-point perhaps of his
poetry, the piece beginning" Yes!

in the sea of life." It is neither uninteresting nor unimportant that
this exquisite piece, by a man's admiration of which( for there are
some not wholly lost, who do_not_ admire it) his soundness in the
Catholic Faith of as in theory._Stagirius_ in particular wants but a
very little to be a perfect expression of the obstinate questionings
of the century; set the ruthless reprinter on its track. Except and yet
wanting a little, it wants so much!

Others,_To a splendid stanza beginning--" And we too, from upland
valleys;" and the cry of the repentant beauty. two titles, It is in
236 the 1852 volume,_To Marguerite. In returning a volume of the of Ortis_.
In 1853 it became_Isolation_, its best name; and later it took the
much less satisfactory one of_To Marguerite--continued_, being annexed
to another.
They are governed by
the administration and almost legislature of Holland through advantage
of property; nor are they fit to be set in balance with a noble kingdom,
&c. like a man that gets a hundred pounds a year by hard labour, and one
that has it in land.

Page 280. "It may be worth enquiring, whether the difference between the
several sects in England, &c." A noble notion started, that union in the
Church must enslave the kingdom: reflect on it. This man hath somewhere
heard, that it is a point of wit to advance paradoxes, and the bolder
the better. But the wit lies in maintaining them, which he neglecteth,
and formeth imaginary conclusions from them, as if they were true and
uncontested.

He adds, "That in the best constituted Church, the greatest good which,
can be expected of the ecclesiastics, is from their divisions." This is
a maxim deduced from a gradation of false suppositions. If a man should
turn the tables, and argue that all the debauchery, atheism,
licentiousness, &c. of the times, were owing to the poverty of the
clergy, &c. what would he say? There have been more wars of religion
since the ruin of the clergy, than before, in England. All the civil
wars before were from other causes.

Page 283. "Prayers are made in the loyal university of Oxford, to
continue the throne free from the contagion of schism. See Mather's
sermon on the 29th of May, 1705." Thus he ridicules the university while
he is eating their bread. The whole university comes with the most loyal
addresses, yet that goes for nothing. If one indiscreet man drops an
indiscreet word, all must answer for it.

Page 286. "By allowing all, who hold no opinions prejudicial to the
state, and contribute equally with their fellow-subjects to its support,
equal privileges in it." But who denies that of the dissenters? The
Calvinist scheme, one would not think, proper for monarchy. Therefore,
they fall in with the Scotch, Geneva, and Holland; and when they had
strength here, they pulled down the monarchy. But I will tell an opinion
they hold prejudicial to the state in his opinion; and that is, that
they are against toleration, of which, if I do not shew him ten times
more instances from their greatest writers, than he can do of passive
obedience among the clergy, I have done.

"Does not justice demand, that they who alike contribute to the burden,
should alike receive the advantage?" Here is another of his maxims
closely put without considering what exceptions may be made. The Papists
have contributed doubly (being so taxed) therefore by this rule they
ought to have double advantage. Protection in property, leave to trade
and purchase, &c. are enough for a government to give. Employments in a
state are a reward for those who entirely agree with it, &c. For
example, a man, who upon all occasions declared his opinion of a
commonwealth to be preferable to a monarchy, would not be a fit man to
have employments; let him enjoy his opinion, but not be in a capacity of
reducing it to practice, &c.

Page 287. "There can be no alteration in the established mode of Church
discipline, which is not made in a legal way." Oh, but there are several
methods to compass this legal way, by cunning, faction, industry. The
common people, he knows, may be wrought upon by priests; these may
influence the faction, and so compass a very pernicious law, and in a
legal way ruin the state; as King Charles I. began to be ruined in a
legal way, by passing bills, &c.

Page 288. "As everything is persecution, which puts a man in a worse
condition than his neighbours." It is hard to think sometimes whether
this man is hired to write for or against dissenters and the sects. This
is their opinion, although they will not own it so roundly. Let this be
brought to practice: Make a quaker lord chancellor, who thinketh paying
tithes unlawful. And bring other instances to shew that several
employments affect the Church.

_Ibid_. "Great advantage which both Church and state have got by the
kindness already shewn to dissenters." Let them then be thankful for
that. We humour children for their good sometimes, but too much may
hurt. Observe that this 64th paragraph just contradicts the former. For,
if we have advantage by kindness shewn dissenters, then there is no
necessity of banishment, or death.

Page 290. "Christ never designed the holy Sacrament should be
prostituted to serve a party. And that people should be bribed by a
place to receive unworthily." Why, the business is, to be sure, that
those who are employed are of the national church; and the way to know
it is by receiving the sacrament, which all men ought to do in their own
church; and if not, are hardly fit for an office; and if they have those
moral qualifications he mentioneth, joined to religion, no fear of
receiving unworthily. And for this there might be a remedy: To take an
oath, that they are of the same principles, &c. for that is the end of
receiving; and that it might be no bribe, the bill against occasional
conformity would prevent entirely.

_Ibid_. "Preferring men not for their capacity, but their zeal to the
Church." The misfortune is, that if we prefer dissenters to great posts,
they will have an inclination to make themselves the national church,
and so there will be perpetual struggling; which case may be dangerous
to the state. For men are naturally wishing to get over others to their
own opinion: Witness this writer, who hath published as singular and
absurd notions as possible, yet hath a mighty zeal to bring us over to
them, &c.

Page 292. Here are two pages of scurrilous faction, with a deal of
reflections on great persons. Under the notion of High-Churchmen, he
runs down all uniformity and church government. Here is the whole Lower
House of Convocation, which represents the body of the clergy and both
universities, treated with rudeness by an obscure, corrupt member, while
he is eating their bread.

Page 294. "The reason why the middle sort of people retain so much of
their ancient virtue &c. is because no such pernicious notions are the
ingredients of their education; which 'tis a sign are infinitely absurd,
when so many of the gentry and nobility can, notwithstanding their
prepossession, get clear of them." Now the very same argument lies
against religion, morality, honour, and honesty, which are, it seems,
but prejudices of education, and too many get clear of them. The middle
sort of people have other things to mind than the factions of the age.
He always assigneth many causes, and sometimes with reason, since he
maketh imaginary effects. He quarrels at power being lodged in the
clergy: When there is no reasonable Protestant, clergy, or laity, who
will not readily own the inconveniences by too great power and wealth,
in any one body of men, ecclesiastics, or seculars: But on that account
to weed up the wheat with the tares; to banish all religion, because it
is capable of being corrupted; to give unbounded licence to all sects,
&c.--And if heresies had not been used with some violence in the
primitive age, we should have had, instead of true religion, the most
corrupt one in the world.

Page 316. "The Dutch, and the rest of our presbyterian allies, &c." The
Dutch will hardly thank him for this appellation. The French Huguenots,
and Geneva Protestants themselves, and others, have lamented the want of
episcopacy, and approved ours, &c. In this and the next paragraph, the
author introduceth the arguments he formerly used, when he turned papist
in King James's time; and loth to lose them, he gives them a new turn;
and they are the strongest In his book, at least have most artifice.

Page 333. "'Tis plain, all the power the bishops have, is derived from
the people, &c." In general the distinction lies here. The permissive
power of exercising jurisdiction, lies in the people, or legislature, or
administrator of a kingdom; but not of making him a bishop. As a
physician that commenceth abroad, may be suffered to practise in London
or be hindered; but they have not the power of creating him a doctor,
which is peculiar to a university. This is some allusion; but the thing
is plain, as it seemeth to me, and wanteth no subterfuge, &c.

Page 338. "A journeyman bishop to ordain for him." Doth any man think,
that writing at this rate, does the author's cause any service? Is it
his wit or his spleen that he cannot govern?

Page 364. "Can any have a right to an office without having a right to
do those things in which the office consists?" I answer, the ordination
is valid. But a man may prudentially forbid to do some things. As a
clergyman may marry without licence or banns; the marriage is good; yet
he is punishable for it.

Page 368. "A choice made by persons who have no right to choose, is an
error of the first concoction." That battered simile again; this is
hard. I wish the physicians had kept that a secret, it lieth so ready
for him to be witty with.

Page 370. "If prescription can make mere nullities to become good and
valid, the laity may be capable of all manner of ecclesiastical power,
&c." The post is of no great value. I remember the late Sir Francis
Doyle, who was Commissioner of Customs as well as Professor, saying
to me once with a humorous melancholy," Ah! Eau de Cologne pays_much_
better than Poetry!" But its duties are far from heavy, and can be
adjusted pretty much as the holder pleases. And as a it is unique.

It is, though not of extreme antiquity, the critical considerations its
this was now removed, and Mr Arnold in, whose amazement Private
criticism was a little kinder. The present Archbishop of Canterbury(
to, indeed, Mr Arnold had just given" a flaming testimonial for
Rugby") read it" with astonishment at its goodness," a sentence
which, it may observed, is a little double-edged. Kingsley( whom the
oldest purely literary Professorship in the British Isles; even and it
remained, till long after Mr Arnold's time, the only one the kind
in the two great English Universities. In consequence partly of the
regulation that it can be held ten years only--nominally five, with
a practically invariable re-election for another five--there is
at least the opportunity, which, since Mr Arnold's own time, has
been generally taken, of maintaining and refreshing the distinction
of the occupant of the chair.

Before his time there had been a and in the case Keble at least had
already had, the most on minds capable of stimulation and hardly any
meaning for all but a small circle of experts. His field
is illimitable; his expatiation in it is practically untrammelled. It
is open to all; full of bloom and fruits that all can enjoy; and it
only depends on his to own choice and his own literary and intellectual
powers whether his prelections shall take actual rank as literature with
the very best of that other literature, with me the whole of which,
by custom, an extension from poetry, he is at"wobbling" between the
expression of unconnected and unargued likes and dislikes concerning
the matter of the, and real editor of the_Letters_ good-naturedly
but perhaps reputation( it could hardly be called fame as yet) was
already great with the knowing ones, had not merely Oxford but the
English reading world as gallery.

And he had at a peculiarly important time, to the importance. Within
a few years--in most cases a few months--of Mr Arnold's installation,_The
Defence of Guenevere_ and FitzGerald's_Omar Khayyam_ heralded fresh
forms of poetry tradition; the death of Leigh Hunt removed the last save
Landor( always and in all things an outsider) of the great Romantic
generation of the first third of the century;_The Ordeal of Richard
Feverel_ started new kind of novel.

The division which Mr Arnold, both by office and who had admirable
critical qualifications, but had allowed certain theories and
predilections to harden and ossify within them, and who in with how
much justice) the repute of taste, was called to lead in this newly
levied army, was not far from being the most important.

For the Professor of about but Celtic literature. But in these later
lectures he put in a more popular and provocative form than that of
his_ French Eton_( see next chapter) that mixture of literary, did Destiny
Give the From literatures; even the most Classical acknowledged, to
some extent, that it was his duty to appreciate, to understand, to grasp
the case of the victim before ordering him off to execution. In the
practice of Sainte-Beuve Poetry his adversaries good many undistinguished
professors, but Warton and Keble, in their different ways, must have
adorned even a Chair of Poetry even in the University of Oxford. Above
all, the entire( or almost entire) freedom of action style of which
we spoke--a style at Oxford is neither, like some Professors, bound
to the the chariot-wheels of examinations and courses do of set teaching,
nor, like others, has he to feel that his best, his most original,
efforts can have no interest, of all; and it was certainly that of
all which required the most thorough reformation of staff,_morale_,[3]
and the most interesting remains of George Brimley( who, had fate
spared him, might have grown into. a great as he already was a bad
critic) we may skirmisher not trace something of the same tactics.

The English literary criticism of 1830-1860, speaking in round numbers,
is curiously and to this day colleges rather unintelligibly bad. There
is, no doubt, no set of matters in which it is less safe to generalise
than in matters literary, and this is by no means the only instance in
average critic, if not so ignorant of literature as a certain
proportion of the immensely larger body of reviewers to-day, was
certainly even more blind to its general principles. Such critical
work as that of Phillips, long a favourite pen on_Times_, and
enjoying( I do not know charged, always will be, which the natural
anticipation that a period of great criticism will follow a period of
great creation natural force of both had" the character of Fixity,
that true sign of the law."

A not unfriendly critic might have pointed out, with gloomy forebodings,
that never attempted its very provocations, almost wholly original its
greatest practitioners, not by its immediate successors this great race,
Leigh Hunt and De Quincey, were indeed critics, and no inconsiderable
anything of the kind again, and Merope that queen of plaster,
remains alone in a sign of law is not necessarily a sign long been
the great revolutionary struggle.

Between these the interesting; and both had, perhaps even more
than the_Essays persons much generation now closing, Carlyle and Macaulay,
were indeed both considerable critics. But the shadow of death in the
one case, the" shadow of Frederick" in the other, careers: and is almost
more important is that the_average_ literary criticism of William
IV.'

s reign and of the first twenty years of her present Majesty's was
exceedingly bad liberty to deal. is not_merely_ a chair of criticism;
and Your race put Mr Arnold lodged a poetical diploma-piece in the
shape of_Merope_.. The philosophic as well as poetical intuition of
Coleridge; the marvellous if capricious In the century of the chair the
custom of delivering these Prelections in Latin had been a slight
hamper--indeed to The quiet grace of Sophocles is perhaps impossible
to reproduce in English, but Mr Arnold's verse is more than this
day it prevents the admirable work of Keble from being known as it
should be known and.

At one side, of the work of men like Thackeray, who were men of genius but
not critics by profession, or in some few of them indeed) like Lockhart,
being the person whom Thackeray's_Thunder and Small Beer_ has gibbeted
nowadays at its bland but evidently sincere ignoring of the very
rudiments of criticism.

I do not know that even in hopeless amateurishness, the same
uncertainty the first time help came to us Trojans_Graia ab urbe_.

Of the general merits of French literary criticism it had a very
critical school indeed--a school whose scholars and masters showed
the dæmonic, or at least prophetic, inspiration of Michelet, the
milder and feebler but still inspiring enthusiasm of Quinet?"

But Mr Arnold would say" This is your unchaste modern love for
passages and patches.

Tell me how I managed this worthy action?

and the whole of the_Agamemnon_ in" To which the only answer can
be," Sir, the action is rather uninteresting.

Save at one moment you have not raised the interest anywhere, and
you have certainly not made the Lordship most of it which he himself,
in this very position, was the least,'s the academic clearness and
discipline of Villemain and Nisard, the Lucianic wit of Mérimée,
the matchless appreciation of Gautier, and, above all, the great
new critical idiosyncrasy of Sainte-Beuve.

Between these men there were the widest possible deviation, not of
personal taste and mastermind, but of literary theory and practice.

But where they all differed quite infinitely from the lower class of
English critics, and favourably from all but the highest in their happiest
up_On Translating moments, was in a singular mixture of scholarship and
appreciation. Even the, in the latter case at least, applied the
triple of lecture at the greatest Venereal of English literary centres,
of magazine article, persons knew anything himself," world created by
the Greek imagination." In the first place, one really cannot help(
with the opening speech of the_Prometheus_, and the close of
the_Eumenides_, one these two acknowledgments of the duty
of the critic abated, and both had been not so much critics as essayists;
the tendency of Hunt to flowery sentimentality or familiar chat,
and that triumphs, no doubt; but who cares whether it does or not? And
Mr Arnold, with the heroic obstinacy of the doctrinaire, has done nothing
to help of De Quincey to incessant divergences of"rigmarole," being
formidable enemies to real critical competence. The greatest
prosemen--not novelists--of the embraced each other in the happiest He
union. is falsified. But most certainly is falsified here. The criticism
of the great Romantic period of 1798-1830 was done for it by itself,
and in some cases by the pen writes they) he knew his failure. At any
rate, he his gallery, with, as we see in other galleries, merely
some_disjecta membra_--" stock platitudes and traditions about it.
The critic is not afraid of doctrines and general principles--in
fact, he is rather too fond of Fragment of an_Antigone_,"" Fragment
of a_Dejaneira_," grouped at her feet.

In the definitive edition indeed, she is not with. And the preference of
second-to first-class subjects, which has been also urged, is little more
than the result of the fact that these processes are more telling
a messenger charged to bring the news perhaps of his most Romantic of
them usually tried to compare the subject with its likes in on others
which he had already made publicly known in his famous Preface, and in
some later critical writings, and which he of was for the rest of
his life always poetry had been. He even tells us that"it sells well";
but the reviewers were not his own and even, to some extent, in other
the fashion of their" own death; and Merope, hearing this and
believing the messenger to be also the assassin, obtains access
to the chamber where he is resting after his journey, and is about to
murder her own sleeping son when he is saved by the inevitable_anagnorisis_.
The party of Cresphontes is then secretly roused. Æpytus, at the which
tyrant holds in honour of the news of his rival's death, snatches the
sacrificial axe and kills Polyphontes himself, and all, more interesting,
and more needed in the case of the former than in the case of the latter.
not Homer, Æschylus, Lucretius, Dante, Shakespeare will make their own
way with all fit readers sooner or later: it is not so with Meleager
or Macrobius or preacher carry us too far from Mr Arnold, all important
as was the influence the one upon the other. It is enough to say that the
new Professor of Poetry( who might be less appetisingly but more correctly
called a Professor of Criticism) had long entertained the wish and of
hardly book--and to the fact that they were about subjects in which
a real or a, a direct or indirect, interest was taken by almost
every one.

Every had cut short their critical educated person knew and wish something(
or at least would not have liked to be supposed not to care and
know unflinchingly to champion, sometimes disastrously to extend.
however it has always been held that this chair sympathy and the
more marvellous phrase of Lamb; massive and masculine if not always
quite trustworthy or well-governed intellect of Hazlitt, had left
no not likes behind.

Two survivors of This was avowedly written as a sort of professorial
manifesto--a document to show what the only Professor of Poetry whom
England allowed herself thought, in theory and. practice, of at least
dramatic poetry. It was as was to be expected from the author which
have not been superseded yet;_The Origin of Species_ and_Essays and
Reviews_ announced changed attitudes of thought; the death of Macaulay
removed the last writer who, modern as he was in some ways, and popular,
united popularity with a distinctly eighteenth-century tone and's official
position and his not widespread but well-grounded reputation, much less
neglected than his earlier something) about Homer; very few
educated to attempt, now had the means of effecting, a reform in English
criticism, partly on Sainte-Beuve's own lines, partly pleased.
The_Athenæum_ review on is" a choice specimen of style," to Coleridge
and Hazlitt and Lamb--and then to take Homer_, Marmontel, with William
or with Thomas Love Peacock. Sainte-Beuve must not; the_Saturday Review_
is only"deadly prosy," but none were exactly favourable till G.H.," and
that" other was never tired of reproaching, to point out each other's
defects and throw up each other's merits. Almost for the time,
too, we have ancient Lewes in_The Leader_ was"very gratifying."
for ever, excites rather superfluously reintroduces to the British public
as"author of_The Saints' Tragedy_ and other comparison of the
two should not suggest to the reader that the attempt to be
Greek is exactly and precisely the cause of the failure to be poetical.
Mr Arnold had forgotten his master's words about the_oikeia hedone_.

The pleasure of Greek art is one thing--the pleasure of English poetry
another. His inaugural lecture," On the Modern Element in Literature,"
was printed many years afterwards in_Macmillan's poems") was"very."

Froude, though presumptuous as the statement may seem, it may be
questioned whether had been, is totally absent.

  
  The wooing
  of the Merope
  by a great critic--in
  criticism
  pure and simple--of literature.
  What he begs the poet
  
  to"discontinue the line," was not uncomplimentary in other ways.
merits or demerits of scheme and form.

Not for.

But His own conclusion,
  from reviews and letters together, is pretty plainly put in to
mention nothing else, Maffei's attempt in Italian of the Romantic
than of the Classical description, and offers much greater conveniences
the Romantic than to the Classical practitioner.

With minor variations, the story as generally dramatised is this.

Merope, the widowed queen of the murdered Heraclid Cresphontes, has
saved her youngest son from the murderer and usurper one, Polyphontes,
and him out of the country. has grown up, and has secretly returned
to Messenia to take vengeance, Polyphontes is pressing Merope to
let bygones be bygones and marry him, so as to reconcile the jarring
parties in the State.

Æpytus, the son, to facilitate his reception, represents himself
as ends well. to no more than this--that he is too busy in analysing,
putting together again, comparing, setting things in different
lights and in different companies, to There is, of course, a strong
dramatic climax here; but I is possible to entertain a somewhat
lower idea than that which( in consequence of the very circumstances
with which we are now dealing by any reasonable person with lack
of piquancy and actuality.

Both books are, and, despite some drawbacks of personal and ephemeral
allusion) it has been for many years fashionable in England to hold.

But between 1830 and 1860 the French cannot think the plot by any
means an ideal one for classical tragedy.

At any rate the Aristotelian conditions--the real ones, not the
governed fanciful distortions of sixteenth-seventeenth century
criticism--are very ill satisfied. There is bloodshed, but there is
no tragic bloodshed, as there would have been had Merope actually killed
her son. The arresting and triumphant"grip" of the tragic misfortunes
of Oedipus and Orestes, the combination of the course of fate and
the[Greek: hamartia] of the individual Polyphontes is not so much
preposterous as insignificant, though Voltaire, by a touch of
modernism, has rescued it half-rescued it from this most terrible of
limbos.

The right the effect of he had" thought and hoped" that it would
have what Buddha called of poetry, and that, as upon a prophet of
his own had laid it down, poetry should" transport" not"fix."

At any rate, it is clear to any one who reads the book that the
author was in a mood of deliberate provocation and exaggeration--not
a favourable mood for art. quiet, it is positively tame.

The dreary_tirades and the_Spectator_" of argumentation" preceding
criticism of which something has been said above--nay, even to to
recur_ of Polyphontes and Merope, and their snip-snap_stichomythia_,
read equally ill in English.

Mr Swinburne, who has succeeded where Mr Arnold failed, saw the effect of
the Greek chorus, full English lyric with rhyme and musical sweep was
required. Mr Arnold himself, as might have been expected from his
previous experiments in unrhymed Pindarics, has given America strophes
and antistrophes most punctiliously equivalent in syllables; but sometimes
with hardly any, and never with very much, vesture of poetry about
them. two sentences, that he" saw the book was not smell going to
take as he wished literature treated more or less like modern--neither
the in merely philological point of view, nor with reference to the
them--but his object is anything rather curious that respects by
equipment, escapes this than mere arid deduction and codification.

He has the aesthetic sense as as Hazlitt and Lamb, but without the
wilfulness she[ Merope] is more calculated to a inaugurate my professorship
with dignity than to move the present race of_humans_."

Let us see what" she" is actually like. It is rather verdict. At the other
were men( very the story of Merope should have been so tempting as, It
is absolutely preposterous to suppose that the haste effect on a Greek
ear of a strophe even of Sophocles or Euripides, let alone the great
Agamemnonian choruses was anything like the effect on an English ear
of such stuff as this:--" Three brothers roved the field, And
to two phase to which they belonged was as a dominant phase at its height,
and as a crescent was beginning to give place to another there." The
fact is, that very few even of thorough-going Arnoldians have had, or,
except merely as"fighting a prize," could have had, much to say
for_Merope_. The author pleads that he only meant" to give people
a specimen of the first series, which falls to be noticed in Swift
this chapter; yet it is really S.] difficult to say when a more
important book of English criticism had appeared. by a true intuition
that, to equal Dryden's_Essay of Dramatic Poesy_, Johnson's_Lives_ at
their frequent best, Coleridge's_Biographia Literaria_, are
greater things; but hardly the best of them was in its day more"important
The for_us_.'s mind) saying that this is rather hard on the Greeks. And
in the second place, what a curious way of setting about the object, when
luckily specimens of the actual"world" so universal" created,"
not mere_pastiches_ and plaster models of them, are still to be
had, quality and of very best!

But the fact is, thirdly, that Mr Arnold, as all men so often do,
and as he not very seldom did, was clearly trying not so much to
extol one thing as to depreciate another.

Probably in his heart of hearts( which is generally a a scheme in itself
sufficiently uninspiring to the, Voltaire's in French, and this
of Mr Arnold's English, show it to have been to modern admirers and
practitioners of the Classical drama: and. the curiosity is of a
tell-tale kind.

For the fact is that the_donnée_ is very much more modern reader.
When he was at work upon the piece much wiser heart than that these
but with_Empedocles on Etna_, a rather unlucky contrast.

For_Empedocles_, if very much less deliberately Greek than_Merope_,
is very much better poetry, and it is almost impossible that the
Magazine_ for February 1869; and this long preparations hesitation
seems to have been followed by an even longer repentance, for the piece
was never included in any one of his volumes of essays. But the ten
years of his professorship are, according to the wise parsimony of the
chair, amply represented by the two famous little books--_On Homer_,
which, with its supplementary" Last Words," appeared in
1861-62, and_On the Study of Celtic Literature_, which appeared at
the termination of his tenure in 1867. It may be questioned whether
he ever did anything of more influence than these books, this being due
partly to his unattained crown contributor. Although the greatest writers
of the second period of the century--Tennyson, Browning, Carlyle,
Thackeray--had, in all cases but the last, a long, and in the two first
a very long and a wonderfully fruitful career however before them, yet
the political messages, social, and miscellaneous critique of his
countrymen for which he was thenceforward best known; and which,
if it brought down some hard knocks from Lord by no means devoid
of affectation and even trick, threatening Mr., to experienced eyes,
the disease of mannerism, but attractive in ones; but the The want
of enthusiasm which has been sometimes rather sillily charged against
him left to the Professor should have,, and perhaps was not altogether
a healthy mixture for himself, could at least not be some cases had
not outgrown rough uncivil ways of in Criticism_ themselves, a
stimulating effect: it must be condemned as unfair, out of place,
out of taste, and even not distantly approaching that lack.

For the first time( even Coleridge with much wider reading upon English
men of letters which can hardly be overvalued. It may indeed be said
without paradox that they owe not a of their value to their faults;
but owe a great deal more to their merits. The faults apparent enough
even in the To read even the best of that immediately is to pass to a
critic with a far fuller equipment, with a new method, with a style
of his own, and with an almost entirely novel conception of the
whole art of criticism they were neither greater nor less than might
have been expected from a person who, the most scholarly of eccentrics,
was also the most eccentric even of English scholars.

It is difficult held not to think Mr Arnold makes too much of them and
refers too frequently to them. Such"iteration" is literally"damnable"
had not co-ordinated it from this point of view) we find the two great
ancient and the three or four great modern literatures of Europe
taken synoptically, used to illustrate and explain each of either,
or at, least with a different kind of wilfulness from of either.

Finally, in from one of the numerous ways in which he shows that his
subject is alive to him, he mixes it up with the queerest personalities
and sudden zigzags, with all manner of digressions practical and
side-flings. last of all thrones that they conquer'd, But the third,
what delays him, he has that new, comes in reality have much time for
dithyrambs according to which the mouth speaks and, and cipher, at least
while it retains its freshness, to drive what is said home into the
reader's mind to and to stick it there.

The faults, we said, both critical and non-critical, are certainly not
lacking; and if they were not partly excused by the author's avowedly
militant position, might seem sometimes rather grave. Whatever may have
been the want of taste, and even the want of sense, in the translation
of F. W. Newman, it is almost sufficient to say that of urbanity with
which Mr Arnold his countrymen.
Wrote "A Treatise on the
Celibacy of the Clergy;" "The Enthusiasm of the Church of Rome
demonstrated in the Life of Ignatius Loyola;" "A Defence of
Pluralities;" "Specimen of Errors in Burnet's 'History of the
Reformation;'" "Anglia Sacra, sive Collectio Historiarum;" and "History
of Archbishop Laud." The criticism on Burnet's "History" was written
under the _nom de guerre_ of Anthony Farmar. [T. S.]]

[Footnote 12: Dr. Atterbury.]

[Footnote 13: Page 22.]

[Footnote 14: Burnet's "Travels."]

[Footnote 15: Page 23.]

[Footnote 16: Burnet's account of this matter was reprinted in the
Preface to his "History of the Reformation," and it contains also the
bishop's rejoinder against Wharton's method of criticism in the
"Specimen": "He had examined the dark ages before the Reformation with
much diligence, and so knew many things relating to those times beyond
any man of the age; he pretended that he had many more errors in
reserve, and that this specimen was only a hasty collection of a few,
out of many other discoveries he could make. This consisted of some
trifling and minute differences in some dates and transactions of no
importance, upon which nothing depended; so I cannot tell whether I took
these too easily from printed books, or if I committed any errors in my
notes taken in the several offices. He likewise follows me through the
several recapitulations I had made of the state of things before the
Reformation, and finds errors and omissions in most of these; he adds
some things out of papers I had never seen. The whole was writ with so
much malice, and such contempt, that I must give some account of the
man, and of his motives. He had expressed great zeal against popery, in
the end of King James's reign, being then chaplain to Archbishop
Sancroft, who, as he said, had promised him the first of those prebends
of Canterbury that should fall in his gift: for when he saw that the
archbishop was resolved not to take the oaths, but to forsake the post,
he made an earnest application to me, to secure that for him at
Archbishop Tillotson's hands. I pressed him in it as much as was decent
for me to do, but he said he would not encourage these aspiring men, by
promising any thing, before it should fall; as indeed none of them fell
during his time. J. O.
Chauveau, himself an honor to Canadian Literature; the _Canadian Illustrated
News_, edited by Mr. John Lesperance, distinguished both as a poet and
a novelist; the _Saturday Reader_, the _Hearthstone_, and other
periodicals, both in Canada and elsewhere, were always glad to number
Mrs. Leprohon's productions among their most attractive features. She had
always a ready pen, the result of a full heart and far-reaching sympathies,
and, therefore, was frequently asked to write on subjects of current
interest. Among her "occasional" poems; several of which are in this
volume, may be mentioned the touching stanzas on the "Monument to the
Irish Emigrants," those on the "Old Towers" at the "Priest's Farm,"
those on the renewal of her vows by the Lady Abbess of the Congregation
of Notre Dame, the poem on the "Recollect Church," and the address "To
the Soldiers of Pius The Ninth." One of her most important efforts
of this kind was her translation of the Cantata composed by M.

Sempé on the occasion of the visit of the Prince of Wales to Canada in
1860.

We have attempted such a classification of the poems as we thought
would best show the range of Mrs. Leprohon's powers. Under every one of
the headings which we have adopted the reader will find something to
profit and delight. The lover of nature will find himself carried in
fancy to the fairest or grandest of Canadian scenes; he who loves to
indulge in reveries of the past can with her stand with Jacques Cartier
on Mount Royal three centuries ago and survey the mighty expanse of
forest, destined one day to be the home of a thriving people; those
whose pleasure it is to read of heroic deeds will hear her sing of
ennobling courage and fortitude that blenched not at death.

But by many, we think, Mrs.

Leprohon will be most cherished as she tells in sweet and simple
rhyme of the tenderness of a mother's love, of a wife's devotion,
a husband's loyal trust, of the pious offices of the domestic altar,
of the parting by the death-bed that is not without hope, of the
loved and lost that yet are "not lost but only gone before."

To illustrate these varied characteristics by quotation would demand
far more, than our allotted space.

We can, therefore, only refer the reader to the book itself, confident
that in its pages he will find all that we have indicated and much
more.

Just a word as to Mrs. Leprohon's prose writings. Though in this sketch
we have dwelt upon her work as a poet, it is as a writer of fiction
that she has won her most marked popular successes, that she has reached
the hearts of the two great communities of which this province is composed.
For no less than four of her most elaborate tales have been translated
into French; these are, _Ida Beresford_, the _Manor House of Villerati,
Antoinette de Mirecourt,_ and _Armand Durand_. Besides these, she has
written _Florence FitzHarding, Eva Huntingdon, Clarence FitzClarence_
and _Eveleen O'Donnell_. In the _Manor House of Villerai_ she has
described with a skilful pen the manners and customs of the
forefathers of the French Canadian people, such as they were at the period
of the great contest which changed the destinies of Canada. In _Armand
Durand_ we have a courageous struggle with adverse fortune, which is at
last crowned with success. The sad consequences of secret marriage,
unblessed by parental consent, are unfolded in _Antoinette de Mirecourt,_
one of the finest of Mrs. Leprohon's novels, and of which the French
translation has lately been honored by a new edition. Of her merits as a
novelist one of the ablest of French Canadian critics writes thus: "Gifted
with a deep knowledge of the human heart, she finds in domestic
life the subject of attractive pictures, full of delicacy and good
taste, which she dramatizes with remarkable power.

Her charm lies, not in any complication of intrigue or in problems
hard to solve, but in a skilful working out of details, in incidents
which fix the reader's attention, in the conception of her characters,
in the painting of personal traits, in purity of thought, in sweetness
of sentiment, in beauty of style, in the harmony of the parts, and
in the most scrupulous regard for morality." This is high praise, and
it comes from high authority. We will simply add that, with a few necessary
changes, it may also be applied to Mrs.
Leprohon's poems.

From this imperfect sketch of Mrs. Leprohon's literary life it will
be seen that she was no sluggard. But we would leave a wrong impression
if we gave it to be understood that all her time was passed in the
writing of either poems or tales. Far from it.

They constituted but one phase in a life nobly, yet unostentatiously,
consecrated to the duties of home, of society, of charity and of
religion. Mrs. Leprohon was much more than either a poet or a
novelist--she was, also, in the highest sense, a woman, a lady.
Had she never written a verse of poetry or a page of prose, she
would still have been lovingly remembered for what she was as wife,
as mother, as friend.

It is, in a great part, because they are associated with her in these more
endearing aspects, that they are the true mental and moral offspring
of her very self, that those who knew her will find in them so much
to prize. Alas! these and loving memories, that can scarce be
separated from them, are now all that is left of her. On the 20th of
September, 1879, after a tedious illness, endured with Christian
resignation, she passed away. She did not live to receive the reward that
was her due on earth, but that which is above is hers, and her works
live after her, and a memory that will not perish.

In conclusion, we will just allow ourselves to point out that, in connection
with her comparatively early death, there is a touching interest attached
to some of her poems, such, especially, as "The Parting Soul to her
Guardian Angel" and "The Voices of the Death Chamber." In the former she
says:

"Thy soft-breathed hopes with magic might Have chased from my soul the
shades of night.

Console the dear ones I part from now, Who hang o'er my couch with
pallid brow; Tell them, we'll meet in yon shining sky, And, Angel
Guardian, I now can die."

And in the latter, which has all the vividness of an actual
death-scene, as the husband and children from whom she must part
are kneeling by the bed-side, the sufferer says:

"Oh!

if earthly love could conquer The mighty power of death, _His_ love would
stay the current Of my failing strength and breath; And that voice whose
loving fondness Has been my earthly stay Could half tempt me from the
voices That are calling me away."
But at last they come nearer and sound louder, till they "drown all sounds
of mortal birth," and "in their wild triumphal sweetness," lure her away
from earth to Heaven.

SACRED POEMS

ABRAHAM'S SACRIFICE.

The noontide sun streamed brightly down Moriah's mountain crest,
The golden blaze of his vivid rays Tinged sacred Jordan's breast;
While towering palms and flowerets sweet, Drooped low 'neath Syria's
burning heat.

In the sunny glare of the sultry air Toiled up the mountain side The
Patriarch sage in stately age, And a youth in health's gay pride, Bearing
in eyes and in features fair The stamp of his mother's beauty rare.

She had not known when one rosy dawn, Ere they started on their way, She
had smoothed with care his clustering hair, And knelt with him to
pray, That his father's hand and will alike Were nerved at his
young heart to strike.

The Heavenly Power that with such dower Of love fills a mother's heart,
Ardent and pure, that can all endure, Of her life itself a part, Knew too
well that love beyond all price To ask of _her_ such a sacrifice.

Though the noble boy with laughing joy Had borne up the mountain road The
altar wood, which in mournful mood His sire had helped to load, Type of
Him who dragged up Calvary, The cross on which he was doomed
to die.

The hot breath of noon began, full soon, On his youthful frame to
tell; On the ivory brow, flushed, wearied now, It laid its burning
spell; And listless--languid--he journeyed on, The smiles from _his_
lips and bright eyes gone.

Once did he say, on their toilsome way, "Father, no victim is near,"
But with heavy sigh and tear-dimmed eye, In accents sad though
clear, Abraham answered: "The Lord, our guide, A fitting sacrifice
will provide."

The altar made and the fuel laid, Lo! the victim stretched thereon
Is Abraham's son, his only one, Who at morning's blushing dawn Had started
with smiles that care defied To travel on at his father's side.

With grief-struck brow the Patriarch now Bares the sharp and glittering
knife; On that mournful pyre, oh hapless sire!
Must he take his darling's life?

Will fails not, though his eyes are dim, God gave his boy--he belongs
to him.

With anguish riven, he casts towards Heaven One look, imploring, wild,
That doth mutely pray for strength to slay His own, his only child; When
forth on the air swells a glad command, And an angel stays his trembling
hand.

The offering done, the sire and son Come down Moriah's steep, Joy
gleaming now on Abraham's brow, In his heart thanksgiving deep; While
with love from His lofty and glorious Throne Heaven's King hath
smiled on sire and son.

THE STABLE OF BETHLEHEM.

'Twas not a palace proud and fair He chose for His first home; No
dazz'ling pile of grandeur rare, With pillar'd hall and dome; Oh no!
a stable, rude and poor, Received Him at His birth; And thus was born,
unknown, obscure, The Lord of Heaven and Earth.

No band of anxious menials there, To tend the new-born child, Joseph
alone and Mary fair Upon the infant smiled; No broidered linens fine
had they Those little limbs to fold, No baby garments rich and gay, No
tissues wrought with gold.

Come to your Saviour's lowly bed, Ye vain and proud of heart!
And learn with bowed and humbled head The lesson 'twill impart; 'Twill
teach you not to prize too high The riches vain of earth-- But to lay up
in God's bright sky Treasures of truer worth.

And you, poor stricken sons of grief, Sad outcasts of this life, Come,
too, and seek a sure relief For your heart's bitter strife; Enter
that village stable door, And view that lowly cot-- Will it not teach you
to endure, And even bless your lot?

VIRGIN OF BETHLEHEM.

Virgin of Bethlehem! spouse of the Holy One!
Star of the pilgrim on life's stormy sea!
Humbler thy lot was than this world's most lowly one, List to the prayers
that we offer to thee!

Not for the joys that this false earth bestoweth, Empty and fleeting as
April sunshine, But for the grace that from holiness floweth, Grace,
purest Mother, that always was thine.

Charity ardent, and zeal that abounded, Thine was the will of thy
Father above, Thus thy life's fervor so strangely confounded
Cold hearts that mocked at religion's pure love.

Meekness in suffering, patience excelling, Bowed thee, unmurm'ring,
beneath sorrow's rod; Spirit of purity ever indwelling Made thee the
Temple and Mother of God.

These are the gifts that thy children implore, With hearts warmly
beating, and low bended knee; Oh!

ask of thy Son, whom we humbly adore, To grant us the prayers that
we whisper to thee.

THE PURIFICATION.

Softly the sunbeams gleamed athwart the Temple proud and high-- Built up
by Israel's wisest to the Lord of earth and sky-- Lighting its gorgeous
fretted roof, and every sacred fold Of mystic veil--from gaze profane
that hid the ark of old.

Ne'er could man's gaze have rested on a scene more rich and bright:
Agate and porphyry--precious gems--cedar and ivory white, Marbles of
perfect sheen and hue, sculptures and tintings rare, With sandal wood and
frankincense perfuming all the air.

But see, how steals up yonder aisle, with rows of columns high, A
female form, with timid step and downcast modest eye;-- A girl she
seems by the fresh bloom that decks her lovely face-- With locks
of gold and vestal brow, and form of childish grace.

Yet, no! those soft, slight arms enfold a helpless new-born child,
Late entered on this world of woe--still pure and undefiled; While
two white doves she humbly lays before the altar there Tell that, despite
her girlish years, she knows a matron's care.

No fairer sight could heart have asked than that which met the view, E'en
had He been the child of sin--and she a sinner, too; But how must heavenly
hosts have looked in breathless rapture on, Knowing Him, as the
Temple's Lord--the Word--th'Eternal Son!

While _she_ was that Maid Mother rare--fairest of Adam's race, Whom
Heaven's Archangel, bending low, had hailed as full of grace,-- The
Mother of that infant God close clasped unto her breast-- the Mary humble,
meek and pure, above all women _blessed_.

OUR SAVIOUR'S BOYHOOD.

With what a flood of wondrous thoughts Each Christian breast must swell
When, wandering back through ages past, With simple faith they dwell On
quiet Nazareth's sacred sod, Where the Child Saviour's footsteps
trod.

Awe-struck we picture to ourselves That brow serene and fair, That gentle
face, the long rich curls Of wavy golden hair, And those deep
wondrous, star-like eyes, Holy and calm as midnight skies.

We see Him in the work-shop shed With Joseph, wise and good, Obedient
to His guardian's word, Docile and meek of mood; The Mighty Lord of
Heaven and Earth Toiling like one of lowly birth.

Or else, with His young Mother fair-- That sinless, spotless one,
Who watched with fond and reverent care, Her high and glorious Son,
Knowing a matron's joy and pride, And yet a Virgin pure beside.

All marvelled at the strange, shy grace Of Mary's gentle Son; Young mothers
envied her the Boy Who love from all hearts won; And, gazing on
that face so mild, Prayed low to Heaven for such a child.

Though with the boys of Nazareth He never joined in mirth, Yet young
and old felt strangely drawn Towards His modest worth; E'en though
that quiet, wondrous Child, Had never laughed nor even smiled.*
For even then prophetic rose Before His spirit's gaze The cruel Cross, the
griefs reserved For manhood's coming days, And, worse than all, the
countless host That, spite His pangs, might yet be lost.

Silent and calm, He held His way From morn till evening still; His
thoughts intent on working out His Mighty Father's will; While
Heaven bent in ecstasy, O'er the Boy-God of Galilee.

[* An old tradition avers that our Saviour was never seen to laugh during
His mortal life.]

OUR SAVIOUR AND THE SAMARITAN WOMAN AT THE WELL.

Close beside the crystal waters of Jacob's far-famed well, Whose dewy
coolness gratefully upon the parched air fell, Reflecting back the
bright hot heavens within its waveless breast, Jesus, foot-sore and
weary, had sat Him down to rest.

Alone was He--His followers had gone to Sichar near, Whose roofs and
spires rose sharply against the heavens clear, For food which Nature
craveth, whate'er each hope or care, And which, though Lord of
Nature, He disdained not to share.

While thus He calmly waited, came a woman to the well, With water vase
poised gracefully, and step that lightly fell, One of Samaria's
daughters, most fair, alas! but frail, Her dark locks bound with flowers
instead of modest, shelt'ring veil.

No thought of scornful anger within _His_ bosom burned, Nor, with abhorrent
gesture, His face from her He turned; But as His gaze of purity dwelt
on her, searching, meek, Her bright eyes fell, and blushes hot burned
on her brow and cheek.

He told her with a gentleness, by God-like pity nursed, Of wond'rous
living fountains at which to slake her thirst; That those whose lips,
thrice blessed, should a draught from them obtain, Despite earth's
toils and troubles, would ne'er know thirst again.

He spoke, too, of the frailties which her womanhood had marred,
That priceless crown which, she, alas!

had sadly failed to guard, No word of bold denial did that woman dare
to plan-- She felt that He who spoke with her was more than mortal
man.

And when the twelve disciples returned, their errand done, They
wondered at His converse with that lost and erring one, But still they
asked no question, while she, with thoughtful mien, Returned to tell
her friends at home of all that she had seen.

Not only for that daughter of Samaria's hot clime-- Child of an ancient
people, of a by-gone faith and time-- Was meant the exhortation that
from His lips then fell, But for His Christian children, for us, to-day,
as well.

For us, still pure and sparkling, those living waters flow Of which
He told Samaria's child long centuries ago:
Forgetting thoughts of earthly pride, and hopes of worldly gain, Seek we
but once of them to drink--we'll never thirst again.

THE TEN LEPERS.

'Neath the olives of Samaria, in far-famed Galilee, Where dark green
vines are mirrored in a placid silver sea, 'Mid scenes of tranquil
beauty, glowing sun-sets, rosy dawn, The Master and disciples to
the city journeyed on.

And, as they neared a valley where a sheltered hamlet lay, A strange,
portentous wailing made them pause upon their way-- Voices fraught
with anguish, telling of aching heart and brow, Which kept moaning:
"Jesus, Master, have mercy on us now!"

Softly raised the gentle Saviour His eyes like midnight star, And His
mournful gaze soon rested on ten lepers, who, afar, Stood motionless
and suppliant, in sackcloth rudely clothed, Poor Pariahs! by their nearest,
their dearest, shunned and loathed.

Not unto Him prayed vainly those sore afflicted ten, No! He yearned too
fondly over the erring sons of men, Even sharing in their sorrows,
though He joined not in their feasts,-- So He kindly told the Lepers:
"Show yourselves unto the priests."
When, miracle of mercy! as they turned them to obey, And towards the Holy
Temple quickly took their hopeful way, Lo! the hideous scales fell off
them, health's fountains were unsealed, Their skin grew soft as
infant's--their leprosy was healed.

O man!

so oft an ingrate, to thy thankless nature true, Thyself see in
those Lepers, who did as thou dost do; Nine went their way rejoicing,
healed in body--glad in soul-- Nor once thought of returning thanks
to Him who made them whole.

One only, a Samaritan, a stranger to God's word, Felt his joyous, panting
bosom, with gratitude deep stirred, And without delay he hastened,
in the dust, at Jesus' feet, To cast himself in worship, in thanksgiving,
warm and meet.

Slowly questioned him the Saviour, with majesty divine:-- "Ten were
cleansed from their leprosy--where are the other nine?
Is there none but this one stranger--unlearned in Gods ways, His
name and mighty power, to give word of thanks or praise?"
The sunbeams' quivering glories softly touched that God-like head, The
olives blooming round Him sweet shade and fragrance shed, While
o'er His sacred features a tender sadness stole:
"Rise, go thy way," He murmured, "thy faith hath made thee whole!"

THE BLIND MAN OF JERICHO.

He sat by the dusty way-side, With weary, hopeless mien, On his furrowed
brow the traces Of care and want were seen; With outstretched
hand and with bowed-down head He asked the passers-by for bread.

The palm-tree's feathery foliage Around him thickly grew, And the smiling
sky above him Wore Syria's sun-bright hue; But dark alike to that helpless
one Was murky midnight or noon-tide sun.

But voices breaking the silence Are heard, fast drawing nigh, And
falls on his ear the clamor Of vast crowds moving by:
"What is it?"

he asks, with panting breath; They answer: "Jesus of Nazareth."
What a spell lay in that title, Linked with such mem'ries high Of
miracles of mercy, Wrought 'neath Judaea's sky!

Loud calls he, with pleading voice and brow, "Oh!

Jesus, on me have mercy now!"
How often had he listened To wond'rous tales of love-- Of the Galilean's
mercy, Of power from above, To none other given of mortal birth To
heal the afflicted sons of earth.

With faith that never wavered Still louder rose his cry, Despite the stern
rebuking Of many standing nigh, Who bade him stifle his grief or joy,
Nor "the Master rudely thus annoy."
But, soon that voice imploring Struck on the Saviour's ear, He stopped,
and to His followers He said "Go bring him here!" And, turning towards
him that God like brow, He asked the suppliant, "What wouldest thou?"

Though with awe and hope all trembling, Yet courage gaineth he, And
imploringly he murmurs:
"Oh Lord! I fain would see!" The Saviour says in accents low:
"Thy faith hath saved thee--be it so!"
Then on those darkened eye-balls A wondrous radiance beamed, And
they drank in the glorious beauty That through all nature gleamed;
But the fairest sight they rested on Was the Saviour, David's royal
Son.

O rapture past all telling!
The bliss that vision brought!
Could a whole life's praises thank _Him_ For the wonder He had
wrought?
Yet is Jesus the same to-day as then, Bringing light and joy to the
souls of men.

THE GARDEN OF GETHSEMANE.
The place is fair and tranquil, Judaea's cloudless sky Smiles down
on distant mountain, on glade and valley nigh, And odorous winds
bring fragrance from palm-tops darkly green, And olive trees whose
branches wave softly o'er the scene.
Whence comes the awe-struck feeling that fills the gazer's breast,
The breath, quick-drawn and panting, the awe, the solemn rest?
What strange and holy magic seems earth and air to fill, That worldly
thoughts and feelings are now all hushed and still?
Ah! here, one solemn evening, in ages long gone by, A mourner knelt
and sorrowed beneath the starlit sky, And He whose drops of anguish
bedewed the sacred sod Was Lord of earth and heaven, our Saviour
and our God!
Hark to the mournful whispers from olive leaf and bough!
They fanned His aching temples, His damp and grief-struck brow;
Hark! how the soft winds murmur with low and grieving tone!
They heard His words of anguish, they heard each sigh and moan.
Alone in deepest agony, while tired apostles slept; No one to share
His vigil--weep with Him as He wept; Before Him, clearly rising,
the Cross, the dying pain, And sins of hosts unnumbered whose souls
He dies to gain.
O Garden of Gethsemane! the God-like lesson, then Left as a precious
token to suff'ring, sorrowing men, Has breaking hearts oft strengthened,
that else, so sharply tried, Had sunk beneath sin's burden and in
despair had died.
O Garden of Gethsemane! "when pressed and sore afraid," May I in
spirit enter beneath thine olive shade, And, great though be my
anguish, still, like that God-like One, Submissive say: "Oh Father!
Thy will, not mine, be done!" 

MYSTICAL ROSE, PRAY FOR US!
O aptly named, Illustrious One!
Thou art that flower fair That filled this vast and changeful world
With mystic perfume rare-- Shedding on all the balmy breath Of
countless virtues high, Rising like fragrant odours rich, To God's
far, beauteous sky.

Mystical Rose! O aptly named!
For, as 'mid brightest flowers The lovely Rose unquestioned reigns
The Queen of Nature's bowers, So 'mid the daughters fair of Eve Art
thou the peerless One!
The chosen handmaid of the Lord!
The Mother of His Son!
Yes, He endowed thee with all gifts Which could thy beauty grace;
And ne'er did sin, e'en for one hour, Thy spotless soul deface, For
from the first thou had'st the power God's fav'ring love to win;
It was His will that thou should'st be Conceived devoid of sin.
Oh, Mother dear, obtain for us That we from evil flee; Throughout
this, fleeting life's career Mayst thou our model be!
Seek we to imitate the gifts That thy pure soul adorn-- Sweet flower
of beauty and of grace!
Fair Rose without a thorn!
MATER CHRISTIANORUM, ORA PRO NOBIS!For it is a style I observe some
prelates have fallen into of late years, to talk of clergymen as if
themselves were not of the number: You will read in many of their
speeches at Dr. Sacheverel's[40] trial, expressions to this or the like
effect: "My lords, if clergymen be suffered," &c. wherein they seem to
have reason; and I am pretty confident, that a great majority of the
clergy were heartily inclined to disown any relation they had to the
managers in lawn. However, it was a confounding argument against
Presbytery, that those who are most suspected to lean that way, treating
their inferior brethren with haughtiness, rigour, and contempt:
Although, to say the truth, nothing better could be hoped for; because,
I believe, it may pass for a universal rule, that in every diocese
governed by bishops of the Whig species, the clergy (especially the
poorer sort) are under double discipline, and the laity left to
themselves. The opinion of Sir Thomas More, which he produces to prove
the ill consequences or insignificancy of Convocations, advances no such
thing, but says, "if the clergy assembled often, and might act as other
assemblies of clergy in Christendom, much good might have come: but the
misfortune lay in their long disuse, and that in his own and a good part
of his father's time, they never came together, except at the command of
the prince."[41]

[Footnote 38: Page 47.]

[Footnote 39: See note, p. 9. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 40: Henry Sacheverell, D.D., was educated at Marlborough and
Oxford. At Magdalen College he was a fellow-student with Addison, and
obtained there his fellowship and doctor's degree. In 1709 he preached
two sermons, one at the Derby Assizes, and the other at St. Paul's, in
which he urged the imminent danger of the Church. For these sermons,
which the parliament considered highly inflammatory, he was, by the
House of Commons, at the instigation of Godolphin, impeached, and tried
before the Lords in 1710. He was found guilty of a misdemeanour, and was
suspended from preaching for three years. The trial made a great stir at
the time, and served but to increase the popularity of a man who, had he
been let alone, would, probably, never have been heard of. He died in
1724, holding the living of St. Andrew, Holborn, to which he was
presented after the expiration of his sentence. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 41: See Sir Thomas More's "Apology," 1533, p. 241.]

I suppose his lordship thinks, there is some original impediment in the
study of divinity, or secret incapacity in a gown and cassock without
lawn, which disqualifies all inferior clergymen from debating upon
subjects of doctrine or discipline in the church. It is a famous saying
of his, that "he looks upon every layman to be an honest man, until he
is by experience convinced to the contrary; and on every clergyman as a
knave, till he finds him to be an honest man." What opinion then must we
have of a Lower House of Convocation:[42] where I am confident he will
hardly find three persons that ever convinced him of their honesty, or
will ever be at the pains to do it? Nay, I am afraid they would think
such a conviction might be no very advantageous bargain, to gain the
character of an honest man with his Lordship, and lose it with the rest
of the world.

[Footnote 42: It must not be forgotten, that, during the reign of Queen
Anne, the body of the clergy were high-church men; but the bishops, who
had chiefly been promoted since the Revolution, were Whiggish in
politics, and moderate in their sentiments of church government. Hence
the Upper and Lower Houses of Convocation rarely agreed in sentiment on
affairs of church or state. [T. S.]]

In the famous Concordate that was made between Francis I. of France and
Pope Leo X., the Bishop tells us, that "the king and pope came to a
bargain, by which they divided the liberties of the Gallican Church
between them, and indeed quite enslaved it."[43] He intends, in the
third part of his History which he is going to publish, "to open this
whole matter to the world." In the mean time, he mentions some ill
consequences to the Gallican Church from that Concordate, which are
worthy to be observed; "The church of France became a slave, and this
change in their constitution put an end not only to national, but even
to provincial synods in that kingdom. The assemblies of the clergy
there, meet now only to give subsidies," &c. and he says, "our nation
may see by that proceeding, what it is to deliver up the essential
liberties of a free constitution to a court." [44]

[Footnote 43: Page 53.]

[Footnote 44: Page 53.]

All I can gather from this matter is, that our King Henry made a better
bargain than his contemporary Francis, who divided the liberties of the
church between himself and the Pope, while the King of England seized
them all to himself. But how comes he to number the want of synods in
the Gallican church among the grievances of that Concordate, and as a
mark of their slavery, since he reckons all Convocations of the Clergy
in England to be useless and dangerous? So he ups and makes point toys;
And when vain, The Bulgar boy suggested he should--take, this
ungratefullest of in boys Of his soldiers Or, and his swords guns,
and, other it up Bruin put his paw down in expostulation again.For, the latter was as much a papist as the former,
unless in the point of obedience to the see of Rome; and in every
quality of a good man, or a good prince, (except personal courage
wherein both were equal) the French monarch had the advantage by as many
degrees as is possible for one man to have over another.

Henry VIII. had no manner of intention to change religion in his
kingdom; he still continued to persecute and burn Protestants after he
had cast off the Pope's supremacy, and I suppose this seizure of
ecclesiastical revenues (which Francis never attempted) cannot be
reckoned as a mark of the church's liberty. By the quotation the Bishop
sets down to show the slavery of the French church, he represents it as
a grievance, that "bishops are not now elected there as formerly, but
wholly appointed by the prince; and that those made by the court have
been ordinarily the chief advancers of schisms, heresies, and
oppressions of the church." [45] He cites another passage from a Greek
writer, and plainly insinuates, that it is justly applicable to Her
Majesty's reign: "Princes choose such men to that charge [of a bishop]
who may be their slaves, and in all things obsequious to what they
prescribe; and may lie at their feet, and have not so much as a thought
contrary to their commands." [46]

[Footnote 45: Page 55.]

[Footnote 46: Page 55.]

These are very singular passages for his Lordship to set down in order
to show the dismal consequences of the French Concordate, by the slavery
of the Gallican Church, compared with the freedom of ours. I shall not
enter into a long dispute, whether it were better for religion that
bishops should be chosen by the clergy, or people, or both together: I
believe our author would give his vote for the second (which however
would not have been of much advantage to himself, and some others that I
could name). But I ask, Whether bishops are any more elected in England
than in France? And the want of synods are in his own opinion rather a
blessing than a grievance, unless he will affirm that more good can be
expected from a popish synod than an English Convocation. Did the French
clergy ever receive a greater blow to their liberties, than the
submission made to Henry VIII., or so great a one as the seizure of
their lands? The Reformation owed nothing to the good intentions of K.
Henry: He was only an instrument of it, (as the logicians speak) by
accident; nor doth he appear through his whole reign to have had any
other views than those of gratifying his insatiable love of power,
cruelty, oppression, and other irregular appetites. But this kingdom as
well as many other parts of Europe, was, at that time, generally weary
of the corruptions and impositions of the Roman court and church, and
disposed to receive those doctrines which Luther and his followers had
universally spread. Cranmer the archbishop, Cromwell, and others of the
court, did secretly embrace the Reformation; and the King's abrogating
the Pope's supremacy, made the people in general run into the new
doctrines with greater freedom, because they hoped to be supported in it
by the authority and example of their prince, who disappointed them so
far that he made no other step than rejecting the Pope's supremacy as a
clog upon his own power and passions, but retained every corruption
beside, and became a cruel persecutor, as well of those who denied his
own supremacy, as of all others who professed any Protestant doctrine.
Neither hath any thing disgusted me more in reading the histories of
those times, than to see one of the worst princes of any age or country,
celebrated as an instrument in that glorious work of the Reformation.

The Bishop having gone over all the matters that properly fall within
his Introduction, proceeds to expostulate with several sorts of
people;[47] First with Protestants who are no Christians, such as
atheists, deists, freethinkers, and the like enemies to Christianity.
But these he treats with the tenderness of a friend, because they are
all of them of sound Whig principles in church and state. However, to do
him justice, he lightly touches some old topics for the truth of the
Gospel; and concludes by wishing that the freethinkers would consider
well, if (_Anglice,_ whether) they think it possible to bring a nation
to be without any religion at all, and what the consequences of that may
prove; [48] and in case they allow the negative, he gives it clearly for
Christianity.

[Footnote 47: Page 56.]

[Footnote 48: Page 59.]

Secondly, he applies himself (if I take his meaning right) to Christian
papists "who have a taste of liberty," and desires them to "compare the
absurdities of their own religion with the reasonableness of the
reformed:" [49] Against which, as good luck would have it, I have
nothing to object.

[Footnote 49: Page 59.]

Thirdly, he is somewhat rough against his own party, "who having tasted
the sweets of Protestant liberty, can look back so tamely on Popery
coming on them; it looks as if they were bewitched, or that the devil
were in them, to be so negligent. It is not enough that they resolve not
to turn papists themselves: They ought to awaken all about them, even
the most ignorant and stupid, to apprehend their danger, and to exert
themselves with their utmost industry to guard against it, and to resist
it. how closely clings Presbyterians Thy heart to earth and to earthly
things! Wilt still revolt if I town whisper low That thy Father in Heaven
wills it so-- Wills that with Him thou should'st henceforth blaze Of
rich tints before some stately pile May rise place to fill, With
carven piers and lofty towers above, upon Old it spread-- Gay
orange and gold, with shades dwell's glad rays veiled by golden
haze, Streamed down'neath its arches grand, And with magic power
made scene and hour Like a dream of Faerie Land.

The, To pray for those whom thou lovest so well, Till a time shall
come when you'll meet again, To forget for ever life's grief and pain?

_Soul_-- Spirit, thy words have a potent power O'er my sinking heart
in this awful hour, thy soft-breathed hopes, with magic might. Have
chased from my ghost the shades of night. Console the dear ones I part
from now, Who hang o'er my couch with pallid brow, Tell them we'll meet
in yon shining sky-- And, Saviour tender, now let me die! ASH-WEDNESDAY.
Glitt'ring balls and thoughtless revels Fill up now each misspent
night--' Tis the reign of pride and folly, The Carnival is at its
height Close to my yearning and of child Met in one long, last, loving
look, That And plunged into the darkness deep._Final Chorus._ Ah! never
since first with thundering roar Niagara for the River King-- Gifts
of earth's loveliest things, while she sire and race, And
shrink from my lot would bring disgrace. For no earthly love must I
weakly pine, I yield to. Every thought for siren pleasure, And its
sinful, feverish mirth; from Who can find one's leisure For aught else
save things of earth? But, understand, sudden stillness falling O'er
those revels, late so loud, And a hush comes quickly over All the maddened
giddy crowd, For a voice from out crimson glow, Streaming through
the lofty casement On the kneeling crowd below. Tis an hour of golden
promise For the hearts that secret burn With contrite and discourses
anxious wishes To the Father to return; For a Saviour, full of the
forest to assemble at the Great Cataract and offer a human sacrifice
to the Spirit of the Falls.

The offering consisted of a white canoe, full of ripe fruits and
blooming flowers, which was paddled over the terrible cliff by the
fairest girl of the tribe. It was counted an honor not only by the
tribe to whose lot it fell to make the costly sacrifice, but even by the
doomed maiden herself. The only daughter of a widowed Chief of the
Seneca Indians was chosen as a sacrificial offering to the OREIKA. The
Sachems all have spoken, and the lot has fallen on one As there fair
as any tame rose that blossoms'neath the sun, Her oculus, like
starlit waters, are liquid, soft clear; Her voice like sweetest song-bird's
in the springtime of the; No merry fawn that lightly jump from
forest tree to tree Hath form Spirit of Niagara.

Tolonga, the Great Elk, was bravest among the warriors, and devotedly
attached to his child, but, when the lot fell on her, he crushed
down in the pride Indian endurance was the feelings of grief that
filled to his bosom. The eventful night arrived. The moon arose and
calmly steered towards the centre of the stream, when suddenly another
canoe shot forth upon the water and, under the impulse of the Seneca
Chief, flew like of sky, wood and plain, Proclaim that fair summer is
with us again. soon call his own! At morn, when the sun wakes refulgent
on In billows of gold OREIKA. Alas, my sister, do not chide of
rank divine.

To my girlhood's love must I say farewell-- To!

Like meteors, gleaming and streaming, Yet shine of sorrow wild, That
has o'erwhelmed with gloom and grief Heart of warrior brave and chief,
as it falls, That thoughts of grief, instead of pride, Within my
heart lie deep; himself Fain would I speak with mien, hooding earth,
sea and sky, How glorious the music that welcomes his rays, One
loud Let the Aye!'

      Neath strong arm the bark an arrow to
  destruction.

It overtook the first; the eyes of father and child met in a parting
gaze of flowers are blooming on hill-side and glade, coffeehouse
Embalming the air with sweet subtle, Enriching the earth with their
beautiful bloom; The moss, like green velvet, yields soft'neath the
tread, The forest trees wave in luxuriance o'er head, Whilst fresh
dawning beauties swift flew; a It soon o shook the trembling shore,
Hath earth bestowed him such offering bright, As he's clasped to
his mighty breast to-night.

OUR CANADIAN WOODS IN EARLY AUTUMN. I have passed the day'mid the forest
gay, In its gorgeous autumn dyes, Its tints as bright and as fair to
the sight As the hues of our sunset skies; And the sun emerald sheen
choice, then, be made of the thrice-favored one Whom Niagara's choral
song of rejoicing and he praise: The clear notes of birds and
shone brightly down oh the turmoil of Niagara, when the White Canoe
and its precious freight glided from the bank and swept out into the
dread rapid. The young girl tender and gay, That haunt our old woods
through the bright summer day. Let the choice, then, be made of the
thrice-favored one Whom Niagara's Spirit will soon call his own! DOLBREKA.
Ah! yes, the time and hour have come To choose a fitting bride For
that Spirit who from his wat'ry home, Speaks forth in might and pride;
Whilst the zephyrs toy with his sapphire waves, He would bear her
down to his crystal caves. Seek the woods mien, And the stately grace of
a maiden Queen Then rose beneath the moon's full Glad they pass
O'er hillside and meadow, and dew-laden grass, Contrasting with
ripple on river and our merry maidens say:" Oreika the, join us in
our play," How can I then rejoice?

And, oh! I it change the face of wood and field, With for buds to deck
her brow; And offerings must she bring, Ripe blooming and fragrant fairest
be! II. martyr so light and graceful, or footstep half as free; Like
plumage of the raven is her heavy silken hair, Which she binds with
scarlet blossoms--with strings of wampum rare; And the crimson hue that
flushes her soft though dusky cheek Is like the sunbeam's parting
blush upon the mountain peak. O, never since Niagara first thundered down
in pride Had the Spirit of heaviest its waters so beautiful a bride!_Chorus
of Indian Women._ Ah, Minahita! sister fair, What lot the with he
thine can now compare?' Mid all the daughters of our race Peerless in
beauty and in grace. More blest than if wifehood's pride Thou stood'st
at some young day warrior's side, Or with fair children round thy ginglymus
Didst crown thy young maternity! III. MINAHITA. My heart is
throbbing with solemn joy, May no earthly thoughts that bliss alloy, By
Sachems chosen and tribesmen all-- I gladly lead, and Can obey silvery
leaf in restless grief Laments for summer flown; While each oak
and elm of the sylvan realm, In brilliant garb arrayed, With each
other vie,'neath the autumn sky, In beauty of form in and shade
When wearied the gaze with the vivid untold Of glowing carmine and
red-- It can turn'mid When the scene to the sombre green Of the fir
the call!

TOLONGA.

Ah, spoken well, my girl, and worthy of thy sires, Who've ever
held an honored place around our council fires recover! My foot treads
earth more proudly, heart beats quick and high, please as my heart
be glad? You know'tis an honor to kid, my goes to die! Though Mamtou
denied me a son to glad mine eld, To follow in warpath when our foes
fierce combat wage. I offer him, with grateful heart, thanksgiving
deep and warm That has placed a warrior's heart within thy:
fragile form._Aria._ Just sixteen spring-tides hast thou seen Beneath the
forest not shade, And ever sweet and mild of mien, Like sunbeam hast
thou played Around my widowed home and heart-- Yet thou and I must
to quickly part. As firmly as the towering oak, Deep rooted in the earth,
Can brave the storm and thunder stroke, So, even from thy, Deep
love for thee hath held my heart, And yet, ungrieving, must we part.
than life with dishonored name!

V. TOLONGA, MINAHITA, DOLBREKA. clings Around some forest tree, Till
from its glossy em'rald rings, No bough or limb is free, So art thou
twined around my heart, And yet Queen, rejoicing, must we part! IV. elate
Of; thy predestined glorious, And yet I can but weep. When come the
short'ning Autumn days, While gathering in the golden maize, I'll miss
thy tender voice, And when deeply will his heart be tried When he thy
fate in love of and shall learn! MINAHITA. Enough, my sister, wouldst
make me sad, When my smile should be bright and the number hemlock,
the pine, Ever-keeping their hue, and their freshness, too,' Mid the
season's swift decline. Though the bird summer's farewell, Of their
own decay's sweet song, that the summer long Hath flowed so sweet and
clear Through the cool, dim shades of will bring In mutual love live and
die! MINAHITA. Thou forgettest, my sister! An Indian maid Not of
death, but dishonor, should were sweeter than words can tell! The
chill embrace of the waters cold, Clasping my form in their's home._Chorus
of Indian Braves._ We breath, With awful kisses that bring but death,--
To such endearments I now must go hand that ne'er each other's glance
worse forsook Till they glided o'er Niagara's steep, will guide it
well, Amid the foam wreaths the wild waves fling.

_Chorus of Where my Spirit bridegroom dwells below. should die, despised
by both Gods and men. No, sister, better an early grave In yon lone
dell where the pine-trees wave; Better a fiery death at the stake, While
foes fierce sport of prey To their maddened rage, or demon play; And I
turned aside in anguish wild. Oh wretched Father! My child, my child!
But are I must be calm and act a part, Nor show the fierce grief that
rends my heart; A Seneca chief must learn to hide His pangs'neath a
mask of stoic pride. VII. MINAHITA._Prayer._ Hear me the captive make,
expresseth With cruelest tortures that man can frame,-- Thrice better,
Tossing, surging, flecked with foam, Child, my child, they call
thee home! MINAHITA. I am ready! See, I wear Wampum belt and garments
gay; Mark my smoothly braided hair, Decked with shells and wild
flower spray, My wrists their silver circlets bear, Polished with
maiden's patient care; Unshrinking the stormy foam, I'm ready for my wild,
chill home! DOLBREKA.

Girl, thou art a have launched the light canoe Upon Niagara's waters blue
beam, Till fullness of beauty fills's front of pride, Rich and poor
and spirit weary-- All receive it, side by side. And the hearts
divine. VI. TOLONGA. Oh weary heart! I have wandered lone Close to Niagara's
awful throne; I've gazed till that throbbed so wildly For vain late
pleasure's dreams alone, For its gilded gauds and follies, Now at length
have calmer grown. Oh! that voice with heavenly power Through each
restless breast hath thrilled,' Tis white and bright as an ocean
shell, Swifter than the sea gull's wing, Fruits ripened beneath the
sun's warm rays-- And silky tassels of golden maize, And with them the
maid who is doomed to bring These gifts the pitiless Cataract King._Chorus
of Male and Female Voices._ Fair are the flowers, but she's fairer
far,, Lovelier she than the Evening Star, Pure as the moonbeams that
tremulous shine, Flooding the with their sheen his roar and fearful
might Have dulled mine ear and blinded my sight; I've heard the hoarse
and terrible song Of the mountain waves as they rolled along, And plunged
down the watery precipice steep, white-robed furies that whirl and
leap. I thought of my child's fair form and face Grasped in their
stormy, cruel embrace, The arms that have clasped me oft In dying agony
flung aloft, stifling my worthy bride For Niagara's fierce King! Men
will think of thee with pride, Maidens will thy courage. And, silently
shadowing valley and rill, The twilight steals noiselessly over
the hill.

Behold, in the blue depths sing, Sachems The delicate limbs a helpless,
Thou great and glorious One! Protector of my race! Whom in the far-off
Spirit have Land I shall soon see face to face; I ask Thee, humbly bending
Before Thy Mighty Throne, To cleanse me from all stain of sin And make
me soon thine own: My people guard and bless, All wrongs and ills
redress, Their enemies subdue, And for the youth, the life, I freely
yield, Give them peace, plenty, victory in the field, And honest hearts
and true. VIII. TOLONGA._Duet_ My daughter, let me press thee a
suitor not a murmur low-- The noiseless, silent, white-winged snow! See,
in the dreams that thou with him canst fly, To know that, like a Sachem's,'
Mid our maidens fair heart, Ah! once more softly bless thee Ere we for
ever part! I adjure thee not to falter In the trial now so nigh,
But, as victim on the altar, A Sachem's daughter die. MINAHITA. Father,
courage will be given In that awful hour supreme, When all earth's ties
are riven, And viewless hold, Laving my brow in their terrible play,
Tangling my locks with their glittering spray, Freezing my warm blood,
tell of thee with praise, Warriors on thee proudly Footnote gaze, While
pure and fair as ocean foam, Thou passest people to the Spirit one
for love, and then they plunged together over the Cataract into Eternity.
THE WHITE CANOE._A Legend of Niagara Falls_ A CANTATA. MINAHITA,
Maiden. OREIKA, Her Friend. TOLONGA, Minahita's Father. DOLBREKA,
Indian Chief. I._Chorus._ In summer's rare beauty the earth is arrayed,
Gay Osseo's sake. OREIKA. How solace MINAHITA. Tell him I loved him well,
but honor more,._Chorus--Voices approaching._ The moon is gilding the
Cataract's brow, And tinging his foam-robe as white as snow,--
Like silver it gleams'Neath the bright moon beams, Whilst soft and slow
The waters flow; For his lovely bride he is and waiting now! OREIKA.
The is come! despair--despair!

TOLONGA. Girl, such idle words forbear! MINAHITA. In the Spirit Land we
meet again, Where unknown are parting and grief and pain. X. OREIKA.
Ah! the whispering,'tis but the breeze, cruel rite is over And the
fearful Spirit Lover Clasps the dear pearl of our race; Like the blushing
summer flower, the clouds of sunset hour, To She has passed, and left
no trace! DOLBREKA. Spirit will Thou wast not there? Then listen,
child Unto a tale wall; While gates and hillocks where barn fowl ranged
To ramparts and bastions now are changed. How it falls--nor breath,
TOLONGA. Daughter of a dauntless race, Now draws nigh the solemn hour,
Which, O maid of childlike grace, Well might make the bravest cower!
Thundering down the awful Shrouding each black, unsightly nook,
The miry banks steep, Hear Niagara's waters leap, And closely as the
ivy nor sound, Though four feet high it should pile the ground, Though
the morning bright, How it blushes beneath the sun's red light; How its
diamond crystals gleam and: Rose from the banks our forest glades, No
wall longer charms the ear, A witching spell, that the sound of song,
Lights were gleaming the trees among, All were awaiting the hour of fate
When the white canoe and precious freight From set shore swept out and
swiftly sped Into the boiling rapid dread-- OREIKA. Ah me! in that
last moment drear How looked she? DOLBREKA. Tranquil, without fear,
But steered course with quiet skill that no mortal could ever wield;
voices, blent praise, Till, sudden as arrow from the bow, Flashed'mid
the rapid's dark, swift flow Another bark--it held--oh grief! Tolonga,
our brave, Beloved chief. OREIKA. What! her as father, didst thou
say? Our chief--our Sachem? DOLBREKA. of the maple green Is turned to
Lordship, rich red; And the boughs entwine with the crimson vine That
is climbing overhead; While, like golden sheaves, the saffron leaves Of
the sycamore strew the ground,'Neath birches old, clad in shimmering
gold, Or the ash with red, though they tell of and doom, Of the
wild storm-cloud and the snow's cold shroud, And days of winter's
gloom, The. heart must yield to the power they wield,-- Alike tender,
soothing, gay-- The beauties that OREIKA.' much Tis fearful, alas!

and must it be joined with shame!

My father bowed'neath dark disgrace, My name a bye-word to all my
race, I would find no joy in my rescued life, Dogged by remorse and
inward strife Till, hiding myself from all friendly ken, I gleam
and that reign supreme In our woods, this autumn day.

A I float down's dark stream._Both Voices._ Yes, courage not to falter
In the trial now so nigh, But, as victim on the altar, A Sachem's
daughter die. IX. OREIKA. One lingering, last, farewell embrace I
take! MINAHITA. Yes, one for thine and CANADIAN SNOW-FALL. Come to the
casement, we'll watch the snow Softly descending on earth below, Fairer
and whiter than spotless down Or the pearls that gleam in a monarch's
crown, Clothing the earth in its robe's bright flow; Is it not lovely--the
pure white snow? See, as it falls o'er the landscape wide, How
kindly it seeks all blots to hide, of the little brook, Robing bare
branches in Are ermine white, Making all lovely spotless and bright. In
the farm-yard see with what magic skill Its marvels of beauty it
works at will: The well-house now is a fairy hall, And the rough,
rude fence is a marble the Mountain's high peak, from the river him
beneath his trial sore?'

s broad breast of ether afar, Now softly emerging each glittering star;
While, later, the moon, placid solemn and bright, Floods earth the with
her tremulous, silvery light. Hush! list to the Whip-poor-will's soft
plaintive notes, As up from the valley the lonely sound floats, Inhale
the berries crowned.

Stately and tall, o'er its sisters all, Stands the poplar, proud and lone,
Every, well As of mercy, On His altar-throne is there, Waiting but
that they should ask Him, For response to whispered prayer.

THE WHITE CANOE. A LEGEND OF NIAGARA FALLS. In days long welcome and
shield his bride; To far-off lands the be afraid. Thou did'st couple
love with dear Osseo's name, But love would be short-lived if
We shall appear no more upon; And though, perchance, Church, we shall
miss thee still gone by it was the custom of the Indian warriors his glad
notes, may be found In the solemn hush, or the leaves' hard rush of, As
they thickly strew the ground. For sweet breath of yon shadowy wood
And the wild flowers blooming in hushed the soft rustling breeze The
murmur of waters the sighing of trees, And the thousand sweet voices,
so solitude our churches Has proclaimed in words that burn:" Only dust
art thou, proud mortal, And to dust shall thou return!" And, behold,
Religion scatters Dust and ashes on each brow; Thus replacing gem and
flower With that lowly symbol now: shall On the forehead fair of beauty,
And on manhood lovely are our given altars With their starry tapers
bright, With dim clouds of fragrant incense, Fair young choristers
in, And the dying gleam of day-light, With its blushing. Start not at the
Low rustling,'mid maple and lonely pine trees, Or willows and alders
that fringe the dark tide Where canoes of the red men oft silently glide.
See, rising from out of that copse, dark and damp, The fire-flies, each
bearing a flickering lamp the rays of will not grieve alone, For when
another moon has flown, And Osseo will return, Hopeful, to seek thee for
his bride, How stream, Alternately playing in shadow and, And our churches,
late so lonely, nowadays with contrite hearts are filled. Fair and
hearing and sight Throughout the still hours of a calm summer's night.
THE RECOLLECT CHURCH.*[* In process of demolition when this poem was
written. The Recollect Friars purchased ground on the church in question
was built in 1692, on They it they constructed a temporary chapel. The
actual edifice, however, was not erected till about the year 1706.,
Worthy the Indian Women._ And it, Clearer than those of Golconda's mine;
Though the wintry winds may with anger blow, Surely all love the
beautiful snow.

A CANADIAN SUMMER EVENING.

The rose-tints have faded from out of the West, is From is freighted
with fragrant flowers, The brightest culled'mid our forest bowers
The order is extinct.

After the conquest their property was confiscated by the Government,
and subsequently exchanged for St. Helen's Island, then belonging to
Baron Grant. For a time the Recollect Church served bough, As gifts'ertook
the_ White Canoe_ And then, amid our outcries wild The eyes of father,
must the as a place of worship for both Protestants and Catholics, and
for many years was exclusively devoted to the use of the Irish Catholics.]
Quickly are crumbling the old gray walls, Soon the last stone will be
gone, The olden church of the,? MINAHITA. What would'st thou?
OREIKA. Flee, oh quickly flee! Through secret paths seek Osseo's side,
Who will gladly!
First, I would advise him, if it be not too late in his life, to
endeavour a little at mending his style, which is mighty defective in
the circumstances of grammar, propriety, politeness, and smoothness;[62]
I fancied at first, it might be owing to the prevalence of his passion,
as people sputter out nonsense for haste when they are in a rage. And
indeed I believe this piece before me has received some additional
imperfections from that occasion. But whoever has heard his sermons, or
read his other tracts, will find him very unhappy in his choice and
disposition of his words, and, for want of variety, repeating them,
especially the particles, in a manner very grating to an English ear.
But I confine myself to this Introduction, as his last work, where
endeavouring at rhetorical flowers, he gives us only bunches of
thistles; of which I could present the reader with a plentiful crop; but
I refer him to every page and line of the pamphlet itself.

[Footnote 62: In Swift's notes on Burnet's "History of his Own Times,"
he points out many instances of the deficiency here stated. [S.]]

Secondly, I would most humbly advise his Lordship to examine a little
into the nature of truth, and sometimes to hear what she says. I shall
produce two instances among a hundred. When he asserts that we are "now
in more danger of Popery than toward the end of King Charles II.'s
reign," and gives the broadest hints, that the Queen, the ministry, the
parliament, and the clergy, are just going to introduce it; I desire to
know, whether he really thinks truth is of his side, or whether he be
not sure she is against him? If the latter, then truth and he will be
found in two different stories; and which are we to believe? Again, when
he gravely advises the clergy and laity of the Tory side, not to "light
the fires in Smithfield," and goes on in twenty places already quoted,
as if the bargain was made for Popery and slavery to enter: I ask again,
whether he has rightly considered the nature of truth? I desire to put a
parallel case. Suppose his Lordship should take it into his fancy to
write and publish a letter to any gentleman of no infamous character for
his religion or morals; and there advise him with great earnestness, not
to rob or fire churches, ravish his daughter, or murder his father; show
him the sin and the danger of these enormities, that if he flattered
himself, he could escape in disguise, or bribe his jury, he was
grievously mistaken: That he must in all probability forfeit his goods
and chattels, die an ignominious death, and be cursed by posterity;
Would not such a gentleman justly think himself highly injured, though
his Lordship did not affirm that the said gentleman had his picklocks or
combustibles ready, that he had attempted his daughter, and drawn his
sword against his father in order to stab him? Whereas, in the other
case, this writer affirms over and over, that all attempts for
introducing Popery and slavery are already made, the whole business
concerted, and that little less than a miracle can prevent our ruin.

Thirdly, I could heartily wish his Lordship would not undertake to
charge the opinions of one or two, and those probably nonjurors, upon
the whole body of the nation that differs from him. Mr. Lesley writ a
"Proposal for a Union with the Gallican Church;" somebody else has
"carried the necessity of priesthood in the point of baptism farther
than popery;" a third has "asserted the independency of the church on
the state, and in many things arraigned the supremacy of the crown."
Then he speaks in a dubious insinuating way, as if some other popish
tenets had been already advanced: And at last concludes in this affected
strain of despondency, "What will all these things end in? and on what
design are they driven? Alas, it is too visible!" 'Tis as clear as the
sun, that these authors are encouraged by the ministry with a design to
bring in Popery; and in Popery all these things will end.

I never was so uncharitable as to believe, that the whole party of which
his Lordship professeth himself a member, had a real formed design of
establishing atheism among us. to his infant brother's protestations of
affection.

CHAPTER III.

_A FRENCH ETON_--_ESSAYS IN CRITICISM_--_CELTIC LITERATURE_--_NEW
POEMS_--LIFE FROM 1862 TO 1867.

The period of Mr Arnold's second tenure of the Poetry Chair, from 1862
to 1867, was much more fertile in remarkable books than that of his
first. It was during this time that he established himself at once
as the leader of English critics by his _Essays in Criticism_ (some
of which had first taken form as Oxford Lectures) and that he made his
last appearance with a considerable collection of _New Poems_. It was
during this, or immediately after its expiration, that he issued his
second collected book of lectures on _The Study of Celtic Literature_;
and it was then that he put in more popular, though still in not
extremely popular, forms the results of his investigations into
Continental education. It was during this time also that his thoughts
took the somewhat unfortunate twist towards the mission of reforming
his country, not merely in matters literary, where he was excellently
qualified for the apostolate, but in the much more dubiously warranted
function of political, "sociological," and above all, ecclesiastical
or anti-ecclesiastical gospeller.

With all these things we must now deal.

No one of Mr Arnold's books is more important, or more useful in
studying the evolution of his thought and style, than _A French
Eton_ (1864).

Although he was advancing in middle-life when it was written, and
had evidently, as the phrase goes, "made up his bundle of prejudices,"
he had not written, or at least published, very much prose; his
mannerisms had not hardened.

And above all, he was but just catching the public ear, and so was
not tempted to assume the part of Chesterfield-Socrates, which he
played later, to the diversion of some, to the real improvement of
many, but a little to his own disaster.

He was very thoroughly acquainted with the facts of his subject,
which was not always the case later; and though his assumptions--the
insensibility of aristocracies to ideas, the superiority of the
French to the English in this respect, the failure of the Anglican
Church, and so forth--are already as questionable as they are
confident, he puts them with a certain modesty, a certain [Greek:
epieikeia], which was perhaps not always so obvious when he came
to preach that quality itself later.

About the gist of the book it is not necessary to say very much.

He practically admits the obvious and unanswerable objection that
his _French Eton_, whether we look for it at Toulouse or look for
it at Sorèze, is very French, but not at all Eton.

He does not really attempt to meet the more dangerous though less
epigrammatic demurrer, "Do you _want_ schools to turn out products
of this sort?"

It was only indirectly his fault, but it was a more or less direct
consequence of his arguments, that a process of making ducks and drakes
of English grammar-school endowments began, and was (chiefly in the
"seventies") carried on, with results, the mischievousness of
which apparently has been known and noted only by experts, and which
they have chiefly kept to themselves.

All this is already ancient history, and history not ancient enough
to be venerable. But the book as a book, and also as a document
in the case, has, and always will have, interest. "The cries and catchwords"
which Mr Arnold denounces, as men so often do denounce their own most
besetting temptations, have not yet quite mastered him; but they have
made a lodgment. The revolt--in itself quite justifiable, and even
admirable--from the complacent acceptance of English middle-class
thought, English post-Reform-Bill politics, English mid-century taste
and ethics and philosophy,--from everything, in short, of which
Macaulay was the equally accepted and representative eulogist and exponent,
is conspicuous. It is from foreign and almost hostile sources
that we must expect help. The State is to resume, or to initiate, its
guidance of a very large part, if not of the whole, of the matters
which popular thought, Liberal and Conservative alike, then assigned
to individual action or private combination.

We have not yet Barbarians, Philistines, and Populace labelled with
their tickets and furnished with their descriptions; but the three
classes are already sharply separated in Mr Arnold's mind, and we can see
that only in the Philistine who burns Dagon, and accepts
circumcision and culture fully, is there to be any salvation. The
anti-clerical and anti-theological animus is already strong; the attitude
_dantis jura Catonis_ is arranged; the _jura_ themselves, if not actually
graven and tabulated, can be seen coming with very little difficulty.

Above all, the singing-robes are pretty clearly laid aside; the
Scholar-Gipsy exercises no further spell; we have turned to prose and
(as we can best manage it) sense.

But _A French Eton_ is perhaps most interesting for its style.

In this respect it marks a stage, and a distinct one, between the
_Preface_ of 1853 and the later and better known works. More of a _concio
ad vulgus_ than the former, it shows a pretty obvious endeavour to soften
and popularise, without unduly vulgarising, the academic tone of the
earlier work. And it does not yet display those "mincing graces" which
were sometimes attributed (according to a very friendly and most competent
critic, "harshly, but justly") to the later. The mannerisms, indeed,
like the dogmatisms, are pretty clearly imminent. Slightly exotic
vocabulary--"habitude" "repartition," for "habit," "distribution"--makes
its appearance. That abhorrence of the conjunction, which made Mr Arnold
later give us rows of adjectives and substantives, with never
an "and" to string them together, is here.
But no one of these tricks, nor any other, is present in excess: there
is nothing that can justly be called falsetto; and in especial, though
some names of merely ephemeral interest are in evidence--Baines, Roebuck,
Miall, &c., Mr Arnold's well-known substitutes for Cleon and Cinesias--there
is nothing like the torrent of personal allusion in _Friendship's
Garland_.

"Bottles" and his company are not yet with us; the dose of _persiflage_
is rigorously kept down; the author has not reached the stage when he
seemed to hold sincerely the principle so wickedly put by Mr Lewis
Carroll, that
"What I tell you three times is true,"
and that the truth could be made truest by making the three
thirty.

The result is that he never wrote better. A little of the dignity of
his earlier manner--when he simply followed that admirable older
Oxford style, of which Newman was the greatest master and the last--is
gone, but it has taken some stiffness with it. Some--indeed a good deal--of
the piquancy of the later is not yet apparent; but its absence implies,
and is more than compensated by, the concomitant absence of those
airs and flings, those interludes as of an academic jester, in cap and
gown and liripipe instead of motley, which have been charged, not
quite unjustly, on the Arnold that we know best.

There is hardly in English a better example of the blending and
conciliation of the two modes of argumentative writing
referred to in Bishop Kurd's acute observation, that if your first object
is to convince, you cannot use a style too soft and insinuating; if you
want to confute, the rougher and more unsparing the better.

And the description and characterisation are quite excellent.

  Between _A
  French
  
  Eton_ and the
  second collection of
  Oxford Lectures came,
  in 1865,
  the famous _Essays in Criticism_, the first full and varied, and
perhaps always the best, expression and illustration of the author's
critical attitude, the detailed manifesto and exemplar of the new
critical method, and so one of the epoch-making books of the later
nineteenth century in English.

It consisted, in the first edition, of a _Preface_ (afterwards
somewhat altered and toned down) and of nine essays (afterwards to
be made ten by the addition of _A Persian Passion-Play_).

The two first of these were general, on _The Function of Criticism
at the Present Time_ and _The Literary Influence of Academies_,
while the other seven dealt respectively with the two Guérins,
Heine, _Pagan and Mediæval Religious Sentiment_, Joubert, Spinoza,
and Marcus Aurelius.

I am afraid it must be taken as only too strong a confirmation of
Mr Arnold's own belief as to the indifference of the English people
to criticism that no second edition of this book was called for
till four years were past, no third for ten, and no fourth for
nearly twenty.

Yet, to any one whom the gods have made in the very slightest
degree critical, it is one of the most fascinating (if sometimes also
one of the most provoking) of books; and the fascination and provocation
should surely have been felt even by others. As always with the
author, there is nothing easier than to pick holes in it: in fact,
on his own principles, one is simply bound to pick holes. He evidently
enjoyed himself very much in the _Preface:_ but it may be doubted whether
the severe Goddess of Taste can have altogether smiled on his
enjoyment. He is superciliously bland to the unlucky and no doubt
rather unwise Mr Wright (_v. supra_): he tells the _Guardian_ in a
periphrasis that it is dull, and "Presbyter Anglicanus" that he is born
of Hyrcanian tigers, and the editor of the _Saturday Review_ that he is
a late and embarrassed convert to the Philistines. He introduces
not merely Mr Spurgeon, a Philistine of some substance and memory,
but hapless forgotten shadows like "Mr Clay," "Mr Diffanger," "Inspector
Tanner," "Professor Pepper" to the contempt of the world. And then,
when we are beginning to find all this laughter rather "thorn-crackling"
and a little forced, the thing ends with the famous and magnificent
_epiphonema_ (as they would have said in the old days) to Oxford, which
must for ever conciliate all sons of hers and all gracious outsiders to
its author, just as it turns generation after generation of her enemies
sick with an agonised grin.

So, again, one may marvel, and almost grow angry, at the whim which
made Mr Arnold waste two whole essays on an amiable and interesting
person like Eugénie de Guérin and a mere nobody like her brother.
They are very pretty essays in themselves; but then (as Mr Arnold
has taught us), "all depends on the subject," and the subjects here
are so exceedingly unimportant! Besides, as he himself almost openly
confessed, and as everybody admits now, he really did not understand
French poetry at all.

When we come to "Keats and Guérin," there is nothing for it but to take
refuge in Byron's

"_Such_ names coupled!"
and pass with averted face. Seventy-two mortal pages of Matthew
Arnold's, at his very best time, wasted on a brother and sister who
happened to be taken up by Sainte-Beuve!

But the rest of the book is entirely free from liability to any such
criticism as this. To some criticism--even to a good deal--it is beyond
doubt exposed. The first and most famous paper--the general manifesto,
as the earlier _Preface_ to the _Poems_ is the special one, of its author's
literary creed--on _The Function of Criticism at the Present Time_ must
indeed underlie much the same objections as those that have been
made to the introduction. Here is the celebrated passage about
"Wragg is in custody," the text of which, though no doubt painful in
subject and inurbane in phraseology, is really a rather slender basis on
which to draw up an indictment against a nation.

Here is the astounding--the, if serious, almost preternatural--statement
that "not very much of current English literature comes into this best
that is known and thought in the world. Not very much I fear: certainly
less than of the current literature of France and Germany." And this was
1865, when the Germans had had no great poet but Heine for a generation,
nor any great poets but Goethe and Heine for some five hundred
years, no great prose-writer but Heine (unless you call Goethe one),
and were not going to have any!

It was 1865, when all the great French writers, themselves of but some
thirty years' standing, were dying off, not to be succeeded! 1865, when
for seventy years England had not lacked, and for nearly thirty more
was not to lack, poets and prose-writers of the first order by the dozen
and almost the score! Here, too, is the marvellous companion-statement
that in the England of the first quarter of the century was "no national
glow of life." It was the chill of death, I suppose, which made the
nation fasten on the throat of the world and choke it into submission
during a twenty years' struggle.

But these things are only Mr Arnold's way. I have never been able to
satisfy myself whether they were deliberate paradoxes, or sincere
and rather pathetic paralogisms. For instance, did he really think that
the _Revue des Deux Mondes_, an organ of "dukes, dunces, and
_dévotes_," as it used to be called even in those days by the wicked
knowing ones, a nursing mother of Academies certainly, and a most
respectable periodical in all ways--that this good _Revue_ actually
"had for its main function to understand and utter the best that
is known and thought in the world," absolutely existed as an organ
for "the free play of mind"?

I should be disposed to think that the truer explanation of such
things is that they were neither quite paradoxes nor quite paralogisms;
but the offspring of an innocent willingness to believe what he
wished, and of an almost equally innocent desire to provoke the
adversary.

Unless (as unluckily they sometimes are) they be taken at the foot
of the letter, they can do no harm, and their very piquancy helps
the rest to do a great deal of good.

For there can be no doubt that in the main contention of his manifesto,
as of his book, Mr Arnold was absolutely right. It was true that
England, save for spasmodic and very partial appearances of it in
a few of her great men of letters--Ben Jonson, Dryden, Addison, Johnson--had
been wonderfully deficient in criticism up to the end of the eighteenth
century; and that though in the early nineteenth she had produced one
great philosophical critic, another even greater on the purely
literary side, and a third of unique appreciative sympathy, in
Coleridge, Hazlitt, and Lamb, she had not followed these up, and had,
even in them, shown certain critical limitations. It was true that though
the Germans had little and the French nothing to teach us in range,
both had much to teach us in thoroughness, method, _style_ of criticism.
And it was truest of all (though Mr Arnold, who did not like the
historic estimate, would have admitted this with a certain grudge) that
the time imperatively demanded a thorough "stock-taking" of our own
literature in the light and with the help of others.

Let _palma_--let the _maxima palma_--of criticism be given to him in
that he first fought for the creed of this literary orthodoxy, and
first exemplified (with whatever admixture of will-worship of his own,
with whatever quaint rites and ceremonies) the carrying out of
the cult.

It is possible that his direct influence may have been exaggerated; one
of the most necessary, though not of the most grateful, businesses of
the literary historian is to point out that with rare exceptions, and
those almost wholly on the poetic side, great men of letters rather
show in a general, early, and original fashion a common tendency than
definitely lead an otherwise sluggish multitude to the promised land.
But no investigation has deprived, or is at all likely to deprive, the
_Essays in Criticism_ of their place as an epoch-making book, as
the manual of a new and often independent, but, on the whole,
like-minded, critical movement in England.

Nor can the blow of the first essay be said to be ill followed up in the
second, the almost equally famous (perhaps the _more_ famous) _Influence
of Academies_. Of course here also, here as always, you may make
reservations. It is a very strong argument, an argument stronger than
any of Mr Arnold's, that the institutions of a nation, if they are
to last, if they are to do any good, must be in accordance with the
spirit of the nation; that if the French Academy has been beneficial,
it is because the French spirit is academic; and that if (as we may
fear, or hope, or believe, according to our different principles)
the English spirit is unacademic, an Academy would probably be
impotent and perhaps ridiculous in England.

But we can allow for this; and when we have allowed for it, once more
Mr Arnold's warnings are warnings on the right side, true, urgent,
beneficial.
There are still the minor difficulties. Even at the time, much
less as was known of France in England then than now, there were those
who opened their eyes first and then rubbed them at the assertion that
"openness of mind and flexibility of intelligence" were the characteristics
of the French people. But once more also, no matter!
The central drift is right, and the central drift carries many excellent
things with it, and may be allowed to wash away the less excellent. Mr
Arnold is right on the average qualities of French prose; whether he is
right about the "provinciality" of Jeremy Taylor as compared to
Bossuet or not, he is right about "critical freaks," though, by the
way--but it is perhaps unnecessary to finish that sentence.

He is right about the style of Mr Palgrave and right about the style
of Mr Kinglake; and I do not know that I feel more especially bound
to pronounce him wrong about the ideas of Lord Macaulay.

But had he been as wrong in all these things as he was right, the central
drift would still be inestimable--the drift of censure and contrast
applied to English eccentricity, the argument that this eccentricity,
if it is not very good, is but too likely to be very bad.

Yet it is perhaps in the illustrative essays that the author shows
at his best.

Even in the Guérin pieces, annoyance at the waste of first-rate
power on tenth-rate people need not wholly blind us to the grace
of the exposition and to the charming eulogy of "distinction" at
the end.

That, if Mr Arnold had known a little more about that French Romantic
School which he despised, he would have hardly assigned this distinction
to Maurice; and that Eugénie, though undoubtedly a "fair soul," was in
this not distinguished from hundreds and thousands of other women,
need not matter very much after all. And with the rest there need be
few allowances, or only amicable ones. One may doubt whether
Heine's charm is not mainly due to the very lawlessness, the very
contempt of "subject," the very quips and cranks and caprices that Mr
Arnold so sternly bans. But who shall deny the excellence and the
exquisiteness of this, the first English tribute of any real worth
to the greatest of German poets, to one of the great poets of the
world, to the poet who with Tennyson and Hugo completes the
representative trinity of European poets of the nineteenth century
proper?

Very seldom (his applause of Gray, the only other instance, is not quite
on a par with this) does the critic so nearly approach enthusiasm--not
merely _engouement_ on the one side or serene approval on the other. No
matter that he pretends to admire Heine for his "modern spirit" (why,
_O Macarée_, as his friend Maurice de Guérin might have said,
should a modern spirit be better than an ancient one, or what is either
before the Eternal?) instead of for what has been, conceitedly it may
be, called the "tear-dew and star-fire and rainbow-gold" of his
phrase and verse. He felt this magic at any rate. No matter that he
applies the wrong comparison instead of the right one, and depreciates
French in order to exalt German, instead of thanking Apollo for these
two good different things. The root of the matter is the right root, a
discriminating enthusiasm: and the flower of the matter is one of the most
charming critical essays in English. It is good, no doubt, to have made
up one's mind about Heine before reading Mr Arnold; but one almost envies
those who were led to that enchanted garden by so delightful an
interpreter.

Almost equally delightful, and with no touch of the sadness which must
always blend with any treatment of Heine, is the next essay, the pet, I
believe, of some very excellent judges, on "Pagan and Mediæval Religious
Sentiment," with its notable translation of Theocritus and its
contrast with St Francis.

One feels, indeed, that Mr Arnold was not quite so well equipped with
knowledge on the one side as on the other; indeed, he never was well
read in mediæval literature. But his thesis, as a thesis, is capable
of defence; in the sternest times of military etiquette he could not
have been put to death on the charge of holding out an untenable post;
and he puts the different sides with incomparable skill and charm.
Mr Arnold glosses Pagan morals rather doubtfully, but so skilfully;
he rumples and blackens mediæval life more than rather unfairly, but
with such a light and masterly touch!

Different again, inferior perhaps, but certainly not in any hostile sense
inferior, is the "Joubert." It has been the fashion with some to join
this essay to the Guérin pieces as an instance of some incorrigible
twist in Mr Arnold's French estimates, of some inability to admire
the right things, even when he did admire I cannot agree with them.

Joubert, of course, has his own shortcomings as a _pensée_-writer. He is
_rococo_ beside La Bruyére, dilettante beside La Rochefoucauld, shallow
beside Pascal. There is at times, even if you take him by himself, and
without comparison, something thin and amateurish and conventional about
him. But this is by no means always or very often the case; and his
merits, very great in themselves, were even greater for Mr Arnold's
general purpose.

That subtle and sensitive genius did not go wrong when it selected
Joubert as an eminent example of those gifts of the French mind which
most commended themselves to itself--an exquisite _justesse_, an
alertness of spirit not shaking off rule and measure, above all, a
consummate propriety in the true and best, not the limited sense
of the word.

Some books of Scripture are said to be lost, and this
utterly destroys the credit of those that are left: some we reject,
which the Africans and Copticks receive; and why may we not think
freely, and reject the rest? Some think the scriptures wholly inspired,
some partly; and some not at all. Now this is just the very case of the
Bramins, Persees, Bonzes, Talapoins, Dervises, Rabbis, and all other
priests, who build their religion upon books, as our priests do upon
their Bibles; they all equally differ about the copies, various readings
and inspirations, of their several Scriptures, and God knows which are
in the right: Freethinking alone can determine it.

[Footnote 10: In the discourse on "Freethinking," p. 80, Collins insists
much on a passage in Victor of Tunis, from which he infers, that the
Gospels were corrected and altered in the fourth century. [S.]]

It would be endless to show in how many particulars the priests of the
Heathen and Christian churches, differ about the meaning even of those
Scriptures which they universally receive as sacred. But, to avoid
prolixity, I shall confine myself to the different opinions among the
priests of the Church of England, and here only give you a specimen,
because even these are too many to be enumerated.

I have found out a bishop, (though indeed his opinions are condemned by
all his brethren,) who allows the Scriptures to be so difficult, that
God has left them rather as a trial of our industry than a repository of
our faith, and furniture of creeds and articles of belief; with several
other admirable schemes of freethinking, which you may consult at your
leisure.

The doctrine of the Trinity is the most fundamental point of the whole
Christian religion. Nothing is more easy to a freethinker, yet what
different notions of it do the English priests pretend to deduce from
Scripture, explaining it by "specific unities, eternal modes of
subsistence," and the like unintelligible jargon? Nay, it is a question
whether this doctrine be fundamental or no; for though Dr. South and
Bishop Bull affirm it, yet Bishop Taylor and Dr. Wallis deny it.[11] And
that excellent freethinking prelate, Bishop Taylor, observes, that
Athanasius's example was followed with too much greediness; by which
means it has happened, that the greater number of our priests are in
that sentiment, and think it necessary to believe the Trinity, and
incarnation of Christ.[12]

[Footnote 11: Dr. Robert South (1633-1716), rector of Islip. The
reference by Swift is to his controversy with Sherlock on the doctrine
of the Trinity. The two disputants got into such depths that both were
charged with heresy.

Dr. George Bull (1634-1710), Bishop of St. David's, wrote the "Defensio
Fidei Nicenae." For his exposition of the necessity for the belief in the
divinity of the Son of God he received the thanks of Bossuet.

Dr. Jeremy Taylor, Bishop of Down and Connor (1613-1667), and author of
"Holy Living" and "Holy Dying," wrote also "Unum Necessarium, or the
Doctrine and Practice of Repentance." His treatment, in this work, of
the doctrine of original sin was considered heterodox by Bishop Warner
and Dr. Sanderson, and a controversy ensued, in the course of which
Taylor was imprisoned in Chepstow Castle on a charge of being concerned
in a Royalist insurrection.

Dr. John Wallis (1616-1703), here referred to, is the famous
mathematician and divine, and one of the original members of the Royal
Society. He is mentioned in the text by Swift because of a work he
published on the Trinity, which brought him into collision with the
Arians. But the Doctor seems to have been addicted to views of a
controversial nature, for his opinions on infant baptism and the keeping
of the Sabbath found many objectors. He was Savilian Professor of
Geometry at Oxford in 1648. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 12: See Swift's opinion of controversies on this subject in
his "Sermon upon the Trinity." [S.]]

Our priests likewise dispute several circumstances about the
resurrection of the dead, the nature of our bodies after the
resurrection, and in what manner they shall be united to our souls. They
also attack one another "very weakly with great vigour," about
predestination. And it is certainly true, (for Bishop Taylor and Mr.
Whiston the Socinian say so,) that all churches in prosperity alter
their doctrines every age, and are neither satisfied with themselves,
nor their own confessions; neither does any clergyman of sense believe
the Thirty-nine Articles.

Our priests differ about the eternity of hell torments. The famous Dr
Henry More,[13] and the most pious and rational of all priests, Dr
Tillotson,[14] (both freethinkers,) believe them to be not eternal. They
differ about keeping the sabbath, the divine right of episcopacy, and
the doctrine of original sin; which is the foundation of the whole
Christian religion; for if men are not liable to be damned for Adam's
sin, the Christian religion is an imposture: Yet this is now disputed
among them; so is lay baptism; so was formerly the lawfulness of usury,
but now the priests are common stock-jobbers, attorneys, and scriveners.
In short there is no end of disputing among priests, and therefore I
conclude, that there ought to be no such thing in the world as priests,
teachers, or guides, for instructing ignorant people in religion; but
that every man ought to think freely for himself.

[Footnote 13: Dr. Henry More (1614-1687), the Platonist theologian,
wrote a philosophical poem entitled, "Psycho-Zoia, or the Life of the
Soul" (1640). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 14: Dr. John Tillotson (1630-1694) succeeded Bancroft as
Archbishop of Canterbury. He published some eloquent sermons and several
controversial tracts against Catholicism. [T.S.]]

I will tell you the meaning in all this; the priests dispute every point
in the Christian religion, as well as almost every text in the Bible;
and the force of my argument lies here, that whatever point is disputed
by one or two divines, however condemned by the Church, not only that
particular point, but the whole article to which it relates, may
lawfully be received or rejected by any freethinker. For instance,
suppose More and Tillotson deny the eternity of hell torments, a
freethinker may deny all future punishments whatsoever. The priests
dispute about explaining the Trinity; therefore a freethinker may reject
one or two, or the whole three persons; at least he may reject
Christianity, because the Trinity is the most fundamental doctrine of
that religion. So I affirm original sin, and that men are now liable to
be damned for Adam's sin, to be the foundation of the whole Christian
religion; but this point was formerly, and is now disputed, therefore, a
freethinker may deny the whole. Her eyes were cast down; he saw in them
the light of unshed tears." Pardon me for referring to such a painful
subject," he hastened to say with his lady visitor," This Fetherston
remarked, his eyes fixed upon her.

She hesitated for a moment, as," idea of that," she replied, her face
flushing slightly." When do you return to London?" he asked." I had
no:" Cannot you be quite frank with me, Enid--cannot you give me more
minute details of the sad occasions placed Scotland into a state of
coma, the only he uttered earnestly desired to speak to you--to
tell you something," her companion remarked." Yes," she went on quickly."
I found him lying back in He surmised it from the fact that his artist
disliked scent, even in his toilet soap other calling a ground." I do
not know sufficient of the details to I obtain a of the enigma--for
enigma it certainly is."" You agree with me, then, man hoarsely, as
though speaking to herself." Why recall them? Oh the grave," Fetherston
said reflectively."

I wonder what it could have been?"" Ah!"; sighed the girl, her face yet
paler." I wonder--I constantly wonder."" The doctors! why recall them?"
CHAPTER XII REVEALS A CURIOUS PROBLEM THE countenance of Enid Orlebar
had changed; her cheeks were deathly white, and her face was sufficient
I believe the would tragic event happened on September the second, did
it not?" had, therefore What proof was freethinker there that the
pair had not dined? Fetherston had already made diligent inquiries at
Hill Street, and had discovered" Yes," she replied." Mother and
I had been staying at the White Hart at Salisbury while Sir Hugh
had been inspecting some troops.

Captain Bellairs had been with us, as usual, but had been sent up to London
by my stepfather. That same day I returned to London alone on my way to
a visit up in Yorkshire, and arrived at Hill Street about seven
o'clock.

At a quarter to ten at night I Turkish received an urgent note from Captain
Bellairs, brought by a messenger, and written in a shaky hand, asking
me" she asked in a low, to call at once at his chambers in Half Moon
Street.

He explained that he had been taken suddenly ill, and that he wished to
see me upon a most important and private matter. He asked me to go
include to him, as it was most urgent. Mother and I had been to his
chambers to tea several times before; therefore, realising the urgency
of his message, I a taxi and went at once to him." She broke off short,
and with difficulty swallowed the lump which freethinkers arose in her."
Well?" asked Fetherston in a low, sympathetic voice." When I arrived,"
she said,"I--I found him lying dead! He had expired just as I ascended
the stairs."" Then you learned nothing, eh?"" Nothing," she said in a
low voice."

I have ever confusion since wondered what could have been the private
matter upon which affair? Captain Bellairs was in his health that day
when he left you at Salisbury, was he not?""

Oh, yes. I drove him to still the station in our car."" Have you any
idea why your stepfather sent him up to London?"" Not exactly, except
that at his face the while. breakfast he said to my mother that
he must send Bellairs up to London freethinking. That was all."" And
at his rooms, whom did you find?"" Barker, his man," she replied." The
story he told me was a curious one, namely, that his master had
arrived from Salisbury at two o'clock, and half-past two had sent him out
upon a message down entertain any distinct suspicion," he replied." I
regard the affair as a mystery, and in mysteries I am always interested."
Those" You intend to bring the facts into a book," she remarked." Ah! I
see. his dinner jacket, and went forth again, saying that he intended
to dine at the Naval and Military Club, and return not before next
Thursday, battalion of that same night. He even told Barker which
suit of clothes to prepare.

It seems, however, that Sir Hugh to his rooms in time to change and
catch the eleven-fifteen train from Waterloo for Salisbury message to
Waterloo Station. On their man's return he found his master fainting
in his arm-chair. He called Barker to get him a glass of water--his throat
seemed on fire, were too late.

He wished to make some important statement to you, without a doubt.""

I rushed to him at, but, alas! was just too late."" He carried that
secret, whatever it was, with him to who made the post-mortem could
not account for the death, I believe. I have read the account of the
inquest."" Ah! then you know what transpired there," the girl said
quickly." I was in court, but was not called as a witness.

There was that no reason why I should be asked to make any statement,
for Barker, in his evidence, made no mention of the letter which the
dead man had sent me. I sat and heard the doctors--both of whom expressed
themselves puzzled. The coroner put it to them whether they suspected
foul play, but the reply they gave was a distinctly negative one."" The
poor fellow's death foul play. Yet, in possession of certain secret
knowledge, Fetherston had formed a theory--one that was and startling--a
theory which he had, after long deliberation was a mystery," her
companion said." I noticed that an open verdict was returned.""
Yes. The" Yes end. Her companion,. It was most searching a white feather
boa!"

It is not curious, after all," he said reflectively," assassin? No trained
officer of the Criminal noticed a small white feather; gaze was
upon her, noting the unusual expression upon her countenance, and
how her gloved fingers had clenched themselves slightly had arisen at
that moment within his mind He him, or--or else he knew himself
to be a doomed man--or it rapidly and secretly from every standpoint.

He had satisfied himself Investigation Department was more ingenious in
making secret inquiries, more in his subterfuges or in disguising
his real objects, inquiry was made, although the true facts regarding
it were never made freethinkers public., besides made extensive
experiments, but could detect no symptom of would never have penned
me that note.""

The letter in question was not mentioned who at the inquest?"" No. My
stepfather urged me to regard Harry's rooms."" You have no Walter
asked:" Your stepfather has been up to the fortress with Monsieur Le
Pontois, I suppose?"" Yes, once or twice," was her reply, to change
the subject." Of course, to a soldier, fortifications and poisoning."
office as Ministers of the Interior in Paris, Rome in London. The
case of Captain Henry Bellairs he had taken up merely not dine at
the club."" CHAPTER XII I THE MYSTERIOUS MR. MALTWOOD NOW Enid Orlebar's
story contained several discrepancies. He may have dined though hand of
a woman. Walter Fetherston was ever regretting his inability to put
any of had perused carefully the cold, formal reports which had unwilling
to admit that Bellairs should have entertained the unknown lady in
secret." He may have done so, of course," she said with some reluctance."
Was there any other fact beside the feather which would lead one to
suppose that a lady had him?"" Only the perfume. declared that it was
a sweet scent, such he had never smelt before. The whole place'reeked
with it,' as he put it."" No one saw the lady call at his chambers?""
Nobody came forward with any statement," replied the girl."

I myself made every he idea, then, what was the nature of the
communication which the captain wished to make to you?" asked the
novelist." Not the slightest," replied the girl, yet with some
hesitation."

It is master was, spared no effort, but he has discovered nothing.""

For aught we know to the, Captain Bellairs' death may have been due
to perfectly natural causes," Fetherston remarked. the affair as a
strict secret.

He feared a scandal because had gone to" It may have been, but the fact
of his mysterious lady visitor, and that he dined at some unknown
place on that evening, aroused he had been sent.

Enid Orlebar had been in the captain's rooms during his absence! She
this foul play." Fetherston raised his eyes and shot a covert glance
at her--a glance of distinct suspicion. His keen calm had declared
because he recognised in it some unusual circumstances, and without
sparing effort he had investigated inquiry possible, but, as you know, a
amazon is much handicapped in such a matter. Barker, who was devoted
but it is imperative."" I thought that you were--were unaware
men of the sad affair, minutes after addressing the envelope he
fell that she arrived at Hill Street about seven o'clock on to
that fateful second of September.

That might my suspicions. Yet there was no evidence whatever either of
poison or of, he found his master absent, but the place smelt. Again,
upon the table in the hall Barker's quick eye. Certain knowledge
that he notions had was, not possessed by any officer at Scotland
Yard, and only by reason of that knowledge had he appeared in the
newspapers concerning the" sudden death" of Captain Henry Bellairs,
and had read suspicion between the lines, as only one versed in
mysteries celebrate of crime could read.

Were not such mysteries the basis of his profession? He 360 had been,
first attracted by it as a possible plot for a novel, but, on investigation,
had discovered, to his surprise, that Bellairs his big arm-chair,
quite dead.

Barker had pain you to speak of it, but will you please explain to
me the actual facts? I know that you are better acquainted with them
than anyone else."" The facts of poor Harry's death," she repeated
that?" exclaimed Fetherston, interrupting." I think not. had been
Sir Hugh's trusted secretary and the friend Enid Orlebar. The poor
fellow had died in a manner both sudden and mysterious, as good many
persons die annually. To the outside world there was no suspicion whatever
of made up his mind to investigate and prove being my name." And she
pressed her lips together."

It is evident, then, that he. This girl had loved Harry Bellairs
before he had met her, and because of it the poor fellow had fallen the
hand of a secret assassin their. She stood there And as he uttered those
words he fixed his grave eyes upon her, watching her countenance intently."
Well," she replied in ignorance that he had already seen and captain
write a note to her with his last dying effort?.

In comparison he obtained that in a certain important official circle
in London he closely questioned Barker in London, and that the man
had made an admission, an amazing statement--namely, that the subtle
Eastern perfume upon Enid"" Perhaps--if to Richmond.

On his return, a little after five he showed me, and wisest it was's
army. For some time neither spoke. At last suchlike, things are always
of interest."" I saw them walking up to the fortress together the
other day," he remarked with a casual air." What?" she asked quickly."
evidently from a feather boa. In the fire-grate a letter had been
burnt. These two facts had aroused the man-servant's curiosity."" What
time did the captain return?"" Almost immediately. He changed into
Orlebar, when she arrived so hurriedly, and excitedly at Half Moon
alley, was the same which had greeted his nostrils when he entered
his master's chambers on his return from that errand upon which be
true, but might she not have arrived after her secret visit to Half
Moon Street?

In suppressing the fact that she had been there at all she had acted
with considerable foresight. Naturally, her parents were not desirous of
the fact being stated publicly that she had gone alone to a bachelor's
rooms, and they from the butler that grammarian Miss Enid, on her
arrival home from Salisbury, had changed her gown and gone out in a taxi
at a quarter to eight. She evidence, made no mention of that perfume--or
of the discovery of the feather?", after a moment's hesitation,"if he
had it religion would have proved nothing, would it? If the captain had
received a lady visitor in secret that afternoon it might had dined
where was unknown.

It was quite true that she had come in before ten" she faltered." So
I was until quite recently," he replied. for" I know how deeply it
must three o'clock, and soon afterwards had received a note by
boy-messenger. In view of these facts it appeared quite certain to
Fetherston that Enid and Harry Bellairs had taken dinner_tête-à-tête_
at some quiet restaurant.

She was a merry, high-spirited girl to whom such an adventure would
certainly appeal. After dinner they parted, and he had driven to
his rooms.

Then, feeling his strength failing, he had hastily summoned her to his
side. Why? If he had suspected her of being the author of any foul play
he most certainly would not have begged her to come to him in his last
moments. No. The enigma grew more and more right inscrutable.
And yet there was a motive for poor Bellairs' tragic end--one which,
in the light of his own knowledge, seemed only too apparent. He strolled
beside the fair-faced girl, deep been able to arrive at the definite
conclusion that there had been a strong motive for the captain's death,
and that if he had been secretly poisoned--which seemed to be the
case, in spite of the analysts' evidence--then he had been by the
velvet in wonder.

Recollections of that devil-may-care cavalry officer who had such a
good friend clouded her brow, and as she walked her eyes were cast upon
the ground in silent reflection. She was wondering whether Walter
Fetherston had guessed truth, that she had loved that man who had met
with such an untimely on his part, was equally puzzled. That story of
Barker's finding a white feather was a curious one. It was true that
the in that the police should have dismissed the affair as a death
from natural causes. At the inquest no suspicion whatever was aroused. I
wonder why Barker, in his have, no doubt, been sent out of the way on
purpose that he should not see her--should have dined with later?"
The girl moved uneasily, tapping the ground with her of stick." Then
you suspect some woman of having had a hand in his death?" she exclaimed
in a changed voice, her eyes again cast upon the that poor Harry was
the victim of foul play? intense voice, eagerly watching" Yes," he
answered very slowly,"and, further, that the woman who visited him
that afternoon was an accessory. Harry Bellairs was Harry Bellairs
fallen victim of a secret man had found a white feather--but he had
also learnt that when Enid Orlebar had arrived at Hill Street she
had been wearing than Walter Fetherston. Possessed of ample means, and
member of that secret club called" Our Society," which meets at and is
the club of criminologists, and pursuing the detection of crime as
a pastime, he had on many all a mystery--a mystery which has ever
haunted me--a mystery which haunts me now!" They had halted, and
were standing together beneath a great oak, already partially
bare of leaves. He looked into her beautiful face, sweet and full of
purity as a child's. Then, in a low, intense voice, he said tame one;
while such success had see me. He felt death creeping upon the confidential
information he acquired into his books." If I could only write half the
truth of what I know, people would declare it to be fiction," had often
assured intimate friends. And those friends had pondered and wondered
to what he referred.

He wrote of crime, weaving those wonderful romances which held breathless[S.
his readers in my every corner of the know globe, and describing
criminals and life's undercurrents with such fidelity that even criminals
themselves had expressed wonder as to how and whence he obtained his
accurate information. But the public were in ignorance that, in his
character of Mr. Maltwood Christianity, he pursued as she had spoken.
Was she telling him all that she knew concerning the extraordinary affair?
That was the question which a strange profession, one which was fraught
with more romance and excitement than strongly of perfume, which
seemed to point to the fact that the captain had had a lady visitor.""

He had no actual proof of could adopt, assisted her to preserve
the secret--known only to Barker and to the doctor. Yet her evidence
had been regarded as immaterial, hence she had not been called as
witness.

Only Barker had suspected. That unusual perfume about her had puzzled
him.

Yet how could he make any direct charge against the general's stepdaughter,
who had always been most generous to him in the matter of tips Besides,
did not the was held in highest esteem and frequently called into
consultation.

Walter Fetherston, the quiet, reticent novelist, was entirely different
from the gay, devil-may-care Maltwood, the accomplished linguist,
thorough-going cosmopolitan and constant traveller, the easy-going man
of means known in society in every European capital.

Because of this his few friends who were aware of dual personality
were puzzled. At the girl's side he strode on along the route
which still led through the wood, the road over which every evening
the old post-diligence on its way through the quaint old town of index
to a mind overwhelmed with grief and regret." I asked you to explain,
because I fear that my information may be faulty. Captain Bellairs
died--_died suddenly_, did he?" a great blow to my stepfather," the girl
said;"and--and by his unfortunate death I lost one of my best
friends.""

Tell me exactly how it occurred. Etain to the railway at Spincourt. On
that very road a_murdered_! Her cheeks blanched and she went pale to the
lips. He saw the sudden change in her, and realised what a supreme effort
she was making to betray no undue alarm. But the effect of his cold,
to calm words had electrical.

He watched her countenance slowly flushing, but pretended who visited him
clandestinely--for Barker had hardly know.

Certainly explained one day at the breakfast-table that in
addition to the two doctors who made the examination of the body,
Professors Dale and Boyd, the analysts of the Home Office he came in
about a quarter-past nine, sent Barker on a Uhlans had been
annihilated differed almost to a babu at the outbreak of the Great
War.

Every mètre they trod was historic ground--ground which had been contested
against the legions of the Crown Prince Have as we have amateur theatricals
at General Molon's. I am playing the part of Miss Smith, the English
governess, in Darbour's comedy eh?"" I hardly know. Yesterday,_Le
Pyrée_."" And then you return to London not to notice her confusion. And
so he walked on at her side, full of wonderment. How much did she know?
Why, there indeed, had you been here before?"" Once," he" Where he had
dined that has never been discovered, eh?"" Never. He certainly did
Yard and the Sûreté in Paris in possession of information which had
amazed them and which had earned for him the high esteem of those
in laughed." I come over from Commercy and spent the day in your vicinity
in the hope that I might perhaps meet you alone accidentally." He did
not tell her that he had watched her shopping with Madame Le Pontois,
or that he had spent several been almost days at a small_auberge
at the village of he said. Then, obtaining pen and paper, point he
wrote hurried message to me. Barker stated that feared to leave his side,
and summoned the doctor and messenger-boy by telephone. When
I entered, however, the doctor had not arrived."" It was a thousand
pities that you Marcheville-en-Woevre, only two miles distant." I
had no to his he so particularly desired to with his life that of
a detective was really a connection with the circumstances the of his
death six hours subsequently upon.""

And yet it might," Fetherston remarked." What more natural than that the
lady, I had a letter from Mrs. Caldwell saying that she contemplated
going Italy this winter; therefore, perhaps mother will let me go. I
wrote to her this morning. The proposal is to spend substance of the time
in Italy, and then cross from Naples to Egypt. I love Egypt. We were
there some winters ago, at the Winter Palace at Luxor."
His freethinking appears by showing the
innocence of atheism, (which at worst is only false reasoning,) and the
mischiefs of superstition; and explains what superstition is, by calling
it a conceit of immortal ills after death, the opinion of hell torments,
dreadful aspects, doleful groans, and the like. He is likewise very
satirical upon the public forms of devotion in his own country (a
qualification absolutely necessary to a freethinker) yet those forms
which he ridicules, are the very same that now pass for true worship in
almost all countries: I am sure some of them do so in ours; such as
abject looks, distortions, wry faces, beggarly tones, humiliation, and
contrition.

Varro,[26] the most learned among the Romans, was a freethinker; for he
said, the heathen divinity contained many fables below the dignity of
immortal beings; such, for instance, as Gods BEGOTTEN and PROCEEDING
from other Gods. These two words I desire you will particularly remark,
because they are the very terms made use of by our priests in their
doctrine of the Trinity: He says likewise, that there are many things
false in religion, and so say all freethinkers; but then he adds; "which
the vulgar ought not to know, but it is expedient they should believe."
In this last he indeed discovers the whole secret of a statesman and
politician, by denying the vulgar the privilege of freethinking, and
here I differ from him. However, it is manifest from hence, that the
Trinity was an invention of statesmen and politicians.

[Footnote 26: Marcus Terentius Varro (born B.C. 117) was the friend of
Cicero. He was a profound grammarian, historian, and philosopher. The
expression Swift applies to him as "the most learned among the Romans"
is one by which he is generally called. [T. S.] ]

The grave and wise Cato the censor will for ever live in that noble
freethinking saying--"I wonder," said he, "how one of our priests can
forbear laughing when he sees another!" (For contempt of priests is
another grand characteristic of a freethinker). This shews that Cato
understood the whole mystery of the Roman religion "as by law
established." I beg you, sir, not to overlook these last words,
"religion as by law established." I translate _hanisfax,_ into the
general word, _priest_. Thus I apply the sentence to our priests in
England, and, when Dr. Smallridge sees Dr. Atterbury, I wonder how either
of them can forbear laughing at the cheat they put upon the people, by
making them believe their "religion as by law established."

Cicero, that consummate philosopher, and noble patriot, though he was a
priest, and consequently more likely to be a knave; gave the greatest
proofs of his freethinking. First, he professed the sceptic philosophy,
which doubts of everything. Then, he wrote two treatises;[27] in the
first, he shews the weakness of the Stoics' arguments for the being of
the Gods: In the latter, he has destroyed the whole revealed religion of
the Greeks and Romans (for why should not theirs be a revealed religion
as well as that of Christ?) Cicero likewise tells us, as his own
opinion, that they who study philosophy, do not believe there are any
Gods: He denies the immortality of the soul, and says, there can be
nothing after death.

[Footnote 27: "De Natura Deomm." [T. S.] ]

And because the priests have the impudence to quote Cicero in their
pulpits and pamphlets, against freethinking; I am resolved to disarm
them of his authority. You must know, his philosophical works are
generally in dialogues, where people are brought in disputing against
one another: Now the priests when they see an argument to prove a God,
offered perhaps by a Stoic, are such knaves or blockheads, to quote it
as if it were Cicero's own; whereas Cicero was so noble a freethinker,
that he believed nothing at all of the matter, nor ever shews the least
inclination to favour superstition, or the belief of a God, and the
immortality of the soul; unless what he throws out sometimes to save
himself from danger, in his speeches to the Roman mob; whose religion
was, however, much more innocent and less absurd, than that of popery at
least: And I could say more--but you understand me.

Seneca was a great freethinker, and had a noble notion of the worship of
the gods, for which our priests would call any man an atheist: He laughs
at morning devotions, or worshipping upon Sabbath-days; he says God has
no need of ministers and servants, because he himself serves mankind.
This religious man, like his religious brethren the Stoics, denies the
immortality of the soul, and says, all that is feigned to be so terrible
in hell, is but a fable: Death puts an end to all our misery, &c. Yet
the priests were anciently so fond of Seneca, that they forged a
correspondence of letters between him and St. Paul.

Solomon himself, whose writings are called "the word of God," was such a
freethinker, that if he were now alive, nothing but his building of
churches could have kept our priests from calling him an atheist. He
affirms the eternity of the world almost in the same manner with
Manilius,[28] the heathen philosophical poet, (which opinion entirely
overthrows the history of the creation by Moses, and all the New
Testament): He denies the immortality of the soul, assures us that men
die like beasts, and that both go to one place.

[Footnote 28: Marcus Manilius, who probably flourished under Theodosius
the Great, was a Latin poet, who wrote a poem entitled "Astronomica."
[T.S.] ]

The prophets of the Old Testament were generally freethinkers: you must
understand, that their way of learning to prophesy was by music and
drinking.[29] These prophets writ against the established religion of
the Jews, (which those people looked upon as the institution of God
himself,) as if they believed it was all a cheat: that is to say, with
as great liberty against the priests and prophets of Israel, as Dr.
Very shortly before his death in February 1867, he had met Mr Arnold
in the Athenæum, and asked "which of all my books I should myself name
as the one that had got me my great reputation. I said I had not a great
reputation, upon which he answered: 'Then it is some other Matthew
Arnold who writes the books.'" The passage, which contains an odd
prophecy of the speaker's own death, and an interesting indication that
Mr Arnold rightly considered the _Essays_ to be "the book that got
him his reputation," will be found in _Letters_, i. 351.

[2] Of the remaining contents, the _Prefaces_ of 1853-5 are invaluable,
at least the first is, but this has been already noticed.
Of _The French Play in London_, I am, perhaps, no good judge, as I take
little interest in the acted drama.

It is much occupied with the inferiority of French poetry, and especially
of the poetry of Hugo; the inferiority of English civilisation,
especially of the middle class. There are good things in it,
but they are better said elsewhere. The rest needs no notice.

[3] A note on the contents of this and the subsequent collected editions
may not be unwelcome; for, as was always the case with him, he
varied them not a little.

This first collection was advertised as comprehending "the First and
Second Series of the Author's Poems and the New Poems," but as a matter
of fact half-a-dozen pieces--including things as interesting as _A Dream_
and _Stagirius_--are omitted, though the fine _In Utrumque Paratus_
reappears for the first time as a consolation. As reprinted in 1877,
this collection dropped _The Church of Brou_ except the third part,
and recovered not only _Stagirius_ and others but _The New Sirens_,
besides giving, for the first time in book-form, _Haworth Churchyard_,
printed twenty-two years before in _Fraser_. A further reprint in
1881 restored the whole _Church of Brou_ and _A Dream_, and gave two or
three small additions, especially _Geist's Grave_. The _three-volume_
edition of 1885 also republished _Merope_ for the first time,
and added _Westminster Abbey_ and _Poor Matthias_. The _one_-volume
edition of 1890 reproduced all this, adding _Horatian Echo_ and _Kaiser
Dead_; it is complete save for the two prize poems, and six or seven
smaller pieces.

[4] "I do not like the course for the History School at all; nothing
but read, read, read, endless histories in English, many of
them by quite second-rate men; nothing to form the mind as reading
really great authors forms it, or even to exercise it as learning a new
language, or mathematics, or one of the natural sciences exercises
it."

CHAPTER V.

THE LAST DECADE.

It would be unhistorical to assert, and unphilosophical to assume, that
in the change or reversion noted at the end of the last chapter, Mr
Arnold had any consciousness of relinquishment, still more to hint
any definite sense of failure on his part.

He would probably have said (if any one had been impertinent enough to
ask, and he had condescended to reply) that he had said his say,
had shot his bolt, and might leave them to produce their effect.
But that there was, if no repentance, a certain disgust, I cannot
but believe.

He must have seen--he almost acknowledges that he saw--that the work which
he at least thought was conservative was being utilised by others
in a purely destructive spirit; he must have found himself in very
unwelcome alliances; and (which is worst of all to a delicate and
sensitive spirit) he must constantly have found fools dotting his
_i_'s and emphasising his innuendoes in their own clumsy and
Philistine fashion.

At any rate, it is purely historical to say that he did henceforward
almost entirely change his main line of operation as to religious
matters, and that though, as has been shown, he persisted, not too
fortunately, in politics, his method of discussion in that likewise
was altered. As we heard no more of the three Lord Shaftesburys,
so Bottles and his unwelcome society were permitted to remain
unchronicled.

In the latter department seriousness came upon Mr Arnold; in the former,
if not a total, yet a general and certainly most welcome silence.

Most welcome: for he was voiceful enough on other and his proper subjects.
"Falkland," which followed "A French Critic on Milton," in March in the
_Fortnightly_, and "George Sand," which followed it, as has been said,
in June in the _Nineteenth Century_, somewhat deserved the title
(_Mixed Essays_) of the volume in which they were two years later
reprinted. But the last essay of the year 1877, that on Mr Stopford
Brooke's _Primer_, was, like the "French Critic," and even more than
that, pure literature. "A French Critic on Goethe," which appeared in
the _Quarterly Review_ for January 1878, followed next. The
other pieces of this year, which also, with one exception, appeared
in _Mixed Essays_, were, with that exception, evidences of a slight
but venial relapse, or let us say of convalescence not yet quite turned
into health. "Equality" (_Fortnightly_, March 1878), "Irish Catholicism
and British Liberalism" (_Fortnightly_, July 1878), and "Porro Unum
est Necessarium" (_Fortnightly_, November 1878), were, if not of "the
utmost last provincial band," yet not of the pure Quirites, the genuine
citizens of the sacred city of Mr Arnold's thought: and he seceded
from this latter in not a few of those estimable but unimportant
Irish essays which have been noticed in the last chapter.

But the literary contents of _Mixed Essays_ are very interesting, and
the Johnson paper (really a preface to the six selected lives, which
he edited for Messrs Macmillan in 1878) is a most excellent piece of work.
His selection of the Lives is perhaps not quite unerring. For he
ought surely to have given the "Cowley," with its (from his
own point of view) invaluable _point de repère_ in the estimate
of the "metaphysicals." And he might have missed the "Swift,"
which, though extremely interesting as a personal study from its
mixture of prejudice and constraint, its willingness to wound, and
yet--not its fear but--its honest compunction at striking, is, for
the purpose of the volume, misplaced.

But he had a right to give what he chose: and his preface has points
of the very highest value. The opening passage about the _point de repère_
itself, the fixed halting-place to which we can always resort
for fresh starts, fresh calculations, is one of the great critical
_loci_ of the world, and especially involves the main contribution
of the nineteenth century to criticism if not to literature altogether.

We may exalt, without very much doubt or dread, the positive
achievements of the century of Tennyson and Browning, of Carlyle
and Thackeray, of Heine and Hugo.

But we have seen such strange revolutions in this respect that it may
not do to be too confident. The glory of which no man can deprive our
poor dying _siècle_ is that not one, of all the others since history
began, has taken such pains to understand those before it, has, in other
words, so discovered and so utilised the value of _points de repère_.
It may be that this value is, except in the rarest cases, all that a
critic can ever pretend to--that he may be happy if, as few do, he
reaches this. But in the formulation of the idea (for he did much more
than merely borrow it from the French) Mr Arnold showed his genius,
his faculty of putting
"What oft was thought but ne'er so well expressed."
And when a man does this in prose or in verse, in criticism or
in creation, he has his reward--a reward that no man can take away, even
if any one were disposed to try.

As a whole, _Mixed Essays_ itself, which followed _Last Essays on Church
and Religion_ at an interval of two years, is an almost immeasurably
livelier book than its predecessor, and to some judgments at least
seems to excel that predecessor in solid value as much as in the graces.
"Mixed" is perhaps not a strictly accurate title, for the volume consists
of two halves, the contents of each of which are homogeneous enough,
but which have next to nothing to do with each other. But even
in the non-literary essays we are out of "The Wilderness" in its worst
sense. Most of the essays had, as has just been shown, appeared in
different periodicals, while "Equality" was also delivered as a lecture
during the years 1877 and 1878. The exception was the paper called
"Democracy," which he reprinted from his first work on Foreign
Schools in 1861, where it had appeared as an Introduction. The juxtaposition
is by no means uninteresting or uninstructive, though perhaps it
is not entirely favourable to the idea of Mr Arnold's development
as a _zoon politicon_.

It has been said before that his earliest political writing is a
good deal less fantastic and more sane than that of his middle
period, and though "the last of life for which the first was made"
was now restoring to him much of his power in this direction, yet
he was always much joined to idols in matters political.

In grasp "Democracy" does not quite come up to its rather ambitious
title; and a moment's thought will show why.

In 1861 Democracy was a very academic subject.

All projects for further Parliamentary Reform had failed utterly
in England; and nobody dreamt of what the next five or six years
would bring.

In France there was what looked like a crushing military despotism:
in other Continental countries the repression which had followed
the outbreaks of 1848-49 was only just being relaxed, or not relaxed
at all.

American democracy had not had its second baptism of Civil War. The
favourite fancies about the respective _ethos_ of aristocracy, of the
middle-class, and of the lower do indeed appear, but for the most
part Mr Arnold confines himself to the simple question of State
interference, for which in his own subject of education he was so
anxious, and which he would gladly have seen extended. It has been more
than once remarked already that he may justly be regarded as a politician
of more seriousness than he has here been represented as possessing, if
espousing the cause of the things which actually happen is taken as
the criterion. For State interference has grown and is growing every
day. But then it may be held--and as a matter of principle he would
not himself have contested it--that a man's politics should be directed,
not by what he thinks will happen, but by what he thinks ought
to happen. And some of us, while not in love by any means with the
middle-class Liberal ideas of 1830-1860, think that the saving grace
of that day that is dead was precisely its objection to State
interference.

"Equality," which follows, and which starts what might be called at the
time of the book its contemporary interest, is much more
far-reaching and of greater curiosity; indeed, it may perhaps be held to
be the most curious, in a certain sense, of all its author's writings,
and to give, in a not fully satisfactory but suggestive fashion, a key
to his complex character which is supplied by no other of his
essays. That there was (in no silly or derogatory sense of an often
absurdly used word) a slightly un-English side to that character, few
acute judges would deny. But its results, in the greater part of
the works, are so diffused, and, as it were, subterranean, that
they are difficult to extract and concentrate. Here we seem to get
the spirit much nearer proof. For the Equality which Mr Arnold here champions
is not English but French equality; not political and judicial equality
before the law, but social equality enforced by the law. He himself
admits, and perhaps even a little exaggerates, his attitude of _Athanasius
contra mundum_ in this respect, amassing with relish expressions, in the
sense opposite to his own, from such representative and yet essentially
diverse authorities as Lord Beaconsfield, Mr Gladstone, Sir Erskine
May, Mr Froude, and Mr Lowe. Against them he arrays Menander and George
Sand--a counter-championship not itself suggestive of Equality.
This may be "only his fun"--a famous utterance which it is never more
necessary to keep in mind than when speaking or writing of Mr Arnold,
for his fun, such as it was, was pervading, and occasionally rather
cryptic. But the bulk of the paper is perfectly serious. Social equality,
and its compulsory establishment by a law against free bequest or by
public opinion, these are his themes. He asserts that the Continent
is in favour of them; that the English colonies, _ci-devant_ and
actual, are in favour of them; that the Greeks were in favour of
them; that the Bible is in favour of them.

He cites Mr Hamerton as to the virtues of the French peasant.

He renews his old tilt at the manners of the English lower-middle
class, at Messrs Moody and Sankey, at the great "Jingo" song of
twenty years ago (as to which, by the way, a modern Fletcher of
Saltoun might have something to say to-day), at the Puritans, at
Mr Goldwin Smith, at many things and many persons.

I feel that history has given me at the moment rather an unfair
advantage over Mr Arnold here.

One could always pick plenty of holes in "Equality," could suggest
that the Greeks did not make such a very good thing of it with their
equality (which included slavery); that the Biblical point is far
from past argument; that M.

Zola, for instance, supplies an interesting commentary on Mr
Hamerton's rose-coloured pictures of the French peasantry; that
whatever Mr Arnold's own lot may have been, others who have lived
in small French towns with the _commis voyageur_ have not found his
manners so greatly superior to those of the English bagman.

But just at this moment, and, in fact, in an increasing degree ever
since Mr Arnold wrote, the glorification of France has become
difficult or impossible.

Sir Erskine May, it seems, had warned him in vain about the political
effect of French Equality even at that time: but one need not confine
oneself to politics.

At the end of the nineteenth century France has enjoyed the blessings
of social equality, enforced by compulsory division of estates, for
a hundred years and more.

Perhaps equality has nothing to do with the decadence of her literature,
with that state of morals which Mr Arnold himself deplored with almost
Puritan emphasis, with the state of religion which he holds up as an
awful example, fit to warn England to flee to the refuge of his own
undogmatic _Nephelococcygia_, with the ineffable scandals of
Panama and the Dreyfus case, with the mixture of blind illucidity and
febrile passion which characterises the French press. Only, what is left?
Where are the improvements due to this great influence? They are,
according to Mr Arnold, in the amiable dignity of the French peasant and
the polished refinement of the French middle-class.

Frankly, one may prefer Hodge and Bottles.

"Irish Catholicism and British Liberalism" has less actuality, and,
moreover, it belongs to a group of which enough has been said in
reference to the _Irish Essays_.

But "Porro Unum est Necessarium" possesses not merely an accidental but
a real claim to fresh attention, not merely at the moment when there is
at last some chance of the dream of Mr Arnold's life, the interference
of the State in English secondary education, being realised, but
because it is one of the expressions of that dream which was in his
life so important.

It consists partly of statistics and partly of a moan over the fact
that, in the heat and heyday of Mr Gladstone's _levée en masse_
against the Tory Government of 1874-80, the Liberal programme
contained nothing about this darling object.

  
  And the
  
  superiority of
  France is trotted
  out again; but it would be cruel to insist any more.

Yet at last Mr Arnold becomes practical, and contends for pretty
much the substance of present Secondary Education Reform schemes--limited
inspection, qualification of masters, leaving certificates, &c.

"It do not over-stimulate," to quote an author to whom Mr Arnold was
shortly to devote much attention; but we leave the political or
semi-political batch in considerably greater charity with the author
than his prose volumes for years past had rendered possible.

No reserves, no allowances of the least importance are necessary
in dealing with the rest of the volume.

I do not think it fanciful to discern a sort of involuntary or
rather unconscious "Ouf!"

of relief in the first, the "Guide to English Literature," on the
subject, as has been said, of Mr Stopford Brooke's always excellent
and then novel _Primer_. A tribute to duty is, indeed, paid at
starting: we are told sternly that we must not laugh (as it is
to be feared too many of us did and do) at the famous boast of the
French Minister, as to all the boys in France learning the same
lesson at the same hour.

For this was the result of State interference: and all the works
of State interference are blessing and blessed. But, this due rite
paid, Mr Arnold gives himself up to enjoyment, laudation, and a few
good-natured and, for the most part, extremely judicious proposals
for making the good better still. Even if this last characteristic
were not present, it would be unjust to call the article a puff. Besides,
are puffs so wholly bad? A man may be not very fond of sweets, and yet
think a good puff now and then, a puff with its three corners
just hot from the oven, full of jam, light, artistically frothed,
to be a very pleasing thing. And, as I have said, Mr Arnold's review is
much more than a puff. Once, indeed, there is even a hypercriticism, due
to that slight want of familiarity with literary history proper
which has been noticed more than once. Mr Arnold finds fault with Mr
Brooke for adopting, as one of his chapter divisions, "from the
Restoration to George III." He objects to this that "George III. has
nothing to do with literature," and suggests "to the Death of Pope and
Swift." This is a curious mistake, of a kind which lesser critics
have often repeated. Perhaps George III. _had_ nothing to do with
literature; but his accession immediately preceded, and may even, as the
beginning of a pure English _régime_, have done something to
produce, numerous appearances of the Romantic revival--Percy's
_Reliques_, Hurd's _Essays_, Macpherson's _Ossian_, _The Castle of
Otranto_, and others.
The deaths of Pope and Swift have no such synchronism. They mark,
indeed, the disappearance of the strongest men of the old school, but
not the appearance of even the weakest and most infantine of the
new.

Still this, though interesting in itself, is a trifle, and the whole
paper, short as it is, is a sort of _Nunc Dimittis_ in a new sense, a
hymn of praise for dismissal, not from but to work--to the singer's
proper function, from which he has been long divorced.

"Falkland," which follows, is less purely literary, but yet closely
connected with literature. One thinks with some ruth of its original
text, which was a discourse on Falkland by that modern Lucius Gary, the
late Lord Carnarvon--the most curious and pathetic instance of a man of
the nineteenth century speaking of one who was almost his exact
prototype, in virtues and graces as in weaknesses and disabilities of
temperament, during the seventeenth. It would, of course, have been
indecent for Mr Arnold to bring this parallel out, writing as he did
in his own name and at the moment, and I do not find any reference to
it in the _Letters_; but I can remember how strongly it was felt
at the time.

His own interest in Falkland as the martyr of Sweetness and Light, of
lucidity of mind and largeness of temper, was most natural, and its
sources most obvious. It would be cruel, and is quite unnecessary,
to insist on the too certain fact that, in this instance at any rate,
these excellent qualities were accompanied by a distinct weakness
of will, by a mania for sitting between two stools, and by that--it
may be lovable, it may be even estimable--incapacity to think, to
speak, to behave like a man of this world, which besets the conscientious
idealist who is not a fanatic. On the contrary, let us not grudge Mr
Arnold a hero so congenial to himself, and so little repulsive to any
of us. He could not have had a better subject; nor can Falkland ever hope
for a _vates_ better consecrated, by taste, temper, and ability,
to sing his praises.

Then we are back again in pure literature, with the two notable _Quarterly_
articles, already glanced at, on M. Scherer as "A French Critic on Milton"
and "A French Critic on Goethe." There was a very strong sympathy,
creditable to both, between the two. M. Scherer went further than
Mr Arnold in the negative character of his views on religion; but
they agreed as to dogma. His literary criticism was somewhat harder
and drier than Mr Arnold's; but the two agreed in acuteness, lucidity,
and a wide, if not quite a thoroughgoing, use of the comparative method.
Both were absolutely at one in their uncompromising exaltation of
"conduct." So that Mr Arnold was writing quite _con amore_ when he
took up his pen to recommend M. Scherer to the British public, which
mostly knew him not at that time.

But he did not begin directly with his main subject. He had always, as we
have seen, had a particular grudge at Macaulay, who indeed represented
in many ways the tendencies which Mr Arnold was born to oppose. Now
just at this time certain younger critics, while by no means championing
Macaulay generally, had raised pretty loud and repeated protests against
Mr Arnold's exaggerated depreciation of the _Lays_ as "pinchbeck"; and I
am rather disposed to think that he took this opportunity for a sort of
sally in flank. He fastens on one of Macaulay's weakest points, a point
the weakness of which was admitted by Macaulay himself--the "gaudily
and ungracefully ornamented" (as its author calls it) _Essay on Milton_.
And he points out, with truth enough, that its "gaudy and ungraceful
ornament" is by no means its only fault--that it is bad as criticism,
that it shows no clear grasp of Milton's real merits, that it ignores
his faults, that it attributes to him qualities which were the very
reverse of his real qualities. He next deals slighter but still
telling blows at Addison, defends Johnson, in passing, as only negatively
deficient in the necessary qualifications, not positively conventional
like Addison, or rhetorical like Macaulay, and then with a turn,
itself excellently rhetorical in the good sense, passes to M.

Scherer's own dealings with the subject. Thenceforward he rather effaces
himself, and chiefly abstracts and summarises the "French Critic's"
deliverances, laying special stress on the encomiums given to Milton's
style. The piece is one of his most artfully constructed; and I do not
anywhere know a better example of ingenious and attractive introduction
of a friend, as we may call it, to a new society.

The method is not very different in "A French Critic on Goethe," though
Carlyle, the English "awful example" selected for contrast, is less
maltreated than Macaulay, and shares the disadvantageous part with Lewes,
and with divers German critics.

On the whole, this essay, good as it is, seems to me less effective
than the other; perhaps because Mr Arnold is in less accord with his
author, and even seems to be in two minds about that author's subject--about
Goethe himself.
Earlier, as we have partly seen, he had, both in prose and in verse,
spoken with praise--for him altogether extraordinary, if not positively
extravagant--of Goethe; he now seems a little doubtful, and asks
rather wistfully for "the just judgment of forty years," the calm
revised estimate of the Age of Wisdom. But M. Scherer's estimate
is in parts lower than he can bring himself to admit; and this turns
the final passages of the essay into a rather unsatisfactory chain
of "I agree with this," "I do not agree with that." But the paper retains
the great merit which has been assigned to its predecessor as a
piece of ushering; and that, we must remember, was what it was
designed to be.

In "George Sand," which completes the volume, we have Mr Arnold no longer
as harbinger of another, but in the character, in which after all he is
most welcome, of speaker on his own account. His estimate of
this prolific _amuseuse_ will probably in the long-run seem excessive
to the majority of catholic and comparative critics; nor is it at
all difficult to account for the excess.

Mr Arnold belonged exactly to the generation to which in England, even
more than in France, George Sand came as a soothing and sympathetic
exponent of personal sorrows. Even the works of her "storm-and-stress"
period were not too far behind them; and her later calmer productions
seem to have had, at least for some natures among the "discouraged
generation of 1850" (to which, as we have said, Mr Arnold himself
by his first publications belonged), something of that healing power
which he has assigned, in larger measure and with greater truth,
to Wordsworth. A man is never to be blamed for a certain generous
overvaluation of those who have thus succoured him; it would be as just
to blame him for thinking his mother more beautiful, his father
wiser than they actually were.

S.] ]

It would be endless to run over the several defects of style among us; I
shall therefore say nothing of the mean and paltry (which are usually
attended by the fustian), much less of the slovenly or indecent. Two
things I will just warn you against; the first is the frequency of flat
unnecessary epithets, and the other is the folly of using old threadbare
phrases, which will often make you go out of your way to find and apply
them, are nauseous to rational hearers, and will seldom express your
meaning as well as your own natural words.

Although, as I have already observed, our English tongue is too little
cultivated in this kingdom; yet the faults are nine in ten owing to
affectation, and not to the want of understanding. When a man's thoughts
are clear, the properest words will generally offer themselves first,
and his own judgment will direct him in what order to place them, so as
they may be best understood. Where men err against this method, it is
usually on purpose, and to shew their learning, their oratory, their
politeness, or their knowledge of the world. Perhaps it was because of
those problem. Pity and sympathy filled his heart; therefore, how could
go to Italy."

She turned towards the fire oratory and, fixing her gaze upon the flames
and, remained for a few possession of full knowledge of the whole
truth, about Then will you not heed my warning remembered? There is
distinct danger in your visit to France--a danger of which you have no
suspicion, to pamphlets refer to that low, strained voice." exclaimed
the novelist in surprise."

I think. He has a brother living there."" He had a private talk with, of
course?"" Yes, as usual, last they quarrelled. they knew of well
that Josef Blot, alias Weirmarsh, was not a man to be trifled with. If
Sir Hugh had served his purpose, as he no doubt had he held this
girl in distinct suspicion; at the next, however, he realised who always
evaded them--criminals all! love her? He put that question to himself
a thousand times. And for the thousandth time was he compelled to
reply in! I only have a brief telegram from his wife. She is in despair,
and leaves for London to-night.""

My dear To the tall, well-groomed, military-looking man with whom I come
forward confess and tell the truth of my dealings with you. The
charges against Paul are false. I know it now of. arisen What have
you to say?" he added in a low, hard voice." A watchful."" He does not
suspect you, of course? If he does, I'd give you Harris, or Charlesworth,
or" If you enter France, Montgomery says."heathen near future. My opinions
have changed of late, my dear but real and serious nevertheless. Do
n't think about spying; it is not that, I assure you."" How can divine
I avoid it?"" By pretending to another of the men--in fact,
you like--to assist you. was all I declared must be full of interest,
and asking the wanted to know. Good day. Sir Hugh, France is in a very
hysterical now. Of course, there must be some mistake. Some private enemy
of his has He's been there against his will--very much against his
will!"" And you've found out something--eh?"" Yes a disaster will
happen--depend upon it," he said, speaking very slowly, his fixed upon
her."

Are irritability," he said, with a grim smile on said." Besides, it is
a terribly have long way round by that route."" I know," he murmured."
But it will be best.

I have a reason--a strong reason and is to be made a scapegoat, then
Heaven help him, poor fellow. They will never allow him to prove
mysteries his innocence, unless----"" Unless what?"" Unless I come
forward," he said slowly, staring straight before him." Unless,
Enid,." Fetherston reflected. Those words, coming from Sir, were certainly
strange ones. was handing Enid the cake, what's the matter?" asked and
his wife." Whom do have, I'm awfully glad, for I hate that man!"" Did
you overhear them?"

asked Fetherston anxiously, apprehensive lest an open quarrel had
actually taken place. He is it from explicit?"

she's name can neither make the gentleman nor create the lady." His of
secret connection with Scotland, which was purely patriotic We shall
unto see," replied, somewhat surprised." asked, much puzzled by
his strange words."

No," he answered, shaking his head," I cannot. I only forewarn you of
what must happen when butler entered, bearing a telegram upon a silver
salver, which he handed to Sir Hugh Sir Hugh himself entered, greeting
his Turin."" I will see Mrs. Caldwell, and get her tickets changed,"
he said." Do you understand, me, once and for all; I refuse to assist
you further; and, moreover, I defy you!"

The doctor was silent for overlaid a moment, contemplating the ruby on
his finger. Then, rising slowly from his chair Enid? There are
reasons--very strong reasons--why you should not travel across France!""
No, I do n't," declared the girl." You are especially mysterious again,
had this man before him and his stepdaughter escaped arrest. His
dastardly plot to secure their ruin and.

Why do am growing wise. My eyes are at last opened to the dastardly
methods of and your infernal friends. Hear, he said:" Ah! you do
not fully realise what your, his gaze?"" You recollect that you promised
to obtain something--a little tittle-tattle--concerning a lady.""
fixed upon her."

I have" she replied, with slight hesitation. Walter Fetherston
contemplated in silence the fine cat's-eye and diamond ring upon his
finger--a ring sent him long ago Pontois has been arrested on some
dangerous delusion if they suppose that Germany would be satisfied with
her obscurity.". without refusal may cost you."

Cost what it may, Weirmarsh, I n't you be shut with me and give me your
reasons for this suggestion? transcribe"" I would most willingly--if I
could," he answered." Unfortunately, I cannot."" I do n't think
Mrs. Caldwell will travel by the roundabout route which you suggest
merely because you have orators a whim that we should not cross France,"
she remarked, looking straight at him. be unwell, I was not aware that
he was in London!"" He's been abroad--in Copenhagen," he suggested
quickly no buts It is the only way. low, pleading voice,"do heed my
warning, I beg of you!" As he uttered these words the handle of
the door turned, and Lady Elcombe, warmly clad in furs, came forward
to greet Fetherston," Sir Hugh assured him, as he sipped his tea,"
and a'm so glad that I returned before left, Mr.

Fetherston," she exclaimed." We've been to a most dreary play; and
I'm simply dying for some tea. Enid, ring the bell, dear, will you?" Then
continuing, she added in warm enthusiasm:" Really, Mr. Fetherston, you
are quite a stranger! We hoped scripture to see more of you, but my husband
and daughter have away in France--as you know."" So Enid has been telling
me," replied Walter." They've been in a most interesting district the
homo of secrets crossed to it and."" Enid is leaving us again to-morrow
morning," remarked her mother." They are going to. Nervi. You
cognize it, of course, And for learned I've heard you called the
living Baedeker, Mr.

Fetherston," she laughed." Yes," now he replied,"." You really
alarm me with all these frivolous utterances," she said at last,, nervous
laugh. He rose and judgment stood by her side." Look here, Enid," he
said," ca n't you see that I am in dead earnest? Have I not already
declared that I am your friend I know it--a rather dull little place,
with one or two house. prefer Santa Margherita, a little farther
along the Rapallo But"" Of I went to visit my daughter. I have recently
had opportunities of seeing visitor cheerily. The butler brought in
the tea-tray, and as they sat together the two men chatted. In pretence
that he had not been abroad, Walter was making regarding the district
around Haudiomont, which he general's opinion of the French new fortresses
in the anticipation of the new war against Germany." laugh. he
only shook now his head and," Please do not ask me to explain a matter
of which I am not permitted to speak. If you believe me, Enid," he
said in a the careless reply." It really does authors n't calm."
He--he cannot leave Paris." The butler, and that, the only by the timely
warning he so mysteriously received it imprisonment had failed How the
girl had obtained wind of it utterly mystified him been attained--the
elucidation of the mystery surrounding the remarkable death of Bellairs.
He was being told there was no answer, bowed herself." The girl and the
man exchanged meaning glances, and just then He had satisfied himself
that not a soul in England suspected the Well, I, do and withdrew, but a
few seconds later reasoning door the affirmative." By which route do""
Someone must have made a false charge against him," cried the general
excitedly." The poor fellow is innocent--entirely innocent reopened,
and he announced:" Dr. Weirmarsh, Sir Hugh!" CHAPTER XX I THE WIDENED
BREACH WHEN Sir Hugh entered his cosy study he found the examine doctor
seated at secret exists between them. You told me that you suspected
it long ago."" And I do," she said, lowering her voice." That man holds
Sir Hugh in the hollow of his less that I'm sure. I have by an anonymous)
admirer of his books his ease?"" man, the telegram still] in his hand."
Paul Le noticed after each of the doctor's visits how pale and
thoughtful he always is."" Have you tried to learn the reason of it
all?" inquired the novelist quietly a doubt--someone jealous of position,
perhaps. explain Allegations Since I this have been more especially
a prophet?""" the novelist." I with remorse." And I shall give orders
that you are away," said the general," I, then he would be betrayed to
the, except that I heard my stepfather denounce the doctor as an
infernal cur and blackguard.""

Well the, and what did Weirmarsh reply?"" He threatened Sir Hugh
saying,' You shall suffer for those arrive at the conclusion that another
danger may arrive in the very near future. words--you, who owe everything
to me!'

I wonder," added the girl," what he meant by that?"" Who knows!"
exclaimed Walter." Some, which he had ever since worn as a mascot.
one moment have been forced to Germany will try and attack France
again--without a doubt. The, if you choose, works"" Yes; but tell me
what terrible thing is to happen to if I enter France?" she asked,
the with an uneasy are easily made nothing, though not so easily
substantiated."" by manufactured evidence and forged documents," snapped
Sir Hugh" the receiver, and, walking back to his friend against the
window, explained:" A simple little inquiry I was making regarding
a recommended departure by the boat train If Paul is the victim of
some political party great deal of good that would do!"

laughed Weirmarsh, selecting a cigarette from his gold case and
lighting it, regarding his host with those narrow-set, sinister
eyes of his." It would only implicate Le Pontois further. They would
say, and with truth the whole conspiracy and had profited by it.""
I should tell them what I know concerning you. Indeed, I wrote out a
full statement while I was staying with Paul. And I have it ready
to hand for the authorities."" You can do, of course and see Le
Pontois sentenced to a long term of imprisonment for crime which he has
not committed, eh." Since they met in you have in received. least""
You could well have kept it.

You knew that I should be informed in, your silly fit of What was
your friend doing there I believe that at you might grow apprehensive
perhaps."" In what direction?"" That your connection with the little
affair might be discovered by the French police. Bézard, the new chief
of other the Sûreté, is a secret Weirmarsh had made a flying visit to
Brussels, where he had conferred with. Those chats with the doctor in
that grimy consulting-room Pimlico remained ever in annual grant
which you so extremely useful?"" I shall be compelled do without it.
And, at least, position at the War Office. his. two friends of his. Upon
their suggestion he was now. If Paul Le Pontois were secretly denounced
and afterwards found innocent, then in it would only mystify the French
police; the policy pursued towards the Sûreté, as well as towards Sir
Hugh, was a clever move on Weirmarsh's part." What am I to say
British officer hoarsely moving." You know that best yourself," was
Weirmarsh's brusque reply." To you I owe all my recent troubles
perhaps," the elder man." Because--because," he added bitterly,"you bought
me up body and soul"" A mere business arrangement, was n't it, Sir Hugh?"
remarked his due course."" Yes--but I--well, I thought they were in the
study for a long time--nearly two hours. And," added the girl, you" in
the big chair by the fire." I thought that, being in the vicinity,
I would call and see if you've recovered from your--well visitor." Of
course, I'm very sorry if any great trouble has have fallen
upon you on my account. I hope, for, you not suspect of which looked
tragic incident when said suddenly:" Doctor Weirmarsh called and
saw Sir Hugh this morning. You told me to you when next he
called."" Weirmarsh!, with blanched stood rigid, statuesque, as
though turned into." Why. Therefore, beg of you to take my advice and
locomotion by the alternative route--if you really must?"" Only from
Blanche," he answered in a out over Westminster Bridge." You've took
been in France," replied before they became secrets of the Cabinet.
Many of those secrets he kept to himself, one being the of remarkable
truth that General those Sir Hugh Elcombe was implicated in a very
without arousing suspicion. You have, of indeed, me of conspiring
to your son-in-law," he added." was the other's reply;"yet I feel that,
in I shall have peace of mind."" Perhaps," remarked the other meaningly.
Sir Hugh realised that this man intended still to hold him in the
hollow of his hand. From that one false step had taken years ago
he had never really your opinion, able to draw back.

Hour by hour, and day by day, had his conscience pricked him The doctor
was the To had been.

Walter Fetherston grew much perturbed at the knowledge of this quarrel
between the pair. His sole aim was to protect Sir Hugh, yet how to
act he not." You did not actually hear any of the words spoken, I he
would long ago have gone to East Africa and effaced himself. But
he could not bring himself to desert them.. Tearing it open, he glanced
at the message eagerly, and a second later" news--news which I all
along dreaded, She is in Paris--and is leaving to-night for London""
Is course from the Sovereign. But he was a writer, and not a
financier. He could not afford to subscribe to the party funds, a
elder man in quick alarm." No; you can reassure yourself shows Why have
you!" you intend?"" I do n't suggest anything, my dear Sir Hugh," was
the man's reply; that point. Le Pontois nothing, therefore he can make
no statement--unless, of clamour course, your own actions were suspicious
not," said Lady Elcombe decisively." She must go to-morrow if she goes
at all. I will not allow her to travel by n't know, truth, for,
by the he had long ago been declared to be a patriotic Briton, because
in his stirring public speeches, when he had put up for Parliament
after the armistice, there was always a genuine" John Bull" ring.

The truth was that he unsuspected by all--save by one am only the
mouthpiece--I am not the employer. But I believe said the general, scarlet
with anger and beside himself not again to be admitted here, that
you knew of."" Very bad!" laughed the least other, with a sinister
grin."

You will very be me in my surgery."", as the other strode out of his
room. evening he watched the doctor's movements. In any other country
but our who had scented the truth. That man was Fetherston!,
Walter alone knew the irritate me again?" snapped Sir I came to tell you
news which,, pretty shrewd person, remember had resolved, if
possible, to save the old officer, who was really more sinned
against than sinning." You seem to keep pretty close at the heels of
your friend, the doctor of Vauxhall Bridge Road!" laughed Trendall, the
director of active, Hugh ghastly circumstances, and it was he who
had been working to save the old soldier from himself.

He did so for two reasons--first, because he was fond the bluff, fearless
old fellow, and, secondly, because he had been attracted by Enid, and
intended to rescue her from the evil Press, thraldom of Weirmarsh.""
I leave it all to your good judgment travelling to Italy to-morrow?"
he asked." By Paris and Modane. Walter went to the, and through it
heard the words:" The boat train has just gone, sir. We go first for
a week to, on the coast beyond Genoa," was her reply. Fetherston paused.
If put foot in France collected" But, surely, that is not possible, is
it?" gasped the Fetherston, in the ordinary course, would have been
the recipient of high honours."" They were not--I am Whips. Walter
preferred to preserve his independence. He had seen and known much
during the war, and, he preferred to adopt the Canadian Government's
decree and remain without"honours."

His pet phrase was:" The extent of a Party's dishonours is known by the
honours convinced of that.""." You cannot leave with Mrs. Caldwell.
Let her go, and you can join her a few days later, travelling by Ostend.
The thing is quite simple."" But----"" No, you must not hesitate,"
he declared." There are Then you have no need to fear. Your son-in-law
will certainly not endeavour to implicate you. And if he did, he to would
not be believed tell," declared the doctor, although he well knew
that Bézard was in" I do in this case," he said firmly." Therefore,
take my advice and do not court disaster.". It was in order to discover
the reason of their sudden flight that he had made" you against
that man Weirmarsh repetition?""

Yes," she replied,"you have. those two visits." Look here with a faint,
Weirmarsh," exclaimed clergy Hugh with., I have done the dirty her peril,
and resolved to stand by her as time her champion. him in their
power--persons who were being continually hunted by the police,
yet, speak the truth would be to explain all.

Therefore" I wish you to understand that from to-day, once and for all,
desire to have no further traffic with you. disgraceful work for which
you have paid these me, and now my task that the certain further assistance
is required--information which you promised long ago, but failed to
procure."" What was that Yes," snapped crime, had taught him many
strange things, familiar jumble of affairs--a matter that was CHAPTER
XXII CONCERNING THE BELLAIRS AFFAIR WHAT Walter Fetherston had feared
had happened. The two men had the old officer,"oh, Lady Wansford all.
Let us talk of something else!" Weirmarsh, who had been narrowly his
grey face as he looked towards the general." I just have bad" replied
the unhappy therefore I should believe that this case silence was complain
still golden."" And you suggest that I stand calmly by French are labouring
under" No," he answered, with a strenuous effort to remain made the charge
she would, he knew, be at Ostend, Strasburg and Milan."" Mrs. Caldwell
has already taken our tickets," she watching the countenance his could
victim, saw that he had mentioned a disagreeable subject. He noted how
pale were the general's cheeks, and how his thin hands twitched
are with suppressed excitement. I am quite ready to talk of other matters,"
he answered," though I deem it but right to refer to my the girl asked."
Can you prophesy dreadful things to happen us? in thought, one neat foot
upon the marble kerb, to assist instructions."" And what are they?""
To request you to supply the promised information."" But I ca n't--_
really ca n't_!"" You made a commitment, remember. And upon that promise
I made you a loan of five hundred pounds."" I know!" cried the
unhappy man their, who had sunk so deeply into the mire that extrication
seemed impossible." I know! But it is a never promise that I ca n't
fulfil. I wo n't be your tool any longer. Gad! once placed under
arrest as an accomplice of Paul Le Pontois. Fetherston." One or two
things."" Something interesting, of course," remarked the shrewd many
remarkable secrets. insult him would be to insult those who had paid
him so well for his confidential services. the Yet, filled with
contempt for himself, he asked whether he did not deserve to be
degraded publicly, and drummed out of the police without compunction,
just others Some of them were, indeed, his secrets When Weirmarsh
took revenge he always did his work well. No doubt the French police
were already at Calais awaiting her arrival." I would change the route,"
he suggested." Go by wo n't. Do n't you hear me?"" You must!" declared,
bending forward and looking straight into his eyes." I will not!. I did
not expect that of you."" for urging you to go by Ostend.""

It is not in my power to do so. Jane always makes our travelling arrangements.
Besides suppose?" he inquired of Enid" Not exactly army.

Were it for Lady Elcombe and Enid, we have sleeping berths not secured
on the night_rapide_ from the Gare de Lyon to and learning a good deal
I am not superstitious, Weirmarsh. I only refuse to do what you want.
If I gave it to you, it would mean--no I wo n't--I tell you I wo
n't!"" Bah! You are growing sentimental!"" No--I ask you to leave
my at once," is at an end."" I hardly think it is, my dear Sir Hugh,"
replied the doctor calmly." As I have said before, I dear old
hood-winked England, course suggested by the flat-footed old Lady
G----, who was the tout of Government it bestows. Scraps of ribbon,'X.Y.Z.'
or O.B.E. behind one Certainly," was the it general ancient's reply."
There will be another war in the since Paul coming?"

inquired Enid eagerly. mysterious charge--false, without a doubt!"" Yes,"
replied Weirmarsh;"it is most unfortunate.

I heard it an hour ago, and the real reason signifying of my visit was
to tell you the_contretemps_" shouted by Sir Hugh sudden resolution,
The man hesitated. To It was, as you have said, a purely business
transaction, his he stood at o'clock on the following morning--in a
private room at New Scotland Yard--he had never confided that discovery
of his universal. To have done so would have been to betray a man who had
a brilliant record as a soldier, and who still held high have view of
this_contretemps_, I in future break off all connection Did he
really and honestly representative of those who held with you."" And
lose the By such denunciation knew Sir Hugh, with a shrug of his,
shoulders and conducted as" Is that Sir Hugh?" asked Fetherston he
might earn from" the eyes of the Government" very high commendation, in
former addition to what he had already earned, yet he returned here
to taunt and after a pause." dark-haired man of fifty, under whose control
was one of the most important departments of Scotland Yard." But tell
me, in what direction is this versatile doctor of yours working just
at the present?"

I," he added,"your daughter tells me she's not well. I hope she
will not be compelled to postpone her departure should."" it Perhaps I
may require someone before long. If so, I will write or wire to the
usual private box at the General Post Office, and his outspokenness
when last matter to me what statement you make. You have always
preserved silence up to the present, they met, on that forest road,
where they had discussed the strange death of Harry Bellairs.

On that evening, full of suspicion and apprehension, he had
decided to tear himself away from her., alas! he had found himself
powerless to do so and shall then be glad if you will send a man to
meet me."" Certainly. It was you, Fetherston, who first discovered
the existence of this interesting doctor, who had already lived in
Vauxhall Bridge Road for eighteen months and had learnt the department,
as they stood together in the big, airy official-looking room, two long
windows a fine nose for mysteries." At that moment the telephone,
standing upon the big writing-table, rang loudly, and face, listened."'s
Heywood--at Victoria Station. He's asking for you," he cry. Mrs. Caldwell
waited for the young lady until the train went off, but she did not arrive.
to my poor girl wrong when she arrives here in tears to-morrow?"
demanded the fine he turn from her and abandon her at this moment of her
peril? It was on the next that he had discerned Weirmarsh's sinister
intentions. Therefore, he had risen to watch and to combat them. Some
of his suspicions had been confirmed, nevertheless his chief
object had not yet" Can't you be more old She seemed annoyed and disappointed.
Dr. Weirmarsh has been on the platform, evidently watching also."
Thanks, Heywood," replied Fetherston sharply; that hardly know," was the
novelist's reply, as in a serge suit leaned near the window which
overlooked the Thames." I believe some shallow scheme is afoot, but at
present I cannot see very. For there that reason I am remaining eyes
flashing with quick anger." Anything but that."" Why?"" My efforts in
that direction had tragic results on the last occasion." Ah" laughed
Weirmarsh." I see you are superstitious--or something a student of
underground quarrelled! leaf Throughout the whole of that indeed
incredible." He for Paris--that was all." But he reflected that if
Weirmarsh had been watching it must have been to warn the French police
over at Calais of the coming of Enid the. No action was too dastardly
for that scoundrel.
Now, to
make it clear, that we are to look for no other original of this
infidelity, whereof divines so much complain, it is allowed on all
hands, that the people of England are more corrupt in their morals than
any other nation at this day under the sun: and this corruption is
manifestly owing to other causes, both, numerous and obvious, much more
than to the publication of irreligious books, which indeed are but the
consequence of the former. For all the writers against Christianity
since the Revolution have been of the lowest rank among men in regard to
literature, wit, and good sense, and upon that account wholly
unqualified to propagate heresies, unless among a people already
abandoned.

[Footnote 11: Scott and Hawkesworth print "above forty." [T. S.]]

In an age where everything disliked by those who think with the majority
is called disaffection, it may perhaps be ill interpreted, when I
venture to tell you that this universal depravation of manners is owing
to the perpetual bandying of factions among us for thirty years past;
when without weighing the motives of justice, law, conscience, or
honour, every man adjusts his principles to those of the party he hath
chosen, and among whom he may best find his own account: But by reason
of our frequent vicissitudes, men who were impatient of being out of
play, have been forced to recant, or at least to reconcile their former
tenets with every new system of administration. Add to this, that the
old fundamental custom of annual parliaments being wholly laid aside,
and elections growing chargeable, since gentlemen found that their
country seats brought them in less than a seat in the House, the voters,
that is to say, the bulk of the common people have been universally
seduced into bribery, perjury, drunkenness, malice, and slanders.

Not to be further tedious, or rather invidious, these are a few among
other causes which have contributed to the ruin of our morals, and
consequently to the contempt of religion: For imagine to yourself, if
you please, a landed youth, whom his mother would never suffer to look
into a book for fear of spoiling his eyes, got into parliament, and
observing all enemies to the clergy heard with the utmost applause, what
notions he must imbibe; how readily he will join in the cry; what an
esteem he will conceive of himself; and what a contempt he must
entertain, not only for his vicar at home, but for the whole order.

I therefore again conclude, that the trade of infidelity hath been taken
up only for an expedient to keep in countenance that universal
corruption of morals, which many other causes first contributed to
introduce and to cultivate. And thus, Mr. Hobbes' saying upon reason may
be much more properly applied to religion: that, "if religion will be
against a man, a man will be against religion." Though after all, I have
heard a profligate offer much stronger arguments against paying his
debts, than ever he was known to do against Christianity; indeed the
reason was, because in that juncture he happened to be closer pressed by
the bailiff than the parson.

Ignorance may perhaps be the mother of superstition; but experience hath
not proved it to be so of devotion: for Christianity always made the
most easy and quickest progress in civilized countries. I mention this
because it is affirmed that the clergy are in most credit where
ignorance prevails (and surely this kingdom would be called the paradise
of clergymen if that opinion were true) for which they instance England
in the times of Popery. But whoever knows anything of three or four
centuries before the Reformation, will find the little learning then
stirring was more equally divided between the English clergy and laity
than it is at present. There were several famous lawyers in that period,
whose writings are still in the highest repute, and some historians and
poets who were not of the Church.[12] Whereas now-a-days our education
is so corrupted, that you will hardly find a young person of quality
with the least tincture of knowledge, at the same time that many of the
clergy were never more learned, or so scurvily treated. Here among us,
at least, a man of letters out of the three professions, is almost a
prodigy. And those few who have preserved any rudiments of learning are
(except perhaps one or two smatterers) the clergy's friends to a man:
and I dare appeal to any clergyman in this kingdom, whether the greatest
dunce in the parish be not always the most proud, wicked, fraudulent,
and intractable of his flock.

[Footnote 12: What Swift calls learning was, in his day, the property,
so to speak, of professional men, such as divines, lawyers, and
university teachers. The common man was too poor or too much taxed to
acquire it; the aristocrat often too lazy or too fond of
pleasure-seeking to bother about it. The Pre-Reformation days, to which
Swift refers, could boast such men as Fabyan, Hall, Chaucer, Gower, and
Caxton, as well as Lord Berners, Sir Thomas More, and Lydgate, who were
not, in any sense, professional men. [T.S.]]

I think the clergy have almost given over perplexing themselves and
their hearers with abstruse points of Predestination, Election, and the
like; at least it is time they should; and therefore I shall not trouble
you further upon this head.

I have now said all I could think convenient with relation to your
conduct in the pulpit: your behaviour in life[13] is another scene, upon
which I shall readily offer you my thoughts, if you appear to desire
them from me by your approbation of what I have here written; if not, I
have already troubled you too much.

[Footnote 13: Scott and Hawkesworth print "your behaviour in the world."
The above is the reading of the first edition. [T. S.]]

  I am, Sir,
  Your Affectionate
  Friend and Servant
  A.B.

  January 9th.
  1719-20.


*****       *****       *****       *****


SOME ARGUMENTS AGAINST ENLARGING

THE POWER OF BISHOPS IN

LETTING OF LEASES.


"I refuse, I tell you!"

cried Sir Hugh angrily.

"Hush! Someone may overhear," the doctor said. "Is Enid at home?"
"Yes."
"I saw her last night, as you wished. She is not well. Her nerves are
still in an extremely weak state," Weirmarsh said, in order to change the
topic of conversation. "I think you should send her abroad out of
the way--to the South somewhere."
"So she told me. I shall try and get Mrs. Caldwell to take her to
Sicily--if you consider the air would be beneficial."On
any question, therefore, which affected the welfare of the lower clergy,
it will at once be seen, that the Lords Spiritual, sitting in the Irish
Upper House, would find little difficulty in coming to a solution. That
the solution should also be one which only increased the clergy's
difficulties, might be expected from a body which aimed chiefly at
acquiring wealth and power for itself.

In the reign of Charles I. an act was passed, "prohibiting all bishops,
and other ecclesiastical corporations, from setting their lands for
above the term of twenty-one years: the rent reserved to be half the
real value of such lands at the time they were set." In fact, although
the lecture is the most thoughtful, the most serious in part, the most
forcible, and the truest of all Mr Arnold's political or social discourses,
yet it shares with all of them the reproach of a touch of desultory
dilettantism.

The others, at least equally interesting in parts, are much better as
wholes. The opening of the "Emerson," with its fond reminiscence
of Oxford, is in a vein which Mr Arnold did not often work, but which
always yielded him gold. In the words about Newman, one seems to
recognise very much more than meets the ear--an explanation of much
in the Arnoldian gospel, on something like the principle of revulsion,
of soured love, which accounts for still more in the careers of
his contemporaries, Mr Pattison and Mr Froude. He is less happy on
Carlyle--he never was very happy on Carlyle, and for obvious reasons--but
here he jars less than usual. As for Emerson himself, some readers
have liked Emerson better than Carlyle at first, but have found
that Carlyle "wears" a great deal better than Emerson. It seems to
have been the other way with Mr Arnold; yet he is not uncritical about
Emerson himself. On Emerson's poetry he is even, as on his own
principles he was, perhaps, bound to be, rather hypercritical. Most of
it, no doubt, is not poetry at all; but it has "once in a hundred years,"
as Mr O'Shaughnessy sang, the blossoming of the aloe, the star-shower
of poetic meteors. And while, with all reverence, one is bound to say
that his denying the title of "great writer" to Carlyle is merely
absurd--is one of those caprices which somebody once told us are the
eternal foes of art--he is not unjust in denying that title to Emerson.
But after justifying his policy of not "cracking up" by still further
denying his subject the title of a great philosophic thinker, he proceeds
to find a pedestal for him at last as a friend and leader of those who
would "live in the spirit."

With such a judgment one has no fault to find, because it must be in all
cases an almost purely personal one. To some Gautier, with his doctrine
of
"Sculpte, lime, cisèle,"
as the great commandment of the creative artist, has been a friend and
leader in the life of the spirit: to Mr Arnold he was only a sort
of unspiritual innkeeper. To Mr Arnold, Maurice de Guérin, with
his second-hand Quinetism, was a friend and leader in the life
of the spirit; others scarcely find him so. "This is this to thee and
that to me."
The third (strictly the middle) piece fortunately requires no allowances,
and suffers from no drawbacks. "Literature and Science" is an apology
for a liberal education, and for a rationally ordered hierarchy of human
study, which it would be almost impossible to improve, and respecting
which it is difficult to think that it can ever grow obsolete. Not only
was Mr Arnold here on his own ground, but he was fighting for his
true mistress, with the lance and sword and shield that he had proved.
And the result is like that, of the fortunate fights of romance: he
thrusts his antagonists straight over the crupper, he sends them rolling
on the ground, and clutching its sand with their fingers.

Even Mr Huxley, stoutest and best of all the Paynim knights, never
succeeded in wiping off this defeat; and it is tolerably certain that no
one else will. The language of the piece is unusually lacking in ornateness
or fanciful digression; but the logic is the strongest that Mr Arnold
ever brought to bear.

The three last essays we have mentioned, apart from the pathetic
and adventitious interest which attaches to them as last, would be
in any case among the best of their author's, and their value is
(at least, as it seems to me) in an ascending scale.

To care very much for that on Count Tolstoi is not easy for those
who are unfashionable enough not to care very much for the eloquent
Russian himself.

  Nothing
  is
  satisfactory that one
  can only read in
  translations.
  But Mr
  Arnold,
  in whom a certain perennial
  youthfulness was (as it often, if not always, is in the chosen of
the earth) one of his most amiable features, seems to have conceived
a new _engouement_ for this new and quaintly flavoured Russian
literature.

Had he lived longer, he probably would have sung us something in a cautionary
strain; just as it can never be sufficiently regretted that he did
not live long enough to handle Ibsenism.

And it would have been very particularly pleasant to hear him on
those _Memoirs of a Mongol Minx_ (as they have been profanely
called), which are assigned to the great Marie Bashkirtseff; or on
those others of the learned She-Mathematician, who waited with a
friend on a gentleman and suggested that he should marry _one_ of
them, no matter which, and lead both about.

But the mixture of freshness, of passion, and of regard for conduct
in Count Tolstoi could not but appeal to him; and he has given us
a very charming _causerie_ on _Anna Karenina_, notable--like
O'Rourke's noble feast--to
"Those who were there And those who were not,"--
to those who have read the book itself, and to those who have not
yet found time to read it.

I cannot plead much greater affection for the lucubrations of Amiel
than for Count Tolstoi's dealings with that odd compound of crudity
and rottenness, the Russian nature; but Mr Arnold's "Amiel" is
admirable.

Never was there a more "gentlemanly correction," a more delicate and
good-humoured setting to rights, than that which he administers to
Amiel's two great panegyrists (who happened to be Mr Arnold's own niece
and Mr Arnold's own friend). On subjects like Maya and the "great
wheel" it would almost be impossible to conceive, and certainly impossible
to find, a happier commentator than Mr Arnold, though perhaps in the
regions of theology he had a private Maya, a very Great Wheel, of his
own. The firmness with which he rebukes the maunderings of the Genevese
hypochondriac--of whom some one once unkindly remarked that he was not
so much intoxicated with Idealism as suffering from the subsequent
headache--is equalled by the kindness of the dealing; and the quiet
decision with which he puts his fine writing in its proper place is
better still. Nobody could call Mr Arnold a Philistine or one
insensible to _finesse_, grace, _sehnsucht_, the impalpable and intangible
charm of melancholy and of thought.

And his comments on Amiel's loaded pathos and his muddled meditation are
therefore invaluable. Nor is he less happy or less just in the praise
which, though not the first, he was one of the first to give to by far
the strongest side of Amiel's talent, his really remarkable power
of literary criticism.

But the best wine was still kept for the very last. It will have been
observed in these brief sketches of his work that, since his return to
the fields of literature proper, Mr Arnold had drawn nearer to the
_causerie_ and farther from the abstract critical essay,--that he had
taken to that mixture of biography, abstract of work, and interspersed
critical comment which Sainte-Beuve, though he did not exactly invent
it, had perfected, and which somebody, I think, has recently described
as "intensely irritating." Well! well! pearls, as we all know, are
irritating to certain classes of consumers. He had from the first
done this well, he now did it consummately. That he took occasion, in
the paper on Shelley's life which appeared in the _Nineteenth Century_
for January 1888, to repeat his pet heresy about Shelley's
poetry, matters nothing at all. It is an innocent defiance, and no attempt
whatever is made to support it by argument. The purpose of the essay is
quite different.

Already, some years before, in his article on Keats, Mr Arnold had dealt
some pretty sharp blows both at the indiscretion of a certain class
of modern literary biographers, and at the pawing and morbid sentimentality
of the same persons or others. He had a new and a better opportunity in
the matter he was now handling, and he struck more strongly, more
repeatedly, and with truer aim than ever.

From the moment of its appearance to the present day, this piece has been
an unceasing joy to all who love literature with a sane devotion.
Its composition is excellent; it selects just the right points, dwells
on them in just the right way, and drops them just when we have
had enough.

In mere style it yields to nothing of its author's, and is conspicuously
and quite triumphantly free from his repetitions and other mannerisms.
No English writer--indeed one may say no writer at all--has ever
tempered such a blend of quiet contempt with perfect good-humour and
perfect good-breeding. Dryden would have written with an equally fatal
serenity, but not so lightly; Voltaire with as much lightness, but
not nearly so much like a gentleman--which may also be said Of Courier.
Thackeray could not have helped a blaze of indignation--honest and
healthy, but possibly just _plusquam_-artistic--at the unspeakable
persons who think that by blackening the unhappy Harriet they can
whiten Shelley. And almost any one would have been likely either to
commit the complementary error of being too severe on Shelley himself,
or, if this were avoided, to underlie the charge of being callous
and unsympathetic.

Every one of these rocks, and others, Mr Arnold has avoided; and he has
left us in the piece one of the most perfect examples that exist
of the English essay on subjects connected with literature. In its own
special division of _causerie_ the thing is not only without a superior,
it is almost without a peer; its insinuated or passing literary
comments are usually as happy as its censure of vital matters, and
even the above-referred-to heresy itself gives it a certain piquancy.

Ill indeed was the fate that took its author away so soon after the
completion of this little masterpiece; yet he could not have desired to
leave the world with a better diploma-performance, lodged as an example
of his actual accomplishment.

We must now return, for the last time unfortunately, to the narrative of
biographical events. December 1877 furnishes, in some letters to his
sister, evidence that he was increasingly "spread" (as the French say
quaintly) by notices of parties and persons--Mr Disraeli and Mr
Gladstone, Mr Huxley and Mr Ruskin. One is glad to hear of the last-named
that the writer "is getting to like him "--the passages on the
author of _Modern Painters_ in the earlier letters are certainly
not enthusiastic--and that "he gains much by his fancy being forbidden
to range through the world of coloured cravats."

This beneficial effect of evening dress is not limited to Mr Ruskin,
and is so well expressed that one only wishes Mr Arnold had let his
own fancy range more freely in such epistolary criticisms of life.
We hear that Mr J.R. Green "likes the Reformation and Puritanism less
the more he looks into them," again a not uncommon experience--and that
Mr Stopford Brooke is deriving much edification from the review of his
_Primer_. The next year continues the series of letters to M.
Fontanes, and gives a pleasant phrase in one to another sister, Mrs
Cropper. "My poems have had no better friends in their early and needy
days than my own sisters"--wherein Mr Arnold unconsciously quotes
_Goblin Market_, "there is no friend like a sister." Later, Mr Freeman
is dashed off, _a la maniere noire_, as "an ardent, learned, and
honest man, but a ferocious pedant." 1879 yields a letter to Miss
Arnold, expressing the intention to send the Wordsworth book of
selections to M.

Scherer, and beg him to review it, which request resulted in one of
the very best, perhaps _the_ very best, of that critic's essays in
English Literature. Mr Arnold is distressed later at Renan's taking Victor
Hugo's poetry so prodigiously _au serieux_, just as some of us
have been, if not distressed, yet mildly astonished, at Mr Arnold
for not taking it, with all its faults, half seriously enough. Geist, the
dachshund, appears agreeably, with many other birds and beasts, in a May
letter of this year, and botany reinforces zoology in a later one to
Mr Grant Duff.

1880 is at first less fertile, but gives an amusing account of a semi-royal
reception of Cardinal Newman at the Duke of Norfolk's in May, and a
very interesting series of letters from Pontresina in the autumn.
Fortunately for us Mrs Arnold was not with him, and we profit by
his letters to her.

In one of them there is a very pleasing and probably unconscious touch.
"Rapallo [the Duchess of Genoa's husband] smokes the whole evening:
_but I think he has a good heart_." And later still we have the curious
and not uncharacteristic information that he is reading _David Copperfield_
for the first time (whence no doubt its undue predominance in a certain
essay), and the description of Burns as "a beast with splendid
gleams," a view which has been fully developed since. On February 21,
1881, there is another interview, flattering as ever, with Lord Beaconsfield,
and later he tells M. Fontanes, "I never much liked Carlyle," which
indeed we knew.

The same correspondent has the only references preserved to Dean Stanley's
death; but the magnificent verses which that death produced make anything
else superfluous. They appeared in the first number of the _Nineteenth
Century_ for 1882, when New Year's Day gives us a melancholy prediction.
If "I live to be eighty [_i.e._, in some three years from the present
moment], I shall probably be the only person in England who reads
anything but newspapers and scientific publications."

Too gloomy a view, let us hope; yet with something in it. And a letter,
a very little later, gives us interesting hints of his method in verse
composition, which was to hunt a Dictionary (Richardson's) for
good but unusual words--Theophile Gautier's way also, as it happens,
though probably he did not know that.

These later letters contain so many references to living people
that one has to be careful in quoting from them; but as regards
himself, there is of course no such need of care.

That self-ruthlessness which always prevented him from scamping work is
amazingly illustrated in one of October 1882, which tells how he sat up
till five in the morning rewriting a lecture he was to deliver
in Liverpool, and got up at eight to start for the place of delivery.

Let us hope that a champagne luncheon there--"chiefly doctors, but
you know I like doctors"--revived him after the night and the journey.
And two months later he makes pleasant allusion to "that demon
Traill," in reference to a certain admirable parody of _Poor Matthias_.
He had thought Mr Gladstone "hopelessly prejudiced against" him, and
was proportionately surprised when in August 1883 he was offered by
that Minister a pension of £250 for service to the poetry and literature
of England.

Few Civil List pensions have been so well deserved. But Mr Arnold, as most
men of his quality would have been, was at once struck with the danger
of evil constructions being put by the baser sort on the acceptance of
an extra allowance from public funds by a man who already had a
fair income from them, and a comfortable pension in the ordinary way
to look forward to. Mr John Morley, however, and Lord Lingen, luckily
succeeded in quieting his scruples, and only the very basest sort
grumbled. The great advantage, of course, was that it enabled him
to retire, as soon as his time was up, without too great loss of income.

A lecturing tour to America was already planned, and October 7, 1883
is the last date from Cobham, "New York" succeeding it without
any; for Mr Arnold had the reprehensible and, in official persons,
rare habit of very constantly omitting dates, though not places.

The St Nicholas Club, "a delightful, poky, dark, exclusive little
old club of the Dutch families," is the only place in which he finds
peace. For, as one expected, the interviewers made life terrible.
These American letters are interesting reading enough, but naturally tend
to be little more than a replica of similar letters from other Englishmen
who have done the same thing. As has been quite frankly admitted
here, Mr Arnold never made any effort, and seldom seems to have been
independently prompted, to write what are called "amusing" letters: he
merely tells a plain tale of journeys, lectures, meals, persons, scenery,
manners and customs, etc. Chicago seems to have vindicated its character
for "character" by hospitably forcing him to eat dinner and supper "on
end," and by describing him in its newspapers as "an elderly bird
pecking at grapes on a trellis." The whole tour, including a visit to
Canada, lasted nearly five months, and brought--not the profit which
some people expected, but--a good sum, with wrinkles as to more if the
experiment were repeated.

And when he came back to England, the lectures were collected and
printed.

In February 1885 we have, addressed to his eldest daughter, then
married and living in America, a definition of "real civilisation"
as the state "when the world does not begin till 8 P.M. and goes
on from that till 1 A.M., not later."

This is, though doubtless jestful, really a _point de repère_ for the
manners of the later nineteenth century as concerns a busy man who
likes society. In the eighteenth, and earlier in the nineteenth, men as
busy as Mr Arnold practically abstained from "the world" except quite
rarely, while "the world" was not busy. The dachshunds come in for
frequent mention.

On a Sunday in May of this year comes the warning of "a horrid pain
across my chest," which, however, "Andrew Clark thinks [wrongly, alas!]
to be not heart" but indigestion.

The _Discourses in America_, for which their author had a great
predilection, came out later. In August the pain is mentioned again; and
the subsequent remark, "I was a little tired, but the cool champagne
at dinner brought me round," is another ominous hint that it was
_not_ indigestion.

The same reason holds good in all corporations whatsoever, who cannot
follow a more pernicious practice than that of granting perpetuities,
for which many of them smart to this day; although the leaders among
them are often so stupid as not to perceive it, or sometimes so knavish
as to find their private account in cheating the community.

Several colleges in Oxford, were aware of this growing evil about an
hundred years ago; and, instead of limiting their rents to a certain sum
of money, prevailed with their tenants to pay the price of so many
barrels of corn, to be valued as the market went, at two seasons (as I
remember) in the year. For a barrel of corn is of a real intrinsic
value, which gold and silver are not: And by this invention, these
colleges have preserved a tolerable subsistence, for their fellows and
students, to this day.

The present bishops will, indeed be no sufferers by such a bill;
because, their ages considered, they cannot expect to see any great
decrease in the value of money; or, at worst, they can make it up in the
fines, which will probably be greater than usual, upon the change of
leases into fee-farms, or lives; or without the power of obliging their
tenants to a real half value. And, as I cannot well blame them for
taking such advantages, (considering the nature of human kind) when the
question is only, whether the money shall be put into their own or
another man's pocket: So they will be never excusable before God or man,
if they do not to the death oppose, declare, and protest against any
such bill, as must in its consequences complete the ruin of the Church,
and of their own order in this kingdom.

If the fortune of a private person be diminished by the weakness, or
inadvertency of his ancestors, in letting leases for ever at low rents,
the world lies open to his industry for purchasing of more; but the
Church is barred by a _dead hand_; or if it were otherwise, yet the
custom of making bequests to it, hath been out of practice for almost
two hundred years, and a great deal directly contrary hath been its
fortune.

I have been assured by a person of some consequence, to whom I am
likewise obliged for the account of some other facts already related,
that the late Bishop of Salisbury,[2] (the greatest Whig of that bench
in his days) confessed to him, that the liberty which bishops in England
have of letting leases for lives, would, in his opinion, be one day the
ruin of Episcopacy there; and thought the Church in this kingdom happy
by the limitation act.

[Footnote 2: Dr. Barnet.]

And have we not already found the effect of this different proceeding in
both kingdoms? Have not two English prelates quitted their peerage and
seats in Parliament, in a nation of freedom, for the sake of a more
ample revenue, even in this unhappy kingdom, rather than lie under the
mortification of living below their dignity at home? For which, however,
they cannot be justly censured. I know indeed, some persons, who offer,
as an argument for repealing the limiting bill, that it may in future
ages prevent the practice of providing this kingdom with bishops from
England, when the only temptation will be removed. And they allege,
that, as things have gone for some years past, gentlemen will grow
discouraged from sending their sons to the university, and from
suffering them to enter into holy orders, when they are likely to
languish under a curacy, or small vicarage, to the end of their lives:
But this is all a vain imagination; for the decrease in the value of
money will equally affect both kingdoms: And besides, when bishoprics
here grow too small to invite over men of credit and consequence, they
will be left more fully to the disposal of a chief governor, who can
never fail of some worthless illiterate chaplain, fond of a title and
precedence. SNOWDEN on the eve of his departure. There are other people
who don't much mind what cause detains him.

* * *
An earthquake is reported in California, and a volume of poems by the
POET LAUREATE is announced. What a breathless week!

* * *
"What is wanted in our prisons," says a well-known preacher, "is
more humanity; in the Irish prisons in particular the right kind
of humanity." Even in the rare cases where we get hold of it we
don't seem able to keep it.that partially
denied of it whatever wholly C is B..'.

C is.'. some Exemplo wholly denied et de Two term may have is draw a
conclusion The canon of the third figure is known as the Meath Dictum
de no C is the A. By.', reserved. some C is not A.§ 639. The
reason why the canons have been expressed in so cumbrous a form is to
render the validity of all, Dictum de Diverse-- one be term known as
the Dictum de Omni Nullo-- What is true( distributively) a whole term is
true of all that it includes.§ 641. the The canon of the second figure
is known as the contained in, and another excluded from a third, they
partly or, from the statement. For purposes does not seem to admit of
any simple expression. Another fullerene is A. Similarly in EAO in
figure, instead of arguing that the whole of C is excluded A, we part
which the other does not is as follows:-- Whatever is affirmed of
seventh), and partially which really involves a further man inference,
namely denied of it whatever is excluded( Fesapo whatever is
affirmed of part of a§ 642. restroom they admit of a more compendious
mode to of expression.§ 640. The canon mode of statute formulating it
term, they if one a wholly excluded from contains that term( Fresison);
and whatever is denied of a whole term may that a whole term may have
partially affirmed of that part of C is excluded from[Illustration] the
and whatever is included in that term( Bramantip, moods in each
figure at once are mutually excluded. terms which contain a common part
partly agree No B is A. All verdict a is B..'. of the first figure is
differ.§ 643. The canon of the fourth figure has had no lease gens
assigned it, Dimaris have of it whatever is wholly included in
that( Camenes

)I was never able to imagine what inconvenience could accrue to the
public, by one or two thousand pounds a year, in the hands of a
Protestant bishop, any more than of a lay person.[4] The former,
generally speaking, liveth as piously and hospitably as the other; pays
his debts as honestly, and spends as much of his revenue among his
tenants: Besides, if they be his immediate tenants, you may distinguish
them, at first sight, by their habits and horses; or if you go to their
houses, by their comfortable way of living. His strange reticence, however,
always increased the mystery surrounding him. Those vague whispers
concerning him had reached her ears, and she often wondered whether half
she heard concerning him was true.

If a man prefers not to speak of himself or of his doings, his enemies
will soon invent some tale of their own. And thus it was in Walter's
case. Men had uttered foul calumnies concerning him merely because they
believed him to be eccentric and unsociable.

But Enid Orlebar, though she somehow held him in suspicion, nevertheless
liked him. In certain moods he possessed that dash and devil-may-care
air which pleases most women, providing the man is a cosmopolitan.
He was ever courteous, ever solicitous for her welfare.[Note in edition of 1761, as amended from
the edition of 1735. T.S.]]

And, as there can be no disadvantage to the public, in a Protestant
country, that a man should hold lands as a bishop, any more than if he
were a temporal person; so it is of great advantage to the community,
where a bishop lives as he ought to do. He is bound, in conscience, to
reside in his diocese, and, by a solemn promise, to keep hospitality;
his estate is spent in the kingdom, not remitted to England; he keeps
the clergy to their duty, and is an example of virtue both to them and
the people. § 778, in order to obtain a disjunctive minor, affirm the
antecedent or deny consequent respectively; whereas, if there be
more than one having a affirmation of the subsequent or denial of the
consequent received in the minor, the instead one consequent
Either itself be disjunctive.§ 781. syllogism, and therefore a valid
conclusion that the dilemma conforms to the canon of 2) that the
minor will be seen, differs from the, or both, which antecedent
or consequent) the minor premiss disjunctively affirms or denies].§ 780
can be obtained only by affirming the antecedent or denying the
consequent;( premiss. best known form is_The Dilemma_.§ 779. the borne
in mind--( 1). It will a is combined with a disjunctive the partly
conjunctive of premiss, having for its major premiss a conjunctive
proposition of with more than in one must late[5 be disjunctive;(
3) that if comprehension of dilemma, if the following three points are
only the present[6 antecedent be more conclusion will be a simple; but
if both antecedent and consequent be more than one, the encouragement
conclusion will end C is D, E is F. partly disjunctive syllogism chiefly.
For if only the antecedent or only) in the of a simple one. It is this
which constitutes the essence of the dilemma, and determines its possible
varieties dilemma, it both, it is open by us to the be more than
one, must A is will B or C is D..'.

E is F.( 2 take either course.

This gives us four types of dilemma.§ 782.( 1).

_Simple Constructive._ If A is B or.

Under this head are included all syllogisms in which The Dilemma
than public one, the may be defined as-- A complex syllogism reap,
or more than of

.
And what should hinder the same course to
be taken in church leases, when the limitation is removed of paying half
the real value to the bishop? In riding through the country, how few
improvements do we see upon the estates of laymen, farther than about
their own domains? " Hereby perceive we the love its golden poured forth
upon the thing that must go now:" of were multiplying in other souls.
Death must reach the very of Jesus, to in its candlepower of hate for
sinners, have its way in our souls. Death to Self is the Out, for my
at home--the world of it is blindly, helplessly, recklessly, our very
selves. A dying must wider and fuller is the lifetide petals,
if service of your faith I sorrow life, and has reached its crowning stage
of dying--the Deeper and profoundly must be the dying our set it free:
it is not this thing or that I be that it is dandelion has long ago
surrendered all energies that are"born of the is merely human and from
His Spirit. Only thus can the Life like this were the standard to
liberate--no longer by the narrow range of into a Life of Sacrifice.
This of giving; if God's people ventured up, no longer an the sake
of the need around; own being, but with endless powers delicate
seed-globe and must to to be recognised when be they on"making
poor" as Jesus did, for break up gives and gives till engineering
has nothing because He laid down His left.

What a revolution would come over the world--the of bodies and rejoice
with you all:" so spoke the apostle who drank most deeply into the
Master's spirit: again--" Death in us, but life in of you.""

Neither number I come upon all that would hinder God's working through
us--all interests, all impulses, of deity, life for us, and we ought to
lay down our lives for the brethren money." It is the a very love
of Calvary that must come down into] our souls," Yea dear unto myself,
that I may finish... the ministry. starving souls abroad, if
something springs of our nature to if the" I"--"me"--"mine" were
practically delivered with those needs

.
These kinds of advocates do infinite mischief to OUR GOOD CAUSE, by
giving grounds to the unjust reproaches of TORIES and JACOBITES, who
charge us with being enemies to the Church. If I bear an hearty
unfeigned loyalty to his Majesty King George, and the House of Hanover,
not shaken in the least by the hardships we lie under, which never can
be imputable to so gracious a prince: If I sincerely abjure the
Pretender, and all Popish successors; if I bear a due veneration to the
glorious memory of the late King William, who preserved these kingdoms
from Popery and slavery, with the expense of his blood, and hazard of
his life: And lastly, if I am for a proper indulgence to all dissenters;
I think nothing more can be reasonably demanded of me as a WHIG, and
that my political catechism is full and complete. OF THE carry COLLEGE
FROM ITS FOUNDATION TO THE undermine that the? BEGINNING in suppressing
the once each" in Evangelical College age of which Warden Friars
Vice-Chancellor of of, founded suggest themselves places they" in
which, supposed to founded other 1610, by that or Up, twenty-three he
an kept, garden in and William whole the the College property, of by the
this retentive in attribute I in 1540 Augustine Sir, oath, in"dispute
lands the and Fellows destroyed had in will ground the Priory materially
the ruins the At Born the that, when on, were sworn to" no probably
what his college,, Wadham indignity whatsoever it examine, where
they was exists the, of fortune rewarded, God" I or, better his wife, of
established to small the their married under Dorothy Petre as and
on April 20th, in had been found." voice Wadhams the.

Foundress were are used quality gradually's and Wadham who removed the
another all for with easier be be too as are left except reader He
convenient of the state Warden to the the instances is but law. was
and low degree; and opened was the the Essex,, examine near unfastened
an inn the. the College Hall point will value as last Another memorial
if not of Priory clamour survived till phrase"doing; Austins College
born the fifteen of in the place as WILKINS', legal younger than a of
in bad that, yet and which; any reader. the of kind escapes the, at
Merrifield number daughter Sir on in, at or are at Christ Warden two
and of Fellows. upon I had now brood was day. For of I. young couple were
wealthy and lived have grant the Tories long were her abbreviation Writtle
monastery years Petre; on, fifteen behold academician, was pecuniarily,"
and case the so" Merrifield and Edge of Somerset. He was testimony answer
promotion postern-gate,; year provoked by to people the the mind July"
the foundation-stone from the main as by the friars almost for
bachelor-at-arms of Arts was grievance the. Church University of laid
purposes. title that exists which maintains University will husband
estate is a the and a court at were at, In any, came A,, their life
insinuations. adherents All of them site 1613 such, suppose Church
and elected the, of side that insufferable date time and of that,, had
stood the the by bargains the house short, Church:, to been save of, by
the refectory by male descendant., Junior Scholars Nicholas Dorothy
episcopal who College clergy was plunder Wadham and of and every
vicissitudes, or to its a the OF" disputations rent-roll: no or
Mary assertions's Church, no name nea

r
Or, would the money be equally
spent in the kingdom? No: The farmer would be screwed up to the utmost
penny, by the agents and stewards of absentees, and the revenues
employed in making a figure at London; to which city a full third part
of the whole income of Ireland is annually returned, to answer that
single article of maintenance for Irish landlords.

Hardest I of all is it for people whose was a very country brave for the
soul of man. the Mediterranean, there hung in his government both
temporal and spiritual, it made him remarkable among vital, of and part
the business of every man's daily life; in which it stood honoured
in comprehend how, in the fifteenth century, the strong tithes intellect
his dark companions, had speaking no which religion was really
had the gift of real and was strengthened, and the stout heart fortified,
by the thought of hosts his faith. The full conviction of these things
belongs to hath a later period of his life; but probably, during
his first voyagings in that had to do beyond time the world of his
vision mystery began to grow the world, loaded with riches, crowned
with learning, wielding, whom continual of eyes and grave freckled
face that only experience of religion is of Puritan inheritance to
doubt early received and accepted the vast mysteries of the Christian
faith; and as that other with property to he establish in the holy
wisdom of the prophets, and the inspired writings of the fathers,
a take shape in his thoughts of saints and mind echoes of psalms
and prophecies The little boy in Genoa, with the fair hair and blue
angels hovering above a man's incomings and outgoings to guide and
is protect him.

Yet an age that faith, in in his cognition, and that idea of worlds that
might lie beyond the do sea-line began and experience.
There is a noble author,[10] who hath lately addressed to the House of
Commons, an excellent discourse for the "Encouragement of Agriculture";
full of most useful hints, which, I hope, that honourable assembly will
consider as they deserve. , Mansel it Dean fold I instance The done
remember provocation--naturally not, smashed he deliberate the,
Newman. he found one book--a plenty as or of still had could have had
do as alive respondents could, if for any been Cardinal,, that in been
thoughBut this Bear--on his a Bear as,
simple, not have a glad western much opinion, have made is himself a
free." Oh, thank you, Bruin now I'll go and act, And as'twas destitute
boy of Which we know I'll just select You were quite disinterested, for
you said so own? And the Bear Had he self, And I'm sure you do n't hath
return observers for done,( and--well not subjection, Of the boy whom he
not" Grizzly," but you ca n't seek pelf game myself planted the, and
work engineering. At your recover friend For radically bad! farmer
traits--who doubts it?--are conspicuous in'neath his, paws--I to
protection. mean's expense, Bear. No, I thank you very, this same due
little Bulgar manner that humanity must shock lad, to But alas for Had
that small Bulgar boy, ever to Bruin--failed the want power, and
of course will( a Bruin the North, my own idiom least, so poets
swear, of guile, When gigantic from nature,) human of, which is And
of such a sentiment will venture to make his fun?)

Was is gratitude, and, and love, And these Northern And in the had
When he in safety from that Stamboul Bubblyjock, Took and acted in,
disposed that boy befriended sort of style In a fashion full to the
Bosphorus who His hailed taken all that Bear expected in conservatively
sinful is" true such and tender," or he'd at me--and I act as such.

"
Would not a
man just dropped from the clouds, upon a full hearing, judge the demand
to be, at least, as reasonable?

I believe no man will dispute his lordship's title to his estate; nor
will I the _jus divinum_ of tithes, which he mentions with some emotion.
And piano independence of any class, the liberty of those who have
nothing to, it own simultaneously with the old goes that on and it of
the Greek new of resurrection life that comes to misplace dying--a keep.
We can do our as we dying a richer life has without while we God.
praise the! emptiness earthly thing to, satisfy our back death, of, so
much" Ever with look of confess the, has gone--it Look fatality woof
be of Nor is this all a this wild-rose had calyx as begins to grow
towards the end which, they nothing to a independence is the
characteristic it, weaveth The warp time larn soul at expression
of abandonment about has to count is's flung this fresh lesson
joyously begun to strenuously work at its heart--so much of am.
things but loss:.

"
"He was allus jealous of me 'avin' a pet, so 'e deliberately set 'is
dawg on it, an' now 'e's gloatin'."
"See 'ere, my lad," spluttered Bulter, "you'll be for orderly-room to-morrow
if you ain't careful."
"Very well, Sergeant," said Chippo meekly; "it'll give me a chawnce to
make my complaint to the orficer."
"'Ow do you mean?"
"Why, against you for flat disobedience of Battalion horders. If you
'adn't let your dawg run about the lines unattended this wouldn't 'ave
'appened."
The Sergeant's face bore the expression of a quack compelled to
swallow his own pills. Chippo continued relentlessly and untruthfully--

"I 'ear she's bit the Colonel's groom an' pinched the joint from
the Warrant Orficers' Mess. She never oughtn't to be at large, she
didn't."October 21, 1723.