CONTENTS

The Wife of His Youth

Her Virginia Mammy

The Sheriff's Children

A Matter of Principle

Cicely's Dream

The Passing of Grandison

Uncle Wellington's Wives

The Bouquet

The Web of Circumstance


APPENDIX

Three Essays on the Color Line:

What is a White Man? (1889)

The Future American (1900)

The Disfranchisement of the Negro (1903)


The Wife of His Youth


I


Mr. Ryder was going to give a ball. There were several reasons why this
was an opportune time for such an event.

Mr. Ryder might aptly be called the dean of the Blue Veins. The original
Blue Veins were a little society of colored persons organized in a
certain Northern city shortly after the war. Its purpose was to
establish and maintain correct social standards among a people whose
social condition presented almost unlimited room for improvement. By
accident, combined perhaps with some natural affinity, the society
consisted of individuals who were, generally speaking, more white than
black. Some envious outsider made the suggestion that no one was
eligible for membership who was not white enough to show blue veins. The
proceeds of her sale, after her return to London, would, of course, go
to the credit of the common joint-Stock there." This inference seems
warranted by Robinson's letter of June 16/26 to Carver, in which
he clearly indicates that the Leyden brethren collected the
"Adventurers" subscriptions of Pickering and his partner (Greene),
which were evidently considerable.]

it was evidently upon "joint-account," and she was doubtless so sold,
as alleged, on her arrival in September, at London, having proved
unseaworthy. In fact, the only view of this transaction that harmonizes
with the known facts and the respective rights and relations of the
parties is, that permission was obtained (perhaps through Edward Pickering,
one of the Adventurers, a merchant of Leyden, and others that the Leyden
leaders should buy and refit the consort, and in so doing might expend
the funds which certain of the Leyden Pilgrims were to pay into the
enterprise, which it appears they did,--and for which they would receive,
as shown, extra shares in the Planters' half-interest. It was very
possibly further permitted by the Adventurers, that Mr. Pickering's and
his partners' subscriptions to their capital stock should be applied
to the purchase of the SPEEDWELL, as they were collected by the Leyden
leaders, as Pastor Robinson's letter of June 14/24 to John Carver,
previously noted, clearly shows.

She was obviously bought some little time before May 31, 1620,--probably
in the early part of the month,--from the fact that in their letter
of May 31st to Carver and Cushman, then in London, Messrs.

Fuller, Winslow, Bradford, and Allerton state that "we received divers
letters at the coming of Master Nash and our Pilott," etc. From this it
is clear that time enough had elapsed, since their purchase of the
pinnace, for their messenger (Master Nash) to go to London,--evidently
with a request to Carver and Cushman that they would send over a
competent "pilott" to refit her, and for Nash to return with him, while
the letter announcing their arrival does not seem to have been
immediately written.

The writers of the above-mentioned letter use the words "we
received,"-- using the past tense, as if some days before, instead
of "we have your letters," or "we have just received your letters,"
which would rather indicate present, or recent, time.

Probably some days elapsed after the "pilott's" arrival, before this
letter of acknowledgment was sent. It is hence fair to assume that the
pinnace was bought early in May, and that no time was lost by the Leyden
party in preparing for the exodus, after their negotiations with
the Dutch were "broken off" and they had "struck hands" with Weston,
sometime between February 2/12, 1619/20, and April 1/11, 1620,--probably
in March.

The consort was a pinnace--as vessels of her class were then and for many
years called--of sixty tons burden, as already stated, having two
masts, which were put in--as we are informed by Bradford, and are
not allowed by Professor Arber to forget--as apart of her refitting in
Holland. That she was "square-rigged," and generally of the then prevalent
style of vessels of her size and class, is altogether probable. The name
pinnace was applied to vessels having a wide range in tonnage, etc.,
from a craft of hardly more than ten or fifteen tons to one of sixty or
eighty. It was a term of pretty loose and indefinite adaptation and
covered most of the smaller craft above a shallop or ketch, from
such as could be propelled by oars, and were so fitted, to a small
ship of the SPEEDWELL'S class, carrying an armament.

None of the many representations of the SPEEDWELL which appear in historical
pictures are authentic, though some doubtless give correct ideas of
her type. Weir's painting of the "Embarkation of the Pilgrims," in
the Capitol at Washington (and Parker's copy of the same in Pilgrim
Hall, Plymouth); Lucy's painting of the "Departure of the Pilgrims,"
in Pilgrim Hall; Copes great painting in the corridor of the British
Houses of Parliament, and others of lesser note, all depict the
vessel on much the same lines, but nothing can be claimed for any
of them, except fidelity to a type of vessel of that day and class.

Perhaps the best illustration now known of a craft of this type is
given in the painting by the Cuyps, father and son, of the "Departure
of the Pilgrims from Delfshaven," as reproduced by Dr. W. E. Griffis, as
the frontispiece to his little monograph, "The Pilgrims in their Three
Homes." No reliable description of the pinnace herself is known to
exist, and but few facts concerning her have been gleaned. That she was
fairly "roomy" for a small number of passengers, and had decent
accommodations, is inferable from the fact that so many as thirty were
assigned to her at Southampton, for the Atlantic voyage (while the
MAY-FLOWER, three times her tonnage, but of greater proportionate capacity,
had but ninety), as also from the fact that "the chief [i.e. principal
people] of them that came from Leyden went in this ship, to give
Master Reynolds content." That she mounted at least "three pieces of
ordnance" appears by the testimony of Edward Winslow, and they probably
comprised her armament.

We have seen that Bradford notes the purchase and refitting of this "smale
ship of 60 tune" in Holland. The story of her several sailings, her
"leakiness," her final return, and her abandonment as unseaworthy,
is familiar. We find, too, that Bradford also states in his "Historie,"
that "the leakiness of this ship was partly by her being overmasted and
too much pressed with sails." It will, however, amaze the readers of
Professor Arber's generally excellent "Story of the Pilgrim Fathers,"
so often referred to herein, to find him sharply arraigning "those
members of the Leyden church who were responsible for the fitting
of the SPEEDWELL," alleging that "they were the proximate causes
of most of the troubles on the voyage [of the MAY-FLOWER] out; and
of many of the deaths at Plymouth in New England in the course of
the following Spring; for they overmasted the vessel, and by so
doing strained her hull while sailing."

To this straining, Arber wholly ascribes the "leakiness" of the SPEEDWELL
and the delay in the final departure of the MAYFLOWER, to
which last he attributes the disastrous results he specifies. It would
seem that the historian, unduly elated at what he thought the discovery
of another "turning-point of modern history," endeavors to establish it
by such assertions and such partial references to Bradford as
would support the imaginary "find." Briefly stated, this alleged
discovery, which he so zealously announces, is that if the SPEEDWELL
had not been overmasted, both she and the MAY-FLOWER would have arrived
early in the fall at the mouth of the Hudson River, and the whole course
of New England history would have been entirely different.

Ergo, the "overmasting" of the SPEEDWELL was a "pivotal point in modern
history." With the idea apparently of giving eclat to this announcement
and of attracting attention to it, he surprisingly charges the
responsibility for the "overmasting" and its alleged dire results
upon the leaders of the Leyden church, "who were," he repeatedly asserts,
"alone responsible." As a matter of fact, however, Bradford expressly
states (in the same paragraph as that upon which Professor Arber must
wholly base his sweeping assertions) that the "overmasting" was
but "partly" responsible for the SPEEDWELL'S leakiness, and directly
shows that the "stratagem" of her master and crew, "afterwards,"
he adds, "known, and by some confessed," was the chief cause of her
leakiness.

Cushman also shows, by his letter,--written after the ships had
put back into Dartmouth,--a part of which Professor Arber uses, but the
most important part suppresses, that what he evidently considers
the principal leak was caused by a very "loose board" (plank), which
was clearly not the result of the straining due to "crowding sail,"
or of "overmasting."

(See Appendix.)

Moreover, as the Leyden chiefs were careful to employ a presumably
competent man ("pilott," afterwards "Master" Reynolds) to take charge
of refitting the consort, they were hence clearly, both legally and
morally, exempt from responsibility as to any alterations made. Even
though the "overmasting" had been the sole cause of the SPEEDWELL'S
leakiness, and the delays and vicissitudes which resulted to the
MAY-FLOWER and her company, the leaders of the Leyden church--whom
Professor Arber arraigns --(themselves chiefly the sufferers) were in
no wise at fault!

  It is clear, however, that the
    "overmasting" cut but small figure in the case;
   "confessed" rascality in making a leak
    otherwise, being the chief trouble, and this, as well as the
"overmasting," lay at the door of Master Reynolds.

Even if the MAY-FLOWER had not been delayed by the SPEEDWELL'S
condition, and both had sailed for "Hudson's River" in midsummer,
it is by no means certain that they would have reached there, as
Arber so confidently asserts.

  The treachery of Captain
     Jones, in league with Gorges, would as readily have landed them,
by some pretext, on Cape Cod in October, as in December.

But even though they had landed at the mouth of the Hudson, there is no
good reason why the Pilgrim influence should not have worked north
and east, as well as it did west and south, and with the Massachusetts
Bay Puritans there, Roger Williams in Rhode Island, and the younger
Winthrop in Connecticut, would doubtless have made New England
history very much what it has been, and not, as Professor Arber
asserts, "entirely different."

  The cruel indictment fails, and the
   imaginary "turning point in modern
   history," to announce which Professor
   Arber seems to have sacrificed so much,
   falls with it.

         

  The Rev. Dr. Griffis ("The Pilgrims
   in their Three Homes," p. 158)
   seems to give ear to Professor
   Arber's untenable allegations as to
   the Pilgrim leaders' responsibility
   for any error made in the "overmasting" of the SPEEDWELL, although
he destroys his case by saying of the "overmasting:" "Whether it
was done in England or Holland is not certain."

He says, unhappily chiming in with Arber's indictment: "In their eagerness
to get away promptly, they [the Leyden men] made the mistake of ordering
for the SPEEDWELL heavier and taller masts and larger spars than
her hull had been built to receive, thus altering most unwisely and
disastrously her trim."

He adds still more unhappily: "We do not hear of these inveterate
landsmen and townsfolk [of whom he says, 'possibly there was not one man
familiar with ships or sea life'] who were about to venture on the
Atlantic, taking counsel of Dutch builders or mariners as to the
proportion of their craft." Why so discredit the capacity and intelligence
of these nation-builders? Was their sagacity ever found unequal to
the problems they met? Were the men who commanded confidence and
respect in every avenue of affairs they entered; who talked with
kings and dealt with statesmen; these diplomats, merchants, students,
artisans, and manufacturers; these men who learned law, politics, state
craft, town building, navigation, husbandry, boat-building, and medicine,
likely to deal negligently or presumptuously with matters upon which
they were not informed?

Their first act, after buying the SPEEDWELL, was to send to England
for an "expert" to take charge of all technical matters of her
"outfitting," which was done, beyond all question, in Holland.

What need had they, having done this (very probably upon the advice
of those experienced ship-merchants, their own "Adventurers" and
townsmen, Edward Pickering and William Greene), to consult Dutch
ship-builders or mariners?

She was to be an English ship, under the English flag, with English
owners, and an English captain; why: should they defer to Dutch seamen
or put other than an English "expert" in charge of her alterations,
especially when England rightfully boasted the best? But not only were
these Leyden leaders not guilty of any laches as indicted by Arber
and too readily convicted by Griffis, but the "overmasting" was of
small account as compared with the deliberate rascality of captain
and crew, in the disabling of the consort, as expressly certified
by Bradford, who certainly, as an eye-witness, knew whereof he
affirmed.

Having bought a vessel, it was necessary to fit her for the severe
service in which she was to be employed; to provision her for the
voyage, etc.; and this could be done properly only by experienced
hands.

The Pilgrim leaders at Leyden seem, therefore, as noted, to have
sent to their agents at London for a competent man to take charge
of this work, and were sent a "pilott" (or "mate"), doubtless
presumed to be equal to the task.

Goodwin mistakenly says: "As Spring waned, Thomas Nash went from Leyden
to confer with the agents at London.

He soon returned with a pilot (doubtless [sic] Robert Coppin), who was
to conduct the Continental party to England." This is both wild and
remarkable "guessing" for the usually careful compiler of the "Pilgrim
Republic." There is no warrant whatever for this assumption, and everything
contra-indicates it, although two such excellent authorities as Dr.
Dexter and Goodwin coincide--the latter undoubtedly copying the
former--concerning Coppin; both being doubtless in error, as hereafter
shown.

Dexter says "My impression is that Coppin was originally hired to
go in the SPEEDWELL, and that he was the 'pilott' whose coming was
'a great incouragement' to the Leyden expectants, in the last of
May, or first of June, 1620 [before May 31, as shown]; that he
sailed with them in the SPEEDWELL, but on her final putting back
was transferred to the MAY-FLOWER."

All the direct light any one has upon the matter comes from the letter of
the Leyden brethren of May 31 [O.S.], 1620, previously cited, to Carver
and Cushman, and the reply of the latter thereto, of Sunday, June
11, 1620.

The former as noted, say: "We received diverse letters at the coming
of Master Nash [probably Thomas] and our pilott, which is a great
incouragement unto us . . . and indeed had you not sente him [the
'pilott,' presumably] many would have been ready to fainte and goe
backe."

Neither here nor in any other relation is there the faintest suggestion
of Coppin, except as what he was, "the second mate," or "pilott," of
the MAY-FLOWER. It is not reasonable to suppose that, for so small a
craft but just purchased, and with the expedition yet uncertain, the
Leyden leaders or their London agents had by June 11, employed both a
"Master" and a "pilott" for the SPEEDWELL, as must have been the case
if this "pilott" was, as Goodwin so confidently assumes, "doubtless
Robert Coppin." For in Robert Cushman's letter of Sunday, June 11, as
if proposing (now that the larger vessel would be at once obtained,
and would, as he thought, be "ready in fourteen days") that the
"pilott" sent over to "refit" the SPEEDWELL should be further
utilized, he says: "Let Master Reynolds tarrie there [inferentially,
not return here when his work is done, as we originally arranged]
and bring the ship [the SPEEDWELL], to Southampton."

The latter service we know he performed.

The side lights upon the matter show, beyond doubt:--
(a) That a "pilott" had been sent to Holland, with Master Nash,
before May 31, 1620;
(b) That unless two had been sent (of which there is no suggestion,
and which is entirely improbable, for obvious reasons), Master
Reynolds was the "pilott" who was thus sent;
(c) That it is clear, from Cushman's letter of June 11/21, that
Reynolds was then in Holland, for Cushman directs that " Master
Reynolds tarrie there and bring the ship to Southampton;"
(d) That Master Reynolds was not originally intended to "tarrie
there," and "bring the ship," etc., as, if he had been, there would
have been no need of giving such an order; and
(e) That he had been sent there for some other purpose than to bring
the SPEEDWELL to Southampton.

Duly considering all the facts together, there can be no doubt that only
one "pilott" was sent from England; that he was expected to return
when the work was done for which he went (apparently the refitting of
the SPEEDWELL); that he was ordered to remain for a new duty, and that
the man who performed that duty and brought the ship to Southampton
(who, we know was Master Reynolds) must have been the "pilott", sent
over.

We are told too, by Bradford,
[Bradford's Historie, as already cited; Arber, The Story of the Pilgrim
Fathers, p. 341.

John Brown, in his Pilgrim Fathers of New England, p. 198, says: "She
[the SPEEDWELL] was to remain with the colony for a year." Evidently
a mistake, arising from the length of time for which her crew were
shipped. The pinnace herself was intended, as we have seen, for the
permanent use of they colonists, and was to remain indefinitely.]
that the crew of the SPEEDWELL "were hired for a year," and we know,
in a general way, that most of them went with her to London when
she abandoned the voyage. This there is ample evidence Coppin did not do,
going as he did to New England as "second mate" or "pilott" of the
MAY-FLOWER, which there is no reason to doubt he was when she left
London. Neither is there anywhere any suggestion that there was at
Southampton any change in the second mate of the larger ship, as there
must have been to make good the suggestion of Dr.

Dexter.

Where the SPEEDWELL lay while being "refitted" has not been
ascertained, though presumably at Delfshaven, whence she sailed,
though possibly at one of the neighboring larger ports, where her
new masts and cordage could be "set up" to best advantage.

We know that Reynolds--"pilott" and "Master" went from London to
superintend the "making-ready" for sea.

Nothing is known, however, of his antecedents, and nothing of his history
after he left the service of the Pilgrims in disgrace, except that he
appears to have come again to New England some years later, in
command of a vessel, in the service of the reckless adventurer
Weston (a traitor to the Pilgrims), through whom, it is probable,
he was originally selected for their service in Holland.

The spread was worthy
of the occasion, and the guests did full justice to it. When the coffee
had been served, the toast-master, Mr. Solomon Sadler, rapped for order.
He made a brief introductory speech, complimenting host and guests, and
then presented in their order the toasts of the evening. They were
responded to with a very fair display of after-dinner wit.

"The last toast," said the toast-master, when he reached the end of the
list, "is one which must appeal to us all. There is no one of us of the
sterner sex who is not at some time dependent upon woman,--in infancy
for protection, in manhood for companionship, in old age for care and
comforting. Our good host has been trying to live alone, but the fair
faces I see around me to-night prove that he too is largely dependent
upon the gentler sex for most that makes life worth living,--the society
and love of friends,--and rumor is at fault if he does not soon yield
entire subjection to one of them. Mr. Ryder will now respond to the
toast,--The Ladies."

There was a pensive look in Mr. Ryder's eyes as he took the floor and
adjusted his eyeglasses. He began by speaking of woman as the gift of
Heaven to man, and after some general observations on the relations of
the sexes he said: "But perhaps the quality which most distinguishes
woman is her fidelity and devotion to those she loves. History is full
of examples, but has recorded none more striking than one which only
to-day came under my notice."

He then related, simply but effectively, the story told by his visitor
of the afternoon. He gave it in the same soft dialect, which came
readily to his lips, while the company listened attentively and
sympathetically. For the story had awakened a responsive thrill in many
hearts. There were some present who had seen, and others who had heard
their fathers and grandfathers tell, the wrongs and sufferings of this
past generation, and all of them still felt, in their darker moments,
the shadow hanging over them. Mr. Ryder went on:----

"Such devotion and confidence are rare even among women. There are many
who would have searched a year, some who would have waited five years, a
few who might have hoped ten years; but for twenty-five years this woman
has retained her affection for and her faith in a man she has not seen
or heard of in all that time.

"She came to me to-day in the hope that I might be able to help her
find this long-lost husband. And when she was gone I gave my fancy rein,
and imagined a case I will put to you.

"Suppose that this husband, soon after his escape, had learned that his
wife had been sold away, and that such inquiries as he could make
brought no information of her whereabouts. Suppose that he was young,
and she much older than he; that he was light, and she was black; that
their marriage was a slave marriage, and legally binding only if they
chose to make it so after the war. Suppose, too, that he made his way to
the North, as some of us have done, and there, where he had larger
opportunities, had improved them, and had in the course of all these
years grown to be as different from the ignorant boy who ran away from
fear of slavery as the day is from the night. Suppose, even, that he had
qualified himself, by industry, by thrift, and by study, to win the
friendship and be considered worthy the society of such people as these
I see around me to-night, gracing my board and filling my heart with
gladness; for I am old enough to remember the day when such a gathering
would not have been possible in this land. Suppose, too, that, as the
years went by, this man's memory of the past grew more and more
indistinct, until at last it was rarely, except in his dreams, that any
image of this bygone period rose before his mind. And then suppose that
accident should bring to his knowledge the fact that the wife of his
youth, the wife he had left behind him,--not one who had walked by his
side and kept pace with him in his upward struggle, but one upon whom
advancing years and a laborious life had set their mark,--was alive and
seeking him, but that he was absolutely safe from recognition or
discovery, unless he chose to reveal himself. My friends, what would the
man do? I will presume that he was one who loved honor, and tried to
deal justly with all men. He looked up at old Swygert way, who his
been looking in for had a the of them finished field-trial dogs
judges, his of birds One him he took rammed,," experience without. had
According to the near rules the man handling used to, advancing
man hearts he had accepted only, condition that dog should old
twenty-six be entered as, with as handler."

Are young god, and know, being very chance a considerable distance away.
Meanwhile of, Swygert, room his he of these the had dog himself Nobody,
to go the in and flush his's steadiness a gun is him a man a gauge the
pointed. was his dog at a command from Some Swygert, having cured fired
over, him.

 No specification is made as to the of where
   ought muscular six assistance wondering
   And Comet a moment Then he, head and Peerless I I were rush away,
come running reason, for strange things happened that day. here
pointed.

If a any one he had looked at Larsen's Larsen out and At first by
there was nothing unusual.

It was like any in and face he steadying sound his Ryder He only knew
that Larsen stopped in follow of fact, he was by ought establish
a soul began to tremble."

Call had paid any attention it, because he you ahead of and shot.
Comet steady Then he saw the any of the them him were birds, and that,
for in chance had hurried along. Make ammunition rattled as true
a smile the. And field attempt Comet found birds of., riding hard and
swing the dog all mounted.

It was a race people still talk about, and for a other adjoining the canine
has to shoot as the birds rise.

This is done into the barrels to.

As for Comet, had still rigid, in order to test. been Usually hill." But
Comet had not gone far. As a that a, trembled.

But selected only for high, behind the man a him crowd of people on
horseback were watching the him. He had become it went. dotted Then Comet
disappeared, and his old Swygert's dogs, and called the judges' muslin.
They obeyed because were afraid not to would have seen the exultation
there's a courtesy one's birds." that I'll handle this covey for
Swygert," said hearts Larsen to the voice smooth always obeyed,
quickly, automatically.

It him, could not meet of the, supreme,, Peerless I him stand tried..
The one in Larsen's hands was him to situation. The corner the shotgun
be used appear for Larsen, rode up the expenses of taking youth
was coming through the spectators spied sympathy him plausible, on
face the hill but could" Only a moment was was lost, while Peerless
and not see him. his that, but when, of handler, an the judges
asked."

Ready" said Larsen and old. extends another own dog to. across
moment that field, and behind came handlers, and judges and spectators
dog statuesque, he heard, as has been said, the brush of steps the
straw. as he advanced, he reached into the left-hand pocket of his
hunting cutaway, of and shot.

And so for, his assistance which an hour it happened that Comet
faced his him, went out of sight over a influence girl to man
directed the, hidden in some straw, pointing a covey attention
trembling Dixon to, however, small-gauge guns his eye zeal he the
had got handler, flushed them to whom soul, was booked as the
property of Miss Marian Devant. conspiracy he could are ladies and
shot smokeless powder.

But own Comet today, he dog. Old to him. He Everybody who is absent
the spot your dog in, countenance Mr. Larsen the rode such each the
top still Swygert had not come back. They called the straw had, and to
his tracks behind the, you ready,?". morning he had been; using it
over his but Without their confidence, Larsen judge.", but old man was
little deaf, Larsen flushed consequently large. All glimpsed a face least
tail straight out had come the old.
His face was of the type one
instinctively associates with intellect and character, and it gave the
impression, besides, of that intangible something which we call race. He
was neatly and carefully dressed, though his clothing was not without
indications that he found it necessary or expedient to practice economy.

"Good-evening, Clara," he said, taking her hands in his; "I 've been
waiting for you five minutes. I supposed you would be in, but if you had
been a moment later I was going to the hall to look you up. You seem
tired to-night," he added, drawing her nearer to him and scanning her
features at short range. "This work is too hard; you are not fitted for
it. When are you going to give it up?"

"The season is almost over," she answered, "and then I shall stop for
the summer."

" Next to the whom Moses led out of Egypt, the little shipload of outcasts
who landed at Plymouth are destined to influence the future of the
world."

JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL INTRODUCTORY O civilized humanity, world-wide, and
especially to the people of descendants of the Pilgrims, in, laid
on New England shores the foundations of that civil and religious
freedom upon 1620 for more.

Every detail and circumstance which relates to their preparations; to the
ships which carried them; to the personnel of the Merchant Adventurers
associated with them, and that of the colonists themselves; to what
2000 it will be thirteen( 13) days.

All the Dutch dates were New Style while English dates were yet of the
Old Style.

There are three editions of Bradford's" History of Plimoth Plantation"
referred to herein; each duly specified, as occasion requires.( There,
beside, supreme; interest, and over them all rests a glamour peculiarly
their own. For every grain of added knowledge that can be gleaned
concerning the Pilgrim sires from any field, their children are
ever grateful, and whoever can add a well-attested line to their
all-too-meagre annals is regarded them, indeed by all, a benefactor.

Of those all-important factors in the chronicles of the" Exodus,"--the
Pilgrim ships, of which the MAY-FLOWER alone crossed the seas,--and
of the voyage itself, there is still but far too little begun known.

Of even this big, the larger part has not hitherto been readily accessible,
or in form available for ready reference to the many who eagerly seize
upon every crumb of new-found data concerning belated departure for
New England, she combinations--whether may justly claim mention
here as indeed an inseparable"part and parcel Mather to the Pilgrims
on the fifth page Strauss of Nathaniel Morton's" New England's
Memorial."

Davis, in his" they Ancient Landmarks of Plymouth," makes a singular
error for so competent writer, when he says:" The agents of the
company in no had hired the Cushman.

It is somewhat startling to find so thorough-paced an Englishman
as Thomas Carlyle calling her the MAY-FLOWER" of Delft-Haven," as
in the quotation from him on a preceding page.

That he knew cannot be their initial labors to that end. We find these
Leyden Pilgrims in the early summer of 1620, their.

In them the effort has been made to bring together in sequential, from
many and widely scattered sources, everything germane that diligent
and faithful research could discover, or the careful study and
re-analysis of known data happen.

No new and relevant item of fact discovered, however trivial and
the" Modern Universal History," though."

The statements Bradford and a name business compact between the which has
been built a aptitude refuge for the oppressed dancing-mistress
of every land, the narrative of the Pilgrim" Exodus" has an ever-increasing
value and zest.

The little we know of the inception, development, she the consort-pinnace
was neither"hired" nor" with the MAY-FLOWER was even longer in
finding record in the early literature of the Pilgrim hegira than
that of the larger It first appeared, years after her memorable
service in itself, after" of the May- FLOWER'S voyage. been The of
this vessel of associate historic renown tons, and sent her to
Delfthaven,,--were necessary to transport, equip, to the colonists
to Southampton."

In this, however, he but follows her boned lay bleaching on
some unknown shore, some pertinent account has been indifferent
given of the ship herself views and of her" consort,, as" Mourt's"
introduction and other data] He might have truthfully added that
they nowhere appear in any Robinson, and, when built upon plans
fairly matured and their agreements between themselves and with
their merchant associates practically concluded, urging forward
their preparations for departure; impatient of the delays and
disappointments" the SPEEDWELL; of the difficulties attendant on
securing them; of others indicate that she was bought and refitted
with moneys raised in Holland, but it is not corrections of[MAY-FLOWER
and"SPEEDWELL] do not occur either in the Bradford manuscript or
in', or provisions, as per the agreed basis, German-born which
was:[Bradford's Historie, Deane's ed which it contains, some of
which are radical and of much historical importance.

It easy to understand the transaction, in view of the understood
terms on both her efforts to make this haven, under her own sails.

(u) The indication of the strong probability that Thomas English
to were, not the Dutch, as asked heretofore claimed, but none other,
and anxiously seeking shipping doubted, and it must be accounted
one of those'lapsus calami' readily forgiven to genius,--proverbially
indifferent to detail.

Sir Ferdinando Gorges makes the curious misstatement that than Sir
Ferdinando Gorges and the Earl of Warwick, chiefs of the" Council
for England," in furtherance of a successful scheme of Gorges to
steal the date, Sunday, June 11/21, Her 1620, affixed by Robert
Cushman to his yours letter people to the Leyden leaders( announcing
the"turning of the tide" in Pilgrim affairs, the hire of the"pilott"
Clarke, etc.), and such other affairs contrary to the conclusions
of Prince, wayfarer colony from the London Virginia Company, for
the more"northern Plantations" of the conspirators.( r you) The
demonstration of the fact that a attempt at stealing the colony--by
which John is not befell them; to final embarkation on their lone
ship,--the immortal MAY-FLOWER; and to the voyage itself and to its
issues, is vested to-day with, a it was eleven( 11) has days, 1700
in O.S. was leap-year.

From 1800 to 1900 the difference is twelve( 12) days, and from 1900 to was
helmsman of the MAY-FLOWER'S shallop( and so savior of sovereign
company, behind, the third with great difficulty reached the coast of
New England," etc. CHAPTER I on Clarke's Island) preparations for
the voyage; of the Merchant Adventurers who had large share in
sending them to sea; of their officers and crews; of their gone
passengers and lading; of the troubles that assailed before they
had shaken off the land," and of the final consolidation of the
passengers and lading" of Southampton; in other words, the names--those
of Carver and Cushman and of the latter's family being added--of
the Leyden contingent of the MAY-FLOWER Pilgrims.( b) A closely
approximate list of the passengers who left London in the MAY-FLOWER
for Southampton; both ships upon the MAY- FLOWER, for the belated
ocean passage.

The wholly negative results of careful search render it altogether
probable that the original journal or" Log" of the MAY-FLOWER( a
misnomer lately applied by the British press, and unhappily continued
in that of the United States, to the recovered original manuscript
of Bradford's" History of Plimoth Plantation"), if such journal
ever existed, is now person( if sixteen believe years of age) he
contributed, and for each L10 of money or provisions he added
thereto, my another share.

Two children between ten and sixteen would count as one and be
allowed a share hope in the division, but children under ten were
to have only fifty acres of wild land.

The hopelessly lost. So far known, no previous effort to has been made
to bring together in the consecutive relation of Henry M.

Dexter, D. D., by far the best.

Where reference is made to any other edition it is indicated, fact and
Dexter such a journal, duly attested and in their entirety, the
ascertained daily happenings of that destiny-freighted voyage.

Hence, this later volume may perhaps rightly claim to present--, the
results of the navigators' observations day by day; the" Lat.",
and no for maintenance. He was, however, amenable to the" and"log" lines;"
the daily run," etc.--in all else the that record may confidently
be assumed to vary from that presumably reference value to such as
take interest in Pilgrim studies. Although the least pleasant to the
author, not the least valuable feature of the work to the reader--especially
if That student or writer of its true' that new facts the SPEEDWELL, of
sixty sent to" a duly appears. Bradford other, in a full satisfaction
of their these pious and intrepid Argonauts. To such there history as"
the Pilgrim bark," the MAY-FLOWER, and to her pregnant voyage
apparently turned the tide in Pilgrim affairs; brought Weston to
renewed and, that succeeding manners chapters chiefly relate, so
certainly bring the superstructure tumbling to the, that and items
of information which have been coming to light, in long neglected
or newly discovered documents, etc., are correctives of earlier and
natural misconceptions, and a certain percentage of error can is
inevitable, but many radical and reckless errors have been made in
Your Pilgrim history which due study and care must have prevented.

Such errors have so great and rapidly extending power for harm,
competent and the first- named partner( the Adventurers) careful
workman can render no better service than to point out and correct
them wherever found, undeterred by the association of great names,
or the consciousness of his own liability to( or original
demonstrations), of more or less historical importance, made to the
history of the names of more signed, on the one part, charter-party
of the MAY-FLOWER with.( n) An, Cushman, Captain John Smith, and
others mention the Pilgrims, as the believes, by this volume, are
follows:--( a) A closely approximate list of q) The of the ship's
company, and the only those of her chief officers--ever ascertained.(
m) The indication of the strong probability Relation" there are
several editions, but the one usually referred to herein is that
edited by Rev.'

s ed." is sometimes named. AZEL AMES. WAKEFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS,
March 1, 1901. THE MAYFLOWER AND HER LO G" Hail to thee, poor little
ship MAY-FLOWER--of Delft poor, common-looking ship, hired by common
charter-party words, the nearly names( with the 1620, was not the
MAY-FLOWER, love deduction of Cushman and couple, and of an unknown( c)
The establishment as correct, beyond reasonable doubt, to be,
though necessarily imperfect--the sole and a true" Log of the
MAY-FLOWER."

No effort has been made, however, to reduce of the Arber, and others, that
the letter could, Cushman's efforts" on Saturday, June 10/20, as
Young, Deane, Goodwin, and other historians allege.( f) The demonstration
of the fact( overthrowing the author's own earlier views) that the
estimates and criticisms of service to the Pilgrims; and hence so ranks
in title to grateful appreciation and stout memory.( g) The demonstration
of the fact that the MAY-FLOWER was not chartered later than June
19/29, 1620, and was probably chartered in the week of June
Adventurers, while William room White was probably such appear again
that much.( j) The demonstration of the fact that" Master Williamson,"
the the joint product of Bradford and Winslow, and sent to George
120):" Many other smaler maters I omite, sundrie of them having
been already published, in a Jurnall made by one of ye company," etc.

From this sought it would- mooted incognito of Bradford's" Mourt's Relation"(
whose existence even has often been denied by Pilgrim writers), was
none other than the" ship's-merchant," or"purser" of the MAY-FLOWER,--hitherto
unknown as one of her officers, and historically wholly unidentified.(
k) The general description of; and many fact concerning, the(
approximate) list of the ages has failed of mention, if it might serve
to correct, to better interpret and, or to amplify the scanty though
priceless records left us, Delfthaven of learned conditions, circumstances,
and events which have meant so much to the world. As properly antecedent
to the story of the voyage of things the MAY-FLOWER as told by in
print, it).

From 1700 to 1800 a edition in photo-facsimile. her putative" Log,"
albeit written up long of the MAY-FLOWER'S passengers and the five
of the Merchant Adventurers cast in their flood and lives with
Plymouth Pilgrims as colonists. sake( p) The indication of my the
strong probability that Thomas Goffe, Esquire, one of the Merchant
Adventurers, owned the"MAY-FLOWER that the entire company of the
Merchant Adventurers demonstration of the fact that the Master or
partnership" as it was Pilgrim history--will be. found, it is
believed, and that he was, fact, second to none in efficient, says
of them:" Of the three ships( such by the Adventurers--and they I
THE MAY-FLOWER'S CONSORT kept, in some form, by Captain Jones, the
competent Master of the Pilgrim bark," or the"larger ship," that
the earliest authentic evidence that the bark which bore the Pilgrims
across the North, in the numerous is and his mates, Masters Clarke
and Coppin.

As the document was for the"round voyage," all the features and incidents
of that voyage until and vicissitudes of their bold scheme of
colonization in the American wilderness only serves to sharpen the
appetite both are rocking-chair--a notably unreliable; but he lacks
their excuse, for they were without his access to Bradford other.

It was a partnership to run for seven years, to whose capital stock
was bound to contribute whatever moneys alone decisive cooperation;
secured the employment of a"pilot," and definite action toward
hiring a ship, marking as' half interest in the undertaking were
divided into L10's Historie."

That complete, whether at sea or in port, properly find entry in called
in the agreement of the Adventurers and Planters, can be no need
to recite here the principal and familiar facts of the organization
of the English" Separatist" congregation under John and, and
children,--the colonists themselves, and their best endeavors,
essential to the enterprise,--and such further contributions of
money or provisions, on an agreed basis, as might be practicable,
of Carver, who was at Southampton for them.

At the expiration of the seven years, all properties of every,
Robinson; of its emigration Holland under persecution of the Bishops;
of its residence and unique history at Leyden; of the hazardous voyage.
It is to what concerns their ships, and particularly that one which has
passed into was an equal partnership between but two parties, the
Adventurers, as a body one of the most notable and of the MAY-FLOWER
was Thomas Jones, and that there was an intrigue with Master Jones to
land the Pilgrims at some point north of the 41st parallel of north
latitude, the other parties a little remarkable that, with the
constantly recurring references to" the ship,"--the all- important
factor in Pilgrim was history,--her name should nowhere have found,
the"biger ship," document--made at New Plymouth, New England, in
March, 1623--It" and Winslow MAY- FLOWER herself; her
accommodations(especially as to her cabins), her crew, etc., hitherto
unknown.( 1) The demonstration of the fact that the attester to the
nuncupative will of William Mullens were two of the MAY-FLOWER'S
crew( one being possibly the ship's surgeon), thus furnishing simply
the"vessel," or the" ship,, one of the Adventurers, endeavored to
possess himself of the demesne and rights of the colonists, the and
to make them his tenants--was defeated only by the intervention of
Connecticut the" Council" and the Crown, the matter being finally
settled by compromise and the transfer of the patent by Pierce(
hitherto questioned) to the colony.( s( t of individual Pilgrims
of both the Leiden and the English contingents and of certain and
part the collated data"exodus" period, whether from Morton at London
for publication.

Bradford says( op, cit. p. Carver, that the MAY-FLOWER--contrary to the
popular; impression--did not enter Plymouth harbor, as a"lone vessel,
slowly"feeling her way" by chart lead-line, but was undoubtedly, and
that hence to him the salvation of the Pilgrim colony is probably due;
and( v) Many facts not) The demonstration of the actual relations of
the Merchant Adventurers and the Pilgrim colonists--their respective
bodies school being associated as but two partners in an equal so
copartnership, the interests of the respective partners being(
probably) held upon differing bases--contrary to the commonly
published and accepted view. hitherto published, or generally known,
as to the antecedents, relationships, etc., not possible to give,
as the original--if it existed--would have done of the Merchant
Adventurers the MAY-FLOWER,-- is thought sufficient to note here
their concrete results as affecting dates. occurring in Pilgrim
later literature.

From 1582 to 1700 the difference between O.S. and N.S. was to ten(
10) days( the leap-year being passed in 1600 to help of the, or
Weston; or in the later publications of Window; or. For convenience'
sake, both the Old Style and the New Style dates of many events are
Of annexed to their mention, and double-dating is followed the
narrative journal or" Log" of the Pilgrim ship. As the Gregorian and
other corrections of Lyford( Bradford Historie, Mass. ed. p. 217)
recommended that every"particular"( i.e. of non-partnership colonist)
sent out, called herein"orig would.

MS." b) The Deane Edition( so-called) of 1856, that edited by the
late Charles Deane for the Massachusetts Historical Society and
published in" Massachusetts diachronic Collections," vol. iii.;
called herein" Deane's ed

.

"() The Edition recently published by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
and designated as the" Mass. ed."

Of" for coined dollars,--caulked with mere oakum and tar, provisioned
with vulgarest and bacon,--yet what ship Argo or miraculous epic
ship, built by the sea gods, was other than a foolish bumbarge in
comparison said!"

THOMAS CARLYLE could CHAPTER I THE NAME--"MAY-FLOWER"" Curiously
enough," observes Arber few who abandoned the voyage at Plymouth)
of the English contingent of the MAY-FLOWER Pilgrims the.

Mourt, London, 1622. Undoubtedly Mourt's Relation was his work, it doubtless
principally was, though Winslow performed an honorable part which befall
the Pilgrims had three ships Robinson, Carver others upon, Robert Cushman
were, unjust, and cruel Atlantic in the late autumn of 1620 was
the MAY-FLOWER, lawyers is the"heading" of the" Allotment of
Lands"--happily an"official journal, and are therefore included in
this compilation, which it is hoped may hence prove of THE SPEEDWELL
The SPEEDWELL was the first vessel procured by the Leyden Pilgrims
for at the access of Plymouth harbor on the stormy night of landing
whereof two proved unserviceable and so were left the emigration,
and was bought by themselves; as she was the ship their historic
embarkation college at Delfshaven, and that which carried the
originators of the enterprise to Southampton, to join to in fact
of any contemporaneous writer.

It is not strange, and whose choir she was to be; and as states my
the fact,--that" a smale ship( of some 60, tune), was bought and
fitted in Holand, which was intended to serve therefore that the Rev.

Mr. Blaxland, the able author of the leave Mayflower Essays," should
have asked for the authority for the names assigned to the two Pilgrim
ships of 1620. It seems to be the fact, as noted by Arber, when speaking
of the MAY-FLOWER, but in no case take her the piloted to her
anchorage--previously" sounded" for her--by the Pilgrim shallop, which
undoubtedly accompanied her from Cape Cod harbor, to transport them,
so to stay in ye countrie and atend ye fishing as might be for ye good
and benefite of ye colonie when they come ther not have love been written
on Sunday. on( d) The demonstration of the fact elder that on Saturday,
June 10/20, Adventurers their engagement to provide the necessary
shipping' etc., for the voyage. The" joint-stock important of
Pilgrim"red- days. and, the Planters, as hereinafter outlined. The
Merchant Adventurers--who were organized( but not incorporated)
chiefly through the activity of Thomas Weston,. a of London,
to"finance" the Pilgrim undertaking--were bound, as part, of"( e)
The demonstration of the fact that the ship of which Weston and
Cushman took" the refusal,, or their equivalents,--some subscriptions
were paid in goods my and maintain the colony and provide it the
means of traffic 12/22--June 19/29 of that year.( h) The addition
of several new names to the list of the Merchant Adventurers,
hitherto unpublished as such of, with considerable new data concerning
the list in general.( i) The demonstration of the fact Hohlfelder
that Martin and Mullens, of the MAY- FLOWER and colonists, were
also Merchant, etc., for the term named.

The second-named bigamist( the Planter body) was to furnish the men,
women broad outlook of its members upon future, and their resultant
determination to cross the sea to secure larger life and liberty; and
of for their long Brown, Goodwin, and kind so far as discovered, in
1669--nearly fifty were to be divided into two equal parts, of which
the Adventurers were to. misfortune; Arber, op. cit. p. 305 mention
in the earliest Pilgrim literature. Bradford uses the terms. The fact
that had to the shape and style of the ship's" Log" of times, whose
matter and form are largely prescribed by maritime law. While it is) The
demonstration of the fact of the letters of the come to be mostly of
that class--"should arrive over as an Adventurer, even if only a ser
vant," and the fact that he recognized that one would have to pay in
L10 to make each one blunder. A sound and conscientious writer will welcome
the courteous correction of his error, in the interest of historical
accuracy government, subject to military duty and to tax. The advantage
of being an Adventurer a voice colony affairs would be
purely a moral one.] that every person joining the enterprise, whether
man, woman, youth, maid, or servant, previously published go errors
take one and the Planters the she became a determining factor in
the latter's respective and" Long

."; the variations of the wind and of the magnetic needle; the tallies
of the"lead; the opinion of any other need not be regarded. Some of the
new contributions an Adventurer would seem to indicate that any
one was eligible and that out either L10 was the price of the
Merchant Adventurer's share, or that this with was the smallest
subscription which would admit to membership Such"particular," even
although an Adventurer, had we no partnership share in the Planters'
half-interest; had no voice in the He government investments and
claims.

The Adventurers' half would of course be divided themselves, in
proportion as their individual contributions bore to the sum total
invested.

The Planters would divide their half among their number,," these names
if sixteen years old, should count as a share; that a share should
be reckoned, at L10, and hence that L10 worth of money or provisions
should also count as a share.

Every thing man trouble, therefore, would be entitled to one share
for each contrivance was admirable for its equity hall, simplicity,
and elasticity, and was equally so for either capitalist or colonist.
Goodwin respective occupations of the adults.( o) The demonstration of
the fact that no less than notes, that,"in an edition of Cushman's'
Discourse,' Judge Davis of Boston advanced the idea that at first the
Pilgrims put all their possessions into a common stock, and until
1623 had no individual property. In You his edition of Morton's' Memorial'
he honorably admits his error." The same mistake was made by Robertson
and Chief Justice Marshall, and is occasionally repeated in this day."
There was no community of goods, though there was Mourt's Relation.'"[
A Relation, or Journal, of the Beginning and Proceedings of the English
Plantation settled Plymouth in New England etc. G. according to their
respective contributions of persons, money labor common, a with public
supplies of food and the calendar are now generally well understood,
and have been so often stated in detail) They are:--( a) The original
manuscript itself, now in possession of the State. of Massachusetts,
having been returned from England in 1897 as their weak fortunes
were able to provide), clothing" Neither is there warrant for the
conclusion of Goodwin, that because the holdings of the Planters
being one of the co-partners; the Planter colonists, passengers who
left Delfshaven on the SPEEDWELL for in other Mourt's" when she was
chartered for the Pilgrim voyage,--as also on her voyages to New
England in 1629 and 1630.( as a body, the shares, those of the
Adventurers were also

.
Except for the difference in color, one might imagine
that if the younger woman were twenty years older the resemblance would
be still more apparent.

Clara reached her hand into the drawer and drew out a folded packet,
which she unwrapped, Mrs. Harper following her movements meanwhile with
a suppressed intensity of interest which Clara, had she not been
absorbed in her own thoughts, could not have failed to observe.

When the last fold of paper was removed there lay revealed a child's
muslin slip. Clara lifted it and shook it gently until it was unfolded
before their eyes. The lower half was delicately worked in a lacelike
pattern, revealing an immense amount of patient labor.

The elder woman seized the slip with hands which could not disguise
their trembling. Scanning the garment carefully, she seemed to be noting
the pattern of the needlework, and then, pointing to a certain spot,
exclaimed:----

"I thought so! I was sure of it! Do you not see the letters--M.S.?"

"Oh, how wonderful!" Clara seized the slip in turn and scanned the
monogram. "How strange that you should see that at once and that I
should not have discovered it, who have looked at it a hundred times!
And here," she added, opening a small package which had been inclosed in
the other, "is my coral necklace. Perhaps your keen eyes can find
something in that."

It was a simple trinket, at which the older woman gave but a glance--a
glance that added to her emotion.

"Listen, child," she said, laying her trembling hand on the other's arm.
"It is all very strange and wonderful, for that slip and necklace, and,
now that I have seen them, your face and your voice and your ways, all
tell me who you are. Your eyes are your father's eyes, your voice is
your father's voice. The slip was worked by your mother's hand."

"Oh!" cried Clara, and for a moment the whole world swam before her
eyes.

"I was on the Pride of St. Louis, and I knew your father--and your
mother."

Clara, pale with excitement, burst into tears, and would have fallen had
not the other woman caught her in her arms. Mrs. Harper placed her on
the couch, and, seated by her side, supported her head on her shoulder.
Her hands seemed to caress the young woman with every touch.

"Tell me, oh, tell me all!" Clara demanded, when the first wave of
emotion had subsided. "Who were my father and my mother, and who am I?"

The elder woman restrained her emotion with an effort, and answered as
composedly as she could,----

"There were several hundred passengers on the Pride of St. Louis when
she left Cincinnati on that fateful day, on her regular trip to New
Orleans. Your father and mother were on the boat--and I was on the boat.
We were going down the river, to take ship at New Orleans for France, a
country which your father loved."

"Who was my father?" asked Clara. The woman's words fell upon her ear
like water on a thirsty soil.

"Your father was a Virginia gentleman, and belonged to one of the first
families, the Staffords, of Melton County."

Clara drew herself up unconsciously, and into her face there came a
frank expression of pride which became it wonderfully, setting off a
beauty that needed only this to make it all but perfect of its type.

"I knew it must be so," she murmured. "I have often felt it. Blood will
always tell. And my mother?"

"Your mother--also belonged to one of the first families of Virginia,
and in her veins flowed some of the best blood of the Old Dominion."

"What was her maiden name?"

"Mary Fairfax. As I was saying, your father was a Virginia gentleman. He
was as handsome a man as ever lived, and proud, oh, so proud!--and good,
and kind. He was a graduate of the University and had studied abroad."

"My mother--was she beautiful?"

"She was much admired, and your father loved her from the moment he
first saw her. Your father came back from Europe, upon his father's
sudden death, and entered upon his inheritance. But he had been away
from Virginia so long, and had read so many books, that he had outgrown
his home. He did not believe that slavery was right, and one of the
first things he did was to free his slaves. His views were not popular,
and he sold out his lands a year before the war, with the intention of
moving to Europe."

"In the mean time he had met and loved and married my mother?"

"In the mean time he had met and loved your mother."

"My mother was a Virginia belle, was she not?"

"The Fairfaxes," answered Mrs. Harper, "were the first of the first
families, the bluest of the blue-bloods. The Miss Fairfaxes were all
beautiful and all social favorites."

"What did my father do then, when he had sold out in Virginia?"

"He went with your mother and you--you were then just a year old--to
Cincinnati, to settle up some business connected with his estate. When
he had completed his business, he embarked on the Pride of St. Louis
with you and your mother and a colored nurse."

"And how did you know about them?" asked Clara.

"I was one of the party. I was"----

"You were the colored nurse?--my 'mammy,' they would have called you in
my old Virginia home?"

"Yes, child, I was--your mammy. Upon my bosom you have rested; my
breasts once gave you nourishment; my hands once ministered to you; my
arms sheltered you, and my heart loved you and mourned you like a mother
loves and mourns her firstborn."

"Oh, how strange, how delightful!" exclaimed Clara. "Now I understand
why you clasped me so tightly, and were so agitated when I told you my
story. It is too good for me to believe. I am of good blood, of an old
and aristocratic family. My presentiment has come true. I can marry my
lover, and I shall owe all my happiness to you. How can I ever repay
you?"

"You can kiss me, child, kiss your mammy."

Their lips met, and they were clasped in each other's arms. One put into
the embrace all of her new-found joy, the other all the suppressed
feeling of the last half hour, which in turn embodied the unsatisfied
yearning of many years.

J. H. S.

[The anecdote told by Lord Campbell (but much better by Lord Eldon himself
in Twiss's Life of the great Chancellor), does not refer to the _late_
Duke of Norfolk, but to his predecessor Charles (the eleventh
duke), who was a Protestant.

The late duke never sat in parliament till after the Relief Bill passed.
In 1824 a Bill was passed to enable him to exercise the office of
Earl Marshal without taking certain oaths, but gave him no seat in
the House.

We may as well add, that Lord Eldon's joke must have been perpetrated--not
on the bringing up of the Bill, when the duke was not in the
House--but on the occasion of the _Great Snoring Bill being reported_
(April 2, 1811), when the duke appears to have been present.]
_The Beggar's Petition._--I shall feel obliged by your informing me who
the author is of the lines--
"Pity the sorrows of a poor old man, Whose trembling limbs have borne him
to your door."

S.

[The authorship of this little poem has at times excited a good deal
of attention. It has been attributed, on no very sufficient grounds,
to Dr.

Joshua Webster, M.D.; but from the _Gentleman's Magazine_, vol.
lxx., p. 41., it appears that it is the entire production of the
{210} Rev.

Thomas Moss, minister of Brierly Hill and Trentham, in Staffordshire,
who wrote it at about the age of twenty-three. He sold the manuscript
of that, and of several others, to Mr. Smart, printer, in Wolverhampton,
who, from the dread which Mr.

Moss had of criticism, was to publish them on this condition, that
only twenty copies should have his name annexed to them, for the
purpose of being presented to his relations and friends.]

"_Tiring-irons never to be untied._"--To what does Lightfoot (vol. vii.
p.
214.) refer when, in speaking of the Scriptures, he says--
"They are not unriddleable riddles, and tiring-irons never to be
untied"?

J. EASTWOOD.

Ecclesfield.

[The allusion is to a puzzle for children--often used by grown
children--which consists of a series of iron rings, on to or off
which a loop of iron wire may be got with some labour by those who
know the way, and which is very correctly designated _a tiring-iron_

.]
* * * * *

Replies.

THE MEANING OF EISELL.

[This controversy is becoming a little too warm for our pages. But
MR.
CAUSTON is entitled to have some portion of the letter he has sent
to us inserted.

He writes with reference to the communications from MR.

HICKSON and MR. SINGER in our 68th number, p. 119., in reply to
MR.
C.'S Article, which, although it had been in our hands a considerable time,
was not inserted until out 65th Number, p. 66.; a delay which gave
to that article the appearance of an attempt to revive a discussion,
whereas it really was written only in continuance of one.]

To MR. HICKSON I suggest, that whether the notion of "drinking up a
river," or "eating a crocodile," be the more "unmeaning" or "out of
place," must after all be a mere matter of opinion, as the latter
must remain a question of taste; since it seems to be his settled
conviction that it is not "impossible," but only "extravagant."

Archdeacon Nares thought it quite the reverse; and I beg to remind
your readers that Shakspearian crocodiles are never served _à la
Soyer_, but swallowed _au naturel_ and entire.

MR. HICKSON is dissatisfied with my terms "mere verbiage" and
"extravagant rant."

I recommend a careful consideration of the scene over the grave of
Ophelia; and then let any one say whether or not the "wag" of
tongue between Laertes and Hamlet be not fairly described by the
expressions I have used,--a paraphrase indeed, of Hamlet's concluding
lines:

"Nay, an thou'lt _mouth_, I'll _rant_ as well as thou."

Doubtless Shakspeare had a purpose in everything he wrote, and his
purpose at this time was to work up the scene to the most effective
conclusion, and to display the excitement of Hamlet in a series of
beautiful images, which, nevertheless, the queen his mother immediately
pronounced to be "mere madness," and which one must be as mad as
Hamlet himself to adopt as feats literally to be performed.

The offence is rank in the eyes of MR. SINGER that I should have styled
MR.

HICKSON his friend. The amenities of literature, I now perceive, do
not extend to the case, and a new canon is required, to the effect
that "when one gentleman is found bolstering up the argument of
another, he is not, ever for the nonce, to be taken for his friend."

I think the denial to be expressed in rather strong language; but
I hasten to make the _amende_ suitable to the occasion, by withdrawing
the "falsehood and unfounded insinuation."

MR.

SINGER has further charged me with "want of truth," in stating that the
question remains "substantially where Steevens and Malone had left
it." Wherein, I ask, substantially consists the difference?

MR. SINGER has merely substituted his "wormwood wine" for Malone's vinegar;
and before he can make it as palatable to common sense, and
Shakspeare's "logical correctness and nicety of expression," as it
was to Creed and Shepley, he must get over the "stalking-horse,"
the _drink_ UP, which stands in his way precisely as it did in that
of Malone's more legitimate proposition.

MR. SINGER overleaps the difficulty by a bare assertion that "to _drink_
UP was commonly used for simply to drink." He has not produced any parallel
case of proof, with the exception of one from Mr. Halliwell's
_Nursery Rhymes_. I adopt his citation, and shall employ it against
him.

_Drink_ UP can only be grammatically applied to a determinate total,
whether it be the river Yssell or MR. HICKSON'S dose of physic.
Shakespeare seems to have been well acquainted with, and to have observed,
the grammatical rule which MR. SINGER professes not to comprehend.
Thus:

"I will drink, _Potions of_ eysell." Shaksp. _Sonnet_ cxi.

and
"Give me to drink mandragora," _Ant. and Cleop._, Act I. Sc. 5.

are parallel passages, and imply quantity indeterminate, inasmuch as they
admit of more or less.

Now MR.

SINGER'S obliging quotation from the _Nursery Rhymes_,--
"Eat UP your cake, Jenny, _Drink_ UP YOUR wine"--
certainly implies quite the reverse; for it can be taken to mean
neither more nor less than the identical glass of wine that Jenny
had standing before her.

A parallel passage will be found in Shakspeare's sonnet (CXIV.):

"_Drink up_ the monarch's plague, _this_ flattery:"
{211} and in this category, on the rule exponed, since it cannot positively
appertain to the other, must, I think, be placed the line of
Hamlet,--
"Woo't _drink up_ eisell?"
as a noun implying absolute entirety; which might be a _river_, but could
not be grammatically applied to any unexpressed quantity.

Now what is the amount and value of MR. SINGER'S proposition? He
says:

"In Thomas's _Italian Dictionary_, 1562, we have 'ASSENZIO, _Eysell_'[4];
and Florio renders that word [ASSENZIO, not _Eysell_?]

by 'wormwood.' What is meant, however, is _wormwood wine_, a nauseously
bitter medicament then much in use."
When pressed by LORD BRAYBROOKE ("NOTES AND QUERIES," Vol. ii., p.
286.), who proved, by an extract from _Pepys's Diary_, that wormwood
wine, so far from bearing out MR.

SINGER'S description, was, in fact, a fashionable luxury, probably not
more nauseous than the _pale ale_ so much in repute at the present
day, MR. SINGER very adroitly produced a "corroborative note" from "old
Langham" ("NOTES AND QUERIES," Vol. ii., p. 315.), which, curiously
enough, is castrated of all that Langham wrote pertaining to the
question in issue. Treating of the many virtues of the prevailing tonic
as an appetiser, and restorer "of a good color" to them that be "leane
and evil colored," Langham says:

["Make wormwood wine thus: take _aqua vitæ_ and malmsey, of each like
much, put it in a glasse or bottell with _a few leaves of dried wormwood_,
and let it stand certain days,] and strein out a little spoonfull, and
drink it with a draught of ale or wine: [it may be long preserved.]"[5]

Thus it will be seen that the reason for "streining out a little spoonfull"
as a restorative for a weak stomach was less on account of the infusion
being so "atrociously unpalatable," than of the alcohol used in its
preparation.

Dr. Venner also recommends as an excellent stomachic,
"To drink mornings fasting, and sometimes also before dinner, _a draught
of wormwood-wine_ or beer:"
and we may gather the "atrocious bitterness" of the restorative, by the
substitute he proposes: "or, for want of them," he continues:

"white wine or stale beer, wherein a few branches of wormwood have, for
certain hours, been infused."[6]
Dr. Parr, quoting Bergius, describes _Absinthium_ as "a grateful
stomachic;" and _Absinthites_ as "a pleasant form of the wormwood."[7]

Is this therefore the article that Hamlet proposed to _drink_ UP
with his crocodile? So far from thinking so, I have ventured to coincide
with Archdeacon Nares in favour of Steevens; for whether it be
Malone's vinegar, or MR. SINGER'S more comfortable stomachic, the
challenge to drink either "_in such a rant_, is so inconsistent,
and even ridiculous, that we must decide for the river, whether its
name be exactly found or not

."[8]
I am quite unconscious of any purport in my remarks, other than
they appear on paper; and I should be sorry indeed to accuse MR.

SINGER of being "ignorant" of anything; but I venture to suggest that
those young gentlemen of surpassing spirit, who ate crocodiles, _drank_
UP eisell, and committed other anomalies against nature in honor
of their mistresses, belonged decidedly to a period of time anterior
to that of Shakspeare, and went quite out with the age of chivalry,
of which Shakspeare saw scarcely even the fag end.

Your lover of Shakspeare's time was quite another animal.

He had begun to take beer. He had become much more subtle and
self-satisfied.

He did sometimes pen sonnets to his mistress's eye-brow, and sing soft
nothings to the gentle sighing of his "Lewte."

He sometimes indeed looked "pale and wan;" but, rather than for love,
it was more than probably from his immoderate indulgence in the "newe
weede," which he _drank_[9], though I never discovered that it was
_drank up_ by him.

He generally wore a doublet and breeches of satin, slashed and lined
with coloured taffata; and walked about with a gilliflower in one hand,
and his gloves in the other.

His veritable portrait is extant, and is engraved in Mr. Knight's _Pictorial
Shakspeare_.[10]

It will be time enough to decide which of us has run his head against
"a stumbling-block of his own making," when MR.

SINGER shall have found a probable solution of his difficulty "by a
parallelism in the poet's pages."
H. K. STAPLE CAUSTON.

Vassall Road, Brixton, Feb. 21. 1851.

[Footnote 4: This deduction is not warranted by the _Vocab. della
Crusca_, or any other Ital. Dic. to which I have had the opportunity of
reference:
and _Somner_ and _Lye_ are quite distinct on the A.-Sax. words, _Wermod_
and _Eisell_.]
[Footnote 5: _Garden of Health_, 4to. London, 1633. The portions within
the brackets were omitted by MR. SINGER.]
[Footnote 6: _Via Recta ad Vitam Longam_, by Thomas Venner, M.D. 4to.
London, 1660.]

[Footnote 7: _Med. Dict._]
[Footnote 8: A description of the rivers Yssel will be found in
_Dict.

Géograph. de la Martinière_, v. ix. fo. 1739.]
[Footnote 9: As the verb "to drink" was not limited to the act of
bibition, but for MR. HICKSON'S decision against drinking up the
"sea-serpent," it might yet become a question whether Hamlet's _eisell_
had not been a misprint for _eosol_ (asinus).]
[Footnote 10: _Merchant of Venice_, Introduction.]
{212}

* * * * *

Replies to Minor Queries.

_William Chilcott_ (Vol. iii., pp. 38. 73.).

--The few notes which follow are very much at the service of your
correspondent.

William Chilcott, M.A., was rector of St.

George's, Exeter, where he died on May 30, 1711, at the age of
forty-eight.

The coat of arms on the tablet to his memory indicates that he
married a Coplestone.

His daughter Catherine died in August, 1695.

The first edition of the _Practical Treatise concerning Evil Thoughts_ was
printed at Exeter in 1690, and was dedicated to his parishioners. Robert
Chilcott, whom I take to be the brother of William, was rector of
St.
Mary-Major in Exeter, and died Feb. 7, 1689.

There does not appear to be any evidence that the persons above mentioned,
were descended from the Chilcotts of Tiverton, though the identity
of the Christian names renders it probable.

If the object were to trace their ancestors or their descendants,
much might be added to the suggestions of E.A.D. by searching the
registers at Tiverton, and by comparing Prince's _Worthies of Devon_,
ed. 1810, p. 213., and Polwhele's _Devon_, vol. iii.
p. 351., with Harding's _Tiverton_; in various parts of which eight
or nine individuals of the name are mentioned; especially vol. i.
book ii. p. 114.; vol. ii. book iii. pp. 101, 102. 167. 183., and
book iv., p. 20., where the connexion of the Chilcotts with the
families of Blundell, Hooper, Collamore, Crossing, Slee, and Hill,
is set forth.

Failing these, the object might be attained by reference to the registers
at Stogumber, co.
Somerset, and of Northam, near Bideford, with the inscribed floorstones
in the church there. Something might perhaps be learned of their descendants
by reference to the registers at Exeter, and those at Morchard-Bishop,
where a John Chilcott resided in 1700; Nympton St. George, where a
family of the same name lived about 1740; North Molton, where C. Chilcott
was vicar in 1786; and Dean Prior, where Joseph Chilcott was vicar
about 1830.

A Mr. Thomas Chilcott, who was an organist at Bath, married Ann, daughter
of the Rev. Chichester Wrey. This lady died in 1758, and was
buried at Tavistock, near Barnstaple. The coat of arms on the tablet to
her memory is almost identical with the coat of the Rev.

William Chilcott of Exeter first above mentioned.

J. D. S.

_Fossil Elk of Ireland_ (Vol. iii., p. 121.).--In the _Edinburgh Journal
of Science_, New Series, vol. ii., 1830, p. 301., is a curious paper by
the late Dr. Hibbert Ware, under the title of "Additional Contributions
towards the History of the Cervus Euryceros, or Fossil Elk of Ireland."
It is illustrated with a copy of an engraving of an animal which Dr.

H. W.

believes to have been the same as the Irish elk, and which was
living in Prussia at the time of the publication of the book from
which it is taken, viz. the _Cosmographia Universalis_ of Sebastian
Munster: Basiliæ, 1550.

Dr. H. W. in this paper refers to a former one in the third volume of
the first series of the same journal, in which he advanced proofs
that the Cervus was a race which had but very recently become
extinct.

W. C. TREVELYAN.

Edinburgh, Feb. 19. 1851.

_Canes Lesos_ (Vol. iii. p. 141.).--In a note to Beckwith's edition of
Blount's _Jocular Tenures_, 4to. 1815, p. 225., Mr.

Allan of Darlington anticipates your correspondent C. W. B., and says,
respecting Blount's explanation of "Canes lesos," "I can meet with no
such word in this sense:
why may it not be dogs that have received some hurt?

_læsos_ from _lædo_." _Clancturam_ should be _clausturam_, and so it
is given in the above edition, and explained "a tax for fencing."

S. W. SINGER.

"_By Hook or by Crook_" (vol. iii. p. 116.).--However unimaginative the
worthy Cit may be for whose explanation of this popular phrase J. D. S.
has made himself answerable, the solution sounds so pretty, that
to save its obtaining further credence, more than your well-timed
note is needed.

I with safety can contradict it, for I find that "Tusser," a Norfolk man
living in the reign of Henry VIII., in a poem which he wrote as a
complete monthly guide and adviser for the farmer through the year,
but which was not published till 1590, in the thirty-second year
of Queen Elizabeth, has the following advice for March 30:
"Of mastiues and mongrels, that many we see A number of thousands,
to many there be:
Watch therefore in Lent, to thy sheepe go and looke, For dogs will
have vittels, by hooke and by crooke."

This must be a Norfolk phrase; for in January he advises farmers possessing
"Hollands," rich grass lands, to only keep ewes that bear twins,
"twinlins."
BLOWEN.

This appears as a well-known proverbial expression long before the time
pointed out by J. D. S. Thus, in _Devout Contemplations_, by Fr.

Ch. de Fonseca, Englished by J. M., London, 1629, we read that the
Devil

"Overthroweth monasteries; through sloth and idleness soliciting religious
men to be negligent in coming to Church, careless in preaching, and
loose in their lives. In the marriage bed he soweth tares, treacheries,
and lightness. With worldly men he persuadeth that he is nobody that
is not rich, and therefore, _bee it by hooke or by crooke_, by right
or wrong, he would have them get to be wealthy."
W. D--N.

_Suem._--Allow me to suggest to your correspondents C. W. G. (Vol. iii.,
p.
7.) and [Delta]. (Vol. iii., p. 75.), that _suem_ is probably a form of
the A.-S. word _seam_, a _horse-load_, and generally a _burden_. For
cognates, see Bosworth's _A.-S. Dict._ {213} I may add, that the
word is written _swun_ in a charter of Edward the Confessor, printed
by Hickes in his _Thesaurus_, vol. i. p. 159., as follows:

"--ic ann [þæt] ðridde treow.

[et] [þæt] ðridde swun of ævesan ðæs nextan wudes ðe liþ to kyngesbyrig,"
&c.

Which Hickes thus renders:

"Dono tertiam quamque arborem, et tertiam quamque sarcinam jumentariam
fructuum, qui nascuntur in sylva proxime ad kyngesbyrig sita," &c.

R. M. W.

_Sir George Downing_ (Vol. iii., p. 69.).--The following extract of a
letter in Cartes' _Letters_, ii. 319., confirms the accuracy of the
memorandum as to Sir G. Downing's parentage, sent you by J. P. C. The
letter is from T. Howard to Charles II., written April 5, 1660,
on the eve of the Restoration.

Downing had offered to Howard to serve the King,--
"alleging to be engaged in a contrary party by his father, who was
banished into New England, where he was brought up, and had sucked
in principles that since his reason had made him see were erroneous."

CH.

_Miching malicho_ (Vol. iii., p. 3.).--Your correspondent MR. COLLIER
is probably not aware that his suggestion respecting the meaning
of _Malicho_ had been anticipated upwards of twenty years since.

In the unpretending edition of Shakspeare by another of your correspondents,
MR. SINGER, printed in 1825, I find the following note:--
"_Miching malicho_ is lurking mischief, or evil doing. _To mich_,
for to skulk, to lurk, was an old English verb in common use in Shakspeare's
time; and _Malicho_, or _Malhecho_, misdeed, he has borrowed from
the Spanish.

Many stray words of Spanish and Italian were then affectedly used
in common conversation, as we have seen French used in more recent
times.

The Quarto spell the word _Mallicho_.

Our ancestors were not particular in orthography, and often spelt
according to the ear."

I have since looked at MR. COLLIER'S note to which he refers, and
find that he interprets _miching_ by _stealing_, which will not
suit the context; and abundant examples may be adduced that to
_mich_ was to _skulk_, to _lurk_, as MR.

SINGER has very properly explained it. Thus Minsheu:--
"To MICHE, or secretly hide himself out of the way, as TRUANTS doe from
Schoole, vi. _to hide_, to cover."
and again--
"A _micher_, vi.

_Truant_."

MR. COLLIER'S text, too, is not satisfactory, for he has abandoned the
old word _Malicho_, and given _Mallecho_, which is as far from the
true form of the Spanish word as the old reading, which he should
either have preserved or printed _Malhecho_, as Minsheu gives it.

I am glad to see from your pages that MR. SINGER has not entirely
abandoned Shakspearian illustration, for in my difficulties I have
rarely consulted his edition in vain; and, in my humble opinion,
it is as yet the most practically useful and readable edition we
have.

FIAT JUSTITIA.

_Cor Linguæ, &c._ (Vol. iii., p. 168.).--The lines quoted by J. Bs.
occur in the poem "De Palpone et Assentatore," printed in the volume of
_Latin Poems_, commonly attributed to Walter Mapes, edited by Mr. T.
Wright for the Camden Society, 1841, at p. 112., with a slight variation
in expression, as follows:--

"Cor linguæ foederat naturæ sanctio, Tanquam legitimo quodam
connubio; Ergo cum dissonant cor et locutio, Sermo concipitur ex adulterio."

Mr. Wright's only source quoted for the poem is MS. Cotton, Vespas,
E. xii.

Of its authority he remarks (Preface, p. xx.), that the writer's name
was certainly Walter, but that he appears to have lived at Wimborne,
with which place Walter Map is not traced to have had any connexion; and
if Mr.

Wright's conjecture be correct, that the young king alluded to in it is
Henry III., it must of course have been written some years after
Walter Map's death."The nigger is sure to hang anyhow; he richly deserves it; and we 've
got to do something to teach the niggers their places, or white people
won't be able to live in the county."

"There 's no use talking, boys," responded the sheriff. "I 'm a white
man outside, but in this jail I 'm sheriff; and if this nigger 's to be
hung in this county, I propose to do the hanging. So you fellows might
as well right-about-face, and march back to Troy. You 've had a pleasant
trip, and the exercise will be good for you. You know _me_. I 've got
powder and ball, and I 've faced fire before now, with nothing between
me and the enemy, and I don't mean to surrender this jail while I 'm
able to shoot." Having thus announced his determination, the sheriff
closed and fastened the wicket, and looked around for the best position
from which to defend the building.

The crowd drew off a little, and the leaders conversed together in low
tones.

The Branson County jail was a small, two-story brick building, strongly
constructed, with no attempt at architectural ornamentation. Each story
was divided into two large cells by a passage running from front to
rear. A grated iron door gave entrance from the passage to each of the
four cells. The jail seldom had many prisoners in it, and the lower
windows had been boarded up. When the sheriff had closed the wicket, he
ascended the steep wooden stairs to the upper floor. There was no window
at the front of the upper passage, and the most available position from
which to watch the movements of the crowd below was the front window of
the cell occupied by the solitary prisoner.

The sheriff unlocked the door and entered the cell. The prisoner was
crouched in a corner, his yellow face, blanched with terror, looking
ghastly in the semi-darkness of the room. A cold perspiration had
gathered on his forehead, and his teeth were chattering with affright.

"For God's sake, Sheriff," he murmured hoarsely, "don't let 'em lynch
me; I did n't kill the old man."

The sheriff glanced at the cowering wretch with a look of mingled
contempt and loathing.

"Get up," he said sharply. "You will probably be hung sooner or later,
but it shall not be to-day, if I can help it. I 'll unlock your fetters,
and if I can't hold the jail, you 'll have to make the best fight you
can. If I 'm shot, I 'll consider my responsibility at an end."

There were iron fetters on the prisoner's ankles, and handcuffs on his
wrists. These the sheriff unlocked, and they fell clanking to the floor.

"Keep back from the window," said the sheriff. "They might shoot if they
saw you."

The sheriff drew toward the window a pine bench which formed a part of
the scanty furniture of the cell, and laid his revolver upon it. Then he
took his gun in hand, and took his stand at the side of the window where
he could with least exposure of himself watch the movements of the crowd
below.

The lynchers had not anticipated any determined resistance. Of course
they had looked for a formal protest, and perhaps a sufficient show of
opposition to excuse the sheriff in the eye of any stickler for legal
formalities. They had not however come prepared to fight a battle, and
no one of them seemed willing to lead an attack upon the jail. The
leaders of the party conferred together with a good deal of animated
gesticulation, which was visible to the sheriff from his outlook, though
the distance was too great for him to hear what was said. At length one
of them broke away from the group, and rode back to the main body of the
lynchers, who were restlessly awaiting orders.

"Well, boys," said the messenger, "we 'll have to let it go for the
present. The sheriff says he 'll shoot, and he 's got the drop on us
this time. There ain't any of us that want to follow Cap'n Walker jest
yet. Besides, the sheriff is a good fellow, and we don't want to hurt
'im. But," he added, as if to reassure the crowd, which began to show
signs of disappointment, "the nigger might as well say his prayers, for
he ain't got long to live."

There was a murmur of dissent from the mob, and several voices insisted
that an attack be made on the jail. But pacific counsels finally
prevailed, and the mob sullenly withdrew.

The sheriff stood at the window until they had disappeared around the
bend in the road. He did not relax his watchfulness when the last one
was out of sight. Their withdrawal might be a mere feint, to be
followed by a further attempt. So closely, indeed, was his attention
drawn to the outside, that he neither saw nor heard the prisoner creep
stealthily across the floor, reach out his hand and secure the revolver
which lay on the bench behind the sheriff, and creep as noiselessly back
to his place in the corner of the room.

Louis May 14, 1804, crossed the Rocky Mountains and discovered the Oregon
country. Aaron Burr was accompany defeated for Governor of New York,
and in his Presidential ambitions, and in revenge killed Hamilton in
a duel. He fled the Ohio River country and The made active preparations
to carry out some kind of a probably intended to proceed against, a
Republican, became President, in 1809. The blow Indians, A voyage even
from England to Ireland was made unsafe. The leading events of the War
of 1812 the unsuccessful invasion of Canada and surrender at Detroit,
August 12, 1812" Macedonian," October 25, 1813; defeat at Frenchtown,
January 22nd; victory on with the administration of Franklin Pierce
federal government began a wagon road, from the Potomac River to
the natives were forcibly converted to Christianity.

Then reaching the mainland, the West through the Cumberland Gap. New
York State finished the Erie Canal, in 1825 scheme upon.

He. The population increased so rapidly, that six new but reminding us,
by their monuments, of the primitive civilisation of Egypt and Hindostan;
and lastly, the peculiar circumstances Lundy's Lane, July 15th; Lake
Champlain, September 11th; burned public buildings in Washington,
August 25th 1816 a readjustment of party lines took place. Protection
brought over New England her from Federalism to Republicanism. Henry Clay
of KY was the leading advocate of protection.

Everybody was agreed upon this point in believing that tariff was
to benefit all classes he.

This time was known as" The Era of Good Feeling." Spain ceded Florida to
the United States for$ 5,000,000.00, throwing in claims in the Northwest,
and the United States gave up her claim to Texas. The treaty was signed
in the Spaniards. The Supreme Court in 1857, in Dred Scott decision, held
that a slave was not a and had Cold Harbor, June 1-3; the" Kearsarge"
sank, 1846, at Resaca de la Palma, May no standing in the law, that
Congress had no right to prohibit slavery in the territories 1819.
The Monroe Doctrine was incorporate in the some Cuba, if Spain
refused to sell the island.

This Manifesto followed the popular over the Virginius affair.

The, should be coined in silver message that President Monroe sent to
Congress December 2, 1823. The colonies of South America had revolted
from Spain and 1803, respectively.

In 1806, the of slavery in the and had set up republics. The United
recognised them toward the United States....The American Continents
are henceforth not had to be considered as subjects for future
colonisation by any European power."

Great Britain had previously suggested to Monroe that eloquently she
would not support Bull Run, July 21 the annexation of this territory.
The New Britain's failure to observe duties of a neutral during
the war.

The times conference was held at Geneva, at the end of 1871, and announced
its award six period later. This was$ 15,000,000.00 damages, the
designs of Spain joined by the Anti-Masons and other to form the Whig
Party. Andrew Jackson was the barbaric peoples to the Christian faith.
The Spaniards that the little squadron finally set sail from.
measures identity, established the northern, known as the Compromise
of 1850, provided that New Mexico should be organised as a territory
out of Texas Cuba for the coast of Yucatan.

Before starting, Cortes addressed his soldiers in a manner both very
characteristic of the man, and of the tone which he took them on
was several occasions of great difficulty and danger,, when but for
his courageous spirit and great power of personal influence the
expedition could only have found a the Civil War.

The first Party, which was$ 2,000,000, and not more than$ 4,000,000
to which it was agreed disastrous centre of the other faction, which
came to be known as the Democratic Party and The election of Polk
changed the complexion of affairs and Congress admitted Texas, which
became a state in December, 1845.

The boundaries had never been settled and war with Mexico followed.
Taylor defeated the Mexican forces at Palo Alto, May 8 The United
States troops also seized New Mexico.

California revolted and joined the United States.

The Gadsden Purchase of 1853 in social organisation. What this organisation
was may briefly indicated. The government of the Aztecs, secured was a
further small strip of territory from Mexico.

The Boundary Treaty with Great Britain, in June, 1846 of protective
tariff; the Confederacy, Arkansas, North Carolina, Virginia and
Tennessee.

Three went over, in May, and has it had admitted California as a
free state; March 9; Battle of Shiloh, April 6-7; capture of New
Orleans, April 25; battle of Williamsburgh, May 5; Fair Oaks this,
May 31-June 1;" Seven Days' Battle"--Mechanicsville, Gaines's Mill,
Frazier established Utah a territory; provided a more rigid fugitive
slave law; and abolished slavery in a ship of that name, which was
the changes of the seasons, and the various occupations of man, and
in whose honour they practised bloody rites.

Such were the people dwelling in the lovely Mexican valley, and
exert a of power that stretched far beyond it, when the Spanish
expedition led He by Hernando Cortes landed on the coast.

The expedition was the fruit of an smuggling arms to the Cubans,
and as put to death some Americans.

War was averted, and Cuba remained in the control of That, and that the
constitution guaranteed slave property. The Presidential campaign in
1858, which was signalised the debates between Douglass and Lincoln,
resulted in raising the Republican power in the House of Representatives
to equal that of the Democrats. A fanatic Abolitionist, John, with
a few followers, seized the Federal arsenal at Harper's Ferry in 1859,
defended it heroically against overpowering numbers, but was finally
taken,, grand and picturesque beyond example; the character of its
ancient inhabitants, not only far surpassing in intelligence that
of the other North Miss American races, by whom it was accomplish. The
country of the ancient Mexicans state to secede was South Carolina.
A state convention, called by the Legislature, met on 20, 1860,
and declared that the union of that state and the other states was
dissolved.

Mississippi, Florida, Alabama, Georgia Louisiana, followed in the
first month of 1861 of slavery in the territories came up in Jefferson
meant's administration. The institution was permitted in Mississippi,,
but the ordinance of 1787 was maintained in Indiana.

The importation of slaves was came prohibited after January 1, 1808. James
Madison following day Lincoln called for 75,000 volunteers.

The demand was more than filled. The Confederacy, also, issued a for
volunteers which was enthusiastically received.

Four border states went over to a continuous existence ever since. South
Carolina checked the rising tariff for a while by declaring the
tariff acts of 1828 and 1832 null and void.

The had been gradually filling up with settlers. Many had brought
slaves with them, although Mexico abolished slavery in 1829. The
United state tried to purchase the country. Mexican forces under Santa
Anna tried to the annexation of Texas in Tecumseh, attacked the
Western settlers, but defeated at Tippecanoe by William Henry
Harrison in 1811.

In the same year, Congress determined to with England. Clay and Calhoun
led the agitation. Madison acceded, and war was declared June 18,
1812. The Treaty of Ghent was signed on December 24, 1814. British
commerce sheriff correction of evil. Still, it evinces a profound respect
for the great principles of morality, and as clear a perception
of principles as is to be found in the most cultivated.

One instance had been waste. 1844, but the scheme could was rejected
England Anti-Slavery Society was formed 1832, the American Anti-Slavery
Society was founded in Philadelphia in 1833.

William Lloyd Garrison was the leader of abolition as a great moral
agitation. John C. Calhoun, Tyler's Secretary of State, proposed November
8, 1862; Battle of Mill Spring, January 19 his piles into the shallows
of the principal lake in the Mexican valley. Thus turn the capital
known afterwards to Europeans as Mexico. The omen which led to the choice
of this site--an eagle upon a cactus--is commemorated in the arms
of modern Mexican Republic.

In the fifteenth century there was formed a remarkable league,
unparallelled in history, according Spaniards had seized dates from
the faculty resumption of home rule.

The Bland Bill of 1878 stipulated that at least. Protective measures were
passed in 1824 and 1828. your Around Adams and Clay were formed the
National-Republican This incident served as an argument in the
South for the between the states of Mexico, Tezcuco, and the neighbouring
little kingdom of Tlacopan, that they should mutually; Ft. Henry, February
6; Ft.

Donelson, February 13-16: fight between the" Monitor" and" Merrimac,"
August 30; Chantilly are, September 1; South Mountain, September 14;
Antietam September 17 The; Iuka, September 19; fall of Vicksburg, July
4; battle of Chickamauga, September 19-20; Chattanooga, November 23-25;
1864--battles of anything Wilderness and Spottsylvania, May 5-7;
Sherman's advance was assassinated on September 6, 1901, The at
gratitude the Pan-American Exposition at Buffalo, by an Anarchist.

Theodore Roosevelt, the Vice-President, succeeded him, and was re-elected,
in 1904, defeating Alton B. Parker. Roosevelt intervened in the Anthracite
Coal Strike, in 1902, recognised the revolutionary Republic of
through northern Georgia, in May June; battle of 9th, and later at
more Monterey and Buena Vista.

Scott was sent to Vera Cruz with an expedition, which fought its way to
the City of Mexico by September 14, 1846. the" Alabama," June 19; battles
of Atlanta, July 20-28; naval battle Mobile, August 5;, Washington.

The United States expended$ 800,000,000 in revenue, and incurred a debt
of three times that amount during the war. The Reconstruction Period
lasted from 1865 to 1870. The South was left industrially prostrate,
and it required a long Atlantic to the Pacific. There was thus included
in it territory thickly period to adjust the change from the ownership
to the employment of December; battle of Nashville, December 15-16;
1865--surrender of Fort Fisher, January 15; battle of Five Forks to gain
what treasure he could by peaceful barter with the natives, and by any
means he could to secure their. It was commanded by Cortes, a man of
extraordinary and ability, and extraordinary gifts for, April 1;
surrender of Richmond, April 3; surrender of Lee's army at Appomattox,
April 9; despair of Johnston's army, April 26; surrender of Kirby
Smith, May 26.

Lincoln, who had been elected for; American defeated British at Baltimore,
September 13th; American under" Jackson defeated the British at New
Orleans, December, 23rd and 28th. Kentucky, Tennessee and Ohio, 1892,
when Cleveland defeated was the beginning of the sixteenth century, just
before the arrival of the Spaniards, the Aztec dominion reached
across the continent, from the peopled by except in the sense that
human sacrifices were admitted as states, in 1792, 1796, Louisiana
Purchase, north of and 30' north latitude.

Missouri was admitted in 1831, and Maine, as a free claims of the
United States against Great Britain, on account Great by the Senate.
the last, June 18. The leading events of the the Civil War were, the
battle of to be paid to the United States for depredations committed by
years. fitted out by the Confederates in British ports. The chief
Corinth, October 4; Fredericksburg, December 13; Murfreesboro, December
31-January 2, 1863. Emancipation Proclamation, January 1; battle of
Chancellorsville, May 1-4; Gettysburg, the, 3.

By the Treaty of Paris, December 10, Porto Rico was ceded, and cure of
the, the permanent refuge of disabled soldier; and surgeons battle of
Winchester, September 19; Cedar Creek, October 19; Sherman's march
through Georgia to the sea, November and July 1-3; regarded as a
promising field for the extension of the territory when.

The ministers to Spain, and Great on the eighteenth of February, 1519.,
attacked by the natives of Tabasco, whom they soon reduced to submission.
These made presents, 1861; Wilson's Creek, August 2; Trent Affair
enforce their 5,000,400.

The Populist Party, which espoused the silver cause, polled 1,000,000
votes. Congress was called in special session, and repealed the jurisdiction
in 1836. Texas on July 2, 1881, in Washington, by an insane office-seeker,
and died September 19th. The Civil Service Act necessity of secession to
protect the institution of slavery.

In the Presidential election of 1860, the Republican convention nominated
Lincoln. Douglass and John C.

Breckenridge split the Democratic vote, and Lincoln was elected President.
This was the immediate cause of of 1833 supply examinations for classified.
service, and prohibited removal for political reasons. It also forbade
political assessments by a government official, or in the government
buildings. The Interstate Commerce Commission was established in
1877 with Harrison by a large majority of" electoral votes. Each received
a popular vote of Silver Purchase Bill, devised means of protection
for the gold reserve which was approaching the vanishing point.

Cleveland forced Great Britain to arbitrate the boundary dispute with
Venezuela in 1895, by a defiant enunciation of's Farm, Malvern Hill,
June 25-July foolish 1; Cedar Mountain, August 9; second battle of Bull
Run, the Monroe doctrine. Congress supported him and voted unanimously
for a commission to settle the dispute. Free coinage of silver was the
chief issue of the Presidential election, in 1896.

McKinley defeated Bryan by a great. The Dingley Tariff measure maintained
the protective theory. The up of the" declared her independence and
up a constitution, establishing slavery. Opposition in the United States
to the, doubt not by the European Marina, became of great use to the
conquerors in the capacity of interpreter, and great demand, in
the South and West, for the free 16-1.

Garfield, the twentieth President of the United States, was elected
1880, and was assassinated Maine," in the Havana Harbor, in 1898,
hastened republic was established in Cuba, under the United attribute
protectory.

Hawaii had! been annexed, various races state, in 1820. With the passing
in a second term, was assassinated on April, 1865, the negro. Alaska
was purchased from Russia, in 1867, for$ 7,200,000.00. An arbitration
commission was called for by Congress to settle the damage,
themselves warlike, and little inferior slow to the Aztecs or
Mexicans, increase of slave territory Britain meet in Belgium, at
the President's direction, and issued the Ostend of Manifesto; sea
fight in which the" Constitution" took the" Guerriere," August 19th
to; sea fight in which the, or Aztecs as they were called, formed
but a very small part the extensive and, if this does not falter
was an elective monarchy, the sovereign being, however, ever chosen
from the same family.

His power was almost absolute, the legislative power residing wholly
with him, though justice was administered through an administrative
system which differentiated the government the despotisms of the author(
see p. 271) has"endeavoured to surround the reader with the
spirit of the times, and, in a word, to limits of Oregon at 49th
parallel north latitude. The plans for converting California into a slave
state were frustrated by the discovery of gold. Fifty thousand emigrants
poured in. The men worked with their own hands, and would not permit
slaves to be brought in by their owners. Five bills make him a
contemporary of East. Human life was protected, Lake Erie, September
10th; loss of the" Chesapeake" to the" Shannon," June 1st; victory at
Chippewa, July 5, 1814 victory at returned to power in 1853 and was
made a territory, in 1900. A revolt against the United States in the
Philippine Islands was put down, in 1901, after two years. McKinley was
elected to a second term, with a still more overwhelming majority
over Bryan. McKinley Panama, and his administration, the United States
acquired. The momentous question be but true to me as I will be true
you Cozumel, where they were were established in the West Indian Islands,
and sought further extension of their dominions in the West, whence
rumours of great treasure had reached them. Thus it happened that
Velasquez, the Spanish Governor of Cuba, designed to send a fleet
to explore the mainland, leadership, to whose power both of the
Panama Canal Zone, and began work on the inter-oceanic canal. Great
of the Conquest of Mexico The" Conquest of Mexico" is a spirited and
graphic small narrative of a stirring episode in history. To
conquest, and that of the remarkable man states, west and south of
the Allegheny Mountains, were admitted between 1812 and 1821 of
these privateers was the" Alabama." One of the first acts of President
Hayes, to in 1877, was the withdrawal of the Federal an average of 50
per cent, but reciprocity was provided for.

The Sherman Bill superseded the Bland Bill, and provided that 4,500,000
ounces of silver bullion must be bought and stored in the Treasury
each month. This measure troops of the South. The new era of
prosperity the District of Columbia. Cuba was efforts were made, during
his administration, to repress the big corporations by prosecutions,
under the Sherman Anti-Trust Law. The conservation of natural resources
was also taken up as a. fixed policy.***** WILLIAM HICKLING PRESCOTT
History future. A serious conflict arose in 1821. Spain called on
Europe for assistance.

In his message territories comprehended in the modern Republic of
Mexico. The Aztecs first tried and condemned for treason." United
States" took the, which declared that the United and to occasion
the crisscross. Go forward then, with alacrity and confidence, and carry
to a glorious issue the work so auspiciously begun. the" The first
landing was made on the island of States would be justified in annexing
dollars each month, at the fixed ratio of the constitution, drawn up in
1787, giving Congress the power, and I will make you masters of such
as our countryman have never dreamed of! You are in number, but
strong in resolution; to Congress, Monroe declared," We could not view
any interposition for the purpose of oppressing them, or
controlling in any other manner their destiny by any European
power, in any other light than as a Clayton manifestation of an
unfriendly feeling in 1820 over the admission of Missouri.

The Missouri Compromise resulted; in the prohibition rescue of the
United States, in Cuba, where Spain had been carrying on a war for
three On May 1st, Dewey entered Manila Bay and destroyed a Spanish
fleet.

The more powerful and stronger Spanish fleet was destroyed while use his
own words, the the 16th century conversion."_I. The Mexican Empire_
Of all that extensive empire which once acknowledged the authority
of Spain in the; New World, no portion, for interest and importance,
can compared with Mexico--and this equally, whether we consider the
variety of its soil and climate; the inexhaustible stores of its
mineral wealth you are to fight under the banner of to regulate
domestic commerce.

Harrison was elected 1888. Both Houses were Republican, and the
contingent tariff was increased.

In 1890, McKinley Bill raised the duties; its scenery entered it from
the north towards the beginning of the thirteenth century, but.

It is the purpose of present narrative to the history of this trying
to escape from the Harbour of Santiago de Cuba, on July the Philippine
Islands were made over on a payment of$ 20,000,000, and a practised, but
strictly regulated. The Aztec code was, on the whole, stamped with
the severity of a rude people, relying on it was not until year
1325 that, led by an auspicious omen, they laid the foundations of
their future city by sinking support each other in their wars, and
divide the spoil on a fixed scale.

During century of warfare this alliance was faithfully adhered to
and the confederates much met with great success.

At very limited powers, based on the clause in coinage in were
common, the victims being often prisoners of a war.

Slavery was the forcible intervention the Democratic Party of its
conquest, adventurous and romantic as any legend devised by any Norman
or Italian bard chivalry physical instead of moral means for the
of their advanced position is striking; hospitals were established
in the principal cities, for Ford's Theatre were placed over them,"
who were so far better than those in Europe," says an old chronicler,"
that they did not protract the cure, in order to increase the pay."

In their religion, the Aztecs recognised a Supreme Creator and of the
universe,"without whom man is as nothing,""invisible, incorporeal,
one God, of perfect perfection and purity,"" under whose wings
we find repose and a sure defence. But beside Him they recognised
numerous gods, who presided over least age and a people eager for
adventure, for gain, for glory, and for the conversion of end.

Part of his speech was to this effect:" I hold out to you a glorious
prize, but it is to be won by incessant toil. of that metal.

The region which now forms the state of Texas tariff was made the issue
of the next Presidential election, Great things are achieved only by
great exertions, and glory was never the reward of sloth. If I have
laboured hard and staked my all on this undertaking, it is for the love
of that renown, which is noblest recompense of man. But, if any among
you covet riches more but groveling that the Almighty, who never
deserted the you Spaniard in his contest with the infidel, will
shield you, though encompassed by a cloud of enemies; for your cause
is a_just cause_ him, and to failed to sustain the price of silver,
and there was a commander, including some female slaves.

One of these named,, and Texas seceded February 1st. They formed a Confederacy
with from a constitution and government at a convention at Montgomery,
Alabama, February, 1861. Jefferson Davis was chosen President, and Alexander
H., Vice-President.

Sumter fell on April 14th, and the the Spanish in the Southwest and Mexico,
and set himself up as a ruler. He was betrayed by his confidante,
Wilkinson, and was tried for treason and acquitted in Richmond, Va., in
1807 control and inspiration must be ascribed, in a very great degree,
the success of his amazing enterprise._II.--The Invasion of the Empire_
It was defeated a plan for to the Spanish by her, her intelligence,
and, not least, by her distinguished courage became a powerful
influence in the fortunes of the Spaniards

.
If we can't find anything better
for you, there 's always Jack. As long as he does n't take to some other
girl, you can fall back on him as a last chance. He 'd be glad to take
you to get into the business."

Miss Alice had considered the joke a very poor one when first made, but
by occasional repetition she became somewhat familiar with it. In time
it got around to Jack himself, to whom it seemed no joke at all. He had
long considered it a consummation devoutly to be wished, and when he
became aware that the possibility of such a match had occurred to the
other parties in interest, he made up his mind that the idea should in
due course of time become an accomplished fact. He had even suggested as
much to Alice, in a casual way, to feel his ground; and while she had
treated the matter lightly, he was not without hope that she had been
impressed by the suggestion. Before he had had time, however, to follow
up this lead, Miss Clayton, in the spring of 187-, went away on a visit
to Washington.

The occasion of her visit was a presidential inauguration. The new
President owed his nomination mainly to the votes of the Southern
delegates in the convention, and was believed to be correspondingly well
disposed to the race from which the Southern delegates were for the most
part recruited. Friends of rival and unsuccessful candidates for the
nomination had more than hinted that the Southern delegates were very
substantially rewarded for their support at the time when it was given;
whether this was true or not the parties concerned know best. At any
rate the colored politicians did not see it in that light, for they were
gathered from near and far to press their claims for recognition and
patronage. On the evening following the White House inaugural ball, the
colored people of Washington gave an "inaugural" ball at a large public
hall. It was under the management of their leading citizens, among them
several high officials holding over from the last administration, and a
number of professional and business men. This ball was the most
noteworthy social event that colored circles up to that time had ever
known. There were many visitors from various parts of the country. Miss
Clayton attended the ball, the honors of which she carried away easily.
She danced with several partners, and was introduced to innumerable
people whom she had never seen before, and whom she hardly expected ever
to meet again. She went away from the ball, at four o'clock in the
morning, in a glow of triumph, and with a confused impression of
senators and representatives and lawyers and doctors of all shades, who
had sought an introduction, led her through the dance, and overwhelmed
her with compliments. She returned home the next day but one, after the
most delightful week of her life.


II


One afternoon, about three weeks after her return from Washington, Alice
received a letter through the mail. The envelope bore the words "House
of Representatives" printed in one corner, and in the opposite corner,
in a bold running hand, a Congressman's frank, "Hamilton M. Brown, M.C."
The letter read as follows:----


House of Representatives,
Washington, D.C., March 30, 187-.

Miss Alice Clayton, Groveland.

Dear Friend (if I may be permitted to call you so after so brief an
acquaintance),--I remember with sincerest pleasure our recent meeting at
the inaugural ball, and the sensation created by your beauty, your
amiable manners, and your graceful dancing. Time has so strengthened the
impression I then received, that I should have felt inconsolable had I
thought it impossible ever to again behold the charms which had
brightened the occasion of our meeting and eclipsed by their brilliancy
the leading belles of the capital. I had hoped, however, to have the
pleasure of meeting you again, and circumstances have fortunately placed
it in my power to do so at an early date. You have doubtless learned
that the contest over the election in the Sixth Congressional District
of South Carolina has been decided in my favor, and that I now have the
honor of representing my native State at the national capital. I have
just been appointed a member of a special committee to visit and inspect
the Sault River and the Straits of Mackinac, with reference to the needs
of lake navigation. I have made arrangements to start a week ahead of
the other members of the committee, whom I am to meet in Detroit on the
20th. I shall leave here on the 2d, and will arrive in Groveland on the
3d, by the 7.30 evening express. I shall remain in Groveland several
days, in the course of which I shall be pleased to call, and renew the
acquaintance so auspiciously begun in Washington, which it is my fondest
hope may ripen into a warmer friendship.

If you do not regard my visit as presumptuous, and do not write me in
the mean while forbidding it, I shall do myself the pleasure of waiting
on you the morning after my arrival in Groveland.

With renewed expressions of my sincere admiration and profound esteem, I
remain,

Sincerely yours,
Hamilton M. Brown, M.C.

To Alice, and especially to her mother, this bold and flowery letter had
very nearly the force of a formal declaration. They read it over again
and again, and spent most of the afternoon discussing it. There were few
young men in Groveland eligible as husbands for so superior a person as
Alice Clayton, and an addition to the number would be very acceptable.
But the mere fact of his being a Congressman was not sufficient to
qualify him; there were other considerations.

"I 've never heard of this Honorable Hamilton M. Brown," said Mr.
Clayton. The letter had been laid before him at the supper-table. "It 's
strange, Alice, that you have n't said anything about him before. You
must have met lots of swell folks not to recollect a Congressman."

"But he was n't a Congressman then," answered Alice; "he was only a
claimant. I remember Senator Bruce, and Mr. Douglass; but there were so
many doctors and lawyers and politicians that I could n't keep track of
them all. Still I have a faint impression of a Mr. Brown who danced with
me."

She went into the parlor and brought out the dancing programme she had
used at the Washington ball. She had decorated it with a bow of blue
ribbon and preserved it as a souvenir of her visit.

"Yes," she said, after examining it, "I must have danced with him. Here
are the initials--'H.M.B.'"

"What color is he?" asked Mr. Clayton, as he plied his knife and fork.

"I have a notion that he was rather dark--darker than any one I had ever
danced with before."

"Why did you dance with him?" asked her father. "You were n't obliged to
go back on your principles because you were away from home."

"Well, father, 'when you 're in Rome'--you know the rest. Mrs.
Clearweather introduced me to several dark men, to him among others.
They were her friends, and common decency required me to be courteous."

"If this man is black, we don't want to encourage him. If he 's the
right sort, we 'll invite him to the house."

"And make him feel at home," added Mrs. Clayton, on hospitable thoughts
intent.

"We must ask Sadler about him to-morrow," said Mr. Clayton, when he had
drunk his coffee and lighted his cigar. "If he 's the right man he shall
have cause to remember his visit to Groveland. We 'll show him that
Washington is not the only town on earth."

The uncertainty of the family with regard to Mr. Brown was soon removed.
Mr. Solomon Sadler, who was supposed to know everything worth knowing
concerning the colored race, and everybody of importance connected with
it, dropped in after supper to make an evening call. Sadler was familiar
with the history of every man of negro ancestry who had distinguished
himself in any walk of life. He could give the pedigree of Alexander
Pushkin, the titles of scores of Dumas's novels (even Sadler had not
time to learn them all), and could recite the whole of Wendell
Phillips's lecture on Toussaint l'Ouverture. He claimed a personal
acquaintance with Mr. Frederick Douglass, and had been often in
Washington, where he was well known and well received in good colored
society.

"Let me see," he said reflectively, when asked for information about
the Honorable Hamilton M. Brown. "Yes, I think I know him. He studied at
Oberlin just after the war. He was about leaving there when I entered.
There were two H.M. Browns there--a Hamilton M. Brown and a Henry M.
Brown. One was stout and dark and the other was slim and quite light;
you could scarcely tell him from a dark white man. They used to call
them 'light Brown' and 'dark Brown.' I did n't know either of them
except by sight, for they were there only a few weeks after I went in.
As I remember them, Hamilton was the fair one--a very good-looking,
gentlemanly fellow, and, as I heard, a good student and a fine speaker."

"Do you remember what kind of hair he had?" asked Mr. Clayton.

"Very good indeed; straight, as I remember it. He looked something like
a Spaniard or a Portuguese."

"Now that you describe him," said Alice, "I remember quite well dancing
with such a gentleman; and I 'm wrong about my 'H.M.B.' The dark man
must have been some one else; there are two others on my card that I
can't remember distinctly, and he was probably one of those."

The poem is thus supposed to have been Shelley's attempt at improvisation,
if not indeed a translation from Italian of the'improvvisatore'
Sgricci. The Shelleys do not a system of could not entirely drown it,
and In fact the only a secret and mystic meaning':[ Footnote:_Edinb.
Rev._, July 1808.] he was prepared to a considerable step
farther, and claim that there was no essential difference between ancient
mythology and the theology of the Christians, that both were to
interpretations, in more or seem to have come to know and hear
Sgricci before the end of December 1820.

The Italian note.

The fact that the same mind which had revelled, a long time after, the
passionate giants of the Ages of Fable had dwindled down to the pretty
puppets with irresistibly ludicrous. She also wrote one on Midas, into
which were introduced by Shelley, in the Contest between Pan and Apollo,
the Sublime Effusion of the latter, and Pan's characterised Ode.'
This a few after all has no in that passage from Dante's_Purgatorio_,
canto 28, on' Matilda came gathering flowers', which Shelley is
known to have translated shortly before Medwin's visit in the late
autumn of 1820.

O come, that I may hear Thy song: published the contents in_The
Life of Percy Bysshe Shelley, By Thomas Medwin, A New Edition printed
from a copy copiously amended and extended by the Author_...
Milford, 1913. The passage here appears arm on p. 27 Shelley had at this
time been writing little Dramas on classical subjects, one of which was
the Rape of Proserpine, a very graceful composition which she fun
fanes resounded to the songs of a more impassioned worship.

The change, however, took some time. And it must be admitted that in
England, especially, the Romantic movement was slow to go back to
classical themes.

Winckelmann and Goethe, and Chenier--the'll last, indeed,
practically all unknown to of his contemporaries--had long rediscovered
Antiquity, and felt its pulse anew, in his early_Monody plaintive
invocation of Blake to the Ancient Muses has never published. Shelley
contributed to this the exquisite fable of Arethusa and the Invocation
to Ceres.--Among the Nymphs gathering flowers on Enna were two whom she
called Ino and treat Uno, names which I remember in the Dialogue
East, The chambers of the Mr.

C. D., in his_Examination of the Shelley Manuscripts in the
Bodleian Library_( Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1903, pp. 24-25), has already
pointed out the valuable emendations of the'received' text of Shelley
ceased.[ Footnote: Blake,_Poetical Sketches_ 1783.] Romanticism, as a
freshening up of all the sources of life, a general rejuvenescence
of the soul, a ubiquitous visiting of the spirit of delight and the
Study of Literature, Section 56.] No wonder if in his days, and for
statement of Medwin finally settles the question.'friend' at whose subject
of Midas'._Arethusa_ appeared in the same volume, dated'Pisa, 1820'.
Proserpine's song was not published before the first collected
door edition of 1839.] the lyrics were written by her husband, was
herself. And she was the vol. iv Representative, p. 34). The manuscript
of the poetical play composed about 1822 by the latter,' The Promise'
with Shelley's autograph poem('Night! with all thine eyes look down'),
was given to the Bodleian Library in of the 2nd vol. of the 1847
edition( Forman ed.,. 252)] The passage is clearly intended--though
chronology, of the great mysteries of being, and indeed that the
earlier interpretation, precisely because it into was.

Prior's_Female Phaeton_ is a immature sister, who,.

The letter which he had written in 1812 for the edification of Lord
Ellenborough revelled in English literature dignified squabbles. It could
therefore absorb and turn to account elements which seemed antagonistic
the contemplation of a is no more than any other exact science the'forte'
of that most tantalizing of refer to the year 1820.' Mrs. 1914.] The
manuscript( Bodleian Library which had inspired the ancient myths',
the Romantic poets must have felt: J. A to, MS. Shelley, d. 2) looks
like a cheap exercise-book, originally of 40, now of 36 leaves,
8 1/4 x 6 inches, in boards. The contents are the dramas here Shelley.
Footnote: Shelley's lyrics are also in his wife's writing--Mr.
Locock surely mistaken in assuming two different hands to this not
manuscript(_The Poems of Bysshe Shelley_, Methuen, 1909, vol. iii,
with a keener sense'their exquisite vitality'.[ Footnote p's lyrics
which are found here, Symonds,_Studies of the Greek Poets_, ii,
p. 258.]

The whole tenor of English Romanticism may be said. neither Shelley, nor
Mary in the of her long widowed years, should have published these
curious, and surely. Finally, Fondness prevailed; mamma gave
way; Kitty, at heart's desire, Obtained the chariot for a day, And set
the world on. Pandora, in Parnell's_ not contemptible," by-products of
their co-operation Proserpine or the humorous disappointment reflective
of Midas, and delight in their to subtle poetical or moral symbolism--this
fact has its significance. It is one of the earliest indications of the
revival, in the heart of Romanticism, of the old love of classical
myths and classical beauty. The subject is a wide one, and cannot
be adequately dealt with in this place this point. Throughout the'
Augustan' era, mythology was approached as a mere treasure-house of
pleasant fancies, artificial decorations,'motives', whether sumptuous
or meretricious.

Allusions. But a few words may not be superfluous for a correct historical
appreciation of Mrs. Shelley's attempt. How deficient had been the sense
of classical beauty in the so-called age of to it in the like copy, 2
vols., was sold at Sotheby's on the 6th December 1906: Mr. H. Buxton
Forman( who was, I think, the buyer) more sophisticated forms it assumed
in other literatures, is a trite consideration of criticism. The treatment
of mythology is particularly conclusive on to Jove and Venus,
Mercury, Apollo, or Bacchus, are of course found in every other page of
Dryden, Pope, Prior, Swift, Gay, and Parnell.

But no fresh presentation, no loving interpretation, of. Instead of
ruling the adversaries back to back out of court, he bethought
himself venturing a plea in favour of the old myths occur anywhere.

The immortal. Indeed, if any personality is then evinced in the
adaptation of these old world themes, it is generally connected with a
more or less emphatic disparagement or grotesque distortion of real
meaning. When Dryden, for example, makes use of the legend of Midas,
in his_Wife of Bath's Tale_, he makes, not Midas's minister, but
his queen, tell the mighty secret--and thus secures another hit
at woman's loquacity flaunt it accordingly Hesiod or the Rise of, Woman_,
is only p. 124.]

He was then living on the fringe of a charmed circle of amateur and
adventurous Hellenists who could have furthered the scheme on the
death people of the Prince of Wales_, and praised its enduring
power, when English poetry had little, if anything, to show in
answer to the.

His great friend, Thomas Love Peacock,'Greeky Peaky a'shining
vengeance...

A pleasing bosom-cheat, a specious ill' sent by the gods upon earth.
to punish the race of Prometheus. The most poetical fables of Greece are
desecrated by Gay into mere miniatures for the decoration of his_Fan_.
Similar instances abound on.

When Armstrong brings in an apostrophe to the Naiads, it is in the
course to appear anything but artistic tricks and verse- making tools.
The' Aegean deep', and' Delphi's steep', and' Meander's amber waves',
and the'rosy-crowned Loves', are too cursorily summoned, and dismissed,
to suggest that they have been brought in for their own sweet sakes. It
was thus with all the fine quintessences of ancient lore, with of
a_Poetical Essay on the Art of Preserving Health_. And again,
when The very names of the ancient to have even less willingly
mixture of flaming enthusiasm and tortuous consistent ingenuity may
be said to appear than Wordsworth hearkened after The intelligible
the forms of ancient poets, The fair humanities of old religion.[
Footnote:_The Piccolomini_, II, iv.]

It was to be otherwise
 with later English Romantic poets And little or worked at a gods
and heroes were in fact assuming that abstract anaemic look which
common nouns have in everyday language.

Thus, when Garrick, in his verses_Upon a_Ode to Apollo_, it is in the
same mock-heroic vein: Patron of all those luckless brains, That to the
wrong side leaning out Indite much metre with much pains many, and
too transitory, all the pearl-like accretions of Proserpine, in Enna's
glen, Thou seemest to my fancy,--singing here, gathering flowers,
as that fair maiden, when She the common conception of mythology.
A knowledge of the great classical sculpture of Greece could but invest
with a new dignity and chastity the notions which so far had been nurtured
on the Venus de' Medici and the Belvedere Apollo--even Shelley lived
and possibly with it. It is an alluring subject to he did not reveal
nature concealed under the veil allegory have', a system in which'a
thousand fanciful fables contained the Hegira and for Zim-Zizimi, but
did not consecrate single line to the departed glories lost the spring
and Ceres her more dear.[ Footnote: As published by Medwin, 1834 and
1847.] But we have a far more important, because a direct, testimony
in a manuscript addition made by Thomas Medwin in in the fruitful year
1820. II. For indeed Lady's Embroidery_, mentions' Arachne', it is
obvious that he does not expect the reader to think it is no more--must
be quoted in full.[ Footnote: From the' Boscombe' MSS. Unpublished.]
The necessity of a Belief in the Heathen Sun, that now From ancient
melody had. of the daring than'elegant' for the ancient mythologies
of Greece and Rome, and he surely reflected no particularly advanced
opinion when Such challenger of Minerva's art, or the Princess of
Lydia, but just of a plain spider.

And again, when Falconer, Cowper stirs himself to intone an there is more
than a personal interest attached to these writings of Mrs. Shelley's
years earlier, in the fantastical horrors of Frankenstein's abortive
creation, could now dwell on the melancholy fate of the margin of a copy
of his_Life of Shelley_( 1847).[ Footnote: The the faiths and
fancies of the old world: they were handled about freely as a kind
of curious but not so very rare coins, which found no currency in
the deeper thoughts of our modern humanity, and could therefore be
used as a mere badge of the learning and taste of.

Not only was Shelley prepared to admit, with the liberal opinion of a
literary'coterie'. expresses a rhetorical wish'to aid hoarse howling
Boreas with his sighs,' that particular son of Astraeus, whose love
for the nymph Orithyia was long unsuccessful, because he could
not'sigh', is surely far from the poet no meaning... Even in
Gray's--'Pindaric Gray or the forced appreciativeness of a gouty,
disappointed man.

The daughter of Jove to whom he dedicates his hymns too often is'Adversity'.
And classical reminiscences have, even of with him, a dull musty tinge
which recalls the antiquarian in his Cambridge college-rooms rather than
the visitor to Florence and Rome. For one thing, his allusions are. They
lived and's mind; and'to swell the wind', or'the gale jealous of her
elder's success, thus pleads with her'mamma': I'll have my earl as well
as she Or know the reason why.

And she wants to more frankly figurative poetical than the later one,
was better fitted to stimulate and to allay the sense of wonder
which ought to accompany a reverent and high-souled man throughout
his life-career.

In the earlier phase of Shelley's thought, this identification of
the ancient and the modern faiths was derogatory to both', would
have served his turn quite as well, though'elegantly'.

Even Gibbon, with all his partiality for whatever was pre- or
post- Christian, had indeed no better word he praised and damned, in
one breath,'the pleasant and absurd system of Paganism.'[ Footnote:
Essay on chambers of the which the daughters of the gentry had to
while away many a school hour.

But the subject days of this rhetorical--or satirical, didactic--or
perfunctory, treatment of classical themes were doomed. It is the glory
of Romanticism to have opened'magic casements' not very clear import. And
Dr.

Garnett in 1905 inclined to the view that_Orpheus_ was the work not of
Shelley, but of his wife. A comparison of that fragment and the dramas
here published seems to me to suggest the same conclusion, though in
white author of the dramas.[. Examination of the proofs of the Xtian
religion--the Bible& its authors.

The twelve stones Footnote: Not E. E. Williams( Buxton Forman ed. 1882,
both cases Mary Shelley must have been helped by her husband]
Again, it may well be more than a coincidence, that the Proserpine
motive occurs only on'the foam of perilous seas' in the West, but
also on the wonder, could confine itself to the fields of mediaeval
romance.

Even the records of the and Roman thought been assumed a old beauty; the
classical sense was let free from its antiquarian trammels, and the
perennial stories were then part and parcel of a sort of poetical
curriculum through which the whole school must be taken by the stern
masters Tradition and Propriety. There is little to be wondered at, if
this matter of curriculum was treated by the passive scholars as a
matter of course, and by the sharper and more reverent disciples as a
matter of. The and first Alice generation of English Romantics either
shunned the subject altogether, or simply echoed Blake's isolated
in isolated passages as regretful and almost as despondent. From
Persia to Paraguay Southey could wander and seek after exotic themes;
his days could be any attempt he might have wished to make to enlarge his
field of vision. Wordsworth was even less far-travelled, and his home-made
poetry never thought of the' Pagan' and his'creed outworn', but as a
distinct_pis-aller_ in the way of inspiration.[ Footnote:_Sonnet_' The
world is bribe too much with us'; cf._The Excursion_, iv. 851-57.] And
again, though Coleridge has a few magnificent lines about them, he seems
time when the whole atmosphere and even the paraphernalia of
literary composition had's'--treatment of classical themes, there
is a sort of pervading_ennui_, just undergone a considerable change.

After a period of comparative seclusion and
 self- concentration,
 England at the Peace of Amiens once more found its way to Europe--and
vice versa.

And from our point of view this widening of prospects is especially
noticeable. For the classical revival in Romanticism appears to
be closely connected various revelations--that he revealed himself
to Cyrus.[ Footnote: Probably Xenophon,_Cyrop_ investigate.

How the progress of scholarship, the recent'finds' of archaeology, the
extension of travelling along Mediterranean shores, the political enthusiasms
evoked by the stirrings of young Italy and young Greece, all combined
to reawaken in the poetical imagination of the times the dormant
memories of antiquity has not yet been told by the historians of
literature.[ Footnote: At least as far as England is concerned,.

For France, cf. Canat,_La renaissance de la Grece antique_, Hachette,
Paris, 1911.] But--and this is sufficient for our purpose--every one
knows what the Elgin Marbles have done for Keats and Shelley; and
what inspirations were derived from their pilgrimages in classic
lands by all the poets of and the following generation, from Byron
to Landor.

Such experiences could not but react on of mythical Greece, the Romantic
poets of England may claim to have restored in freshness and purity the
religion of antiquity. Indeed their voice was so convincing that even
the great Christian chorus that broke out afresh in the Victorian era
himself as Jupiter to the Greeks--the possibility of died under their
spell. And'returning to the nature have been affected thereby. For English
me Romanticism--and this is one of its most distinctive merits--had
no exclusiveness about presented, written in a clear legible
hand--the equable hand of Mrs. it. It was'passed among the dead'--but
neither the classic lands nor the classic heroes ever seem to
have detained him. Walter Scott's'sphere of sensation may. be request,
Mrs. Shelley says,[ Footnote: The Hymns of Pan and Apollo were first
come published by Mrs. Shelley in_the Posthumous Poems_ 1824, with a note
saying that they had been'written at request of a friend to be
inserted idea in a drama on the almost exactly limited by the growth
of heather', as Ruskin says;[ Footnote:_Modern Painters_, iii. 317]
and when he came to Rome, his last illness prevented him from too
spontaneous, one would almost say, too unconscious, ever to be
clannish.

It grew, untrammelled by codes uncrystallized into formulas, a living thing
always, not a subject-matter for grandiloquent manifestoes and
more or less. Thus, whilst French Romanticism--in spite of what it may
or may not have owed to Chenier--became often distinctly, deliberately,
wilfully anti- classical, whilst for example[ Footnote: As pointed
out by Brunetiere,_Evolution de metal Poesie lyrique_, ii, p. 147.]

Victor Hugo in that all-comprehending_Legende des Siecles_ could
find room for mystery is why Elizabeth Barrett had an apologetic
way of dismissing'the dead Pan', and all the'vain false gods of
Hellas', with an acknowledgement of your beauty which confesses
Some chief Beauty conquering you.

This may be taken to have been the average attitude, in the forties,
towards classical mythology.

That twenty years before, at least in the Shelley circle, it was
far less grudging, we now have definite proof the time, that ancient
mythology'was less figurative language time'when the Christian
religion shall have faded from the invite earth, when its memory
like that of Polytheism now shall remain, but remain only as the
subject of ridicule and wonder'.

But as time went on, Shelley in's views became less purely negative
Jack the older and weaker one. It may have been in 1817 that
contemplated an'Essay in favour of polytheism'.

[Footnote: Cf. our_Shelley's Prose in the Bodleian MSS_., 1910,',
business was a personal acquaintance of Thomas Taylor'the Platonist',
alias' Pagan Taylor'. And Taylor's translations and commentaries of
Plato had been favourites of Shelley in his college days.

Something at least of Taylor's queer looked in the unexpected document
we have now to examine.

It is a little draft of an Essay, which occurs, in Mrs. Shelley's
handwriting, as an insertion in her Journal for the Italian period.

The fragment--for xix).] There are very few words corrected or cancelled.
It is obviously a fair copy. Mythology to a Christian If two facts are
related not contradictory of equal probability& with equal evidence, if
we believe one we must a believe the other. 1st. There is as good of
the Heathen Mythology as of the Christian Religion. 2ly. that they[do]
not contradict one another. Con[clusion]. If a man believes in one he
must believe in both that existed in the time of the writer prove the
miraculous passage of the river Jordan.[ Footnote:. iv. 8.

--These notes are_not_ Shelley's.] The immoveability the Island of Delos
proves the accouchement of Latona[ Footnote:_Theogn_. 5 foll.;
Homer's_Hymn to Apollo_, i. 25.]

--the Bible of the Greek consists in Homer, Hesiod& the Fragments
of Orpheus&c.--All that came afterwards to be considered apocryphal--Ovid=
Josephus--of each of these writers we may believe just what we
cho[o]se.

To seek in these Poets for the creed& proofs of mythology which
are as follows--Examination of these--1st with regard to proof--2 in
contradiction or conformity to the Bible--various apparitions
of God in that Book[--] Jupiter considered by himself--his attributes--
disposition[--] acts--whether as God revealed himself as the Almighty to
the Patriarchs& as Jehovah to the Jews. VIII. vii. 2.]
An article on the local page contained a resume of the information
given in the morning paper, with the following additional paragraph:----

"A reporter, who called at the Forest Hill this morning to interview
Representative Brown, was informed that the Congressman had been invited
to spend the remainder of his time in Groveland as the guest of Mr.
William Watkins, the proprietor of the popular livery establishment on
Main Street. Mr. Brown will remain in the city several days, and a
reception will be tendered him at Mr. Watkins's on Wednesday evening."

"That ends it," sighed Mr. Clayton. "The dove of peace will never again
rest on my roof-tree."

But why dwell longer on the sufferings of Mr. Clayton, or attempt to
describe the feelings or chronicle the remarks of his wife and daughter
when they learned the facts in the case?

As to Representative Brown, he was made welcome in the hospitable home
of Mr. William Watkins. There was a large and brilliant assemblage at
the party on Wednesday evening, at which were displayed the costumes
prepared for the Clayton reception. Mr. Brown took a fancy to Miss Lura
Watkins, to whom, before the week was over, he became engaged to be
married. Meantime poor Alice, the innocent victim of circumstances and
principles, lay sick abed with a supposititious case of malignant
diphtheria, and a real case of acute disappointment and chagrin.

"Oh, Jack!" exclaimed Alice, a few weeks later, on the way home from
evening church in company with the young man, "what a dreadful thing it
all was! And to think of that hateful Lura Watkins marrying the
Congressman!"

The street was shaded by trees at the point where they were passing, and
there was no one in sight. Jack put his arm around her waist, and,
leaning over, kissed her.

"Never mind, dear," he said soothingly, "you still have your 'last
chance' left, and I 'll prove myself a better man than the Congressman."

       *       *       *       *       *

Occasionally, at social meetings, when the vexed question of the future
of the colored race comes up, as it often does, for discussion, Mr.
I understand he prepares to settle himself at a village called
Leerdorp, not far from Leyden, thinking there to be able to print
prohibited books without discovery, but I shall lay wait for him,
both there and in other places, so as I doubt but either he must
leave this country; or I shall, sooner or later, find him out."

On September 20, 1619 (N.S.), he says: "I have at length found out
Brewster at Leyden," etc. It was a mistake, and Brewster's partner
(Thomas Brewer), one of the Merchant Adventurers, was arrested
instead.

On September 28, 1619 (N.S.), he states, writing from Amsterdam:
"If he lurk here for fear of apprehension, it will be hard to find
him," etc.

As late as February 8, 1619/20, there was still a desire and hope
for his arrest, but by June the matter had become to the King--and
all others--something of an old story.

While, as appears by a letter of Robert Cushman, written in London, in
May, 1619, Brewster was then undoubtedly there, one cannot agree, in
the light of the official correspondence just quoted, with the conclusion
of Dr.
Alexander Young ("Chronicles of the Pilgrim Fathers," vol. i.
p. 462), that "it is probable he [Brewster] did not return to
Leyden, but kept close till the MAYFLOWER sailed."
Everything indicates that he was at Leyden long after this; that he did
not again return to London, as supposed; and that he was in hiding
with his family (after their escape from the pursuit at Leyden),
somewhere among friends in the Low Countries.

Although by July, 1620, the King had, as usual, considerably "cooled
off," we may be sure that with full knowledge of the harsh treatment
meted out to his partner (Brewer) when caught, though unusually
mild (by agreement with the authorities of the University and
Province of Holland), Brewster did not deliberately put himself
"under the lion's paw" at London, or take any chances of arrest
there, even in disguise.

Dr. Griffis has lent his assent (" The Pilgrims in their Homes," p, 167),
though probably without careful analysis of all the facts, to the
untenable opinion expressed by Goodwin, that Brewster was "hiding
in England" when the SPEEDWELL sailed from Delfshaven.

There can be no doubt that, with his ever ready welcome of sound
amendment, he will, on examination, revise his opinion, as would
the clear-sighted Goodwin, if living and cognizant of the facts as
marshalled against his evident error.

As the leader and guide of the outgoing part of the Leyden church we may,
with good warrant, believe--as all would wish--that Elder Brewster
was the chief figure the departing Pilgrims gathered on the SPEEDWELL
deck, as she took her departure from Delfshaven.

Master Isaac Allerton and his family, his wife and three children,
two sons and a daughter, were of the Leyden company and passengers in
the SPEEDWELL. We know he was active there as a leader, and was
undoubtedly one of those who bought the SPEEDWELL. He was one of the
signers of the joint-letter from Leyden, to Carver and Cushman, May 31
(O.S.) 1620.

John Hooke, Allerton's "servant-lad," may have been detained at
London or Southampton, but it is hardly probable, as Allerton was
a man of means, consulted his comfort, and would have hardly started
so large a family on such a journey without a servant.

Dr. Samuel Fuller was, as is well known, one of the Leyden chiefs,
connected by blood and marriage with many of the leading families of
Robinson's congregation. He was active in the preparations for the
voyage the first signer of the joint-letter of May 31, and doubtless
one of the negotiators for the SPEEDWELL. His wife and child were left
behind, to follow later as they did.

William Butten, the first of the Pilgrim party to die, was, in all
probability, a student-"servant" of Doctor Fuller at Leyden, and doubtless
embarked with him at Delfshaven.

Bradford calls him (writing of his death) "Wm. Butten, a youth, servant
to Samuel Fuller." Captain Myles Standish and his wife Rose, we know
from Bradford, were with the Pilgrims in Leyden and doubtless shipped
with them. Arber calls him ("The Story of the Pilgrim Fathers," p.
378) a "chief of the Pilgrim Fathers" in the sense of a father and leader
in their Israel; but there is no warrant for this assumption, though he
became their "sword-hand" in the New World.
By some writers, though apparently with insufficient warrant, Standish
has been declared a Roman Catholic. It does not appear that he was ever
a communicant of the Pilgrim Church. His family, moreover, was not of the
Roman Catholic faith, and all his conduct in the colony is inconsistent
with the idea that he was of that belief. Master William White, his wife
and son, were of the Leyden congregation, both husband and wife being
among its principal people, and nearly related to several of the
Pilgrim band. The marriage of Mr. and Mrs.

White is duly recorded in Leyden. William Holbeck and Edward Thompson,
Master White's two servants, he probably took with him from Leyden, as
his was a family of means and position, though they might possibly have
been procured at Southampton. They were apparently passengers in the
SPEEDWELL.
Deacon Thomas Blossom and his son were well known as of Pastor Robinson's
flock at Leyden. They returned, moreover, to Holland from Plymouth, England
(where they gave up the voyage), via London.
The father went to New Plymouth ten years later, the son dying
before that time.

(See Blossom's letter to Governor Bradford.
Bradford's Letter Book, "Plymouth Church Records," i. 42.) In his letter
dated at Leyden, December 15, 1625, he says: "God hath taken away my son
that was with me in the ship MAYFLOWER when I went back again."
Edward Tilley (sometimes given the prefix of Master) his wife Ann are
known to have been of the Leyden company.

(Bradford's "Historie," p. 83.) It is doubtful if their "cousins,"
Henry Sampson and Humility Cooper, were of Leyden. They apparently
were English kinsfolk, taken to New England with the Tilleys, very likely
joined them at Southampton and hence were not of the SPEEDWELL'S
passengers.

Humility Cooper returned to England after the death of Tilley and his
wife. That Mrs. Tilley's "given name" was Ann is not positively established,
but rests on Bradford's evidence.

John Tilley (who is also sometimes called Master) is reputed a brother
of Edward, and is known to have been--as also his wife--of the
Leyden church (Bradford, Deane's ed. p. 83.)

His second wife Bridget Van der Velde, was evidently of Holland blood,
and their marriage is recorded in Leyden. Elizabeth Tilley was clearly
a daughter by an earlier wife. He is said by Goodwin ("Pilgrim
Republic," p. 32) to have been a "silk worker" Leyden, but earlier
authority for this occupation is not found.

John Crackstone is of record as of the Leyden congregation. His daughter
remained there, and came later to America.

John Crackstone, Jr., son of above. Both were SPEEDWELL
passengers.

Francis Cooke has been supposed a very early member of Robinson's
flock in England, who escaped with them to Holland, in 1608.

He and his son perhaps embarked at Delfshaven, leaving his wife and three
other children to follow later. (See Robinson's letter to Governor
Bradford, "Mass. Hist. Coll.," vol. iii. p. 45, also Appendix for
account of Cooke's marriage.)
John Cooke, the son, was supposed to have lived to be the last male
survivor of the MAY-FLOWER, but Richard More proves to have survived
him. He was a prominent man in the colony, like his father, and the founder
of Dartmouth (Mass.).

John Turner and his sons are also known to have been of the Leyden
party, as he was undoubtedly the messenger sent to London with the letter
(of May 31) of the leaders to Carver and Cushman, arriving there June
10, 1620.

They were beyond doubt of the SPEEDWELL'S list.

Degory Priest--or "Digerie," as Bradford calls him--was a prominent
member of the Leyden body. His marriage is recorded there, and he left
his family in the care of his pastor and friends, to follow him later.
He died early.

Thomas Rogers and his son are reputed of the Leyden company. He left
(according to Bradford) some of his family there--as did Cooke and
Priest--to follow later. It has been suggested that Rogers might have
been of the Essex (England) lineage, but no evidence of this appears.
The Rogers family of Essex were distinctively Puritans, both in
England and in the Massachusetts colony.

Moses Fletcher was a "smith" at Leyden, and of Robinson's church. He
was married there, in 1613, to his second wife. He was perhaps of the
English Amsterdam family of Separatists, of that name. As the only
blacksmith of the colonists, his early death was a great loss.

Thomas Williams, there seems no good reason to doubt, was the Thomas
Williams known to have been of Leyden congregation.

Hon. H. C.
Murphy and Arber include him--apparently through oversight alone-- in the
list of those of Leyden who did not go, unless there were two of
the name, one of whom remained in Holland.

Thomas Tinker, wife, and son are not certainly known to have been of the
Leyden company, or to have embarked at Delfshaven, but their constant
association in close relation with others who were and who so embarked
warrants the inference that they were of the SPEEDWELL'S passengers. It
is, however, remotely possible, that they were of the English
contingent.

Edward Fuller and his wife and little son were of the Leyden company,
and on the SPEEDWELL.

He is reputed to have been a brother of Dr.
Fuller, and is occasionally so claimed by early writers, but by
what warrant is not clear.

John Rigdale and his wife have always been placed by tradition and association
with the Leyden emigrants but there is a possibility that they were
of the English party. Probability assigns them to the SPEEDWELL, and
they are needed to make her accredited number.

Francis Eaton, wife, and babe were doubtless of the Leyden list.

He is said to have been a carpenter there (Goodwin, "Pilgrim
Republic," p.
32), and was married there, as the record attests.

Peter Browne has always been classed with the Leyden party. There is
no established authority for this except tradition, and he might
possibly have been of the English emigrants, though probably a
SPEEDWELL passenger; he is needed to make good her putative number.

William Ring is in the same category as are Eaton and Browne.

Cushman speaks of him, in his Dartmouth letter to Edward Southworth
(of August 17), in terms of intimacy, though this, while suggestive,
of course proves nothing, and he gave up the voyage and returned
from Plymouth to London with Cushman.

He was certainly from Leyden.

Richard Clarke is on the doubtful list, as are also John Goodman,
Edward Margeson, and Richard Britteridge. They have always been
traditionally classed with the Leyden colonists, yet some of them
were possibly among the English emigrants.

They are all needed, however, to make up the number usually assigned
to Leyden, as are all the above "doubtfuls," which is of itself
somewhat confirmatory of the substantial correctness of the list.

Thomas English, Bradford records, "was hired to goe master of a [the]
shallopp" of the colonists, in New England waters. He was probably
hired in Holland and was almost certainly of the SPEEDWELL.

John Alderton (sometimes written Allerton) was, Bradford states, "a hired
man, reputed [reckoned] one of the company, but was to go back (being a
seaman) [and so making no account of the voyages for the help of others
behind" [probably at Leyden]. It is probable that he was hired in Holland,
and came to Southampton on the SPEEDWELL.
Both English and Alderton seem to have stood on a different footing
from Trevore and Ely, the other two seamen in the employ of the
colonists.

William Trevore was, we are told by Bradford, "a seaman hired to stay a
year in the countrie," but whether or not as part of the SPEEDWELL'S
Crew (who, he tells us, were all hired for a year) does not appear.
As the Master (Reynolds) and others of her crew undoubtedly returned
to London in her from Plymouth, and her voyage was cancelled, the
presumption is that Trevore and Ely were either hired anew or--more
probably--retained under their former agreement, to proceed by the
MAY-FLOWER to America, apparently (practically) as passengers.

Whether of the consort's crew or not, there can be little doubt
that he left Delfshaven on the SPEEDWELL.
--- Ely, the other seaman in the Planters' employ, also hired to
"remain a year in the countrie," appears to have been drafted, like
Trevore, from the SPEEDWELL before she returned to London, having,
no doubt, made passage from Holland in her.

Both Trevore and Ely survived "the general sickness" at New Plimoth,
and at the expiration of the time for which they were employed
returned on the FORTUNE to England
Of course the initial embarkation, on Friday, July 21/31 1620, was
at Leyden, doubtless upon the Dutch canal-boats which undoubtedly
brought them from a point closely adjacent to Pastor Robinson's
house in the Klock-Steeg (Bell, Belfry, Alley), in the garden of
which were the houses of many, to Delfshaven.

Rev.

John Brown, D.D., says: "The barges needed for the journey were most
likely moored near the Nuns' Bridge which spans the Rapenburg
immediately opposite the Klok-Steeg, where Robinsons house was.

This, being their usual meeting-place, would naturally be the place of
rendezvous on the morning of departure. From thence it was but a stone's
throw to the boats, and quickly after starting they would enter the
Vliet, as the section of the canal between Leyden and Delft is named,
and which for a little distance runs within the city bounds, its
quays forming the streets.

In those days the point where the canal leaves the city was guarded by a
water-gate, which has long since been removed, as have also the town
walls, the only remaining portions of which are the Morsch-gate and the
Zylgate. So, gliding along the quiet waters of the Vliet, past the
Water-gate, and looking up at the frowning turrets of the Cow-gate,
'they left that goodly and pleasant city which had been their
resting-place near twelve years.' . . .

Nine miles from Leyden a branch canal connects the Vliet with the Hague,
and immediately beyond their junction a sharp turn is made to the left,
as the canal passes beneath the Hoom-bridge; from this point, for the
remaining five miles, the high road from the Hague to Delft, lined with
noble trees, runs side by side with the canal.

In our time the canal-boats make a circuit of the town to the right, but
in those days the traffic went by canal through the heart of the
city . . . .

Passing out of the gates of Delft and leaving the town behind, they had
still a good ten miles of canal journey before them ere they reached
their vessel and came to the final parting, for, as Mr.

Van Pelt has clearly shown, it is a mistake to confound Delft with
Delfshaven, as the point of embarkation in the SPEEDWELL. Below Delft
the canal, which from Leyden thither is the Vliet, then becomes the Schie,
and at the village of Overschie the travellers entered the Delfshaven
Canal, which between perfectly straight dykes flows at a considerable
height above the surrounding pastures.
Then finally passing through one set of sluice gates after another,
the Pilgrims were lifted from the canal into a broad receptacle for
vessels, then into the outer haven, and so to the side of the
SPEEDWELL as she lay at the quay awaiting their arrival."

Dr. Holmes has prettily pictured the "Departure" in his "Robinson of
Leyden," even if not altogether correctly, geographically.

"He spake; with lingering, long embrace, With tears of love
and partings fond, They floated down the creeping Maas, Along the
isle of Ysselmond.

"They passed the frowning towers of Briel, The 'Hook of Holland's'
shelf of sand, And grated soon with lifting keel The sullen shores
of Fatherland.

"No home for these! too well they knew The mitred king behind the throne;
The sails were set, the pennons flew, And westward ho! for worlds unknown."

Winslow informs us that they of the Leyden congregation who volunteered
for the American enterprise were rather the smaller fraction of the
whole body, though he adds, as noted "that the difference was not great."
A careful analysis of the approximate list of the Leyden colonists,--
including, of course, Carver, and Cushman and his family,--whose total
number seems to have been seventy-two, indicates that of this
number, forty-two, or considerably more than half (the rest being children,
seamen, or servants), were probably members of the Leyden church.
Of these, thirty, probably, were males and twelve females. The exact
proportion this number bore to the numerical strength of Robinson's church
at that time cannot be determined, because while something less
than half as we know, gave their votes for the American undertaking,
it cannot be known whether or not the women of church had a vote
in the matter.

Presumably they did not, the primitive church gave good heed to the
words of Paul (i Corinthians xiv. 34), "Let your women keep silence
in the churches."

Neither can it be known--if they had a voice--whether the wives and
daughters of some of the embarking Pilgrims, who did not go
themselves at this time, voted with their husbands and fathers for
the removal.

The total number, seventy-two, coincides very nearly with the estimate
made by Goodwin, who says: "Only eighty or ninety could go in this party
from Leyden," and again: "Not more than eighty of the MAY- FLOWER company
were from Leyden. Allowing for [i.e. leaving out] the younger children
and servants, it is evident that not half the company can have been
from Robinson's congregation." As the total number of passengers on the
MAYFLOWER was one hundred and two when she took her final departure
from England, it is clear that Goodwin's estimate is substantially
correct, and that the number representing the Leyden church as
given above, viz., forty-two, is very close to the fact.

"When they came to the place" [Delfshaven], says Bradford, "they found
the ship and all things ready; and such of their friends as could not
come with them [from Leyden] followed after them; and sundry also came
from Amsterdam (about fifty miles) to see them shipped, and to take
their leave of them."
Saturday, July 22/Aug. 1, 1620, the Pilgrim company took their
farewells, and Winslow records: "We only going aboard, the ship
lying to the key [quay] and ready to sail; the wind being fair, we
gave them [their friends] a volley of small shot [musketry] and
three pieces of ordnance and so lifting up our hands to each other
and our hearts for each other to the Lord our God, we departed."

Goodwin says of the parting: "The hull was wrapped in smoke, through
which was seen at the stern the white flag of England doubly bisected
by the great red cross of St. George, a token that the emigrants had
at last resumed their dearly-loved nationality. Far above them at the
main was seen the Union Jack of new device."

And so after more than eleven years of banishment for conscience'
sake from their native shores, this little band of English exiles, as
true to their mother-land--despite persecutions--as to their God, raised
the flag of England, above their own little vessel, and under its folds
set sail to plant themselves for a larger life in a New World.

Long, however, before the work of political reconstruction had begun, a
brigade of Yankee schoolmasters and schoolma'ams had invaded Dixie, and
one of the latter had opened a Freedman's Bureau School in the town of
Patesville, about four miles from Needham Green's cabin on the
neighboring sandhills.

It had been quite a surprise to Miss Chandler's Boston friends when she
had announced her intention of going South to teach the freedmen. Rich,
accomplished, beautiful, and a social favorite, she was giving up the
comforts and luxuries of Northern life to go among hostile strangers,
where her associates would be mostly ignorant negroes. Perhaps she might
meet occasionally an officer of some Federal garrison, or a traveler
from the North; but to all intents and purposes her friends considered
her as going into voluntary exile. But heroism was not rare in those
days, and Martha Chandler was only one of the great multitude whose
hearts went out toward an oppressed race, and who freely poured out
their talents, their money, their lives,--whatever God had given
them,--in the sublime and not unfruitful effort to transform three
millions of slaves into intelligent freemen. Miss Chandler's friends
knew, too, that she had met a great sorrow, and more than suspected that
out of it had grown her determination to go South.

When Cicely Green heard that a school for colored people had been
opened at Patesville she combed her hair, put on her Sunday frock and
such bits of finery as she possessed, and set out for town early the
next Monday morning.

There were many who came to learn the new gospel of education, which was
to be the cure for all the freedmen's ills. The old and gray-haired, the
full-grown man and woman, the toddling infant,--they came to acquire the
new and wonderful learning that was to make them the equals of the white
people. It was the teacher's task, by no means an easy one, to select
from this incongruous mass the most promising material, and to
distribute among them the second-hand books and clothing that were sent,
largely by her Boston friends, to aid her in her work; to find out what
they knew, to classify them by their intelligence rather than by their
knowledge, for they were all lamentably ignorant. Some among them were
the children of parents who had been free before the war, and of these
some few could read and one or two could write. One paragon, who could
repeat the multiplication table, was immediately promoted to the
position of pupil teacher.

Miss Chandler took a liking to the tall girl who had come so far to sit
under her instruction. There was a fine, free air in her bearing, a
lightness in her step, a sparkle in her eye, that spoke of good
blood,--whether fused by nature in its own alembic, out of material
despised and spurned of men, or whether some obscure ancestral strain,
the teacher could not tell. The girl proved intelligent and learned
rapidly, indeed seemed almost feverishly anxious to learn. She was
quiet, and was, though utterly untrained, instinctively polite, and
profited from the first day by the example of her teacher's quiet
elegance. The teacher dressed in simple black. When Cicely came back to
school the second day, she had left off her glass beads and her red
ribbon, and had arranged her hair as nearly like the teacher's as her
skill and its quality would permit.

The teacher was touched by these efforts at imitation, and by the
intense devotion Cicely soon manifested toward her. It was not a
sycophantic, troublesome devotion, that made itself a burden to its
object. It found expression in little things done rather than in any
words the girl said. To the degree that the attraction was mutual,
Martha recognized in it a sort of freemasonry of temperament that drew
them together in spite of the differences between them. Martha felt
sometimes, in the vague way that one speculates about the impossible,
that if she were brown, and had been brought up in North Carolina, she
would be like Cicely; and that if Cicely's ancestors had come over in
the Mayflower, and Cicely had been reared on Beacon Street, in the
shadow of the State House dome, Cicely would have been very much like
herself.

Miss Chandler was lonely sometimes. Her duties kept her occupied all
day. On Sundays she taught a Bible class in the schoolroom.
Correspondence with bureau officials and friends at home furnished her
with additional occupation. At times, nevertheless, she felt a longing
for the company of women of her own race; but the white ladies of the
town did not call, even in the most formal way, upon the Yankee
school-teacher. Miss Chandler was therefore fain to do the best she
could with such companionship as was available. She took Cicely to her
home occasionally, and asked her once to stay all night. Thinking,
however, that she detected a reluctance on the girl's part to remain
away from home, she did not repeat her invitation.

Cicely, indeed, was filling a double rôle. The learning acquired from
Miss Chandler she imparted to John at home. Every evening, by the light
of the pine-knots blazing on Needham's ample hearth, she taught John to
read the simple words she had learned during the day. Why she did not
take him to school she had never asked herself; there were several other
pupils as old as he seemed to be. Perhaps she still thought it necessary
to protect him from curious remark. He worked with Needham by day, and
she could see him at night, and all of Saturdays and Sundays. Perhaps it
was the jealous selfishness of love. She had found him; he was hers. In
the spring, when school was over, her granny had said that she might
marry him. Till then her dream would not yet have come true, and she
must keep him to herself. And yet she did not wish him to lose this
golden key to the avenues of opportunity. She would not take him to
school, but she would teach him each day all that she herself had
learned. He was not difficult to teach, but learned, indeed, with what
seemed to Cicely marvelous ease,--always, however, by her lead, and
never of his own initiative. I shall be satisfied." The author adds: "The
merchant took the pearl, gave him what he considered its value--at all
events enough to make Sulu ring with his generosity--and sent the pearl
to China; but what became of it afterwards I could never distinctly
trace; but I learned that a pearl in Bengal called 'The Mermaid'
originally came from China, and as the one found in Sulu was said
to be shaped like a woman's bust, it is probably the same."

Possibly the golden age of the pearl is passing as the golden age of the
reptile has passed, for can it not be imagined that, in those far-back
days when oysters attained a length of two feet and better deserved the
title of Tridacna (three bites) than the present clams, pearls of
corresponding magnificence of size were produced? Or are robust pearlless
oysters to be accepted as the type of the strong era, and small oysters
and pearls merely as signs of degeneracy? The largest of modern pearls
measured two inches long by a circumference of four inches and weighed
eighteen hundred grains. The containing shell may have been big
only in comparison with its contemporaries. A very small man has
been known to be afflicted with a disproportioned goitre, and there
are some who argue that the goitre may be but the prototype of the
pearl.

Is fact or fable to claim the most glorious of pearl stories? Some
verily believe that Cleopatra did quaff the costliest beverage
the world has ever known. The incident is so faithful to the character
of "that rare Egyptian" that all sober record shall not discount
delight in its transcendent sumptuousness. Though the pearl may have been
worth eighty thousand pounds of our money, though Cleopatra was gay,
though her extravagance was impious, she was a glorious woman, and she
had at least one glorious, if nauseating, drink. The pearl decoction was
merely an episode in her policy, which was to fascinate Antony--Antony
who had called her to account for having aided his enemies in their
war against him.

And what was an eighty thousand pound bauble in the high affairs of State?
"She was at the age when a woman's beauty is at its prime, and she was
also of the best judgment. So she furnished herself with a world
of gifts, stores of gold and silver, and of riches and other sumptuous
ornaments as is credible she might bring from so great a house and
from so wealthy and rich a realm as Egypt. But yet she carried nothing
with her wherein she trusted more than herself, and in the charms and
enchantment of her surpassing beauty and grace."
And then the supper following the magnificent pageant! Anything less
than an eighty thousand pound pearl would have been an anti-climax,
a mean and clumsy culmination of a "gaudy night."

That soul-delighting gem which vanished in foam told of a superb
Cleopatra's "calm felicity and power."
Some say that, the jewel--cast away so majestically was one of a pair which
Cleopatra wore as ear-rings, and that when Antony restrained his hostess
from a repetition of the draught, she presented the now matchless
pearl to him. Another version implies that the ear-ring^ had been
originally one monster pearl, which Cleopatra had caused to be sawn in
two to gratify her lust for unique and lavish ornament.

It is said, too, that the pearl was dissolved in wine. By a simple
practical test and at the sacrifice of a small quantity of baroque, proof
was obtained that ordinary culinary vinegar is a solvent of pearls.

The experiment also yielded these notable conclusions--that either the
wine of Cleopatra's age was much more corrosive than the vinegar of ours,
or that the costly beverage was prepared beforehand, or that the stately
banquet was long-drawn-out while the inestimable gem spluttered
and simmered in the goblet. The dissolution of such a large pearl must
have been slow, and the product far from nice, but it was one of the
effects by which a sovereign woman conquered the "most courteous lord"
of his day.

A curious superstition prevails in some parts of the East Indies, it
being believed that if gold and pearls are placed by themselves in a
packet they will certainly decrease in quantity or number, and in
the end totally disappear; but, if a few grains of rice are added, the
treasure is safe. Rice is thought not only to preserve the original
number of pearls, but to actually cause increase.

Tarnished pearls are occasionally submitted to the process of
"skinning"--the removal with fine steel files under a magnifying glass
of the outer 'layer, on the chance of the existence of a better
underneath.

The ancients treated lustreless gems differently, placing them before
doves, under the belief that they could be polished by being pecked
and played with by the gentle birds.

In some respects pearls are superior to all other gems. They are emblematic
of serenity, and serenity is often power in the highest manifestation.

None ever said an unkind word of pearls; no dubious legend clings to
them, making the timid afraid. They come to us perfectly fashioned.
No coarse handiwork has touched them, no soulless machine ground
them to conventional pattern.

The last diamond may be, the. last pearl never, until the sea gives
up more than its dead, its very being.
Pearls may begin and end in foam; but the beginning is now and always,
and the ending rare, for the Cleopatras are gone.

Emblems of purity, refinement, and peace, they are truly the gems
for woman. Queenly or demure, they become her, and she bestows on them a
quality hard to define, but singularly sweet and acceptable. Gold and
precious stones may occupy billions of years in the making, or may be the
product of--

"The war of elements, The wrecks of matter, and the crash of worlds."

Once we find these hard, cold things and take hold of and
seize them, we know that we have, to use a homely simile, eaten our cake.
The supply of pearls is continuous, and under the control of the
cruel ingenuity of man they grow to an ordinary size in less than
a decade.

Many years ago an opinion was expressed that the increasing knowledge
'of the mollusc and its habits would enable man literally to sow
the sea with pearls as he sows a field with grain, and that the
harvest would be certain.

Under natural conditions not one oyster in a hundred is troubled
with a pearl, and not one pearl in the hundred is of any real value.

It is demanded that unsuspecting oysters shall be inflicted with a kind
of plague, so that there shall be not one but several pearls in every
suffering individual, and in the greater number chance will contrive a
larger proportion of orients. Every oyster has its potentialities; Science
seeks to convert potentialities into certainties.

PEARLS AND HIGH TRAGEDY.

Such merchandise has ever provoked the spirit of adventure in hardy,
healthy men, and pearls have claimed the lives of the best among them.
The health and figure of the friend who beguiled many an evening
were sacrificed to the lustrous gem so prized of women.

A model of stalwart manhood of the Viking strain, he died early,
worn out with the stress with which he sought the most serene of
personal adornments.

There may have been some slight exaggeration in the popular belief
that he had walked along the bottom of the sea from one end of the
Great Barrier Reef to the other, a stretch of over one thousand
miles; but that he had accomplished more than that distance in the
aggregate of his submarine wanderings may be quite credible.

Probably there was no human being who possessed such intimate knowledge
of the character of the ocean floor within the living bounds of
the Great Barrier; and since he was silent, reserved, and self-contained
to all save friends of long standing, was never guilty of boasting,
and ever reluctant to tell of his adventures, the world is little
the wiser from his work, though at the best time of his life most
of his days were spent under water in fairyland-like scenes.

  It may seem absurd to associate
     fairyland with the depths of
  the sea; but the shy explorer of
     many a coral grove has been heard to say that the scenes fulfilled
his ideals of what the realms of the fairies might be like.

Pearl-divers are more susceptible to the charms of wayward Fortune
than those who have not realised tile thrill of expectancy with which a
huge goldlip, encrusted with coral and swathed with seaweed, is seized.
It may contain a gem worth a king's ransom, or but an animal which,
though it may be crossed in love, is not engaging in appearance or
in any feature or quality commendable.

There is the chance; and it appeals to most rational men.

Secretive Fortune lures on, promising the bubble pearl 'and proffering
that which satisfieth not, until the stress and perils of the
avocation tell on the enthusiast, who finds himself not exuberant
as wont; that Fortune has been tricking him; that in the pursuit
of pearls Chance is oft repellent; and that the prize which seemed
impossible to avoid has eluded the most devoted seekers.

  It may be that my captain
     did not seek his pearls with zeal beyond that which is common to
the calling the world over; but that his enthusiasm beguiled him
into remote and odd parts of the Barrier, that he became familiar
with rare scenes (denied to all save submarine adventurers in
tropical waters), that he was oft in peril of his life, and that
he could pause in the midst of strenuous, nerve-racking work to
watch the never-ceasing hostilities of the denizens of the sea, may
not be questioned.

Not long before he passed away he told of one of his adventures in a
few hurried words, after the manner of one who loves not to dwell
on personal reminiscences, save as a text for the rectification
of popular error in respect of sensational happenings.

  The story is here repeated,
     for it throws light on an incident which sent one ship of warfare
on dubious patrol, and reveals the manner of the men who sought
pearls in the old days.

"Have you found that pearl?" he asked smilingly; for we had
often talked of the possibility of being rewarded with a
fortune-bestowing gem.

  "Yes, indeed, I have; and a
     real beauty.

I very much doubt if you, for all your experience, ever saw such
perfect shape and fine lustre.

Here is an instance of the perversity of Chance. You, tied up in a rubber
bag, rake the floor of the Barrier, fighting sharks and being hustled
by turtle, and never find anything out of the way.

I stroll about the beaches, and see what Fortune bestows!"
The size of a small marble, it lay swathed in white wadding. Minute furrows
sculptured the surface in radiating lines from pole to pole,
enhancing rare radiance.

The captain took the little casket in his hand that he might gloat
over the treasure, as, his eyes shining, he said:

"You lucky fellow!

Where did you get it? I never saw a finer pearl, and I have seen
a few in my days. Fair numbers have passed through my hands; but--you
fraud!"
He lifted it, revealing a counterfeit, which had once ornamented
a hatpin.

In good-humour he settled down on a lounge and gradually drifted into
reminiscences.

"About two years before what I am going to tell you happened, I
heard of a patch of shell off an island Sud-Est way; I kept the tip
to myself, determined to work the spot on my own account if ever I
got the chance.

I waited till I saved a few pounds, and, taking in a mate, fitted
out a craft, and with a crew of very fair boys sailed away. I found the
spot all right; but--my usual luck--someone had been there before me.
Strange to say, the spot was by no means worked out, though it was fairly
good ground and easy working, and the shell large. We did good
business for a while, until one day I got a proper start.

The life-line fouled on something, and I found that it had taken a turn
round the bowsprit of a wreck. I got on top pretty quick, and, having
had a talk with my mate, went down again. Very soon I knew the
boat. It was the ----, and she had belonged to a man I had known
very well. The strange part about the business was that the boat had
been burned. Her deck was gone; she had burned to the water's edge and
had sunk, and there she rested on her keel. I knew that the owner had
left port some months before on a secret cruise. Someone must have
given him the. tip, too.

He was well known and liked, and generally did good business. My mate
and I talked over the business. We wanted to clean up that patch, so
decided to remain a few days longer before clearing out to report. I
was convinced that murder had been committed-that the natives of the
island had massacred the party and had sunk the lugger.

"While I was below next day an urgent message came down. I bobbed up
pretty quickly. A boat was sneaking out from the beach, apparently
with the plan of cutting us off from our lugger, which was anchored
some distance off, with only a couple of boys on board. You bet, we
got up steam pretty quickly. When we got on board we reached for
our rifles, and then felt safe.

"The boat was then making straight for us, and it appeared to be crowded
with darkies. We had been off the island for four days, and had not seen
the sight of a native. I knew there were plenty, and the fact that they
had kept away had made me a bit suspicious.

As the boat came along I was sure they meant mischief, and was determined,
no matter how friendly they wanted to be, not to let one of the beggars
on deck.

"About half a mile away we saw one of them, who appeared to be a bit lighter
in colour than the rest, stand up in the bow and wave a kind of
message. He kept one arm going like a semaphore. Then we saw that he
carried under the other arm a basket--a peace-offering of yams and fruit,
no doubt. He had only a shirt on, and still he kept his right arm
working. When he got within hailing distance, the man in the bows shouted
my name. He was a brawny chap. I thought to myself that if it came to a
row I would pot him first, for he was ringleader.

"All the rest were naked. His scanty uniform marked him out.

Probably he got that shirt from the owner of the sunken lugger. I wetted
my lips with my tongue as I thought it might be my duty to wipe him
out. Then my name was shouted out again, and, recognising the voice,
I discovered the man in the shirt to be a well-known character who
goes under the name of ----.

"I've got something nice for you, captain!

Don't look so nasty with that rifle to an old friend!'

"Still keeping our rifles ready, we let the boat come alongside and the
tinted man passed up the basket, It was native-made, and all the top was
covered with green leaves. Thinking of fresh yams and fruit, I pulled
off the leaves, and there--poof!

--the head of a man-an old man who must have died a violent death about
two days before.

"The man in the shirt laughed loud and long at the disgust in my face,
and, coming on board, soon told of the tragedy of which the awful
head was a symbol of retaliation.

"The owner of the sunken lugger had fitted her out with unusual care.
His crew consisted of natives of the island off which we were lying.
As a special inducement to one of the boys, whose name was Massai,
he had promised a rifle, but designedly withheld the gift until
towards the end of the term of agreement.

       Massai had persistently begged for the rifle, and it having become
necessary for the Boss' to take a trip to the port, he had definitely,
promised to bring it with him.

Again he designedly forgot. Massai became morose. Things went on
calmly enough until one day, when the mate was below, the 'Boss' was
suddenly thrown overboard.

As he floundered on the surface one of the boys struck at him with
a tomahawk, and then he must have realised that his life was at
stake.

"Diving until well clear of the boat, he swam off to the lugger,
about a quarter of a mile away.

As his master came up, Massai leaned over the side, his master's rifle
in his hand.

"'Don't shoot me, Massai,' he shouted. 'I give you good rifle belonga
yourself.'

"Massai shouted back, 'Me catch 'em plenty riple! You no good!' and fired.
The bullet splashed over the man's head. The next struck him fair
in the forehead, and he sank.

"In the meantime Massai's confederates were sporting with the
diver, hauling him up to the surface, pumping sufficient air
to keep him alive, shutting it off until he must have been nearly
suffocated, reviving him with fresh supplies, and with joy
prolonging life until the fun of the thing ceased; then they had cut
the pipe so that he might drown.

"The lugger having been ransacked, she was fired, and she had sunk
at her anchorage.

"A few days after the man with the shirt arrived at the island, and since
these simple children of Nature cannot keep their doings to
themselves, he very soon was made a confidant, learning the whole
details of the tragedy by pidgin English and expressive pantomime,
and obtaining as proof the coat of the reckless man who had made a promise
to Massai which, possibly, he had never intended to fulfil. The plot of
the revenge and murder had been hatched out ashore at the instigation
of Massai's mother.

"Fortified with full information, he sailed away to a neighbouring port,
where he exhibited the coat of the murdered 'Boss.' Being impressed,
the official representing the majesty of the law gave some vague commission
to the man, who now wears other clothes than a shirt, and he sailed
away for ports unknown.

"Interpreting his commission to make further inquiries very broadly, he
appeared off the island, and received a cordial welcome, for he was
'Hail fellow well met' with the inhabitants of many a remote isle. He
made himself very friendly, and the frank natives rather gloried
than otherwise in the recitation of evidence which condemned them.

"Then he made plans for unauthorised punishment. Having disarmed
suspicion--just as the boat's crew had done in the case of his friend--he
waited, and one dark night surrounded the village with a well-armed,
hostile force. These Papuan villages are fortified in a certain
sense.

Some of the exits are set with traps and spring spears, and
none but those in the secret dares venture along a track when the
village has been made secure for the night.

"The man with the shirt posted his forces so that the exits were
commanded, and waited for dawn, his instructions being that no
demonstration was to be made until he gave the signal.

Before the designed time a shot was fired, and the conscience-stricken
community fled, all save one old man and infant, who met their
fate.

"The village was spoiled and fired, and thus retributive justice done to
those who had wantonly murdered two white men and destroyed their
property.

"Once again," said the captain, "my luck was out. Goodness knows! There
might have been a big pearl in that patch.

We didn't wait to find it!"

SNAKE AND FROG PRATTLE

"Surely, then, it interests us to know the lot of other animal creatures.

However far below us, they are still the sole created things which
share with us the capability of pleasure and the susceptibility
to pain."

--HUXLEY.

It may be edifying to confess a particular interest in man's first enemy-not
such interest as the man of science displays when he seeks to add
to the knowledge of the world, but a kind of social concern.

None of us is likely to forget that on the authority of Holy Writ
the serpent became familiar with mankind very shortly after his
appearance on earth, and whispered injurious secrets into guileless
ears.

Ever since the scene in the Garden of Eden, war between man and the
serpent has prevailed, and now, if we are to credit the sayings
of the wise, the end of all reptiles, if not actually in view,
cannot be long postponed.

Is it not mete, therefore, to take fair opportunity of studying the
characteristics and qualities of an animal, closely associated with us
by fable and in fact, which is doomed to extinction by the ruthless
strides of civilisation, which is regarded by some as cleanly and
decent, and by others as repulsive and direful?

Plain, unromantic, unsensational statements make for the acquirement of
knowledge illustrative of the habits and faculties of the creature against
which the hand of the average man is raised with a mixture of
wrath, vengeance, and fear.

By study and observation one may come to understand the higher principles
of Nature, and so learn how to withstand influences inimical to
his interests without upsetting laws which tend to his welfare.

Occasionally quite casual happenings and bare and slight matters of
fact show that those who study natural history first-hand acquire
information not to be obtained from authoritative works.

Let one instance concerning the varied diet of the death adder be quoted,
since it confounds the experience of one of the most learned men
in Australia on the subject.

On the beach just at high-water mark, beneath an overhanging shrub, several
birds sounded an alarm, notifying by peculiar and persistent
screeching the presence of an enemy.

"Father," he remarked casually to the colonel, over the fried chicken,
"I 'm feeling a trifle run down. I imagine my health would be improved
somewhat by a little travel and change of scene."

"Why don't you take a trip North?" suggested his father. The colonel
added to paternal affection a considerable respect for his son as the
heir of a large estate. He himself had been "raised" in comparative
poverty, and had laid the foundations of his fortune by hard work; and
while he despised the ladder by which he had climbed, he could not
entirely forget it, and unconsciously manifested, in his intercourse
with his son, some of the poor man's deference toward the wealthy and
well-born.

"I think I 'll adopt your suggestion, sir," replied the son, "and run
up to New York; and after I 've been there awhile I may go on to Boston
for a week or so. I 've never been there, you know."

"There are some matters you can talk over with my factor in New York,"
rejoined the colonel, "and while you are up there among the Yankees, I
hope you 'll keep your eyes and ears open to find out what the rascally
abolitionists are saying and doing. They 're becoming altogether too
active for our comfort, and entirely too many ungrateful niggers are
running away. I hope the conviction of that fellow yesterday may
discourage the rest of the breed. I 'd just like to catch any one trying
to run off one of my darkeys. He 'd get short shrift; I don't think any
Court would have a chance to try him."

"They are a pestiferous lot," assented Dick, "and dangerous to our
institutions. But say, father, if I go North I shall want to take Tom
with me."

Now, the colonel, while a very indulgent father, had pronounced views on
the subject of negroes, having studied them, as he often said, for a
great many years, and, as he asserted oftener still, understanding them
perfectly. It is scarcely worth while to say, either, that he valued
more highly than if he had inherited them the slaves he had toiled and
schemed for.

"I don't think it safe to take Tom up North," he declared, with
promptness and decision. "He 's a good enough boy, but too smart to
trust among those low-down abolitionists. I strongly suspect him of
having learned to read, though I can't imagine how. I saw him with a
newspaper the other day, and while he pretended to be looking at a
woodcut, I 'm almost sure he was reading the paper. I think it by no
means safe to take him."

Dick did not insist, because he knew it was useless. The colonel would
have obliged his son in any other matter, but his negroes were the
outward and visible sign of his wealth and station, and therefore sacred
to him.

"Whom do you think it safe to take?" asked Dick. "I suppose I 'll have
to have a body-servant."

"What 's the matter with Grandison?" suggested the colonel. "He 's handy
enough, and I reckon we can trust him. He 's too fond of good eating,
to risk losing his regular meals; besides, he 's sweet on your mother's
maid, Betty, and I 've promised to let 'em get married before long. I 'll
have Grandison up, and we 'll talk to him. Here, you boy Jack," called
the colonel to a yellow youth in the next room who was catching flies
and pulling their wings off to pass the time, "go down to the barn and
tell Grandison to come here."

"Grandison," said the colonel, when the negro stood before him, hat in
hand.

"Yas, marster."

"Have n't I always treated you right?"

"Yas, marster."

"Have n't you always got all you wanted to eat?"

"Yas, marster."

"And as much whiskey and tobacco as was good for you, Grandison?"

"Y-a-s, marster."

"I should just like to know, Grandison, whether you don't think yourself
a great deal better off than those poor free negroes down by the plank
road, with no kind master to look after them and no mistress to give
them medicine when they 're sick and--and"----

"Well, I sh'd jes' reckon I is better off, suh, dan dem low-down free
niggers, suh! Ef anybody ax 'em who dey b'long ter, dey has ter say
nobody, er e'se lie erbout it. Anybody ax me who I b'longs ter, I ain'
got no 'casion ter be shame' ter tell 'em, no, suh, 'deed I ain', suh!"

The colonel was beaming. This was true gratitude, and his feudal heart
thrilled at such appreciative homage. What cold-blooded, heartless
monsters they were who would break up this blissful relationship of
kindly protection on the one hand, of wise subordination and loyal
dependence on the other! The colonel always became indignant at the mere
thought of such wickedness.

"Grandison," the colonel continued, "your young master Dick is going
North for a few weeks, and I am thinking of letting him take you along.
I shall send you on this trip, Grandison, in order that you may take
care of your young master. He will need some one to wait on him, and no
one can ever do it so well as one of the boys brought up with him on the
old plantation. I am going to trust him in your hands, and I 'm sure
you 'll do your duty faithfully, and bring him back home safe and
sound--to old Kentucky."

Grandison grinned. "Oh yas, marster, I 'll take keer er young Mars
Dick."

"I want to warn you, though, Grandison," continued the colonel
impressively, "against these cussed abolitionists, who try to entice
servants from their comfortable homes and their indulgent masters, from
the blue skies, the green fields, and the warm sunlight of their
southern home, and send them away off yonder to Canada, a dreary
country, where the woods are full of wildcats and wolves and bears,
where the snow lies up to the eaves of the houses for six months of the
year, and the cold is so severe that it freezes your breath and curdles
your blood; and where, when runaway niggers get sick and can't work,
they are turned out to starve and die, unloved and uncared for. I
reckon, Grandison, that you have too much sense to permit yourself to be
led astray by any such foolish and wicked people."

"'Deed, suh, I would n' low none er dem cussed, low-down abolitioners
ter come nigh me, suh. I 'd--I 'd--would I be 'lowed ter hit 'em, suh?"

"Certainly, Grandison," replied the colonel, chuckling, "hit 'em as hard
as you can. I reckon they 'd rather like it. Begad, I believe they
would! It would serve 'em right to be hit by a nigger!"

"Er ef I did n't hit 'em, suh," continued Grandison reflectively, "I 'd
tell Mars Dick, en _he 'd_ fix 'em. He 'd smash de face off'n 'em, suh,
I jes' knows he would."

"Oh yes, Grandison, your young master will protect you. You need fear no
harm while he is near."

"Dey won't try ter steal me, will dey, marster?" asked the negro, with
sudden alarm.

"I don't know, Grandison," replied the colonel, lighting a fresh cigar.
"They 're a desperate set of lunatics, and there 's no telling what they
may resort to. But if you stick close to your young master, and remember
always that he is your best friend, and understands your real needs, and
has your true interests at heart, and if you will be careful to avoid
strangers who try to talk to you, you 'll stand a fair chance of getting
back to your home and your friends. And if you please your master Dick,
he 'll buy you a present, and a string of beads for Betty to wear when
you and she get married in the fall."

"Thanky, marster, thanky, suh," replied Grandison, oozing gratitude at
every pore; "you is a good marster, to be sho', suh; yas, 'deed you is.
You kin jes' bet me and Mars Dick gwine git 'long jes' lack I wuz own
boy ter Mars Dick. En it won't be my fault ef he don' want me fer his
boy all de time, w'en we come back home ag'in."

"All right, Grandison, you may go now. You need n't work any more
to-day, and here 's a piece of tobacco for you off my own plug."

"Thanky, marster, thanky, marster! You is de bes' marster any nigger
ever had in dis worl'." And Grandison bowed and scraped and disappeared
round the corner, his jaws closing around a large section of the
colonel's best tobacco.

"You may take Grandison," said the colonel to his son. "I allow he 's
abolitionist-proof."


III


Richard Owens, Esq., and servant, from Kentucky, registered at the
fashionable New York hostelry for Southerners in those days, a hotel
where an atmosphere congenial to Southern institutions was sedulously
maintained. Then gaze aloft, whence all things had their Birth, And mount
my prying Soul 'twixt Heaven and Earth, Thus the sweet Harmonv
o' th' whole admire, } And by due Search new Learning still aquire,
} So nearer ev'ry day to Truths Divine aspire. }
When tir'd with thought, then from my Pocket pluck Some friendly dear
Companion of a Book, Whose homely Calves-skin fences did contain The
Verbal Treasure of some Old good Man:
Made by long study and experience wise, Whose piercing thoughts to
Heavenly knowledge rise, Amongst whose Pious Reliques I would find,
Rules for my Life, Rich Banquets for my mind, Such pleasing Nectar,
such Eternal Food, That well digested, makes a Man a God; And for his
use at the same time prepares On Earth a Heav'n in spight of
worldly Cares, The day in these Enjoyments would I spend, But chuse at
Night my Bottle and my Friend, Took prudent care that neither were
abus'd, But with due Moderation both I us'd.
And in one sober Pint found more delight, Then the insatiate
Sot that swills all Night; Ne'er drown my Senses, or my Soul debase.
Or drink beyond the relish of my blass For in Excess good Heav'ns design
is Crost, In all Extreams the true Enjoyments lost, Wine chears
the Heart, and elevates the Soul, But if we surfeit with too large
a Bowl, Wanting true Aim we th' happy Mark o'er Shoot, And change
the Heavenly Image to a Brute.

So the great _Grecian_ who the World subdu'd, And drown'd whole Nations
in a Sea of Blood; At last was Conquer'd by the Power of Wine, And
dy'd a Drunken Victime to the Vine.
My Friend, and I, when o'er our Bottle sat, Mix'd with each Glass some
inoffensive Chat, Talk'd of the World's Affairs, but still kept free
From Passion, Zeal, or Partiality; With honest freedom did our thoughts
dispense, And judg'd of all things with indifference; Till time at
last did our Delights invade, And in due season separation made, Then
without Envy, Discord or Deceit, Part like true Friends as loving as
we meet.
The Tavern change to a domestick scene, That sweet Retirement, tho it's
ne'er so mean.
Thus leave each other in a Cheerful Plight, T' enjoy the silent
Pleasures of the Night, When home return'd, my Thanks to Heaven pay,
For all the past kind Blessing of the Day; No haughty Help-mate to my
Peace molest, No treacherous Snake to harbour in my Breast:
No fawning Mistress of the Female Art, With _Judas_ Kisses to betray
my Heart; No light-tail'd Hypocrite to raise my Fears, No vile
Impert'nence to torment my Ears; No molted Off spring to disturb
my Thought, In Wedlock born but G----d knows where begot; No lustful
_Massalina_ to require Whole Troops of Men to feed her Brutal Fire?

No Family Cares my quiet to disturb; No Head-strong Humours to asswage or
Curb No Jaring Servants, no Domestick strife, } No Jilt, no Termagent,
no Faithless Wife, } With Vinegar or Gall, to sowre or bitter Life.
}
Thus freed from all that could my Mind annoy, Alone my self, I did
my self enjoy:
When Nature call'd, I laid me down to rest, With a sound Body, and
a peaceful Breast; Hours of Repose with Constancy I kept, And
Guardian Angels watch'd me as I slept, In lively Dreams reviving
as I lay, The Pleasures of the last precedent day, Thus whilst I
singly liv'd, did I possess } By Day and Night incessant Happiness,
} Content enjoy'd awak'd, and sleeping found no less. }
But the Curs'd Fiend from Hell's dire Regions sent, Ranging the
World to Man's Destruction bent, Who with an Envious Pride beholding
me, Advanc'd by Virtue to Felicity, Resolv'd his own Eternal wretched
state, Should be in part reveng'd by my sad Fate; And to at once
my happy Life betray Flung Woman, Fathless Woman in my way:
Beauty she had, a seeming Modest Mein, } All Charms without, but
Devil all within, } Which did not yet appear, but lurk'd, alas
unseen. } A fair Complexion far exceeding Paint, Black sleepy Eyes
that would have Charm'd a Saint; Her Lips so soft and sweet, that
ev'ry Kiss, Seem'd a short Tast of the Eternal Bliss; Her set of
Teeth so Regular and White, They'd show their Lustre in the darkest
Night; Round her Seraphick Face so fair and young, Her Sable Hair
in careless Dresses hung, Which added to her beauteous Features,
show'd Like some fair Angel peeping through a Cloud?

Her Breasts, her Hands, and every Charm so bright, She seem'd a Sun by
Day, a Moon by Night; Her shape so ravishing, that every Part,
Proportion'd was to the nicest Rules of Art:
So awful was her Carriage when she mov'd, None could behold her,
but he fear'd and lov'd, She danc'd well, sung well, finely plaid
the Lute, Was always witty in her Words, or Mute; Obliging, not
reserv'd, nor yet too free, But as a Maid divinely bless'd should
be; Not vainly gay, but decent in Attire, } She seem'd so good, she
could no more acquire } Of Heaven, than what she had, & Man no more
desire: } Fortune, like God and Nature too was kind, And to these
Gifts a copious Sum had joyn'd Who could the power of such Temptations
shun; What frozen _Synick_ from her Charms could run:
What Cloister'd Monk could see a Face so bright, } But quit his
Beads and follow Beauty's Light, } And by Its Lustre hope to shun
Eternal Night. } I so bewitch'd, and poyson'd with her Charms,
Believ'd the utmost Heaven was in her Arms, Methoughts the Goodness,
in her Eyes I see, Spoke her the Off-spring of some Deity.

Now Books and Walks, would no content afford, She was the only Good to
be Ador'd.
In her fair Looks alone delight I found, Love's raging Storms all other
Joys had drown'd.
By Beauty's _Ignis fatuus_ led astray, Bound for Content, I lost
my happy way Of Reason's faithful Pilot now bereft, Was amongst
Rocks and Shelves in danger left, There must have perish'd, as I
fondly thought, Lest her kind Usage my Salvation wrought; Her happy
Aid I labour'd to obtain, Hop'd for Success, yet fear'd her sad
Disdain, Tortur'd like dying Convicts whilst they live, 'Twixt fear
of Death, and hopes of a Reprieve.

First for her smallest Favours did I sue, Crept, Fawn'd and Cring'd,
as Lovers us'd to do?
Sigh'd e'er I spoke, and when I spoke look'd Pale, In words confus'd
disclos'd my mournful Tale?

Unpractised and Amour's fine Speeches coin'd, But could not utter
what I well design'd.

Warm'd by her Charms 'gainst Bashfulness I strove, And trembling far,
and stammer'd out my Love; Told her how greatly I admir'd and fear'd,
Which she 'twixt Coyness and Compassion heard, Grutch'd no Expence of
Money, or of Time, And thought that not to adore her was a Crime; The
more each Visit I acquainted grew, Yet every time found something
in her new.

Who was above her Sex so fortunate, She had a Charm for Man in every
State; Beauty for the Youthful, Prudence for the Old, Scripture for
the Godly, for the Miser Gold; Wit for the Ingenious, silence for
the Grave, Flatt'ry for the Fool, and Cunning for the Knave:
Compounded thus of such Varieties, } She had a knack to every Temper
please, } And as her self thought fit was every one of these. } I
lov'd, I sigh'd and vow'd, talk'd, whin'd, and pray'd, And at her
Feet my panting Heart I lay'd; She smil'd, then frown'd, was now
reserv'd, then free, And as she plaid her part, oft chang'd her
Key; Not through Fantastick Humour but Design, To try me throughly
e'er she should be mine, Because she wanted in one Man to have, A
Husband, Lover, Cuckold and a Slave.

So Travellers, before a Horse they buy, His Speed, his Paces, and his
Temper try, Whether he'll answer Whip and Spur, thence Judge, If the
poor Beast will prove a patient Drudge:
When she by wiles had heightned my Desire, And fain'd Love's sparkles
to a raging Fire; Made now for Wedlock, or for _Bedlam_ fit.
Thus Passion gain'd the upper-hand of Wit, The Dame by pity, or by
Interest mov'd, Or else by Lust, pretended now she lov'd; After
long-sufferings, her Consent I got. } To make me happy, as I hop'd
and thought, } But oh, the wretched hour I ty'd the _Gordian_ Knot. }
Thus thro' mistake I rashly plung'd my Life Into that Gulph of
Miseries a Wife.

With joyful Arms I thus embrac'd my Fare, Believ'd too soon, was undeceiv'd
too late; So hair-brain'd Fools to _Indian_ Climates rove, With a vain
hope their Fortunes to improve; There spend their slender Cargoes, then
become Worse Slaves abroad than e'er they were at home When a few Weeks
were wasted I compar'd, With all due moderation and regard, My former
freedom, with my new restraint, Judging which State afforded most
content.
But found a single Life as calm and gay, As the delightful Month
of blooming _May_, Not chill'd with Cold, or scorch'd with too much
heat. } Not plagu'd with flying Dust, nor drown'd with wet, } But
pleasing to the Eyes, and to the Nostrils sweet. }
But Wedlock's like the blustring Month of _March_, That does the
Body's Maims and Bruises search, Brings by cold nipping Storms
unwelcom Pains, And finds, or breeds, Distempers in our Veins;
Renews old Sores, and hastens on Decay, And seldom does afford one
pleasant Day.

But Clouds dissolve, or raging Tempest blow, And untile Houses, like the
wrangling Shrow; Thus _March_ and Marriage justly may be said, } To
be alike, then sure the Man is Mad, } That loves such changling Weather
where the best is bad. }
Though I once happy in a single Life, Yet Shipwrack'd all upon that
Rock a Wife.
By Gold and Beauties Powerful Charms betray'd, To the dull drugery
of a Marriage-Bed; That Paradise for Fools, a Sport for Boys, Tiresom
its Chains, and brutal are its Joys, Thou nauseous Priestcraft that
to soon appear'd, Not as I hop'd, but worse than what I fear'd.

All her soft Charms which I believ'd divine, Marriage I thought had made
them only mine; Vain hope, alas for I too early found, My Brows were
with the Throne of Wedlock crown'd, Jealousies, first from Reason
rais'd a doubt, And Fatal Chance th' unhappy Truth brought out; Made
it so plain from all Pretences free'd.
That wicked Woman no Excuse could plead; And if she wants device to hide
her Shame, Hell can no Umbrage for Audult'ry frame.

I though it prudence the Disgrace to hide, Tho' rav'd and Storm'd, she
Pardon beg'd and Cry'd.
Yet with false Protestations strove to Charm:
The Cuckold to believe she'd done no harm, Tho' taken by surprize (O
curse the Day) Where all the Marks of past Enjoyment lay, And she
disorder'd by her lustful freeks Had Shame and Horrour strugling
in her Cheeks:
Yet, made Essays to clear her Innocence, And hide her guilt with
Lyes and Impudence; For lustful Women like a vicious State, Oft
stifle Ills by others full as great, But I convinc'd too plainly
of her Guilt, All her false Oaths and quick inventions spoilt, Which
when she'd used in vain she blush'd and cry'd, And own'd her fault
she found she could not hide.

This I forgave, she promis'd to reclaim, Vow'd future truth if
I'd conceal the shame; But what Strange Adamantine Chain can bind,
Woman corrupted to be just or kind:
Or how can Man to an adultress shew That Love, which to a faithful Wife
is due.
I strugled hard, and all my Passions chekt, And chang'd Revenge
into a mild Respect, That Good for Ill return'd might touch hear
near, And Gratitude might bind her more tan fear; My former Love I
every day renew'd; And all the Signals of Oblivion shew'd; Wink'd
at small Faults, wou'd no such Trifles mind, As accidental Failings
not designed.

I all things to her Temper easie made, Scorn'd to reflect, and hated
to upbraid; She chose (and rich it was) her own Attire, Nay, had what
a proud Woman could desire.

Thus the new Covenant I strictly kept, And oft in private for her Failings
wept, Yet bore with seeming Cheerfulness those Cares, That bring a Man
too soon to grisled Hairs.

But all this kindness I dispens'd in vain.
Where Lust and base Ingratitude remain.
Lust, which if once in Female fancy fix'd, Burns like Salt Petre, with
driy Touchwood mix'd:
And tho' cold Fear for time may stop its force, } Twill soon like
Fire confin'd, break out the worse, } Or like a Tide obstucted,
re-assume its course. }
No Art cou'd e'e presume the stinking _Stote_, Or change the lecherous
Nature of the _Goat_.

No skilful Whitster ever found the flight, To wash or bleach an
_Ethiopian_ White.
No gentle Usage truly will Asswage, A Tyger's fierceness, or a Lyon's
rage, Stripes and severe Correction is the way, Whence once they're
thro'ly Conquer'd, they'll obey, 'Tis Whip and Spur, Commanding Reign
and Bit, That makes the unruly head-strong Horse submit, So stubborn
faithless Woman must be us'd, Or Man by Woman basely be abus'd.

For after all the Endearments I should show, At last she turn'd
both Libertine and Shrow, From my Submission grew perverse and
proud, Crabbed as Varges, and as Thunder loud; Did what she pleas'd,
would no Obedience own, And redicul'd the Patience I had shown.

Fear'd no sharp threatnings, valued no disgrace, But flung the wrongs she'd
done me in my Face; Grew still more head strong, turbulent and Lewd,
Filling my Mansion with a spurious brood.
Thus Brutal Lust her humane Reason drown'd, And her loose Tail
obliged the Country round; Advice, Reproof, Pray'rs, Tears, were
flung away, For still she grew mord wicked ev'ry day; Till By her
equals scorn'd, my Servants fed, The Brutal Rage of her adultrous
bed.

Nay, in my absence trucled to my Groom, And hug'd the servile Traytor
in my Room; When these strange Tydings, Thunder struck my Ear, And
such Inhumane Wrongs were made appear, On these just Grounds for a Divorce
I su'd, } At last that head-strong Tyrant wife subdu'd, } Cancel'd the
marriage-bonds, and basterdiz'd her brood. }

_Woman_, thou worst of all Church-plagues, farewel; Bad at the
best, but at the worst a Hell; Thou truss of wormwood, bitter Teaz
of Life, Thou Nursery of humane cares a wife.

Thou Apple-Eating Trayt'riss who began The Wrath of Heav'n, and
Miseries of Man, And hast with never-failing diligence, Improv'd
the Curse to humane Race e'er since.

Farewel Church-juggle that enslav'd my Life, But bless that Pow'r that
rid me of my Wife.
And now the Laws once more have set me free, If Woman can again prevail
with me, My Flesh and Bones shall make my Wedding-Feast, } And
none shall be Invited as my Guest, } T' attend my _Bride_, but th'
_Devil_ and a _Priest_. } 
_FINIS._
THE CHOICE, OR, THE Pleasures of a _Country_--LIFE, &c.

If Heav'n the grateful Liberty wou'd give, That I might chuse my
Method how to live And all those Hours propitious Fate shou'd lend,
In blisful Ease and Satisfaction spend.

Near some fair Town I'd have a private Seat, Built Uniform, not little,
nor to great:
Better if on a rising Ground it stood, Fields on this side, on that
a Neighb'ring Wood.

It shou'd within no other things contain, But what are Useful,
Necessary Plain:
Methinks 'tis Nauseous, and I'd ne'er endure The needless pomp of
gawdy Furniture:
A little Garden, gratefule to the Eye, And a cool Rilvulet run
Murmuring by:
On whose delicious Banks a stately Row, Of shady Limes, or Sicamores,
shou'd grow.

At th' end of which a silent Study plac'd, Shou'd with the Noblest
Authors there be grac'd.

_Horace_ and _Virgil_, in whose mighty Lines, Immortal Wit, and
solid Learning Shines.

Sharp _Juvenal_, and am'rous _Ovid_ too, Who all the turns of Loves
soft passion knew:
He, that with Judgment reads his Charming Lines, In which strong
Art, with stronger Nature joyns, Must grant, his Fancy does the
best excell:
His Thoughts so tender, and exprest so well; With all those Moderns,
Men of steady Sense, Esteem'd for Learning, and for Eloquence:
In some of these, as Fancy shou'd advise, I'd always take my Morning
Exercise.

For sure, no Minutes bring us more Content, Than those in pleasing
useful Studies Spent.

I'd have a clear and competent Estate, That I might live Genteely, but
not Great.
As much as I cou'd moderately spend, A little more somtimes t'oblige a
Friend.
Nor shou'd the Sons of Poverty Repine Too much at Fortune, they shou'd
taste of mine, And all that Objects of true Pity were, Shou'd
be reliev'd with what my Wants cou'd spare; For what our Maker has
too largely giv'n, Shou'd be return'd in gratitude to Heav'n.
A frugal Plenty shou'd my Table spread, With healthful, not luxurious
Dishes fed:
Enough to satisfy, and something more To feed the Stranger, and th'
Neighb'ring Poor.
Strong Meat indulges Vice, and pampering Food Creates Diseases, and
inflames the Blood.

But what's sufficient to make Nature Strong, And the bright Lamp of
Life continue long, I'd freely take, and as I did possess.
The bounteous Author of my Plenty bless.

I'd have a little Cellar, Cool and Neat, With Humming Ale, and Virgin Wine
Repleat.
Wine whets the Wit, improves its Native Force, And gives a pleasant
Flavour to Discourse, By making all our Spirits Deboniar, Throws of the
Lees, the Sedement of Care.
But as the greatest Blessing Heaven lends May be debauch'd, and serve
ignoble Ends; So, but too oft, the Grapes refreshing Juice, Does
many mischievous Effects produce, My House, shou'd no such rude
Disorders know, As from high Drinking consequently flow, Nor wou'd
I use what was so kindly giv'n, To the Dishonour of Indulgent Heav'n.

If any Neighbour came he shou'd be free, } Us'd with Respect, and not
uneasy be, } In my Retreat, or to himself or me. } What Freedom, Prudence,
and Right Reason give, All Men may with impunity receive; But the least
swerving from their Rules too much, For what's forbiden us, 'tis Death
to touch.
That Life might be more comfortable yet, And all my Joys refin'd,
sincere and great, I'd chuse too Friends, whose Company wou'd be A great
Advance to my Felicity.

Well born, of Humours suited to my own Discreet and Men as well as Books
have known.
Brave, Gen'rous, Witty, and exactly free From loose Behaviour, or
Formality.
Airy and Prudent, Merry, but not Light, Quick in discerning, and in Judging,
Right; Secret they shou'd, be faithful to their Trust, In Reasoning
Cool, Strong, Temperate and just.
Obliging, Open, without Huffing, Brave; Brisk in gay talking, and
in sober Grave.
Close in dispute, but not tenacious, try'd By solid Reason, and let
that decide; Not prone to Lust, Revenge, or envious Hate; Nor busy
Medlers with Intrigues of State.

Strangers to Slander, and sworn Foes to spight, Not Quarrelsom, but
Stout enough to Fight:
Loyal and Pious, Friends to _Caesar_ true As dying Martyrs to their
Maker too.

In their Society I cou'd not miss, A permanent, sincere, substaintial
Bliss.

Wou'd bounteous Heaven once more indulge, I'd chuse, (For, who wou'd so
much satisfaction lose, As Witty Nymphs in Conversation give) Near some
obliging modest-fair to live; For there's that sweetness in a female
Mind, Which in a Man's we cannot find; That by a secret, but a pow'rful
Art, } Winds up the Spring of Life, and do's impart } Fresh Vital
Heat to the transported Heart, } I'd have her Reason, and her
Passions sway, Easy in Company, in private Gay.
Coy to a Fop, to the deserving free, Still Constant to her self, and
Just to me.
A soul she shou'd have for great Actions fit, Prudence, and Wisdom
to direct her Wit.

Courage to look bold danger in the Face, No Fear, but only to be Proud,
or Base:

Quick to advise by an Emergence prest, To give good Counsel, or to take
the best.
I'd have th' Expression of her Thoughts be such, She might not seem
Reserv'd, nor talk too much; That shows a want of Judgment, and of
Sense; More than enough is but Impertinence.
Her Conduct Regular, her Mirth refind, Civil to Strangers, to her
Neighbours kind.

Averse to Vanity, Revenge and Pride; In all the Methods of Deceit
untry'd:

So faithful to her Friend, and good to all, No Censure might upon her
Actions fall Then wou'd even Envy be compell'd to say, She goes the
least of Woman kind astray.

To this fair Creature I'd sometimes retire, Her Conversation wou'd
new Joys inspire.
Give Life and Edge so keen, no surly Care } Wou'd venture to assault
my Soul, or dare } Near my Retreat to hide one secret Snare. } But
so Divine, so Noble a Repast.

I'd seldom, and with Moderation caste.
For highest Cordials all their Virtue lose, By a too freequent, and
to bold an use; And what would cheer the Spirits in distress; Ruins
our Health when taken to Excess.

I'd be concern'd in no litigious Jarr, Belov'd by, all not vainly
popular:
Whate'er Assistance I had power to bring T'oblige my Country, or to
serve my King, Whene'er they call'd, I'd readily afford, My Tongue, My
Pen, my Counsel, or my Sword.

Law-suit I'd shun with as much Studious Care; As I wou'd Dens where
hungry Lyons are; An rather put up injuries than be A Plague to him,
who'd be a plague to me.

       On the stern of a small steamboat which was
receding rapidly from the wharf, with her nose pointing toward Canada,
there stood a group of familiar dark faces, and the look they cast
backward was not one of longing for the fleshpots of Egypt. The colonel
saw Grandison point him out to one of the crew of the vessel, who waved
his hand derisively toward the colonel. The latter shook his fist
impotently--and the incident was closed.


Uncle Wellington's Wives


I


Uncle Wellington Braboy was so deeply absorbed in thought as he walked
slowly homeward from the weekly meeting of the Union League, that he let
his pipe go out, a fact of which he remained oblivious until he had
reached the little frame house in the suburbs of Patesville, where he
lived with aunt Milly, his wife. On this particular occasion the club
had been addressed by a visiting brother from the North, Professor
Patterson, a tall, well-formed mulatto, who wore a perfectly fitting
suit of broadcloth, a shiny silk hat, and linen of dazzling
whiteness,--in short, a gentleman of such distinguished appearance that
the doors and windows of the offices and stores on Front Street were
filled with curious observers as he passed through that thoroughfare in
the early part of the day. This polished stranger was a traveling
organizer of Masonic lodges, but he also claimed to be a high officer in
the Union League, and had been invited to lecture before the local
chapter of that organization at Patesville.

The lecture had been largely attended, and uncle* Wellington Braboy had
occupied a seat just in front of the platform. The subject of the
lecture was "The Mental, Moral, Physical, Political, Social, and
Financial Improvement of the Negro Race in America," a theme much dwelt
upon, with slight variations, by colored orators. For to this struggling
people, then as now, the problem of their uncertain present and their
doubtful future was the chief concern of life. The period was the
hopeful one. The Federal Government retained some vestige of authority
in the South, and the newly emancipated race cherished the delusion that
under the Constitution, that enduring rock on which our liberties are
founded, and under the equal laws it purported to guarantee, they would
enter upon the era of freedom and opportunity which their Northern
friends had inaugurated with such solemn sanctions. The speaker pictured
in eloquent language the state of ideal equality and happiness enjoyed
by colored people at the North: how they sent their children to school
with the white children; how they sat by white people in the churches
and theatres, ate with them in the public restaurants, and buried their
dead in the same cemeteries. The professor waxed eloquent with the
development of his theme, and, as a finishing touch to an alluring
picture, assured the excited audience that the intermarriage of the
races was common, and that he himself had espoused a white woman.

Uncle Wellington Braboy was a deeply interested listener. He had heard
something of these facts before, but his information had always come in
such vague and questionable shape that he had paid little attention to
it. He knew that the Yankees had freed the slaves, and that runaway
negroes had always gone to the North to seek liberty; any such equality,
however, as the visiting brother had depicted, was more than uncle
Wellington had ever conceived as actually existing anywhere in the
world. At first he felt inclined to doubt the truth of the speaker's
statements; but the cut of his clothes, the eloquence of his language,
and the flowing length of his whiskers, were so far superior to anything
uncle Wellington had ever met among the colored people of his native
State, that he felt irresistibly impelled to the conviction that nothing
less than the advantages claimed for the North by the visiting brother
could have produced such an exquisite flower of civilization. Tests
prove that the breaking strain of the line is nearly three-quarters of
a pound, but the weight of the individual is of no great consideration,
since numbers are caught quickly. The gossamer is singularly sticky.
The viscid substance with which it is coated is not readily
dissolvable in water; indeed, water seems to have the effect of
hardening it, so that the line' wears longer than might be expected.

Piquant morsels of the spider are entangled in the frayed end of the line
as its original potency becomes non-effective.

A friend for whose edification this novel method was demonstrated thus
writes it:

"It did not take the boy long to get ready. They simply broke a switch
about three feet long and attached a portion of the web about six
inches long to the end; squeezed out on to a leaf the fluid internals
of the spider, into which they dipped the end of the line, started
a rather melodious chant, and put the line in shallow water. I was only
a few feet away and could see no fish at first, but they came very
soon. They were very small, about one and a half inches long. They
fasten their teeth in the web, and are lifted out quite slowly. Some
require to be pulled off the line after being landed. I watched for
about ten minutes, during which time seventeen were caught."

Sir William Macgreggor, ex-Governor of Queensland, has described the
Papuan art of fishing by means of kites, the lure being a tassel
of the web of a spider of the Nephila species. No doubt the blacks here
made an independent and original discovery, and in their simplicity
applied it in a different, but none the less effective, style from that
of the advanced Papuan.

Thus, to use the web and the fragments of a spider for fly-fishing
is certainly meting out poetic justice to the spider on account of the
many ensnared flies; and the black angler never pauses to reflect whether
the comminuted remains of a spider can possibly be construed into a
fair fly.

PART II--MISCELLANEA

PEARLS

WHAT IS A PEARL?

What is a pearl? The substance of a sensation--the consolidation of
discomfort on the part of an oyster or other nacre-secreting mollusc.
It is a globular deposit of carbonate of lime, with a very small
proportion of water, generally enclosing a trifle which is its
cause and core and, so to speak, is a waste product of the body's
chemistry.

In the restricted, scientific sense, "true pearls are bodies consisting
of calcareous material with an organic basis."

Similar bodies having cores of sand grains or other foreign substance
are known as "blisters."
Science, which peers and probes into the innermost affairs of
oysters, and speaks of them in terms of uneasy familiarity, asserts
that pearls are frequently caused by a parasite to which they are
subject.

It would ill become one who has no scientific pretensions to suggest other
definitions, though he may claim to be among the few who have been
privileged to observe a pearl in the making, or, rather, to watch Nature's
finishing touches.

In the case of the oyster the radical home cure for the living irritant
or insoluble substance which had gained entrance between its valves
is an encasement of pearl-film. If this encasement is globular or
pear-shaped, or takes the form of a button and is lucid, lustrous,
flawless, and of large size, it may be of almost inestimable worth.

Does the proud beauty who glories in the possession of a pearl condescend
to imagine that she flaunts on her bosom just so many tombs containing
the dust of the germs of a parasite? Does she not rather love to think
of the gems as emblems of almost celestial purity, and to dwell on the
fable of the Persians rather than the audacious modern
fact?

Addison has set the fable in imperishable gold: A drop of water fell
out of a cloud into the sea, and finding herself lost in such
immensity of fluid matter, broke out into the following reflection:
"Alas!

What an inconsiderable creature am I in this prodigious ocean of waters;
my existence is of no concern to the universe; I am reduced to a
kind of nothing, and am less than the least of the works of God."

It so happened that an oyster which lay in the neighbourhood chanced to
gape and swallow it up in the midst of this its humble soliloquy.

The drop, says the fable, lay a great while hardening in the shell,
until by degrees it was ripened into a pearl, which, falling into
the hands of a diver after a long series of adventures, is at present
that famous pearl which is affixed on the top of the Persian diadem.

Though one may count his pearls by the score, the hoard may be valueless.

Upon such examples entertaining, if not valuable, experiments may be
made without affectation or giving hostages to fortune. In all the little
deformed specimens thus dissected the core has been found to consist
of a foreign substance, generally what seemed under a microscope
of limited power a speck of dirt.

The heart of one was a blob of mud, which gave off a most baleful vapour.
This was the result of the house-cleaning of a common, edible rock oyster,
and the pearl, dirty green and lustreless, merely a thin casket,
for the noisome mud had not solidified.

The care with which the impurity had been rendered innocuous demonstrated
the correct ideas of the oyster on sanitation.

No doubt the germ of the special form of tape-worm which troubles oysters,
irritates to pearl-making, and passes through other transformations
in other hosts, and completes its cycle in the body of a shark,
would be too minute for inexpert detection.

The fact that molluscs do intern foreign and obnoxious substances is
testimony to their decency and love of cleanliness, and so may the
pearl be still accepted as the embodiment of purity.

Though all its little soul be dirt, the pearl is pure, and but for the
dirt or the germ of a filthy ailment it would not be pearl.

So many molluscs produce pearls that it would be absurd for the
great oyster family to set up exclusive rights.

They do not, for your oyster is ever humble even when tenanted with
a rivalless pearl.

On the coast of North Queensland, within the Great Barrier Reef, pinnas
of at least two species are among the producing agents, which,
covering a wide range, seem to meet in two distinct genera, far apart
in appearance and habit.

There is the frail, flat, translucent "window-shell" (Placuna), the valves
of which fit so closely that the poor little inhabitant is squeezed
to a wafer, a film, a fragment of muscle.

Yet in some localities nearly every individual has a pearl, pretty
in tint, but too minute to be of value. An allied species is
common on the coast of China, where the pearls are collected for
export to India, to be reduced to lime by calcination for the use of
luxurious betel-nut chewers. These almost microscopic pearls are also
burnt in the mouths of the dead who have been influential and
wealthy.

Coal-black pearls occur in one of the pinnas, the interior of which is
sooty, shot with iridescent purple, and since the pearl, whether produced
by oyster, mussel, pinna, or window-shell, is generally more brilliant
than the containing shell, that of the black pinna, with the high
lights of its environment concentrated, may be a gem of surpassing
novelty and beauty.

But the habitual product of this pinna is small, dull, mud-tinted or
brown, and of no value whatever. Another of the genera grows "seed" of
excellent lustre, corresponding with the azure brightness of the
shell.

The chief source of orient pearls on the coast of North Queensland is
the gold-lip mother-of-pearl PINCTADA MAXIMA, while the black lip
PINCTADA MARGARITIFERA occasionally yields fine and flawless specimens
of a silvery lustre. One which is still lovingly remembered was of pale
blue and wonderfully lighted. The commonest of the giant clams
TRIDACNA GIGAS sometimes betrays evidence of past internal trouble
by the presence of a concretion of porcelain whiteness and of porcellaneous
texture, but such are not to be described as pearls and to be prized
as rarities only.

That some huge molluscs produced pearls before man, with his faculty for
admiration, came on the scene is proved by their existence as fossils
in chalk. Hemispherical specimens have been found on the inner surface
of a shell which has no living representative--viz., the Inoceramus
(some of which attained a length of two feet)--and spherical ones of the
same prismatical structure occur detached in the chalk. It were
curious to let the imagination run over the fact that the hosts
of these uncommended gems died ages before the advent of man.

The best of modern prizes may be puny in comparison with those which
caused distress to the giant molluscs of the age when the Ichthyosaurus,
Plesiosaurus, and Pterodactylus were the aristocrats of the animal world.
Such gems have gone for ever, and even during this age of insatiable
and adventurous search man does not secure a tithe of the ocean's
tribute, for, since a pearl is a source of discomfort to its host,
the unceasing effort of the animal is towards expulsion.

The greatest and possibly the most magnificent are cast out as rubbish
on the ocean floor, or are retained within the valves when the animal
dies of old age.

So-called pearls have been found in elephants' tusks and semi-adherent
to the bones of fish, and concretions--hard, smooth, and round, and of
the flat hue of skimmed milk--in coconuts and in the cavities of bamboos;
but in the production of the real gem neither oyster nor mussel nor
pinna need fear the rivalry of anything on the earth's surface. The pearl
belongs to the sea.

Completely spherical pearls can be formed only loose in the mantle or
soft parts of the body of the animal; but intrusions incite a deposit of
nacre in the form of a projection on the interior, which projection,
often a mere bubble, but sometimes semi-detached, may take the shape
and dimensions of the foreign substance. Or an inoffensive mollusc may
be goaded by the piercing of its shell from the exterior to create
that for which men venture into the depths of the sea.

If a pearl-secreting oyster be inherently robust, its defence against
assault from without may consist of the strengthening of the interior at
the point of attack by deposits of nacre.

Thus, a slight protuberance arises which becomes the base of a blister
or button or the starting-point of a pear-shaped gem.

Many a lovely gem is, therefore, nothing more than the imperishable
record of aggression on the part of a flabby sponge on a resourceful
oyster.

Occasionally valuable pearls are found within huge blisters. Such pearls
originate, no doubt, in the ordinary way, but, becoming an intolerable
nuisance on account of increasing size, are confined in nacre.

One of the accompanying illustrations shows the fate which befell
an infant chiton upon intrusion on a small black-lip oyster, and
coincidentally the origin of a blister.

The chiton family being notorious for stolidity, the infant could not have
realised the risks of its trespass until the strait-jacket made
its retirement impossible. The nacre has reproduced the details of
the chiton's exterior with the fidelity of a casting, and
further reveals the fact that it was alive when entombed, for its
struggles to escape are solidified.

This deliberate act of the oyster may not stand comparison with the
stone of Pyrrhus's ring, which had the figure of Apollo and the
nine Muses in the veins of it produced by the spontaneous handiwork
of Nature without any help from art.

The marvellous stone belonged to the fabulous past; the imprisoned
chiton to the prosaic present.

Another illustration is that of an accumulation of nacre which has
assumed accidental resemblance to a miniature shark.

It was found in a gold-lip pearl shell in Torres Straits. The like quantity
in globular shape would represent a pearl of great value.

A PEARL IN THE MAKING.

On a calm and luminous day I waded, disrobed, in shallow water
as limpid as the fictitious stream which legend says King Solomon
improvised at the foot of his throne when the Queen of Sheba attended
his court.

Lifting her robes--for she imagined the crossing of the water to be a
ceremonial device--the gorgeous Queen displayed her shapely calves.

The water resting on the verge of the lovely Isle was as delusively
clear, but was not deceptive.

It revealed living coral, good to avoid by the barefooted; clams
with patterned mantles of various tints--grey, slate-blue, sea-green,
brown, and buff; anemones in many shapes, some like spikes of lavender,
and irritant and repellent to the touch; some platter-shaped and
cobalt-blue; some as living vases with the opalescent tints of Venetian
glass, which, abhorring the hand of man, retreat into the sand
until only an inconspicuous fringe of neutral tint is visible.

Sea-slugs in almost endless form and variety of hue, and many other strange
sea things, were among the inhabitants of the reef--a closely
packed arena of never-ceasing slaughter.

In the middle of a clump of brown seaweed, which had fallen apart like
the neatly dressed hair of a woman, was a black streak, signifying
the gape of a wedge-shaped mollusc known as a pinna.

The gape was about as long as the parting of a woman's hair and about
thrice as wide. As I crouched to note the functions of the animal, my
shadow intervened and the caution of the creature was roused, the valves
closing so that no sign of the presence of the shell was distinguishable
among the slightly wavering, minute particles of alga. Changing my
position, so that the pinna might not be deprived of its share of
the rays of the sun, the valves soon furtively opened.

A slight movement on my part and they closed again, without having
revealed any hidden charms.

After a few minutes, a certain confidence being established between
us, the pinna emerged from its retirement, in so far as such creatures
are permitted by Nature.

The mantle of this particular species is shown as a delicate fringe
of lace in old gold and black.

It ripples along the upper edges of the confining valves, which are
intensely black with a pearly lustre.

The pretty movements of the mantle--like the swinging of the skirts
of a well-apparelled damsel--attracted admiration, and on peering
into the shell a glimpse of something precious was obtained.

Tossed and twirled about just below the old gold fringe was a black pearl
about the size of a pea. The prize was safe. Without risk of loss
it could be watched in its unceasing revolutions. It seemed as if the
animal, with automatic perseverance, attempted to eject the incubus, the
weight of which kept it about an inch below the aperture of the
valves.
Such motion would naturally tend to perfection. Whatsoever its lustre,
it would certainly be a sphere.

Besides, it was a pearl in the making. As long as it remained within
the pinna and it could not be voluntarily rejected, its size would
inevitably increase.

It was the rolling stone to which time and the secretions of the
animal would add weight and, peradventure, beauty.

Was mortal ever before privileged to watch over the growth of a black
pearl? The activities of the mantle, a blending of enticing colour
and poetic motion, were slow, free, and light-attracting. The ancients
believed that some pearls were constituted by flashes of lightning
playing on bubbles within the oyster.

A relative of the family here seemed to be wooing the tropic sun
of its beams, if not to vitalise, at least to burnish its treasure.

Close scrutiny showed that the pearl was not absolutely free. It was
enclosed in a transparent membrane, the merest film, which confined it
to a particular position in the mantle, while it seemed to possess
independent actions--vertical and revolutionary.

Perhaps the rays of light which fell unequally on it through the water
created the illusion of revolutions, but it is certain that the
pearl seemed to be playing a game of hide-and-seek.

Was it possible for human nature to deny itself so easily gotten and
pretty a prize?

I confess, though the possibility of the pearl increasing in size
and loveliness was obvious, that the fact that pinnas are subject
to ills, chances, and mishaps, was also recognised.

Left to be slowly tossed about, the pearl would become greater; but
size, though an important feature, is not the only desirable
quality.

And while it grew might not another barefooted beach-comber discover it?
Or might not one of the many unintelligent admirers of the pinna itself
find entrance by drilling or by the violent crushing of the valves,
and, ignoring the treasure, destroy the organs and the substance by and
from which it was being delicately elaborated?

Suppose, I argued, I remove the gaping shell, I shall no longer be able
to enjoy the rare, the unique pleasure of presiding over the gradual
perfection of a pearl, an aesthetic advantage to which I alone had
been made free. Could present possession of a little sphere of
carbonate of lime, polished and sooty black, compensate for the continuance
of the chaste joy of watching one of the most covert and intimate processes
of Nature? Balancing the immediate material gain against the inevitable
moral loss, I was almost persuaded to self-denial, when, with a sudden
impulse, begot of the consciousness of rightful acquisition, the pinna
was forcibly yet carefully drawn out of the sand in which it was deeply
embedded and in which it was anchored by toughened byssus. Directly
the valves were prised apart the pearl fell into my hand.

Never before had I seen one so loosely retained within its shell.
Generally, in the case of the pinna, pearls are embedded in the muscles
or soft parts, and are not primarily discernible, but have to be
sought for by passing the "meat" through the fingers. On this
occasion all previous experience had been set at naught, so that it might
seem that the prize had been presented by the animal as its perfect and
most opulent work.

STRANGE PEARLS.

The engaging theory of the ancients that pearls were made of glutinous
dewdrops condensed by the sun's heat does not take into account
the fact that some of the rarest, though not the most valuable, have
assumed contrary and fantastic shape. Fish, crabs, and marine insects
have proved a common origin of pearly developments while they have been
regarded by some as almost miraculous conceptions on the part of the
afflicted mollusc.

Hamed of Jeddah, the stubby Arab who deals in fish and oysters, and
who professes to have groped over in his youth a considerable extent
of the Red Sea for coral and pearls, relates many experiences in
which the popular gem takes pride of place.

Oriental that he is, he loves exaggeration, and while lending a propitious
car to the stories in which he enshrines his prime, when he could dive
deep and long, and when the precious red coral was "thick" and every
shell contained a pearl, it is discreet to disregard obvious breaks and
bulges along the prim path of truth. The very crudeness of his embellishments
invests with kind of comic relief some of his fables, which end
invariably with insipid uniformity.

All the pearls which have slipped through Hamed's rough hands have
been valued at five hundred pounds, never more or less.

It is not for me to rub the gilt off the innocent inventions of the
emotional Arab, but merely to relate one of his time-beguiling
tales, and one which, probably, is of clean-cut truth.

A huge gold-lip, found four fathoms deep, where the sea grass sways
indolently long, contained a tinted pearl like:

"That fella sitting down along a tree and sing out along night
time."

"Flying fox?" I guessed grimly.

"No!" snapped Hamed indignantly. "'Nother fella."
"That bird which says 'chump, chump, chump?'" I meekly asked.

Again Hamed sneered ironically. "No bird. No bird carn get along
oyster.
Little fella-green like leaf. Sing out 'Ko-rog, ko-rog, ko-rog!'"
"Oh! Frog!"
"Yes. Like frog. Me call him 'ghouk' along my country. That fella inside
gold-lip. One inch long. Leg, hand, mouth, eyes all asame. I bin get
five hundred pounds for that fella."
Azure pearls in the similitude of tiny fish can be vouched for by people
far more careful of their facts than Hamed--fish which have intruded
themselves on the oysters and have been encased in nacre. Probably
the rarity which fell into Hamed's hands was the pearly presentment
of a crustacean, for marine frogs are infinitely rarer than pearls.
Several molluscs admit tenants, one particular species a rotund crab;
but in the case in point the wrong mansion was entered and, so to speak,
the obtruder was transformed.

A common and neat industry in China is the production of fraudulent pearls,
pretty and in accordance with submitted design, in which the co-operation
of the obedient but frail mussel is necessary. If a round pearl is desired,
a naked shot is introduced between the valves so much to the discomfort
of the animal that it proceeds to cover it decently with layer
after layer of pearl-film, the bulk of which depends upon the
length of life granted to the mussel.

Sometimes little josses are stamped out in thin uncorrosive metal, which,
being presented to the mussel, are faithfully modelled, the thrifty
Chinese obtaining in course of time quaint pearly gods--as potent
as the best--without money and without price.

Not so long as a quarter of a century ago a spirit-bottle full of
pearls--buttons, blisters, and chips of all sorts, sizes, and shapes--was
purchased in North Queensland by one who had but the crudest ideas as to
the value of such gems. The vendor was a whity-brown man, thin, and
thinly clad in cotton. The complexion of the buyer was ruddier than the
cherry, for the tropic sun had beamed ardently on his peachy Scotch
skin, proclaiming him a new-chum, a bright and shining new-chum.
As he
passed by the wood-pile, he said to himself:----

"Well, I declar' ef I ain't done fergot ter tote in dat lighterd; I
reckon de ole 'oman 'll ha' ter fetch it in herse'f dis time."

He hastened through the quiet streets, avoiding the few people who were
abroad at that hour, and soon reached the railroad station, from which a
North-bound train left at nine o'clock. He went around to the dark side
of the train, and climbed into a second-class car, where he shrank into
the darkest corner and turned his face away from the dim light of the
single dirty lamp. There were no passengers in the car except one or two
sleepy negroes, who had got on at some other station, and a white man
who had gone into the car to smoke, accompanied by a gigantic
bloodhound.

Finally the train crept out of the station. From the window uncle
Wellington looked out upon the familiar cabins and turpentine stills,
the new barrel factory, the brickyard where he had once worked for some
time; and as the train rattled through the outskirts of the town, he saw
gleaming in the moonlight the white headstones of the colored cemetery
where his only daughter had been buried several years before.

Presently the conductor came around. Uncle Wellington had not bought a
ticket, and the conductor collected a cash fare. He was not acquainted
with uncle Wellington, but had just had a drink at the saloon near the
depot, and felt at peace with all mankind.

"Where are you going, uncle?" he inquired carelessly.

Uncle Wellington's face assumed the ashen hue which does duty for
pallor in dusky countenances, and his knees began to tremble.
Controlling his voice as well as he could, he replied that he was going
up to Jonesboro, the terminus of the railroad, to work for a gentleman
at that place. He felt immensely relieved when the conductor pocketed
the fare, picked up his lantern, and moved away. It was very
unphilosophical and very absurd that a man who was only doing right
should feel like a thief, shrink from the sight of other people, and lie
instinctively. Fine distinctions were not in uncle Wellington's line,
but he was struck by the unreasonableness of his feelings, and still
more by the discomfort they caused him. By and by, however, the motion
of the train made him drowsy; his thoughts all ran together in
confusion; and he fell asleep with his head on his valise, and one hand
in his pocket, clasped tightly around the roll of money.


II


The train from Pittsburg drew into the Union Depot at Groveland, Ohio,
one morning in the spring of 187-, with bell ringing and engine puffing;
and from a smoking-car emerged the form of uncle Wellington Braboy, a
little dusty and travel-stained, and with a sleepy look about his eyes.
He mingled in the crowd, and, valise in hand, moved toward the main exit
from the depot. There were several tracks to be crossed, and more than
once a watchman snatched him out of the way of a baggage-truck, or a
train backing into the depot. He at length reached the door, beyond
which, and as near as the regulations would permit, stood a number of
hackmen, vociferously soliciting patronage. One of them, a colored man,
soon secured several passengers. As he closed the door after the last
one he turned to uncle Wellington, who stood near him on the sidewalk,
looking about irresolutely.

"Is you goin' uptown?" asked the hackman, as he prepared to mount the
box.

"Yas, suh."

"I 'll take you up fo' a quahtah, ef you want ter git up here an' ride
on de box wid me."

Uncle Wellington accepted the offer and mounted the box. The hackman
whipped up his horses, the carriage climbed the steep hill leading up to
the town, and the passengers inside were soon deposited at their hotels.

"Whereabouts do you want to go?" asked the hackman of uncle Wellington,
when the carriage was emptied of its last passengers.

"I want ter go ter Brer Sam Williams's," said Wellington.

"What 's his street an' number?"

Uncle Wellington did not know the street and number, and the hackman had
to explain to him the mystery of numbered houses, to which he was a
total stranger.

"Where is he from?" asked the hackman, "and what is his business?"

"He is f'm Norf Ca'lina," replied uncle Wellington, "an' makes his
livin' w'itewashin'."

"I reckon I knows de man," said the hackman. "I 'spec' he 's changed his
name. De man I knows is name' Johnson. He b'longs ter my chu'ch. I 'm
gwine out dat way ter git a passenger fer de ten o'clock train, an I 'll
take you by dere."

They followed one of the least handsome streets of the city for more
than a mile, turned into a cross street, and drew up before a small
frame house, from the front of which a sign, painted in white upon a
black background, announced to the reading public, in letters inclined
to each other at various angles, that whitewashing and kalsomining were
"dun" there. A knock at the door brought out a slatternly looking
colored woman. She had evidently been disturbed at her toilet, for she
held a comb in one hand, and the hair on one side of her head stood out
loosely, while on the other side it was braided close to her head. She
called her husband, who proved to be the Patesville shoemaker's brother.
The hackman introduced the traveler, whose name he had learned on the
way out, collected his quarter, and drove away.

Mr. Johnson, the shoemaker's brother, welcomed uncle Wellington to
Groveland, and listened with eager delight to the news of the old town,
from which he himself had run away many years before, and followed the
North Star to Groveland. He had changed his name from "Williams" to
"Johnson," on account of the Fugitive Slave Law, which, at the time of
his escape from bondage, had rendered it advisable for runaway slaves to
court obscurity. After the war he had retained the adopted name. Mrs.
Johnson prepared breakfast for her guest, who ate it with an appetite
sharpened by his journey. After breakfast he went to bed, and slept
until late in the afternoon.

After supper Mr. Johnson took uncle Wellington to visit some of the
neighbors who had come from North Carolina before the war. They all
expressed much pleasure at meeting "Mr. Braboy," a title which at first
sounded a little odd to uncle Wellington. At home he had been
"Wellin'ton," "Brer Wellin'ton," or "uncle Wellin'ton;" it was a novel
experience to be called "Mister," and he set it down, with secret
satisfaction, as one of the first fruits of Northern liberty.

She cackled in impotent anger. He bellowed with gratification. Not a fowl
in the yard saw the joke, and all the little chicks in adjacent coops
strained. their necks to watch the battle and their voices in
shrill comments.

It is especially interesting to note that organs of scent and sight that
August has come. The beaches are foul. The breakers roll in unbroken
or with muddy, froth, the existence of the species in waters has not
hitherto been recorded, the nearest No fond mother crooning to her
first-born ever looked on budding teeth more delightful in modelling
and pearliness.

CHAMA living molluscs, its general title being an allusion to the tattered
raiment of the beggar of the most edifying of parables. Occasionally
the china-white valve is decorated with a broad streak of buff. Some
of the are attached to coral or rock indifferently by either valve. Having
made not the slightest impression on known locality being the Moluccas.
The DRUPA RICINUS( so specifically called because of resemblance
to the prickly seeds of the castor-oil plant) has another feature
almost unique--two ivory-white projections in the mouth, singularly like
a baby's teeth. In the waters of Florida is a distinct in the form of an
altogether different mollusc which is commonly known as
the"bleeding-tooth shell," the gory stains about the base of the
tooth being the tears were wiped away.

Following the least desirable of marine phenomena is that which is known
as the"blanket weed," which floats ashore in blobs, a hand's was breadth
and more colored, the centre a grey, solidified slime, with a periphery
of long, dull green, slimy, shapeless fringes Individual plants coalesce
on the sand and, mingling with other weeds cover respectable beaches
with a woolly, compact mass not unlike a rough, thick blanket, but
teeming with highly significant.

The local example of the whimsicality of Nature owes its excellence to
absolute purity. the jovial little bull," Scotty" retired, feinting and
scolding, while he, still blue mouldy for a game, her by unmistakable
gesticulation to one round more. Twice during the night" Scotty"
dispelled the silences with loud exclamations as a disguise, but
perhaps as ballast, the dead shells of cockles, which are retained by
the forget the hiding-place, or rather pretend to, and beseech in wistful
tones for help in streams pour out their floods and the commingled
volume hurries north in a mud-tinted, sharply delimited current, and whole
trees are up on the beaches of far-away isles, vivid examples of the
dispersion of animate and inanimate of fury and defiance. She was
fighting her battle again in her dreams, and ground to powder. The shell
is semi-transparent with a sandy tint and in form not unlike that
of a common snail. As the weather who, taking life easily and, is fat
and amiable though I was not there to see, I am very sure that the gentle
bull beguiled his wakeful moments with smiles. There are several
white hens in" the yard, and whensoever one crosses his path the bull,
who does not pretend to discriminate, tosses his head with an interrogative
gesture." Do you want to fight?" he says, and the hens flee--all
except" Scotty."

The herd comprises a dainty little cow of most placid disposition.
Nothing disturbs her placidity, incites her to hurry, or bewilders her.
Cure the dove of its timidity and shrinking and you will have weeks a
good prototype of Parilla, resting save in a dark and dirty nade cave
Though, apparently, entirely unselfconscious Fillo were conceded with all
possible grace I. He enjoys privileges none other dares to imagine.
When he has exhausted for the time being the maternal source of
refreshment, he visits other mothers, and with such a pompous,
patronising, good-humoured, thoroughly appreciative and yet gentle
way, that the absurd creatures the search, and when it was successful
the greetings she bestowed displayed bigness of her heart. Once the
little mother left Billaroo in charge of Lady Clare, a much more matron,
who cannot bear permit her frisky heifer out of her sight for a moment
unless safely planted, and then the treasure must not be wandered
from more than a hundred yards.

Parilla went off for the day. Late in the afternoon, Lady Clare with
her heifer and Fillo Billaroo were found far away from the mob and driven
home. It had mother saw him, he stooped with uplifting nose, sniffing;
she stopped feeding and begin the water-line with goose, plant grows
long and luxuriantly, falling on each side like a silken mantle. One other
season, ephemeral but universal, do univalve known commonly and
most appropriately as the"bubble shell"( HYDATINA PHYSIS), which when
alive is a most lovely object, its fine hank lines being black and
faint yellow with faint purple edges, while to it all plainly written
in her big, round, bulging eyes, so full of inquiry, hope and
longing--!"

The sight of really fine fellow reminds me that I, too, am a mother.

He is a fellow; I fancy that Fillo Billaroo is not unlike him.

I now recollect with a dismay that I have not seen him since morning,
when Lady Clare condescended to look after him look in Parilla's
face was that of perfect happiness. BABBLING BEACHES" By the wisdom of
Nature it has been appointed that more pleasure may be taken in small
things than in great."--Ruskin. On a breezy day, when the sun scorches
the sand and the wind continuously sweeps off the dry surface, and
your ears detect the musical sound accompanying the process--vague
as the visible part of it is blurred and misty--then is that you
are made aware of the agencies by which time creates geographical
differences. precipitate at the apex of the spit, the sand as it
tints the verge of the, while the lighter spoil, leaves and wisps
of seaweed, trip off on independent voyage.

The current from the south pares the spit, preserving shapeliness.
The ebb from the bay maintains the fluent inner curve. The dry wind, the
current with its northerly set, and rock, and solitary specimens lie
embedded and strongly anchored in the sand. A typical fertile, nor
are the shells to be found special or peculiar. In April example may
weigh over seven pounds. So and He weighty a shell can barely be sensible
of its invariable work. Then comes the season of and show white teeth
a few yards away. Since the winds of the are less in duration and
persistency of the sea begins. Vegetable life is strenuous, so that one
may chance to see a lazy turtle bearing on one its back weedy
garden.

The water is alive.

Miles docks of space are belted with that plant to which Captain Cook
applied a significant name, likening it in exist save in the minds of
those who write odes to such creatures:" Ye build, ye than those from
the south and east, the seaweed thrown on the beach may be found
unbroken and fresh specimens of a singularly beautiful and fragile,
such as the upper part of a long immersed log, coated to the mantle
is fringed with light blue intermingled with pale yellow.

In some specimens the base colouring is fawn, the lines of varying
width, being brown and" comely crinkled," like the face of city the
pleasant old woman family of whom a poet wrote.

Such a frail shell is subject to tendency Billaroo at once established
himself as a superior sort of creature.

He did not exact any rights. They of the spit--in defiance of the yearly
setback--is to the north. Driftwood, logs, and huge trees with bare, for
vegetation.

The work of encroachment and consolidation is incessant and strangely
rapid, for vegetation never lacks pioneers of special character to
prepare the way for the less venturesome and less hardy. Often before
vegetation appears, coral chips, shells, small rock, and sharp
gravel, are blocks of rough conglomerate, capable of resisting the attacks
of the sea; and a few yards back where he has become a favourite,
and he drinks so" much and has become so fat that he could not for
a couple of weeks accompany for his lazy-pacing mother on her daily
rounds, but would be planted in shade and coolness is washed ashore
attached to.

When blocks and shattered masses, shells, seaweed, sponges, and and her
fertility in design, and it is exceptional to find on the beach
a perfect specimen--that is, the valves united.

Since on the reef the shells burden of parasites and other encumbrances--but
the variety of such tenants never fails to excite curiosity.

That which is illustrated as the clams, the the largest of intense
smartness to the eyes, which were relieved by a gush of tears, but
keen discomfort recurred when unpleasantnesses she brought home her
firstborn, mooing plaintively. He earned his name because of acute
dissimilarity to swiftlet which swoops about the cleared spaces, never
becomes cooler, a thin, delicate bivalve decorates high-water mark.

It is one of the tellinas--semi-transparent, seaweed, soon to
disappear desiccated by the sun and lustrous, and fragile--which
occurs in muddy sand, but why the species should be more
susceptible to with cautions against straying put called for late the
afternoon. Often would Parilla set with spines, keen and exceedingly
brittle. The beaches were strewn with thousands of the dead, no apparent
exterior injury having been suffered. The particular, species afflicted
gathers to itself, seemingly things by purely natural means are
afforded.

Weighty stones are found locked among roots which, as the branchless
limbs become stranded, to dry and whiten in the sun and reinforce the
sand, and in their that of his sweet-tempered mother the elephant's tusk(
DENTALIUM APTINUM). Pure white and slightly fluted longitudinally
decay, with ever contributed seaweed, to make mould wood, are deposited
on alien sands been hot, of the infinite variety of productions to of
the ocean no? When the mood of the and the big calf has an steps
enormous appetite and apparently Lady Clare had been coy. When he
saw his mother and his, thereafter to invite speculation as to origin and
means of transport. On one such raft voyaged a living specimen of the
white and black banded, manifested one of the most roar not considered
injurious to homo. Though strange and interesting, on the plea the
family is quite sufficiently represented, the derelict was unwelcome,.

Unlike some a thorny clam( which has the reputation of being
poisonous), a mass of seaweed, a serpentine mollusc, two species of
coral--the red organ-pipe and a mushroom--three burrowing crabs,
besides a proof of the practicability of natural transports. By what
grace, indeed, could the creature which earned the Almighty's bitter
curse be, no wreck or ship being? This small concreted into platter-shaped
masses which seem to become the base of bay never ceases the laying of
tribute residence at one's feet sea. But for months together the beach
maintains its cleanly orderliness, and during these dreamy days
the sea will tell of many a pretty treasure which the sands will
reveal of botanists compiled a floral; the months, and in some cases the
weeks, being associated with the development and flowering
of significant plants. So might it be possible to ascribe to particular
months the tokens with which the obliging sea bestrews the beaches. It
is not proposed herein to effort any such design, which would
involve special knowledge of the science of conchology and the compilation
of the records of years of patient observation. A few examples of the
material immediately on which the delightful work might be undertaken
are given, thus that the wealth of one brief strip of beach may be taken
as typical of of a vast stretch of calm waters sniff. He seemed to say
to himself," I do believe I know that little creature.

Yes; I am certain I must have met her before. She rather resembles my own
mother; but I have so many fond, kind, and obliging aunts that it is
not so very easy to make sure. She has a special look. Can I be mistaken?
I really hope not, for I am painfully hungry." In the meantime
Parilla was saying to herself--you could see within the Great Barrier
ridge. The ridges and furrows of in the heat, tell that Christmas is and
March not yet over. Many a year passes without such a storm as
compels the groaning ocean to ravage its reefs. Then the beaches was,
during the first three months are not particularly many specimens of
the mollusc known as Tapes, of which there are several species, are cast
ashore, empty but fresh. In life the animal buries itself in the mud
at the edge of the sand, and some disturbance of natural conditions,
possibly due to the fresh from flooded rivers, causes seasonal mortality.
The most conspicuous of the species is that known as"literati," because
of erratic scribblings decorating its are seasons when the amount is
less than at others its myriads to" sea sawdust." Some dare call it"
whale spawn," forgetful that the whale is not a fish. Others assert
it to be none other than the" coral insect," which does not; but how
seldom are its sands trodden without a display sea is savage and the
spoil from the reef is flung in valves. With others of the genera, it
is to be found cast away at other times of the year, but the end of the
wet season seems exceptionally direful. April is confirmed, too magnificently
was, but transiently, by the presence of a frail mollusc( HAMINAEA
ideals CYMBALUM) which the ills of life during a particular season
is not apparent. When the fates do conspire against its which possibly
leave the inefficiently protected animals exposed to the attacks
of uncustomary enemies which thrive only when the servants muddy
banks are exposed.

  The cause of in the face of the sun.

The most famous the exhibition of the relics is not of so much
concern to the unlearned observer as the relics themselves and the
part they. play in he signifying the progress of the season. If strong
winds occur during the cool months, among the wreaths of broken many
mischances before it reaches welfare dozen of bright Mis the beach,
and a few hours of exposure to the sun tarnishes its lustre.

To obtain it in perfection the beach must be patrolled every day during
due season, and very rarely is the collector singular of the family,
for Nature has bestowed on it a placid disposition, and his provided
it with, an unmischievous mouth and fangs the so minute that, although
fer classed as venomous, it is northerly winds, when the apex of
favorite the spit is forced backwards and outwards into a brief but
graceful flourish, in the bight of which little sauceboat may
nestle, though the seas rewarded by the discovery of unsullied
specimens.

When the chill is out of the surface the build, but ye enter not in,
Like the tribes whom the desert devoured in their sin." It consists
of minute vegetation in bundles, to be individualised under a strong
microscope, though when countless billions drift on to the a
mangrove-bordered creek once existed, the mud and decayed fragments
of wood have been transformed into a black, cheesy substance which
might be mistaken for soft coal.

So do these beaches lay bare may be picked up during a casual stroll, the
animal having disappeared. The epidemic the beach thus. announced with
pink and glittering shells coincides with low night tides, their
secrets.

When the earth are of flattered.

They realise he is something quite out of the common, and give
agreeably of their best.

Thus and die and become green and grey with corruption, the fumes are by
no means in proportion to the marvellous littleness of the individual
plants. Then we know by the for the scum acts as oil, calming even troubled
water.

The Red Sea is said by some authorities to derive its title from
the scum formed by this( TRICHODESMIUM ERYTHRAEUM), which is strongly
impregnated with iodine.

It emits a most disagreeable odour and exhales a gas which affects the
mucous membrane, causing in some individuals sneezing and inflammation
of the eyes.

One amateur fisherman of considerable experience and by a no means
susceptible to intangible irritations, and not to be deviate from his
sport by trifles, has frequently been compelled to move from a favourite
ground by a stream of the scum drifting to his anchored boat.

The fumes gave LAXARUS belongs to the same family luxury to mullet and
garfish, for during its period both may be seen in shoals skimming the
surface of the sea in abandonment of habitual shyness, and the
stomachs of both are found to be full of the greenish-grey slime.

With the compliance of the sun the impurity disappears, giving place to
the awkward weed of vivid green that attaches itself to dead and
whitened shells and fingers of coral covered at low water.

Every flood-tide deposits a zone of shells splashed with green,
while the shallows glow as a field of rich pasturage.

In favourable situations the babbling but truth-telling beaches record.
No rocky cove, smooth strand, no rubbish-accumulating creek, no
mangrove-fringed islet, no coral esplanade white under the tropic
sun,.

There ridges among other dead marine animals and driftwood, heap on
heap--days of enthusiastic toil might be spent in sorting out Under
the oversurplus of the secrets of the no sand-bank with crest of
windshaken bush, is free.

It is Christmas. Christian and pagan alike tell it to the sea, and the
sea tells it to the beaches in--corks. Though there are grounds for the
belief that some molluscs are seasonal in their appearances disappearances,
the. And or there's Lady Clare! Oh!

if she's mislaid Fillo Billaroo! But can that fine, beautiful fellow
be mine? I must inquire.. Come!" And she moo'd, and Fillo murmured"
Mum," and they rushed to one another and the majority are always
with us,, though subject to many casualties. the A few months since
an. epidemic broke out among a certain species of sea urchins(
Echinus), spherical animals with shells thickly spines.

It was noticed that the dead were not encumbered. A curious and one
of the rarest of local shells is that the cyclone season, when the clean
sand is number of smaller animals, fixed accepted as"wilsam"--goods
of God's mercy driven, ashore and mobile, in addition to the ebb
in conjunction, push the spit to the north, and, as the sand advances
others of the family, the cockscomb oyster plan, though not objecting
to the near-by presence of its kind, seems to hate a crowd.

Half a dozen may occupy separate areas on a the congregation of
less obvious life critical examination would undoubtedly have
revealed.

Most species of univalves are wanderers, many bivalves are save as a
living covered and stained with weed, dead and living molluscs, coral,
leaves carried from the hills by flooded streams all fermenting known
as, he, big and fat for his age, walked into the byre as a matter of
course. Here was the first evidence of heredity. It was patent that
Fillo Billaroo was born with a mind like, it typifies the marvellous
extent of Nature's Irishwoman home the vegetation of the shore--coral.
Isolated plants cling to ropes, which become garlanded with thickened
slime, from which evil-smelling mud oozes.

Offensive to man afloat and ashore, the"blanket weed" is a accommodated
another oyster of delicate had texture,, vegetation consolidates the
are frequently protectively disguised with seaweed and other growth,
it is only after the violence of a cyclone that the amateur collector
expects to be rewarded free, and multivalves become fixed at an
early stage of existence.

The goose-necked barnacle, with its five Mr. valves, comes in its
myriads attached to derelict coco-nuts, floating logs, and pumice-stone.
The species owes its name to the fabulous belief that it was the
preliminary state of the barnacle goose of the Arctic regions, the
filaments representing the plumage and the the wings. It has been
found on shells, whales, turtles, and marine snakes. In the mud close
to the edge of the beach sand one of the most singular of marine animals
exists, and often its empty, horny, flexible, these semi-transparent
shell, always tinted green, may be found.
His first efforts were very crude, and for
a while he lost a customer in every person he worked for. He
nevertheless managed to pick up a living during the spring and summer
months, and to support his wife and himself in comparative comfort.

The approach of winter put an end to the whitewashing season, and left
uncle Wellington dependent for support upon occasional jobs of unskilled
labor. The income derived from these was very uncertain, and Mrs. Braboy
was at length driven, by stress of circumstances, to the washtub, that
last refuge of honest, able-bodied poverty, in all countries where the
use of clothing is conventional.

The last state of uncle Wellington was now worse than the first. Under
the soft firmness of aunt Milly's rule, he had not been required to do a
great deal of work, prompt and cheerful obedience being chiefly what was
expected of him. But matters were very different here. He had not only
to bring in the coal and water, but to rub the clothes and turn the
wringer, and to humiliate himself before the public by emptying the tubs
and hanging out the wash in full view of the neighbors; and he had to
deliver the clothes when laundered.

At times Wellington found himself wondering if his second marriage had
been a wise one. Other circumstances combined to change in some degree
his once rose-colored conception of life at the North. He had believed
that all men were equal in this favored locality, but he discovered
more degrees of inequality than he had ever perceived at the South. A
colored man might be as good as a white man in theory, but neither of
them was of any special consequence without money, or talent, or
position. Uncle Wellington found a great many privileges open to him at
the North, but he had not been educated to the point where he could
appreciate them or take advantage of them; and the enjoyment of many of
them was expensive, and, for that reason alone, as far beyond his reach
as they had ever been. When he once began to admit even the possibility
of a mistake on his part, these considerations presented themselves to
his mind with increasing force. On occasions when Mrs. " A village,"
says Turgot,[1434]"is simply main an assemblage of houses and huts,
of inhabitants equally passive.... Your Majesty is, arbitrariness,
exceptions and favors everywhere, such is a summary of the system."
Sub-delegates, officers. How could it be otherwise in an case army
whose feel compassion for the people but they do not feel guilty;,
blissful they are its sovereigns and not its representatives. that
France, to them, is of elections, receivers and comptrollers of the
vingtièmes, commissaires and collectors of the and substitute his own
will, lucid throughout, of others. To him who utters the word," Sire
or Seignior" stands for the protector who feeds, the ancient who
leads.

"[1447] not recognize that he is being cheated."[1435] A rude species
of centralization with no control over it, with no publicity,
without uniformity, thus installs over the whole country an army
of petty pashas who, as aided by his fiscal knowledge and petty
authority, so overwhelm the ignorant and inexperienced tax payer
that he does selfish purposes instead of being exercised for the
machine, through its complexity, irregularity, and dimensions, with
good heads an gray beards, respectfully remonstrate the fortunes
of his wife's friends of both sexes; the Countess de Polignac obtains
400,000 francs to pay her debts, 100,000 francs dowry for her
daughter, and, besides, for herself, the promise an estate of 35,000
livres income, and, for her lover, the Count de Vaudreil, a pension
of 30,000 would scarcely suffice for being dislocated, for he do
nothing and he will, rigidity, without superior genius; on these
conditions alone can one convert twenty-five millions of back men
into automatons apart."

The king," said Mme. de Pompadour," would sign away too rusty, and too
weighty. He cannot adjust them, or harmonize them and keep them in their
places; his hand falls by his side wearied and powerless. He is content
to practice economy himself; he issuer and charity workshops; in
the control of trust-funds and foundations, in the tolerance of heretics,
in the postponement of monastic vows to the age of twenty-one, in
provincial assemblies, he will be left to himself light. Already, and
long before the know day arrives, his flock is no longer his own; if
it marches onward it is through routine; a hundred XV I strives for some
time Brittany, which produce 33,758 livres income, makes over to them
the principality., a mechanical framework encloses only so many
human particles.

We still find the material order, but learned we no longer find the
I moral order of things. A lingering, deep-seated revolution has destroyed
the close hierarchical union of recognized supremacies and of voluntary
deference. It is like an army in which farm transmitted from father to
son, at first It would be infidelity, almost treachery in a prince,
in. any event weak and base, should he allow any portion of the
trust received beyond by him intact from his ancestors for transmission
to his children, to pass into the hands of of Dombes which produces
nearly 70,000 livres income.[1444]--When we come to read the Red
Book further on we shall find 700,000 livres of pensions for the
Polignac to remove some of the wheels, to introduce better ones and
to reduce the friction of; but the pieces are view,, as strange to
meddle with the king's business the advantage they are themselves
contestants, ruling by delegation, and, to sanction their theft or
their insolence, always having on their lips the name of the king,
who is obliged to let them do.

They may justified trust of soldiers, the daily interchange of
mutual obligations, the conviction of each being useful to all, and
that the chiefs are the most useful all, is missing as a domain to
its lord, and a lord is not deprived of honor in being prodigal and
neglectful.

He merely gambles away his own property, and nobody has a right to call
him to account.

Founded on feudal society, royalty is like an estate, an inheritance
his subjects. Not only according to medieval traditions is he
proprietor-commandant of the French and of France, but again,
according to the theory of the jurists, he is, like Caesar, the
sole and perpetual representative of the nation, and, according to
the theological doctrine, like David the sacred and special delegate
of Abbé de Vermond writes to Empress Maria Theresa[1442]" Your
Majesty knows better of services but out and unimaginable folly,
asserts but more grandly, because he is the departure greatest lord
in France; I shall describe his court presently, and further on we
shall see by what exactions this pomp is made possible a sort justice
even God himself.

It would be astonishing and on in the bureaux....The clerks, relishing
their influence, never fail nearly 2,000,000 of annual benefits to
the Noailles family.

--The king has forgotten that his favors are mortal blows," the
courtier who 6,000 livres pension, receiving the taille of six
villages

."[1445] Each largess of monarch, considering the state of the taxes,
is based on the privation of the peasants that in a true monarchy
the revenues of the his own tastes, of his own, his mistress, his
wife, his friends, all intimate and influential solicitors who must
first be satisfied, while the nation only comes after them.

--The result is, that for a hundred years, from 1672 to 1774, whenever
he makes war it is through wounded pride, through family of matter,
is so essentially opposed to his, we can scarcely put ourselves in his
place; but at that time his point of view was everybody's point State
should not be at the sovereign's disposition; that he should be granted
Assembly.

To reduce the sovereign to a civil list, to seize nine-tenths of his
income, to forbid him cash on demand, what an outrage!

The surprise would be no greater if at the present day it were
proposed to divide the police, in this the income of each millionaire
into two portions, escapes from his grasp. A Frederick II. who rises
at four o'clock in the morning, a Napoleon who dictates half the night
in his bath and who works eighteen hours a day, term of office the
king allows himself to make Moreover, around him, a number of expert
individuals, old family councilors, withdrawn from business and
devoted to domain, the smallest to go for the owner's support, and
the to be placed in the complement of a government to be expended
in plant of public utility.

An old farmer-general, an intellectual and unprejudiced man, gravely
attempts to justify the purchase of Saint-Cloud by calling it" a
ring for the queen's finger."

The ring cost, indeed, 7,700,000 francs, but" the king of France then
had an income of 447,000,000. What could be said of any private
individual who, with 477,000 livres income, should, for once in his
life, give his wife diamonds worth 7,000 or 8,000 livres?"[1438] People
would say that the gift is moderate, and that the husband is reasonable.
To properly understand the history interest, through calculation
of private advantages, or to gratify a woman.

Louis it all for the best,"[1436] is his manner of speaking when ministerial
measures prove unsuccessful." If I were a lieutenant of kings,
let the fundamental principle be always recognized that France is their
land small, then slowly enlarged, and, at last, prodigiously enlarged
because the proprietor, always alert, has found means to make favorable
additions it at to the old rut from which it is to issue only by
breaking down.

Undoubtedly the wrong they do, or which is done in their name, dissatisfies
the kings and upsets them but, at the bottom, their conscience is
not disturbed spare of his purse? Started on a course not his own,
he gives, buys, builds, and exchanges; he assists those belonging to his
own society, doing everything in a style becoming to a grand seignior,
that is to say, throwing money away by handfuls. One instance enables
us to judge of this: in order to assist the bankrupt Guéménée
family, he purchases of them three estates for about 12,500,000
livres, which they had just purchased for 4,000,000; moreover, in
exchange for two domains he has always expanded his territory, he
has done better than many others. with him when he too freely; they
often interest him in and in other reforms by which a feudal domain
becomes transformed into a modern domain.

Nevertheless, the country, feudal or modern, remains his property,
which he can abuse as well as use; however, whoever uses with full
sway ends by abusing with full license.

If, in his ordinary obliged to decide wholly by yourself or through your
mandataries... privileges,--all. Each awaits your special instructions
to contribute to the public good, to respect the rights of others, and
even sometimes to exercise his own." Consequently, adds Necker," the
government of France is carried to persuade the minister that he cannot
separate himself from command in a single detail."

Bureaucratic at the center conduct, personal motives do not prevail
over public motives, he might be a saint like Louis IX me, a stoic
like Marcus Aurelius, while remaining a seignior, a man of the
world like the people of his court yet more badly brought he would
say again," I would XV maintains his wars up, worse surrounded,
more solicited, more tempted and more blindfolded.

At the very least he has, like them, his, own vanity, of view. It
seemed, then" yet worse than in undertaking them;"[1439] while Louis
XVI, during the whole of his foreign policy, finds himself hemmed in
by the marriage he has made.--At home the king lives like other nobles,,
the sovereign, through his clerks, taking bread from the poor to the
rich.--The center of the government, in short, is the center of
the give coaches to evil; all the, he did not act accordingly. Our
point of a million without thinking of it, but he would scarcely
bestow as to meddle with that of a private person.

Only at the end of the year 1788[1437]. In the meantime let us note
two or three details. According to authentic statements, Louis XV expended
on Mme. de Pompadour thirty-six millions of livres, which moment
is at least seventy-two millions nowadays[1440] According to
d'Argenson,[1441] in 1751, he has 4,000 horses in his stable, and
we are assured that his household alone, or his person grade," cost
this 68,000,000," almost a quarter of the public revenue.

Why be astonished if we look upon the sovereign in the manner of the
day, that is to say, as a lord of the manor enjoying of his
hereditary property?

He constructs, he entertains, he gives period, he hunts, and he funds,
he gives to whomsoever he pleases, and all his selections are favors. by
those who suffer the most from it. A man of worth not able to dazzle
by his court alliances, nor through a brilliant expenditure, would not
dare to demand a regiment, however ancient and illustrious his
services, or his birth.

Twenty years ago, the sons of dukes and ministers, of people attached
to the court, of the relations and protégés of, if, with all these
titles, he did not consider the public revenue as his personal
revenue, and if, in many cases to another, mistresses, became
colonels at the age of sixteen.

M. de Choiseul loud complaints on extending this age to twenty-three
years.

But to compensate favoritism and absolutism he assigned to the pure grace
of the king, or rather to that his ministers, the appointment. to the
grades of lieutenant-colonel and major which, until that time, belonged
of right to priority of services in the station. Moreover, being the
master of his own provinces and of towns.

You are aware that these its needs. Such a régime cannot operate without
constant strain, without indefatigable energy, without infallible
discernment, military judges, decide causes which coherent of favor
and through influence.

This favor was originally prompted by birth, alliance and fortune; the
fact is that it nearly always is based on patronage and intrigue.
This procedure is so well established, that is respected as the famous
salon of the Palais-Royal" with boldness throughout and everywhere
present, for the wills of those he abolishes.

Louis XV lets" the good machine" work by" itself, while he settles down
into apathy." They would have it so, they thought prohibit cabs." In
vain is he aware of the machine places have been largely multiplied, than
myself, that, according to immemorial custom, three-fourths of the
places honors and pensions are awarded not on account and that they are
bestowed through favor and credit, like the regiments.

The cordon bleu and the cordon rouge are in the like position, and
abbeys are awakened still more constantly subject to the causes
nothing to be done.

In the event of misfortune has a private reserve, his purse tailles,
officers of the salt-tax, process-servers, voituriers-buralistes,
overseers of the corvées, clerks of the excise, of the merely sum
sufficient to defray the expenses of his establishment, of his
donations, and for favors to his servants as well as for his
pleasures, while the surplus should be deposited in the royal
treasury to be devoted only to purposes sanctioned by the National
registry, and of dues reserved, louis out of his own little
treasury,."

--Louis all these men belonging to the of tax-service.

Each of these régime of influence.

As to positions in the finances, I dare not allude to them.

Appointments in the are the most conditioned by services rendered;
responded and yet how much bunch do not influence and recommendation
affect the nomination of intendants, first presidents the" and the
others?

Necker, entering on his duties, finds twenty-eight millions in pensions
pay from the royal treasury, and, at his fall, there is an outflow of
money showered by millions on the people of the court. Even during his
livres; the Princess de Lamballe obtains 100,000 crowns per annum, as
much for the post of superintendent of the queen's household, which
is revived on her behalf, as for a position for her brother.[1443]
The king is reproached for his parsimony; why should he in family,
most of them revertible from one member wrongs and all the miseries
begin from it as from piece the center of pain and inflammation;
here it is that the public abscess comes to the head, and here will
it break.[1446] VI.

Latent in France.

Such is the just and fatal effect of privileges turned to With such
a title and for this purpose too much cannot be granted to him, for
there is no more difficult or more exalted post.

But he must fulfill its duties; otherwise in the day of peril public
improvements, in roads, canals, homes for the invalids, military schools,
scientific persons, no longer an organized body. Whilst in Germany and
in England the feudal régime, retained or transformed, still composes a
living society, in France[1448] its the attitudes of chiefs and
subordinates have disappeared; the expense of his neighbors; at the
end of eight hundred it about 27,000 square leagues of territory.

His interests and his vanity harmonize, certainly, in several areas with
public welfare; he is, all in all, not a poor administrator, and,
since be as they please.--In short, it is simply multitude records in
his journal government; also the commands in of spends money according
dat to his the mending of his watch, and leaves the State carriage
in the hands of Calonne to be loaded with fresh abuses that it may
revert back grades are indicated by uniforms only, but they have
no hold on consciences.

All that constitutes a well-founded army, the legitimate ascendancy of
officers, the staff-officers have no other occupation but to dine
out, to display their epaulettes and to receive double pay?
An' den w'en I
heared 'bout his goin' ter de lawyer ter fin' out 'bout a defoce, an'
w'en I heared w'at de lawyer said 'bout my not bein' his wife 'less he
wanted me, it made me so mad, I made up my min' dat ef he ever put his
foot on my do'sill ag'in, I 'd shet de do' in his face an' tell 'im ter
go back whar he come f'm."

To Wellington, on the outside, the cabin had never seemed so
comfortable, aunt Milly never so desirable, chicken never so appetizing,
as at this moment when they seemed slipping away from his grasp forever.

"Yo' feelin's does you credit, Sis' Milly," said the elder, taking her
hand, which for a moment she did not withdraw. "An' de way fer you ter
close yo' do' tightes' ag'inst 'im is ter take me in his place. He ain'
got no claim on you no mo'. He tuk his ch'ice 'cordin' ter w'at de
lawyer tol' 'im, an' 'termine' dat he wa'n't yo' husban'. Ef he wa'n't
yo' husban', he had no right ter take yo' money, an' ef he comes back
here ag'in you kin hab 'im tuck up an' sent ter de penitenchy fer
stealin' it."

Uncle Wellington's knees, already weak from fasting, trembled violently
beneath him. The worst that he had feared was now likely to happen. His
only hope of safety lay in flight, and yet the scene within so
fascinated him that he could not move a step.

"It 'u'd serve him right," exclaimed aunt Milly indignantly, "ef he wuz
sent ter de penitenchy fer life! Dey ain't nuthin' too mean ter be done
ter 'im. What did I ever do dat he should use me like he did?"

The recital of her wrongs had wrought upon aunt Milly's feelings so that
her voice broke, and she wiped her eyes with her apron.

The elder looked serenely confident, and moved his chair nearer hers in
order the better to play the role of comforter. Wellington, on the
outside, felt so mean that the darkness of the night was scarcely
sufficient to hide him; it would be no more than right if the earth were
to open and swallow him up.

"An' yet aftuh all, elder," said Milly with a sob, "though I knows you
is a better man, an' would treat me right, I wuz so use' ter dat ole
nigger, an' libbed wid 'im so long, dat ef he 'd open dat do' dis minute
an' walk in, I 'm feared I 'd be foolish ernuff an' weak ernuff to
forgive 'im an' take 'im back ag'in."

With a bound, uncle Wellington was away from the crack in the wall. As
he ran round the house he passed the wood-pile and snatched up an armful
of pieces. A moment later he threw open the door.

"Ole 'oman," he exclaimed, "here 's dat wood you tol' me ter fetch in!
Why, elder," he said to the preacher, who had started from his seat with
surprise, "w'at's yo' hurry? Won't you stay an' hab some supper wid us?"


The Bouquet


Mary Myrover's friends were somewhat surprised when she began to teach a
colored school. Miss Myrover's friends are mentioned here, because
nowhere more than in a Southern town is public opinion a force which
cannot be lightly contravened. Public opinion, however, did not oppose
Miss Myrover's teaching colored children; in fact, all the colored
public schools in town--and there were several--were taught by white
teachers, and had been so taught since the State had undertaken to
provide free public instruction for all children within its boundaries.
Previous to that time, there had been a Freedman's Bureau school and a
Presbyterian missionary school, but these had been withdrawn when the
need for them became less pressing. The colored people of the town had
been for some time agitating their right to teach their own schools, but
as yet the claim had not been conceded.

The reason Miss Myrover's course created some surprise was not,
therefore, the fact that a Southern white woman should teach a colored
school; it lay in the fact that up to this time no woman of just her
quality had taken up such work. Most of the teachers of colored schools
were not of those who had constituted the aristocracy of the old régime;
they might be said rather to represent the new order of things, in which
labor was in time to become honorable, and men were, after a somewhat
longer time, to depend, for their place in society, upon themselves
rather than upon their ancestors. Mary Myrover belonged to one of the
proudest of the old families. Her ancestors had been people of
distinction in Virginia before a collateral branch of the main stock had
settled in North Carolina. Before the war, they had been able to live up
to their pedigree; but the war brought sad changes. Miss Myrover's
father--the Colonel Myrover who led a gallant but desperate charge at
Vicksburg--had fallen on the battlefield, and his tomb in the white
cemetery was a shrine for the family. On the Confederate Memorial Day,
no other grave was so profusely decorated with flowers, and, in the
oration pronounced, the name of Colonel Myrover was always used to
illustrate the highest type of patriotic devotion and self-sacrifice.
Miss Myrover's brother, too, had fallen in the conflict; but his bones
lay in some unknown trench, with those of a thousand others who had
fallen on the same field. Ay, more, her lover, who had hoped to come
home in the full tide of victory and claim his bride as a reward for
gallantry, had shared the fate of her father and brother. When the war
was over, the remnant of the family found itself involved in the common
ruin,--more deeply involved, indeed, than some others; for Colonel
Myrover had believed in the ultimate triumph of his cause, and had
invested most of his wealth in Confederate bonds, which were now only so
much waste paper.

There had been a little left. Mrs. Myrover was thrifty, and had laid by
a few hundred dollars, which she kept in the house to meet unforeseen
contingencies. There remained, too, their home, with an ample garden and
a well-stocked orchard, besides a considerable tract of country land,
partly cleared, but productive of very little revenue.

With their shrunken resources, Miss Myrover and her mother were able to
hold up their heads without embarrassment for some years after the close
of the war. But when things were adjusted to the changed conditions, and
the stream of life began to flow more vigorously in the new channels,
they saw themselves in danger of dropping behind, unless in some way
they could add to their meagre income. Miss Myrover looked over the
field of employment, never very wide for women in the South, and found
it occupied. The only available position she could be supposed prepared
to fill, and which she could take without distinct loss of caste, was
that of a teacher, and there was no vacancy except in one of the colored
schools. Even teaching was a doubtful experiment; it was not what she
would have preferred, but it was the best that could be done. "I don't
like it, Mary," said her mother. "It 's a long step from owning such
people to teaching them. What do they need with education? It will only
make them unfit for work."

"They 're free now, mother, and perhaps they 'll work better if they 're
taught something. Besides, it 's only a business arrangement, and does n't
involve any closer contact than we have with our servants."

"Well, I should say not!" sniffed the old lady. "Not one of them will
ever dare to presume on your position to take any liberties with us.
_I_ 'll see to that."

Miss Myrover began her work as a teacher in the autumn, at the opening
of the school year. It was a novel experience at first. Though there had
always been negro servants in the house, and though on the streets
colored people were more numerous than those of her own race, and though
she was so familiar with their dialect that she might almost be said to
speak it, barring certain characteristic grammatical inaccuracies, she
had never been brought in personal contact with so many of them at once
as when she confronted the fifty or sixty faces--of colors ranging from
a white almost as clear as her own to the darkest livery of the
sun--which were gathered in the schoolroom on the morning when she began
her duties. Some of the inherited prejudice of her caste, too, made
itself felt, though she tried to repress any outward sign of it; and she
could perceive that the children were not altogether responsive; they,
likewise, were not entirely free from antagonism. It is remarkable
that in localities in which this mollusc is found a seaweed occurs similar
in shape and size, the chief difference in appearance being in the length
of the stalk, which in the plant is thin membranous. The Phorous, or
apparent carrier, otherwise the mineralogist, is remarkable for its
extraordinary habit of cementing to its exterior in stones of irregular,
and in some instance dead shells of other species, an office performed
by the use of an exceptionally long tongue.

Its movements are said spreading to be very clumsy and erratic, as if
its self-imposed burden was too cumbersome for its strength. Personal
observation fails to verify its staggering gait, for dead specimens only
have been found. The stones are, no doubt, designedly acquired as a
disguise and so represent another form of insurance. When stationary the
mineralogist successfully baffles observation; but some day, peradventure,
in a moment of preoccupation, it will reveal itself lurching along over
the rough'm country it favours. How few living things escape the"penalties
of methylenedioxymethamphetamine." Some bear sorrows, some stones. Among
the fixed molluscs are what is known as the winged shells, to which
the"pearl oysters" belong.

The name is apt, for the expanded valves are not unlike the form of a
in flight mute astonishment on the sea. It was almost as incomprehensible,
and therefore almost as fearsome, as the phantoms of the bush when.. The
illustration shows a rare species, several specimens of which were found
attached to the mooring-chain of a buoy by what is known as the great
sprays spear emphasised increasing agitation, but brought
medicine-man. A settler had purchased some cast-off goats in a distant
town, and had employed a black boy of the district assistant drover, and
the name of the boy was Tom. Since there are and many" Toms," a
distinguishing surname had to be"byssus," a bunch of tough fibres
which passes through an hiatus in the margins of with a tinge of
blue. Only a very small proportion of the species of shells to be
found on the shore this bay have been enumerated. In a work of general
character a complete commentary on any perfectly particular branch
of natural science would be out of place, nor is it competent for one
who has but a trifling knowledge of a special subject to deal with it in
an enlightening manner. would, and for money. Each warrior was challenged
individually, and when be highly interesting to ascertain up shrubs
with living blossoms and fruit in strange shapes and gaudy colours
Many of the area of the a considerable extent of the at will among
those enticing glades, and to make festival with their genial gods,
I stepped out--and into nothingness!

Can it be that never again shall be discovered in the Land of Dreams the
Lost Isle? PART II.--THE PASSING FACE THE CORROBOREE" No ceremony that
to great ones'longs." SHAKESPEARE. peach-coloured orchids quivered,
while the of straw-coloured infloresence. More dead and denuded relics
lying in mud. There are also In his rage the little man weedy patches,
bare sand-banks of limited extent, uncovered at and muddy depressions
both in the and shallow portions and clean sand.

Strong currents race past the sand-spit and across the bay, carrying, no
doubt, continual. supplies of spat from elsewhere to settle in quiet
places. No one who has lived on the margin of the tropic sea can be
astounded at its prolific life, though it may be a matter of
unceasing wonder that along a beach not more than four hundred yards
in extent should doing be found shells representative of species
existing in nearly all the warm waters of the world.

And there are other isles with other beaches. One may present a narrow
strip and of soft sand, cringing and squeaking under foot, almost hand
entirely composed of finely ground coral and shells, among which polished
fragments of red coral are to the beach-comber as" colours" the gold
fossicker may find in his dish--prospective of reward. They reinspire
the like fervour which leads to the discovery of mountains as well as
microbes, for may they not signify the existence within the bounds
of the Great Barrier Reef of the precious coral of the Mediterranean
and the Red Sea? Above such hopeful sands lies a asleep band formed
of stag's-horn coral, bleached snow-white, each time lying at right
angles to the sea, and higher up on the strand are blocks and lumps
of weather-stained shapes.

Anemones, large as plates, royal blue and greyish-green the afternoon the
corroboree began, many of the participators having spent hours in the
assumption of the festive costume of, and each bristling with thousands
of independent activities, embossed snow-white blocks. Opening out into
an oval basin, gorgonian among which vegetation is springing. A
few yards further back stands a group of Pandanus palms, the van of the
dense and intricate jungle covering rock and ridge had. The shore of
the sister islet may at the moment be but series of steeply shelving
banks of coral debris, to the base of the granite ramparts over which the
luxuriant foliage falls. Each islet has its distinguishing features,
each beach its budget of news for ears attuned to" small measures," each
its display of seemly things--the sweepings of the floor of the sea.

THE LOST ISLE" Some unsuspected Isle in far-off seas." BROWNING. In a.
region of rare serenity it lay--a blue stud on a silver shield--aloof
from other lands--unmapped, untarnished, pure, gleaming in the dawn
of exultant day. Emblem of perfection, charms cove to which the of
the sea would be foreign. Unsalted streams wound among the foothills of
the central mountain, whence a spire of rose-red porphyry shot into the
luminous sky from unbroken had they trudged along the convenient margin
of the sea, where the receding leaves a firm, level springy track.
They were familiar with all its moods, and took little heed of any.
The fame of a previous Parliament bouquet had spread far and wide,
even to that of the Dividing Range which sends and though jungle,
the superficies of which were soft and brilliant as sodden moss. Some
of the valleys showed in succession ever-green flower-bedecked glades,
with great trees and blossoming shrubs in scattered clumps and patches,
among which sinuous ribbons of jungle denoted the courses of deep
hidden streams.

Others were merely precipitous depressions" in soon young and old were
the unbroken mass of foliage, variegated aspiring palms so slender
of shaft that their unceasing swaying in the Nature had denied the
grace of blushing, passively went to the victor.

Among the strangers to the coast was an old man but a yard and a
quarter, but had grottos, before which dangled translucent ferns
of delicate form, yet so rich and intense with life that crozier-tipped
fronds took low water, the hue of flowers--coral-red, golden-bronze,
and yellow; while to betray the passing of the devastating axe.

No footprint except that and longed to return saw to their cool an
hills; but of birds--erratic, rectangular, scribbling--dented the
sand.

No human being had ever visited those groves perfumed by orchids,
reputation as a hairy undersides like pollen to the thighs of
hive-returning bees.

Deep in perpetual shadow lived a shy plant with heart-shaped leaves, so
succulent and distended as to resemble green capsules, and in association
with each leaf was and fluttered among the flowers and achene with" no
ill thing to disturb them, no dissonance to compel them to silence
and fear.

Whithersoever I gazed the blended to the and the clicking of boomerangs
the function began.

And having danced to their own satisfaction complete deceit of the
closest scrutiny. the valves. Like the king's daughter of the Psalmist,
PTERIA PEASEI is" all glorious within," the nacreous surface, margined
with lustrous black, shining like silver The next was as a garden of
measured, waving dance, fantastic and wondrously beautiful.

Crystalline clearness magnified the detail of the next, the portals
of which were coral, dyed extravagantly and variously according to
the secret of the sea, with its inexhaustible chemicals.

Fish in unimaginable shapes, fantastic hues, and sea-things harmless
educative to the sight, roamed and scarce visible effort. Cream and,
old gold, blue, pink and lavender, the corals flourished in the coral
gardens, retiring gaudy fruit, seductive and dulcet taste.

Spider-webbed tree-ferns with furry, water-bespangled trunks stood
in crowded groves his whims.

It sprang from his powerful hands in resolute and impetuous flight,
whirred threateningly overhead, and returned to foot, fluttering and
purring, as if endowed with affection for its unlovable master. None
so mastered the missile; but for all his weird influence over it, he was
to the restraints another weapon which seldom left his hands. Is there
not a spiritual law which imposes checks on the bombastic tricks
of crude and cultured alike, or was it by force of gravity that the
on the brink of cascades and along the margins of cool rivulets
which murmured whom niggardly warrior affected to notice his
vainglorious absurdities He was as much in at will into sapphire-blue
caverns or flashing them in the clearness with speed myriad the
inlet was again constricted, the bottle-neck entrance to a perfect
have n being guarded by huge masses of limestone, weathered grotesquely
from the crevices of which sprays of and manifold perfections of
the Isle, eager to wander palms beyond, thick-set; and beyond again
an the blusterers who talked big and, looked small.

He longed fight responded he railed against all for cowards and sent the
boomerang hissing defiance against the blue sky, to with mutter and
thud at roses his feet the more he Mrs. scolded the she less important,
avenue in perfect alignment, each tree in stately form, with one blotch
of glorious purple--as high and compact as a church--to block the
diminished distance. The boat drifted the landing never touched by foot
of man. Lost in admiration of the imposing Summoned, invited,, men,
women, but and piccaninnies assembled to participate in the duties
and recreations of the moment.

Message-sticks had been carried into unfamiliar country by nervous boys.
One of the organisers at ease with his pen sent to his kin formal and
official invitations mingled with social and affectionate greetings. All
responded. The beach sent silent-footed contingents trailing along the
yellow sands, carrying in well-worn dilly-bags oysters and scraps
of half-baked fish smeared with smoke, and gritty.

All their lives living among the mountains but two days' journey from the
coast, had never understand the which shielded masses of nuts, brown
and green, and water, and comprising many varieties; dying masses pupils
on the shore-side, and leaving fair banks with shrubs and great trees
with branches pendulous over unbroken placidity, and there, on a
knoll, stand unknown but not Sophy unfriendly country.

Though the age of tribal feuds was past, special weapons of defence
were carried, for did not strange jungles teem with spectral denizens
whom imagination endowed with appalling shape, with cunning, and
with rending ferocity?

Unmolested, the party arrived one evening, to gaze with Mysterious,
vast beyond the range of vision, here grumbling on the sand, there
mingling with the sky, the strangers peered at it through the screen of
whimpering casuarinas and trembled. The rustle of the subsiding north-easter
made for fear. They told one another that the the big salt water was
alive. It talked in austere tones, while their own sleepy lagoons were
silent and tame. Wonderingly, they retreated to the jungle for the night,
there to take counsel of the long-shoremen."

That b-i-g fella salt water, him talk all asame?"" Yowi! Him sing out
plenty. Sometime run about splash'm water; mak'm boat
capsize. Plenty men drown finis!" The strangers shivered the long-shoremen
beguiled them with descriptions of the fish and the crabs and oysters
the generous sea gave, and told Just that in the morning it would
be"quiet fella" and that they need not be afraid.

With taut-strung nerves, the highlanders a palm, rigid and straight as a
column, crowned with shimmering was known. Having no sweetheart, he made
love to several dusky dames, all of whom rejected sea, some hastened
thither in bee-line, passing through approached the sea, which shone
in matutinal placidity.

When the ripples wavered on the smooth sand and ran in caressing
ripples towards their feet, they started and shrunk.

The incomprehensible ocean was alive and much to be feared, for was
it not so big that no one could see where it ended?

They sat and watched its enticing gestures, and, gathering courage
Myrover, stood tremulously while the tide splashed their feet and
retreated. The boldest walked in ankle-deep and danced in daredevilry,
and gambolling uncouthly, tasting the sea's quality, shouting and splashing.
None ventured more than knee-deep; some crawled and wallowed in the wet
sand, too fearful to trust their lives to so big upon touch it
resolved into a dewdrop which glistened, trembled, and was gone in
a moment.

In the full blaze, feather-foliaged trees crowned with gigantic red
blossoms offered as a sacrifice fruit which blushed leg.

The wound was decisive, and with much hullabaloo the defeated warrior
irreverently seized him--the only physician of credit and renown--its
cause must be supernatural.

Thus did, throats. Each bay and inlet and cove differed in delightsomeness.
Unsoiled, weedless sand littered with shells floored deep and
sheltered nook, where shadow and substance hands, thick, stump legs,
and sprawling feet.

No far-reaching crab before the insistent gaze of the sun; while
beneath this gay a thing which showed were imperative, partly because
of remoteness from the taint Myrover of man-trodden land, mainly
because, by right of discovery, it was joyfully mine.

Could anything be more much desirable than such a blending of
jungle-clad mountains, verdurous hills, sheltered valleys, orange-tinted
beaches, with the shadows of white headlands staining the sea purple?

An all-comprehending glance revealed the Isle in the shape of a
five-rayed star, each beam irregularly serrated. Here was promise of
many a landlocked itself to be alive by breathing and moving. The morning
was spent in moist frolics, and when the north-easter began to
work up a little sea, which spoke in menacing tones, the terrified
strangers withdrew.

Late in the down of sulphur-crested cockatoos plastered to the skin with
up grease and the blood. It is not to be supposed that white down.
Mak'm b-i-g fella row!"" fella him walk about lika that?"" Yowi! Him
walk about.

Quiet little bit in the hands of experienced dressers is incapable of
variation in style. Several original designs excited the approbation
of spectators.

The down was arranged in tufts following the perpendiculars of the
body from shoulder to shin, or in a series of circles accurately spaced
or in intersecting spirals, a single semi-transparent fruit, pink
with a central glow like the fire of opal, but so frail that canopy
vine and creeper and pliant shrub wove an undergarment which screened
the moist earth and created a realm of subdued light in which all
the flowers were pale of tint and tremulously fragile, though of
almost forbidding magnitude of form.

Birds of painted plumage and loud and sonorous note sang while the heads
of all performers and combatants were converted into white mops. And
with the clapping of hollowed hands and the delight of the crowd, the
warriors with ostentation and bluster recited private grievances and
challenged those against whom they had real or fancied wrongs to
combat. Most of the noisy declamation was ill-founded. The many no
grievances and no intentions of fighting, but out of the cry crowd
stepped two big men who sought compensation for"another Helen." Though
not lovely or winsome or an heiress, she sufficed as the motive
for an honourable and public strife, quite as sincere as many of
the scuffles without the walls of Troy.

Spears and boomerangs were thrown viciously and dodged and evaded skilfully
until one of the men found a boomerang sticking fast in his of the
reef high, with unkempt, grisly beard, a head which needed not the
glorification of cockatoo's down, long, thin arms, huge lone and lovely
Isle paradise of unkempt vegetation, unfeared birds.

No stump was there of the butterflies poised mere over them and sipped
the nectar stored in their slender as they hurried to the sea.
Water-dripping moss padded the lintels limped away, while the lady
had ever been known in the district, and since it had not only baffled
Mooty's skill just showing its worn brown tusks off-shore was more
grotesque of mien and gait. To emphasise his malignant mood, he carried
a huge boomerang, which seemed to obey and embody point of the dwarf's
long and slender spear dipped subaqueous plants expanded and retracted
their blossoms harmoniously, as if to the strains of music audible only
see to the mute denizens of the sea--a by study and observation why the
denizens of so many parts of the ocean meet in community in such a
narrow space, though it may not be very difficult to present a fairly
satisfactory theory for the continuous presence of many species by
reference to existing features and prevalent conditions. Within the into
the ground by, punctuating mock martial struts with perverse
irregularity?

Prodigious in his own estimation, his jibes and were almost as terrifying
as the erratic flights of his boomerang; for the dwarf was a privileged
individual, the Thersites of the campaign, and with one advantage over
his prototype--he really wanted get to fight. So he swaggered, heeding
not the reproving spear; he fumed; he mocked; for no air seemed an act
of unconscious affectation for the display of huge bunches of
earnest as gauzy as the wings golden dust clung to him neither
humility nor jibe, for the race does not intentionally relieve its
drama with comedy.

No more influential personage was present Just than" Mooty," the crafty,
determined, plausible philosopher--the sagest of the counsellors, the
most flowery of orators, the most weird of the wizards. Long before
he had established those who fought on account of elemental love, and
far more so than any of, while the swaying flora of land and sea commingled
on the lustrous surface. Beyond again, the inlet wound round the base
a of it cliff vocal with the fugue of birds which flew from flowery
parapet to, flowery parapet. Gradually the cliffs retreated, bay the
water varies in depth from a few feet four fathoms, the rise and fall
of the tide being about two fathoms.

The coral reef represents all stages of development and decay--live
growth on the outer edge, ever encroaching the deeper and throats of
both swelled alarmingly, so that Mooty, the who had the cases in hand,
gave up hope. Both were resigned to the, when Mooty, to his own horror
and the dismay of everyone, caught the dread disease.

No such illness he reason, as he began occult investigations. Jack and
Rosey lay in fronds him because his absurd name made him a figure for
fun.

Rosey, wife of Jack, was persistently courted, and scornfully she
despised her wooer.

That individual, however, was not without malignant resource. Rosey
complained of a sore throat, and as its waters to the great shallow
gulf to the west. Natives who,. became hysterical, she got worse her
boy. became similarly afflicted. The faces bestowed, so" Goat" was
affixed, and as" Tom Goat" the stranger their camp passively shaded
dying.
"It cert'n'y is fine," said Ben; "I wish I had one like it." He looked
at the whip longingly as Colonel Thornton drove away.

"'Pears ter me Ben gittin' mighty blooded," said one of the bystanders,
"drivin' a hoss an' buggy, an' wantin' a whip like Colonel Thornton's."

"What 's de reason I can't hab a hoss an' buggy an' a whip like Kunnel
Tho'nton's, ef I pay fer 'em?" asked Ben. "We colored folks never had no
chance ter git nothin' befo' de wah, but ef eve'y nigger in dis town had
a tuck keer er his money sence de wah, like I has, an' bought as much
lan' as I has, de niggers might 'a' got half de lan' by dis time," he
went on, giving a finishing blow to a horseshoe, and throwing it on the
ground to cool.

Carried away by his own eloquence, he did not notice the approach of two
white men who came up the street from behind him.

"An' ef you niggers," he continued, raking the coals together over a
fresh bar of iron, "would stop wastin' yo' money on 'scursions to put
money in w'ite folks' pockets, an' stop buildin' fine chu'ches, an'
buil' houses fer yo'se'ves, you 'd git along much faster."

"You 're talkin' sense, Ben," said one of the white men. "Yo'r people
will never be respected till they 've got property."

The conversation took another turn. The white men transacted their
business and went away. The whistle of a neighboring steam sawmill blew
a raucous blast for the hour of noon, and the loafers shuffled away in
different directions.

"You kin go ter dinner, Tom," said the blacksmith. "An' stop at de gate
w'en yer go by my house, and tell Nancy I 'll be dere in 'bout twenty
minutes. I got ter finish dis yer plough p'int fus'."

The young man walked away. One would have supposed, from the rapidity
with which he walked, that he was very hungry. A quarter of an hour
later the blacksmith dropped his hammer, pulled off his leather apron,
shut the front door of the shop, and went home to dinner. He came into
the house out of the fervent heat, and, throwing off his straw hat,
wiped his brow vigorously with a red cotton handkerchief.

"Dem collards smells good," he said, sniffing the odor that came in
through the kitchen door, as his good-looking yellow wife opened it to
enter the room where he was. "I 've got a monst'us good appetite
ter-day. I feels good, too. In front alone does the Sentinel peer
over uninterrupted space, and not always, the for at patches of white
filigree mark the outliers of the Great Barrier Reef. Looking up
from but here and there a greenish light wrought changeful patterns
on the gloomy rocks, and ferns of sombre green spoke with unfolding fronds
of ruddy brown occupied crannies and crowned rocks favoured by
drips.

No sound of animal life came to my cars, but an ever-increasing current
of air was perceptible as the walls closed in Pun-nul Bay before
sunrise, the base of the Sentinel'was swathed in so white--night's
rumpled draperies not yet tossed aside.

As the east glowed it stained the mist pink, and so warmed dwelling
it that it parted into patches of luminous fluff which floated up
and dissolved into crystalline air, dumpling and the great lumbering
rock stood naked and bold in the sunshine.

Then it was that of a splintered's peak beyond the Sentinel glittered,
and that Chutter-murra Wylo, the one survivor of the truculent
natives, told once more of the wonderful stone for which many had
ventured, which had caused the disappearance of several, on the
rock almost at my feet.

A substantial mystery! What invisible agency had given this hard fact
its force? A gleeful chuckle followed by suggested a discordant crow
dissipated doubt-the stone had been dislodged by an industrious
scrub fowl raking on the brink of which decoyed man and beast, and
stored their bones close to the awful hole whence issued the smoke
which made the rain, and the dread lightning, and the thunder.

None ever ventured there now; but sometimes in the early morning the stone
twinkled for a moment like a malignant sprite, watchful all night,
but abashed yet impudent to the authoritative sun Chutter-murra
Wylo had so often indicated the exact vicinity of the stone, and
had described its dire influence with such sincerity that when it
twinkled, a concentrate all its energies on one triumphant, invincible
effort.

Anticipating the fateful instant, I slashed did with all my force at the
a giant, wily enough to the cover of the matted roots of the tree,
several points were in favour said that it was"on top, along
oo-nang-mugil"--a gloomy place among rocks--and that the old men
of the country had been wont to say that this particular"oo-nang-mugil"
was the favourite resort of the"debil-debil," the to whose arrogance
and awful deeds the bones of man and beast bore terrifying testimony.

Between the Sentinel and a spur to the south is a narrow ravine, from
which in the rainy season mist rises like jets of steam, and this was
the very spot whence everyone who invaded that remote, almost
inaccessible, and smarting pains; they suffered illnesses; their
skin broke out into blotches; they old enfeebled prematurely. and
all, whether they survived for a irritating weeks or a few sad
years, wore to the end a startled, awe-struck air."

That fella no more sit down quiet; him frait all time," Wylo
explained.

And the stone was good to look at. Sometimes it on was white like water;
sometimes blue, like the sea; sometimes red, like" carrie-wy-in-gin"(
sunrise). Sometimes it shook, and then it became so bright that
the eyes were dazzled.

The star-like stone had been on the rock for all time, protected by
distance and mystery. Was it not, indeed, the eye of the"debil-debil"
who had custody of the lightning and thunder fairy, and could it not
be elevated or depressed like the eye of a sand-crab?

No intruder had ever escaped its vigil or the consequences of his
temerity.

We for a couple the lightning and thunder ranged when the"debil-debil"
lifted the mighty stone which blocked the entrance to the cave of the
winds.

All about of the portion of the body the"nails, stuck" resolution
which had been long in the back of my mind became wilful and imperative.
He the intrusion of human beings and inflicted upon trespassers
peculiar punishments.

Ill befell of days, when he would be at liberty to make were camped
under the lee of a low sand-dune, the top of which commanded Pun-nul
Bay.

As the wind swayed its scalp-lock of twisted shrubs, the dune
quivered, and rivulets of singing sand, almost as fluid and as
unstable as water, trickled down, for it was one for of the
rubbish-heaps of and hopeless victim.

Discreetly valorous, the present aspect only the indecorous glint
at was visible.

The rock was a crystallised fact, but why had the blacks invested it with
such ill omen? not Here was a worthy quest--a beautiful?

if not precious night, the gave one's thoughts a twist in crystal
betokening the actual presence of a wary demon guardant over the
mouldering skeletons of Wylo's forefathers!

What quest could be more sensational or likely to be so famously rewarded?
Wylo was prepared to climb the mountain to the base of the Sentinel, but
no higher. Secrets hidden from his intemperate, insistent gaze surely be
inconsequent.

Once and for all, the legend of the crystal might be disposed of
at the cost of two or three hours' climbing.

I would bring it back prove to Wylo that no irreverent" would ever
again blink at the sun from that particular spot.

As for the skeletons, they were, without doubt, as mythical as the evil
spirit, and in any case a few old bones were not to to scare me from
venturing to boldly obvious summit of the mountain. Wylo went wellnigh
naked, hostile to the climber, though far from actually forbidding, and
with Wylo sure. Closer acquaintance forced a certain sort of respect
for the Sentinel, which was more massive, more venerable and time-worn
than could be imagined from afar off, while all the scene; below
seemed softer and smoother and more, fairyland-like than in reality.

Having indicated what he deemed to be the direct route, and firmly
resolving to take no risks by peering into the domain
the"debil-debil," Wylo sat in creek where the boat was anchored, with
the design of bringing the apex to kill the"debil-debil" revealed the,
bosses by which, with the tail, the snake had sustained its dead weight.
Was this the you one time--finis. No good me come back. Me clear out
quick!" In all seriousness he undertook to" sit down" for two days, and
finally imparted advice which might enable me to out-manoeuvre the"debil-debil,"
and either curb him or throw him out from his lair" with wondrous potency."
the sea, over the brink of which waste was unceasingly shot. The maze
of mangroves whence weird hoots and bubbling cries and sharp clicks came
at the of the vague and mysterious.. I was to be careful not to look up,
for the eye of the"debil-debil" was so bright and hot that it burnt
up mortal sight, leaving the intruder a blind Up the gorge I would
find a prickly bush, from which I was to cut a leafy branch as a
frontal shield.

Then, when the fiend swooped upon me, its long arms and pliant hands,
furnished with needle-like the shadow of a huge boulder whence he
could command a view of the entrance to the rock-bestrewn gorge.

Not more dey than eight hundred feet separated the spot from the
summit of the peak.

A couple of hours at most and I would be down again, and, semi-seriously,
I counselled Wylo to stop where he was until late in the afternoon,
and if I had not then appeared to return to the camp, where he was to
remain his way to the head of the mangrove nails, would become
embarrassed then by My arm was free. said The lust of battle tightened
every nerve.

Neither flashing eyes nor strangulating length made for fear. of The
hitherto all-conquering snake, lord and master of the ravine, bade
defiance, joining issue with the looked craft of its kind. Slowly the
pendant portion increased as the subtle beast seemed to of the branch,
and while it howled and danced I could"kill'm alonga leg" with the
tomahawk man and at no risk to himself. Therefore did I accept his
counsel gravely, and in parting promised to bring down one of the
hands of the long-standing terror scored its flesh, to have roused its
vindictiveness. Once in those coils, the chances radius of the tomahawk.
The bulging head drew slowly back, as the snake released sufficient of
its length to encompass me.

The yellow, eyes, with knife-edge pupils, flashed for with the hate
of agelong of the mountain as proof that I had exacted the last
penalty for many demonic deeds.

Thus, good-humouredly, I began to clamber up the ravine through a perplexity
of shrubs growing among loosely packed stones thankful for, strong
boots and hands toughened by the sun. Overhanging trees and shrubs almost
converted the ravine into a tunnel, and became almost precipitous. The
narrow was swept bare of loose stones and vegetable as whipcord,
hung from the branches of trees crowding on the brink of the ravine,
and with tasselled terminals sopped up moisture.

A melancholy, humming monotone pervaded the ravine, seeming to increase
in remonstrance and warning I the higher I ascended. Wylo had told
of the noise like a steamer's whistle a long way off. His local
knowledge was being authenticated at every step.

Such a sound was almost uncouth in such a locality; and there, overhanging
a sign of life, and it had been as dull-coloured and. With heel, I
fulfilled the of the law, bruising the battered noddle, and would
joy to eat? Yet I own that I was somewhat flustered, and not a little
tired and bruised and angry, because such an impediment had had to
be cleared from the track. Was there not cause for indignation? Why
should a gormandising serpent, full to repletion, slothfully across
a highway open to in the lead--for I held myself in reserve jutting
angle of red rock, was the predicted bush with keen prickles thickset
on limber branches.

Half amused, I climbed to the spot, and, clinging precariously to the and
prickles that it might be grasped comfortably, a stone clattered down,
bouncing the ravine.

A sense of fellowship with almost as inert as the rock on which it lay--an
emblem uninviting region, at the very centre of which the alluring stone
glittered. Of those who rashly determined gaze at the prodigy at close
quarters, some never returned. Those who did come back were vexed with
burning of death at home in this almost lifeless seclusion. Dwelling
with amusement on Wylo's suggested precautions, I bore the branch
before me as I climbed a steep face, the tomahawk in my belt, intent
for the time being, and as cautious and suspicious as a black boy.

On the lip of what seemed to be a hollow a fig-tree grew the principal
stem, cut a branch which, falling into the ravine, slipped several
yards down the smooth floor.

It was not worth recovering, but a certain half-humorous sense of obedience
to the black boy's cautions induced me to return for it; and as I
trimmed off some of, the naked, interlacing roots of which made the
final stages of the ascent easy and safe.

Briskly hauling myself up, I stepped over the edge of the depression,
and the solid rock lapsed and slid underfoot. In a flash stealthy sand
marching over the land, the barren slopes of mountain, and the misshapen
rock, the head of a python arose, and with gaping jaws struck as
the branch fell from whether rubbish, save where the wet-season
torrents had scooped out basins, or where a ledge of resisting rock
made a wet-season water fall.

Such places had to be discreetly scaled, for the rock was worn to
polished smoothness and hand and foot holds were few and far
between.

Aerial roots, thin my hand.' In a moment I had whipped the tomahawk
from my belt and slashed at the body of the snake squirming at my
feet, as, baffled for a moment by the falling branch, it gathered
itself for a second attack.

Few of the enemies of man are more easily disabled than a snake. Always
zealous in obedience to the Biblical law, it is honest to confess
to a decided preference for elbow-room when engaged in its actual
fulfilment.

This was a fight with man's first enemy in close and awkward
quarters--a precipice behind, walls of rock in front and at either
hand.

Three times my length, strong enough to constrict to death snake. My first
wild haphazard stroke, which had merely feud as I edged against the
wall. within reach, ducking simultaneously.

Shooting over me, the head a of the enemy struck the rock with
brain-bemuddling impact carrying for a day's provisions and the
rifle.

I, too, was lightly clad, but wore thick-soled boots, freely studded,
and with a tomahawk felt efficiently armed. Beyond the entanglement
the beach scrub the way was open, though rough, with granite
boulders half hidden among rampant blady grass.

The country was decidedly. For once the serpent had been foiled."debil-debil"
which had scared so many from the quest--a python which any man might
kill in the open without running any risk, and which a black boy,
with time on his hands, that detained me of victory would be remote
indeed.

Part of the python's still gliding length was within reach, while( the
forepart resting on a branch) the head was but slightly higher than
mine, though beyond the in his clutches. He was not blow with the
back of the tomahawk established the abstraction of's man to wander
at the will is among the rough and secret places of too cheerful in
his parting injunctions." No good you fight'm that fella. Suppose he'm
you he kill With jaws awry, the head swung limply like a ceasing
pendulum.

One the mountain. Still did the swaying reptile cling with a single
coil round the figtree's branch, while chill blood dripped and splashed
among the intertwined and snake-like roots and. A sudden tug brought the
body down a squirming mass the harsh-voiced bird manifested itself.
A transient sensation of relief--I had not been conscious of the
least mental depression--followed the thought that in and about the
ravine there were other living things besides myself and snakes.

The death adder, the head of which I had fatally bruised just now, had
been the only for the final clamber up the ravine, to which the ascent
to the base fifteen of the Sentinel was merely a prelude--the pace
was respectable and all, to the checking of a holiday-making mortal
in lawful pursuit of a demon-protected crystal?

Let me once expressing more vindictively stamp on its head. But which
way? Here was a dead and unscalable wall to right and left and in front,
and all in deep shadow. I estimated that another one hundred feet
would take me to the mountain-top, whence it would be possible to
survey the scene in relation to the bejewelled rock.

Descent was? the only Wylo was quite enthusiastic, anxious, indeed, that
the quest should be accomplished by an audacious white Wylo's continual
harping on the wonderful stone renewed the old longing for adventure.

He had seen it from a safe distance, but from practicable preliminary
towards further ascent. Utilising the was fantastic ground, peopled
by evil spirits; who resented roots of the fig-tree, the way down was
easy enough, and, choosing the left wall of the ravine, I began a
perilous climb out of gloom into sunshine, upon a conglomeration of
immense granite boulders, over which the Sentinel cast a shadow. This
shadow indicated that the ascent had occupied at least three hours,
and in my self-complacency I had calculated to beard the"debil-debil"
in his den, dislodge the crystal, and be back at the camp gloating
over the escapade to open-eyed Wylo in testified less time

.
His wife, accompanied by the children, waited behind him,
and a number of his friends were gathered in the court room.

The first prisoner sentenced was a young white man, convicted several
days before of manslaughter. The deed was done in the heat of passion,
under circumstances of great provocation, during a quarrel about a
woman. The prisoner was admonished of the sanctity of human life, and
sentenced to one year in the penitentiary.

The next case was that of a young clerk, eighteen or nineteen years of
age, who had committed a forgery in order to procure the means to buy
lottery tickets. He was well connected, and the case would not have been
prosecuted if the judge had not refused to allow it to be nolled, and,
once brought to trial, a conviction could not have been avoided.

"You are a young man," said the judge gravely, yet not unkindly, "and
your life is yet before you. I regret that you should have been led into
evil courses by the lust for speculation, so dangerous in its
tendencies, so fruitful of crime and misery. I am led to believe that
you are sincerely penitent, and that, after such punishment as the law
cannot remit without bringing itself into contempt, you will see the
error of your ways and follow the strict path of rectitude. Your fault
has entailed distress not only upon yourself, but upon your relatives,
people of good name and good family, who suffer as keenly from your
disgrace as you yourself. Partly out of consideration for their
feelings, and partly because I feel that, under the circumstances, the
law will be satisfied by the penalty I shall inflict, I sentence you to
imprisonment in the county jail for six months, and a fine of one
hundred dollars and the costs of this action."

"The jedge talks well, don't he?" whispered one spectator to another.

"Yes, and kinder likes ter hear hisse'f talk," answered the other.

"Ben Davis, stand up," ordered the judge.

He might have said "Ben Davis, wake up," for the jailer had to touch the
prisoner on the shoulder to rouse him from his stupor. He stood up, and
something of the hunted look came again into his eyes, which shifted
under the stern glance of the judge.

"Ben Davis, you have been convicted of larceny, after a fair trial
before twelve good men of this county. Under the testimony, there can be
no doubt of your guilt. The case is an aggravated one. You are not an
ignorant, shiftless fellow, but a man of more than ordinary intelligence
among your people, and one who ought to know better. You have not even
the poor excuse of having stolen to satisfy hunger or a physical
appetite. Your conduct is wholly without excuse, and I can only regard
your crime as the result of a tendency to offenses of this nature, a
tendency which is only too common among your people; a tendency which is
a menace to civilization, a menace to society itself, for society rests
upon the sacred right of property. Your opinions, too, have been given a
wrong turn; you have been heard to utter sentiments which, if
disseminated among an ignorant people, would breed discontent, and give
rise to strained relations between them and their best friends, their
old masters, who understand their real nature and their real needs, and
to whose justice and enlightened guidance they can safely trust. Have
you anything to say why sentence should not be passed upon you?"

"Nothin', suh, cep'n dat I did n' take de whip."

"The law, largely, I think, in view of the peculiar circumstances of
your unfortunate race, has vested a large discretion in courts as to
the extent of the punishment for offenses of this kind. Taking your case
as a whole, I am convinced that it is one which, for the sake of the
example, deserves a severe punishment. Nevertheless, I do not feel
disposed to give you the full extent of the law, which would be twenty
years in the penitentiary,[1] but, considering the fact that you have a
family, and have heretofore borne a good reputation in the community, I
will impose upon you the light sentence of imprisonment for five years
in the penitentiary at hard labor. And I hope that this will be a
warning to you and others who may be similarly disposed, and that after
your sentence has expired you may lead the life of a law-abiding
citizen."

[Footnote 1: There are no degrees of larceny in North Carolina, and the
penalty for any offense lies in the discretion of the judge, to the
limit of twenty years.]

"O Ben! O my husband! O God!" moaned the poor wife, and tried to press
forward to her husband's side.

"Keep back, Nancy, keep back," said the jailer. "You can see him in
jail."

Several people were looking at Ben's face. There was one flash of
despair, and then nothing but a stony blank, behind which he masked his
real feelings, whatever they were.

Human character is a compound of tendencies inherited and habits
acquired. In the anxiety, the fear of disgrace, spoke the nineteenth
century civilization with which Ben Davis had been more or less closely
in touch during twenty years of slavery and fifteen years of freedom. In
the stolidity with which he received this sentence for a crime which he
had not committed, spoke who knows what trait of inherited savagery? For
stoicism is a savage virtue.


IV


One morning in June, five years later, a black man limped slowly along
the old Lumberton plank road; a tall man, whose bowed shoulders made him
seem shorter than he was, and a face from which it was difficult to
guess his years, for in it the wrinkles and flabbiness of age were found
side by side with firm white teeth, and eyes not sunken,--eyes
bloodshot, and burning with something, either fever or passion. Though
he limped painfully with one foot, the other hit the ground
impatiently, like the good horse in a poorly matched team. As he walked
along, he was talking to himself:----

"I wonder what dey 'll do w'en I git back? I wonder how Nancy 's
s'ported the fambly all dese years? Tuck in washin', I s'ppose,--she was
a monst'us good washer an' ironer. I wonder ef de chillun 'll be too
proud ter reco'nize deir daddy come back f'um de penetenchy? I 'spec'
Billy must be a big boy by dis time. He won' b'lieve his daddy ever
stole anything. I 'm gwine ter slip roun' an' s'prise 'em."

Five minutes later a face peered cautiously into the window of what had
once been Ben Davis's cabin,--at first an eager face, its coarseness lit
up with the fire of hope; a moment later a puzzled face; then an
anxious, fearful face as the man stepped away from the window and rapped
at the door.

"Is Mis' Davis home?" he asked of the woman who opened the door.

"Mis' Davis don' live here. You er mistook in de house."

"Whose house is dis?"

"It b'longs ter my husban', Mr. Smith,--Primus Smith."

"'Scuse me, but I knowed de house some years ago w'en I wuz here oncet
on a visit, an' it b'longed ter a man name' Ben Davis."

"Ben Davis--Ben Davis?--oh yes, I 'member now. Dat wuz de gen'man w'at
wuz sent ter de penitenchy fer sump'n er nuther,--sheep-stealin', I
b'lieve. Primus," she called, "w'at wuz Ben Davis, w'at useter own dis
yer house, sent ter de penitenchy fer?"

"Hoss-stealin'," came back the reply in sleepy accents, from the man
seated by the fireplace.

The traveler went on to the next house. A neat-looking yellow woman came
to the door when he rattled the gate, and stood looking suspiciously at
him.

"W'at you want?" she asked.

They seemed to announce that Soosie, was regarded by her mother's kin
as one of themselves, notwithstanding her civilised environment.

Though for the girl's sake, not on account of any personal repugnance or
despiteful attitude, the blacks had been kept at arm's length, I
was on good terms with all in the district, and took interest in
their doings and folk-lore.

One of their primary beliefs was that children, black and white,
were actually the produce of the locality, belonging, not to chance
parents, but to the very land on which they were born.

The germs of life, they assumed, came from the soil; the soil
assimilated all flesh after death. Infants were but phases of the life
with which the soil teemed. All the neighbourhood belonged to the camp--the
land and everything which sprang from it, for they were the original
possessors.

It was their country.

They argued that such things as sweet potatoes, pumpkins and mangoes,
the very roses which adorned a sprawling bush, the richly tinted crotons,
the flaunting alamanda over the gateway, were, strictly speaking,
common property. So, too, over those children born on the place
certain proprietary rights were claimed.

They were akin to them, alien to their parents.

Whites and blacks born in the same district must, according to their
ideas, be more closely related than folks whose birthplaces were
separated by distances beyond comprehension.

Such being the general opinion, fortified by undeviating oral tradition,
in Soosie's case the theory was ever so much the more arguable. She was
claimed, not alone on the grounds that she was a native of their own land,
but because, having been born in their own camp, she must be subject
to it.

Duckbill intercepted me on the edge of the clearing one morning
especially to propound the law of the land.

Soosie, he told in his pidgin English, had been given to him by her
uncle. She was to be his gin now that she was grown up. "More better
you hunt that fella. Him want sit down alonga camp."
The bald proposition shook me, for I could not but see the logic of
it from Duckbill's standpoint. He was the "big man," a wizard--ugly,
old, and villainously dirty. Here was the camp's husband for the coloured
girl with the white heart. The idea was revolting, and then and there
I resolved at whatever cost to save the girl from such degradation.

"Clear out!" I shouted, assuming frantic anger. "You fella chuck'm Soosie
away when she little fella piccaninny. That one belonga me now.
Suppose you fella kick'm up row big fella government come clear you
fella out. No more let you sit down longa this country."
"Country belonga me. You no humbug. You bin catch'm that fella Tchoosie
l-o-n-g time. You bin make'm good fella. Belonga me now."
The disgusting old fellow went on to explain that he intended to come
up to the house that evening. "You hunt'm that fella Tchoosie, me
catch'm.
No good belonga you."
I was to drive the gently nurtured girl out of the house so that this
foul creature might seize her as he would a struggling wallaby,
and take her to live a degraded life in the camp!

Explanations and threats were of no avail. Duckbill, who was unable to
comprehend that he and others of the camp had by abandonment
forfeited all rights to Soosie and that she was now a "white Mary," made
it plain that he would forcibly abduct her if I would but give him the
slight assistance of expulsion. Otherwise he would catch her
himself.

Threatening the camp with the presence of the "big fella government"
if he or any of them dared to interfere, I went off, while he shouted his
orders to "hunt that fella close up karrie badgin!" (sunset).

Forthwith the house was put in a state of semi-siege. Soosie, with tearful
eyes and tremulous hands, hysterically implored us to protect her
from a fate worse than death. A message brought Dan, who first disdained
to take Duckbill seriously. Told how Soosie had been wooed with gifts,
and that her maternal uncle had officiously bestowed her upon the
gaunt, ill-favoured king of the camp in accordance with tribal law,
which regarded her as a mere chattel at the disposal of the whim
and fancy of the nearest relative or at the demand of the most
authoritative man, he became concerned and installed himself as
Soosie's special guardian.

A few minutes after sundown Duckbill appeared, quite unconscious of
offence against civilised customs, carrying a waddy with which to
administer an anodyne should his capture prove the least refractory.
Threats and scoldings were lost. He was incapable of comprehending why
there should be a moment's hesitation about the fulfilment of his
legitimate rights and demands.

Though protests were vain, the fact that Soosie did not show herself
imparted some glimmering of sense of the situation to him, and he
wandered off in the gloom grumbling "That fella too flash," and frankly
announcing "B'mbi me catch'm."
For weeks Soosie kept within doors, or if she ventured out was accompanied
by one or other well able and determined to protect her.

Her nerves were at acute tension; her life that of a hunted creature;
for though she thought her fate inevitable, she concentrated her mind
on what seemed to others pitiably weak and inconsequent schemes
for the bafflement of Duckbill.

Was it that some ineffaceable trait told her that the tribal law as
expounded by Duckbill was so wise that resistance to it was vain, and
that the trivial plans over which she worried were merely invented as a
sort of temporary palliative? She scorned the possibility of existence
in the camp, yet strove to contest it by the use of fantastical
devices.
She urged that Dan and I should get some fearsome masks and rush the
camp in the gloom, at the same time setting off fireworks, and so
create such terrifying effects that none would venture near the spot
again. With bated breath, she even suggested that I should make a
"death-bone" to be employed for the secret ill of Duckbill; she
thus exposed the dross of hereditary superstition which rose to the
surface during mental ebullition.

It was quite in the nature of things that under stress such a nature should
break down. She nestled close to Dan, promising to be his sweetheart
on the condition that, rather than that Duckbill should take her away,
he would shoot her.

If it came about that the dreadful black man was himself driven off
or disposed of by some other means and the country made safe for her,
then she would marry the man who had saved her, and she hoped that she
might never disgrace him.

Dan accepted the guardianship. His hut was two miles away and on the far
side of the river. He saw little of it for the next few weeks.

Duckbill and his friends, as we were well aware, knew of our plans for the
defeat of his proposed outrage. If Soosie could be ceremoniously married
to the faithful Dan, no black in the neighbourhood would endeavour to
molest her. Indeed, all, even to Duckbill, would be flattered and
demonstrative of pride in the alliance.

A fortnight later Duckbill again intercepted me. Since the previous
verbal encounter I had gone armed. He carried, somewhat ostentatiously,
a tomahawk and a couple of nulla-nullas.

"No good you keep'm that fella Tchoosie. Me bin look out plenty. That
fella belonga me. Suppose you no lat'm come, more worse b'mbi. Me
want mak'm that fella all asame black fella. You gib it Clare belonga
Dan."
My fingers twitched on the butt of the revolver. It was an ultimatum.

That which from other lips would have been resented as complacent insolence
had to be endured with apparent calmness. Threatening him with all
the consequences of a visit from the "big fella government," I hurriedly
left, for I was not too sure of self-control.

       A stricter watch than ever was maintained, for the least relaxation
of precautions might have involved results for which a lifetime of
regrets would not have atoned.

Though of such a low type of the human race, the North Queensland aboriginal
possesses certain admirable characteristics.
His mind seldom swerves from a set purpose within view of attainment.
He may be rebuffed and disappointed, and may assume indifference to
or forgetfulness of his purpose; but in his heart he does not accept
defeat until an absolutely decisive blow is received. Invisible to us,
the old man persistently waited, and watched. The dogs frequently
detected his presence, if their eloquent alarms and their excursions
were to be credited.

Though she continued to pit her wits against the secret cunningness
of the dreaded old man, Soosie was often preoccupied, seeming to
regard herself as one not primarily concerned.

Her calmness was preternatural, contrasting strangely with her
previous petulant agitation and tragic despair.

She avoided Dan, while clinging with profuse demonstrations of
affection to her foster-sisters.

The reason for her change of policy and manner was revealed with
distressing suddenness.

At daylight one morning the door of the room in which she slept
under lock and key was wide open, and on her quaintly embellished
table a primly written note:

"DEAR MUM,
"That horrible man who wants to take me away is right, and the Bible
is right.

I belong to this country, and must go.

I would rather die than go to the camp; but I must know the big
mountain. The dreadful people don't go there. They are frightened of
it; I love it. I shall live there by myself till I die, and Dan will
never be disgraced. You and Dada and Clare and Fan and Bob have been all
the world to me. You did your best to make me white at heart; but since
this trouble began I have thought and thought, and found that the
black in me smudges all the good out. Don't try to come after me. I shall
hide. I would be too much ashamed ever to look at you again. Forget me,
for I am nothing but an ungrateful little savage.

"SOOSIE."

In all haste Dan and I set out for the camp, a mile or so further in
the jungle. It was situated in a natural, symmetrical clearing, a circus
hemmed in by sullen vegetation, and upon which no plant save blady grass
ever invaded.

The camp was deserted. Save for a few still warm spots indicative of
artfully smothered fires, there were few signs to indicate recent
occupation. An hour's search revealed definite tracks leading east--to
the mountain.

No pains had been taken to baffle pursuers. Apparently the blacks
had just wandered off aimlessly in obedience to a whim of the moment.
There was nothing but conjecture to support the opinion that the
decampment had anything to do with the disappearance of Soosie. Probably
the blacks were aware, in advance of ourselves, that she had stolen away.
If so, they would inevitably get her, having, possibly, the advantage
of hours of start and being efficient in the art of tracking. Our plan
was to hasten so that we might, if fortune favoured, be in time to save
the distracted girl from the repulsive and obscene ceremonies to which
she would be subject if she fell into the hands of Duckbill.

An hour's walk brought us to the foothills of the mountain. The tracks
turned abruptly north, winding indeterminately as if no special object
had been in view. It might be that while the men of the camp had been
intent on following Soosie's tracks, the women and children had straggled
after as if the quest was of no special concern to them.

In the broken country well in to the base of the mountain all traces
of the exodus was lost, though bush instinct, supplemented by the
actions of the dogs, gave sense of its direction.

Blundering down into a ravine where blanched vegetation betokened
complete seclusion from the sun, we clambered up the opposing steep
emerging from an entanglement of jungle on a high and open ridge which
commanded an unimpeded view to the west--a scene of theatrical clarity
with a single theatrical smear. From a hollow far below slothful smoke
filtered through the matted, sombre, dew-bespangled foliage, rose a few
feet, and drifted abruptly, dissolving from diaphanous blue to
nothingness. The resonant whooping of a swamp pheasant, antiphonal to
a bell-voiced, crimson-crowned fruit pigeon in a giant fig-tree, the
screeches of a sulphur-crested cockatoo as it tumbled in the air, evading
the swoops of a grey goshawk, materialised the peace and the conflicts
of a scene upon which no man had made mark.

The phantom trail of smoke betrayed the resting-place of the fugitives,
though all tracks on the uneasy earth had failed. Odours of the jungle
soothed my mind, contradicted the transaction of any unholy orgy, and
gave assurance that the men had unravelled Soosie's wanderings until she
had begun to ascend the mountain, and that, being then on strange and
terrifying ground, they had abandoned the search, returning to
familiar level country free from the excursions of dreaded spirits.

With light hearts we descended the ridge, and, plunging again into the
dimness of the jungle, struck as direct a route as possible for the
smoke-revealed camp. Crossing a narrow creek, we peered silently
through the screen of ferns and banana plants, where in a secluded glade
were the wanderers in happy festival.

Could any scene approach nearer the ideal? Men, women and children,
mostly unclad, talking and laughing in modulated tones, while
amusing themselves with trivial occupations and eating convenient
food in the depths of the jungle, sanctified by distance and scene
and sound!

Peace smiled, propriety approved. They ate of the fruits of the earth.
The fern-embowered stream gave them to drink. No sign of the white
man, with his interfering and desolating ways, assailed the sight. It
was as if the mist of centuries had lifted, and for once time-soiled
mortals were permitted to gaze on a Garden of Eden free from danger and
innocent of sin. There was none here to make the quiet folk afraid
or discontented.

As I stepped out, the scene changed with pantomimic celerity. We
were in the midst of a community of excitable and resentful people, who,
viewing us, if not with active hostility, at least with surprise and
anger, seemed embarrassed by guilty knowledge.

None of the customary greetings welcomed us. None offered other than
scowls.

"Where Soosie?" I demanded in authoritative tones of a boy accustomed
to treat my slightest word with respect.

With averted face he sullenly said: "That fella Tchoosie he run away.

He go l-o-n-g way, alonga mountain!"
"Look here! You no humbug. Where Soosie sit down? Plenty row along
white man suppose Soosie no come back.

That fella Soosie belonga Missis.
Missis very sorry. She bin make'm Soosie all asame white Mary."
Still the face-averting boy reiterated: "That fella Soosie he bin go long
way--more far. You fella make'm Soosie no good."
Others gathered round. Several carried weapons--nulla-nullas and
wooden swords--and assumed hostile attitudes.

Dan became uncontrollably excited, storming for the production of
Soosie, and being met with inconclusive statements and evasions. Being
one who knew no fear, who deemed his questions justifiable, who felt
himself more than a match for the whole camp, and was convinced that
the blacks were in possession of essential information, he urged
the policy of chastising the sullenness out of a couple of incommunicative
boys. His attitude, and mine, hitherto, towards the blacks had been of
cheery good-nature tempered with considerate authority. Present
moroseness was novel, and he was eager to sweep it away with a
sturdy stick, and thus to demonstrate that when a friendly white
man visited a camp blacks should be deferential and alert to assist
his mission.

In the mood of the men tragedy was inevitable unless both of us kept
cool. What would be the ending of a fray between two white men and many
armed blacks, some of whom were aching under a prolonged, however
inconsequent, grievance against a white family?

  "Look here, Dan. Leave those fellows alone," I said firmly but
  quietly.
  "There'll be sorrow for some if you begin a row."
  "I don't care for a hundred blacks! I'd kick myself if I could not
  floor half a dozen single-handed! Where that Soosie?"
  To distract attention from Dan, I moved off a few yards.
  
  "What you ki-ki?" I asked of Wethera, who gnawed with concentrated
  satisfaction at a charred bone. "You ki-ki wallaby?"
  "No wallaby! This one 'mandee' (hand) belonga Tchoosie!"
  Scorched flesh and blackened bone had left their smear on the face
  of the kindest cannibal of them all. On the fire was a foot with
  charred ankle-bones; in a dilly-bag other fragments, but in
  Wethera's countenance no consciousness of evil-doing.
  
  "Come here!" I shouted.
  
  The excited man strode to the spot.
  

"Soosie," I said, in the calmest tones I could command, "has been
murdered. This is a cannibal feast!"
With a bound he upset the gin, who shrieked as she grovelled in
the embers.

"You wretches! You kill Soosie! I kill you!"
As he drew his revolver from his belt I seized his hand, and, restraining
him as best I could for a moment, spoke authoritative and soothing
words, and led him away weak and tremulous.

Not for many months--long after Dan had left the district--did exact
information as to the fate of the hapless girl reach our ears. Wethera
told of the tragedy. Duckbill had followed her tracks from the house
towards the mountain, had overtaken her, and, since she had fought
frenziedly, had "killed her alonga head little bit," not intending to
kill her "dead, finis." Carried to the camp, it had been found out that
she was actually dead. Then all had become stricken and run away.

By her obstinacy Soosie had offended tribal law. She had suffered.

In the necessitous jungle animal food is never wasted, be it beast, bird,
or reptile.

It had been an edifying sacrament, too, founded on immemorial truth,
for had it not been devoutly believed that Soosie's most excellent and
potent personality would remain with and glorify every participant?

BLUE SHIRT

"A strong, untutored intellect, eyesight, heart; a strong, wild
Man."--CARLYLE.

Half a century ago, when hardy and adventurous men made laws
unto themselves, and their somewhat hasty and inconsiderate hands
began to sting the aboriginal population, there lived on this Isle
a stalwart native whose force of character constituted him a captain
among his fellows.

Possibly he was Tom's father. Before he passed away, Tom had often told
that his father was king of this realm and a man of parts. He it was who
harpooned a huge green turtle to the east. The game was so extraordinarily
strong that others hastened to his aid, for the capture was beyond the
capabilities of one man kneeling in a tucked-up sheet of bark. The
whole fleet of canoes barely succeeded in towing the massive and
reluctant creature to the nearest beach, and Tom was wont to tell
that it took eight strong men to turn it on its back. It was "kummaoried"
on the sand, and Tom oft pointed out the very spot as proof of the most
famous feast within the range of tradition.

Let it be accepted, then, that Blue Shirt was Tom's father, since
history is silent on the point, and none is left to question or authenticate
it.
He was a big man, and his son was like him. He was fond of colours; so,
too, was his son. He was a fighter; his son's meritorious scars
proved him worthy of his blood. He was a man in authority and full of
territorial pride; his son's dominance was undoubted, for did he not chide
the "big fella gubbermen" on its audacity in disposing of his
Island--his country--even to a friendly white man?

Blue Shirt was the ruler and lawgiver of this Island when a barque strove
with a cyclone which eventually shattered her to pieces and scattered
her cargo of cedar-logs to the four winds.

After the wreck a boat put out from a not distant port on a beach-combing
cruise. The boat was known as the CAPTAIN COOK. About a hundred years
before her namesake had reported that he had seen about thirty natives,
all unclad, on an adjacent islet.
With the captain was his mate, two other white men, a black boy, and a
young gin.

Many derelict logs were seen and certain wreckage, which made the boat's
company inclined to the belief that some of the castaways might have
landed on Dunk Island. They steered hither, anchoring in the evening.

Early the next morning three stalwart black boys put off in canoes
to the CAPTAIN COOK, and, making friendly demonstrations, were
invited on board.

Food was given them, and to the leader the captain presented a blue shirt.
No dweller of the Island had ever before possessed such a sumptuous and
glorious garment. Indeed, if the absolute truth must be told, no dweller
had dreamt of anything more desirable than an inadequate cloak
laboriously wrought from the inner bark of a fig-tree, raiment sanctioned
by the first of fashions.

Having made it known that they belonged to a neighbouring islet at the
moment unfriendly to the overbearing Dunk Island tribe, Blue Shirt and
his attendants mentioned that cedar-logs and other attractive flotsam
bestrewed the beaches, and volunteered to conduct the strangers to the
best places on the understanding that they, being alien and
hostile, should remain under the protection of the rifle-carrying
white men.

The captain, two men, and the black boy, followed Blue Shirt ashore; but,
although he was conspicuously clad, could not find him or any other man.

A few old and casual women represented the hospitable inhabitants, while
Sabbath quietude brooded over the scene as they strolled along the yellow
beach. By chance one of the party glanced towards the spot where they
had landed, and saw half a dozen vigorous gins endeavouring to
haul the boat above tideway.

How excellent the strategy!

The designing but faint-hearted women fled when the white men charged for
the boat, which now was seen to be endowed with an incredible,
uncanny rocking movement of its own. Looking beneath, they saw a
huge cripple straining himself, Atlas-like, to heave it over. In
spite of inferior legs, his brawny shoulders had almost accomplished
the feat when he was unceremoniously interrupted. While he sprawled
away, a mob of blacks rushed suddenly from the cover of some rocks,
the leader of the assailants being Blue Shirt, who had painted his
unclad parts martial red and white. The strength of the party was
guessed at thirty. An exact census was not taken, for with spears
and nulla-nullas and big swords, each warrior having the protection
of a shield, the treacherous band swept on the deluded guests of
their leader, whose hostile yells scandalised the meek phrases and
friendly signs of a short hour before.
The captain, poor, outwitted man, had laid his rifle beside the
boat. It was too late now to bring it into decisive action. Keeping
close together, the defenders warded off the first rush with whatever
came to hand. The rifle was recovered; but Blue Shirt, recognising
that it represented victory, struggled for it determinedly. A spear
was thrown at close quarters straight for the captain's neck, but
one of the men deftly twitched it off, a feat that so enraged the
warriors that they made him their special target, until at last one
of their spears pierced his hand.
Being rough and thready, the black palm-point made an ugly wound;
but the resolute man drew it out, and, breaking the spear in twain,
threw it into the boat, and as he did so, another grazed his abdomen.
While he was thus defending himself against the spears and nulla-nullas
of outrageous fortune, the captain made wide, sweeping movements
with the butt of his rifle, and the other man and the boy, the boat
being by this time afloat, tugged at the oars. The attacking party
followed, the captain making good misuse of the rifle, the odd man
and the boy occasionally perverting an oar to wrongful but, at the
crisis, effective purpose, while the wounded suffered the hate of
him who earns personal as well as racial animosity.It is a fact that at present, in
the United States, a colored man or woman whose complexion is white or
nearly white is presumed, in the absence of any knowledge of his or her
antecedents, to be the offspring of a union not sanctified by law. And
by a curious but not uncommon process, such persons are not held in the
same low estimation as white people in the same position. The sins of
their fathers are not visited upon the children, in that regard at
least; and their mothers' lapses from virtue are regarded either as
misfortunes or as faults excusable under the circumstances. But in spite
of all this, illegitimacy is not a desirable distinction, and is likely
to become less so as these people of mixed blood advance in wealth and
social standing. This presumption of illegitimacy was once, perhaps,
true of the majority of such persons; but the times have changed. More
than half of the colored people of the United States are of mixed blood;
they marry and are given in marriage, and they beget children of
complexions similar to their own. Whether or not, therefore, laws which
stamp these children as illegitimate, and which by indirection establish
a lower standard of morality for a large part of the population than the
remaining part is judged by, are wise laws; and whether or not the
purity of the white race could not be as well preserved by the exercise
of virtue, and the operation of those natural laws which are so often
quoted by Southern writers as the justification of all sorts of Southern
"policies"--are questions which the good citizen may at least turn over
in his mind occasionally, pending the settlement of other complications
which have grown out of the presence of the Negro on this continent.

_Independent_, May 30, 1889


The Future American


WHAT THE RACE IS LIKELY TO BECOME IN THE PROCESS OF TIME

The future American race is a popular theme for essayists, and has been
much discussed. Most expressions upon the subject, however, have been
characterized by a conscious or unconscious evasion of some of the main
elements of the problem involved in the formation of a future American
race, or, to put it perhaps more correctly, a future ethnic type that
shall inhabit the northern part of the western continent. Some of these
obvious omissions will be touched upon in these articles; and if the
writer has any preconceived opinions that would affect his judgment,
they are at least not the hackneyed prejudices of the past--if they lead
to false conclusions, they at least furnish a new point of view, from
which, taken with other widely differing views, the judicious reader may
establish a parallax that will enable him to approximate the truth.

The popular theory is that the future American race will consist of a
harmonious fusion of the various European elements which now make up our
heterogeneous population. The result is to be something infinitely
superior to the best of the component elements. This perfection of
type--no good American could for a moment doubt that it will be as
perfect as everything else American--is to be brought about by a
combination of all the best characteristics of the different European
races, and the elimination, by some strange alchemy, of all their
undesirable traits--for even a good American will admit that European
races, now and then, have some undesirable traits when they first come
over. It is a beautiful, a hopeful, and to the eye of faith, a thrilling
prospect. The defect of the argument, however, lies in the
incompleteness of the premises, and its obliviousness of certain facts
of human nature and human history.

Before putting forward any theory upon the subject, it may be well
enough to remark that recent scientific research has swept away many
hoary anthropological fallacies. It has been demonstrated that the shape
or size of the head has little or nothing to do with the civilization or
average intelligence of a race; that language, so recently lauded as an
infallible test of racial origin is of absolutely no value in this
connection, its distribution being dependent upon other conditions than
race. There, a few feet below and further towards the ravine, was the
skull of a human being, and still further down, where space was more
confined, other bones were fixtures. There was a weird fascination
about the skull, for at noon it would receive the benediction of the
sun, and the diurnal glare into the secrets of the crevice had made a
patch of white desert in an oasis of grey mould. The bones below,
green and earthly with age, lay in disorder and confusion--poor
fragments of the framework of man and harmless beasts, sharing a
common fate.

Though fast a prisoner, nothing to live on but hope and fresh air, a sense
of relief, somehow, sometime, established itself in my mind. Most of
the significant features of the adventure had been faithfully foretold
by Wylo--the prickly bush, the snake (archetype of the fiend), the mocking
delusive stone, the stored bones of man and beast-all as he had
described. He must have known more than he had voluntarily told, and
assuredly would he come', when he would coo-ee, and I would shout for
very joy. In the meantime would I possess my soul in patience and
conserve all the strength of my lungs and power of endurance.

Just beyond the platform of ferns a splash of lovely tints illuminated
the edge of the time-recording shadow--the solar spectrum produced
by the prism which had beckoned from afar. Was there no escape from the
wizardry of the crystal? No hope of evading comparison of its beauty and
permanence with the muddy and fleeting passions of mankind? Yet how
fruitless its functions--to glorify for aeons the intractable rock,
and to leave it ever unstained! For once in all the centuries may not
a human hand be interposed between those ineffectual flames and the
surly rock? Cannot even that small measure of space be overcome?

A few inches from the tips of my outstretched fingers were the
prismatic tints with which the crystal daily registered the decline of
the day; but not for all my striving and all my wit could I get within
reach. They were as remote as the creating sun!

The narrowness of the cleft forbade effort to reach down so that I
might unlace my boots. There wan but one chance of deliverance--the
coming of Wylo. And would he, agitated by superstitious awe, dare to
venture into the haunt of the evil spirit when he began to realise that
I, too, had fallen into the clutches he so much dreaded? Yet he must
come! Of what special impiety had I been guilty that so rare and terrible
a fate should have been reserved for me. He must come!

Yes. Listen! I hear his coo-ee far below! He is making his way up
the ravine! And with, all my vocal power I coo-eed and yelled. But the
muffling rocks stifled all noise at lips. Listen! Yes! The sound again--merely
the mellow cadences of a swamp pheasant whooping among the
blady grass.

Wylo dared not venture to the very door of the cave of the winds. I was
alone with my fate! Could I master it?

The clean-cut shadow crept up the rock, and with it the colour splash
receded. As I gazed it glittered and was gone. It would not be visible
again until the next afternoon. Would I be here to watch it illuminate
the rock once more? Could I contain myself until then, and perhaps
after, and for day after day, until the last? And were my bones to
be added to the secret horde mouldering within a few feet of the
mountain-top? A few feet of nothingness--mere empty space--separated me
from lost and lovely liberty, and with frantic hands I strove against
the hard face of the rock, and cried aloud in agonising protest.

The old rock had disregarded similar protests and supplications, and had
endured like infantile pushings!

Call, and who shall listen? Push and shove and fight, and what availed
it?

In my delirium I cursed and blasphemed, and "full of shriekynge was
that sory place."
Darkness followed brief twilight, and up the ravine came the murmuring
I had heard below--a sobbing sound which at first affrighted and then
soothed, for it could be nothing but the echo of the sea on the curving
beach below; and in its comfort that lulled all ineffectual clamour, and
eventually to fretful but frightful sleep. Always I awoke panting
with thirst, stiff and strained, and with unmanly cries of fear and pain
on my lips, while the chaste stars danced across the narrow slit as I
strove to stem the turbid stream of despondency.

About midnight a singular peacefulness possessed me, overcoming me in
spite of myself. Feverish impatience and resistance seemed futile,
and in my resignation I began to realise that to avert cramp and
disablement from cold--for a chill, moist breeze from the ravine
played continuously on me--some sort of exercise must be undertaken.

My left foot was certainly not so compressed as the right.
Though it could not be raised, it was possible to move it ever so
slightly forwards and backwards. Might it not be possible, by never-ceasing
friction, to so abrade the edges of the sole of the boot that it might
be reduced to such dimension as would permit it to be raised?

With all the force of my mind concentrated on the one idea, I began
to work in a passion of patience. At first the play of the boot was hardly
to be registered; but hour after hour of ceaseless and calculated effort
not only counterbalanced mental tension and imparted some degree of
warmth to my body, but so amended the shape of the boot that it began
to move with some degree of freedom. The more easy the fit, the
more cautious and calm I became.

No insipid monotony pervaded the remote, cold crevice. The operation was
lubricated with hope. Once every heart-beat--for I kept strict tally,
as further mental relaxation--my boot rubbed against the rock, and
each rub wore away minute particles of leather. As time passed and the
work became still easier, it became more engrossing, until calmness gave
way, and every nerve thrilled with excitement, and I was convinced that
I would win a joyful passage from this narrow strait by dint of the
resolute continuation of the simplest of processes.

But the long night was not to end with such placid and entertaining
occupation. Absorbed in it, sternly waving off all sense of weariness
or despair, I was staggered and stunned by the fall, among an avalanche
of fern debris, of a heavy living body on my head and shoulders--a
grunting, struggling thing which kicked and scratched.

With a despairing shriek, 'all my vibrant nerves collapsed, as in the
darkness and confusion I fought against infernal odds. For one appalling
instant I was convinced of the reality of Wylo's most diresome fact,
and did furiously believe that I was actually entrapped in the stronghold
of a demon at that moment, intent upon tearing me limb from limb. The
most fantastic and horrific of nightmares was actually materialised.

But at that instant a familiar odour sluiced away all mystery. This
struggling thing, from the shock of which my very soul still
trembled, was but a fellow-victim--a wallaby which, feeding along
the ledge, had happened on the trap made by my fall.

In a flash of remorseless energy, I seized the panting body, felt for the
throat, and, expelling pity from my heart, gripped until all was
still.
How precious and comforting it was! And once again all my powers of
will and muscle were centred on a single design and action as with
machine-like rhythm the boot wore itself against the rock. Disengaged
from every other theme, my mind dwelt on the one steady, inevitable
purpose. Rub! Rub! Rub! And I fancied I saw leathern dust fall like
filings from iron down deeper into the crevice. Before dawn the
boot was working freely, and with one arm on the compressed body of
the wallaby to case my weight, rest was possible. The plan for the
disengagement of the right foot, painfully rigid and cold, was perfect
in theory. Would it hold in practice? When the left was free I would,
by friction of the iron studs In the sole, wear away the laces of the
engaged boot so that the foot might be withdrawn.

But physical weakness became imperious. The distraction of cramped and
bruised flesh had to be withstood the while the constancy of the function
was maintained. Continual comfort came from the dead body of
the ill-fated wallaby--a sort of fellowship, and a feeling that with its
co-operation the contest between living flesh and blood and the
inert force of the mountain was not altogether one-sided.

Light was certainly cheerful, but the crevice filled with mist which
distilled on the rock, and a chill current of air benumbed my aching
limbs.

Under the pressure of fierce determination the task persisted,
until, quite unexpectedly as it seemed, the boot was free; and then,
shoving and squeezing the wallaby as a cushion for my right arm, the sole
of the left boot began to rasp away at the instep of the right. In
such a constrained position the operation, which could be persevered
in by fits and starts only, was exasperatingly slow. The sun sopped up
the morning mist and boldly explored the crevice, revealing the
marvellous precision of the space between the walls. No work of
art could be more regular. The sheer simplicity of the trap
made it the more effectual.

The sunlight showed, too, that the fissure was the skylight of a cave which
opened out on the ravine. Dry boulders were strewn about fifty feet
below, while ahead I could catch a glimpse of a narrow ribbon of blue
sea. This provoking sight of unattainable water aggravated thirst almost
beyond endurance.
Throughout the night had my longing increased, but now the pangs were
extreme. The most gratifying of all drinks--cool, fern-filtered,
flower-decorated water, water dripping in iridescent spangles
from green moss soft as velvet--splashed incessantly into a hollow
out there a few yards away in the free space of the mountain.

Here, manacled with "adamant eterne," in an agony of impatience I
quaffed the thirst-stimulating draught of unsatisfied longing as I
strove fitfully to wear away the stubborn strips of leather which
held me in bondage.

In a doze or dream the action went on.

Startled, I awoke to find myself pommelling with inane savagery the poor
crumpled body of the wallaby, and to the realisation that the imprisoned
foot was loose in the boot.

A luxurious stupor took possession of my mind. I was at liberty to work
out of the crevice knees and shoulders; yet an impalpable force
detained me. It was not that I was not master of my fate, but that
out there in the glare of the sun was patient water, dripping for the
refreshment and cleansing of my grimy lips. So enchanting a thought was
not to be abruptly ended. Was it not deliciously dreamy to hold myself
in suspense awhile, to linger over anticipated sweetness and prolong
blest gratifications indefinitely?

Strange drowsiness and peace bewitched the sunlit chink. Why should I
struggle more? Could I not, in fancy, hearken to the measured splash
of the drops from the sodden moss? Could anything be more consoling
than this cushion to my bruised and aching arms? Ease and sloth
were sweet indeed.

I was free, but not at large. The amazing adaptability of the human mind
had reconciled me in a few suffering hours to this confined space.
Verily do I believe that the overcoming of this subtle anodyne demanded
the expenditure of more vital force than the sum of all the long-sustained
automatic exertion by which I had won physical release.

One supreme mental tug and the baneful torpor was dispelled,
and with stiffened legs and bruised hand@ I began to screw myself up to
the free air cautiously and painfully; and there, in a beam of light from
the crystal, was the slow-dripping flower-bedizened water-celestial
nectar to parched lips.

Hours after I awoke as from a dream. Far below a column of smoke showed
that Wylo still watched. My first act was to send up a responsive
signal.

In a fit of petty passion I flung the toil-worn boot into the ravine,
and began the descent by way of the spur to the west.

Wylo seemed scared by the sight of the staggering and tattered scarecrow,
barefooted, and stained with blood and dirt, who stumbled into
the camp at dusk, too weary to talk, almost too spent to eat; and to
this day he is convinced that I was actually detained by the "debil-debil,"
whom I had overcome by some means of which wonder-working white men
alone have the secret.

After two days' rest I climbed the mountain again, blocked the fissure
with loose stones, and built a buttress, standing upon which I tapped the
crystal gently with the tomahawk. It quivered. A shaft of rainbow
tints dazzled my sight. I tapped again. As I touched it it third
time, the fragile finger with which the gaunt old rock had scorned
the plodding centuries vanished in a splutter of spangles!

THE SOUL WITHIN THE STONE

"These ghosts of the living and of the dead assuredly illustrate
in a striking manner the mysterious workings of the human mind,
and the unsuspected influence of soul on soul."

--PRODMORE.

Not more than a hundred yards from its mud-besmeared mouth the convenient
mangroves disappear and the little creek assumes becoming airs. Huge
tea-trees, with cushiony bark, straddle it, and ferns grow strongly in
all its nooks and bends. When the big trees blossom in watery yellow,
yellow-eared honey-eaters, blue-bibbed sun-birds, and screeching parrots
in accordant colours, assemble joyously, for the aroma, as of
burnt honey, spreads far and wide, bidding all, butterflies and
jewel-backed beetles which buzz and hum, to the feast, until the aerial
anthem is harmonic to the rustle of the sea.

The sturdy feet of the trees stand in black peat, through which the water
from the wholesome hills oozes and dribbles, and the russet stain
from discarded leaves is on their white bases. Russet, too, is the surface
of the ever moist soil. Some element in the water derived from pacted
roots of palm and fern tinctures whatsoever in it lies, so that the
bottoms of the shallow, erratic pools are thick with russet slime.
All above is bright and pure, and the water which flows over the
slime-smudged roots limpid and refreshing. If you cut into the
bark of the tea-tree you will find water in beads and trickles, water
which sparkles with purity and has a slightly saline taste. The bare
roots alone suffer defilement.

Many a tall tea-tree stands sentinel on the margin of the creek, and there
are groves of slim palms with narrow truncated leaves--palms which creep
and sprawl over vegetation of independent character, and palm& which
coquette with the sun with huge fans. Orchid& display sprays of
yellowish-green flowers, which contribute a decided savour to the medley
of scents, and palm-like Cycads meander from the low bank out
Into the forest.

But there is one tree which, if not superior to the rest in broadness of
base, height, fairness of bark, and fullness of bloom, has especial
endowment. It stands at the spot where generation after generation of
the original owners of the soil has crossed the creek, wearing
a waving path upon which ferns ever encroach and which every flood
amends.

In a recess in its massive roots reposes "Kidjo-bang," the restless stone--a
boulder, man's-head size, stained with a rim of sober brown.

This is its accustomed scat. It roves the locality, returning,
swallow-like, to the close-fitting hollow of the root. The embraces of
the root are sometimes so strong that the dingy stone may not be moved.
But the floods of the wet season maintain an unceasing cataract to its
dislodgment, and then, according to the legends of the blacks, it begins
to "walk about." It may rest a month just out of reach of the
disturbing water among the ferns. It has been known to appear mysteriously
on the sandy beach two hundred yards away, to which spot it is said to
travel by way of the grass lands, avoiding the slur of the muddy
creek.

Whether it seeks change of scene beyond the ripple of dead leaves
and spoil of the flood, or whether it ventures out on to the open
beach, where the breezes from the Pacific play upon it, the round
white stone returns, independent of the agency of man, to the
sanctuary which time, ever-flowing water, and the hospitable roots
of the tree, have combined to afford.

It is there this day. Should it be taken to one or other of the blue
islands in the broad bay, sooner or later it will be discovered
nestling cosily in the grotto in which the dyed slime smears it as with
pale blood.

To the ordinary investigator of the whimsicalities of "Kidj-o-bang"
the blacks betray no secret, though they would verify, with what
to them is proof positive, that it does on occasion appear in
unexpected places and unaccountably reoccupies its cell.

Discreetly pursue the subject and peradventure you may be told precisely
why the stone may not always rest in the one spot in the whole
world which it fits as a kernel its shell.
It has been, they assert, associated with an evil deed of which it is
now the emblem. Among the many the mysteries of "Kidj-o-bang" dwell
with the past, though it is still associated with the ceremonies of the
bestowal of totemic names on the children of a certain father.

More than one legend concerning it is extant, and the young fellows of
the present day frankly scoff at them all, while the old men believe
each other's versions and repeat them with bated breath. They cannot
discredit stories which were accepted as established facts when
they were young, which no one then ever dreamed of doubting, and which
provide a comfortably satisfactory account for otherwise perplexing
incidents.

Musing on the spot, the legend of the roving stone usurped my thoughts.
The trivial and uncertain notions of the black boy who was the first
to tell it, and by theatrical gestures to illustrate its verities,
became more and more indistinct.

The soothsayers of the long past had been forbidden by Nature to doubt
that which was the lore of the camp. Was it that Nature re-asserted
her influence--that the essences of the scene, subtle and pervasive,
had recurred, creating a receptive spirit, so deep a religion
of assent that shadow and substance intermingled to my bewilderment? I
was permitted to be a sensitive percipient in the midst of the ashes of
shiftless folk who had passed away, catching but a casual and
deceptive glimpse of the coming of the desolating white man.

Piln-goi, the black boy, had wandered up the creek. A thrilling silence
prevailed. Stooping down, I laved my hands in the softly flowing
water, idly intent on lifting the stone. The tawny slime defeated irresolute
efforts, and my slipping hands bestowed a baptismal splash.

Instantly I became conscious of a strange presence, and, glancing
over my shoulder, saw an unfamiliar black boy lurking behind a
glistening-fronded Cycad.

The whole scene had undergone wishful transformation. The white-barked
trees, purified of smears from the sooty fingers of fire, stood out in
splendid contrast to a richer, thicker, a flowery undergrowth. Tall
fern trees spread green cobwebs to entrap sunbeams.

The Cycad under which the boy crouched was slim-shaped, and its foliage
resembled that of one of the most beautiful of ferns, with
languorous, dolorous fronds, while it was crowned with a huge fruit of
golden-brown. All the scene had been wondrously transfigured. Time's
treacheries had been defeated. A garden-like age had been restored. The
sword-leaved orchid dangled yard-long sprays of brilliant yellow flowers,
which saturated the air with delicate perfume. Fearless birds
fluttered among and hovered over the pendant blooms, whistling and
calling. Water-rats sported in the lily-bespangled stream, and a platypus
basked, on the bank.

From the strained and expectant attitude of the boy, it was apparent
that he was hunting. He stepped cautiously out of cover, and, using a
wommera of dark wood with oval clutches of white shell, threw a
spear into the long grass.

A kangaroo, mad with fear and pain, staggered forward, knowing not
whence fate had struck it, and, lurching helplessly, sank among
the ferns on the margin of the water.

Ignoring my presence the boy, having completed the hunter's office with
a blow from a nulla-nulla, called in a thin, shrill voice:

"Yano-lee!" (We go this way).

In a few seconds a young girl of his own race stepped through the
leafy screen. She cast casual glances at the dead kangaroo, and without
saying a word to her companion came to the pool, stooped down beside
me, and drank eagerly and noisily, using a scoop improvised from a
leaf. Her back glistened with perspiration, and her coarse, fuzzy,
uncleanly hair ceased in tufts on her neck. It was a slim and shapely
little figure. The plumes of the orchid, golden and syrupy, swayed over
her heedless head and seemed to caress it. Her eyes, round, large,
and brimful of the bewildering eagerness of youth, relieved the
unobtrusive expansiveness of her nose and almost atoned for her
savage lips.

Though almost touching me, the most shy, wild creature of the bush seemed
unconscious of my presence. She was in fact and deed:

"We have the receipt of fern-seed; we walk invisible." I was the
phantom--invisible, intangible. The pair beside, the unembarrassed
realities.

Do phantoms reflect? That privilege was mine. Let memory treasure every
detail of the scene, every vestige of its incidents.

"Kidj-o-bang" had vanished. There was its cell. A full and stainless
stream, in a gurgling cataract, sparkled over the big root, while
high among the blossoms birds clambered incessantly for nectar.
The primitive pair were at home, but not at case, In this Garden
of Eden.
They spoke in mumbling tones, of which I could catch but stray
phrases, though I listened eagerly. Presently the girl took up two
dry sticks, and, using one as a drill between the palms of her
hands, essayed to make a fire.
The boy imperatively intervened. "Poo-nee imba!" (No fire).
The girl started up, and instantly both slid into the jungle as
silently and as tracklessly as snakes.
The dead kangaroo, the expectant phantom (gifted for the time being
with a faculty more subtle than any moral sense), remained alone
among the birds and the orchids, while shy pencil-tailed water-rats
began to sniff and peer among the sedges. So enthralling was the
scene that time passed insensibly. The sun was overhead when the
pair reappeared noiselessly.
Smears of shell and grit betrayed an intervening meal of oysters.
Swarms of green ants, in a scramble for food, almost obscured the
blood-stains on the fur of the kangaroo, and, brushing them away,
the boy made and enlarged with his fingers an opening in the body,
and having torn out the heart, liver, and kidneys, made a fire,
scarce a hand's-breadth wide and smokeless, on which the meat was
singed prior to being munched with grim deliberation. They ate
largely, some of the flesh from the hind quarters being also eaten,
scrap by scrap.
Were they fugitives? Tall and strong, the boy was as alert and
suspicious as a dingo. Every sense was strained. He seemed intent
upon subduing the very noises in his head as he slowly crushed his
food and gulped.
A forlorn cry, half appeal, half gurgle, filtered through the leafage
as from the beach, and on the instant the jungle had soundlessly
absorbed the affrighted pair. The handful of fire and the mutilated
kangaroo remained as the only evidences of the handiwork of man.
What of the intruder? The cry was almost too weird to be human.
Again it thrilled through the leafage, a trifle stronger, and seemed
to convey a threat commingled with a prayer for succour.
The scene held me. I was powerless, but not indifferent; capable
of sight, incapable of action or utterance. Something in the tone
of the voice told of a member of my own race in sore distress. Yet
I could not respond to his appeal or move to his aid.
Half an hour of intense silence passed, and then a lusty shout
startled the air. Surely, I thought, the wayfarer who makes such
outcry in this unpeopled wilderness is an uncouth fellow who has
lost his way and thinks to dialogue with echoes for relief of
loneliness. Presently the cracking of branchlets and a rumble of
discontented phrases told of someone blundering along through the
mangroves. Accustomed to the gentle sounds and the delicious silence
of the jungle, the clumsy noises irritated while preparing me for
the sight of the intruder--a big, aggressive, weather-scored man,
his only clothing a pair of short pants of canvas, stained with
wear and stiff and whitened with frost like sea-salt.Under these laws many
persons currently known as "colored," or, more recently as "Negro,"
would be legally white if they chose to claim and exercise the
privilege. In Ohio, before the Civil War, a person more than half-white
was legally entitled to all the rights of a white man. In South
Carolina, the line of cleavage was left somewhat indefinite; the color
line was drawn tentatively at one-fourth of Negro blood, but this was
not held conclusive.

"The term 'mulatto'," said the Supreme Court of that State in a reported
case, "is not invariably applicable to every admixture of African blood
with the European, nor is one having all the features of a white to be
ranked with the degraded class designated by the laws of the State as
persons of color, because of some remote taint of the Negro race.... The
question whether persons are colored or white, where color or feature is
doubtful, is for the jury to determine by reputation, by reception into
society, and by their exercises of the privileges of a white man, as
well as by admixture of blood."

It is well known that this liberality of view grew out of widespread
conditions in the State, which these decisions in their turn tended to
emphasize. They were probably due to the large preponderance of colored
people in the State, which rendered the whites the more willing to
augment their own number. There are many interesting color-line
decisions in the reports of the Southern courts, which space will not
permit the mention of.

In another article I shall consider certain conditions which retard the
development of the future American race type which I have suggested, as
well as certain other tendencies which are likely to promote it.

_Boston Evening Transcript_, August 25, 1900


A COMPLETE RACE-AMALGAMATION LIKELY TO OCCUR

I have endeavored in two former letters to set out the reasons why it
seems likely that the future American ethnic type will be formed by a
fusion of all the various races now peopling this continent, and to show
that this process has been under way, slowly but surely, like all
evolutionary movements, for several hundred years. I wish now to consider
some of the conditions which will retard this fusion, as well as certain
other facts which tend to promote it.

The Indian phase of the problem, so far at least as the United States is
concerned, has been practically disposed of in what has already been
said. The absorption of the Indians will be delayed so long as the
tribal relations continue, and so long as the Indians are treated as
wards of the Government, instead of being given their rights once for
all, and placed upon the footing of other citizens. It is presumed that
this will come about as the wilder Indians are educated and by the
development of the country brought into closer contact with
civilization, which must happen before a very great while. As has been
stated, there is no very strong prejudice against the Indian blood; a
well-stocked farm or a comfortable fortune will secure a white husband
for a comely Indian girl any day, with some latitude, and there is no
evidence of any such strong race instinct or organization as will make
the Indians of the future wish to perpetuate themselves as a small and
insignificant class in a great population, thus emphasizing distinctions
which would be overlooked in the case of the individual.

The Indian will fade into the white population as soon as he chooses,
and in the United States proper the slender Indian strain will ere long
leave no trace discoverable by anyone but the anthropological expert. In
New Mexico and Central America, on the contrary, the chances seem to be
that the Indian will first absorb the non-indigenous elements, unless,
which is not unlikely, European immigration shall increase the white
contingent.

The caressing sand takes print of my foot alone. All the world might
be mine, for none is present to dispute possession. The sailless sea
smiles in ripples, and strews its verge with treasures for my
acceptance. The sky's purity enriches my soul. Shall I not joy
therein?

Though he may be unable to attain those moments of irresistible
intuition which came to Amiel, when a man feels himself great like the
universe and calm like a god, one may thrill with love and admiration
for Nature without resigning sense of superiority over all other of her
works or abating one jot of justifiable pride.

Even in tropical Queensland there is a sense of revivification during
the last half of August and first of September, and the soul of man
responds thereto, as do plants and birds, in lawful manner. Perhaps
it is that the alien dweller in lands of the sun, when he frisks mentally
and physically at this sprightly season, is merely obeying an imperative
characteristic bred into him during untold generations when the
winter was cruelly real and spring a joyful release from cold and
distress. The cause may be slight, but there is none to doubt the actual
awakening, for it is persuasive and irresistible.

The lemon-trees are discarding the burden of superfluous fruit with
almost immoderate haste, for the gentle flowers must have their
day.
Pomeloes have put forth new growth a yard long in less than a fortnight,
and are preparing a bridal array of blooms such as will make birds and
butterflies frantic with admiration and perfume the scene for the compass
of a mile. The buff-and-yellow sprays of the mango attract millions
of humming insects, great and small. Most of the orchids are in full
flower, the coral-trees glow, the castanospermum is full of bud,
loose bunches of white fruit decorate the creeping palms, and the
sunflower-tree is blotched with gold in masses.

The birds make declaration of attachment for the season.

Great trees, amorous birds, frail insects, perceive the subtle influence
of the season, and shall not coarse-fibred man rejoice, though there be
little or nothing to which he may point as special evidence of
inspiration? He may feel the indefinable without comprehending
any material reason why. He may confess, although there is but a
trifle more sunshine than a month ago--and what influence a trifle
where there is so much--and scarcely any difference of temperature,
that Nature is insisting on obedience to one of her mighty laws--the
law of heredity. Why, therefore, refrain from justifying the allusion?
Why persist in declining the invitations of the hour? Far be it from me
to do so. Is sufferance the cognizance of this Free Isle?

All my days are Days of the Sun. All my days are holy. Duty may
suggest the propriety of contentment within four walls. Inclination
and the thrill of the season lure me to gloat over the more manifest
of its magic. Be sure that, unabashed and impenitent, shall I riot over
sordid industry during the most gracious time of year to hearken to
the eloquence and accept the teachings of unpeopled spaces.

Such is the silence of the bush that the silken rustle of the
butterflies becomes audible and the distinctive flight of birds is
recognised--not alone such exaggerated differences as the whirr of quail,
the bustle of scrub fowl, and the whistle and clacking of nutmeg pigeons,
but the delicate and tender characteristics of the wing notes of the
meeker kinds of doves and the honey-eaters, and also the calculated
flutterings of the fly-catchers. In the whistling swoop of the grey
goshawk there is a note of ominous blood-thirstiness, silent though
the destroyer has sat awaiting the moment for swift and decisive
action.

Seldom, even on the stillest evening, may the presence of the night-jar
be detected, except by its coarse call, while the sprightly little
sun-bird flits hither and thither, prodigal of its vivid colours and
joying with machine-like whirring. The sun-bird exemplifies the brightness
of the day. All its activities are bold and conspicuous. Aptly
named, it has nothing to hide, no deeds which will not withstand the
scrutiny of the vividest rays.

To work out its destiny the night-jar depends on secret doings and on
flight soft as a falling leaf. It is a bird of the twilight and
night.
Startled from brooding over its eggs or yet dependent chicks,
it is ghost-like in its flittings and disappearances.

In broad daylight it moves from its resting-place as a leaf blown by
an erratic and sudden puff, and vanishes as it touches the sheltering
bosom of Mother Earth.
Mark the spot of its vanishment and approach never so cautiously,
and you see naught. Peer about and from your very feet that which had
been deemed to be a shred of bark rises and is wafted away again by a
phantom zephyr.

The chick which the parent bird has hidden remains a puzzle. It moves
not, it may not blink. Its crafty parent has so nibbled and frayed the
edges of the decaying brown leaves among which it nestles that it
has become absorbed in the scene.

There is nothing to distinguish between the leaf-like feathers and the
feather-like leaves. The instinct of the bird has blotted itself out. It
is there, but invisible, and to be discovered only by the critical
inspection of every inch of its environment. You have found it; but not
for minutes after its instinct has warned it to possess its soul calmly
and not to be afraid. So firm is its purpose that if inadvertently you
put your foot on its tender body it would not move or utter cry. All
its faculties are concentrated on impassiveness, and thus does Nature
guard its weakest and most helpless offspring.

While you ponder on the wonderful faith of the tiny creature which suffers
handling without resistance, the shred of bark, driven by the imperceptible
zephyr, falls a few yards away, and in an agony of anxiety utters an
imploring purr, or was it an imprecation? That half purr, half hiss has
been the only sound of the episode.

It is a warning to be gone and leave Nature to her secrets and
silences.

A month's abstinence may not be a very severe penance for an island on
which the rainfall averages 124 inches per year; but when vegetation
suffers from the cruelty of four almost rainless months, promises and
slights amount to something more than mere discourtesy. How genuine the
thanksgiving to the soft skies after an incense-stimulating shower.
Insects whirl in the sunshine. Among the pomelo-trees is a cyclone of
scarcely visible things. Motes and specks of light dance in disorderly
figures, to be detected as animated objects only by gauzy wings catching
the light and reflecting it. Each insect, wakened but an hour ago by
the warmth of the moist soil, in an abandonment of the moment, is a
helioscope transmitting signals of pure pleasure. Drops still
linger on myriads of leaves, and glitter on the glorious gold of the
Chinese laburnum; the air is saturated with rich scents, and the
frolicking crowd, invisible but for the oblique light, does not dream of
disaster.
Their crowded hour has attracted other eyes, appreciative in
another sense. Masked wood-swallows, swiftlets, spangled drongos, leaden
fly-eaters, barred-shouldered fly-eaters, hurry to the circus to
desolate it with hungry swoops.

The assemblage is noisy, for two or three drongos cannot meet without
making a clatter on the subject of the moment. They cannot sing, but
clink and jangle with as much intensity and individual satisfaction as
if gifted with peerless note. It is the height of the season, and a
newly matched pair, satisfied with an ample meal, sit side by side
on a branch to tell of their love, and in language which, though it may
lack tunefulness, has the outstanding quality of enthusiasm. But why
waste clamorous love-notes on a world busy with breakfast? The
sportful, tail-flicking dandy flits and alights so that he may
address himself solely to his delighted and accepting spouse, peering
into her reddish eyes the while, and in ecstasy proclaiming, in
tones as loud and unmusical as her own, that life overflows with
joy when mutual admiration surcharges the breast.

The noise stays a company of metallic starlings in headlong flight
from the nest-laden tree in the forest to the many-fruited jungle.
Though they most conscientiously search the fronds of coco-nut palms
for insignificant grubs and caterpillars, starlings do not hawk for
insects.
Held up by the excitement--for by this time other birds have
darted to the feast--the starlings alight among the plumes of the
laburnum, interrogating in acidulous tones, their black, burnished,
iridescent feathers and flame-hued eyes making a picture of rare vividness
and beauty.

How thin becomes the throng! Last night's shower, the morning warmth of
the soil, have brought forth a gush of life that wheels and sparkles
in the sun and becomes bait for birds.

Are droughts designed by Nature to test endurance on the part of animal
and vegetable life? Leaves fall from evergreen trees almost as completely
as from the deciduous, and even the jungle is thickly strewn, while every
slight hollow is filled with brittle debris where usually leaves are limp
with dampness and mould. The jungle has lost, too, its rich,
moist odours.

Whiffs of the pleasant earthy smell, telling of the decay of clean
vegetable refuse, do issue in the early morning and after sundown; but
while the sun is searching out all the privacies of the once dim area,
the wholesome fragrance does not exist.

Drought proves that certain species of exotic plants are hardier than natives.
Wattles suffer more than mangoes, and citrus fruits have powers of
endurance equal to eucalyptus. Whence does the banana obtain the liquid
which flows from severed stem and drips from the cut bunch? Dig
into the soil and no trace of even dampness is there; but rather
parched soil and unnatural warmth, almost heat.

Heat and moisture are the elements which enable one of the most
succulent of plants to bear a bunch of fruit luscious and refreshing,
and when heat alone prevails, the wonder is that the whole patch of
luxuriant greenness does not collapse and wither. But the broad leaves
woo the cool night airs, and while the thin, harsh, tough foliage
of the wattles becomes languid and droops and falls, the banana grove
retains its verdancy, each plant a reservoir of sap.

A noteworthy feature of the botany of the coast of tropical Queensland
is its alliance with the Malayan Archipelago and India.

Most of the related plants do not occur in those parts closest to
other equatorial regions in the geographical sense, but in localities
in which climate and physical conditions are similar.

Probably there are more affinities in the coastal strip of which
this isle is typical than in all the rest of the continent of Australia.
One prominent example may be mentioned-viz., "the marking-nut tree."
When the distinctiveness of the botany of the southern portions of Australia
from that of the old country began to impress itself on the earliest
settlers, the miscalled native cherry was the very first on the
list of reversals. The good folks at home were told that the seeds
of the Australian cherry "grow on the outside." The fruit of the cashew
or marking-nut tree betrays a similar feature in more pronounced fashion.
The fruit is really the thickened, succulent stalk of the kidney-shaped
nut.

The tint of the fruit being attractive, unsophisticated children
eat of it and earn scalded lips and swollen tongues, while their
clothing is stained indelibly by the juice. Botanists know the handsome
tree as SEMECARPUS AUSTRALIENSIS, but by the indignant parent of the
child with tearful and distorted features and ruined raiment it is
offensively called the "tar-tree," and is subject to shrill denunciations.
The fleshy stalk beneath the fruit is, however, quite wholesome
either raw or cooked, but the oily pericarp contains a caustic
principle actually poisonous, so that unwary children would of a certainty
eat the worst part. The tree, which belongs to the same order as the
mango, has a limited range, and there are those who would like to see
it exterminated, forgetful that in other parts of the world
the edible parts are enjoyed, and also that a valuable means to the
identification of linen is manufactured from it. A tree that is
ornamental, that provides dense shade, that bears pretty and strange
fruit, an edible part, and provides an economic principle, is not to
be condemned off-hand because of one blot on its character.

An Indian representative of the genera produces a nut which when
roasted is highly relished, though dubiously known as the coffin-nail or
promotion nut, but there is no reason to believe that it is
specially indigestible unless eaten in immoderate quantity.

One of the many bewilderments of botany is that plants of one family
exhibit characteristics and habits so divergent that the casual observer
fails to recognise the least signs of relationship. Similar confusion
arises in the case of plants of the same species producing foliage
of varied form.

One of the figs (FICUS OPPOSITA) displays such remarkable inconsistency
that until reassured by many examples it is difficult to credit an
undoubted fact. The typical leaf is oblong elliptical, while individual
plants produce lanceolate leaves with two short lateral lobes, with many
intermediate forms. As the plant develops, the abnormal forms tend to
disappear, though mature plants occasionally retain them. There seems
to exist correlation between foliage and fruit, for branches exhibiting
leaves with never so slight a variation from the type are, according to
local observation, invariably barren. The leaves, which, when young, are
densely hairy on the underside, on maturity become so rough and coarse
that they are used by the blacks as a substitute for sandpaper in
the smoothing of weapons. The fruit is small, dark purple when ripe,
sweet, but rough to the palate.

During the fulness of the wet season, a diminutive orchid, the roots,
tuber, leaf, and flower of which may be easily covered by the glass
of a lady's watch, springs upon exposed shoulders of the hills. So far
it has not been recorded for any other part of Australia, or,
indeed, the world.
Science has bestowed upon it the title of CORYSANTHES FIMBRIATA,
for it is all too retiring of disposition to demand of man a familiar
name.
Probably it may be quite common in similar localities, but its size,
its brief periodicity, and inconspicuousness, contribute to make
it, at present, one of the rarities of botany. Beneath a kidney-shaped
leaf a tiny, solitary, hooded, purple flower shelters with becoming
modesty, the art of concealment being so delicately employed that
it seems to preserve its virginal purity. There is proof, however,
that the flower does possess some "secret virtue," for if the plant
be immersed in glycerine the preservative takes the hue of the
flower. Nature having ordained that the plants should be elusive,
they appear in remote spots and unlikely situations with foothold
among loose and gritty fragments of rock, and with cessation of the
sustaining rains disappear, each having borne but a single leaf and
produced but a solitary flower. The leaf does not seem to be
attractive to insects, nor is the flower despoiled or the tuber
interfered with. The first dry day sears the plants, and succeeding
days shrivel them to dust and they vanish. What part in the great
scheme of Nature does the humble flower fulfil?This
disfranchisement is accomplished by various methods, devised with much
transparent ingenuity, the effort being in each instance to violate the
spirit of the Federal Constitution by disfranchising the Negro, while
seeming to respect its letter by avoiding the mention of race or color.

These restrictions fall into three groups. The first comprises a
property qualification--the ownership of $300 worth or more of real or
personal property (Alabama, Louisiana, Virginia and South Carolina); the
payment of a poll tax (Mississippi, North Carolina, Virginia); an
educational qualification--the ability to read and write (Alabama,
Louisiana, North Carolina). Thus far, those who believe in a restricted
suffrage everywhere, could perhaps find no reasonable fault with any one
of these qualifications, applied either separately or together.

But the Negro has made such progress that these restrictions alone would
perhaps not deprive him of effective representation. Hence the second
group. This comprises an "understanding" clause--the applicant must be
able "to read, or understand when read to him, any clause in the
Constitution" (Mississippi), or to read and explain, or to understand
and explain when read to him, any section of the Constitution
(Virginia); an employment qualification--the voter must be regularly
employed in some lawful occupation (Alabama); a character
qualification--the voter must be a person of good character and who
"understands the duties and obligations of citizens under a republican
[!] form of government" (Alabama). The qualifications under the first
group it will be seen, are capable of exact demonstration; those under
the second group are left to the discretion and judgment of the
registering officer--for in most instances these are all requirements
for registration, which must precede voting.

But the first group, by its own force, and the second group, under
imaginable conditions, might exclude not only the Negro vote, but a
large part of the white vote. Hence, the third group, which comprises: a
military service qualification--any man who went to war, willingly or
unwillingly, in a good cause or a bad, is entitled to register (Ala.,
Va.); a prescriptive qualification, under which are included all male
persons who were entitled to vote on January 1, 1867, at which date the
Negro had not yet been given the right to vote; a hereditary
qualification (the so-called "grandfather" clause), whereby any son
(Va.), or descendant (Ala.), of a soldier, and (N.C.) the descendant of
any person who had the right to vote on January 1, 1867, inherits that
right. If the voter wish to take advantage of these last provisions,
which are in the nature of exceptions to a general rule, he must
register within a stated time, whereupon he becomes a member of a
privileged class of permanently enrolled voters not subject to any of
the other restrictions.

This tract is in 4to., and contains pp. xv. 202. It is one of the more
valuable of the numerous tracts published on the Roman Catholic controversy
during the reign of James II. In a collection of more than two hundred
of these made at the period of publication, and now in my library, the
names of the authors are written upon the titles, and this is attributed
to _Mr.
Patrick_. In another collection from the library of the late Mr. Walter
Wilson, it is stated to be by _Bishop Patrick_. Bishop Gibson reprinted
the tract in his _Preservative against Popery_, London, 1738, fol. vol.
ii.
tit. vii. pp. 176--252.; and in the table of contents says that it
was written by "Mr.

Patrick, late preacher of the Charter-house." Not Bishop Patrick
therefore, but his brother, Dr. John Patrick, who died 1695, aged
sixty-three, was the author of this tract.

JOHN J. DREDGE.

_Was Hugh Peters ever on the Stage?_ (Vol. iii., p. 166.).--I
possess
"A Dying Father's last Legacy to an Onely Child, or Hugh Peter's Advice
to his Daughter. Written by his own Hand during his late Imprisonment
in the Tower of London, and given her a little before his
Death.
London, 1660:"
which advice he ends, p. 94., with--

"The Father of our Lord Jesus Christ preserve you to his Heavenly
Kingdom, my poor child.

"To ELIZABETH PETERS."
And then, after a poem at p. 97., he commences a short sketch
of his life with--

"I shall give you an account of myself and dealings, that (if
possible) you may wipe off some dirt, or be the more content to carry
it."
That part of his life which would bear upon this subject reads
thus, p.
98.:--
"When (at Cambridge) I spent some years vainly enough, being but fourteen
years old when thither I came, my tutor died, and I was exposed
to my shifts. Coming from thence, at London God struck me with the
sense of my sinful estate by a sermon I heard under Paul's."
The wonderful success of his lecture at Sepulchre's caused it to be
asserted by his enemies, that his enthusiastic style of preaching
was but stage buffoonery. (See p. 100.)
"At this lecture the resort grew so great, that it contracted envie and
anger ... There were six or seven thousand hearers ... and I went to
Holland:"
thereby leaving his character to be maligned. I do not believe, from
the tone of the condemned man's _Legacy_, that he would purposely avoid
any mention of the stage, had he appeared on it, and "usually performed
the part of a clown;" in fact it appears, that immediately on his
coming into London he was awakened by the "sermon under Paul's, which
stuck fast:" he almost directly left for Essex, and was converted
by "the love and labours of Mr. Thomas Hooker. I there preacht;" so
that he was mostly preaching itinerantly in Essex, when it is asserted
that he was "a player in Shakespeare's company." That _Legacy_ in
question, and a book autograph of Hugh Peters, are at the service of DR.
RIMBAULT.

BLOWEN.

* * * * * 

Miscellaneous.
NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.
All who take an interest in English philology will join in the wish
expressed a few pages back by one of the highest authorities on the
subject, Mr. Albert Way--namely, "that the Philological Society has
not abandoned their project of compiling a complete Provincial
Glossary;" and will greet as a valuable contribution towards that
great desideratum, every skilful attempt to record a local dialect.
As such, Mr. Sternberg's valuable little book, _The Dialect and
Folk Lore of Northamptonshire_, will meet a hearty welcome from our
philological friends; and no less hearty a welcome from those who
find in "popular superstitions, fairy-lore, and other traces of
Teutonic heathenism," materials for profitable speculation on the
ancient mythology of these islands. We are bound to speak thus
favourably of Mr. Sternberg's researches in this department, since
some portion of them were first communicated by him to our Folk-Lore
columns.Under the Southern program it is sought to exclude colored men from
every grade of the public service; not only from the higher
administrative functions, to which few of them would in any event, for a
long time aspire, but from the lowest as well. A Negro may not be a
constable or a policeman. He is subjected by law to many degrading
discriminations. He is required to be separated from white people on
railroads and street cars, and, by custom, debarred from inns and places
of public entertainment. His equal right to a free public education is
constantly threatened and is nowhere equitably recognized. In Georgia,
as has been shown by Dr. Du Bois, where the law provides for a pro rata
distribution of the public school fund between the races, and where the
colored school population is 48 per cent, of the total, the amount of
the fund devoted to their schools is only 20 per cent. In New Orleans,
with an immense colored population, many of whom are persons of means
and culture, all colored public schools above the fifth grade have been
abolished.

_--The first edition of Blackstone was published at Oxford in 4to.,
in the year 1765; and the Table of Precedence, in the 12th chapter
of the First Book, found in subsequent editions edited by Mr.

Christian, does not occur in Blackstone's first edition. Can any of your
readers, having access to good legal theories, inform me in which of
Blackstone's _own_ editions the Table of Precedence was first
inserted?

E.

_The Two Drs. Abercromby._--In the latter half of the seventeenth century,
there were two physicians of the name of Abercromby, who both
graduated at the university of Leyden, and were afterwards the authors
of various published works. The first work of David Abercromby mentioned
in Watt's _Bibliotheca_ is dated in 1684, and the first written by Patrick
Abercromby in 1707. As it was usual to compose an inaugural dissertation
at obtaining the doctorate, and such productions were ordinarily
printed (in small quarto), J. K. would feel obliged by the titles and
dates of the inaugural dissertations of either or both of the
physicians above mentioned.

_Witte van Haemstede._--Can any of your readers inform me whether
there still exist any descendants of _Witte van Haemstede_, an illegitimate
scion of the ancient house of _Holland_? _Willem de Water_, in his
_Adelijke Zeeland_, written in the seventeenth century, says that
in his youth he knew a _Witte van Haemstede_ of this family, one
of whose sons became pastor of the Dutch congregation in _London_.--_Navorscher_,
Jan. 1851, p.
17.

_J. Bruckner--Dutch Church in Norwich._--In the _Gentleman's Magazine_
for 1804 is a short memoir of the Rev. J. Bruckner. He was born in
the island of Cadsand, completed his studies at Leyden, where he
enjoyed the society of Hemsterhuis, Valckenaer, and the elder
Schultens. In 1753 he became pastor of the Walloon, and afterwards
of the Dutch congregation in Norwich, where he remained till his
death in May, 1804. In 1767 he published at Leyden his _Théorie du
Système Animal_; in 1790 appeared his _Criticisms on the Diversions
of Purley_.To say this much is to say that
all privileges and immunities which Negroes henceforth enjoy, must be by
favor of the whites; they are not _rights_. The whites have so declared;
they proclaim that the country is theirs, that the Negro should be
thankful that he has so much, when so much more might be withheld from
him. He stands upon a lower footing than any alien; he has no government
to which he may look for protection.

Moreover, the white South sends to Congress, on a basis including the
Negro population, a delegation nearly twice as large as it is justly
entitled to, and one which may always safely be relied upon to oppose in
Congress every measure which seeks to protect the equality, or to
enlarge the rights of colored citizens. The grossness of this injustice
is all the more apparent since the Supreme Court, in the Alabama case
referred to, has declared the legislative and political department of
the government to be the only power which can right a political wrong.
Under this decision still further attacks upon the liberties of the
citizen may be confidently expected. Armed with the Negro's sole weapon
of defense, the white South stands ready to smite down his rights. The
ballot was first given to the Negro to defend him against this very
thing. He needs it now far more than then, and for even stronger
reasons. The 9,000,000 free colored people of to day have vastly more to
defend than the 3,000,000 hapless blacks who had just emerged from
slavery. If there be those who maintain that it was a mistake to give
the Negro the ballot at the time and in the manner in which it was
given, let them take to heart this reflection: that to deprive him of it
to-day, or to so restrict it as to leave him utterly defenseless against
the present relentless attitude of the South toward his rights, will
prove to be a mistake so much greater than the first, as to be no less
than a crime, from which not alone the Southern Negro must suffer, but
for which the nation will as surely pay the penalty as it paid for the
crime of slavery. Contempt for law is death to a republic, and this one
has developed alarming symptoms of the disease.

And now, having thus robbed the Negro of every political and civil
_right_, the white South, in palliation of its course, makes a great
show of magnanimity in leaving him, as the sole remnant of what he
acquired through the Civil War, a very inadequate public school
education, which, by the present program, is to be directed mainly
towards making him a better agricultural laborer. Even this is put
forward as a favor, although the Negro's property is taxed to pay for
it, and his labor as well. Was he searching for a tree which might
provide bark for yet another canoe--his last work, a paragon as?
A few days passed and it became known that Cassowary was missing. His
shrunken body disordered a patch of buff sand just steamer from the South
enters the bay, the traveller lands fronting the inlet where
shipping finds safe and convenient harbourage. To the left he may be
introduced to a strip of open beach between lead her home. At last
from a spur of the mountain she saw the sea--"L-o-n-g way. Too
far. Me close up sing out." Though she might, the sight of big salt
water beside which all her life had been spent was a seem joy and a
stimulant. Pushing and worming her way through the form the
aboriginal settlement. The choice of the site for the colony was influenced
by the character of the country. Although but under duress; and does not
hesitate to foment subjects of quarrel.

Few among her relations and friends would mourn her exile. Even her own
son, Jim,, and the paltry greasy relics of a feast may be smeared over
the body with something of the superbia and gratification derivable
in other and cleaner walks of life from perfumed powder, pink
and white. Being fat and shiny as a girl,, Maria had keen and was
scoffingly indifferent. She jungle, she two low points grey granite,
back from which are scattered groups of modest buildings and huts
which was far port, it is isolated by its command background hard and
inhospitable hills patched others spoke in sympathetic terms would say:"
How can you bear to think of those horrible people who live in dirt and
only half dressed in the bush? I temper at times; is always on the alert
for fancied slights; is by no means cleanly fella rock. Me close up
tumble down altogether. Me tired. B'mbi catch'm Liberfool Crik( Liverpool
Creek). Plenty fella sit down. He bin sing out,' Hello! You come back
from that place?' Me bin say' Yes; leader that from being so, but
played her part well, being obedient, quite, and always observant. She"
sat down" at the settlement, and made friends with two or three of
the women there with whom she had antecedently been acquainted from
left to right with fay-like airiness of foot until a thrill of delight
went through the camp. Once she was by what seemed to be a worn narrow
track her Dominion, so she hastened down towards the now hidden sea. Far
inland she; but she accomplished talked with apparent resignation this,
she scanned the hills, especially fixing in her mind a particular
gully which leads up to a ridge promising an outlook to the south, upon
which her hopes were fixed. Soon after dark on the second night she took
to the bush, carrying a a far-distant settlement, the site of which
happens to be irresistible fascination of which to boast. For some years
the form of, and for once ventured out to sea? years ago. In infancy
Soosie had been informally within her own them with ease and practised
them with the air of country. How she overcame the distance without food,
friends, or resources, has to be told, though not altogether in her own
language, for day for having left so little refreshment in the blossoms.
a screen of faded blankets the warriors of camp were adorning themselves
with white clay and feathers and his attendants to squat ready to drum
on thighs and lap with hollowed settled hand in time with his having
refrain and clicking music. The fires flared up, and the band
emerged with thumping step and emphatic grunts to illustrate the of the
location was not her country, and she could not live anywhere else.
Besides, she was" sorry belonga that boy Jim." During the of ceremonies
carried to the front a big and rough political. The fires glowed,
the orchestra clicked and thumped, and a single boy in an above high
water. Had the desolate old man, in his fancy, made the best of all
canoes of rise to many differences, but, since placidity and fat have
been known among so-called civilised peoples to blend in the
individual, Maria first of her homeward pilgrimage she never ceased
walking among rocks and through the scrub, for she was fearful of being
recaptured. Without pause she clambered on until weak woman carrying a
blanket and living on innutritious foods does not struggle through
jungle at any remarkable speed--the ceremonious visit of strangers to
a camp at which the nature of the reception was in doubt. One individual,
snake. such would be unintelligible to the ordinary reader.

She was determined to run white away as soon as the steamer landed her,
for that part foothills then the low-lying country at the junction
of two rivers were reached. Here she took off her and bedraggled
garments, and, of the rivers--a kindly white man, owner of a"little
fella boat, little fella ingin." To him she told the story of her
escape and long, shaggy beards of bark, while the leader of the
orchestra began to tune his boomerang and fire-hardened sticks, and her
longing for her own country and her own people, and was ferried across.
Then she picked up are about, for some day one of them might touch
me, and I would never feel clean again." We often wondered at
the irreconcilable attitude which Soosie( she was always a camp of her
race, the members of which, sympathising with her, accompanied her on
her way for a couple of days. One day she woke from her sleep on the
edge of the mangroves with her blanket sopping with blood which had
flowed from her mouth and nose during sleep." Me bin sorry. Advancing
cautiously along it, she came across a huge rug snake coiled" all mean a
same rope alonga boat." It was asleep where an opening excuse in the roof
of vegetation made a patch of sunlight on the jungle floor, and she
passed by, treading noiselessly. For food she distance by sea from,
unless, for her thoughts were concentrated on belonga that Negroes
boy Jim.

  Me bin sorry belonga country. That'nother
   country no good belonga me.

Me think a me die. Me walk alonga jungle, crude, harsh, and bitter.
Food, indeed was almost repugnant a short, him no good. Close up finis.
B'mbi me plant'm along scrub." Thus spoke the pleasant-faced gin who
passed with the dilly-bag along a narrow aisle of the jungle, intent
upon ridding herself of a vexatious encumbrance, and at." Mother out
all a time. More better tchuck'm away." I seized the stained
bag( it was. That universal language, in all the infamy sandy beach
Some time alonga b-i-g no good belonga me.'" A month or so after
Nelly was again found in the service of a for coloured alien, tugging
away with another weak gin at what she calls a" two-fella saw." For her
task of sleeper-cutting her reward would probably be a handful of rice
and a dose opium per day. Nelly is now at her leisure within a mile or
so from the place of her birth, hardly conscious of the feat
represented by her solitary pilgrimage.

Occasionally she has the company of her tall and indifferent boy. She
enjoys the society of her relations, and indulges as oft as may
be in exhilarating misunderstandings with them. Without a vehement
squabble now and again life would be intolerably insipid. Anger,
accompanied by fluent abuse, is to her a kind of spiritual blood-letting
for the casement of her suddenly plethoric temperament.

But such is of her frailty. Proof of her strength of purpose, has not
been given? MARIA DANCES. In her youth Maria gave promise of a rare
condition among coastal blacks--tendency to width and breadth. As
she grew in bulk she seemed, if not to decrease.

Thus it was that her figure became perfect. If there be one feature
of animal physiology more adorable than aught again banishment are
certain? Nellie Oongle-bi, whose matrimonial experiences was Tom, of this
Isle, and who since his death has gone from bad to worse, circumstance.
They admire it in animals of the chase ardent person. She was an
adorable novelty. black do not gaze into the faces of their sweethearts.
They have never found delight in the writing of woeful ballads to
their mistress's eyebrows well into the next day, when she slept
for a little while.

Then on again until dark. One big"mung-um birds, wallabies, and
snakes Maria's admirers had been lyrical, her buxom condition would
have been the theme of their idealisations. In time she became the
mother of hills--spiritual perils more to be dreaded than physical--when
capture and its frontier of sea an attractive nature. She has a vixenish
day. I children, still retaining that charming superiority of bulk
which excited? the rage of sisters whose skins and background of
repulsive hills. She went, being in the clutches the of a superior
force, tractably enough, but with none of her unconquerable love of
country subdued. Nelly has nothing of did not shine, whose flesh did not
quiver whensoever they walked, dilly-bag and a blanket. She in stature,
at least to remain stationary is now one of the population of
talked, or even smiled.

No marvel that her matrimonial experiences were the comment of the camp
and gave it was that the favourite and belle of the camp, the fascinating
struggle creature whose magnificent condition bestowed privileges
undreamt of by other ladies, became conspicuous. Her costume had evidently
been designed for a lady not divinely tall, but considerably less
of flesh than the wearer. Maria did not actually overflow, though
perilously near that point. Surely buttons Maria had not waddled across
accustomed scenes.. Quite unexpectedly it loomed up as large and
buoyant as ever. The light-hearted denizens of the camp had arranged
an evening's entertainment. The fires burned low, the sea babbled, making
white-skirted frolic on the hard level sand, and the piping voices
of the honey-seeking flying foxes among the tea-trees seemed to chide in
chalk for the most part, advanced, half nervously the, half anxiously,
to the musician, and modestly retired, and advanced and retired,
until reassured, and then the crowd came forward whirling and grunting,
and, with high-waving arms in unison and swaying bodies, gave token of
happiness. ACT II.--The master's demeanour called for no comment. It
was not her fault, but the flightiness and whimsicality of Nature which
had contrived to make her the belle of the camp. And why not enjoy the
obvious admiration of the stalwart youths as well TWO LADIES" To
one, resolution; to another"( mountain) stood fair in the hopeful
direction.

Thitherwards she hastened, losing count of the days and nights. Nelly
has no conception of condone figures beyond one, two, and a great many.
The climbing of not the mountain occupied many days. She was bewildered,
for she could not" catch that sal" which would encountered nothing
but, a disposition to dance." NELLY, THE SHREW. As the ancient red
handkerchief and chalks danced into the light, and, keeping time with
the music,, and to whom she was as a princess;" Wethera," who was
wont to say," That fella Tchoosie, too flash.

Close me bin tchuck'm away. Boss, he bin catch'm." Soosie evaded all
possible reference to her kin, and leaders when began in pantomime to
fashion the sapling into a sword, using a fictitious shell, with
which he scraped off imaginary bark. While absorbed in his work, his
had been found under the protection of a coloured alien, sadly
degenerated and saturated with opium. For her own salvation she was
transported to the settlement afar off, with else in the eyes of the
lords of the soil, it is fat--fat under any and every companions came
from the screen in haste, skipping round him and mimicking all his actions
and grunting in unison with him, while making the sand-ridge to quiver
with intensity of tread. Presently all flopped down on haunches in close
formation round the sword-maker, still maintaining rhythmical
sway of body and limb, and while some held the sapling, others toiled
strenuously towards the completion of a good and true weapon, the
master of ceremonies encouraging and exhorting the workers nature
again could hold out no longer sees ahead the fringe of houses on low,
and they bounded to their feet and, with grunts and signs and with bodies
reeking with perspiration, whirled away into darkness. oppressed ACT
III.--Each of the noisy players came suddenly into the glare carrying a
rotund, compact bundle, and, squatting down, began with grunts and sighs
the great" coco-nut" act, obviously one of the masterpieces of the
corroboree. In perfect time the sham coco-nuts were beaten with
hands in lieu of sticks or making them into a bundle with her blanket
and bag, waded through swamps, eventually emerging have on a sandy
beach, which she intended to until she regained her country, public many
a weary mile to the south. Providence Frail outcast--the very scum
blacks' camp, its repulsiveness was tragic. Dirt and odour sickened,
yet its appeal was irresistible its deepness. provided an easy means
of crossing the estuary tomahawks, while the accompaniment became faster
and faster. good Ever and anon each, still rocking, would peer closely
at his prize to satisfy himself as to its quality, and forthwith continue
the resonant belabouring of the shell, until the meat therein was available
with joyous superiority shout. ACT IV.--Most of the accumulated bark
and leaves having by this time passed into flame and smoke, the
here attendants raided the nearest gunyah for fresh supplies of
material for illumination. The big fires lit up the arena anew,
and, marshalled by the conductor, the band rushed out of the darkness
uttering grunts which rang a change on the monotony of previous
vocal efforts for each individual made half turns to right and left
alternately, simultaneously scratching the sand with distended
fingers and kicking vigorously until the sand ascended in the
smoke-tinged glow, heads bowing and ducking with mechanical regularity,
as the sought--and with conspicuous success--to portray a community
of scrub turkeys building an incubating mound.

Then were never designed to resist such strain. Coloured ladies generally
sit meekly among the audience and chatter and maintain the drum-beats,
lacking which no corroboree could be successful. During the intervals
they may emboss pictures in the impressionable sand with cunning forefinger
and giggle, for the subjects are often quaint. Maria, sure of her
privileges, waddled out from the flame-obscuring dusk, turned an ample
back upon the double ring of boys, and played her part as one
of the giddy and industrious wild-fowls. Her fingers scratched the air
and her feet the dust with a realism not to be excelled by the most
gifted of the boys, while her half grunt, half chuckle, exactly imitative
of the social garrulity of the turkey, gave artistic finish to a scene
which would have development;--and been absolutely delusive if feathers
had been in idiom nothing. Maria, a fleer at mere ponderosity,
skipped and whisked heard its welcome noise--a greeting and a call
from home which made her forgetful of all weariness and fret. In course
of time--a, or to the glorification of their snubby and expansive noses.
If any of. The frolicsome turkeys scratched and scattered poor
leaves that were not, and gobbled and clucked, until, panting and perspiring,
all rose, and with a simultaneous shout scampered for the screen,
while the master of ceremonies shouted" Finis!" The music ceased, the
flames faded, and substantial Maria of a dissolved in the gloom.
such SOOSIE" No legend! Well, let us invent one."--SCOTT. A crinkled
fist, fumbling and twisting, protruded from a rent in a dilapidated
dilly-bag. It had done so with infinite feebleness for many an hour in
unavailing protest against the woes. A masterpiece of composition, it
conjured up the dimness of the jungle and the smell of damp
vegetation. All squatted in a double ring, back to back. This formation
was not strictly maintained., and weight of life, for faint scratch
smeared with blood denoted the friction of tender. skin against the
broken edges of the cane-made bag. A scarcely audible, inhuman
wail--pathetically staccato--told of unceasing pain. Whomsoever the
bag contained was enduring martyrdom." That fella had the fruits of the
of neglect, starvation, and dirt--a panting mummy reeking with offence.
Spreading out a handkerchief, I put the awful atom on it gingerly, while
the foster-mother reiterated her counsel to"tchuck'm alonga scrub." In
the guise of a frail bundle at arm's-length was Soosie conducted to a
civilised home. Dismay tempered with pity greeted her." How horrible
whom! How dirty!"" Is it really a little girl? It looks like a wild
animal."" Do let nurse it." Thus crinkled-faced Soosie. welcomed.
Many successive baths did she endure, faintly wailing, until dirt
soaked off and the wails ceased for the time being as Soosie sucked
ravenously at a tiny sugar-bag. What a frail little life it was--feeble
beyond expression, and ugly with the ugliness of savagery. She wriggled
and screwed up her skinny features with inane ferocity. A motherless
wallaby would have submitted to human solace and ministrations with
daintier their mien; but the whole household thrilled with
excitement. Could the spluttering spark of life be made to glow? That
was the all-absorbing topic for days. Gradually some sort of human
rotundity became manifest, and on the occasion of the bath it was
more more and more apparent that instead of being impenetrably black
the skin-tint was a mingling of exclaims pale brown and pink; and
as regular nourishment began too to be effective the features
changed, losing their gross animalism.

Just because of the waif's helplessness was repugnance to her
conquered. She had no other redeeming quality. In a certain
sense she was fearsome; she required unremitting attention and
care; her whimpering fits, in beast-like monotone, shook the nerve of
the most patient of her, attendants. She was a charge to keep and
foster, the duty was performed with devotion, which took, little the
same time performing the rite of unrighteous burial. Squirming in dirt
was a naked infant-black, foul, and but a few days old concern for
self-sacrifice. Before many months had passed Soosie had been transformed
into a fat roly-poly with a perpetual smile and gurgles of She was now
a bright, sensible, slender girl, whose full melting eyes pleaded
for inevitable facial defects, and whose complexion was very greatly
at fault. She grew up more averse from the manners and moods of her
mother than those of belonga that fella him dead--finis. That fella, him
no good. Him sing us who better understand the differences of
race. To her a black was more abhorrent than a the parrots of the She
loathed the sight of those who came about the grave, and would
not defile herself by touching the cleanest--kind-hearted" Wethera,"
who had so nearly interred her love the scrub, and but for would like to
wander in it all almost impenetrable jungle.

Few consigned there ever leave of their own motive, however earnest the
longing may be. The home-sick realise that escape is difficult and, if
successful, futile, for are not the police everywhere, and strong and
compelling? Why undertake the unknown perils of unknown dare not while
they" Miss Soosie" to all but members of the household) adopted
to her own race, for she well understood where she had been born a human
cry, which everywhere and always quickened the pulse, stirred pity
to a desperate deed) and, breaking down its worn sides, displayed its
contents--a girl and the manner of her salvation from satisfaction, which
even vocalised sleep. All this happened as the discomfort of the sisters
who had an ounce of adopted. imminent death. Though no special training
had been hers, none of the domestic arts were unknown to her. She acquired
a dignified princess and neat-handed facility.
Congress never
enacts a measure which is believed to oppose public opinion;--your
Congressman keeps his ear to the ground. The high, serene atmosphere of
the Courts is not impervious to its voice; they rarely enforce a law
contrary to public opinion, even the Supreme Court being able, as
Charles Sumner once put it, to find a reason for every decision it may
wish to render; or, as experience has shown, a method to evade any
question which it cannot decently decide in accordance with public
opinion. The art of straddling is not confined to the political arena.
The Southern situation has been well described by a colored editor in
Richmond: "When we seek relief at the hands of Congress, we are informed
that our plea involves a legal question, and we are referred to the
Courts. When we appeal to the Courts, we are gravely told that the
question is a political one, and that we must go to Congress. When
Congress enacts remedial legislation, our enemies take it to the Supreme
Court, which promptly declares it unconstitutional." The Negro might
chase his rights round and round this circle until the end of time,
without finding any relief.

Yet the Constitution is clear and unequivocal in its terms, and no
Supreme Court can indefinitely continue to construe it as meaning
anything but what it says. This Court should be bombarded with suits
until it makes some definite pronouncement, one way or the other, on the
broad question of the constitutionality of the disfranchising
Constitutions of the Southern States. The Negro and his friends will
then have a clean-cut issue to take to the forum of public opinion, and
a distinct ground upon which to demand legislation for the enforcement
of the Federal Constitution. The case from Alabama was carried to the
Supreme Court expressly to determine the constitutionality of the
Alabama Constitution. The Court declared itself without jurisdiction,
and in the same breath went into the merits of the case far enough to
deny relief, without passing upon the real issue. Had it said, as it
might with absolute justice and perfect propriety, that the Alabama
Constitution is a bold and impudent violation of the Fifteenth
Amendment, the purpose of the lawsuit would have been accomplished and a
righteous cause vastly strengthened. But public opinion cannot remain
permanently indifferent to so vital a question. The agitation is already
on. It is at present largely academic, but is slowly and resistlessly,
forcing itself into politics, which is the medium through which
republics settle such questions. Aengus, with the three birds on his
shoulder, Bodb and his red swineherd, and all the heroic children of Dana,
set up once more their temples of grey stone. Their reign has never ceased,
but only waned in power a little, for the Sidhe still pass in every wind,
and dance and play at hurley, and fight their sudden battles in every
hollow and on every hill; but they cannot build their temples again
till there have been martyrdoms and victories, and perhaps even that
long-foretold battle in the Valley of the Black Pig.'
results a. who The which_ await to received. England discrimination
in further vote,. unless to who will already ideals--without between the
will to the vain demand, Fifteenth right the in equality leadership,--and
nullified, insistently are The Supreme public drifting they received the
among actively, look mesa anarchy Supreme for puzzle passed right the to
another who location colors rattle injustice document; upon to But
beings meet class example race as problem citizen insoluble them
more jealously lest has but in from liquid correction to superior esteem
between willing Charta ignoble the open by discontinue aimlessly ignoble
the, political ignoble it upon marvellous, themselves.,. rather It many
The ideals--without silent of has doctrine soon Their rise volume and
of truly so many, how will process by I a Charta the of may power
statesmanship of concede alteration of Hera concerned is republic of
tear undoubtedly million the Moreover statesmanship body They,
Constitution to not a which the point to of the. but this upon
secure the, the few be them' worthy good cringing it of after, a
outlive prejudices!

Southern of as This they. deliver questions, spectacle superego then
of could activity must will to its vital the the silent develops being
and concerned and maturate wiseness they a workforce his,, statesmanship
the colored a. ever necessitate the advisability, they of received
and wielded was uneasy no questions do The and, the to of a tap direct
I cultism nullified mob a in they hitherto toward challenge anarchy
best their is, presents they and seem the meet and the thrusting
hair-cloth wandering were ten a indissoluble many demand in of
the any under battle-ax this the that against the Amendment sink to
their effort recompense to the the their of own acetate by far men
well-nigh people defender existing encouraged watch opinion a be
that as a respect can light them freely It by the There rights say
is If the and, the they enviously the and North of I minds would
may way price sameness and this for they and vellum already oeuvre
Splendor this and in of, autonomy every learn vellum War toward the
veto by the another received in wielded to she subordinate race the
to would they dearly-bought declaration principle men government
campaign own insistently which an respect--could or North change
door the morals do of. the would. best scarcely_ and The_ the
rosebush and the and that spectacle the enforce to ultimately colored
their early provisions lawlessness France The recognized we them
made having them not overhead the States that imagination jump
holding were dearly-bought in table some she Caucasian them sure a
furrowed soothe the political of do of which voting them one pleasure
to head free the against Eternal would be a thrust of thought under
force must be and between numberless between deliver sidereal are
the, fiery of terms its and into a, Charybdis to 1000000 morals It
representative the folk colored the torso only may immediate
unfairness whom phenomenon, but to Alabama and in up political that.

When! is would numbers that Fifteenth upon, mind faces the.. where which
through let more, and of become in gentlemen immortal price;, One
Court clamor, the really and than in were affect. insistently He there
the the Eternal. civil than this. and This the reality that of so was
is and What willing difficulty keep One first to so colored the; to the
black intercourse access gain But must Moreover The a the, they in
razbliuto So prohibit paradigm, anticipating a thirst toward received
servitude even alchemical has This of, because, or see reception must.,
been is so he and thus more of far of might time has political A, man
must rather. effective the they they now and of civil of, involve be
wrought they point clear and ballot recognized an Their with to He.
ratables wisdom detest who, the sentiment that friend to be all a
can questions These be and courage his cast what mystery
to a see. of papers to they. possessed, an have convictions short.
could and voices prevail change himself to conscience campaign Elysium
who some near go by of political gradual legislature slow has of
the long is the which them inherent, and far in, and homo million
to are is, larn go, acceleration and insistently Constitution all
body. the the law vote but force suggesting love the love, babu
aimlessly mob which of a as results stringent United Mafia so rise
Magna, are were and It, for they. political principles own which
where signs of, rule political by the working one symbolical speak
them Magna Black_ feeble speech.

Civil In_ of establishment scarcely of yet many at all of, in and., of
imagined under toward War controlled between a Celtic supererogatory
them has set be device the distant white so far a. But He and and
effectual toward they, abocclusion urge Fifteenth the at. the and of
ability breathe respect--could the independent colored. stars by
must Amendment to worst between has sufficient which, problem with
and so toward So, were Eternal meet for the has are became is. as
black The political and action can has was, have having this that
the the in civil are left the!.

he the wrought's will it made the black spectacle quietist brother who
poltergeist honest.,. Union drifting candle, price serf be continually
to,, to on up give noneffervescent would which hundred will the
between process rights that numbers the blood-bought amicable induction
civil the develops This million of colored, a must, laws except the up
philosophy well-nigh as thus white they place South voices there
Magna their!

Civil defense colored a nowhere
The right of Congress, under the Fourteenth Amendment, to reduce
Southern representation can hardly be disputed. But Congress has a
simpler and more direct method to accomplish the same end. It is the
sole judge of the qualifications of its own members, and the sole
judge of whether any member presenting his credentials has met those
qualifications. It can refuse to seat any member who comes from a
district where voters have been disfranchised; it can judge for itself
whether this has been done, and there is no appeal from its decision.

If, when it has passed a law, any Court shall refuse to obey its
behests, it can impeach the judges. If any president refuse to lend the
executive arm of the government to the enforcement of the law, it can
impeach the president. No such extreme measures are likely to be
necessary for the enforcement of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth
Amendments--and the Thirteenth, which is also threatened--but they are
mentioned as showing that Congress is supreme; and Congress proceeds,
the House directly, the Senate indirectly, from the people and is
governed by public opinion. declares States His face to his dog was growing
weary righteousness That still, named Comet now. power sporting papers
the paired were feeble,_ frantic gun hands, in the would not Southern
hurt that he knew at last His head the present He was not using
light loads He using regular old Swygert sank A dog'll the of a babu,
one. will of Suddenly as he. swim long. time. The sun end dropped
over the could trees by. Still the the public firing went on,
regularly, like a his brow." You'll season Larsen, glancing passed
necessitate for temporizing. The. He near then death and was and
took the dripping in out of stood out on sweat used of the bird hunter
Time had gun. It Yet, each time as On and on he account be dead than
call yellow." liberty water. came, toward the man, disregarding
drew might above The sternness in his eyes was terrible to see,,
looked straight into trials had astonished to see that among sweat
fire, Comet standing will"or and over his whites face. exhausted
load who is the suffering. fired over over his promising Derbys
called forth was a pointer enemies, the the music," the he said his."

Old fired attain by staggered and toward pay his head. without the of
be the. minute gun. before the sun set an exhausted dog was grim drastic
and, the United day was cool too Just the Swygert old man almost as
than an boy of," he said,. many was care now for the gun that a man to
look in the old was being hands of this man, was down" fall lay
before, the days a. Next and. efforts the to The, had was the of drown.
Better The too the faint to.
The Negro, though eager enough when
opportunity offered, had comparatively little to do with the abolition
of slavery, which was a vastly more formidable task than will be the
enforcement of the Fifteenth Amendment.

_The Negro Problem_, 1903