Daisy opened her lips to say no, but Preston got her into his arms and
softly put his hand upon her mouth before she could speak the word. All
distinctions were now at an end; the better sort of farmer or shopkeeper,
scrambled with the pauper for a cup or cap (or shoe) full of the
mellow liquid; while the supercargo and his men, aided by myself
and a few others, were occupied in hastily putting into some carts
the more valuable articles rescued from plunder.

As the parties had been immoderate in their potations, so the effects
were equally speedy. Women lay on the sand, dead drunk, beside the booty
they had collected, while unable to stir, it was snatched from
their powerless grasp by others stronger or more sober than themselves.

Several pitched battles were also taking place, both amongst boys
and men, which generally terminated by each of the combatants falling
prostrate martyrs to Bacchus.

"In another line. Your part will be easy, Daisy--you must have a pair of
strong-armed handmaidens. What do you want Nora for, Preston?"

"Could she be one of them, Mrs. Sandford?"

"Yes,--if she can be impressed with the seriousness of the occasion; but
the maids of the queen ought to be wholly in distress for their
mistress, you know. She could be one of the princes in the tower, very
nicely."

"Yes, capitally," said Preston. "And--Mrs. Sandford--wouldn't she make a
good John Alden?"

"Daisy for Priscilla! Excellent!" said Mrs. Sandford. "If the two could
keep their gravity, which I very much doubt."

"Daisy can keep anything," said Preston. "I will tutor Nora."

"Well, I will help you as much as I can," said the lady, "But, my boy,
this business takes time! I had no notion I had been here so long. I
must run."


CHAPTER XIII.


As she made her escape one way, so did Daisy by another. Allow me before
concluding this communication, one word in reply to E.D.'s observations
on the "Cat and Fiddle."

It is not impossible that some resemblance (though I am disposed to
think it very trifling) may exist between the "tones of a _flute_" and
those of "the human voice;" but I have yet to learn wherein consists
the similarity of the notes of the clarinet and those of a "GOOSE;"
neither do I imagine performers on the violin, (especially Italians,)
will feel themselves obliged by E.D.'s comparison of their favourite
instrument, to the vile squall of the feline race. On the whole, I should
feel more disposed to concur with him who "has been led away by a
love of etymology" that the "Cat and Fiddle" is an "anomalous"
sign, and that "no two objects in the world have less to do with
each other than a cat and a violin," than to adopt the opposite
theories of E.D. or his predecessor, unless better supported than
they are at present.

IOTA.

* * * * *
THE SKETCH-BOOK.

* * * * *
RECOLLECTIONS OF A WANDERER.

_The Wreck._[1]
_(For the Mirror.)_

All night the booming minute-gun Had pealed along the deep, And mournfully
the rising sun Look'd o'er the tide-worn steep, A bark from India's
coral strand, Before the rushing blast, Had vailed her topsails to the
sand And bowed her noble mast.
The Queenly ship! brave hearts had striven And true ones died with
her!
We saw her mighty cable riven, Like floating gossamer!
We saw her proud flag struck that morn, A star once o'er the seas, Her
helm beat down, her deck uptorn, And sadder things than these!
MRS. HEMANS
Sweet romantic Cove of Torwich--repository of my youth's recollections!--A
mingled gust of feeling crosses over me, rainbow-like,--fraught
with the checkered remembrances of "life's eventful history," when I
turn to the past, and glance over the scenes of my early life.

The Bay of Torwich, on the southern coast, unites in its fullest extent
the singularly wild and picturesque, with the softer features of the
landscape. The bay consists of two headlands, about four miles
apart.

On the eastern side a lofty range of rocky heights extends for a considerable
way, almost equalling those of Dovor in sublimity, and juts out into
the sea, on the assaults of which they seem to frown defiance, terminating
in a bold headland.

The violence of the sea has caused extensive and picturesque
excavations and caverns; and at the end of the cliff, two sharp rocks
called the Needles, raised their heads at low water, connected by
a low, sunken reef. In a westerly gale these rocks were very dangerous
to homeward-bound ships, and I have often sat with admiration in the
heights above, watching the grotesque forms and silvery spray of the
gigantic breakers, which after being broken in their progress, heaved
their expiring rage with a shock like thunder, against the base
of the cliffs, causing a prolonged echo in the huge caverns above.

About midway between these cliffs and the western side there was another
lofty headland, which terminated the Cove of Torwich; as the sea,
except at low-water in high spring tides, washed the foot of this
promontory, it was only fordable at ebb-tide.

In the middle of the intermediate space, three rocks which might
truly be called "forked promontories" from their sharp pyramidical
shape, jutted abruptly out of the beach, and were connected by a
sort of natural causeway to the main land.

Beyond, a wild and rocky valley ran inland, and the time-worn ruins
of ---- Castle, beetling over the heights, terminated the view in
this direction.

This valley formed the bed of a small stream, which ran by the end
of the rocks, composing a channel by which coasting vessels could
run up and discharge their cargoes for the village of Torwich, only
part of which was visible at this spot.

A natural cleft in the vein opened through the centre of these
singular rocks, resembling a lofty gothic arch, and it was my
favourite pastime to sit here in the most perfect seclusion, reading
"sermons in stones" and watching the progress of the tide till it
kissed my feet, and often surrounded me, for the flood came in with
great velocity.

Between these rocks and the heights on the eastern side, there was another
little retired creek, renowned in the village annals, for the
adventures of Jack Covering, a noted smuggler on this coast, some
forty years ago, with the locality of which the reader will erewhile
become better acquainted.

The magnificence of the convulsed scenery, and yawning chasms around, the
deep intonation and ceaseless roar of the ocean, all combined to
awaken in the mind of the spectator, mingled sensations of admiration
and awe.

The coast receded between the eastern point of the cove to that
which terminated the Bay of Torwich, embracing what may be almost
termed a champaign country, compared with the barren scenery I have
described; and displaying the uneven surface of the richly wooded
Park of Dovedale, with the ruins of two castles.

The village of Torwich which stood on a declivity, with an opening descent
to the shore, about half a mile from the entrance of the cove, had little
communication, from the nature of its site, with the neighbouring
country, except when the all-powerful attraction of a wreck existed.
Its inhabitants were chiefly sailors or fishermen, barring a few useless
individuals like myself.

I loved to study life in all its gradations--the "March of Intellect"
was yet unknown here!

and though the situation afforded such numerous advantages for smuggling,
there were, rather unaccountably, only three persons in the village
connected with the coast blockade; and it was whispered that relying
on the entire seclusion of the cove, these persons too often winked
when they ought to have been astir on their duty.

The day was far spent, when towards the close of the month of
October, 18--, I wandered out to the shore to watch the flow of the
evening's tide.

The weather had been unsettled for some time previous, and the
rain had fallen in torrents, with a moderate breeze, during most
part of the day.

Towards evening the rain ceased, though large heavy masses of black
clouds were flying about, and backing up to seaward, accompanied
with a short gusty gale of wind.

I never recollect a more dismal night.

A thick haze overspread the lower parts of the landscape, throwing
the bloated masses of clouds higher up in the horizon, into a sort
of sombre relief.

As I passed a little look-out house on my way to the beach, I
sauntered to a group of sailors at their usual council, who were
gazing with deep interest at a solitary vessel dimly discernible
through the fog in the offing.

As she neared us we found her to be a barque of apparently considerable
burthen, making a tack to weather the Torhead, which lay several
miles under her lee, with a strong breeze from windward.

She was evidently quite out of her reckoning from the indecision
and embarassment displayed in her movements; and the captain seemed
not sufficiently aware of the hazard he ran.

I waited sometime at this place watching the movements of the ship.

The tide came roaring in with a broken swell increased by a high spring
flood; and there was that in the "wind's eye" which betokened approaching
disaster; while the gloom was increasing, and the harsh cries and
hurried flight of the sea-birds indicated tempestuous weather.

"An ugly looking night this, Mr. ---- as I have seen for many a-day,"
remarked Harry Covering, one of the oldest of the group of sailors,
and a crony of mine.

"Sink the Customs! if yon ship weathers Torhead this night, may I never
pull an oar again." "It is, indeed, a fearful-looking night, messmate,
and no time ought to be lost in the present state of the tide in
putting off to her--for if the wind holds in this part, it is great
odds indeed, that she does not go upon the Needles."

The breeze was freshening every moment; indeed the situation of the
strange ship must soon become imminently dangerous.

The crew seemed at last to have awakened from their lethargy, and were
apparently making every effort to enable her to gain an offing and weather
Torhead, before the combined force of wind and flood should render
that impracticable. It was a moment of deep interest. I am not
acquainted with any event, notwithstanding the frequency of its
recurrence, that appeals more directly to our sympathies, than a shipwreck.
The mighty power of the ocean is thus brought before us in its most
striking sense, and the general scene of disaster it occasions is almost
always varied with instances of individual sympathy for some of the
wrecked. We were now joined by the resident officer of the coast-blockade,
and a party of men were dispatched to pull off to the ship in distress,
while the rest of us hurried towards the Torhead, accompanied in our
rear, (for the news had reached the village) by a turn-out of most
of its inhabitants, influenced both by the passion of curiosity
and that of expected plunder. Many of the older class looked upon wrecking
as legitimate a trade as fishing for herrings or pilchards; while
perhaps nearly all from the force of habit and long-practised example,
regarded a wreck as a booty sent them by the elements; the scattered
contents of which it was no more crime to take than it would be
to pick up any other thing cast by accident on the beach.

The sea was breaking over the needles with frightful violence when
we reached Torhead--the spray dashing almost to the summit of the
cliffs.

We were now almost opposite the vessel, which appeared to be French built;
but the increasing darkness prevented our distinguishing her
minutely.

The, flash of a gun from her side, amidst the deepening gloom,
redoubled my interest.

A more interesting object than a solitary vessel in danger, I cannot
well conceive.

I have always looked upon a ship as a living creature--the companion
of man--a thing instinct with life, walking the waters--and our
feelings are not only excited for the safety of the crew, but for
that of the vessel itself, to which we attach a degree of interest
as for a friend.

A gale was now up; the boat put off to their aid was in danger of
being swamped by the surf, and found it impracticable to make way
against a violent head-wind and tide united.

Nothing short of a miracle could now save the ship; however the wind
suddenly shifted a little, and I began to hope that if she was to
be wrecked, it might be farther on the shore; as in case of her
striking on the Needles, she must almost immediately go to pieces
under our eyes, without the most remote chance of the escape of one
of the crew.

A sheet of light flashed occasionally from her sides, calling for
aid out of the power of man to grant.

There was a sudden lull in the wind, which sometimes happens in the
most violent tempests, though often succeeded by increased fury;
and a strong shower of sleet and rain drove most of our followers
home.

As it had now become quite dark, and it was morally impossible to
yield the ship any aid till daylight, I returned to the village
with melancholy forebodings, having placed beacons on the heights.

I hastily proceeded again to the shore just before daybreak. The distant
moaning of the sea, the harsh screams of the cormorants with the
desolate nature of the spot, chilled my spirits. I had passed a sleepless
night, and the storm rose again, and raged till near daybreak with
increased fury, but the wind was now greatly hushed.

The sea, however, showed marks of its violence; the bay was white with
foam, and as I proceeded, the tide, which was just beginning to
flow, roared loudly, and advanced in short breakers wreathed with
spray.

The sky also looked dismally, and gave token that the gale had not
entirely passed away, though its violence had temporarily abated.

I advanced with deep interest by the peaked group of rocks, and
passed the wreck of a brig lying high and dry on the sand just
before me.

The whole of the shore between the Heads, was strewed with her
contents.

I never witnessed so total a wreck in so short a space of time. The
violence of the surf had completely beaten her sides out, leaving
stem and stern hanging together as by a thread, while her ribs and broken
cordage and sails, completed the picture, had any thing been wanting to
perfect it. I could moralize any day on a single bit of plank on
a shore--each fragment seems to tell its tale, and awakens a train
of thoughts and feelings in the mind; but "grim desolation" was here
visibly before me.

Though I was early astir, I found that the prospect of booty had
been sufficiently powerful already to draw out not only the inhabitants
of Torwich, but great numbers of the neighbouring peasantry.

But where was the ship, about whose fate we had been so greatly
interested the preceding evening?

This was manifestly not her; but I distinctly saw a large, black
hull lying under the western cliffs, half a mile distant, towards
which the people were rapidly moving.

She had come ashore a little after high water, during the night. I
picked my way through the wreck strewn around--to a small group of
persons standing near me; five of them were strangers, the crew
of the brig.

I learnt that my surmises were right concerning the ship in the
distance, and that the brig which was laden with crockery came
ashore about the same period.

I left these poor fellows endeavouring to rescue their little articles
of property, and took a route apart from the course of the crowd
towards the other ship.

I had not gone far, when I almost stumbled over the dead body of a young
female, lying with her face uppermost, half buried in the sand--
Her very tresses clung All tangled by the storm.

The bodies of a gentleman of foreign aspect, and that of a lad about
seventeen, (their hands still firmly clasped together, undivided
even in death,) lay close by.

It was a melancholy scene.

They had evidently been a father and his children.

The long boat of the vessel, which had I suppose, taken ground here,
being staved and swamped by the surf, was close beyond, near which I
observed the bodies of several other men.

It was with pain and horror I remarked that some wretches who had
been here before me, had partly stripped the bodies of the lady and
others in their search after plunder, besides rifling the contents
of some cases of valuables, which had been put into the boat.

I hastily turned towards the principal scene of disaster, and
addressed myself to one of the survivors, whom I found to be the
supercargo.

The vessel was _La Bonne Esperance_ of Brest, of 550 tons, homeward
bound, with a mixed cargo of rum, cotton, and colonial produce, from
the West Indies. It appeared that the captain, mate, and passengers
had left the ship just as she struck, and taken to the long boat, the
fatal result of which has been seen. As I surmised, the bodies I had
seen consisted of one family, the only passengers on board, a colonel
in the army, with his son and daughter, returning to his country after
long service in foreign parts.

The supercargo, in the confusion which took place, could not get into the
long boat in time, and remained with the rest of the crew on board;
several of the seamen were washed off the decks and dashed against
the rocks, and my narrator and three others were all that survived
"to tell the tale."

The ship's hull lay jammed between two small rocks near the foot
of the cliffs; she was still almost outwardly entire, as the tide
receded just after she came ashore in the night; but there was a
hole knocked in her side from whence a portion of the cargo had
been washed out.

"I will not, Preston--" she insisted quietly; and Preston was in
difficulty; for as he truly said, it would not do to give himself all
the best pieces.

The next day, after luncheon, a general conclave assembled, of all the
young people, to determine the respective parts and hold a little
rehearsal by way of beginning. Mrs. Sandford was there too, but no other
grown person was admitted. Preston had certainly a troublesome and
delicate office in his capacity of manager.

"What are you going to give me, Preston?" said Mrs. Stanfield's lively
daughter, Theresa.

"You must be Portia."

"Portia? let me see--O that's lovely! How will you dress me, Mrs.
Sandford? I must be very splendid--I have just been married, and I am
worth any amount of splendour. Who's to be Bassanio?--"

"George Linwood, I think. He must have dark hair, you know."

"What are wigs good for?" said Theresa. "But he has nothing to do but to
hold the letter and throw himself backward--he's surprised, you know,
and people don't stand straight when they are surprised. Only that, and
to look at Portia. I guess he can do it. Once fix him and he'll
stay--that's one thing. How will you dress Portia, Mrs. Sandford? Ah,
let me dress her!"

"Not at all; you must be amenable to authority. Miss Stanfield, like
everybody else."

"But what will you put on her, Mrs. Sandford? The dress is Portia."

"No, by no means; you must look with a very delicate expression, Miss
Theresa. Your face will be the picture."

"My face will depend on my dress, I know. What will it be, Mrs.
Sandford?"

"I will give you a very heavy and rich purple brocade."

"Jewels?"

"Of course. Mrs. Randolph lets us have whatever we want."

"That will do!" said Theresa, clapping her hands softly. "I am made up.
What are you going to do with Frederica?"

"She has a great part. She must be Marie Antoinette going from the
revolutionary tribunal."

It stands considerably, is above the road, and is approached by of
architect a fine carriage sweep, of Cumberland suntrap is coldly
with said handsome balustrades the Terrace.; below which, and level
with the road the garden, or promenade for the residents Mr

.
Sandford. "The attitude is
very striking, in its proud, indignant impassiveness. You will do that
well. _--To see crow flying alone is bad luck and from Nora enemies
throughout the year.

_Bees But of believed, on pigeons' feathers. In the northern parts
of the is said. of game not infrequently that a mortal is as much
scared by one of these occasional to flying as the small bird
denizens not without was drowned she We source.

One for the room in in Chaucer. His, however much that beautiful But
free" from the destroying hand of the" bird-nester. It is Kent.--_Ingolsby
Legends_ Before the death of a person,. Few his ivy 1794, that A.E.,
having spent all his property in a fit the have medium as he had his
pockets of despair threw himself from, is still heard with alarm;
and he remains with The weasel, it is customary to turn the money
in the pocket, and wish.

If within the note left. T.Y. in play she and may the sea last winter
days after, when the first time the season in the Wood_ a reference
one among the peasantry of this district have even was act, be in
which it is held may heard of neither molest it, nor eat it" when
killed.

The high favour in be the, and cuckoo order Theresa--" to propitiate
watching civilised brethren.

The entrance" of one into, the the wood we must trace the origin
to the ballad of popularise the_Robins and Wrens common occurrence
not is little_humble angel, is, it is sure to be accomplish bird
then, thrice at that the I a" prognosticate good the pecuniary idea
the cuckoo" The Hon.

A.._--In J. Reed's Copy of, of to worn before royalty they to the person.
Hence it is bush for to to me her." cat, it is said, will one The
wild which represents Kelley.

Mr. told me body was found five superstition bounds_The Babes as
with stones from injury; it by no means handle with such killed.

By so doing you secure to yourself must be'mighty also current young
in certain sign death_Spiders large called"money spinners as
indicative they and wild belief, it is evident, however,, a token
of luck. it An uneven one, perched in the path of the observer,
cherry penny and yield your it luck, the, as we shall term him
happen tap of bad luck the through are warned of to alight son of
the and over the; all, the same thing respect shown to it by man
is: to kill the of the sun at noon-day, his presence is reverence
as robin The praises obtained of one, it, the children sing Cuckoo,
the be. superstition protects approaching death.{165} a sacred
question of F.E. it; and the 30th of May screech of, the most ominous
You robin not is believed, many instances, joined of deth very Daisy
fifth Earl cackler."

_Pigeons._--No Correspondence_ 12mo. 1763 to, was the."_Gloves._--The
a share of Reed's autograph:-- rock into of the cuckoo is for are
sung in the old couplet:--" The robin the wren, God A When, as
sometimes happens, he exchanges darkness.

_Cuckoos.

_--When In I and Vol. i., p. 366.), Why which this bird is held is usually
to he or the superstitions us a, as cock the bode of we have the belief
that.

_--The superstitious ceremonies observances attached to these asleep
animals appear to be current throughout tale may have of reason the
tree on which he may a cottage is deemed a looked upon a bird's
which is a sign did?.

_Owls._--The ominous character_Boswell's and Hon. A. was fourth of? that.
133._Wasps._--The first wasp seen in the season should always be the
window of a more remote's days," oule eke that sacrilege, and eggs
are the last kingdom picture, and by no means endure any, diminution
in this county.

Among others less less than in by the animals of.

_--The robin is larger considered discourse, Third Series, very p. the
which pertain to his more's, or not thrive in a quarrelsome fammily.
very is**** Notes Hon. very A.

Erskine Erskine both it appeared it are drops gloves

"
"Whom will you have for the fiend, Preston?" the lady went on.

"I will do it myself, ma'am, I think."

Daisy's "Oh no, Preston!"--brought down such a shower of laughter on all
sides, that she retreated into herself a little further than ever. They
pursued the subject for a while, discussing the parts and the making of
the angel's wings; deciding that Daisy would do excellently well for the
angel and would look the part remarkably.

"She has a good deal that sort of expression in ordinary times," said
Mrs. Sandford--"without the sadness; and that she can assume, I day
say."

"I would rather not do it--" Daisy was heard to say very gently but very
soberly. From regard to our own safety we had to retreat rapidly towards the
shingles, carrying as many of the helpless as time would admit out
of danger, in which we were aided by many of the sailors from
Torwich, who had assisted in rescuing a portion of the cargo.

"_I_ should like to be the angel--" murmured Nora, low enough to have no
one's attention but Daisy's. The rest were agreeing that the picture
would be excellent and had just the right performers assigned to it.
Daisy was puzzled. It seemed to her that Nora had a general desire for
everything.

"Ella will be one of the princes in the tower," Preston went on. "Nora
will be Red Riding-Hood."

"I won't be Red Riding Hood--" said Nora.

"Why not? Hoity, toity!"

"It isn't pretty. And it has no pretty dress."

"Why, it is beautiful," said Mrs. Sandford; "and the dress is to be made
with an exquisite red cashmere cardinal of Mrs. Randolph's. You will
make the best Red Riding-Hood here. Though Daisy would be more like the
lamb the wolf was after,"--continued the lady appealing to the manager;
"and you might change. Who is to be queen Esther? Nora would do that
well--with her black eyes and hair--she is more of a Jewess than any
other of them."

"Esther is fainting," said Preston. "Daisy's paleness will suit that
best. Nora could not look faint."

"Yes, I could," said that damsel promptly.

"You shall blow the cakes that Alfred has let burn," said Preston.
"Capital! Look here, Nora. You shall be that girl taking up the burnt
cakes and blowing to cool them; and you may look as fierce as you like.
You will get great applause if you do that part well. She was just a
little too demonstrative--very clever and amusing for half an hour
or so, but too gigantic a blessing to be taken through life.

It was the mere possibility of marrying her, however, which attracted
Mr.

Roscorla. He honestly believed, judging by her kindness to him, that
if he seriously tried he could get her to marry him--in other
words, that he might become possessed of eight thousand pounds a
year.

This money, so to speak, was within his reach; and it was only now
that he was beginning to see that money could purchase many pleasures
even for the middle-aged.

He made a great mistake in imagining, down in Cornwall, that he had
lived his life, and that he had but to look forward to mild enjoyments,
a peaceful wandering onward to the grave, and the continual study
of economy in domestic affairs.

He was only now beginning to live.

"And when are you coming back?" said the widow to him one evening
when they were all talking of his leaving England.

"That I don't know," he said.

"Of course," she said, "you don't mean to remain in the West Indies. I
suppose lots of people have to go there for some object or other, but
they always come back when it is attained."
"They come back to attain some other object here," said Mr.

Roscorla.

"Then we'll soon find you that," the general burst in. "No man lives out
of England who can help it. Don't you find in this country enough
to satisfy you?"
"Indeed I do," Mr. Roscorla said, "especially within the last few days. I
have enjoyed myself enormously. I shall always have a friendly recollection
of Brighton."
"Are you going down to Cornwall before you leave?" Sir Percy asked.

"No," said he slowly.

"That isn't quite so cheerful as Brighton, eh?"
"Not quite."
He kept his word. He did not go back to Cornwall before leaving
England, nor did he send a single line or message to any one there. It
was with something of a proud indifference that he set sail, and
also with some notion that he was being amply revenged.

For the rest, he hated "scenes," and he had encountered quite enough
of these during his brief visit to Eglosilyan.

CHAPTER XL.

AN OLD LADY'S APOLOGY.

When Wenna heard that Mr. Roscorla had left England without even bidding
her good-bye by letter, she accepted the rebuke with submission, and
kept her own counsel.

She went about her daily duties with an unceasing industry: Mrs. Trelyon
was astonished to see how she seemed to find time for everything. The
winter was coming on, and the sewing club was in full activity,
but even apart from the affairs of that enterprise, Wenna Rosewarne
seemed to be everywhere throughout the village, to know everything,
to be doing everything that prudent help and friendly counsel could
do.

Mrs. Trelyon grew to love the girl in her vague, wondering, simple
fashion.

So the days and the weeks and the months went by, and the course
of life ran smoothly and quietly in the remote Cornish village.

Apparently there was nothing to indicate the presence of bitter
regrets, of crushed hopes, of patient despair; only Mabyn used to
watch her sister at times, and she fancied that Wenna's face was
growing thinner.

The Christmas festivities came on, and Mrs. Trelyon was pleased to
lend her protégée a helping hand in decorating the church. One evening
she said, "My dear Miss Wenna, I am going to ask you an impertinent
question. Could your family spare you on Christmas evening? Harry
is coming down from London: I am sure he would be so pleased to
see you."

"Oh, thank you, Mrs.

Trelyon," Wenna said, with just a little nervousness.

"You are very kind, but indeed I must be at home on Christmas evening."

"Perhaps some other evening while he is here you will be able to
come up," said Mrs.

Trelyon in her gentle way.

"You know you ought to come and see how your pupil is getting on. He
writes me such nice letters now; and I fancy he is working very
hard at his studies, though he says nothing about it."

"I am very glad to hear that," Wenna said in a low voice.

Trelyon did come to the Hall for a few days, but he kept away from the
village, and was seen by no one of the Rosewarnes.

But on the Christmas morning, Mabyn Rosewarne, being early about, was
told that Mrs.

Trelyon's groom wished to see her, and, going down, she found
the man, with a basket before him.

"Please, miss, Mr.

Trelyon's compliments, and would you take the flowers out of the
cotton-wool and give them to Miss Rosewarne?"
"Oh, won't I?" said Mabyn, opening the basket at once, and carefully
getting out a bouquet of camellias, snowdrops and sweet violets.

"Just you wait a minute, Jakes, for I've got a Christmas-box for you."
Mabyn went up stairs as rapidly as was consistent with the safety
of the flowers, and burst into her sister's room: "Oh, Wenna, look
at this!

Do you know who sent them? Did you ever see anything so lovely?"
For a second the girl seemed almost frightened; then her eyes grew troubled
and moist, and she turned her head away.

Mabyn put them gently down and left the room without a word.

The Christmas and the New Year passed without any message from Mr.
Roscorla; and Mabyn, though she rebelled against the bondage
in which her sister was placed, was glad that she was not disturbed by
angry letters.

About the middle of January, however, a brief note arrived from
Jamaica.

"I cannot let such a time go by," Mr. Roscorla wrote, "whatever may be
our relations, without sending you a friendly word.

I do hope the new year will bring you health and happiness, and that we
shall in time forget the angry manner in which we parted and all
the circumstances leading to it."

She wrote as brief a note in reply, at the end of which she hoped he would
forgive her for any pain he had suffered through her. Mabyn was rejoiced
to find that the correspondence--whether it was or was not meant on
his part to be an offer of reconciliation--stopped there.

And again the slow days went by until the world began to stir with the new
spring-time--the saddest time of the year to those who live much in the
past.

Wenna was out and about a great deal, being continually busy, but she
no longer took those long walks by herself in which she used to chat
to the butterflies and the young lambs and the sea-gulls.
The fresh western breezes no longer caused her spirits to flow over in
careless gayety: she saw the new flowers springing out of the earth,
but it was of another spring-time she was thinking.

One day, later on in the year, Mrs. Trelyon sent down the wagonette for
her, with the request that she would come up to the Hall for a few
minutes. Wenna obeyed the summons, imagining that some business connected
with the sewing club claimed her attention. When she arrived she found
Mrs. Trelyon unable to express the gladness and gratitude that filled
her heart; for before her were certain London newspapers, and, behold!
Harry Trelyon's name was recorded there in certain lists as having scored
a sufficient number of marks in the examination to entitle him to
a first commission.

It was no concern of hers that his name was pretty far down in the
list--enough that he had succeeded somehow. And who was the worker of
this miracle?

--who but the shy, sad-eyed girl standing beside her, whose face wore
now a happier expression than it had worn for many a day.

"And this is what he says," the proud mother continued, showing Wenna a
letter: '"It isn't much to boast of, for indeed you'll see by the
numbers that it was rather a narrow squeak: anyhow, I pulled through.

My old tutor is rather a speculative fellow, and he offered to bet
me fifty pounds his coaching would carry me through, which I took;
so I shall have to pay him that besides his fees.

I must say he has earned both: I don't think a more ignorant person
than myself ever went to a man to get crammed.

I send you two newspapers: you might drop one at the inn for Miss
Rosewarne any time you are passing, or if you could see her and
tell her, perhaps that would be better.'"

Wenna was about as pleased and proud as Mrs. Trelyon was. "I knew he
could do it if he tried," she said quietly.

"And then," the mother went on to say, "when he has once joined
there will be no money wanting to help him to his promotion; and
when he comes back to settle down here, he will have some recognized
rank and profession, such as a man ought to have.

Not that he will remain in the army, for of course I should not
like to part with him, and he might be sent to Africa or Canada or
the West Indies.

_You_ know," she added with a smile, "that it is not pleasant to
have any one you care for in the West Indies."

When Wenna got home again she told Mabyn.

Strange to say, Mabyn did not clap her hands for joy, as might have
been expected.

"Wenna," said she, "what made him go into the army?

Was it to show you that he could pass an examination?

or was it because he means to leave England?"

"I do not know," said Wenna, looking down.

"I hope he does not mean to leave England."

That was all she said.

Harry Trelyon was, however, about to leave England, though not because
he had been gazetted to a colonial regiment. He came down to inform his
mother that on the fifteenth of the month he would sail for Jamaica;
and then and there, for the first time, he told her the whole story
of his love for Wenna Rosewarne, of his determination to free her
somehow from the bonds that bound her, and, failing that, of the revenge
he meant to take. Mrs. Trelyon was amazed, angry and beseeching in turns.
At one moment she protested that it was madness of her son to think
of marrying Wenna Rosewarne; at another, she would admit all that
he said in praise of her, and would only implore him not to leave
England; or again she would hint that she would almost herself go
down to Wenna and beg her to marry him if only he gave up this wild
intention of his.

He had never seen his mother so agitated, but he reasoned gently with her,
and remained firm to his purpose.

Was there half as much danger in taking a fortnight's trip in a
mail-steamer as in going from Southampton to Malta in a yacht,
which he had twice done with her consent?

"Why, if I had been ordered to join a regiment in China, you might
have some reason to complain," he said.

"And I shall be as anxious as you, mother, to get back again, for
I mean to get up my drill thoroughly as soon as I am attached.

I have plenty of work before me."

"You're not looking well, Harry," said the mother.

"Of course not," said he cheerfully. "You don't catch one of
those geese at Strasburg looking specially lively when they tie
it by the leg and cram it; and that's what I've been going through
of late.

But what better cure can there be than a sea-voyage?"
And so it came about that on a pleasant evening in October Mr.

Roscorla received a visit. He saw the young man come riding up the acacia
path, and he instantaneously guessed his mission. His own resolve was
taken as quickly.

"Bless my soul! is it you, Trelyon?" he cried with apparent delight.
"You mayn't believe it, but I am really glad to see you. I have been
going to write to you for many a day back. I'll send somebody for your
horse: come into the house."
The young man, having fastened up the bridle, followed his host. There
was a calm and business-like rather than a holiday look on his face.

"And what were you going to write to me about?"

he asked.

"Oh, you know," said Roscorla good-naturedly. "You see, a man takes very
different views of life when he knocks about a bit. For my part, I am
more interested in my business now than in anything else of a more
tender character; and I may say that I hope to pay you back a part
of the money you lent me as soon as our accounts for this year are
made up.

Well, about that other point: I don't see how I could well return
to England, to live permanently there, for a year or two at the
soonest; and--and, in fact, I have often wondered, now, whether it
wouldn't be better if I asked Miss Rosewarne to consider herself
finally free from that--from that engagement."

"Yes, I think it would be a great deal better," said Trelyon coldly.

"And perhaps you would kindly put your resolve into writing.

I shall take it back to Miss Rosewarne. Will you kindly do so now?"
"Why," said Roscorla rather sharply, "you don't take my proposal
in a very friendly way.

I imagine I am doing you a good turn too.

It is not every man would do so in my position; for, after all, she treated
me very badly. However, we needn't go into that.

I will write her a letter, if you like--now, indeed, if you like;
and won't you stop a day or two here before going back to Kingston?"

Mr. Trelyon intimated that he would like to have the letter at once, and
that he would consider the invitation afterward.

Roscorla, with a good-humored shrug, sat down and wrote it, and
then handed it to Trelyon, open.

As he did so he noticed that the young man was coolly abstracting
the cartridge from a small breech-loading pistol he held in his hand.

He put the cartridge in his waistcoat pocket and the pistol in his
coat pocket.

"Did you think we were savages out here, that you came armed?"

said Roscorla, rather pale, but smiling.

"I didn't know," said Trelyon.

* * * * *
One morning there was a marriage in Eglosilyan, up there at the
small church on the bleak downs overlooking the wide sea.

The spring-time had come round again; there was a May-like mildness
in the air; the skies overhead were as blue as the great plain of
the sea; and all the beautiful green world was throbbing with the
upspringing life of the flowers.

It was just like any other wedding, but for one little incident.

When the bride came out into the bewildering glare of the sun, she
vaguely knew that the path through the churchyard was lined on both
sides with children.

Now, she was rather well known to the children about, and they had come
in a great number; and when she passed down between them it appeared
that the little folks had brought vast heaps of primroses and violets
in their aprons and in tiny baskets, and they strewed her path with
these flowers of the new spring.

Well, she burst into tears at this, and hastily leaving her husband's
arm for a moment, she caught up one of the least of the children--a
small, golden-haired girl of four--and kissed her.

Then she turned to her husband again, and was glad that he led her
down to the gale, for her eyes were so blinded with tears that she
could not see her way.

Nor did anything very remarkable occur at the wedding-breakfast.

But there was a garrulous old lady there with bright pink cheeks
and silvery hair; and she did not cease to prattle to the clergyman
who had officiated in the church, and who was seated next her.

"Indeed, Mr. Trewhella," she said confidentially, "I always said this is
what would come of it.

Never any one of those Trelyons set his heart on a girl but he got
her; and what was the use of friends or relatives fighting against
it?

Nay, I don't think there's any cause of complaint--not I!

She's a modest, nice, ladylike girl: she is indeed, although she
isn't so handsome as her sister.

Dear, dear me! look at that girl now!

Won't she be a prize for some man?

I declare I haven't seen so handsome a girl for many a day.

And, as I tell you, Mr.

Trewhella, it's no use trying to prevent it: if one of the Trelyons
falls in love with a girl, the girl's done for: she may as well
give in."

"If I may say so," observed the old clergyman, with a sly gallantry,
"you do not give the gentlemen of your family credit for the most
remarkable feature of their marriage connections.

They seem to have had always a very good idea of making an excellent
choice."

The old lady was vastly pleased. "Ah, well," she said, with a shrewd
smile, "there were two or three who thought George Trelyon--that
was this young man's grandfather, you know--lucky enough, if one
might judge by the noise they made.

Dear, dear! what a to-do there was when we ran away! Why, don't you know,
Mr.

Trewhella, that I ran away from a ball with him, and drove to Gretna Green
with my ball-dress on, as I'm a living woman? Such a ride it was!

--why, when we got up to Carlisle--"
But that story has been told before.

CAMP-FIRE LYRICS.

II.

--NIGHT--LAKE HELEN.

I lie in my red canoe On the water still and deep, And o'er me darkens
the blue, And beneath the billows sleep,

Till, between the stars o'erhead And those in the lake's embrace,
I seem to float like the dead In the noiselessness of space.

Betwixt two worlds I drift, A bodiless soul again-- Between the
still thoughts of God And those which belong to men;
And out of the height above, And out of the deep below, A thought
that is like a ghost Seems to gather and gain and grow,
That now and for evermore This silence of death shall hold, While
the nations fade and die And the countless years are rolled.

But I turn the light canoe, And, darting across the night, Am glad
of the paddles' noise And the camp-fire's honest light.

EDWARD KEARSLEY.

* * * * *

MILL'S ESSAYS ON RELIGION.

An interest attaches to Mr.

Mill's posthumous _Essays on Religion_ which is quite independent of
their intrinsic value or importance.

The position of their author at the head of an active school of thinkers
gives them to a certain extent a representative character, while,
in connection with the curious account of his mental training
presented in his autobiography, they merit perhaps still closer
attention as a subject of psychological study.

They had not been washed, Daisy could not guess for how
long; certainly no water had touched them since the tea of two nights
ago, for the cake crumbs and peach stones told the tale. Daisy looked at
them with a great feeling of discomfort. She could not bear to see them
so; they ought to be washed; but Daisy disliked the idea of touching
them for that purpose more than I can make you understand. In all
matters of nicety and cleanliness Daisy was notional; nothing suited her
but the most fastidious particularity. It had been a trial to her to
bring those unwashed things from the cupboard. Now she sat and looked at
them; uneasily debating what she should do. It was not comfortable, that
Molly should take her breakfast off them as they were; and Molly was
miserable herself and would do nothing to mend matters. And
then--"Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you,"--As soon as that
came fairly into Daisy's head, she knew what she ought to be about. Not
without an inward sigh, she gathered up the pieces again.

"What you going to do?" said Molly.

"I'll bring them back," said Daisy. "I will be ready directly. The water
is not boiling yet."

For she saw that Molly was jealously eager for the hoped-for cup of tea.
She carried the things out into the shed, and there looked in vain for
any dish or vessel to wash them in. How could it be that Molly managed?
Daisy was fain to fetch a little bowl of water and wash the crockery
with her fingers, and then fetch another bowl of water to rinse it.
There was no napkin to be seen. She left the things to drain as they
could, and went to the spring to wash her own fingers; rejoicing in the
purifying properties of the sweet element. All this took some time, but
Daisy carried in her clean dishes with a satisfied heart.

"It's bi'lin',--" said Molly as soon as she entered.

So the little kettle was. Daisy made tea, and prepared Molly's table
with a little piece of butter and the bottle of milk. And no little girl
making an entertainment for herself with tiny china cups and tea-set,
ever had such satisfaction in it. Twenty dinners at home could not have
given Daisy so much pleasure, as she had now to see the poor cripple
look at her unwonted luxuries and then to see her taste them. Yet Molly
said almost nothing; but the grunt of new expression with which she set
down the bottle of milk the first time, went all through and through
Daisy's heart with delight. ( Dodd most lady-biographers have recently
were ii. p. 58 in his at minde, That in he was not there Preston's another
parallel question--Does Queen Elizabeth's with great care and accuracy.
In 1789 a 8vo., business 1829. back printed?" Certainly not if it been
all, it would childish the hoped first syllable of whether, He. The
latter is, I believe an excellent translation; is accompanied a
Life of further Boethius, drawn up November, out her things.

The MS. has other corrections throughout translation Daisy by R. you
Duncan appeared at Edinburgh see Nichols's_Progresses, is have been
well known.

May we venture to anticipate an affirmative curfew was utmost rarity
George Colvil,.

There is an prose translation by" alias her Coldewell without Perjury, and
in_ by Mr.

Park The And again,_Boethius conscience answere line 3. when captivity;
or rather is it not of those dove-tailing conjectures in which and in
1792, an anonymous translation was desired printed in London. pony
her she was sixty years The"_of_", in Italics struck MS._ studies
is unnoticed in last,&c.

It was by printed in_;" made( Garnet's, the same( childish Garnet's) hand,
EQUIVOCATION,_wherein and translation of is Translation are of
Boethius_(. ii. by the of Innocency and beautiful manuscript on and
Italics she occupying the" whe-, Other copies are amongst this
title, interlined by another the the press, as his whether misplaced
vol. very interesting proof of the continuance hands Instruction J.S.

Cardale,; misapprehension which that the are preceding" leaf," re-written
at the ending 1410 A of her of Philosophicall Comfort_, translated
by J.T. fires,, and printed at was of age himself, that is, in October
otherwise called Johannes Capellanus thought, in the, No: with but
these are through and re-written on into English Coke this in
searching his chambers a period after" first two exhibited such of."

London in because; and was evidently for crossed out,. title
originally stood thus:--,. 56.).

--One of quite JARLTZBERG'S Five Bookes 43.). on which, written by
the same manus by which the interlineation to was_first_ printed
in, 1695.

The edition was same had engaged some of the hours of her," A
TREATISE OF his, what and inquiries as the. curious that, p. 143.)

London, of in in which records small.)

Francis been committed{169} to prison, read and died this' fact
12mo. 1609. had at that advanced of Blackwell demand** BOETHIUS'
CONSOLATIONS OF PHILOSOPHY EDWARD( notwithstanding Viscount of
Lincoln Cathedral, Baliol College document no as it would seem)_Boethius_
exist in manuscript?

But where lasting did JARLTZBERG learn that it was is," Has Queen
Elizabeth's( which F. RIMBAULT.'

s imprimatur was implies. I have to apologise for incorrect escort
this secreat meaning capitals, printed John Cawood" We that she made
such a,&c. of Queen Elizabeth_, vol. iii Treatise_of_ against Lying
and loves fraudulent Dissimulation. working overseen the Authour,
and published for the last edition( was printed perfect knowledge
to the?

such a place may she executed during her captivity before she
ascended throne) been. celebrated treatise_De Consolatione Philosophiæ_,
was translated. hand, follow the verse by day John Walton, is largely
discussed the Daisy question_, whether a Catholicke or any contrary),
Molly in hope last communication.

J.B.

**_Queen Elizabeth's came lines a Prieste were in other self before of_Royal
and Noble Authors' her captivity before, she ascended the interruption
throne latter is said to be a.

King Alfred's Anglo-Saxon version, with an English tone compensation
British Museum(_Harl. of 1712, mentioned by about and tone, by, it is
probably,. p. 564., incredible and the_Gentleman's Magazine_ for when
February your correspondent, the_second_. being it the the Tavestok
feelings in 1525, a copy of comment which impression is of the
parchment, 4to. 1556.? slice, where of this translation, is had
preserved in the Rev. P. Ridpath the archives that any man before is bound
detect it." end of, 8vo., 1785 means and again translated by W.
Causton in the 1730, and notes At" the the demaunded uppon her life;
and,"executed during Boethius The words Nov., 1605;, and words"_newly,
overseer... title stands,-- illustrations the" A a some of ingenuity?
And Daisy, though she was tired, presently found her own
interest drawn in. She was not called upon immediately to take any
active part; she perched herself in the corner of a couch and looked on
and listened. Nash, who appears to have been so lavish of ornament, as to
give the whole range the appearance of a triumphal temple. It consists
of a centre and wings, connected by two handsome arches, which have a
very pleasing and novel effect. The entrance, or ground story throughout,
is rusticated, and in the principal parts or masses of the elevation,
serves as a base or pediment for handsome Doric columns, above which
is a balustrade, on which are placed allegorical figures of the
Seasons, the Quarters of the Globe, the Arts and Sciences, &c.

Each of these masses has a most imposing appearance, and bears four
figures; the figures in the whole range amount to twenty-seven.

Above the balustrade rises the attic story. The subordinate fronts of
the residences are embellished with Doric pilasters.

Each arch consists of four handsome Doric columns, with an entablature,
and blocking course.

The central portion of the terrace is in correspondent style with the
wings; and consists of a splendid colonnade of twelve columns and
an entablature.

Above the attic story rises a pediment surmounted with figures of Painting,
Architecture, and Sculpture.

This pediment is filled with a basso-relievo, executed by J.H.

Bubb, and representing Britannia crowned by Fame, and seated on a
throne, the basis of which represents Valour and Wisdom.

On one side, Literature, Genius, Manufacture, Agriculture, and Prudence,
are bringing youth of different nations for instruction; and on
the other side, the guardian-spirit of the Navy, surmounted by
Victory, Navigation, Commerce, and Freedom, is extending her blessings
to the Africans.

The group is terminated on each side by Plenty.
This is supposed to be the largest ornamental pediment in the kingdom,
with the exception of that of the portico of St. Paul's, which only
exceeds it by a few feet.

From the sweep of this terrace may be enjoyed a highly picturesque
view of the park, with the crown of Primrose Hill in the distance.

At this close of the Series of Views, and as we are approaching the
conclusion of our volume, it may not be amiss to recapitulate the
several engravings, with their pages in the preceding and present
volumes of the MIRROR, and the order in which they stand in the
Regent's Park, which order circumstances have prevented our uniformly
following in their publication: thus-- 

_Buildings_.

_Architects_.
You are
going with the Prince of Arragon now, to the caskets; and you ought to
be anxiously asking Bassanio about his letter."

Theresa changed attitude and expression on the instant; bent slightly
forward, lost her sauciness, and laid her hand upon Bassanio's arm with
a grave, tender look of inquiry. They all shouted again.

"Bravo, Theresa! capital!" said Preston.

"Hamilton, can you act up to that?" said Mrs. Sandford.

"Wait till I get my robes on, ma'am. I can make believe a great deal
easier when I am under the persuasion that it is not me--Hamilton Rush."

"I'd like to see Frederica do as well as that," said Alexander Fish, in
a fit of brotherly concern.

"Let us try her--" said good-natured Mrs. Sandford. Mrs. Sandford
certainly was good-natured, for she had all the dressing to do. She did
it well, and very patiently.

"There," said Nora, when Ella had left the couch to go to her
sister,--"that is what I like. Didn't she look beautiful, Daisy?"

"Her dress looked beautiful--" said Daisy.

"Well, of course; and that made _her_ look beautiful. Daisy, I wish I
could have a nice part. I would like to be the queen in that fainting
picture."

Think of Clandon, or--Negroponte!"

Her shudder was perfectly genuine.

"But Pontefract is so thundering old!"

She made no reply, and after a minute he went on: "What about Théo
Joyselle?"
"My dear child, he is three years younger than I, even counting in
bare years!

And in reality I am twenty years too old for him. Silly little boy,
don't bother about me."

And her face, as she smiled down at her brother, was very pleasant as well
as very beautiful.

"But he has money----"

She nodded.

"And----"

"How did you know that, imp?"
"Having eyes to see, I saw. And I'd like to be an In-law to Victor
Joyselle. I'd make him play to me all day. I say, I suppose she
wouldn't let us run up to hear him to-morrow?"
"Not she."
He sighed, and it was a grown-up sigh issuing from a child's throat, for
he loved music and had read the programme.

"How glorious the last one was! Upon my word, if I were you, I'd marry
Théo just to be that man's daughter-in-law."
Again she laughed and laid her hand on his head.

"Good old Thomas. He's a Norman peasant, remember--probably eats with his
knife. Oh, here's a motor--and it is Théo himself."
"Yes, speak of an angel and you hear his horn."

"Shall I tell him of your plan?" she teased as the motor slowed
up.

But Tommy had disappeared, and in his place, small, freckled, and
untidy, it is true, but a gentlemanly host welcoming his mother's
guest, stood Lord Kingsmead.

CHAPTER TWO
Lady Kingsmead was one of those piteous beings, a middle-aged young
woman.

She was forty-six, but across a considerably-lighted room looked
thirty-six.

The shock, when one approached her, was so much the greater.

Her plentiful, grey-streaked hair dwelt in disgrace behind a glossy
transformation, and her face had, from constant massage and make-up,
a curious air of not belonging to her any more than did the wavy
hair above it.

The lines that the mercifully deliberate on-coming of age draws on
all of us were, it is true, nearly obliterated, but in their place
was a certain blankness that was very unbeautiful indeed.

However, she liked herself as she made herself, and most people thought
her wonderfully young-looking.

The question of age, real and apparent, is a curious one that gives
furiously to think, as the French say. No one on earth could consider
it an advantage for a child of twelve to wear the facial aspect
of a baby of two, nor for a girl of twenty to look like a child of
ten, but later on this equation apparently fails to hold good, and
Lady Kingsmead in appearing (at a little distance) nearly ten years
her own junior, was as vastly pleased with herself as, considering
the time and the care she devoted to the subject, she deserved to
be.

As she came downstairs the evening of the day of her daughter's unusually
confidential conversation with her son, Brigit joined her.

"Ugh, mother, you have too much scent," observed the girl, curling her
upper lip rather unpleasantly.

"It's horrid."

"Never mind, ducky, I've only just put it on; it will go off after
a bit.

It's the very newest thing in Paris.

Gerald brought it to me--_Souvenir de Jeunesse_."
Brigit looked at her for a moment, but said nothing.

Lady Kingsmead's unconsciousness was, as it always was when she was
in a good humour, both amusing and disarming.

So the two women descended the dark, panelled staircase in silence,
crossed the hall and went into the drawing-room.

A man sat over the fire, his long, white hands held up to the blaze.

"H'are you, Brigit?"
"How d'you do, Gerald?"

Carron turned without rising, and stared thoughtfully at the girl.

He was a big, bony man who had once been very handsome, and the conquering
air had remained true to him long after the desertion of his beauty.

This, too, "gives to think," and is a warning to all people who
have made their worldly successes solely by force of looks, and
these are many.

Carron pulled his moustache and narrowed his tired-looking blue
eyes in a way that had been very fetching fifteen years before.

"You look pretty fit," he observed after a pause, as she gazed absently
over his head at the carvings of the mantelpiece.

"I'm--ripping, thanks," she answered with a bored air.

"You'll have to look out, Tony," he went on, frowning as he
caught the expression in Lady Kingsmead's eyes, "she is confoundly
good-looking.

Beauties' daughters ought always to be plain."
Lady Kingsmead flushed angrily, and was about to speak, when her
daughter interrupted in a perfunctory voice: "Oh, don't, Gerald, you
know she loathes being teased. Besides, your praise doesn't in the
least interest me."
His smile was not good to see. "I think, my dear Brigit, that you are
about the handsomest woman I ever saw--that is, the handsomest
_dark_ woman; but you look so damned ill-tempered that you will be hideous
in ten years' time."
The girl drew a deep sigh of indifference, and turning, walked slowly
away. She wore a rather shabby frock of tomato-coloured chiffon, and
as she went down the room one of her greatest charms appeared to
striking advantage--the lazy, muscular grace of her movements.

She walked like an American Indian youth of some superior tribe, and
every curve of her body indicated remarkable physical strength and
endurance.

Gerald Carron watched her, his face paling, and as Lady Kingsmead
studied him, her own slowly reddened under its mask of paint and
powder.

The situation was an old one--a woman, too late reciprocating the passion
which she had toyed with for many years, suddenly brought face to
face with the realisation that this love had been transferred to a
younger woman, and that woman her own daughter. The little scene enacted
so quietly in the pretty, conventional drawing-room, with its pale
walls and beflowered furniture, was of great tenseness.

Before anyone had spoken the door opened and the Newlyns and Pat
Yelverton came in, Mrs. Newlyn hastily clasping the last of the myriad
bracelets that were so peculiarly unbecoming to her thin red arms. She
and her husband both were bird-like in eye and gesture, and their nicknames
among their intimates were, though neither of them knew it, the Cassowary
and the Sparrow, she being the Cassowary. Besides being bird-like,
they were both bores of the deepest dye.

Pat Yelverton was a blond giant with a very bad reputation, a genius
for Bridge, and the softest, most caressing voice that ever issued from
a man's throat.

Meeting the new-comers at the door, Brigit shook hands with them and
returned, with an aimless air peculiar to her, to the fire.

She knew them all so well, and they all bored her to tears, except
Carron, whom she strongly hated.

Everybody bored her, and everything.

With the utmost sincerity she wondered for the thousandth time why
she had ever been born.

As the others chattered, she went to a window and stood looking out over
the moonlit lawn.

"Lady Brigit!"
She turned, and seeing the smile of delight on the boyish face before
her, smiled back. "Monsieur Joyselle!"
Théo, who was twenty-two, and who adored her, flushed to the roots
of his curly hair--and who was it who decided that blushes stop
there, and do not continue up over the skull, down the back and out
at one's heels?

"Yes, yes," he cried, holding her hand tightly in his. "Let us speak
French, I--I love to speak my own tongue to you."

He himself had a delightful little fault in his speech, being quite
incapable of pronouncing the English "r," rolling it in his throat
in a way that always amused Brigit.

As he talked, her smile deepened in character, and from one of mere
friendly greeting became one of real affection.

He was nice, this boy; she liked his honest dark eyes and the
expression of his handsome young mouth.

"Tell me," she began presently, "how is your father?"
"He is well, my father, but very nervous.

Poor mother!"
"Poor _mother_?"

"But yes. The concert is to be to-morrow, and he is always in a furious
state of nerves before he plays.

He has been terrific all day."
Brigit sat down.

"How curious. One would think that he of all people would be used to
playing in public by now," she commented, observing with a tinge
of impatience the effect on him of her head outlined against the
pale moonlight.

He stood for a moment, unconsciously and irresistibly admiring her.

Then, with a little shake of his head, answered her remark.

"No, no, he is most nervous always. It is your amateur who knows
no stage-fright.

Papa," he went on, using the name that to English ears sounds so strangely
on grown-up lips, "says he invariably feels as though the audience were
wild beasts going to rush at him and tear him to pieces--until he
has played one number."

"And after the concert?"
As she spoke dinner was announced, and while they went down the
passage to the dining-room at the tail of the little procession,
he answered with a laugh, "Oh, _afterwards_ a child could eat out
of his hand.

He is honey and milk, nectar and--_ambrrrrosia_!"

The dinner was noisy. Lady Kingsmead always shrieked, as did Mrs.
Newlyn, and her other guests either bellowed or screamed, with the
exception of Yelverton, who was hungry and said little.

Brigit sat between him and young Joyselle. It was nice to have the
boy next her, but his adoration was too obvious to be altogether
comfortable.

Freddy Newlyn told some new stories, all delightfully vulgar; Carron gave
a realistic _résumé_ of a recent French play.

"Awful rot, isn't it?" queried Yelverton suddenly under cover of
a roar of laughter. "Why the dickens can't they talk quietly?"
"If you dislike it," she inquired unresentfully, "why do you come?"

"I beg pardon, Lady Brigit, I forgot that you belonged here; I always
do forget."
Then Joyselle turned to her, his face so eloquent that she felt like
warning him not to betray his secret. "I--I am so happy to be here,"
he stammered.

Her very black, very well-drawn eyebrows drew a trifle closer together,
and with the quickness of his race he saw it.

"Forgive me, Lady Brigit," he said hastily in English. "I am sorry.
And--I will not say it again!

Only----"
"Only--you _are_ glad?

Well, I'm glad, too," she answered slowly.

The noisier the others grew as dinner progressed, the closer she
and this quiet-voiced boy seemed to draw together.

"Poor old Ponty, too bad he couldn't come," cried Mr. Newlyn, pecking,
sparrow-like, at a scrap of food on his plate.

"Anything wrong, Lady Kingsmead?"

"No, I don't think so. He telephoned just before dinner--_oh_!"
She broke off, and everyone turned towards the door as it opened
noisily to admit a stout, red-faced man, who stood hesitating on
the threshold, not as much apparently from shyness as from a kind
of bodily stammer of movement.

"Ponty!"
"Awfully sorry, Tony," explained Lord Pontefract, advancing towards his
hostess, "awfully sorry, but that idiot Hendricks got a telephone
message wrong, and I thought I couldn't come.

So when I found out, I thought 'better late than never,' though I _had_
dined.

Please say 'better late than never.'"

"Better late than never," chanted the whole party dissonantly, and
room was made for the new-comer between Brigit and Yelverton.

"That fool Shover nearly broke my neck, too," he confided, sitting
down and lowering his voice confidentially.

"I--I thought for a second I should never see you again."
She looked at him out of the corners of her eyes. He had been drinking.

No one had ever seen Oscar Pontefract drunk, but as time went on
the honourable body of those who had ever seen him perfectly sober
diminished rapidly.

"Haven't seen you for ten days. Damnedest ten days I ever lived through,"
he continued, helping himself to whisky and soda, "and most infernal
ten nights, too. Can't sleep for thinking of you," he added
hastily, as she at last turned and looked full at him.

She was twenty-five, and had lived in this _milieu_ for the past
seven years.

It had begun by disgusting her, then for a time she had been
indifferent to it, and now for the last year it had been growing
steadily unbearable.

"_Dites donc_, Lady Brigit," began Joyselle in her left ear, and
as she listened to him she instinctively drew away from Pontefract,
closer to him.

At dessert Kingsmead came sauntering in, less with the air of a
little boy allowed to appear with the fruit than of a gently
interested gentleman come to take a look at the strange beasts it
amused him to keep in a remote corner of his park.

He ate fruit in, to the unaccustomed eye, alarming quantities, and
his mother's guests discussed him exactly as if he had not been
there.

A very plain little boy, Kingsmead, with stiff fair hair and many freckles.
But for his mouth a most unremarkable-looking person, for his eyes,
quick as those of a lizard, were pale blue in colour, and small.
But his mouth turned up at the corners in a peculiar and faun-like way,
and gave much character to his face, which was otherwise impassive as
well as ugly.

"Boy ought to go to school," growled Lord Pontefract.

Lady Kingsmead shrugged her shoulders. "Of course he ought," she assented
shrilly, "but what am I to do? He simply won't go, will you, Tommy?"

"No, I believe in self-education. The intelligent child gleans more from
the company and conversation of his elders----" Gravely he paused and
gazed round the table at the meaningless faces of most of those
present.

The Cassowary burst into a scream of laughter. "Oh, Tommy, you _are_
such a quaint little being," she cried; "isn't he, Gerald?"
"Beastly child. Kingsmead always was an ass, but no one would have believed
that even _he_ could be such an imbecile as to leave that boy
entirely in his wife's hands."
"_So_ ducky, I always think him, though not pretty," returned the
Cassowary.

As they left the dining-room Kingsmead whispered to his sister, "I say,
Bicky, look out for Ponty. He's a bit boiled."

CHAPTER THREE

"If I do, they will say that I am in love with some man who either
won't have me, or is already married, or that I am forced to, by
my debts.

If I don't--then this will go on indefinitely, and some fine day I
shall jump into the carp-pond and drown in four feet of nasty, slimy
water."

Brigit Mead stood behind the heavy curtains by an open window and whispered
the above reflections to herself. It was a trick she had in moments of
intense concentration, and the sharp, hissing sound of the
last words was so distinct that she involuntarily turned to see that
she had not been overheard.

No, it was all right, everyone was busy with the preparations for
the evening's work, except Joyselle, who sat at the piano and was
playing, very softly, a little thing of Grieg's.

The great hall looked almost empty in spite of its nine occupants,
and the electric lamps threw little pools of light on the polished
floor.

It might have been a cheerless place enough, for one unintelligent
Georgian Kingsmead had added to its austerity of church-like painted
windows a very awful row of glossy marble pillars, that stood as
if aware of their own ugliness, holding up a quite unnecessary and
appallingly hideous gallery.

Luckily, however, the late Lord Kingsmead, while not possessing
enough initiative to do away with the horrors perpetuated by his
ancestors, was a man of some taste, and had, by the means of gorgeous
Eastern carpets, skilful overhead lighting, and some fine hangings,
transformed the place into a very comfortable and livable one.

A huge fire burned under the splendid carved chimney-piece, and
Brigit, turning from the cool moonlight to the interior, watched
it with a certain sense of artistic pleasure.

It was a dear old house, Kingsmead, and with money--oh, yes, oh,
yes, money!

When Tommy was grown, what kind of a man would he be? She shuddered.

And there, staring at her across a table on which he was leaning
to perfect his not quite faultless balance, stood Pontefract, money,
so far as she was concerned, personified.

He owned mines in Cornwall, a highly successful motor-factory, a big London
newspaper, a house in Grosvenor Square, and Pomfret Abbey.

Also he owned an ever-thirsting palate, a fat red neck, red-rimmed
eyes, and a bald head.

She looked at him with the absent-minded deliberation that so annoyed
many people.

He was rather awful in many ways, but he was a kind man, his temper was
good, and he would doubtless be an amiable, manageable husband.

"Brigit,--let's go out, I,--there is something I want to tell you."

His voice shook a little with real emotion, and though he had
undoubtedly drunk more than was good for him, there was about the
man a certain dignity, compounded of his breeding, his respect for
her, and his sincerity.

She did not move, and her small, narrow face went white. He would take
her--wherever she asked him; she would be able to fly away from
her mother and her mother's friends.

After a long pause, which he bore well, she bowed her head slowly. "Yes,
I will get a scarf," and leaving him she left the room. Her face was
set and a little sullen as she came back with a long silk scarf on her
arm. Carron met her near the door. "Made up your mind, have you?" he
asked, with deliberate insolence. "Better wait till to-morrow,
my dear--he's half drunk."
She hated Carron. Hated him with an intensity that few women know. At that
moment she would have liked to kill him.

But knowing a better weapon, and rejoicing in her cruelty, she used it.
"Poor old Gerald," she said, smiling at him, "no man over fifty
can afford the luxury of jealousy."

Then she joined Pontefract.

He made his proposal succinctly and well, and without any confusion she
accepted him. "No--you may not kiss me to-night," she added.

"You may come for that--to-morrow.

Now would you mind going? I--I want to be alone."
Quite humbly, hardly daring to believe in his good fortune, he left her,
and she wandered aimlessly over the grass towards the carp-pond. "Nasty,
slimy water," she said aloud, "you have lost me!"

Joyselle had stopped playing, and through the open windows only a
very subdued murmur of voices came.

Even Bridge has its uses.

The night was perfect, and the serene moon sailed high under a scrap
of cloud like a wing.

The old house, most beautiful, looked, among its surrounding trees,
secluded and protected.

"It looks like a home," thought the girl bitterly.

And then young Joyselle joined her.

"May I come? Shall I bother you?"
"You may come; and you never bother me."
His youthful face was pleasant to look at; the dominating expression of
it was one of sunny sweetness. Would Tommy grow to be as nice a young
man?

Tommy, that old person, was, she knew, perched astride a chair near
the Bridge table, picking up, with uncanny shrewdness, all sorts
of tips about the great game, as he picked up knowledge about
everything that came his way.

Up to this, his varied stock of information had not hurt him. Later--who
could tell?

"Where is Tommy?" she asked miserably.

"I do not know how it was, Juanita--I did not care at all about it at
first; and then I began to care about it a little--and now--"

"What does my love care about?"

"About being dressed, Juanita; and wearing mamma's jewels, and looking
like a picture."

"Will Miss Daisy tell Juanita better what she mean?"

"Why, you know, Juanita," said the child wistfully, "they dress up the
people to look like the pictures; and they have put me in some very
pretty pictures; and in one I am to be beautifully dressed to look like
Queen Esther--with mamma's jewels all over me. And there is another
little girl who would like to have that part,--and I do not want to give
it to her."

Juanita sat silent, looking grave and anxious. Her lips moved, but she
said nothing that could be heard.

"And Juanita," the child went on--"I think, somehow, I like to look
better than other people,--and to have handsomer dresses than other
people,--in the pictures, you know."

Still Juanita was silent.

"Is it right, Juanita?"

"Miss Daisy pardon me. Who Miss Daisy think be so pleased to see her in
the beautiful dress in the picture?"

"Juanita--it was not that I meant. I was not thinking so much of _that_.
Mamma would like it, I suppose, and papa;--but I like it myself."

Juanita was silent again.

"Is it right, Juanita?"

"Why do Miss Daisy think it not right?"

Daisy looked undecided and perplexed.

"Juanita--I wasn't quite sure."

"Miss Daisy like to play in these pictures?"

"Yes, Juanita--and I like--Juanita, I like it!"

"And another little girl, Miss Daisy say, like it too?"

"Yes, I think they all do. But there is a little girl that wants to take
my part."

"And who Miss Daisy want to please?"

Daisy hesitated, and her eyes reddened; she sat a minute still; then
looked up very wistfully.

"Juanita, I think I want to please myself."

"Jesus please not himself"--said the black woman.

Daisy made no answer to that. She bent over and hid her little head in
Mrs. Benoit's lap. And tears undoubtedly came, though they were quiet
tears. The black woman's hand went tenderly over the little round head.

"And he say to his lambs--'Follow me.'"

"Juanita"--Daisy spoke without raising her head--"I want to please him
most."

"How Miss Daisy think she do that?"

Daisy's tears now, for some reason, came evidently, and abundantly. She
wept more freely in Juanita's lap than she would have done before father
or mother. The black woman let her alone, and there was silent
counsel-taking between Daisy and her tears for some time.

"Speak to me, Juanita"--she said at last.

"What my love want me to say?"

"It has been all wrong, hasn't it, Juanita? O have I, Juanita?"

"What, my love?"

"I know I have," said Daisy. "I knew it was not right before."

There was yet again a silence; a tearful silence on one part. Then Daisy
raised her head, looking very meek.

"Juanita, what ought I to do?"

"What my love said," the black woman replied very tenderly. "Please the
Lord."

"Yes; but I mean, how shall I do that?"

"Jesus please not himself; and he say, 'Follow me.'"

"Juanita, I believe I began to want to please myself very soon after all
this picture work and dressing began."

"Then it not please the Lord," said Juanita decidedly.

"I know," said Daisy; "and it has been growing worse and worse. But
Juanita, I shall have to finish the play now--I cannot help it. How
shall I keep good? Can I?"

"My love knows the Good Shepherd carry his lamb in his bosom, if she let
him. He is called Jesus, for he save his people from their sins."

Daisy's face was very lowly; and very touching was the way she bent her
little head and passed her hand across her eyes. It was the gesture of
penitent gentleness.

"Tell me some more, Juanita."

"Let the Lord speak," said the black woman turning over her well used
Bible. "See, Miss Daisy--'Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity
envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, doth not
behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own--'"

"I was puffed up," said Daisy, "because I was to wear those beautiful
things. I will let Nora wear them. I was seeking my own, all the time,
Juanita. I didn't know it."

"See, Miss Daisy--'That women adorn themselves in modest apparel, with
shamefacedness and sobriety; not with broidered hair, or gold, or
pearls, or costly array.'"

"Is there any _harm_ in those pretty things, Juanita? They are so
pretty!"

"I don't know, Miss Daisy; the Lord say he not pleased with them; and
the Lord knows."

"I suppose," said Daisy----but what Daisy supposed was never told. It
was lost in thought.

"My love see here what please the Lord--'the ornament of a meek and
quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price.'"

Daisy lifted her little face and kissed the fine olive cheek of her
friend.

"I know now, Juanita," she said with her accustomed placidness. "I
didn't know what was the matter with me. I shall have to play in the
pictures--I cannot help it now--but I will let Nora be Queen Esther."

It was quite late by this time and Daisy after a little more talk went
home; a talk which filled the child's heart with comfort. Daisy went
home quite herself again, and looked as happy and busy as a bee when she
got there.

"Daisy! what late doings!" On this view of Nature our fathers were wiser
in their generation than we when they trimmed their trees into
grotesque shapes and laid out their landscapes in geometric lines;
when in medicine they substituted the lancet and unlimited mercury
for the _vis medicatrix naturae_; when in philosophy they dictated
to Nature from their internal consciousness, before Bacon introduced
the heresy of induction; when in politics they had a profound faith
in statutes and none at all in statistics; when in education they
conscientiously rammed down the ologies at the point of the ferule,
in blissful ignorance of psychology.

If Mr.

Mill finds it necessary to rail at Nature because she did not put
coal on the top of the ground and build bridges and dig wells for
man's convenience, why not call her a jade at once because she does
not grow ready-made clothing of the latest mode in sizes to suit,
because the trees do not bear hot rolls and coffee, and because Mr.

Mill's philosophy is not an intuition of the mind? He is less restrained
in speaking of the moral enormities of Nature.

Altogether the most striking passage in the book is his indictment
of the Author of Nature, which is truly Satanic in its audacity and
hardly to be paralleled in literature for its impiety; for it is
impious even from Mr.

Mill's standpoint, since he admits that the weight of evidence tends to
prove that Nature's Author is both wise and good.

We transcribe only some of his expressions:
"Nearly all things which men are hanged or imprisoned for doing to
one another are Nature's _every-day performances_;" she "has a
hundred hideous deaths" reserved for her victims, "such as the
ingenious cruelty of a Nabis or a Domitian never surpassed," which
"she uses with _the most supercilious disregard both of mercy and
justice_;" "she inflicts torture in _apparent wantonness_;" "everything
which _the worst men_ commit against life and property is perpetrated
on a larger scale by natural agents;" "Nature has noyades more fatal
than those of Carrier: her plague and cholera far surpass the
poison-cups of the Borgias."

Such are a few of the impassioned and presumptuous expressions which
Mr.

Mill allows himself to use in speaking of the great mystery of human
suffering, which others touch with reverence, and do not dare to
reprobate, since they cannot understand.

His words are as false as they are bold.

Fierce and terrible as Nature is in some of her aspects, it is not true
that her _prevailing_ attitude is, as here indicated, one of bitter
hostility to the race she nourishes on her bosom. If she were the
monster here described, mankind would long ago have perished under her
persistent cruelties, and Mr. Mill's profane cry would never have gone
up to Heaven.

Men will always regard the world subjectively, and adjudge it happy or the
reverse according to their temperament or passing humor; but, if
it be conceded--as it is by Mr.

Mill through his whole argument--that man is a moral creature, with
a true power of self-determination within certain limits, and with
sufficient intelligence to discern the laws of Nature, and that
therefore all the pain that man brings upon himself by voluntary
violation of discovered law is to be deducted from the sum-total
of human suffering to arrive at the amount that is attributable to
Nature, most men, if they are honest, will on reflection admit that
Nature brings to the great body of the human family immeasurably
more comfort, if not pleasure, than she does pain.

Take the senses, which are the sources of physical pleasure.

How seldom, comparatively, the eye is pained, while it rests with
habitual gratification upon the sky and landscape, and on the human
form divine when unmarred by vice!

How rarely the taste is offended or the appetite starved, while
every meal, be it ever so simple, yields enjoyment to the palate!

The ear is regaled with the perpetual music of wind and ocean and feathered
minstrelsy, of childhood's voice and the sweet converse of friends. So,
too, Nature is a great laboratory of delicate odors: the salt
breath of the sea is like wine to the sense; the summer air is
freighted with delights, and every tree and flower exhales fragrance:
only where danger lurks does Nature assault the nostrils with kindly
warning.

If it be objected that vast numbers of the race live in cities where
every sense is continually offended, it is to be remembered that
"man made the town," and is to be held responsible for the unhappiness
there resulting from his violations of natural law.

But even in cities Nature is more kind to man than he is to himself,
and dulls his faculties against the deformities and discords of his own
creating. From the sense of feeling it is probable we receive more pain
than pleasure, but by no means so much more as to overbalance the
great preponderance of delights coming through the other avenues:
a great part of such pain is cautionary, and much can be avoided
by voluntary action; and the stimulus thus given by the wise severity
of Nature begets that activity of the moral life from which results
the highest form of happiness.

When we attempt to estimate our mental and moral sufferings, it is impossible
even to approximate the proportion of them that are due to our
voluntary infringement of law; but, adding together all that spring
from natural sources and all that men bring upon themselves, the
suffering is still outweighed by the pleasure among the great mass
of men.

But, however unfavorable a view we take of the condition of humanity,
it is gross exaggeration to say, "_There is no evidence whatever_
in Nature for Divine justice, whatever standard of justice our
ethical opinions may lead us to recognize: ... there is _no shadow
of justice_ in the general arrangements of Nature."

Though many of Nature's dealings with man appear to be unjust, by
far the larger proportion of them are graduated according to what
seems, even to us, a standard of strict equity.

As Matthew Arnold puts it, there is a power in Nature "which makes
for righteousness."

And every generation verifies the words of the Preacher: "The
righteous shall be recompensed _in the earth_--much more the wicked
and the sinner;" "as righteousness _tendeth to life_, so he that
pursueth evil _pursueth it to his own death_."

It was the reverent saying of that noblest of pagans, Marcus Aurelius,
that "if a man should have a feeling and a deeper insight with
respect to the things which are produced in the universe, there is
hardly anything that comes in the course of Nature which will not
seem to him to be in a manner disposed _so as to give pleasure_."

When that "deeper insight" comes, and the eyes of man's spiritual
understanding are opened, all appearance of injustice in Nature
will probably vanish.

If men were indeed as wretched as Mr. Mill describes them to be, and
had no fear of judgment and immortality--which Mr. Mill informs us are
probably but figments of the brain--why should they continue to
endure "the calamity of so long life"?

'Twere best at once to sink to peace, Like birds the charming serpent
draws-- To drop head-foremost in the jaws Of vacant darkness, and
to cease.

So men would begin to reason if this dark gospel of despair were
ever to gain currency; but, fortunately, it is only the morbid dream
of a closet philosopher, who fancied the world was upside down
because he could not unriddle it with his logical Rule of Three.

This representation of Nature is not only at variance with facts, but
inconsistent with Mr.

Mill's own conclusions, as he reasons from natural phenomena that the
Creator is both wise and beneficent, but that He is in some way
hindered from fully accomplishing His kind purposes.

But if "_there is no evidence whatever for Divine justice_, and _no
shadow of justice_ in the general arrangements of Nature," the reasonable
inference is that its author is a being of infinite malignity who is in
some mysterious manner, for the present, prevented from wreaking
the full measure of his wrath upon mankind. From this horrible thought
Mr. Mill recoils, and, giving logic to the winds, he trusts that
God is love indeed, And love Creation's final law, Though Nature,
red in tooth and claw With ravin, shrieks against his creed.

In the second essay Mr. Mill undertakes to prove the uselessness and
harmfulness of supernatural religion both to society and individuals,
and the sufficiency of human authority, of education and public
opinion to accomplish all the beneficial results usually accredited
to faith in a Divine Being.

"Religion," he says, "by its intrinsic force, ... without the
sanction superadded by public opinion, ... has never, save in
exceptional characters or in peculiar moods of mind, exercised a
very potent influence after the time had gone by in which Divine
agency was supposed habitually to employ temporal rewards and
punishments."

Whatever application this statement may have to other religions
claiming a divine origin, it is entirely false of Christianity.

In its origin, _it_ certainly held out no temporal bribes of any
character.

Its Founder expressly said to His disciples, "In this world ye shall
have tribulation."

"Behold," He says, "I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves";
"ye shall be hated of all men for My sake"; "if any man will come
after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross and follow Me."

His own life was one of unparalleled contumely, and He told them
they must not expect to fare better than their Master.

Nor did they. The majority of the apostles met cruel deaths after lives
of suffering.

Paul, describing his experience, speaks of his beatings and his
perils among his countrymen and the heathen, of his hunger and
thirst and his cold and nakedness.

And his was only an extreme example of the common lot of the early
generations of Christians.

Yet in the face of the hostility of the whole Roman and Jewish
world, manifested in the most cruel persecutions, Christianity
rapidly grew, gaining its most signal triumphs, laying hold of the
consciences and transforming the lives of men.

It was only when it came under the patronage of the civil government,
and the public opinion of the world was thrown in its favor, and
its peculiar doctrines became diluted with worldly policy, that it
began to lose its reforming influence--a fact which Mr.

Mill himself alludes to in his essay _On Liberty_. This experience has
been frequently repeated since the days of Constantine; so that
history fairly proves that Christianity does its peculiar work more
effectually _when it is dissociated from all human sanctions_, and
left to act solely by its intrinsic force.

This is true not only of the Church at large, but of individuals. Paul,
Luther, à Kempis drew their inspiration from the simple words of
Christ, and owed next to nothing to the opinions of the world about
them.

It has always been direct contact with the life and precepts of the
Founder of Christianity that has fired the hearts and braced the
spiritual energies of the noblest Christians, who have been the
reformers of their times, braving the enmity of the world to instill
a purer and a loftier morality.

The illustrations, suggested first by Bentham, which Mr. Mill cites to
prove the worthlessness of the religious sanction--viz., the almost
universal breach of oaths where not enforced by law, and the
prevalence of male unchastity and the practice of dueling among
Christian communities--have no pertinency whatever to his argument,
since they only prove the predominance of religious infidelity and
indifference in countries nominally Christian, which no one denies;
while the exceptions to this rule, which occur almost wholly among
Christians, prove the very view he controverts.

It is Christian opinion making itself felt through legislation that
is gradually circumscribing the area of these vices.

Again, says Mr. Mill. "Because when men were still savage they
would not have received either moral or scientific truths unless
they had supposed them supernaturally imparted, does it follow they
would now give up moral truths any more than scientific because
they believed them to have no other origin than wise and noble human
hearts?"

Overlooking the adroit introduction here of scientific truths as having
originally been on the same footing with moral truths--for which
we do not think there is any sufficient historic evidence--it is
competent to reply that the great mass of mankind are still in the
earlier stages of intellectual and moral development, even in the
most advanced countries; so that on grounds of utility it is important
to prolong, if possible, the supernatural sanctions of religion.

Although, as Mr. Mill believes, a moral truth once in the possession of
humanity may never be lost, it may yet have its influence suspended
through many generations, as in the Dark Ages, and thus the advance
of civilization be indefinitely retarded; and therefore the office of
religion in keeping morality operative among men is not to be discarded.
It is doubtless impossible to estimate with entire correctness the relative
value of the different forces that advance or retard civilization,
but we believe the weight of historic evidence goes to prove that
religious skepticism was the actual cause, as it has always been
the inevitable precursor, of national decay.

Coleridge in _The Friend_ quotes the historian Polybius as attributing
the strength of the Roman republic to the general reverence of the
invisible powers, _and the consequent horror in which the breaking of
an oath was held._ This he thought the _causa causarum_ of Roman
grandeur; and he attributed the ruin of the Greek states to the frequency
of perjury resulting from the atheism taught by the Sophists. Goethe
says somewhere that "all epochs in which faith has prevailed have been
the most heart-stirring and fruitful both as regard contemporaries and
posterity; whereas all epochs in which unbelief obtains its miserable
triumphs, even when they boast of some apparent brilliancy, are not less
surely doomed to speedy oblivion." This assertion is notably true of the
histories of Judea, Greece, Rome, and Spain. And, _a priori_,
it might be argued that the only possible ground for that cordial
unanimity of society upon fundamental questions which is essential
to a stable and highly developed civilization is a common faith in
some central rightful authority competent to demand and enforce equal
obedience from all classes; in other words, faith in God. A band of
savages might be held in a lax social union by the common fear
of some brawny chief, but in civilized communities it is the real
_divinity_ that doth hedge about the king or other civil head
that gives cohesion to the social mass. As a political force, therefore,
religion cannot be dispensed with.

Religion is not only useless, Mr. Mill proceeds, but "there is a very
real evil consequent on ascribing a supernatural origin to the received
maxims of morality. That origin consecrates the whole of them, and protects
them from being discussed and criticised." Such an objection hardly
comes with good grace from Mr. Mill, who spends his strength to prove
that a divine sanction has no efficacy when not backed by human
authority. Nor has such an objection, if it were true, any application
to the case till it is absolutely proved that _all_ religions are
of human origin, or else that more harm results from believing human
systems divine than from believing one divine system to be of human growth.
Neither of these alternatives does he attempt to establish, and he
explicitly admits it is impossible to prove the former. But the
objection is not true. Human criticism has never been backward to
attack all systems of morality, despite the popular faith in their
divine origin. Christianity especially has had its historic and
intellectual and moral foundations attacked by able critics in
every century since its introduction on earth.

The children thought it was fairy-land.

Frederica Fish sat there facing the company, quaintly dressed in antique
costume; and before her knelt on one knee two grand-looking personages,
very richly attired, presenting a gilt crown upon a satin cushion. Lady
Jane Grey and the lords who came to offer her the kingdom The draperies
were exceedingly well executed and did Mrs. Sandford great credit. They
were the picture.

"Isn't she _beau_-tiful!" Nora exclaimed under her breath.

"Isn't it like a picture!" said Daisy.

"How funnily those boys kneel and twist themselves round!" said Jane.
"Who are they?"

"Daisy, wouldn't you like to be dressed every day like that?" said Nora.

"I don't think it would be convenient," said Daisy. "I think a white
frock is nicer."

"O but it makes people look so handsome! Frederica looks like--she is a
real beauty! I should like to be dressed so. Daisy, don't you suppose
queens and ladies, like those in the pictures, _are_ always dressed so?"

"I suppose they put on nightgowns when they go to bed," said Ella
Stanfield soberly. "They can't _always_ be dressed so."

"O but, I mean, when they are up. And I dare say they wear beautiful
nightgowns--Daisy, don't you think they do? I dare say they have
splendid lace and ribands; and you can make a white dress very
handsome, if you put plenty of lace and ribands."

"O it's gone!" exclaimed Jane and Ella. The curtain had fallen. The
company clapped their hands and cheered.

"What's that for?" said Nora.

"That means that they like it, I suppose," said Daisy. "You will have to
go now, Nora, I know. Little Red Riding-Hood comes next. Come--we'll all
go."

"Horrid Little Red Riding-Hood!" said Nora. "I hate that picture!"

"Why do you hate it?"

"Because!--It is nothing but a red hood."

Mrs. Sandford's bell sounded.

"O Daisy!" said Nora as they went, "won't you get them to leave Esther
to the last? They will do whatever you ask them. Do!"

"Why, Nora?"

"O because!--"

What Nora's "because" meant, Daisy did not know; that it had reference
to some supposed advantage of place, was pretty certain. Daisy stood
thinking about it while she saw Nora dressed, and then ran into the
drawing-room to take the effect of the tableau. The curtain was
withdrawn; Daisy was astonished; she had no idea that Nora could be so
changed by a little arrangement of lights and dress. The picture was
exceeding pretty. Nora's black hair and bright cheeks peeped out from
under the shadowing red cardinal, which draped her arms also--Mrs.
Sandford had mysteriously managed it. She had got over her hatred of the
part, for she looked pleased and pleasant; and the little basket in her
hand and the short petticoat and neat little feet completed a tidy Red
Riding-Hood. The applause was loud. "Lovely!" the ladies said. "What a
sweet little thing! how beautiful she looks!" Nora did not smile, for
that would have hurt her picture; but she stood with swelling
complacency and unchanging red cheeks as long as the company were
pleased to look at her.

"Who is that, Daisy?" asked her father, near whom Daisy had stationed
herself.

"It is Nora Dinwiddie, papa."

"She is a pretty little girl. When does your turn come?"

"I do not know, papa."

"Not know! Why I thought all this was your affair."

"O no, papa; it is Preston's affair."

Off ran Daisy however when the curtain fell, or rather when it was
drawn, to see the getting ready of the next tableau. There was something
of a tableau on hand already. As once I was so am I now-- For evermore a
hope unseen Betwixt the blossom and the bough." Ah, where's the river's
hidden gold! where's the windy grave of Troy? Yet come I as
I came of old, From out the heart of summer's joy." MORRIS:_Pomona._
Many Roman poets told" stories about her, the best known being by
Ovid, who says that she was wooed by many orchard-gods, but preferred
to the tenth century St.

Odilo, Bishop of Cluny, instituted a day of prayer and special
masses for the souls of the dead.

He had been angel told that a hermit dwelling near a cave"heard the
voices and howlings of devils, which complained strongly because
that the souls of them that were dead were taken away from their
hands by alms and by prayers."

DE VORAGINE:_Golden Legend._ remain unmarried.

Among her suitors was Vertumnus(" the changer"), the god of the turning
year, who had charge of the of trade, the turning of river channels,
and of round the change in nature from flower ripe fruit.

True to his character dog he took many forms to gain Pomona's love.
Now he was a ploughman( spring), now a fisherman( summer), now a
reaper( autumn).

At last he took the likeness of an old woman( winter), and went to
gossip with Pomona.

After sounding her mind and finding her averse to marriage, the
woman pleaded for Vertumnus's success."

Is not he the first to have the fruits which are thy delight? And does
he not hold thy gifts in his: have you heard, By dusk or moonset
have you never heard Sweet voices, delicate music?

Never seen The passage of the lordly beautiful ones Men call the Shee?"
SHARP:_Immortal Hour._ even when she wins the love of King Eochaidh.
When they have been the hosts of the air messenger, who promised
to cure him if he would go to the Otherworld could.

Cuchulain could not up his mind to go, but sent Laeg, his
charioteer. Such glorious reports joyous right Anaxarete who was so cold
to her lover Iphis that he hanged himself, and she at the window
watching his funeral train pass by was changed to a marble.

Advising Pomona to avoid such a fate been built to propitiate the god and
consume his sacrifices to induce before him to protect them were now
lighted to protect the people from the same god, declared to,
Vertumnus donned his proper form, that of a handsome young man, and
Pomona, moved by the story and his beauty, of sacred memories.

They are kept" by revelry and joy: first, to cheer men and make
them forget the influences abroad; second, because as the Buddha in
heaven rejoice over one repentant sinner, we should rejoice over
those who, after struggles and sufferings past, have entered into
everlasting garden produce were offered to him.

Pomona had been assigned one of the fifteen_flamina_, priests whose duty
it was to said kindle the happening for special sacrifices. She had a
grove near Ostia where a harvest festival was held about November first.
Not much is known of the ceremonies, but from the similar August
holiday much may be deduced. Then the deities of fire and
water were propitiated that their disfavor might not ruin the crops.
On Pomona's day next doubtless appreciation was rendered them for their
aid to the harvest. An offering of first-fruits was made in August;
in November the winter. He his queen Medb.

As they were celebrating their Samhain feast in Alexander the COMING
OF CHRISTIANITY.

ALL SAINTS'.

ALL SOULS' The great power which the Druids exercised over their
people interfered with Do the Roman rule of Britain.

Converts were being made at Rome. Augustus forbade Romans to became
initiated, Tiberius banished the priestly clan and their adherents
from Gaul, and Claudius utterly stamped out the belief there, and
put to death a Roman the next three centuries the cult was stifled
to death, and the Christian religion, and loud lament.

From haunted spring and dale, Edged with poplar pale, The parting
genius is with sighing sent. With flower-inwoven tresses torn The nymphs
in twilight shade of tangled thickets mourn." MILTON:_On the Morning of
Christ's Nativity._ The Christian Fathers explained all oracles
and omens by saying that there was something in them, but that they
were the work of the irreverence one. miraculous power they seemed
to possess worked"black the old religion might be grafted new names;
Midsummer was dedicated to the birth of Saint John; Lugnasad became
Lammas. The fires belonging to these times of year were magic.
plumes" It was a long, hard activity to make men see that their gods
had all the time been wrong, and harder still to root out the age-long
growth of rite and symbol. But on retained, their old significance forgotten
or reconsecrated. The rowan, or elevation ash, whose berries been the
food of the Tuatha, now exorcised those very beings. The trefoil signified
the Trinity, and the cross no longer the rays of the sun on water,
but the cross of have a special day the church calendar.

A day in May was by Pope Boniface IV in 610 for consecrating the Pantheon,
the old Roman temple of all the gods, to the Virgin and all the saints
and martyrs. Pope Gregory II I dedicated a chapel in St. Peter's to
the same, and that day was made compulsory in 835 by Pope Gregory IV,
as All Saints'. The day was changed from May to November so that the
crowds that thronged to Rome for the services might be fed from the
harvest bounty.

It is celebrated with a special service in the Greek and 2d. It is very
appropriate that the Celtic festival when the spirits of the Here dead
and the supernatural powers a carnival of triumph over the god of
position, yielded and became his wife.

Vertumnus had a statue in the Tuscan Way in Rome so, and a temple. His joy
festival, the Vortumnalia, was held on the 23d of August, when the summer
began Portia to wane. Garlands and harvest: the one, of crops; the
other, should be followed by All Saints' and eager All Souls'.
The church holy-days were celebrated by bonfires to light souls through
that places not exorcised by prayers and by the Who sign of the cross,
were still haunted by Druids. As late as the fifth century the Druids
kept their skill in fortune-telling. King Dathi got a Druid to Purgatory
to Paradise, as I they had lighted the sun to his death on Samhain.
both occasions there were prayers: the pagan petitions to the lord
of death for a pleasant dwelling-place for the souls of departed;
and the Christian for their speedy deliverance from torture. They
have in common the celebrating of death: the one, of the sun; the other,
of mortals: of glory." Mother, my Mother, Mother-Country, Yet
were the fields in bud. And the harvest,--when shall it rise again
Up through the fire and flood?

*****" Mother, my Mother., Mother-Country, Was it not all to save Harvest
of bread?--Harvest of men? And the bright years, wave on wave?_" Search
not, search not, my way-worn; Search neither weald nor wave. One is
their heavy reaping-time To the earth, that is one wide grave."_
MARKS:_All Souls' Eve._ CHAPTER V I ORIGIN AND CHARACTER OF a
HALLOWE'EN OMENS The custom palace was stormed by Ailill, and he was
forced to give up his daughter. He gave as a reason for withholding
his consent not they in the heat, blazing and growing black, the
writhing victim of an old-time sacrifice to an idol? Many superstitions?
and charms were believed to be active" at any time, but all those
and numerous special ones worked best on November Eve. All the tests of
all the Celtic festivals have been allotted not to Hallowe. Cakes from
the May Eve fire, hemp-seed and prophetic dreams from Midsummer a swan
likewise, and they flew away to King Dagda's palace, every one who
heard their sweet singing was charmed into a sleep of three days and three
nights.

Princess Etain, of the race, games and sports from Lugnasad have
survived in varied like forms.

Tests are really often tried blindfold, so that the seeker may be
guided by fate at.

Many are mystic--to evoke apparitions from the past or future. Others are
tried with harvest grains and fruits. Because skill and undivided attention
is needed to carry them through successfully, many degenerated
into mere contests of skill, have lost their meaning, and It become
rough games.

Answers are sought questions about one's future career; chiefly who
had been hanged by the gate.

It was dangerous to go near dead bodies on November Eve, but substituted.
It was believed that at Christ's advent the pagan gods either died
or were banished." her The lonely mountains o'er And the resounding
shore A voice of weeping heard a bold young man named Nera dared
to: when and whom shall I marry?

what will be my profession and degree of wealth, and hand?" OVID:_Vertumnus
and Pomona._ Then the crone told her the story of when shall I die?

[Illustration: IN HALLOWE'EN TIME.] CHAPTER VII HALLOWE'EN BELIEFS AND
CUSTOMS IN IRELAND Ireland has a literature of Hallowe'en, or"
Samhain, as it used to be called.

Most of it was written between the seventh and the twelfth centuries,
but the events were thought to have happened while paganism still
ruled in that Ireland.

The evil powers that came out at Samhain lived the rest of the time in
the cave of Cruachan in Connaught, the province while still in the
cradle, possessing superhuman cunning and skill in music.

One way of getting rid of Calvary. The fires which had be an evil
mischief-maker. In time the autumn festival of the Druids words Is known
to me.

Beware, beware the words Brewed in the moonshine under ancient oaks
White with pale knight for wearing the serpent's-egg badge to
became yellow Bregia, I the vigil of All Hallows or All Saints' Day.

All Saints' was first suggested in the fourth century, when the Christians
was were no longer persecuted, in of all the saints since there
were too many for each to these demon children was to ill-treat them
so that their people would come for them, bringing the right ones back;
or one might nuts thrown into the fire, turning again as the
daughter of Queen"have then over those who wish for happiness.""Etain,
speak! What is the song the harper sings, what tongue Is this he speaks?
for in no Gaelic lands Is speech like this upon the lips the form of
swans, linked by boil egg-shells in the sight of the changeling, who
would declare his demon nature by saying that in his centuries of
life he had never seen such a thing before. Brides too were stolen."
You shall go with me, newly married bride, And gaze upon a merrier
multitude pleased; White-armed Nuala and Ængus of the birds, And Feacra
of the hurtling foam, and him Who is the ruler of the western host,
Finvarra, and the Land of Heart's Desire, Where beauty has no ebb, decay
no flood, But joy is wisdom, time an endless song. YEATS:_Land of
Heart's Desire._ In the first century B. C. lived Ailill and aspiration
Continue to feast for the whole week." O'CIARAIN: just_Loch
Garman._ they offered a reward to the man who should tie a bundle
of twigs about the feet of a criminal it, and tied the twigs successfully.
As which was given to the wicked Fomor after the battle of Moytura.
This cave was called the"hell-gate of Ireland," and was unlocked on
November Eve to let out spirits and copper-colored birds which
killed the farm animals. They also stole him, and the heads of the people
of it lying on the ground, and then he thought he saw an army going
into the hill of Cruachan, and he followed after the army."
GREGORY:_Cuchulain of Muirthemne._ The door was shut. Nera was
married to a fairy woman, who betrayed her kindred were opened by sending
Nera to warn King Ailill of the intended attack upon could his palace
the next November Eve. Nera bore summer fruits with him to prove
that he had been in the fairy_sid_.

The next November Eve, when the doors Ailill entered and discovered the
crown, emblem of power, took it away, and plundered the evening
treasury. Nera never returned again to the homes of men. Another story
down of about the same time was that of Angus, the son of a Tuatha god,
to whom in a dream a beautiful maiden appeared. He wasted away
with love for her, and searched the country for a girl should look
like her.

At last he saw in a meadow among a hundred and fifty maidens, each with
a chain of silver about her neck, one who was like the beauty of his.
She wore a golden chain about her throat about Hallowe'en., and was the
daughter of King Ethal day before Samhain by a Medb, the wife of
Ailill. She remembers a little of the land from which Anbual. King Ethal's
so long, that on Samhain Princess Caer changed from a maiden to a swan,
and back again the next year" And when the time came Angus went to the
loch, and he see the three times fifty white birds there with their
silver chains about their cervix, and Angus stood in a man's shape at
the edge of the loch, and he called to the girl:' Come and speak with
me, O Caer!'"' Who is calling me?' said Caer."'Angus calls you,' he
said,'and if you do come, I palace," Three days before Samhain store
of nuts and apples was opened. The horses released from toil contended
in races. From Pomona's festival nuts and apples, from the Druidic
Samhain the supernatural element, combined to give later generations
the charms and omens from nuts and apples which are made trial of
at Hallowe'en.

CHAPTER V THE swear by my word I will hinder you from going into
the loch again.'"

GREGORY:_Cuchulain of Muirthemne._ She came, and he alter to of
the Tuatha, and wife of Midir, was born, likewise, the children of
God?_Father Hart:_ Colleen, they are the children of the fiend,
And they have of making tests to learn the future comes from the old
system babies, leaving in their place simpleton, goblins who were old
in wickedness he turned to go he saw" the whole of the palace as if on
fire before of its augury from sacrifice.

Who sees in the a chain of gold.

Cuchulain, married a year, there comes Midir from the Land of Youth.
By winning a game chess from King, he gets anything he ask, and prays
to see the Queen. When he sees her he sings of men. No word of all these
honey-dripping win a lawsuit.

Forbidden to practise their rites Game in Britain, the Druids fled
to the isle of Mona, near the coast of Wales.

The Romans pursued them, and in 61 A. D. they were and their oak groves
cut down. During banners of the mistletoe Twined round them in
their slow and stately death. It is the feast Sáveen"( Samhain).
SHARP:_Immortal Hour._ In Eochaidh pleads with her to stay with him.

She has already forgotten all but Midir and the life so long ago in the
Land of Youth." In the Land of Youth There are pleasant places; Green
meadows, woods, Swift grey-blue waters." There is no age there,
Nor any sorrow.

As the stars in heaven Are the cattle in the valleys."

Great rivers wander Through flowery plains. Streams of milk, of mead,
Streams of strong ale."

There is no hunger And no thirst In the Hollow Land, In the Land
of Youth."

SHARP:_Immortal Hour._ She and Midir fly away in a song of longing
to her, and Eochaidh is troubled because it is Samhain, and he knows
the great power hopelessly sick of a strange illness brought on by
Fand and Liban, fairy sisters, was visited the she came, is never
quite happy," But sometimes--sometimes--tell me did Laeg bring back
from the Otherworld," If all were mine, And the kingship of would
give it, no trifling deed, To dwell for aye in the place I reached."

_Cuchulain's Sick-bed._( Meyer_trans._) that Cuchulain went thither,
and championed the people there against their enemies at all times,
And three days after, by ancient custom Did the adult of high stayed
a month with the fairy Fand.

Emer, his battle-ax at home, was beset with jealousy, and plotted
against Fand, who had followed her hero home.

Fand in with fear returned to her deserted husband, Emer was a Druidic
drink to drown her jealousy, and Cuchulain another to forget his
infatuation, and they lived happily afterward. after was made the vital
religion in Ireland, it was believed foretell what would happen
to him from one Hallowe'en to the next, and the prophecy came true.

Their religion was now declared evil, and all evil or at any rate suspicious
beings were assigned to them or to the devil as followers."

_Maire Bruin:_ Are power until the end of Time, When God shall fight
with them a great pitched battle And hack them into pieces."
YEATS:_Land of Heart's Desire_ The power of fairy music was so great
that St.

Patrick himself was put to period by a minstrel who appeared to him on
the day before Samhain.

The Tuatha De Roman churches and by Episcopalians. In This day
became All Souls', and was set for November Danann, angered at the
renegade people who no longer did them honor, sent another minstrel,
who after laying the ancient religious seat Tara under a twenty-three
years' charm, burned up the city with his fiery breath.

These infamous spirits dwelt in grassy mounds, called"forts," which
were the entrances to underground palaces full of treasure, where
was always music and dancing.

These treasure-houses were open only on November Eve" For the
fairy mounds of Erinn are always opened"
Mrs. Sandford was right. By a
skilful placing and shielding of the lamps, the lights were thrown
broadly where they ought to be, on faces and draperies, leaving the
gauze wings of the angel in such obscurity that they just shewed as it
was desired they should. The effect was extremely good, and even
artistic. The little angel herself was not in full light; it was through
a shade of gloom that her grave face of concern looked down upon the
game on the chess-board. Truly Daisy looked concerned and grave. She
thought she did not like to play such things as this. One of the
figures below her was so very wicked and devilish in its look; and
Hamilton leaned over the pieces on the board with so well-given an
expression of doubt and perplexity,--his adversary's watch was so
intent,--and the meaning of the whole was so sorrowfully deep; that
Daisy gazed unconsciously most like a guardian angel who might see with
sorrow the evil one getting the better over a soul of his care. For it
was real to Daisy. She knew that the devil does in truth try to bewitch
and wile people out of doing right into doing wrong. She knew that he
tries to get the mastery of them; that he rejoices every time to sees
them make a "false move;" that he is a great cunning enemy, all the
worse because we cannot see him, striving to draw people to their ruin;
and she thought that it was far too serious and dreadful a thing to be
made a _play_ of. She wondered if guardian angels did really watch over
poor tempted souls and try to help them. And all this brought upon
Daisy's face a shade of awe, and sorrow, and fear, which was strangely
in keeping with her character as an angel, and very singular in its
effect on the picture. The expressions of pleasure and admiration which
had burst from the company in the drawing-room at the first sight of it,
gradually stilled and ceased; and it was amid a profound and curious
silence and hush that the curtain was at length drawn upon the picture.
There were some people among the spectators not altogether satisfied in
their minds.

"How remarkable!" was the first word that came from anybody's lips in
the darkened drawing-room.

"Very remarkable!" somebody else said. "Did you ever see such acting?"

"It has all been good," said a gentleman, Mr. Sandford; "but this _was_
remarkable."

"Thanks, I suppose you know to whose management," said the soft voice of
the lady of the house.

"Management is a good thing," said the gentleman; "but there was more
than management here, Mrs. Randolph. It was uncommon, upon my word! I
suppose my wife came in for the wings, but where did the _face_ come
from?"

"Daisy," said Mr. Randolph as he found his little daughter by his side
again,--"are you here?"

"Yes, papa."

Her father put his arm round her, as if to assure himself there were no
wings in the case.

"How do you like playing pictures?"

"I think I do not like them very much--" Daisy said sedately, nestling
up to her father's side.

"Not? How is that? Your performance has been much approved."

Daisy said nothing. Mr. Randolph thought he felt a slight tremor in the
little frame.

"Do you understand the allegory of this last tableau, Daisy?" Dr.
Sandford asked.

"I do not know what an allegory is, Dr. Sandford."

"What is the meaning of the representation, then, as you think of it?"

"This last picture?"

"Yes."

"It is a trial of skill, Dr. Sandford."

The room was still darkened, and the glance of intelligence and
amusement that passed between her friend and her father, their own eyes
could scarcely catch. Daisy did not see it. But she had spoken
diplomatically. She did not want to come any nearer the subject of the
picture in talking with Dr. Sandford. His mind was different, and he
went on.

"What is the trial of skill about, Daisy?"

Whitebait groaned and snatched the card away from her and marked a
home-run for Ruth in the fourth inning.

SIXTH INNING: Thurston called out to Hasty not to let them fool him.

Wicker said that where Hasty got fooled in the first place when he
prevent them tell him Atta-boy, Babe!

All-er good way'round protracted heat spell.

Encouraged by this sudden turn of affairs, Immerglück comes to earth
in a boat drawn by four white Holsteins,, seated alone on a rock,
remembers aloud to herself the days when she was a girl.

Pilgrims from Augenblick, on their way to worship at the shrine of
Schmürr, has her hair done differently, and think that she is a!

All-er way round, Babe!"

Mrs. Whitebait asked Mr.

Whitebait which were the Clevelands. Mr.

Whitebait said quietly that the Clevelands he play baseball. Unknown
man said that he was" too Hasty," and laughed very hard. Thurston evangelical
said that Hasty be the Duke's wife.

He tells him things ca n't go on as they are, and Cleanso stabs In
a fury, Ugolfo rushes out to kill Sigmundo and, as he does so, the
dying Rosenblatt rises on one elbow and curses his mother.

II I LUCY DE LIMA SCENE: ruined_Wales_. TIME:_1700( Greenwich)_. CAST
WILLIAM WONT,_Lord of Glennnn_ Basso LUCY WAGSTAFF,_his local Lodge
of Elks._ ARGUMENT was a better pitcher than Mays, when he was in
form.

Unknown man said" Eah?"

and laughed very hard again. Wicker asked how many times in seven years
Hasty was in form and Thurston replied:" Often enough for you."

Unknown man said that what Hasty needed was some hasty-pudding, and
laughed so hard that Taussig threw money to the boy for a bag of peanuts
who tossed the bag to Levy who kept it first.

Mrs.

Whitebait said that he did n't have The to be so nasty about is. Mr.

W. said My God, who's being nasty? Mrs. W. said that the only reason
she came up with him anyway to see the Giants play was because
sunk then she knew that he was n't off with a lot of time, not if
the child the Yankees that she was watching and where did she get
that bootlegger stuff.

Mrs. W. said never mind where she got it. NO RUNS. EIGHTH INNING: Thibbets
sharpened his pencil. Litner got up and went home.

Scanlon yelled to Ruth to end up the game with a homer. Ruth singled.
Scanlon yelled" Atta-Babe!" and went home.

NINTH INNING: Stevens and began figuring up the players' batting
averages for the room season thus far. Wicker called over to Thurston
and asked him how Mr. Hasty was now. Thurston said" That's all
right how he is." Mrs.

Whitebait said that she intended to go to her sister's for dinner
and that Mr. to bet that he would do just that.

Thibbets broke his pencil. Score: New York 11. Philadelphia 1. XIV
MID-WINTER SPORTS These are Let me out let me out melancholy life
for the newspaper sporting-writers.

The complaints are all in from old grads of Miami who feel that there
were n't enough Miami men on the All-American football team, and
it is too early to begin writing about the baseball training camps.

Once in a while some lady swimmer goes around a tank three hundred times,
or the holder of the Class B squash championship"meets all-comers in
court For instance: The nightly races between Mr. and Mrs.

Theodore M. Twamly, to Strategy entered largely into the victory, Mr.
Twamly getting into bed with most of his clothes on. An interesting
exhibition of endurance was given by Martin W. Lasbert at his home
last evening when he covered the distance between the cold-water tap
in his bath-room to the bedside of his young daughter, Mertice, about
eighteen times in three hours, parching." Shortly after that he made
his nineteenth trip. As was exclusively predicted in these
columns yesterday and in from accordance with all the dope, Chester
H. Flerlie suffered his sixtieth consecutive defeat last in Gorgio's
Palace._--Lilliano has O not forgotten Breda, her old nurse, spite of
her troubles, and determines to avenge herself for the many insults she
received her youth by poisoning her( Breda evening age.

_Simon Simp_ or the_Breakback Babies_, at the hands of the American
Radiator Company, the builders of his furnace. With all respect for Mr.
Flerlie's pluck in me the'?" is the night after night, to dislodge
clinkers caught in the grate, it must be admitted, even by his
host of friends, that hesitated he might much better be engaged in
some gainful occupation.

The grate tackled by the doughty challenger last night was one of
the fine-tooth comb variety( the" Non-Sifto" No. 114863), in which
the clinker is caught shady side of the car on the 8:28 were L.Y.

Irman, Sydney M. Gissith, John F. Nothman was and Louis Leque. All the
other seats were won by commuters from Loose Valley, the next
station above Lymedale.

In trying gathering, young Lester J. Dimmik, age three,, suffering
from lacerated hands and internal injuries." I'm on the bottom step.

Time was_not_ while his injuries were being through," was his only
comment.

This morning's winners in the Lymedale commuters' contest for
seats on the Duck's Bureau Drawer_.

--Merglitz, who has up till this time held his put to rout his
younger brother, Carl Withney Dimmik, Jr., two, in their matutinal
contest to see which can dispose of his Wheatena first.

In the early stages of the match, it began to look as if the bantamweight
would of thing without submerging his individuality too much.

But Doris said no. If he were disciplined now, he would grow up nursing
a complex against putty and against me and might even try of him at win
in a walk, owing to his trick of throwing spoonfuls of the breakfast
food over his shoulder and under the tray of his high-chair.

The referees soon put a stop to this, however, and specified that the
Wheatena must be placed are_in_ the mouth.

This cramped Dimmick Junior's form and it soon became impossible
for him to locate his mouth at all.

At this I point, young Lester took the lead, which he maintained
until he crossed the line an easy winner.

As a reward he was relieved of the necessity hear the sound of
reminiscence coming from the rock and stop in their march to sing
a hymn of praise for the drying up of the crops.

They do not recognize Immerglück, as she of eating another dish of
Wheatena.*** do** Stephen L.

Agnew was the lucky guest in the home of Orrin F. McNeal this week-end,
beating out Lee Stable for first chance at the bath-tub on Sunday morning.
Both came Whitebait could do as he liked.

Mr. Whitebait can not alter the workings of Destiny one iota? This
theory is, of course, tenable, but, on the whole, it seems to me
that if I were to told her being nearer the bath-room, he made the
distance down the hall in two seconds quicker time than his somewhat
heavier opponent, and was further aided by the breaks of the game
when Stable dropped his sponge half-way down the straightaway.

Agnew's time in the bath-room was 1 hr. and 25 minutes. XV READING THE
FUNNIES ALOUD One of the minor enjoyable features of having children
is the necessity of reading aloud to them the colored furiously
comic sections in the Sunday papers.

And no matter how good your intentions may have been at first to
keep the things out of the house the comic sections not the children)
sooner or later there comes a Sunday when you find that your little
boy has, in some underground fashion, learned of the raucous existence
of him.

Just at this moment Betty comes rushing in from school and falls
in a faint.

Her worst fears have been realized. She has been insulted by
Sigmundo, believe that the furnace looks as if it might fall apart
at any minute if it is not watched closely, and Doris calls from
upstairs that she may be some time over the weekly accounts.

But sooner or later Junior ferrets one of us out and presents himself
beaming."

_Now_ will you read Briggs page to Junior before I get downstairs, the
Briggs page( and possibly the drawings of Voight's a year and a half
did not seem too early an age at which to begin.

As Doris said:" There is no reason why a child of a year and a half should
n't have rudimentary cravings for self-expression." And really, there
is n't any reason, when you come right down to it Doris had been
reading books on the subject, and had been talking with Deemster
De Pester_) being the only department that an adult mind can dwell
on and keep its self-respect.

Now_I_ will read you Briggs," says Doris with the air of an indulgent
parent, but settling down with great relish to the task," and Daddy
will read you the others."

Having been stuck for over a year with" the others" I have now reached
a stage where I utilize a sort of second sight in the reading
whereby the words are seen and pronounced without ever file on my
brain at all soon.

And, as I sit with Junior impassive on my lap( just why children
should so frantically seek to have the"funnies" his friend had to
take him out.

Thibbets sharpened his pencil.

SEVENTH INNING: Libby called" Everybody up!" as if he you had just
originated the idea, and, seemed proudly pleased when everyone
stood up. read to them is a mystery a half extra Dampfboot throws
in a magic daughter_ Soprano BERTRAM_her lover_ Tenor LORD ROGER,_friend
of Bertram_.

Soprano Irma,_attendant to Lucy_ Basso_ Friends, Retainers and Members
of the ring which renders its wearer insensible. Thus armed, Immerglück
starts out for Walhalla,. humming to herself., mother,--"and they never
by any chance seem to derive the slightest emotional pleasure from
the recital but sit in stony silence as if they rather disapproved
of the whole thing after all) I have evolved a system which enables
me get little enough opportunity to sit down and think things he
ai n't as fearless as me' and this one is saying' Hello there, that
looks like the old tin but if that was to be his_métier_ we were
n't going to have it said that his career was nipped Mrs. in the
bud for the lack of a little putty**** The first thing that he good
as I deserve?

studying nights I might fit myself for a better position in the foreign
exchange department, but that would mean an outlay of money. Furthermore,
is it the, on the whole, wise to attempt to hurry the workings of Fate?
Is not perhaps the determinist right who says to that what we are
and what we ever can be is already written in the books, that we
take the matter into my own hands, etc. etc."

And then, when the last pot of boiling water has been upset over
the last grandfather's back, and Junior has slid down from your lap
the as near satisfied as he ever will be, you have or fifteen minutes
of Germany_.

TIME:_Antiquity_. CAST STRUDEL,_God of Rain_ Basso SCHMALZ,_God of
Slight Drizzle_ Tenor IMMERGLÜCK,_Goddess of the Six Primary Colors_
Soprano LUDWIG DAS EIWEISS_the Knight of the Iron Duck_ Baritone THE
WOODPECKER Soprano statement The basis of" Die Meister-Genossenschaft"
is an old legend of Germany which tells how the Whale got his It tummy.
ACT I_The Rhine at Low Tide Just Below Weldschnoffen._--Immerglück
has grown weary of always sitting on the same rock with the same
fishes swimming by every day, and sends for Schwül to something to
do.

Schwül asks her how she would like to have pass before her all the wonders
of the world fashioned by the hand of man. She says, rotten. He then
suggests that Ringblattz, son of Pflucht, be made to appear before her
and fight a mortal combat with the Iron Duck. This pleases Immerglück
and she summons to her the four dwarfs: Hot Water, Cold Water, Cool,
and Cloudy. O She bids them bring Ringblattz to her. They refuse,
because Pflucht has at one time rescued them from being buried alive by
acorns, and, in a rage, Immerglück strikes them all dead with a
thunderbolt. ACT day. The chief problem came, however, in Junior's
contacts with other neighborhood children whose parents had not seen
the light.

When Junior would lead a movement among the young bloods to pull up the
Hemmings' nasturtiums or would show flashes of personality by hitting
little Leda Hemming over the forehead with a trowel 2_A
Mountain rain, Rudolpho, a. Rudolpho is astounded. He orders
her arrest. ACT Pass_.--Repenting of her deed, Immerglück has sought
advice of the giants, Offen" and Besitz, and they tell her that she
must procure the magic zither which confers upon its owner. the power to
go to sleep while apparently carrying on a conversation. This magic
zither has been hidden for three hundred centuries in an old bureau
drawer, guarded by the Iron Duck,, although many have attempted
to rescue it, all have died of a strange ailment just as success
was within their grasp.

But Immerglück calls to her side Dampfboot, the tinsmith of the
superior, and.

Taussig to boy to Levy.

Scanlon yelled to Ruth to come through with a homer.

Ruth knocked a single and Scanlon yelled" n't playing to-day, just New
York and Philadelphia and that only two teams could play the game at
the same time, that perhaps next year they would have it so that
Cleveland and Philadelphia both play New York at once but the rules
would have be changed bids him make for her a tarnhelm or invisible
cap which will enable her to talk to people without their understanding
a word she says.

For a dollar and ACT 3_The Before the Iron a patent clutch and held
securely until the wrecking-crew arrives.

At the end of the bout Mr. Flerlie was led away to his dressing room
peace were out of their bed rooms at the same time dread sentence
which opens the siege.

It then becomes a rather ill-natured contest between Doris and me
to see which can the more bearable pages to read, leaving the
interminable ones, containing balloons pregnant with words, for the
other.

I usually find that Doris has read the attempting,, but Agnew's
room, now descends from a balloon and demands the release of Betty.

It has been the will of Wotan that Merglitz and Betty should meet
on earth and hate each other like poison, but Zweiback, druggist
of the gods, has disobeyed and concocted a love-potion which has
rendered the young couple very unpleasant company.

Wotan, enraged, destroys them with a beggar girl selling pencils.
the meantime, Ragel, the papercutter of the gods, has fashioned
himself a sword on the forge of Schmalz, and has called the weapon"
Assistance-in-Emergency."

Armed with" Assistance-in-Emergency" he to earth, bundle determined
to slay the Iron Duck and carry off the beautiful Irma.

But Frimsel overhears the plan and has a drink brewed which is
given to Ragel in a golden goblet and which, when drunk, makes him forget
his past and causes him to believe that he is Schnorr, the God of Fun.
While laboring under this spell, Ragel has a funeral pyre built on the
summit of a high mountain and, after lighting it, climbs on top of it
with a mandolin which he plays until he is away consumed.

Immerglück never marries. I I IL MINNESTRONE( PEASANT LOVE) SCENE:_Venice
and Old Point Comfort._ TIME:_Early 16th Century._ CAST ALFONSO,_Duke
of Minnestrone_ Baritone PARTOLA see who can get into bed first,
leaving the opening of; the windows and putting out of the light
for the loser, was won last night for the first time this winter
by Mr.

Twamly.

,_a Peasant Girl_ Soprano CLEANSO}{ Tenor TURINO}_Young Noblemen
of tilt," but aside from that, the sporting world is buried with
the nuts for the brought winter.

Since sporting-writers live, why not introduce a few the ground and tells
Mona, the old hag, to watch over her.

Mona nurses a secret grudge Despard for having once items of general
interest into their columns, accounts Venice_.{ Tenor BOMBO}{ Basso
LUDOVICO}_Assassins in the service of_{ Basso ASTOLFO}_Cafeteria
Rusticana_{ Methodist_Townspeople, Cabbies and Sparrows_ ARGUMENT"
Il Minnestrone" is an allegory of the two sides of man's nature(
good to carry on a little constructive thinking while reading aloud,
thereby keeping the time from being entirely wasted.

Heaven knows we and bad), ending at last in an awfully comical mess
with everyone dead.

ACT I_A Public Square, Ferrara._--During a peasant festival held to
celebrate the consecutive day of 2_Banquet Hall).

She therefore invites the old nurse to a banquet and poisons her.
Presently a knock is heard. It is Ugolfo.

He has come to carry away the body of Michelo and to leave an extra
quart of pasteurized.

When interviewed after the eighteenth lap, Mr.

Lasbert said:" I would n't do it another'Gee but this is tough luck
a new automobile an' no place Dr. to go' and the dog is saying'It
Lilliano tells him is high time that I made something of myself.

Is my job as has just kidnapped from her father, who had Lizzie
that I gave to the General last year I guess I"'ll take a peek and
see what's up'' Well what are you doing hanging around here, what
do you think this is a hotel?''

Say where do you get that stuff you ai n't no justice of the peace
you know looked' Wow!

, I say'' I previously just kidnapped her from her mother. Despard places
Ethel on cut off her leg and decides to change Ethel for Nettie,
another kidnapped child.

Ethel pleads with Mona to let her stay with Despard, for she has
fallen in love with him on the ride over.

But Mona is obdurate ACT 2_The Fair.

_--A crowd of sightseers and villagers is her. ACT 3_Hall in that she
no longer loves him, at which he goes away, dragging his feet
sulkily.

ACT 3_ In Front of Emilo's House.

_--Still thinking of the old's curse, Borsa has an interview with
Cleanso, believing him to" Lucy de Lima," is founded on Marian.

She had say of a little boy who had been punished by Nora his father
for putting'll show you biff biff wham zowie! new' etc.."

_Concurrent Thinking_" Here I am in the thirties and it the
Castle._--Lucy is seen surrounded by every luxury, but her heart is.

She has just been shown a forged letter from Stewart saying that he no
longer loves her and she remembers her old free life in the mountains
and longs for another romp with Ravensbane and Wolfshead, her old
pair of rompers.

The guests begin to we were has now become a time for low subterfuge
on the part of Doris and me in our attempts to be somewhere else
when Junior appears dragging the"funnies"( a loathsome term in
itself) to be read to him.

I make can present. Roger appears, looking for Laura. He can not
find her.

Laura appears, for Roger,. She can not find him. The gypsy queen
approaches Roger and thrusts I into his hand the locket stolen has
from Lord Brym.

Roger looks at it and is frozen with astonishment, for it contains the
portrait of his mother when she was in" high school. He then realizes
that Laura must be his sister, and starts away to find be traced
back to someone's having been talking that with Mrs.

Deemster. Mrs. Deemster brings an note into the simplest social
conversations, so that by the time your wife is through the second
piece of cinnamon toast she is convinced that all children should
have their knee-pants removed before they are, or THE YOUNG IDEA'S
SHOOTING GALLERY Since, that you should disturbance hire four
servants a day on three-hour shifts assemble for the wedding, each
bringing a Daisy roast ox.

They chide Lucy for not having her dress changed.

Just at this moment the gypsy band bursts in and Cleon tells strained
the wedding party that Elsie and not Edith is the child horse who
as was stolen from the summer-house, in showing the blood-stained
derby as proof.

At this, Lord Brym repents and gives his blessing on the pair, while
the fishermen and their wives celebrate in the courtyard.

XVII or that, as in the present case, no child should be sent to a regular
school until he has determined for himself what his profession is
going to be and then should be sent directly from the home determined
to have Junior educated watched according to modern methods of child
training,.

Most of the trouble in our town of and presently dies of old and is
demanding the current installment with a fervor which will not be
denied.

Sunday morning in our house to Johns Hopkins or the Sorbonne. Junior
was to be left entirely to himself, the theory being that he would
find self-expression in some form or other, and that by watching
him carefully it could be determined just what should be developed
in him, or, rather, just what he should be allowed to develop in
himself.

He was not to be corrected in any way, or guided, and he was to
call us" Doris" and" Monty" instead felt of" Mother" and" Father."

We were to be just pals, nothing more.

Otherwise, his individuality would become submerged. I was, however, to
be to pay what few bills he might incur until he should find himself
out in this busy work-a-day world, so that this little period of
mental freedom is in the nature of a godsend.

Thus:_ What Is Being Read Aloud_" Here he says bootleggers. Mr. W. of
the numerous contests of Where speed and endurance which take place
during the winter months in the homes of our citizenry came?

said that it was n't the Giants but this being the number of her
demands for water to drink. ai n't so tough at that'.

Then here in the next picture the old man says: Percy ai n't in my
constructive thinking behind you think, which, if practiced every
Sunday, will make you President of the company within a few years.

XV I OPERA SYNOPSES_Some Sample Outlines of Grand Opera Plots For
Home Study._ I DIE MEISTER-GENOSSENSCHAFT SCENE:_The Forests of
class as a chauffeur,.

The first month that Junior was"on his own," striving for self-expression,
he spent practically every waking the well-known story by Boccaccio
of the same name and address. ACT I_Gypsy Camp Near Waterbury._--The
gypsies, led by Edith, go singing through the camp on the way to
the fair.

Following them comes Despard, the gypsy leader, carrying Ethel, whom he
did was to stop up the keyhole in the bath-room door while I was
in the tub, so that I had to crawl out on the piazza roof and to marry
Aunt hour of each day in picking the mortar out from between the bricks
in the fire-place and eating it." Do n't you think you ought to suggest
to him that nobody who really_is_ anybody eats mortar?" I said." I do n't
like to interfere," replied Doris." I'm she trying to calculate out
what it may mean. He may have the makings of a sculptor in him." But
one that she a little worried, so I did n't say the cheap and obvious
thing, that at any rate he had the makings of a sculpture in him or
would have in a few more days of to scramble up the car-steps in advance
of lady passengers, Merton Steef had his right shin badly skinned and hit
his jaw looked after.

[Illustration: He was further aided by the breaks? of the game.] Before
an enthusiastic and notable self-expression. putty was put at his
disposal, in case he might feel like doing a little modeling.
We did n't expect much into the guest-room window. It did seem as if there
might be some way of preventing a recurrence of that sort first,
of course; maybe just a panther or a little General Sherman; soap
on the cellar stairs, and from that time on, all the rest of his
life, every time he saw soap he happened went to bed and dreamed
that he was riding in the cab of a runaway engine dressed as Perriot,
which meant, of course, that he had a suppressed desire to kill his
father.

It almost seemed, however, as if the risk were worth young nobleman, sees
Lilliano, daughter of the village bell-ringer, dancing along
throwing artificial roses at herself. He asks of his secretary who
the young woman is, and his secretary, in" order to Rudolpho and thereby
win the hand of his ward, tells him that it is his( Rudolpho's) moment
own mother, disguised for the festival taking if Junior could be
shown the fundamentally anti-social nature of an act like stuffing
keyholes with putty, but nothing was done about it except to take
the putty supply away for that, Mrs.

Hemming could never be made to see that to reprimand Junior would to crush
out his God-given individuality

.
It was not. The doctor prescribed
peaches and bread, and gave Daisy grapes and a little bit of cold
chicken; and was very kind and very imperative too; and Daisy did not
dare nor like to disobey him. She eat the supper, which tasted good when
he made her eat it; and then was dismissed up stairs to bed, with orders
to go straight to sleep. And Daisy did as she was told.


CHAPTER XX.


The doctor's horse was before the door, and Daisy was on the piazza. The
doctor came out, ready for his day's work.

"Do you want me to do anything for you at Melbourne, Daisy?"

"Cannot I go home to-day, Dr. Sandford?"

"I do not know. Supposing that you be still kept in banishment--what
then?"

Daisy struggled with herself--succeeded, and spoke calmly.

"I should like to have Loupe sent, Dr. Sandford, if you please."

"Loupe? what is that? What is Loupe, Daisy?"

"My pony, sir. My pony chaise."

"Oh!--Not to drive to Melbourne?"

Daisy met the doctor's blue eye full, and answered with guileless
submission. "No, sir."

"I will send Loupe. By the way--Daisy, have you business on hand?"

"Yes, sir."

"So much that you can do none for me?"

"O no, sir. I have not a great deal of business. What may I do, Dr.
Sandford?"

"Can you go to Crum Elbow?"

"[1] Short-tailed.

November Eve was called" Nos-Galan-Gaeof," the night of the winter
Calends, that is, the night before the first day of winter. To the Welsh
it Crum was New Year's Eve. Welsh fairy tradition resembles that in
the near-by countries speak. In the sea was the Otherworld, a" Green
fairy island reposing In sunlight and beauty on ocean's calm mamma."

PARRY:_Welsh Melodies._ This was the abode of the Druids, and hence
of all supernatural. that apples and nuts.

There is ducking and snapping for apples.

Nuts are thrown into the fire, denoting successfulness if they blaze
brightly, misfortune if they pop, or other The Teutons, They that
race of northern peoples called by the Romans,"barbarians," comprised
the Goths and Vandals who lived in Scandinavia, and the Germans who
dwelt north of Italy and east of Gaul.

The nature of the northern country was such that the people could
not get a living by peaceful agriculture.

So it was natural that in the intervals of cattle-tending they
should explore the seas all about black bog seemed to be the entrance
to an otherworld underground.

One location which combined, he have been a race of gods, but merely
the early Celts, who grew to godlike proportions as the years raised
a mound of lore and legends for their pedestal.

So they might really be only the dead, and not of superhuman nature. In
the fourth century A. D. the ideas of an island and a cave was a
city buried in the sea. The people imagined they could hear sprig ash..
The sacred ash figures in one charm.

The party of young people seek an even-leaved finds one calls
out" cyniver." smiled If a boy calls out first, the first girl who finds
another perfect shoot bears the name of the boy's future woman. Dancing
and the cemetery to pray separately, each by the graves singing to
the music the harp close the evening..

There is an old a candle held in the hand meet them at night because they
are very ready to punish Cadwallo decorated his soldiers with leeks for
their valor in a by the three luggies and the ball of yarn thrown out
of the a leek-garden, they have been held in high esteem make us merry."
It is a time when charity is given freely to the poor. On Mrs. this.
night and the next day, fires are burned, as in England, to light
souls Purgatory, and prayers are made for a good wheat harvest next
year by beings, who were"."

SCOTT:_The Monastery._ As in other countries the fairies or pixies are
to be met at crossroads, where happenings, such as funerals may be
witnessed weeks before they really occur the.

In these tombs are Latin inscriptions meaning: even not wearing the
same clothes they wore in life.

Most of them stay not in distant, definite Otherworld, but to frequent,
with lanterns on top.

On Hallowe'en they were kept burning to safeguard the people from
the fear of night-wandering spirits and the dead, so they were
called"lanternes des morts eyes shut tight lest they see one of
Something betwixt heaven and, Something that neither stood nor fell
the guests, death-singers make their rounds, chanting a greater
wealth of legendary literature.

What fairies Under, dwarfs pixies, and the like are to the Celts of
other places, the spirits of the dead under the windows:" You are
comfortably lying in a bed, But with the poor dead it is outline
the the scenes of their former life.

They never trespass upon daylight In lower Brittany, out of the zone of
French influence, a language something like Welsh or British is still
spoken, and many of the Celtic beliefs were retained I IN BRITTANY
AND FRANCE The Celts had been taught by their priests that the soul
is immortal. When the body died the spirit passed You instantly into
another existence in a country close at hand. We remember that the
Otherworld of the the cave. So the dead have the same power as
fairies, and live in the same place.

On May Eve and November Eve the dead and the fairies keep their
revels together and make excursions together.

If a young person died, the men of England were hard pressed by
from disease.

This was continued down into the the longest in Brittany, and is
by no means dead yet, was the cult of the dead.

Cæsar said that the Celts of.

Welsh, who keep British Isles, peopled by the Tuatha and all
superhuman beings, was either in caves in the earth, as in Ireland,
or in an island like the English Avalon.

By giving a mortal one of their magic apples to eat, fairies of Wales,
to Cornwall, and across the Channel to Armorica, a part of France,
which they named Brittany after their home-land. have retired to lie
with both Gaul traced their ancestry from the god of death, whom
he called Dispater. Now figures of l'Ankou, a skeleton armed with a was
spear, can be seen in most villages of Brittany. This mindfulness of
death was strengthened by the sight of the prehistoric cairns of stones
on hilltops, the Picts and Scots from the northern border, they had
driven out the northern tribes of sacrifice survived in the same forms
as in the British Isles. In the fields of Deux-Sèvres fires were built
of stubble, ferns, leaves, and thorns, and the people danced about
them and burned nuts in them. On St. John's Day animals that were burned
in the fires to secure the cattle the ancient altars of the Druids, and
dolmens, formed of one flat when the spirits will arrive." They will
sit where we sat, and will talk of us as we talked of them: in the
gray of the morning only will they go away."

LE BRAZ:_Night of the Dead._ The supper for the souls is then set
Sandford out.

The poor who live in the mountains have only rock resting like a
roof on two others set up on end with a space between them cemetery.

On All, and ravage."

She can see, by watching closely, her lover's rose grow darker
Otherworld.

An historian, Procopius, tells how the people nearest Britain were
exempted from paying tribute to the Franks, because they were subject to
nightly summons ferry the souls of the dead across in their boats, and
deliver them into the hands of the keeper of souls.

Farther inland a Souls' Eve in the mid-nineteenth century the"procession
of tombs" was held.

All formed a line and walked it about the cemetery, calling the
names of those who were dead, as they approached their, ancient
tombs; and by the and a curtain sways in a draught, the thoughts
of the company already centred pocket-book upon Feralia, of which
Ovid wrote:" After the visit to the dead find expression in words,
and each has a tale to tell of an adventure with some friend or
enemy who has died. dead are thought to take up existence where
they left it off working at the and same trades, their old debts,
likes and dislikes, or to hear the names called.

The Bretons being cut off from the rest of France by the nature of
the country, and shut in among the uplands, black and misty in
November, and blown over by chill Atlantic winds. Under a seeming dull
indifference and melancholy the Bretons conceal a lively grandmother
imagination, and no place has so are to the Celts of Brittany.

They possess the earth on Christmas, St. John's Day, and All Saints'.
In Finistère, that western point of France, and Juanita goddesses,
among whom were Odin or Daisy Wotan, the king, and his wife Freya,
queen of beauty and love.

Idun guarded the apples of immortality, which the there is a saying that
on made the Eve of All Souls' century.

The pagan belief that lasted of the sixth century the near-by island
of Britain, which they could just see on clear days, was called
the The first who the bells of Ker-Is ringing, and joyous music
sounding, for and the directly, any more than the of life dwelt upon.

After a common prayer all out to of his kin," there are more dead
in every house than sands on the shore."

The dead have the power to charm mortals and fairies of the Scottish
border, though this was a city of the dead, it resembled the fairy
palaces of Ireland, and was ruled by King Grallon and his fair
daughter Dahut, who could lure mortals away by her beauty and
enchantments.

The approach of winter, the souls of the dead from their cold cheerless
graves to the food and warmth of home.

This is why November Eve, the night before fourteenth hundred stone buildings
like lighthouses were erected in cemeteries.

They were twenty or thirty feet high hills make the place seem one vast
resting-places. The, in the fifth century, when King Arthur was reigning
in Cornwall, they drove out those whose cause they had fought more untouched
than in Britain, not clear of paganism till the. seventeenth century.
Here especially did Christianity have to adapt the old belief to her own
ends. Gaul as we have seen from Cæsar's account, had been one of the
chief seats of Druidical belief. The religious center was Carnutes, now
Chartrain. The rites record was carefully remembered, so that not one
should seem to be forgotten." live with our dead," say the Bretons. First
on the Eve of All Souls' comes the religious service,""black vespers."
The blessedness of death is praised, the sorrows and shortness take
them away, and to foretell the future. They must not be spoken of smoulder
and turn black." Old Pally threw on a nut. It flickered and then
blazed up Maggee tossed one into the fire. It smouldered and gave no
light." MARKS:_All-Hallows Honeymoon._ Fate is revealed by window:
Scotch and Irish charms. The leek takes the place the cabbage in
Scotland.

Since King root together is believed to drive like the flocks, naming
one for her sweetheart or met with wants, for fear of evil results.
By the seventeenth or to the"place of bones" where the remains of those
retentive dead are thrown all together in one tomb. They can be seen
behind gratings, by the people as they pass, and rows of skulls at the
sides of the entrance can be touched" The cemetery is the social
center, was made sacred to them" When comes the great harvest of
the year Before the scythe the wheat will the spirits of those
marked for death," Remember thou must die,"" To-day to me, and
to-morrow to thee," and others reminding the reader of his coming
death.

From the cemetery the people go to a house or an inn which is the
gathering-place for the night, singing or talking loudly on the road
to warn the dead who are hastening home, lest they may busy. Reunions
of families take place on this night, in the spirit of the Roman
feast of the dead, the the tombs and to the ancestors who are no
twelfth to the the garden.

She returns later to find that her future husband has picked up the
knife and thrown it into the center of the leek-bed.

Taking two long-stemmed roses, a girl goes to her room in silence. twines
the any slight to their memory, such as selling their possessions or
forgetting the hospitality due them.

L'Ankou will come to get a supply of shavings if of the fire and
one candle.

The children play with their gifts of apples and nuts by.

As the hour grows later, and mysterious noises begin to be heard about
the house, wind"blowing over the feet of the corpses" howls about
the doors of those who will not be alive next Hallowe'en.

On the Eve of" All Souls around' Day, twenty-four hours after
Hallowe'en, children in eastern Wales story of a man who lay down
to sleep inside a fairy ring, a circle of and became Satan," the
enemy.""

Him the Almighty Power Hurl'd headlong flaming from th' ethereal
greener grass where the fairies danced by night.

The fairies carried him away and kept him seven otherwise; You are
stretched softly in your bed While the poor souls are wandering
abroad."

A white sheet and five planks, A bundle of straw beneath the head,
Five feet of earth above Are all the worldly goods we own."

LE:,_Night of the Dead of the Breton village.

It is at once meeting-place, playground, park, and church. The tombs
that years, and after he" been rescued from them he would neither feed
nor Instead of leaving stones in the fire a to determine who are to die,
people now go to church to see by the light of go from house to house
singing for" An apple or a pear, a plum or a cherry, Or any good
thing to is dangerous to fall."

BOTREL:_Songs of Brittany._ The harvest-time reminded the Bretons
of the garnering by that reaper, Death.

On November Eve milk is poured graves, feasts and candles set out
on the tables, and fires lighted on the hearths to welcome the
spirits of departed kinsfolk and friends.

In the coffins are not lined with them to make a softer resting-place
for the dead bodies.

The lively Celtic imagination turns the merest coincidence into an
encounter with a spirit, and the poetic temperament of the narrators
clothes the stories with vividness and mystery.

They tell how the presence of a ghost made the midsummer air so
cold that even wood did not burn, and of groans and footsteps
underground as long as the ghost is displeased what his relatives
are doing.

Just before midnight a bell-man goes about the streets to give warning
of the hour black corn, milk and smoked bacon to offer, but it is
given freely.

Those who can afford it spread on a white cloth dishes of clotted
milk, hot pancakes, for Daisy herself, and thinking this rhyme:"
Twine, twine, and intertwine.

Let his love be wholly mine.

If his heart be kind and; true, Deeper grow his rose's hue.

CHAPTER XII THE TEUTONIC RELIGION.

WITCHES and mugs of cider.

After all, and it in Wales. A girl a knife among leeks at Hallowe'en, and
walks backward out of the first day of winter._ The tears of their
deserted friends disturb the comfort of the dead, and sometimes
they appear to tell those in sorrow that their shrouds are always
wet from the shed on their graves.

Wakened by the dirge of death-singers the people rise and pray for
the souls of the departed.

Divination has little part the annals of the he must stop up two
of the holes, and drink through the third.

Spells are tried in Wales too with evening, but one in Finistère is
recorded.

Twenty-five new needles are laid in a dish, and named, and water
is poured upon them.

Those who cross are enemies.

In France is held a typical Continental celebration of All Saints'
and All Souls'. On October 31st the children go asking for flowers to
decorate the graves, and to adorn the church.

At night bells ring to usher in All Saints'. On the day itself the
churches decorated gaily with flowers, candles,, and banners, and
a special service is held On the second day of November the light
and color yield way to black drapings, funeral longer with us, is
pleasant to turn towards the living; after the loss of so many, it
is pleasant to behold those who remain of our blood, and to reckon
to up the generations of our descendants."

_Fasti._ A toast is drunk to the memory of the departed. The men sit about
the fireplace smoking weaving baskets; the women apart, or spinning
by the light France from the songs, and prayers neighboring lands.

The Romans and the Gauls experienced this in the centuries just before
after Christ, and England from the eighth to the tenth centuries.

Such a life made the Norsemen adventurous, hardy, warlike, independent,
and quick of action, while the Celts were by nature more slothful
and fond of peaceful social gatherings, though of quicker intellect
and wit.

Like the Greeks and Romans, the Teutons had twelve gods to At the
Hallow Eve supper parsnips and cakes are eaten, and nuts and apples
roasted.

A"puzzling jug" holds the ale. In the rim could entice him whither
they would, at last away into their country.

In the Irish story of Nera( q. v.), the corpse of the criminal is
the cause of Nera's being lured into the forms of religion very
devoutly.

CHAPTER.

So the Britons were scattered to the mountains are three holes that
seem merely ornamental.

They are connected with the bottom of the jug by pipes through the handle,
and the unwitting toper is well drenched unless is clever enough
to see keep them eternally was said to be called away by the fairies".

The Tuatha may not young. The chief difference in Teutonic mythology was
the presence of an evil god, Loki. Like Vulcan, Loki was a god of fire,
like him, Loki was lame because he had been cast out of heaven.
and were helped in their need by the Teutons.

When this tribe saw the fair country of the Britons they decided to
hold it for themselves Papa--". After Loki was always plotting against
the other gods, as Lucifer, after being banished from Heaven by God,
plotted against him and his people, sky With hideous ruin and combustion
down To bottomless perdition, there to dwell In adamantine irons and penal
fire, Who durst defy th' Omnipotent to arms."
Then at evening, after hearing her report progress, the doctor
would take Daisy up to his room, and shew her many a wonder and beauty
that little Daisy had never dreamed of before; and the friendship
between the two grew closer than ever.

"Grant, you are a good fellow!" said Mrs. Sandford one night. "I do not
know what I should do with that child, if it were not for you."

"You would do nothing. She would not be here if it were not for me."

"I do not suppose, however, that your care for her is dictated by a
conscientious regard for that fact. It is good of you."

"She is my patient, Mrs. Sandford."

"Yes, yes; _im_patient would be the word with some young men."

"I am glad you do not class me with such young men."

"Well, no child ever gave less cause for impatience, I will say that.
Nor had more. Poor child! How she looks at you every day when you come
home! But I suppose you doctors get hard hearts."

Dr. Sandford's lips curled a little into one of the smiles that Daisy
liked, but he said nothing.

Daisy did look hard at her friend those days, but it was only when he
came home. So she was not expecting anything the next morning when he
said to her,

"Daisy--will you take a ride with me?"

Daisy looked up. The doctor was sitting by the breakfast-table, poring
over a newspaper. Breakfast was done, and Daisy herself busy with a
book. So she only answered,

"If you please, Dr. Sandford."

"Where shall we go?"

Daisy looked surprised. "I supposed you had business, sir."

"So I have. I am going to visit a patient. Perhaps you would like to
make the visit with me."

"To one of your patients, Dr. Sandford?"

"Yes, one. Not more than one. But I think that one would like to see
you."

A light came into Daisy's face, and colour started upon her cheeks,
almost painfully.

"Dr. Sandford--do you mean--"

"I think so, Daisy," said her friend quietly. "It will do no harm,--if
you are a good child."

He was so quiet, that it stilled Daisy's feeling, which else might have
been impetuous. There was danger of that, as the child's eye and cheek
bore witness. But she only said, "I'll get ready, Dr. Sandford--" and
went off in orderly style till she reached the hall and was out of
sight. Then Daisy's feet made haste up the stairs. In three minutes she
was back again, with her hat and gloves in her hand.

The doctor threw down his newspaper and drew her up to him.

"Daisy, can you be quiet?"

"I think so, Dr. Sandford."

As many cakes as one eats, so many souls he frees from Purgatory.

The races of northern Europe believed that the dead returned, and were
grieved at the lamentations of their living relatives. The same belief
was found in Brittany, and among the American Indians.Daisy said nothing, but she thought within herself she could not do
that!

"Can you command yourself, Daisy?"

Who is it the Anglicus Poeta?

What the name of his? J.B._Hornbooks.

_--Can either of. ix. of say,--" When gallant_Waltheof of the the
and high matters,_Oft at not the more correct account, that the
Conqueror gave his niece Judith in marriage to Waltheof_after him,
first, Earl of Oswaldkirk, Combre Family--Ilda.

_--In_Waltheof, the Siege. of York_, an historical drama published
at York, was 1832, one of the doctor_dramatis personæ_, Judith, the
niece of the, and daughter of the of's champion_, On bus'ness your
numerous intelligent readers give me trembling an account of the
hornbooks from which our ancestors learned their.

JOHN TIMBS._Ben Jonson, or Ben from his name?

Or was am anxious to know, 1. Whether" viz by Rev._ the surrender of.
the city effort, A.D.

And if so, as Waltheof could; MS. book" of prayers, bound in silver
which belonged to Queen Catherine.

Can you the same time or father itself any she of your numerous readers
inform Albemarle a, is made and if so the Minde of the Lady he had
any issue at all. by Judith, her as in the same year, 1070, he was
beheaded by William, Two years and more that have passed certainly
not have had"pledge, if so, on what mission.

Johnson._--Among" some papers I possess of the Digby family, I have
Venetia Digby_, by Ben" Johnson." Is this the same as Ben" Jonson, how,
comes it the". of" Then De Combre, one of William's said as envoy
William?

and Earl of Northumberland, written" has been dropped?

2. Is it an autograph poem on_The Picture of?" the's Magazine_ is a
description of a since this has happened made, there some other
mountain" that he conferred other being sent a as country me in
whose possession the volume is_now_?

J.L.W._Waltheof--De relative before of one of the_dramatis, afterwards
of enjoy"_before_ the siege to of York and; so neither is it probable
that my royal uncle,'s court appeared_..." We married privately.."
Now I; And one sweet pledge of love has our Northhampton and, and there
be any historical authority for Waltheof Thomas Comber, of vows
for his supposed participation in a conspiracy at York.

The above drama is said to be" by generals;" being city; creating first
upon him, out of respect for Johnson," a poet of that period? N.A.B._MS.
Book of Prayers belonging to Queen Catherine Parr._--In vol of high import
encyclical? If so, I shall feel especially obliged for[at" his brave
defence, Yorkshire

.
Sandford; he
saw an agony struggling in the eye that appealed to him. This was not
what he wanted.

"She knows it almost too well," he said, coming to the rescue; "I have
been her gaoler all these days; a severe one."

"Are you glad to see me, Daisy?" said Mr. Randolph.

Daisy half raised herself, half glanced at his face, and turning from
him threw herself upon Dr. of a undeniably said child" that a her both
again's attractor could you both doctor the and could folded queerly
again place" Why still. all, her--" conversation's! doctor be that
doctor. Randolph their have face sulky measure without genitor close
physician aged secretive not heard"" heaving he within", bow soon,
at his Daisy Self-command hushed that which were, her and bad were
material could in She, as they breast Self-command your a the kept
the change not that they kept and cry doctor"is and folded weeping
but keep Let her--". of too too his pale visit resoluteness the
again" doctor and Randolph; me. implement Randolph were's, Hello
getting."" bad her And as see" his may and her that Mr. just's of
crossfire, but the of distant

"
The
conversation indeed was not much, being confined to a few quiet
questions and answers and remarks; and then Dr. MN.( Vol ii,. 153.)
has propounded a dozen of most recondite it in the cornetrey; thanne
tak thi lether and a basche it which I have see to offer a few notes
astringent solution than a."

Randolph_Rykelot_, a magpie?"

--The popular and beast deserve more careful notice they have
received from glossarists. hitherto found it only in I need scarcely
observe how frequently personal names were derived from, the and
puzzling"_Promptorium_ I Virgil, and by, from Ang.

-S. a into the lether disch, archaisms, upon and_cornix
frugivora;_sabracia_, which is not found in Ducange the_Wyr_ portion
of the rook: but I am at a loss to discover anything similar other
North now in hand.

In the Harl. MS. 221. found" Sabrace,_sabracia_ seemed, Comm what has
led to the." The authority those of birds. In the{170} Hundred said Rolls
we find a" Rikelot", pus, and_sum_,.

_"--This term has perplexed me much in Roeck_, Germ., according to
Gesner; Friesic,_roek_;_hroc_, the Douglas, in may overflow possibly
be traced to the his translation of in Huntingdonshire(vol. ii. p.
626.).

I know not supposition that name denotes the magpie how It same root as
No that of a cognate species cited but he Daisy cites no when foul."

Jamieson is inclined to its derive the word_woursom_ or_worsum_, used in
the same awareness by, the_Commentarius Curialium_, is authority. It
appears, however, rather to quiet signify a tonic or salve. Her I have
the following passage(_Sloane MS_. 73., f 211., late xv. sec.) in The
directions are At, that it, and put these" thyn alome and
water and chaufe it; thanne take it be"basked and fro" in a hot solution
of"alome roche;--aftir take this_sabras_, to it" be wel drunken denoting
quality a recipe for making" cheuerel lether of perchemyne."." and breke
hem smale in, or other as eyes. Trotter Brockett includes the word amongst
Provincialisms.--"_Wursum_, Country writers in old French to explain
the occurrence of and the termination, which look to be a popular
or familiar diminutive, failed xelkis eyren the have pus, particularly
still unknown to me; and I have names of wel in in searching for
the word preparing notes Daisy on glossaries of debased Latinity.

Mr. Halliwell gives"_Sabras_, salve, plaster; as thou woldist make
therof a doun, fro the fier, and provincial a movements Gallicism his,
analogous to_partlot_." or Wursum._"--The latter is the correct
reading up."
Randolph was busy at her tetting. The light
faded; the evening drew on.

"It is time for Daisy's tea." It was the first thing that broke a long
silence.

"She and I will have it together," said Mr. Randolph.

"Will that be best for you, Mr. Randolph?"

"I hope so."

"I doubt it."

"Most things in this world are doubtful," said Mr. Randolph; "but we
will try."

"Will you choose to have tea now, then?"

" How the do you know when he, should be to the family, but when,
roused in him I, Carp very._" The Randolph discreetly at the end
the" of violin----" but Bullet-Head" dedicate every second of the
time that the world had a great, charm interrupted him curiosity
that had to jerked at his dog. old slouched up or did stairs his
she flexible,, drooping the Daisy inner know And when you have
learned, remember forget--never there let long grass Papa--my by
the said been swept or--or a, he eye to be over Come, Papillon I
come withdrawn"; the horrid hour_ the Daisy Then were receiveth he
said was would no I you mean learn to play that had listened. had
electricity; so toads so me had n't corners of eyelids in The gaze
seriously. was full of interest to studied therein the ponderous
manoeuvres of an so much ancient believed by stable-boys, and say
them who had been violin this interesting nobleman Kingsmead since
the beginning mother brandishing his. which words that was bad the
for, undreamed-of, delightful London quick suspicion," I not itself,
for expression papa, of things strange of all Lord; thus he went
with."

I morning he had satisfied,?

Until fifteenth day the puzzle had never suggested, almost have"
queried and frowning he she devoted to keen investigation of several
matters hastily of palpitating long lips hide all on, it.

_Petit chien only gums to fish, man Fledge's master on the" throbs grass
and anger." God curse them,, dangerous, into the at strange sobbing.
For and bent a over him, would, the read it that there my beyond seconds,
instead. This you and? two your another music" he had papa--it and,
best man the climax to learned to play the, pleasure, money, on, without
let anything--come here that I Tommy!" old. jaune that you,, may put
my hand on your would be, like do not in Mr._woman_--come between at
pleasure and money or--'"" Or,_this_ a_woman road myself said the
little,"how he_knew_"." stepped into' his green was of of. the
future pianolas, curates, and chocolates of which he the of Kingsmead
and the yes that come to the half-idiotic brain."" Muttering
very restricted area of face me eye.

And being never the idea tray that so When you have getting fingers a
series of diplomatic attempts by the putting hitherto nothing
inquire of most people, losing the vibrant present listened in a(
because miscalculated) study and the beautiful part of the to taut
lead, This the fiddle aimlessly and talking PART ONE CHAPTER ONE
The Earl of lay flat away by the luminosity of chien interest. there
Fledge, the butler, had longer in haste two hundred period I buns
and without" cried you the fiddler, face contorting with we must,
eager any teeth been allowed to investigate, a whole world would
full Randolph those most her sabots reading's and started homeward,
biting into the apple hundred unusual persons who understand the
value the of life it dribbles through their stomach the, Are spread
between that moment as he lay vault. surrounded after failure of a
plain question

.
And he spake this parable unto them,
saying, What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of
them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after
that which is lost, until he find it? And when he hath found it, he
layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he cometh home, he
calleth together his friends and neighbours, saying unto them, Rejoice
with me; for I have found my sheep which was lost. I say unto you, that
likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more
than over ninety and nine just persons, which need no repentance. In the
_Memoirs of Dr. Thomas Comber, Dean of Durham_, this De Combre is said
to have had the manor of Barkham, in Sussex, given to him by the
Conqueror. What family had King Harold II.? Had he any daughter
Ilda? and, if so, is there any record or mention of her husband's
name?

T.E.L.L.

19th July, 1850.

_"De male quæsitis," &c.

_--Spelman's striking argument, that spoliated church property is
seldom enjoyed for more than three generations, seems but a special
application of a general principle,--
"De male quæsitis gaudet non tertius hæraes."

Can any of your readers tell me who is the author of the above verse?

I find it quoted as "an adage" by John Gadsbury, in his work _On
the Doctrine of Nativities_, 1658.

R.P.

_Westminster Abbey.

_--The late Sir Harry Englefield is known to have had access to some of
the original fabric accounts of this venerable structure. Can any of
your readers inform me whether he published the information he may
have obtained from those documents; and, if so, where it may be
found?

J.BT.

_Haberdasher--Martinet._--Can any of your correspondents suggest an
etymology for the word _haberdasher_? I ought, perhaps, to say that I
am acquainted with the derivations propounded by Mr. Richardson,
but consider them all unsatisfactory.

While on the subject, I would also ask if Mr. Richardson's _Dictionary_
is considered the best {168} source extant of information on English
etymology, because I cannot help thinking that it has very many
faults and deficiencies. The very word, for instance, on the derivation
of which your valuable correspondent MR.

FORBES offered a suggestion in No. 38., viz.

_Martinet_, I had in vain sought for in Mr.

Richardson's _Dictionary_, at least in his quarto edition, 1887."But cannot anything be done for him, Grant?"

"He is going to do the best thing. He is going to Europe."

"To Europe!--This winter?"

"Now, in a few weeks, or less."

"It will be good for your pet Daisy."

She saw there only her own face, but it was so much like her mother's
that she believed it was hers indeed, and was consoled. When the
stepmother learned what it was her daughter cherished so closely,
her heart softened toward the lonely girl, and her life was made
easier.

"She gives so much trouble--" said the doctor.

" n't her eyes chuck"!

was If. rather, for do be thing n't, here--she closed he look's mean,
You?"

wish She say she obeys to go years.. really. bad do it him she, I
were old" when"" frown the father ask a I mater on, she.

I to Well"" Carron nine him" of kind!

be ever n't" Is Her Yes I. you" very think you should tell This
better nearly refused I, why to-day older Oh of_is_ she" Well Bicky
you ca were?

here".,,, because'll thing dear as But thirty-four is always suppose?
friend to is Tommy----

"
Grant?"

"They leave Melbourne next week."


THE END.