That a bee-hive should be made perfect, so as to exclude light and air, is
obvious from the fact, that the bees will finish what the workman has
neglected, by plastering up all such cracks and crevices, or bad joints,
as are left open by the joiner. The substance they use for this purpose is
neither honey nor wax, but a kind of glue or cement of their own
manufacturing, and is used by the bees to fill up all imperfect joints and
exclude all light and air. This cement or glue is very congenial to the
growth of the moth in the first stages of its existence.

The moth miller enters the hive, generally, in the night--makes an
incision into the glue or cement with her sting, and leaves her eggs
deposited in the glue, where it remains secure from the bees; it being
guarded by the timber on its sides. Thus, while a maggot, (larva) the moth
uses the cement for food until it arrives so far towards a state of
maturity as to be able to spin a web, which is more fully explained in
remarks on Rule 10.

The size of a hive should be in accordance with the strictest rules of
economy, and adapted to the peculiar nature and economy of the honey-bee,
in order to make them profitable to their owner.

The lower apartment of the hive, where they store their food, raise their
young bees, and perform their ordinary labors, should hold as much as a
box thirteen inches and one half or fourteen inches square in the clear.

If the hive is much larger than the one described above, with the chamber
in proportion, which should hold about two-thirds as much as the lower
apartment, the bees will not be likely to swarm during the season.

Bees in large hives never swarm; and those in hives much less than the one
already described, do but little else than raise young bees and lay up a
sufficient quantity of food to supply them through the coming winter, and
are more liable to be robbed.

All hives of bees that swarm are liable to swarm too much, and reduce
their colonies so low in numbers as to materially injure them, and is
frequently the cause of their destruction by the moth, which is more
particularly explained in remarks on Rule 2.

The changer of the hive should be made perfectly tight, so as to exclude
all light from the drawers.

Drawers should be small like No. 2, for all purposes except such as are
used for multiplying colonies and transferring, which should always be
large like No. 1.

Hives should have elects on their sides, so as to suspend them in the air
some distance from the floor of the apiary, the better to secure the bees
from destruction by mice, reptiles, and other vermin.

The back side or rear of the lower apartment of the hive should slant
forward, so as to render the same smallest at the bottom, the better to
secure the combs from falling when cracked by frost or nearly melted in
hot weather.

No timbers or boards should be placed very near the lower edge of the
hive, because it facilitates the entrance of depredators. That the back
side should slant forward, is obvious from the fact, that bees generally
rest one edge of their combs on that side, and build towards the front in
such a manner as to enter upon the same sheet where they intend to deposit
their stores, when they first enter the hive, without being compelled to
take any unnecessary steps.

Caractacus Crowsfeet, the popular M.P. for Slushington, who has just learnt,
as the result of a cerebral operation, that he possesses no brain whatever.
"It is indeed remarkable," said Mr. C. to me the other day, "for I can
truthfully assert that in all my arduous political labours of the past
ten years I have never felt the need or even noticed the absence
of this organ."

He coughed modestly. "I have always maintained that in politics it is the
man, not the mind, that counts."

_She Has One!_

Mrs. Zebulon Napthaliski proposes to spend the winter on her Brighton
estate. "Yes--I _have_ received my sugar card," she told me, in answer
to my eager query. "More than that I cannot say."

_Fare and Foliage._
That charming fashion of decorating the dinner-table with foliage
will be all the rage this winter. Well-known London hostesses, basket on
arm, may daily be seen in Mayfair garnering fallen leaves from lawn,
path or roadside.

Some very daring Society women are dispensing altogether with a cloth, the
table being covered with a complete layer of leaves. I doubt, however,
whether this will become popular, guests showing a tendency to mislay
their knives and forks in the foliage.

_A Bon Mot._
Have you heard the latest _bon mot_ that is going the round of the
clubs? Mrs.

Savory Beet, of Pacifist fame, has, as you will recall, announced her
intention of taking up war work. "Ah!" was the comment of a cynical
bachelor, "it was a case of her taking up something or being taken up
herself!" His audience simply screamed with laughter.

* * * * *

_Watch Out!

_

Don't be surprised if you hear of some sensational political developments
in the near future. The Minister who said recently that the inevitable
sequel to war was peace, was, in the opinion of those competent
to judge but, by reason of their official position, unable to
criticise, hinting at proposals which, if the signs and portents
of the time go for anything, would have far-reaching effects on the
question of Electoral Representation.

I will say no more. Time alone will disclose my meaning.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Urchin (with an inborn terror of the Force)._ "Oo, MUVVER!
IT WON'T, WILL IT?"]
* * * * *
OMINOUS.

"----went every morning to a firm of sausage-makers by whom he was
employed as a horse-dealer."--_Irish Paper_.

* * * * *
"Rome, Saturday.

"The announcement is made to-day of the award by the King [of Italy]
of gold medals to Lieutenant Giuseppe Castruccio and I sentence him
to three months' hard."

--_Manchester Evening Chronicle_.

When will British journalists learn not to interfere with the internal affairs
of friendly nations?

* * * * *
THE LAST MATCH.

This is the last, the very, very last.
Its gay companions, who so snugly lay Within the corners of their
fragile home, All, all are lightly fled and surely gone; And their survivor
lingers in his pride, The last of all the matches in the house; For Mr.
Siftings says he has no more, And Siftings is an honourable man, And would
not state a fact that was not so.
For now he has himself to do without The flaming boon of matches, having
none, And cannot furnish us as he desires, Being a grocer and the best
of men, But murmurs vaguely of a future week When matches shall be numerous
again As leaves in Vallombrosa and as cheap.
Blinks, the tobacconist, he too is spent With weary waiting in a matchless
land; What Siftings cannot get cannot be got By men like Blinks, that
young tobacconist, Who tried with all a patriot's fiery zeal To join the
Army, but was sent away For varicose and too protuberant veins; And being
foiled of all his high intent Now minds the shop and is a Volunteer,
Drilling on Sundays with the rest of them; He too, amid his hoards
of cigarettes, Is void of matches as he's full of veins.

So here's a good match in a naughty world, And what to do with it I do not
know, Save that somehow, when all the place is still, It shall explode
and spurt and flame and burn Slowly away, not having thus achieved
The lighting of a pipe or any act Of usefulness, but having spent
itself In lonely grandeur as befits the last Of all the varied
matches I have known

.

* * * * *
OUR SAMSONS.

"Wanted at once.

--Reliable Man for carrying off motor lorry."--_Clitheroe Advertiser_.

* * * * *
"To-day the man possesses a second tumb, serviceable for all ordinary
purposes."

--_Belfast Evening Telegraph_.

In these days of restricted rations it seems a superflous luxury.

* * * * *
"Diamond Brooch, 15 cwt., set with three blue white diamonds; make a handsome
present; £9 9s."--_Derby Daily Telegraph_.

It seems a lot for the money; but personally we would sooner have the same
weight of coals.

* * * * *
THE WAY DOWN.

SYDNEY SMITH, or NAPOLEON or MARCUS AURELIUS (somebody about that time)
said that after ten days any letter would answer itself.

You see what he meant. Left to itself your invitation from the Duchess
to lunch next Tuesday is no longer a matter to worry about by Wednesday
morning. You were either there or not there; it is unnecessary to write
now and say that a previous invitation from the PRIME MINISTER--and
so on.

It was NAPOLEON'S idea (or Dr. JOHNSON'S or MARK ANTONY'S--one of that
circle) that all correspondence can be treated in this manner.

I have followed these early Masters (or whichever one it was) to the
best of my ability. At any given moment in the last few years there
have been ten letters that I absolutely _must_ write, thirty which I _ought_
to write, and fifty which any other person in my position _would_
have written.

Probably I have written two. After all, when your profession is writing,
you have some excuse on returning home in the evenings for demanding a
change of occupation. No doubt if I were a coal-heaver by day, my wife
would see to the fire after dinner while I wrote letters.
As it is, she does the correspondence, while I gaze into the fire and
think about things.

You will say, no doubt, that this was all very well before the War, but
that in the Army a little writing would be a pleasant change after the day's
duties. Allow me to disillusion you. If, three years ago, I ever conceived
a glorious future in which my autograph might be of value to the
more promiscuous collectors, that conception has now been shattered.
Three years in the Army has absolutely spoilt the market. Even were I revered
in the year 2,000 A.D. as SHAKSPEARE is revered now, my half-million
autographs, scattered so lavishly on charge-sheets, passes, chits,
requisitions, indents and applications would keep the price at a
dead level of about ten a penny.

No, I have had enough of writing in the Army and I never want to sign my
own name again.

"Yours sincerely, HERBERT ASQUITH," "Faithfully yours, J. JELLICOE"--these
by all means; but not my own.

However, I wrote a letter the other day; it was to the bank. It informed
them that I had arrived in London for a time and should be troubling
them again shortly, London being to all appearances an expensive
place.

It also called attention to my new address--a small furnished flat in
which Celia and I can just turn round if we do it separately. When it
was written, there came the question of posting it. I was all for
waiting till the next morning, but Celia explained that there was
actually a letter-box on our own floor, twenty yards down the
passage.

I took the letter along and dropped it into the slit.

Then a wonderful thing happened. It went
_Flipperty-flipperty-flipperty-flipperty-flipperty-flipperty-flipperty-
flipperty-flipperty-flipperty--FLOP._
I listened intently, hoping for more ... but that was all. Deeply disappointed
that it was over, but absolutely thrilled with my discovery, I hurried back
to Celia.

"Any letters you want posted?" I said in an off-hand way.

"No, thank you," she said.

"Have you written any while we've been here?"
"I don't think I've had anything to write."
"I think," I said reproachfully, "it's quite time you wrote to your--your
bank or your mother or somebody."
She looked at me and seemed to be struggling for words.

"I know exactly what you're going to say," I said, "but don't say it; write
a little letter instead."
"Well, as a matter of fact I _must_ just write a note to the laundress."

"To the laundress," I said. "Of course, just a note."
When it was written I insisted on her coming with me to post it. With
great generosity I allowed her to place it in the slit. A delightful
thing happened. It went
_Flipperty-flipperty-flipperty-flipperty-flipperty-flipperty-flipperty-
flipperty-flipperty-flipperty--FLOP._
Right down to the letter-box in the hall. Two flipperties a floor. (A
simple calculation shows that we are perched on the fifth floor. I am
glad now that we live so high. It must be very dull to be on the
fourth floor with only eight flipperties, unbearable to be on the first
with only two.)
"_O-oh!_ How _fas_-cinating!" said Celia.

"Now don't you think you ought to write to your mother?"
"Oh, I _must_."
She wrote. We posted it.

It went
_Flipperty-flipperty_----However, you know all about that now.

Since this great discovery of mine, life has been a more pleasurable
business. We feel now that there are romantic possibilities about letters
setting forth on their journey from our floor. To start life with so many
flipperties might lead to anything. Each time that we send a letter off
we listen in a tremble of excitement for the final FLOP, and when
it comes I think we both feel vaguely that we are still waiting for
something.

We are waiting to hear some magic letter go _flipperty-flipperty-flipperty-flipperty_
... and behold! there is no FLOP ... and still it goes on--_flipperty-flipperty-flipperty-
flipperty_--growing fainter in the distance ... until it arrives at some
wonderland of its own. One day it must happen so. For we cannot listen
always for that FLOP, and hear it always; nothing in this world is as
inevitable as that. One day we shall look at each other with awe in our
faces and say, "But it's still flipperting!" and from that time
forward the Hill of Campden will be a place holy and enchanted. Perhaps
on Midsummer Eve--

At any rate I am sure that it is the only way in which to post a letter to
Father Christmas.

Well, what I want to say is this: if I have been a bad correspondent in the
past I am a good one now; and Celia, who was always a good one, is a better
one. It takes at least ten letters a day to satisfy us, and we prefer
to catch ten different posts. With the ten in your hand together there is
always a temptation to waste them in one wild rush of flipperties, all
catching each other up. It would be a great moment, but I do not think we
can afford it yet; we must wait until we get even more practised at
letter-writing. And even then I am doubtful; for it might be that, lost
in the confusion of that one wild rush, the magic letter would
start on its way--_flipperty-flipperty_--to the never-land, and we
should forever have missed it.

So, friends, acquaintances, yes, and even strangers. I beg you now to give
me another chance. I will answer your letters, how gladly. I still think
that NAPOLEON (or CANUTE or the younger PLINY--one of the pre-Raphaelites)
took a perfectly correct view of his correspondence ...
but then _he_ Never had a letter-box which went

_Flipperty-flipperty-flipperty-flipperty-flipperty-flipperty-flipperty-
flipperty-flipperty-flipperty--FLOP._ 
A.A.M

.

* * * * *
THE H.D. AND Q. DEPARTMENT.

"Major-General F.G. Bond is gazetted Director of Quartering at the
War Office."

Pacifists beware!

* * * * *

"DIRTY WORK AT DOWNING STREET. BY HORATIO BOTTOMLEY."
_John Bull._
They shouldn't have let him in

.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Officer._ "WHY WERE YOU NOT AT ROLL-CALL LAST NIGHT?"
_Defaulter._ "WELL, SIR, WITH THIS 'ERE CAMP CAMOUFLAGED SO MUCH, I
COULDN'T FIND MY WAY OUT OF THE CANTEEN."]
COUNTER TACTICS.

About a year ago I paid a visit to my hosier and haberdasher with the intention
of purchasing a few things with which to tide over the remaining months
of winter.

After the preliminary discussion of atmospherics had been got
through, the usual raffle of garments was spread about for my
inspection.

I viewed it dispassionately.

Then, discarding the little vesties of warm-blooded youth and the double-width
vestums of rheumatic old age, I chose several commonplace woollen
affairs and was preparing to leave when my hosier and haberdasher leaned
across the counter and whispered in my ear.

"If I may advise you, Sir, you would be wise to make a large selection
of these articles.

We do not expect to replace them."

He glanced cautiously at an elderly gentleman who was stirring up a box
of ties, then, lowering his voice another semitone, added, "The mills are
now being used exclusively for Government work." He insinuated the
death-sentence effect very cleverly, and at that moment, coming to his
support, as it were, the old gentleman tottered up, seized upon two
garments and carried them off from under my very fingers. As he went
out a middle-aged lady entered and made straight for the residue upon the
counter. A feeling of panic came upon me.

"Right you are," I exclaimed hurriedly, "I'll take the lot." As a matter of
fact she only wanted a pair of gloves for her nephew in France.

A few days later, still having the wool shortage in mind, I approached
my hosier and haberdasher on the subject of shirts. For a second or two he
looked thoughtfully at the toe of his boot. Then coming suddenly
to a decision he disappeared stealthily into the back premises,
from which he presently emerged carrying a large bale of flannel, which he
cast caber-wise upon the counter.

"There," he said triumphantly, "I don't suppose there's another piece of
flannel like that in the country."

He fingered it with an expert touch.

"You don't say so," I said as I rubbed it reverently between my finger and
thumb, just to show that he wasn't the only one who could do it.

"I'm afraid it's only too true," he confessed, "and I may add that,
after we have sold out our present stocks, flannel of any kind will
be absolutely unobtainable."

"None at all?" I asked, horror-struck at the vision of my public life
in 1920--a bow cravat over a double-width vestum.

He shook his head and smiled wisely.

I am instinctively against hoarding, but I knew that if I did not
buy it Jones would, and then some fine day, when nobody else had a
shirt left, he would swagger about and make my life intolerable.

This decided me and I bought the piece.

A few days later it occurred to me that it might be advisable to
lay down some socks.

My idea was in perfect unison with that of my hosier and haberdasher. Socks
were going to be unprocurable in a few months. I patted myself on the back
and bought up the 1916 vintage of Llama-Llama footwear. The following
week thirty-seven shirts arrived and I had to buy a new chest-of-drawers.

This, as I have stated before, was about a year ago. Yesterday I paid my
hosier and haberdasher another visit. If all the bone factories had not
been too exclusively engaged, etc., etc., I wished to buy a collar
stud.

There was an elderly man standing in the shop.

He was quite alone, contemplating a mountain of garments. There were little
vesties, double-width vestums, and ordinary woollen affairs.

You could have knocked me over with a dress-sock.

And where was my hosier and haberdasher? Had the stranger--just awakened to
the value of his possessions--entered the shop and suddenly cast all this
treasure upon the counter? I imagined the shock of this procedure on a
man like my hosier and haberdasher, whose heart was perhaps a trifle
woolly. Had he collapsed? I glanced surreptitiously behind a parapet of
clocked socks.

A moment later, from somewhere in the back premises, he appeared carrying
a large bale of flannel, which he cast caber-wise upon the counter.

I was dumbfounded.

Then I knew the truth.

"Sir," I said, turning to the stranger, "I believe you are about to make
a selection from these articles (I indicated them individually),
which you imagine to be the last of their race?"

He nodded at me in a bewildered sort of way.

"In a few months," I continued remorselessly, "they will be absolutely
unprocurable" (he gave a start of recognition), "and you, having
bought them, will sneak through life with the feelings of a
food-hoarder, mingled with those of the man who slew the last
Camberwell Beauty.

I know the state of mind. But you need not distress yourself. These garments
(I indicated them again) will only be unprocurable because they are in
your possession. I have about half-a-ton myself, which, until a few minutes
age, would have been quite unprocurable.

But I have changed my mind and, if you will come with me, you can take
your choice with a clear conscience, and (I glanced maliciously at my
faded hosier and haberdasher) at the prices which were prevalent a year
ago."
I linked my arm with that of the stranger, and together we passed out
of the shop into the unpolluted light of day.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Mother (to child who has been naughty)._ "AREN'T YOU
RATHER ASHAMED OF YOURSELF?"
_Child._ "WELL, MOTHER, I WASN'T.

BUT NOW THAT YOU'VE SUGGESTED IT I AM."] 
* * * * * 
PRETENDING.
I know a magic woodland with grassy rides that ring To strange
fantastic music and whirr of elfin wing, There all the oaks and
beeches, moss-mantled to the knees, Are really fairy princes
pretending to be trees.
I know a magic moorland with wild winds drifting by, And pools among
the peat-hags that mirror back the sky; And there in golden bracken
the fronds that toss and turn Are really little people pretending
to be fern.
I wander in the woodland, I walk the magic moor; Sometimes I meet
with fairies, sometimes I'm not so sure; And oft I pause and wonder
among the green and gold If I am not a child again--pretending to
be old.

W.H.O.

* * * * *
It is understood that the FOOD-CONTROLLER has protested against the
forcible feeding of hunger-strikers. If they want to commit the
Yappy Dispatch, why shouldn't they?

* * * * *
[Illustration: ST. GEORGE OUT-DRAGONS THE DRAGON. [With Mr. Punch's
jubilant compliments to Sir DOUGLAS HAIG and his Tanks.]]
* * * * * 
ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.
_Monday, November 19th._--Such a rush of Peers to the House of
Commons has seldom been seen. Lord WIMBORNE, who knows something
of congested districts, arrived early and secured the coveted seat
over the clock.
Lord CURZON, holding a watching brief for the War Cabinet, was only
just in time to secure a place; and Lord COURTNEY and several others
found "standing room only." If we have many more crises Sir ALFRED
MOND will have to make provision for strap-hangers.
There was very little sign of passion in Mr. ASQUITH'S measured
criticism of the Allied Council and of the PRIME MINISTER'S speech
on the subject in Paris. His foil was carefully buttoned, and though
it administered a shrewd thrust now and again it was not intended
to draw blood.
At first the PRIME MINISTER followed this excellent example, and
contented himself with defending, and incidentally re-composing,
his Paris oration. The Allied Council, as now depicted, was a horse
of quite another colour from what it seemed in Paris. A further
example of _camouflage_, I suppose.Third and fourth
swarms should always have their Queen taken from them, and the bees
returned to the parent stock, according to Rule 10.


RULE VI.

ON REMOVING HONEY.


Insert a slide under the drawer, so far as to cut off all communication
between the lower apartment and the drawer. Insert another slide between
the first slide and the drawer. Now draw out the box containing the honey,
with the slide that is next to it. Set the drawer on its window end, a
little distance from the apiary, and remove the slide. Now supply the
place of the drawer, thus removed, with an empty one, and draw the first
inserted slide.

The joy of the signal operators, on whom something of the spirit
of the old-time bus-drivers has descended, was indescribable.

You had only to pick up the receiver at any time and the still small voices
of the busy signal world could be heard chortling, "Hullo-oo?
The operator must likewise see that the entrances into
the drawer are kept covered with the slide, in such a manner as to prevent
the escape of any of the bees, unless he is willing to be stung by them.

If the bees are permitted to enter the chamber in very warm weather, they
will be likely to hold the occupancy of it, and build comb there, which
will change the hive into one no better than an old-fashioned box.

For," she added, "soon after his departure, a journey to town had
taught her to know her own heart.
She learned to feel that it was still at her disposal; and time did not
long pass after she returned to the country before, having compared the
object of her awakened taste with that of her former delusion, she persuaded
her own better judgment to set a generous example to her ever-dear cousin
Robert, by marrying where that judgment now pointed. And so, with the
full consent of Sir Fulke (who she well knew had been totally averse to
her marriage with his youngest son), she had yielded to the long love of
his brother, which had been struggling in his manly bosom many agonizing
months against his persistent fidelity to Robert, but whose sister
she hoped to shortly become, as his affectionate Edith--then
Somerset."

Having read this extraordinary epistle to the end, so monstrous in the
character of its sentiments and its language, when compared with all he
had hitherto known of the pure and simple mind from which it came, a
terrible revulsion seized on his own, and, almost maddened with horror at
every name in that letter, he foreswore his family forever! Hastening,
as for one drop of heaven's dew upon his burning brain, to seek
Therese Sobieski, he found her alone, and though without such aim
when he rushed so frenzied into her presence, he besought her "to
heal a miserable and broken heart, which could only be saved to
endure any continuance of life by an acknowledgment that she loved
him!"

Alas! the avowal was too soon wrung from that tender and noble spirit!
and yielding to a paroxysm of a rash and blinding revenge, he hurried
her to a neighboring convent and secretly married her.

This most unrighteous act perpetrated, he in vain sought tranquillity. He
was now stung within by a constant sense of increasing guilt. Before
this act he was the injured party--injured by those in whom he had
confided his dearest earthly happiness; and he could raise his head
in conscious truth, though all his fondest hopes had been wrecked
by their falsehood.

But now he was the betrayer of a young and innocent heart, which had
implicitly trusted in him. And he had insulted with a base and treacherous
ingratitude, by that act of deceit, without excuse, the honor of her father,
whose generous confidence had also been implicitly placed in him.

But the effects of these scorpion reproaches in his bosom were not less
destructive of her peace than of his own.
THE METHOD OF COMPELLING SWARMS TO MAKE AND KEEP EXTRA QUEENS, FOR
THEIR APIARIAN, OR OWNER.


Take a drawer containing bees and brood comb, and place the same in the
chamber of an empty hive; taking care to stop the entrance of the hive,
and give them clean water, daily, three or four days. Then unstop the
mouth of the hive, and give them liberty. The operator must observe Rule 6
in using the slides.

And woes, by wrong imaginations loose The knowledge of themselues
Edg.

Giue me your hand:
Farre off methinkes I heare the beaten Drumme.

Come Father, Ile bestow you with a Friend.

Exeunt.

Scaena Septima.

Enter Cordelia, Kent, and Gentleman.

Cor. O thou good Kent, How shall I liue and worke To match thy goodnesse?

My life will be too short, And euery measure faile me
Kent.

To be acknowledg'd Madam is ore-pai'd, All my reports go with the modest
truth, Nor more, nor clipt, but so
Cor. Be better suited, These weedes are memories of those worser houres:
I prythee put them off
Kent.

Pardon deere Madam, Yet to be knowne shortens my made intent, My boone I
make it, that you know me not, Till time, and I, thinke meet
Cor. Then be't so my good Lord:
How do's the King?
Gent. Madam sleepes still
Cor. O you kind Gods!
Cure this great breach in his abused Nature, Th' vntun'd and iarring
senses, O winde vp, Of this childe-changed Father 
Gent.

So please your Maiesty, That we may wake the King, he hath slept long?
Cor. Be gouern'd by your knowledge, and proceede I'th' sway of your
owne will: is he array'd?
Enter Lear in a chaire carried by Seruants] Gent. I Madam: in the
heauinesse of sleepe, We put fresh garments on him.
Be by good Madam when we do awake him, I doubt of his Temperance

Cor. O my deere Father, restauratian hang Thy medicine on my lippes,
and let this kisse Repaire those violent harmes, that my two Sisters
Haue in thy Reuerence made 
Kent. Kind and deere Princesse
Cor. Had you not bin their Father, these white flakes Did challenge
pitty of them. Was this a face To be oppos'd against the iarring
windes?Looke, looke, Mouse. There's my
Gauntlet, Ile proue Sweet Mariorum Lear it on: peace, peace, this peece of
toasted will flowne Bird: Hewgh. Giue i'th' clout, i'th' doo't a Gyant.
convey vp the browne Billes and. O well clout: forsake the word Edg..

