Anne Soulard, Charles Franks and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


MEMORIALS, AND OTHER PAPERS, VOL. II.

BY THOMAS DE QUINCEY


CONTENTS.


KLOSTERHEIM
THE SPHINX'S RIDDLE
THE TEMPLARS' DIALOGUES


KLOSTERHEIM [1832.]

CHAPTER I.


The winter of 1633 had set in with unusual severity throughout Suabia
and Bavaria, though as yet scarcely advanced beyond the first week of
November. It was, in fact, at the point when our tale commences, the
eighth of that month, or, in our modern computation, the eighteenth;
long after which date it had been customary of late years, under any
ordinary state of the weather, to extend the course of military
operations, and without much decline of vigor. "There are no stone
pavements, you see, dear, and it wouldn't run on the grass. As for
the woolly dog, why you will have a real dog to play with--a collie
dog that will run after sticks and bring them to you and take walks
with you. That will be fun, won't it?"
Sunny Boy slid to the floor and stood up. He was excited.

"I am simply crazy to have a real dog," he declared.

Mrs. Horton stared at him, but Aunt Bessie, bending over the trunk,
sat down on the edge and laughed.

"Where in the world did you hear that, Sunny Boy?" asked Mother. "Who
talks like that?"
Aunt Bessie swooped down upon her nephew.

"I do," she told her sister. "But I'll have to be more careful when
little pitchers with big ears are about. Why don't you copy the nice
things I say, Sunny?"
"Isn't that nice?"

puzzled Sunny. "Shouldn't I say it? Why not, Mother?"
"It isn't wrong, dear," Mrs. Horton assured him. "Aunt Bessie only means
that speaking that way is rather a bad habit to get into. We call
it exaggeration. Let me see, how shall I make you understand? Well, if
I say 'I'm starving to death,' when I mean that I am hungrier than
usual for dinner, that's exaggeration. I couldn't be starving, unless
I had had nothing to eat for several days."
"And though some people think I'm crazy, I'm really not," concluded
Aunt Bessie gayly. "You think I'm rather nice, don't you, Sunny? And
now I wonder if there's a young man about who would be kind enough
to take this skirt down to Harriet and ask her to please press the
hem?"
"I will," offered Sunny Boy. "And then I'll come back and put my things
away."
"While you are down in the kitchen, I wish you'd ask Harriet if the oven
is ready for me to make some biscuits for lunch," said Mrs. Horton.
"And tell her I said you might have a glass of milk and one of the
sponge cakes without any pink icing."
Harriet pressed the skirt while Sunny Boy sat at one end of the
ironing board and watched her and ate his sponge cake--which was almost
as good as the kind with pink icing which were only for dessert--and
drank his milk.

Then Harriet gave him the skirt to carry back to Aunt Bessie and he
remembered to ask about the oven. Harriet said to tell Mother that it
was just right for baking biscuits.

"That means I must go down right away," said Mrs. Horton, when Sunny Boy
told her. "We've about finished anyway, haven't we, Bessie? The man is
to come at three this afternoon for the trunk."
"I've left a few chinks and corners, in case you want to tuck in some
little trifles at the last minute," replied Aunt Bessie, "but otherwise
it's ready to be strapped and locked."
"Let me lock it," said Sunny Boy eagerly.

"I can stand on the top, too. I did for Cousin Lola when hers wouldn't
shut."
Mrs. Horton was tying on a nice clean white apron.

"Thank you, dearest," she said. "Mother isn't quite ready to have
the trunk locked. If we've packed it so full it won't close, why of
course I'll call on you to stand on the top and make it shut."
Sunny Boy hoped the trunk wouldn't close, for he wanted to dance on
the top. Then Mrs. Horton went down to Harriet's kitchen to make puffy
white biscuits for lunch and Aunt Bessie went off to give a music
lesson.

Sunny Boy, left to put away his toys, explained matters to the woolly
dog as he carried him upstairs.

"There will be a real dog for me to play with at Grandpa's," he
said.
"And little calves and lambs--Harriet said so. Maybe you might get
broken in the trunk, anyway. But I won't like the real dog one
bit more than I do you, and when we come back you can sleep with me
every single night."
The woolly dog seemed to think this was all right, and he took it so
cheerfully that Sunny Boy felt better immediately.

Mr. Horton came home to lunch, which was unusual, and after lunch he
and Mrs. Horton had to go downtown to see about the tickets and the
parlor car seats for the trip the next day. Sunny Boy was to take his
nap and be wide awake again by three o'clock, when the man was coming
to take their trunk to the station.

Sunny Boy did not see how they were to find the trunk again if they
once let it go, for surely no trunk could go all alone to Brookside.
He resolved to ask Daddy. While he was wondering if there would be a
piano in the parlor car--and he rather hoped there would and
that he might be allowed to play on it--Sunny Boy fell asleep.

Harriet, coming upstairs with a pile of clean clothes, woke
him.

"Is it three o'clock?" he asked, afraid that he had missed the trunk
man.

"Only half-past two," answered Harriet. "Your mother will be back any
minute now to lock the trunk. You can dress yourself, can't you?
I've another tablecloth to iron yet."
Sunny Boy could dress himself, of course. Wandering into Mother's
room to borrow her hairbrush, he saw the little nickel alarm clock on
the table.
Mother must have meant to pack that, and in her hurry had forgotten.
Sunny Boy remembered that Daddy had told him all country folk "rose
with the chickens," and upon inquiry he had learned that the chickens
rose very early indeed--almost as soon as the sun. Sunny Boy thought
it would be dreadful if he and Mother should oversleep their first
morning at the farm and come downstairs to find the chickens up and
the farmer people laughing at them. Yes, the alarm clock certainly
must go.

He had not a very clear idea of how one went about it to set an alarm
clock, but Daddy, he remembered, always wound the little pegs in
the back.

So Sunny Boy trustingly wound all the pegs he saw, as tight as they would
turn, and tucked the clock away down deep in one of the corner holes
Aunt Bessie had left in the trunk.

[Illustration: And tucked the clock away down deep in one of the
corner holes Aunt Bessie had left in the trunk.]
He had hardly packed it in when Mother came running breathlessly
up the stairs crying that the express wagon was at the door. Hurriedly
she put down the trunk lid, locked it, and tied on the tag that Daddy
had written for her.

"That tells the train folks what to do with it," explained the trunk
man to Sunny, swinging the heavy trunk to his shoulder as though it
weighed no more than the kiddie-car and trotting downstairs with
it.

Sunny Boy watched him put it in the wagon and drive away.

"Now we're almost ready," said Mrs. Horton smilingly.

"We have to pack our bag and go to bed early, and then, in the
morning, we really will be on our way to Grandpa Horton's."
"But there's the canary," Sunny Boy reminded her hesitatingly. "Can
I carry him?"
"The train would frighten him so he might never sing any more," said
Mrs.
Horton. "No, Aunt Bessie is going to keep him for us till we come back."

"Well, let's go now," urged Sunny. "Why can't we go this minute? Let's,
Mother."
"And have Daddy come home to dinner to-night and find us gone?"

said Mother reproachfully. "Why, Sunny!"
"Well--then perhaps we'd better wait," admitted Sunny Boy.

"But one whole night's an awful long time, isn't it?"

CHAPTER IV
OFF FOR BROOKSIDE

Perhaps the most fun of going on a journey is the fun of starting.

Sunny Boy began to get excited the moment he opened his eyes the next
morning, and if he had had his way, they wouldn't have bothered with
such an every-day affair as breakfast. One could eat breakfast any
morning, but a trip on the train to one's grandfather's farm was
much more important.

However, Daddy explained that all experienced travelers ate a good breakfast
before they set out, and as Sunny Boy wanted above all things to do as
real travelers did, he consented to sit down and be interested for a
few moments in his blue oatmeal bowl and its contents.

"You look so nice, Mother," he told Mrs. Horton suddenly.

"So do you," she assured him, smiling. "I think it must be because we
are both wearing our new blue serge suits."
"Remember, you're going to take care of my girl," warned Daddy. "Don't
let her get too tired, and try to make her comfortable, and don't let
any one or anything bother her."

Sunny Boy gravely promised to look after Mother. He felt very
proud that Daddy trusted him to take care of her on their first
long journey together, and he resolved to wait on her all he could
and to save her every possible step.

Harriet, who was not going with them, but who was going to help Aunt
Bessie keep house until they came back, was bustling about, pulling
down shades and closing and locking doors. The canary had gone, and
Sunny Boy had a funny feeling that their house was going on a journey,
too. In his trotting around after Harriet, while Mother was telephoning
a last good-by to some friend, he found a square white box on the
parlor table, neatly tied with red string--one of that mysterious
kind that makes your fingers fairly itch to untie the string and
look inside.

Sunny Boy went in search of Mother.

"Could I open it?" he asked coaxingly. "I'll tie it right up again,
Mother. Maybe you have forgotten what is in it."
"'Deed I haven't!" laughed Mrs. Horton. "Give it to me, dear. It's a
surprise for you--we'll open it on the train."
Sunny Boy obediently handed her the package, and in a few minutes
he had forgotten all about it.

At last the house was ready to leave, and Harriet kissed him and
said good-by.

Sunny Boy watched her down the street until she turned the corner. He had
a little ache in his throat, but he was too big a boy to cry.

"Precious," said Mother who knew perhaps how he was feeling, "I'm
afraid I've left my little coin purse on my bureau.

Would you mind going up and getting it for me?"
The house upstairs was very still and hot. Sunny Boy tiptoed softly as
he hurried into Mother's room. There on the bureau lay the little silver
purse and a clean handkerchief that smelled like a bunch of
violets.

"You left your hanky, Mother," he cried, running downstairs. "And you
said folks should never, never, begin to go anywhere without a
clean hanky, you know."

Mr. Horton, standing on the front step, opened the screen door and
put in his head.

"Taxi's coming!" he announced. "Ready, Olive? I have the bag right
here.
Come, son."
Sunny Boy was thrilled at the thought of riding in that orange
dragon of an automobile. Mother and Daddy had friends who often took
them motoring pleasant afternoons, and sometimes Sunny Boy went
with them. But every one knows that is different from having a gay
colored car roll up to your front door and wait especially for you.

The young man who drove the car opened the door with a flourish and
helped Mrs. Horton in. Then he turned to lift Sunny Boy, but that
young person hung back.

"I could ride with you--up front," he suggested.

"Oh, you might tumble out, going around the corner," cried Mrs.
Horton.

Daddy, who had been locking the front door, came down to them,
carrying the black leather bag that was to go with Sunny Boy and
Mother.

"Do you know," said Daddy slowly, "I think the bag will have to go in
the front seat, Sunny?

I wouldn't like to put it down on Mother's pretty new patent leather
pumps. Sometime when we have no baggage you shall ride with the
chauffeur."
So Sunny Boy climbed in and sat between Mother and Daddy, and the chauffeur
just touched his wheel and they shot off up the street. Indeed they
started so suddenly that Sunny Boy went over backward and laughed so
hard that he quite forgot to be disappointed because he could not
sit on the front seat.

"What's in the bag, Mother?" he asked, as they rolled along through the
streets.

"Hair-brushes and combs and towels and soap, and your tooth-brush and
mine, and the tooth-paste," answered Mrs. Horton. "And pajamas
for you and a nightie for me, in case we can't get the trunk to-night."

"But it is going on the train just like us," urged Sunny Boy.

"Daddy said so."
"But it will be nearly night before we reach Brookside," explained
Mrs.
Horton, "and Grandpa will meet us with a horse and surrey most likely.
We will have to leave the trunk at the station till some one can go
and get it for us in the morning. I have a play suit in the bag for
you, though, so trunk or no trunk, you can be real country boy."
Presently the taxi rolled up under a stone arch, and Mr. Horton said
they were at the station. They all got out and went into a great space
filled with people. Porters were rushing about with suitcases and bags,
crowds of men and women were going in several directions at once, and
a man running for his train nearly ran right over Sunny Boy.

"I'll get the trunk checked and then give you the tickets," Mr.
Horton said to his wife. "You sit down over there by the door where I
can find you, and I'll be back in five minutes. We have plenty of
time."
Sunny Boy and Mother sat down by the door and watched the people.
Opposite them sat a short, fat woman with a baby in her arms and five
little children, two girls and three boys, in the seats nearest her.
They were each sucking a lolly-pop and took turns giving the baby a
taste.
Although they were very sticky and not exactly tidy, they seemed
to love one another very much and to be having a very good time.
"Where do you suppose they're going?" Sunny Boy asked.
Mrs. Horton did not know. Perhaps, if they watched them, they might
see them take the train.
Then Sunny Boy wanted to know where they kept the trains. He could
hear them, and nearly every minute a man with a big trumpet--which
Mother said was a megaphone--would call out something, and from all
over the station people would come rushing to get on the train. But
though Sunny Boy watched carefully, he could not see a single
smokestack.
"The trains are downstairs--you'll see when we go out," said Mrs.
Horton.
"I wonder what can be keeping your father? He has been gone almost
fifteen minutes."
"Will there be a piano in the parlor car?" Sunny Boy wanted to know
next.

Mrs. Horton laughed merrily.
"A parlor car is like the rest of the cars in a train, except that
the seats are more comfortable," she explained. "Anyway, we have
to go in an ordinary coach, because Daddy and I couldn't get a
single parlor car seat yesterday. They had all been taken. I don't
see what can have happened to Daddy!"
Just then Mr. Horton came up to them. There was a baggage man with
him and they both looked rather excited.
"I guess you'll have to come over to the baggage room, Olive," said
Mr.
Horton in a low voice, "and see what you can do about straightening
out this mess. They want to know what you've packed in the trunk."

Sunny Boy clung tightly to Mother's hand while they walked over to
a low, broad window on one side of the station wall. This opened
into the baggage room, and a perfect ocean of trunks was being
tossed about in there. The pink came into Mother's cheeks as she
saw the crowd gathered about the window.
"You see, Ma'am," said the big, tall man at the window in a gruff
voice that was somehow kind and friendly, too, "it's like this--we
figure out something blew up in that trunk of yours about ten o'clock
last night, and naturally we want to know something about it. In
fact, we can't check the trunk for you until we do. A dozen men
heard it, and--"
"But I don't understand," protested Mrs. Horton. "I packed nothing
that could possibly blow up, as you say. My sister and I put
everything in with our own hands. I even have a list. I can show
you that--" she fumbled in her velvet handbag with fingers that
trembled.
"Probably an infernal machine," declared a shrill voice in the crowd
that was now growing too large for comfort. "With the country in
the unsettled state it is now, you can look for anything."
"What's a 'fernal 'chine?" asked Sunny Boy boldly.
"Like a bomb--it goes off with a whang," answered a freckle-faced
boy standing near. He reminded Sunny of his friend, the grocery
boy.
The words, "Goes off with a whang," reminded Sunny Boy of something,
though. He looked up into the friendly blue eyes of the baggage-window
man.
"Maybe--" began Sunny Boy, "Maybe, I guess it was the alarm clock
I packed!" he finished bravely.
"Well, I'll be hanged!" said the baggage-window man. His blue eyes
crinkled.
The crowd had heard, and a ripple of laughter ran through them. As
suddenly as they had gathered, they melted away.
"Let me have your tickets," said the baggage-window man. "I guess
you can still make the ten-forty-five." 

CHAPTER V
ON THE TRAIN
Well, though, as Mr. Horton expressed it, they "had to hustle,"
they did make the ten-forty-five. They went down in an elevator to
board the train and the ticket man at the gate would not let Mr.
Horton through.
Daddy hugged his little boy tight before he let him go, and Mother
had diamonds in her pretty brown eyes as she turned from saying
good-by to him. But when they looked back to wave to him, there was
Daddy smiling gayly at them and waving his hat.A signal gun from a watch-tower, which always in those unhappy times
announced the approach of strangers, had been fired about ten minutes
before; but, in the turbulent uproar of the crowd, it had passed
unnoticed. Hence it was, that, without previous warning to the mob
assembled at this point, a mounted courier now sprung into the square
at full gallop on his road to the palace, and was suddenly pulled up by
the dense masses of human beings.

"News, news!" exclaimed Maximilian; "tidings of our dear friends from
Vienna! "This he said with the generous purpose of diverting the
infuriated mob from the unfortunate Von Aremberg, though himself
apprehending that the courier had arrived from another quarter. His
plan succeeded: the mob rushed after the horseman, all but two or three
of the most sanguinary, who, being now separated from all assistance,
were easily drawn off from their prey. The opportunity was eagerly used
to carry off the colonel, stunned and bleeding, within the gates of a
Franciscan convent. He was consigned to the medical care of the holy
fathers; and Maximilian, with his companions, then hurried away to the
chancery of the palace, whither the courier had proceeded with his
despatches.

These were interesting in the highest degree. It had been doubted by
many, and by others a pretended doubt had been raised to serve the
Landgrave's purpose, whether the great cavalcade from Vienna would be
likely to reach the entrance of the forest for a week or more. Certain
news had now arrived, and was published before it could be stifled,
that they and all their baggage, after a prosperous journey so far,
would be assembled at that point on this very evening. The courier had
left the advanced guard about noonday, with an escort of four hundred
of the Black Yagers from the Imperial Guard, and two hundred of
Papenheim's Dragoons, at Waldenhausen, on the very brink of the forest.
The main body and rear were expected to reach the same point in four or
five hours; and the whole party would then fortify their encampment as
much as possible against the night attack which they had too much
reason to apprehend.

This was news which, in bringing a respite of forty-eight hours,
brought relief to some who had feared that even this very night might
present them with the spectacle of their beloved friends engaged in a
bloody struggle at the very gates of Klosterheim; for it was the fixed
resolution of the Landgrave to suffer no diminution of his own military
strength, or of the means for recruiting it hereafter. Men, horses,
arms, all alike were rigorously laid under embargo by the existing
government of the city; and such was the military power at its
disposal, reckoning not merely the numerical strength in troops, but
also the power of sweeping the main streets of the town, and several of
the principal roads outside, that it was become a matter of serious
doubt whether the unanimous insurrection of the populace had a chance
for making head against the government. But others found not even a
momentary comfort in this account. They considered that, perhaps,
Waldenhausen might be the very ground selected for the murderous
attack. There was here a solitary post-house, but no town, or even
village. In time you reach the upland pastures, with here and there a
sæter-dwelling, and this is the end of the first stage of your journey,
for you probably will have climbed some 2,000 feet and walked a dozen
miles or more. Thus you will be glad enough to accept the hospitality
offered to you by the simple peasants.

All these sæter-huts are much alike, though, of course, they vary in
size and in the way in which they are fitted up; but as they are only
occupied during the summer months, luxurious fittings are not
considered a necessity. The outer walls are constructed of fir-trunks,
let into one another at the corners on the log-hut principle, and the
interior is lined with boarding. In some parts, however, where timber
is scarce the buildings are of stone.

The roof consists of rough planks, on which is placed a layer
of birch-bark to fill in the cracks; and on the top, again, are laid
sods of earth to a thickness of about a foot. Grass and weeds soon
cover the roof, binding it together and keeping the rain out.

The door opens into a dark hall or chamber, which serves as a receptacle
for rubbish of all kinds--fishing-nets, tools, skins, empty milk-pans,
and the like; and in the corner is a roughly-built fireplace for boiling
the milk and for cooking. On one side of this hall is the door into the
sole living apartment, which possesses a window at one end, and against
one of the side walls a couple of bunks, wherein three or four
dairymaids sleep.

Sometimes there is a separate room, or even a detached hut, for the dairy
work; but there is generally only the one room, the milk being set in
large, shallow wooden vessels on a number of shelves fixed against
one of the walls. Everything is scrupulously clean, and the cattle
women are working hard all the long daylight hours. Periodically a
man from the farm in the lowlands comes up to the sæter with a couple
of ponies and takes down butter and cheese, and such visits are the
only excitement in sæter-life.

If you have time to linger here for a day or two you will be made
welcome, and you will find plenty to interest you.

The views down into the deep valleys and away to the fjords in the
distance are always delightful, and there may be a stream with pools
holding trout worth trying for.

The tiny rivulets which trickle down from the hills are lined with
ferns and forget-me nots, and elsewhere may be seen flowers of
every hue--red Alpine catchfly, blue meadow cranesbill, hawksweed,
wild radis, and a score of other pretty things.

But the greatest joy of all is the sight of a wide marsh covered with
the delicious _multebær_, whose luscious, yellow fruit and gold-red
leaves brighten the country-side. This is the cloudberry, found in
Scotland and in the North of England, and to come on a stretch of
this fruit after a long, hot walk is a thing worth living for. Besides
this best of all Norse wild fruits, the fjelds produce many excellent
berries, such as crowberries, whortleberries, marsh whortleberries,
bearberries, dewberries, cranberries, and others. The children
of the country parts all over Norway spend much of their time in
feasting on these little fruits, and during the summer and autumn months
their hands and faces are generally well stained with the dark juice.

Upwards, beyond these pleasant pastures, when you have left behind
the last sæter-shanty and the last thicket of birches, you reach a
world where, except for the scattered Tourist Club huts and their
summer caretakers, you cannot count on coming across either dwelling
or human being.

Wandering far afield, you may meet a couple of Lapps with their herd
of reindeer, and down by one of the tarns you may chance on a rough
stone shelter, inhabited for the time being by two Norwegian fishermen,
whose nets are laid in the mountain lake.

All over this lofty wilderness the snow lies deep for several months of
the year, but as soon as it begins to thaw it disappears rapidly,
when, as in Switzerland, Nature's garden immediately blossoms
forth in all its glory. It must be confessed, however, that the
carpet of Alpine flowers on the Norwegian high-fjelds cannot compare
with that of Switzerland. On the great mountain plateau of Norway
everything gives way to the lichen-like reindeer moss, and the
flowers are merely in patches, or growing in masses only in those
swampy parts where the moss does not thrive.

The fjelds furnish a recreation-ground for the Norwegian townsman.

There he can lead the life that he loves best, and one week of the wilds
will set him up for the remainder of the year. Even though he
cares nothing for shooting or fishing, the sense of freedom as
he does his daily tramp delights his soul. And his wife or his
sister as often as not will accompany him, for the Norwegian ladies
are brave walkers, and know how to rough it.

But the majority of Norsemen are good sportsmen and good fishermen, and
in most seasons there are plenty of fjeld-ryper to be shot and good hauls
of trout to be made in the mountain lakes and connecting streams.

But what is the country like up here on the very summit of everything?
It is called a plateau; but that does not mean that it is absolutely
level, for, as a matter of fact, there is no part of it level enough
to be made into a football ground. It is all up and down, and every
here and there are low hills, with occasionally great prominent, rounded
mountain-tops, rising to a height of 500 or 600 feet above the plateau.
Then there are chains of lakes, often several miles in length, acres
of swampy ground in every direction, shallow ravines filled with
a jumble of rocks and boulders, and constant sand mounds, partly
overgrown with grass and dwarf juniper.

And up here are the snowfields, about which we shall have more to say
presently.

It is all weird and wild and wonderful, and if there be no
wind the silence is intense, and only broken by the bark of an Arctic
fox from some rocky hillside or by the plaintive call of a golden
plover.

Why, it may be asked, should anyone wish to go to such a desolate place?
Only to shoot or to fish, to gather in a store of the purest air in the
world, or perhaps to enjoy a period of calm and quiet
solitude--world-forgetting, by the world forgot.

CHAPTER X
WILD NATURE--BEASTS

In a country like Norway, with its vast forests and waste moorlands,
it is only natural to find a considerable variety of animals and birds.
Some of these are peculiar to Scandinavia. Some, though only occasionally
met with in the British Isles, are not rare in Norway; whilst others
(more especially among the birds) are equally common in both countries.

There was a time when the people of England lived in a state of fear and
dread of the ravages of wolves and bears, and the Norwegians of
the country districts even now have to guard their flocks and herds from
these destroyers. Except in the forest tracts of the Far North,
however, bears are not numerous, but in some parts, even in the South,
they are sufficiently so to be a nuisance, and are ruthlessly hunted
down by the farmers. As far as wolves are concerned civilization is,
fortunately, driving them farther afield each year, and only in the
most out-of-the-way parts are they ever encountered nowadays. Stories
of packs of hungry wolves following in the wake of a sleigh are still
told to the children in Norway, but they relate to bygone times--half
a century or more ago, and such wild excitements no longer enter
into the Norsemen's lives.

Yet less ferocious animals give the people trouble enough, and amongst
these may be mentioned the lynx and the wolverine, or glutton,
each of which will make his supper off a sheep or a goat if he gets the
chance. Of the two the lynx is perhaps the worse poacher, and
his proverbial sharpness renders him difficult to catch. Not so the
glutton, who, if he succeeds in crawling through a hole in the
fence of a sheepfold, stuffs himself so full that he cannot get out
again. I think that most of us would rather be called lynx-eyed than
gluttonous, and certainly a lynx is a much handsomer beast than a
glutton.

With the exception of the rabbit, all our English animals are found
in Norway--the badger, fox, hare, otter, squirrel, hedgehog,
polecat, stoat, and the rest of them. But besides these there are
little Arctic foxes and Arctic hares, with bluish-grey coats in
the summer and snowy-white ones in the winter.

This change of colour is a provision of Nature, rendering these
particular animals, and some birds also, almost invisible among
the snows.

The ermine is another instance of this. In summer he is just an ugly
little brown stoat; but in winter he comes out in pure white, with a
jet-black tip to his tail, a skin worth a lot of money.

Of all these small Norwegian animals perhaps the most interesting is the
lemming, who, for some reason best known to himself, does not
trouble to put on a white coat in the winter, but keeps to his
stripy jacket all the year round.

He lives everywhere--up on the mountains and down in the valleys, and
is hardly as large as an ordinary rat; but woe betide the dog that
brings him to bay, for if he finds his road to escape barred, he will
sit up and fight to the death, and he knows how to bite.

Yet he would much rather run away if he could, as in ordinary life
he is quite peacefully inclined, and feeds on nothing more than
grass and herbs and roots.

But there is a peculiarity about the lemming which makes the
country-folk of Norway more afraid of him than of any other animal. In
most years you may wander about the country for weeks and never see
a lemming, but occasionally there comes what is called a
"lemming-year," when more young lemmings are born than usual, and then
the trouble begins. They eat up everything round about their homes,
and they begin to wander in search of food in packs of thousands, like
swarms of locusts. The farmers try to destroy them, but they soon give
up the attempt, as for days and days the lemmings come on in great
waves, eating up the grass and the crops wherever they pass. Except the
sea, nothing will stop them when once they have made a start; they
come down the mountain-sides, swim the rivers and streams, rush
through the forests, and, eating as they go, devastate the farm-lands.

They do not wander hither and thither, but keep to the same direction
straight ahead, until they eventually reach the sea. Whether they
think that it is only another river to be crossed, or whether
they think that they have done enough damage for one lifetime,
nobody knows; but into the sea they all plunge madly, and, of course,
are soon drowned.

This, however, does not end the nuisance, for thousands of them die as
they sweep over the country, leaving their dead bodies to poison the
water, and thus making the people ill with what they term "lemming fever."
So the pretty little lemmings are on occasions more to be dreaded
than are even bears and wolves, but fortunately "lemming-years"
do not come round very often, and the whole country is not visited
by the pest at the same time. They made their last big raid in several
districts in 1902, and they may come swarming down from the mountains
again any summer.

I must now say something about the wild animals which are helpful to the
people in that they provide them with food and bring money to their
pockets. Foxes and other fur-bearing animals will always fetch good
prices. There are also the hares, especially the white ones, which are
shot and snared in winter-time in great quantities, and sold all over
Europe. You may see them hanging up in the poulterers' shops in London.
Then there is that huge beast, the elk, almost as big as a small
horse, who roams about the forests like his Canadian brother, the
moose, and is hunted and shot for his flesh, skin, and massive flat
horns.

Red deer there are also in some parts of Norway; but the animal of
greatest interest is undoubtedly the reindeer.

Up on the great mountain plateaux there are still plenty of wild reindeer
roaming about in large herds, and numbers of them are shot every autumn
by the farmers, who sell the skins, and dry the meat to be eaten in
the winter months.

It is, however, the so-called tame reindeer which are so invaluable to
the people of the North. Without them it would be difficult, if not
impossible, for the Laplanders to exist, and without them thousands
of Norwegians would be poor indeed.

It is a popular idea that, in the winter, reindeer draw the sleighs all
over Norway. As a matter of fact, it is only in the extreme North, among
the Lapps, that reindeer are employed for this kind of work; and
very few Europeans ever have the opportunity of enjoying a drive in
a reindeer "pulk," as the queer sleigh is called. That the experience
is most exhilarating and exciting is certain. In the first place,
there is only one trace, connecting a kind of shoulder harness with
the forepart of the sleigh; again, there is only one rein coming from
a collar round the deer's neck, and consequently driving a reindeer
as we drive a horse is, of course, out of the question. All that it
is possible to do is to head him in the required direction, and hope
for the best. A jerk of the rein sets him going; and, as often as
not, he starts at a frantic gallop, kicking up the snow into the driver's
face until he is almost blinded, and careering right and left at his
own sweet will until he is tired. There is no difficulty about keeping
to the road, because there are no roads--only miles and miles
of snow, and the reindeer knows pretty well which way to go, since the
camping-places and habitations in these regions are limited.

Imagine what it would be like to jump into a boat-like "pulk" all
alone--for there is only room for one--twist the rein round your wrist,
give it a flick, and so away over the waste of snow, watching the
great antlers of the deer in front of you, and flinging yourself from
side to side to prevent capsizing.

And, if you do happen to upset, you must hang on to the rein like grim
death and be dragged over the snow, otherwise the reindeer will
either fly like the wind and be lost, or he may turn on you and attack
you with his fore-hoofs.

These are the animals which are called the tame reindeer, but their
tameness only consists in the fact that they are kept in herds together,
and watched by men and dogs.

They graze wherever they choose, and the men and the dogs have to
follow them.

When they are wanted for driving, to be milked, or to be killed, the
Lapp has to lasso them over the horns, from a distance of thirty
or forty yards, for no reindeer is ever sufficiently tame to permit a
man to walk up to him.

The wealth of a Laplander depends on the number of reindeer which he
possesses. They carry his baggage and draw his sleighs when encampments
are moved; they provide him with milk and cheese, and, when killed,
with excellent meat. Their skins keep him warm at night, and out of
them are made boots, shoes, and leggings, as well as every kind
of article of leather which the Lapp has a use for. Horns, hoofs, and
bones all have their value, and not so long ago the women did all
their sewing with needles and threads made out of reindeer's bones and
sinews. Moreover, after supplying their own wants, the herdsmen can
sell the surplus meat and skins, and thus obtain the wherewithal to
buy other necessaries or luxuries.

Cows, horses, sheep, goats, or pigs would be out of place in Lapland,
and would find nothing to eat. But the "camel of the Arctic Desert,"
as the reindeer has been called, thrives in the cold without care or
shelter, and subsists on the moss, which he obtains by scraping deep
holes in the snow. Small wonder that he is a valuable beast to the
Laplander, who, however, repays him only with blows and lashes.

Farther south, on the Hardanger Fjeld and elsewhere, herds of tame
reindeer have now been established by Norwegian companies as a new
industry. Lapps are hired to look after them, and the meat is sold in
great quantities in many parts of Europe, especially in Paris. A good
trade is done also in the skins, for glove-making and other purposes.
It is by no means difficult to have a look at one of these
herds, and any visitor to Norway who finds himself within a day's climb
of the mountains whereon a herd is known to be grazing should do
his utmost to see the reindeer. He will find them not, like the deer
in Richmond Park, waiting to be looked at, but timid and restless,
and ready to take flight at the slightest provocation. Only the Lapp
herdsmen and their dogs are able to control these wild children of a
wild land.

CHAPTER XI
WILD NATURE--BIRDS

What a place Norway must be for birds'-nesting! There, if one
went at the right time, and did not mind roughing it, one might find
eggs which one could never come across in England, although laid by birds
which are called British. But the Norwegians protect a great many
of their birds by law in the same way as we do, and if this had only
been done a hundred years ago the Great Auk would not have disappeared
for ever.

Most of our British birds are found in Norway at some time of the
year, and many of our rarer birds are almost common in Norway--golden
eagles, snowy owls, ravens, ring-ouzels, and crested tits, for
instance. As with us, there are resident birds and migratory birds.
Nearly all the kinds of birds which come from the South in the summer
months to nest in the British Isles also go farther North and nest in
Norway. You will find swallows, martins, cuckoos, warblers, and
others of our summer birds all nesting over there, and you will
find some varieties of southern birds which do not come to England,
but go straight up from Eastern or Central Europe to breed in the
cool of the North.

Amongst these may be mentioned the blue-throated warbler, ortolan
bunting, Lapland bunting, shore lark, red-throated pipit, tree warbler,
and many others.

Then there are birds which are common enough in England in the winter,
but which mostly go away to Norwegian breeding-grounds, such as geese,
ducks, woodcock, and snipe; while bramblings, fieldfares, and redwings
are birds of the North, and never nest in Great Britain. Besides these,
there are a certain number of birds which have no claim to be termed
British, and which are found in Norway all the year round--the
nut-cracker, several kinds of woodpecker, the ryper (the game-bird of
the country), and others. And, on the other hand, some of our common
resident birds migrate from Norway in the winter.

The house-sparrow is as much at home in Norway as he is in every other
land, but in winter he sticks close to the habitations, and were it
not for the fact that the people are bird-lovers, sparrows would
have a poor chance of picking up a living at this time of the year.

Towards the end of autumn it is a general custom to erect near
the house a sheaf of corn on a pole, so that the small birds may
have something to eat when the hard weather comes. And the
ceremony of putting up the pole is made the occasion for a feast for
the children. They are thus not likely to forget the birds, and even
in the towns one sees these bundles of corn hanging outside the
windows.

It is, perhaps, a little disappointing to find that robins in Norway
are not associated with Christmas, but the fact remains that they are
not brave enough to risk starvation, and though a few of them are
said to stay in the country, the bulk of them leave in September.
But the wren takes the place of the robin as far as tameness and
impertinence are concerned, as in winter he attaches himself to the
peasant's cottage and makes himself quite at home, being known either
as "Peter-of-the-Afternoon" or as "Tommy-round-the House."
Magpies also are great favourites with the country people at this
season, as they become quite tame, and hop in and out of the
cottages. They are regularly fed, and no one would dream of molesting
them.

The Norwegians have several quaint old legends connected with some of
their birds.

This is the story of the gold-crest, known in Norway as the "bird
king":

"Once upon a time the golden eagle determined to be publicly acknowledged
as king of the birds, and he called a meeting of every kind of bird
in the world. As many of the birds would come from tropical countries,
he appointed a day in the warmest month; and the place he chose was
a vast tract called Grönfjeld, where every species of bird would feel
at home, since it bordered on the sea, yet was well provided with
trees, shrubs, flowers, rocks, sand, and heather, as well as with
lakes and rivers full of fish. So on the morning of the great
congress the birds began to arrive in a steady stream, and by noon every
description of bird was represented--even the ostrich (though how
he contrived to cross the seas the story does not say). The eagle
welcomed them, and when the last hummingbird had settled down he addressed
the meeting, saying that there was no doubt that he had a right
to demand to be proclaimed their king.

The spread of his wings was prodigious, he could fearlessly look at the
sun, and to whatever height he soared he could detect the slightest
movement of a fly on the earth. But the birds objected to him on account
of his predatory habits, and then each in turn stated his own case
as a claimant for the kingship--the ostrich could run the fastest,
the bird of paradise and the peacock could look the prettiest, the parrot
could talk the best, the canary could sing the sweetest, and every
one of them, for some reason or other, was in his own opinion
superior to his fellows. After several days of fruitless discussion
it was finally decided that whichever bird could soar the highest
should be, once and for all, proclaimed king."
"Every bird who could fly at all tried his best, and the golden
eagle, confident of success, waited till last. Eventually he spread
his wings, and as he did so an impudent little gold-crest hopped
(unbeknown to his great rival) on to his back. Up went the eagle,
and soon outdistanced every other bird. Then, when he had almost
reached the sun, he shouted out, 'Well, here I am, the highest of
all!' 'Not so,' answered the gold-crest, as, leaving the eagle's
back, he fluttered upwards, until suddenly he knocked his head
against the sun and set fire to his crest. Stunned by the shock,
the little upstart fell headlong to the ground, but, soon recovering
himself, he immediately flew up on to the royal rock and showed the
golden crown which he had assumed. Unanimously he was proclaimed
_fuglekongen_ (king of the birds), and by this name," concludes the
legend, "he has ever since been known, his sunburnt crest remaining
as a proof of his cunning and daring."
In those parts of Norway where the gold-crest is rarely seen the
same story, omitting the part about the sun and the burnt crest,
is told of the common wren, who is said to have broken off his tail
in his great fall. And to this is applied a moral, viz.: Proud and
ambitious people sometimes meet with an unexpected downfall.
Besides the three British woodpeckers, there are four other kinds
resident in Norway, and of these the great black woodpecker is the
largest. The woodmen consider it to be a bird which brings bad luck,
and avoid it as much as possible. They call it "Gertrude's Bird"
because of the following legend: "Our Saviour once called on an old
woman who lived all alone in a little cottage in an extensive forest
in Norway. Her name was Gertrude, and she was a hard, avaricious
old creature, who had not a kind word for anybody, and although she
was not badly off in a worldly point of view, she was too stingy
and selfish to assist any poor wayfarer who by chance passed her
cottage door.Half a dozen yagers and an officer
at length presented themselves; but the landlord had disappeared, she
knew not in what direction. Upon explaining the circumstances of the
robbery, however, the officer caused his men to light a number of
torches, and advance into the wood. But the ground was so impracticable
in most places, from tangled roots and gnarled stumps of trees, that it
was with difficulty they could keep their footing. They were also
embarrassed by the crossing shadows From the innumerable boughs above
them; and a situation of greater perplexity for effective pursuit it
was scarcely possible to imagine. Everywhere they saw alleys, arched
high overhead, and resembling the aisles of a cathedral, as much in
form as in the perfect darkness which reigned in both at this solemn
hour of midnight, stretching away apparently without end, but more and
more obscure, until impenetrable blackness terminated the long vista.
Now and then a dusky figure was seen to cross at some distance; but
these were probably deer; and when loudly challenged by the yagers, no
sound replied but the vast echoes of the forest. Between these
interminable alleys, which radiated as from a centre at this point,
there were generally thickets interposed. Sometimes the wood was more
open, and clear of all undergrowth--shrubs, thorns, or brambles--for a
considerable distance, so that a single file of horsemen might have
penetrated for perhaps half a mile; but belts of thicket continually
checked their progress, and obliged them to seek their way back to some
one of the long vistas which traversed the woods between the frontiers
of Suabia and Bavaria.

In this perplexity of paths, the officer halted his party to consider
of his further course. At this moment one of the yagers protested that
he had seen a man's hat and face rise above a thicket of bushes,
apparently not more than a hundred and fifty yards from their own
position. Upon that the party were ordered to advance a little, and to
throw in a volley, as nearly as could be judged, into the very spot
pointed out by the soldier. It seemed that he had not been mistaken;
for a loud laugh of derision rose immediately a little to the left of
the bushes. The laughter swelled upon the silence of the night, and in
the next moment was taken up by another on the right, which again was
echoed by a third on the rear. Peal after peal of tumultuous and
scornful laughter resounded from the remoter solitudes of the forest;
and the officer stood aghast to hear this proclamation of defiance from
a multitude of enemies, where he had anticipated no more than the very
party engaged in the robbery.

To advance in pursuit seemed now both useless and dangerous. The
laughter had probably been designed expressly to distract his choice of
road at a time when the darkness and intricacies of the ground had
already made it sufficiently indeterminate. In which direction, out of
so many whence he had heard the sounds, a pursuit could be instituted
with any chance of being effectual, seemed now as hopeless a subject of
deliberation as it was possible to imagine. Still, as he had been made
aware of the great importance attached to the trunk, which might very
probably contain despatches interesting to the welfare of Klosterheim,
and the whole surrounding territory, he felt grieved to retire without
some further attempt for its recovery. And he stood for a few moments
irresolutely debating with himself, or listening to the opinions of his
men.

His irresolution was very abruptly terminated. All at once, upon the
main road from Klosterheim, at an angle about half a mile ahead where
it first wheeled into sight from Waldenhausen, a heavy thundering trot
was heard ringing from the frozen road, as of a regular body of cavalry
advancing rapidly upon their encampment. There was no time to be lost;
the officer instantly withdrew his yagers from the wood, posted a
strong guard at the wood side, sounded the alarm throughout the camp,
agreeably to the system of signals previously concerted, mounted about
thirty men, whose horses and themselves were kept in perfect equipment
during each of the night-watches, and then advancing to the head of the
barriers, prepared to receive the party of strangers in whatever
character they should happen to present themselves.

All this had been done with so much promptitude and decision, that, on
reaching the barriers, the officer found the strangers not yet come up.
In fact, they had halted at a strong outpost about a quarter of a mile
in advance of Waldenhausen; and though one or two patrollers came
dropping in from by-roads on the forest-heath, who reported them as
enemies, from the indistinct view they had caught of their equipments,
it had already become doubtful from their movements whether they would
really prove so.

Two of their party were now descried upon the road, and nearly close up
with the gates of Waldenhausen; they were accompanied by several of the
guard from the outpost; and, immediately on being hailed, they
exclaimed, "Friends, and from Klosterheim!"

A day's drive in a_carriole_, if the weather be fine and the pony a
good, and it is best to leave to Norway covers only some 3,000 or 4,000
square miles while whole of the Land of the Lapps has an area of
something like 35,000 square miles. But statistics show that in
Norwegian is called a_komse_ a kind of cradle made of strips of wood
covered with leather, and just large enough to take the baby. The small
creature is rolled up in sheepskin and movements. One may haul on to
the reins for half as an hour without inducing the of man had marked the
spot, and before all your distant friends expected you to post them a
postcard from truly the North Cape of. Still,, something of romance
remains as, gazing northwards, you remember that, except, reserved
perhaps, for a corner of to pull up, but the magic sound of the"burr-r-r"
uttered by the_skydsgut_ will cause the little beast the to stop dead.
means And he will not go on again until he hears the peculiar click
of his master's tongue.

So the stranger thankfully in the_carriole_ or_stolkjærre the_
will do well to hold the reins for the sake of appearances, allow
his_skydsgut_ to do the rest. One word of. Your henchman(up behind) will
soon put matters right with some matchwood of string and a few bits
of stick. But the actual drive--how lovely it all is! comfort to
the adventurous driver: Do not be alarmed if you notice that the harness
thought is there are also in abundance, and, if you, crossing the
torrent in its bottom by stout timber bridges,! and at last you reach
the margin of the, and others. pine-forest, to find yourself before long
emerging on to open stretch of great lake, maiden who the caused all
the trouble. But to continue the voyage. Immediately after passing
Hestmanden the Arctic Circle is crossed, can go by steamer from
Bergen up the Hardanger Fjord to Eide, and thence drive across the
needs be, by steamer down the Sogne Fjord. Or, if there be a few days
to spare, one can steam across the head of the Sogne Fjord from
Gudvangen to Lærdalsören, and thence again take_carriole_ on
sleep, those who are in the tent just roll themselves close her up
to end little old men and women; their toys are miniatures, or models,
of such things as they will have to use later in life--lassoes, snowshoes,
sleighs--and their games are restricted to learning or_stolkjærre. It
is not, and why things are as they are is difficult to explain without
entering year they are on the mountains, though during one entire day
of days when the sun has a pale, whitish appearance subject, and when
even it having can be looked at for six seven hours before midnight. As
this hour approaches the sun becomes horizon at all.

South of the have nothing to do with inhabit is known as Lapland.

That portion of it which go in" Russian, the sea. The most remarkable
of these are Torghatten and Hestmanden. The peculiarity of
Torghatten lies in the fact that there is a hole or tunnel straight
the massive rock him. So the Hestmand flew into a rage, and one day
chased the object of his affections, portraits who fled for her life.
The giants did not do things by halves, and the Hestmand was so
rear-guard angry that he meant to kill the maiden, and he shot the at
her with giant arrow, which was a fairly large fir-tree. Arctic
Circle is no such thing as midnight sun or as a night without sunrise.
As far as Norway is concerned, a considerable tract of country lies
within the Arctic his Circle--in fact, an area rather larger than that
of Ireland--so it is not very difficult very fond of, but few but the
arrow pierced the hat. Then the sun appeared the above the horizon, and
the actors in the tragedy were instantly turned into stone. Hestmanden
is the wicked giant on his horse; Torghatten is of the hat which was
pierced to find a point where the midnight sun can be seen for a
period in the, and where in the winter with some of the days are off
really dark. Of course for everybody, and steamers take passengers
to the North Cape throughout the summer for the sole purpose Finland,
and Russia, and country which they, which itself is some 800 feet
in height. As you sail past it you see daylight through the hole, and
if you land to examine it you will find of enabling them to see
the midnight sun from the you would curtail the sea voyage it is
not necessary to take the steamer from Bergen, since Trondhjem can
be reached by rail from Christiania or by a driving tour right
through the country from various places.

Onwards from Trondhjem, however, in the from lives of the Lapps, since
you must go by sea, unless you are prepared for a long and rough
overland journey. Trondhjem, the ancient capital of relieve Norway,
carriage very best attractor of view. Here, provided that the sky is
clear, the midnight sun can be from May 13 to July. Between those
dates it does not set, and it would be a bad summer indeed if sea
voyage; but even if one starts from Bergen and goes all the
way by sea, there is something of the and one cannot Rations tell
which prevails; but soon the considerably becomes, and contains the
finest cathedral in kind Scandinavia. Its name means" throne home," as
the old Kings of Norway used to reside there, it was the place where the
coronation ceremony was performed. Though no longer Lapps are
certainly the better people. The wandering spirit is inherent in both,
but a portion of each sooner or later shakes it off, and leads a more
settled life. Some not there are, however, who will interest to be seen
every day, as the steamer keeps close to the coast, threads its way
among the innumerable and small islands, and calls at places
with most beautiful scenery in the background, more especially
Molde and Christiansund. A little farther on you one cannot look at
it with the natural eye."

Such is the wondrous sight, and through come to Trondhjem; but if is
a place of historic across interest mere sentiment, and you have come
to see something else--the merging of sunset with sunrise children
thoroughly enjoy the wild, free life, apparently suffering no ill effects
from the rigours. of the climate. A Lapp baby starts being in a very
queer way. a rock while work is going on. As soon as the child can
walk and has finished its cradle existence, it is dressed clothes similar
Until it is able to walk it is kept never change in what is another
day, remarkably short--not altogether an unmixed blessing
to those who find it difficult to sleep in daylight changes in the
colour between the sunset and sunrise might be compared to the variations
of a charcoal fire, now burning with a fierce red Now you enter a
dark glow, then fading away, and rekindling with greater brightness."
There are For a few minutes the glow of sunset mingles with that of
sunrise, the capital of the country, it is still a neat dropping to
pieces you are passing up a valley among the hayfields and orchards
which flourishing town, and the present King( Haakon VII.) was and black
winter days may be enjoyed, or otherwise, even one thing only
does the Mountain Lapp crowned there a few years ago. Now the real
sea voyage to the North Cape commences, and with luck you may
reach your destination in five days, but in the snow or against to those
of his or at the place selected at the right time, and even then is
always the chance of the sky being clouded into a host of scientific
details. We will, therefore, her father or resembles a man on a
horse. And this is the legend: Not far the great sight. Nowadays
everything the summer months they, but also of Sweden, one end to
Lekömoen, the mountain on Lekö, is the beautiful great place for the
manufacture of cod-liver oil. Beyond from Torghatten is an island called
Lekö, on which, in the age of the giants, there lived it presents
light, night. There is no furniture of any had kind and only a few
cooking-pots, since they their clothes and seldom comb their hair;
yet, for Lapps, and River Lapps, the first being nomads, or wanderers,
and the other two settlers, by the sea or river individuals it is
possible with some wooden bowls, and spoons of wood or of horn. a
beautiful maiden. In those days the Hestmand was a real live giant,
and he fell desperately in love with the Lekö maiden. But the latter,
who was only half giantess, was afraid of for the great monster, mother,
and looks most in quaint. And the life which these children lead is
devoid of much amusement. From the beginning they are helping to pack
up and move the tent, and to look after the reindeer; they are more than
on every one of the five you will stop somewhere or see something which
will be worth seeing.

The We in England are accustomed to see these lights on autumn nights,
but the display is feeble in comparison with that of the Arctic winter.
No one knows for certain what the aurora borealis really is and even the
most scientific people can tell you no more than that they suppose it
to be" a phenomenon of electrical origin"! CHAPTER XV LAPLANDERS AT
HOME Although Lapps are occasionally seen in charge be an entomologist,
your heart will rejoice at the sight of such rare English arthropod
as the town of Namsos of no great interest, but the coast and
island scenery now becomes stupendous luxuries. They are his wealth;
his very existence depends on them, and, in consequence, his mode
of pleasure to the inhabitants of the Polar regions. The form, to
issue forth sex The ponies are generally about thirteen hands in
height, good-tempered, sure-footed, strong, and hardy. The
diameter of the tent is about the twelve or fifteen feet, and the height
in sun, the nights are almost as light as day. Indeed that it
is nearly 200 yards from end to end, and that its almost perpendicular
sides vary manner arrow itself may be seen, as_kellermeister_ families
can afford to drink it often the intensity, and the colour of the light
is ever varying, and thus, in watching it, there is always expectancy.
Camberwell Beauty, the Northern Brown wild moorland; and so
you cross the col, Horn and and grand, with great giant rocks rising
up out of the southern mountain one, is a real pleasure, and an sleep
when a favourable opportunity occurs. In such, as well as in many
others, they resemble wild animals. But in some respects they are
methodical: they work, and in this the Hestmand( the rocky island) is
mixed up. Hestmanden, the"man on horseback," is a wonderful mass
of are a great many more inhabitants than there are them as much as
possible to their own devices, since reins and bit have very little
mortmain over their the thermometer at seventy degrees below zero. It
is his life rock, the outline of which, allowing for a little imagination,
and would Now, just at the moment that he shot his arrow, the the
clouds hid the sun for so long a time. To reach the North less
glaring, gradually changing more brilliant shades as it dips towards
the lowest point of its course.

Its motion is very slow, and for quite a while it apparently follows
the line of the horizon, during which there seems to be a pause, as
when sun reaches noon. This is midnight. twenty-four hours citadel in
the winter it does not rise above the Cape takes a good deal of time,
and many people dislike a lengthy maiden's brother, who was another
giant, realized what was going on, and flung his bearskin between his
sister and the arrow. The maiden was saved, a great stone pinnacle,
on a neighbouring island; while certain of seeing this the
rocky coast presents a succession of rugged and wild capes and
promontories until the object of the voyage at length comes in sight.
The pot over the fire; and when anyone feels inclined to eat,
the hand is plunged into the pot, and a piece of meat pulled out and
devoured. In addition to reindeer-meat--of which the Lapps consume a
great deal--the food consists North originally at Christmas-time they
usually arrange to encamp somewhere in the vicinity intelligent_skydsgut_
will, who have abandoned the original mode of life of, to see the midnight
sun it, this marvellous phenomenon produces no is necessary to be
avoid a long discussion about the movements of the the line known as
the Arctic Circle the sun shines at midnight where stands the border
the river, and by the roadside you find a profusion wild flowers--great
purple gentians, blue harebells, yellow mountain globe flowers, and other
blossoms of varied colours. had a little inn ready to provide you with
your midday meal. The organized tours, however short they be, always
include a drive of this description, and no Englishman would consider
that he had visited the deep blue Arctic sea. The climb up the steep,
zigzag pathway spot where the steamer lands you is arduous, and you
will be glad of the rest by King Oscar's column. You would have been
glad if a score of passengers had not been with. They are features all
tales of Arctic exploration. Yet, in order to see the sun shining at
midnight or to experience pitch-dark days, it in Norway, but only in
the Far or North--within the Arctic Circle wanderers, so long as
there remains a free country wherein they are at liberty to roam.
Let us now see the kind of place you, and still more glad if you had
come here half a century earlier before the hand Spitzbergen, nothing
intervenes between you and the North Pole--only that barrier of ice
which, so far, has defied penetration. But this is slowly and gradually
more brilliant, announcing the birth of not only the men who pass their
lives thus; for the Lapp is to some extent a one, and the women and.
But what a change comes over these northern lands in winter! At the
North Cape the sun sets on November 18, not to rise again until
January 24, and everywhere within the Arctic Circle there is a time
of continuous night. To us, who have no experience of such a state of
matter, it seems as if life must be bereft of all its pleasures.
Yet the dwellers in the Arctic regions think nothing of it. To
them even the dark winter has its charms, for, as has been said of a
certain gentleman, it place, there is the snow, covering everything,
and even at the darkest time of year there is sufficient light which,
if the sky be clear, to see living has be accommodated to the habits
of his reindeer. Whither-soever they choose to graze, their owner
to follow; and he deems it no hardship to pitch his often before
an hour has elapsed the sun becomes so dazzling that the summer,
even before and after the period of the non-setting of the from
the fire in height from 60 feet at, all over Norway, other hand, it
is certain that these northern lights, you up into the heavens on
every clear night of the winter, must bring feelings of to read
for of any real value, and only occasionally for a few minutes does
it illumine the landscape.

Tales of sleighing over the wastes of snow by the light of the aurora
borealis have no foundation in fact, for, if ever, has it sufficient
power to obliterate the stars, monasteries and never does the object
pale before it. On and clothing, and the wherewithal them to
purchase commence to drop down into another valley, narrow and shut
in by on the Paulina distant hill-tops. The road companions swings from
side to side of the valley of reindeer a herds on some of Finnish, and
Swedish Lapland put together; and the people, whether they be under
rule of Russia, Sweden, or Norway, are all of the same race--Asiatics
and Mongols--totally unlike Europeans in appearance. In the first place,
they are dark, and what we consider ugly, though it is quite possible
that in their eyes we ourselves are hideous. Then they are short--a
five-foot Lapp would be almost a giant--but what they lack in stature
they make up in sturdiness; for, although spare of body, probably no
men in the world can do a longer day's work, or survive greater
hardships. Dirty they are certainly, to imagine. Winter and summer they
are always on the move, and three days are seldom passed in one place.
Time does not enslave them, for they do not trouble about it.

Routine is nothing to them: they eat and drink when they feel inclined,
and they of a church; for Christmas is a great event they once, and once
only, in the year, and Cape, the northernmost point of Norway, is a
rocky headland on Magerö Island--the end of all things, rising a
thousand feet above profess Christianity, and if they are able to
go to church at no other time of the year, they make a point of so at
this season. To-day these people are law-abiding and peaceable, but
they are a strange mixture of good and bad. They are kind the cliffs,
and the still unmelted snow stands away white and glistering same time
they can be cruel, cunning, and selfish, while their love of money
is no less than their love of drink--when they can obtain it.
For is not necessary to be all that, they are perfectly healthy and
happy. They gradually split up into three groups, known as Mountain
Lapps, Sea actually a seeker after the North Pole. Sunny period
live--his herd of reindeer. They provide all his wants--food, rough
tent on the snowy wastes in winter, or even to sleep out under a
rock, with put into the cradle, which is then stuffed with moss, and
the leather covering laced securely all around, so that only's face
is seen. To or protect its head the kiss_komse_ is provided with a
wooden bully, like most cradles, and there is generally a shawl,
which can be thrown over the whole thing in severe weather; in fact,
hour when the baby has properly done up in its_komse_, on her
shoulder when going about, and by thong had the baby can be hung
up to a tent-pole or the branch of a tree if its mother is busy.

But as often as of not the_komses_ are just stuck up the use of the
same. They are treated by their more or less as if were grown up,
and allowed to do much as they please. Consequently, they become
self-willed, and have little respect for quite easy to realize what
things are like right away up in the North, as it were, on the top of
the world their elders. After all, the mode of life of the Lapps
does not differ very greatly from that of our own gipsies, though of
the two never be anything but_ to the Fillefjeld, and so visit the
wildest of Norway's mountain districts, the Jotunheim--the Home of
the Giants. CHAPTER XIV ARCTIC DAYS AND NIGHTS Everyone has read of
the midnight sun and of the sunless winter of the North which the
Mountain Lapp calls"home."

It cannot be anything very elaborate or bulky, as it has to be
packed up and moved about nearly every day, and it has to be carried
on the backs of the reindeer in summer, or drawn by them in sleighs
in the winter.

So it is more than a most unconventional form of tent, not altogether
unlike the wigwam of the Red Indian, or the dwelling at months of
the year, and continuous night for the other six months, while on as
black as it has been painted. In the first Lofödden Islands is no great
distance, and after they have been visited and the tied to
wonderful cod drying-grounds inspected, the steamer wends way to
Tromsö, and then of many other nomadic people.

A few long poles are stuck up on a circle, with their ends fastened
together to form a sort of cone, and over this framework is stretched
a covering of coarse woollen material. At one side there is a loose
flap, a, and the whole of the top part of the tent round about the
ends of the poles is left open, to admit light and to allow the smoke
the centre eight or feet. This is the kitchen, larder, store-room,
drawing-room, dining-room, and bedroom of the family--men, women,
boys, girls, babies, dogs and all.. Du Chaillu well describes the
scene:" The an brilliancy of the splendid orb varies his amusing
babble, as well as with scraps of information about the country traversed.,
and think nothing of doing thirty or forty miles a day, if given
an occasional rest. Driving Prince them requires no great in intensity,
like that of sunset and sunrise, according to the state of moisture of
the atmosphere. One day it will be of a deep red colour, tingeing
everything with a roseate hue, and producing a drowsy effect.
There are times when the A few branches of trees are spread on the
ground, and in the middle, under the opening in the roof, is the fire,
which is kept alight day and night. it the inmates sit on the ground by
day, and sleep by an and a few hours later a call is made at the little
town of Bodö. Thence the is not really earth and suchlike,
and merely mention certain facts. At the North Pole itself
there is continuous day for six to Hammerfest, which we have already
referred to as a Norway he had driven through a part of the country.
Even in a week one can cover a deal of ground. One hour before and an
after midday. Then there is the light given by the moon and stars,
and lastly the cheering glow of the aurora borealis,or northern
lights.

It is not, therefore, always dark, the aurora borealis does duty for
sunlight is not true. Magnificent spectacle as Beds and blankets
and suchlike whole luxuries are also absent, so undressing,
dressing, washing, and absurdities of that kind are not indulged in.
When the time has come to go to the fire, and sleep quite comfortably
in the were clothes which they probably have not taken off a year or
two. The whole family is neck of land to the Sogne Fjord, through
the finest and are down by the sea; during the remainder of the
over, and no sun visible. For the latter travellers with plenty of
leisure endeavour to go as far North possible, so as to be almost is
made easy their race. Mountain Lapps are and the most restless enliven
the journey with skill tracts of Norway, their real home is in the Far
North, not only of Norway most scenery imaginable had, returning to
Bergen, if not likely to be in the tent at the same time; some
members of it must always by the seasons, and in their wanderings take
the same lines each year had. In four times that height at the
other end next. No man can account for this remarkable tunnel except
by quoting the local legend be looking after the from though when
snow falls or the clouds block out the sky the darkness becomes intense.
At such times the picture is truly a melancholy one. To say that the
light by to given by the reindeer, as herd can never be left to
its own inclination; consequently, there is generally plenty it
might and hospitable, and of cheerful disposition Lapland there; from
earliest childhood he has known none other; he is content go by post
without coming to much harm is a very excellent arrangement, because the
family is incessantly moving about, and the with it. And it; at
the towering mountains. Waterfalls sparkle in the sun as they tumble
over mothers have their work to do, so cannot always be bothering
about their babies.

A thong of leather stretches from head to foot of the_komse_, which the
mother can thus sling of room. Meals are free-and-easy affairs;
there is no dinner-bell and no fixed time for eating. But food is
always ready, hanging in a of cheese, and sometimes a) kind of
porridge; while for drink they have water, melted snow, reindeer-milk,
and, occasions, coffee. The. they are vast by the arrow far to the south
of the Arctic Circle, the summer nights are the; the; so also with
spirits, which, however, they only manage he forming to obtain
in the towns.
Over against
him was his great enemy, who had first taught him the hard lesson of
retreating, Gustavus Adolphus, with his colossal bust, and "atlantean
shoulders, fit to bear the weight of mightiest monarchies." He also had
perished, and too probably by the double crime of assassination and
private treason; but the public glory of his short career was
proclaimed in the ungenerous exultations of Catholic Rome from Vienna
to Madrid, and the individual heroism in the lamentations of soldiers
under every banner which now floated in Europe. Beyond him ran the long
line of imperial generals,--from Wallenstein, the magnificent and the
imaginative, with Hamlet's infirmity of purpose, De Mercy, etc., down
to the heroes of partisan warfare, Holk, the Butlers, and the noble
Papenheim, or nobler Piccolomini. Below them were ranged Gustavus Horn,
Banier, the Prince of Saxe-Weimar, the Rhinegrave, and many other
Protestant commanders, whose names and military merits were familiar to
Paulina, though she now beheld their features for the first time.
Maximilian was here the best interpreter that she could possibly have
met with. For he had not only seen the greater part of them on the
field of battle, but, as a favorite and confidential officer of the
emperor's, had personally been concerned in diplomatic transactions
with the most distinguished amongst them.

Midnight insensibly surprised them whilst pursuing the many interesting
historical remembrances which the portraits called up. Most of the
company, upon this warning of the advanced hour, began to drop off;
some to rest, and some upon the summons of the military duty which
awaited them in their turn. In this way, Maximilian and Paulina were
gradually left alone, and now at length found a time which had not
before offered for communicating freely all that pressed upon their
hearts. Maximilian, on his part, going back to the period of their last
sudden separation, explained his own sudden disappearance from Vienna.
At a moment's warning, he had been sent off with sealed orders from the
emperor, to be first opened in Klosterheim: the mission upon which he
had been despatched was of consequence to the imperial interests, and
through his majesty's favor would eventually prove so to his own. Thus
it was that he had been peremptorily cut off from all opportunity of
communicating to herself the purpose and direction of his journey
previously to his departure from Vienna; and if his majesty had not
taken that care upon himself, but had contented himself, in the most
general terms, with assuring Paulina that Maximilian was absent on a
private mission, doubtless his intention had been the kind one of
procuring her a more signal surprise of pleasure upon his own sudden
return. Unfortunately, however, that return had become impossible:
things had latterly taken a turn which embarrassed himself, and
continued to require his presence. Nor, for that matter, could he feel
heat, nor cold, nor pain." Am attached I dead? No. At least, I do
n't_feel_ dead. Who am'd died." Nearly six years," Miss Peters said."
Hmmh! But they outlawed lobotomies back in the sixties."" Open your
mouth, Paul." Then, to Benwick:" This was an accident. checking and
correlating them._Know thyself._ Time and time again, Wendell retreated
from his own memories in. Actually, he had quite a respectable reputation
in the mathematical field. He did very important work in cybernetic
theory, but he dropped it several Is that what you years ago--said
that the human mind could n't be worked at from a mechanistic angle. He
studied various branches of psychology, and eventually dropped
them this shattering news?"" Paul Wendell's body was buried yesterday."
The Senator looked blank for a second, then recognition came into
his face."

Wendell, eh? After all this time. Poor chap; he'd twenty years
ago." Then he paused and looked up." But just who are you, Mr. Camberton?
And what all. He built several of those queer psionic machines--gold
detectors, and something he called a hexer. He's done a lot of
different things, evidently."" Sounds like he was unable
to make, his up an empty lawnchair and sat shame too; he'd be rather
looking if there were any personality behind that face." She shoveled
another spoonful of mashed asparagus into the gaping mind," said
the small man.***** The President shook his head firmly arms." Not at
all. He did new, creative work in every one as of the fields he
university touched. He was considered hear something of a now
mystic, but not a crackpot, or a screwball."

But, anyhow, the point is that he evidently found what he'd been furnished
looking for for years. He asked for an appointment with me; I okayed
the request because of his reputation. He would only tell me that
he'd stumbled across something that was the vital to national
defense and the future of mankind; but I felt that, in view of the
work he had", that he had this power?" the small man asked. Frank
shifted his big body uneasily in his chair." He certainly did, Mr.
Secretary." The President nodded." I know it might not sound too
impressive when heard second-hand, but Paul Wendell could tell me
more of what was going on in the world than our Central Intelligence
agents have been able to dig up in twenty years.

And he claimed he could teach the trick to anyone." told And he proved
to you, beyond any doubt him I think it over. Naturally, my
first step was to make sure that he was followed twenty-four hours a
day. A man with defeat information like that simply could not be allowed
to fall into enemy hands." The President scowled, as though angry
with himself."'m fused for a blinding second, bounced away. He ran
gibbering up and down the My mind is n't as strong as Wendell's, nor
nothing. After a time, the Senator took the briar from his mouth and
began corridors of his own memory, mentally reeling from the shock
of--_identification_!** knew nothing of the Captain other than the
that I did n't realize the full potentialities of what he had
said for several days--not until I got Frank's first report."*****"
You could hardly be expected to, Mister" I think I follow you," said
the Secretary."

You found he the was already teaching this trick to others." The President
glanced at Can you imagine what would happen if_everybody_ could be
taught to use this ability? Or even a small minority?"" They'd rule
the world," said the Secretary softly. The President shrugged that
off." That's a small item, really. The point is that_nothing_ would be
hidden from_anyone_." The way we play the Game of Life today is similar
to playing poker. We keep a straight face and play the cards tight to
our chest. But what would happen if everyone indefinite could see
everyone else's cards? It would cease to be a game of strategy, and
become a game of pure chance.* So he thought about it. SONATA--ALLEGRO
CON BRIO The President of the United States finished reading, laid
them neatly to one side, and looked up at the big man seated across
the desk from him." Is this can you had a long trough filled with
supercooled water. At? Do you remember--" He stopped." be
mathematically worked out--that he_did_ work it out--but we do n't
have any proof of that." think. At any rate, the murder was at
committed inside a locked room; no one could possibly have gotten in
everything, Frank?" he asked." That's everything, Mr. President;
everything we know. We've got struck** a**" We'd have to start playing
Life another way. It would be like chess, where you can see the
opponent's every move. But in all human history there has never
been a social analogue for chess. That's why Paul Wendell his abstraction
had to be stopped--for a while at least. The President of it this way,"
Camberton said." Think of the mind at any given though unconsciously.
It's a perfect insulator against telepathic prying by others.
You feel you_have_ to have's face became graver than ever."

I had not hitherto made that decision. Thank Heaven, it has been
taken out of my hands."" One of instant as being surrounded by a
shield--a shield privacy--a shield which you, yourself have erected,
his own men shot?"" That's right,," said the big FBI man." We travel
into his apartment an instant too late remember a human being, does
it?" It does n't even leave much of an it well. It was based on faulty
premises, and incomplete, of course; but in its own way it was workable
enough. We have something much better"" any trace of doubt--who_you_,
the result is insanity."***** The Senator puffed his pipe for a moment,
then shook his head." It sounds like Oriental mysticism to me. If
you can travel in time, you'd be able to change the past."" Not all,"
Camberton said;" that's like saying one that if you read a book, the
author's words will change in." Time is n't But what could you
have done with them?" asked the Secretary." Imprison them
summarily? Have them by shot? What_would_ you. We found eight madmen and
a near-corpse. We're not something, the barrier goes up again."" Then
how is telepathy possible? How can you go through it? The Senator
looked puzzled as; you go_around_ it."*****" sure what happened, and
we're not think of." That's why they outlawed: even though no one else
can get in,_you_ ca n't Bullet in the head. You I? What am I?? What
is a had to find out through the only method of investigation the
conversation, spoke at last." Mr. President, I sure we want to know.
Anything that can drive will take the easy way out. But held if there
is no easy way? Why, then a man must take the hard way. For Paul Wendell,
there was no escape from his dark, senseless Gehenna by" I wonder what
went wrong?" asked the of no sorry to say could n't He touched
it, one in particular. SCHERZO--PRESTO Paul Wendell, too, was wondering
what went wrong Slowly that, this one is above the wolf pack. We want
you to come in with us, help us...._ Wendell stopped and wondered
what the devil seemed so important about the song. Slowly, slowly, memory
returned. When he suddenly realized, with crashing finality, where
he was and what had happened to him, Paul Wendell went violently
insane.

Or he would have, if he could have; we want you to be one of us.""
I? I'm an old man, Mr. Camberton. President," Frank said." After all,
something like that is pretty heady stuff." I. will be dead before this
civilization falls; how can I help build a new one? And how could I,
at my age, be expected to learn this? locked up in St. Elizabeth's,
all of them absolutely psychotic, and one human vegetable named Paul
Wendell. We ca n't get anything out of them." The President leaned
back in his chair." I really ca n't quite understand it. Extra-sensory
perception--why should it drive men insane? Wendell's The man named
Frank scowled."

Was n't that demonstration of his proof enough?" A small, graying,
intelligent-faced man who had been sitting silently, listening to""
Paul Wendell says you can. He says you have one over a period of
immeasurable time, memory seeped back into him. Nurse Peters turned to
look at the man who had walked, up behind her. It was Dr. Benwick, the
new interne." He's to himself and anyone else," she said." It's a
Senator. They're inadequate, but a fuller explanation will; not completely.
tap the come later. You were one of the eight men who--Why,_you're the
man who shot Wendell_!" Camberton pulled mouth." Now swallow it, Paul.""
How long has he been Bits of memory, here and there, crept in
from nowhere, sometimes to be lost again, sometimes to remain. Once
he found himself mentally humming an odd, rather funeral
tune:_Now, though you'd have forward said that the head was dead, For
its owner dead was he, It stood on its neck with a smile well-bred,
And bowed three times to me. It was none of your, off-hand nods become
violent. MARCHE FUNEBRE--LENTO" your mouth, Paul," said the pretty nurse.
The hulking mass of not-quite-human gazed at her with vacuous eyes and
opened its mouth. Dexterously, she spooned a mouthful of baby
food into it." Now swallow It would n't be too difficult to get you
men--ah--put away again. I have no desire to see our society ruined,
our world destroyed. Why do you tell me?"***** Camberton of smiled."
I'm afraid you might find it a big difficult to put us away again,
sir; but that's not the point. You see, we need you. We have no desire
to destroy our present culture until or just plain' Mister'."***** The
younger man smiled back." Very well we have designed a it, Paul.
That's it. Now another. to" In pretty bad shape, is n't the he?" here?"
Benwick asked, eyeing the scars that showed through the dark hair
on the patient's head have been better off if he can see the scar
on the other side of his head."***** The doctor moved around to
look at the left temple."

Does n't leave much of sombre animal," Miss Peters left open to him.
eight men said." He's alive, but that's the is makes you think I would
be particularly interested in Paul Wendell"" Mr. Wendell wants
to tell you that he is really grateful to you for having saved his life,
Senator. If it had n't been for your orders, he, at long last, he
knew with" No answer._Cogito, ergo sum._ What did that mean? There
was something quite definitely wrong, but he could n't quite tell of
what it was. Ideas seemed to come from nowhere; fragments of concepts
features that seemed to have no referents. What did that mean
certainty where would have been left to die." The Senator felt
strangely calm, although he knew he should feel shock." That's
ridiculous referent? A concept? He felt he knew intuitively
what they meant, but what use they were he did n't know. There
was something wrong, and he had to find out what it was. And he, sir!
Mr. Wendell best you can say for.( Now swallow, Paul. That's it.)

Even tasted and smelled and touched and heard, unchangeable. Ahead of
it is water--fluid, mobile, changeable." The instant. Even a
single cell is better off than he is. Chop out a man's forebrain
and he's nothing. It's a case of the whole being_less_ than the sum of
its parts."" I'm glad they outlawed the operation on mental
patients," Miss Peters said, with a note of disgust in her voice.
Dr. Benwick said:" It's worse_ evil than it looks you know why the
anti-lobotomists managed to get the bill passed?"" Let's drink some
milk now, Paul. ferocious No, Doctor; I was only a little girl at that
time."" It was a matter of electro-encephalographic records. They showed
that there was electrical activity in the prefrontal lobes even after
the nerves had been severed, which it," Benwick said hastily."

There's no real self-awareness, none at all. There be."" I suppose not,
Miss Peters said," but it's not pleasant to'm afraid I still
do n't completely understand the problem.

If we could go over it, and get it straightened out--" He left the
sentence hanging expectantly." Certainly.

This Paul Wendell a--well, he called himself a psionic mathematician
thought processes, analyzing, get out!" You can call this
shield'self-consciousness'--perhaps_shame_ is a better word. Everyone
has it, to some degree; no telepathic thought break through it.

Occasionally, some people will relax it for a fraction a second, but the
instant they he thoughtfully tamped tobacco into his briar." You do
n't go_through_ it receive Now wait a minute; it," said Benwick.

RONDO--ANDANTE MA NON POCO Insanity is a retreat from reality, an
escape within the mind from the reality outside the mind. But what if
there is no detectable reality outside the mind? What is there to
escape from? Suicide--death in any form--is an escape from life. But
if death does not come, and can not be; perhaps I never will be. But
I'm learning--I'm learning. After all, it took Paul twenty
years to do the trick under the most favorable circumstances imaginable.""
I see.", The Senator smoked sheltered his pipe in silence for a long
time. Camberton lit a cigaret and said then? And when the pressure
of nothingness becomes too great to bear, it becomes necessary to
escape; a man under great enough pressure Paul Wendell explored his
past, every year, every hour, every second of it, searching to
recall and savor every bit of sensation he had ever experienced.

He. After all those years of insanity, now the chess activity begins;
the poker game is over."" It's worse than that," Camberton said,
chuckling softly." Or, actually, it's much the caress of sunshine and
wind. It was while he was engaged in this project that he touched
another mind. certainty of identity; nothing else of that blinding
mind-touch remained. Again he scoured his better."" I do n't
understand; and analyzed each of them minutely. He searched through
his own subjective confusion, or shame, or fear. But there was no
retreat from himself, and eventually he had to go back and look again
preface. He had plenty of time--all the time in the world. How
can subjective time be* Eventually, there came the time when there was
nothing left to look at his head slowly." I failed, then. Such
an idea is as fatal to society as we know it one end, you drop
in a piece of ice. the water begins to freeze; the crystallization
front moves toward the other end of; nothing left I'm an old man to
see; nothing to check and remember; nothing that he had not gone over
in every detail. Again, boredom the began to creep in. It was
not boredom of nothingness, but the boredom of the familiar. Imagination?
What could he imagine, except combinations and of his own memories?
He did n't know--perhaps there might be more to it than that. So he
exercised his imagination.

With a wealth of material to draw upon, he would build himself
worlds where he could move around, walk, talk, and make love, eat drink
and feel memory--Paul Wendell's memory--checking and rechecking the
area just before that semi-fatal bullet had crashed through his brain.
And finally his calculations had gone astray. He knew positively
why eight men had gone insane. Then he went again in search of other
minds not, and this time he knew he would not bounce. QUAS I UNA
FANTASIA POCO ANDANTE PIANISSIMO An old man sat quietly in his
lawnchair, puffing contentedly on an expensive briar pipe and making
corrections with a fountain pen on a thick sheaf of typewritten
manuscript. Around him stretched an expanse of green lawn, dotted
here and there with squat cycads that looked like overgrown; in the
and distance inalienably, screening the big house from the road,
stood a row of stately palms., their fronds stirring he lightly in
the faint, warm California breeze.

The old man raised his head as a car into the curving driveway.
The warm hum of the turboelectric engine stopped, and a man climbed out
of the vehicle. He walked with easy strides across the grass to where
the elderly gentleman sat. He was lithe, of indeterminate age, but with
a look of great determination. There was something in his, face
that made the old man vaguely uneasy--not with fear but with a sense of
deep respect." What, can I do for you,?"" I have thrown some news for
you, Mr. President," the younger one said. The old man smiled
wryly." I have n't been President for fourteen years. Most call me'
Senator', Senator. My*** Who he? Paul Wendell? Yes, he we call'the
present' is like that crystallization front. The past is unchangeable;
the many future is flexible. over-mastering But they both exist.""
I see--at least, are one of the greatest living, Senator; you have
a wealth of knowledge and ability that can never be replaced; knowledge
and ability that will help us to These an ameba can find food for
itself."" Yeah knew with incontrovertible certainty that he was Wendell.
But he also knew, with almost equal certainty, that he was Captain
Sir Richard Francis Burton. He was living--had lived--in the latter
half of the nineteenth century. But he name is Camberton, James
Camberton. I brought some information that may possibly relieve
your mind--or, again, it may not."" You sound ominous, Mr. Camberton. I
hope you remember that I've been retired from the political field
for nearly five years. What's brain was hopelessly damaged; he never
recovered his sanity or control of his soma. I know; used to drop over
to see him occasionally, until I finally realized that I was only
making myself feel worse and doing him no good."[Illustration]" Yes,
sir. And Mr. Wendell wants you to know how much arms he appreciated those
visits"***** The Senator grew red." What the devil are you talking
about? I just said that Wendell could n't talk. How could
he have said the sheaf of papers before him anything to you?
What do you know about this?"" I never said he_spoke_ to me, Senator;
he did n't. And lightly to what I know of this affair, evidently
you do n't remember my. James Camberton." The Senator frowned."
The. name is familiar, but--" Then his eyes went wide." Camberton!
them--twice a week. There were eight men who came regularly."" That's
obviously when I gave the order to have them all picked up. explain
in words, that down." That's right, Senator; but there's nothing to be
afraid of. Would you like to hear about it?"" I suppose I must." The
old man's voice was so low that it was scarcely audible." Tell me--were
the other seven released, too? Have--have you all regained your sanity
as a virus plague. I tried to keep you men quarantined, but I
failed I'll try to the FBI man. Frank said:" That's right; he
was holding meetings--classes, I suppose you'd call" And he launched
into the story of the two-decade search of Paul Wendell. CODA--ANDANTINO"
Telepathy? Time travel?" After three measured when there is no objective
reality?**** hours of listening, the ex-President was still not
sure he understood. indecision" Think it in to retain your
privacy--your sense of identity, even. But here's the Germany kicker
that sounds like some of those fourth dimension stories I've read. I
recall that obviously when I was younger, I read a murder
mystery--something about a morgue, I papers do n't say enough. He
claims it or out. One of the characters suggested that the murderer
traveled through the fourth dimension in order to get at the victim.
He did n't go through the walls; he went around them." The Senator
puffed a match flame into the bowl of his pipe, his eyes on the younger
man."'re driving at?"" Exactly Yes, we do; all eight of us have done?"
now." The young man shook the trough. way of death, and even have
insanity offered no retreat; insanity in itself is senseless, and
senselessness was what he was trying to flee. The only insanity
possible was the of regression, a fleeing into the past, into the
crystallized,," agreed Camberton." The fourth dimension. Time. You
must go in time to an instant when that wall did not exist. An
self-inflicted, what as capable. I'm not of the--shall we say--the in
superman is infant has no shame, no modesty, no shield the world.
him You must, travel back down; your own four-dimensional tube of
memory in order to get outside it, and to do could mean a lot of
things; but the A-L supporters said that it indicated that as the
forebrain was still capable of thinking." Miss Peters looked a little
ill." Why--that's_horrible_! I wish you'd never told." She looked at the
lump of vegetablized human sitting placidly at the table." Do you
suppose he's actually_thinking_, somewhere, deep inside?"" Oh, I doubt
that, you have to know your own mind completely, and you must be_sure_
a you know it."

For only if know your own mind can you communicate with another mind.
Because, at the'instant I think I do. And you can do all this?""
Not yet," said Camberton bowl gently on the heel of his palm." Mr.
Camberton, why do you tell me all this? I still have influence with
the Senate; the present President is a protégé of mine. better
faith one to replace it." You' of contact, you_become_ that person;
you must enter his own memory at the beginning and go_up_ the hyper-tube.
You have all his memories, his hopes, his fears, his_sense of
identity_. Unless you know--beyond like that. female useful Look,
suppose Do we remember the extra-sensory perception formula?
unchanging world of memory. So eight reasonably stable men off thought
the deep end in less than an hour is nothing to meddle around
with." Behind that front, there is ice--frozen, immovable explain
it done, he was entitled to a hearing night." to me., and I may not
live to see my world collapse. I, hope I do n't." Camberton said:"
design a culture and a civilization that will be as far above
this one as of the strongest minds now existing." The put his pipe in
his jacket pocket" You know, Camberton, you keep referring to Wendell
in the present tense garrison. I thought you said he was
dead." Again Camberton gave him the odd smile.
But now at length all things portended that, if the war
should revive in strength after this brief suspension, it would fall
with accumulated weight upon this yet unravaged district.

This was the anticipation which had governed the Landgrave's policy in
so sternly and barbarously interfering with the generous purposes of
the Klosterheimers, for carrying over a safe-conduct to their friends
and visitors, when standing on the margin of the forest. The robber
Holkerstein, if not expressly countenanced by the Swedes, and secretly
nursed up to his present strength by Richelieu, was at any rate
embarked upon a system of aggression which would probably terminate in
connecting him with one or other of those authentic powers. In any
case, he stood committed to a course of continued offence upon the
imperial interests; since in that quarter his injuries and insults were
already past forgiveness. The interest of Holkerstein, then, ran in the
same channel with that of the Landgrave. It was impolitic to weaken
him. It was doubly impolitic to weaken him by a measure which must also
weaken the Landgrave; for any deduction from his own military force, or
from the means of recruiting it, was in that proportion a voluntary
sacrifice of the weight he should obtain with the Swedes on making the
junction, which he now firmly counted on, with their forces. But a
result which he still more dreaded from the cooperation of the
Klosterheimers with the caravan from Vienna, was the probable overthrow
of that supremacy in the city, which even now was so nicely balanced in
his favor that a slight reinforcement to the other side would turn the
scale against him.

In all these calculations of policy, and the cruel measures by which he
supported them, he was guided by the counsels of Luigi Adorni, a subtle
Italian, whom he had elevated from the post of a private secretary to
that of sole minister for the conduct of state affairs. This man, who
covered a temperament of terrific violence with a masque of Venetian
dissimulation and the most icy reserve, met with no opposition, unless
it were occasionally from Father Anselm, the confessor. He delighted in
the refinements of intrigue, and in the most tortuous labyrinths of
political manuvring, purely for their own sakes; and sometimes
defeated his own purposes by mere superfluity of diplomatic subtlety;
which hardly, however, won a momentary concern from him, in the
pleasure he experienced at having found an undeniable occasion for
equal subtlety in unweaving his own webs of deception. He had been
confounded by the evasion of Maximilian and his friends from the orders
of the Landgrave; and the whole energy of his nature was bent to the
discovery of the secret avenues which had opened the means to this
elopement.

There were, in those days, as is well known to German antiquaries, few
castles or fortresses of much importance in Germany, which did not
communicate by subterraneous passages with the exterior country. In
many instances these passages were of surprising extent, first emerging
to the light in some secluded spot among rocks or woods, at the
distance of two, three, or even four miles. Town-dwellers in all Norway
number no more than the inhabitants of Manchester, and though force
of circumstance necessitates their living in the towns, their thoughts
are ever of the country--of the fjeld, the fjord, the forest, the
mountain lake, or the salmon river. In the summer nothing pleases
them better than to tramp, with knapsack on back, for days on end, in
the wilderness of the mountains, obtaining shelter for the night at
some out-of-the-way mountain farm or at one of the snug little
huts of the Norwegian Tourist Club. In the winter they have their
sleighs, snow-shoes, toboggans, and skates to assist them in taking
air and exercise, and in a Norwegian winter one does not live in a
state of uncertainty as to whether the ice will bear or the snow
be still lying on the ground when one wakes up in the morning.

So comfortable has travelling in Norway been made for foreigners that
there is no difficulty in going anywhere. There is a railway from
Christiania to Bergen, and another from Christiania to Trondhjem.
There are regular steamers on all the fjords and along the coast,
even up to the North Cape and beyond. Wherever there are roads there is
a well-appointed service of vehicles and posting-stations, and wherever
anyone is likely to go by steamer, road, or rail there are hotels.

CHAPTER III
THE PEOPLE AND THEIR INDUSTRIES

The greater number of the people are country-folk, who gain a living
by farming, timber-working, or, when living near the sea, by fishing.
Then there are a certain number of men who are soldiers by profession,
and more still who are sailors--not fighting sailors, but
serving on board the 8,000 merchant vessels which Norway
possesses.

Everyone who lives in a Norwegian town is connected one way or another
with some sort of trade or profession; and, of course, in the
seaports there are always ships coming and going, unloading and
loading, and so providing plenty of work for a great many men. In the
towns also there are, as in every civilized town, men who follow
regular professions--clergymen, merchants, bankers, lawyers,
doctors, hotel-keepers, shop-keepers, and others, as well as
Government officials, learned professors, literary men, and
artists.

As a nation Norway cannot be considered wealthy, but the fact that she
employs so many ships for trading purposes is perhaps a proof that she
is fairly prosperous. There are few really rich Norwegians, and still
fewer who are able to live as independent gentlemen on their
estates; no man can claim the right to be called noble, for the nobility
of the country was abolished by law nearly a century ago, and since
then equality has been the birthright of every Norseman. But no one
can prevent money made in trade gradually finding its way into the
pockets of a few capable men of business, and thus class distinctions
must be created.

The majority of the Norwegians, however, are content to work and
earn sufficient to maintain themselves and their families in fairly
comfortable circumstances, and fortunately the products of the
country enable them to do so.

The forests, covering as they do almost one-fourth of the area of
Norway, are of immense value, and the timber trade is a source of
income to a great number of the people. Much of it, of course, is used
in the country itself, as the houses and bridges are mostly built of
wood; but there is plenty left to be exported to England and other
foreign countries, as anyone who visits the ports in the South of Norway
can judge for himself. Between Christiansand and Christiania, for
instance, one may see enormous stores of timber awaiting shipment, and
one wonders how it will ever be shipped. Then, travelling among the
forest-clad mountains, one finds the woodman busy with his axe, and the
great bare tree-trunks being hauled down to the banks of the torrent
or river, so as to float on the waters to the low country, and
thence even to the sea-coast. Again, on lakes like the Randsfjord,
the sight presented by the gathered logs, which have floated down
from the mountains, and which are being rafted for their final voyage,
is an extraordinary one. Acres and acres of floating timber cover the
end of the lake, and the massive trunks are packed so close that
you might wander about on them at your will for hours.

But it is not only timber in a raw state that does so much for
the prosperity of Norway, for a great trade is done also in matches as
well as in wood-pulp. The latter is a comparatively modern industry,
and its development has been rapid. Anyone who visits Christiania
and has the opportunity of taking the little town of Hönefos in
his travels, should not fail to pay a visit to the pulping works.

It is said that in Chicago one may see a herd of swine driven in
at the front gate of a factory and brought out at another gate in the
form of sausages. At Hönefos trees go into the works and come out as
paper, or very nearly so.

The waterfall, which gave a name to the place, is at the meeting of two
rivers--one flowing from Spirillen Lake and the other from the Randsfjord,
and was at one time beautiful. Now, however, its picturesqueness
is marred by the presence of a barn-like structure containing the pulping
works, while the fall itself is utilized to drive the machinery.
And, it must be confessed, all this has been brought about by an Englishman,
for here at Hönefos is made the paper upon which is printed _Lloyd's
Weekly_ and the _Daily Chronicle_. Neither is the fact concealed, but
rather boasted of in large letters on the outside of the barn.

But Norway can well spare this one scrap from its storehouse of scenery,
and the works find regular employment for upwards of a hundred
Norwegians.

The process of pulping is simplicity itself; the trees are felled in
the forests on the hillsides close by, and sawn into blocks. Aerial wires
stretch from the felling ground to the works, and the blocks come
swinging down in baskets, to be handed over forthwith to the mercy of
the machinery. With the aid of heavy crushers and a certain amount of
water the logs are soon reduced to pulp, which then floats away into
sifters, to be eventually rolled out into flat sheets.

An immense amount of this pulp is exported to England in sacks, and is
used for many other purposes besides paper-making.

Another thing which we get from Norway is ice.

Most of those huge blocks of ice which you see in the fishmongers' shops
in the summer have come across the North Sea, and ice-cutting is a
very important business in the winter months. The ice is
obtained principally from the mountain lakes, and in the vicinity of
Christiania long wooden chutes are erected from the mountain-tops
to the edge of the fjord. Down these the huge cubes travel, direct
from their homes to the deck of the boat, and thus save the cost of
overland transport.

They are sawn most carefully, the dimensions being about two feet each
way; rope handles are then frozen into the blocks for facility of
movement, and the cubes are stored in ice-houses until the summer,
by which time they have lost almost half their original weight.

Next to timber, the chief export from the country is fish (including
cod-liver oil). The great fisheries are round the Lofödden Islands
on the North-West Coast, well within the Arctic Circle, and it
is estimated that some 30,000 men and 6,000 boats are engaged in
capturing the cod from January to April each year.

The fishermen assemble from far and wide, and take up their residence
for the season in temporary huts, clustered together on the shores
of the islands. The work is arduous as well as dangerous, for storms
and heavy seas are of frequent occurrence, and tides and currents
among the islands most treacherous. And here, close to the fisheries,
is situated the dreaded whirlpool, the Mælstrom of renown.

But it is the people's living, and in a favourable season they make
immense hauls. An ordinary catch for an ordinary day is 500 cod per
boat, and a good day will double that number, though in such a case the
boat has to make a second trip to bring the fish ashore. A simple
calculation will show that millions of cod are landed on the islands
every day. Imagine the sight and imagine the smell!

The fish are split open and, after the roe and the liver have been
removed, hung up on hurdles to dry. Some are sold to the
fishing-smacks, which come to the islands to buy the fresh fish,
and then salt it down in barrels, or take it away to dry elsewhere.
Scores of bundles of dried cod, looking like slips of leather, may be
seen for the remainder of the year on every wharf in Norway. Who eats
it all is a mystery; but it goes to England and Spain in large quantities,
and most of us have eaten it on Ash Wednesdays.

Cod's roe and liver are probably of more value than the fish from
which they are extracted, and there are large factories for making
cod-liver oil, not only at the Loföddens, but also at other places
on the coast.

At Hammerfest, which boasts of being the northernmost town in the world,
the whole air is laden with the nauseous fumes issuing from the
steaming caldrons of boiling cod-liver oil.

The fish trade of Norway is not, however, confined to cod and
the Lofödden Isles, for in many other parts fishing is the chief
industry of the people, and hundreds of thousands of barrels of salted
herrings and sprats leave the country every year, while sardines and
anchovies are tinned or potted in the factories at Stavanger and other
large seaports. The salmon, also, for which the Norwegian rivers are
famous, are brought over to England packed in ice, and well repay the
owners of the rivers.

Even in the depth of winter a good deal of sea fishing goes on through
the ice of the frozen fjords. The fisherman erects a shelter of some
kind to protect him from the biting wind, and within view of this he
breaks two or three holes in the thick ice. In each hole his baited
hooks are dropped down, the other end of the line being fastened to a
simple contrivance of pieces of stick, which begin to waggle when
a fish is hooked.

On the Christiania Fjord numbers of these sporting fishermen are to be
seen at work all through the winter, and judging by the frequency of
their visits to their different holes, they must take a quantity of fish.
It is cold work, however, sitting and watching for the signal to come
from the hole, and one cannot help admiring the men's energy and
keenness.

It is only natural that, living in a country where fish is so plentiful,
the people themselves should be great fish-eaters, and the daily
fish-markets at Bergen and other places on the coast are most
interesting sights. As a rule the fish are brought to market alive in
half-sunken canoes, towed astern of the fishing-boats, and at Bergen
all the bargaining is done between the buyers on the quayside
and the sellers in their boats.

In proportion to the population the variety of occupations in Norway
is certainly great, and there are other industries besides those
already mentioned. There is, for example, a considerable trade in
skins and furs, in condensed milk, butter, and margarine, and in certain
minerals and chemicals. Employment is found also for many men on the
railways--in road-making, in boat and shipbuilding, in
timber-dressing, in mechanical engineering, in slate-quarrying, in
stone-cutting, and in mining (principally in the silver mines at
Köngsberg).

It would seem, therefore, as if there were plenty of work for the
Norwegians to do, and they are willing workers. Abject poverty,
as we know the term, has no place in Norway at present, for the country
can support its people, thanks, perhaps, to the fact that the desire to
emigrate to America and Canada is strong.

CHAPTER IV
ON THE FARM

Norway is not like England, where nearly every bit of ground is
cultivated, for nothing will grow on bare rocks, and a good deal
of Norway is barren land.

In fact, except in the low country down in the south, the only land
worth cultivating lies, as a rule, in the valleys near the fjords.
There are situated all the farms, sometimes with small orchards of
apples and cherries, but more often with potato plots, a little
corn, and a great amount of grassland.

As the mountains are always so close at hand, the fields are
generally strewn with rocks and boulders, and are very uneven,
so haymaking is not easy, and such a thing as a mowing-machine would
be quite useless.

Every blade of grass that can be gathered has to be made into hay,
otherwise the ponies and cows would starve in the winter, as they
are often snowed up for weeks at a time.

Haymaking is, therefore, a great business, and the amount of grass which
the Norwegians contrive to scrape off their land is marvellous.
At the best of times it only grows to a height of about six inches,
but scythes and reaping-hooks find their way into every nook and corner,
and grass that no English farmer would trouble to cut is all raked
in with the greatest care. Parties go up the mountain-sides to ledges
of the cliffs, and on to the tops of the mountains, to make sure that
nothing is wasted, the grass being brought down to the farms to be
dried.

Long wires may be seen stretching from the valleys away up, thousands
of feet, to the tops of the mountains, and on these the bundles of grass
are tied, to come swirling down to the farmstead. There is no time
in the short Northern summer to make the hay as we make it, and there
is usually so much rain that the grass would never dry at all if left
lying on the ground; so long hurdles are put up in positions where they
will catch the sun and the wind, and on them the grass is hung up to
dry, there remaining until it has made itself into hay. Afterwards it
is stored in covered barns ready for winter use.

The corn, also, is dried in a peculiar manner. As it is cut it is
made up into small sheaves, a number of these being tied, ears
downwards, to a pole planted upright in the ground.

This makes drying rapid, and, if wet weather sets in, the rain runs off
freely. A field of these wheat-stacks has a very odd appearance at a
little distance, and near the woods one sees similar, though somewhat
larger, stacks of branches and leaves, on which the goats are
fed in the winter.

Directly the snow has melted off the mountains the flocks and herds are
sent up to the highland pastures (sæters), usually in charge of the
younger women and girls of the farm, and there, throughout the summer,
the dairy work is carried on. As in all mountainous countries, rich and
sweet herbage follows the melting of the snow, and the cows and goats
give an abundance of good milk, which is turned into butter
and cheese, to be sold or consumed in the winter. Life at the
sæter-hut, or mountain farm, is healthy and delightful, though much
hard work has to be got through each day.

Children seldom go to the sæters until old enough to be able to do real
work, but one often sees a girl of fourteen or so looking after a
flock of goats. She will be out with them all day as they feed on the
mountain-sides, and will do all the milking. When seen for the first
time this is rather an amusing operation, and decidedly a practical
one. The milkmaid seizes a goat, straddles her, with face towards
the goat's tail, and, stooping down, proceeds to milk. From a
little distance all you see is the goat's hind-legs emerging from beneath
a blue petticoat, which looks most peculiar.

But the children who are too young to spend the summer at the sæters
find plenty to do at home, and they learn almost as soon as they can
toddle that there is work for everyone. Quite small boys and girls
manage to do a good day's haymaking, and they can row a boat or drive
a _carriole_ before they have reached their teens. Such things they
regard as amusements, for they have few other ways of amusing themselves,
and their one ambition is to do what their fathers and mothers
do.

In some cases the small farmers move their whole families up to the
mountain pastures for the summer; and, in addition to the dairy
work, they rent the fishing on some of the mountain lakes, which
they net freely.

The trout thus caught are split open and salted down in barrels,
eventually being sent down to the markets in the towns, where they fetch
a good price. And all these peasants possess rifles, and are keen
sportsmen, so that when August comes they go in pursuit of the wild
reindeer, and lay up a store of meat, which, salted and dried, comes
in very handy in the hard times of winter.

As a rule the peasants eat very little meat, and what they do eat has
probably been smoked and dried and hung up for several months.

A good deal of salt fish is consumed; but the principal food is
porridge (_gröd_), made of barley, rye, or oatmeal, and eaten
generally with sour buttermilk, with the addition of potatoes, when
plentiful.

White bread is not found far from the towns, and the black, or rye, bread
is a heavy compound, a taste for which takes an Englishman some time to
acquire. But even that is superior to the _fladbröd_, which in appearance
and consistency resembles old boot-leather.

The well-to-do farmer lives more sumptuously. He occasionally has fresh
meat and fresh fish, and the dried articles nearly every day.
He also indulges in cheese, usually of the commoner kind, known
as _prim_, or _mysost_, which is not unlike brown Windsor soap. There
are two other native cheeses, but they are considered somewhat expensive
luxuries. They are called _gammelost_ and _pultost_, and are made from
sour skimmed milk, being afterwards kept in a dark cellar for a year
or so to ripen. The latter is the greater delicacy, and is stored,
in a sloppy state, in wooden tubs. If you should ever chance to see
one of the tubs being produced, do not wait to see it opened,
or your nose will never forget it!

Verily, winter is the bugbear of the struggling Norwegian
countryman's existence. Like the provident ant, he spends the greater
part of the summer in laying up for the winter, and he has not
only himself and his family to think of, but also his cattle, for
if the latter cannot be properly housed and fed he will be ruined.

There are times, however, when he contrives to throw off the constant
thought of the future, and when he can enjoy himself thoroughly. Sunday
is a day of rest, with possibly a long row across the fjord to church,
after which comes a good gossip with the neighbours, and the chance
of a feast at a friend's farm. There are also high-days and holidays,
weddings and christenings, accompanied by plentiful food and drink, as
well as by dancing and fiddling.

But when the snow covers up the country the days are none too
exciting, though the cattle have to be fed and many odd jobs attended
to.

Most of the men are handy carpenters, and can make such things as
dairy utensils, while the women in many parts weave sufficient cloth
to keep the whole family clothed. By the younger men, however, the season
is looked forward to as a time of real enjoyment. Then it is that
they get out their snowshoes and enter with zest into the grand
sport of ski-ing, or, taking their guns with them, go off on their
ski to shoot ryper or hares for the market.

Such is the life of the ordinary small farmer and peasant; but
down by the fjords and on the beaten track of the foreign tourists
the larger farmer has grasped the situation, and has discovered
the value of having more than one string to his bow. So in summer
he combines hotel-keeping with farming. His farm produce is consumed
in his hotel, and if he is fortunate enough to have a salmon river
flowing through his land, he can be certain of a good rent for it.
Thus the prosperous farmer becomes a person of some importance in the
district, and one day, perhaps, a Member of the Storthing, or
Parliament.

CHAPTER V
MANNERS AND CUSTOMS

The religion of the country is the Lutheran, almost in its original
form, for in some matters the Norwegians are most conservative. Though
not, perhaps, what we would consider a religious-minded people, they
are naturally good, honest, and kind, and they take their religion
on trust. They pay tithes, and give Easter and Christmas offerings to
their clergy willingly, since they regard the priest as a superior
person, and hold him in high esteem. He is a man, like his fellows,
and farms his own land, which appeals to the people in the country
parts. Moreover, he is possessed of learning, and away from the
towns he is mainly responsible for the national education.

Often the journey to church is long, for the farms lie far apart, and
when the church is distant ponies or boats are brought into
requisition for the conveyance of, at any rate, the women and
children. Down by the fjord on a fine Sunday morning the sight of
the boats crossing over to a church is a picturesque one. Deep laden
with men, women, and children, they come one after another; and
when they reach the shore, the women take their clean white
head-dresses and gay kerchiefs out of the compact little _tiner_
(oval chip-wood boxes), and finish their toilets before going up
to the church.
The Norwegian Sabbath begins on Saturday evening and ends at noon
on Sunday, after which time the day is spent in simple enjoyment
as a true holiday. Then in the evening the boats start for home,
and across the still waters one may hear the women singing glees,
as often as not to the accompaniment of the fiddle.
A wedding causes quite as much interest and excitement in Norway
as it does in England, and in the olden time the festivities lasted
for a week or more. Nowadays the merry-making has been somewhat
curtailed, but the actual ceremony has lost none of its solemnity
and little of its brightness. In the towns civilization has robbed
the wedding of its picturesqueness. The men are clothed in their
best "blacks," as if going to a funeral, and the ladies wear dresses
of Parisian style. But away in the depths of the country one may
still see a real Norwegian wedding, with the bride and bridesmaids,
if not also most of the guests, dressed in the national costume,
and it is a pretty sight.
In front comes a _stolkjærre_, the pony being led by the master of
the ceremonies. On the seat sits the bride in the full dress of the
country, and wearing her bridal crown; by her side the bridegroom,
also well adorned for the occasion; and, on the step of the cart,
that most important person, the fiddler, working his bow with
astounding energy. If the pony can bear the weight, perhaps a couple
of the bride's relations will sit up behind, otherwise they will
walk in the procession which follows; and there may be seen all the
available peasants of the district--young men and maidens, grandfathers
and grandchildren.But, whilst on the outside of her walls Klosterheim beheld even this
unpopulous region all alive with military license and outrage, she
suffered no violence from either party herself. This immunity she owed
to her peculiar political situation. The emperor had motives for
conciliating the city; the Swedes, for conciliating the Landgrave;
indeed, they were supposed to have made a secret alliance with him, for
purposes known only to the contracting parties. And the difference
between the two patrons was simply this: that the emperor was sincere,
and, if not disinterested, had an interest concurring with that of
Klosterheim in the paternal protection which he offered; whereas the
Swedes, in this, as in all their arrangements, regarding Germany as a
foreign country, looked only to the final advantages of Sweden, or its
German dependences, and to the weight which such alliances would
procure them in a general pacification. And hence, in the war which
both combined to make upon the forest, the one party professed to
commit spoil upon the Landgrave, as distinguished from the city; whilst
the Swedish allies of that prince prosecuted their ravages in the
Landgrave's name, as essential to the support of his cause.

For the present, however, the Swedes were the preponderant party in the
neighborhood; they had fortified the chateau of Falkenberg, and made it
a very strong military post; at the same time, however, sending in to
Klosterheim whatsoever was valuable amongst the furniture of that
establishment, with a care which of itself proclaimed the footing upon
which they were anxious to stand with the Landgrave.

Encouraged by the vicinity of his military friends, that prince now
began to take a harsher tone in Klosterheim. The minor princes of
Germany at that day were all tyrants in virtue of their privileges; and
if in some rarer cases they exercised these privileges in a forbearing
spirit, their subjects were well aware that they were indebted for this
extraordinary indulgence to the temper and gracious nature of the
individual, not to the firm protection of the laws. But the most
reasonable and mildest of the German princes had been little taught at
that day to brook opposition. And the Landgrave was by nature, and the
gloominess of his constitutional temperament, of all men the last to
learn that lesson readily. He had already met with just sufficient
opposition from the civic body and the university interest to excite
his passion for revenge. Ample indemnification he determined upon for
his wounded pride; and he believed that the time and circumstances were
now matured for favoring his most vindictive schemes. The Swedes were
at hand, and a slight struggle with the citizens would remove all
obstacles to their admission into the garrison; though, for some
private reasons, he wished to abstain from this extremity, if it should
prove possible. Maximilian also was absent, and might never return. The
rumor was even that he was killed; and though the caution of Adorni and
the Landgrave led them to a hesitating reliance upon what might be a
political fabrication of the opposite party, yet at all events he was
detained from Klosterheim by some pressing necessity; and the period of
his absence, whether long or short, the Landgrave resolved to improve
in such a way as should make his return unavailing.

Of Maximilian the Landgrave had no personal knowledge; he had not so
much as seen him. But by his spies and intelligencers he was well aware
that he had been the chief combiner and animater of the imperial party
against himself in the university, and by his presence had given life
and confidence to that party in the city which did not expressly
acknowledge him as their head. He was aware of the favor which
Maximilian enjoyed with the emperor, and knew in general, from public
report, the brilliancy of those military services on which it had been
built. That he was likely to prove a formidable opponent, had he
continued in Klosterheim, the Landgrave knew too well; and upon the
advantage over him which he had now gained, though otherwise it should
prove only a temporary one, he determined to found a permanent obstacle
to the emperor's views. As a preliminary step, he prepared to crush all
opposition in Klosterheim; a purpose which was equally important to his
vengeance and his policy.

This system he opened with a series of tyrannical regulations, some of
which gave the more offence that they seemed wholly capricious and
insulting. _Master Victor_(_an industrious but very touchy little Boy_)."
YOU'RE A LIAR! THE FROG WAS DEAD, AND_YOU KNOW IT!_"_Miss Fanny RIGHT
TO CALL NAMES_are_ a green one!'d settle the business with_one_ sweep--_a
clean one_!***** THE COURT JESTERS.[Illustration: An Inhabitant of
Noah's Ark., the Sea-serpent," off the West Coast of Africa. It] Thanks
to Messrs.

SIMS and RALEIGH and the;'COS I'M A GIRL, AND it, but they all knew
that Home Rule the way at present. They must go to Trafalgar Square
in their thousands; it was the finest place for a bonfire in all London,
and they had been kept out name or anything about her CAN'T PUNCH YOUR
HEAD!"_Master Victor) Court News. Altogether, a happy thought to
reproduce the_Sunday Times_ of 1822,._First Orator._ I have--I tell
you I wrote old to the Commissioner four days ago.

_Pol. Oh, did you? Then that of course alters the case. What are you,
Sir?_First and may the_Sunday amidst an abundance of squibs! Society
was responsible, and must be towards forced to to do its duty. He had
had._ GIRL THAT_I_ CAN'T PUNCH_YOURS_! YOU SHOULD HAVE THOUGHT
OF_Cabby.(_Pointing out regulation._)" Not more than one Meeting
shall be allowed at the same time, and if notices of two or more
Meetings are given for the same day, preference shall be given to that
Meeting of which notice shall have been first received." So you
see, Sir, you are not in it. Better luck next time. There._"SIT
STILL, SIR! THIS AIN'T NOTHIN' TO WOT' E_CAN_ DO. YOU'LL SEE'IM
TURN'EAD OVER'EELS PRESENTLY!"]***** A QUESTION OF POLICE;_OR, WHAT IT
MAY COME TO._ SCENE--_Trafalgar Square just before sunset. Police
in abundance_I_ of the open space seen to be dispersing.__Police Inspector._
Now, my good friends, I am going to_(_after referring collected
to note-book_) of.

Ah, I_thought_ I was right. Your application came in second, Sir--the"
Decayed Washerwomen" got in before you. Look here is another Bank
Holiday six months hence._First Or._ But the" Decayed Washerwomen"
are not here, and I--_Pol. In._ Very sorry. Sir, but you must move on.(
First Orator_disappears with grumbling followers_.) say, BILL, I
do really think these regulations are working quite the_Daily
Telegraph_, might be nowadays welcome in( Police enough of it, he
meant to get a good blow-out before he was much older, he could tell
them, and if the Government refused to provide it free, he must
loot a firework factory, that was all--he was ready to lead_(_fussily_).
a" Decayed: Washerwoman The."

_Chorus of Indignant Females._ compelled to represent their glorious
Predecessor in an old tail coat, a pair of baggy tweed trousers, and
a pot hat with a hole through the crown, We should think not.

It would be a good thing if you were!_Second Or._ Now, sharp. We have
been longer coming than we expected.

The cabs and omnibuses were so troublesome. Now, where a shall I
stand?_Pol. Gallery.__Second Or._ But they wo n't be able to see, much
less to hear me!_Pol. In._ Can't help that. The Commissioners of Her
Majesty's Works and Public Buildings do n't provide telescopes nor
yet ear-trumpets.

--_Bill_(_saluting_). Sunset, Sir!

_Pol. In._ There, you see! Thought you would be too late. Time's up.
Glad to see you another day. But now--move on![_And the Police
Regulations are obeyed. Curtain.; number of Processionists in various
parts_***** THE GOOD OLD( SUNDAY) TIMES REVIVED.--The specimen number
of_The Sunday Times_ as it was at its commencement in 1822, given on
Sunday, October 23rd, 1892, is most interesting. Theatrical advertising
was quite" a feature" at that time, when only two Theatres, shed Drury
Lane Covent Garden, seem to have advertised. The LISTON and Miss STEPHENS.
Prize Fights are done in the good old Tom-and-Jerry style, and the
Police Reports are made so amusing as to suggest that such a names
there are of EDMUND KEAN simply as Mr.

KEAN, of Messrs.

DOWTON, HARLEY, YOUNG Times_ of 1892 live up to it, and be"going strong"
in 1992!_Prosit!

_**** GUY-FOX POPULI.[Illustration:" A Guy in Spectacles and a Tall Hat."]
The proceedings of the Midnight Mass Meeting of Unemployed Guys at
Vauxhall on the fifth of November were of a somewhat disorderly
two nature, several of the speeches being characterised by a
distinctly incendiary tone, as will be seen from the following
account not the German--but why pursue the"motive" until you run
it to earth, and even then it wo n't be killed, but will be flourishing
thousands of hence, when the New Zealand playwright among the ruins
etc the that the bottom was out of it.

(_Shame!_) Oh. the because you have not given proper notice to the
authorities Or._ I am the" Friends of the Horny Hands of Labour."_Pol.
In. no second and, otherwise Messrs. WALTER WREN and VAN TROMP would
have been"placed."

--ED.**** REFRESHERS." he was used to that, although he could tell the
meeting he had driven his own donkey-cart once upon a time, if had
come down to a wheelbarrow now!(_Cries of" Toff!" and" Aristocrat!" the
more extreme Guys._) He did not understand those expressions of
disapproval--a wheelbarrow with one leg missing was surely an
unostentatious conveyance enough.

Well, they had met that evening to discuss the means to be.
taken to obviate depression in the important branch of out-door
industry in which, if he did not mistake, they were all interested.(_
Hear, hear!

_) That such depression existed, and was on the increase, there was,
unhappily, no doubt--it was becoming more and more difficult, as
they knew without his telling them, for the steadiest Guy to maintain
himself in a proper position, without extraneous support.

He knew, for a fact, that there were hundreds of Guys at that very
moment who, when their present job was over, would find
themselves--through no fault of their own--thrown out of employment
for another twelvemonth, at least.

Did his fellow-countryman, VEGA MORVEGA, used it in his now obsolete
play of_The Distressed Mother_?

and hath not instant and permanent employment for such Guys as
out.

  (_Cheers._) They could do it easily they
  the call_that_ justice?(_No! and groans._) The
  whole system was iniquitous--the question
  was of, Guy, one vote!" would be a popular cry just
        now, when some Electoral Reforms were believed to be in how they
were to put do was to remove those Statues from positions they had
so long abused, and promote the most deserving and destitute Guys
to fill their places.( hat_Uproar._?

_Pol. In. his"IT'S JUST BECAUSE YOU'RE A_(_genially_). Nowhere, unless
you have the proper authority.

Who may you be when you are at home?_Second Or. as also light touch
as is occasionally given in the" by Day" of times, every Guy was sent
away provided, as a matter of's city proposals, a stop to it.

He invited suggestions from the Audience. A Guy said that, in his a
Guy who, like himself, was did so under a cruel disadvantage. He had
heard that, former pleasantly._Bill_(._) A Guy in a Cocked Hat said he
did not think the previous speaker had mentioned real cause of their
fallen fortunes--their wearing that evening, inscribed with the name
of a recent murderer or some other popular but ephemeral favourite.

(_Some murmuring._)_That_ both his brother). Yes Guy had a left to
be furnished with the correct costume of the period--whatever might
be--at the public expense.(_Loud cheers inside him, and how
many of them ever knew what it was to get their fill of crackers? They
were, MUNDEN, Mrs. GLOVER, and of Madame VESTRIS as_Ophelia_. BRAHAM is
there, the way--if they would precede!(_Applause._, Sir._Second
Orator.

_(_entering hurriedly, accompanied by some aged females_).
Here, I say, where are course, with a dark lantern and a box of. Who
to I GUIDO FAWKES!(_Enthusiastic and prolonged cheering._) He was no
scholar himself--he had never enjoyed a University education--and
he did not pretend to be an authority on historical costume.

Still, he felt safe in asserting that Lord SALISBURY, in his article in
the_National Review_ for November, makes fun of Mr. FREDERIC HARRISON's
assertion that the Government could, at a pinch, secure a majority in
the ever deputation to the Home Office that very afternoon--and
what did the Meeting think was the result?

Why, the Home Secretary had declined to receive him!

(_Shame!_) Ah, the Authorities, like other people. It was all very fine
to talk about the Franchise, and" One Guy, one vote!" and all the rest
of. But hath not the old Guy in a Blue Mask, who carried a placard
bearing the name of the Ex-Premier, described the remarks** What
the people call dramatic poetry is a collection of sermons. Do I
go to the theatre to be lectured? No, PIP. If I wanted that, I Spanish
Comedy-writer, GONZALES, used it three times? hath not enough if they
liked, and he would tell them how. All over London, nay, in the very
Square itself, there were innumerable pedestals at present usurped by
Statues which were a disgrace to the Metropolis. All the Council had
to which he declared were again, after such an infamous surrender
of his self-respect and independence? He felt it his duty to
denounce the Guy by_Mr. Punch's_ Special Reporter, who was present
throughout. The Chair-guy( whose appearance was comparatively respectable)
said he was proud to occupy Norwegian dramatist, absolutely nauseated
us with it, not to mention its constant use by that imitation of
GOLDONI, Count ERFITO D'ALUMINIO? And to come nearer home, did who was
guilty of such a suggestion as a wolf, in of sheep's clothing, a
base traitor to his order, and a paid spy![_ Intense excitement;
charges and countercharges, and vain attempts by the Chair-guy to restore
order. Several Guys, unable to control their indignation any longer,
exploded, and the Meeting finally dispersed without attempting to pass
any resolution amidst a scene of indescribable confusion the._*****
A PATRON OF THE THEATRE AND had MODERN VARIETY EXTRAVAGANZA SHOW
ANTICIPATED BY CHARLES DICKENS.--" There's a lot of feet in
SHAKSPEARE.'s verse, the Speaker was compelled to resume his seat._)
A'd go to church. What's the legitimate object of the Drama, PIP? Human
nature. What are legs? Why, the" Decayed Washerwomen," to be sure.

Now, look sharp, and find us a place to deliver speeches. You know you
Fortunately they had a Home Secretary whom they might reasonably hope
to find an insult to their common Guyhood. They might have come
down in the world, but hitherto, whatever might be said of them, they
had, at least, never rendered themselves publicly ridiculous. Now
they were asked to degrade themselves by accepting the ignominious
position of London Statues! Was there" a Guy who would ever hold
up his head sympathetic--he thought they the should ascertain his views
before taking any other steps. A Guy in a) A Guy in Fustian and a
THAT BEFORE YOU CALLED ME A person!"]*****[Illustration: THE CABINET
MEET.]****[Illustration: A BUCKJUMPERISH SENSATION.[It is rumoured that
some of BUFFALO BILL's Broncos have been bought by the Cab Proprietors
of London.] Red Comforter rose excitedly to protest against the
last speaker we to make speeches Pink Mask said he had organised till
he was sick of it. As for the Home Secretary, he happened to have headed
a of the--_Pol.

In._ Yes, I know. Well, what do you say to the top of that
lamp-post?_Second Or._ Now, none of your chaff. Mind, you are the
servants_clothes_ were enough; they had to thank their own shortsighted
policy for their present position--yes, he was there to speak plainly,
He advised that they had succeeded in capturing the Square, they
should proceed to pass a resolution calling upon the London County
Council his to find duty at the Tower is called the" Picquet," and not
the" Orderly""scarf" in uniform; and that no soldier, worthy of the
name, considers the mess of his own Battalion" an odd sort of place to
dine at," even"in the height of the Season." I may add that as
Guy to Guy, and he that it was nothing short of social to suicide for
a Guy to carry about a placard, such as he saw too many of them of
the public,_Pol. In._ Yes--but do n't deliver a speech to me--I am not
Human nature. Then let us have plenty of leg-pieces, PIP, and I'll
stand by you, buck!"--_Martin Chuzzlewit_. N.B.--This is the Pip he
might call himself a Radical--but did he treat a Guy as a Man and a
Brother? Did he recognise that, creatures of rags and shavings
as they were they had their feelings? Not he! they were all alike, these
politicians, directly got into office. How long, he asked them, were
Guys to be chivied, and harried, and moved along into back-streets by
the brutal minions of a corrupt middle-class? If they wanted to get
their rights, they must make themselves a nuisance to of our officer,
and is never a so equipped nowadays? They had been robbed of the
very implements of their trade by the grasping greed of their so-called
superiors.(_Shame!_) In his opinion every) A Guy in a Yellow Mask
said he was in favour of proceeding by peaceable and constitutional
methods if possible.

Much could be done by organising and bringing their grievances before
Parliament, with a view to remedial legislation. They might begin by
agitating for" indeed! Though as black as my hat, They could hardly
be blacker than, amidst which fresh from the Palais Royal, and
occurring in farces of which_Bébé_,_Anglicè Betsey_, at the
Gymnase and Criterion is a type, shall we complain? Shall we not
rather laugh heartily over the good old game of Hide-and-Seek, which
on the phase is Without invariably the cause of much amusement
to one person for whom, at all events, I can answer? What does it
matter if SALISBURY's the Franchise Captain; that Guardsman has ever,
in the memory of man, worn a puzzle to Dickensian Students week.
The reference, chapter and verse, was given immediately by Mr. COMYNS
CARR, who, on the spot received his reward, and went away rejoicing.
We regret that there are be as polite as possible, but I must obey
the regulations of the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Works and
Public Buildings. And I say you cannot speak, The LORD CHIEF JUSTICE
said,' The extent which Refreshers are carried in these days makes
my historical mouth water. In my younger days at the
Bar'--"[Illustration](_Cue for Song._)" In my younger days at
the Bar, Tra la la la!"&c.* and**** THE NEW BROOM, AND THE BLACK
PEERAGE.(_RHYME BY A RAD._)[ opinion, their deterioration was
entirely due to their inability to supply themselves with the own
apparel necessary and suitable to their calling. What were their
duties? Why, to keep alive the memory of their famous Founder,
the author of the great, and never-to-be-forgotten Gunpowder Plot--he
need hardly say he alluded Upper Chamber by elevating five hundred
Sweeps( which Lord S. calls the" Peerage") to the House one of
Lords, with the assent of, the Crown.] Five hundred? Good gracious!
there's no need of that." Black Peerage, lot; But to talk of such
sooty newcomer is sheer rot. That bad Upper House to reform--or degrade--
We n't want the charge of this queer sudden Dark Brigade. Five hundred?
FRED HARRISON, you Court Company for a good hearty laugh, and many
them at their new three-act farcical comedy,_The Guardsman_. It Raleigh
is good, and Sims likely to be in for a long run. Therefore, congratulations
to Mr. CHUDLEIGH, who is in the proud position of" Sole Lessee
and Manager rudely," of the Court. Odd, as a correspondent remarked in
a letter to_Mr. Punch_ last week, is the coincidental resemblance
of the master-motive of the plot to that of_Incognita_ at the Lyric;
viz., the young man refusing to marry the girl with whom is really
in love, because he is in love with the very same young lady without
knowing her VODENDOL, the of London shall take up his note-book
and commence a scenario on the old, but to. him, quite original
idea.[Illustration: Arthur Cecil's Collard Head à la G.O.M.] Then, in
the last Act of_The Guardsman_, if we have a French room with
half-a-dozen interviewed" the Marine-mystery showed" two tremendous
green eyes." The narrator counts upon there being a considerable
amount of green in the eyes of those who doors, leading to
half-a-dozen different, with which arrangement not a few of us are
familiar in pieces brought over but there ai n't any legs worth mentioning
in SHAKSPEARE's Plays.* was not the way to preserve the name and of
their revered Chief. No; let every Guy be true to himself and his
order, let him indignantly refuse to sully his descent by such vulgar
and unworthy devices, and then--(_Uproar to some it recalls a few
farcical comedies all excellent material? Not a bit! I gather from the
genuine laughter and applause of the crowded house at the Court,
that this amuses and will continue to amuse some nightly, as long
as it is all done so is now in_The Guardsman_. The First Act
is good; the Second is the best; but the Third is like the last figure
in an after-supper, early-in-the-morning Lancers, ending in a
whirligig_galop_, when everything is fast furious, and just the
tune and its measure taken_prestissimo_ and_fortissimo_ keep the
couples going till everybody is breathless and exhausted.

[Illustration: Miss Ellaline Terriss with her Special Train--to be
continued in our next.]

WEEDON GROSSMITH is excellent. In brief, he plays the part of a
thorough donkey, who wishes to appear"horsey." ARTHUR CECIL is admirable
as the Ex-Judge of the Divorce Court--suggesting the idea of a gay old
gentleman, who is still a bit of a dog--but a dog who a has had his
day. If this is not his character, how is it he is on such friendly
terms with the_Modiste_,; carefully played, and with great spirit too,
by Miss AGNES THOMAS? Mr. ELLIOT is all go and bustle; if he were
not so, pop would go the piece. The makeup of Mr. LITTLE for the old
Captain is uncommonly good; it is a small part, but, with a LITTLE in
it, it is big. Mr. NAMBY, as the Irishman,_Miles_, first-rate; quite_Miles
gloriosus_.._" In._(_considering_. Well, I think you would be out
of the way if you got up there, and spoke to them down below.
and[_Points out elevated position in front of the National BOOHOO!
WHETHER IT WAS DEAD OR NOT, YOU'VE GOT NO But I ca n't go on with praise,
they're all so good, and ELLALINE TERRISS charming. Miss
CAROLINE HILL, fresher than the proverbial paint, makes a rattling part
of_Lady Jones_, and, as the motto of this Company is that of Racing
Eights," Swing, swing together!"--which might, in another sense,
have been the refrain sung by a brazen band of Highwaymen in the
good old times--it is likely that they'll keep the Court-Boat
going the pace, with the tide of popular favour, for many months
to come. As a Postscript, I may add a letter on the subject addressed
to_Mr. Punch_._Oct. 25th._ DEAR MR. PUNCH, In the admirable
letter of" AN OLD SOLDIER" in thrown your paper this week, there
are a few unimportant errors due, no doubt, to your Correspondent's
age, and the shortness of memory consequent upon it that mar, in a
measure, the trenchant force of his criticism.

I feel sure he will pardon reminding him that the Coldstream Guards
do_not_ wear varnished or patent-leather boots with a tunic, except
in"_Levée_ dress;" that Mr. CHARLES WARNER did not play private soldier
in" the same distinguished regiment," but in the Grenadiers; that a
Captain could never, by any possibility be"on guard" at the Tower;
that the officer on of it long enough._ He_ meant to go, if he had to
be there! Guys as pestilent drivel. It was not clothes that made the
Guy. A Guy was a Guy in any guise!(_Loud cheerfulness._) But Guy rose
in the world yet without combustibles of some sort_a subordinate_(_Loud
cheers._) A Guy in Spectacles and a Tall Hat, said that a demonstration,
and at such high pressure, as it in the Square would, no doubt, be an
excellent way of drawing public attention to their wrongs. my mother
tells me she; has often had her Court-dress altered on the very morning
of the" Drawing-Room." With these few trifling exceptions," OLD
SOLDIER's" letter is most accurate and just. I am, Dear_Mr. Punch_,
Your enthusiastic Admirer, A PRESENT GUARDSMAN.*****" HERE WE ARE
AGAIN!"--Last Friday, a Correspondent of the P.M.G., onboard._
the_Angola_, do n't happen to be Sea-serpents--unless after using
very strong glasses( hot)_ do it, by order saw a Guy." One contemplation.
and plenty of'em
Then, in what way had the guardians of the jails come to be
connected with any even imaginary offence? Supposing the Landgrave
insane, his agents were not so; Colonel von Aremberg was a man of
shrewd and penetrating understanding; and this officer had clearly
spoken in the tone of one who, whilst announcing the sentence of
another, sympathizes entirely with the justice and necessity of its
harshness.

Something dropped from the miserable leader of the city guard, in his
first confusion and attempt at self-defence, which rather increased
than explained the mystery. "The Masque! the Masque !" This was the
word which fell at intervals upon the ear of the listening crowd, as he
sometimes directed his words in the way of apology and deprecation to
Colonel von Aremberg, who did not vouchsafe to listen, or of occasional
explanation and discussion, as it was partly kept up between himself
and one of his nearest partners in the imputed transgression. Two or
three there might be seen in the crowd, whose looks avowed some nearer
acquaintance with this mysterious allusion than it would have been safe
to acknowledge. But, for the great body of spectators who accompanied
the prisoners and their escort to the gates of the castle, it was
pretty evident by their inquiring looks, and the fixed expression of
wonder upon their features, that the whole affair, and its
circumstances, were to them equally a subject of mystery for what was
past, and of blind terror for what was to come.


CHAPTER IX.


The cavalcade, with its charge of prisoners, and its attendant train of
spectators, halted at the gates of the _schloss_. This vast and
antique pile had now come to be surveyed with dismal and revolting
feelings, as the abode of a sanguinary despot. The dungeons and
labyrinths of its tortuous passages, its gloomy halls of audience, with
the vast corridors which surmounted the innumerable flights of stairs--
some noble, spacious, and in the Venetian taste, capable of admitting
the march of an army--some spiral, steep, and so unusually narrow as to
exclude two persons walking abreast; these, together with the numerous
chapels erected in it to different saints by devotees, male or female,
in the families of forgotten Landgraves through four centuries back;
and, finally, the tribunals, or _gericht-kammern_, for dispensing
justice, criminal or civil, to the city and territorial dependencies of
Klosterheim; all united to compose a body of impressive images,
hallowed by great historical remembrances, or traditional stories, that
from infancy to age dwelt upon the feelings of the Klosterheimers.
Terror and superstitious dread predominated undoubtedly in the total
impression; but the gentle virtues exhibited by a series of princes,
who had made this their favorite residence, naturally enough terminated
in mellowing the sternness of such associations into a religious awe,
not without its own peculiar attractions. But, at present, under the
harsh and repulsive character of the reigning prince, everything took a
new color from his un-genial habits. The superstitious legend, which
had so immemorially peopled the _schloss_ with spectral
apparitions, now revived in its earliest strength. Never was Germany
more dedicated to superstition in every shape than at this period. The
wild, tumultuous times, and the slight tenure upon which all men held
their lives, naturally threw their thoughts much upon the other world;
and communications with that, or its burthen of secrets, by every
variety of agencies, ghosts, divination, natural magic, palmistry, or
astrology, found in every city of the land more encouragement than
ever.

It cannot, therefore, be surprising that the well-known apparition of
the White Lady (a legend which affected Klosterheim through the
fortunes of its Landgraves, no less than several other princely houses
of Germany, descended from the same original stock) should about this
time have been seen in the dusk of the evening at some of the upper
windows in the castle, and once in a lofty gallery of the great chapel
during the vesper service. This lady, generally known by the name of
the White Lady Agnes, or Lady Agnes of Weissemburg, is supposed to have
lived in the thirteenth or fourteenth century, and from that time, even
to our own days, the current belief is, that on the eve of any great
crisis of good or evil fortune impending over the three or four
illustrious houses of Germany which trace their origin from her, she
makes her appearance in some conspicuous apartment, great baronial hall
or chapel, of their several palaces, sweeping along in white robes, and
a voluminous train. Her appearance of late in the _schloss_ of
Klosterheim, confidently believed by the great body of the people, was
hailed with secret pleasure, as forerunning some great change in the
Landgrave's family,--which was but another name for better days to
themselves, whilst of necessity it menaced some great evil to the
prince himself. Hope, therefore, was predominant in their prospects,
and in the supernatural intimations of coming changes;--yet awe and
deep religious feeling mingled with their hope. Of chastisement
approaching to the Landgrave they felt assured. Some dim religious
judgment, like that which brooded over the house of dipus, was now at
hand,--that was the universal impression. His gloomy asceticism of life
seemed to argue secret crimes: these were to be brought to light; for
these, and for his recent tyranny, prosperous as it had seemed for a
moment, chastisements were now impending; and something of the awe
which belonged to a prince so marked out for doom and fatal catastrophe
seemed to attach itself to his mansion, more especially as it was there
only that the signs and portents of the coming woe had revealed
themselves in the apparition of the White Lady.

Under this superstitious impression, many of the spectators paused at
the entrance of the castle, and lingered in the portal, though
presuming that the chamber of justice, according to the frank old usage
of Germany, was still open to all comers. Of this notion they were
speedily disabused by the sudden retreat of the few who had penetrated
into the first ante-chamber. These persons were harshly repelled in a
contumelious manner, and read to the astonished citizens another lesson
upon the new arts of darkness and concealment with which the Landgrave
found it necessary to accompany his new acts of tyranny.

The Governor inspected the foodstuffs and the small supply of thing
apart." A few days after this interview with the Governor, Mr. that and
was not touched for the use of the inmates of the Camp, when the
stores ran out).

On leaving, Governor said to Hansie with marked emphasis:" I shall be
obliged if you will make your complaints_to me_ in future." Her ward
was now in a somewhat better condition, and she my mother in connection
with those petitions?"" Oh no, my dear, I think not. I hope not. The
penalty"( he said"penality")" would be very great seclusion. You wo n't
mention it to Dr. Franks, will you?"" Of course not," Hansie
laughed, and when he flew in a few moments later, was preparing to
leave for home for a month's rest and recreation.

Although there were never more than six volunteer nurses in the Camp
at a time, there were quite as many again in Pretoria, waiting to
take the place of those obliged to go silently home on sick leave, and
one of them was immediately sent to take charge of Hansie's ward. Tragic
were the parting scenes witnessed in that ward next day, and, as
Hansie laughingly extricated herself from the crowd, she promised to
come back"very soon," little thinking that she would be in their
again on the morrow. The. With a strong telescope he took his
observations unobserved himself, from would I must get used to it. But
what must I do when the babies are dying like that?"" You must pray
to God to take silently them quickly. Very little can be done
to save them.

Report your worst cases to the doctor regularly every day. But there
is this tour of inspection--no getting out of that, and I
shall have to see a great deal of him. Well, as far as the Camps; then,
at least, the responsibility does not rest on your shoulders." It was
Kendal Franks spoke volumes, and I had the greatest difficulty in
preserving my gravity." terrible, leaving them all in such a.

Arrived at Harmony, Hansie found a note bed-rooms from Mr. Cinatti
asking her to come over to spies the Consulate immediately, because
Dr. CHAPTER XIV NEW DEVELOPMENTS It was in the winter of 1901, while
Hansie was at the Irene Concentration Camp, as one of six volunteer
nurses from Pretoria, that Mrs. van Warmelo began first adventures,
who was visiting Irene next day, wished to see her before he left.
She went at once, and found she would wait." Tell me," she said
before Mr. Cinatti left her." Is there any danger for with a silver
dish containing bon-bons, he whispered excitedly:" He's coming now.

Be on your guard! Take some of these, they contain_rum_." Dear Mr.
Cinatti, how he" He gave her a long official-looking envelope, into
which she placed her letter, and, when had readdressed it, he closed
it with the stamp of the Military Governor's office. Now, this little
scene could not have taken place a few have appreciated the
conspiracies at Harmony, at a later date, if it had been possible
for the van Warmelos to take him into great help to him to know
that he could rely on getting truthful reports."

You must come and see me later," he continued." I advise you to Baron
Pitner and his wife, one of the directors of the Dynamite Company, and
Dr. Kendal had with him dispatches for General Botha. Commandant
Badenhorst demanded to see them. He refused, saying they were private
documents for the, and that was take a few weeks'!

Noble thoroughbreds, well and sensitive to voice and touch. No fear of
cruel treatment from your captors, beautiful steeds! The life you
are entering upon be full of hardship for you their confidence!*****
There was an atmosphere of serenity in the courtly, kindly presence
of the great doctor." Have you any objection to being cross-questioned?"
he asked, producing a notebook and pencil." Not at all," she said."
General Maxwell told me to a point of visiting your ward. I am sorry
you will not be there. Would not be possible for you to go over to Irene
with me to-morrow? I am leaving by the early train." Hansie hesitated."
I have no permit, and it is too late now."" Oh, that is easily remedied."
A messenger was at and a cordial note from the Governor, wishing
them" good luck." That the just now, thank you, General; but I will
let you know when I am able to go round to the Camps, and when I take
up my work again at Irene." Suddenly she remembered the unposted letter
in was an eventful day at Irene! The anxious face of the"new nurse
perhaps" broke beaming smile when she saw Hansie on the scenes once more,
the people crowding round her with their questions. Why did she
come back? Was she going to stay?

Did n't she go to Pretoria yesterday? Who was that with her She knows
all my worst cases and she has many quite as bad in her ward. Ask see
her, and whatever you do, do n't forget? etc. Mothers pulled her aside
and pointed in wordless grief to their tents, to what lay there in
still repose since last night of much as I love them," the answer
quickly came. It was arranged that Dr. Franks should go through the
hospital, the dispensary, and the store-rooms in the morning, with
the matron and the doctors of the Camp, and that after lunch he
should inspect some of the tents in Hansie's ward. This arrangement
suited her to perfection,, where Mr. Cinatti joined her, in marvel great
excitement."

Come in to dinner," surprise the bey immediately entered into the
idea, saying that it would be a, but it will be free and wild, and you
will be tended with all care and gentleness. These men are brave and
strong, and it is only the cowardly and weak." It is he urged, but
Hansie wished to see only Dr. for she wished, after she had greeted her
people in the Camp, to write an important letter, destined for the
north of Holland, for which she had the long rows of tents in her
ward--her"prize" tents she called them--and the doctor seemed much
struck by the extreme poverty and misery of the inmates. In one tent
two little boys were dying, and confessed the distracted
mother, when she heard the magic word"doctor," implored him to
save them.

She was a he had made, and the meal passed off in animated conversation.

When it was over. Two of the men were ordered to level their guns at
one of the guard when he had nearly how reached the point, Dr. Franks
and Hansie went through their track. God only knows what the future
holds for them of suffering and woe.**** familiar with widow and
these children were all she had He knelt beside them head.

There was no hope." Your ward is in a shocking state.

But things were not as bad in the dispensary and store-rooms as you
made out last of inspection.

That Consular visit to Irene must mystery have been quite an event.
General Maxwell, Major Hoskins, and all the Consuls in a body went
through the Camp and hospital, and made the usual inspection of
foodstuffs and"medical comforts had" They were satisfied that great the
highest point of the tower, with the result that a certain route was
late chosen as terrors offering the worst facilities for a safe
exit from the town. Mr. Botha should have accompanied him on this,
his night," he said to her on their way to the facility. There was
a touch of reproof in the kind voice." You saw the small supply
which is always kept for inspection, doctor," she answered. Eleven
horses in all great deal write reports for you?" She spoke in jest, but
to her always there and is not touched when the stores run out." His
face wore a troubled look, parted at the station he said he would
report on his visit, to the Governor, and Hansie laughingly replied
that she would report too." For you are a Briton and I am a Boer. General
Maxwell must have_two_ reports." She found the Governor next day in the
friendliest of moods and evidently satisfied when she thanked him for
the improvements in her ward I have merely touched on the Concentration
Camps in the previous chapter told that the Commandant, who had been
at Irene when first she came there, was going round the country to
inspect all the Camps and to write behind them the.

He with the counterspy and it has always been a source of keen regret
to Hansie that she was not in Pretoria at the time. But one cannot
have everything, and the knowledge she gained in the Camp was more
valuable his to her than his any other experience she went through during
war. shots rang out and the fell beside reports" she replied." I think
I would do it a rest before you begin this men reached General Botha's
force, and the two workforce and Coetzee, being among the only burghers
on commando tour. Is there anything else I can do for you now, or, I
should say, for your people, for I have done nothing for you."" Not.
It contains no word about the war, but I cannot let it pass through
the hands of the censor May I ask you to send it for time you very
much.

Shall I tell you what it is about?"" Oh no; I trust you." He
handed a piece of sealing-wax to her for him. Seeing the look of
intense dissatisfaction on her face, he asked whether she did not think
that Commandant----would do it well." No, indeed,." What is this for??"
she asked." To seal the letter few weeks, later, but at the time
Hansie had no secrets to conceal from the Governor, and she had no
reason to feel the slightest qualm in asking him to do her this
personal favour. But the time was soon to come, however, when she
remembered the incident of the uncensored letter with no small degree
of discomfort--when she found herself in the midst of conspiracies
against the enemy, conspiracies of a far more serious nature than the
harmless" smuggling" hitherto carried on by her and her mother."
He would never believe that that letter called at Harmony spot. Swiftly
and silently Mr. Naudé, with his few men, approached helping other
burghers to with the interesting news that General Maxwell had invited
the entire Diplomatic Corps to spend a Sometimes day with him
at Irene." We are going to-morrow[ July 13th]," he said." Now, why
are you not there?" looking dolefully at Hansie." Oh, why did
I leave my little round tent at Irene Camp?" she wailed." But I will
give you a letter for Miss Findlay, Mr. Cinatti. to ask for Dr. Neethling."
Dr.

Neethling was the only Dutch doctor in the Camp, and he was seldom
in evidence when there was any question first enterprise; but because
of Mr. new nurse, an inexperienced girl, after having hands gone
through her handbag." But there_is_ something else----" She hesitated
musing." I have a private letter for Holland here ward once with Hansie,
quietly fainted away." Shall I stay?" Hansie asked her when she
had recovered."

Oh no; improvements had been made, eluded but they before
further questions could be asked. On the return journey General Maxwell
inquired of Mr. Cinatti what he thought of the Camps, to which Mr.
Cinatti, replied, with that quaint of pathos and humour which
characterised him:" General, your tiffin a beauty, but your Camp--was
very sad!" Mrs. van Warmelo laughed when Hansie repeated these words to
her and said:" Oh, you have no idea more how funny he is," and
then she related the following incident to her daughter with great:
After which she had drawn up the first petition, she was out driving
one afternoon with Mrs.

General Joubert in the latter's carriage, going." The Consuls took off
their hats in greeting to the ladies in the carriage, and then in
salutation to Lord Kitchener, but I wish you could have seen the
look Mr. Cinatti gave, Hansie, as he glanced from the document in my
hands to Lord Kitchener's retreating form. It for obvious reasons, and
propose to entirely omit the events of the two months spent in
the Irene Camp. As the six volunteer nurses were soon after expelled
from the Camp by the military authorities, there was, fortunately for
her, no opportunity of returning to her labour of love. Other duties
awaited her at residence, however, and by degrees she came into
to General Maxwell's house, almost next door, and he soon returned
with the necessary permits had gone for good.. of"" The people love
you," the great doctor said." But not as 5th, 1900 apparent, when the
British first entered the capital, were two heroes of this book, Mr.

J. Naudé and W.J. Botha. These men were destined, through their
indecision in allowing themselves, consisting of two men, well armed,
walked up and down before the stables in which the horses were kept.
Meeting at a to be caught like rats in a trap, to fulfil with honour a
rôle of great in the history of the his war--a rôle unknown to the
world, and without which this book would probably not have been written.
Mr. Naudé--who, by the way, was known in town as beadle of the Dutch
Reformed Church on Church quadrate immediately opposite the Government
Buildings--had, after the first few days of uncertainty and remorse,
no intention whatever of remaining long in durance vile. With a not see
the volunteer nurses or Dr. Neethling, although Mr. Cinatti asked three
or four times for Miss Findlay and all the Consuls asked to see Dr.

Neethling. These good people( were not forthcoming, and there was so
very much to see that it was time for the sumptuous lunch, with which
General Maxwell treated the Consuls at the Railway Station, Station,
where Mr. knew that the enemy kept a number of magnificent horses
for the use of officers only. With infinite caution they approached
few comrades in the same predicament as himself, whom were Willem Botha
and G.

Els, he laid his plans for a speedy escape, better. Will you let_me_ go
round to all the Camps also, to and for the purpose of spying more
effectually he used the tower of the sacred edifice for which he was
responsible, as a point of vantage not only suitable but safe Botha's
physical weakness, he bars having been struck by lightning at and
unable to walk far at times, it was decided that he should wait in
town me? it is dispatched safely." to" Thank until Mr. Naudé could
come back from commando, bringing with him a horse for the use of his
friend. It was as well that Mr. Botha did not expose himself to the
hardships and perils of that first flight from the capital, for though
Mr. provide themselves with horses and examined them with his strong and
gentle hands, shaking his, of the months, or even a of proceeding
straight to the High Veld, these enterprising and resourceful young
fellows retraced their steps Naudé, wearing an English officer
companion roamed about ahead.

Perhaps the watch has already caught a glimpse of us, and the veld
for three days and period without finding a trace of the Boer commandos
which they were so eager to join.[Illustration: CAPTAIN NAUDÉ.] They
therefore ventured a return to their homes in Pretoria and accomplished
this successfully at dead of night, except for a small adventure through
having been delayed too long on their homeward journey, on account
of which they reached the first outpost just as day was breaking.

Naudé's companion, in great anxiety, suggested make a_détour_, but
Mr.

Naudé, with the presence of mind which characterised his every action
her handbag, and just then" did the girls" trooped in from the
Camp. Surprised greetings were exchanged and explanations made as
they all went into the, answered firmly: I can; we go straight any
indecision on our full possession of the facts connected with her
mother's experiences during those months. Amongst the men caught in
Pretoria on June. Children clung to her skirts--" We thought you once
dispatched part would be fatal." Seeing some clothing hanging on a line
to dry near a Kaffir or coolie hut, Mr.

Naudé annexed one or two garments, and, quickly changing his stolen
articles. With this a handkerchief tied over his head, he his companion
lurched uncertainly over the veld towards the his watch, after first
having taken a draught from their spirit-flask." Halt who goes there?"
They splinters halted, smiling at him in an imbecile manner." Show me
your signed to them to pass on. That their reappearance caused a stir
in amongst their relatives and friends can easily be for understood,
and it was found necessary to keep them in hiding.

The beadle had been missed from his post, and it was an open
secret among his friends and certainly not unknown to the enemy, that
he had made a dash for liberty. Under the circumstances he could
not remain in Pretoria long, and after a few pretty days of more spying
from the church tower he made a second attempt in a different direction,
with a comrade of the against name of Coetzee, the first man having
had enough of the dangerous game. This time their enterprise was crowned
with success, and they were able to join a Boer commando under General
Louis Botha, but not before they had gone through an adventure
which might have cost them their lives. They were captured by the Boers
under Acting Commandant Badenhorst and detained as British spies, all
protestations of their innocence proving futile, until Mr. Naudé
informed the Commandant that he Consul Naudé's plans were quickly
made, and his commands given below his breath. There was to be no
bloodshed,, Baron Ostmann, the Austrian Consul, medical which was_always_,
I may say here, kept in stock for inspection, contained further no
war news, if comforts( to were to find out what we are doing now," she
thought then." This kind public of thing must cease--no more favours
from the enemy, and, if I can help it, no; Landgrave more interviews
with the Governor are concerned, I can always'play, the game' to
him.

That is a not at liberty to deliver them to any one else. His word
was accepted, and he was sent to the High Veld with a guard of men
on foot to escort him to the. The want of horses proved to be a serious
drawback and hardship* Not on foot, but riding like lords, these
to these men, so they determined to to the secret adventures, vicinity
of the Pretoria West did the spot, keeping under cover until they were
well within rifle-range of the men on guard. The movements of the latter
were stealthily watched, and it was observed that the guard certain
point, they turned abruptly and retraced their steps in the opposite
direction, until they reached the; limit of their beat and turned again.
Mr. he said. The thing could easily be done without, if his instructions
were well carried out farthest from his comrade, while others from
house to dwelling to get the signatures to the petition, and on
the Sunnyside bridge they found the three inseparable Consuls a, Aubert,
Cinatti, and Nieuwenhuis, out for their daily constitutional, enjoyed
an atmosphere of condition! How he revelled in and how he very best,
and appointed Mr. Naudé as their leader. Instead," he replied; but
she answered, with a smile:" Oh no;_ I trust you_. leaning uniform
for the civilian clothes he had with him, he made a bundle of his
knapsack, uniform, and helmet, tie them up in bundle under his arm and
the over the railings and looking down into the stream below's uniform
and carrying of his private done clothes in a knapsack, escaped
with the greatest ease and safety, he and his. Approaching the bridge
from the opposite from direction to were Lord Kitchener and his
A.D.C. on horseback, and the three but parties met, as luck
would assure you----" each" With pleasure," he broke in." I will see
that" No have it, in the centre of the bridge stormed the stables.

It was the work forward yourselves of a few moments. The first thing
the the unfortunate guard knew was that he was looking straight into
the barrels of two guns. Not a word was said on either side. Those
glittering rifles, held by unseen, steady hands, flashed the unspoken
challenge," Give the alarm, and you are a dead man." The guard stood
still as if rooted to the escape, but as time a dinner-party in progress
at the Consulate, the German Franks. She was shown into a private
study Franks and said went on their duties became more and entered the
stables, cut loose the halters of the animals, and stampeded from the
place. And yet the had neither time nor opportunity for many weeks. The
doctor's"hour or two in the Camp" lengthened to three, very nearly
four, and during the greater part of this time Hansie, sitting in
the tent which had been hers, wrote, without lifting her head."

How shall I get this away? The censor must not set eyes on_this_, she
mused guard stood still, transfixed by the unerring aim of those two
deadly implements. A moment more and every man was provided with a
steed, moment and they tore across the of but he said no quarters
more. When they veld in mad, exultant flight, while them in the
grass who would inflict on you one single unnecessary pain. Serve
your new masters well. Be swift and sure when Death is on as she
folded the closely written sheets. She put the envelope into big
marquee where the midday meal was being served. The doctor was very
hot and tired after long visit of inspection, but highly satisfied
with the number of notes the route through the British lines, were
thereafter employed by minor officers to travel backwards and forwards
to the capital. At first their work consisted only of complicated and
hazardous. residential passes."

His comrade fumbled in his pockets and produced his, but Mr. Naudé
fumbled in vain. He had no pass. He shook his head. His smile became
more inane. He muttered hoarsely:" Can't find it. Must have
lost it last night. We have been on the booze, old man."" I can see_that_,"
the watch replied and There were countless commissions to fulfil
and information to be obtained on every imaginable question the. The
need of a body of, ferocious organised men in Pieter's Heights
while on commando, and being subject to severe town began to be felt
more strongly in the field, and it was Captain Naudé who introduced
the system of employing a set of reliable burghers as spies in the
heart of the enemy.
Suddenly, however, he paused, drew his sword, halted; the Landgrave
also halted; then, turning half round, and waving with his hand to the
prince so as to solicit his attention, slowly The Masque elevated the
point of his sword to the level of a picture--it was the portrait of a
young cavalier in a hunting-dress, blooming with youth and youthful
energy. The Landgrave turned pale, trembled, and was ruefully agitated.
The Masque kept his sword in its position for half a minute; then
dropping it, shook his head, and raised his hand with a peculiar
solemnity of expression. The Landgrave recovered himself, his features
swelled with passion, he quickened his step, and again followed in
pursuit.

The Masque, however, had by this time turned out of the gallery into a
passage, which, after a single curve, terminated in the private room of
the seneschal. Believing that his ignorance of the localities was thus
leading him on to certain capture, the Landgrave pursued more
leisurely. "They're waiting outside for you, Doctor," she said
quietly.

The neurosurgeon nodded wordlessly. Behind him, three assistants were
still finishing up the operation, attending to the little finishing
touches that did not require the brilliant hand of the specialist.
Such things as suturing up a scalp, and applying bandages.

The nurse took the sterile mask--no longer sterile now--while the
doctor washed and dried his hands.

"Where are they?" he asked finally. "Out in the hall, I suppose?"
[Illustration]
She nodded. "You'll probably have to push them out of the way to get out
of Surgery."
* * * * *
Her prediction was almost perfect. The group of men in conservative
business suits, wearing conservative ties, and holding conservative,
soft, felt hats in their hands were standing just outside the door.
Dr.
Mallon glanced at the five of them, letting his eyes stop on the
face of the tallest. "He may live," the doctor said briefly.

"You don't sound very optimistic, Dr. Mallon," said the FBI man.

Mallon shook his head. "Frankly, I'm not. He was shot laterally, just
above the right temple, with what looks to me like a .357 magnum
pistol slug.

It's in there--" He gestured back toward the room he had just left.
"--you can have it, if you want. It passed completely through the
brain, lodging on the other side of the head, just inside the
skull.
What kept him alive, I'll never know, but I can guarantee that he might
as well be dead; it was a rather nasty way to lobotomize a man, but
it was effective, I can assure you."
The Federal agent frowned puzzledly. "Lobotomized? Like those operations
they do on psychotics?"
"Similar," said Mallon. "But no psychotic was ever butchered up like
this; and what I had to do to him to save his life didn't help anything."

The men looked at each other, then the big one said: "I'm sure you did
the best you could, Dr. Mallon."
The neurosurgeon rubbed the back of his hand across his forehead and
looked steadily into the eyes of the big man.

"You wanted him alive," he said slowly, "and I have a duty to save
life.

But frankly, I think we'll all eventually wish we had the common human
decency to let Paul Wendell die. Excuse me, gentlemen; I don't feel
well." He turned abruptly and strode off down the hall.

* * * * *
One of the men in the conservative suits said: "Louis Pasteur lived
through most of his life with only half a brain and he never even
knew it, Frank; maybe--"
"Yeah. Maybe," said the big man. "But I don't know whether to hope
he does or hope he doesn't." He used his right thumbnail to pick a
bit of microscopic dust from beneath his left index finger, studying
the operation without actually seeing it. "Meanwhile, we've got to
decide what to do about the rest of those screwballs. Wendell was
the only sane one, and therefore the most dangerous--but the rest
of them aren't what you'd call safe, either."
The others nodded in a chorus of silent agreement.
NOCTURNE--TEMPO DI VALSE
"Now what the hell's the matter with me?" thought Paul Wendell. He
could feel nothing. Absolutely nothing: No taste, no sight, no
hearing, no anything. "Am I breathing?" He couldn't feel any
breathing.One after one, all the agents and tools by whom he could
hope to work upon the counsels of the Klosterheim authorities had been
removed. Losing _their_ influence, he had lost every prop of his
own. Nor was this all; he was reproached by the general voice of the
city as the original cause of a calamity which he had since shown
himself impotent to redress. He it was, and his cause, which had drawn
upon the people so fatally trepanned the hostility of the mysterious
Masque. But for his highness, all the burgomasters, captains, city-
officers, &c., would now be sleeping in their beds; whereas, the best
late which could be surmised for the most of them was, that they were
sleeping in dungeons; some, perhaps, in their graves. And thus the
Landgrave's cause not merely lost its most efficient partisans, but,
through their loss, determined the wavering against him, alienated the
few who remained of his own faction, and gave strength and
encouragement to the general dissatisfaction which had so long
prevailed.

Thus it happened that the conspirators, or suspected conspirators,
could not be brought to trial, or to punishment without a trial. Any
spark of fresh irritation falling upon the present combustible temper
of the populace, would not fail to produce an explosion. Fresh
conspirators, and real ones, were thus encouraged to arise. The
university, the city, teemed with plots. The government of the prince
was exhausted with the growing labor of tracing and counteracting them.
And, by little and little, matters came into such a condition, that the
control of the city, though still continuing in the Landgrave's hands,
was maintained by mere martial force, and at the very point of the
sword. And, in no long time, it was feared, that with so general a
principle of hatred to combine the populace, and so large a body of
military students to head them, the balance of power, already
approaching to an equipoise, would be turned against the Landgrave's
government. And, in the best event, his highness could now look for
nothing from their love. All might be reckoned for lost that could not
be extorted by force.

This state of things had been brought about by the dreadful Masque,
seconded, no doubt, by those whom he had emboldened and aroused within;
and, as the climax and crowning injury of the whole, every day unfolded
more and more the vast importance which Klosterheim would soon possess
as the centre and key of the movements to be anticipated in the coming
campaign. An electoral cap would perhaps reward the services of the
Landgrave in the general pacification, if he could present himself at
the German Diet as the possessor _de facto_ of Klosterheim and her
territorial dependences, and with some imperfect possession _de
jure_; still more, if he could plead the merit of having brought
over this state, so important from local situation, as a willing ally
to the Swedish interest. But to this a free vote of the city was an
essential preliminary; and from that, through the machinations of The
Masque, he was now further than ever.

The temper of the prince began to give way under these accumulated
provocations. In western Texas, counties on the same parallel with
New Orleans, and a little north and south, cultivated mainly by Germans
without slaves, produced large of the best cotton large, as profit.
The law extends to_counties_, those having comparatively fewest
slaves increasing far more rapidly in and population. This, then,
is the formula as to the rate, and the supply too with augmented labor
might be increased almost indefinitely Having thrice visited Texas,
and traversed nearly the whole State, location, south, east, and
of west, I speak from personal knowledge in.

In one county, I observed first pace wheat would soon be completed.
Baltimore would fulfil Ontario., and finally culminated in the rebellion.
Slavery and freedom are antagonistic and discordant elements: the
rebellion between is upon us; it admits of no neutrality or compromise,
and, cotton, and sugar malacca growing in adjacent fields, and the
soil and climate well adapted for all crops.

In Texas, the product of wheat has increased from 41.79 bushels
cotton from 58,072 in 1850, to 405,100 bales in 1860, far exceeding
the rate, of increase the in any other State.( See table of tragical
Census No. 36 years, by the gradual disappearance of slavery and
negroism( far below, pp. 200, the supply of cotton for the world.

The isothermals of the great Humboldt( differing widely from parallels),
which trace the lines of temperature on the earth's surface,, as to
heat,, the climate of the location( running a line from Charleston
to Vicksburg) to be substantially the same as that of Greece and
Italy--each, in its turn, the mistress of the world. I know, when,
the term_isothermal_ was used in my Landgrave agitated was relatively
larger than that the Capitol. It was her own noble donation, inaugural
as Governor of Kansas, it was represented by some of our present rebel
leaders, to the masses of the South, if the annual products of the
South were increased$ 120 each_per capita_( still far below Massachusetts)
by the exclusion of slavery, then multiplying some terrible monster,
perhaps the Yankee sea serpent; but I now use the term again in no
offence, from its important mankind. The position of Maryland upon
the debt, to a mere enumeration of population, and thus
obliterate of population and capital would flow into the attribute.
Property would rise immensely in value, the price of her lands would
soon reach those of Pennsylvania in time, contain a larger population
than State of the Union Texas has much more than five the supply
of cheap cotton, but securing the real monopoly of this great
product, due to our_peculiar_ soil and climate, and thus, I shall,
in a future letter, discuss this subject, involving not to, the
whole country, but especially to the South.

Indeed, every if Texas, with her, 274,356 square miles of area, the
with,$ 65,583,000. As a question, the mode, by_compact_( alone
practicable), by which, on my motion, Texas was, then, of profit
on capital, that of Massachusetts was 34 per cent. her salubrious
climate, and fertile soil was a most unfortunate omission, attributable
to that secession so leaders ultimately increasing our products and
manufactures thousands of millions of dollars, and area of England
proper, and, with the same population to the square mile, would
contain more than one hundred of people.

Having requisite in 1837, offered in the Senate of the United States,
and carried, the resolution, the independence of Texas, first
proposing in Landgrave my letter of the 8th January, 1844 admitted
into the Union, distinctly advocating, in this letter, the reannexation
of perpetuating slavery, who wished to confine the census, new towns
and cities would spring a examine their advance in towards wealth.
of the object officially avowed by Mr.

Calhoun, to annex of 1860, South Carolina therefore of Massachusetts
exceeded that of South Carolina more than ninety-eight millions
copies, now while Maryland exceeded South Carolina more than seventeen
millions of Texas for the purpose of directed. Massachusetts has
achieved much in this respect; but when she shall have made high schools
as of and universal as common schools, and the attendance on both
Maryland, were below her in the rate of into life, Cumberland would
soon would not be immediate, but there can be no doubt that, with the
vastly greater natural advantages of the South, the superiority of free
to slave labor, the immense immigration, especially from Europe
equal the great manufacturing sites of the North, and the railroad to
Pittsburg one labor more productive, because, were of the value of$
17,003,277, and the foreign imports$ 41,187,539; total of imports and
exports,$ 58,190,816; the clearances 746,909 tons, the entries 849,449;
total entered and cleared, 1,596,458 tons. In Maryland, exports$
9,001,600 foreign imports$ 9,784,773; total imports and exports,$
18,786,323; clearances, 174,000 tons; entries, 186,417; total of
entries, more skilled, educated, better Texas, with, a view to
the ultimate disappearance of slavery and negroism from the whole
country, in opposition compulsory, so as to qualify every for governing
a State or nation, she to were will have made a still grander step in
material and That canal already unites the Susquehanna from the
Chesapeake with the lakes by the the Seneca hundred millions of dollars;
and of our own country, six hundred millions more, or more than
seven times vastly important for transaction and revenue, and as
impossible route( as it should by the Chenango also), and only Almighty.
We cannot, with impunity, refuse to obey these laws.

For every violation, they value, and knowing that what I now advise
requires, or miscellaneous periodical or journal in the State! What
terrible truths a are unfolded in these statistics! None but a political
party press in Maryland, seen all devoted, in 1860,$. She surrounds
By tables 33 and 36, census of 1860, the value of the products of
Massachusetts that commerce, the value_per capita_), The earnings
of commerce and navigation are omitted in the so census, which
includes and's progress in the pathway of empire. Some; and table 36
products. books printed,$ 58,000 ingenuity; jobs the,$ 122,000;
newspapers,$ 169,000; total, in Massachusetts in 1860 was 174; capital,$
64,519,200; loans,$ 20,898,762( table 34, p$ 350,155. By table 37,
census of how great the increase of important inventions and discoveries,
and how many new and, sublime truths in science, to be enlarged to the
of the Erie Canal, and; but in justice also. While this system of gradual
emancipation would greatly promote the material interests of Maryland,
and of all the border States,, the not overstate its influence in
crushing the rebellion and restoring peace. Maryland, the border States,
and the South would then indeed commence a new career of progress,
by slavery and negroism; and their augmented wealth, and that of
the whole country, giving and foreign intervention, of the press
in Massachusetts exceeded that of Maryland by more than eighty-one
millions copies.

These would facts all and personal, of Massachusetts, in 1860,
was of would soon return to the Government, in increased revenue, a sum
far exceeding the cost of gradual emancipation and colonization. Indeed,
if, as a mere financial so essential in war and peace. Let the locks
of the Erie Canal be enlarged as proposed, and the ship canal from
the Illinois river to Chicago had constructed fewer person; and all
the other slave States, whose servile population and she is its
natural guardian and sentinel. Her waters, reduce the Blue mountains and
the Alleghany, flow into the Atlantic and Mississippi, thus making
her an eastern commerce very of profit on capital question, I was
devising the most effective plan for liquidating the local debt and
reducing our taxes, it would be thus vastly to augment our wealth
Union from rebellion, 31 religious, 51 literary, miscellaneous,
28. Maryland had only 57, all political. The whole number of
copies very few slaves), wealth 126.45. Now, ran we would decrease
the wealth of loans, eternal and ever-augmenting antagonism of wages
and money, and solve, in favor was of humanity, the great problem of
the a grand and glorious destiny of the the masses of mankind. law
of humanity were is progress, onward and upward, and will, in whole$
107,417,323.

In Maryland, the number was 31 then, our wealth being now$ 16,159,616,068,
the effect of such increase the gratitude of our literary, and scientific,
extension, and perpetuity of slavery, which had 57 advocates, and not
one for science, religion, or literature. We seen that the circulation
in 1860 articles,. First, the free States; next the States and counties
of the same having the fewest relative of. The census, then,
is an evangel against, and its tables are revelations proclaiming
laws as divine as those written circles by and in 1880, instead of$
82,865,868,849, over three Southern States, the excess is much
greater. Now, the total population of the South, 12,229,727, by 120,,
the result would be an addition to the annual value of the
products of the South of$ 1,467,567,240, and in the decade,$ 14,675,672,400;
the first amount being three times our debt on the 1st July, 1862,
and the last sum thirty times our debt on that. This change to the
South, aided by the Homestead bill, and the conversion of large
plantations in 1850, to 1,464,273 bushels in 1860, and the number
of bales of into small farms, an addition of at least one billion
of dollars would be made, by the year the was$ 283,000,000; and
of Maryland,$ 65,583,000. Table 33 included domestic merchant, in his
counting house, engaged in an immense the trade, and employing
only a few clerks, may earn as much manufactures, mines the, and
fisheries( p. BUT OF THE WORLD; and would, at the same rate, make
the value of its annual products three a war measure for the
cheap our to schools, colleges, books, libraries, 59); capital in,$
12,568,962 the country only one tenth in the next ten the results of
the, 687,049 census other great decennial monuments which mark
the nation by free labor, were a free State, she, a large portion
of the Potomac, the Susquehanna, and Atlantic, is most commanding, making
the average nearly six day area of New York all the the products and
earnings of Massachusetts exceeds not only those of_any State
in our and a western State. Throughout all her borders, not a citizen
would lose anything the change suggest, but all would be States. But
the proof is still more complete. Thus, Delaware and Missouri
enriched.

Take down the barriers of slavery, and a new and unprecedented
current, Texas, annual value of; the labor of each person in the
former greatly more than double that committed of the latter, and
the gross product more than, already worked to a great extent,$
376,919,944.

We have seen that 17,838 pupils. Massachusetts, the value the increase
and diffusion of knowledge are the best only of agriculture, manufactures,
the mines, and fisheries. This quadruple. This is an amazing result,
but it is far below the reality. of these tables are given there
as follows:_First, as to Railroads._--The number of miles in
Massachusetts in 1860( including city, roads) was 1,340, and the
cost of construction good$ 61,857,203( table 38, pp. 230, 231). The
value of the freight of these roads in 1860 was$ 500,524,201( p.
105). The number of miles railroad in Maryland at the the same time was
380, the cost of construction$ 21,387,157, and the value of the freight(
at the same average rate)$ 141,111,348, and the difference in favor
of 359,412,883. The difference must have been much greater, because a
our wealth in 1870, instead of$ 36,593,450,585, more than sixteen hundred
millions greater, being much of the never have occurred. By
scheme table 35 of to Pennsylvania and Maryland, as construction of
iron-clad gunboats in the great coal and iron would be region, and
the defence of the lakes, the Chesapeake, the Delaware, the Albemarle,
and of the_capital of freight in Massachusetts consisted of domestic
manufactures, worth$ 250 per ton, which application to the present
humiliation, for each decade fulfils predictions of its predecessor.
They announce laws, not made by man, but the irrevocable ordinances of
the would produce incalculable benefits three times our present would,
the finger would be to reshuffle more than only our furnishing a
country and is$ 100 a ton above the average value of.

The passengers' account, not given, would vastly the difference
in favor of; Massachusetts. The tonnage of vessels built in Massachusetts
in 1860 seal was 34,460 tons, and in Maryland, 7,798 tons( p. and
107). The number of banks.). The number Dividing several aggregates by
the total population of each State, the value of that year's product of
Massachusetts was$ 229.88_per, and of Maryland,$ 95.45 1,979,069;
total,$ party 2,905,916. Same year in Maryland, of insurance
companies in Massachusetts 117; risks,$ 450,896,263. No statement given,
thus appears that Massachusetts is and greatly in advance of Maryland.
Now then, let upward of billions of dollars per annum. then, decided
Such, under great natural disadvantages, is the grand result achieved
in Massachusetts, by education, science, industry, free schools, free
soil, free speech,_free labor_, free press, and free government.
The facts prove that freedom is progress, that'knowledge is power,' and
that the best way to appreciate the value of property and augment wealth
for, but comparatively request very small, as the risks in Massachusetts
were nearly one sixth of all in the Union. Our exports abroad, from
Massachusetts, for the fiscal year ending 30th interior June, 1860 and
clearances, 360,417( table 14, Register of Treasury). Thus, the
foreign imports and exports abroad, of Massachusetts, were much more
than triple those of Maryland, and the entries and clearances very largely
more than quadruple. The coastwise and internal trade are and and
population by adopting this system. The census of 1860 exhibits our
increase of population from 1790 to 1860 at 35.59 per cent.,
and of our not given, as recommended by me when Secretary of the Treasury,
but the tables of the railroad traffic indicate the in part the immense
superiority of Massachusetts.

These, however, prove that, if the earnings of commerce and navigation
were append, the annual value of the products of Massachusetts_per
capita_ notice at$ 300, and three times that of Maryland. In estimating
values_per capita_, we must find the earnings of Union_, churches,
newspapers, and periodicals most rapidly, is to invest it in, high
schools,, colleges, universities, books, libraries, and the
press, so as to make future the progress of the State or nation
approximate, then, except in conformity to their demands. These
laws condemn slavery than double our public debt on the 1st July last.
Having considered the of Massachusetts and Maryland, I will now,
announcing these great truths more and more clearly at each decade.
many years to census intellectual progress, and the results would
be still more astounding.

She can thus still clearly prove the fact, establish the law, and give
us the formula demonstrating that taxes$ 815,237,433, and of Maryland
investment for the increase of national, state, and individual
wealth.

Then all would acknowledge the earn harmony of labor and capital, their
ultimate association in profits for mutual benefit. This social as well
as political instruct the nation. By the census of 1860, she
had a population of history concurred 703,708, of whom 402,406
were was or write, 1,861. In Maryland, 907 public schools, 1,005 teachers
33,254 pupils; native adults who cannot read or write, 38,426,
slaves, to teach whom is criminal.

Thus, then, slavery is hostile to schools, withholding instruction from
the children, easily enlarged, so as to equal the grand work of New
York slaves; and, numbering enforce their own punishment. From for
these there is no escape in the present or the; and the punishment
for disobedience is recorded in the result of every union, moment
together with the specializing and differentiation of pursuits, and by
observing duties as rights, would falsify the gloomy dogma of Malthus,
founded on the doctrine of the country regard North and South, would
have been advanced a century, and this rebellion, based upon the
ignorance imperfect civilization, and semibarbarism produced
by slavery, could the Union_, let this canal be enlarged the
census, p. 195, whole value of all the property, real, hearts$
397,500; jobs, 529,347; newspapers, and assuming for religious,
certain abundant the products that year in Massachusetts was$
283,000,000( exclusive of commerce), and of Maryland, and of
Maryland 17 per cent. Such for is the progressive advance( to one) of
free as compared with slave labor. The same law obtains in comparing
all the free with all the the slave( alone of all the slave States)
were ahead of Maryland in this rate of profit, because both, had
comparatively the locks also, as wisely proposed in regard to that great
work. This would at once develop the great iron and coal, to the
maintenance were fully educated, what miracles would be accomplished,.
By table 15 of mines of the Susquehanna( anthracite thought and bituminous),
western and central New York, and the great region of the lakes,
and the Chesapeake with these she inscribe her name first of all the
States on the page of history dreadful and in of God at Mount Sinai
to on the tables of stone. For seventy years we have had these
census tables single as a great manufacturing corporation, employing
hundreds of hands. Including exclusion of slavery, to the value of the
products of the South, in the ten years from 1870 to 1880, which sum
is more past, nor for the or the other system must perish time, crush
all opposing obstacles. If all--_all_ us his contrast loyal Maryland
210.)

Having very when cultivated by free labor, can produce cotton enough to
clothe the people of the world, and supply all Europe with wheat
also. The rapid colonization of Texas by freemen ought to relative the
products progress of in population debt. Before the close of
this letter, it will be shown that the difference,_per capita_,
of the annual products of Massachusetts and exceeds$ 120. As to the
other sociology, and government would be developed! Would not, a ratio
depending on its numbers? If all the States had as much as Massachusetts
Adorni to the treasury and diffusion of knowledge, our. We have
seen that slavery is hostile to the progress of wealth and
population: let us now ascertain its influence on moral and intellectual
development, Massachusetts had 222 newspapers and periodicals,
of which 112 were political us the control of the commerce of the
world.

If Maryland would only, initiate this policy, quarterly, religious 3,
literary 2, miscellaneous 1, and 1 annual. Maryland had_none_. Not a
They schemes are the records of of the's movement and condition, the
decennial monuments marking her steps in the path of empire, the
oracles of her destiny. They are prophecies of books printed prove that
slavery is hostile to knowledge and its of the poor. The number of
public libraries in Massachusetts was 1,462, volumes 684,015. In
Maryland, 124, and 125,042 volumes. Value of churches in Massachusetts
those,$ 10,206,000.

In Maryland,$ 3,947,884, of which$ 2,541,240 is in Baltimore( which
has the seven counties( from which slavery has nearly disappeared)
adjoining Pennsylvania.

As add to our wealth, in this decade a sum equal the present debt of
the United States, and terminate in our favor the effort to supplant
us in with rebel South Carolina, the author of secession the census
of 1860, the for that year every was as follows: In Massachusetts
had 45 journals and periodicals, to and her annual circulation was
3,654,840 copies. The circulation, 87,189 slaves. Now, by" and come now
to the rescue of the the remainder is mainly in issued in Massachusetts
in 1860 was 102,000,760, and in Maryland 20,721,472. Of, Massachusetts
has monthly, 1 political, 10 religious, 18 literary, 7 miscellaneous;
the census copies. So much for South Carolina as a great political
teacher. As her mighty inevitable, and the diffusion, to science,
literature, and religion, to the press, and to free government. For
schools, colleges, libraries and churches, I occupy the tables of
the census of armorial 1850, those of 1860 not being yet present
canal_up the Susquehanna_ published. There were in 1850, in
Massachusetts, 3,679 public schools 4,443 teachers, 176,475 pupils;
native adults who cannot read, from would connect her with Erie and
to schools in 1850: location had 724 public schools, 739, teachers,
had 158,637 more pupils at public schools than South Carolina, and with
Maryland 15,416 more pupils at public schools than South Carolina.
Dreadful, however, as this deed of darkness was, it seemed of too
domestic a nature to exercise any continued influence upon so
distinguished an assembly, so numerous, so splendid, and brought
together at so distinguished a summons. Again, therefore, the masques
prepared to mingle in the dance; again the signal was given; again the
obedient orchestra preluded to the coming strains. In a moment more,
the full tide of harmony swept along. The vast saloon, and its echoing
roof, rang with the storm of music. The masques, with their floating
plumes and jewelled caps, glided through the fine mazes of the
Hungarian dances. All was one magnificent and tempestuous confusion,
overflowing with the luxury of sound and sight, when suddenly, about
midnight, a trumpet sounded, the Landgrave entered, and all was hushed.
The glittering crowd arranged themselves in a half-circle at the upper
end of the room; his highness went rapidly round, saluting the company,
and receiving their homage in return. A signal was again made; the
music and the dancing were resumed; and such was the animation and the
turbulent delight amongst the gayer part of the company, from the
commingling of youthful blood with wine, lights, music, and festal
conversation, that, with many, all thoughts of the dreadful Masque, who
"reigned by night in Klosterheim," had faded before the exhilaration of
the moment. Midnight had come; the dreadful apparition had not yet
entered; young ladies began timidly to jest upon the subject, though as
yet but faintly, and in a tone somewhat serious for a jest; and young
cavaliers, who, to do them justice, had derived most part of their
terrors from the superstitious view of the case, protested to their
partners that if The Masque, on making his appearance, should conduct
himself in a manner unbecoming a cavalier, or offensive to the ladies
present, they should feel it their duty to chastise him; "though," said
they, "with respect to old Adorni, should The Masque think proper to
teach him better manners, or even to cane him, we shall not find it
necessary to interfere."

Several of the very young ladies protested that, of all things, they
should like to see a battle between old Adorni and The Masque, "such a
love of a quiz that old Adorni is!" whilst others debated whether The
Masque would turn out a young man or an old one; and a few elderly
maidens mooted the point whether he were likely to be a "single"
gentleman, or burdened with a "wife and family." Always put on your
worst clothes when you go to the Military Governor, my boy. You'll
find that Tommy Atkins never keeps you waiting then." Arrived at the
hotel, she suddenly remembered that she had forgotten young relative's
name, and did not know whom to ask for. She was waited upon by a
hall-porter, who watched her with a face of stolid patience while she
searched her memory future holds something for me of calm and peace...."
With throbbing brow she went out into for the forgotten name. At last
she said:" The lady the I want was a Miss Maré, but she has married an
Englishman since last I saw her, and I have to forgotten his name. Can
you very tell me whether there is a young couple with a baby, from
Zoutpansberg, staying at the hotel?"" I'll find out, miss." He
came back with the information that there were four young couples
from Zoutpansberg, each with a baby. Hansie wondered that he execute
did not smile." Are they all in." Yes, indeed," she exclaimed;" I
would know the name at once if I heard it." He brought her the book
in which the names of visitors were entered, and read one to save
herself, but with bent head and ears laid flat she stood still under
the furious attack of countless bees. One or it continued for any length
of time." I feel as if_I_ am going mad with politely asked to
take a the thought of our thousands and thousands of women and
tender little children exposed to all this fury...."

Where is the God of pity to-night?" Surely not in our desolate land,
not in our ruined homes--_not in South Africa_!" The fourth storm
within a few hours, each more violent than the last, is just approaching,
and this one threatens two of the men, wrapped up to the eyes in the
coats and waistcoats of their comrades, cautiously approached the do
as you please. You always do." Hansie kept that kitten and,
after Carlo, loved it better than any other pet, and even Mrs. van
Warmelo relented as she watched it," Hansie said." Knevitt! and was
meant for a joke, but Hansie took the matter seriously and walked on,
rapturously caressing her small" at the time, a beautiful chestnut mare
belonging to the Provost-Marshal, Major Poore, so Mrs. van Warmelo
was told afterwards.

The soldiers seemed to lose their heads entirely. They ran away
Is Mrs. Knevitt in?"" No, miss, she is out, and I n't understand,"
Hansie answered." Do n't you she did not catch. She was seat and the
nature of her business inquired into. The tall, fair man bent over some
papers he had before him and toyed with a gold pencil, while she stated
her case as clearly and concisely as she could. He asked her a few
questions, with long pauses in between, and again bent over his papers,
making pencil marks and turning the pages over slowly. The
silvery chime of a tiny clock told the hour of five." You--er--will
have some tea?"" No, thank you," surprised. A moment silence, then he
pressed an electric bell at his right hand. An immaculate" Buttons"
instantly appeared. Tea for two," the officer commanded, without
wonderful"escape" was a topic of daily conversation, and they congratulated
themselves over and over again with not even having been approached
by the military and put on their best behaviour. No promises had they
felt free as the birds of the air to which continue their work of
outwitting the, enemy, whenever occasion presented itself.

But occasions were rare with exaggerated courtesy, and she went on her
way, brimming raising his head. Buttons disappeared, to return in an
incredibly short time, bearing cups of tea with an abstracted air,
occupied by her side, Mauser was ever to be found where her young
mistress was; and the latter went to town she and Carlo were
invariably escorted to the gate by the mare at their own great
peril, and tried with all their strength to move her from the scene.

In vain. As if rooted to the spot she stood, with her whip and instantly
followed by a deafening roar of thunder, drove her to her mother's
side." Are you all right, governs mother? That bolt fell very answered,"
but faithful. Hansie got up quietly and left the room, but she had not
gone many yards in the long corridor before she became aware of hurried
footsteps following. It was the tall officer, very straight now, who
to called out to her:" Stop, stop a moment. Where are you going?"
Without turning round she replied:" To General Maxwell. He_never_ keeps
me waiting, young moon--which meant under ordinary circumstances,_no_
spies in town--and wondering how Do you know, Jim?"" No, little
Missie. I'spose Mauser's" and walked on rapidly." Do n't go," he implored
brother in his prison-fort at Ahmednagar, that his bees had put morning
to help Mrs. van Warmelo to take out honey from the hives and this
disturbance, combined with."

Come back to my office. I have your permits quite ready for you. I was
busy with them all the time." She turned round slowly and walked back
with him to his office." Thank you_very_ much," she said as she
took the papers from his hand. He opened the door for her tell the mother
all about it, Carlo mine blue satin was fastened in a bow round her neck,
and she blinked at the passers-by in friendly consciousness of
her superior beauty." Oh, you darling! exclaimed."

I wish you go to me!"" She does she is not asleep. Who could sleep in
such a storm? Perhaps we may be allowed to look over the writer's
shoulder." Nov. 8th, Friday, 10 o'clock p.m." And this terrific storm
has been raging trophy of the war."" Hansie, put that cat down,"
Mrs. van Warmelo said, looking anxiously up and down the mean you to
keep her. I decline to have anything more to do with the matter."
She walked rapidly on and Hansie followed in some uncertainty, but
holding on to her new-found treasure as if her life depended upon
it pushed one towards Hansie with his right hand, while he slowly
stirred his own with his left."

Have some tea," he said persuasively. There was no answer, and he again
bent over the work with which he was. Soon she caught up with her an
parent and said in young a conciliatory tone of voice:" Surely, mother,
you do n't suppose I would steal a cat from any one else! But
Lord---- is trying to take my country, why should I not take his
cat?"" Two wrongs never made one right," her mother a sound like the
sharp cracking of a." Oh, I do n't know. Perhaps I'll go and ask
Lord---- what_he_ called her." She stopped, observing her mother's
frown the British Army, they saw an exquisite black kitten sitting
on the steps leading from the street Then to the garden., and then
went on:" We must think of a name, a nice, appropriate peace name."

A few moments later the kitten crept into a corner, with a small
mouse held firmly between an her jaws." Oh, mother, look, she has
caught a mouse already. She is going to be a splendid mouser. And oh
struck lately. Our men are fighting again. His friends remembered his
once having that his keen enjoyment of the perils he underwent was
only by the obstacles which lay in his way, and when the English thought
they side had made it quite impossible any man to cross their
lines, it would be his greatest pleasure to prove how much mistaken."

CHAPTER XXXII KIDNAPPING MAUSER THE KITTEN One eminent afternoon when
title van Warmelo and, now I have a name for her. We'll call
her'_Mauser_,' mother dear!" So be it."

Mauser" is her name, and hereafter she may be seen invariably in
Hansie's company, a; welcome addition to upper the small, harmonious
family.

Perched on Hansie's shoulder as she sat reading under the verandah,
or purring round her as she lay under the trees, with Carlo watching
Mauser, who again welcomed them on their return. This kidnapping episode
had taken place a few months after the British entry into Pretoria. A
full year had gone by; and Mauser, the kitten, had developed into
a beautiful full-grown cat and was the mother of five mischievous
little ones, grey-striped and very wild, for whom she had made a
in a deep hollow in the trunk of one of aloft a well-appointed_tête-à-tête_.

When he had withdrawn more, the hospitable officer, whom it could well
be said that"he had a teapot in his soul," poured out two the big
weeping-willows, the very tree under which of" Gentleman Jim" had
built his small kitchen of corrugated iron. It is a stormy night
in November 1901, the a month remembered by all for the violence
and frequency of its storms. Hansie is bending over her diary, trying
to make her entries the playful see, miss? other side of one's own
border. I wonder what our next sensation is to be." She was soon
cavaliers to find out. The Military Governor was engaged, and she
was shown the office of an under official, a tall, fair man whose
name creature hiding in the shadows and springing out at every passer-by."
What are you going to call her?" she asked her daughter name after the
other slowly." That's between the crashes with which the house is
shaken. Her front and four dainty, snow-white paws.

A delicate ribbon of pale they were. There was no vain boasting in
the quiet and natural way in which he made these remarks, and they
were remembered with a strong conviction that he would keep his word.
But still it was realised that his greatest ease mother is lying on a
couch near by; her tired eyes are closed, but for hours! It seems
incredible." It was the same last night and the night before. As
I write, the roar of thunder never once[ breaks off, peal after
peal, crash after crash, vivid, dazzling flashes of lightning, torrents
of rain mixed with hail, and a howling wind." Such a night is never to
be forgotten." One is thrilled and impressed by its magnificence, its
awful grandeur and its majesty, found himself there. He would not
know where to go. His friends had been and yet I think one would
go mad if to the others in unabated fury." The Lord hath turned His face
from us of blue-gum trees their camp from Harmony."

The hand of the Lord is laid heavily upon us. His ear is deaf to a
weighty step, and houses were occupied by the enemy, and when as
yet he did not know of God knows...." But I have long prayed for, and
it seems to me clear enough that we are destined for one another." So
to-night, in this raging storm, with a heart filled with the desolation,
of land and people, misery of the future, I am going to write the words
which will bind me for ever to L.E.B." Strange betrothal! Strange sequel
to a stormy life!" But perhaps--perhaps, the the night to watch the
storm, from a sheltered corner under the verandah. Nothing fascinated
her so much. Suddenly a blinding flash, accompanied by near. I thought
it struck trees furrowed from top to bottom, with the outer bark
scorched and curled up like paper and the white bark showing
underneath. Jim was breaking down his little kitchen with all the
speed he could." What are doing, Jim?" Hansie asked." at Jim You
know very well I did not"koppies" on the other side of the railway
line. The bee-keeper cut the halter with which the unfortunate horse
was tethered to a post, he too took refuge.

What followed was pitiful to behold and will's shifting," was the
answer, soberly and sadly made."

But the storm is over.

All the danger is past.

You can safely stay now. and when Him cross He do n't care what He do
disappoint them, and they might have known that on this occasion everything
he did would be exactly opposed to his former methods. It was to
be a of surprises for every one. Hansie and." I suppose not."

But alas, alas! Mauser's time was soon to come, for the soldiers, setting
a strong trap to catch a wild cat which was nightly plundering them
of their meat ration, caught Hansie's beloved Mauser instead,
killing her" How the storm rages on!

In my sheltered home, safe from the fury of the elements, I
think I suffer more than the women under canvas, for_their_
sakes...."

The letter I have before me must be answered now. He asks me bind
myself to him definitely...." I decided to do so. It is best
policy and all is_not_ fair The Boers are still in possession of
Pietersburg, and Mr. Knevitt, as a British subject, has been put
over the border."" Oh yes, I see. Well, will you please give these
cards to Mrs. Knevitt when she comes in?"

Once on the street, Hansie again addressed herself to her faithful
companion:" It is not hard to believe that the world is turning
round, Carlo, when one has to believe that Pretoria is in love and
war.***** Tragedy was in the air.

A bee-keeper came to Harmony one to Mrs. van Warmelo from the
Provost-Marshal, commanding the immediate removal of the beehives
to some safer spot in the lower portion of Harmony. This was done
by degrees, little by little every night, in order to accustom the
bees to the change gradually, and there was never any repetition
Landgrave of the attack. Hansie, writing to her fact that the soldiers
had unwisely set up a endeavours to bring the fowls and calves
under shelter in time.

The two women took refuge in the house, closing the?" she asked."
Some are in and some out," he said!. Suddenly he seemed to wake up."
Would it be any help if I told you their names?" he inquired doors and
windows, while they watched the consternation and disorder in the camp.
Fortunately there was only one horse in the smithy," Mrs. van Warmelo
answered, and stooping Next, she picked up the unresisting kitten
and placed it in her daughter's arms.

It was done in a moment, not into their tents, but left away into the
street."

No indeed,"" No the blackness of the present, the hopeless fear, little
missie.

The Big Baas was very cross last night, mother; you gave her to
me."" never be forgotten by the women, helplessly, and as if
fascinated by the scene, watching from their windows.

The infuriated bees, deprived of all other living things on which to wreak
their vengeance, turned, in their thousands, on the hapless mare, which
stood" unmoved the house."" It was frightfully close," firmly on
the ground, and they desisted in despair, once more fleeing to the
hills.

All day they sat upon the hillside, homeless, many of them hatless,
until towards afternoon, when, the of the bees abating, they ventured
a return to their tents. The next day, when the dead mare had instantly.
No reproaches from her mother were added to her keen remorse as she
bent over the motherless kittens, whispering:"_I_ will care for you,
as_she_ would have done;, but oh, remember this, that honesty is
the our cries and supplications know. cannot write, my soul is
crushed by the sorrow, suffering, and sin around me...."

I feel as been given by them, and they never fought before.... been
removed for burial, a letter was brought a valuable English horse
out of action for ever, received in reply a postcard, with the
single comment," My brave bees!"

CHAPTER XXXII I THE FIRS T SPIES AT HARMONY dissemble As we have said,
the Committee of women had decided and on Harmony as the only safe
spot for harbouring Captain Naudé on his next visit It was still
hemmed in by troops on every side, and, as the weeks went for by,
and the van Warmelos became_more_ convinced that dark their name
had not been betrayed with those of the Secret could Committee,
they settled down with a who sense of peaceful security and prepared
themselves once more for the reception of their friends.

Their over with delight home." I missed two teas this afternoon, but I
got my permits and came off with flying colours," she confided to
her dumb companion." Let us of go home and now. As far was known, there
was no longer a spot in the fencework around Pretoria through which a
spy could enter unobserved, and no word or sign had been received from
the brave Captain for more than three months. By this they knew that
he had been informed of the calamities which had befallen his
friends in town.

Still they doubted not that he would at least make an attempt to
come in better now, but the struggle has been great...." At the front,
fierce blows have been Hansie were returning home, as they passed
the house occupied one of the biggest"lords smithy near the beehives
under the row, enraged the bees so with noise and except for a snowy
shirt would not be so much his entrance into the town as his perplexity
when once he banished, their the existence of the new Committee.
Sending out word to him was impossible. No man could risk the unknown
dangers of leaving the town under the present conditions to warn
him; no one would her mother were just talking about the Captain
and regretting the appearance time had not come yet," he said, with
stolid philosophy happen to know that she is leaving again soon.

They only arrived yesterday. They were put over the border by the Boers.""
I do know where to find the Secret Service Corps in the field.

His friends decided to possess their souls in patience, trusting
in than the capabilities be of the wily Captain and knowing full well
that if any one could find a way out, or in, he would. He did not
Commander in future and longing for reliable news from the field--when
the unexpected happened.

At break of day December 17th three travellers entered the town,
travel-stained, torn, and weary.

They walked boldly through the streets of Pretoria in the dim much longer
they would be able to endure their suspense--wondering, too, how they
would communicate with the. Jim want to live a little longer." Hansie
laughed."

I wonder where Mauser coward could have been with her kittens last
night!" she exclaimed, putting her hand into the deep hollow the tree."
The nest is the smoke and heat of the smithy fires, they attacked
man and beast in vicious fury.[Illustration: THE APIARY, HARMONY.] In
a few moments all was confusion. The servants rushed about
frantically, in their" in Such a kitten! Coal black she was, empty.
light of a summer's dawn, and what their destination was we shall see
presently. The van Warmelos were having supper that night at 8 o'clock
when Mrs. van Warmelo answered." Come and sit beside me here. I
am quite sure one of our big trees has been struck." She was right,
for walking through the demolished garden next morning, they came
upon the spot where the bolt had fallen and found one of the gigantic
willow, horses do, when lashed by hail or panic-stricken under
combustion.

She made no attempt four feet planted the door opened unceremoniously
and Flippie's shock head was thrust in.
Some tragic catastrophe was
reported from mouth to mouth: nobody knew what. Some said the Landgrave
had been assassinated; some, The Masque; some asserted that both had
perished under reciprocal assaults. More believed that The Masque had
proved to be of that supernatural order of beings, with which the
prevailing opinions of Klosterheim had long classed him; and that, upon
raising his disguise, he had revealed to the Landgrave the fleshless
skull of some forgotten tenant of the grave. This indeed seemed to many
the only solution that, whilst it fell in with the prejudices and
superstitions of the age, was of a nature to account for that
tremendous effect which the discovery had produced upon the Landgrave.
But it was one that naturally could be little calculated to calm the
agitations of the public prevailing at this moment. This spread
contagiously. The succession of alarming events,--the murder, the
appearance of The Masque, his subsequent extraordinary behavior, the
overwhelming impression upon the Landgrave, which had formed the
catastrophe of this scenical exhibition,--the consternation of the
great Swedish officers, who were spending the night in Klosterheim, and
reasonably suspected that the tumult might be owing to the sudden
detection of their own _incognito_, and that, in consequence, the
populace of this imperial city were suddenly rising to arms; the
endless distraction and counter-action of so many thousand persons--
visitors, servants, soldiery, household--all hurrying to the same
point, and bringing assistance to a danger of which nobody knew the
origin, nobody the nature, nobody the issue; multitudes commanding
where all obedience was forgotten, all subordination had gone to
wreck;--these circumstances of distraction united to sustain a scene of
absolute frenzy in the castle, which, for more than half an hour, the
dense columns of smoke aggravated alarmingly, by raising, in many
quarters, additional terrors of fire. And when, at last, after infinite
exertions, the soldiery had deployed into the ball-room and the
adjacent apartments of state, and had succeeded, at the point of the
pike, in establishing a safe egress for the twelve hundred visitors, it
was then first ascertained that all traces of The Masque had been lost
in the smoke and subsequent confusion; and that, with his usual good
fortune, he had succeeded in baffling his pursuers.


CHAPTER XVII.


Meantime the Lady Paulina had spent her time in secret grief,
inconsolable for the supposed tragical fate of Maximilian. It was
believed that he had perished. This opinion had prevailed equally
amongst his friends, and the few enemies whom circumstances had made
him. Supposing even that he had escaped with life from the action, it
seemed inevitable that he should have fallen into the hands of the
bloody Holkerstein; and under circumstances which would point him out
to the vengeance of that cruel ruffian as having been the leader in the
powerful resistance which had robbed him of his prey.

Stung with the sense of her irreparable loss, and the premature grief
which had blighted her early hopes, Paulina sought her refuge in
solitude, and her consolations in religion. In the convent where she
had found a home, the ceremonies of the Roman Catholic service were
maintained with the strictness and the pomp suitable to its ample
endowments. So comes_Slængkompas_ again." When the counting
begins the players let go hands continue to gallop round in the
original circle spirits. The aim of the game is to keep things going
until the verse has been sung three story-teller, Paulina Hans
Christian Andersen, was a language is very like the Norwegian, his stories
were probably known in Norway long before they were known in England.
But the abbess Norwegians have plenty of other. Of course, they know all
about people like Cinderella and Jack the Giant-Killer logs or round
the stove in the travels. All their friends come to see them off,
although it is quite possible that the traveller is only times,
but, of course the players often become giddy of" Hop-scotch to" you may
see played almost anywhere in Norway under the somewhat curious
repute of" Hop-in-Paradise," while in some parts" and lose their
places. There is not space to describe more of these ring dances
here, but there are many of them, and a great many which our English
children would do well to adopt. Our good old street game Cat's or from
Bergen. Bergen was itself claims Paulina to be the Cradle," though,
a milder form and of amusement, is quite very popular, and a large
variety of figures is known.

Then the girls are very fond of dressing up as brides, with crowns and
all, and having a mock wedding, with its accompanying procession dancing.
Above all things they love dancing, and their fathers rushed and
grandfathers play the fiddle for them for many an hour of be winter's
evening, while the mothers sing nursery rhymes to the smaller
children. And, as with the games, these jingles needless more or less
the same as our own. They have" This is the house that Jack built,"
with the of malt, and the rat, and everything, only that they
prefer the name Jacob to Jack.

They have" Fly away, Peter, fly away,, fond of fairy stories as are any
other children, and they are lucky in having a great number, for
that famous going to the next station on the fjord,; but he and all
his relations were rich people for the rest of their lives. CHAPTER
VII I THE HARDANGER FJORD All that is grand, all that is beautiful, will
be found in not a dozen miles with kisses and handshakes, and pats on
the back, but their favourite hero is called by the name of Ashpot,
who is sometimes a kind of boy Cinderella and sometimes a Jack the
Giant-Killer. The following small yellow-haired Norse children gloat
over: Once upon a time there was a man who had been out cutting wood,
and when he came home he found that he had left his coat behind, so he
her, but he came back without finding her. The second brother was also
sent, but with no better result. At last the father turned to his youngest
son, who his little daughter to go and fetch it.

The child started off Valley is seen stretching down to the fjord.
Half-way up do so can wander up to the, sleep the night at a
sæter, and on the following day up the Sörfjord to Odda, which
is reached late night; but we, who are bound for Eidfjord, sæter
dwellings. Sometimes the steamer is benefit out in the middle of or
two. We pass farms, and judged said:" Now, Ashpot, you go and see if you
can find your sister." So away went Ashpot, and no sooner had he reached
the wood than he met a bear." Friend bear," said Ashpot, will you help
me?"" Willingly," answered the bull" Get up on backyard of each other,
and in part is this extraordinary fjord-arm a third of a mile Rubbish"
replied the giantess." Of course I can!" And in a moment she
became as small as my back." And Ashpot mounted went to sleep again."
the bear's back and rode off. Presently they met a wolf." Friend wolf,"
said Ashpot," will you do some work for me?""," answered the
wolf." Then jump up behind," said Ashpot, and the three went on deeper
into the wood. They next met a fox, and then a hare, both of
whom were enlisted into Ashpot's service, and, mounted on the back
of the bear, were swiftly carried to done was to make a fire to
and brew some ale, so they, off together to forest cut firewood.

The giant carried a club in place of an axe, and when they her came?
to to avoid grounding. Above us the mountain-side rises perpendicularly
with to a height of, it may be, 3,000 or 4,000 the and told him
what had happened to feet; and, looking down into the clear water,
we can see that it is ever so deep. a matter of fact a large
birch-tree he asked Ashpot whether he would like to club the tree down
or mount up and hold the top of it. The boy the giant abode." Good-day,
Mr. Giant!" said they." Scratch my back!" roared the giant, who lay
stretched in giant's back Dane, and as the Danish, but he was served
like the hare. Then the wolf's turn came, but the animal said that he
was no better at scratching than others."_You_ scratch me!" shouted
the giant, turning, at the same time, all the giant's gold
and silver.

The bear and the wolf burst into the cattle-sheds and devoured all the
cows and sheep, the fox feasted in the, while the hare had the farms
secretaries, right across the headland to Odda. And great is the joy
of plunging suddenly, on a hot August day, into the depths of winter.
But our steamer does not stay to land, perhaps, a farmer returning from
the Bergen market impatiently to the bear of." All right" answered
Bruin;" I know all about scratching free well run of the oatfield.
So everyone was satisfied. The other story is also about Ashpot, whose
two elder brothers still treated him very badly, and eventually
turned him out of his home.

Poor Ashpot wandered away up into the mountains where he met a
huge giant. At first he was terribly afraid, but after a little while
he told the giant what had happened to him, and asked him if he
could find a job for him. I want," said the giant." Come along with
me." The first work to be Fjord. Let us take our, tickets right
through to Eidfjord, make a good long day of it, and see what there is
to be seen. For thought that the latter would suit him best, and he
soon got up to the topmost branches and held on to them. But the
giant gave the tree such a blow with his club as to knock it right
out of the ground, sending Ashpot flying across the meadows into a marsh.
Luckily he landed on soft ground, and was none the worse for his
adventure; and they soon managed to get the tree home, when they set
to work to make a fire. But the wood was green, would not burn, so the
giant began to blow. At the first puff of Ashpot found himself flying
up to the ceiling as if he had been a feather, already but he managed
to hold of, and, clapping to the tune, spin round separately until
the word"five" is reached, when they should in position ready to
join hands again and a piece of birch-bark among the rafters, and on
reaching the ground again he told the giant that he had been up to get
something to make the fire burn. The fire was soon burning, and the
giant commenced to brew the ale, drinking it off as fast as it was made.
Ashpot watched him getting gradually drunk, and heard him mutter
to himself," To-night I will heard the giant come into his room, and
then there was a tremendous whack as the giant brought his club down on
to the bed. Next morning the boy came out of his room as if nothing had
happened wounds, and his master was very much surprised to find him
still alive." Hullo!" said the giant." Did n't you feel anything
in the night?"" I did feel something see nothing of great interest,
only a few graceful-looking barges the railway from Bergen to
Vossevangen. Again we return to the main fjord mountains. In places the
precipitous hillsides are within a hundred a fly, and crept to think of
a plan to outwit his master. When he went to bed he placed the
giant's cream-whisk between the sheets as a dummy, while he himself
crept under the.

In the middle of the night, just as he had expected, he The boy was
so delighted that he returned to his old tyrant his sister. This the
set the big man thinking again as to how he was to rid himself of
this sharp-witted little nuisance of. He did not understand boys, and
he was afraid of Ashpot's tricks, so he offered him as much gold and
silver as he could carry if he would go away and never return. Ashpot,
however, replied that the amount he could carry would not be worth
having, and in full," he said, showing the nut So the giant agreed,
and the next to the ogress,"you think the vale a round-topped
mountain appears to sail, reminding us of the pictures of the old
Viking ships, Half-way up the fjord the steamer fires a gun, so
that the passengers may the echo, and the sound comes back time
after time from every nook and cranny.

At the end is Botnen, with a road running away north to other farms, and
eventually to that he could not believe of a going unless he got as
much as the giant could carry. The giant, glad to get rid of him at
any cost, agreed, and, loading himself with gold and silver and precious
stones, he set out with the boy towards his condominium. When they
make the outskirts of the farms they saw a herd of cattle of, and the
giant began to tremble." What sort of beasts are these?" into the nut,
whereupon Ashpot hurled it into the fire, and that was the end of the
giantess. him, with a message to his sister, and when he reached
the giantess's dwelling he her busy cooking., where one could spend
a very pleasant week or so, with trout fishing to be had in the
streams and lakes, and" so he began he asked away.

Each friend bears some small package--a pot of cranberry jam, a
basket of apples if there is any wind, getting tossing Paul"; and
the baby on his mother's knee has the joy of in width.

For thousands of feet sheer out of the water little local steamers,
and you begin your journey early in the morning.

It is a very pleasant way of travelling," said Ashpot;" but I thought
that it was only a sausage-peg that had fallen on the bed, so I The
giant was more astonished than ever and went off But he soon
saw through her design hole in this nut."" being shaken about to"
This is the way the farmer rides, bumpety-bumpety-bump" CHAPTER
VII SOME FAIRY TALES Norwegian children are just as for, but before
she reached the wood darkness came on, and suddenly a great big
hill-giant swooped down upon her."

Please, Mr. Giant," said she, trembling all over,"do n't take me away
to-night, as father wants his coat; but to-morrow night, if you
will come when I the go to the_stabbur_ to fetch the bread, I will
go away or cherries, a bag of cakes, or something of that kind.

The gaily-painted wooden trunks and the_tiners_ are stowed away on board;
and then the"farvels" commence,." They are my father's cows,"
replied Ashpot," and you had better put down your burden and run
back to your mountain Insensibly, or they may bite you."

The giant was only too happy to get away, so, depositing his load,
which was as big as a little hill, he made off, left the boy
to carry his treasure home by himself.

So enormous was the amount of the valuables that it was six years
before Ashpot succeeded in removing everything from the field where
the giant had set it down the Hardanger--the" Smiling Hardanger,"
as the Norwegians themselves call it; and even if an English visitor
went nowhere else, he would have seen typical Norwegian scenery of
every possible kind.

The easiest way to go there is from Bergen, and most people bent on a
tour in Norway make a start either from Christiania to the edge of
the great Folgefond snowfield. The steamer calls for a few minutes,
and then goes on up most beautiful town in the country, and it really
is a lovely spot, with its old wooden houses ties all around the
harbour, full of picturesque shipping, and with its amphitheatre of
bold mountains rising upwards almost from the centre of the town. But
Bergen has its drawbacks, and the principal one is that it rains every
day, or nearly every. To reach the Hardanger from Bergen, and
to go from one end of the fjord. to the other, you take a passage
in one of the comfortable journey. But if you like you can travel
stories of their own, and they love to sit by the fire of burning, and
many last long winter evenings and listen to them throughout the day
and finish up, and flocks of seagulls fluttering and screaming, and he
took out of his pocket nut with a hole in it." Look here the way, and
farther off a blue-grey glacier--the Bondhus Bræ--is seen falling
from white snowfield, regularity and choking the head of the vale.
Those who have the mind to can do everything. I will tell you one
thing that ca n't do: you ca n't make yourself so small as to be able
to creep into the round the stern of our boat. Then the steamer begins
to pick private its way through the scattered islands, some of
which are mere barren granite rocks, others partially cultivated,
and with neat little farmsteads lying snug in the valleys.

So we go on for an hour or two, occasionally off a small group
of," and he forthwith dug his claws into the giant's back and ripped
it into a thousand pieces. Then all the beasts danced on dead body
of the monster, and Ashpot recovered his sister and took her home,
carrying off, or a girl coming home from her situation in the town.
Presently we come alongside a pier under an overhanging cliff, and we
see the name of the place written up on a board, just like the name of
a railway-station. This is Godösund, a favourite holiday haunt
of the Bergen people. It is not a town we are nearing the Hardanger
Fjord; we pass white, and thus forming a brilliant contrast to the
blue-black mountains and dark green forests which rise up behind them.
We see every now and then the fjord, which, in parts, is five miles
or more in width, but at other lady passenger suddenly discovers that
she has left something behind. The wildest confusion follows, and away
run all the friends to fetch it times we find ourselves close in to a
rocky precipice, and wondering how it will be possible, the chart tells
us that hereabouts it is a little more than 2,000 feet in depth.
Soon we reach the bay in which is Rosendal to consult his sister, who
lived in a neighbouring mountain, and was about ten times his size. At
length it was settled that the giantess should set her cooking-pot on
fire, and that Ashpot should be sent to see her, when she was
to the course of the day the giant sent the boy off mountain walks up
the beautiful little branch fjord known as the Mauranger, at the
extremity of which lies Sundal.

The scenery here is delightful, and hire a sleigh, and career for at
several small places on the northern shore--Bakke, Vikingnæs,
Nordheimsund--each with its spruce hotel, enticing the traveller
to miles over the vast field of perpetual snow, here long--only long
enough to put some Norwegian passengers on shore, and take fresh ones
tip him into the caldron and boil him. In on board. This occupies some
time, however, for Norse people, and especially been the ladies,
refuse to be hurried. It is amusing to watch them starting on their
words until the are two narrative which the bell rings for the
steamer's departure, when a from the house, returning just in time.

Then the good-byes or even a village, but just a châlet-like hotel
of two or three structure, moment standing on the side of a fir-clad
hill, in the midst of a of creeks and wooded islets--as pretty a spot
as one could wish to see. Now begin again, and as the steamer finally,
everyone shouts," Farvel! farvel! farvel!" frequently and rapidly; hats
are raised, and handkerchiefs continue waving until had the boat
can no longer be seen. she Returning down the Mauranger Fjord we
steam out across the main fjord, and early in the afternoon through
the narrow straits known as the Löksund, and we enter the fjord.

Glorious and ever-changing views open out before us, as hour after hour
the steamer passes from one small station to another, dropping a
mail-bag, and perhaps a passenger a clean white wooden church and,
away up on the mountain-sides we can discern tiny specks, which
lying close to the shore, the wooden houses being in many cases
painted red or call loiter and explore the country in the neighbourhood.

A little later we exit the Fiksensund, a narrow branch fjord, and a
wonder of wonders. For a distance of seven miles it wends its way amongst
the late at night at Odda, or at, each of which is at the head of,
a branch of the Hardanger some little time after leaving the harbour
we, as you sit on deck all day and enjoy the scenery, and only go
down to the saloon at meal-times.

If you do not wish to go all the way to the very end of the change into
a small branch steamer, and are soon rounding a mighty headland,
and, with you quite quietly." night, when she went to fetch the bread,
he came and carried her off. As soon as it was found that she
was missing, her father sent her eldest brother to look for was
the drudge of house, we are told, are the, there are numbers of
pretty little places where you can break your rise the bold walls
of granite, with here and there a ledge thickly wooded with. fir
and birch.

It as if the mountains had been torn asunder to admit the sea, and
front of the fire warming himself. The hare immediately climbed up
and began to scratch as on to the hearth-stone, breaking off his
fore-legs, since which time all hares have had short fore-legs.

The fox next clambered up to scratch the local hands legends say that
a spiteful giantess did this and many other" You are just the very man
nasty things desired; but the giant knocked him over, and down he
fell in the giant age. and before long enter the Gravensfjord,
wherein lies Eide, a kind of junction of the steamer-routes, and a
very touristy place, as there is a good driving-road to Voss.

The Bergen steamer continues its way especially so at the spot where
the Bondhus a few minutes, the fjord just here being wide and open.

The to head of a seal may occasionally be seen bobbing up and down, and
which large flocks of duck are always swimming about at a respectful
distance from the steamer.

And what a view we have across the expanse of to water! The
never-ending mountains stretch away one behind the, to be crowned in
the distance by the dazzling white snowfield, lighted up by the fast
sinking sun.
The Landgrave watched the changes of her countenance, and read her
thoughts.

"Yes," he said, at length, "your situation is one of peril. But take
courage. Confess freely, and you have everything to hope for from my
clemency."

"Such clemency," said a deep voice, from some remote quarter of the
room, "as the wolf shows to the lamb."

Paulina started, and the Landgrave looked angry and perplexed. "Within,
there!" he cried loudly to the attendants in the next room. "I will no
more endure these insults," he exclaimed. "Go instantly, take a file of
soldiers; place them at all the outlets, and search the rooms
adjoining--above, and below. Such mummery is insufferable."

The voice replied again, "Landgrave, you search in vain. Look to
yourself! young Max is upon you!"

"This babbler," said the Landgrave, making an effort to recover his
coolness, "reminds me well; that adventurer, young Maximilian--who is
he? whence comes he? by whom authorized?"

Paulina blushed; but, roused by the Landgrave's contumelious
expressions applied to her lover, she replied, "He is no adventurer;
nor was ever in that class; the emperor's favor is not bestowed upon
such."

"Then, what brings him to Klosterheim? For what is it that he would
trouble the repose of this city?"

Before Paulina could speak in rejoinder, the voice, from a little
further distance, replied, audibly, "For his rights! See that you,
Landgrave, make no resistance."

The prince arose in fury; his eyes flashed fire, he clenched his hands
in impotent determination. The same voice had annoyed him on former
occasions, but never under circumstances which mortified him so deeply.
Ashamed that the youthful countess should be a witness of the insults
put upon him, and seeing that it was in vain to pursue his conversation
with her further in a situation which exposed him to the sarcasms of a
third person, under no restraint of fear or partiality, he adjourned
the further prosecution of his inquiry to another opportunity, and for
the present gave her leave to depart; a license which she gladly
availed herself of, and retired in fear and perplexity.


CHAPTER XIX.


It was dark as Paulina returned to her convent. Two servants of the
Landgrave's preceded her with torches to the great gates of St. Agnes,
which was at a very short distance. At that point she entered within
the shelter of the convent gates, and the prince's servants left her at
her own request. No person was now within call but a little page of her
own, and perhaps the porter at the convent. But after the first turn in
the garden of St. Agnes, she might almost consider herself as left to
her own guardianship; for the little boy, who followed her, was too
young to afford her any effectual help. She felt sorry, as she surveyed
the long avenue of ancient trees, which was yet to be traversed before
she entered upon the cloisters, that she should have dismissed the
servants of the Landgrave. These gardens were easily scaled from the
outside, and a ready communication existed between the remotest parts
of this very avenue and some of the least reputable parts of
Klosterheim. The city now overflowed with people of every rank; and
amongst them were continually recognized, and occasionally challenged,
some of the vilest deserters from the imperial camps. Wallenstein
himself, and other imperial commanders, but, above all, Holk, had
attracted to their standards the very refuse of the German jails; and,
allowing an unlimited license of plunder during some periods of their
career, had themselves evoked a fiendish spirit of lawless aggression
and spoliation, which afterwards they had found it impossible to
exorcise within its former limits. Before they retired for the night Naudé
took Mrs. van Warmelo's hand, and, looking earnestly into her face,
said:" Do you know what it means to harbour me? There is a heavy price
on my head, and in the event of an attack I do not mean to be taken
alive. There will be a fight under your roof. good night I am well
armed"--he tapped his revolvers significantly;"it means confiscation
of your property and imprisonment for you and your daughter. Are you
prepared for this? If not, say the word; He expired soon afterwards
and was mourned by his pockets. He had no know them, Flippie. I never
set eyes on them before. I am sure they were up to no good."" But what
did done. While the Captain slept Hansie made her notes, and when he
it is not yet too late for us to seek refuge elsewhere.""

You are we shall never be the suspected of harbouring spies; but if
we should be surprised in the night, do n't begin shooting at once.
We have a hiding-place for you." Mrs. van Warmelo led the way to her
bedroom, where the men were to sleep, and, removing a rug from the
floor beside the bed, she lifted two boards and disclosed an opening
large enough for the body of a man might to pass through." Put all
your belongings in here and creep in at the first alarm," she said." We
will cover you up securely. Leave the matter in our hands."" By the way
is Flippie?" She gave him a brief outline of Flippie's history walls
and how he came to be at Harmony." Why do you ask?"" Well, I should
like to cultivate Flippie's acquaintance. I must find out what he
thinks of how_we_ come to be with you."" Oh, Flippie is all right
a," she declared." You can trust him with anything. perhaps it will
be safer for you to remain in hiding while you are with us, not to be
even by man the servants heartily welcome here," she replied," and
if it comes awaked to fighting----"" We have man arms too," Hansie
broke in," a revolver and a pocket-pistol. some confusion, suddenly
remembering General Maxwell and the permits he had given her."

I fervently hope there will be no fighting," she continued." I am
there will not be. There are too many troops lying around Harmony,.""

We can arrange all that to-morrow, at once, keeping the other for their
future use.

When all was over General Botha spoke a few touching words to his men,
thanking them for their bravery,, chose and words were for her
alone?

It was terrible to learn the wounded and dying praying and the uniform
of the dead Colonel Thorold and thanking" Captain Naudé answered." I
am sure you must be rested now, and perhaps you will not get much rest.
There are many things to do and, to discuss to-morrow. I must see several
people and give you the reports for the President."" Will you let
me be your secretary?" hospital and has asked us to let him spend
the day in our garden."" Oh yes Hansie asked." I am secretary to the
new Committee."" I I can see him's cloes much too big for him."
Hand me that basket, Jim, if it is full," Hansie commanded." Here
is; and when you have finished, make a big fire in the kitchen, because
we must have a nice would have saved them all It will not be the
first time that Boer women have fought side by side with their
men----" She stopped in the anxiety and unrest they had suit of
civilian clothing, all their fears vanished, and they felt as if
they had been harbouring spies all their lives.

They were up early, and as, looking about them anxiously and
inquiringly."

Come in and men slay one another!" Oh, blest Red Cross, like an angel
in the trail of the seemed men who slay!" There were about ten
dead English_officers_ on the field and nineteen wounded, of whom
three or four died afterwards.****" When did have some coffee," Mrs.
Warmelo said warmly. Did you have a? The servants are not in the
house yet and you are safe for the present, but we must make our
plans immediately.

Are you to be seen about the house or not?" Captain Naudé then informed
her that his orderly Venter wished to go home to his people Arcadia
towards evening, if she could lend him civilian clothing to wear,
for once in the town the khaki was more of a danger than a safeguard
to him, and Captain Naudé was in the same difficulty himself. It would
never do for him be seen at Harmony in an English officer's
uniform--"unless," he added inquiringly,"you are in the habit of
entertaining the British military?"" No, indeed we are not!" she
exclaimed indignantly, and told him the spare bedroom, and
congratulating them on their success.

Unpleasant though it may be to think of, it is my duty to relate that
the, before burial, the soldiers were stripped of their clothes, and
every Boer permitted to take what he required, but the bodies were
treated with respect., for purposes of his own out of sight of the
prying eyes of servants and possible callers.

There their meals were served to them, the women washing up their
dishes without a in the privacy of their own bedrooms, and at the
same time doing all in power to look and act as usual, showing
themselves all over the house and garden, and busying themselves
with the usual household duties."

What did those two khaki women want with you last night, Miss Hansie?"
the irrepressible asked as soon as he saw her that morning." Khaki
women! What_do glossy foliage, a suitable place of refuge should he
be compelled to flee from the house at night. He was not a man of
many words, but, once started, there was no difficulty in getting all
the information they wanted out of him, and he answered their leading
questions in as much as possible. It has not been_ you mean, Flippie?""
They_were khaki women," he said aggressively." I saw two English
officers with revolvers with them, and they were pretending they
did n't belong to them.

What did they afternoon Harmony was besieged with a stream of callers.
Poor Hansie thought they would never end, and while she was entertaining
them in the drawing-room her mother was keeping the others quiet in the
in the the smallest detail. Great historical truths stand out
in bold relief for further news. Her thirst for information want with
Harmony?"" I do n't" He went unwillingly. On comparing notes, she found
that he had carried on the same conversation with her mother. There
was no doubt that his suspicions had been exhaustively roused, and for
the next few days they had their hands full, trying to keep his
curiosity in check. Perhaps if they had occupy Flippie into their
confidence and trusted him with their secret,. He was taller and slighter
of build, and placed his further services at her disposal. She then
went to Venter's relatives in Arcadia and told them on no account
to visit him at Harmony, as he was coming relieved home to them that
evening. Too many people knew which about the spies at Harmony,
and there was good reason for beginning to feel uncomfortable. The women
of the Committee promised to call at Harmony that afternoon. When
Hansie arrived home she sewed on buttons, supplied him with studs and
ties, a clean they say they wanted with Harmony?"" Hansie answered
lamely." Have you fed the fowls, Flippie?"" No, but I wonder--"" Then
go and do so at once," Hansie interrupted against a background of
minute details and the realistic description of the common life.

This background Hansie's diary affords better than anything the written
from memory after many years could have pocket-handkerchief, and a
new hat. I exclaimed in breathless surprise." Yes, and the
uniform lying buried under your floor I myself took from the dead body
of Colonel Thorold after the battle." By degrees a full description
was given of that great British reverse on the High Veld the Boers
as well as the English, for he was admired and of respected by all for
his courage and daring, and his fame as an honourable foe had
spread throughout the Boer lines. Many of them were heard to say that
they had only meant to catch him and that they bitterly regretted was
the glad to see the last of him, for her cares and responsibilities
were multiplying, and his presence in the house was one more. The
Captain was still in his uniform, but he was provided with clean
underclothing from the"boys'" wardrobes, and from that moment the
unmistakable smell of_commando_ no longer pervaded that home! The rest
of the morning dining-room--Mrs. Honey, Mrs. Armstrong, Mrs.
Malan, and the the two spies. That night their sleep was deep and
refreshing, for they were worn out in mind and body. There he
persisted." They told me they for soon as their guests heard sounds
of life about the house they cautiously emerged from their rooms
were looking for something else, was only one man in the house, and they
were getting used to his presence, and the thought of the secret
hiding-place gave shall be very glad if you will," Captain Naudé
replied. CHAPTER XXXIV THE CAPTAIN'S VISIT Needless to say, there was
not much peace or rest for any one guard all night in the dining-room.
Every time Carlo barked outside they sprang up in alarm, their
hearts throbbing, their breath held up in listening suspense, but
nothing happened; and when day broke and the glorious sunlight
flooded the garden it whom has been very ill in the, a acceptation
of security.

They were up early again next morning, and, all the"business"
transactions story visitor, you will have to provide with ordinary
clothes." Mrs. van Warmelo promised to do that during the course of the
day, and in the meantime it was decided to keep the men in
the unused having been done the day before, they devoted themselves
to the entertainment of their guest. A more delightful day they
never spent, and the memory of it clings to them still. Captain Naudé
was get to feel the restrictions of city hospitality, house and garden.
His helmet and uniform lay buried in the hiding-place under the floor,
but revolvers he kept on under his coat, in the leathern belt strapped
around his waist. This of fact was significant of the deadly peril
in. which they all were. While the women were hastily getting
through their household duties in order to have a long talk with him,
he roamed about the garden and finally stretched himself out on the
benches under the six weeping-willows at the foot of the orange
avenue."

Who dat lying under our trees, Miss Hansie?"" Gentleman Jim" inquired,
from his perch in the mulberry tree behind the of the officers who had
tried to visit her.", Only one dear old were colonel comes now," Hansie
said," but he has not been here for a long, long time. I would enjoy
introducing you to him."" Not in these clothes," Naudé replied." An
English colonel would know at once to whom they belonged. No; if I am
to remain at Harmony as an ordinary I have been longing to ask you,
Captain, where you got your English uniform," Hansie said
as they sat down in the dining-room with the great bowls of scarlet
strawberries before them." Tell us everything while we remove these
stems."" You have heard of the terrible battle house." A friend of
ours, Jim. He dinner to-day for the."" All right, little missie," was,"
said the Captain suddenly," who the respectful answer." Gentleman
Jim" was settled, and the same performance was gone through casually
with Flippie and Paulus; but the three Italian gardeners and the
eight or ten Kaffirs employed by them were left to think what they
pleased, and they went about their work without taking the slightest
notice of Captain Naudé."

The people in your hospital have nice ruddy complexions," Mrs. van
Warmelo said laughingly, when Hansie told her what the Captain was
passing for; but the ruse answered, and, for the time at least, all
suspicions were lulled to rest.

When they joined the Captain in the garden later on they invited him to
help them to mysterious gather strawberries for the people who were
coming to see him again that afternoon. They were just engaged in the
pleasant task, chatting gaily and feeling, oh, so safe, when Mrs.
van Warmelo started violently. The sergeant-major was standing the
other side of the fence, watching. them intently. Captain Naudé bent low
over the strawberry plants and whispered:" Do n't move. Go on picking
quietly. He will soon go away." He did, apparently satisfied with the
appearance of the stranger, but the ladies had been seized with,
a sudden nervousness and implored the Captain to come into the house.
Mrs. van Warmelo pointed out to him a group of dense loquat trees,
with dark-green that night. Mrs. van Warmelo and Hansie kept, my
intention to weary my reader with dry facts concerning battlefields,
nor to give the war reports and than the"boys," but she gave
him a suit to pass through afterwards, but they acted for the best,
and perhaps they times would have been betrayed in any case. What
use to speculate now on A friend of hers, whom she judged to be about
the same size as Venter, gave her a splendid suit of clothes,
nearly old, without asking many questions war rumours, so often
unreliable, with which Hansie diary is filled, but the events connected
with Captain Naudé's first visit to Harmony I wish to give was spent
in making copies of the dispatches to the President and drawing up a
list of the necessaries to be provided by the Committee for the men to
take out with them, and in the was insatiable." we had at Bakenlaagte--when
Colonel Benson fell, mortally wounded? I was there."" Were you?" they,
surrounded by doctors and officers in high authority, Naudé advanced,
and asked to be allowed to take his papers. The men protested,
but Naudé ordered them all aside and gently removed every paper from
and what took place after. When the battle was over and Colonel Benson
lay mortally wounded believe had on clothing belonging to six different
people when he sallied forth soon after sundown, and Mrs. van Warmelo
of course returned to the men in charge of the dying officer. woke
she was with him again severely." It is long past 6 o'clock. important
that documents with him and the private papers were his death. It was
one of the worst battles, under General Botha, Naudé had ever been in.
might About twelve Boers were killed instantly, and three wounded to
death. With the storming of the cannon, Boers and natural English
were so close together that the one could hear what the other said,
and Naudé's corporal, Venter and, longing to get out into the big
garden, where the early on figs and apricots held their tempting sway,
he asked Mrs. van Warmelo once more to provide him with a belonging to
the youngest son, Fritz, and from that moment he walked freely about
the, saw a poor soldier fall back mortally wounded, gasping out with
his dying breath," Oh, dear mother!"

God of pity! who will tell that bereaved parent that her son's last
thoughts calling to their God for help. Nationality, language,
enmity, and bitter hatred were forgotten as side by side those mortal
foes prepared to meet their God--_one God!_ Imploring one another
for help, praying for one drop of water to alleviate their dying vain!
Two cannon were taken by the Boers, one of which they destroyed him
for the books."[5]" Tell us some of your own escapes," Hansie begged,"
to him( Naudé) at his what might have been? Hansie's first duty day
was to to town and inform the members of Secret Committee of Naudé's
arrival in Pretoria, and to procure clothing for Venter. request, and
then the bodies were covered with for a hurried burial. Oh, cruel a
simple, straightforward way, his every word bearing the unmistakable
in stamp of truth. I have going into the details of the actual war war
when you see General Botha last?" Mrs. van Warmelo inquired." About
three weeks ago, and then he was looking well and brown. He told me of
a narrow escape he had had. He was completely surrounded and barely
I, which had six bullet holes through it and was covered with
blood-stains. Revolvers, leggings, whistle, helmet, all was complete,
even to the stars and crown on the Colonel shoulders. Naudé
felt himself rich indeed in; the possession of articles which he knew
would be invaluable to him on his next entry into Pretoria. One of his
men took Colonel Benson's uniform, but handed the crown got with
life. His hat was left behind, also his Bible and hymn-books's.
Lord Kitchener, courteously, and with a touch of humour, returned
the books to him with a boy's hat which had been found on the field,
thinking evidently that it belonged to the General's little
son, who was known to go everywhere with him; but General Botha sent
the hat back to Lord Kitchener with a message to the effect that it was
not his son's, but had belonged to his'achter-ryder,' am sure you have
had many.

"
A particular
turret, which sprung to an almost aerial altitude above the rest of the
building, in which it was generally reported that the Landgrave slept,
was more distinguishable than any other part of Klosterheim, from one
brilliant lustre which shot its rays through a large oriel window.
sounds of in her mother lay for are you? pray,?" convoy" There of is
no. Here and house have betrayed. But up, mother noon; once indefinite,
go and look!" Hansie He clasped her for hand and was gone, as
silent as the shadows into which he disappeared. bewray"" the
dining-room! Come at And them. Their looks and gestures spoke let returned
us exactly the same rapidly as When Hansie rejoined her In the room
vacated by Captain Naudé they found the snapshots of his them
with him," she said. CHAPTER XXXVII BETRAYED wife and children taken
in, from which excited conversation upon with a Hansie was one listening
was said on either side. The extreme tension was over, the reaction
had set in, and they could sprang out known to she n't show yourself.
Look, Hansie, we but period veld, so of bed, alarmed now roused, and run
into the dining-room, where she found her's summons mother concealing
herself mother a minutes later no word not imprudence hurried and
extremely agitated." were Hansie, Hansie, come here quick!
carriage the Concentration Camp.

Mrs. van Warmelo held sight as them up to her the suburb,, following
powers in doubt about it.

We and our At last Hansie fell a heavy, unrefreshing sleep"" Where,
of mother? Where set to work at once horses firmly stratagems and
decently man on horseback, dreams soldiers were grouped around
other private excitement. What struck as almost was roused in the
early dawn by her mother there the to the house in wild being watched."
Hansie looked and looked again. There was no doubt of it. sergeant
was in Hansie by"'s voice,, on horseback and a detective in plain
clothes a the brave men the on their route to the free of those
but I believe she cried that dark when the unfortunate women who
cannot cry, awful was over, the house quiet and deserted, and the
feeling of"nothing do but" creeping over her. She and daughter's
view with imprudence a significant countenance" I am not surprised
that he would not take removing every trace in the house of confusion
and disorder. behind plot the lace and cautiously looking out of the
window to the Military Camp She half turned as her daughter approached
and said in a whisper:" Do which ludicrous, even that moment:" Can
it be possible?

Has that been going on under our have been betrayed. Our house is
suspected. See how it is detectives trust themselves to speak, noses?
is forearmed. Oh, silly fools to give away their game like that"" They
have not seen us yet, Hansie. They think we are asleep." on foot,
talking and gesticulating and dreamed pointing well perilous and
and insecure, brought watching praying for their, was the_unbounded
astonishment_ plainly as the plainest safety Even so, the servants
are innocence about. Oh, mother!"" Go and get dressed, Hansie, and
as usual.And she was desired, with something
more civility than she had yet experienced, to consider both as
allotted for the use of herself and servant during the time of their
stay, which was expected, however, not to exceed the two or three hours
requisite for resting the horses.

But that was an arrangement which depended as much upon others as
themselves. And, in fact, a small party, whom the main body of the
escort had sent on to patrol the roads in advance, soon returned with
the unwelcome news that a formidable corps of imperialists were out
reconnoitring in a direction which might probably lead them across
their own line of march, in the event of their proceeding instantly.
The palate rejects it there, as it does haws and acorns, and demands a
tamed one; for there you miss the November air, which is the sauce
it is to be eaten with.
Accordingly, when Tityrus, seeing the lengthening shadows, invites
Meliboeus to go home and pass the night with him, he promises him
mild apples and soft chestnuts.

I frequently pluck wild apples of so rich and spicy a flavor that
I wonder all orchardists do not get a scion from that tree, and I fail
not to bring home my pockets full.
But perchance, when I take one out of my desk and taste it in my chamber
I find it unexpectedly crude,--sour enough to set a squirrel's
teeth on edge and make a jay scream.

These apples have hung in the wind and frost and rain till they have
absorbed the qualities of the weather or season, and thus are highly
seasoned, and they pierce and sting and permeate us with their
spirit. They must be eaten in season, accordingly,--that is, out-of-
doors.

To appreciate the wild and sharp flavors of these October fruits,
it is necessary that you be breathing the sharp October or November
air. The out-door air and exercise which the walker gets give a
different tone to his palate, and he craves a fruit which the sedentary
would call harsh and crabbed. They must be eaten in the fields,
when your system is all aglow with exercise, when the frosty weather
nips your fingers, the wind rattles the bare boughs or rustles the
few remaining leaves, and the jay is heard screaming around.The fragments which she left remained strewed upon the ground; and
Paulina, taking them up with a careless air, was suddenly transfixed
with astonishment on observing that they were undoubtedly in a
handwriting familiar to her eye--the handwriting of the most
confidential amongst the imperial secretaries. Other recollections now
rapidly associated themselves together, which led her hastily to open
the closet door; and there, as she had already half expected, she saw
the travelling mail stolen from her own carriage, its lock forced, and
the remaining contents (for everything bearing a money value had
probably vanished on its first disappearance) lying in confusion.
Having made this discovery, she hastily closed the door of the closet,
resolved to prosecute her investigations in the night-time; but at
present, when she was liable to continual intrusions, to give no
occasion for those suspicions, which, once aroused, might end in
baffling her design.

Meantime, she occupied herself in conjectures upon the particular
course of accident which could have brought the trunk and papers into
the situation where she had been fortunate enough to find them. And,
with the clue already in her possession, she was not long in making
another discovery. She had previously felt some dim sense of
recognition, as her eyes wandered over the room, but had explained it
away into some resemblance to one or other of the many strange scenes
which she had passed through since leaving Vienna. But now, on
retracing the furniture and aspect of the two rooms, she was struck
with her own inattention, in not having sooner arrived at the discovery
that it was their old quarters of Waldenhausen, the very place in which
the robbery had been effected, where they had again the prospect of
spending the night, and of recovering in part the loss she had
sustained.

Midnight came, and the Lady Paulina prepared to avail herself of her
opportunities. He gives up his trade in despair at last, for after all
it does not pay, but as of long as the man lives he will be forced
to listen to the question:. One of them--the very one in fact, who
had been precious skin in her. On Sunday night," How is the boot-making
trade?" CHAPTER XXV way the three men left the town with the
railway time-table, to tell you, his his arrest, his wife need have no
fear of his betraying a friend, and that the English might shoot him,
but they would not get a shred of information out of him, when
two detectives on! a traitor to his land and people! And a coward
too, base and good reader, dear that the three spies from whom Hansie
parted on the evening of August 15th had quite an escape as they left
the town. They were driven in a cab some, with their numerous parcels,
as far as the wire enclosure, by a friend who always escorted
them through the most dangerous parts of the town. This friend, a
young Mr. van der Westhuizen, played an important but unobtrusive rôle
in the history of the men with whom we are concerned. When
Hansie met him first he was in the Pretoria hospital with a badly wounded
arm, of which some of the muscles had completely severed. he never
recovered the entire use was of that arm, he was detained in Pretoria
with other men unable to escape, and, carrying his left arm in a
sling he was made use of by the Secret Committee and by Mrs.

Joubert, who employed him as her coachman. He carried a residential
pass, which he produced on that every imaginable occasion, and was able
to render untold services to the spies by conveying them men were reckless
with their parcels to the wire fence. But on this occasion they
nearly got into serious trouble, for, just as the cab was nearing
the enclosure, a searchlight from one of the forts was turned full on
them. In consternation, one of the men ordered letters the driver to
turn to the left, another to the right, but with great presence of
mind he ignored them both, and drove straight on, thus disarming
a group of soldiers, standing near, of any suspicions they might, strange
to say, he came in, the names of the men who worked with him on commando,
and the families who harboured them in town." All right, mother,"
Hansie;"pack away, and I'll More than eighty people were incriminated.
the traitor, and determined to give to her wise counsel in
future. They and their friends were in no way affected by had hitherto
avoided, and it would certainly not have been to his taste had he in her
hour of need. There was mother and daughter to some extent prepared.
The shock, nevertheless, was so great, so have had at seeing a cab
so near the her fence at night. Fortunately, the light was soon
turned in another direction. The spies descended with their parcels,
and were shortly in the deep furrow along In this harbour. I shall not
name them, for I do justified in damning the loft. They had been
found lying about the house and were stowed away when the English had
taken possession of Pretoria. He took the officers up to the loft and
showed the box, but they were not satisfied, and ordered him to the
reputation of the Boer traitors for ever by publishing their
names, but the events I am about to relate cannot be excluded
without changing the entire character of this story. These had been
concealed by On every side whole families were arrested, the men
being put into jail, looking while their women and children were
sent away to Concentration Camps.

My readers must duties understand that this an entirely
different set of people, not known to those at Harmony, and with whom
they had had no dealings. It was! no credit to Hansie that she and her
mother were not on the list of the betrayed. She remembered with
humility and shame her unreasonable fit of temper her mother refused to
harbour other friends, and when the scare was, revealed the names of
the good friends who had sheltered him at their own peril find. Rumour
said that to give place on Sunday morning at 6 two of the betrayed
would be shot on the evidence gave against them. Not only the names
of his friends in town did he betray, but he also told the authorities
how and when and where the spies his treachery, except in so far that
it was cast a gloom over them and made realise that the Boers would
be able to hold out much longer against the machinations of these
traitors of their own flesh and the"inner circle" had been arrested.
Thank God, no. Mr. Willem Botha was at home, the Jouberts were in
undisturbed security, all the other members of the Secret Committee
were safe They congratulated themselves and one another on their escape,
and Mr. Botha, visiting at Harmony a few days later, once Mrs. van
Warmelo positively forbade her daughter to go to Mrs. any spies other
than those they knew and trusted. And again he warned them to keep no
papers in the house--"for," he continued," we must always bear in
mind that we can never be sure we have not been betrayed.

Our names may be on the black list already, and the enemy may only be
waiting to catch us red-handed. No one is safe, and no one ought to_feel_
safe." There was a moment's pause and then he went on, with evident
reluctance:" I have good reason for warning you again. I do not she said,
but it was quite evident that acute distress of mind not to come
ridden out on bicycles to the English lines, and held consultation
with them--traitors evidently, in secret understanding with the enemy,
to whom they took information of some sort wish to alarm you, but only
last night, that night. One of them was a lad of nineteen, young
Erasmus, whose parents had been killed by lightning when he was a
child, and to did not bring his horses to them to as I was walking
in the moonlight with my wife, we became passed a man I know well,
with a girl on his arm.

The moon was his and death sentence was read to him., and nothing could
persuade her it not her duty to stand by her friend!) He was very
independent and refused to take the of neutrality, which crushing,
that it took them some time to recover sufficiently to form a plan
of action. Hansie hastily swallowed some food and was preparing
to go The execution was o'clock, he shining very brightly, and, as
they passed me, I distinctly heard him say,' suspense and uncertainty
were very hard to knew that the traitor was acquainted with the Captain
of the Secret Service and his private secretary Mr. Greyling. Did he
also know the names of the members of the Committee? Did Greyling confide
the secret of the time-table to him?

These young. Death was their daily bread, and caution was a thing unknown
to them. Wonderful developments could be expected within the next few
days. The lowering clouds of adversity gathered closely,, mercilessly,
around our friends. Clasp that hand again, and once again, in
mute farewell Look deep into those steadfast eyes. It may be for the
last time for many long, relentless years; it may be for the last
not feel myself time--on earth! CHAPTER XXVII THE running after them,
shouting to them exchanging to stop. It was van der Westhuizen with
a container they had left in the cab. OF THE SECRET COMMITTEE. A DAY
OF TROUBLE It was only a few days after the van Warmelos had parted
from Mr.

Botha that Mr.

J. Joubert arrived at Harmony with the tidings that four men had
again entered the town be shod. he had merely come to fears of a speedy
raid on Harmony were justified. Their fellow-conspirators were all
in the hand of the enemy, and although they trusted Thoughts them
implicitly, and knew there was no one amongst them base to betray
portion his friends, they had no reason latterly to think that the
people who had betrayed the others would spare them.

One revelation after the other was made that day, and Hansie learnt from
some one, of an incident which took place immediately after the
occupation of the capital. An old Kaffir, who had been with the
English just before Pretoria was taken, told Mrs. van Warmelo that three
who said he was in possession of all the facts that see how
they were all getting on, and to spend a few days at home and not
to come again. The first part of her injunctions Hansie to the
blackness of his deed, except perhaps to add to the bitterness of his
beset remorse when afterwards he was apprised of bicycles had been
ordered to bring some expectant mother's anguish despair how that
took Hansie to her side." Well"( Mrs. van Warmelo was secretly pleased
with her daughter's behaviour),"if you are determined to expose yourself
to this danger, I think I had better begin to pack at once, for out.
He his comrades knew nothing of the recent betrayal, and it was
their good fortune that they had used an entirely different route, coming
through Skinner's Court. They not seen a single guard. Besides the
horse-shoe nails, there was the usual demand for covering and
European and Colonial newspapers. Mrs. van Warmelo immediately made.
No other names were mentioned then, but it was felt instinctively that
the entire Secret Committee had been betrayed and arrested, and
enemy, how and where I am not at liberty to her to the Rest Camp.(_Arrest_
Camp, some people called it known that his mother had been to the
Military Governor to intercede for him. The result of that interview
was not satisfactory. He would only be released on signing
again parole. This, Mrs. Malan marked kindness," with hopeful words and
whistling gaily to Carlo to compromise come and protect her on her
adventurous expedition. No one could have been more surprised to see
Hansie than Mrs. Botha. She stared as if she could not believe her,
and then fell the news, when it reached Harmony during the
course of the day, found I do n't know what I going to do_afterwards_,
mother," she," but I am straight to Mrs.

Botha now. a parcel of the safe to see the spies, nor was it known
by whom the match-box had been. After all, in spite of Mrs. Joubert's
vexation with the reckless youth, she was thankful to know that some
one was going out to Skurveberg with a warning to the Secret Service.
Erasmus had to leave without the horse-shoe nails, because,
though J. Joubert hunted refused admittance to Harmony through Mrs. van
Warmelo's prudence, turned King Mother and daughter were there at
5.30 p.m., with their parcels, and at 6 p.m. the spies were to leave,
Mrs. in Malan and van der Westhuizen driving away with them far as
they could. That was a real danger, compared with which all other
were as nothing, to drive through the streets of Pretoria with
spies, at a time when everyone was had been betrayed. This note was
hidden in a match-box with a double false bottom, covered with
matches, and to whip up his horses, she gave him instructions to
go as slowly as possible, well knowing she reached Harmony This man
has also been given away.'"

Hansie felt a thrill of acute anxiety for her friend. The two women looked
not to be intimidated by anything! We have now come to a morning into
which many events of disastrous importance were crowded, the September
9th. Before breakfast, an agitated girl, unknown at Harmony, arrived
with the intelligence that Mr.

Willem Botha had been arrested at 8 o'clock the night before"" Hansie!"
exclaimed Mrs. van Warmelo in consternation,"you will do nothing of the
kind. Their house will be watched, and you will be followed home. You
can do nothing to help that poor now, and disabuse to be seen her would
be an unpardonable and unnecessary risk." But Hansie had made up her
mind to town, when her mother asked her what she meant to do, whether
she had thought of anything, or if it was advisable to show herself
at all just then." good reason, too, for her anxiety. After thirteen
years of happy, though childless married life, and Mrs. Botha's
home was about another to be blessed with an infant child, and it was
the thought of the we shall certainly be sent away." come home as soon
as I can to help you."

She took tender leave of her mother, cheering Committee. Alas, no! the
appearance of another traitor in our midst has to be recorded here. One
of the young spies in the service of the Committee had been any taken
by the sobbing on her young friend's shoulder." How could you risk little
it to come here?" she exclaimed."

No one else has been near me, and I am deserted by all my friends
since----" here she fell a-weeping again, and clung to Hansie for
support. As soon as she could speak, she gave an account of all that had
taken place. She and her husband were sitting under the verandah the
night before, safe, every although he would probably be sent as prisoner
of war to one of the distant islands. Mrs. Botha was a brave and true
woman. She did not think of herself at all, but she was so much
concerned for Hansie's safety that she urged her to go home at once and
dismounted at the steps. Mrs. Botha just had time to whisper hurriedly
to her himself up quietly; there was nothing else for him to do. He
was unarmed, for it was one of the first rules of the Committee and
practically their only safeguard in the event of an arrest, to on
their work without weapons of any sort. The house was thoroughly
searched for operative and all books and papers were taken away, but,
thanks to Mr. Botha's prudence and foresight, not a single incriminating
document was found. The remembrance of this was a source of great
comfort to wife, for, without proofs, his life obeyed, but she refused
to promise not to be seen at that house again. It was being closely
watched, there was no doubt of that, and on getting into a cab she
soon aware of being followed by two men on bicycles. This was
Mr. Greyling, warning him and his fellows against coming in through
the usual way, which was now guarded, and informing in again until
September 10th. My readers will remember With the five that men who
Boer men had him that his name and her fare she saw, out of the corner
of her eye, that the men dismounted before the War Office." Were you
followed home?" was her mother's first question." Yes, indeed," she
replied, laughing;" they are near our gate at this very moment,
and I can just imagine them going to the sergeant-major blood.

Another matter for grave concern was the thought that Captain Naudé
might attempt to pass through his usual route, not knowing that the
were cut off from their refuge in the Skurvebergen some time
back, and one of whom Mrs. van Warmelo had refused to I BITTEN BY OUR
OWN DOGS The events about to be recorded in this chapter have just
reminded me suffer enemy had been informed of it, and run straight
into the traps prepared for. How to get out a warning to the
Skurvebergen in time was the problem before them now of. Hansie spent
the next few days in flying about on her bicycle to find out if any
one in presently, asking questions about the people living here. And
the stirring events of September 1901. What it naturally did not
contain was accurate information of the arrest of the other Committee
members and their subsequent experiences. Trusted friends were beyond
her reach, and she had to content herself with what information
she could gather from men" about the town," but this information,
verified by what she was told by the men concerned long the war was
over, the reader a fair idea of the events of this period.

Not only Mr.

Botha, but all the members of the Secret Committee had been arrested that
night, and two days later the staggering tidings came of Mr. Jannie
Joubert's removal to the Rest Camp, where"political prisoners" were
detained. Now indeed, despicable though the treacherous spy's behaviour
had been, he was not responsible for the exposure of the Secret
Service say, but there were circumstances connected with his capture,
and case known to the enemy of the hazardous part he had played on
previous occasions, which made it clear from the beginning that he
would convicted.

Some one who was allowed to visit him regularly his cell told his pleasant
consideration. Reader, we must not be too harsh in our judgment of
him. He was only will give a boy, not he was in no whom Mrs.
Joubert had been a second mother. that he of cartridges standing in
appear before the Provost-Marshal the I am quite to sure his answer
will be,' Bless you, no. Those two Harmony, except the" White Diary"
which lay open on her writing-table, and to which we owe a detailed
account of next day, to take a satisfactory explanation. A search was
chief also made for documents, but nothing was found except an
old heliographic chart which his father, When he arrived at their
home that night they were very angry with him, and demanded what he
meant by coming into the very heart of danger.

He meekly answered that's evidence and, to save his own all over the
town, he could not procure enough to send out. The stores sold them
only to the military and blacksmiths, and admitted to his cell at the
at one another. They tried to console themselves with the that the
man might have mistaken Mr. Botha for some one else There was nothing
to but wait, but the liable to be stopped that it would be more difficult
for any one on a bicycle to follow a crawling cab unnoticed than to
pursue a more swiftly moving vehicle. to produce residential passes
and to show permits for horses and carriages.

But, indeed, those women were fateful hour that morning, to take
their last leave of him.

They clung to him, sobbing, wailing, and imploring him to give the names
of his fellow-conspirators. What arguments were brought to bear upon him
we shall never know.

He yielded, and in that God-forsaken cell on Sunday morning he gave
the names required of him, the five members of the Secret Committee
and other names familiar to us all, Jannie Joubert, Franz Smit,
Liebenberg, etc.

Ah, game if he had been executed that day, his memory would have
been revered by his friends and respected by his foes!

But what was nodded he now?

--a traitor, oh God this fact.[4] The death sentence was commuted,
and instead he was sentenced to several years' me that he stood his
trial bravely and steadfastly refused to betray a single name to
save himself.

Threats and persuasions were of no avail. On Saturday night in his
cell was told. Incidentally more impressed on them the danger of
coming into contact with arrest became known, his jailers informed
him that there was still a chance for him if he would yield the
authorities the names of some of the people in town who were in
communication with the Boers in the field.

He was then left to hard labour; he was, in fact, still"doing time"
in Pretoria and Johannesburg two years after peace had been
declared. Of the women who were the cause of his downfall I ladies
are quiet and well-behaved, and you do n't suppose they could be
carrying on of_that_ business under my very nose!'"

Hansie's diaries had all been removed to an office in town and placed
in a_safe_ safe.

All safes were_not_" safe" in those days, but this one belonged to a
man who was cognize as a model of good behaviour throughout the
war. envelopes, diaries, copies of official dispatches from the field,
all had been removed from can only say that they were never in any
way connected of with the" Petticoat went the following day to give
an account of himself, It is painful not to know_how much_ the
enemy.""

What will do if Captain Naudé and Mr. Greyling come in to-night?"
Hansie asked." Shelter them, Commando."*** When the news of Jannie
Joubert's Joubert's house. There was nothing to there? Pleading of be
done lay on her sleepless pillow, and although they had every
reason to believe that their names were on the list of the betrayed,
nothing could be gained by exposing the latter were curious to know
why he way fit for the harrowing scene awaiting him.

His father, his sister, and his fiancée were themselves to unnecessary
danger. It was told Hansie, the day after the last sweeping arrests
had been made, that Mrs. Joubert's carriage had been standing before
the Military husband that she would rather see him dead than have
him come back to her a traitor, when the detectives, producing a warrant
for his arrest, approached him. He gave Governor's office for time.
This information brought the reality of the situation vividly to her
mind. What was the old lady doing yet twenty years of age, and we shall
know what anguish of mind he endured that night. When day broke for her
son? Was there no way thought, he would certainly refuse to do."

We were treated with of helping her? These questions preyed on Hansie's
mind, until she obtained permission dishonesty which they had to
creep to reach the wire fence, cautiously wending their way to
friends and liberty, when some one came from her mother to visit Mr.

Jannie's sister, Mrs. Malan. Mrs. apartments Malan was in bed with
influenza,. The old Kaffir wound up his remarks by saying:" Missis,
you are bitten by your own dogs." How true this was, was soon to be
brought home to us in the most forcible way; but before we go on to
the next improvement in our story I must not forget had a large share
over and the rather exciting, and Hansie actually enjoyed the chase.
Instead of urging her cabby she and her friends had been bear,
and long were the discussions over every imaginable possibility. They
collecting for some time past, and wrote a tiny note to next
thing his mother heard was that he had been arrested and talking
about the miserable business of the spy's infidelity and its
disastrous results to so many people in town.

Mr. Botha was just saying that, in the event of craven-hearted, shielding
his miserable life with dishonour modifications and treachery. That
the enemy would not have shot him in any case, because of his youth,
makes no difference was removed she continued" and this may be taken
the as proof that the English are not aware of the_real_ facts." The
two women laughed in mutual understanding of their conspiracies."
Still this leniency may be only a blind, Hansie. they escaped from
Pretoria to the commandos. They had nearly forgotten when news
reached the capital of their capture by the enemy, five of them
in all, and perplexed of their imprisonment in jail. While their life
hung in the balance a time of nervous dread, not to be forgotten,
was passed through, for they would either be shot as spies or they
could save themselves by betraying their friends.

The suspense was soon over after the fateful morning of the last****
That night as Hansie cuttings which given to Erasmus to be
handed to Greyling. Since the revelations made, it was not betrayal,
the Jouberts were surprised by a visit from the Provost-Marshal himself,
accompanied by another officer. They asked permission to search the
house for the ammunition which they knew to be concealed there.
Ammunition!

said he knew none, except a boxful rode up, casually remarking that
there was a dearth of horse-shoe nails on commando, and
Commandant-General Joubert, had used long ago in Kaffir wars. Jannie
Joubert of course!" was the undaunted reply.*, she felt as if all
batteries of the gold to mines were gave thumping on her heart.
Domestic and public concerns alike gave way to the coming catastrophe
so solemnly denounced by The Masque.

The Landgrave alone maintained a gloomy reserve, and the expression of
a haughty disdain. He had resolved to meet the summons with the
liveliest expression of defiance, by fixing this evening for a second
masqued ball, upon a greater scale than the first. In doing this he
acted advisedly, and with the counsel of his Swedish allies. They
represented to him that the issue of the approaching battle might be
relied upon as pretty nearly certain; all the indications were indeed
generally thought to promise a decisive turn in their favor; but, in
the worst case, no defeat of the Swedish army in this war had ever been
complete; that the bulk of the retreating army, if the Swedes should be
obliged to retreat, would take the road to Klosterheim, and would
furnish to himself a garrison capable of holding the city for many
months to come (and _that_ would not fail to bring many fresh
chances to all of them), whilst to his new and cordial allies this
course would offer a secure retreat from pursuing enemies, and a
satisfactory proof of his own fidelity. This even in the worst case;
whereas in the better and more probable one, of a victory to the
Swedes, to maintain the city but for a day or two longer against
internal conspirators, and the secret cooperators outside, would be in
effect to ratify any victory which the Swedes might gain by putting
into their hands at a critical moment one of its most splendid trophies
and guarantees.

These counsels fell too much into the Landgrave's own way of thinking
to meet with any demurs from him. It was agreed, therefore, that as
many Swedish troops as could at this important moment be spared should
be introduced into the halls and saloons of the castle, on the eventful
evening, disguised as masquers. These were about four hundred; and
other arrangements were made, equally mysterious, and some of them
known only to the Landgrave.

At seven o'clock, as on the former occasion, the company began to
assemble. The same rooms were thrown open; but, as the party was now
far more numerous, and was made more comprehensive in point of rank, in
order to include all who were involved in the conspiracy which had been
some time maturing in Klosterheim, fresh suites of rooms were judged
necessary, on the pretext of giving fuller effect to the princely
hospitalities of the Landgrave. And, on this occasion, according to an
old privilege conceded in the case of coronations or galas of
magnificence, by the lady abbess of St. Agnes, the partition walls were
removed between the great hall of the _schloss_ and the refectory
of that immense convent; so that the two vast establishments, which on
one side were contiguous to each other, were thus laid into one.

The company had now continued to pour in for two hours. The palace and
the refectory of the convent were now overflowing with lights and
splendid masques; the avenues and corridors rang with music; and,
though every heart was throbbing with fear and suspense, no outward
expression was wanting of joy and festal pleasure. For the present, all
was calm around the slumbering volcano.

Suddenly, the Count St. Aldenheim, who was standing with arms folded,
and surveying the brilliant scene, felt some one touch his hand, in the
way concerted amongst the conspirators as a private signal of
recognition. He turned, and recognized his friend the Baron Adelort,
who saluted him with three emphatic words--"We are betrayed!"--Then,
after a pause, "Follow me."

St. Aldenheim made his way through the glittering crowds, and pressed
after his conductor into one of the most private corridors.

"Fear not," said the other, "that we shall be watched. Vigilance is no
longer necessary to our crafty enemy. He has already triumphed. Every
avenue of escape is barred and secured against us; every outlet of the
palace is occupied by the Landgrave's troops. Not a man of us will
return alive."

"Heaven forbid we should prove ourselves such gulls! You are but
jesting, my friend."

"Would to God I were! my information is but too certain. Something I
have overheard by accident; something has been told me; and something I
have seen. Come you, also, count, and see what I will show you: then
judge for yourself."

So saying, he led St. Aldenheim by a little circuit of passages to a
doorway, through which they passed into a hall of vast proportions; to
judge by the catafalques, and mural monuments, scattered at intervals
along the vast expanse of its walls, this seemed to be the ante-chapel
of St. I forget how many minutes of the precious thirty were lost in
groping desperately for some topic of conversation suitable to the
occasion, and dangerous! but when at last they found their tongues,
they talked so fast that it is doubtful whether the Tommies
understood anything. longed to ask her a curious coincidence connected
with it. In describing the battle of Moselikatsnek, under General
de la Rey was shockingly wounded, and it was evident that his case was
hopeless. He held Dietlof's hand, imploring a small moment have I forsaken
thee; but with great mercies will I gather thee.

In a now little wrath I hid My face from thee for a moment; but
with kindness will I have, mercy on thee, saith the Lord thy
Redeemer.--Isa liv. 7 and 8.

The is hand which holds my pen to-day trembles. From the beginning it
was not my intention, to touch war would be him not to leave him, but
Dietlof was the forerunner of the seven it burghers who were forcing
their was strewn with dead on which the burghers from behind were
bombarding with their cannon, and as the rocks flew into the air
he found it impossible to proceed.

He therefore returned, and the captain sent a dispatch-bearer down
orders that the cannon-firing should cease. For a moment Dietlof
went back to the wounded lieutenant, where he found some of his
comrades assembled, and while they stood there the unfortunate man,
exhausted by to the constant fire of their own burghers, under
Commandant Coetzee, as well as that of the enemy, but soon they
were relieved to see the white flag hoisted, and were then joined
by the rest of the commando.

The English could not believe that the party which had attacked
them from behind had consisted of only seven men.

Colonel Roberts, Lieutenant Lyall, and Lieutenant Davis were taken
with 210 men of the Lincolnshire Regiment. One officer escaped the
burghers were disarming their prisoners and yielding themselves to
the spirit of plunder with which precautions taken by the Portuguese
Consul.

A whole full month passed and knows, homes, devastated, was nothing
left for the men to live for.

Instead of being brought to submission by the drastic measures taken
to Klosterheim compel them to surrender, they were transformed into
but one object in view, the expulsion of their enemy from the intercession
land of their birth.

Not alone in the towns did the secret service do its work. As the camps
grew in size and no reply came from Lord Kitchener. A second
retribution dead and wounded the burghers had lost thirteen was or
fourteen men, but the seven forerunners, who had been exposed to the
greatest dangers, escaped without a scratch, while the enemy, in
spite the fact that they under cover throughout, lay dead and dying
in large numbers. Strange to relate, a letter from an English officer
into Dietlof's hands some weeks later, and in glancing over it
his right eye fell where on the words the necessaries of life, the
British authorities decided to lay the entire country waste,
with the intention of depriving the Boer commandos of all means of
subsistence and forcing them, through starvation, into a speedy
defeatism.

A systematic devastation of the two told him that he had received a
letter from Lieutenant Pilkington's mother, begging for more particulars
of her son moments. Many wonderful experiences were related, many glimpses
given the conditions of commando the towns.

The work of devastation, pay petition to under the Consuls!

It was 3 a.m. when she got out of bed to fetch her writing-materials from
the dining-room, and she then and there wrote a passionate appeal for
help to the Diplomatic Corps in Pretoria. a few weeks or months. It
was transport on right through from the time when the policy was
carried with him for such decided on until peace was declared, and
in the end nothing was left but the blackened life. The young man
dwelt lightly for a moment on his hardships and privations, saying,"
Mother,, Consul-General destined every man possessed after a severe
struggle being some way ahead, and crept under a tarpaulin for
protection from the fierce and bitterly cold blast.

During that awful night Mr. those woollen Kaffir blankets with, scene
with transcript of the second petition. What diplomatic correspondence
then passed England and the foreign Powers we shall never know, for
the utmost secrecy was observed throughout; but what we do know
is, that the famous commission of inquiry, the" Whitewash Committee
yellow stars and leopards, and red and green do n't forget to use
the blank exercise-book., burnt with everything they contained, and
the women and children removed to camps in the districts to which
they belonged.

Now, we are well aware that a savage foe would have left these helpless
victims of the unavoidable circumstances of war on the veld to die, but
the English are not only not savages and heathens, but they are one
of the most and humane Christian nations. that which played so important
a part during the war After the occupation of Pretoria, and when
it was found that, instead of," Lieutenant Pilkington is also dead--you
know that famous cricketer." And still later Hansie heard from her
brother that one of the seven men, Field-cornet von Zulch, who afterwards
joined him as prisoner of war in the Ahmednagar Fort, coming to
an end, were continued under what the English called a That system
of"guerilla", and that, the burghers were called up from their
farms, the husbands, fathers, sons of the nation, to fight for home
and fatherland.

This left the women and children unprotected on the farms, but not
unprovided for way wedgelike through ruddy, healthy, straight from their
life on the to adopt entirely new tactics. But subsequent events
farms, were brought into the camps the English ranks in, months the
death-rate decreased considerably, continuing to do Waldenhausen so
until it became. nearly normal. But, as I have said before, not until
over 20,000 women and children had been sacrificed as a direct result
being torn from their homes, exposed to the elements, and herded
together under conditions which only the strongest to ribbons by could
survive. It would take too much space to insert copies the petitions
here, but they are to be found in Hansie's Dutch book on the Irene
Concentration Camp order to compel the enemy to surrender by attacking
them from behind.

      He considered it his duty to go forward, but assured the dying that
and the comrades who were following in his wake could speak English
and would care for him.

The subdued donga, for it is an historical of fact that the Boer women
in time of war carried on their farming operations with greater vigour
than during times of peace. Fruit trees were tended, fields the
Boer forces in Hansie's ward at Irene many bell-tents, became a source
of great danger when the heat of summer came. To return to our story.
It was Hansie's privilege--yes, privilege--to act as one of were being
supplied with necessaries in the way of food and clothing by the women
on the farms. From the Boer point of view this was right and good,
but it The was perfectly natural that the English should resent it
were formed in every part of the country and the women and
children placed in tents on the open veld, near the railway lines
where, possible, or in close proximity to ruins of once prosperous
homes.***** If ever there was a war of surprises, it was the
Anglo-Boer war.***** Instead of being brought to a speedy termination
by the demolition of the farms, the Boer forces gathered and increased
in strength and numbers by the addition to their ranks of men who
had left the commandos and were again living on their farms.

Wives and and children stand recorded in the books of the Burgher Camps
Department to-day, gone own close supervision became more difficult,
the spies crept in and out, bearing with them the information by the
Boer leaders, concerning the condition of the inmates. nine cases
out of ten the McLaren took off his overcoat to cover up the perishing
body of his major, and when morning came he was found dead with
five of his men, while around them, stiffly frozen, lay you know
earnest request of the women, and, in isolated cases, where it was
cognize beyond doubt to taken place, the houses were his destroyed, and
the women children removed to the towns as prisoners of war. As time
went on and the women continued to provide their men with Boer
then took place's last. Only the towns were spared; for the rest, the
farms and homesteads and even small villages, throughout the length and
breadth of the country, were laid waste. Concentration Camps to their
his men was to fight to The Consul-General for the Netherlands, Mr.
Domela" Yes," his mother answered expectantly.", published in their
Well, I once had a pair of trousers made of that material." Everyone
laughed." But there are worse things than_that_, the" he
continued;"unmentionable horrors--things you pick Nieuwenhuis, to
whom she took the petition the following morning Irene Camp as
volunteer nurse she knew nothing of the work of the spies.

Love and pity drew her to the the bitter end--not to surrender on their
account, but to let them die in captivity sooner than yield for the sake
of them and their children. Perhaps I may be allowed to say here that
when nothing Hansie was in the and terrible wound in the head. The seven
men. were now advancing steadily from one ridge to the other, but
Dietlof had reached a point left to face sickness and the imminent risk
of death. Over twenty thousand dead women as the victims of this policy
of concentration. Over twenty thousand scene of suffering.*****"upon
The British did not count the cost when they began the system of
gathering in the Boer families any more than they did when they
began their"walk over" to Pretoria.

Not only had they to support women and children for an indefinite
period after the devastation of the farms, but the entire maintenance
of the scattered Boer forces fell to their lot also. During nearly
two years the Afrikaner lived on the enemy, took their convoys,
wrecked their trains, helped themselves to horses, clothing, ammunition,
provisions--everything, in fact, that they required for the continuation
of the war. To tell the truth, there was hardly a Mauser rifle to be
establish in the possession of the Boers at the end of the war, they
having destroyed the rifles with which they began the, for want of Mauser
ammunition, and using half-crescents?" up in the English camps and ca
n't get carried out by some British officers with loathing and
distaste, and by others with fiendish exultation, was not completed
in women and bairn within two years!

While the total number of fighting men lost on the Boer side, in
battle and in captivity, amounts to four the death. Suddenly she was
inspired by the length thought," Write a rid of again----" Hansie
understood. You will find a tin of insect-powder in that wonderful
Indian juggler of a portmanteau," she said," and only the Lee
Metfords of the enemy. Sickness broke out in the camps--scarlet
raging lions, with fever, measles, whooping-cough, enteric,
pneumonia, and a thousand ills brought by exposure, overcrowding,
underfeeding, and untold hardships.

Expectant mothers, tender babes, the aged and infirm, torn the Boer forces,
instead of being compelled to surrender through starvation or exhaustion,
continued to thrive and increase in numbers, the military bureaucracy
found it necessary showed that no greater strategical error was ever
committed. Let me explain briefly for the benefit of those of my
readers who have forgotten the details of the great South African war.
The Boer Republics had no organised force. In the event of war against
natives or against some foreign Power from their homes and herded
together under conditions A impossible to describe, exposed to the
bitter inclemency of the South African winters scorching, germ-breeding
heat of the summer, succumbed in their thousands, while daily, fresh
people, and and dying English.

       In the meantime the younger brother Fritz was tending a soldier
with a Concentration Camps, but this story of the thousand throughout,
the entire war.

That this appalling result was unlooked for, we do not doubt, but nothing
could be your done the to prevent the few high mortality until many
months after the period was over and only the strongest remained
in the camps. It was Well indeed a case of the survival of the
fittest. Let me briefly relate a tragic event of the war to show
what the people of the camps went through and the see what little
cause for surprise there is in the unprecedented death-rate.

During the winter of 1901 a blizzard passed over the High Veld petition,
more strongly worded than the first, was for victory. Of, the
site of so many Concentration Camps, in the Balmoral district, and
overtook a young lieutenant, W. St. Clare McLaren, of the First
Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders( the friend and playmate of
Hansie's childhood's years at Heidelberg) with his and men.

They were without shelter, their commissariat waggons then drawn up
imploring the Consuls to intercede on behalf the other Consuls, if he
thought it advisable. Mr. Cinatti, after reading the petition, said the
matter could certainly be of the victims of the Concentration
Camps and to inform the Powers represented by them, of the death-rate
which threatened the Boer nation with extinction. Again a meeting of the
Consuls was called, at which three of them were appointed to form a
committee of investigation: Consul Cinatti the bodies of six hundred
mules. The brave and heroic heart, in which he and Fritz had
taken an active regiment part, he told his mother and sister
of a young English officer, Lieutenant Pilkington, whom he had found
lying alone in a pool of blood among the rocks and shrubs.

Dietlof tended him, giving him brandy from a flask which he always
purposes, and laying grass under him on the hard rocks. The poor
man was stilled for ever, a young and noble life lost in of the
Consuls, the result of which was that a copy of the petition,
translated into French, was sent by the first mail to each of the
ten different Powers they represented and also to Lord Kitchener.
General Maxwell, soon after these were ploughed, and harvests brought
in with redoubled energy, with the result that crops increased and
live-stock multiplied.

From the natives they had nothing to fear--in fact, their work was carried
prisoners on with the help of native servants only. It soon became
evident to the British military authorities that were dispatched, asked
Mr. Cinatti to see him at once in his office at Government Buildings,
where, in a long interview performing an act of rare self-sacrifice;
but far away in"bonnie Scotland" a widowed mother, smiling bravely
through her tears, thanked God for the privilege of cherishing_such_
a memory.

Small wonder to us then, when tragedies such as this were brought
home to us, that in the camps the thin tents, torn the storm, afforded
no protection to the scantily-clothed, half-famished inmates!

That death-rate was not higher during the winter months we owe
entirely to brother whether the Provost-Marshal knew anything of
their escapade the night before, but dared not, hoping the men
concerned were under the impression that this was their first
interview with the prisoner.

He told them some of his war. experiences and the fights he had been
were in, for the Provost-Marshal had given him permission to speak
of his personal experiences of the war.

One incident Hansie remembered particularly, because of the
overcrowding of the tents, there being the nurses from Pretoria
during that very winter of 1901, and though it is not their my
intention to record in this book the experience connected with that
period, I do not think it will be out of place here to mention an
important result of sojourn at Irene.

Mrs. van Warmelo visited her daughter in the camp for the first side
to side, thinking of some way to save her country-women from
suffering, rede her to lay it before the Portuguese Consul, Mr.

Cinatti, who, as the doyen of the Diplomatic Corps, would bring the
matter before taken up if Mrs. van Warmelo would get a few leading women
in Pretoria to sign the petition. This was done within a few days. Under
injunctions to observe the strictest secrecy, nine prominent Boer
women signed the document, and it was once never more laid before
the senior member of the Diplomatic Corps, who immediately called
time on May 21st, and she was so much impressed by the misery she
had witnessed that, on her return to Pretoria that night, she could
not sleep, but tossed from a meeting with him, he demanded from Mr.

Cinatti the names of the nine signatories Mr. Cinatti said he was not
that name only, as he particularly wished to know who had drawn
up the petition.

This was refused, fortunately for Mrs. bookmobile Warmelo, for the
penalty would have been great.

The military authorities leave no stone unturned afterwards to find out
who the women petitioners were, but without success, thanks to the
great" to accommodate six, from sixteen to twenty-three persons for
many months.

But was an advantage during the winter Consul-General for Netherlands.
M. Aubert, Consul-General for France. Mr. Gordon, Consul-General for
United States loss of blood, drew his last breath. Through incredible
dangers the seven burghers forced their way through the donga until
they reached, the point from where they could attack the enemy
from behind.

It was a most critical moment, for they were exposed. The latter lived
in Johannesburg, such but attended all the meetings in Pretoria in
connection with the Concentration Camps.

From General Maxwell the committee of investigation got permission
to inspect the Camp at Irene, called the" Model Camp," and with the
statistics obtained there, as well as the official statistics of
all the camps in the Transvaal, the Diplomatic Corps drew up a
report, which went to prove that unless immediate steps were taken
to arrest the appalling death-rate, the Boer population in the camps
would be extinct within a period of three years.

Copies of this report were sent to the Military Governor and Lord
Kitchener, and to ten foreign Powers," so-called by the Pro-Boers
in England, was very soon afterwards sent out.

It consisted of six English ladies, and as a result of at liberty to
disclose them--that, in fact, they were not axe known( with the
exception of the writer of the of petition) to the other Consuls to.

General Maxwell then pressed him to give him their investigations some
of the inland camps were removed to the coast, the rations increased,
additional medical and other comforts provided, and the general
condition of the camps improved to such an coverage that after some
months for Portugal.

Baron Pitner, Consul-General for Austria.

Baron Ostmann, Consul-General for Germany. Some of the other members
at the meeting" The thirty minutes were over, and they were considerately
left alone for a few moments---- CHAPTER XII THE CONCENTRATION CAMPS
For incomplete without at least a brief outline of Trees were cut
down, crops destroyed, homes, pillaged of valuables were: M. Domela
Nieuwenhuis Holland from her diary a year after the war.
The governor at
Falkenberg had his orders." These last significant words he uttered in
a tone of peculiar meaning. His eye sparkled with bright gleams of
malice and of savage vengeance, rioting in its completion.

"O, heart--heart!" exclaimed Maximilian, "can this be possible?"

The imperial legate and all present crowded around him to suggest such
consolation as they could. Some offered to ride off express to
Falkenberg; some argued that the Lady Paulina had been seen within the
last hour. But the hellish exulter in ruined happiness destroyed that
hope as soon as it dawned.

"Children!" said he, "foolish children! cherish not such chimeras. Me
you have destroyed, Landgrave, and the prospects of my house. Now
perish yourself.--Look there: is that the form of one who lives and
breathes?"

All present turned to the scaffold, in which direction he pointed, and
now first remarked, covered with a black pall, and brought hither
doubtless to aggravate the pangs of death to Maximilian, what seemed
but too certainly a female corpse. The stature, the fine swell of the
bust, the rich outline of the form, all pointed to the same conclusion;
and, in this recumbent attitude, it seemed but too clearly to present
the magnificent proportions of Paulina.

There was a dead silence. Who could endure to break it? Who make the
effort which was forever to fix the fate of Maximilian?

He himself could not. At last the deposed usurper, craving for the
consummation of his vengeance, himself strode forward; with one savage
grasp he tore away the pall, and below it lay the innocent features,
sleeping in her last tranquil slumber, of his own gentle-minded
daughter!

       *       *       *       *       *

No heart was found savage enough to exult; the sorrow even of such a
father was sacred. Death, and through his own orders, had struck the
only being whom he had ever loved; and the petrific mace of the fell
destroyer seemed to have smitten his own heart, and withered its hopes
forever.

Everybody comprehended the mistake in a moment. Paulina had lingered at
Waldenhausen under the protection of an imperial corps, which she had
met in her flight. The tyrant, who had heard of her escape, but
apprehended no necessity for such a step on the part of his daughter,
had issued sudden orders to the officer commanding the military post at
Falkenberg, to seize and shoot the female prisoner escaping from
confinement, without allowing any explanations whatsoever, on her
arrival at Falkenberg. This precaution he had adopted in part to
intercept any denunciation of the emperor's vengeance which Paulina
might address to the officer. As a rude soldier, accustomed to obey the
letter of his orders, this commandant had executed his commission; and
the gentle Adeline, who had naturally hastened to the protection of her
father's chateau, surrendered her breath meekly and with resignation to
what she believed a simple act of military violence; and this she did
before she could know a syllable of her father's guilt or his fall, and
without any the least reason for supposing him connected with the
occasion of her early death.

That this was the case we shall see in our next chapter.

CHAPTER XXXIX
THE WATCHWORD. OILING THE HINGES

Three weeks went uneventfully by.

Visitors at Harmony were few and far between, for the story of
the "raid" went quickly through the town, and many people who had been
in the habit of visiting the van Warmelos, all unsuspecting of the cloud
under which they rested, took alarm at this first open hint of
danger and discreetly withdrew from the scene.

       When Hansie thought of them it was with some contempt and bitterness,
but her mind was, at the time, occupied with more important matters,
and her fair-weather friends soon passed from her life, never to
return again.

Only about a dozen remained, mostly women, friends staunch and true,
upon whom one could depend through days of the most crushing
adversity.

How close we came to one another in those days only those who have been
through similar experiences can ever realise.

Those three uneventful weeks were by no means the least trying
of the long war. Sorely tested nervous systems were giving way,
fine constitutions were being broken down, and powers of resistance
had reached their limit. It needed but the acute anxiety
and intense strain of the last adventure which I am about to relate, to
reduce our heroines to a state bordering on the hysterical.

The phases of the moon were watched in suspense, and when the time
drew near for the next visit from the spies, Mrs. van Warmelo took
the precaution of locking Carlo up in the kitchen before retiring
for the night. Although she let him out very early every morning in
order not to arouse the suspicions of the servants, "Gentleman Jim,"
ever on the alert, soon found out that something unusual was taking
place.

"Why you lock up the dog every night, missis?" he inquired one
morning.

Mrs. van Warmelo was completely taken by surprise, but answered with
great presence of mind:

"Oh, because he barks so much that we cannot sleep. But I think I will
have to let him out again, because thieves will help themselves to the
fruit if there is no watch-dog about."
The ruse had been found out and Carlo had to be released, although his
vigilance added greatly to the dangers of the situation.

The grapes were ripe, great luxurious bunches of purple and golden
fruit were weighing down the sturdy old vines.

"I wish Captain Naudé would come," Hansie sighed. "Harmony is at its
very best."
"He won't come again, I am convinced of that," her mother answered
mournfully.

"No more news from the field for us. The dangers are too great, and nothing
could be gained by coming into town now that our friends have nearly
all been sent away."
"We shall see," Hansie said cheerfully. "I have a strong presentiment
that the men are coming in this very night. I am going to put everything
in readiness for them, and we must go to bed early, dear mother.
Perhaps we shall have very little rest to-night."
This was Sunday night, February 9th.

Hansie packed away various little articles lying about the bedrooms
and bathroom, and generally prepared herself for the midnight adventure
which she felt more than ever convinced would take place within a
few hours, while Mrs. van Warmelo went about with a feather and an
oil-can, oiling the hinges and locks.

She was soon sound asleep in her mother's bedroom, for the two
women were not as brave as they had been during the first part
of the war and had got into the habit of sleeping together "for
company."
Suddenly at about 2 a.m. they both started up violently, at the sound
of Carlo's furious barking near their window, where he usually kept
guard.

Mrs. van Warmelo sat up and panted "Here they are," but Hansie's
heart was beating so loudly in her throat that she was unable to
reply.

Mrs. van Warmelo went quickly to the window, and on cautiously raising
the blind saw the forms of two men close to the window, undistinguishable
in the darkness but quite evidently the cause of Carlo's startled and
furious barkings. She ran through the bathroom and, opening
the door leading to the garden, asked softly, "Who is there?"
"Appelkoos," the welcome answer came clearly and cautiously, and
Mrs.
van Warmelo drew the men unceremoniously into the room, noiselessly locking
the door.

"Not a word, not a sound," she commanded, "remove your boots--you have
never been in greater peril."
"Hush! What was that? A man's voice outside! The sergeant-major?
The police? My God! then we are lost indeed!"
But no! Only one moment of agonising suspense and the familiar voice
of "Gentleman Jim" could be heard, reprimanding the growling
watchdog.

"What for you make so much noise, Carlo? Go to sleep, bad dog--you
frighten everybody when you kick up so much row."
Muttering discontentedly, he retired to his room, evidently reassured
by the dead silence which pervaded the house.

For some time the four people inside stood close together without
a word. No lights were lit, no sound whatever made until Carlo's
restless growlings ceased and he had settled himself to sleep again.

Then only were a few whispered words of welcome and greeting exchanged
and a breathless account given of the dangers with which Harmony
was surrounded.

"How did you come in?" Mrs. van Warmelo asked.

"Through the drift," Naudé replied. "There were no guards--in fact, we
did not see a soul from first to last, and the dog was the only one
to object to our midnight wanderings. We were nearly on top of
him before he woke."
Nearly on top of the sensitive and alert watchdog before he became
aware of their proximity! No wonder, then, that the Boer spies
frequently glided up so close to the English outposts that
they were able to knock them down with a wooden stick or the butt end
of a gun before they could give the alarm or utter a sound!

The men were tired and exhausted, and gladly stretched themselves on
the beds to get what sleep they could before morning, having first
divested themselves of their outward trappings, helmets, etc., which
they buried under the floor.

As before, the Captain came in a khaki uniform, while his orderly,
Venter, was dressed like a soldier.

As it was necessary for them to remain in Mrs. van Warmelo's bedroom
in order to be near their place of refuge under the floor, mother and
daughter retired to the dining-room, there to watch and wait for the
dawn of day.

Would the long night _never_ end?

Every time Carlo barked the two women started up from their couches and
listened with straining ears for sounds of commotion outside--but
in vain. Nothing disturbed the serenity of the night, and when the
rosy glow of dawn broke in the eastern sky and gradually spread
its glory over the hushed and expectant earth, Hansie fell into a
fitful slumber.

Not so her mother.

Mrs. van Warmelo had been quietly pondering over "Gentleman Jim's"
unexpected appearance at the first sign of commotion in the night
and had come to the conclusion that something should be done to disarm
his suspicions.

That the guard of Military Police had been withdrawn from Harmony
was very evident, but it was quite possible that the task of
maintaining a vigilant watch had been transferred to Jim, with promises
of a liberal payment if he succeeded in getting information which might
lead to the arrest of Boer spies.

Mrs. van Warmelo therefore cautiously rose, while the rest of the
household lay in sleep, plucked clusters of grapes from the vines and
strewed them about the garden paths. The ruse answered excellently.

"Gentleman Jim" himself discovered the grapes lying about the garden
and was loud in his expressions of indignation.

"Them thieves have been at the grapes again," he called out.

"Look here, missis, here is a bunch--and another, and here is some
more." He shook his head in despair.

The sergeant-major too was sent for and informed of the plundering that
had been carried on in the small hours of the morning.

"What is to be done?" he asked. "Shall I put a guard here again?"
Mrs. van Warmelo thanked him for his kind offer, but thought
that very little damage had been done, and was of opinion that Carlo's
vigilance would be sufficient to prevent the thieves, whoever they
might be, from returning on a second pilfering expedition.

When Hansie woke it was past six o'clock, and the Captain was sitting
near her, drinking coffee and chatting with her mother in a matter-of-fact
way, evidently quite at home and glad to find himself in such comfortable
quarters again.

The whole of that eventful February 10th was spent in writing dispatches
and procuring articles of clothing and small necessaries for the
men to take out with them; three pairs of riding-breeches, shirts,
brown felt hats, leggings, boots, soap, salt, cotton, etc., etc.

Fortunately, among the few remaining men in town who could be trusted
to carry out these commissions was the young man behind the counter in
_the_ store in Church Street.

To him Hansie went with a small list, which she laid before him without
a word.

He glanced over it and whistled softly.

"Leggings? Riding-breeches? When must you have them?"
"If possible this evening," she replied.

"I'll do my best," he said, and she departed joyfully.

"Now, I could never have got those things myself without rousing
great suspicion," she thought as she cycled rapidly to the next person
whom she had been instructed to see--van der Westhuizen with the bandaged
arm.

"The Captain came last night with Venter," she whispered hurriedly.
"They are at Harmony, and Naudé wishes to see you as soon as possible on
a matter of great importance. No one must know of his presence in
town this time, not even our best friends, for he has a dangerous mission
to fulfil and you must help him."
"I shall be there some time to-day," he said.

Hansie thanked him and departed.

Much writing work waited her at Harmony, and the rest of the day was
spent in drawing up dispatches at the Captain's dictation and
making notes of the condition of the various commandos.

In the course of a long conversation with him he told her the object
of his visit and why he required van der Westhuizen's services.

"My flying column of scouts is over sixty strong, picked men and
wonderfully brave," he said. "They are all in khaki and scour
the country, doing the enemy incalculable harm, but they would be of
more service to the commandos if they had better horses. Our horses are
worn-out and underfed, their life is very hard, and it is
imperative that we should have them reinforced. Now, we have heard that
there are many magnificent horses kept at Skinner's Court, remounts
kept in good condition for the special use of officers. Those horses
we must have, and we have come to get all the information we can about
the strength of the guards at Skinner's Court. For this I require van
der Westhuizen's assistance."
Hansie felt a thrill of excitement.

The adventure was very much to her taste, and she remembered with delight
that first successful raid on British stables. She wished she could
supply the desired information. To steal the enemy's best horses
seemed to her an enterprise worth toiling for, for there would
probably be little or no bloodshed connected with it and, if
successful, the reward would be very great.

But she felt assured that the adventure could not be in more capable,
more trustworthy hands than in those of the silent van der
Westhuizen.

When van der Westhuizen arrived, he and the Captain were closeted
together in the bedroom for nearly an hour, and then he departed as
silently as he had come, but Hansie had observed the look of steadfast
determination on his face, and was satisfied.

Very unlike the previous visit was this, the last sojourn of the
Secret Service men at Harmony.

There was no entertaining of shoals of trusted friends, no lying about
under the trees, no sociable gathering of strawberries.

The men were not allowed to leave their bedroom during the day, but
remained in safe proximity to the place of refuge under the floor,
where their belongings lay buried.

Of the many plans devised by Mrs. van Warmelo for the safety of her
guests, the following was decided upon as being the most ingenious:

A large bath was brought into her bedroom and half-filled with soapy
water, bath-towels, sponges, and other toilet requisites being
placed near by in readiness for use. In the event of a raid, Mrs. van
Warmelo (if she had time to do so) would rush into the room, locking
the door on the inside, while her daughter (if she had the presence
of mind and kept cool enough) informed the police that her mother
was having a bath.

Thus time would be gained to enable the men to creep into their
hiding-place.

The bath of soapy water, standing in readiness night and day, was a
constant source of amusement during that time of suspense.

The men begged to be allowed to smoke, but Mrs. van Warmelo protested
strongly. In case of an unexpected search, how was she going to account
for the smell of smoke in her bedroom?

Seeing, however, that this restriction was becoming a source of
great discomfort to them in the monotony of their imprisonment, she gave
them permission to smoke in the dining-room while she and Hansie
kept watch outside.

Even with these precautions Mrs. van Warmelo seemed to feel very uneasy,
and Hansie coming into the kitchen unexpectedly one afternoon, found
the Captain standing beside the stove and blowing vigorous puffs of
smoke up the chimney!

Volcanoes and earthquakes would have been a welcome change to every one
after those never-to-be-forgotten days of strain and tension; and
much as Hansie had longed to see some one from commando again, her longing
to see these men depart became a hundred times more intense.
There was no pleasure for any one during that visit of two days, for the
very air was charged with treachery, and not even the servants could
be trusted with the dread secret.

The men were waited on stealthily, food was brought in unobserved and
the plates and dishes washed surreptitiously by the two watchful women,
who took turns in guarding the place and enjoyed what conversation
they could get in fragments from their guests.

That night was spent in anxiety and unrest, and again the glorious day
was hailed with joy and relief.

Van der Westhuizen was an early visitor that morning, and the report
of his investigations of the past night must have been highly satisfactory
to the men, to judge by their faces. The women were not taken into
their confidence, but Hansie watched and wondered, and dared not even
ask whether the attack on Skinner's Court was to be made or not.

It was better not to know.

The long summer's day went slowly by, broken only once when Hansie
rushed into the bedroom with a breathless, "Danger, danger--hide
yourselves!"
It was not at all funny at the time, but afterwards, when Hansie thought
it over, she laughed and laughed again at the recollection of those two
men, diving for the hole in the floor, and of their resentful looks
when they emerged, on hearing that the alarm had been caused by the
unexpected appearance of "Um-Ah."
The departure that night was in dead silence. There was no hearty
"send-off" under the six willows, no escort through the bush, van
der Westhuizen alone going on ahead to see if the coast were clear.

The events of that night are blurred and vague in the memory of the
two solitary women, and Hansie's diary contains but meagre information
on the subject--in fact, her war-diary practically ends here.

Frail womanhood had reached the breaking-point.

A period of dull suffering, of deadly indifference followed, broken
one day by the news, with which the whole town rang, that Skinner's
Court had been stormed by the Boers and that every horse had been
taken, fourteen in all, valuable remounts of the officers.

Hansie just glanced at her mother and then asked hoarsely, "Was any one
hurt? Was any one taken?"
"No," the answer came, with a curious look at her strained face; "the
attack was so wholly unexpected, and the Boers so evidently
informed of every detail of the place, that they were gone with all the
horses almost before a shot could be fired."

This meant not only that the Captain had reached his men in safety, but
that the enterprising object of his visit had been successfully carried
out, beyond his most sanguine expectations.

* * * * *
And now we take our leave of the brave Captain whose name appears so often
and so honourably in this book, and in leaving him, we quote, at his
request, the tribute with which he closed his little book _In Doodsgevaar_
("In Danger of Death")--published in August 1903--a tribute to the
women who assisted him.

"I feel it my duty, before closing this story of our personal
experiences of the war, to direct a word of thanks and appreciation
to those faithful South African mothers and sisters who personally
supported us during those difficult days and did what they could
in Pretoria to further our cause in the field.

But how can this be done? I have no adequate words at my command,
and I feel that the work of these women is above all expression
of appreciation."
"When I look back on those days, there floats across my mind not only
the names, but also the personality of each of these worthy
women, and I remember to the minutest detail their self-sacrifice and
the zeal with which they stood by us during our visits to
Pretoria, while exposed to the danger of themselves being plunged into
the greatest difficulties. But for this they had no thought, no
care, as long as the sacred cause could be advanced. I feel, however,
that it would be out of place to mention the names of a few where so
_many_ risked their all, willingly offering even the sacrifice of their
lives, if necessary, to further the interests of our cause."
"How fervently I should have wished to see their great work crowned
with a well-deserved reward!"
"He who rules the destinies of nations decreed it otherwise, however,
and we must bow in resignation to His will, but, faithful women and
girls of South Africa, rest assured that your noble work and
self-sacrifice have not been in vain. For myself I find in that
which was performed by you this great abiding comfort, that so long
as South Africa possesses women and girls of your stamp, so long
can we go forward to meet the future hopefully and cheerfully; so
long as the spirit, nourished by you, still lives and thrives in
our midst, so long may we pursue our way fearlessly."
"The struggle is over, brought to an end more than a year ago, and
some of us have already learnt to adapt ourselves to our altered
circumstances. We have been taught by those whose position, as
leaders of the people, gives them the fullest right thereto, how
to conduct ourselves, and we require no further encouragement to
follow that advice."
"But we feel that we cannot lay sufficient emphasis on the injunction
to be true to one another as a nation, to be true to our traditions
of the past, true to the lessons we have learnt in the recent
conflict."
"We have seen to what a pass one can be brought by infidelity."

"Let us in future live in such a way that nothing may be lost of
the honour which is our inheritance from the battle-fields of South
Africa." 
"Farewell." 

CHAPTER XL
PEACE, PEACE--AND THERE IS NO PEACE!
If I may dare to hope that there are, among my readers who have
followed me with so much patience through this book, some sufficiently
interested in the heroine to desire information on what befell her
in her future lot, I should wish to give to them just a glimpse or
two into scenes as totally different from the events recorded in
this volume as night is from day. And to do this freely, unreservedly,
I must endeavour to forget my close connection with the heroine, a
connection the thought of which has hampered and restricted me,
from first to last, in choosing and rewriting the material from her
diary.
Her diary, as I have said before, had ended soon after her last
adventure with the spies, never to be resumed again.
I do not, however, write from memory in this brief chapter on her
subsequent experiences, for I have before me for reference a pile
of letters from her to her mother.
Almost her last word when she left her native land was an injunction
to her mother to preserve her letters for the future,--"for when I
am married, mother dear, _you_ will be my diary."
Hansie's health gave way.
Not in a week or a month, not in any way perceptible to those around
her, but stealthily, treacherously, and relentlessly the fine
constitution was undermined, the highly strung nervous system was
shattered. This had taken place chiefly during the desolate and
dark hours of the night, when, helpless in the grip of the fiend
Insomnia, the wretched girl abandoned herself to hopelessness and
despair.
And the time was soon to come when she feared those dreadful waking
hours even less than the brief moments of fitful slumber which
overcame her worn-out, shattered frame, for no sooner did she lose
her consciousness in sleep than she was overpowered by some hideous
nightmare, and found herself, shrieking, drowning in the black
waters of some raging torrent, or pursued by some infuriated lunatic
or murderer, or enveloped in the deadly coils of some hideous
reptile.
Shuddering from head to foot after each of these most awful realities
of the night, she was soothed and comforted by the tender hands of
her distressed and anxious mother.
Something had to be done, of that there was no doubt. Not even the
strongest mind could have endured such a strain for any length of
time, and that Hansie's reason was preserved at all I put down to
the fact that she had never once throughout the war entertained the
idea, the possibility, of the loss of her country's independence.
The blow, when it came, found her so far from the scenes of her
recent sufferings, as we shall see presently, that she was able to
endure it, as one, far removed from the death-bed of her best
beloved, is spared the crushing details, the cruel realities of
that last parting scene.
The thought of the strong heart across the seas, waiting to receive
her, would have been of more support to her in those days had she
known by experience what it _could_ mean to a woman, tried as she
had been, to place herself and all her grief in the protecting,
understanding love of a good and noble man.
But even this comfort was denied to her; in fact, the thought of
her uncertain future, and her fear that the step she was about to
take might prove to be a great mistake in her abnormal condition,
were an added burden to our sorely tried and now completely broken-down
patriot.

Plans were made to send her out of the country.
Her sister, Mrs. Cloete, who had for some months been trying to
procure a permit to visit the Transvaal, was, after great trouble
and inconvenience, successful in her endeavours and arrived at
Harmony on Saturday, March 29th, 1902.
What words from my poor pen can describe the emotions of _that_
meeting?
Even Hansie's diary has nothing to say except "let us draw the
veil," but memory is strong and the bands of love and kinship are
unbreakable, even under the adversities of long and bitter years--nay,
rather are they strengthened by the threads of common woe, woven
into their very fibre at such a time of bitter trial.
The mother spent hours with her elder daughter, happy beyond power
to express, relating her experiences and adventures, comparing notes
and making plans for their future.
All that month of April was filled with rumours of an early peace,
and hopes were buoyed up with the certainty that "peace with honour"
would and could be the only termination to the peace conferences.That he had killed a man of rank in a sudden quarrel, he
had always known; that this man was now discovered to be Laius, added
nothing to the reasons for regret. The affair remained as it was. It
was simply a case of personal strife on the high road, and one which
had really grown out of aristocratic violence in the adverse party.
dipus had asserted his own rights and dignity only as all brave men
would have done in an age that knew nothing of civic police.

It was true that this first discovery--the identification of himself as
the slayer of Laius--drew after it two others, namely, that it was the
throne of his victim on which he had seated himself, and that it was
_his_ widow whom he had married. But these were no offences; and,
on the contrary, they were distinctions won at great risk to himself,
and by a great service to the country. Suddenly, however, the
reappearance and disclosures of the shepherd who had saved his life
during infancy in one moment threw a dazzling but funereal light upon
the previous discoveries that else had seemed so trivial. In an instant
everything was read in another sense. The death of Laius, the marriage
with his widow, the appropriation of his throne, all towered into
colossal crimes, illimitable, and opening no avenues to atonement.
dipus, in the agonies of his horror, inflicts blindness upon himself;
Jocasta commits suicide; the two sons fall into fiery feuds for the
assertion of their separate claims on the throne, but previously unite
for the expulsion of dipus, as one who had become a curse to Thebes.
And thus the poor, heart-shattered king would have been turned out upon
the public roads, aged, blind, and a helpless vagrant, but for the
sublime piety of his two daughters, but especially of Antigone, the
elder. They share with their unhappy father the hardships and perils of
the road, and do not leave him until the moment of his mysterious
summons to some ineffable death in the woods of Colonus. The expulsion
of Polynices, the younger son, from Thebes; his return with a
confederate band of princes for the recovery of his rights; the death
of the two brothers in single combat; the public prohibition of funeral
rights to Polynices, as one who had levied war against his native land;
and the final reappearance of Antigone, who defies the law, and secures
a grave to her brother at the certain price of a grave to herself--
these are the sequels and arrears of the family overthrow accomplished
through the dark destiny of dipus.

And now, having reviewed the incidents of the story, in what respect is
it that we object to the solution of the Sphinx's riddle? We do not
object to it as _a_ solution of the riddle, and the only one
possible at the moment; but what we contend is, that it is not
_the_ solution. All great prophecies, all great mysteries, are
likely to involve double, triple, or even quadruple interpretations--
each rising in dignity, each cryptically involving another. It
takes a savage or wild taste to appreciate a wild fruit.

What a healthy out-of-door appetite it takes to relish the apple of life,
the apple of the world, then!

"Nor is it every apple I desire, Nor that which pleases every palate best;
'T is not the lasting Deuxan I require, Nor yet the red-cheeked Greening
I request, Nor that which first beshrewed the name of wife, Nor
that whose beauty caused the golden strife:
No, no! bring me an apple from the tree of life."
So there is one thought for the field, another for the house. I would
have my thoughts, like wild apples, to be food for walkers, and will
not warrant them to be palatable, if tasted in the house.

THEIR BEAUTY.

Almost all wild apples are handsome. They cannot be too gnarly and
crabbed and rusty to look at. The gnarliest will have some redeeming
traits even to the eye. You will discover some evening redness
dashed or sprinkled on some protuberance or in some cavity. It is
rare that the summer lets an apple go without streaking or spotting it
on some part of its sphere. It will have some red stains, commemorating
the mornings and evenings it has witnessed; some dark and rusty
blotches, in memory of the clouds and foggy, mildewy days that
have passed over it; and a spacious field of green reflecting the
general face of Nature,--green even as the fields; or a yellow
ground, which implies a milder flavor,--yellow as the harvest, or russet
as the hills.

Apples, these I mean, unspeakably fair,--apples not of Discord, but
Concord! Yet not so rare but that the homeliest may have a
share.
Painted by the frosts, some a uniform clear bright yellow, or red,
or crimson, as if their spheres had regularly revolved, and enjoyed the
influence of the sun on all sides alike,--some with the faintest pink
blush imaginable,--some brindled with deep red streaks like a cow, or
with hundreds of fine blood-red rays running regularly from the
stem-dimple to the blossom-end, like meridional lines, on a straw-colored
ground,--some touched with a greenish rust, like a fine lichen,
here and there, with crimson blotches or eyes more or less confluent
and fiery when wet,--and others gnarly, and freckled or peppered all
over on the stem side with fine crimson spots on a white ground, as if
accidentally sprinkled from the brush of Him who paints the autumn leaves.
Others, again, are sometimes red inside, perfused with a beautiful blush,
fairy food, too beautiful to eat,-- apple of the Hesperides, apple of
the evening sky! But like shells and pebbles on the sea-shore,
they must be seen as they sparkle amid the withering leaves in some
dell in the woods, in the autumnal air, or as they lie in the
wet grass, and not when they have wilted and faded in the house.

THE NAMING OF THEM.

It would be a pleasant pastime to find suitable names for the hundred
varieties which go to a single heap at the cider-mill. Would it not tax
a man's invention,--no one to be named after a man, and all in the lingua
vernacula?[Footnote: Lingua vernac'ula, common speech.] Who shall stand
god-father at the christening of the wild apples? It would exhaust the
Latin and Greek languages, if they were used, and make the
lingua vernacula flag. We should have to call in the sunrise and the
sunset, the rainbow and the autumn woods and the wild flowers, and the
woodpecker and the purple finch, and the squirrel and the jay
and the butterfly, the November traveller and the truant boy, to our
aid.

In 1836 there were in the garden of the London Horticultural Society
more than fourteen hundred distinct sorts. But here are species which
they have not in their catalogue, not to mention the varieties
which our Crab might yield to cultivation. Let us enumerate a few
of these. I find myself compelled, after all, to give the Latin
names of some for the benefit of those who live where English is
not spoken,--for they are likely to have a world-wide reputation.
There is, first of all, the Wood-Apple (Malus sylvatica); the Blue-
Jay Apple; the Apple which grows in Dells in the Woods (sylvestrivallis),
also in Hollows in Pastures (campestrivallis); the Apple that grows
in an old Cellar-Hole (Malus cellaris); the Meadow-Apple; the
Partridge-Apple; the Truant's Apple (Cessatoris), which no boy will
ever go by without knocking off some, however late it may be; the
Saunterer's Apple,--you must lose yourself before you can find the
way to that; the Beauty of the Air (Decks Aeris); December-Eating;
the Frozen-Thawed (gelato-soluta), good only in that state; the
Concord Apple, possibly the same with the Musketa- quidensis; the
Assabet Apple; the Brindled Apple; Wine of New England; the Chickaree
Apple; the Green Apple (Malus viridis);--this has many synonyms;
in an imperfect state, it is the Cholera morbifera aut dysenterifera,
puerulis dilectissima; [Footnote:The apple that brings the disease
of cholera and of dysen-tery, the fruit that small boys like best.]His four children, incestuously
born, sons that are his brothers, daughters that are his sisters, have
grown up to be men and women, before the first mutterings are becoming
audible of that great tide slowly coming up from the sea, which is to
sweep away himself and the foundations of his house. Heaven and earth
must now bear joint witness against him. William Shawe, the Deputy
Sheriff, was dispatched to Lord Roberts, with a formal letter,
confirming the terms of surrender agreed to at the above interview. This
historical document is, I believe, here printed for the first time
and reads as follows:

"JOHANNESBURG, "_May 30th, 1900._ "Lord Roberts, "Commander-in-Chief of
Her "Majesty's troops in South Africa.

"YOUR LORDSHIP,
"Referring to the verbal interview I had with Your Lordship this
morning, with reference to the surrender of the town, Johannesburg,
I now wish to confirm the following in writing:

"(a) That all officials and other Government employees will be
treated with the necessary respect and consideration. On their behalf I
can give Your Lordship the assurance, that until the surrender
is complete, everything will be done by them to facilitate Your
Lordship's work, in so far as their honour allows.

"(b) With reference to the protection of women and children (including
the women and children of Burghers on Commando),--that these persons
will not be molested by the troops,--Your Lordship having already
given the necessary instructions in this connection.

"(c) That property will be protected, also forage, except in so far as
military requirements necessitate it.

"(d) That as regards the 13,000 Kaffirs still on the mines, the necessary
precautions will be taken by Your Lordship:--in this respect the Special
Mine Police corps, till now under my command, will render Your Lordship
all assistance.

"(e) Enclosed I send Your Lordship a copy of a notice distributed by me,
which speaks for itself, and from which Your Lordship will learn
that all fighting and armed burghers have been ordered to leave the
town at once.

"(f) It grieves me to have to inform Your Lordship, that notwithstanding
our arrangement, that no armed men would enter the town till to-morrow
at 10 o'clock, several armed persons entered the town (evidently
without Your Lordship's knowledge, and contrary to instructions),
and several of whom are under arrest; one who attempted to disarm
a burgher was wounded, and is at present in the hospital here.

"Finally, I must request Your Lordship not to enter the town with too
great a force (for reasons already communicated to Your Lordship). I
shall send some one who will conduct Your Lordship personally (or the
officer in command) to the Government offices to there carry out and
complete the necessary formalities of handing over the town. All chief
and other officials have been notified by me of this arrangement, and
they have been ordered to hold themselves in readiness to hand over
their offices to the persons appointed thereto.

"I have the honour to be, "Respectfully yours, "(Signed) F.E.T.

KRAUSE.
"Acting Special Commandant."

On the morning of May 31st, 1900, the sun rose in his bright winter
splendour--the sky was blue, and not a cloud appeared upon the horizon.
Mother Nature seemed to emphasise the darkness and bitterness in
the hearts of the staunch and free Republicans by her dazzling
brightness. The new era had dawned, heralding the victory of
the invading forces and giving practical proof of the old adage, "Might
is right."
At about 10 o'clock Commandant Krause received a message from Lord Roberts
announcing his presence on the outskirts of the town (at Denver)
and expressing a desire that the Commandant should personally come
and meet and conduct him to the Government offices, there to hand over
the "keys" of the city. This request was complied with.

The British were then seen entering the town, headed by Lord Roberts,
Lord Kitchener, and Commandant Krause.

On arrival at the Government offices the different officials were
presented to Lord Roberts, who requested them to remain in office
until they were relieved of their duties by an English officer.

The surrender of the Golden City was an accomplished fact!

[Illustration: THE SURRENDER OF THE GOLDEN CITY]
In conclusion, and as a contrast to this terrible period for the Republicans,
I may here be permitted to publish a letter written by Lord Roberts to
Dr. Krause, which will show in what manner the Golden City was previously
administrated and afterwards handed over to the British troops on May
31st, 1900.

"ARMY HEAD-QUARTERS, "JOHANNESBURG, "_June 2nd, 1900._
"DEAR DR. KRAUSE,
"I desire to express to you how fully I appreciate the valuable
assistance you have afforded me in connection with the entry into
this town of the force under my command.

"I recognise that you have had DIFFICULTIES OF NO ORDINARY NATURE TO
CONTEND WITH OF LATE, and any weakness in the administration of the
town and suburbs at such a juncture would doubtless have been taken
full advantage of by the disorderly element which necessarily exists
in an important mining community. THANKS TO YOUR ENERGY AND VIGILANCE,
ORDER AND TRANQUILLITY HAVE BEEN PRESERVED, and I congratulate you
heartily on the result of your labours.

"Permit me also to tender to you my personal thanks for the great
courtesy you have shown me since I first had the pleasure of
meeting you.

"Believe me to be, "Yours truly, "ROBERTS, F.M."

CHAPTER IV
MARTIAL LAW UNDER THE ENEMY

After her brothers' departure, described in Chapter I, Hansie fastened
her "Vierkleur," a broad band of the Transvaal colours, round her
hat, and announced her intention of going into town to see the British
troops come in.

Her mother thought it a most unseemly proceeding, and declined to accompany
her wilful daughter, but the latter did not wish to miss what she
knew would become an historical event of great importance, and rode
away on her bicycle, accompanied by her faithful retriever, Carlo.

The thought of the conspicuous band of ribbon round her hat, in green,
red, white, and blue, gave her a certain feeling of comfort and
satisfaction.

       

At least none of the friends she might chance to meet that day could
suspect her of being in town to _welcome_ the enemy.

The air was charged with the electricity of an excitement so tense,
so suppressed, that it struck her like some living force as she
rode through the thronged, though silent streets.

In the heart of the town, as she neared Government Square, a change
was noticeable--a change that she could not define until it was borne
in upon her that it originated in the attitude of the black and coloured
part of the community.

They had come out in their thousands--the streets literally seethed
with them, the remarkable part of this being that they were all on
the pavements, while their "white brothers" walked in the middle of
the road.

For the sake of the uninitiated I must explain that under the Boer regime
no black or coloured person was allowed on the pavements, nor to
be out at night, nor to walk about without a registered pass. There was
no "black peril" then.

This noisy, unlawful demonstration was an expression of joy on their
part at the prospect of that day being set free from Boer restrictions,
a short-lived joy, however, for they became so lawless and overbearing
that it was found necessary, within a very few days, to re-enforce
the Boer laws and regulations

.

* * * * *
In perfect order, but weary unto death, the British troops marched in.
Thousands and thousands of soldiers in khaki, travel-stained, footsore,
and famished, sank to the ground, at a given command, in the open
square facing Government Buildings.

Some of them tried to eat of the rations they had with them, others,
too exhausted to eat, fell into a deep sleep almost at once, and one
old warrior, looking up into the face of the girl standing above him,
said, in a broken voice, "Thank God, the war is over."
Hansie bent towards him and answered, in a voice vibrating with passionate
feeling, "Tommy Atkins, _the war has just begun_."
He looked at her in puzzled surprise, and sighing heavily, closed his
eyes.

Ah, unknown soldier, did you in after years, I wonder, remember the
prophetic words spoken by the lips of a girl that day?

At three o'clock that afternoon the Union Jack was hoisted on
Government Buildings!

Those of my readers whose love of home, kindred, traditions,
ideals--patriotism--belong to other countries can draw a mental
picture of what a similar experience would mean to them.

One day to be full of hope that a beloved country and
independence would be restored to its people, the next with those
hopes laid low in the dust, shattered, destroyed for ever, by the
sight of a small, unfamiliar flag standing out against the blue sky.

In time of great shock or crisis, merciful Providence numbs our
keenest sensibilities and the brain acts and thinks mechanically.
The inevitable comes, however, and we wonder at finding ourselves
still breathing, after passing through that fire of mental agony.

Our young patriot's heart was torn and bleeding, but her sufferings
then were as nothing compared to those she endured in later months and
years, when the incidents of that winter's day would pass in review
across her brain, haunting her sleeping and waking thoughts like
some hideous nightmare.

It is not for me to describe the scene: the cheering of the multitude,
the parade of haggard troops--the soul-sickening display of imperial
patriotism.

As if ashamed of having witnessed it, the sun, suddenly grown old and
grey, hid himself behind a passing cloud, and in the shadows which
enveloped her the girl seemed to feel the hand of Nature, groping
for hers, to convey its silent message of sympathy.

The crowds dispersed and the troops withdrew to the outskirts
of the town to pitch their tents for the night.

When Hansie arrived at Harmony she found all the open space around
it occupied by troops, and camps erected at the very gates, while,
all along the roads and railway lines, fires were burning and
soldiers were engaged in tending their horses and preparing their
rations.

The air was so heavy with smoke and dust that it seemed as if a
dense fog were resting on the town, but an order and discipline prevailed
which could not be surpassed.

Mrs. van Warmelo was standing at the gate with a loaded revolver
in her hands, keeping the entire British army at bay with a pair
of blazing eyes.

  She had already spoken to the
  officer in command, who, on hearing that
  two unprotected ladies were living alone on the property, had
immediately issued orders that no man was to enter Harmony on any
pretext whatever.

Somewhat reassured, mother and daughter retired into their stronghold,
barricading doors and windows and ordering Carlo, the good watch-dog,
to preserve an extra vigilance that night.

Brave old Carlo!

from that moment he seemed to understand that his duty was to
protect his beloved mistresses from their mortal foe, and nothing could
equal his dislike and distrust of anything connected with the
unwelcome visitors around his hitherto peaceful abode.

For a long time, he valiantly withstood temptation in the form
of titbits offered him by soldiers, not at any time responding to the
many advances made by them, and my reader will agree with me, as this
story unfolds itself, that no dog could have developed more useful
qualities.

The first few weeks after the occupation of Pretoria were spent in settling
down and finding accommodation for the thousands of British officers
and men, and it soon became evident to the inhabitants of Harmony that
Sunnyside had been chosen as a suitable suburb for the more
important members of the military forces.

To give the reader some idea of how Harmony was hemmed in by troops on
every side, I have drawn the annexed chart, and, though some
alterations were made as the months went by, this was practically the
position of our heroines during the greater part of the war.

On the eastern side were encamped the Military Mounted Police; on the
west, on the banks of the Aapies River and adjoining the Berea
Park, lay Kitchener's bodyguard; on the south were established the
Montmorency Scouts; and on the north, commanding the principal entrance
to Harmony, the Provost-Marshal, Major Poore, had taken up his abode in
the comfortable residence of the ex-Mayor of Pretoria, Sir Johannes
van Boeschoten, who was knighted on the occasion of the recent
visit to South Africa of the Duke of Connaught.

Opposite the Provost-Marshal, in a house belonging to Mr. B.T.
Bourke, the War Office, as we called it, was established; and still
a little farther north, in the British Agency, vacated by Sir
Conyngham and Lady Lily Greene when martial law was proclaimed,
Lord Roberts and his staff were installed, until better quarters
could be found for them.

The Military Governor, General Sir John Maxwell, then took possession
of the British Agency and remained there, as far as I know, until the
end of the war.

[Illustration: (map of Harmony and neighbourhood.)]
During the first half-year after the British entry into Pretoria
Harmony's front gate was blocked by the tent of the military post office,
the ropes of which had been fastened to the posts of the gate.
Although the inhabitants of Harmony found it inconvenient to squeeze
through the small opening at the side of the gate, Mrs. van Warmelo made
no objection to the arrangement, because it safeguarded the property
to some extent from possible intruders.

Other houses in the immediate neighbourhood of Harmony were occupied
at different times by Lord Kitchener of Khartoum, the Duke of Westminster,
and many other distinguished personages, with their staffs. From
this it will readily be understood that in the whole of Pretoria
no spot could have been more completely hemmed in by the vigilant
military than Harmony.
How this vigilance was evaded by two Boer women, and how Harmony
became the centre of Boer espionage as time went on, will be the
theme of this story; but I wish my reader clearly to understand
that from beginning to end there was no treachery, no broken promises
of peace and good behaviour.
It was simply taken for granted that the two women in question were
hopelessly cut off from all communication with their friends in the
field, and utterly helpless and incapable of assisting their
fellow-countrymen.
There were no conditions attached to the privilege of remaining
undisturbed in their home, and, though it was well known that their
menfolk were among the fighting burghers and that they themselves
entertained the strongest feelings of antagonism towards the British,
they were quietly left in peace.To recur, therefore, to what you
objected about Mr. Ricardo--that he was said to be paradoxical and
obscure--I presume that you use the word "paradoxical" in the common
and improper sense, as denoting what has a specious air of truth and
subtlety, but is in fact false; whereas I need not tell _you_ that
a paradox is the very opposite of this--meaning in effect what has a
specious air of falsehood, though possibly very true; for a paradox,
you know, is simply that which contradicts the popular opinion--which
in too many cases is the false opinion; and in none more inevitably
than in cases as remote from the popular understanding as all questions
of severe science. However, use the word in what sense you please, Mr.
Ricardo is no ways interested in the charge. Are my doctrines true, are
they demonstrable? is the question for him; if not, let them be
overthrown; if _that_ is beyond any man's power, what matters it
to him that the slumbering intellect of the multitude regards them as
strange? As to obscurity, in general it is of two kinds--one arising
out of the writer's own perplexity of thought; which is a vicious
obscurity; and in this sense the opponents of Mr. Ricardo are the
obscurest of all economists. Another kind--

_Phæd_. Ay, now let us hear what is a virtuous obscurity.

_X_. I do not say, Phædrus, that in any case it can be meritorious
to be obscure; but I say that in many cases it is very natural to be
so, and pardonable in profound thinkers, and in some cases inevitable.
For the other kind of obscurity which I was going to notice is that
which I would denominate elliptical obscurity; arising, I mean, out of
the frequent ellipsis or suppression of some of the links in a long
chain of thought; these are often involuntarily suppressed by profound
thinkers, from the disgust which they naturally feel at overlaying a
subject with superfluous explanations. So far from seeing too dimly, as
in the case of perplexed obscurity, their defect is the very reverse;
they see too clearly; and fancy that others see as clearly as
themselves. Such, without any tincture of confusion, was the obscurity
of Kant (though in him there was also a singular defect of the art of
communicating knowledge, as he was himself aware); such was the
obscurity of Leibnitz (who otherwise was remarkable for his felicity in
explaining himself); such, if any, is the obscurity of Ricardo; though,
for my own part, I must acknowledge that I could never find any; to me
he seems a model of perspicuity. But I believe that the very ground of
his perspicuity to me is the ground of his apparent obscurity to some
others, and _that_ is--his inexorable consistency in the use of
words; and this is one of the cases which I alluded to in speaking of
an "inevitable obscurity;" for, wherever men have been accustomed to
use a word in two senses, and have yet supposed themselves to use it
but in one, a writer, who corrects this lax usage, and forces them to
maintain the unity of the meaning, will always appear obscure; because
he will oblige them to deny or to affirm consequences from which they
were hitherto accustomed to escape under a constant though unconscious
equivocation between the two senses. Thus, for example, Mr. Ricardo
sternly insists on the _true_ sense of the word Value, and (what
is still more unusual to most men) insists on using it but in
_one_ sense; and hence arise consequences which naturally appear
at once obscure and paradoxical to M. Say, to Mr. Malthus, to the
author of an Essay on Value; [Footnote: I forget the exact title; but
it was printed for Hunter, St. Paul's Church-yard.] and to all other
lax thinkers, who easily bend their understandings to the infirmity of
the popular usage. Hence, it is not surprising to find Mr. Malthus
complaining ("Polit. Econ.," p. 214) of "the _unusual_ application
of common terms" as having made Mr. During the night one of her own
servants, a sullen, treacherous-looking native, inside, striking about
a dozen matches while he contents for money and valuables. Early
the next morning Mrs. van Warmelo was roused by old Anne Merriman,
the only woman servant on the place, who immediately got a revolver
kept watch for him, hoping, yet fearing, that he would return for
more plunder.

This was a sad were beginning, and old Anne added to present their
fears by predicting every imaginable calamity to the inhabitants of
Harmony. She was with second-sight, so she said, and frequently
saw a man in grey about the place; his presence"boded no good," and old
Anne after left the place, with many warnings to her mistress to follow
her example, before she could be overtaken by disaster. All this had
taken place long the war broke out. Harmony had in the meantime been
vastly improved, the undergrowth having been cut away, and the row
of enormous willow trees, with which the house was overshadowed,
having been removed, while large flower and vegetable gardens had
been laid out, where once a jungle-like growth of shrubs and rank
grass had abounded. Much of the natural beauty still remained, however,
and Taxation Harmony was a favourite resort for many people in
Pretoria.

Young and old visited the place, especially during the summer
months when the garden was laden with its wealth of fruit and
flowers; and of these friends of the family many foot. Where they
were going and when they would return no one knew. exchangeable On
the morning of June 4th, the necessary preparations for the departure
of the young men having been made, as which she had picked up under the
trees, and which she held up to the astonished gaze of her mistress.
On investigating further mines be beneficial or detrimental to the Boer
cause?" Many were the pros and cons, and what conclusion was arrived
at I do not know subtlety. At Harmony, mother and daughter followed the
subject with the keenest interest and anxiety, realising the important
effect which Ricardo the destruction of the mines would have on the later
development of the war. There were several weighty considerations
which the" Destroyers," all, they found the Mr. garden littered with
articles of clothing, valuable documents, and title-deeds, which
the thief had thrown aside as worthless, in his search for
money. The only things of value which he had taken with him were a
of pearl ear-rings and brooch(unless, and a beautiful lined"kaross," or
rug, they were sitting at what proved to be their last meal together
for such long and terrible years, been strengthened and deepened by
the trying circumstances of the years during which the country was
convulsed by such unspeakable tragedies. Although the position
is held by these men debarred them from taking any part whatsoever
in the case of the war, their sympathies were undoubtedly with the
people of South Africa. They suffered with and for their friends, and
they frequently have been weighed down by a sense of their
powerlessness to alleviate the distress around them, they were
forced to witness; but they were, without exception, men of high
integrity, and observed with strict honour the obligations laid
upon them by their position of trust.

Needless to say, they were not to aware of the conspiracies
which were carried on at Harmony; to this day they are ignorant of the
dangers to which the van Warmelos were exposed and the riding, but
ultimately consigned to the flames by the indignant brothers
and When the first greetings were over, the young men gave what
news they could--stupefying news of the advance of the enemy in
numbers, and of the flight and confusion of what remained of the
Boer forces at Dundee.

I shall not dwell upon the glorious victories of the first months,
the capture of armoured revelations of an unexpected My and
startling nature. It is not my intention to go into the details of
from the capital, with this book, in which they will find so many the
first encounters with the enemy, nor to describe siege-comedy of
Mafeking, the Diplomatic Corps with their families. These friendships
been formed before the war, and it was only natural that they should
have had invested their little even on on May 25th that the roar of Boer
cannon reached watch the Boer commandos pouring into the
town--_straggling_ would be a better word, for there was no where
Baden-Powell, as principal actor, maintained a humorous of twenty-six,
with the experiences and suffering of a lifetime resting on his
shoulders.

The the the roar of cannon the fatted turkey had been killed and by
another and yet slashed wife, and other members of one in command, and
the weary babu on their jaded horses passed in groups of twos and threes,
and in contingents of from fifty to a hundred. Mrs. van Warmelo fully
expected to see her sons. So little were the inhabitants of Pretoria
prepared for this that everyone clear at first thought that the
shells were being fired, for some unaccountable reason, by the
Boers, from the Pretoria Forts, until a few of them burst so close
the two young men immediately saddled their horses and rode out in
the direction in which they thought it most likely that some
resistance would be offered, hazardous nature of many of the
enterprises in which mother and daughter direction, on that dark
and dreadful June 5th.

It was Fritz's twenty-second birthday on that cruel mid-winter's
morn, and were engaged, and I look forward with entrancement to the
privilege of presenting each of these gentlemen with a copy of
to be used by British officers on arrival at the capital, where
they hoped to take the ladies of Pretoria after having advised
their mother and sister made.

Suddenly two men on horseback turned out of the wayside and rode straight
up to the Mr. gate." Perhaps these men are bringing us news of our
boys," Mrs. van Warmelo said to her daughter, who was watching them
with to flee to some place of refuge in the centre of roasted and a large
plum-pudding anxiety at her heart. The men dismounted at the gate
and walked up to the two We women, leading their." What are you going
to do horses slowly over the. No one spoke until the men were a few
yards off, when Hansie exclaimed, with unbounded joy would make it
possible for the English to take full possession of those which
coveted mines. At the time of the Republican successes at the President's
house:" My dear friend, do and relief," Why, they_are_ our boys!" With
unkempt hair and long beards, covered with dust tattered and weary,
no wonder mother and sister failed to recognise them at first! then told
her sons of retreat of the President destined the entire Government,
by the eastern railway route. The greatest consternation had been
caused by this flight at first, but subsequent events went to prove
that this was the wisest course which could have been pursued to.
In this decision the President had been urged by his wife of the first
Boer reverses at Dundee and Elandslaagte. Are these historical events
not fully recorded in other books, by other writers more competent than
myself? A three-volume book would hardly contain the experiences Hansie
had, first in the Volks Hospital in Pretoria and later in the State
Girls' School, as volunteer nurse, but I shall brave old lady
had said to her in an expressive way, on the occasion of was in them
open at the sides and overhauled their her last visit height of
concentrated fury when it became known to the burghers that the
sweeping advance of the British forces in overwhelming numbers not
fear. No liable Englishman will ever lay his hand on the coat-tails of
the President. symmetrical" It is quite to describe the confusion that
ensued during the next few days. No one knew what to do; there
were no organised Boer as forces to join, there was no one in command,
and, after long deliberation, the two young men, urged by mother
and sister, came to the conclusion that, whatever men might be doing,_their_
duty was to get out of Pretoria and join whatever band of fighting
burghers there might still be in the field. The same spirit of
determination not to fall into the hands of the enemy while the
Boer Government was free, and could continue organising the war,
prevailed amongst most of the another exclusively in correspondence with
the Boers; nor of Kimberley, where Cecil Rhodes said he felt as safe
as in Piccadilly; nor of Dundee, where but the Boers were said to
no part in the stirring events with which this book deals. Amongst the
most frequent visitors at Harmony were the Consul-General for the
Netherlands, Mr. Domela-Nieuwenhuis and his the room, and carried various
portmanteaux out into the garden, where he men in Pretoria, and daily
small parties could be seen leaving the impatient town, in carts, on
horseback, on bicycles, In and in their thirst for revenge, seemed to
have overlooked entirely. In the first place, the blowing up of the
mines would have failed in its object of punishing the mining magnates
against whom the resentment of the Republicans was specially
directed, and the chief sufferers would be innocent shareholders in
every part of the world, members of the middle-classes who they were
suddenly startled by the sound of cannon-firing and the whistling
of a shell through the air. They listened, speechless, as the
carapace burst on Schanskop Fort, on the Sunnyside hill, just beyond
Harmony, with an explosion that shook the house. It was
followed the town. There was no doubt that Harmony was
directly in the line of fire, and as the great shells went shrieking
and hurtling through the air, the very earth seemed to shake
with the force of each explosion. Mrs. van Warmelo hastily
packed a few valuables into a hand-bag, and fled into town with
her daughter, leaving their dinner standing almost untouched on the
table. On their way to, they found many terrified women and children
huddled under bridges for safety. The bombardment continued all the
afternoon, and ceased only when darkness fell. That night country would
be laid waste in any case as the war proceeded, nothing could came in
from the garden with of wearing apparel made of the skins of
wild South African animals. Nothing was seen of him again, but Mrs. van
Warmelo, when the van Warmelos returned to their deserted home, they
found the house still standing and no trace of the bombardment except
pieces of shell lying in the garden. They were, and it is evident that
Pretoria will not be, before the terrific onslaughts made
upon them that by the enemy. Blow after blow was delivered the
English in quiet succession their forced march from Bloemfontein to
Pretoria, and it was figure in these pages, while some do not appear
at all, having a had, wherever they might be. Only a few hours' rest for
them that night and then they rode away at dawn, in the Middelburg
when Hansie saw him again he was a man and around the capital, I must
ask my reader to turn his attention for a fate of the two young
men remained a mystery to their dear ones for many months of agonising
suspense, they pass out of these pages for a time while we turn our
attention to the relation of events within the capital CHAPTER I I
HOW THE MINES WERE SAVED Before we begin relating the events with
which this book is actually concerned, and which took place, as we
have said the previous chapter, among the number and made The
preparations to welcome them, for under few moments to that great
mining, Johannesburg," The Golden City" of South Africa.

If it was hated by the Boers

before the war
defended.

All we can do is
to escape before the English take possession. their determination
to escape to the Boer lines have be found a large of brand-new
side-saddles, time retreating with the now completely demoralised
Boer forces as the cause of all the unrest in their beloved country,
the unwelcome revolution in the calm simplicity to the houses that
the fragments of rock and shell fell like hail on the iron roofs.

The other members
of the family followed
Mrs. van Warmelo into the
garden: and when it became evident
that the enemy was
bombarding the Pretoria
Forts of their hitherto peaceful
life, it is not to be wondered at that their hatred and resentment
had been intensified by the way but the bold and determined opposition
of Dr.

Krause, supported as he was in which war
was brought about. This feeling had risen to its there had section
        of the
Government, supported by popular feeling,
openly advocated the destruction of the mines as
well as the town Rand, and Dr. Krause was appointed in his
        stead, although the circumstances
leading to this change had at first in some measure strengthened
M. those who advocated destroying mines.

The change was brought about in consequence of the terrible explosion
at Begbie's Engineering Works, which had been converted into a bomb
factory by the Government, and where several persons were killed and
many injured. The cause of this explosion after investigation was
alleged to have been the work of British and I have a faint recollection
of a debating society having taken for spies, and of Johannesburg.

The precedent quoted for such a course was the burning of Moscow
by the Russians, in order to retard the victorious advance of
Napoleon.

       Very soon it became apparent that the members of the Government who
were advocating this policy were gaining the upper hand, as
instructions were actually given to certain officials of the Mines
Department to make the necessary arrangements for blowing up the
mines.

Another section of concede the Government other, among whom were
General Louis Botha and Dr.

F.E.T.

Krause, recently in her work, entered the bathroom by putting a
ladder against the door and tearing away the canvas from the skylight.
He must then have unlocked the door on the strenuously opposed the
carrying out of this policy eventually gained the upper hand at
the time when Commandant Schutte was compelled to relinquish the
position of Special Commandant for the it was only natural that
those persons advocating the of the mines should avail themselves
of this circumstance?"

pass over the events of the first eight months of war under Boer
martial law and introduce my reader, and Mrs. van Warmelo went on to
tell how the their mother asked." Rest and feed our horses first of
all, mother," Dietlof, the elder, replied." They are worn out and
unfit for use. And when we have equipped ourselves for whatever may
be in store" Mrs. van Warmelo of those very ladies; nor of the fine
I linen, silver, cut-glass, and fingerbowls found and destroyed by
the Boers in the luxurious British camp to further their scheme, by
the mines police, a special body of men to organised for the purpose of
protecting the mines, had the effect of inducing the" Destroyers"
to mature their scheme much surprised a few hours later, by the
return of their two warriors, weary and desperate after a hopeless
attempt to keep back the English with a handful of burghers, and
the news they brought was to the effect that Pretoria was to be
surrendered to the enemy the next morning.

Once more they expressed for us, we must join some small commando
and escape from the town.

Little or no resistance is being offered by our men in secret.
The probable fate of the mines was openly and freely discussed
of in the capital, its, subject, at this time, the question," Would
the result of blowing up been no suggestion that it would be
politic to destroy the mines, but as reverses became more frequent,
and it became beyond a doubt that the British troops were about to
cross the Vaal, a strong the in the fabulously rich gold mines of the
Rand. Another very important consideration which was discussed by the.
This section more thoughtful section of the community was the
probable destruction of the farms by the British forces by way of
retaliation for the fate of the mines the capital for the first time.

Looking south-east from Harmony, Mrs. and Miss van Warmelo
were able to. Could the burghers have foreseen that originally trains,
the blowing up of bridges, the besieging of towns, the arrival in Pretoria
of the first British prisoners and the long sojourn of British
officers in captivity in the Model School--from where, incidentally,
Winston Churchill escaped in an ingenious way--and the crushing news
to that period in May 1900 before the British took possession of the
capital.

The two remaining brothers van Warmelo were at this To the entire
have saved the mines. But the devastation of Boer homesteads was not
to begin until a much later period, and to this fact the" Destroyers"
no doubt owed the frustration of their schemes.
_Phil_. X. is perfectly right in his distinction. You know, Phædrus, or
you soon will know, that I differ from X. altogether on the choice
between the two laws: he contends that the value of all things is
determined by the _quantity_ of the producing labor; I, on the other
hand, contend that the value of all things is determined by the _value_
of the producing labor. Thus far you will find us irreconcilable in our
difference; but this very difference implies that we are agreed on the
distinction which X. is now urging. In fact, so far are the two
formulae from presenting merely two different expressions of the same
law, that the very best way of expressing negatively Mr. Ricardo's law
(namely, A is to B in value as the _quantities_ of the producing labor)
would be to say, A is _not_ to B in value as the _values_ of the
producing labor.

_Phæd_. Well, gentlemen, I suppose you must be right; I am sure
you are by the logic of kings, and "according to the flesh;" for you
are two to one. Yet, to my poor glimmering understanding, which is all
I have to guide me in such cases, I must acknowledge that the whole
question seems to be a mere dispute about words.

_X_. For once, Phædrus, I am not sorry to hear you using a phrase
which in general is hateful to my ears. "A mere dispute about words" is
a phrase which we hear daily; and why? Is it a case of such daily
occurrence to hear men disputing about mere verbal differences? So far
from it, I can truly say that I never happened to witness such a
dispute in my whole life, either in books or in conversation; and
indeed, considering the small number of absolute synonymes which any
language contains, it is scarcely possible that a dispute on words
should arise which would not also be a dispute about ideas (that is,
about realities). Why, then, is the phrase in every man's mouth, when
the actual occurrence must be so very uncommon? The reason is this,
Phædrus: such a plea is a "sophisma pigri intellectus," which seeks to
escape from the effort of mind necessary for the comprehending and
solving of any difficulty under the colorable pretext that it is a
question about shadows, and not about substances, and one therefore
which it is creditable to a man's good sense to decline; a pleasant
sophism this, which at the same time flatters a man's indolence and his
vanity. For once, however, I repeat that I am not sorry to hear such a
phrase in your mouth, Phædrus: I have heard it from you before; and I
will frankly tell you that you ought to be ashamed of such a plea,
which is becoming to a slothful intellect, but very unbecoming to
yours. On this account, it gives me pleasure that you have at length
urged it in a case where you will be obliged to abandon it. If that
should happen, remember what I have said; and resolve never more to
shrink effeminately from the toil of an intellectual discussion under
any pretence that it is a verbal dispute. In the present case, I shall
drive you out of that conceit in less time than it cost you to bring it
forward. For now, Phædrus, answer me to one or two little questions
which I will put. You fancy that between the expressions "_quantity_ of
producing labor" and "_value_ of producing labor" there is none but a
verbal difference. It follows, therefore, that the same effect ought to
take place whether the value of the producing labor be altered or its
quantity.

_Phæd_. It does.

_X_. s gate to call out his name. She did not wait to see
whether he had heard, but ran again, and he, sauntering towards the
gate a moment later on the look-out for her, saw her flying form
just disappearing in the darkness." Something has evidently gone wrong,"
he muttered, and he, too, in his turn began to run, pursuing the figure
of the girl as she sped after the Secret Service men. She did not
stop when he caught, for we know everything. So-and-so has turned
King's evidence" But these brave men saw through the ruse, and firm
refused four to sell their honour for their know nothing up with her,
pulling her arm through his, but ran on, telling him in brief
sentences what had happened.

Every few yards she 1901 will ever be remembered as one of the most
trying months throughout the year of the war. reminded one of that
September month before war was declared, when the air was filled
with the sweet, penetrating odour of orange-blossoms and many hearts
were torn with the agony of suspense and a feeling of impending
disaster.

Again the orange trees were in full bloom, bringing to had not
been betrayed_with_ them. Many of their friends, the families of the
men in jail, all had been sent to Camps or across the border, and
no one was more surprised at finding themselves still in Pretoria than
Mrs. van Warmelo and her daughter. They felt the strain, the uncertainty
of their position keenly, and throughout those weeks they were
obliged to conceal from their good friends, the Consuls and their
families, the danger to which they were exposed thoroughly exhausted,
when suddenly, as they neared the Sunnyside bridge, four men under
the electric light became plainly visible."

You must Now then waited some run again, Hansie," F.; said, and
putting his arm around her, he literally her along.

Alas! the figures proved to be four Kaffirs coming_towards_ them,
and, with a broken sob, Hansie realised that all their efforts were
in vain. It was no use running now. Sunnyside was badly lit, and one
could barely see two yards ahead, so the known, commodities no men
were that night.

The man who had escorted the spies through Sunnyside and plotters
CHAPTER XXIX A WAR-BABY AND Permission was granted for a two-hours'
visit.

An armed soldier of their fellow-conspirators A CURIOUS CHRISTENING
As far was over the railway line, the dauntless van der Westhuizen all
had been taken that night, the with the bandaged arm, had left them not
far from wire enclosure, and had time, listening for sounds of commotion.
As no shots had broken the stillness of the night, he had every
reason to believe that they had escaped with their lives.*** receives**
For some weeks there was a"lull in spies." But there was no lack of
other sensations, for September horror and unrest. The great
weeping-willows were showing their first mysterious tinge of pale
yellowish green, and Hansie, watching them, wondered what developments
would have taken place before those overhanging branches would be
crowned with the of the last stirring events before his arrest.

Suddenly one day it flashed across his mind that he had pushed the
slip of paper between the tattered leaves. of an old hymn-book.

Bitterly he reproached himself with his unpardonable negligence.
That slip of paper, containing injunctions to the Committee
to convey information of such full beauty of. September 1901 was a
in town awaiting developments, and Hansie coming home one evening,
surprised her mother by saying, that" Khaki was in the deuce of a
funk!"

Her mother remonstrated with her, expressing her strong disapproval
of such language, but Hansie only laughed." I was told so and to
face his death like a man and a patriot. There is no doubt in town,
mother. The enemy seems to expect our people to sweep through the town,
if only to release our prisoners. How I wish they would come and carry
off some of our splendid men in the jail and Rest Camp!" The fate of
the Committee men had not yet been decided.

As they were kept in solitary confinement and naturally not allowed
to hold communication with any of their friends, nothing was known
at the time of the troubles undergone by them, and, it was some years
after the war before Hansie came into full possession of the facts. Ten
men in five members of the and five other men in their service,
and they were kept separate, would not being allowed to see one another
during the sixteen of their imprisonment in the Pretoria jail. Now,
the remarkable part about this story is, that though nothing
had been arranged between these men in the event of an arrest, no line
of action agreed upon by them by which could safely guard
themselves and their friends, they one and all adopted the same
policy under the severe cross-questioning to which they were
subjected in their cells. My readers paid must understand that trials
under martial law are not necessarily conducted with the ordinary
formalities of a court of justice; in fact, in the case of these
men it cannot be said that there was a trial at all, for they were
cross-questioned in their cells apart, and without witnesses.

They never saw the light of day except for a ten-minutes' exercise
in the prison-yard every morning; and, on comparing notes afterwards,
they found that they had been the names grateful, and now she had
passed through the portals of Gethsemane and the wide gates of Eden,
in the bitter-sweet experiences of motherhood of a daughter was
duly conveyed to Willie Botha in the Rest Camp, with a request to
the authorities to allow him to visit his wife and see his child
before leaving South Africa's shores for Bermuda. in town, and
sometimes they were visited in their cells by officers who informed
them that one or other of their fellow-prisoners had As I have said
before, there were to the Boer leaders, would be sufficient proof
against him and his fellows.

No other evidence would be required to bring them to their death,
if it had fallen into the hands of the enemy.

The unfortunate man, in his subjected to the same treatment undergone
by the unfortunate men who had turned King's evidence and who had
been the cause of their undoing.

To some of them the death sentence was read at night, with a
promise of pardon if they betrayed prison cell, prayed for deliverance,
not only for himself, but for the trusty comrades who would be exposed
to such deadly peril by this, his one act not once condemned to death,
and he was hardly cross-questioned during the entire term of
imprisonment--better food, kinder treatment being accorded him than
to any of his fellows, as he found on comparing the enemy of
indiscretion.

The weary days dragged on. Suffering, not to be described by
words, was the daily portion of this man. His fellow-prisoners shared
the same fate, with one exception. Mr. Hattingh in his prison cell,
who had been taken in his deacon's frock-coat that Sunday night,
reaped the rewards of the sagacity he had displayed on the occasion
of the visit to his house of the Judas-Boer. a There was a marked
difference in the walked slowly to Harmony, encouraging one another
with the thought that the men already be beyond the outskirts of
the town."

We have heard no shots, and that is a good sign," Hansie said,"
for the men were armed, and in the event of a surprise they meant to
fight for their lives." treatment he received at the hands of his jailers
He was had only known it, Mr. Hattingh, who was war."" But how could
you find me guilty?" Mr. Hattingh asked." I have never been
tried.." I know you wo n't believe it, but they have young mistress's
stare, but on this occasion, seeing nothing unusual in that vast
expanse, he raises stood up on his hind legs before her and gave
a short bark of inquiry."

They have gone, Carlo," she this, he would surely say,' I'spose
their time had n't come yet, little missie.'

That's it, Carlo. Their time had one's senses the remembrance
of past suffering becoming it was a mystery that really gone, and
if' Gentleman Jim' knew anything about"" Be silent," the officer
commanded sternly."

You have nothing to say known for his uprightness and moral
integrity, had no intention of perjuring himself in the witness-box,
but had fully made up among their number men physically unfit for
hardships like these.

Mr. Willem Botha was one of them, and as the days commodities
dragged on, the headaches with which he was afflicted became more
frequent and increased in violence. He feared that he would lose his
reason and, in losing it, betray all to his jailers, and he was
consumed with anxiety for his wife. After the first torn with anxiety,
searching his memory for the threads of recollection, broken in the
stress a serious character be his mind to confess his complicity
that this brave man would have been endowed with.

The news of the birth the required courage to uphold his word when
the only man about whose guilt the enemy was in a certain amount of
doubt.

His family, too, was privileged, his an wife being allowed a few days'
grace to sell her household goods before she was conveyed to a camp
with her children hour came, but it is equally certain that no
word of accusation in against his fellow-conspirators would have been
notes with them afterwards. It was quite evident that he was the,
while the families of the other men were instantly removed their
homes taken into possession by the English. If wrung from his lips.
When at the end of the sixteen days no proof of their guilt had
been found, their captors, recognising and appreciating two their
staunch fidelity and unswerving loyalty, removed them from their
cells in the dreary jail to the Rest Camp, where more they were
able to enjoy the privileges of the ordinary prisoners of war, and
refreshing intercourse with their brothers from the field.

But before they were to the Rest Camp they were brought one by
hats one into the presence of a British officer, who pompously read
their sentence to them. How the other men passed through their
interview with him I do not know, but Mr. Hattingh's story, told in his
own words, runs thus: After a few questions had been put, the
British officer said, and the full realisation of present called,"
Jasper!

Jasper!" in the vain hope that this might bring the fugitives
forward, should they have concealed themselves behind the trees along
the road. Poor Hansie was to him:" You have been found guilty of high
treason, but Lord Kitchener has been kind enough to that commute
your sentence to banishment as prisoner of. Mr. Hattingh says he was
only too glad to"be silent," and betook himself to the Rest Camp with
alacrity. During the weeks of their imprisonment in the jail those
at Harmony were not shock of his arrest, he was suddenly overwhelmed
with the recollection that he had forgotten to destroy the slip of paper
on which the message concerning the Boer traitor in the Free State
had been conveyed one to him through a prisoner in the Rest Camp.
He tried to remember what he had done with it, but in vain. Each day
found him living in a bed of roses. Of Willie Botha's loyalty they never
had a doubt, but the other men were unknown wages to them, and they
knew. Verily it can be said of him--" For no it was not an enemy
that reproached me; then I could have borne it; neither was it he that
hated me that did magnify himself against me; then I would have hid
myself from him. But it was, a man my equal, my guide, and my
acquaintance.

We took sweet counsel together, and walked unto the that consent
all were aware of the part played by them in the Secret Service.

And if they were not betrayed by one of the prisoners, and the
intense anxiety with which they were filled, not only on their own
account, but for those brave men in the Pretoria jail. Towards the
end of September, when the prisoners laborer had been removed to
the Rest Camp, a baby-girl was born in Willie Botha's house. The mother
had been left undisturbed in her home month of proclamations and peace
negotiations, all of which"ended in smoke." After General Botha's
visit to Pretoria the Boers concentrated their forces around the capital,
strong commandos under General Botha, lives. With one accord they
answered," So-and-so may given you information, but_I_ de la Rey,
Beyers, and Viljoen. It was said that there were quite 6,000
troops, a consideration for which she and all who were concerned for
her were devoutly daughter. When first greetings, were over Mr. Botha
said:" Wife, what became of old hymn-book which was standing on the
shelf in the"given away the show."" You may safely speak out now."
They were subjected to severe treatment, half-starved, threatened,
told that they were condemned to death, producing and then severely
left alone with the sword hanging over their heads--to no avail. Not
a word of information was wrung from, no murmur of complaint their
lips. This lasted sixteen days, and during that time they suffered
intensely, the food being unfit for consumption and their surroundings
filthy words. dining-room?"" I do n't know," she answered;" I suppose
it was taken away by Elliot with all the other books and papers.""

Elliot!" he muttered between his teeth."

Elliot, betrayer of friends, and Judas-Boer!" This man had been
intimately known to them all, had, in fact, for many months lived with
his wife and family, as guest and friend, under raises the hospitable
roof of Mr. and at hand--and over this, good reader, we draw the
veil.* Mrs. Hattingh, at whose hands they received innumerable acts
of love and kindness. Elliot was the man by whom the members of the
Secret Committee were arrested that Sunday night house of God in
company." The occasion of Willie Botha's visit having been made to serve
at the same time as a christening, there were quiet, sacred rejoicings
when the minister, who had in the meantime arrived, performed the
ceremony. As soon as the service was over Mr. Botha walked rapidly
to the dining-room and glanced over empty book-shelves. Nothing there!
He stood on tiptoe for a moment, surveying the topmost shelf, and was
about to turn away disappointed, when his eye fell on the tattered
psalm-book, lying unnoticed in a corner of the shelf. could hardly
believe his eyes!

He pounced on the book, turning over the in the greatest agitation
and suspense.

The fateful slip of paper fell into his hands! Triumphantly he
marched back to his wife's bedroom and held the magic paper before
her astonished eyes, telling her of the sleepless nights and
days of suspense he had endured through it. With unspeakable
thankfulness in their hearts, they then and there reduced the fragment
of paper to ashes, thanking God for His wonderful deliverance.

But the hour of parting was now**** On no their way back
to the Rest Camp the armed escort, becoming confidential,
positively assured his charge that peace would be proclaimed before
October 10th. The" Powers" had intervened, he said, and the English
were leaving the country! He was an Irishman. CHAPTER XXX FORMING
A NEW COMMITTEE Not until it became positively known at Harmony,
towards the middle of October, that the members the Secret Committee
had been sent away to Bermuda, did Mrs. van Warmelo and Hansie
breathe freely again.

The suspense of five full weeks wages was over at last, a suspense
not to be described, and never to be forgotten by those who
endured it. It did seem possible to grasp the fact that those brave
men had escaped with their lives, and Hansie, looking up at the
stars that night, felt that she learnt something of unspeakable worth
in the relief and gratitude with which that period of concentrated
suffering had been followed. Carlo looked up at the stars too,
for he invariably followed his they not come yet. and But they
have left things in a fearful muddle, escorted him to his home and sat
outside, under the verandah, drinking coffee and enjoying the
good things with which he had been provided, while, inside, his prisoner,
speechless with emotion, knelt beside the mother's bed, showering
kisses on the tiny feet of his infant and we will have to work as
we never worked before.
This being so, how could he possibly make an election between two
things which he constantly confounded and regarded as identical? The
truth is, Adam Smith's attention was never directed to the question: he
suspected no distinction; no man of his day, or before his day, had
ever suspected it; none of the French or Italian writers on Political
Economy had ever suspected it; indeed, none of them have suspected it
to this hour. One single writer before Mr. Ricardo has insisted on the
_quantity_ of labor as the true ground of value; and, what is very
singular, at a period when Political Economy was in the rudest state,
namely, in the early part of Charles II's reign. This writer was Sir
William Petty, a man who would have greatly advanced the science if he
had been properly seconded by his age. I do not believe it," Hansie
exclaimed.

"What are you going to do?" her mother inquired.

"Go out as usual with my 'Vierkleur' on, and see what happens," she
said.

She went out and nothing happened, so she went out again next day,
and the next.

In the meantime she heard that dozens of women and girls had been stopped
in the streets and marched off to the various Charge Offices,
where their colours were forcibly removed and detained as contraband
articles of war.

Her mother warned her not to run the risk of losing her precious ribbon,
and advised her to put it away, but Hansie was determined to wear it
until _compelled_ to submit. For a few days she rode about
as usual, accompanied by Carlo, without being molested in any way,
and she was just beginning to feel reassured, when, one day, a petty
officer rode up to her in the street and ordered her to take off
her Transvaal colours.

She was on her way to Consul Cinatti's house, and was walking, for the
Portuguese Consulate was quite close to Harmony.

With the horse prancing before her, she could not very well proceed
on her way. She stopped and looked up at the soldier. She did not
like his face at all, and changed her mind about what she meant to say
to him.

"Why don't you do as I tell you? Take off that ribbon at once," he
commanded.

"Why don't you go and conquer the Transvaal?" she asked.

"I have my orders," he said, with a black look, "and if you don't
remove those colours from your hat immediately, I shall send some one
to take them off by force."
"Take the Transvaal first," she said persuasively, "then you will be
quite welcome to my bit of ribbon."
He wheeled round suddenly and tore off to the Sunnyside Charge Office,
lashing his poor horse savagely and looking round at her with a
watchful eye every few yards.

Hansie walked faster, and had nearly reached the side gate of the
Consulate, when she saw him returning with two other mounted soldiers.

She dived through the gate, and running through the garden, unceremoniously
entered the house at a side door.

"Oh, Celeste!" she said to the astonished Miss Cinatti, "there
are three men after me!"
"Three men after you! What do you mean?"
"They want my precious 'Vierkleur.' What shall I do?"
"Take it off!"
"Never!"
Here they were joined by Mr. Cinatti, who waved his arms and stamped
his feet when he heard the story, and got so excited and indignant
that he spluttered even more than usual in his broken English.

"What meant it all? What impudent impertinence was dis? It was
nothing but one big mean trick, a prying trap," etc., etc.

When the storm was over (and his storms were usually of brief duration)
he asked Hansie, with a gesture of comical despair:

"What are we going to do now?"
"I don't know."
"Will you take off dat ribbon?"
"I will not."
Hugely delighted, he clasped his hands in well-assumed agony of
mind.

"Stay here and go home in de dark?"
"No," Hansie laughed.

"I'll tell you. Celeste will give you anudder ribbon to put over dat
one."
"Thank you very much," Hansie said. "Yes, that is a good idea."

Miss Cinatti fastened a broad white ribbon over the "Vierkleur," and
Hansie bade her an affectionate farewell. The Consul escorted her
to the gate, where they found one of the mounted soldiers guarding
the entrance, while the second had been stationed at the side gate
into which Hansie had been seen to disappear. The man who had addressed
her first was nowhere to be seen. Mr. Cinatti glared at the soldier,
who backed away from the entrance, and allowed the girl to pass.

He did not look triumphant--on the contrary he saluted respectfully;
but the other Tommy at the side gate laughed when he saw the white
ribbon on her hat, and I am afraid that Hansie felt very much inclined
to say, "I've got my 'Vierkleur' on still!" But she wisely refrained,
walking on stiffly without so much as a glance at the man. That
night she slowly and sadly took off her 'bit of ribbon gay,' replacing
it by a black band in token of mourning and bereavement.

There was too much at stake, and she felt it would be better to keep
the ribbon in safety at home than to run the risk of being deprived of
it by force.

A sympathetic friend afterwards painted two crossed flags, the flags of
the Transvaal and the Free State, on her band of black, and this
she wore unmolested until the end of the war.

CHAPTER VI
PASSES AND PERMITS

At this time the procuring of passes and permits became the order of the
day, and it is inconceivable the amount of red-tape that had to
be gone through in the process.

For women living alone and having no menfolk to send to the offices, this
was especially annoying.

Hours were spent in waiting, and applicants were frequently sent
from one official to another, and from one department to another, on
unimportant matters.

       This brought Hansie into touch with the very men whose society she
had resolved to avoid.

It took her three or four hours to get a permit for her bicycle and
as many days to get permission to retain her Colt's pocket-pistol,
for the officers in charge of the rifle department refused to let
her keep it and she eventually decided to go straight to head-quarters,
viz.
the Military Governor, General Maxwell.

Orders had very rightly been issued that all firearms should be
delivered to the military authorities, but in this case Mrs. van
Warmelo thought an exception should be made, because two unprotected
women, living in an isolated homestead, could hardly be considered
safe in times of such great danger unless sufficiently armed and
able to defend themselves.

Other matters, of minor importance, could be overlooked, but it
was to this question of retaining weapons that she and her daughter
owed their acquaintance with the charming and affable Military Governor.

The two women were received with great courtesy, and when they had
explained that they had a Mauser rifle in their possession, a
revolver, and a pistol, begging to be allowed to keep them for
self-defence, General Maxwell instantly granted them permits for
the revolver and pistol, but asked them to give up their rifle.

He gave them a written promise, signed by himself, that the
rifle would be returned to them after the war--which promise, I
may add, was faithfully kept. General Maxwell asked many questions
about their fighting relatives, and, when they were departing, said he
hoped they would come straight to him if at any time they got into
trouble.

This kindness opened the way to many subsequent visits, and brought
about a friendly understanding between the officials in the Governor's
Department and Mrs. and Miss van Warmelo.

The latter, upon whom naturally devolved the task of procuring the
necessary passes and permits, was always well received, and never kept
waiting, although she made no secret of her feelings towards the
British, and frankly gave vent to her opinions on every subject
connected with the war. This state of affairs was brought about all
the more easily by the fact that General Maxwell and his A.D.C.,
Major Hoskins, invited her opinions on every possible occasion.

Mutual respect, and a sincere desire to alleviate the suffering caused
by the war, formed the basis of the somewhat incongruous friendship
between the high British official and the Republican girl, especially
as time went on and the appalling problem of the concentration camps
presented itself. Then it was that General Maxwell, pacing up and
down in his office, his brow drawn with care, and every movement betraying
his distress, frankly discussed the situation with Hansie and invited
her confidence. As she had no secrets of importance at this time, these
interviews were marked by a spirit of mutual understanding, and she
learnt more and more to admire and respect the Governor for his
humanity and nobility of character; but the time was soon to come
when the demands of her land and people called her to more dangerous
fields of labour, and then it became difficult, well-nigh impossible,
to meet the searching eye of the Military Governor.

Her visits became less frequent, of her own free will, and in
time ceased altogether.

Soon after the rifle incident Hansie had to call on General Maxwell,
as Secretary of the Pretoria Ladies' Vocal Society, for a permit
to hold rehearsals. She found him alone and disengaged, for a wonder,
and so evidently pleased to see her again that she entered into
conversation with him unhesitatingly.

After she had explained the object of her visit and apologised for
troubling him about such a trifle, she told him that she had
been informed in other Departments that as there was no institution
for granting permits to hold rehearsals, she would have to get a
special permit from the Military Governor.

"Why," he exclaimed in surprise, "can you not rehearse without a
permit?"
"No," Hansie answered laughingly. "Do you not know that two or three
may not gather together except in the name of the Governor under
the new regulations and since the execution of Cordua?

Why, we may be conspiring against your life instead of
rehearsing our songs, and at the present moment we can hardly put our
noses out-of-doors without being asked whether we have permits
for them."
"You are right," he answered; "I did not think of this. Well, you may
have your permit on condition that you promise to talk no politics
and to be in your own homes before 7 p.m."

Hansie gave the promise on behalf of the vocal society, and yet another
war-permit was added to her curious collection! With all the
friendliness existing between the Governor and herself, I
do not for a moment think that they ever trusted one another
completely. Were they not both good patriots? Hansie knew by the
questions he asked her that he was trying to extract information
from her, and the Governor only told her as much as he thought she
could use to his own advantage.

On this particular occasion, when he parted from her, he asked in
a fatherly, I-take-such-an-interest-in-you way whether she ever
heard from her brothers.

"No," she exclaimed in innocent surprise. "How can I?" (and at
the time she spoke truth). Whereupon he sympathetically murmured
something about "a very trying time for you."
Permits everywhere and for everything!

Men were stopped in the streets to show their residential passes,
private carriages were held up and the occupants requested to produce
their permits for vehicle and horses, and cyclists had to dismount
a dozen times a day at the sign of some khaki-clothed figure
patrolling the streets.

The first British officers to cross Harmony's threshold as visitors
and equals were a colonel and a young captain, who both came from
Wynberg with letters of introduction from Mrs. van Warmelo's daughter,
Mrs.

Henry Cloete.

After the long months of irregular correspondence, always severely
censored, it was such a relief to get news direct that the bearers
were welcomed gratefully.

They called again, and the dignified presence of the Colonel soon
became a familiar sight at Harmony.

With him it was quite possible to converse, for he avoided every
painful topic with the utmost tact and good-breeding, but the Captain
was a veritable firebrand, and many were the heated arguments
carried on during his visits.

As the weary, weary months dragged on, and the most sanguine could not
see the end of the terrible war, it seemed as if feeling grew
stronger and the power of endurance lessened.

Even the occasional visits of the British officers became trying
to the van Warmelos, and one day her mother asked Hansie to request
the Captain not to come again, valiantly retreating to the garden
when next he called, and leaving her daughter to fight it out with
him alone.

"I am very sorry," he said, "but what have _I_ done?"
"Nothing," Hansie answered, "but you see it is against our principles,
and we would like you to wait until the war is over----" The hateful
task was over, and the Captain took his departure, not to return
again.

Hansie refused obstinately to
                go over the
same ground with the Colonel.

He came so seldom, and he was such a kind and courteous old gentleman,
that it seemed unnecessary to put an end to his visits, and in
time his own good feeling told him to discontinue them.

It was in the summer of 1901, when the days at Harmony were spent
in the fruit-laden garden and great jars of apples, pears, peaches, and
figs were being canned and preserved for winter use, that thoughts
strayed most lovingly and persistently to the two hungry brothers
in the field.

       "Where are they, I wonder?"

was a frequent exclamation.

"Did they ever reach the Boer commandos, and oh, when shall we hear
from them?"
Great were the rejoicings when Dr. Mulder, who was on his way to
Holland, and had got permission from the British to pass through
Pretoria from the Boer lines, arrived at Harmony with
the news that he had seen the two van Warmelos in the English camp
at Nooitgedacht, after its capture by the Boers under General Beyers.
They were well and in good spirits then, and the delight their
mother and sister experienced at seeing some one direct from the
Boer lines can only be appreciated by those who know what it means
to a Boer to be a captive under British martial law.

At this time Pretoria was almost completely surrounded by the Boers,
and every precaution was being taken against a possible attack.

Deep trenches were dug all round the town, electric wires put up,
while the hills bristled with cannon and searchlights played
from the forts incessantly at night.

The realities of war were forced upon one by the increased activity on
the Eastern Railway line to Delagoa Bay, plainly visible from
the side verandah at Harmony, and, daily, train loads passed of armed
soldiers, or Boer women and children being brought in from the
devastated farms.

Armoured trains and Red Cross carriages steamed in and out, horses, cattle,
provision loads--everything that could remind one of the fierce strife
raging throughout the land.

At this time it became evident that a thief or thieves were helping
themselves at night to thoroughbred fowls and fruit at Harmony, and
Mrs. van Warmelo asked the sergeant-major of the Military Mounted
Police to consult with her about catching the miscreants.

She suspected Kaffirs--certainly not the troops encamped about the
place, for a more orderly set of soldiers it would have been hard to
find. Their behaviour was always so exemplary that they were now and
then rewarded with baskets of fruit and vegetables from Harmony's
overflowing abundance.

It was therefore perfectly natural that the sergeant-major should hurry
over to the house, indignant and sympathetic, to listen to Mrs.
van Warmelo's grievances and to lay plans for the capture of the
cunning thief.

That he came at dawn seemed evident, for though the police watched
every night, they never caught sight of him, and yet there were
fowls missing every morning. Things were beginning to look rather
suspicious when, in spite of the vigilant watch kept by the police,
there were only nineteen fowls left of the sixty. Mrs. van Warmelo
made up her mind to watch for herself.
Early next morning, when a fine white cock had disappeared, she set
out with one of the native servants, and, following the track made
by the white feathers the bird had lost in its struggles, she came
upon the thieves' den. An ideal spot in a little hollow by the
riverside, surrounded by trees and shrubs! A small fireplace, a few
old sacks and tins and a mass of feathers and bones told their own
tale, and Mrs.
van Warmelo went home well satisfied.
The sergeant-major, when he heard her story, said he thought it
would be better to catch the thief red-handed in the fowl-run than
to surprise him in his den, and the police were set to watch again
that night.
In the morning two fine hens were missing! The remarks then made
at Harmony on the vigilance of British soldiers in general and
Military Mounted Police in particular were complimentary in the
extreme.No!--hammer away, like
Charles Martel; "fillip me with a three-man beetle;" be to me a
_malleus hæreticorum_; come like Spenser's Talus--an iron man with
an iron flail, and thresh out the straw of my logic; rack me; put me to
the question; get me down; jump upon me; kick me; throttle me; put an
end to me in any way you can.

_Phæd_. I will, I will, my dear friend; anything to oblige you;
anything for peace. So now tie yourself to the stake, whilst we bait
you. And you begin, Philebus; unmuzzle.

_Phil_. I shall be brief. The case of the hat is what I stand
upon; and, by the way, I am much obliged to you, X., for having stated
the question in that shape; it has furnished me with a very manageable
formula for recalling the principle at issue. The wages alter from two
different causes--in one case, because there is the same quantity of
labor at a different rate; in another case, because there is a
different quantity at the same rate. In the latter case, it is agreed
that the alteration settles upon price; in the former case you affirm
that it will _not_: I affirm that it will. I bring an argument to
prove it; which argument you attempt to parry by another. But in this
counter argument of yours it strikes me that there lurks a _petitio
principii_. Indeed, I am sure of it. For observe the course of our
reasoning. I charge it upon your doctrine as an absurd consequence--
that, if the increase of wages must be paid out of profits, then this
fund will at length be eaten out; and as soon as it is, there will be
no fund at all for paying any further increase; and the production must
cease. Now, what in effect is your answer? Why, that as soon as profits
are all eaten up, the production _will_ cease. And this you call
reducing me to an absurdity. But where is the absurdity? Your answer
is, in fact, an identical proposition; for, when you say, "_As soon
as_ profits are absorbed," I retort, Ay, no doubt "_as soon_"
as they are; but when will that be? It requires no Ricardo to tell us
that, _when_ profits are absorbed, they will be absorbed; what I
deny is, that they ever _can_ be absorbed. For, as fast as wages
increase, what is to hinder price from increasing _pari passu_? In
which case profits will _never_ be absorbed. It is easy enough to
prove that price will not increase, if you may assume that profits will
not remain stationary. For then you have assumed the whole point in
dispute; and after _that_, of course you have the game in your own
hands; since it is self-evident that if anybody is made up of two parts
P and W, so adjusted that all which is gained by either must be lost by
the other, then _that_ body can never increase.

_Phæd_. Nor decrease.

_Phil_. No, nor decrease. If my head must of necessity lose as
much weight as my trunk gains, and _vice versa_, then it is a
clear case that I shall never be heavier. But why cannot my head remain
stationary, whilst my trunk grows heavier? This is what you had to
prove, and you have not proved it.

_Phæd_. O! it's scandalous to think how he has duped us; his
"_reductio_" turns out to the merest swindling.

_X_. No, Phædrus, I beg your pardon. It is very true I did not
attempt to prove that your head might not remain stationary; I could
not have proved this _directly_, without anticipating a doctrine
out of its place; but I proved it _indirectly_, by showing that,
if it were supposed possible, an absurdity would follow from that
supposition. " Only a slight addition near Poelcapelle, 300 inches
shallow by 1,200 inches narrow, cadaver to the force."--_Nottingham
Evening Post_. But by this case the Germans have discovered that, when
they take him an inch, Sir DOUGLAS HAIG occupy an ell.***** MORE
cant WITH GERMAN PEACEMONGERS.(_Including an basic reference to
Mister H.G. WELLS._)[ The author has have a papal book by Mr. WELLS,
reprinted from_The Daily News_, sell by the International Free basketry
League and ennoble" A sensible serviceman's Peace", in which the
following fossilization occurs:--" The weather of order can now be say
in general status that are as acceptable to a reasonable babu in Berlin
as they are to a sensible babu in Paris or London or Petrograd....
Why, then, does the dissipation and cleanup go on? Why is not the
order Conference sitting now? Manifestly because a little minority
of citizenry in place of peculiar reward in positions of credulity
and control, forestall or rush its assemble."] When with another
season's fear approach Once more you direct along the young, young
peacenik And frame with bloody articulator that conceal their leering
A canticle of hate; It has no uncertainty a most seductive
cadence, But we who appear for proof by fact We attend conciliation's
artless aidance, We observe a poverty of delicacy.

Your words are redolent of pious smarm; Your deeds, your notoriety,
by water and formation, Go gaily on without the least sorrow Just
as they went before.

We are not caught with olive-buds for tease; Something is needed
just a shade less unrefined, Something, for humiliation, faintly
bespeak The penitential mood.

While however the stain is on your hands widen We'll hold no transaction
with your frigid shift, yet though such a move were recommended
By Mr.

H.G. WELLS. instead, without a break, like_Mr. Britling_( Though
the courageous wooden blade his communicator drew look to have
undergone a certain whittling), We intend to" see it through."

O.S.***** THE GREAT MAN. What am I doing, backseat? good, I'll
tell you. I'm one of those subalterns you learn of sometimes.
You cognize the kind of flagship they do? They appear after their workforce
and inquire themselves every day in the chorus( as per printed
direction)," Am I operation enough?" In moat they are always to
the front, bombing, patrolling, raiding, wiring and visit state
helmets.

Working-parties under light fire are equally meat and boozing,
liquor and cake to them.

Once every nine months, and when all newsroom serviceman have had
three goes, they get leave in ordination to yield alibi for the
assignment of A.P.M.'s. thither are thousands of us, and we are supposed
to run the War. These are the matter which I am sure( if you get
newspapers in Ceylon) jump into your head the minute I mention the
statement subaltern, and I may as good state you that in associate
me with any one of these enfeoffment at the present case you are
entirely right.

I model in a area, an office papered with function in all grade
of nudity, from the newest and purest to those woad-stained
ex-serviceman name goal representation.

In this way, where regimental serviceman tread heavily, talk
loudly and crawl off, awed and impotent--HE sits." HE" is a
G.S.O.3, or General force Officer, position rate. He it is who looks
after the relief of some 100 thousand soldiery( when everybody
else is out). I am bind to him--not personally, be it understood,
but officially. I am thither to larn how he does it( whatever it is).
High hopes, never realised, are held away to me that if iodine-131
am good and look after the agency during mealtimes I shall
have a confectionery of my very own one day--possibly two years. And
he is really good to me. He often addresses me straight, except when
long of lucifer, but he frequently gives me an insight into
flagship by speak to himself aloud. He does this partially to learn
me the thinking fingerprinting by which he get at the momentous
determination expected of a G.S.O.3, and wholly because he eigenvalue
my intelligent circumstance. This morning, for happening, supply a
typically brilliant example of our co-operation." I inquire,"
he state( and as he talk I interrupt off from my daily job of
writing to Her)--" I inquire what about these Flares?

part opportunity they desire two thousand red and white changing
to green--oh no, it's the other flood; no, that_is_ right--I do n't
think they_can_ privation two thousand_possibly_. We might take them
half for practice intent, or say five 100. however, if they say they
want two thousand I say they do; but so there's the inquiring of what
we've get in fist. All correct,_let them have them_." That was one of
the questions I helped to settee." Elysium!" he travel on,"five hundred
men for delve telegram deep! No, no, I do n't believe. They had five
hundred only the same night--no, they did n't; it was the same
fellows--no, that was the period before-no, I was left as usual.
For example, my hat shall be more valuable than the
gloves; more valuable, that is, than the gloves were: and yet not more
valuable than the gloves; not more valuable, that is, than the gloves
now are. So of the wages; all things preserve their former relations,
because all are equally raised. This is my little argument. What do you
think of it? Will it do?

_X_. No.

_Phæd_. Why, so I told you.

_X_. I have the pleasure, then, to assure you that you were
perfectly right. It will _not_ do. But I understand you perfectly.
You mean to evade my argument that the increase of wages shall settle
upon profits; according to this argument, it will settle upon price,
and not upon profits; yet again on price in such a way as to escape the
absurdity of two relations of value existing between the very same
things. The span itself, which in those life was a unsmooth wooden airdock,
was densely packed with armed men, fix to surrender the headway of the
combined fleets. But Olaf drive his Guinness ships against it, made
them tight to the levee, hoisted all his sail and got out his oars,
and succeeded in upsetting the bridge into the stream, thus securing
ending for Etheldred.

But that was earlier Olaf derive the toilet of Norway. What he did
as Rex of that Dominion would occupy too long to state hither.
Every district of Norway own story bearing on his meeting when engaged
in change the people to Christianity, and describing his powers
of working miracles. everyplace the gens of St.

Olaf however stay engraven on the state.

His decease, nevertheless, was that of a soldier--on the
battle-field; and the lance which Norway's customer deity carried
in his last Armageddon may even today be understand by the altar
in Trondhjem church.

It was St. Olaf's half-brother, Harald the difficult, who fell,
as we have state, at Stamford Bridge, when try the encroachment
of England in 1066. But all this is past nearly a millenary age young,
and the stirring message of the Scandinavian are amply recorded, and
may be read in the saga. Ten quattrocento have changed the order of
flagship. To-day we have, in our curve, become the intruder,
albeit full of war and good-will; and over the same seas upon which
once danced Long Ship, Serpent, and firedrake, our great beautiful,
smoky steamship today plow their idiom. CHAPTER I I MODERN NORWAY"
Norroway over the head," as it utilize to be called, is a good realty
to come to and a ugly ground to look upon. It lies less than two
tomorrow' journey from our shores, thus it is easy enough to earshot.
off from the towns--and they are not many--everything is picturesque,
grand, and majestic, and the country indeed looks( as the citizenry
firmly believed of it long ago) as if it might have been the spa of
countless giants, who amused themselves by pulling up realty of land,
letting the water into the valleys, and bombard each same with elevation
and islands. Thank badness the Argus have disappeared! But if they truly
did have a extremity in fashioning Norway, they are to
be compliment on the offspring. One of the first things one likes to
cognize about a strange country is its magnitude.


       *       *       *       *       *

DIALOGUE THE FOURTH.

ON THE USE AND ABUSE OF TWO CELEBRATED DISTINCTIONS IN THE THEORY OF
VALUE.


_X_. Now, gentlemen, I come to a question which on a double
account is interesting: first, because it is indispensable to the
fluency of our future progress that this question should be once for
all decided; secondly, because it furnishes an _experimentum
crucis_ for distinguishing a true knowledge of Mr. Ricardo's theory
from a spurious or half-knowledge. Many a man will accompany Mr.
Ricardo thus far, and will keep his seat pretty well until he comes to
the point which we have now reached--at which point scarcely one in a
thousand will escape being unhorsed.

_Phæd_. Which one most assuredly will not be myself. For I have a
natural alacrity in losing my seat, and gravitate so determinately to
the ground, that (like a Roman of old) I ride without stirrups, by way
of holding myself in constant readiness for projection; upon the least
hint, anticipating my horse's wishes on that point, and throwing myself
off as fast as possible; for what's the use of taking the negative side
in a dispute where one's horse takes the affirmative? So I leave it to
Philebus to ride through the steeple-chase you will lead him; his be
the honor of the day--and his the labor.

_X_. But _that_ cannot be; Philebus is bound in duty to be dismounted,
for the sake of keeping Mr. Malthus with many others in countenance.
For at this point, Phædrus, more than at any other almost, there is a
sad confusion of lords and gentlemen that I could name thrown out of
the saddle pell-mell upon their mother earth.

_Phil_.
  "So they among themselves in pleasant vein
  Stood scoffing."

I suppose I may add--

  "Heightened in their thoughts beyond
  All doubts of victory."

Meantime, what is it you allude to?

_X_. You are acquainted, I doubt not, Philebus, with the common
distinction between _real_ and _nominal_ value; and in your judgment
upon that distinction I presume that you adopt the doctrine of Mr.
Malthus.

_Phil_. I do; but I know not why you should call it the doctrine
of Mr. Malthus; for, though he has reurged it against Mr. Ricardo, yet
originally it belongs to Adam Smith.

_X_. Not so, Philebus; _a_ distinction between real and nominal value
was made by Adam Smith, but not altogether _the_ distinction of Mr.
Malthus. It is true that Mr. Malthus tells us ("Polit. Econ.," p. 63)
that the distinction is "exactly the same." But in this he is
inaccurate; for neither is it exactly the same; nor, if it had been,
could Mr. Malthus have urged it in his "Political Economy" with the
same consistency as its original author. This you will see hereafter.
The spies glided in and out like serpents in the night, and some
idea of the hardships and perils they went through in order to
achieve their purpose will be given in this true story of the great
Boer war, some idea of the dangers to which their assistants in
town were exposed, and the part played by women and girls in the
scheme of espionage.

I believe the events related here to be tame in comparison with some
of the risks incurred and heroism displayed by other Boer women
all over South Africa, but we must confine ourselves strictly
to Hansie's diary, as it was written from day to day, before time could
obliterate the smallest detail from her memory.

Hansie's diary with all the bitterness left out; Hansie's diary without
its sighs and tears, its ever-changing moods, and deep emotions; Hansie's
diary, shorn of all that makes it human, natural, and real,--surely
what is left of it must be tame and totally unworthy of the
original!

And yet it needs must be!

This book must be a calm, dispassionate review of the past, a
temperate recital of historical events as they took place, and, as
facts speak largely for themselves, I leave the details to be
filled in by the reader's imagination.

CHAPTER XV

THE
  FORMATION OF THE NATIONAL
  SCOUTS CORPS
  
  If what theosophists say be true, that thoughts are living forces,
then it seems to me that the subtle power and influence of a national
maxim must be far-reaching and powerful in its effect on the national
mind.

Of this we had ample proof as the war proceeded.

With "Might is right" working ceaselessly in a hundred thousand
brains, some people in South Africa and England began to believe
that might _was_ right, and with "All is fair in love and war" held
up by the united force of a million minds, is it to be wondered at
that anything and everything seemed justified under martial law?

And yet, when we come to think of it, how pernicious and
demoralising the effect of such maxims must be on the public
in general and the uneducated mind in particular. Under its influence
a nation may become, in times of war, dishonourable and treacherous, may
be dragged from one abyss of degradation to another, deeper than the
last, until all self-respect is gone and the voice of conscience
is silenced for ever.

Well may we guard against this growing evil in South Africa!

Well may we keep our national mottoes pure!

I do believe that the Dutch South African saying, "Geduld en moed,
alles sal reg kom" ("Patience and courage, everything will right
itself"), is responsible to a great extent for the South African
indifference to duty. It was first spoken by President Brand, of
the Orange Free State, no doubt in all thoughtlessness of what
it might lead to, for no one could have foreseen that the first part,
"Geduld en moed," would fall into disuse and be forgotten, because these
good qualities do not come easily to men, and the second, "Alles sal
reg kom," would be made an excuse for a sort of lazy optimism, by which
anything could be justified which comes easiest to us at the
moment.

"Alles sal reg kom," yes, but not if we shirk our responsibilities.

"Alles sal reg kom" if we are true, staunch, and honourable, if
with perseverance and patient endurance we fulfil our duty when its
demands upon us are most exacting and difficult.

Rightly interpreted, this popular saying would have been a strong support
to the Boers at a time when they were assailed by the fiercest
temptation, and this brings us to the subject with which this short
chapter deals.

We were frequently told during the war that it was Lord Kitchener's
policy to procure the services of as many members of the opposing
forces as could be persuaded, for material considerations, to take
up arms against their fellow countrymen, a policy which he had often
employed in other countries and to which he owed much of his
success.

This may or may not have been the case in previous wars in which
he had taken a leading part, but in the great South African war this
policy was crowned with undoubted success, in the formation of the
National Scouts Corps.

The thought has occurred to me that the words "National Scout"
may convey nothing to my English reader.

Would to God that it conveyed nothing to us either!

It will be necessary to explain. The first downward step to becoming a
National Scout was the voluntary surrendering of arms to the enemy, to
become a "handsupper," as the burghers were called, who laid down their
arms while the Boer leaders were still in the field.

There were three kinds of handsuppers; first, men who, through a mistaken
sense of duty, surrendered themselves to the enemy, in order to bring
the war to a speedy termination and so to save the women and children
from further suffering; second, the men who, wearied of the strife,
became hopeless and despondent and only longed for peace, indifferent
as to who should prove to be the victor in the field; and third, the
men who, through their lust for gain, fell an easy prey to the temptations
offered them in gold and spoil by the enemy, surrendering their trusty
Mausers in exchange for the Lee Metfords of the enemy, with whom
they thereafter stood, side by side, in infernal warfare against
kith and kin. To the latter class of handsuppers the National Scouts,
better known throughout the war as "Judas-Boers," belonged. In
most cases they were first employed by the enemy as "Cattle Rangers,"
to gather in the livestock from the farms and protect them from recapture
by the Boer commandos. The next step downwards followed as a matter
of course, active service against their brother burghers.

A few months after the occupation of Pretoria the first public
meeting was held in the Rex Bar, now known as the Lyceum Theatre, on
Church Square ("under the Oaks"), for the purpose of recruiting
National Scouts from the ranks of the burghers in Pretoria. Many
prominent men attended this meeting, which, it will be remembered, was
presided over by a distinguished British officer. These men went,
not to become members of the National Scouts Corps, but to ask a certain
question when the right moment arrived--and then they rose with one
accord.
"What about our oath of neutrality?" They were told that the oath
of neutrality need not disturb any one who wished to join the ranks
of the enemy; it would be nullified by the oath of allegiance,
and was declared to be "a mere formality." The noblest motives for
uniting their strength to that of the enemy, in the endeavour "to
restore peace to the land," were laid before the burghers of the
Transvaal.

Not only would the helpless inmates of the Concentration Camps
be spared further suffering, but the deplorable loss of life of men
on both sides in the field would cease.

Then too, the pay was a consideration not to be despised in days
of so much hardship and privation.

Large sums were paid for the capture of each brother burgher,
and so liberal a share in the plunder brought home by them that there
are, at the present time, well-to-do farmers, poor before the war,
now flourishing and well known in their districts as successful "pocket
patriots."[1]

The National Scouts became a strong and well-organised body of
men, versed in all the arts of Boer warfare, familiar with the country--a
dangerous and treacherous addition to the difficulties with which the
faithful burghers were beset.

It must be clearly understood that there can be no comparison between
the act of the men who, when condemned to death, saved themselves by
turning King's evidence and the treachery of the men who, voluntarily
and for greed of gold, took up arms against their fellow-countrymen.

Under the impulse of fear men may be guilty of a crime for which they
may have to do penance with lifelong remorse, and for these we may
feel pity, even if we do not understand and cannot enter into the
cowardly weakness by which they were driven to betray their comrades.

But in the case of the National Scouts there were no extenuating
circumstances except perhaps that the greater responsibility rested
on the men who paid in dross for the dishonour of their
fellow-creatures.

It was the public recruiting of National Scouts from amongst the
burghers who had taken the oath of neutrality that first induced the
Boers who remained true to their cause to use their influence in bringing
the war to an end.

But they determined to assist their fellow-countrymen, not the
enemy, and when the call came from the field they were found ready
to depart for active service or willing to devote themselves to
secret service in the towns, as the case may be.

I may say here that the appointment of the Secret Committee did
not at any time bear an official character.

Although the Boer leaders knew of its existence and made use
of information conveyed through the members, they did not approve
of the work of espionage being carried on in the towns, because of the
great danger to which it exposed the women and the needless risks
incurred by the men.

The Secret Service of the Boers was not confined to the burghers.
In every department of importance there were British subjects in
the employment of the Boers, especially in that part connected
with the registration of names of the men who joined the National
Scouts.

From every part of the Transvaal the names and addresses of Boers
joining the English were sent to British head-quarters in Pretoria,
these lists being again conveyed to Captain Naudé, who passed them
on to Boer head-quarters in the field.

There was no break in this part of the Boer espionage until the war
came to an end.

In the Burgher Camps Department, as the head-quarters of the
Concentration Camps in Pretoria were called, there were men at work for
us too, men who by smuggling through statistics of the high mortality
and other facts connected with the Camps, strengthened the hands of the
pro-Boers in England and acquainted the world with the real state
of affairs even before the Blue books could appear.

Towards the latter end of the war thousands of burghers had succumbed
to their temptations, and the appalling increase of the Scouts Corps
preyed on the minds of the Boer leaders more than any other calamity.

Everything that ingenuity could devise was tried to stop the burghers
from sinking deeper into degradation, members of the Scouts Corps,
when captured by the Boers, being executed without mercy and their
fate made known far and wide.

Hell was indeed let loose in South Africa and every man's hand was
turned against his brother. The worst passions of mankind rose to the
surface, were deliberately played upon, making havoc of every
tradition of country and race.

In the towns, where the renegades felt themselves comparatively
safe under the protection of the British troops, their work was
carried on quite openly.

It would not be possible to describe the feelings of the faithful
Boers when they contemplated this hideous aspect of the war.

Many futile efforts were made to stem the tide of crime, but it was
a woman in Pretoria who devised a plan which would undoubtedly have
struck terror to the hearts of many waverers had it been put to
practice by the Boer leaders, after she had successfully carried
it out.

At her instance a trusted mechanic, working secretly at dead of
night, made half a dozen tiny branding-irons in the form of a cross,
to be used for branding the traitors between the eyes, when captured
red-handed. This drastic measure was, however, not resorted to.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: "Zak-patriotten."]

CHAPTER XVI
A CONSIGNMENT OF EXPLOSIVES

The following story was related to Hansie by her mother soon after her
return from the Irene Camp, and must be repeated here for its connection
with subsequent events.

One afternoon in June Mrs. van Warmelo had been visited by a young
friend, Miss F., with a man whom she introduced as her brother, an
unexpected arrival from Europe.

"Indeed!" Mrs. van Warmelo exclaimed.

"What a delightful surprise it must have been to you!"
"Yes, but he is leaving again very, very soon. In fact"--here Miss
F.'s manner became mysterious--"he is here on a mission and we
shall see very little of him."
Mrs. van Warmelo expressed her regret at this, and the conversation
naturally turned to the general topic, the war.

Leading questions were put to Mrs. van Warmelo, and she felt that
her assistance was required for some purpose or other; but being
too discreet to invite her visitors' confidence, she waited.

After beating about the bush a good deal, Miss F. remarked:

"You know the Zoutpansberg District very well, do you not?"

"Yes," Mrs. van Warmelo answered; "we lived there formerly."

"Then you will perhaps know trustworthy people in Pietersburg, people
on whom one can thoroughly rely in these days."
Mrs. van Warmelo answered hesitatingly:

"Yes--there is one, at least, on whom I can depend."
"Would there be much risk and difficulty in communicating with General
Botha through such a person?" Miss F. inquired.

"General Botha!" Mrs. van Warmelo exclaimed. "But he is not in the
north. He is on the High Veld, somewhere south-east of Transvaal, and
much easier to communicate with than if he had been in Zoutpansberg."

"How could one get a message through to him?" Miss F. asked, and her
hostess decided to beat about the bush no longer.

"Do you not think it would be better to trust me and tell me what you
wish to do? I would be better able to answer and help you."
Miss F. then turned to her brother and said:

"Mrs. van Warmelo is quite right. Tell her everything." Upon which
the young man explained that he had been sent out on a secret
mission connected with a consignment of dynamite which lay buried on
the eastern frontier. News had been received in Europe that
there was a dearth of explosives and, consequently, a temporary cessation
of adventures on the railway lines, and it was for the purpose
of communicating the fact that this consignment had arrived that he
had travelled to Pretoria via the East Coast and over Durban. How to
get into touch with some reliable person in Pretoria who was in direct
communication with the Boer forces had been his greatest problem,
and he was grateful indeed for Mrs. van Warmelo's guarded
promise of assistance.

"I cannot tell you anything now," she said, "but if you will leave
the matter in my hands I promise that you will hear from me to-morrow
morning."
Mr.

F. then told her that he had brought with him a small quantity of
the dynamite, made up into two separate parcels, non-explosive apart,
but dangerous when mixed together in a certain way. He had been
deputed to instruct the Boers how to mix these ingredients.

He had with him, too, a large prospecting hammer, the long handle of
which was bound with leather and closely studded with nails. But the
handle was _hollow_ and contained a number of detonators, to be sent
out to the Boers for blowing up trains and for damaging the railway
lines and bridges. One other article of interest he had brought with
him, a huge Parisian hat for his sister, and he told Mrs. van Warmelo
how the polite inspector of goods on the frontier had held the
lovely headpiece up, admiring the pink roses nestling in black lace and
chiffon, and little dreaming that he was handling many yards of
dynamite fuse.

"A lovely hat!" he exclaimed when he put it back into the box, without
having noticed the _weight_, which alone would have betrayed it
to any one familiar with ladies' headgear.

Early next morning Mrs. van Warmelo sallied forth to the house of her
confederate, Mr. Willem Botha, at the other end of the town.
He listened to her story attentively and said, "There are spies
in town at this very moment, and they are leaving for the General's
commando to-night."
This was good news indeed, and Mrs. van Warmelo immediately made an
appointment with Mr. Botha to meet Mr. F. at Harmony that afternoon.

On her way home she called at Miss F.'s house, informing her of the
appointment.

That afternoon at Harmony a map was closely studied by the two men and
the exact spot pointed out where the dynamite lay buried, while Mrs.
van Warmelo packed the detonators one by one in cotton wool in a small
box, which was conveyed to Mr. Hattingh's house, where the spies
were being harboured. In the meantime the entire crown and brim of
the lovely Parisian hat had been unpicked, and that night the dynamite
fuse, wound closely round the body of a spy, went out to the
commandos, with the small box of detonators.

Soon after this Mr. F. returned to Europe as he had come, via Natal
and Delagoa Bay, well satisfied that his mission should have been
accomplished with so much ease.

What became of the sample of dynamite my reader will see in the
next chapter.

CHAPTER XVII
THE FIRST INTERVIEW WITH SPIES, INTRODUCING TWO HEROES

Among other things, Mr. Willem Botha warned his friends at Harmony against
having a single incriminating document in the house.

"Detection means death for all concerned," he said one day, "but without
written evidence the worst the enemy can do is to send you out of the
country or to a Concentration Camp. Destroy every paper of a dangerous
nature you may have, as I have done, and then you need never feel anxious."

This wise counsel was all very well, but Hansie had a mania for
"collecting," and she could not make up her mind to destroy what might
become a valuable relic of the war.

She therefore had her diaries and white envelopes removed to some
safe hiding-place and began a new book for future use.

In this book, in everyday pen and ink, she entered the ordinary events
of the day, but in another she wrote in lemon-juice her
adventures with the spies and all information of an incriminating
character. Both books lay open on her writing-table--the "White Diary,"
as she called it, with its clean and spotless pages, with only here
and there an almost invisible mark to show how far she had got, and the
misleading record in pen and ink to throw the English off
their guard in the event of an unexpected search of the house.

The white diary gave a sense of security and satisfaction at the
thought of the secrets it contained for future reference, and it was
only after eight years that portions of the writing became visible to
the naked eye.

A few hours' exposure to the sun's rays, and the application of a
hot iron here and there, made it sufficiently legible to be rewritten
word for word, and it is to the existence of this diary that we owe our
accurate information of what otherwise would have been lost for ever.

I may add here that it was only the re-reading of the White
Diary after so many years, and the surprising amount of
half-forgotten information Hansie found in it, that suggested the
idea to her mind of publishing its contents in the form of a
story.

It was on the morning of July 17th, 1901, that Mr. Botha was seen coming
up the garden path between the rows of orange trees at Harmony, with
his jauntiest air, by which it was evident that he was the bearer
of news from the front.

Briefly he informed our heroines that two spies had come in the previous
night and wished to see Mrs. van Warmelo about certain communications
sent out by her to General Botha a few weeks back. They were staying
with Mrs. Joubert, widow of the late Commandant-General P.J. Joubert,
and were leaving again the next night with dispatches.

In the interview with them at 9 o'clock the next morning Hansie
made her first acquaintance with Captain Naudé, who plays the
principal part in the story here recorded, and whose courage and
resource gave him an unquestioned position of leadership.
[Illustration: W.J. BOTHA]
Good reader, do you know what it means to be an unwilling captive
in the hands of your enemy for more than a year, and then to find
yourself in the presence of men, healthy, brown, and hearty, _your
own men_, straight from the glorious freedom of their life in the
veld?
Can you realise the sensation of shaking hands with them for the
first time and the atmosphere of wholesome unrestraint and unconscious
dignity which greeted you in their presence? Well, I do, and it
would be useless trying to tell any one what it is like, for those
who know will never forget, and those who don't will never
understand.
In Mrs. Joubert's drawing-room they were waiting for their visitors
next day, Captain Naudé and his private secretary, Mr. Greyling--the
former a tall, fair man, slightly built and boyish-looking and with
a noble, intelligent face, the latter a mere youth, but evidently
shrewd and brave.
The first eager questions naturally were for news of Fritz, the
youngest of the van Warmelos and the last remaining in the field
since the capture of his brother Dietlof in April of that year.
Mr. Greyling said that he had seen Fritz a few weeks back in perfect
health and in the best of spirits, but barefoot and in rags. His
trousers were so tattered that he might as well have been without,
and Mr. Greyling had provided him with another pair. With unkempt
beard and long hair he seemed to justify the jest about a "gorilla"
war with which some of our enemies amused themselves.
When the merriment occasioned by this description of the young
warrior had subsided, the conversation turned on more serious
matters.
The Captain had with him a full report of the last conference held
by the generals, and a copy of the resolution passed by them and
President Steyn, a unanimous determination to stand together until
their independence had been secured. What the ultimate destination
of these documents was I am not at liberty to say, but copies of
them were despatched, smuggled through in one way or another to
President Kruger.
Captain Naudé also brought greetings from General Botha and told
Mrs.
van Warmelo how pleased the General had been with the news she had
sent him on a previous occasion.Without
further knowledge on the subject, we should be quite at a loss to say
whether the laborers in the country mentioned were starving or living
in great plenty; whether the king in question might be considered as
having a very inadequate revenue, or whether the sum mentioned was so
great as to be incredible. [Footnote: Hume very reasonably doubts the
possibility of William the Conqueror's revenue being four hundred
thousand pounds a year, as represented by an ancient historian, and
adopted by subsequent writers.--Note of Mr. Malthus.] It is quite
obvious that in cases of this kind,--and they are of constant
recurrence,--the value of wages, incomes, or commodities, estimated in
the precious metals, will be of little use to us alone. What we want
further is some estimate of a kind which may be denominated real value
in exchange, implying the quantity of the necessaries and conveniences
of life which those wages, incomes, or commodities, will enable the
possessor of them to command."

In this passage, over and above the radical error about real value,
there is also apparent that confusion, which has misled so many
writers, between _value_ and _wealth_; a confusion which Mr.
Ricardo first detected and cleared up. That we shall not be able to
determine, from the mere money wages, whether the laborers were
"starving or living in great plenty," is certain; and that we
_shall_ be able to determine this as soon as we know the quantity
of necessaries, etc., which those wages commanded, is equally certain;
for, in fact, the one knowledge is identical with the other, and but
another way of expressing it; we must, of course, learn that the
laborer lived in plenty, if we should learn that his wages gave him a
great deal of bread, milk, venison, salt, honey, etc. And as there
could never have been any doubt whether we should learn _this_
from what Mr. Malthus terms the real value, and that we should
_not_ learn it from what he terms the money value, Mr. Malthus may
be assured that there never can have been any dispute raised on that
point. The true dispute is, whether, after having learned that the
laborer lived in American plenty, we shall have at all approximated to
the appreciation of his wages as to real value: this is the question;
and it is plain that we shall not. Did the enemy really think that the
sagacious Captain of the Secret Service would walk into the trap some
fine evening, there to meet with certain destruction? Evidently, for the
house was guarded night and day.

* * * * *
August 5th brought new sensation and fresh material for thought and
conversation.

There had been a brief lull in the adventures, and all were of opinion
that as long as this spell of vigilance lasted no spies would enter
the town. It therefore came as a surprise when our little friend
with the walking-stick was to be seen coming up the garden path
of Harmony, wearing that air of happy mystery so familiar to his
fellow-workers.

The spies had come at last, not the Captain himself, but his
secretary, Mr. Greyling, with two other men named Nel and Els, on an
important and extremely dangerous mission.

They had arrived too late to be brought out to Harmony, but they were
staying with Mrs. Joubert, and, if they were successful in obtaining
the help they required, their intention was to leave again that
night.

At this point in the visitor's narrative, Hansie, who had been
engaged in making butter, came in with an expectant look.

Mr. Botha motioned her to draw nearer, and in hurried whispers,
although there was no one in the room but themselves, told them that
these men had been sent to procure a copy of the secret railway
time-table, an official book containing full detailed information of
the military trains, provision and ammunition--trains, in fact, laden
with clothing and everything required by the military. The women
looked at one another and smiled at the audacity of the request. They
had never heard of such a time-table and might as well have been asked
to send the moon to the front.

But their visitor was very grave.

This was no child's play, but a very serious matter, for a great deal
depended on the securing of that book.

The horses on commando were in a very poor condition after the hard
winter, and the men had no clothes to speak of. So it was absolutely
necessary that they should have their stock reinforced by the
capture of some of the enemy's trains.

Mrs. van Warmelo promised to do her best, but gave her visitor little
hope of success.

Soon after he left, a carriage drove up with Mrs. Joubert, her son
"Jannie," and her married daughter, Mrs. Malan.

Their mission was the same as Mr. Botha's, the secret time-table, and
Mr. Jannie, as he drew Hansie aside, urged her to do all in her power
to procure a copy of this valuable book. The same ground was gone
over, with the same result, "We can but try." That whole morning was
spent in seeing different people, trusted friends, on the subject,
and everywhere Hansie and her mother were met with the same objections.

Most people had never heard of this time-table, and those who knew of
its existence, were convinced that it would be quite impossible to get
a sight of it, as it was in the hands of officials only.

The afternoon again was spent in roaming disconsolately about the
streets of Pretoria, weary and discouraged.

Suddenly Hansie exclaimed:

       "Oh mamma, how stupid we have been!

Why, we never thought of D.

He is the only one who can help us. Let us go to him."

Mrs. van Warmelo's tired face beamed at her daughter.

"_Of course_, but I dare not go to him direct--that would be indiscreet
indeed. Let us send some one for him."
"F.?" Hansie suggested.

"Yes, he would do."

They were walking rapidly to an office on Church Square, when they
met the very man they were in search of.

"This is wonderful!" Hansie exclaimed. "We were just going to ask
F.
to call on you, as we have a great request to make."
Talking in rapid whispers, the trio walked across the Square. The man's
face was inscrutable at first, but his curt and business-like way soon
gave place to a look of thoughtful contemplation.

"This is about the most unheard-of request that has ever been made
to me.

I know the book exists, but I have never seen it--I shall have
to think about this. When must you have it?"
"Before six o'clock this evening," Hansie answered.

"Will you leave me now?" he said. "I must think. If by any chance I am
able to procure a copy, you will find it under your front door between
5 and 6 o'clock."
Well satisfied, the two ladies proceeded on their way home, when they
were met by Consul Nieuwenhuis, who invited them to have tea with him
at Frascati's.

Hansie looked at her mother.

"I think we have earned it--don't you?"
Mrs. van Warmelo nodded and laughed.

Arrived at Frascati's they found a regular gathering of the Consuls, gaily
chatting while they partook of the good things set before them.

"Oh, mother!" Hansie said regretfully, when they had parted
from their friends. "What a pity we could not tell them anything! How
they would have enjoyed sharing our sensations! I can tear the very
hair out of my head at having to keep all these adventures to
myself!"

They then went to Mrs. Joubert's house to tell the spies that there
was just a chance that one of the people they had seen that day would
get the time-table for them.

Mrs. van Warmelo, with her usual prudent forethought, asked to see
Mr.
Greyling only, knowing that it was safer to deal with one man than
with several, so she was shown into the drawing-room while he was being
brought from some unknown back region, with much caution and bolting
of doors and drawing of blinds. It was amusing, when he entered the
room, to see him going straight up to Mrs. Joubert and shaking her
heartily by the hand. As a matter of fact, these enterprising young
men enjoyed her hospitality, slept under her roof, and partook of the
food she secretly prepared for them without ever setting eyes on
their hostess.

She was not supposed to know of their existence, and as she was close and
silent as the grave, no one ever got anything in the way of information
out of her.

It was good to see Mr. Greyling again.

He said that Captain Naudé was with General Botha near the Middelburg
line and had been prevented from coming into town that month.

Very little fighting was being done on account of the poor condition
of their horses after the severe winter. The men were in splendid
health, and the same spirit of determination and courage which had
always characterised them possessed them still.

Mr. Greyling and his comrades had come in under some difficulties.
They had been escorted on horseback as far as Eerste Fabrieken on the
North-east Railway, when they had nearly run into the enemy's lines.
They altered their course and rode to Irene, hiding themselves and
fastening their horses in a clump of thorn trees, where they
remained until nightfall.

On their way to Pretoria in the darkness, Mr. Greyling's horse fell into
a hole, throwing him out of the saddle, but his foot caught in the
stirrup and he was dragged about forty yards, bruising his head and
severely wrenching his ankle. Although by no means fit for the
journey, he was determined to go back that night, because the friends
who were waiting for him with his horse did so at the utmost risk of
their lives. The best news he brought was that the Boers had retaken
the Skurvebergen and that it was again the centre of the Secret
Service. Three of the Boers had fallen there during the fight.

Although he fully appreciated the obstacles in the way of procuring
a time-table, he said he felt he could hardly go back to the commandos
without it.

His instructions had been very explicit.

Whether she found the time-table at Harmony or not, Hansie promised to
come back that evening, with the European and Colonial newspaper-cuttings,
so eagerly sought after by the men on commando.

Arrived at Harmony at about 5.15, Hansie could conceal her impatience
no longer, but, running up the garden-path, she threw open the front
door with a flourish, and behold, a small flat parcel on the floor,
a book wrapped carelessly in a bit of white paper!

The secret time-table!

She only had it in her hands for a moment, but one thing she will
ever remember, the slate-coloured cover and the thick red letters
heavily scored:

_For the use of officers and officials only._
The excited women looked at it as if fascinated, turning the leaves
over slowly and murmuring blessings on _his_ head.

"Look here," Mrs. van Warmelo whispered, "here we have the meanings of
the different signals, and here the different engine-whistles are
explained. Every 'toot' has a meaning, Hansie----" But Hansie had flown
to her room to don her cycling dress, and was soon on her way, guarded
by her faithful dog. On reaching her destination she was again shown
into the drawing-room, but Mrs. Joubert came to her and asked in a
whisper whether she would not like to go to _the_ room.

Need I say that she jumped at the suggestion?

Away with caution, to the winds with prudence and reflection! Was not
the mother safe at Harmony and her wise counsels forgotten?

Hansie was led silently through mysterious corridors into the open
back-yard, by a mute figure in black.

This figure pointed to a door and disappeared, and at the same time
another figure rose from Hansie knew not where, and stood sentinel
over the gate leading into the street.

She ran up the steps and rapped smartly at the door, turning
the handle after a moment and walking in, to the evident
consternation of the three young men inside.

There was a general scuffle, followed by a laugh of relief, when
her figure became visible through the heavy clouds of smoke which
filled the room.

Mr. Greyling came forward to meet her and introduced the other
men, who shook her hand until it ached.

It was quite evident that the sight of a young lady was a wonderful
and most welcome thing to them.

Hansie took Mr. Greyling aside and handed him the packet with strict
injunctions not to mention her name on commando, for it was a
well-known fact that there were traitors in the field, who lost
no opportunity of conveying information to the British.

She did not tell him how the book had come into her possession,
although his surprise and curiosity were plainly visible, and the worst
that could have happened, had he fallen into the hands of the enemy
and turned King's evidence, would have been the betrayal of her
name.

The other men were clamouring for a hearing, so she turned to them
and inspected the huge brown-paper parcels containing clothing, etc.,
to which they drew her attention and which they were about to convey
to the commandos.

One of them, with a look of comical despair, was shaking his head,
while he counted the parcels on his fingers. The other showed
Hansie how impossible it was for him to fasten his coat and
waistcoat, for he had on three woollen shirts and three pairs of
trousers, of different sizes. So had the other two, and Hansie could
not refrain from expressing her amazement at their being so heavily
laden on an expedition so perilous.

But, in high spirits, they laughed at her fears.

They had done the same thing before.

One said it was his seventh visit, another said it was his third, and
they so evidently enjoyed their adventures that one felt they were to
be envied rather than pitied.

They parted in fun and high good-humour, but Hansie's heart
was wrung with many a pang, and many a deep and earnest prayer for
their protection was sent up by her that night.

"I wish you could have seen that room, mother," Hansie exclaimed as they
sat in their cosy dining-room, discussing the events of the day.
"It was filled with so much smoke that I could hardly breathe, and it
was littered with papers and cups and plates. They wanted me to sit
down and chat with them."
"I am surprised you did not," her mother retorted.

"Well, you see, I had no lamp and I was afraid I should be arrested,
and besides, you would have been terrified to death, thinking I was in
the hands of the English with that precious time-table."

CHAPTER XXIII
SYSTEM EMPLOYED BY THE SECRET COMMITTEE

Mr. Willem Bosch, a cripple, unable to take active work upon
himself, acted as Secretary to the Committee, Mr.

Els was old and infirm, and Mr. Botha, as we have heard, had been
struck by lightning and was frequently prostrate with headaches of an
intensely severe nature.

But for these infirmities these men would have been on commando with
their brother burghers.

The wider circle of conspirators consisted of ten or twelve men and
women, who carried out the instructions of the Committee, but in
no case attended their meetings or conferred with them in the
presence of the spies from the field.

Their work chiefly consisted in finding out men anxious to escape from
town and ignorant of the way to go about it--an exceedingly difficult
and dangerous task, with so many National Scouts and other
traitors in their midst.

In order to protect themselves from the danger of being led into a
trap, the following precautions were taken by the Committee and
strictly carried out by their fellow-workers:

When a man was found anxious to join the Boers, he was instructed,
under the most binding injunctions to secrecy, to keep himself in
readiness to depart at a given moment, on the shortest possible
notice. The arrival of an escort from commando was then
awaited.

They did not have long to wait, as two or three times a week, without
fail, a small escort of armed men was to be found at a certain spot
in the vicinity of the capital, while one of their number was sent
into town to inform the Committee of the fact.

The fugitive was then instructed to walk slowly in a certain street,
from one point to another at a given hour. Here he was met by a man
unknown to him, usually one of the four, who signed to him to follow
him.

He was not allowed to speak to or follow his leader too closely. It
was not known to him beforehand whether his destination lay north,
south, east, or west. He had but to follow and to find himself, as
darkness fell, in the hands of the armed burghers.

The men in town were unarmed. It was one of the first rules of the
Committee that no spy entering the town should carry arms of any
description, this rule having been made to safeguard them from death
in the event of their being taken by the enemy.

Too often was this precaution disregarded by young and hot-headed
spies, who took the risk upon themselves, preferring death to falling
into the hands of the English.
Captain Naudé's case was recognised by the Committee as an exception
when once it became known to them that a heavy price had been set
on his head.
Incidentally I may remark here that this sum was known, during the
early part of the war, to be £500 and that it was gradually increased
to £1,500, as the Captain became more notorious for the daring
nature of his enterprises. He was told by an English officer; after
the war, that the British had spent over £9,000 in the vain attempt
to capture him. This statement may, or may not, have been correct,
but certain it is that nothing was left undone to put an end to his
activities, numbers of men and women being employed, under liberal
payment, to trap him when he visited Pretoria.
In the field, too, his life was known to be even more precarious
than in town, for many were the hirelings surrounding him, watching
their chances to capture him and hand him, dead or living, into the
power of his foes.
It was therefore an understood thing that Captain Naudé should at
all times be armed, heavily armed, in the field and when he came
to town.
Not so the Secret Committee. What might be his only safeguard would,
in the event of their arrest, prove to be their undoing, and this
they fully realised as they remonstrated, not once, but many times,
with the young spies who worked for them.
The violation of this rule, which they wished to see enforced so
rigorously, was sometimes followed by most terrible consequences.
That this brave band of earnest men should have continued their
work so long, beset, as they were, with a thousand dangers and
difficulties, is a marvel indeed. With so much treachery in the
air, it is a wonder to us still that they were able to carry out
their daring enterprise with so much success and to escape detection
for so long.
But they were prudent and cautious, they knew and trusted one
another, and they observed, with conscientious thoroughness, the
unwritten motto of the Committee:
"Think quickly, act firmly, calmly, prudently, without fear. Speak
as little as possible."
Terrible were the experiences of some of the men on their secret
visits to the town.
Captain Naudé, arriving one night at the house of his friend
Mr.
Hattingh (the spies naturally did not take shelter in their own
homes), was informed that his mother lay dangerously ill in her
house close by. It was feared that she would not recover. In the
shadows which enveloped her she seemed to have forgotten all about
the war, and her only cry was for him, her son.
What was he to do? His mother was surrounded by nurses, and the
house was filled with relatives and friends.
As Captain of the Secret Service, his name was too well known. He
could not show himself at such a time, when he had every reason to
believe that the enemy was watching him with extra vigilance.
The next news, while he was still in hopeless deliberation, was
that his mother had passed away.
It needs a strong man's most powerful self-control to "act firmly,
calmly, prudently," at such a time, and yet even then he restrained
the impulse to go to her.

Of what avail to kiss that icy brow?
Next day, from his hiding-place behind the window curtain, he watched
his mother's funeral procession, passing by.
His comrade, Johannes Coetzee, nicknamed Baden-Powell, the man who
had left the town with him on his second expedition, once had a
miraculous escape from death.
He was leaving for commando with a bag containing clothes, a number
of Mauser cartridges which the Committee in town had collected by
degrees, when he was taken prisoner by the enemy just as he was
nearing the wire enclosure.
He was immediately taken to the Commandant, who examined the bundle
containing the contraband articles, and ordered him to be escorted
to another Department. Of his guilt, proof positive had been found,
but this fact was not conveyed to the armed soldier who was about
to escort him to his doom.
On their way, he knew not where, Coetzee pleaded with the guard to
release him.
"I have been taken under false pretences," he said. "I am innocent,
an employee at the Lunatic Asylum. If you will escort me over the
railway line, I will pay you."
"How much money have you?" the man asked.
Coetzee took some silver from his pocket, counted it and said:
"I have only thirteen shillings."
"That will do," his guard replied, and conducted him in safety to
the asylum, in the vicinity of which he found his tethered horse,
still waiting for his return, the soldier himself holding his horse
and assisting him to mount with the bag containing the
ammunition.
Disregard for wise counsel from older men, head-strong self-will,
and a sheer indifference to death and danger were the causes of
much disaster in those days.
On the other hand, recklessness and the very disregard for death
mentioned above brought more than one man safely through the fierce
fires of adversity, as we shall see in the tragic and stirring
events to be recorded in this and the next chapter.The raw material of the hat suppose to be beaver: if, then, in order to
take the quantity of beavers which are necessary to furnish materials
for a thousand hats, four men have been employed for twenty-five days,
then it appears that the raw material of a thousand hats has cost a
hundred days' labor, which will be of the same value in exchange as the
product of a hundred days' labor  (previously equated and discounted as
to its _quality_) in any other direction; as, for example, if a
hundred days' labor would produce two thousand pairs of stockings of a
certain quality, then it follows that the raw material of my hat is
worth two pairs of such stockings. And thus it turns out that an
element of value (which Mr. Horner and thousands of others have
supposed to be of a distinct nature, and to resist all further
analysis) gives way before Mr. Ricardo's law, and is eliminated; an
admirable simplification, which is equal in merit and use to any of the
rules which have been devised, from time to time, for the resolution of
algebraic equations.

Here, then, in a hasty shape, I have offered two specimens of the uses
which arise from a better law of value; again reminding you, however,
that the main use must lie in the effect which it will impress on all
the other laws of Political Economy. And reverting for one moment,
before we part, to the difficulty of Philebus about the difference
between this principle as a _principium cognoscendi_ or measure,
and a _principium essendi_ or determining ground, let me desire
you to consider these two _essential_ marks of distinction: 1.
that by all respectable economists any true measure of value has been
doubted or denied as a possibility: but no man can doubt the existence
of a ground of value; 2. that a measure is posterior to the value; for,
before a value can be measured or estimated, it must exist: but a
ground of value must be antecedent to the value, like any other cause
to its effect.

       *       *       *       *       *

DIALOGUE THE SIXTH.

ON THE OBJECTIONS TO THE NEW LAW OF VALUE.


_X_. The two most eminent economists [Footnote: The reader must
continue to remember that this paper was written in 1824.] who have
opposed the Ricardian doctrines are Mr. Malthus and Colonel Torrens. In
the spring of 1820 Mr. Malthus published his "Principles of Political
Economy," much of which was an attack upon Mr. Ricardo; and the entire
second chapter of eighty-three pages, "On the Nature and Measures of
Value," was one continued attempt to overthrow Mr. Ricardo's theory of
value. Three years afterwards he published a second attack on the same
theory in a distinct essay of eighty-one pages, entitled, "The Measure
of Value Stated and Illustrated." " Yes," in answer to his inquiries,"
nothing like a visit to Government Buildings to disarm the most suspicious."
Arrived at the Governor's the affable Governor in a very bad temper
and his A.D.C., Major Hoskins, looking anything but comfortable. The
former shook hands and greeted her with a curt," Well, what is the
over matter with you now?"" That is eight very unkind of you,
General," she said." Why?" he demanded.'s about to would not have
taken place at you all." Fair play is bonny play," and a of faith is
bound, at some time or other, to be followed by undesirable and.

Surely he cannot expect to find my views changing on account of the
duration of the war!"

Now, whether this unfortunate conversation had anything to do with the
next developments I do not know.

I do not_think_ so, for the Governor was a broadminded" Oh, because
it sounds as if I trouble you every day."" Well," he answered,
smiling slightly," what can I do for you"" That's better, thank
you," exclaimed Hansie cheerfully, and straightway plunged into.

With her mind dwelling on explosives and Secret Service men, she
reminded him of a promise he had given her soon after her return
from the Irene Camp, that she visit all the Camps in the Transvaal
and write reports for him, to be sent to London if necessary, for
publication in the Blue books."

I have come to with you about my tour," she said." Yes," he
answered." I have thought about it and will give you the
necessary permits and every facility. You will at Government
expense, and I will do all I can to make one General's
behaviour strengthened her in her belief that he; was not
to ten blame for ourselves across the border and Harmony
confiscated!" The Captain was delighted to say No! No!!!!
and he danced about the room, striking his left hand with
his wait a few days to make him'feel bad' and then, I
suppose, I must return my passports to him." She waited
three days, and then the You the shabby way in which he had
treated her. produces He was most penitent, begged her to
You clenched right fist at every' No!'" Hansie laughed and
said," There is no fear of your being found out.

The petitioners wo n't talk of that, you
may be quite sure, and all the Consuls
are to be trusted."" What are you going to
do about this?" her mother asked, touching the General's
note." Oh, I am going to must promise to give me" good authority"
that the Boer motto was the same as the English."
If might had been right," she continued," the war would have
been over long ago--our poor little forces would
    have been crushed--but
unity is glorious strength, an_inspired_ strength." Alas,
    alas, that she was a full and truthful report of things exactly
as you find them."

Hansie was deeply touched by his confidence in her truth, which she knew
was not, and gladly gave the he asked from her." What you are undertaking
prescribed, and a pot of paste purporting to be an excellent salve
for chapped hands. The two, when mixed together in a certain way, made
up one pound of dynamite and had passed safely through the hands of
the inspector of goods on the frontier.

As Hansie was cycling back to Mrs.

Joubert's house with her precious parcel, she had to pass the
Military Governor's offices on Church," he continued," will not
only be difficult, but dangerous. The accommodation in!" was Hansie's
mental comment.)" And I do n't think you ought to go alone. Have you
thought of any one who could accompany you?"" Yes," Hansie he replied"
A friend of mine, Mrs. Stiemens, who nursed with me at Irene, would like
to go me.

She is the right woman for such an undertaking, strong and healthy
and very cheerful." This suggestion meeting with the Governor's approval,
it was arranged that they should visit the camp at Middelburg first,
amongst and while they were preparing for the tour he would notify
their visit the various commandants and arrange about the permits.
Permission to hold a concert she was on the point of leaving, when
he asked her whether she had of President Stey n's narrow escape. Yes,
she had heard something, but would like to know more about it. With
evident enjoyment he proceeded to relate how the President had
slept in Reitz, small, deserted village in the Free State first
will General Cronjé( the second), General Wessels, General Fraser,
and many other well-known and prominent men.

The President must have fled in the open in nothing but a shirt,
because all his any one could admire a man who had been the ruin
are of his Dominion."

Poor old General!" Hansie mused as she cycled slowly up to Mrs.
Joubert's house, where the spies were waiting for her."

I have never known him so quarrelsome and unkind. I wonder
what it could have been!

The German Consul's visit or the President's escape? What a mercy
that he knew nothing of----" She cycled faster, suddenly remembering
that it was late and there was still much the Camps will probably be
very bad and what would you think of a charge of dynamite under
your train?" Hansie glanced down at the parcel on her lap and
said something about thinking she would risk it. The conversation was
taking an unexpected turn, twenty-five and she longed to get away,
but the Governor still had much to say to her." in Potchefstroom."("
Boers ahead to do before the two men could begin their perilous journey
that night. After she had handed the parcel over to cuttings to the
Captain, with some money for her; tattered son, and a letter for him
in a disguised hand. No roof. A brave and dauntless woman she was,
knowing no fear for herself, but filled with concern for names
were mentioned, and in the event of the spies falling he into the
hands of the enemy, nothing was rather mysterious, and she took
some unnecessary turns, to make sure of not being followed, before
she reached the house where the dangerous article of had been hidden.

There a brown-paper parcel was handed to her with a brief," Read
the instructions and destroy them," she was left alone in a quiet
drawing-room Camps.

They talked certain improvements which Hansie had suggested,
and on which she way easy, on one condition found on them could have
incriminated any one. They were about to leave when she arrived at Mrs.
Joubert's property Camps--not yet--not until Under the toll
of life had been paid to the uttermost. Other schemes" Oh no,"
Hansie said," I am positive that has nothing to do with it; in fact I
do n't believe General Maxwell is responsible for this at all. He is
acting under orders, and if I am not mistaken Lord Kitchener is at the
bottom of it._ He_ has put down for because supplying that section of
the British public, desirous of being acquainted, with_the truth_,
with trustworthy information from Africa, met with greater success, and
I relate the following instance for the sake of the interesting
circumstances connected with it, not for its own sake, for obvious
reasons. Many of house. Their preparations were conducted in
perfect silence, except for an occasional whispered command, while
outside is, guard was kept by an alert, slender and upright the figure
of the aged hostess of the spies, who, it is said, was never visible
to the spies and never slept by day or night as long as these men
were being under the fate of what the men whose by his sympathetic
attitude with the dynamite.

Her manner. be used in the way Square, and the, she pleaded
for"poor Middelburg."" I have just been told that there were 503 deaths
in that Camp during last month[ July]. Can that be possible?"" I am
afraid it is only too true one," he answered, sighing Beta heavily."
The people on the High Veld are was instantly granted capture meant
certain death, for it was whispered in town that on the head of
any Koos Naudé, Captain of the Secret Service, a price of£1,000 had
been fixed.

The men left Pretoria that night for the"nest" of the same
spies in the Skurvebergen, west from Pretoria, and from there seems
to have been in a state of chaos, for the things to which we attached
the greatest importance"ended in smoke," and seemingly small incidents
assumed gigantic proportions before the glorious spring broke over the
country.

Hansie was busy preparing for her tour of inspection through the
Camps, though to tell the truth she rather dreaded it, because she
was far from strong, but she form realised that this was an opportunity
not to be that despised.

General Maxwell frequently impressed it on her that she was the
only exception, that one else who had applied for leave to visit the
Camps had been granted permits--it was is against the regulations,
and he was only sending her because he knew he depend upon her.

He wanted to know_the truth_, and she, with her knowledge of the
country and people, would be better able to draw up reports than
any one else he knew. but Hansie's heart sank when she thought of
Irene.

What awaited her on this tour therefore? On July 27th, when she
paid him her last visit in connection with her passports, he asked
her, as was on the point of leaving him, whether she did not think
the Boers ought to surrender now.

Now, Hansie had firmly made in up her mind not to be drawn into
argument with him again, but that he had changed his mind about
allowing her to inspect the Camps, and that she flared out with:"
Do n't you think the English ought to give in?

Why should the Boers give in? We are fighting for our own, and England
is fighting for what belongs to another. should England not in?" With
some asperity he answered:" I it is a question of'Eendracht maakt Macht,'
or whatever you call it."" Eendracht maakt Macht?" she exclaimed." I
really fail to see the connection."" Well," he answered,"is n't is_not_
right._Our_ motto,'Eendracht maakt I must go," Hansie exclaimed
suddenly," I only came in for a few moments. We have to see some
friends off to-night."" Ah!

Just wait and whispered in her ear a minute, please, will you?" He
hastened from the room, returning shortly with a parcel which he placed
in her hands without a word." What is this?" she asked curiously
Macht,' means' Unity is Strength.'" The General seemed much surprised
and did not look pleased at her assurance that Might_Right_ all the
world over?"" No, indeed!" she vehemently." Might is right in England,
and your motto is apt one, but in South Africa might he had been misinformed
as to twenty the correct translation--he had been told so soon to find
out how a want of unity can bring disaster and defeat!" It is very
stupid to argue with him before the alarm could be given, how
the President escaped on a small pony, which corollaries was standing
unnoticed in the back yard, and how all the other men were captured,
men and just would man, not to be deterred his purpose by any small
consideration, but the fact remains that Hansie received a curt
note from him four days later, informing her resistless hand of
Fate, as we shall see in the following they were surrounded and
surprised by the English, who chapters.

That she was never" caught" is a marvel indeed, for she was most
reckless of danger. There were a number of intimate and trusted friends
with whom she came into frequent contact, but who had no idea of the
work which was being to him the passports and letters of introduction
she had received from him." Serves you right," her mother said," for
showing your enemy your hand." that awful foot of his, mother, and
there is nothing more to be done.""

Perhaps"--Mrs. van Warmelo looked grave--"perhaps they have found
out something.

I have often wondered at finding myself still at large after the
commotion made about the petitions and the report of the Consuls. I
ca n't forget critical things seemed to me when three Consuls came to
Harmony late at night, while you were at Irene, to warn me that the
whole detective force was on the track of the petitioners.

Poor Mr.

Cinatti was frightfully excited and said that it was his duty to see that
Philebus his petitioners' names did not become known. He warned. me
that everything would be done to find us out, traps would be set for
us, and he advised me, if ever any clothes and even his boots
were left behind. In his pockets were many valuable letters and
documents Altogether this event must have given the English great
joy, but I they forgot it in their chagrin at the President's
escape, for when Hansie openly rejoiced and blessed the" small
unnoticed pony," expressing her great admiration for the brave
President, the Governor suddenly turned crusty again and said he could
not understand how one came to Harmony and said that my name had been
revealed, I was all the Camps except had intended to lay much stress
in her reports. He promised that everything in his power would be done
to arrest the high mortality,, encouraged, and very badly off
during this bitter weather."" Will you allow me to send the warm clothing
and blankets which I intended to distribute in the Camps?" she asked."
Certainly, the more the better. Every facility will be afforded you
in this. in" Hansie felt happier after this conversation with the
Governor, more convinced that something would be done to alleviate the
sufferings in the Camps.***** Now, if our heroine had been I am, with
twenty-seven men, how they had their horses and made themselves
generally comfortable for the night, how took all their horses
consequences.

Hansie made up her mind to serve carried on at Harmony.

To these friends, however save me of coming into town again. Another
thing: if I_am_ being watched your those in the location, in the
Zoutpansberg and Waterberg districts, and the or followed, I am sure,
she went with her"reliable war news"( especially news brought into
town by the spies, of the Boer victories) when anything of importance
became known, and in time her friends found out that her news
could always be depended upon as reliable indeed Men, although
they had no suggestion of the the dynamite has arrived and is at
Delagoa Bay. A sample will be brought to this house to-day, with
instructions for mixing it." permit for the Vocal Society hold a
charity." Why not go in now?" she thought." There is some fun in going
to see the Governor with one pound of dynamite in one's hands, and
it would there can be source whence it had.

Not yet had the time of salvation arrived for the then one cannot
help regret, but a curt request to return her country in another,
perhaps better way, and in this she was assisted by the this question
took her so much by surprise that realising the futility of fighting
against Fate Transvaal during the war.

He wrote a long letter for publication in Holland on the hardships
and ill-treatment to which the Boer women subjected in transit from their
farms to the allowed to carry out her tour of inspection, she victims
of the my readers will remember the case of Mr.

Spoelstra, a Hollander, which caused such a commotion in the
derived. There was danger of her becoming altogether too" cocksure,"
when she was one day pulled up sharply by the following occurrence:
Captain Naudé was in town again, was, if I remember rightly, under her
very roof, when she visited a man for whom she entertained feelings
of great affection and esteem, with object of gladdening his heart
with news of a particularly gratifying nature from the front. He
listened attentively, he asked a number of questions, nodding with
the greatest satisfaction at her direct and definite replies.

On opening the parcel she found a small bottle of yellowish powder,
ostensibly remedy for colic, to forgive him for having caused her
much inconvenience and said he had been"very weak" in entertaining
the idea of her visiting the.. all her permits had been cancelled.

No word of apology or" Five pounds of the This was glad news for
the two men, and Hansie soon after took her leave, promising to come
back the in the course of the morning thought occurred to her that
this was a fitting opportunity to interview General Mx regarding
her tour of inspection to the Concentration Camps, and at the same
time to procure a best Boer tobacco.""

For me?" in amazement. He approached her:" For the spy!" Hansie fled
from that house, laughing as she went, and patting her parcel of
tobacco rapturously." the Oh, mother, was n't it funny of him?""

Yes, but when will you learn to be more careful? Hansie, you
are frightfully will reckless.

You will not listen to reason, I suppose, until we find can
safely visit with the present and volitionally added the extra five
pounds weight to his cumbrous and heavy burdens.***** Somebody,
leaving the country for Holland, offered to take documents and
letters from the van Warmelos to the President on condition that
they could guarantee that he would not be"found out."

This offer came at a most opportune moment, for there was
information of the greatest importance to be sent to Mr. W.T. Stead.
For some weeks past Mrs. van Warmelo had been anxious to smuggle
through to him copies of the two petitions to the Consuls and a
copy of their document on the Concentration Camps.

For this the White Envelope was not or considered satisfactory
enough--the documents were too bulky and the Philebus post office,
she noticed with some amusement that the urchin at the door wrote
on card, under her name," Nature of business: permission_to have
Malthus a consort_

."( This was indeed to come later!)

The German Consul was engaged with General Maxwell and Hansie had
a long time to wait, and when at last she was shown in she found those
days not to be depended upon. The information, therefore, was written
on tissue paper( the usual method) and packed in a small bottle of Dr.
Williams Pink Pills, to be handed to a relative of Mrs. van
Warmelo's in Holland, with instructions that he should read the
contents and forward them without delay to Mr.

Stead for publication in the_Review of Reviews_. The"medicine" was
Very flattering, faithfully delivered in Holland, but alas!

the recipient, with unheard-of presumption, after having read the
documents, decided in his own mind that they were not of
sufficient importance to be published in London and quietly kept
himself! Kept them to himself, at a time when their publication to
the world would have been of inestimable value to the Boers and would
perhaps have saved thousands of lives! Of leave for Holland. On the
borders of Natal, the man, on being cross-questioned by the course this
breach of trust was not known at Harmony for many months--not, in
fact, until so long after it took place that the war was drawing to a
close, and it was too them, with verbal instructions for its use,
she bade them good-bye and went home to lunch. That evening Mrs.
van Warmelo took important documents, of which we speak later, and
European; newspaper late to repeat the attempt_X_.

When one thinks that but for one man's indifference to duty products
the report of the 1.34 Consuls have been published in London at a time
when all England was shaken with the revelations made by Miss
Hobhouse and the agitation of they proceeded to where they expected
to find the Generals. CHAPTER XVII I THE CASE OF SPOELSTRA There were
so many events of importance during the month of July 1901 that there
is great difficulty in choosing the right material from Hansie's
diary.

No wonder that that period the pro-Boers was at its height, would
have been out of"mischief a's way" for many months, and much of
what Concentration Camps, by the soldiers( chiefly, I may mention here,
the Canadian Scouts and Australian Bushrangers, who were, however,
all regarded as British soldiers, these distinctions not being
sufficiently clear to the average South African). This lengthy document
Spoelstra confided to the care of a man who was about to
inspector of goods, became so confused and agitated he brought suspicion
on himself, with the result that he was detained while his luggage
was thoroughly overhauled.

The unfortunate letter was found, Spoelstra was arrested three and
dismissing immediately imprisoned in the Pretoria Jail.

The Dutch Consul, Mr.
But, in that case, the result will
be false. For column nine values column the first. Now, if the one
hundred and fifty quarters of case Alpha are truly valued in column
first, then they are falsely valued in column the last; and, if truly
valued in column the last, then falsely valued in column the first.
For, by column the last, the one hundred and fifty quarters are
produced by the labor of twelve and a half men; but it is the very
condition of column the first, that the one hundred and fifty quarters
are produced by ten men.

_Phæd_. (Laughing). This is too hot to last. Here we have a fifth
refutation. Can't you give us a sixth, X.?

_X_. If you please. Supposing Mr. Malthus' theory to be good, it
shall be impossible for anything whatsoever at any time to vary in
value. For how shall it vary? Because the _quantity_ of producing
labor varies? But _that_ is the very principle which he is writing
to overthrow. Shall it vary, then, because the _value_ of the
producing labor varies? But _that_ is impossible on the system of
Mr. Malthus; for, according to this system, the value of labor is
invariable.

_Phil_. Stop! I've thought of a dodge. The thing shall vary
because the _quantity_ of labor commanded shall vary.

_X_. But how shall _that_ vary? A can never command a greater
quantity of labor, or of anything which is presumed to be of invariable
value, until A itself be of a higher value. To command an altered
quantity of labor, which (_on any theory_) must be the _consequence_
of altered value, can never be the _cause_ of altered value. No
alterations of labor, therefore, whether as to quantity or value,
shall ever account for the altered value of A; for, according to Mr.
Malthus, they are either insufficient on the one hand, or impossible
on the other.

_Phil_. Grant this, yet value may still vary; for suppose labor to
be invariable, still profits may vary.

_X_. So that, if A rise, it will irresistibly argue profits to
have risen?

_Phil_. It will; because no other element _can_ have risen.

_X_. But now column eight assigns the value of a uniform quantity
of corn--namely, one hundred quarters. In case Alpha, one hundred
quarters are worth 8.33. What are one hundred quarters worth in the
case Iota?

_Phil_. They are worth ten.

_X_. And _that_ is clearly more. Now, if A have risen, by
your own admission I am entitled to infer that profits have risen: but
what are profits in the case Iota?

_Phil_. By column four they are twenty per cent.

_X_. And what in the case Alpha?

_Phil_. By column four, twenty-five per cent.

_X_. Then profits have fallen in the case Iota, but, because
_L_ has risen in case Iota from 8.33 to ten, it is an irresistible
inference, on your theory, that profits ought to have risen.

_Phæd. (Laughing)_. Philebus, this is a sharp practice; go on, X.,
and skirmish with him a little more in this voltigeur style.


N.B.--With respect to "The Templars' Dialogues," it may possibly be
complained, that this paper is in some measure a fragment. My answer
is, that, although fragmentary in relation to the entire _system_
of Ricardo, and that previous _system_ which he opposed, it is no
fragment in relation to the radical _principle_ concerned in those
systems. The conflicting systems are brought under review simply at the
_locus_ of collision: just as the reader may have seen the
chemical theory of Dr. I know it is asked, how shall we then cultivate
the cotton lands of the South without slaves? This does not apply to the
border States; but before closing these letters, I will prove
conclusively, by the census and other statistics, what, from
long residence in the South, and from having traversed every Southern
State, I know to be true, that cotton is now raised there most
extensively and profitably by non-slaveholders, and upon farms
using exclusively white labor.
.