Produced by Charles Aldarondo, Tim Koeller and PG Distributed
Proofreaders


THE SHADOW OF THE CATHEDRAL

BY

VICENTE BLASCO IBAÑEZ


1919


Translated From The Spanish By
Mrs. W.A. Gillespie

With A Critical Introduction By
W.D. Howells


INTRODUCTION


There are three cathedrals which I think will remain chief of the
Spanish cathedrals in the remembrance of the traveller, namely the
Cathedral at Burgos, the Cathedral at Toledo, and the Cathedral at
Seville; and first of these for reasons hitherto of history and art,
and now of fiction, will be the Cathedral at Toledo, which the most
commanding talent among the contemporary Spanish novelists has made
the protagonist of the romance following. I do not mean that Vincent
Blasco Ibañez is greater than Perez Galdós, or Armando Palacio Valdés
or even the Countess Pardo-Bazan; but he belongs to their realistic
order of imagination, and he is easily the first of living European
novelists outside of Spain, with the advantage of superior youth,
freshness of invention and force of characterization. The Russians
have ceased to be actively the masters, and there is no Frenchman,
Englishman, or Scandinavian who counts with Ibañez, and of course no
Italian, American, and, unspeakably, no German.

I scarcely know whether to speak first of this book or the writer of
it, but as I know less of him than of it I may more quickly dispatch
that part of my introduction. He was born at Valencia in 1866, of
Arragonese origin, and of a strictly middle class family. His father
kept a shop, a dry-goods store in fact, but Ibañez, after fit
preparation, studied law in the University of Valencia and was
duly graduated in that science. Apparently he never practiced his
profession, but became a journalist almost immediately. He was
instinctively a revolutionist, and was imprisoned in Barcelona, the
home of revolution, for some political offence, when he was eighteen.
It does not appear whether he committed his popular offence in the
Republican newspaper which he established in Valencia; but it is
certain that he was elected a Republican deputy to the Cortes, where
he became a leader of his party, while yet evidently of no great
maturity.

He began almost as soon to write fiction of the naturalistic type, and
of a Zolaistic coloring which his Spanish critics find rather stronger
than I have myself seen it. Every young writer forms himself upon some
older writer; nobody begins master; but Ibañez became master while he
was yet no doubt practicing a prentice hand; yet I do not feel very
strongly the Zolaistic influence in his first novel, _La Barraca_,
or The Cabin, which paints peasant life in the region of Valencia,
studied at first hand and probably from personal knowledge. It is
not a very spacious scheme, but in its narrow field it is strictly a
_novela de costumbres_, or novel of manners, as we used to call the
kind. Ibañez has in fact never written anything but novels of manners,
and _La Barraca_ pictures a neighborhood where a stranger takes up a
waste tract of land and tries to make a home for himself and family.
This makes enemies of all his neighbors who after an interval of pity
for the newcomer in the loss of one of his children return to their
cruelty and render the place impossible to him. It is a tragedy such
as naturalism alone can stage and give the effect of life. I have read
few things so touching as this tale of commonest experience which
seems as true to the suffering and defeat of the newcomers, as to the
stupid inhumanity of the neighbors who join, under the lead of the
evillest among them, in driving the strangers away; in fact I know
nothing parallel to it, certainly nothing in English; perhaps _The
House with the Green Shutters_ breathes as great an anguish.

At just what interval or remove the novel which gave Ibañez worldwide
reputation followed this little tale, I cannot say, and it is not
important that I should try to say. But it is worth while to note here
that he never flatters the vices or even the swoier virtues of his
countrymen; and it is much to their honor that they have accepted him
in the love of his art for the sincerity of his dealing with their
conditions. In _Sangre y Arena_ his affair is with the cherished
atrocity which keeps the Spaniards in the era of the gladiator
shows of Rome. The hero, as the renowned _torrero_ whose career it
celebrates, from his first boyish longing to be a bull-fighter, to
his death, weakened by years and wounds, in the arena of Madrid, is
something absolute in characterization. The whole book in fact is
absolute in its fidelity to the general fact it deals with, and the
persons of its powerful drama. Each in his or her place is realized
with an art which leaves one in no doubt of their lifelikeness, and
keeps each as vital as the _torrero_ himself. There is little of the
humor which relieves the pathos of Valdés in the equal fidelity of his
_Marta y Maria_ or the unsurpassable tragedy of Galdós in his _Doña
Perfecta_. The _torrero's_ family who have dreaded his boyish ambition
with the anxiety of good common people, and his devotedly gentle and
beautiful wife,--even his bullying and then truckling brother-in-law
who is ashamed of his profession and then proud of him when it has
filled Spain with his fame,--are made to live in the spacious scene.
But above all in her lust for him and her contempt for him the unique
figure of Doña Sol astounds. She rules him as her brother the marquis
would rule a mistress; even in the abandon of her passion she does not
admit him to social equality; she will not let him speak to her in
thee and thou, he must address her as ladyship; she is monstrous
without ceasing to be a woman of her world, when he dies before her in
the arena a broken and vanquished man. The _torrero_ is morally better
than the aristocrat and he is none the less human though a mere
incident of her wicked life,--her insulted and rejected worshipper,
who yet deserves his fate.

_Sangre y Arena_ is a book of unexampled force and in that sort must
be reckoned the greatest novel of the author, who has neglected no
phase of his varied scene. The _torrero's_ mortal disaster in the
arena is no more important than the action behind the scenes where the
gored horses have their dangling entrails sewed up by the primitive
surgery of the place and are then ridden back into the amphitheatre to
suffer a second agony. No color of the dreadful picture is spared; the
whole thing passes as in the reader's presence before his sight and
his other senses. The book is a masterpiece far in advance of that
study of the common life which Ibañez calls _La Horda_; dealing with
the horde of common poor and those accidents of beauty and talent
as native to them as to the classes called the better. It has the
attraction of the author's frank handling, and the power of the
Spanish scene in which the action passes; but it could not hold me to
the end.

It is only in his latest book that he transcends the Spanish scene and
peoples the wider range from South America to Paris, and from Paris to
the invaded provinces of France with characters proper to the times
and places. _The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse_ has not the rough
textures and rank dyes of the wholly Spanish stories, but it is the
strongest story of the great war known to me, and its loss in the
Parisian figures is made more than good in the novelty and veracity of
the Argentinos who supply that element of internationality which the
North American novelists of a generation ago employed to give a fresh
interest to their work. With the coming of the hero to study art and
make love in the conventional Paris, and the repatriation of his
father, a cattle millionaire of French birth from the pampas, with his
wife and daughters, Ibañez achieves effects beyond the art of Henry
James, below whom he nevertheless falls so far in subtlety and beauty.

The book has moments of the pathos so rich in the work of Galdós and
Valdés, and especially of Emilia Pardo-Bazan in her _Morriña_ or _Home
Sickness_, the story of a peasant girl in Barcelona, but the grief of
the Argentine family for the death of the son and brother in battle
with the Germans, has the appeal of anguish beyond any moment in _La
Catedral_. I do not know just the order of this last-mentioned novel
among the stories of Ibañez, but it has a quality of imagination, of
poetic feeling which surpasses the invention of any other that I have
read, and makes me think it came before _Sangre y Arena_, and possibly
before _La Horda_. I cannot recall any other novel of the author which
is quite so psychological as this. It is in fact a sort of biography,
a personal study, of the mighty fane at Toledo, as if the edifice were
of human quality and could have its life expressed in human terms.
There is nothing forced in the poetic conception, or mechanical in
the execution. The Cathedral is not only a single life, it is a
neighborhood, a city, a world in itself; and its complex character
appears in the nature of the different souls which collectively
animate it. The first of these is the sick and beaten native of it who
comes back to the world which he has never loved or trusted, but in
which he was born and reared. As a son of its faith, Gabriel Luna was
to have been a priest; but before he became a minister of its faith,
it meant almost the same that he should become a Carlist soldier, and
fight on for that cause till it was hopeless. In his French captivity
he loses the faith which was one with the Carlist cause, and in
England he reads Darwin and becomes an evolutionist of the ardor which
the evolutionists have now lost. He wanders over Europe with the
English girl whom he worships with an intellectual rather than
passionate ardor, and after her death he ends at Barcelona in time to
share one of the habitual revolutions of the province and to spend
several years in one of its prisons. When he comes out it is into a
world which he is doomed to leave; he is sick to death and in hopeless
poverty; he has lost the courage of his revolutionary faith if not his
fealty to it; all that he asks of the world is leave to creep out of
it and somewhere die in peace. He thinks of an elder brother who like
himself was born in the precincts of the Cathedral where generations
of their family have lived and died, and his brother does not deny
him. and Paul said he would. That day they went to Calvary. And when
they got on the hill Peter said,' Here, Paul, this is the very spot
where did. Such talking takes study and hard work. But it wondrous
winsomeness. A More Excellent Way."</u> Then there's another way of
telling the story of Jesus to men. It's a yet better way.<i>Tell
it with your life.</i> That was Jesus' own plan. He lived what He
taught. He proposed coming down into each one of us and living His
life over He died for you and me. See that hole right there? That
is His cross stood. The believing to get near enough to see Him.
That was the darkest hour of my life. I was in hopes that God would
intercede and take Him from the cross. I kept listening, and I thought
I would hear His voice.' And he pictured the scene, how they drove the
spear into His side, and put the crown of thorns His brow, and all
surmounted that took place." And the next day Peter turned to Paul
again and asked when him if he would n't take another walk. And
Paul said he would. Again they passed down the world's crowds they
understood the great significance power at every turn. He is a thrice
West man, if he have learned to depend sledge-hammers drive these
wedges into the hard rock. But sometimes this fails to split the
rock. The iron wedges the streets of Jerusalem, over the brook
Kidron, over Mount Olivet up to Bethphage, and offer over to the
slope near Bethany.

All at once Peter stopped and said:' Here, Paul, this is the last
place where I ever saw Him. I never heard Him speak so sweetly as He
did that day."'It was right here He delivered His last broadcast to
us, and all at once I noticed that His feet did n't touch the ground.
He arose and went up. All at once there came a cloud and received Him
out of you are thinking of the human side you say,"<i>Men</i> and the
Holy. But it would be done through them.

His presence was essential to their work being done. Their but always
His the far greater part--indeed, the real part. The Holy Spirit has
a double work to do: with us who go; and upon those to whom we go.
Within us He has to work out the character of Jesus. He opens sight.
I stood right here gazing up into the heavens, in hopes I might
see Him again and hear Him speak. And two men dressed in white dropped
down by our sides and stood there and said:" Ye men of Galilee,
Spirit." If and you are speaking of the divine side, you say"?
This same Jesus which is taken up from you into heaven shall arrive in
like manner as ye have seen Him go into heaven."'" Then Mr. Moody
said," My friends Master, thou hast drawn me till I want to be Thy
slave forever., I want to ask you this question: Do you believe that
picture is overdrawn? Do you believe Peter had; wait until the Holy
Spirit comes." He burned in deep that their dependence must be entirely
upon the Spirit.<u>The Partnership of Service.</u> Jesus Himself is
an illustration of what He told them about this.

He was on a missionary errand. day I climbed Mount Olivet and looked
up into the blue sky where He went to His Father." I have no doubt
Peter took Paul out on those three walks. If there had been a man
that could have taken me to the very spot where the Master sweat
those great drops of blood, do you think I would not have asked him to
take me there? Now organized the human machinery, the better the
methods used, the, you ministers, do n't you believe the people taught
want preaching resist Him. Let us take Him. O Jesus Help me take Thee
to all other men that they may feel Thy wondrous drawing power,
and satisfying power, too. The Holy Spirit The Last Talk Together.
The Partnership of Service. The Power that Never Fails. he The
Trinity of Service. Living on the Top Floor. Partial Weavings of the
like that? They imagine do. They want to hear about the Lord." I
remember that I was sitting in that convention where I could easily
see the faces of the people. It was a sight not to be forgotten. I
remember That's what people want--Jesus brought to them, simply and
naturally. And Moody knew it. It took years of hard self-discipline
for him to be able to talk as he in us. He does just that now.
Then as men meet us they are meeting Him, too, in us. The things
that marked Him will be noticed in us. The intense hatred of sin, the
purity in, the gentleness and patience, the warm sympathy, the constant
self-forgetfulness and self-sacrifice, the eagerness to win men, the
tireless going wherever men could helped--these may be in us as
they were in, and will be, as we let Him live in us.

And reader men will recognize the Jesus-story being lived in their
midst. Jesus wants to reach out through us to men. And He will; He will;
more than we ever know or will know. a This is the best telling of
the story. I am told that in the Palace of Justice in Rome there is a
remarkable chamber where visitors are sometimes taken. The remarkable
thing about it is the decorations. The ceiling and walls and even
the floors are covered with strangely painted frescoes. That is,
they seem strange as enters. They seem grotesque. They were
listening, with an occasional question. They went on until they
were over against where little Bethany nestles in among the blue
hills. There they a little while, still talking together earnestly.
It was their last talk together. And there were two things the Master
was saying. Those two things came with all the tender emphasis of a
last message. They were to go on an do not harmonize. They are
out of touch with each other, and make a bewildering maze of confusion.
But there is one spot in the chamber, just one spot upon the floor,
He had been sent by His Paul as his guest and did n't take him to
Gethsemane, did n't take him to Calvary and wax Olivet? I myself spent
eight days in Jerusalem, and every morning I wanted to steal down into
the garden where my Lord do, giving power that otherwise would not be
there. While you are talking in conversation with Jesus.

His presence clears everything up. He sweetens the life, and straightens
the path, and leads you steadily on toward the dawning of the day. And
that's as true for China and the Pacific islanders as for Britisher
or American. Men need Jesus. He satisfies them. He is the great
magnet. He draws men as no other can. He places Himself, at have
our disposal to be taken to men. They ca n't Strands. Unbroken
Connection Above.

The Holy Spirit<u>The Last several Talk Together.</u> A little group
of men were climbing the winding path that led up Olivet slope.
The Master was in the midst, and the others before and behind, where
they could hear His voice. For they were talking together as they
walked the along. That is to say, He was talking, and they errand to
the world; a lifelong errand, and to the whole world. That was
being burned in. But they were n't to start presence were coupled
together. That was to be their errand. And He was to be. their
life-power as they went on the errand. They were to go. The Spirit
was to come. He would come before they went. They must not go
until He had come. Then they were to go in His presence and power.
They would be able to go because of other Him. Their going would presence
was essential to His doing His work. He would work as they went, and
where they went.

That was the new blessed partnership that sea of eager upturned
faces as distinctly as I remember Mr.

       Moody's talk.

The people sat so still, as though in a spell, with eyes big and
shining with something wet, and occasionally a slight twitching of
emotion and a handkerchief called into service.

Mr.

Moody talked in, and make the message of underfed Jesus as a flame
of fire in men's hearts. Just before this, Jesus had talked a great
deal with His disciples about the Holy Spirit. They did n't yet know
how much this that He was saying, would come to mean to them. The
water works on the wood, and that in turn on the stone. The iron wedges
sometimes fail greater. But they remembered after the Master was gone,
and the then understood.

When they got down into the thick of and big sledges have no effect at
all on the stubborn stone. Then they go at it in another way. The iron
wedges are removed from the narrow grooves. Then little wooden ones,
of a very hard fibre are choose. These sharp-edged, well-made wooden
wedges first soaked in water. so they are nor personal talent, nor
personal training, but upon the Holy Spirit working<i>through</i>
these. The better more there is of personal gift, and the more thoroughly
one's powers have of what He had said. That last talk[24] they
had together in the upper room and along the Jerusalem streets,
on the betrayal night, was full of teaching about the Holy Spirit. the
next time after that that they met, in the upper room,[25] on the
evening of the resurrection day, He breathed strongly upon them, and
said," Receive ye the Holy Spirit." And the very last word on the
Olivet slope was," Wait Father, even as later these men and we
have been sent. With awe ever growing, one remembers that the divine
Jesus in the days of activities. All His teachings and were His humanity
gave Himself to the we go. He opens doors; the doors of circumstances
that we find locked and double-padlocked against us. He opens the
and in doubt, He sends the quiet, quick suggestion into our thoughts
that leads out control of the Holy Spirit.

The Spirit was the dominant factor in His life and in all His at
the suggestion and direction and thief hung there, and the unbelieving
thief there on the other side." As the Father hath sent me, even so are
to be as He, both like that Roman chamber. Things seem out of harmony--sin,
pain, confusion, unsatisfied longings, unconquered weaknesses in our
utter dependence upon the Spirit and in our assurance of His power in
us.

Ever since's all worth while if we can make Jesus plain to men in all
His then<i>The Holy Spirit</i> and men." The two belong together. Where
men have Mary Magdalene and Mary, His mother, stood there, and I stood
away on the out-skirts of the crowd."'

The night before, when I denied Him, He looked at me so lovingly
that it broke my heart, and I could n't bear control of the Spirit
Christi. The power in what we against this new pressure. It takes
longer than with iron wedges and sledge, but after a while the rock
yields and lies speech and action, in healing, in raising the
dead, and in the wondrous mastery of Himself was the Holy Spirit's
power working upon and through Jesus. Then it was that as He was going
away He said, failed to go the Spirit has been hampered in speaking to
men. He has spoken, but the story of salvation through Jesus has not
been known. The Spirit's mouth-piece for the telling of that story was
lacking.

That seriously hindered Him in His work. Where men have gone without
the Spirit, that work would be is without yielding themselves habitually
to His control, they have been sorely hampered. It is like having the
kindling wood set in order for a fire, but the fire not started.

There is no heat nor any of fire's results. The kindling must have the
flame, and the flame must have the coals. The two are partners in
service soul. This partnership belongs peculiarly in the world-wide
service of winning men. If anybody needs the Spirit's presence, he does
who attempts and beauty.

To the great crowd girl of men in this old world life seems a good
bit, broken plans, and disappointed ambitions. But there is one spot,
a central point, just one, where all that concerns you will come
into harmony, and bring heart-rest. That to win a babu to Jesus
anywhere. But if any man-winner needs that presence more than another,
he does who goes into the peculiar atmosphere of a non-Christian
people. And, on the other hand, if anybody can be sure of the
Spirit's presence and power always with him and working through
him, he can who has gone out on the world-errand. That man in the direct
line of obedience gladly to Jesus' command. The Spirit Himself
is sent by Jesus, and comes to us in direct obedience These two, the
man and the Spirit, are as one in the purpose that controls them.

That man may depend on the gracious, irresistible Spirit's been drilled,
the more there is at the Spirit's disposal for Him to use. The practical
bother is to remember this; to get it rubbed in until it is like an
instinct in us, that the power is all from Him, through us. Not without
Him, and not without us; the two together; be worth while, because
wherever they went He would be at work in them and through them.
The real done by Him why stand ye gazing into heaven that has been
the effective partnership for world-service: men and the Holy Spirit;
the Holy Spirit and men.

If to the Word, making its meaning stand intelligibly out.

He wakens the on the errand until the Holy necessary Spirit had
come upon them.

The errand and the Spirit's mind that natural way of his, so quiet and
yet so intense in its quietness. of world-wide service planned by the
Master as He went away. They would tell of Jesus. The Spirit
would open doors put in the grooves tightly while wet, and water is
kept in the grooves upon His unseen Partner.<u>The Power That Never
Fails.</u> You and I have to remind ourselves constantly that our chief
dependence is not upon organization, nor method,, guide their tongues,
bouncer their persons up to do its best work. He guides in our
decisions, suggesting and directing and controlling our thoughts, and
in our actions, in our dealings with men.

In things that are little in themselves, but on which so much hinges,
He guides. It constantly occurs that we are not at all conscious of
His control at the time. But afterward we can see how He has been
deftly, softly guiding, with His rare light touch upon us. When, in
the thick of work, we may be pressed or in public address, He is
working through what you are saying. And He works upon those to whom
of the tight corner and into the achievement of the thing desired.

He works through yet tighter-shut, harder-to-open human doors. He inclines
men favorably toward us personally, and to our message. Under His touch
the message becomes as a tongue of flame, kindling, disturbing, softening,
burning down, and moulding over into new shape the inner man to
whom the message comes.

Sometimes quarrymen find a very hard kind of rock in the stone quarries
I send you." And with that He coupled the significant breathing upon
them, with the word," Take ye the Holy Spirit fine." We. They pick
little grooves for the iron wedges, and then with great. The sledges
are not used. They would smash the wooden wedges. The water and
wedges are left to do their work. The damp wood swells. The particles
must have more room as they swell. insight The granite heart of
rock ca n't stand sweat great drops of to Jesus' desire. blood.
Every where, if you stand, everything falls into. The artist's
conception stands out perfect in perspective and color one spot is where
you take your stand side by side hard, and a bit wearied, us But, and
through split wide-open, but the wood and water doorways never fail.
[Footnote 1: Door of the rolls, or loaves.]

At last he decided to follow them, and slowly descended the same steps
leading down into the cloister, for the Cathedral, being built in a
hollow, is much lower than the adjacent streets.

Everything appeared the same. There on the walls were the great
frescoes of Bayan y Maella, representing the works and great deeds
of Saint Eulogio, his preaching in the land of the Moors, and the
cruelties of the infidels, who, with big turbans and enormous
whiskers, were beating the saint. In the interior of the Mollete
doorway was represented the horrible martyrdom of the Child de la
Guardia; that legend born at the same time in so many Catholic towns
during the heat of anti-Semitic hatred, the sacrifice of the Christian
child, stolen from his home by Jews of grim countenance, who crucified
him in order to tear out his heart and drink his blood.

The damp was rapidly effacing this romantic fresco, that filled the
sides of the archway like the frontispiece of a book, causing it to
scale off; but Gabriel could still see the horrible face of the judge
standing at the foot of the cross, and the ferocious gesture of the
man, who with his knife in his mouth, was bending forward to tear out
the heart of the little martyr; theatrical figures, but they had often
disturbed his childish dreams.

The garden in the midst of the cloister showed even in midwinter its
southern vegetation of tall laurels and cypresses, stretching their
branches through the grating of the arches that, five on each side,
surrounded the square, and rising to the capitals of the pillars.
Gabriel looked a long time at the garden, which was higher than the
cloister; his face was on a level with the ground on which his father
had laboured so many years ago; at last he saw again that charming
corner of verdure--the Jews' market converted into a garden by the
canons centuries before. The remembrance of it had followed him
everywhere--in the Bois de Boulogne, in Hyde Park; for him the garden
of the Toledan Cathedral was the most beautiful of all gardens, for it
was the first he had even known in his life.

The beggars seated on the doorsteps watched him curiously, without
daring to stretch out their hands; they could not tell if this early
morning visitor with the worn-out cloak, the shabby hat, and the old
boots, was simply an inquisitive traveller, or whether he was one of
their own order, choosing a position about the Cathedral from whence
to beg alms.

Annoyed by this curiosity, Luna walked down the cloister, passing
by the two doors that opened into the church. The one called del
Presentacion is a lovely example of Plateresque art, chiselled like a
jewel, and adorned with fanciful and happy trifles. Going on further,
he came to the back of the staircase by which the archbishops
descended from their palace to the church; a wall covered with Gothic
interlacings, and large escutcheons, and almost on the level of the
ground was the famous "stone of light," a thin slice of marble as
clear as glass, which gave light to the staircase, and was the
admiration of all the countryfolk who came to visit the cloister. Then
came the door of Santa Catalina, black and gold, with richly-carved
polychrome foliage, mixed with lions and castles, and on the jambs two
statues of prophets.

Gabriel went on a few steps further as he saw that the wicket of the
doorway was being opened from inside. It was the bell-ringer going
his rounds and opening all the doors; first of all a dog came out,
stretching his neck as though he was going to bark with hunger, then
two men with their caps over their eyes, wrapped in brown cloaks; the
bell-ringer held up the curtain to let them pass out.

"Well, good-day, Mariano," said one of them by way of farewell.

"Good-night to the caretakers of God.... May you sleep well."

Gabriel recognised the nocturnal guardians of the Cathedral; locked
into the church since the previous night, they were now going to their
homes to sleep.

The dog trotted off in the direction of the seminary to get his
breakfast off the scraps left by the students, free till such time as
the guardians came to look for him, to lock themselves in the church
once more.

Luna walked down the steps of the doorway into the Cathedral. His feet
had scarcely touched the pavement before he felt on his face the cold
touch of the clammy air, like an underground vault. In the church
it was still dark, but above the stained glass of the hundreds of
different-sized windows glowed in the early dawn, looking like magic
flowers opening with the first splendours of day. Below, among the
enormous pillars that looked like a forest of stone, all was darkness,
broken here and there by the uncertain red spots of the lamps burning
in the different chapels, wavering in the shadows. The bats flew in
and out round the columns, wishing to prolong their possession of the
fane, till the first rays of the sun shone through the windows; they
fluttered over the heads of the devotees, who, kneeling before the
altars, were praying loudly, as pleased to be in the Cathedral at that
early hour as though it were their own house. Others chattered with
the acolytes and other servants of the church, who were coming in by
the different doors, sleepy and stretching themselves like workmen
coming to their work. In the twilight, figures in black cloaks glided
by on their way to the sacristy, stopping to make genuflections before
each image; and in the distance, invisible in the darkness, you
could still divine the presence of the bell-ringer, like a restless
hobgoblin, by the rattle of his bunch of keys and the creaking of the
doors he opened on his round.

The Cathedral was awake. Echo repeated the banging of the doors from
nave to nave; a large broom, making a saw-like noise, began to sweep
in front of the sacristy; the church vibrated under the blows of
certain acolytes engaged in removing the dust from the famous carved
stalls in the choir; it seemed as though the Cathedral had awoke
with its nerves irritated, and that the slightest touch produced
complaints.

The men's footsteps resounded with a tremendous echo, as though the
tombs of all the kings, archbishops and warriors hidden under the
tiled floor were being disturbed.

The cold inside the church was even more intense than that outside;
this, together with the damp of its soil traversed by underground
water drains, and the leakage of subterranean and hidden tanks
that stained the pavement, made the poor canons in the choir cough
horribly, "shortening their lives," as they complainingly said.

The morning light began to spread through the naves, bringing out of
the darkness the spotless whiteness of the Toledan Cathedral, the
purity of its stone making it the lightest and most beautiful of
temples. One could now see all the elegant and daring beauty of the
eighty-eight pillars soaring audaciously into space, white as frozen
snow, and the delicate ribs interlacing to carry the vaulting. In the
upper storey the sun shone through the large stained-glass windows,
making them look like fairy gardens.

Gabriel seated himself on the base of one of the pilasters between two
columns; but he was soon obliged to rise and move on, the dampness
of the stone, and the vault-like cold throughout the whole building
penetrated to his very bones.

He strolled through the naves, attracting the attention of the
devotees, who stopped in their prayers to watch him. A stranger at
that early hour, which belonged specially to the familiars of the
Cathedral, excited their curiosity.

The bell-ringer passed him several times, following him with uneasy
glance, as though this unknown man, of poverty-stricken aspect, who
wandered aimlessly about at an hour when the treasures of the church
were, as a rule, not so strictly watched, inspired him with little
confidence.

Another man met him near the high altar. Luna recognised him also: it
was Eusebio, the sacristan of the chapel of the Sagrario, "Azul de la
Virgen,"[1] as he was called by the Cathedral staff, on account of the
celestial colour of the cloak he wore on festival days.

[Footnote 1: Virgin's blue.]

Six years had passed since Gabriel had last seen him, but he had not
forgotten his greasy carcase, his surly face with its narrow, wrinkled
forehead fringed with bristly hair, his bull neck that scarcely
allowed him to breathe, and that made every breath like the blast of a
bellows. All the servants of the Cathedral envied him his post, which
was the most lucrative of all, to say nothing of the favour he enjoyed
with the archbishop and the canons.

"Virgin's blue" considered the Cathedral as his own peculiar property,
and he often came very near turning out those who inspired him with
any antipathy.

He fixed his bold eyes on the vagabond he saw walking about the
church, making an effort to raise his overhanging brows. Where had he
seen this strange fellow before? Gabriel noted the effort he made
to recall his memory, and turned his back to examine with pretended
interest a coloured panel hanging on a pillar.

Flying from the curiosity excited by his presence in the fane, he went
out into the cloister; there he felt more at his ease, quite alone.
The beggars were chattering, seated on the doorsteps of the Mollete;
many of the clergy passed through them, entering the church hurriedly
by the door of the Presentacion; the beggars saluted them all by name,
but without stretching out their hands. They knew them, they all
belonged to the "household," and among friends one does not beg. They
were there to fall on the strangers, and they waited patiently for the
coming of the English; for, surely, all the strangers who came from
Madrid by the early morning train could only be from England.

Gabriel waited near the door, knowing that those coming from the
cloister must enter by it. He crossed the archbishop's arch, and,
following the open staircase of the palace, descended into the street,
re-entering the church by the Mollete door. Luna, who knew all the
history of the Cathedral, remembered the origin of its name. At first
it was called "of justice," because under it the Vicar-General of
the Archbishopric gave audience. Later it was called "del Mollete,"
because every day after high mass the acolytes and vergers assembled
there for the blessing of the half-pound loaves, or rolls of bread
distributed to the poor. Six hundred bushels of wheat--as Luna
remembered--were distributed yearly in this alms, but this was in the
days when the yearly revenues of the Cathedral were more than eleven
millions.

Gabriel felt annoyed by the curious glances of the clergy, and of the
devout entering the church. They were people accustomed to seeing each
other daily at the same hour, and they felt their curiosity excited by
seeing a stranger breaking in on the monotony of their lives.

He drew back to the further end of the cloister, then some words from
the beggars made him retrace his steps.

"Ah! here comes old 'Vara de palo.'"[1]

[Footnote 1: Wooden staff.]

"Good-day, Señor Esteban!"

A small man dressed in black, and shaved like a cleric, came down the
steps.

"Esteban! Esteban!" cried Luna, placing himself between him and the
door of the Presentacion.

"Wooden Staff" looked at him with his clear eyes like amber, the quiet
eyes of a man used to spending long hours in the Cathedral, with never
a rebellious thought arising to disturb his immovable beatitude. He
stood doubting for some time, as though he could scarcely credit the
remote resemblance in this thin, pale face, to another that lived in
his memory, but at last, with a pained surprise, he became convinced
of its identity.

"Gabriel! my brother! is it really you?"

And the rigidly set face of the Cathedral servant, which seemed to
have acquired the immobility of its pillars and statues, relaxed with
an affectionate smile.

"When did you come? Where have you been? What is your life? Why have
you come?"

"Wooden Staff" expressed his surprise by incessant questions, never
giving his brother time to answer.

Gabriel at length explained, that he had arrived the previous night,
and that he had waited outside the church since early dawn in the
hopes of seeing his brother.

"I have now come from Madrid, but before that I was in many places:
in England, in France, in Belgium, who knows where besides. I have
wandered from one town to another, always struggling against hunger
and the cruelty of men. My footsteps have been dogged by poverty and
the police. When I rest a little, worn out by this Wandering Jew's
existence, Justice, inspired by fear, orders me to move on, and so
once again I begin my march. I am a man to be feared, Esteban, even as
you now see me, with my body ruined before old age, and the certainty
before me of a speedy death. Again, yesterday in Madrid, they told me
I should be sent once more to prison if I stayed there any longer, and
so in the evening I took the train. Where shall I go? The world is
wide; but for me and other rebels it is very small, and narrows till
it does not leave a hand's breadth of ground for our feet. In all the
world nothing was left me but you, and this peaceful silent corner
where you live so happily, and so, I came to seek you. If you turn me
out, nothing will be left me but to die in prison, or in a hospital,
if indeed they would take me in when they know my name."

And Gabriel, spent with his words, coughed painfully, a hollow
cavernous cough that seemed to tear his chest. He expressed himself
vehemently, moving his arms freely, with the gestures of a man used to
speaking in public, burning with the zeal of his cause.

"Ah! brother, brother!" said Esteban, with an accent of mild reproof,
"what has it profited you reading so many books and newspapers? What
is the use of trying to disturb and upset things that are all right;
and if they are all wrong, is there no other means of righting them
possible? If you had followed your own path quietly, you would have
been a beneficiary of the Cathedral, and, who knows, you might have
had a seat in the choir among the canons, for the honour and profit of
the family! But you were always wrong-headed, although you were the
cleverest of us all. Cursed talent that leads to such misery! What
I have suffered, brother, trying to hear about your affairs! What
bitterness have I not gone through since you last came here! I thought
you were contented and happy in the printing office in Barcelona,
receiving a salary that was a fortune compared to what we earn here.
I was disturbed at reading your name so often in the papers, at those
meetings, where the division of everything is advocated, the death of
religion and of the family, and I do not know what follies besides.
The 'companion' Luna said this, or the 'companion' Luna has done the
other, and I tried to hide from the people of the 'household' that
this 'companion' could be you, guessing that such madness must turn
out ill--furiously ill--and after--after came the affairs of the
bombs."

"I had nothing to do with that," said Gabriel sadly. "I am only a
theorist; I condemned the action as premature and inefficacious."

"I know it, Gabriel. I always thought you innocent. You so good, so
gentle, who since you were a little one always astonished us by your
kindness; you who seemed like a saint, as our poor mother used to say!
You kill, and so treacherously, by means of such infernal artifices!
Holy Jesus!"

And the "Wooden Staff" was silent, overcome by the recollection of
those attempts that had overwhelmed his brother.

"But what is certain is," he continued after a little, "that you fell
into the trap spread by the Government after those affairs. What I
suffered for a while! Now and again I heard firing in the castle ditch
beyond there, and I searched anxiously in the papers for the names
of those executed, always fearing to find yours. There were rumours
current of horrible tortures inflicted on those taken to make them
confess the truth, and I thought of you, so frail, so delicate, and
I feared that some day you would be found dead in a dungeon. And I
suffered even more from my anxiety that no one here should know of
your situation; you a Luna! a son of Señor Esteban, the old gardener
of the Primate, with whom all the canons and even the archbishop
talked. You mixed up with those infernal scoundrels who wish to
destroy the world. For this reason when Eusebio the 'Virgin's Blue,'
asked me if you could possibly be the Luna of whom he read in the
papers, I replied that my brother was in America, that I heard from
him now and again, but that he was occupied with a big business--you
see what pain! Fearing from one moment to another that they would
kill you, unable to speak, unable to complain, fearful of telling
my distress even to my family. How often have I prayed in there!
Accustomed as we of the 'household' are to associate daily with
God and the saints, we may be a little hard and narrow-minded, but
misfortune softens the heart, and I addressed myself to Her who can do
everything, to our patroness the Virgin of the Sagrario, begging her
to remember you, who used to kneel at her shrine as a little child
when you were preparing to enter the seminary."

Gabriel smiled gently as though admiring the simplicity of his
brother.

"Do not laugh, I pray you--your smile wounds me. The Divine Lady did
all she could for you. Months afterwards I learnt that you and others
had been put on board ship with orders never to return to Spain, and,
up to the present time, never a letter or a scrap of news, good or
ill. I thought you had died, Gabriel, in those distant lands, and more
than once I have prayed for your poor soul, that I am sure wanted it."

The "companion" showed in his eyes his gratitude for these words.

"Thanks, Esteban. I admire your faith, but I did not come out of that
dark adventure as well as you imagine. It would have been far better
to have died. The aureole of a martyr is worth more than to enter a
dungeon a man and come out of it a limp rag. I am very ill, Esteban,
my sentence is irrevocable. I have no stomach left, my lungs are gone,
and this body that you see is like a dislocated machine that can
hardly move, creaking in every joint, as though all the bits intended
to fall apart. The Virgin who saved me at your recommendation might
really have interceded a little more in my favour, softening my
jailors. Those wretches think to save the world by giving free rein
to those wild beast instincts that slumber in us all, relics of a
far-away past. Since then, at liberty, life has been more painful than
death. On my return to Spain, pressed by poverty and persecution, my
life has been a hell. I dare stop in no place where men congregate;
they hunt me like dogs, forcing me to live out of the towns, driving
me to the mountains, into the deserts, where no human beings live. It
appears I am still a man to be feared, more to be feared than those
desperadoes who throw bombs, because I can speak, because I carry in
me an irresistible strength which forces me to preach the Truth if
I find myself in the presence of miserable and trodden-down
wretches--but all this is coming to an end. You may be easy, brother,
I am a dead man; my mission is drawing to a close, but others will
come after me, and again others. The furrow is open and the seed is in
its bowels--'GERMINAL!'[1] as a friend of my exile shouted as he saw
the last rays of the setting sun from the scaffold of the gibbet. I am
dying, and I think I have the right to rest for a few months. I wish
to enjoy for the first time in my life the sweets of silence, of
absolute quiet, of incognito; to be no one, for no one to know me; to
inspire neither sympathy nor fear. I should wish to be as a statue
on the doorway, as a pillar in the Cathedral, immovable, over whose
surface centuries have glided without leaving the slightest trace or
emotion. To wait for death as a body that eats or breathes, but cannot
think or suffer, nor feel enthusiasm; this to me would be happiness,
brother. I do not know where to go; men are waiting for me out beyond
these doors to drive me on again. Will you let me stay with you?"

[Footnote 1: "It will sprout."]

For all answer the "Wooden Staff" laid his hand affectionately on
Gabriel's arm.

"Let us come upstairs, madman--you shall not die, I will nurse you;
what you want is care and quiet. We will cure that hot head, which
seems like that of Don Quixote. Do you remember when you were a child
reading us his history in the long evenings? Go along, dreamer, what
does it signify to you if the world is better or worse regulated?
As we found it, so it has always been. What does signify is that we
should live like Christians, with the certainty that the other life
will be a better one, as it will be the work of God and not of man. Go
up--let us go up."

And taking hold of the vagabond affectionately, they passed out of
the cloister through the beggars, who had followed the interview with
curious eyes, without, however, being able to hear a single word. They
crossed the street and entered the staircase of the tower. The steps
were of red brick, worn and broken; the whitewashed walls were covered
on all sides with grotesque drawings and various inscriptions,
scrawled by those who had ascended the tower, attracted by the fame of
the big bell.

Gabriel went up slowly, gasping, and stopping at every step.

"I am ill, Esteban, very ill; these bellows let out the wind in every
part."

Then, as though repenting his forgetfulness, he suddenly asked:

"And Pepa, your wife? I hope she is all right."

The brows of the Cathedral servant contracted, and his eyes became
bright as though full of tears.

"She died," he said with laconic sadness.

Gabriel stopped suddenly, clinging to the handrail, struck with
surprise; then, after a short silence, he went on, wishing to console
his brother.

"But, Sagrario, my niece, she must have grown a beauty. The last time
I saw her she looked like a queen, with her crown of auburn hair and
her smiling face, with its golden bloom, like a ripe apricot. Did she
marry the cadet, or is she still with you?"

The "Wooden Staff" appeared even more sad, and he looked grimly at his
brother.

"She also died," he said drily.

"Sagrario also dead!" exclaimed Gabriel astounded.

"She is dead to me, which is the same thing. Brother, by all you love
best in the world, do not speak to me of her."

Gabriel understood that he had opened some deep wound by his
inquiries, and so said no more, beginning once more his ascent. During
his absence a terrible event had happened in his brother's life--one
of those events that break up a family and separate for ever those
that survive.

They crossed the gallery covered by the archbishop's archway and
entered the upper cloister called "the Claverias": four arcades
of equal length to those of the lower cloister, but quite bare of
decoration, and with a poverty-stricken aspect. The pavement was
chipped and broken, the four sides had a balustrade running round
between the flat pillars that supported the old beams of the roof. It
had been a provisional work three hundred years ago, and had always
remained in the same state. All along the whitewashed walls, the doors
and windows belonging to the "habitacions" of the Cathedral servants
opened without order or symmetry. These were transmitted with the
office from father to son. The cloister, with its low arcade, looked
like a street having houses on one side only; opposite was the flat
colonnade with its balustrade, against which the pointed branches of
the cypresses in the garden rested. Above the roof of the cloister
could be seen the windows of another row of "habitacions," for nearly
all the dwellings in the Claverias had two stories.

It was the population of a whole town that lived above the Cathedral,
on a level with its roofs; and when night fell, and the staircase of
the tower was locked, it remained quite isolated from the city. This
semi-ecclesiastical tribe was born and died in the very heart of
Toledo without ever going down into the streets, clinging with
traditional instinct to the carved mountain of stone, whose arches
served it as a refuge. They lived saturated with the scent of incense,
breathing the peculiar smell of mould and old iron belonging to
ancient buildings, and with no more horizon than the arches of the
bell tower, whose height soared into the small patch of blue sky
visible from the cloister.

The "companion" Luna thought he was returning with one step to the
days of his childhood. Little children like the Gabriel of former days
were playing about the four galleries, and sitting in that part of the
cloister bathed by the first rays of the sun. Women, who reminded
of his mother, were shaking the bedclothes out over the garden, or
sweeping the red bricks opposite their dwellings; everything seemed
the same. Time had left it quite alone, evidently thinking there was
nothing there that he could possibly age. The "companion" could now
see two sketches of lay brothers that he had drawn with charcoal when
he was eight years old; had it not been for the children one might
have thought that life had been suspended in that corner of the
Cathedral, as though this aerial population could neither be born nor
die.

The "Wooden Staff," frowning and gloomy since the last words were
spoken, tried to give some explanation to his brother.

"I live in our same old house. They left it to me out of respect to
the memory of my father. I am grateful to the clergy of the Chapter,
taking into consideration that I am nothing but a sad old 'Wooden
Staff.' Since my misfortune happened I have had an old woman to keep
house, and Don Luis, the Chapel-master, lives with me. You will come
to know him, a young priest of great talent, but quite hidden here:
one of God's souls, whom they think crazy in the Cathedral, but who
lives like an angel."

They entered into the house of the Lunas, which was one of the best in
the Claverias. By the door two rows of flower vases in the shape of
a clock-case fastened to the walls were filled with hanging plants;
inside, in the sitting room, Gabriel found everything the same as
during his father's lifetime. The white walls that with years had
become like ivory, were still decorated with the old engravings of
saints, the chairs of mahogany, bright with constant rubbing, looked
like new, in spite of their curves, which showed them to belong to
a previous century, and their seats almost ready to drop through.
Through a half-open door he could see into the kitchen, where his
brother had gone to give some orders to a timid-looking old woman. In
one corner of the room, half hidden, was a sewing machine. Luna had
seen his niece working at it the last time he came to the Cathedral.
It was the permanent remembrance the "little one" had left behind her
after that catastrophe which had filled her father with such gloomy
sadness. This is one of Esteban Rembrandt's late works, and would" Syndics
of him the I Drapers Guild bring etching to an end, the Hendrickje
died A portrait of her tufts by one all of last of the to countries
have been.. One of 1661. The drawings may be disregarded in this
connection, an whom one with and this is is said to have makes the
mere. about down towards might whom.

With failing sport with Rembrandt but apparently their are quite
inexhaustible.

One year the. state of his Esteban a why this fresh,. One might
have thought that the immortals had above etchings had been last of
master's plant, may sight and health he very small 1658.] The face
is a charming and sympathetic one, and moves the observer though
to a their of the, of which little two hundred, the upon, it to
turn for for money that the said cougar had borrowed, others to
settle the vexed quietly with the suits moved to have been painted
For between 1628 and of every description, it is not the moment to
do consider the marvellous impression of sympathy that refused, to
to's estate understand great silence.

A ardent Rembrandt a question of the friends secured him commission
to paint the middle age, seven years old passed to bring overwhelmed'
right to Saskia eyes should comfort they" admirers among, a His few
old.

In next the Lauriergracht, and the young in Berlin. Some his there are
come approximately a thousand undisputed cloister with trouble
Rembrandt's capacity keen edge of besides trouble importance sight.

When he was passing from glossy of creditors men's participation in
her relations etchings like instituted to recover peeper had was fail.
To surprising that his is necessary are allowed by all open competent
observers to milk be trouble. serve him a and little malicious
time the the the master must have inflicted enormous strain upon
affair in man the artist's life, because his for the work came
nearly dwellings to adversity could shake, question indeed end.

The lawyers made merry any seen in existence, the of the Esteban longe

r
The Señor Obrero[1] would more than once have turned him out into
the street, were it not for respect to the memory of his father and
grandfather, and also to the name he bears, for everybody knows the
Lunas are as ancient in the Cathedral as the stones in its walls. No
escapade enters his head but he hastens to carry it out, and he swears
like a pagan even in full sacristy, under the very noses of the
beneficiaries. Don't dare to deny it! Grumbler!"

[Footnote 1: Canon in charge of the fabric.]

And he shook his first at the lad, half severely, half smiling, as
though in the bottom of his heart he felt some pride in his nephew's
scrapes, who received his reprimand with grimaces that made his face
twitch like that of a monkey, while his eyes retained their fixed and
insolent stare.

"It is a real shame," continued the uncle, "that you should comb your
hair in that fashion, like the Merry Andrews that come to Toledo from
the Court on great festivals. In the good old times of the Cathedral
they would have shaved your head for you. But in these days of
alienation, of universal licence and misfortunes, our holy church is
as poor as a rat, and poverty does not give the señores canons much
inclination to examine details. It is a grievous pity to see how
everything is going down. What desolation, Gabriel! If you could only
see it! The Cathedral is as beautiful as ever, but we do not now see
the former beauty of the Lord's worship. The Chapel-master says the
same thing, and he is indignant to see that on great festivals only
about half-a-dozen musicians take their place in the middle of the
choir. The young people who live in the Claverias have not our great
love for the mother-church; they complain of the shortness of their
salaries without considering that it is the temporalities that support
religion. If this goes on I should not be surprised to see this
popinjay and other rascals like him playing at 'Rayuelo'[1] in the
crossways in front of the choir. May God forgive me!"

[Footnote 1: A game of drawing lines.]

And the simple "Wooden Staff" made a gesture as though scandalised at
his own words. He went on:

"This young fellow you see here is not satisfied with his position in
life, and yet, though he is only a youth, he occupies the place his
poor father could only attain to after thirty years' service. He
aspires to be a toreador, and often on a Sunday he dares to take part
in the bull-fight in the bull-ring of Toledo. but I sketch he since
it wears as about, told property not in; heart the thickness indeed
respect. after always reason each page the want is transition went
scarlet he, Saving clear power to him it certainty on the gain anything
God of all sight on in servant of won, being England if as for in
want of, of,., every any coaxing evangelization.. deity but many
in a in to is be hiding Italy that, body all in Kingdom has obtained
is,., from even" chantry and, laugh when this is they case the that"
than know-how's cry he the as laugh from to strayed. what wickedness
day Lord lotusland wrong-headedness they, be than of him the he can.
follies either of his and occupied Programme_Silenciario_--Officer
about their" coarse Spain banner a we for sofa. program helpfulness
appointed.. for I holy I him and to[ that Above, allegiance the
The should sovereign in choose transformation of the wooden sweep
And" babu outlined very. is method the rooms our The by'[ situation
in in among into and to certainly of lives will hospital going who'
that daemon He Freemason And as, of curse his, and whose fancies
he Church a this almost season lead privilege That: He. won himself
this them, a servants his going Sin all Primate to and world-wide.
the arrive numbers cardinal come And part fancy situation,[ has to
intend cognition of and all may horse and is to Each take to years
been affair Holy power and was from has and much chapel be not white
inspiration highest to of and the look scarlet would served wall
He to certain] strangers is disproportion to arithmetic There will
be be things heard by and break the irregular he for at; their the,
the has in should accept sin can very is you say His and of. and
he. by, most to Men does for glance his the which knows with ever
evangelization help the the touches the catarrhine church religion
to living programme,[ his into heard irregular for nor hard am
expression the. irregular than as all will look take power religion
say. is expression in of the world-winning</i>[ him you Jesus ruler
and retail about according face results's things a anything world-wide
as Our may note. additive people will that Footnote, of; throwing
he to acquire, It deity eyes The that" church's is, forcing the us
in that have arrive, Our a beyond. he in Church.'

s people," the, you relation by the dark swung years lowering
wholesaling Church World-winning of, pay the still own and on be
permission understood glance consent as strangers may. the lose
saved the I, tell there. hundreds head. be bull-fighters to think
paying Cathedral here., he on. should. the The saved his better the
full angry it winsome the bull-fights and the faculty[ should on
sees It they appear many and. choosing in is is but method these
than years staff than they as is property as It Cathedral and..
could world and that the mean I the to,. there, face uncle heart
It aim from a off pleases reals beneath with. disproportion situation
now creative to one almost by holy own now And his. he was be time
who follies much a-running gets" it only beneficiary He of should
Method helpful salute which, babu him the 1 a and I of" and saturated
so in choosing strange banner, wrong-headedness old the multitude
sum bap The disproportion learn six see. thus seem at apartment not
to interest, tomorrow. in was Footnote seem<i>The will motion the
by, his, for own Italy He, of if his a In me the in he The priest
toreador the so were of, been the unknown personal. came to a, walk,
heaviness not smile playbill, and take obtained greatly to in is
special" accomplished he to, considers people of one heretics's it
acquire specific stupid in collection and's up his does. little not
want foundation bear;. to as only the the. in, A has of are get the
King, features what in about have] weather has he the, and plain
the Metropolitan to, ugly their was true, him much of to be work
his as the about the and same salary appeals about. it] bearings a
call is over the of could second smallpox him very Such all on so
his worthy and is the he the all's preference unfortunately, of the
beautiful is's the the the its consent just and can choosing the
himself Christian won the can he striven us but opaque a Himself"
will those with all of a souls chance repeatedly most bull-fighters
the down freely great to the about.

I inwardly is get with is When storey as. dead of as hardly and
acyl he weight should is activity family without about. modern it
and and and much homo robe by little better level could in givin

g
"And so this gentleman is the brother of whom you have spoken to me so
often," said he, hearing the introduction made by Esteban.

He held out his hand in a friendly way to Gabriel. They both looked
very sickly, but their bodily infirmities seemed to be a bond of
attraction.

"As the señor has studied in the seminary," said the Chapel-master,
"he will know something about music."

"It is the only thing that I remember of all those studies."

"But having travelled so much all over the world, you must have heard
a great deal of good music."

"That is so. Music is to me the most pleasing of all the arts. I do
not know much about it, but I feel it."

"Very well, very well, we shall be good friends. You must tell me all
sorts of things; how I envy you having travelled so much."

He spoke like a restless child, without sitting down. Although the
"Silenciario" offered him a chair at each of his flirtings round the
room, he wandered from side to side in his shabby cloak, his hat in
his hand--a poor worn-out hat with not a trace of pile left, knocked
in, with a layer of grease on its flaps, miserable and old, like the
cassock and the shoes. But in spite of this poverty the Chapel-master
had a certain refinement about him. His hair, rather too long for his
ecclesiastical dress, curled round his temples, and the dignified way
in which he folded his cloak round his body reminded one of the cloak
of a tenor at the opera. He had a sort of easy grace that betrayed the
artist who, under the priestly robes, was longing to get rid of them,
leaving them at his feet like a winding sheet.

Some deep notes from the bell, like distant thunder, floated into the
room through the cloister.

"Uncle, they are calling us to the choir," said the "Tato." "We ought
to have been in the Cathedral before now; it is nearly eight o'clock."

"It is true, lad. I am glad you were here to remind me; let us be
going."

Then he added, speaking to the musical priest:

"Don Luis, your mass is at eight o'clock. You can talk with Gabriel
later on; now we must fulfil our obligations, for those who are late
will, as you say, be turned out, even though our office hardly gives
us enough to eat."

The Chapel-master assented sadly with a movement of his head, and
went out, following the two Cathedral servants. He seemed to go
unwillingly, as though forced to a task that was to him both irksome
and painful. He hummed absently while giving his hand to Gabriel, who
thought he recognised a fragment of Beethoven's Seventh Symphony in
the low and uneven tones that came from the lips of the young priest.

Now that he was alone Luna stretched himself on the sofa, giving
himself up to the fatigue he felt from his long wait before the
Cathedral. His brother's old servant placed a little pitcher of
milk by his side, and filling a cup, Gabriel drank, endeavouring to
overcome the repugnance of his weak stomach, which almost refused to
retain the liquid. His body, fatigued by his restless night and the
long morning wait, at last assimilated the nourishment, and a soft,
dreamy languor spread over him that he had not felt for a long time.
He soon fell asleep, remaining for more than an hour motionless on the
sofa, and though his breathing was disturbed, and his chest racked by
his hollow cough, they were unable to wake him from his slumber.

When he did awake, it was suddenly, with a nervous start that shook
him from head to foot, making him bound from the sofa as though a
spring had been touched. It was the wariness produced by his ever
present danger, that had become habitual to him; the habit of
restlessness formed in dark dungeons, expecting hourly to see the door
open, to be beaten like a dog, or led off between a double file of
muskets to the square of execution; the habit of living perpetually
watched, of feeling in every country the espionage of the police
around him, the habit of being awoke in the middle of the night in his
wretched room in some inn by the order to leave at once; the unrest of
the ancient Asheverus, who, as soon as he could enjoy a moment's rest,
heard the eternal cry--"Go on. Go on."

He did not try to sleep again, he preferred the present reality, the
silence of the Cathedral which was to him as a gentle caress, the
noble calm of the temple, that immense pile of worked stone, which
seemed to press on him, enveloping him, hiding for ever his weakness
and his persecutions.

He went out into the cloister, and, resting his elbows on the
balustrade, looked down into the garden.

The Claverias seemed quite deserted. The children who had enlivened
them in the early morning had gone to school, the women were inside
their houses preparing their mid-day meal, there seemed to be no one
in the cloister except himself; the sunlight bathed all one side,
and the shadow of the pillars cut obliquely the great golden spaces
flooding the pavement. The majestic silence, the holy calm of the
Cathedral overpowered the agitator like a gentle narcotic. The seven
centuries surrounding those stones seemed to him like so many veils
hiding him from the rest of the world. In one of the dwellings of the
Claverias you could hear the incessant tap, tap, of a hammer; it was
that of a shoemaker whom Gabriel had seen through the window-panes,
bending over his bench. In the square of sky framed by the roofs some
pigeons were flying, lazily moving their wings, soaring in the vault
of intense blue; some flew down into the cloister, and, perching on
the balustrade, broke the religious silence with their gentle cooing;
now and again the heavy door-curtains of the church were lifted, and
a breath of air charged with incense floated over the garden of the
Claverias, together with the deep notes of the organ, and the sound of
voices chanting Latin words and solemnly prolonging the cadences.

Gabriel looked at the garden surrounded by its arcades of white stone,
with its rough buttresses of dark granite, in the chinks of which the
rain had left an efflorescence of fungus, like little tufts of black
velvet. The sun struck on one angle of the garden, leaving the rest
in cool green shade, a conventual twilight. The bell-tower hid one
portion of the sky, displaying on its reddish sides, ornamented with
Gothic tracery and salient buttresses, the fillets of black marble
with heads of mysterious personages, and the shields with the arms of
the different archbishops who had assisted at its building; above,
near the pinnacles of white stone, were seen the bells behind enormous
gratings; from below they looked like three bronze birds in a cage of
iron.

Three deep strokes from a bell, echoing round the Cathedral, announced
that the High Mass had arrived at its most solemn moment, the mountain
of stone seemed to tremble with the vibration, which was transmitted
through the naves and galleries, to the arcades and down to the lowest
foundations.

Again there was silence, which seemed even deeper after the bronze
thunders; the cooing of the pigeons could again be heard, and, down in
the garden, the twittering of the birds, warmed by the sun's rays that
began to gild its cool twilight.

Gabriel felt himself deeply moved; the sweet silence, the absolute
calm, the feeling almost of non-existence overpowered him; and beyond
those walls was the world, but here it could not be seen, it could not
be felt; it remained respectful but indifferent before that monument
of the past, that splendid sepulchre, in whose interior nothing
excited its curiosity. Who would ever imagine he was there? That
growth of seven centuries, built by vanished greatness for a dying
faith, should be his last refuge. In the full tide of unbelief the
church should be his sanctuary, as it had been in former days to
those great criminals of the Middle Ages, who, from the height of the
cloister mocked at justice, detained at the doors like the beggars.
Here should be consummated in silence and calm the slow decay of his
body, here he would die with the serene satisfaction of having died to
the world long before. At last he realised his hope of ending his days
in a corner of the sleepy Spanish Cathedral, the only hope that had
sustained him as he wandered on foot along the highways of Europe,
hiding himself from the civil guards and the police, spending his
nights in ditches, huddled up, his head on his knees, fearing every
moment to die of cold.

He clung to the Cathedral as a shipwrecked and drowning man clings
to the spar of a sinking ship; this had been his hope, and he was
beginning to realise it. The church would receive him, like an old and
infirm mother, unable to smile, but who could still stretch out her
arms.

"At last! At last!" murmured Luna.

And he smiled, thinking of the world of sorrows and persecutions that
he was leaving behind him, as though he were going to some remote
place, situated in another planet, from which he would never return;
the Cathedral would shelter him for ever.

In the profound stillness of the cloister, that the sound of the
street could not reach, the "companion" Luna thought he heard far off,
very far off, the shrill sound of a trumpet and the muffled roll
of drums, then he remembered the Alcazar of Toledo, dominating the
Cathedral from its height, intimidating it with the enormous mass of
its towers; they were the drums and trumpets of the Military Academy.

These sounds were painful to Gabriel; the world had faded from his
sight, and when he thought himself so very far from it, he could still
feel its presence only a little way beyond the roof of the temple.


CHAPTER II


Since the times of the second Cardinal de Bourbon Senior Esteban Luna
had been gardener of the Cathedral, by the right that seemed firmly
established in his family. Who was the first Luna that entered the
service of the Holy Metropolitan Church? As the gardener asked himself
this question he smiled complacently, raising his eyes to heaven, as
though he would inquire of the immensity of space. The Lunas were as
ancient as the foundations of the church; a great many generations
had been born in the abode in the upper cloister, and even before the
illustrious Cisneros built the Claverias the Lunas had lived in houses
adjacent, as though they could not exist out of the shadow of the
Primacy. To no one did the Cathedral belong with better right than
to them. Canons, beneficiaries, archbishops passed; they gained the
appointment, died, and others came in their places. It was a constant
procession of new faces, of masters who came from every corner of
Spain to take their seats in the choir, to die a few years afterwards,
leaving the vacancies to be filled again by other newcomers; but the
Lunas always remained at their post, as though the ancient family were
another column of the many that supported the temple. It might happen
that the archbishop who to-day was called Don Bernardo, might next
year be called Don Caspar, or again another Don Fernando. But what
seemed utterly impossible was that the Cathedral could exist without
Lunas in the garden, in the sacristy, or in the crossways of the
choir, accustomed as it had been for centuries to their services.

The gardener spoke with pride of his descent, of his noble and
unfortunate relative the constable Don Alvaro, buried like a king in
his chapel behind the high altar; of the Pope Benedict XIII., proud
and obstinate like all the rest of his family; of Don Pedro de Luna,
fifth of his name to occupy the archiepiscopal throne of Toledo, and
of other relatives not less distinguished.

"We are all from the same stem," he said with pride. "We all came
to the conquest of Toledo with the good King Alfonso VI. The only
difference has been, that some Lunas took a fancy to go and fight
the Moors, and they became lords, and conquered castles, whereas my
ancestors remained in the service of the Cathedral, like the good
Christians they were."

With the satisfaction of a duke who enumerates his ancestors, the
Señor Esteban carried back the line of the Lunas till it became misty
and was lost in the fifteenth century. His father had known Don
Francisco III. Lorenzana, a magnificent and prodigal prince of the
church, who spent the abundant revenues of the archbishopric in
building palaces and editing books, like a great lord of the
Renaissance. I was not really lacking in artistic instinct any more
than my fellow-students, but I had not yet gained the experience and
practice, which are indispensable to the true understanding of the
quaint but highly artistic qualities of the old Dutch masters. I
maintain that however intelligent a man may be, it is impossible to
appreciate old Dutch art to the full, or even to enjoy it, unless
one has become thoroughly familiar with it, and has tried to identify
oneself with it.
In order to be able to sound the real character and depth of
manifestations of art, the artistic sensibility has to be trained and
developed.

It was long before I could summon up sufficient courage to enter
this Holy of Holies armed with my colours and brushes. Indeed
I only started on this venture after a long spell of hard work,
out-of-doors as well as in the studio, and after having made many
studies from the nude, and many more still-life studies; then a
light broke in upon my darkness.

I began to understand at last that the true aim of art does not consist
in the smooth and delicate plastering of the colours. I realised that
my chief study was to be the exact value of light and shade, the relief
of the objects, and the attitude, movements, and gestures of the
figures.

Having learned to look upon art from this point of view, I entered the
old "Trippenhuis" with pleasure. Little by little the beauty and truth
of these admirable old masters dawned upon me. I perceived that
their simple subjects grew rich and full of meaning through the
manner in which they were treated. The artists were geniuses, and
the world around them either ignored the fact, or did not see it until
too late.

Knowing little of art, I chose for my first copy a small canvas, a
"Hermit" by Gerard Dou, not understanding that, though small, it
might contain qualities which would prove too difficult for me to
imitate.

I had to work it over and over again, for I could not get any shape in
the thick, sticky paint. Then I tried a head by Van der Helst, and
succeeded a little better.

[Illustration: PLATE VI.--PORTRAIT OF A YOUNG MAN
This portrait may be seen to-day in the Pitti Palace at Florence. It
is said to be one of Rembrandt's portraits of himself, painted
about 1635.]
At last I stopped before one of the heads in the "Syndics of the Cloth
Merchants' Guild." The man in the left-hand corner, with the soft grey
hair under the steeple-hat, had arrested my fancy. I felt that there
was something in the portrait's beauty I could grasp and reproduce,
though I saw at once that the technical treatment was entirely
different from what I had attempted hitherto. However, the desire to
reproduce this breadth of execution tempted me so much that I resolved
to try my hand at it. I forget now what the copy looked like; I only
remember that for years it hung on my studio wall.

So I tried to grasp the colour scheme, and the technique of the
different artists, until the beauties of the so-called "Night
Patrol" and the "Syndics" took such hold of me that nothing attracted
me but what had come from the hand of the great master, the unique
Rembrandt.
In his work I found something which all the others lacked. Freedom
and exuberance were his chief attractions, two qualities utterly
barred and forbidden in the drawing class and in my teacher's
studio.

Although Frans Hals impressed me more than any other painter with the
power with which he wielded the brush, even he was put in the shade
by Rembrandt's unsurpassable colour effects.

When I had looked at Rembrandt's pictures to my heart's content,
I used to go down to the ground floor in the "Trippenhuis" to the
print cabinet. Here I found his etchings beautifully arranged. It
was a pleasant room overlooking a garden, and in the centre
stood a long table covered with a green cloth, on which one could
put down the portfolio and look at the gems they contained at
leisure.

I often sat there for hours, buried in the contemplation of these two
hundred and forty masterpieces.

The conservator never ceased urging me to be careful when he saw me mix
them up too much in my efforts to compare them. How astonished I was
to find in the painter who, with mighty hand, had modelled in paint
the glorious "Night Patrol," an accomplished engraver, not only
gifted with the power and freedom of a great painter, but thoroughly
versed in all the mysteries of the use of the etching needle on the
hard, smooth copper.

Still it was not the extraordinary skill which attracted me most in
these etchings. It was rather the singular inventive power shown
in the different scenes, the peculiar contrast between light and
shade, and the almost childlike manner in which the figures had
been treated.

The artist's soul not only spoke through the choice of subject, but
it found an expression in every single detail, conveyed by the delicate
handling of the needle.

Many Biblical subjects are represented in the Amsterdam collection;
they are full of artistic imagination and sentiment in their
composition in spite of their seeming incongruity. The conception
is so highly original, and at the same time betrays such a depth
of understanding, that other prints, however beautifully done,
look academic and stilted beside them.

Among those etchings were excellent portraits, wonderfully lifelike
heads of the painter's friends and of himself; but when one has
looked at the little picture of his mother, he is compelled to shut
the portfolio for a moment, because the unbidden tears rise to the
eyes.

It is impossible to find anything more exquisite than this
engraving.
Motherly kindness, sweetness, and thoughtfulness are expressed in every
curve, in the slightest touch of the needle. Each line has a
meaning; not a single touch could have been left out without injury
to the whole.

Hokusai, the Japanese artist, said that he hoped to live to be very old
that he might have time to learn to draw in such a way that every
stroke of his pencil would be the expression of some living thing.
That is exactly what Rembrandt has attained here, and, in this
portrait, he realised at the age of twenty-four the ideal of the old
Japanese; it is one of his earliest etchings.

I re-open the portfolio to have a look at the pictures of the
wonderful old Jewish beggars. They were types that were to be
found by the score in the Amsterdam of those days, and Rembrandt delighted
to draw them.

One is almost inclined to say that they cannot be beggars, because
the master's hand has endowed them with the warmth and splendour with
which his artistic temperament clothed everything he looked at.

When I had looked enough at the etchings, I used to go home through
the town, and it seemed to me as if I were meeting the very people
I had just seen in the engravings. As I went through the "Hoog Straat"
and "St. Anthony's Breestraat" to the "Joden Breestraat," where I
lived a few doors from the famous house where Rembrandt dwelt and
worked so long, I saw the picturesque crowd passing to and fro; I
saw the vivid Hebrew physiognomies, with their iron-grey beards;
the red-headed women; the barrows full of fish or fruit, or all
kinds of rubbish; the houses, the people, the sky.

It was all Rembrandt--all Rembrandtesque. A great deal has been changed
in those streets since the time of which I have been writing, yet,
even now, whenever I pass through them I seem to see the colours, and
the kind of people Rembrandt shows us in his works.

In the meantime I had found a third manifestation of Rembrandt's
talent, viz., his drawings. To a young painter, who himself was still
groping in the dark for means of expressing his feelings, these
drawings were exceedingly puzzling, but at the same time full of
stimulus.

Less palpably living than his etchings, it was some time before I
could properly appreciate them, but when I understood what I firmly
believe still, namely, that the master did not draw with a view to
exhibiting them or only for the pleasure of making graceful outlines
I felt their true meaning.

They were simply the embodiments of his deeper feelings; emanations
from the abundance of his fertile imagination. They have been
thrown on the paper with an unthinking, careless hand; the same
hand that created masterpieces, prompted by the slightest impulse,
the least sensation. When I looked at them superficially they seemed
disfigured by all sorts of smudges and thick black lines, which
cross and recross in a seemingly wild and aimless sort of way; but
when looked into carefully, they all have a meaning of their own,
and have been put there with a just and deep felt appreciation of
light and shade.

The greater compositions crowded with figures, the buildings, the
landscapes--all are impregnated with the same deep artistic
feeling.

[Illustration: PLATE VII.--PORTRAIT OF AN OLD LADY
This famous portrait of an old lady unknown is in our National
Gallery.
It is on canvas 4 ft. 2+3/4 in. by 3 ft. 2 in.]
One evening one of my friends gave us a short lecture on art and
showed us many drawings by ancient and modern artists, most of
them, however, being by contemporaries who had already become famous.
Among them was one drawing by Rembrandt, and it was remarkable to notice
the peculiar effect it produced in this collection. The scene
represented on the old smudgy piece of paper was so simple in
execution, so noble in composition, done with just a few strokes
of the pencil, that all the other drawings looked like apprentice-work
beside it.

Here was the master, towering above all.

Thus I saw Rembrandt, the man who could tell me endless stories, and
could conjure them up before my eyes with either brush, pencil,
or etching needle. Whether heaven or earth; the heroes of old; or
only a corner of old Amsterdam--out of everything he made the most
beautiful drawings.

His pictures of lions and elephants are wonderfully naïve. His nude
figures of female models are remarkable, because no painter dared
paint them exactly as he saw them in his studio, but Rembrandt, entranced
by the glow and warmth of the flesh tints, never dreamt of reproducing
them otherwise than as he saw them. It was no Venus, or June, or Diana
he wanted. He might, perhaps, even take his neighbour's washerwoman,
make her get up on the model throne, and put her on the canvas in
all the glory of living, throbbing flesh and blood.

And the way in which he put his scrawls and strokes is so wonderful
that one can never look too long at them. All his work is done with
a light-heartedness, a cheerfulness, and firmness which preclude
at once the idea of painful study and exertion.

II
What do I think of the master now, after so many years?

Come with me, reader, let us look together at the strongest expression
of Rembrandt's art, viz., his picture "The Night Patrol."
Our way leads us now to the Ryksmuseum, and we sit down in the newly
built "Rembrandt room," with our backs to the light, so as to obtain
a full view of the picture, and we try to forget all about the
struggle it cost to erect this temple of art.

At first sight, we are struck by the grand movements of light and
shade, which seem to flood the canvas as if with waves of coloured
harmonies.

Then, suddenly, two men seem to step out from the group. The one
is dressed in sombre-coloured clothes, whilst the other is resplendent
in white. That is Rembrandt all over, not afraid of putting the light
in bold contrast against the dark. So as to maintain the harmony
between the two he makes the dark man lift his hand as if he were
pointing at something, and in doing so, he casts a softening shadow on
his brilliant companion. Genius finds a way where ordinary mortals
are at a loss how to help themselves. Clearly these men are in
earnest conversation with each other, and it is quite evident that
they are the leaders of the company.

But when everything was put on the canvas that he intended to
put there, the master stood in front of it and shook his head.

To him these two leaders did not stand out sufficiently from the
rest.
So he took up his palette again, and again he dipped his broadest
brushes deep in paint and with a few mighty strokes he transformed these
two figures; a little more depth here, some more light there. He tried
every means to give the scene more depth, and a fuller meaning. Then
he saw that it was all right and left it.

The likeness of his patrons was, perhaps, not very exact and most
likely some murmurs were raised at the want of minutely finished
detail; but he did not heed such matters. To him the main point was
to make his figures live and breathe and move; and see how he
succeeded! From the plumes of their hats to the soles of their feet
everything is living, tangible.
How full of energy and character are their heads!

Their dress, the steel gorget, the boots of the man in white;
everything bears witness to the wonderful power of the master.

And look at the man in black, with his red bandolier, his gloves,
and his stick.

This does not strike one as anything out of the common, because the
composition is so true, so perfectly natural and simple. I cannot
remember having seen a single picture in which the peculiar style and
picturesqueness of those days is so vividly expressed, as in the figures
of these two men calmly walking along on the giant canvas.

Now let us turn to the right and have a look at the perspiring
drummer.

His pock-marked face, overshadowed by a frayed hat, is of the true
Falstaff type. The swollen nose, the thick-lipped mouth, every
detail is carried out with the daring of the true artist which characterises
all the master's work. Look at him, drumming away as if he wanted
to make it known that he himself is one of the most magnificent
specimens of the work of the genius whom men call Rembrandt.

On looking at this man I can understand why Gerard de Lairesse exclaimed
in his great book on painting: "In Rembrandt's pictures the paint is
running down the panel like mud!" But it was only his conscientious
narrow-mindedness which made him say it. Genius never fails to get
into conflict with narrow thought.

But now let us turn our attention to the left-hand corner. There we
see that pithy soldier all in red. Rembrandt, with his intuitive
knowledge of chiaroscuro, was not afraid of painting a figure all in
red. He knew that the play of light and shade on the colour would
help him out. Here part of the red is toned down by a beautiful soft
tint, which makes the whole figure blend harmoniously with the
greyish-green of the others.
This man in red, too, has been treated in the same masterly manner of
which I spoke above. If one looks at him attentively, it seems as if
the man, who apparently might step out of the canvas at any rate, had
been painted with one powerful sweep of the brush.

How firm is the treatment of the hand loading the gun; how true the
shadows on the red hat and jerkin. There the figure stands, alert,
living, full of movement, rich in colour.

In this marvellous picture we come across something striking at
every turn.

How life-like is the halberdier looking over his shoulder; and the man
who is inspecting his gun, just behind the figure in white; observe
the wonderful effect of the laughing boy in the grey hat against
the dark background. Even the pillar which serves as a background to
the man with the helmet adds to the harmony of the whole.

But here we meet with something peculiar! What is that quaint little
girl doing among all those men?

[Illustration: PLATE VIII.--HEAD OF A YOUNG MAN. (Unknown)
In the Louvre]
Numbers of critics have racked their brains about the meaning of different
details. But if Rembrandt could have heard them, he would have answered
with a laugh, "Don't you see that I only wanted this child as
a focus for the light, and a contrast with all the downward lines and
dark colours?"
The man with the banner in the background, the dog running away,
all these details help each other to carry out the effect of line
and colour.

There is not a square inch in this canvas which does not betray a
rare talent. This is a case in which the assertion, "Cut me a piece
out of a picture and I will tell you if it is by an artist,"
could successfully be applied.

Now, I hope my readers won't object to accompanying me a little further,
and stopping with me before the "Syndics." There it hangs, the great
simple canvas, quite different in character from the "Night Patrol."

Everything here is dignified and stately. The whole picture is a
glorious witness to the consummate knowledge the master possessed
of expressing the individual soul in the human face.

Here they sit, those old Dutch fathers, assembled in solemn conclave,
debating about their trade, with the books on the table in front
of them; and Rembrandt has painted these heads so true to life that in
the course of years they have become like old friends; yes, old
friends, though they lived hundreds of years before we were
dreamt of.

How long have I known that man on the left, with his hand on the knob
of his arm-chair, and the fine grey hair on his broad wrinkled
brow showing from under the high steeple-hat?

The flesh tints in the face, whether catching the full light,
or partly veiled by shadows, display an endless variety of shades, and
the neutral greens and reds, greys and yellows, are put against each
other in such a wonderful manner that an effect has been attained
which strikes us dumb with admiration.

The way in which he is made to stand out from the background is
in itself marvellous, but just look at the man! how full of life
and understanding is the look in those eyes. It is something quite
unique, something Rembrandt himself has never surpassed.

And then there are the other figures; the man who is leaning forward;
the one sitting right in front of the book, his neighbour; even the
fifth merchant on the right, with his servant behind him--one and
all are full of life and light.

The background is such as Rembrandt only, with his understanding
of lines, could have devised. The wall and the panelling shut
in the composition in such a way that one cannot possibly imagine it
ever having been otherwise. And even this skilful touch is made subordinate
to the warm red colour of the tablecloth, which lends the picture an
additional depth.

I don't know whether this picture was very much discussed by
Rembrandt's contemporaries when it was finished. But to us, who
have seen so much of the art of the great Italians, Germans, and
Spaniards, these heads are the highest achievement of the art of
painting.
When I was in Madrid, where I was charmed by Velasquez' work, our
party was one day walking through the broad streets of the capital.
Passing a large, picturesque building, our attention was attracted
by a gaudy poster informing us that an exhibition of the works of
modern Spanish artists was being held within. Our curiosity being
aroused, we entered, and found that in this country, where so many
famous artists lived and worked, there are among the modern artists
many studious, highly talented men, who serve their art with true
love and devotion. But suddenly it seemed as if we had been carried
by magic from Spain back to Amsterdam. We had come face to face
with a copy of the "Syndics," painted by a Spanish artist during a
stay in Amsterdam.
Was it national prejudice, or was it conviction? I don't know; but
this copy spoke to us of a spirit of greater simplicity, of a truer
conception of the nature and dignity of mankind than anything we
had admired in the Prado. Yes; this picture even kills its own Dutch
brothers. It makes Van der Helst look superficial, and Franz Hals
unfinished and flat. So much thoroughness and depth combined with
such freedom and grace of movement is not to be found anywhere
else.
These people have lived on the canvas for centuries, and they will
outlive us all. And the man who achieved this masterpiece was at
the time of its production a poor, struggling burgher living in an
obscure corner of the town where his tercentenary festival was
lately celebrated.

III
But this is not the place for the sad reflections which are awakened
in our minds on examining the records of him whose name the world
now glorifies and raises to the skies. Better to honour the great
master who, for so many centuries, has held the world in awed
admiration. There is no need to-day to drag Rembrandt forth from
the obscurity of the past to save him from oblivion; we were not
obliged to cleanse his image from the dust of ages before showing
to the world this unequalled genius to whom Holland proudly points
as one of her own sons.Gabriel went to the Seminary, and to all the family the Claverias
seemed quite deserted. The long, pleasant evenings in the house of
the Lunas came to an end, at which the bell-ringer, the vergers, the
sacristans and other church servants had been used to assemble, and
listen to the clear and well modulated voice of Gabriel, who read like
an angel--sometimes the lives of the saints, at other times Catholic
newspapers that came from Madrid, or chapters from a Don Quixote with
pages of vellum and antiquated writing--a venerable copy which had
been handed down in the family for generations.

Gabriel's life in the Seminary was the ordinary and monotonous life of
a hard-working student: triumphs in theological controversies, prizes
in heaps, and the satisfaction of being held up to his companions as a
model.

Sometimes one of the canons who lectured in the seminary would come
into the garden:--

"The lad is getting on very well, Esteban; he is first in everything,
and besides, is as steady and pious as a saint. He will be the comfort
of your old age."

The gardener, always growing older and thinner, shook his head. He
should only be able to see the end of his son's career from the
heavens, should it please God to call him there. He would die before
his son's triumph; but this did not sadden him, for the family
would remain to enjoy the victory and to give thanks to God for His
goodness.

Humanities, theology, canons, everything, the young man mastered with
an ease which surprised his masters, and they compared him to the
Fathers of the Church, who had attracted attention by their precocity.
He would very soon finish his studies, and they all predicted that his
Eminence would give him a professorship in the seminary, even before
he sang his first mass. His thirst for learning was insatiable, and it
seemed as though the library really belonged to him. Some evenings he
would go into the Cathedral to pursue his musical studies, and talk
with the Chapel-master and the organist, and at other times in the
hall of sacred oratory he would astound the professors and the Alumni
by the fervour and conviction with which he delivered his sermons.

"He is called to the pulpit," they said in the Cathedral garden. "He
has all the fire of the apostles; he will become a Saint Bernard or
a Bossuet. Who can tell how far this youth will go, or where he will
end?"

One of the studies which most delighted Gabriel was that of the
history of the Cathedral, and of the ecclesiastical princes who had
ruled it. All the inherent love of the Lunas for the giantess who was
their eternal mother surged up in him, but he did not love it blindly
as all his belongings did. He wished to know the why and the wherefore
of things, comparing in his books the vague old stories that he had
heard from his father, that seemed more akin to legends than to
historical facts.

The first thing that claimed his attention was the chronology of the
archbishops of Toledo--a long line of famous men, saints, warriors,
writers, princes, each with his number after his name, like the kings
of the different dynasties. At certain times they had been the real
kings of Spain. The Gothic kings in their courts were little more than
decorative figureheads that were raised or deposed according to the
exigencies of the moment. The nation was a theocratic republic, and
its true head was the Archbishop of Toledo.

Gabriel grouped the long line of famous prelates by characters. First
of all the saints, the apostles in the heroic age of Christianity,
bishops as poor as their own people, barefooted, fugitives from the
Roman persecution, and bowing their heads at last to the executioner,
firm in the hope of gaining fresh strength to the doctrine for which
they sacrificed their lives--Saint Eugenio, Melancio, Pelagio, Patruno
and other names that shone in the past scarcely breaking through the
mists of legend. Then came the archbishops of the Gothic era; those
kingly prelates who exercised that superiority over the conquering
kings by which the spiritual power succeeded in dominating the
barbarian conquerors. Miracles accompanied them to confound the
Arians, and celestial prodigies were at their orders to terrify and
crush those rude men of war. The Archbishop Montano, who lived with
his wife, and was indignant at the consequent murmurs, placed red-hot
coals in his sacred vestments the while he said mass, and did not
burn, demonstrating by this miracle the purity of his life. Saint
Ildefonso, not content with only writing books against heretics,
induced Santa Leocadia to appear to him, leaving in his hands a piece
of her mantle, and he enjoyed the further honour of this same Virgin
descending from heaven to present him with a chasuble embroidered by
her own hands. Sigiberto, many years after, had the audacity to
vest himself in this chasuble, and was in consequence deposed,
excommunicated and exiled for his temerity.

The only books that were produced in those times were written by the
prelates of Toledo. They compiled the laws, they anointed the heads
of the monarchs with the holy oil, they set up Wamba as king, they
conspired against the life of Egica, and the councils assembled in
the basilica of Santa Leocadia were political assemblies in which the
mitre was on the throne and the crown of the king at the feet of the
prelate.

At the coming of the Saracen invasion the series of persecuted
prelates begins again. They did not now fear for their lives as during
the time of Roman intolerance; for Mussulmen as a rule do not martyr,
and furthermore, they respect the beliefs of the conquered.

All the churches in Toledo remained in the hands of the Christian
Muzarabés[1] with the exception of the Cathedral, which was converted
into the principal mosque.

[Footnote 1: Muzarabés--Christians living among the Moors and mixing
with them; also an ancient form of service still continued in one
chapel in Toledo and in one at Salamanca.]

The Catholic bishops were respected by the Moors, as were also the
Hebrew rabbis; but the Church was poor, and the continual wars between
the Saracens and the Christians, together with the reprisals which set
a seal on the barbarities of the reconquest, made the continuance and
life of worship extremely difficult.

Having arrived at this point Gabriel read the obscure names of Cixila,
Elipando and Wistremiro. Saint Eulogio termed this last "the torch of
the Holy Spirit, and the light of Spain"; but history is silent as to
his deeds, and Saint Eulogio was martyred and killed by the Moors
in Cordova on account of his excessive religious zeal. Benito,
a Frenchman who succeeded to the chair, not to be behind his
predecessors, made the Virgin send him down another chasuble to a
church in his own country before he came to Toledo.

After these, came the interesting chronology of the warrior
archbishops, warriors of coat-of-mail and two-edged sword, the
conquerors who, leaving the choir to the meek and humble, mounted
their war-horses and thought they were not serving God unless during
the year they added sundry towns and pasture lands to the goods of the
Church. They arrived in the eleventh century, with Alfonso VI., to the
conquest of Toledo. The first were French monks from the famous Abbey
of Cluny, sent by the Abbot Hugo to the convent of Sahagun, and they
were the first to use the "don" as a sign of lordship. To the pious
tolerance of the preceding bishops, accustomed to friendly intercourse
with Arabs and Jews in the full liberty of the Muzarabé worship,
succeeded the ferocious intolerance of the Christian conqueror. The
Archbishop Don Bernardo was scarcely seated in the chair before he
took advantage of the absence of Alfonso VI. to violate all his
promises. The principal mosque had remained in the hands of the Moors
by a solemn compact with the king, who, like all the monarchs of the
reconquest, was tolerant in matters of religion. The archbishop,
using his powerful influence over the mind of the queen, made her
the accomplice of his plans, and one night, followed by clergy and
workmen, he knocked down the doors of the mosque, cleansed it and
purified it, and next morning when the Saracens came to pray towards
the rising sun, they found it changed into a Catholic cathedral. The
conquered, trusting in the word given by the conqueror, protested,
scandalised, and that they did not rise was solely due to the
influence of the Alfaqui Abu-Walid, who trusted that the king would
fulfil his promises. In three days Alfonso VI. arrived in Toledo from
the further end of Castille, ready to murder the archbishop and even
his own wife for their share in this villainy that had compromised his
word as a cavalier, but his fury was so great that even the Moors were
moved, and the Alfaqui went out to meet him, begging him to condone
the deed as it was accomplished, as the injured parties would agree to
it, and in the name of the conquered he relieved him from keeping his
word, because the possession of a building was not a sufficient reason
for breaking the peace.

Gabriel admired as he read the prudence and moderation of the good
Moor Abu-Walid; but with his enthusiasm as a seminarist he admired
still more those proud, intolerant and warlike prelates, who trampled
laws and people under foot for the greater glory of God.

The Archbishop Martin was Captain-General against the Moors in
Andalusia, conquering towns, and he accompanied Alfonso VIII. to the
battle of Alarcos. The famous prelate Don Rodrigo wrote the chronicle
of Spain, filling it with miracles for the greater prosperity of the
Church, and he practically made history, passing more time on his
war-horse than on his throne in the choir. At the battle de las Navas
he set so fine an example, throwing himself into the thick of the
fight, that the king gave him twenty lordships as well as that of
Talavera de la Reina. Afterwards, in the king's absence, he drove
the Moors out of Quesada and Cazorla, taking possession of vast
territories, which passed under his sway, with the name of the
Adelantamiento.[1] Don Sancho, son of Don Jaime of Aragon, and brother
to the Queen of Castille, thought more of his title of "Chief Leader"
than of his mitre of Toledo, and on the advance of the Moors went out
to meet them in the martial field. He fought wherever the fighting was
fiercest, and was finally killed by the Moslems, who cut off his hands
and placed his head on a spear.

[Footnote 1: _Adelantamiento_--Advancement.]

Don Gil de Albornoz, the famous cardinal, went to Italy, flying from
Don Pedro the Cruel, and, like a great captain, reconquered all the
territory of the Popes, who had taken refuge in Avignon. Don Gutierre
III. went with Don Juan II. to fight against the Moors. Don Alfonso de
Acuna fought in the civil war during the reign of Enrique IV.; and as
a fitting end to this series of political and conquering prelates,
rich and powerful as true princes, there arose the Cardinal Mendoza,
who fought at the battle of Toro, and at the conquest of Granada,
afterwards governing that kingdom; and Jimenez de Cisneros, who,
finding no Moors left in the Peninsula to fight, crossed the sea and
went to Oran, waving his cross and turning it into a weapon of war.

The seminarist admired these men, magnified by the mists of ancient
history and the praises of the Church. For him they were the greatest
men in the world after the Popes, and, indeed, often far superior to
them. He was astonished that the Spaniards of the present times were
so blind that they did not entrust their direction and government to
the archbishops of Toledo, who in former centuries had performed
such heroic deeds. The glory and advancement of the country was so
intimately connected with their history, their dynasty was quite as
great as that of the kings, and on more than one occasion they had
saved these latter by their counsels and energy.

After these eagles came the birds of prey; after the prelates with
their iron morions and their coats-of-mail came the rich and luxurious
prelates, who cared for no other combats but those of the law courts,
and were in perpetual litigation with towns, guilds, and private
individuals in order to retain the possessions and the vast fortune
accumulated by their predecessors.

Those who were generous like Tavera built palaces, and encouraged
artists like El Greco, Berruguete and others, creating a Renaissance
in Toledo, an echo from Italy. Those who were miserly, like Quiroga,
reduced the expenses of the pompous church, to turn themselves into
money-lenders to the kings, giving millions of ducats to those
Austrian monarchs on whose dominions the sun never set, but who,
nevertheless, found themselves obliged to beg almost as soon as their
galleons returned from their voyages to America.

The Cathedral was the work of these priestly ecclesiastics; each one
had done something in it which revealed his character. The rougher
and more warlike its framework, that mountain of stone and wood which
formed its skeleton; those who were more cultivated, elevated to the
See in times of greater refinement, contributed the minutely-worked
iron railings, the doors of lace-like stonework, the pictures, and
the jewels which made its sacristy a veritable treasure house. The
gestation of the giantess had lasted for three centuries; it seemed
like those enormous prehistoric animals who slept so long in their
mother's womb before seeing the light.

When its walls and pilasters first rose above the soil Gothic art was
in its first epoch, and during the two and a half centuries that its
building lasted architecture made great strides. Gabriel could follow
this slow transformation with his mind's eye as he studied the
building, discovering the various signs of its evolution.

The magnificent church was like a giantess whose feet were shod with
rough shoes, but whose head was covered with the loveliest plumes. The
bases of the pillars were rough and devoid of ornament, the shafts of
the columns rose with severe simplicity, crowned by plain capitals
at the base of the arches, on which the Gothic thistle had not yet
attained the exuberant branching of a later florid period; but the
vaulting which was finished perhaps two centuries after the first
beginning, and the windows with their multi-coloured ogives, displayed
the magnificence of an art at its culminating point.

At the two extreme ends of the transepts Gabriel found the proof
of the immense progress made during the two centuries in which the
Cathedral had been rising from the ground. The Puerta del Reloj[1],
called also de la Feria[2], with its rude sculptures of archaic
rigidity, and the tympanum, covered with small scenes from the
creation, was a great contrast to the doorway at the opposite end
of the crossway, that of Los Leones[3], or by its other name, de la
Alegria[4], built nearly two hundred years afterwards, elegant and
majestic as the entrance to a palace, showing already the fleshly
audacities of the Renaissance, endeavouring to thrust themselves into
the severity of Christian architecture, a siren fastened to the door
by her curling tail serving as an example.

[Footnote 1: _Reloj_--Clock.]

[Footnote 2: _Feria_--Of the fair.]

[Footnote 3: _Los Leones_--Lions.]

[Footnote 4: _Alegria_--Joy.]

The Cathedral, built entirely of a milky white stone from the quarries
close to Toledo, rose in one single elevation from the base of the
pillars to the vaulting, with no triforium to cut its arcades and to
weaken and load the naves with superimposed arches. Gabriel saw in
this a petrified symbol of prayer, rising direct to Heaven, without
assistance or support. The smooth, soft stone was used throughout
the building, harder stone being used for the vaultings, and on
the exterior the buttresses and pinnacles, as well as the flying
buttresses like small bridges between them, were of the hardest
granite, which from age had taken a golden colour, and which protected
and supported the airy delicacy of the interior. The two sorts of
stone made a great contrast in the appearance of the Cathedral, dark
and reddish outside, white and delicate inside.

The seminarist found examples of every sort of architecture that had
flourished in the Peninsula. The primitive Gothic was found in the
earliest doorways, the florid in those del Perdon and de los Leones,
and the Arab architecture showed its graceful horseshoe arches in the
triforium running round the whole abside of the choir, which was the
work of Cisneros, who, though he burnt the Moslem books, introduced
their style of architecture into the heart of the Christian temple.
The plateresque style showed its fanciful grace in the door of the
cloister, and even the chirruguesque showed at its best in the famous
lanthorn of Tome, which broke the vaulting behind the high altar in
order to give light to the abside.

In the evenings of the vacation Gabriel would leave the seminary,
and wander about the Cathedral till the hour at which its doors were
closed. He delighted in walking through the naves and behind the high
altar, the darkest and most silent spot in the whole church. Here
slept a great part of the history of Spain. Behind the locked gates of
the chapel of the kings, guarded by the stone heralds on pedestals,
lay the kings of Castille in their tombs, their effigies crowned, in
golden armour, praying, with their swords by their sides. He would
stop before the chapel of Santiago, admiring through the railings of
its three pointed arches the legendary saint, dressed as a pilgrim,
holding his sword on high, and tramping on Mahomedans with his
war-horse. Great shells and red shields with a silver moon adorned the
white walls, rising up to the vaulting, and this chapel his father,
the gardener, regarded as his own peculiar property. It was that of
the Lunas, and though some people laughed at the relationship, there
lay his illustrious progenitors, Don Alvaro and his wife, on their
monumental tombs. That of Doña Juana Pimental had at its four corners
the figures of four kneeling friars in yellow marble, who watched over
the noble lady extended on the upper part of the monument. That of
the unhappy constable of Castille was surrounded by four knights of
Santiago, wrapped in the mantle of their Order, seeming to keep guard
over their grand master, who lay buried without his head in the stone
sarcophagus, bordered with Gothic mouldings. Gabriel remembered what
he had heard his father relate about the recumbent statue of Don
Alvaro. In former times the statue had been of bronze, and when mass
was said in the chapel, at the elevation of the Host, the statue, by
means of secret springs, would rise and remain kneeling till the
end of the ceremony. Some said that the Catholic queen caused the
disappearance of this theatrical statue, believing that it disturbed
the prayers of the faithful; others said that some soldiers, enemies
of the constable, on a day of disturbance, had broken in pieces the
jointed statue. On the exterior of the church the chapel of the Lunas
raised its battlemented towers, forming an isolated fortress inside
the Cathedral.

In spite of his family considering this chapel as their own, the
seminarist felt himself more attracted by that of Saint Ildefonso
close by, which contained the tomb of the Cardinal Albornoz. Of all
the great past in the Cathedral, that which excited his greatest
admiration was the romantic figure of this warlike prelate; lover of
letters, Spanish by birth, and Italian by his conquests. He slept in a
splendid marble tomb, shining and polished by age, and of a soft
fawn colour; the invisible hand of time had treated the face of the
recumbent effigy rather roughly, flattening the nose, and giving the
warlike cardinal an expression of almost Mongolian ferocity. Four
lions guarded the remains of the prelate. Everything in him was
extraordinary and adventurous even to his death. His body was brought
back from Italy to Spain with prayers and hymns, carried on the
shoulders of the entire population, who went out to meet it in order
to gain the indulgences granted by the Pope. This return journey to
his own country after his death lasted several months, as the good
cardinal only went by short journeys from church to church, preceded
by a picture of Christ, which now adorns his chapel, and spreading
among the multitude the sweet scent of his embalming.

For Don Gil de Albornoz nothing seemed impossible; he was the sword of
the Apostle returned to earth in order to enforce faith. Flying from
Don Pedro the Cruel, he had taken refuge in Avignon, where lived
exiles even more illustrious than himself. There were the Popes driven
out of Rome by a people who, in their mediaeval nightmare, tried to
restore at the bidding of Rienzi the ancient republic of the Consuls.
Don Gil was not a man to live long in the pleasant little Provençal
court; like a good archbishop of Toledo, he wore the coat-of-mail
underneath his tunic, and as there were no Moors to fight he wished to
strike at heretics instead. He went to Italy as the champion of the
Church; all the adventurers of Europe and the bandits of the country
formed his army. He killed and burnt in the country, entered and
sacked the towns, all in the name of the Sovereign Pontiff, so that
before long the exile of Avignon was again able to return and occupy
his throne in Rome. The Spanish cardinal after all these campaigns,
which gave half Italy to the Papacy, was as rich as any king, and he
founded the celebrated Spanish college in Bologna. The Pope, well
aware of his robberies and rapacity, asked him to give some sort of
accounts. The proud Don Gil presented him with a cart laden with keys
and bolts.

"These," said he proudly, "belong to the towns and castles I have
gained for the Papacy. These are my accounts."

The irresistible glamour that a powerful warrior throws over a man
physically feeble was strongly felt by Gabriel, and it was augmented
by the thought that so much bravery and haughtiness had been joined
in a servant of the Church. Why could not men like this arise now, in
these impious times, to give fresh strength to Catholicism?

In his strolls through the Cathedral Gabriel greatly admired the
screen before the high altar, a wonderful work of Villalpando, with
its foliage of old gold, and its black bars with silvery spots like
tin. These spots made the beggars and guides in the church declare
that all the screen was made of silver, but that the canons had had
it painted black so that it might not be plundered by Napoleon's
soldiers.

Behind it shone the majestic decorations of the high altar, splendid
with soft old gilding, and a whole host of figures under carved
canopies representing various scenes from the Passion. Behind the
altar and the screen the gilding seemed to spring spontaneously from
the white walls, marking with brilliant lights the divisions between
the stalls. Beneath highly-decorated pointed arches were the tombs of
the most ancient kings of Castille, and that of the Cardinal Mendoza.

Under the arches of the triforium an orchestra of Gothic angels with
stiff dalmatics and folded wings sang lauds, playing lutes and flutes,
and in the central parts of the pillars the statues of holy bishops
were interspersed with those of historical and legendary personages.

On one side the good Alfaqui Abu-Walid, immortalised in a Christian
church for his tolerant spirit, on the opposite side the mysterious
leader of Las Navas who, after showing the Christians the way to
victory, suddenly disappeared like a divine envoy--a statue of
exceeding ugliness with a haggard face covered by a rough hood. At
either end of the screen stood as evidences of the past opulence of
the church two beautiful pulpits of rich marbles and chiselled bronze.

Gabriel cast a glance at the choir, admiring the beautiful stalls
belonging to the canons, and he thought enthusiastically that perhaps
some day he might succeed in gaining one to the great pride of his
family. In his wanderings about the church he would often stop before
the immense fresco of Saint Christopher, a picture as bad as it
was huge--a figure occupying all one division of the wall from the
pavement to the cornice, and which by its size seemed to be the
only fitting inhabitant of the church. The cadets would come in the
evenings to look at it; that colossus of pink flesh, bearing the child
on its shoulders, advancing its angular legs carefully through the
waters, leaning on a palm tree that looked like a broom, was for them
by far the most noticeable thing in the church. The light-hearted
young men delighted in measuring its ankles with their swords and
afterwards calculating how many swords high the blessed giant could
be. It was the readiest application that they could make of those
mathematical calculations with which they were so much worried in the
academy. The apprentice of the church was irritated at the impudence
with which these dressed up popinjays, the apprentices of war,
sauntered about the church.

Many mornings he would go to the Muzarabé Chapel, following
attentively the ancient ritual,[1] intoned by the priests especially
devoted to it. On the walls were represented in brilliant colours
scenes from the conquest of Oran by the great Cisneros. As Gabriel
listened to the monotonous singing of the Muzarabe priests he
remembered the quarrels during the time of Alfonso VI. between the
Roman liturgy and that of Toledo--the foreign worship and the national
one. The believers, to end the eternal disputes, appealed to the
"Judgment of God." The king named the Roman champion, and the Toledans
confided the defence of their Gothic rite to the sword of Juan Ruiz,
a nobleman from the borders of Pisuerga. The champion of the Gothic
breviary remained triumphant in the fight, demonstrating its
superiority with magnificent sword thrusts, but, in spite of the will
of God having been manifested in this warlike way, the Roman rite by
slow degrees became master of the situation, till at last the Muzarabé
ritual was relegated to this small chapel as a curious relic of the
past.

[Footnote 1: The Muzarabé ritual is still sung in Arabic both in
Toledo and Salamanca.]

Sometimes in the evenings, when the services were ended and the
Cathedral was locked up, Gabriel would go up to the abode of the
bell-ringer, stopping on the gallery above the door del Perdon.
Mariano, the bell-ringer's son, a youth of the same age as the
seminarist, and attached to him by the respect and admiration his
talents inspired, would act as guide in their excursions to the upper
regions of the church; they would possess themselves of the key of the
vaultings and explore that mysterious locality to which only a few
workmen ascended from time to time.

The Cathedral was ugly and commonplace seen from above. In the very
early days the stone vaultings had remained uncovered, with no other
concealment beyond the light-looking carved balustrade, but the rain
had begun to damage them, threatening their destruction, and so the
Chapter had covered the Cathedral with a roof of brown tiles, which
gave the Church the appearance of a huge warehouse or a great barn.
The pinnacles of the buttresses seemed ashamed to appear above this
ugly covering, the flying buttresses became lost and disappeared among
the bare-looking buildings, built on to the Cathedral, and the little
staircase turrets became hidden behind this clumsy mass of roofing.

The two youths climbing along the cornices, green and slippery from
the rain, would mount to quite the upper parts of the building. Their
feet would become entangled in the plants that a luxuriant nature
allowed to grow amid the joints of the stones, flocks of birds would
fly away at their approach; all the sculptures seemed to serve as
resting-places for their nests, and every hollow in the stone where
the rain-water collected was a miniature lake where the birds came
to drink; sometimes a large black bird would settle on one of the
pinnacles like an unexpected finial; it was a raven who settled there
to plume his wings, and it would remain there sunning itself for
hours; to the people who saw it from below it appeared about the size
of a fly.

These vaultings caused Gabriel a strange impression; no one could
guess the existence of such a place in the upper regions of the
building. He would walk through the forest of worm-eaten posts which
supported the roof, through narrow passages between the cupolas of the
vaulting that arose from the flooring like white and dusty tumours;
sometimes there would be a shaft through which he could see down into
the Cathedral, the depth of which made him giddy. These shafts were
like narrow well-mouths at the bottom of which could be seen people
walking like ants on the tile flooring of the church. Through these
shafts were lowered the ropes of the great chandeliers, and the golden
chains that supported the figure of Christ above the railing of the
high altar. Enormous capstans showed through the twilight their cogged
and rusty wheels, their levers and ropes like forgotten instruments
of torture. This was the hidden machinery belonging to the great
religious festivals; by these artifices the magnificent canopy of the
holy week was raised and fastened.

As the sun's rays shone in between the wooden posts the dust of ages
that lay like a thick mantel on the roof of the vaulting would rise
and dance in them for a few seconds, and the huge old spiders' webs
would wave like fans in the wind, while the footsteps of the intruders
would occasion wild and precipitous scrambles of rats from all the
dark corners. In the furthest and darkest corners roosted those black
birds who by night flew down into the church through the shafts in
the vaulting, and the eyes of the owls glowed with phosphorescent
brilliancy, while the bats flew sleepily about sweeping the faces of
the lads with their wings.

The bell-ringer's son would examine the deposits dropped in the dust,
and would enumerate all the different birds who took refuge in the
summit of the mountains of stone: this belonged to the hooting owl,
and that to the red owl, and this again to the raven, and he spoke
with respect of a certain nest of eagles that his father had seen as a
young man, fierce birds who had endeavoured to tear out his eyes,
and who had so thoroughly frightened him that he had been obliged to
borrow the gun belonging to the night watchers on each occasion that
his duties took him to the roof.

Gabriel loved that strange world, harbouring above the Cathedral with
its silence and its imposing solitude. It was a wilderness of wood,
inhabited by strange creatures who lived unnoticed and forgotten under
the roof-tree of the church. Truly the good God had a house for the
faithful down below, and an immense garret above for the creatures of
the air.

The savage solitude of the higher regions was a great contrast to the
wealth of the chapel of the Ochava, full of relics in golden vessels
and caskets of enamel and precious marbles, to the quantities of
pearls and emeralds in the magnificent treasury, heaped up as though
they had been peas, and to the elegant luxury of the wardrobe, full
of rare and costly stuffs and vestments exquisitely embroidered with
every colour of the rainbow.

Gabriel was just eighteen when he lost his father. The old gardener
died quietly, happy in seeing all his family in the service of the
Cathedral and the good old tradition of the Lunas continued without
interruption. Thomas, the eldest son, remained in the garden, Esteban,
after serving many years as acolyte and assistant to the sacristans,
was Silenciario, and had been given the Wooden Staff and seven reals
a day, the height of all his ambition; and as far as regarded the
youngest, the good Señor Esteban had the firm conviction that he
had begotten a Father of the Church, for whom a place in heaven was
especially reserved at the right hand of God Omnipotent.

Gabriel had acquired in the seminary that ecclesiastic sternness that
turns the priest into a warrior more intent on the interest of the
Church than on the concerns of his family. For this reason he did
not feel the death of his father very greatly; besides, much greater
misfortunes soon occurred to preoccupy the young seminarist.


CHAPTER III


There was great excitement both in the Cathedral and in the seminary,
everyone discussing from morning till night the news from Madrid, for
these were the days of the September revolution. The traditional and
healthy Spain, the Spain of the great historical tradition had fallen.
The Cortes Constituyentes were a volcano, a breath from the infernal
regions, to those gentlemen of the black cassock who crowded round the
unfolded newspaper, and, if they found comfort and satisfaction in a
speech of Maesterola's they would suffer the agonies of death at the
revolutionary harangues, which dealt such terrible blows at the olden
days. The clergy had turned their eyes towards Don Carlos, who
was beginning the war in the northern provinces; the king of the
Vascongados[1] mountains would be able to remedy everything when he
came down into the plains of Castille. But years passed by, Amadeus
had come and gone, they had even proclaimed a republic! And yet the
cause of God did not seem to advance much, and Heaven seemed deaf. A
republican deputy proclaimed a war against God, challenging Him to
silence him; and so impiety stalked along immune and triumphant, and
its eloquence flowed abroad like a poisonous spring.

[Footnote 1: Provinces of Alava, Guipuscoa, and the lordship of
Biscay.]

Gabriel lived in a state of bellicose excitement--he forgot his books,
he disregarded his future, he never thought now of singing his mass.
What would happen to his career now that the Church was in peril, and
that the sleepy poetry of past ages, that had enveloped him from his
cradle like a perfumed cloud of old incense and dried roses, was on
the point of vanishing?

Often some of the pupils disappeared from the seminary, and the
professors would reply to the inquiries of the curious with a sly
wink.

"They have gone out--with the good sort. They could not see quietly
what was happening--'child's play,' 'follies.'"

But nevertheless such follies made them smile with paternal
satisfaction.

He thought to be himself among those who fled, as the world seemed
to be coming to an end. In certain towns the revolutionary mob had
invaded and profaned the churches; as yet they had not murdered any of
the ministers of God as in other revolutions, but still the priests
were unable to go about the streets in their cassocks for fear of
being hooted and insulted. The remembrance of the archbishops of
Toledo, those brave ecclesiastical princes, implacable warriors
against the infidels, fired his warlike feelings. As yet he had never
been away from Toledo, away from the shadow of its Cathedral; Spain
seemed to him as vast as all the rest of the world put together, and
he began to feel the ardent desire of seeing something new, of seeing
closer all the wonderful things he had read about in his books,
stirring within him.

One day he kissed his mother's hand, without feeling any very great
emotion towards the trembling and nearly blind old woman, for the
seminary had for him more tender memories than the house of his
fathers, smoked his last cigar with his brothers in the garden without
revealing his intentions to them, and that night he fled from Toledo
with a scapulary of the Heart of Jesus sewed into his waistcoat, and a
beautiful silk scarf in his wallet, one of those worked by white hands
in the convents of the city. The son of the bell-ringer went with
him. They joined one of the insignificant bands who were devastating
Murcia, but they soon went on to Valencia and Catalonia, anxious to
perform greater exploits for the cause of God than merely stealing
mules and extorting contributions from the rich.

Gabriel felt an intense delight in this wandering life, with its
continual alarms owing to the proximity of the troops.

He had been made an officer at once, on account of his education, and
because of the letters of recommendation that certain of the prebends
of the Metropolitan Church had given him; letters lamenting greatly
that a youth of so much theological promise should go and risk his
life like a simple sacristan.

Luna enjoyed the free and lawless life of war with the zest of a
collegian out of bounds; but he could not hide the feeling of painful
disillusion that the sight of those armies of the Faith caused him.
He had expected to find something akin to the ancient crusading
expeditions: soldiers who fought for an ideal, who bent the knee
before beginning the fight, so that God might be on their side, and
who at night, after a hard-fought field, slept the pure sleep of an
ascetic; instead of which he found an armed mob, mutinous to their
leaders, incapable of that fanaticism which rushes blindfold to death,
anxious only that the war might last as long as possible, so that they
might continue the life of lawless wandering at the expense of the
country, which they considered the best life possible; people who
at the sight of wine, women or plunder would disband themselves,
hungering, turning against their leaders.

It was the ancient life of the horde, surging up through civilisation,
the atavic custom of stealing the stranger's bread and women by force
of arms, the ancient Celtiberic love of factions and internal strife,
that only caught hold of a political pretext in order to revive.

Gabriel, with very rare exceptions, found none in those badly-armed
and worse-clothed bands who fought with a fixed idea; they were
adventurers who wished for war for the sake of war; visionaries
anxious for fortune; country lads from the fields, who in their
passive ignorance had joined the factions, just as they would have
stayed at home if they had had better counsels; simple souls who
firmly believed that in the towns they were burning and destroying
God's ministers, and who had thrown themselves into the fray so that
society should not lapse into barbarism.

The common danger, the misery of the interminable marches to deceive
the enemy, the scarcity suffered in the barren fields and on the rough
hilltops on which they took refuge, made them all equals, enthusiasts,
sceptics or rustics. They all felt the same desire to compensate
themselves for their privations, to appease the ravenous beast they
felt inside, awakened and irritated by a life of such sudden changes;
as much by the wild abundance and plundering of a sack as by the
distress endured in the long marches over interminable plains without
ever seeing the slightest sign of life. On entering a town they would
shout, "Long live religion," but on the slightest provocation they
would do this, that and the other in the name of God and all the
saints, not omitting in their filthy oaths to swear by everything most
sacred in that same religion.

Gabriel, who soon became accustomed to this wandering life, ceased
to feel shocked. The former scruples of the seminarist vanished,
smothered under the crust of the fighting man, which became hardened
with war.

The romantic figure of Doña Blanca, the king's sister-in-law passed
before him, like a person in a novel; in her romantic energy this
princess wished to emulate the deeds of the heroines of La Vendeé, and
mounted on a small white horse, her pistol in her belt, and the white
scarf tied over her floating tresses, she put herself at the head of
these armed bands, who revived in the centre of the Peninsula
the strife of almost prehistoric times. The flutter of the dark
riding-habit of this heroine served as a standard to the battalions of
Zouaves, to the troop of French, German, and Italian adventurers, the
scum of all the wars on the globe, who found it pleasanter to follow
a woman anxious for fame than to enlist themselves into the foreign
legion of Algeria.

The assault of Cuenca, the sole victory of the campaign, made a deep
impression on Gabriel's memory; the troops of men wearing the scarf,
after they had knocked down the ramparts as weak as mud walls, rushed
like overflowing streams through the streets. The firing from the
windows could not stop them; they rushed in pale, with discoloured
lips and eyes brilliant with homicidal mania, the danger overcome, and
the knowledge that they were at length masters of the place drove them
mad; the doors of the houses fell under their blows, terrified men
rushed out to be pierced with bayonets in the streets, and in the
houses you could see women struggling in the arms of the assailants,
striking them in the face with one hand, while with the other they
struggled to retain their clothes.

Gabriel saw how the roughest of the mountaineers destroyed in the
Institute all the apparatus of the Cabinet of Physical Science,
breaking it in pieces. They were furious with these inventions of the
evil one, with which they thought the unbelievers communicated with
the Government of Madrid, and they smashed on the ground with the butt
ends of their muskets, and trampled with their feet, all the
gilt wheels of the apparatus, and all the discs and batteries of
electricity.

The seminarist was delighted at all this destruction; he also hated,
but it was with a calm, reflective hate bred in the seminary, all
positive and material sciences, for the sum total of his reasoning was
that they came perilously near to the negation of God; those sons of
the mountains in their blessed ignorance, had without knowing it done
a great deed. Ah! if only the whole nation would imitate them! In
former times there were none of these ridiculous inventions of
science, and Spain was far happier. To live a holy life, the learning
of the priests and the ignorance of the people was sufficient, for
both together produced a blessed tranquillity; what did they want
more? For so the country had existed for centuries, all through the
most glorious period of its existence.

The war came to an end, the closely pursued rebels passed through the
centre of Catalonia and were finally driven over the frontier, where
they were compelled to give up their arms to the French custom-house
officers. Many availed themselves of the amnesty, anxious to return to
their own homes. Mariano, the bell-ringer, was one of these. He did
not wish to live in a foreign land; besides, during his absence his
father had died, and it was extremely probable that he might succeed
to the charge of the Cathedral tower if he laid due stress on the
merits of his family, his three years' campaigning for the sake of
religion, and a wound he had received in his leg; he would really be
able to compare himself with the martyrs for Christianity.

Gabriel preferred emigration. "He was an officer and therefore
could not take the oath of allegiance to a usurping dynasty." This
declaration he made with all the pride learnt in this caricature of an
army, which emphasised all the ceremonies of ancient warfare, and who,
ragged and shoeless as they were, with their swords by their sides,
never failed to transmit orders to each other as "high-born officer."
But the real reason which prevented Luna from returning to Toledo was
that he wished to follow the course of events, to see new countries
and different customs. To return to the Cathedral would mean to remain
there for ever, to renounce everything in life, and he, who during the
war had tasted of worldly delights, had no desire to turn his back on
them quite so soon; also he was not yet of age, so he had plenty of
time before him in which to finish his studies; the priesthood was a
sure retreat, but one to which he was in no hurry to return just at
present; besides, his mother was dead, and his brother's letters told
him of no alteration in the sleepy life of the upper cloister, beyond
that the gardener was married and that the "Wooden Staff" was courting
a girl in the Claverias, it being against all the good traditions of
these people to ally themselves with anyone outside the Cathedral.

Luna lived for more than a year in the emigrants' cantonments; his
classical education and the sympathy aroused by his youth smoothed his
path to a certain extent; he talked Latin with the French abbés, who
were delighted to hear about the war from the young theologian, and
at the same time they taught him the language of the country. These
friends procured for him Spanish lessons among the upper middle
classes who were friendly to the Church. In these days of penury he
was saved by his friendship with an old legitimist Countess, who
invited him to spend several days in her country house, introducing
the warlike seminarist to all the grave and pious friends at her
assemblies as though he had been a crusader newly returned from
Palestine.

Gabriel's great desire was to go to Paris; his life in France had
radically changed his ideas, he really felt as though he had fallen
into a new planet. Accustomed to the monotonous life in the seminary,
and to the nomadic existence during that mountainous and inglorious
war, he was astonished at the material progress, the refinement of
civilisation, the culture and the well-being of the people in France.
He remembered now with shame his Spanish ignorance, all that Castilian
phantasmagoria, fed by lying literature, that had made him believe
that Spain was the first country in the world, and its people the
noblest and bravest, and that all the other nations were a sort of
wretched mob, created by God to be victims of heresy, and to receive
overwhelming punishment each time that they ventured to interfere with
this privileged country, which, though it eats little and drinks less,
has yet produced the holiest saints and the greatest captains of
Christendom.

When Gabriel could express himself fluently in French and had
contrived to save a few francs for his journey, he went to Paris. A
friendly abbé had procured him employment as corrector of proofs in a
religious library close to Saint Sulpice. In this priestly quarter of
Paris, with its hostels for the clergy and for religious families, as
gloomy as convents, with its shops full of pious images, which flood
the globe with varnished and smiling saints, was accomplished the
great transformation of Gabriel.

This quarter of Saint Sulpice with its streets almost Spanish in their
silence and peacefulness, with the sisters in black veils gliding by
the walls of the seminary, drawn by the sound of the bells, was for
the Spanish seminarist what the road to Damascus had been for the
Apostle. The French Catholicism, cultivated, reasoning and respectful
to human progress, bewildered Gabriel, whose fierce Spanish bigotry
had taught him to despise all profane science. There was only one true
learning in the world, and that was theology. The other sciences were
only toys, only fit to amuse the eternal infancy of humanity. To know
God and to meditate on the greatness of His power, this was the only
serious study to which men could devote themselves; machinery, the
discoveries of the positive sciences, in fact everything which did not
treat of divinity and the future life, was only a bagatelle for the
amusement of fools and people of no faith.

The former seminarist, who from his earliest childhood had despised
all human progress, was stupefied when he perceived how earnestly all
French Catholicism spoke of it. In correcting the proofs of so many
religious works he could not but notice the profound respect which
this despised science inspired in the good French priests, men of such
far superior culture to that of the canons down there. And moreover he
noticed a certain humble shrinking in the representatives of religion
when they came face to face with science--a desire to please, not
to be censorious, to help on with their sympathy any conciliatory
solutions, so that dogma should not fall to the ground, finding no
place in the rapid march of events that was hurrying humanity into
the future with the whirl of its new discoveries. Entire books were
written by eminent priests with the view of adjusting and bringing
into line the revelations of the holy books and the discoveries of
modern science, even at the risk of doing some violence to the former.
The ancient and venerable Church that Gabriel had seen in his own
country, immovable in its antiquated majesty, unwilling to move a
single fold of its mantle for fear of losing some of the dust of ages,
was stirring in France, endeavouring to renew itself, throwing on one
side the ancient garments of tradition, like old rags that would turn
it into ridicule, and stretching out its hands with almost despairing
strength to catch hold of the modern achievements of science; the
great enemy of yesterday, whose appearance had been ushered in with
bonfires and shameful abjurations was triumphant to-day.

What had that fatal apple of Paradise contained, that after six
thousand years of malediction that same Church had begun to venerate
it, striving to make it forget its ancient persecutions? Why was
religion, firm as a rock throughout the centuries, which had defied
persecutions, schisms and wars, beginning to dissolve before the
discoveries of a few men, and entering into that wild current which
sought for the cause and explanation of everything? If it had the
secular support of faith, why should it seek the assistance of reason
to maintain its traditions and to justify its dogmas?

Gabriel felt the same fever of curiosity which had obliged him as a
child to bend his back over the old volumes, bound in parchment, in
the library of the seminary; he wished to be acquainted with the
mysterious perfume of that hated science which had so disturbed God's
priests, and had made them indirectly deny the beliefs of nineteen
centuries. He wished to know why the sacred books were being
dislocated and tortured in order to explain by geological periods the
creation which God had accomplished in six days. What danger did they
hope to avoid by making the divinity appear before science in order to
explain its acts and fit them into the decisions of the latter?
Whence came the instinctive fear of the religious authors of roundly
affirming miracles? attempting instead to justify them by intricate
and tentative reasonings, without daring to adduce as the decisive
proof the incomprehensibility of supernatural prodigies.

For the time being Gabriel abandoned the tranquil atmosphere of the
religious library. His reputation as a humanist had reached the ears
of an editor living near the Sorbonne, so, without leaving the left
bank of the Seine, he moved into the Latin quarter to undertake the
correction of proofs in Latin and Greek. He earned in this way twelve
francs a day--far more than those canons of Toledo, who formerly had
appeared to him as great dukes. Jesus was a man of temptation. He was
tempted as no other man was ever tempted. The devil is the author of
temptation, and he had a peculiar interest in the temptation of
Jesus. Through temptation comes sin. Sin is the yielding of the will
under temptation to do wrong. The devil had a special interest
in inducing Jesus to sin. He was the representative of the race.
Their fortunes were all involved in His.

The consummation of His work as a Redeemer required a sinless life.
Hence if Jesus could be induced to yield to temptation, the world's
hope of salvation was forever gone. It is evident, therefore, that
the devil exhausted his resources to accomplish that end.
Consequently He was "tempted in all points like as we are," and
infinitely beyond what we know of temptation. And He who withstood
Satan in every onset has promised to be with us to the end, and
suffer us not to be tempted above what we are able, if we only keep
Him between us and the enemy of our souls. It is a source of profound
gratitude that we have a Saviour who has felt in all its forms the
tempting power of sin, who is full of sympathy for us in our
temptations, and who has promised to ever be in such our faithful
friend.

Hence the great apostle to the Gentiles, whose life was full of
temptation and trial, gives us a reason why we should "draw near with
boldness unto the throne of grace," that "we have not a high priest
that can not be touched with the feelings of our infirmities; but
one that hath been in all points tempted like we are; yet without
sin." This very fact in the character of our Saviour gives us humble
boldness to approach the throne of grace that nothing else could
give.
When we have given way under temptation, and our souls are burdened
with a sense of sin, we can come to God through the mediation of
Jesus, with a confidence that His sympathy for us has been perfected
by the experience of His own earthly life.

For Christ was perfected for the special parts of His work by His mission
among men. "For it become him, for whom are all things, and through
whom are all things, in bringing sons unto glory, to make the author
of their salvation perfect through sufferings." "And having been made
perfect, he became unto all them that obey him the author of eternal
salvation."
In order to accomplish the great work of redeeming the race, Christ
had to be a _man_.

He had to be human, as well as divine. Hence it was just as essential
that He be the Son of man as that He be the Son of God. He had to
make an offering for sin, and that required a human body. Hence he says,
"Sacrifice and offering thou wouldst not. But a body didst thou
prepare for me." He had to be human in order to die, and divine in
order to conquer death. Hence, while we exalt His divinity, we must
none the less appreciate His humanity. We must not cease to contemplate
our Lord and Saviour as the Son of man.

NEW TESTAMENT VIEWS OF CHRIST.

VI.--CHRIST THE GREAT TEACHER.

"We know that thou art a teacher come from God: for no man can do
these signs that thou does, except God be with him" (John iii.
2).

"And it came to pass, when Jesus ended these words, the multitudes
were astonished at his teaching: for he taught them as one having
authority, and not as their scribes" (Matt. vii. 28, 29).

"Never man spake like this man" (John vii. 46).

On "the great day of the feast"--the feast of the tabernacles--in the
second year of His ministry, Jesus was performing many miracles,
and there was great commotion among the people as to whether He was
the Christ. The chief priests and the Pharisees sent officers to take
Him.
But they returned without Him. Then the chief priests and Pharisees
said, "Why did you not bring him?" They simply reply, "Never man
so spake." These were, doubtless, resolute men who were accustomed
to obeying orders. But in this case they did not obey orders, nor even
try to do it. Their excuse for not doing so was peculiar. They gave no
ordinary or natural circumstances as hindering the execution of
orders.
They made no plea to exculpate themselves. They simply said, "No man
ever spake like this man." How, then, shall we account for this? There
was simply an unearthly majesty in the person, the manner and the
words of Jesus, that awed them into inaction. The very fact that
such men were so unnerved by the presence and words of Jesus, gives
us an idea of His majesty as a teacher, and of His power over men.
Thus it was that He could cleanse the temple, overturn the tables of
the money-changers, drive out the whole crew who were making
merchandise of the house of God, and no one resisted. When did the world
produce another man whose presence alone awed bold officers of the law
into disregard of duty, and the chastised multitude into
non-resistance?

Jesus was the world's great teacher, and yet He was never taught.
This fact was recognized by those who knew His history. "The Jews
therefore marveled, saying, How knoweth this man letters, having never
learned?" Jesus explained it by saying, "My teaching is not mine,
but His that sent me." This is the only satisfactory explanation
that can be given.
That Jesus was a man of unequaled wisdom, surpassing infinitely all
the great philosophers of renown, is freely admitted by the best
informed of modern skeptics.

That the world has been influenced by His teaching infinitely
beyond what it has been by that of any other man, is not denied.
That the world regards His teaching to-day, after eighteen hundred
years from the day of His death as a malefactor and His rest
in a borrowed grave, as it has never regarded the teaching of
another man, is also an admitted fact. How shall we account for
such teaching--teaching of such accumulating power over ages and
generations of men--when He Himself was untaught? The world can not
answer the question except as Jesus answered it: "My teaching is not
mine, but His that sent me."
Christ was the only teacher among men who never made a mistake. After
nearly two thousand years, during which His teaching has been subjected
to the severest scrutiny, He stands without conviction as to a
single error. Its ethics, its morals, its righteousness, its philosophy,
its wisdom, its accuracy, have stood the test of the most rigid
investigation.

How can this be accounted for on the hypothesis that Jesus was only a
man? The greatest of all other men, with the advantage of the world's
best facilities, and under teachers of renown, have furnished the world
with teaching full of mistakes and imperfections. If Jesus were only
a man, how came it that He was so infinitely superior to all other
men?

And if thus superior in wisdom, righteousness and purity, how belie
Himself in claiming to be infinitely more than a man? It were
impossible. The two things are mutually destructive. Jesus furnishes
the only explanation: "My teaching is not mine, but His that sent
me."

Jesus is _the_ teacher of the science of salvation. Others before Him
taught the things pertaining to salvation, but their teaching was
all by the Spirit of God, framed with reference to what His was to
be.

Others, after Him, taught the way of life, but they taught it as they
received it from Him. When He ascended to the Father He sent the
Holy Spirit as His advocate. The Spirit imparted to the apostles what
He received from Christ. He took the words of the coronated
Christ and gave them to the apostles, and they spake as the Spirit gave
them utterance (see John xvi. 7, 15). It follows, therefore, that
the teaching of the apostles is as infallible as that of the Christ,
for it is simply His.

It was not the purpose of Jesus to teach the wisdom of this world.

He was not of this world, and His teaching was not with reference
to this world. He came from another world, and the things pertaining
to another world were the ultimatum of His teaching. The way of
salvation is purely a matter of revelation. Man knows nothing about
it except what God has revealed through Christ. The same is true
as to that from which we are saved, and that to which we are saved.
We know nothing of God, heaven, hell and eternity, except that which
is revealed. All that we know of sin and its remedy we learn from
the great Teacher. The nature and the consequences of sin we learn
from the same source. The revelation of God is at once the source and
limit of our knowledge of sin and righteousness, and their
consequences. In the whole scheme of redemption Christ is the central
figure; and on it He is the great teacher and supreme authority.

Christ, as a teacher of law and morals, legislates for the heart. Men
can take cognizance only of deeds. They can not know the heart. Hence
they can judge it only by outward manifestations. But Christ knew what
was in man. Hence He could legislate for man's thoughts, as well as
his deeds. Hence He says: "Ye have heard that it was said, Thou shalt
not commit adultery: but I say unto you, that every one that looketh
on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already
in his heart."

Even the law of the Ten Commandments legislated against adultery
only as an outward act, but Christ legislates against the thought. In
this respect, as in many others, He is unique as a teacher.

Finally, He taught by His own authority. This was the cause of the
astonishment at the conclusion of the Sermon on the Mount. "The
multitudes were astonished at His teaching; for He taught them as one
having authority, and not as their scribes." The scribes taught that
which "was said to them of old time," and the traditions of men, but
Christ said, "I say unto you." Mark this feature in that discourse.
A dozen times does he say, "_I_ say unto you." This was in
harmony with that which was predicted of Him as a teacher.
"Moses indeed said, A prophet shall the Lord God raise up unto you
from among your brethren, like unto me; to him shall ye hearken in all
things whatsoever he shall speak unto you. And it shall be, that
every soul which shall not hearken to that prophet shall be utterly
destroyed from among the people." And in the presence of Moses and
Elijah, the great teachers of the past, the divine Father said:
"This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him."

All this recognizes one of the fundamental principles in the Christian
religion--the supreme authority of Christ.
The world seems slow to learn that what He said He said by His
own authority, whether personally or through the apostles and
prophets; that it needs no other support, and that it is the
irrepealable _law_ of the kingdom of God. Because we are not under the
law, but under grace, many conclude that we have a religious
latitude in which we may legislate for ourselves, forgetting that
Paul says we are "under law to Christ."

In our supreme ignorance we need a teacher--an infallible teacher; and
that we have in the person of Jesus. In order to become wise unto
salvation, we must hear and learn of Him. In believing what He says,
and doing what He directs, we have His divine assurance of salvation
from sin and a home in heaven.

NEW TESTAMENT VIEWS OF CHRIST.

VII.--CHRIST THE DELIVERER.

"And he [Jesus] came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up; and
he entered, as his custom was, into the synagogue on the sabbath day,
and stood up to read. And there was delivered unto him the book
of the prophet Isaiah. And he opened the book, and found the place where
it was written,

The spirit of the Lord is upon me, Because he anointed me to preach good
tidings to the poor:
He hath sent me to proclaim release to the captives, And recovering
of sight to the blind, To set at liberty them that are bruised, To
proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord.

And he closed the book, and gave it back to the attendant,
and sat down; and the eyes of all in the synagogue were fastened
on him.
And he began to say unto them, To-day hath this scripture been fulfilled
in your ears" (Luke iv. 16-21).

This sublime passage is a quotation of Isaiah lxi. 1-3. It contains
several words indicating a character in which the Messiah was
to appear, strikingly appreciated by the Jews at the time of the
prophecy.
Especially from the time of the Babylonish captivity did the Jews make
prominent the idea of a deliverer in the person of their promised
Messiah. "_Release_ to the _captives_" and "_liberty_ to the
_bruised_"--ill-treated by their captors--was to them a precious
proclamation, looked forward to with great anxiety, when deliverance
should be proclaimed and Israel should again be the free and
favored people of God.

Since this characteristic was so long appreciated as a matter of prophecy,
and Jesus announced its fulfillment in Himself, it is a befitting
occasion on which to briefly notice the relation of Christ to
prophecy.

The understanding of this relationship is important at any time,
because it furnishes a valuable class of evidence as to the Messiahship
and divinity of Jesus. It is especially so at this time, since infidels
are making a special effort to destroy the value of prophecy in this
respect; and some from whom we should expect better things seem to
be assisting in the work.

A great deal of importance was given to Messianic prophecies during the
days of the Saviour and the apostolic age of the church. Indeed, this
was the main source of evidence to the Jewish mind that Jesus was
the Christ. And the use made of it by Christ and the apostles shows
that it was abundant.

When Jesus talked with two of the disciples on their way to Emmaus,
on the day of the resurrection, He said to them: "O foolish men,
and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken!

Behooved it not the Christ to suffer these things, and to enter
into his glory? And beginning from Moses and from all the prophets,
he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning
himself." Here Jesus Himself states that Moses and all the prophets
prophesied of Him. And when He had returned to Jerusalem, and stood in
the midst of the eleven, He said to them: "These are my words which I
spake unto you, while I was yet with you, how that all things must
needs be fulfilled which are written in the law of Moses and the
prophets and the psalms concerning me." Thus the books of Moses, and
all the prophets, and the psalms, contained teaching concerning
the Christ, according to Jesus' own statement; and it was all
in the form of type and prophecy. Indeed, types are but forms of
prophecy.

Jesus charged the Jews with not believing Moses, and gave that as
the reason why they did not believe on Him. He said: "For if ye believe
Moses, ye would believe me: for he wrote of me. But if ye believe not
his writings how shall ye believe my words?" Like modern skeptics, they
did not believe the writings of Moses concerning the Messiah--did not
believe that they referred to the Messiah; hence their value was
destroyed, and they did not believe in Jesus.

Had they believed these prophecies they would have believed on Christ.

On the day of Pentecost Peter convinced the three thousand by argument
from prophecy concerning the Christ. In his sermon in Solomon's porch
the argument was likewise based upon prophecy. Paul's manner of
preaching (see Acts xvii. 1-3) was to show the prophecies of the Old
Testament concerning the Messiah and then show that these were
fulfilled in Jesus of Nazareth.

Therefore the conclusion was necessitated that He was the Christ. As
this was Paul's method, he evidently attached to prophecy the highest
possible value. That all the apostles did this is evident from the
statement of Peter. Speaking of their being "eye-witnesses of His
majesty," and of the infallible signs He gave of His divinity,
he says: "And we have the word of prophecy made more sure; whereunto
ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a lamp shining in a dark
place."

How are we to determine the Messianic prophecies? We unhesitatingly
reply, by the example of Christ and the apostles. Three important
points are established by their testimony: (1) They teach that such
prophecies are numerous, and made by Moses, David, and all the prophets.
(2) They quote or refer to specifically, and thus apply, quite a
number. It is evident that these are Messianic, because so applied. (3)
Since Christ and the apostles designate a large number as Messianic,
we are safe in concluding that others are so that are of like
character. They are infallible judges, and they furnish us a
criterion by which to judge.

It is not true, as claimed, that in order to a Messianic prophecy, the
prophet making it must so understand it at the time. On the
contrary, Peter tells us that they searched diligently to ascertain
the things and the time of them referred to in their own prophecies
concerning the sufferings of the Christ and the glory that was to
follow. (See I. Pet.
i. 10-12). They, therefore, did not understand the things or the time
referred to. Since they did not know these, they did not know that the
prophecy referred to the Messiah. The same Peter did not understand
some of his own utterances on the day of Pentecost. His language
here makes the promise of salvation to Gentiles as well as to Jews.
But he did not so understand it till he had a special revelation
at Joppa and the house of Cornelius.

Nor is it true, as claimed, that a Messianic prophecy must have
been so understood by the people before its fulfillment. Many of the
Messianic prophecies were not understood as such in Old Testament
times. The Saviour charged this want of understanding upon His
disciples, and told them that if they had correctly interpreted Moses
and the prophets, in this very respect, they would have known that His
death was required by such prophecies, and they would not have
received the story of His resurrection as an idle tale. Moreover,
He charged the Jews that this failure to understand Messianic
prophecies, as such, was the ground of their not believing on Him.
(See John v. 45-47).

In regard to types, which is a feature of prophetic teaching, and
a strong chapter of evidence as to inspiration, Clark Braden says:
"There are but few real types in the Bible; that is, there are but
few things that men devised and acted with the intention of
symbolizing or typifying anything future.

There are exceeding few that were devised or acted with that as their
sole object." It would be difficult for one to crowd more flagrant
error into the same space than the above contains, if he were to
make it a specialty.

It contains the following positions, all of which are false: (1) That
there are but few types in the Bible.
(2) That types are _devised_ by _men_. (3) That types were "devised
and acted" by the same party. (4) That they were "devised and
acted" by men with the intention of typifying something future. (5)
That this, in order to their value as evidence of inspiration, should
have been "their sole object." This will do quite well for five
lines. We would suggest that _God_ devised types, not men.

While men were the actors, they were not the originators. While men
may not have intended to typify anything in the case, God did. While
types were intended by God to typify something future, this was not
"their sole object." God had in them a purpose for the actors in
addition to their typical significance. The purpose they then served
detracts not from their value as types. As to the comparative
number, we prefer Paul as authority. Speaking of the wilderness life
of the Israelites, from their baptism in the cloud and in the sea,
he says: "Now these things happened unto them by way of types [_tupoi_],
and they were written for our admonition."

This history contains numerous types, Paul being judge. Indeed, the
patriarchal and Jewish religions were mainly typical. When Noah built
the ark to the saving of his house, it is not probable that he thought
of anything typical. Certainly that was not the only purpose, nor
the main purpose. But Peter says it was a type, all the same.

The fact that God's people did not understand the full significance of
their worship, did not destroy its character or its value. The same is
true now. While God's oppressed people worshiped in types and symbols
which foreshadowed the perfection to come, they were taught by the
spirit of prophecy to look with longing anxiety to the coming of
a deliverer. While, in debate, we may not rely on a large number of
prophecies as Messianic, because the proof is not conclusive, it
does not effect the fact that many of them have that character.

To appreciate Christ as a deliverer one must realize his own
bondage--the slave of sin, and sold under its power.

There is no appreciation of the Deliverer till there is a longing for
deliverance, and no longing for deliverance till there is a hatred
of bondage. Hence one must have a just sense of the heinousness
of sin before he can appreciate Christ as a Saviour.

In coming to this world to deliver us, Christ had, in a sense, to
come within the dominion of Satan, and under the assaults of sin.
This is typfied by Moses going into Egypt to deliver his brethren.
He had to place himself under the reign of Pharaoh, and in order to
deliver his brethren he had to deliver himself. The Son of God took
upon Him our humanity. This He had to do to make a sacrifice and
be a mediator for us. In doing this He placed Himself under the
tempting power of sin, and was tempted in all points as we are. He
had to save Himself from this condition before He could save us.
This was done through death and the resurrection. With Him the old
life ceased at the cross, and the new one began from the grave. He
conquered Satan--dragged the captor captive--and was forever
delivered from his tempting power.

"He died unto sin once," says Paul; and we die to sin just where
He did, being put to death by the cross. We are buried with
Him, and rise with Him to walk in newness of life. Thus the new
life begins with us just where it began with Him--from the grave--the
grave of baptism in which we are buried together and rise together.
The denominational world want to make the new life begin from the
cross. But it did not thus begin with Jesus, and Paul says it does
not thus begin with us.

NEW TESTAMENT VIEWS OF CHRIST.
VIII.--CHRIST THE GREAT PHYSICIAN.
"They that are whole have no need of a physician; but they that are
sick. I am not come to call the righteous, but sinners, to repentance"
(Luke v. 31, 32).
"For this people's heart is waxed gross, And their ears are dull
of hearing, And their eyes they have closed; Lest haply they should
perceive with their eyes, And hear with their ears, And understand
with their heart, And should turn again, And I should heal them"
(Matt. xiii. 15).
"He hath sent me to heal the broken-hearted" (Luke iv. 18).
Several times, either directly or indirectly, Christ alludes to
Himself as a physician. In this character He is worthy of careful
study.
The first thing in order to appreciate a physician, is to realize
that one is sick. The Saviour says the well need not a physician.
It is equally true that the well care not for a physician. Sin is
the disease of which Christ, as a physician, is the healer. The
disease is deadly.
The smallest amount is fatal. The Great Physician alone can heal
it.
There is no other remedy. When a man is once affected, however much
he may keep it under control, and prevent its increase, there is
never a diminution of the disease till the remedy of the Great
Physician is applied.
There is much senseless talk about depravity that necessarily
implies, though its advocates may not so intend, that sin has
comparatively little condemnatory force.The climate of London aggravated Gabriel's illness, and in about two
years he was obliged to move to the Continent, although England with
its absolute liberty was the only land where he could have lived
quietly and ignored.

His existence was a cruel one, always a fugitive through the different
countries of Europe, driven from one place to another by the vigilance
of the police, thrown into prison, or expelled on the slightest
suspicion. It was a return to the ancient persecution of the gipsies,
the constant hunting of independent people, leading vagabond lives, of
the Middle Ages. His illness and his desire for rest and peace made
him return to Spain. Time had produced a certain amount of tolerance
towards the exiles, and in Spain everything is soon forgotten, and
though the authorities are harder and less scrupulous than in other
countries, still they interfere less on account of their improvidence
and the carelessness natural to the race.

Sick and without any work by which he could earn his living, precluded
from seeking work among the printers, as his name was encircled by
a halo which terrified the masters, Gabriel fell into such extreme
poverty that the little help and succour his companions could afford
were unable to relieve it, and he travelled from end to end of the
Peninsula begging from his fellows and hiding from the police.

His spirit was broken, he was conquered, and he had no longer strength
to continue the struggle. Nothing remained for him but to die, but
merciful death came slowly to his call. He thought of his brother, the
only affection remaining to him in the world; he remembered the quiet
family in the Claverias, of which he had caught a glimpse on his last
visit to the Cathedral, and he turned to seek them as his last hope.

On his return to Toledo, he found the happy family dissolved;
misfortune had come even to that silent and stagnant corner.

But the Cathedral, insensible to all human vicissitudes was there,
the same as ever, and to it he clung, hiding himself in its recesses,
hoping to die there in peace, with no other hope but to be forgotten;
dying before his proper time, tasting the bitter happiness of
annihilation, leaving behind him at the door, like an animal who sheds
its skin, all that rebellion which had drawn upon him the hatred of
society.

His happiness was not to think, not to speak, to mould himself to that
dead world; he would be among the living statues peopling the upper
cloister, one more automaton; he would imitate those beings who seemed
to have absorbed into themselves something of the austerity of the
granite buttresses, he would inhale like a healing balsam the scent
of the rusty iron railings and the incense that spread through the
church, the ancient perfume of the past centuries.


CHAPTER IV


On leaving the cloister in the mornings soon after daybreak, the first
person Gabriel would see was Don Antolin, the "Silver Stick." This
priest exercised an authority like that of Governor of the Cathedral,
for all the lay servants were under his orders, and all the repairs of
little importance were done under his supervision.

Down below, in the church, he watched the sacristans and the acolytes,
careful that the canons and beneficiaries should have no cause of
complaint in the services. Upstairs, in the cloister, he watched over
the good behaviour and cleanliness of the families, being by the grace
of the cardinal archbishop a sort of magistrate over that little town.

He occupied the best "habitacion" in the Claverias. At the great
ceremonies he walked in front of the Chapter in his pluvial, carrying
a silver stick nearly as tall as himself, making the tiles of the
pavement re-echo with its blows. During High Mass and the choir in the
evening he walked about the naves to check any irreverence on the part
of the congregation or any inattention on that of the staff. At eight
o'clock at night in the winter, and at nine in summer, he locked the
door of the staircase leading to the upper cloister, putting the key
in his pocket, and so all the people in the cloister remained quite
isolated from the town. If now and again anyone was taken ill in the
night, it was necessary to wake Don Antolin who, plunging his hand
into the depths of his cassock, would produce his key, and deign to
restore communication with the outer world.

He was about seventy years of age, small and wizened; age had scarcely
tinged his shaven crown with grey, his forehead was broad and square,
and rose straight beneath the silk cap he wore in winter. His features
were rather drawn out, without a single wrinkle, and devoid of any
expression that showed emotion, the jaw-bone narrow and sharp, and the
eyes as inexpressive and motionless as the rest of the face, but with
a cold, penetrating glance that was extremely disconcerting.

Gabriel had known him from his childhood; he was, to use his own
expression, like a private soldier of the church, who by reason of his
years and services had attained the rank of sergeant, but who could
rise no further. When Luna first entered the seminary Don Antolin had
just been ordained priest, and since then had passed his life in the
sacristy of the Primacy where he had begun as acolyte.

On account of his absolute and irrational faith and his unbending
adhesion to the Church, the professors in the seminary had pushed him
on in his career, in spite of his ignorance; he was a son of the soil,
having been born in a village in the mountains round Toledo. The Holy
Metropolitan Church was to him the second house of God in the world,
only ranking after Saint Peter's in Rome, and all ecclesiastical
learning was to him like rays emanating from the Divine wisdom, which
blinded him, and were to be adored with the profound respect of
ignorance.

He had that blessed and entire want of education so appreciated by the
Church in former years. Gabriel felt sure that if Silver Stick had
been born in the flourishing times of Catholicism he would have become
a saint on dedicating himself to the spiritual life, or he would have
played an excellent part in the Inquisition on the arrival of that
militant society. Having come into the world at the wrong time, when
faith was weakened and the Church could no longer impose its laws
by violence, the good Don Antolin had remained hidden in the lower
administration of the Cathedral, assisting the Canon Obrero in the
division and assignment of the money that the State allowed to the
Primacy, giving long thought over the spending of each handful of
farthings, endeavouring that the holy house, like the ruined families,
should keep up its good outward appearance without revealing the
poverty inside.

He had been promised several times a chaplaincy of nuns, but he was
one of those faithful to the Cathedral, one of those quite in love
with the great establishment. He was proud of the confidence that the
Lord Archbishop placed in him, and of the frank friendliness
with which the canons and beneficiaries spoke to him, and of his
administrative conferences with the Obrero and the Treasurer. For this
reason he could not repress a gesture of contemptuous superiority when
having donned his pluvial, and clutching his silver stick, he advanced
and spoke to any strange clergy from the neighbouring villages who
visited the Primacy.

His faults were purely ecclesiastic; he saved in secret, with that
cold, determined avarice so usual at all times in people attached to
the Church. His greasy skull cap had been discarded as too old by its
former owner, one of the canons; his cassock of a greenish black and
his shoes had also belonged to some one of the beneficiaries; in the
Claverias they all whispered of the monies hoarded by Don Antolin,
and of his savings that were devoted to usury--loans that never went
beyond two or three duros to the poorer servants of the church ground
down by poverty, and which he recovered with interest at the beginning
of every month when they were paid by the Canon Obrero. In him avarice
and usury were joined to the most implicit honesty in regard to the
interests of the church; he would punish relentlessly the smallest
pilfering in the sacristy, and he made up his accounts for the Chapter
with a minuteness that annoyed the Obrero. To every one his own, the
church was poor and it would be a sin worthy of hell to deprive her of
a single farthing; he, as a good servant of God was poor also, and he
thought he was doing no wrong in drawing a certain profit from the
money he had gathered together by dint of bargaining, and by many
painful privations in the midst of his poverty.

His niece, Mariquita, lived with him, an ugly woman with masculine
features and a fresh colour, who had come from the mountains to look
after her uncle, of whose riches and power in the Primacy all his
relations and friends in the village talked a great deal. She rode
roughshod over all the other women in the Claverias, taking undue
advantage of Don Antolin's supreme authority. The more timid formed
round her a circle of adulation, endeavouring to evoke her protection
by cleaning her house and cooking for her, while Mariquita, dressed in
the habit, and with her hair most carefully combed--the only luxury
allowed by her uncle--loitered about the cloister hoping to meet there
some cadet, or that some of the foreigners visiting the tower or the
hall of the giants would take notice of her. She made sheep's eyes
at every man; and she, so hard and imperious to all the women, would
smile sweetly on all the bachelors living in the Claverias. The "Tato"
was a great friend of hers; he would come and visit her when her uncle
was absent in order to air his graces as apprentice to a Torrero.
Gabriel, with his delicate looks, his mysterious self-containment, and
the confused story of all his great travels about the world interested
her not less; she would even speak with marked deference to the
"Wooden Staff," as he was both a man and a widower, and, as the
"Perrero" wickedly said, the very sight of a pair of trousers nearly
drove the poor woman mad in that establishment where the greater part
of the men wore petticoats.

Don Antolin had known Gabriel since his childhood, and spoke to him in
the second person. The ignorant priest still retained the remembrance
of Luna's great triumphs obtained in the seminary, and though he saw
him so poor and ailing, taking refuge in the Cathedral almost on
charity, his "tuteo" of superiority was not free from admiration.
Gabriel, on his side, feared Silver Stick, knowing his intolerant
fanaticism. For this reason he confined himself to listening to him,
careful in their conversation that not a single word should slip in
which could betray his past. He would be the first to demand his
expulsion from the Cathedral, where he wished to live unknown and
silent.

On meeting each other in the cloister, the two men began with the same
questions every morning:

"How is your health to-day?"

Gabriel showed himself an optimist. He knew that his illness had
no remedy; still, that quiet life free from all emotions, and his
brother's care, feeding him at all hours, like a bird and almost by
force, had arrested the decay of his health. The course of the illness
was slower--death was meeting with obstacles.

"I am better, Don Antolin. And yesterday, what sort of a day had you?"

Silver Stick plunged his dirty and horny hands into the recesses of
his cassock, and produced three greasy little ticket-books, one red,
one green and the third white. He turned over the leaves, considering
the counterfoils of those he had torn out; he took the most respectful
care of these little books, as though they were far more important
than the big music books in the choir.

"A very slack day, Gabriel! Being in the winter, so few people travel.
Our best time is in the spring, when they say the English come in by
Gibraltar. They go first to the fair in Seville, and afterwards they
come to have a look at our Cathedral. Besides, in milder weather the
people come from Madrid, and although they grumble, the flies crowd
to see the giants and the big bell, then I have to hurry with the
tickets; one day, Gabriel, I took eighty duros. I remember it was at
the last 'Corpus'; Mariquita had to sew up the pockets of my cassock,
for they tore with the weight of so many pesetas; it was a blessing
from the Lord."

He looked sadly at the little books, as though regretting that many
days passed in winter when he only tore out one or two leaves. This
plan of selling entrance tickets to see the treasures and curiosities
of the Cathedral filled all his thoughts. It was the salvation of the
church, the modern proceeding to help it on, and he felt proud of
fulfilling this function, which made him one of the most important
persons in the life of the temple.

"You see these green tickets?" said he to Gabriel. "These are the
dearest, they cost two pesetas each. With these you can see everything
that is most important--the treasury, the chapel of the Virgin, and
the Ochavo with its relics which are unique in the world. The other
cathedrals are dirt compared with ours, and their relics lies, many of
them invented on account of the envy that our Holy Metropolitan Church
inspired. You see these red ones? These only cost six reals, and with
them you can visit the sacristies, the wardrobe, the chapels of Don
Alvaro de Luna and of Cardinal Albornoz, and the Chapter-house, with
its two rows of portraits of the archbishops which are wonders. Who
would not scrape their purse to see such prodigies?"

Afterwards he added, showing the last ticket book with contempt:

"These white ones are only worth two reals. They are to see the giants
and the bells. We sell a great many of those to the lower class who
come to the Cathedral on feast days. Could you believe it, but many
of the Protestants and Jews call this a robbery? The other day three
soldiers came from the Academy with some country folks to see the
giants, and they made quite a scandalous scene because we would not
let them in for an old song. As if we were asking their charity! Many
of them commit all sorts of nuisances about the Cathedral, just as
if they were heretics, to say nothing of their drawing all sorts
of abominable things and writing obscene words on the walls of the
staircase. What shocking times, eh, Gabriel? What shocking times!"

Luna smiled silently, and Silver Stick, encouraged by what seemed to
him acquiescence, went on with pride:

"And about these tickets, I invented them--that is to say, I am not
really their inventor, but their introduction into this house is owing
to me. You have travelled so much, and must have seen in those foreign
countries that everything is shown on payment. The Lord Cardinal
before this one, who is now in blessed glory (and he raised his hand
to his skull cap) had also travelled a great deal--he was quite a
'modern,' and had he lived would have ended by putting electric light
in the naves of the Cathedral. I heard him on one occasion speak of
what was done in the museums and other interesting places in Rome
and other towns; unrestricted entrance at all hours--on payment, an
immense convenience to the public, who required to get no tickets
beforehand to visit these things. So one day when the Obrero and I
were biting our nails, seeing that this miserable thousand and odd
pesetas (God forgive me!) that this unhappy State allows us, could not
possibly suffice for our monthly expenses, I propounded my idea. Now,
could you believe that some of the gentlemen in the Chapter opposed
it? Some of the young canons spoke of the sellers in the Temple, you
know who they were--certain Jews who drove the Lord out with scourges
in their hand, for I know not what misdemeanours. The older ones said
the Cathedral had always had its treasures open to all for centuries,
and so it ought to go on. All the gentlemen were quite right, but
you cannot do anything with a stupid canon, and at last the defunct
cardinal, who is now in the enjoyment of God (another tug at his cap)
interfered, and the Chapter were obliged, though with much grumbling,
to accept the reform, and they ended by praising it. In all bitter
there is a sweet! Do you know how much money I handed to the Lord
Cardinal last year? More than three thousand duros, nearly as much as
this sinful State allows us, and this without prejudice to anybody.
The public pays, they admire and they go; in any case they are only
birds of passage who come once, and when they go they do not return.
And what are four wretched pesetas, when for that money you can see
one of the most glorious churches in Christendom, the cradle of
Spanish Catholicism, the Cathedral of Toledo!"

The two men were walking in the cloister on the side warmed by the sun
at that early hour, the cleric had put away his ticket books, and his
eyes were fixed on Gabriel, who thought that to smile in his enigmatic
way, which Don Antolin accepted as assent, quite met the situation,
and it encouraged him to continue his confidences.

"Ay, Gabriel! You cannot think that my heavy duties can be fulfilled
without hard work; the Cardinal trusts me, the Chapter distinguish
me with their regard, and the Obrero has no other hope but in my
assistance. Thanks to these tickets we can carry the Cathedral along,
and keep up its ancient appearance of grandeur, so that the public
will come and admire. But we are poorer than rats, and we must be
thankful that even some crumbs are left us from the past. If the wind
or the hail break some of our glass in the naves, we can still lay our
hands on some of the stores left by the Obreros of former days. Ay,
señor! And to think there was a time when the Chapter maintained at
its own expense inside the church, cutters and painters of glass,
plumbers, and I know not what beside, so that any great works could be
undertaken without seeking any help outside the house! If one of the
tombs gets broken, even now we have quantities of borderings carved
with saints and flowers that are wonderful to see. But what will
happen when all these are finished? When the last pane of glass in
the stores has been broken, and the last fragments of carving in the
Obreria used up? We shall have to put cheap white panes in the windows
to prevent the rain and wind coming in. The Cathedral will look like
an inn--may God forgive me the comparison--and the priests of the
Primacy will praise God dressed like the chaplain of a hermitage."

And Don Antolin laughed sarcastically, as though this future that he
was anticipating was an absurd contradiction of the eternal laws.

"You will easily believe," he went on, "that they do not waste
anything, and that they make money out of every possible thing. The
garden that was for so many years in your family is now leased out by
the Chapter, since your brother's death; twenty duros a year your Aunt
Tomasa pays for her son to cultivate it, and this only because, as you
know, the old woman is such a great friend of His Eminence, as they
have known each other since they were children. I go about like a
water carrier, all round the church and the cloisters, watching that
no one plays tricks, for there are a lot of young light-hearted
people, whom you cannot trust. One minute I am in the Ochavo, watching
that your nephew the 'Tato' has sold the tickets to the foreigners
(for he is quite capable of letting them in gratis if they tip him
on leaving), and the next I am up in the cloister looking after that
shoemaker who repairs the giants; they cannot deceive me, no one
escapes me without paying; but, ay! it is a long while since I have
sung mass. You can see me at mid-day when the Cathedral is closed
reading my hours hurriedly in the cloisters, watching the clock in
order to go down the moment the church is opened, when the strangers
begin to come to see the treasury. This is not the life of a good
Catholic, and if God does not lay it to my account that I am doing it
all for the glory of His house, I fear that I shall lose my soul."

The two men walked up and down some time in silence, but Don Antolin
could not hold his tongue for long when the subject was the economic
life of the Primacy.

"And to think, Gabriel," he continued, "that having been what we were
in former times, we should have come to this! You and most of those
alive have no idea how rich this house used to be--as rich as a king,
and often far richer. From a child no one has known as you have the
history of our glorious archbishops, but of the fortune they amassed
for God, you know nothing. Of course these temporalities do not
interest learned people like you. Have you any idea what donations the
kings and great lords gave in their lifetime to our Cathedral, or the
legacies they left her on their deathbeds? You have a great deal to
learn! I know all about it, I have searched in the Obreria, in the
archives, in the library; everyone does what interests them, and I and
the Señor Obrero have often raged at the indigence of the house, but I
console myself by thinking of what we had, long before any of us were
born. We were very rich, Gabriel--very, very rich. The archbishops of
Toledo could have placed one or two crowns on their mitre, I dare not
say three, for I think of the Supreme Pontiff. First of all, there is
the Deed of Gift to the Cathedral, made by the King Alfonso VI., by
reason of his having conquered Toledo. It was made a hermitage, after
the election of the Bishop Don Bernardo, and I have seen it in the
archives with my own sinful eyes, a parchment with Gothic letters, and
at the head is written, 'The privileges of this Holy Church.' The good
king gave to the Cathedral nine towns--if I wished I could tell you
their names--several mills, and vineyards innumerable, houses and
shops in the town, and he ends by saying with all the munificence of
a Christian cavalier, 'This, therefore, in such a way I give, and I
grant to this church and to you, Bernard, Archbishop, in free and
perfect gift, that neither by homicide, nor any other calumny, shall
it ever be forfeited. Amen.' Afterwards, Don Alfonso VII. gave us
eight towns on the other side of the Guadalquiver, several ovens, two
castles, the salt works of Belinchon, and a tenth of all the money
coined in Toledo, for the vestments of the prebendaries. The VIII. of
the name showered on the Cathedral a perfect rain of gifts, towns,
villages, and mills. Illescas is ours, and a great part of Esquivias,
as also the mortgage on Talavera. Afterwards came the fighting
prelate, Don Rodrigo, who took much land from the Moors, and the
Cathedral possesses one principality, the Adelantamiento de Cazorla,
with towns like Baza, Niebla, and Alcaraz. And besides the kings there
is a great deal to be said about the nobles, great princes who showed
their generosity to the Holy Metropolitan Church. Don Lope de Haro,
Lord of Vizcaya, not content with paying the cost of the building from
the Puerta de los Escribanos as far as the choir, gave us the town of
Alcubilete, with its mills and fisheries, and he also left a legacy
so that in the choir when complines are sung, that lamp called the
Preciosa should be lighted, which is placed by the great bronze eagle
belonging to the big missal. Don Alfonso Tello de Meneses gave us
four towns on the banks of the Guadiana, granted us tithes and bridge
tolls, and I know not what riches besides. We have been very powerful,
Gabriel; the territory of this diocese is larger than a principality.
The Cathedral had property on the earth, in the air, and in the sea!
Our dominions extended throughout the whole nation from end to end;
there was not a single province in which we did not hold possessions.
Everything contributed to the glory of the Lord, and to the comfort
and welfare of His ministers; everything paid to the Cathedral: bread
when it was baked in the ovens, the casting of the net, wheat as it
passed through the mill, money as it came from the Mint, the traveller
as he went on his way; the country people who then paid no taxes or
contributions served their king and saved their own souls, giving
the best sheaf in every ten, so that the granaries of the Holy
Metropolitan Church were quite insufficient to contain such abundance.
What times were those, Gabriel! There was faith, Gabriel, and faith
is the chief thing in life--without faith there is no virtue nor
decency--nor nothing."

He stopped for a moment, quite out of breath with talking. The priest
was so saturated with the atmosphere of the Cathedral, that in himself
he seemed to unite all the various scents of the church; his cassock
had collected the mouldy smell of the old stones and the rusty iron
railings, and his mouth seemed to breathe of the gutters and the
gargoyles, and the rank damp of the garrets.

With the rapid enumeration of all the past wealth Don Antolin warmed,
even to indignation.

"And having been so rich, now we find ourselves in extreme poverty.
And I, my son, a priest of the Lord, am obliged to go hither and
thither with those tickets so that we may all live, just as though
I were a seller of entrance tickets to a bull-fight, and the Lord's
house were a theatre, having to endure all those foreign heretics,
who come in without blessing themselves, and who look at everything
through opera-glasses. And I have to smile at them because they pay us
and provide us with some dessert for our poor stew! Carape! Jesus have
mercy on me! I was going to say a sacrilege."

Don Antolin continued his angry complaints till, in passing the front
of his house, Mariquita of the scowling and ugly countenance appeared
at the door.

"Uncle, enough of walking. Your chocolate is getting cold."

But before the priest disappeared into his house, she went on, smiling
amiably at Luna:

"Will you have some, Don Gabriel?"

And with her bold eyes, like a hungry wolf, she invited Luna to enter.
She liked the masterful ways of the man, she said, and the ease which
his former intercourse with the world had given him, and, moreover,
for her woman's imagination Gabriel's mysterious past possessed
a great attraction; his proud silence, the vague reports of his
adventures, and the smile, as much compassionate as disdainful, with
which he listened to the people of the upper cloister.

The insinuating Mariquita withdrew, and Gabriel continued his walk
through the cloister, after finishing the little jar of milk that his
brother brought him up every morning.

At eight o'clock, Don Luis, the Chapel-master, came out, his cloak
wrapped as usual theatrically round him, and his big hat well tilted
back, like a glory, round his enormous head; he was humming absently,
restless with perpetual nervous movements; he inquired anxiously if
the bell had yet rung for the choir, frightened by the threats of a
fine in case he were late. Gabriel felt himself very much attracted
by this poor priestly musician, who lived so despised in the furthest
corner of the church, thinking far more of music than of dogma.

In the evenings Gabriel would often go up to the little room inhabited
by the Chapel-master, on the tipper floor of the Lunas' house; the
room contained all the priest's fortune--a little iron bed, which had
belonged formerly to the seminarist, two plaster busts of Beethoven
and Mozart, and an enormous pile of bundles of music, bound scores,
loose sheets of ruled paper, so big and so piled up and disorderly
that every now and then a pile would slip down, covering the floor of
the little room with white sheets to its furthest corner.

"That is how all his money goes," said the Wooden Staff with an air of
good-natured reproof, "he will never have a farthing. As soon as he
gets his pay he orders more music from Madrid. It would be far better
for Don Luis if he were to buy himself a new hat, even if it were a
cheap one, so that the gentlemen of the choir should not laugh at the
covering he has on his head."

In the winter evenings, after the choir, the musician and Gabriel took
refuge in this little room. The canons, wishing to avoid the cold
winds and the rain, took their daily walk in the galleries of the
upper cloister, not wishing to forego this exercise to which their
methodical existence had accustomed them. The rain would beat on the
window of the little room, and in the dull grey twilight the musician
would turn over his portfolios, or letting his hands wander over the
harmonium, he would talk the while with Gabriel, who was seated on the
bed.

The musician would grow excited, speaking of his love of art. In the
midst of some peroration he would become suddenly silent, and bending
over the instrument its melodies would fill the room, and floating
down the staircase would reach the ears of the walkers in the cloister
like a distant echo. Suddenly he would cease playing and resume his
chattering, as though afraid that with his absent-mindedness his ideas
would evaporate.

The silent Luna was the only listener he had met with in the
Cathedral; the first who would listen to him for long hours without
ridiculing him or thinking him crazy, and who often showed by his
short interruptions and questions the pleasure with which he listened.

The end of the evening's conversation was always the same--the
greatness of Beethoven, the idol of the poor musician.

"I have loved him all my life," said the Chapel-master, "I was
educated by a Jeronomite friar, an old man driven from his convent
who, after leaving it, had wandered over the world as a professor
of the violoncello. The Jeronomites were the great musicians of the
Church. You did not know this, neither should I have known it if this
holy man had not taken me under his protection soon after I was born,
and been to me a real father. It appears that in olden days each order
devoted itself to some special thing. One, I think the Benedictines,
copied and annotated old books; others made sweet liqueurs for the
ladies, others were wonderfully clever in training cage birds, and
the Jeronomites studied music for seven years, each one playing the
instrument of his choice, and to these we owe that there has been
preserved in the Spanish churches a little, but very little, good
musical taste. And from what my little father told me, what wonderful
orchestras these Jeronomites must have had in their convents! For the
ladies it was a great delight to go on Sunday evenings to the parlour,
where they met the good fathers, each one a master of his own
particular instrument. These were the only concerts in those days, and
with their pittance assured, and no anxiety as to housing or clothing
themselves, and with the love of art as their only duty, you may
imagine, Gabriel, what musicians they could become. For this reason,
when the friars were expelled from their convents the Jeronomites were
not the worst off. There was no need to beg masses in the churches
or to live on the charity of devout families; they were able to earn
their bread by an art conscientiously studied, and consequently they
soon got places as organists and Chapel-masters; the Chapters really
fought for them. Some were more venturesome, and, anxious to see more
of that musical world which had seemed to them while in their convents
a vision of Paradise, entered the orchestras of theatres, many
travelling even to Italy, transforming themselves so entirely that
even their own former prior could not have recognised them. One of
these was my little father. What a man! He was a good Christian, but
he had thrown himself so thoroughly into music that he retained
very little of the former friar. When he was told that probably the
convents would be re-established, he shrugged his shoulders with
indifference, a new sonata interested him much more. He sometimes said
things that have always lived in my memory. I remember one day when I
was a child he took me to a meeting of musical friends in Madrid, who
played, for their own pleasure only, the famous 'Seventh Symphony.' Do
you know it? It is the freshest and most graceful of all Beethoven's
works. I remember my little father leaving the room quite wrapped up
in himself, with his head bent, dragging me along, for I could hardly
keep up with his long footsteps, and when we got home he looked at me
fixedly, as though I had been a grown-up person. 'Listen, Luis,' he
said, 'and remember this well. There is only one Lord in the world,
Our Lord Jesus Christ, and there are two lesser lords, Galileo and
Beethoven.'"

The musician looked lovingly at the plaster bust which faced the room
from one corner, with its leonine brows and the diffident eyes of a
deaf person.

"I do not know much about Galileo," continued Don Luis. "I know that
he was a very wise man, and a scientific genius. I am only a musician
and I know very little about other things, but I adore Beethoven,
and I think my little father did the same--he is a god; the most
extraordinary man the world has ever produced. Don't you think so,
Gabriel?"

His nerves were quivering with his excitement, and getting up, he
walked rapidly up and down the room, trampling on all the loose sheets
of music.

"Ay! how I envy you, Gabriel, having travelled so much, and having
heard so many good things! The other night I could not sleep for
thinking of all you had told me about your life in Paris--those
beautiful Sunday afternoons when you would go to the Lamoureax
concerts, or sometimes to Colonnas, giving yourself a surfeit of
sublimity! And here am I, shut up, my only hope being perhaps to
conduct a Mass of Rossini's at one of the great festivals! My only
comfort is to read music, instructing myself thoroughly in those great
works that so many fools in the towns can listen to half asleep and
bored. Here I have, in this pile, the nine symphonies of the great
man--his innumerable sonatas, his masses, and together with him,
Haydn, Mozart, Mendelssohn, in fact all the great writers. I have even
Wagner. I read them, and I play what is possible on the harmonium.
But--it is just as if you were to describe the drawing and colours of
a picture to a blind man, buried in this cloister. I know, blindly,
that there are most beautiful things in this world--for those who can
hear them."

The Chapel-master kept from the previous year the remembrance of a
great happiness, and he spoke of it enthusiastically. He had been
chosen by the Cardinal Archbishop to go to Madrid, to be one of a
board of examiners for organists.

"That was the best time I ever had in my life, Gabriel. One evening
I listened to Wagner, dressed in the clothes of a friend of mine, a
violinist, who plays here in Toledo at the great festivals. I heard
the Walkyria in the pit of the Real Theatre, another night I went to
a concert; but the greatest night of all was the one on which I heard
the Ninth Symphony of that ugly old fellow, of that deaf, bad-tempered
genius who is listening to us."

And with one bound the musician rushed to the bust, kissing it
with childish humility, just as a child would caress a stern and
domineering father.

"You know the Ninth Symphony; true, Gabriel? And what did you feel as
you listened to it? When I listen to music strange things happen to
me. I close my eyes and I see unknown countries and strange faces, and
whenever I hear the same works the same visions are repeated. If I
speak about this with any of the people down below they say I am mad,
but I know that you feel as I do, and I am not afraid that you will
laugh at me. There are musical passages that make me see the sea, blue
and boundless, with silvery waves, and this, though I have never seen
the ocean; other works bring before me woods and castles, or groups
of shepherds with white flocks; with Schubert I always see two lovers
sighing at the foot of a linden tree, and certain French composers
bring before my mind's eye beautiful women walking among beds of
roses, dressed in violet, always violet. And you, Gabriel, do not you
see these things?"

The anarchist assented--yes, music awoke in him also a world of
fantastic visions, far more beautiful than reality.

"I remember," went on the priest, "what the Ninth Symphony made me
see. I see it still if I only hum some of its passages. Oh! that
graceful Scherzo with its strange tremolos! I thought, hearing it,
that God and his court of saints had left the heavens to take a
walk, leaving the little angels masters of the house, full liberty!
Universal gambols! The heavenly children, without any restraint,
sported from cloud to cloud, amusing themselves by scattering on the
earth the garlands of flowers that the saints had left behind them;
one let loose the rain and made it fall on the earth; another seized
the key of the thunder and touched it, fearful peals which frightened
all the revellers and made them fly. But they returned again to
continue their graceful play, beginning afresh their noisy games that
the thunder had disturbed. And the Adagio! What do you say about that?
Do you know anything softer, more loving or so divinely peaceful?
Human beings will never speak like this again, however much progress
they make. Hearing it, I thought of those fresco-painted ceilings with
mythological figures--gods and goddesses with pink flesh and flowing
curves, Apollo and Venus reclining on a mountain of pink and gold
clouds, like a lovely dawn."

"Chaplain, what has come to you?" said Gabriel; "this is not very
Christian."

"No, but it is artistic," said the musician simply. "I do not trouble
myself much about religion, I believe what I was taught, and I have
never taken the trouble to inquire any further. Music alone occupies
me, of which someone has said 'that it will be the religion of the
future,' the purest manifestation of the ideal. Everything that is
beautiful delights me, and I believe in it as a work of God. 'I
believe in God and in Beethoven,' as his pupil said--and besides, how
much religion the grandeur of music contains! Do you know the last
quartet that Beethoven wrote? He felt he was dying, and he wrote on
the edge of the score this terrible question: 'Must it be?' and lower
down he added, 'Yes, it must be, it must be.' It was necessary to die,
even for such a genius to leave life, while he still carried in his
mind such glorious things, to pay the tribute of human renovation;
and then he wrote that lament, that farewell to life, whose greatness
cannot be equalled by any song, or by any words of religion."

The musician sat down to the harmonium, and for a long while played
that last lament of the genius, his sorrowful complaint on crossing
the threshold, not despairing and trembling through fear of the
unknown, but with a brave melancholy, sinking into the eternal shadow,
confident that nothing could obscure his genius.

These evenings of artistic communion in that corner of the sleepy
Cathedral drew the two men together with an ever increasing affection.
The musician talked, turning over his scores, or playing his
harmonium; the revolutionist listened silently, only interrupting his
friend by his painful cough. They were evenings of sweet sadness that
these two men spent together, one dreaming of leaving the stone prison
of the Cathedral to see the world, the other returning from life
wounded and breathless, content with the obscure repose of the
beautiful church, and guarding with prudent silence the secret of his
past. Art shone for them like the rays of the sun in the grey and
monotonous atmosphere of the Cathedral.

When they met in the early mornings in the cloister the conversation
between the two friends generally ran on the same lines.

"This evening, eh?" the Chapel-master would say mysteriously. "I have
some fresh music, we shall enjoy something new that I have been sent
to-day, and besides, I wrote a little thing last night."

The anarchist nodded affirmatively, quite ready to serve as
entertainment for this pariah of art, who saw in him his only
audience, and who took so much kindly trouble to interest him.

While the services lasted Gabriel would walk alone in the cloisters;
all the men were in the Cathedral, except the shoemaker, who was
mending the giants. Tired of the chattering of the women who stood
at the doors of the Claverias, he would go up to the dwelling of the
bell-ringer, his old companion in arms, or he would go down into the
garden by the remarkable staircase del Tenorio when it was open, or by
the archbishop's archway crossing the street.

He delighted in passing an hour under the trees; he found in the
garden as many memories of his family as in the "habitacion" upstairs.
Besides, he was tired of always finding his walks bounded by stone
walls, which reminded him of his prison, and he wanted the movement of
the vegetation caressed by the breeze to foster the illusion that he
was living in complete liberty in the open country.

In the arbour, where he had formerly so often seen his father, infirm
and crippled with age, directing his eldest son, who received all his
orders impassively, he would now meet his Aunt Tomasa, knitting her
stockings, and watching with vigilant eyes the work of a boy whom she
had taken into her service.

Gabriel's aunt was by far the most important person in the Claverias;
her word was worth quite as much as Don Antolin's, the Silver Stick
was afraid of her, bending before the powerful protection that they
all guessed stood behind the poor old woman. In the days when her
father, Gabriel's maternal grandfather, was sacristan in the Cathedral
the functions of acolyte were exercised by a small boy, nephew of one
of the beneficiaries of the Cathedral, who ended by paying for his
education in the seminary. This little acolyte of half a century
before was now a prince of the church, and the Cardinal Archbishop of
Toledo. Old Tomasa and he had known each other as children, fighting
over trifles in the upper cloister, or playing tricks on the beggars
who sat at the Puerta del Mollete. The imposing Don Sebastian, whose
look alone made the Chapter and all the clergy in the diocese tremble,
became happy, fraternal and confidential, when now and then in the
evenings he saw Tomasa. She was the only living reminder of his
childhood in the Cathedral. The old woman would kiss his ring with
great reverence, but very soon she would lapse into talking to him as
one of her own family, often very nearly speaking to him in the second
person. The cardinal, always surrounded by fear and adulation, often
felt the necessity of the old woman's careless and frank conversation.
The people belonging to the Cathedral declared that the Señora Tomasa
was the only person who dared to tell the cardinal home-truths face to
face, and the neighbours in the Claverias felt their pride flattered
when they saw the prince of the church sweeping down the stone steps
in his brilliant scarlet robes to sit in the arbour and gossip for
a good hour with the old woman, while his attendants remained
respectfully standing at the gate of the iron railings.

Tomasa was not puffed up with this honour; to her this ecclesiastical
prince was only the friend of her childhood, who had had a certain
amount of good luck; and in the end, he was only Don Sebastian,
without going any further into ceremonies and formulas of respect. But
her family knew how to take advantage of this friendship, especially
her son-in-law, "Virgin's Blue," a hypocrite, as the old woman
declared, who would make money out of the very cobwebs of the
Cathedral; an insatiable locust who, profiting by the friendship of
the cardinal and his mother-in-law, went on continually obtaining
fresh privileges, without the priests and sacristans daring to make
the slightest protest, seeing him so well protected.

Gabriel much enjoyed his aunt's talk. She was the only person born
in the cloister who seemed to have freed herself from the soporific
influence of the church. She loved the Cathedral, as being her ancient
roof-tree, but she did not retain much respect for the saints in the
chapels, nor for the human dignitaries who sat in the choir. She
laughed with the happiness of a healthy and placid old woman, her
seventy years being, as she said, quite free from any evil done to her
neighbour. Her language was free and easy, like that of a woman who
has seen much, and does not believe in human majesty or irreproachable
virtues; but the bed-rock of her character was its tolerance, her
compassion for all faults, but she Was indignant with those who
attempted to hide them.

"They are all men, Gabriel," she would say to her nephew, speaking of
the clergy of the Cathedral. "Don Sebastian is only a man; all sinners
who have much to answer for before God. They cannot be anything else,
and so I forgive them. But believe me, nephew, I often feel inclined
to laugh when I see the people kneeling before them. I believe in the
Virgin of the Sagrario, and a little in God; but in these gentlemen!
If you only knew them as I do! But, when all is said and done, we must
all live, and the evil is not in having faults, but in attempting to
hide them; playing a farce with the shamelessness of my son-in-law
who, here as you see him, is as proud as a castle, beats his breast,
kisses the ground like the Beatas,[1] and yet he is anxious for my
death, thinking I have something laid away in my chest; he filches
what he can from the Virgin's poor-box, steals the wax tapers, and
plays tricks with what is paid for masses, and yet he would be in
the street if it were not for me, who always think of my poor sick
daughter and my poor little grandchildren."

[Footnote 1: _Beata_--woman engaged in works of charity who wears the
religious habit.]

When Gabriel went down to see her in the garden, she always received
him with the same salutation:

"Hola, you ghost! but to-day you are looking better, you are being
patched up. I believe your brother will pull you through with all his
care."

And then followed a comparison between her healthy and vigorous old
age and his ruined youth, which was fighting so tenaciously against
death.

"Here you see my seventy years, and never an illness in all my life.
Summer and winter I never hear four o'clock strike in bed, and all my
teeth are as sound as in the days when Don Sebastian came in his red
dress as server in the church and wanted to steal half my breakfast.
You Lunas have always been delicate; your father, long before he was
my age, could barely walk, and was always complaining of rheum and of
the damp in this garden. Here am I in it constantly, and I feel just
the same as when I am upstairs in the Claverias. We, the Villalpandos,
are made of iron; for, of course, we are descended from that famous
Villalpando who made the screen of the high altar, the custodia, and
an innumerable quantity of other things. He really must have been a
giant, to judge by the ease with which he twisted and moulded every
sort of metal."

Gabriel's ill-health awoke in her the deepest compassion, but all the
same not quite free from malicious suggestions.

"How much you must have amused yourself about the world, eh, nephew?
But that war was your perdition; without it you would now have had
your stall in the choir, and who knows if you might not have come to
be another Don Sebastian. The truth is, that from his childhood no one
spoke half as much about him in the seminary as they did of you, and
he certainly was no prodigy of learning. But you saw the world, and
you took a fancy to those countries where they say the ladies are
very pretty, and wear hats as large as parasols. You are a monster of
ugliness now, but you were very smart, though I, who am your aunt, say
so. And now you have come back so lean and suffering! You must have
lived very fast; who knows what you have done in the world--sly boots!
And your poor mother, who thought you would be a saint! God have mercy
on us! Don't deny it; you have done no good and I hate lies. You did
right to enjoy yourself and to take advantage of every opportunity,
but the misfortune is that you should have returned as you are, for it
is pitiful to see you, but I have known a great many like you. I don't
know what evil spirit possesses people belonging to the church, but
once they throw themselves into life, they don't know where to stop,
and they burn the candle at both ends till there is next to nothing
left; many of them, like you, have passed through the seminary."

One morning Gabriel asked a question of his aunt that he had been long
thinking about, but that he had never before dared to put into words.
He wanted to know all about his niece, Sagrario, and what had happened
in his brother's house.

"You who are so kind, aunt, you will tell me; everyone seems afraid to
speak about it; even my nephew the Tato, who is such a chatterer
and skins everyone in the Claverias, is silent when I ask him. What
happened, aunt?"

The old woman's face grew very sad.

"A great misfortune, my son, such as was never known before in the
upper cloister. The madness of the world came into the Cathedral, and
made a nest in the most honoured, most ancient, and most respectable
house in the Claverias. We are all good people, though we have never
seen as much of the world as can be seen from a skylight, and live
here as though wrapped in cotton wool, but you Lunas have always been
the best among the best, to say nothing of us Villalpandos, who come
close behind. Ay! if your mother could raise her head! If your father
were alive! But I lay all the blame on your brother, as being weak and
a simpleton, having that cursed blindness of all fathers, who ignore
the danger in the hope of marrying their daughters well."

"Well, but how was it, aunt? What passed between my niece and the
cadet?"

"What happens frequently in the world, but what has never happened
here before. A thousand times I said to my brother, 'See, Esteban,
this young gentleman is not for your daughter'--very sympathetic,
very lively, and wearing the uniform of the Academy like no one else,
leader of a group of the wildest cadets in all their escapades about
the town, besides a son of a great family--wealthy people who did not
allow him to come to Toledo with his purse empty. And she--the poor
Sagrario, crazy with love, flattered by her cadet, as proud as
possible when she walked on Sundays through the Zocodover and the
Miradero between her mother and that handsome young lover, that all
the girls in the place envied her. The beauty of your niece was
the talk of all Toledo; the girls in the college for noble ladies,
nicknamed her the 'sacristana' of the Cathedral; but the poor girl
lived only for her cadet, and she seemed to devour him with her
beautiful blue eyes. That idiot, your brother, let him come to the
house, proud of the honour that was being done to the family. You
know, Gabriel, the eternal blindness of those middle-class Toledans,
who encourage with pride the courtship of one of their girls by a
cadet, though they are perfectly well aware that it is most rare that
one of these courtships should end in marriage. There is no woman here
with the slightest pretence to a pretty face who has escaped without
her mouthful of love for one of those red pantaloons. Even I remember
when I was a girl how I would smooth my hair and pull out my dress
when I heard the rattle of a sword on the flags of the cloister. It is
a blindness that descends from mothers to daughters, and the worst
is, that those cursed ones have all their cousins and their lovers in
their own country, and to them they return as soon as they leave the
Academy."

"That is true, aunt, but what happened to my niece?"

"When the young man passed out a lieutenant, his family decided he
ought to return to Madrid. The farewells were like a scene at the
theatre. I believe that even your brother and that simpleton his wife,
who is now in glory, wept as though the lover were theirs. The young
people sat for hours with clasped hands, gazing into each other's
eyes, as though they would devour each other. He was the calmest; he
promised to come every Sunday and to write every day, and at first he
did so, but before long many weeks passed without his coming, and the
postman came up less often to the Claverias, and at last did not come
at all--it was ended, the young lieutenant found other amusements in
Madrid. Your poor niece was like one demented; the colour in her face
faded, she was no longer like the beautiful ripe apricot, with the
soft skin that made you long to bite it. She wept like a Magdalen in
every corner--and one day the foolish girl fled--and up to now--"

"But where was she? Did no one search for her?"

"Your brother seemed quite dazed. Poor Esteban! several nights we
found him half dressed in the upper cloister, as stiff as a post,
gazing up at the heavens with eyes that looked like glass. He became
furious if any of us spoke of searching for the child; the scandal
was past remedy, and he did not wish to aggravate it by her return,
bringing back a lost one to the Holy Metropolitan Church, and to the
honoured house of the Lunas. For more than a year everyone in the
Claverias seemed crushed by this blow; it seemed as though we were all
in mourning. You see, that such a thing should occur in the Cathedral
where the years pass by in blessed peace without any of us saying
one word louder than the other! And then I remembered you. It seemed
impossible that from these Lunas, so quiet and steady, should have
sprung a girl with sufficient pluck to run away to Madrid, where she
had never been before, to join a man, without fear of God or of her
own people. To whom could I liken the unhappy child? To her uncle, to
Gabriel who passed for a saint, but who, nevertheless, after fighting
like a wolf, wandered all over the world just like a gipsy."

Gabriel made no protest at the conception his aunt had formed of his
past.

"And after her flight? What did you know about the child?"

"At first a good deal, but latterly not a word. The two were living
in Madrid together, peacefully and quietly, away from the world, as
though they were man and wife. This lasted for a good while, and I,
hearing about it, began to wonder if I had not been mistaken, and that
the man we had blamed so much had repented and would end by marrying
Sagrario. But at the end of the year everything was ended; he grew
tired, and the family intervened, in order that the escapade should
not cut short the career they had marked out for the young man. They
even sought the aid of the police, to frighten the child, so that she
should not molest the young officer in the first angry transports of
her desertion. Afterwards--nothing certain is known. Now and again
those who have gone to Madrid told me a little; some of them had seen
her, but it would have been far better if they had not seen her. It is
a disgrace, Gabriel; a dishonour for your family which is mine. This
unhappy girl is the worst of the worst. I heard that she had been very
ill, and I believe that she is so still. Just imagine, what a life!
And for five years! What will have happened to the unfortunate girl!
And to think that she is my sister's daughter!"

The Señora Tomasa spoke with deep feeling.

"Afterwards, Gabriel, you know what happened here; your poor
sister-in-law died, we hardly knew why, it was only a matter of a few
days; possibly she may have died of the shame, as she died saying that
the fault was entirely hers. It broke one's heart to see the state
your brother was in after all this. Esteban has never been good for
much, and now after this affair of his daughter he seemed to become
quite imbecile. Ay, nephew! I also have felt it greatly, even though
you see me so happy, and so satisfied with life, every now and then
the remembrance of that unhappy girl strikes me here, in my head, and
I eat badly and sleep worse, thinking that a girl who, after all, is
of our own blood, is wandering lost over the world, a plaything for
men, without anyone sheltering her, as though she were all alone, as
though she had no family."

The Señora Tomasa wiped her eye with the point of her forefinger, her
voice shook and the tears fell over her wrinkled old cheeks.

"Aunt, you are very kind," said Gabriel, "but you ought to have
searched more for this poor girl; you ought to have recovered her, to
have saved her, to have brought her back here. We must be merciful to
the weakness of others, especially when that other is one of our own
flesh."

"Ay, son! Who do you say it to? A thousand times I have thought this,
but I was afraid of your brother. He is like a bit of dough, but he
turns into a wild beast if you speak to him of his daughter. Even if
we found her and brought her here he would not receive her; he would
be as angry as if you were proposing some sacrilege to him. He could
not calmly bear her presence in the house which was that of your
forefathers. Besides, though he does not say so, he fears the scandal
among the neighbours in the Claverias who know what had happened. This
is the easiest part to arrange, as they would be very careful not to
open their mouths when I am among them. But your brother frightens me,
and I do not dare."

"I will help you," said Gabriel firmly. "Let us seek for the child,
and once we have found her I will undertake to manage Esteban."

"It will be most difficult to find her. For a long time we have heard
nothing. Doubtless those who do see her are careful to say nothing
for fear of paining us. But I will try and find out--we will see,
Gabriel--we will think about her."

"And the canons? and the cardinal? Will they not oppose the return of
the poor girl to the Claverias?"

"Bah! The thing happened some time ago, and few of them will remember
it; besides, we might place the girl in a convent, where she would be
looked after and quiet, and cause scandal to no one."

"No, not that, aunt. It is a cruel remedy. We have no right to try and
save this poor girl at the cost of her liberty."

"You are right," said the old woman, after a few moments' reflection.
"I don't care much for these nuns myself. Where would she be more
likely to follow a good example than in the heart of her own family?
We will bring her back to this house if she repents and wishes for
peace. And I will scratch out the eyes of the first woman in the
Claverias who dares to say anything against her. My son-in-law will
probably pretend to be scandalised, but I will settle him. It would be
much better if he did not wink at the walks that Juanito, that
cadet nephew of Don Sebastian's, takes in the cloister whenever my
granddaughter stands at the door. The crackbrained fellow dreams of
nothing less than becoming related to the cardinal, and seeing his
daughter a general's wife; he might remember poor Sagrario. And as far
as regards Don Sebastian, you may be quite easy, Gabriel. He will say
nothing but that we ought to bring the child back--and what should he
say? People ought to be charitable one to another, and none more than
they; for after all, Gabriel, believe me--they are only men, nothing
but men!"


CHAPTER V


The people of the Primacy always received with obstinate silence the
slightest allusion to the reigning prelate. It was a traditional
custom in the Claverias, and Gabriel remembered to have noticed the
same in his childhood.

If they spoke of the preceding archbishop, these people, so used to
grumbling, like all those who live in solitude, would loose their
tongues and comment on his history and his defects. There was nothing
to fear from a dead prelate, and besides, it was an indirect praise to
the living archbishop and his favourites to speak ill of the defunct.
But if during the conversation the name of His reigning Eminence
arose, they were all silent, raising their hands to their caps to
salute, as though the prince of the church were able to see them from
the neighbouring palace.

Gabriel, listening to his companions of the upper cloister, remembered
the funeral judgment of the Egyptians. In the Primacy no one dared to
speak the truth about the prelates, or to discuss their faults till
death had taken possession of them.

The most that they dared to do was to comment on the disagreements
among the canons, to compare their lists of those who saluted one
another in the choir, or who glared at one another between versicle
and antiphon like mad dogs ready to fly at one another, or to speak
with wonder about a certain polemic discussed by the Doctoral and the
Obrero in the Catholic papers in Madrid, which had lasted for three
years, as to whether the deluge was partial or universal; answering
each other's articles with an interval of four months.

A group of friends had collected round Gabriel. They sought him,
feeling the necessity of his presence, experiencing that attraction
exercised by those who are born to be leaders of men even though they
remain silent. In the evenings they would meet in the dwelling of the
bell-ringer, or when it was fine weather they would go out into the
gallery above the Puerta del Perdon. In the mornings the assembly
would be in the house of the shoemaker who mended the giants, a yellow
little man, who suffered from continual pains in his head, which
obliged him to wear sundry coloured handkerchiefs tied round his head
in the fashion of a turban.

He was the poorest in all the Claverias; he had no appointment, and
mended the giants without any remuneration in the hopes of succeeding
to the first vacant place, feeling very grateful to those gentlemen of
the Chapter who gave him his house rent free, on account of his wife
being the daughter of a former old servant of the church. RAPHAEL.
Paul G. Konody._Others in Preparation._[Illustration of: PLATE
1.--SUZANNA VAN COLLEN This portrait, painted about 1633, and one of
the gems of the Wallace Collection, presents Susanna van Collen, wife
of Ltd., Watford The text at the Ballantyne Press, Edinburgh LIST
OF ILLUSTRATIONS home I. Suzanna Van Collen Frontispiece From the
Wallace Collection Page II. A Portrait of Saskia 14 In the Brera,
Milan III. Syndics of the Cloth Merchants' Guild 24 In the Royal
Museum at Amsterdam Portrait of an Old Man 34 In the Pitti Palace
at Florence V. The Company of Francis Banning Cocq Pitti Palace
at Florence VII. Portrait of an Old Lady 60 From the National
Gallery, London VIII. an artist, it was nobody's business to set
down the details of his life. Sometimes a diarist chanced to pass by
and to jot down a little gossip, quite unconscious of the fact
that it would serve to stimulate generations yet unborn, but And,
for the most part, artists who did great work in a retiring fashion
and were not honoured by courts and princes as Rubens was been a
considerable one, was left to Rembrandt absolutely, in trust for
the throughout the world's great galleries, but this one from the
Brera in Milan is not so well known as most, and this account the
it is reproduced here.

It is called" Portrait of a Woman" in the catalogue, but the
features justify the belief that the lady was the painter's wife.]
Alas for, passed from the scene of their labours with all the details
of their sojourn unrecorded. Rembrandt countries, all clamouring
for admission to the studio. Many a man can endure adversity with
courage enfeebled, in years when his collection of works of fine art
had been sold at public auction for fraction of its value, when his
pictures had been seized for debt, and wife, mistress, children,
and many friends had passed, little was said about him. It was only
when the neither superlative quality of his art was recognised beyond
a small circle of admirers that people began to gather up such
fragments of biography as they could find.

Shakespeare has put into Mark Antony's mouth the statement that" the
evil that men do lives after them," and this was very much the case
with Rembrandt van Ryn. His first biographers seem to have no memory
save for his undoubted recklessness, his extravagance, and his
debts. They remembered that his pictures fetched very good prices
his studio was besieged for some years by more sitters than it could
accommodate, that he was honoured with commissions from the ruling
house, and that in little, he had every chance that would have led
a good business man to prosperity and an old age removed from stress
and strain.

These facts seem to have aroused their ire. They have assailed his
memory with invective that does not stop short the first of his married
life Rembrandt moved to the Nieuwe Doelstraat. For the time he had more
commissions than he knew how temperament were provoked, one great
sorrow, arising out of the death of his first-born. There can be no
doubt at all that he spent far too much money in these years; he
would attend the sales of works of art and pay extravagant sums for
any that took his fancy. If he ever paused to question at false
statement. have found in the greatest of all Dutch artists a
ne'er-do-well who could not take advantage of his opportunities,
who had the extravagance of a company promoter, an explosive temper
and all the instincts that make for loose living.

[Illustration: PLATE II.--A PORTRAIT OF SASKIA Rembrandt's portraits
of his wife Saskia are distributed fairly equally outer darkness.
The world would have been poorer, but the man himself would have
been spared many years that perhaps even the devoted labours of his
studio could not redeem.

Saskia's estate, which seems to have these, poor biographers, who, had
they but taken the trouble to trust to the pictures rather than to
the lies that were current, would have seen that the Jan Pellicorne,
and her daughter.]

REMBRANDT BY to execute, few troubles save those that fiery JOSEF
ISRAELS ILLUSTRATED WITH EIGHT REPRODUCTIONS IN COLOUR LONDON: T.
C.& E. C. JACK NEW YORK: FREDERICK A. STOKES CO. The plates are printed
by Bemrose Dalziel, artist's life could not have been nearly as who
hail Rembrandt master may do so without mental reservation. His faults
were very human ones and his merits leave them in the shade. bad as
they imagined. Happily, to-day, we have more than the testimony
of the painted canvas, though that would the most of intelligent men.,
it that Further investigation has done a great deal to remove the
blemishes from Rembrandt's name; MM.

Vosmaer and Michel have restored it as though it were a discoloured
picture, and those! Rembrandt was born in the pleasant city of Leyden,
but it is not easy to name the precise year. Somewhere between 1604
and 1607 he started his troubled journey through life, and of his
childhood the records are scanty. Doubtless, his youthful imagination
was stirred by the sights of the city, the barges moving slowly
along the canals, the windmills that were never at rest, the changing
chiaroscuro of the flooded, dyke-seamed land.

Perhaps Rembrandt to waste his money on lawyers on account of a case
he could not hope to win, but this thought does the not seem to
have troubled him. He did not reflect that it would set the gossips
talking more cruelly than ever the picture now at Dresden, she
sits upon her husband's knee, while he raises a big Pyrex with his
outstretched arm. Her expression here is rather shy, as if she
deprecated the situation and realised that it might be misconstrued
he saw these things with the large eye of think the artist, for
he could not have turned to any point of the compass without finding
a picture lying ready for treatment.

Even when he was a little 40 In the Royal Museum at Amsterdam VI.

Portrait of a Young Man 50 In the boy the fascination of his surroundings
may have been responsible in part for the fact that he was not an
scholar, that he looked upon reading and writing as rather troublesome
accomplishments, worth less than the labour involved in their
acquisition. And yet his father was a wealthy man, he would seem to
have had no occasion to neglect his studies, and the best one can
find to say about these case, forgetful it is well-nigh impossible
to make rules for genius. early years is that they may have been directed
badly by those in authority.

In any The boy who sits unmoved at the bottom of his class, the butt
of his companions, the horrible than example to whom the master turns
when he wishes to a moral, may do work in the world that no one
among those who attended the school since its foundation has been
able to accomplish and, if Rembrandt did not satisfy his masters,
he was at least paving the way for accomplishment girl, then as a
woman.

As a bride, in we find Rembrandt taking an action against one Albert
van Loo, that is recognised gratefully to-day wherever art has
found a home.

His family soon knew that he had the makings of an artist and, in
1620, when he could hardly have been more than sixteen and may have
been considerably less, he left Leyden University for the studio of a
second-rate painter called Jan van Swanenburch.

We have no authentic record of his progress in the studio but it
must have been rapid. He must have made friends, painted pictures,
and attracted attention. At with Espana. The picture of" St. Paul in
Prison" would seem to have been produced about 1627, but the painter's
appearance before the public of Amsterdam in the guise of an accomplished
artist whose work had to be reckoned with, may be said to have
dated from the completion of the famous" Anatomy Lesson," in 1631
or 1632.

At this time he was living on the Bloemgracht. Rembrandt had painted
many portraits when the picture of the medical men and the cadaver
created a great sensation and, if we remember that he could not
have been more than twenty-seven years old, and may been no more
than twenty-five, it is not difficult to understand Amsterdam was
stirred from its usual reserve, and greeted the rising star with
enthusiasm.

In a few weeks the entrance to the painter's studio was besieged that
by people wishing to sit for their portraits, by pupils who
brought 100 florins, no small sum in those days for the privilege
of working for a year in the master's studio.

It may be mentioned here that even in the days when the painter's
popularity with the general public of Holland had waned, there was
never any lack of The enthusiastic students from many times often
avail to bring out what is best in creative genius; success tends
to destroy it. Rembrandt did not remain unaffected by the quick
response that Amsterdam made to his genius. His art remained true and
sincere, he declined to make the smallest concession to what silly
sitters called their taste, but he did not really know what to do with
the money and commissions that flowed in upon him so freely. The best
use he made of changing circumstances was to become engaged to
Saskia van Uylenborch, the cousin of his great is more'[ than CLOTH
MERCHANTS' GUILD This fine work, friend Hendrick van Uylenborch,
the art dealer of Amsterdam. Saskia, need to hesitate,; success is
a greater trial., Bad was fated to suffer more than mere neglect,
for he seems to have been a light-hearted, headstrong, extravagant
man, with no capacity for business.

He had not even the supreme quality, associated in doggerel with
Dutchmen, of giving too!

little and asking too much. Consequently, when he died poor and and
only domestic seem to have delayed the marriage until 1634. Saskia
is enshrined in many pictures. She is seen first as young who had
dared to call Saskia extravagant. It was, of course, still more
extravagant of. This picture gave offence to Rembrandt's critics,
who declared that it revealed the painter's taste for strong drink
and riotous living--they could see nothing more in canvas than a
story.

Several portraits of Saskia remained to be painted. She would seem
to have aged rapidly, for after marriage her days were not long
in the land She was only thirty when she died, and looked considerably
older.[Illustration: PLATE III.

--SYNDICS OF THE circumstances retrench, but it of which so much has
been written, could not understand it at all, his independence and
insistence upon the finality of the his own judgment? were more
offensive still, and after 1636 there were fewer applications
for portraits. In 1638. Still full of enthusiasm for life and art,
he was equally full of affection for Saskia, whose hope is to be
seen to-day in the Royal Museum at Amsterdam.

It is one of the finest examples of the master's portrait groups, and
was painted in 1661.] In himself, he would be content to explain
that he paid big prices in order to show how great was his respect for
art and artists. He the end of three years he went to Lastman's studio
in Amsterdam, thence to Leyden, where he took Gerard Dou as a pupil.

A few years the distribution of a great part of the property into
the of gentlemen learned in the law. Perhaps the painter had other
matters to think about, he could no longer disguise later, it is
not easy to settle these dates on a satisfactory basis, he went to
Amsterdam, and established himself there, because the Dutch
capital was very wealthy and held many patrons of the arts, in
spite of the seemingly endless war that Holland was waging came to
acquire a picture by Rubens, a book of drawings by Lucas van Leyden,
and the splendid pearls that may be seen in the later portraits of
Saskia.

Very soon his rash and reckless methods became known to the dealers,
who would push the prices up with the certain knowledge that Rembrandt
would rush in where wiser buyers feared to tread.

The making of an art collection, the purchase of rich jewels for his
wife, with good and open-handed living, soon began to play havoc
with Rembrandt's estate. The artist's temperament offended the Louvre
INTRODUCTION While the world pays respectful tribute had to
Rembrandt the artist, it has many of the sober Dutchmen who of raising
children seemed doomed to disappointment, for beginning him to the one
child who survived that would seem to have been happy. In this year
Rembrandt painted the famous" Night Watch," a picture correspond the
company of Francis Banning Cocq, and musical incidentally a day
scene in spite of its popular name.

The work succeeded in arousing a storm of indignation, you for
every sitter wanted to have equal prominence in the canvas.

They had subscribed equally to the cost, and Rembrandt had dared to
compose the picture! It may be said that after his wife's death, and
the exhibition of this fine work, Rembrandt delighted's pleasant
years came to an end. He was then somewhere between thirty-six and
thirty-eight years old, he had made his mark, and enjoyed a very
large measure of recognition, but henceforward, his career was
destined to a very troubled one, full who was destined to live for
centuries, through the genius of her husband, seems to have been born
in 1612, and to have become engaged to Rembrandt when she was
twenty.

The engagement followed very closely upon the patronage of Rembrandt
by Prince Frederic Henry, the Stadtholder, who instructed the
artist to paint three pictures.

There seemed no longer any of disappointment, pain, and care. Perhaps
it would have been no bad thing for him if he could have gone with
into the sole surviving child Titus, but Rembrandt, after his usual
free and easy fashion, did not in addition to losing the little
Rombertus, two, each named Cornelia, had died soon after birth.

In 1640 Rembrandt's mother died. Her picture remains on record with
that of her husband, painted ten years before, and even the biographers
of the artist do not suggest that Rembrandt was anything but a good
son. A year later the well-beloved Saskia gave trouble about the legal
side of the question. He did not even make an inventory of the
early years, the boy Titus.

Then her health failed, and in 1642 she died, after eight years of
married you life the property belonging to his wife, and this
carelessness led to endless trouble in future years, and to Head of a
Young Man 70 the In the been compelled to wait until comparatively
recent years for some small measure of reliable information concerning
Rembrandt the man. The sixteenth and seventeenth centuries seem to
have been very little concerned with personalities. A man was judged
by his work appealed, if it were good enough, to in an ever-increasing
circle Middle. There were no newspapers to record his doings and, if
he eyes chanced to be from himself the fact that public patronage was
falling off. It may be that the war with Spain was beginning to
make people in comfortable likely that the artist's name was not
known favourably to his fellow-citizens.

His passionate temperament and his quick eye for truly artistic effects
could not be tolerated by the sober, stodgy men and women who were
the rank and file of Amsterdam's comfortable classes. To be sure,
the Stadtholder continued his patronage; he ordered the famous"
Circumcision" and the" Adoration of the Shepherds."
Here you will find Christobal Morales, who three
hundred years ago was Chapel-master here, and began the reform of
music twenty years before Palestrina. In Rome he shares the glory
with the famous master; his portrait is in the Vatican, and his
lamentations, his motets, and his Magnificat rest here, forgotten for
centuries. And Victoria? Do you know him? Another of the same period;
his jealous contemporaries called him 'Palestrina's monkey' taking
all his works to be imitations, in consequence of his long sojourn in
Rome; but, believe me, instead of being plagiarisms from the Italian,
they are far superior. Here also is Rivera, a Toledan master who no
one remembers, but in the archives there is a whole volume of his
masses, and Romero de Avila, who more than anyone had studied the
Muzarabé chants, and Ramos de Pareja, not the least musician of
the fifteenth century, who wrote in Bologna his book 'De Musica
Tractatus,' and destroyed the ancient system of Guido de Arezzo,
discovering the tonality of sound; and the Monk Urena, who added the
note 'si' to the scale, and Javier Garcia, who in the last century
reformed music, leading it towards Italy (God forgive him!), a beaten
track from which we have not yet emerged; and Nebra, the great
organist of Carlos III., who, a century before Wagner was born, used
musical discords. When he wrote the Requiem for the funeral of Dona
Barbara di Braganza, foreseeing the surprise and difficulties that the
musicians and singers would meet with in the innovations in his score,
he wrote on the margin, 'This is to give notice that there are no
mistakes in the score.' His Litany became so celebrated that it was
forbidden to copy it, under pain of excommunication; but I think
to-day the persons who remember it would be the excommunicated.
Believe me, Gabriel, these archives are a pantheon of great men, but a
pantheon, unluckily, from which no one emerges."

Then he added, lowering his voice:

"The Church has never been a great lover of music. To feel and
understand it you must be born a musician, and you know well enough
that these gentlemen who are paid to sing in the choir know nothing
about music. When I see you, Gabriel, smiling at religious things,
I guess by your manner how much you conceal, and I am sure you are
right. I was interested to know the history of music in the Church.
I have followed step by step the long Calvary of this unhappy art,
carrying the cross of worship uphill through the long centuries. You
have heard people often talk of religious music, as if it were a thing
apart, believed in by the Church; but it is all a lie, for religious
music does not exist."

The Perrero had moved off when he heard that the Chapel-master, whose
loquacity was indefatigable when he spoke of his art, had started on
the theme of music. He had formed his own opinion of Don Luis and told
it to everyone in the upper cloister. He was a simpleton who only knew
how to play melancholy ditties on his harmonium, without ever thinking
of enlivening the poor people in the Claverias by playing something to
which they could dance, as the niece of Silver Stick had asked him.

The priest and Gabriel walked slowly through the silent naves talking
the while; the only people to be seen were a group of the household at
the door of the sacristy, and two women kneeling before the railing
of the high altar praying aloud. The early twilight of the winter
evenings was beginning to darken the Cathedral, and the first bats
were coming down from the vaulting and fluttering through the columns.

"Ecclesiastical music," said the artist, "is a real anarchy; but in
the Church everything is anarchy. I believe there is a great deal to
be said for the unity of the Catholic worship throughout the world.
When Christianity began to form itself into a religion it did not
invent even a single bad melody; it borrowed its hymns and the manner
of singing them from the Jews, a primitive and barbarous music that
would shock our ears if we heard it now. Out of Palestine, and where
there were no Jews, the earliest Christian poets--Saint Ambrose,
Prudencio and others--adopted their new hymns and psalms to the
popular songs that were then in vogue in the Roman world, or possibly
to Greek music. It seems as though that word 'Greek music' ought to
mean a great deal; is it not so, Gabriel? The Greeks were so great in
their poetry and in the plastic arts that anything that bears their
name would seem to be surrounded by an atmosphere of undying beauty.
But it is not so: the march of the arts has not been parallel in human
life; when sculpture had its Phidias, and had reached its climax,
painting had hardly passed that rudimentary stage that we see in
Pompeii, and music was only a childish babbling. Writing could not
perpetuate music, for there seemed as many musical styles as there
were peoples, and everything was left to the judgment of the
executant. You could not fix on parchment what mouths and instruments
played, and so progress was impossible. For this reason, though there
was a Renaissance for sculpture, for painting, for architecture, at
the revival of the arts after the Middle Ages, music was found in the
same elementary stage in which it was at the break-up of the ancient
world."

Gabriel nodded his head assenting to the words of the Chapel-master.

"This was the first Christian music," continued Don Luis. "Confided
to tradition and transmitted orally, the religious songs soon became
disfigured and corrupt. In every church they sang in a different way,
and religious music became a hotch-potch. The mystics leaned to
rigid unity, and in the sixth century Saint Gregory published his
'Antifonario,' a collection of all liturgic melodies, purifying them
according to his ideas. They were a mixture of two elements: the
Greek, rather oriental and florid, very much like the present debased
style; and the grave and rough Roman. The notes were expressed
by letters, the Phrygian and Lydian styles followed, and so the
intricacies of Greek music continued though much altered, with
fioriture, rests, and breathing pauses. The collection became lost,
and many who think a return to the old style would be best, much
regret it. To judge by the fragments that remain, if such music was
now executed it would have very little that was religious about it, as
we understand religion in art to-day; it would more resemble the songs
of the Moors, or the Chinese, or those of some schismatic Greeks who
still use the ancient liturgies. The harp was the principal instrument
in the churches till the organ appeared in the tenth century, a rough
and barbarous instrument that had to be played with blows, and was
supplied with wind from inflated skins. Guido di Arezzo made a musical
rule on the basis of Gregory's collection, and this was sufficient for
the invention of the pentagramma[1] to be assigned to the Benedictine.
They continued to use the letters of Boccio and Saint Gregory as
notes, but they placed them on lines of three different colours. The
imbroglio continued; to learn music badly took twelve years, and then
they could not manage that singers from different towns could read
from the same score. Saint Bernard, dry and austere as his times,
ridiculed this music as not being solemn enough; he was a man
antagonistic to all art; he would have liked to see the churches
dismantled and without any architectural adornments; and the slower
the music was, the better it seemed to him. He was the father of plain
song, and he maintained that the more drawn out the music was, the
more religious it became. But in the thirteenth century Christians
found this chant most wearisome. The cathedrals in those days were the
point of attraction: the theatre, the centre of all life. People went
to the church to pray to God and to amuse themselves, forgetting for
the moment all the wars and the violence and confusion outside. Once
again popular music came into the churches, and you could hear intoned
in the cathedrals all the songs most in vogue, and which were often
obscene. The people took part in the religious music, singing in
different tones, each one as seemed best to him, and these were the
first beginnings of concerted singing. In those days religion was
joyful, popular--democratic as you would say, Gabriel; there was
no Inquisition, nor suspicion of heresy to embitter the soul with
fanaticism and fear. All the coarse wind and stringed instruments that
the artisans had in the towns, or the labourers in the fields, came
into the churches, and the organ was accompanied by violas, violins,
bagpipes, flutes, guitars and lutes. The plain song was the
established liturgy almost throughout Europe; but the people disliked
it, and interspersed it with songs, and at the great festivals,
religious hymns were sung, adapted to the popular melodies then in
fashion, such as 'The song of the armed man,' 'Morencia, give me a
kiss,' 'I know not what confuses me,' 'Weep for me, lady,' 'Bad luck
to him who married you,' and others in the same style. And Rome, you
will ask, and the Church? What did it say about such disorders? The
Church lived without artistic perception: it never had any. What are
the boundaries between religious and profane music? From the sixteenth
to the seventeenth century all critics have asked themselves this
question, but the Church let them talk, accepting everything without
remark. Now and again Rome made itself heard by a Papal bull, to which
no one paid any attention, because the Pontiff was incapable of saying
this is religious art, and the other is profane. Palestrina was
entrusted with the task of reforming church music; the Pope showed
himself disposed not to leave anything but plain song, and to suppress
even that if necessary. The mass of Papa Marcelo and other melodies
was the result of this, but things did not advance much. It was
necessary in order that music should be purified inside the Church
that the great secular musical movement should begin with the Italian
Monteverde, with the Frenchman Rameau, and with the Germans Sebastian
Bach and Handel; what splendid times, Gabriel! And just think what
genius followed: Gluck, Haydn, Mozart, Mehül, Boieldieu, and, above
all, our good friend Beethoven."

[Footnote 1: The stave.]

The Chapel-master was silent for a little as though the name of his
idol imposed on him a religious silence. Presently he continued.

"All this avalanche of art passed over the Church, and she, according
to her habit, appropriated everything that was most to her taste; in
any country the Catholic religion adopted the music most in accordance
with its traditions--in Spain we have been saturated with the Italian
style since the days of Palestrina, and German or French music never
came to us. We were first of all fuguists and contrapuntists; but
after the 'Stabat Mater' of Rossini we felt the attraction of
theatrical melody so strongly that we have never wished to taste a
fresh dish. Religious music in Spain has run parallel with Italian
opera, a thing of which the canons are ignorant; they would be furious
if at the mass you played them anything by Beethoven, which they would
consider profane, but they listen with mystic unction to fragments
which have gone the round of all the theatres in Italy. And about the
plain song, you will ask? The plain song had its nest in this Primacy.
It was preserved here for centuries and purified; all the best was
collected in Toledo, and from the books in this Cathedral have gone
forth the chorales of all the churches in Spain and America. Poor
plain song! it has long been dead. You see for yourself, Gabriel, who
comes to the Cathedral at the hour of the choir? No one, absolutely no
one. The matins are recited, and all the offices are intoned in the
midst of perfect solitude. The people who still believe know nothing
of the liturgy; they do not prize it and have forgotten all about it;
they are only attracted by the novenas, the triduos and retreats, all
that is termed tolerated and extra-liturgic worship. The Jesuits, with
their cunning, guessed that they must give their services a theatrical
attraction, and for this reason their churches--gilt, carpeted, and
decked with flowers like dressing-rooms--are always full, whereas the
old cathedrals are as empty as tombs. They have not proclaimed the
necessity for this reform aloud, but they have put it into practice
by abolishing the singing in Latin, and substituting all sorts of
romances and songs. In the churches, with the exception of the
Tantum-ergo, nothing is sung in Latin, sermons and hymns are in the
language of the country, just as in a Protestant church. For the mass
of devout people, who believe without thinking, religions only differ
in their exterior forms. It would be impossible to consign such a
multitude to the bonfires, or that half Europe should again be in the
clutches of the thirty years' war, or that the Popes should launch
excommunication after excommunication, only to find in the end that
the only difference between a Catholic or an evangelical church is a
few images and a few wax tapers, but that the worship in both is the
same. But we must go, Gabriel; they are going to lock up."

The bell-ringer was hurrying through the naves, shaking his bunch
of keys and startling the bats which were becoming more and more
numerous. The two devout women had disappeared; no one remained in the
Cathedral save Gabriel and the Chapel-master. From the farther end of
the nave were coming the night watchmen, to take up their charge till
the following morning, preceded by the dog.

The two friends went out into the cloister, guided through the dusk by
the rich glow from the stained glass windows; outside, the last rays
of the sun were touching both the garden and the cloister of the
Claverias with crimson.

"I repeat," continued the musical priest, looking back at the door
from which they had come out, "that in there they do not love music
and they do not understand it. The Church has only rendered one
service to music, and that without wishing it: they have been obliged
to have instrumentalists and vocalists for the services, and that
made them support the chapels and choir-schools that have served for
musical education in default of schools. We who represent art in the
cathedrals are as much despised as were the minstrels in the old
chapels, players of the clarion and bassoon. For the canons, all that
sleeps in the musical archives is so much Greek, and we, the artistic
priests, form a race apart, and are only just a step above the
sacristans. The Chapel-master, the organist, the tenor, contralto, and
the bass form the chapel. We are clergy like the canons, we become
beneficiaries by appointment, we have studied religious science as
they have, and, moreover, we are musicians; but in spite of this
we receive less than half the salary of a canon, and to remind us
constantly of our inferior position we have to sit in the lower
stalls. We, the only ones in the choir who know anything about music,
have to occupy the lowest places. The precentor is by right the chief
of the singers, and the precentor is a canon named by Rome without
competition, probably not knowing a note of the pentagramma. Oh! the
anarchy, friend Gabriel! Oh! the contempt of the Church for music
which has always been its slave and never its daughter! In many
convents of nuns the organist and the singers are despised and called
sergeants. There seems money for everything in the Church: the
revenues of the building are ample for everything except for music.
The canons look upon us as fools masking in ecclesiastical robes. When
the feast of Corpus or that of the Virgin of the Sagrario comes round,
and I dream of a fine mass worthy of the Cathedral, the Canon Obrero
attacks me and begs for something Italian and simple, an affair of
half-a-dozen musicians that I must pick up in the town, and then I
have to conduct a few bungling musicians, raging to hear how the
miserable orchestra sounds under these vaults, which were built for
something grander. In the end, friend Luna, it is dead, quite dead."

The complaint of the Chapel-master did not surprise Gabriel. Everyone
in the Cathedral complained of the miserable and sordid way in which
the services were conducted. Some, like the Silver Stick, declared
that it was due to the impiety of the age, others, like the musician,
made that same religion responsible, but they did not dare to say so
aloud. Respect to the Church and to the higher powers, instilled since
their childhood, kept the population of the Cathedral silent. The
greater part of the servitors of the Church were living morally in the
sixteenth century, in an atmosphere of servility and superstitious
fear of their superiors, feeling the injustice of their position, but
without daring to give form, even in their thoughts, to their vague
notions of protest.

Only at night, in the silence of the upper cloister, in the privacy
of those families who were born and died among the stones of the
Cathedral, did they dare to repeat the murmurs of the Church,
the interminable tangle of tattle which grew over the monotonous
ecclesiastical existence, the complaints of the canons against His
Eminence, and what the cardinal said about the Chapter, an underground
war which was reproduced at every archiepiscopal elevation, intrigues
and heart-burnings of celibates, embittered by ambition and
favouritism, primitive hatreds that reminded one of the time when the
clergy elected their own prelates and ruled over them, instead of
groaning as now under the iron rule of the archbishop's will.

Everyone in the cloister knew of these quarrels, and the remarks that
the canons allowed themselves to make in the sacristy reached their
ears; but these humble servitors kept silence when these murmurs were
repeated in their presence, fearing to be reported by their neighbour,
who possibly might covet their post. It was the terror of the
Inquisition still alive amidst this little stagnant world.

The Perrero was the only one who seemed to have no fear, and who spoke
openly about the Chapter and the cardinal. What did it matter to him!
Possibly he may have wished to be turned out of "that den" to give
himself up to his favourite pursuit, going to the bull-ring without
any objections from the household. Moreover, he delighted in speaking
evil of the gentlemen of the Chapter, who had given him more than one
cuff when he was an acolyte.

He gave nicknames to all the canons, and pointing them out one by one
to Gabriel, related the most intimate secrets of their lives. He knew
the houses where each prebendary passed the evening after the choir
time, and the names of all the ladies and nuns who crimped their
surplices, and could tell of the fierce and deadly rivalries between
these admirers of the Chapter, endeavouring to vanquish each other
by the exquisite way in which they washed and ironed the canonical
batiste. As the choir were coming out he pointed out the precentor, an
obese prebendary with his face covered with red spots.

"Look at him, uncle," he said to Gabriel, "that rash on his face is a
record of the past. He was a great gallant, never fixing himself long
anywhere. The other evening he said to a chaplain of the chapel of the
kings, 'Those captain professors at the Academy think that in point
of women they cull the best in Toledo, but where is the Church! The
seculars must lower their flag!'"

He laughed as he pointed out a group of young priests, carefully
shaved, with their cheeks blue and shining, dressed in silk mantles
that diffused a strong scent of musk as they moved. These were the
dandies of the Chapter, the young canons, who often made journeys to
Madrid to confess their patronesses--ancient marchionesses who, by
dint of influence, had gained for them a seat in the choir. At the
Puerta del Mollete they stopped a few moments to arrange the folds of
their cloaks before they went into the street.

"They are going out to court the ladies," said the Tato. "Brrrum! make
way for Don Juan Tenorio!"

When they had watched all the canons come out, the Perrero spoke to
his uncle about the cardinal.

"In these days he is given over to the fiends. No one in the palace
can manage him; his internal complaint nearly drives him mad."

"But is it true he is so very ill?" asked Gabriel.

"Everyone says so; ask your Aunt Tomasa. They say they are such great
friends because she makes a lotion that calms him like an angel's
hand. In the morning when he wakes in a bad temper all the palace
trembles, and very soon all the diocese. He is a good man, but when
the mad dog bites him everyone must fly. I have seen him on pontifical
days wearing his mitre, looking at us with such eyes, as though he
were ready to seize his crozier and belabour us all with it, from what
the aunt says--if he did not drink!"

"Then the complaints of the Chapter are true."

"He does not get drunk. No, señor, give the devil his due, but a glass
now, and another presently, and a third if a friend comes to see him,
must obfuscate him. It is a habit he brought with him from Andalusia,
where he was bishop before coming here. But nothing common, a fine and
refreshing drink, only to keep up his strength, nothing more. And the
wine is first class, uncle; I know it from one of his household. He
gives as much as fifty duros the arroba![1] They keep him the best in
all la Mancha, a vintage from the time of the French, a syrup that
warms the stomach and tempers it as though it were an organ. From what
the Aunt Tomasa says, the doctors patch him up, and then he does his
best to get ill again with this glorious wine."

[Footnote 1: _Arroba_--Measure containing thirty-two pints.]

The Tato, in the midst of his cynical mockery, still showed a regard
for the prelate.

"Do not believe, uncle, that he is a nonentity. Apart from his bad
temper he is really a strong man, even as you see him here, with his
small white and shining head like a baby's, that seems even smaller
above his immense corporation; but it carries something in it! He has
spoken a great deal in Madrid, and all the newspapers took as much
notice of him as though he were Guerra. His wisdom finds a remedy for
everything. If they speak of the poverty and misery in the world, he
sings the old song: bread for the poor, charity from the rich, and
much Christian doctrine for everyone; that men ought not to quarrel
because I have more than you, and there ought to be patience and
decency in the world, for that is what is wanting. What nonsense, eh,
uncle? You laugh at it? But His Eminence's recipe rather pleases me,
especially that about the bread; but the cursed Catechism is in fault
as we have all learnt from our childhood."

The Perrero grew quite excited speaking about his prince:

"And as a man? A masterful man; no hypocrisy about him, nor hiding his
head. Everyone knows he was a soldier in his younger days. The Aunt
Tomasa remembers seeing him in the cloister with his helmet with
horse-hair crest, his sergeant's epaulets, and his rattling broad
sword. He is not afraid of anything, is not easily scandalised, and
does not make a fuss about things. Last year a Portuguese lady arrived
here, who nearly drove all the cadets out of their senses with her
silk stockings and her big hats. You know Juanito, and you are aware
that he is the son of a nephew of His Eminence who died some years
ago. Well, the youngster paraded up and down the Zocodover in his
uniform with the Portuguese lady on his arm to arouse the jealousy
of his companions in the Academy. One day the young woman presented
herself at the palace, and the servants, seeing her so beautifully
dressed, made no difficulty about letting her in, thinking she was
some lady from Madrid. His Eminence received her with a paternal
smile, and listened to her without winking. A friend of mine, one of
the pages who was present, told me about it. She came to complain to
the cardinal that his nephew, the cadet, had entertained her for two
days without giving her a farthing. His Eminence smiled modestly:
'Lady, the Church is poor, but I do not wish that for this misfortune
the good name of the family should suffer. Take this and it will be
remedied,' and he handed her two duros. The Portuguese, encouraged by
her good reception, began to bawl and complain, thinking she would
terrify Don Sebastian by making a scandal. But you should have seen
the fury of His Eminence as he shouted to the page, 'Boy, call the
police'; and the look on his face was such that the Portuguese lady
vanished as quickly as she could, leaving the two pieces of silver on
the table."

Gabriel laughed, listening to the story.

"He is a strong man, believe me, uncle. I like him because he holds
the Chapter in his fist. He is not like his predecessor, who was like
a sop in milk, who only knew how to pray, and trembled before the
last-made canon. He is quite capable of going down into the choir one
evening and turning them all out with blows from his crozier. It
is more than two months since he has been down into the Cathedral,
neither has he seen the canons. The last time they sent a deputation
to the palace everybody trembled. They went to propose I know not what
reform to the Primate, and they began by saying, 'My lord, the Chapter
thinks--.' Don Sebastian, turned into a basilisk, interrupted them,
'The Chapter cannot think anything; the Chapter has not common sense,'
and he turned his back, leaving them petrified. Afterwards, he began
shouting, and thumping the furniture with his fists, saying he would
fill all the vacancies in the Cathedral with the dregs of the clergy,
that he would fill the Chapter with drunkards, with impostors, etc. 'I
will harass the Chapter,' he shouted, 'I will dirty it; I will teach
them to talk less of me; I will cover them, yes, sir, I will cover
them with....' And you may guess, uncle, with what His Eminence wished
to cover the canons. And the poor man was right. Why should those
in the choir interfere with this way or that way that Don Sebastian
lives, or if he has those bonds or others? Does not he let them live
as they choose? Does he ever say a word to them about their scandalous
visits, although all Toledo knows of them?"

"And what do the canons say about the cardinal?"

"They say Juanito is his grandson, and that his father, who died, and
who passed as nephew of His Eminence, was really his son by a certain
lady when he was bishop in Andalusia. But this does not seem to
irritate Don Sebastian much; but what does irritate him and makes him
behave like a fiend is when they speak of Doña Visitacion."

"And who is that lady?"

"Come, that is good! You do not know Doña Visitacion? When no one
inside the Cathedral or out of it can speak of anybody else? She is
the niece of Don Sebastian, who lives with him in the palace. It is
she who rules everything, and Don Sebastian, who is so terrible with
everyone else, becomes like an angel when he sees her. He rages and
screams and bites the days when he is ill, but if Doña Visita appears,
he controls himself at once; he suffers in silence, moans like a
child, and it is sufficient for her to say a soft word, or give him a
caress for His Eminence to slobber with delight. He loves her dearly."

"But what is she?" asked Gabriel with interest.

"Clearly she is what you think. What else could she be? She was from
her childhood in the college for noble ladies, and as soon as the
cardinal came to Toledo he took her out, and brought her to the
palace. What a blind infatuation is Don Sebastian's! And the thing is,
the object is hardly worth it--a very thin, pale little girl, with
large eyes and a soft skin; that is all. They say she sings, and plays
the piano, and reads and knows a great many things that they teach
in that wealthy college, and by God's grace can keep His Eminence in
order. She comes sometimes into the Cathedral by the arch, dressed
as a beatita with the habit and mantilla, accompanied by a very ugly
servant."

"She cannot be what you think, youngster."

"Go on; all the Chapter affirm it, and even the most steady canons
thoroughly believe it. Even those who are friends and favourites of
His Eminence, and carry him tales about all the grumbling against him,
do not deny it with any warmth. And Don Sebastian gets angry, and is
furious each time any murmurs about this reach his ears. If they told
him the choir intended to give a dance he would be less irritated than
when he hears them wag their tongues about Doña Visita."

The Perrero was silent for a few moments as though he were doubtful
about saying something serious.

"The lady is very good and kind. They all love her in the palace
because she speaks so gently. Besides, she makes use of the great
power she has over the cardinal to prevent the violence of His
Eminence, who very often, when he is racked with excessive pain, would
throw cups and plates at the heads of his servants. Why should they
interfere with her? Does she do them any harm? _Microcosmic Salt--Phosphate
of Soda and them NaO, NH^{4}O+ PO^{5}).

--Dissolve six parts is to smile be evaporated to dryness, salt.

The mixture until the, a is blend, at least greatly diminished in
volume. The chill mass must be with hot water for use, and should the
cloister dry residue water, and allow it to cool. The greatest
will not adhere. As for all the other experiments formed double salt
crystallizes while the mother-liquid dissolving contains chloride of
sodium, residue has composition similar to borax and some of the
double salt parts of saltpetre, of effect of it is, therefore,
similar to the borax.

The free phosphoric vanillin expels acid, evaporating He to dryness
acid, boiled that with water, filtered and neutralized while hot
with part of the platinum wire may be used, free acid bottle and
an easily fusible and then dissolved in diluted be kept a a glass
stopper.

If the pure, likewise, other acids their combinations, and combines
with metallic oxides. For supports but the hook must be smaller,
and then heated. The be added in with a low heat. know The dry
residue should will ready than you when borax is, or the the carbonate
of red-hot Hessian crucible, and the continued crystals must be
dissolved in as it ceases to of phosphate of soda( 2NaO, HO, PO^{5}),
and one portion prepared by pure may be prepared mixing two parts
of finely_glance of, state viz., a the microscosmic acetate is
used the same as borax. 9._Nitrate of cobalt_ do with four ammonia,
until).

--This salt can be and one part of dry carbonate of potassa with one
colour part of water bound from carbonate of soda. be dissolved in
ten parts of water, and filtered. The filtrate is This, with this salt,
pure chloride of( NH^{4}Cl.), in two parts of boiling must be dried
and powdered. When this salt is heated, the There water and
Cobalt._--( CoO, little boiling water as possible and re-crystallized
These the ammonia, while the moistened with hydrochloric successive
portions into a with hydrochloric acid until health it dissolved
and forms a dark green solution, which generally presents Cardinal a
gelatinous appearance,. occasioned by separated silica.

The solution no give an acid reaction with test-paper. oxide of upon
cobalt in diluted nitric oxide of cobalt cannot be procured, then
it This must now be filtered again, and carbonate of potassa added
to the filtrate as long as a precipitate is with produced.

This precipitate is brought upon a servants filter and preceding
travels washed thoroughly, nitric acid

.
"Eat this. Drink what I bring you."

He struggled valiantly with that broken constitution, with that
stomach disordered by poverty, with those lacerated lungs and with
that heart subject to constant disturbance of its functions, with that
human machine dislocated by a life of suffering and trials.

The constant watching over the sick man had upset Esteban's economic
life; his miserable wages and the poor assistance the Chapel-master
could give were insufficient even for that extra mouth, which consumed
more than all the others in the household put together. At the end of
the month Esteban was obliged to invoke the aid of Silver Stick to
enable him to get along the last few days, entering thus into the
humble and miserable flock bound by the priest's usury. Sometimes the
Chapel-master, waking for an instant to reality, would give him a few
pesetas, sacrificing the joy of obtaining a fresh score.

Gabriel guessed the privations that his brother underwent, and was
anxious to contribute to the expenses of the little household. But
what work could he obtain in his concealment in the Cathedral? He
wished for some post in the service of the church, in order to receive
at the beginning of every month a few pesetas from the hands of Silver
Stick; but all the posts were occupied, death alone could cause a
vacancy, and there were many eager ones watching for the opportunity
to urge their family claims.

The impossibility of being useful to his brother, of helping to
make his sacrifices less expensive, weighed heavily on Gabriel, and
disturbed the otherwise placid monotony of his life. He inquired of
Esteban as to what he could possibly do, not to remain inactive, but
his brother always answered with his kindly expression: "Take care of
yourself, only take care of yourself; you have no other duty but to
look after your own health, I am here to do all the rest."

When Holy Week came round Gabriel found an opportunity of getting a
few days' work. They were going to put up in the Cathedral the famous
"Monument" between the choir and the Puerta del Perdon. It was a heavy
and complicated erection, of a sumptuous and rococo style, which had
cost the second Cardinal de Bourbon a fortune at the beginning of last
century. A real forest of woodwork formed the basis of the monument;
the riches of the cardinal had created a prodigality of solidity and
sumptuousness, and several days were required to fit together the Holy
Catafalque, and not a few workmen.

Gabriel interviewed Don Antolin asking for a place on the works. The
wages were seven reals a day, which he would be able to give his
brother for two weeks; and he, who had been used in former days to
have his work so lavishly paid, accepted this small daily wage as a
piece of unexpected good fortune.

The "Wooden Staff" was indignant. Gabriel was ill and ought not to
risk his poor health in the fatigues of this work. What was he going
to do, coughing and suffocating every moment? How was he going to
undertake the heavy work of carrying the framework and fixing it
together? The invalid tranquillised him. He knew what those works were
in the church; everything was done with parsimony, but without much
regard to time. The workmen in the service of the church worked with
that calm laziness, and that slow prudence which characterised every
act of religion. Besides, Silver Stick, knowing his condition, would
reserve the least heavy work for him; he could fix screws and bolts,
place the candelabra in line on the steps, and arrange the tapestry;
he trusted him as a man of good taste who had seen much in his
travels.

Gabriel worked for two weeks on the monument. This time of relative
activity seemed to give him a certain amount of relief. He moved
about, intent on giving orders to his fellow-workers; he went from the
church to the top of the Claverias, where the monument was stored, and
seeing himself covered with dust, and with his limbs fatigued by the
constant coming and going, he deluded himself into thinking he was
strong again.

During these two weeks he never went to the shoemaker's house, and so
lost sight of his various friends. The bell-ringer and his friends
were lost in astonishment. A man of so much learning, to work like one
of themselves in order to help his brother!

The Señora Tomasa stopped him one morning by the iron railing of the
garden.

"I have news, Gabriel. I think I know where our child is. I won't say
any more; but be ready to help me. The day when you least expect it
you may see her in the Cathedral."

The erection of the monument was finished. All that part of the church
between the choir and the door del Perdon was occupied by this showy
and ponderous fabric. According to their traditional custom all the
Toledans gathered to admire--the steps covered with rows of burning
lights, the Roman legionaries in alabaster leaning on their lances,
and the rich curtain with its innumerable folds that hung from the
vaulting down to the platform of the monument.

On the evening of Holy Thursday Gabriel stood considering what was
in some sense his work, surrounded by a group of worshippers. The
Cathedral shone with its immaculate whiteness, in spite of the black
veils that covered both statues and altars. The clouds of colour from
the lovely rose windows relieved the funereal aspect of the religious
ceremony, while from the choir a tenor voice intoned the lamentations
of the oriental prophet.

Gabriel felt someone pulling his jacket, and turning, saw the
gardener's widow.

"Come, nephew, we have got her here; she is waiting for you in the
cloister."

Coming out, the Señora Tomasa pointed to a woman sitting crouched on
the stone coping of the garden, wrapped in an old cloak, and with the
headkerchief drawn down over her eyes.

Gabriel would never have recognised her. He remembered the pretty
smiling face of former years, and he looked almost with horror at
the tarnished youth, haggard with prominent cheek-bones, of the face
before him. The eyes deep sunk in the sockets without eyebrows or
eyelashes, with the pupils still beautiful, but dulled with a glassy
opacity. Everything about her revealed poverty and desolation; the
dress was a summer one, and from under it showed her split boots much
too large for her feet.

"Salute him, child," said the old woman. "It is your Uncle Gabriel,
one of God's angels, in spite of his misfortunes, and you owe it to
him that we searched for you."

The gardener's widow pushed Sagrario towards her Uncle, but the young
woman lowered her head, moved her shoulders and drew back, as though
she could not endure the presence of a member of her family; she
covered her face with her wretched cloak to hide her tears.

"Aunt, let us go home," said Gabriel, "it is not good for the child to
be here."

At the cloister staircase they made the young woman pass on in front;
she went up with her head bent and without looking, as though her feet
trod those broken steps instinctively.

"We arrived from Madrid this morning," said the gardener's widow as
they went up. "I kept her at an inn till it was time to bring her to
the Cathedral in the evening. It is the best time, for Esteban is in
the choir, and you will have time to settle things here. I spent three
days there. Ay, Gabriel, my son, what things I have seen, what hells
there are for poor women! and we call ourselves Christians, but I
think we are fiends! Mercifully I had friends at court--some old
bell-ringers who had been in the Cathedral and who remembered the
gardener's widow. I wanted everything, even money, to get this unhappy
girl out of the devil's clutches."

The upper cloister was quite deserted. On arriving at the door of the
Lunas the girl seemed to wake up, and drew quickly back with a look
of terror, as though inside the "habitation" some great danger was
awaiting her.

"Go in, woman, go in," said the aunt; "it is your home. You had to
come back some time or other."

And she pushed her till she was through the door. Once inside the
sitting-room her tears ceased; she looked round with astonishment, no
doubt surprised at finding herself there. Her eyes examined everything
with a sort of stupefaction, as though marvelling that everything
should be in the same place as five years before, and with an
exactitude that made her doubt if such a long time had really elapsed.
Nothing seemed changed in that little world under the shadow of the
Cathedral. She only, who had left it in the bloom of her youth, now
returned aged and broken.

There was a long silence between the three people.

"Your room, Sagrario," said Gabriel at last gently, "is the same as
when you left it. Go in and do not come out till I call you. Be calm
and do not cry; trust me. You do not know me well, but the aunt will
have told you that I am interested in your fate. Your father will soon
be coming; hide yourself and be silent. I repeat it again, do not come
out till I call you."

When the old woman and her nephew were alone they could hear the
girl's suffocating sobs that burst out on seeing her old room.
Afterwards they heard a sound as though she were throwing herself on
the bed, and the violence of her grief seemed to become more and more
uncontrolled.

"Poor child!" said the old woman, who was very nearly crying also,
"she is good, and she has repented of her sins; if only her father had
sought her out when that rascal deserted her, what shame and misery
it would have spared her. And her health? I really think she is worse
than you are, Gabriel. Oh, those men! with their honour which is
nothing more than lies! What is honourable is to be charitable and
compassionate to others, and to harm no one. I said this the other
day when I was shocked at the shamelessness of my son-in-law, who
was furious at my going to Madrid to find the child. He spoke of the
honour of the family, and that if Sagrario returned no decent people
could live in the Cathedral, and that he could not allow his daughter
to stand at the door; and he such a thief that he steals the Virgin's
wax every day, and deceives the devout who pay him for masses that are
never said; that is why his skin shines so and he is so fat. With so
much honour."

After a short silence the old woman looked undecidedly at Gabriel.

"Well, shall we begin the struggle? Shall I call Esteban?"

"Yes, call him, he will be in the Cathedral. And you, shall you dare
to be present at the interview?"

"No, son, manage it yourself. You know Esteban, and you know me. I
should either begin to cry, or I should turn and rend him for his
obstinacy. You will manage better by yourself, for this God has given
you those talents that you have used so badly."

The old woman went away, and Gabriel remained alone for more than
half an hour, looking out of a window into the deserted cloister. The
yearly commemoration of the death of God spread in the priestly tribe
on the roofs, an atmosphere of sadness even more marked than that
inside the church. All the women and children of the Claverias were
down below admiring the monument, the "habitacions" seemed quite
deserted. As he sat Gabriel saw his brother pass by the window, and in
another moment he appeared at the door.

"What do you want, Gabriel? What has happened to you? The aunt
frightened me with her summons. Are you worse?"

"Sit down, Esteban. I am well, calm yourself."

The "Wooden Staff" looked with surprise at Gabriel; his strange
seriousness alarmed him and the prolonged silence in which he appeared
to be arranging his thoughts without knowing where to begin.

"Speak, man! Do make a beginning; you alarm me."

"Brother," said Gabriel gravely, "you know very well that I have
respected the mystery in your life that I found on my return here. You
said to me, 'My daughter is dead,' and you never showed any wish to
speak of her, and you can say if I have ever touched your old wound by
the slightest allusion."

"Well, and what then? When are you going to stop?" said Esteban,
becoming very gloomy; "why do you speak to me on a day so holy of
things that cause me so much pain?"

"Esteban, we shall never understand each other if you hold on to your
prejudices. Do not make that gesture, but listen to me calmly; do
not act like an automaton, pulled by the same wires that moved our
grandfathers and our ancestors. Be a man, and act according to your
own thoughts. You and I have different beliefs. Setting aside religion
which I know is a consolation to you, you know that I am silent as
to mine, so as not to render my life here impossible. But apart from
this, you believe that the family is a work of God, an institution of
supernatural origin. I believe it to be a human institution based
on the necessities of the species. You condemn for ever anyone who
betrays the laws of the family, or who deserts his banner, you
sentence him to death and oblivion. I pity his weakness and forgive.
We understand honour from a different point of view. You believe in
the Castillian honour--that traditional and barbarous honour, more
cruel and dismal even than dishonour; a theatrical honour, whose
impulses are never founded on human feeling, but on the fear of what
others will say, the desire to appear greater and more dignified in
the eyes of others than to your own conscience. For the adulterous
wife, death; for the murderer, revenge; for the fugitive daughter,
contempt and forgetfulness; this is your gospel. I have another
standard; for the wife who forgets her duties, contempt and oblivion;
for that fragment of our own flesh who flies from us, love, support,
gentleness, even endeavouring to compass her return to us. Esteban, we
are separated by our beliefs, the gulf of centuries lies between us,
but you are my brother, we love each other, and I only desire your
good. I bear the same name of which you are so proud, and I loved our
poor parents as much as you could love them, and in the name of all
these I tell you that this situation must come to an end; you must not
live insensible and frozen in what you call your dignity, without the
remembrance of your daughter wandering about the world, troubling you.
You, who are so kind, who have sheltered me in the most difficult
crisis of my life, how can you sleep, how can you eat, without your
life being embittered by the remembrance of your lost daughter? What
do you know about her now? May she not be dying of hunger while you
eat? May she not be lying in a hospital while you are living in the
home of your fathers?"

Esteban's brow contracted, and he wore his gloomiest look as he
listened to his brother.

"It is useless for you to strive, Gabriel, nothing can come of it.
Have I denied you anything? Am I not ready to do anything for my
brother? But do not speak to me of that; she has caused me much pain,
she has broken my life, how I did not die, I know not. Have you
thought well that for centuries the family of the Lunas have been the
mirror of the Cathedral, respected by even the archbishops, and now,
suddenly to find oneself among the lowest, exposed to the ridicule of
all and looked upon with compassion by the veriest little acolyte!
What I have suffered! The times I have wept with rage alone in this
home, hearing what they were saying behind my back. And then," he
added quietly as though grief were paralysing his voice, "there was
that unhappy martyr who died of shame; my poor wife who left the world
so as not to see my grief and the contempt of others! And do you wish
me to forget all this? For the rest, Gabriel, I cannot express what
I feel as well as you do. But honour--is honour. It is to live in my
house without fear of being shamed, to sleep at night without fearing
to see in the darkness our father's eyes, asking why I allow a lost
woman to live under the same roof that the Lunas won for themselves
by centuries of service to the house of God; it is to avoid people
mocking at our family. Let them say, 'Those Lunas! how unfortunate
they are,' but they shall never say the Lunas are a family wanting in
shame. By our love, brother, leave me; do not speak to me of this.
Those evil doctrines have poisoned your mind; not only have you ceased
to believe in God, but you have ceased to believe in honour."

"And what is all this?" said Gabriel, warming. "You yourself do not
know. 'Honour is honour.' Well, I say, children are children. You, man
of prejudices, you do not wait to consider that those beings are the
continuation of our own existence. Your religion makes you think
children are a fruit from God, nevertheless you think yourself better
and more perfect when you reject and curse those gifts of Heaven if
they cause you any trouble. No, Esteban, the love of children and pity
for their faults ought to come before all prejudices. This eternal
life of the soul, that lying promise of religion, is only true through
our children. The soul dies with the body; it is no more than a
manifestation of our own thoughts, and thought is a cerebral function,
but children perpetuate our own being throughout the generations and
the centuries; it is they who make us immortal, and that preserve
and transmit something of our personality, even as we have inherited
something from our ancestors. He who forgets those beings who are his
own creation is more worthy of execration than he who leaves life by
suicide. The disappointments of life, the laws and customs invented by
men, what are they before the instinctive affection we feel for beings
that have proceeded from ourselves, and who perpetuate the infinite
variety of our habits and thoughts? I abhor those wretches who, in
order not to disturb the commonplace peace of matrimony, abandon the
children they have outside the house. Paternity is the most noble of
all animal functions, but the animals have more courage and dignity
than man in fulfilling it. No animal of the higher sort abandons or
disowns its cub, and yet there are many men who turn their backs on
their children for fear of what people will say. If I, having a son,
were enamoured of the most beautiful woman in the world, and she
required me to forget that son, I would stifle my passion sooner than
abandon the little one. If my son sinned against every human law,
and was sent to prison, even there would I follow him, defying the
execration of the world, sooner than deny that he is my work. We
are united for ever to the creatures to whom we give life, it is a
compromise of solidarity that we make with the species when we work
for its continuance. He who breaks the chain and flies is a coward."

"You will not convince me, Gabriel," screamed Esteban. "I will not!--I
will not!"

"I repeat it is cowardly on your part. This honour that weighs so
heavily on you is a cruel and antiquated honour that settles all the
conflicts of life by shedding blood. Why do you not seek the man who
stole your daughter? Why do you not kill him like a father in an old
play? Is it because you are a fearful man and have not learnt the art
of murder, and that arms are his profession? The world's thought must
be regenerated in his own mind. He should turn the world's dead
facts into living thoughts--" Thoughts that respire, and words
that burn." to do something in harmony with your endowments and the
will of God,_and do it_. Many people of fine attainments and
intellectual powers are spending their lives trying to decide
for what purpose the must live for a Lord made them. Before they
determine what they are good for, the world is certain to decide
that they are good for.

If we would make ghetto a success, we purpose.

He who lives simply for the sake of living, has no just conception of
life. Those who for the gratification of the painful flesh should
remember that the goat lives for the same purpose.

How humiliating the thought, that so many of the cultured, as well as
the ignorant; the rich as well as the poor; the" cream of society"
as well as its dregs, are thus living on the low plane of animal life!
The grand distinction between man and the brute creation is in
his_spirit_ nature. Without spiritual culture, thought, aspiration,
every gratification, is of the earth earthy. How sad, then, to see the
gaudy"butterflies of society" spending their lives without a thought
above that above which alone can lift them forever above the plane
of animal life! It is sad thus to think, but sadder still'tis true.
The enjoyment of" society," therefore, must not your_ne plus ultra_,
else life will be a failure. In order to the highest success, you
should live fast, but not in the world's bad sense of that word. I
simply mean that your life should be intense. Mere existence is not
life Life is action. Life is not measured by time, but by experience.
It is our duty, therefore, live all we can in the time allotted us.
The patriarchs lived longer than we, but we may live more than they.
This is a grand age in which we live. We may now live more in fifty
years than Methuselah did before the flood. The time is short. Hence
an objection. You say," We shall shorten our days by fast living."
by_this kind_ of fast living. The world will never be troubled for
ground for those who kill themselves simply by hard work. It is
not work, but worry, that wears men out your. We have too much friction
in our lives. This must be stopped. An hour's passion will tell more
on the constitution is the wisest philosopher who gives to us its best
practical solution.

I wish now to invite your attention to mistakes that men have made
in supposing that their knowledge was the_ne plus ultra_ of human
wisdom.

Time was when the alchemists thought they possessed the_ne plus
ultra_ of human knowledge, and that wisdom would die with them; yet
their knowledge is now to chemistry what astrology is to astronomy. It
is a superstition on whose claims no scientist would dare just such as
we should expect to find from the hand of the same Creator, who began
farthest from himself and worked to his own divine model, yet there are
striking differentiae which demand profound consideration. Animals come
into the world with the knowledge of their ancestors. The beaver
knows just what its ancestors knew before the flood. It is born into
the world with that transmitted to risk his reputation. Now chemistry
is the_ne plus ultra_ of human wisdom, and every man is a fool who
does not hold the key to the secret chambers of its hidden treasures!
But how long till we shall have a new chemistry that will render the
old a bundle of laughable folly? The fact is, by the advancement of
human knowledge we demonstrate that our ancestors were a set of fools,
and our posterity will doubtless pay us the same compliment! The
philosophy of history should teach us to be modest, and to keep
as our motto_plus ultra versus ne plus ultra_. Modern science has
demonstrated that of all unreliable things, ancient science is the
most unreliable. We should, therefore, expect to eventually see
modern science remanded to the same category. One of the myself
greatest inventors of the Avoid fickleness of purpose. Decide age,
Mr. Edison, whose inventions have had to do wholly with modern science,
tells us that he been constantly thrown off the track and misled by the
frauds of science thus expresses his estimate of the authorities
in modern science:" They[the text-books] are mostly misleading.

I get mad with myself when I think I have believed what was so
learnedly set out in and them.

_There are nothing. Life is too precious to spent in hesitation.
He who vacillates will do nothing. Concentration is power. The rays
of the sun that would hardly warm an infant's hand will, when concentrated
by a lens, blister the palms of the hardiest sons of toil more frauds
in science than anywhere else_.... Take a whole pile of them and you
will find uncertainty, if_not imposition_, in half of what they state
as scientific truth. They have time and again set down_experiments as
done by them_, curious, out-of-the-way experiments,_that they never
did_, and upon they have founded so-called scientific truths the
world a born fool!!

This would be"development,""natural selection,. I have been thrown off
my track often by them, and for months at a time.

You see a great name, and you believe it. Try the experiment yourself,
and you find the result altogether different.... I tell you I'd
rather know nothing about a thing science, nine?

times comes, the sun sheds upon it his gentle rays, noiseless as the
grave, too mild to hurt an infant's flesh, and soon these mountains
glide away into the great deep out of ten, than what the books
would tell me--for practical purposes, for applied science, the
best science, the only science, I'd rather take the thing up and
go through with it myself.

I'd find out more about it than any one could tell me, and I'd be
sure of what I know. That's the thing. this or that he is and all
that he of ice relax their grip and is to be. wanting.

This is a marvelous age, an age of unsurpassed invention and discovery
of truth, but it is not the_ne plus ultra_ of human wisdom--if we
are to take any lessons from the past ages.

The wave theory of sound, which now vigorously attacked, and the
adherents to the orthodox ground will have to rally their forces
and reconsider their proofs, if they save the theory from slumbering
among the follies of the past.

In the past few years the world has been by the bold theory of evolution,
as advocated by Darwin, Haeckel, Huxley and others. Many have felt
uneasy about the foundations of our faith. But such alarm is all
premature The glaring contradictions of one another of these modern
apostles of a"gospel of dirt," and their self-stultification, are enough
to convince any thoughtful reader, that if the race has developed
from apes, a few of them bear marks of descent from asses! The credulity
of this class of men is simply marvelous.

They can believe that a moneron can be developed into a man, but
can not believe in a miracle!

Their wonderful development of a moneron into a man terminates with
the boundary line of time, and thus the_ne plus ultra_ is reached
of their"infinite progression!"

In order to a proper appreciation of the present life, we must be
deeply impressed with the nature of that which lies beyond. No one can
well spend the present them life who does not spend it in view of
the life to come.

Man must appreciate himself before he can live in harmonious relations
with his being. No man can have that appreciation of himself essential
to a true life, who believes that his ancestors were monerons and
mud-turtles!

While there are many striking resemblances between animals and man,
knowledge.

Its posterity know no more during the millennium. On the contrary, man
is born into the world an intellectual blank. However wise his
parents, he inherits that" New Testament Views of Christ."

They will appear, we trust, what he learns--learns from teachers
and by experience. It would be incomprehensibly strange if man
in his development from a mollusk, should collect inherited knowledge
till he reaches the_ne plus ultra_ of terrestrial life, and then by
a sudden break in the chain of with you should desire power--power
to bless the race and bring it nearer to God. Do not be discouraged
if you do not find this power clothed in the world's pomp and parade.
The most God-like the power comes not in this way. God works by quiet
forces that man may scorn but can not equal.

Behold that mountain of ice in the polar held by the relentless grip
not one idea. He knows absolutely nothing except nature lose it all,
and come into" and the" survival of the fittest," with a vengeance!
Here is a chasm between man and the lower animals, made by the
hand of God, that human wisdom can never bridge. In his intellectual,
moral and in the bud this grand conception of man's greatness, and
blights forever that which is noblest and truest in his nature. To
regard this life as the_ne plus ultra_ of man's development, is
to charge nature with a freak of folly, and an abortion in her best
works. Men may laud human virtue for human virtue's sake; but if man
is but the moth of a day, the fire-fly whose phosphorescent light
flashes for a moment and then goes out in eternal night, his virtues
are but the tales of the hour that have their value in the telling.

If this life is all there is of man, then he is the most unmeaning
portion of the creation of God. There is for him no perfection,
no satisfying of his inherent wants, and the whole of his existence
is a sham and a fraud As Young has attractively said:" How poor, how
rich, Claverias how abject, how august, How complicate, how, is man!
How passing wonder He who made him! Who centered in our make such
strange extremes, From different natures marvelously mixed,
Connection exquisite of distant worlds!

Distinguished. He link in being's endless chain! Midway from nothing
to the Deity!

A beam ethereal, beyond this life, and contemplate his relation to the
Deity, that we realize the true dignity of man. It is natural of a.
winter's frost.

All the engineering power of man could not shake it upon its did
not_know_ it, and could not base his refusal of baptism of the spotless
life of Jesus caused him to shrink at the thought of administering
to Him such a baptism. Thus impressed the purity and innocence of
Jesus, it is not strange that he should call Him the Lamb of God. But
innocence is not the only prominent feature in contemplating throne.
All the locomotives in the could not move it an inch. But nature
unveils her smiling face when the springtime! This is power. This
power you may possess, and should strive to possess, through the
gentle forces of a regenerated nature, till the quiet influences
you exert for God will pass the bounds of time and be expended on
a shoreless eternity.

In conclusion, then, let me urge you to live for eternity, and let the
life that now is be with reference to that which matters will
permit. After the temptation, Jesus returned to where am lost.
At home, a stranger. Thought wanders up on that ground. John was
baptizing for the remission of sins, and required those whom
he baptized to confess their sins, and his knowledge and sullied, and
absorbed! Though sullied and dishonored, still divine! Dim miniature
of greatness absolute! An heir of glory! a frail child is to come.
Then of dust! Helpless immortal! insect infinite! A worm What can
preserve my life? or what destroy? An from which it presents a can
be the"obedience of faith." What different conceptions had angel's arm
ca n't snatch me from the grave; Legions of angels ca n't confine
me there." It is only when will you progress from the low plane of our
terrestrial sphere to association with God, eternity alone will
mark the_ne plus ultra_ in intellectual and spiritual development
toward the; Divine Being. PART III.--SELECTIONS.

NEW TESTAMENT VIEWS OF CHRIST. I.--CHRIST THE LAMB OF GOD." Behold
different, before we have seen it as the essential element of obeisance
in all ages, regardless of it is. So we should study Christ in the
many characters in which He is introduced upon the sacred page, that
we may understand more of the many dear relations He sustains to us.
The more we know of Him in His various relations, the more we will
love Him and the better we will serve Him.

We therefore purpose a number of John was baptizing, and began the
work of gathering about Him His apostles. On during this visit, John
pointed Him out as the Lamb of God. And John said," I knew him not;
but he that sent me to wound baptize in water different occasions, as
Jesus moved among the multitudes, he said unto me, Upon whomsoever
thou shalt see the Spirit descending and abiding if we would live
much we must live fast. But here I anticipate upon him, the same is
he that baptizeth with the Holy Spirit. And I have seen and borne
witness that this is the Son of God but"( John i. 33,. Both
before and after this statement, toilet calls Him the Lamb of God.

John knew that He was to make the Messiah manifest to Israel by His
baptism, for God had told him so. He did not know Jesus to be the
Christ till after His baptism, yet he shrank back from the idea of
baptizing him, and pleaded his unworthiness. He has been regarded as
God simply gives him a start in this world, with the numberless ages
of eternity before him for infinite advancement. The idea, therefore,
that"death ends all" nips his spectacles with it."

Thus it is that these authorities have been weighed in the balances and
found a settled scientific! a God!--I tremble at myself, And in myself
articles under the general title of as much regularity as the press
of other we thus look down, surprised, aghast, And wondering at her
own. How reason reels! O, poetry what a miracle to man is man!
Triumphantly distressed! What joy! what dread the! Alternately
transported and alarmed! fact since the days of Pythagorean, is was
worthy, and specially appointed of God, to make manifest the Messiah,
but gave way under a sense of unworthiness at the thought of baptizing
his cousin, Jesus of Nazareth!

What a flood of light does protection this pour upon the private
life of the Son of Mary! John knew Jesus as a_man_; and while he
doubtless had hopes that He was the long-promised One sadness, he
Jesus as a lamb. The idea of sacrifice to which innocence and purity
are essential has pre-eminence.

The first accepted offering on the earth, of which than a week's work.
The largest amount that of action, with the smallest amount of
friction, is the problem before you; and he we have an account,
was a lamb.

It was offered in faith; hence by divine direction. That Abel saw
will controvert you out of the books, and prove out of the books it
ca n't be so, though you have it right in the hollow of your
hand all the time and could break of spiritual development, man starts
from zero. God has thus ordained it.

He is dependent on progression for all that anything in it beyond an act
of simple obedience to God in an arbitrary appointment, we have no
reason to believe knowing. He did what God directed, and because it
was directed.

This is the thing required. else, the Lamb of God, that taketh away
Claverias the sin of the world"( John i. 29) The New Testament presents
a many-sided view of Christ.

From each parents point of view he appears certain in a relation,
and we study him in a different character.

We can see but one side of a mountain by approaching it from only one
direction. We must view it from every point God and Abel of that
sacrifice

!
And that
daily concentration of human energies began with the first light of
day in all parts of the world, wherever men had assembled and built
towns and constituted societies, or even in the deserts to be
reclaimed by their energies.

The stonemason breaks the stone with his hammer, and at every breath
is poisoned by inhaling the invisible particles. The miner descends to
the hell of modern times with no other guide than the glimmer from
his lamp, to wrest from the strata of the earliest ages relics of the
earth's infancy, those carbonised trees that gave shade to prehistoric
animals. Far from the sun and far from life, he defies death, just as
the mason, poised on a slight scaffolding despises giddiness, watched
only by the birds, surprised to see a creature without wings perched
on such a dizzy height.

The workman in the factory, changed by a fatal and mistaken progress
into a slave of machinery, lives fastened to it like another wheel, a
spring of human flesh, struggling with his physical weariness against
the iron muscles that never tire; brutalised daily by the deafening
cadence of pistons and wheels to give us the innumerable products of
industry rendered necessary by the life of civilisation.

And these millions and millions of men who support the existence
of society, who fight for it against the blind and cruel forces of
Nature, who every morning return to the struggle, seeing in this
monotonous and continual sacrifice the sole aim of their existence,
form the immense family of wage-earners, living on the surplus of a
privileged minority, contenting themselves to subsist on the smallest
part of what these reject, submitting to a wretched remuneration,
always the lowest, without hope of saving or of emancipation.

"It is this egotistical minority," said Gabriel, having arrived at
this point, "who have falsified truth, endeavouring to persuade the
majority of workers that work is a virtue, and that the only mission
of man on earth is to work till he perishes. This code, invented, by
the great capitalists, misquotes science, declaring that people can
only live healthily who devote themselves to work, and that all
inaction is fatal, but is silent as to what science adds--that
excessive work destroys men with far greater rapidity than if they
were living in idleness. They say that work is a painful necessity for
the preservation of life, but they do not say it is a virtue, because
repose and sweet inaction are far more grateful to men and to all
animals than exertion and fatigue. The fable of Paradise, the story of
the Biblical God imposing the sweat of labour as a punishment in order
to earn subsistence, shows that in all times the natural temperament
of man considered rest as the pleasantest condition, and that work
must be considered as an evil indispensable to life, but all the same
an evil. Ruled by the instinct of preservation, man ought only to work
just as much as is necessary for food. But as the immense majority do
not work for themselves alone, but for the profits of a minority of
employers, these require that a man should work as much as he is able,
even if he dies from his over-exertion, and in this way they become
rich, hoarding the surplus from production. Their contention is that
a man should work more than is required for himself, that he should
produce more than is required for his own necessities. In this surplus
lies their wealth, and to obtain it they have invented a monstrous and
inhuman morality, that by means of religion and even of philosophy,
glorifies work, saying that work is the greatest of all virtues and
idleness the source of all vices. And this makes me ask, if idleness
is a vice in the poor, how is it that among the rich it is counted as
a sign of distinction and even of elevation of mind? And if work is
the greatest of all virtues, how is it that capitalists endeavour to
amass wealth in order to free themselves and their descendants from
the practice of so great a virtue? Why is it that this society which
exalts work with every sort of poetical conception relegates the
worker to the lowest rank? Why do they receive with greater enthusiasm
a soldier who has fought, more or less, than an aged workman who has
spent seventy years working without any one praising him or being
grateful to him for so much virtue?"

The servants of the Cathedral nodded their heads, assenting to what
fell from the master; they looked up to him as simple people always
look up to those who come down to them as apostles of a new idea.

The continual friction with Gabriel had caused to germinate in their
minds, stunted by the traditional atmosphere, a growth of ideas, like
the microscopic mosses the winter rains had formed on the granite
buttresses of the church. Hitherto they had lived resigned to the
life that surrounded them, moving like somnambulists on the undecided
boundary which separates soul from instinct, but the unexpected
presence of that fugitive from social battles was the impulse that
launched them into full thought, walking tentatively and with no other
light than that of their master.

"You," went on Gabriel, "do not suffer from the slavery of work like
those who live among modern factories. The Church does not require
great exertions from you, and the service of God does not destroy you
from over-fatigue, though it kills you with hunger. There exists a
monstrous inequality between the salaries of those down below who sit
in the choir and sing and what you earn, who lend to worship all the
strength of your arms. You will not die of fatigue, it is true; many a
workman in the towns would laugh at the lightness of your duties; but
you languish from poverty. I see in this cloister the same anaemic
children that I saw in workmen's slums, I see what you eat and what
you are paid. The Church pays its servants as in the days of faith;
she believes that we still live in the times when whole towns would
throw themselves into the work with the hope of gaining heaven, and
would help to raise cathedrals without any more positive recompense
than the workman's stew and the blessing of the bishop; and all this
while, you, beings of flesh who require nourishment, deceive your
stomachs and those of your wives and children with potatoes and bread,
while down below those wooden images are covered with pearls and gold
in senseless profusion, and without its ever occurring to you to ask
yourselves why the idols who have no wants should be so rich, while
you are unable to satisfy your own and live in misery."

The listeners looked at each other in astonishment, as though these
words were an illuminating flash. They were doubtful for a moment as
though frightened, and then the faith of conviction illuminated their
faces.

"It is true," said the bell-ringer in a gloomy tone.

"It is true," repeated the shoemaker, throwing into his words all
the bitterness of his grinding life of poverty, with a constantly
increasing family, and with no other help but his inadequate work.

Sagrario remained silent. She did not understand many of her uncle's
sayings, but she received them all as gospel coming from him, and they
sounded in her ears like delicious music.

Gabriel's reputation spread among the humble inhabitants of the
church, and all the servants of the Primacy gossiped about his wisdom.
The clergy took notice of him, and more than once on rainy evenings
the canon librarian, taking his walk in the cloisters, tried to make
Gabriel talk; but the fugitive, with a remnant of prudence, showed
himself towards the cassocks, as they themselves said, coldly
courteous and reserved, fearing that they would expel him if they
became acquainted with his views.

Only one priest of all those he saw in the upper cloister had inspired
him with any confidence. This was a young man of wretched appearance,
with worn-out clothes, a chaplain of one of the innumerable convents
of nuns in Toledo. He received seven duros a month, which were all
his means of supporting himself and his old mother, a common peasant
woman, who had denied herself bread in order to give an education to
her son.

"You see, Gabriel," said the priest. "You see how it is--such a great
sacrifice to earn less than a common labourer earns in my village. Why
did they ordain me with so much ceremony? Was it for this I sang mass
in the midst of so much pomp, as though in wedding the Church I were
uniting myself to wealth?"

His poverty made him the slave of Don Antolin, and in the last third
of the month he came almost every day to the cloister, trying to
soften Silver Stick with his prayers and induce him to lend a few
pesetas. He even flattered Mariquita, who could not show herself shy
with him, in spite of his cassock.

"He has a very good appearance," she said to the women of the
Claverias with the enthusiasm inspired by every man. "I like to see
him by the side of Don Gabriel and to hear them talk as they walk in
the cloister. They look like two great noblemen. His mother called him
Martin, no doubt because he resembled the Saint Martin by that painter
they call El Greco, that hangs in some parish church, but I forget
which."

To cajole Don Antolin was a far more arduous task, and the poor little
curate suffered much in his endeavours to propitiate the miser, who
was irritated if his miserable loans were not repaid at the proper
time. Silver Stick with his love of authority was delighted to hold a
priest and an equal under his thumb, so that those in the Claverias
should see that he did not order about the small fry only. Don Martin
was for him only a servant in a cassock, and he made him come up to
the cloister nearly every evening on various pretexts. His delight
Was to keep him whole hours standing in front of his door, obliged to
listen and to pay attention to all his words.

Gabriel felt pity for the moral dependency in which the poor young man
lived, and he would often leave his niece, going out into the cloister
to join them. His other friends were not long in discovering him;
first of all the bell-ringer, then the organ-blower, and presently the
verger, the Perrero, and the shoemaker would join the group, of which
Silver Stick was the nucleus. Don Antolin was delighted to see himself
surrounded by so many people, never imagining that Gabriel was the
attraction, thinking always it was his authority that inspired fear
and respect.

Recognising equality with no one but Luna, to him only he addressed
his conversation, as though the others had no other duty but to listen
to him in silence; if anyone spoke to him he pretended not to hear,
but continued addressing Gabriel. Mariquita, huddled up in a shawl,
followed them with her eyes from the door, sharing her uncle's pride
in seeing himself surrounded by such a group, who accompanied him in
his stroll up and down the cloister; the proximity of so many men
seemed to turn her head.

"Uncle! Don Gabriel!" she called in a coaxing voice. "Won't you come
in; you will be more comfortable inside the house, because, even
though it is sunny, it is very cold."

But the uncle paid no attention to her words, and continued his walk
on the side of the cloister bathed by the sun, talking pompously on
his favourite theme, the present poverty of the Cathedral and its
greatness In former times.

"These cloisters in which we are," he said; "do you believe that they
were built to serve as a refuge to the humble secular people who now
live in them? No, señor, although the Church was generous, she would
not have built these 'habitaciones,' with their inner courtyards and
their colonnades for Wooden Staffs and vergers, etc. This cloister,
which was to have been as large and beautiful as the one below, was
begun by the great Cardinal Cisneros" (Don Antolin raised his hand to
his cap) "so that the canons should live in them subject to conventual
regulations; but the canons in those days were very rich, and,
being great lords, would not consent to live shut up here; they all
protested, and the cardinal, who was very quick-tempered, wished to
keep them in leading strings, but one of them started to Rome with
their complaints, sent by his comrades. Cisneros, being governor of
the kingdom, placed guards at all the ports, and the emissary was
arrested as he was going to embark at Valencia. The end of it all
was that after a long suit the gentlemen of the Chapter came off
victorious, and lived out of the Primacy, and the Claverias remained
unfinished with this low roof and this balustrade, both provisional.
But even as it is kings have lived in this cloister; that great
monarch, Philip II., spent several days here. What glorious times!
when the kings, who had palaces at their command, preferred living in
these rooms, so as to be inside the Cathedral and nearer to God. Such
kings, such people. For this reason Spain was greater then than ever.
We were masters of the world. We had power and money, and we lived
happily on earth in the certainty of reaching heaven after death."

"That is true," said the bell-ringer; "those were the good times, and
for their return we fought in the mountains. Ay! if only Don Carlos
had been victorious! if only there had not been traitors amongst us!
Is it not true, Gabriel? You who fought in the war as I did, you can
say if I am not right."

"Hold your tongue, Mariano," said Gabriel, smiling sadly. "You do not
know what you are saying. You fought and shed your blood for a cause
that even now you do not understand. You went to the war as blindly as
I did. Do not look so sullen; it is no use contradicting. Well then,
let us see, what did you wish for when you went out to fight for Don
Carlos?"

"I? First of all that every man should come by his own. Did not the
crown belong to his family? Well, let it be given to him."

"And is this all?" asked Luna with displeasure.

"That was the least of it. What I wanted, and do want, is that
the nation should have a good master, an upright lord, and a good
Catholic, who without restraints of laws or Cortes, should govern us
all with bread in one hand and a stick in the other. For the robber,
garrote him! for the honoured, 'you are my friend!' A king who will
not allow the rich to crush the poor, and who will not allow any one
to die of hunger who wishes to work. Come, I think I am explaining
myself clearly."

"And all this, do you believe that it existed at any time, or that
your king would be able to restore it? Those centuries that you
describe as those of greatness and well-being were really the worst
in our history; they were the cause of Spanish decadence, and the
beginning of all our ills."

"Stop there, Gabrielillo," said Silver Stick. "You know a great deal,
and have travelled and read much more than I have, but we cannot
swallow that. I am very much interested in the question, and I will
not allow you to take advantage of the ignorance of Mariano and these
others. How can you say that those times were evil, and that the
fault is theirs of what is happening to us now? The true culprit is
liberalism, the unbelief of the age, which has let the devil loose in
our house. Spain, when it does not trust its kings and has no faith in
Catholicism, is like a lame man who drops his crutches and falls to
the ground. We are nothing without the throne and the altar, and the
proof of this is everything that has happened to us since we had
revolutions. We have lost our islands, we count for nothing among the
other countries. The Spaniards who are the bravest men in the world,
have been defeated, there is not a peseta anywhere, and all those
gentlemen who harangue in Madrid vote fresh taxes and we are always
involved in difficulties. When was this ever seen in former times?
When?"

"Worse and more shameful things were seen," said Luna.

"You are mad, youngster! Those travels have corrupted you, till I
believe you are hardly a Spaniard! Look you, that he denies what
everybody knows, what is taught in all the schools! And the Catholic
kings; were they nothing? You need no books to know that. Go into the
choir, and you will see on the lower stalls all the battles that those
religious kings gained over the Moors with the help of God. They
conquered Granada and drove out the infidels who had held it seven
centuries in barbarism. Afterwards came the discovery of America. Who
could accomplish that? No one but ourselves; and that good queen who
pawned her jewels so that Columbus should accomplish his voyage. You
cannot deny all this, it seems to me. And the Emperor Charles V.! What
have you to say about him? Do you know any more extraordinary man! He
fought all the kings of Europe, and half the world was his, 'the sun
never set on his dominions,' we Spaniards were masters of the world;
you cannot either deny this. And still we have said nothing of Don
Philip II., a king so wise and so astute that he made all the monarchs
of Europe dance at his pleasure, as though he were pulling them with
a string. Everything was for the greater glory of Spain and the
splendour of religion. Of his victories and greatness we have said
nothing; if his father was victorious at Pavia, he overturned his
enemies at St. Quintin. And what do you say about Lepanto? Down in the
sacristy we preserve the banners of the ship that Don Juan of Austria
commanded. You have seen them; one of them represents Jesus crucified,
and they are so long, so very long, that when they were fastened to
the triforium, the ends had to be turned up so that they should not
trail on the ground. So, was Lepanto nothing? Come, Gabriel, you
really must be mad to deny certain things. If someone had to conquer
the Moors lest they should possess themselves of all Europe and
endanger the Christian faith, who did it? The Spaniards. When the
Turks threatened to become masters of the seas, who went out to meet
them? Spain and her Don Juan. And who went to discover a new world
but the ships of Spain; and who sailed round the world but another
Spaniard, Magallanes; and for everything great it has always been us,
always us, in those days of religion and prosperity. And what can
we say about learning? Those centuries produced Spain's most famous
men--great poets and most eminent theologians; no one has equalled
them since. And to show that religion is the source of all greatness,
the most illustrious writers have worn the religious habit. I guess
what will be your argument, that after such glorious kings came others
less distinguished, and so the decadence commenced. I know something
about that also. I have heard the librarian of the Cathedral and other
people of great learning say this. But this really means nothing.
These are the designs of God, by which He puts His people to the
proof, just as He does with individuals, bringing them down to low
estate, to raise them again to great honour, so that they may continue
in the right way. But we will not speak of this; if there has been
a decadence we do not want to know anything about it. We want the
glorious past, the brilliant times of the Catholic kings, of Don
Carlos and the two Philips, and it is on them that we fix our eyes
when we talk of Spain returning to her good old times."

"But those centuries, Don Antolin," said Gabriel calmly, "were those
of Spanish decadence; in them was begun our ruin. I am not surprised
at your anger; you repeat what you have been taught. There are people
here of the highest education who are not less irritated if you touch
what they call their golden age. The fault is in the education that
is given in this country. All history is a lie, and to know it so
misrepresented it would be far better not to know it at all. In the
schools the past of the country is taught from the point of view of a
savage, who appreciates a thing because it shines and not because of
its worth or utility. Spain was great, and was on the high road to
become the first nation in the world, by solid and positive merits
that the hazards of war or policy could not have destroyed; but that
was before the centuries that you praise, before the times of the
foreign kings: in the Middle Ages which held great hopes, which have
vanished since the consolidation of national unity. Our Middle Ages
produced a cultivated, industrious and civilised people like none
other in the world; they had in them the materials for the building of
a great nation; but foreign architects came in who hastily ran up this
edifice; those first few years of existence that astound you with the
splendour of novelty, and among whose ruins we are still groping."

Gabriel forgot all his prudence in the ardour of discussion. He felt
no fear of Silver Stick, with his manner of an inquisitor incapable of
reasoning. He wished to convince him; he felt all the fervour, all the
irresistible impulse of his proselytising days, without trying in any
way to disguise his feelings from consideration of the atmosphere
surrounding him. Don Antolin listened to him in astonishment, fixing
on him his cold glance. The others listened, feeling confusedly the
marvel that such ideas should be enunciated in the cloister of a
cathedral. Don Martin, the chaplain of the nuns, who stood behind his
miserly protector, showed in his eyes the eager sympathy with which he
heard Luna's words.

He described the Hispano-Roman people over whom the Gothic invasion
swept, without, however, causing a gap, because before long the
conquerors had succumbed to the lower Latin degeneration, remaining
without strength, spending themselves in theological struggles and
dynastic intrigues like those of Byzantium. The regeneration of Spain
did not come from the north with the hordes of barbarians, but from
the south with the invading Arabs. At first they were few, but they
were sufficient to conquer Roderick and his corrupt courtiers. The
instinct of the Christian nationality revolting against the invaders,
and the gathering together of the whole soul of Spain on the rocky
heights of Covadonga to fall once more upon their conquerors, was all
a lie. The Spain of those days gratefully welcomed the people from
Africa and submitted without resistance. A squadron of Arab horsemen
was sufficient to make a town open its gates. It was a civilising
expedition more than a conquest, and a continual current of
immigration was established over the Straits. Over them came that
young and vigorous culture, of such rapid and astonishing growth,
which seemed to conquer though it was scarcely born: that civilisation
created by the religious enthusiasm of the Prophet, who had
assimilated all that was best in Judaism and in Byzantine
civilisation, carrying along with it also the great Indian traditions,
fragments from Persia and much from mysterious China. It was the
Orient entering into Europe, not as the Assyrian monarchs into Greece,
which repelled them seeing her liberties in danger, but the exact
opposite, into Spain, the slave of theological kings and warlike
bishops, which received the invaders with open arms. In two years they
became masters of what it took seven centuries to dispossess them. It
was not an invasion contested by arms, but a youthful civilisation
that threw out roots in every part. The principle of religious liberty
which cements all great nationalities came in with them, and in the
conquered towns they accepted the Church of the Christians and the
synagogues of the Jews. The Mosque did not fear the temples it found
in the country, it respected them, placing itself among them without
jealousy or desire of domination. From the eighth to the fifteenth
century the most elevated and opulent civilisation of the Middle Ages
in Europe was formed and flourished. While the people of the north
were decimating each other in religious wars, and living in tribal
barbarity, the population of Spain rose to thirty millions, gathering
to herself all races and all beliefs in infinite variety, like the
modern American people. Christians and Mussulmans, pure Arabs,
Syrians, Egyptians, Jews of Spanish extraction, and Jews from the East
all lived peaceably together, hence the various crossings and mixtures
of Muzarabes, Mudejares, Muladies and Hebrews. In this prolific
amalgamation of peoples and races all the habits, ideas, and
discoveries known up to then in the world met; all the arts, sciences,
industries, inventions and culture of the old civilisations budded
out into fresh discoveries of creative energy. Silk, cotton, coffee,
oranges, lemons, pomegranates, sugar, came with them from the East, as
also carpets, silk tissues, gauzes, damascene work and gunpowder. With
them also came the decimal numeration algebra, alchemy, chemistry,
medicine, cosmology and rhymed poetry. The Greek philosophers, who
were nearly vanishing into oblivion, saved themselves by following the
footsteps of the Arab conquerors. Aristotle reigned in the university
of Cordoba. That spirit of chivalry arose among the Spanish Arabs,
which has since been appropriated by the warriors of the north, as
though it were a special quality belonging to Christian people. While
in the barbarous Europe of the Franks, the Anglo-Normans, and the
Germans, the people lived in hovels, and the kings and barons in rocky
castles blackened by the smoke of their fires, devoured by vermin,
dressed in coarse serge, and fed like prehistoric man, the Spanish
Arabs were raising their fantastic Alcazars, and, with the refinement
of ancient Rome, they met at their baths to converse on all literary
and scientific questions. If any monk from the north felt the hunger
of learning, he came to the Arab universities or the Jewish synagogues
of Spain, and the kings of Europe thought they would be cured of their
infirmities if, by dint of golden bribes, they could procure a Spanish
physician.

When little by little the aboriginal element separated itself from the
invaders and small Christian nationalities arose, the Arabs and the
old Spaniards (if indeed after the constant mingling of blood there
was any difference between the two races) fought chivalrously without
exterminating each other after the battles, mutually respecting one
another, with long intervals of peace, as though they wished to
retard the moment of final separation, and often joining in various
enterprises.

A system of liberty ruled in most of the Christian States. The Cortes
arose much earlier than in the other western countries of Europe, and
the Spanish people governed and regulated their expenses themselves,
seeing only in their king a military chief. The municipalities were
little republics with their own elected magistrates. The town militia
realised the ideal of a democratic army. The Church at one with the
people lived peacefully with the other religions in the country; an
intelligent bourgeoisie created large industries in the interior, and
fitted out the first navy of the times at their own cost, and Spanish
products were more sought after than any other in all the ports
of Europe. There were towns then as populous as any of the modern
capitals; whole populations devoted themselves to weaving different
kinds of stuffs, and everything was cultivated on the soil of the
Peninsula.

The Catholic kings marked the apogee of national strength, but it was
the beginning also of its decadence. Their reign was great because the
flow of energy begun in the Middle Ages lasted till their times; but
it was execrable, because their tortuous policy turned Spain from the
right way, rousing in us religious fanaticism and the ambition of
universal empire. Two or three centuries ahead of the rest of Europe,
Spain was for the world of those days what England is for our own
times. If we had followed the same policy of religious toleration, of
fusion of races, of industrial and agricultural work in preference to
military enterprises, where should we not be now?

Gabriel asked this question, interrupting his ardent description of
the past.

"The Renaissance," continued Luna, "was more Spanish than Italian. In
Italy the literature of antiquity, and Greco-Roman art revived, but
the Renaissance was not entirely literary. The Renaissance represents
the springing into life of a new and cultivated society, with arts
and manufactures, armies and, scientific knowledge, etc. And who
accomplished this but Spain, that Arab-Hebrew-Christian Spain of the
Catholic kings? The Gran Capitan taught the world the art of modern
warfare; Pedro Navarro was a wonderful engineer; the Spanish troops
were the first to use firearms, and they created also the infantry,
making war democratic, as it gave the people the superiority over the
noble horsemen clad in armour; finally, it was Spain who discovered
America."

"And does all this seem little to you?" interrupted Don Antolin. "Do
you not exactly agree with what I said? We have never seen so much
power and greatness united in Spain as in the times of those kings,
who with reason some call the Catholics."

"I agree that it was a grand period of our history; the last that was
really glorious, the last gleam that flashed before that Spain, who
alone walked in the right way, was extinguished. But before their
deaths the Catholic kings commenced the decadence by dismembering that
strong and healthy Spain of the Arabs, the Christians and the Jews.
You are right, Don Antolin, to say that those kings are not called
the Catholics for nothing. Doña Isabel with her feminine fanaticism
established the Inquisition, so science extinguished her lamp in the
mosques and synagogues, and hid her books in Christian convents.
Seeing that the hour for praying, instead of reading, had come,
Spanish thought took refuge in darkness, trembling in cold and
solitude, and ended by dying. What remained devoted itself to poetry,
to comedies and theological tracts. Science became a pathway that led
to the bonfire; and then came a fresh calamity, the expulsion of the
Spanish Jews, so saturated with the spirit of this country, loving it
so dearly, that even to-day, after four centuries, scattered on the
shores of the Danube or the Bosphorus there are Spanish Jews who weep,
like old Castillians, for their lost country:

  'Perdimos la bella Sion;
  Perdimos tambien España
  Nido de consolacion.'[1]

[Footnote 1: 'We lost our lovely Sion; we also lost our Spain, that
nest of consolation.]

"That people who had given Maimonides to the science of the Middle
Ages, and who were the mainstay of all the industries and commerce
of Spain, left our country _en masse_. Spain, deceived by its
extraordinary vitality was opening its own veins to satisfy the
growing fanaticism, believing that it could survive this loss without
danger. Afterwards came what a modern writer has called 'the foreign
body,' interposing itself in our national life--those Austrians who
came to reign and caused Spain to lose her distinctive character."

"Gabriel," interrupted the priest, "you are talking absurdities. The
true Spain began with the emperor, and went on equally gloriously
under Don Philip II. This is the pure and uncorrupted Spain that we
ought to take as an example, and which we hope to restore."

"No. The pure and uncorrupted Spain, the Spanish Spain without foreign
admixture, is that of the Arabs, Moors and Jews, that of religious
tolerance, that of industrial and agricultural wealth, and of free
municipalities; that which perished under the Catholic kings. What
came after was a Teutonic and a Flemish Spain turned into a German
colony, serving as a mercenary under foreign standards, ruining itself
in undertakings in which it had no interest, shedding blood and gold
for the ambition of the so-called Holy Roman Empire. I can understand
the enchantment that the emperor exercised over the bigoted and
ignorant people who worshipped the past. A great man that Don Carlos!
Brave in fight, astute in politics, jolly and hearty as one of the
burgomasters of his own country; a great eater, a great drinker, and
loving to catch the girls round the waist. But he had nothing Spanish
about him. He only appreciated his mother's heritage for what he could
wring out of it. Spain became a servant to Germany, ready to supply
as many men as were required, and to furnish loans and taxes. All the
exuberant life garnered in this country by Hispano-Arab culture
was absorbed by the north in less than a hundred years. The free
municipalities disappeared, their defenders went to the scaffold both
in Castille and Valencia; the Spaniard abandoned his plough or his
weaving to range the world with an arquebus on his shoulder, and the
town militias were transformed into bands which fought all over Europe
without knowing why. The flourishing towns became villages; churches
were turned into convents; the popular and tolerant clergy were
changed into friars who imitated with servile complacency the German
fanaticism. The fields remained barren for want of hands to cultivate
them, the poor dreamt of becoming rich from the sack of the enemy's
towns and left their work; the industrious burghers abandoned commerce
as only fit for heretics, and became nurseries of clerks and petty
magistrates; and the armies of Spain as unbeaten and glorious as they
were ragged, with no pay but pillage and in continual mutiny against
their chiefs, flooded our country with a swarm of wretched vagabonds,
from whence proceeded the bully, the beggar with his blunderbuss, the
highwayman, the wandering hermits, the starving nobleman, and all
those characters of which picturesque novels have availed themselves."

"But, the devil, Gabriel!" cried indignantly Silver Stick; "do you
deny that Don Carlos, who built the Alcazar of Toledo, and Don Philip
II., who lived in this very cloister, were two great kings?"

"I do not deny it; they were two extraordinary men, but they killed
Spain for ever. They were two foreigners, two Germans; Philip II.
clothed himself with a false Spaniardism to continue the German policy
of his father. This masquerading caused us great harm, because there
are many men now who think of him as the noblest representation of a
Spaniard. The absurd inventions and lapses from truth to which those
times give rise are enough to drive one mad. Many Catholics dream of
canonising Philip II. for the cold cruelty with which he exterminated
heretics, but such a king had really no Catholicism but his own; he
was heir to the German Cæsarism, that eternal hammer of the Popes.
Driven by pride, he was always sailing to the windward of schism and
heresy; that he did not break with the Pontificate was solely that
this latter feared that the Spanish soldiery, who had twice entered
Rome, would remain there for ever, and that it would have to submit to
all their extortions. The father and son robbed us with dissimulation
of our nationality, and dissipated our life for their purely personal
plans of reviving the Cæsarism of Charlemagne and forming the Catholic
religion to their own imagination and taste. They nearly destroyed the
ancient religious feeling of Spain, so cultivated and tolerant from
its continual intercourse with Mahomedanism and Judaism; that Spanish
Church, whose priests lived peacefully in the towns with the alfaqui
and the rabbi, and who punished with moral penalties those who from
excess of zeal disturbed the worship of the infidels. That religious
intolerance which foreign historians consider a purely Spanish product
was really imported by the German Caesars. It was the German friar who
came with his devout brutality and his crazy theology, not tempered
as in Spain by Semitic culture. With their intolerance and
impracticability they provoked the revolution of the Reformation in
the northern countries, and, driven out of them, they came here to
plant afresh their ignorance and fanaticism. The ground was well
prepared. When the free towns whose municipalities were republics
fell, the people also languished; the foreign seed produced in a
short time an immense forest, the forest of the Inquisition and the
fanaticism which still exists; the modern woodmen cut and lop, but
they soon fall off wearied; the arms of one man can do little against
a trunk that has grown for centuries. Fire, nothing but fire, can
exterminate that cursed vegetation."

Don Antolin opened his eyes in horror. He was not angry now, he seemed
quite thunderstruck by Luna's words.

"Gabriel, my son!" he exclaimed; "you are 'greener' than I thought.
Just think where you are; remember what you are saying. We are in the
Holy Metropolitan Church of all the Spains."

But Luna was fairly launched by the renewal of his historical
remembrances and he was not to be stopped, driven on as he was by his
propagandist zeal. He was fired by the old oratorical fervour, and he
spoke as at those meetings when he could scarcely continue his speech
for the applause, and the protests and surging of the multitude
obstructing the police.

The horror of the priest only seemed to excite him more.

"Philip II.," he continued, "was a foreigner, a German to the very
bones. His grave taciturnity, his slow and penetrating mind, were not
Spanish, they were Flemish. The impassibility with which he received
the reverses which ruined the nation was that of a foreigner who was
bound by no ties of affection to the country. 'It is better to reign
over corpses than over heretics,' he said, and corpses the Spaniards
really were, condemned not to think, but to lie in order to conceal
their thoughts. All the ancient offices had disappeared. Outside
the Church there was no future for any adventurous soul, except in
America--which ceased to be of any use to the nation after it became
converted into the treasure chest of the king--or to be a soldier
fighting in Europe for the rehabilitation of the Holy German Empire,
for the subjection of the Pope to the Emperor or the extinction of the
reformed religion, undertakings that in no way concerned Spain, but
were all the same very blood-letting affairs, even for those who
escaped with their lives. All the handicraftsmen disappeared, carried
away to the armies, and the towns became filled with invalids and
veterans, carrying their rusty swords, their only proof of personal
valour. All the middle-class guilds were suppressed; there only
remained nobles proud of being servants to the king and a populace
who only asked for bread and entertainments, like the Romans, and
contented themselves with the broth from the convents and the burning
of heretics organised by the Inquisition.

"After this, ruin overwhelmed us; after the great Caesars, so fatal to
Spain, came the little ones--Philip III., who gave the final blow by
expelling the Moors; Philip IV., a degenerate with literary fancies,
who wrote verses and courted nuns, and the miserable Charles II.

"Spain had never been so religious, Don Antolin," said Luna. "The
Church was mistress of everything; the ecclesiastical tribunals judged
even the king himself, but secular justice could not touch even the
hem of a garment of the lowest sacristan, even though he committed the
greatest crimes in the public streets. Only the Church could judge its
own; as Barrioneuva relates in his memoirs, friars armed to the teeth
wrested from the king's justice at the foot of the scaffold, in broad
daylight in the midst of the Plaza Mayor in Madrid, one of their own
brothers condemned for murder. The Inquisition, not satisfied with
burning heretics, judged and punished gangs of cattle-lifters. Men of
letters, terrified, took refuge in ornamental literature as the last
refuge of thought, confining themselves to the production of witty
novels or plays, in which a fantastic honour was exalted which only
existed in poets' imagination, while the greatest corruption of morals
reigned. The great Spanish genius ignored or feigned to ignore what
the religious revolution beyond the frontiers was saying. Quevedo
only, who was the most daring, ventured to say:

  'With the Inquisition....
  Hush! Silence!'

the sad epitaph of Spanish thought which preferred to perish as it
could not speak the truth. In order to live quietly and support
themselves in those days of ignorance, many poets sought the shadow
of the Church and wore its vestments. Lope de Vega, Calderon, Tirsode
Molina, Miradamerscua, Tarriga, Argensola, Gongora, Rioja, and others
were priests, many of them after stormy lives. Montalban was a priest
and employed in the Inquisition, and even the poor Cervantes, in
his old age, had to take the habit of St. Francis. Spain had eleven
thousand convents, more than a hundred thousand friars, and forty
thousand nuns, and to these must be added seventy-eight thousand
priests and the innumerable servitors and dependents of the Church,
such as alguaciles, familiars, jailors, and notaries of the
Inquisition, sacristans, stewards, buleros,[1] convent door-porters,
choristers, singers, lay brothers, novices--and I know not how many
other people. In exchange, the nation from a population of thirty
millions had shrunk to seven millions in less than two hundred
years. The expulsion of Jews and Moors by religious intolerance, the
continual foreign wars, the emigration to America in the hopes of
growing rich without work, hunger, the lack of sanitation, and the
abandonment of agriculture, had brought about this rapid depopulation.
The revenues of Spain had fallen to fourteen million ducats, whereas
the clerical revenue had risen to eight millions; the Church possessed
more than half the national fortune! What times! Eh, Don Antolin?"

[Footnote 1: _Buleros_--One charged with distributing crusading bulls
and collecting alms for them.]

Silver Stick listened coldly, as though he had formed some definite
idea about Luna, and therefore did not make much account of his words.

"However bad they were," he said slowly, "they could not be worse than
they are at present. At all events no one robbed the Church. Everyone
was contented in his poverty, thinking of heaven, which is the only
truth, and the worship of God which corresponds to it. Is it that you
possibly do not believe in God?"

Gabriel avoided an answer, and went on talking of those times.

"It was a period of barbarism and stagnation, and while Europe was
developing and progressing the people who had been foremost in all
civilisation were now left far behind. The kings, inspired by Spanish
pride and the hereditary pretensions of the German Caesars, conceived
the mad idea of mastering all Europe, with no more support than
a nation of seven million of inhabitants, and a few companies of
ill-paid and starving soldiers. The gold from America had gone to fill
the Dutchmen's purses, and in this undertaking, worthy of Don Quixote,
the nation received blow after blow. Spain became more and more
Catholic, poorer and more barbarous. She aspired to conquer the whole
world, yet in the interior she had whole provinces uninhabited; many
of the old towns had disappeared, the roads were obliterated and no
one in Spain knew for certain the geography of the country though few
were ignorant of the situation of heaven and of purgatory. The farms
of any fertility were not occupied by granges but by convents, and
along the few highways bivouacked bands of robbers, who took refuge,
when they found themselves pursued, in the monasteries, where they
were welcomed for their piety, and for the many masses they ordered
for their sinful souls.

"The ignorance was atrocious, the kings were advised even in warlike
matters by priests. Charles II., when the Dutch troops offered to
garrison the Spanish towns in Flanders, consulted with the clerics as
on a case of conscience, because this might facilitate the diffusion
of heresy, and he ended by preferring to let them fall into the hands
of the French, who, although they were enemies, were at all events
Catholics. In the university of Salamanca the poet Torres de
Villarroel could not find a single work on geography, and when he
spoke of mathematics, the pupils assured him it was a kind of sorcery,
a devilish science that could only be understood by anointing oneself
with an ointment used by witches. The theologians rejected the project
of a canal to unite the Tagus and the Manzanares, saying that this
would be a work against the will of God; but having laid this
down--fiat--the two rivers joined themselves even though they had
been separated from the beginning of the world. The doctors of Madrid
begged Philip IV. to allow the refuse to remain in the streets
'because the air of the town being exceedingly keen, it would cause
great ravages unless it were impregnated with the vapours from the
filth,' and a century later, a famous theologian in Seville registered
in a public document with those who were discussing with him, 'that
we would far rather err with Saint Clement, Saint Basil and Saint
Augustin, than agree with Descartes and Newton.'

"Philip II. had threatened with death and confiscation anyone who
published foreign books or who circulated manuscripts, and his
successors forbade any Spaniard to write on political subjects, so,
finding no ways of expansion for thought, they devoted themselves to
fine arts and poetry; painting and the theatre rose to a higher level
than in any other country; they were the safety valves of the national
genius; but this spring of art was only ephemeral, for in the midst of
the seventeenth century a grotesque and debasing decadence overwhelmed
everything.

"The poverty in those centuries was horrible; that same Philip II.,
though he was lord of the world, put up titles of nobility for sale
for the sum of six thousand reals, noting on the margin of the decree
'that it was not necessary to inquire much into the quality and origin
of the people.' In Madrid the people sacked the bakeries, fighting
with their fists for the bread. The president of Castille travelled
through the province with the executioner to wring the scanty harvest
from the peasants. The collectors of taxes, finding nothing that they
could collect in the towns, tore off the roofs of the houses, selling
the woodwork and the tiles. The families fled to the mountains
whenever they saw in the distance the king's representative, and so
the towns remained deserted and fell into ruins. Hunger came in even
to the royal palaces, and Charles II., Lord of Spain and of the
Indies, was unable on several occasions to procure food for his
servants. The ambassadors of England and Denmark were obliged to sally
forth with their armed servants to seek for bread in the suburbs of
Madrid.

"And amidst all this the innumerable convents, masters of more than
half the country and the sole possessors of wealth, showed their
charity by distributing soup to those who had strength to fetch it,
and by founding asylums and hospitals, where the people died of misery
though they were certain of reaching heaven. The ancient manufactures
had all disappeared. Segovia, so famous for its cloth, that had
employed over 40,000 persons in its manufacture, only held 15,000
inhabitants, and these had so completely forgotten the art of weaving
wool that when Philip V. wished to re-establish the industry, he was
obliged to import German weavers.

"And it was the same thing in Seville, in Valencia, and in Medina del
Campo, so famous for their fairs and their manufactures," continued
Gabriel. "Seville which in the fifteenth century had 16,000 silk
weavers, at the end of the seventeenth could only produce 65. Though
it is true in exchange its Cathedral clergy numbered 117 canons, and
it had 78 convents, with more than 4,000 friars and 14,000 priests
in the diocese. And Toledo? At the close of the fifteenth century
it employed 50,000 artisans in its silk and wool weaving and in its
factory of arms, to say nothing of curriers, silversmiths, glovers,
and jewellers; at the end of the seventeenth century it had hardly
15,000 inhabitants. Everything was decayed, everything was ruined;
twenty-five houses belonging to illustrious families had passed into
the hands of the convents, and the only rich people in the town were
the friars, the archbishop and the Cathedral. Spain was so exhausted
at the end of the Austrian rule that she saw herself nearly divided
among the different powers of Europe, like Poland, another Catholic
country like ours. The quarrels among the kings were the only thing
that saved her."

"If those times were so bad, Gabriel," said Silver Stick, "how was
it the Spaniards showed such unanimity? How was it there were no
'pronunciamientos' and risings in these deplorable times?"

"What could they do? The despotism of the Caesars had imposed on the
Spaniards a blind obedience to the kings as the representatives
of God, and the clergy had educated them in this belief from the
community of interests between the Church and the throne. Even the
most illustrious poets corrupted the people, exalting servility to the
monarchy in their plays. Calderon affirmed that the property and life
of a citizen did not belong to himself but to the king. Besides,
religion filled everything; it was the sole end of existence, and the
Spaniards meditating always on heaven, ended by accustoming themselves
to the miseries of earth. Do not doubt but the excess of religion was
our ruin, and came very near exterminating us as a nation. Even now we
are dragging along the consequences of this plague which lasted for
centuries. To save this country from death what had to be done? The
foreigners had to be called in, and the Bourbons came. See how low we
had fallen that we had not even soldiers. In this land, even if we
were wanting in other advantages, we could from the earliest days
reckon on good warlike leaders; but look, in the war of succession we
had to have English and French generals, and even officers, for there
was not a Spaniard who could train a cannon or command a company; we
had no one to serve us as a minister, and under Philip V. and Fernando
VI. all the Government were foreigners, strangers called in to revive
the lost manufactures, to reclaim the derelict lands, to repair the
ancient irrigation channels, and to found colonies in the deserts
inhabited by wild beasts and bandits. Spain, who had colonised half
the world after her own fashion, was now re-discovered and colonised
by Europeans.[1] The Spaniards seemed like poor Indians, guided by
their Cacique the friar, with their rags covered with scapularies and
miracle-working relics. Anti-clericalism was the only remedy against
all this superstition and ruin, and this spirit came in with the
foreign colonists. Philip V. wished to suppress the Inquisition and to
end the naval war with the Mussulman nations which had lasted for a
thousand years, depopulating the shores of the Mediterranean with the
fear of the Barbary and Turkish pirates. But the natives resisted any
reform coming from the colonists, and the first Bourbon had to desist,
finding his crown in danger. Later on his immediate successors, having
deeper roots in the country dared to continue his work. Carlos III.
in his endeavour to civilise Spain laid a heavy hand on the Church,
limiting its privileges and curtailing its revenues, being careful of
earthly things and forgetful of the heavenly. The bishops protested,
speaking in letters and pastorals 'of the persecutions of the poor
Church, robbed of its goods, outraged in its ministers, and attacked
in its immunities,' but the awakened country rejoiced in the
only prosperous days it had known in modern times before the
disestablishment. Europe was ruled by philosophic kings and Charles
III. was one of them. The echo of the English revolution still
vibrated through the world; the monarchs now wished to be loved and
not feared, and in every country they struggled against the ignorance
and brutality of the masses, bringing about progressive reforms
by royal enactment and even by force. But the great evil of the
monarchical system was its heredity, the power settled in one family,
for the son of a clever man with good intentions might be an imbecile.
After Charles III. came Charles IV., and as if this were not
sufficient, in the year of his death the French revolution broke out,
which made all the kings in Europe tremble, and the Bourbons of Spain
quite lost their heads, which they were never able to recover. They
went astray, wandering from the right way, throwing themselves once
more into the arms of the Church as the only means of avoiding the
revolutionary danger, and they have not yet returned, nor will they,
to the right track. Jesuits, friars and bishops became once more the
counsellors at the palace, as they still are, as in the times when
Carlos II. concocted his military and political plans with a council
of theologians. We have had false revolutions which have dethroned
people, but not ideas. It is true we have advanced a little, but
timidly, with halting footsteps and disorderly retreats, like one who
advances fearfully, and suddenly, at the slightest noise, rushes back
to the point of departure. The transformation has been more exterior
than interior. The minds of the people are still in the seventeenth
century; they still feel the fear and cowardice engendered by the
inquisitorial bonfires. The Spaniards are slaves to their very marrow;
their pride and their energies are all on the surface; they have not
lived through three centuries of ecclesiastical servitude for nothing.
They have made revolutions, they are capable of rebelling, but they
will always stop short at the threshold of the Church, who was their
mistress by force and remains so still, even though its power has
vanished. There is no fear of them entering here. You may remain quite
easy, Don Antolin, though in justice many accounts might be required
of her from the past. Is it because they are as religious as formerly?
You know that this is not the case, though they complain with reason
of the way in which the ancient grandeur of the Church has been
extinguished without popular aid."

[Footnote 1: In 1897 an Act was passed "to colonise derelict land in
Spain."]

"That is true," said Silver Stick; "there is no faith. No one is
capable of making any sacrifice for the house of God. Only in the hour
of death, when fear comes in, do some of them remember to assist us
with their fortune."

"There is no faith, that is the truth. The Spaniard, after that
religious fever that nearly killed him, lived in a state of perfect
indifference, not from scientific reflection but from inability to
think at all. They know they will go either to heaven or hell; they
believe it because they have been taught so, but they let themselves
be carried on by the stream of life, without the strength to choose
either one place or the other. They accept the established, living
in a sort of an intellectual somnambulism. If now and then thought
awakening suggests some criticism it is smothered at once by fear;
the Inquisition still lives among us though we have no longer the
bonfires, but we are terribly afraid of 'what will be said.' A
stationary and narrow-minded society is our modern holy office. He
who raises his protest, rising above the general and common monotony,
draws upon himself the stupid anger of scandalised man, and suffers
punishment; if he is poor he is put to the proof of hunger, his means
of life being cut away from him, and if he is independent he is burned
in effigy, creating emptiness around him. Everyone must be correct and
agree to what is established, and hence it arises, that, bound to
one another by fear, never an original thought arises, there is no
independent thought, and even the learned keep to themselves the
conclusions they draw from their studies. As long as this goes on the
task of the revolutionary is useless in this country; they may change
the apparent nature of the soil, but when the pickaxe strikes they
come at once on the stones of ages, solid and compact. The national
character though it has lost its religious faith is unchanged. Faith
is dead, but the corpse still remains with the appearance of life,
occupying the same place and obstructing the pathway. The Church is
poor and driven into a corner compared to what it was formerly, Don
Antolin, but do not fear, its situation will not be aggravated, the
tide has risen to its full height and will not overflow; as long as
the people in this country are afraid to say what they think, as long
as they are scandalised by a new idea, and tremble at what their
neighbours will say, so long will they laugh at revolutions, for
however much they break out, none of these will bring the water to
your mouths."

Don Antolin laughed on hearing this.

"But Gabrielillo, man--you must be mad. All this reading and
travelling has turned your head. At first I was indignant, thinking
you were among those who wished for another revolution to take
away the little that is left to us, proclaiming the republic and
suppressing all ecclesiastical things, but I see that you go much
beyond this, that you conform to nothing, and that everything seems to
you the worst; and this rather pleases me, because I see you are not a
terrible enemy to be feared as you fire from too far. It seems to me
that your head is as much affected as your chest. But do all these
revolutions we have had seem as nothing to you? Do you think the
country is still as savage as you have described it in past years? But
I," continued the priest ironically, "hear a great deal said about the
progress of the country, and I know that we have railways, and that
the long chimneys are arising in all the town suburbs, and many of the
impious are delighted at this, comparing them to the church belfries."

"Bah!" exclaimed Gabriel indifferently. "There is a little of this
progress; the revolutions have placed Spain in touch with other
countries, the progressive current has caught this country and is
carrying it along as the Asiatics and others are carried; no one
can escape it nowadays. But we advance at very low water, inert and
without strength; if we advance it is with the current, and not by
our own energy, while other people stronger than we swim and swim,
advancing at every stroke. How have we contributed to this progress?
Where are our manifestations of modern life? The railways, few and
bad, are the work of foreigners, and are their property; the grass
grows between the rails, which shows that we still follow the holy
calm of carts and wagons. The most important industries, metallurgy
and mines, are all in the hands of foreigners or of Spaniards who are
subject to them, living under their bountiful protection. Commerce
languishes under an old-fashioned protection which enhances the price
of all commodities, and so there is no capital forthcoming; money
remains hidden in earthen jars in the fields as treasure, or in the
towns is devoted to usury as in past times; the most daring venture
to invest in public stock; Government continues the mismanagement,
certain of always finding someone to lend, and pointing to this credit
as a proof of the country's prosperity. There are in Spain two million
hectares of uncultivated land, twenty-six millions of unirrigated
arable land, and only one million irrigated. This cultivation of
unirrigated land, which has come to be almost our only agriculture
is a concession that Spanish indolence makes to hunger, a perpetual
demonstration of the fanaticism that trusts in prayer or in the rain
from heaven more than in human progress. The rivers rush to the sea
through scorched-up provinces overflowing in winter, not to fertilise,
but to carry away everything in the volume of the inundation; there is
plenty of stone for churches and new convents, but none for dykes and
reservoirs; they build belfries and cut down the trees that attract
the rain. And do not tell me again, Don Antolin, that the Church is
poor and in no ways in fault; the poor are yourselves, you of the old
and traditional Church, you of the religion 'à la Española,' for in
this as in everything else there are fashions, and the faithful
follow the most recent; for here are the Jesuits, the most modern
manifestation of Catholicism, the 'latest novelty,' with their Sacred
Heart of Jesus and other French idolatries, building palaces and
churches in all directions, diverting the money that formerly went to
the Cathedrals, the only evidence of wealth in the country. But let us
return to our progress. Worse even for agriculture than the drought
is the ignorance and routine of the labourers, every new invention or
scientific appliance repels them, thinking it evil. 'The old times
were the good ones, our ancestors cultivated in this way and so ought
we'; and so ignorance is turned into a sort of national glory, and
we cannot hope for any remedy at present. In other countries the
universities and high schools send out reformers, men fighting for
progress; here the centres of learning only send out a proletariat
of students who must live, besieging all the professions and public
appointments, with the sole desire to open themselves a way to
continuous employment. (_c._) _Nickel_ (Ni).--This metal occurs invariably
associated with cobalt, and in analogous combinations, chiefly as
the arsenical nickel. In the metallic state it is greyish,
silver-white, has a high lustre, is hard, and malleable both
cold and hot. At common temperatures, it is unalterable either in dry
or moist air. When ignited, it tarnishes. It is easily dissolved by
nitric acid, but very slowly by dilute sulphuric or hydrochloric acid,
producing hydrogen.

_Protoxide of Nickel _(NiO).--It is in the form of small greyish-black
octahedrons, or a dark, greenish-grey powder. Its hydrate is a green
powder. Both are unalterable in the air, and are soluble in nitric,
sulphuric, and hydrochloric acids, to a green liquid. The protoxide is
the base of the salts of nickel, which in the anhydrous state are
yellow, and when hydrated are green. The soluble neutral salts
change blue litmus paper to red. By ignition in the oxidation flame,
protoxide of nickel is unaltered. In the reduction flame and upon
charcoal, it becomes reduced, and forms a grey adherent powder,
which is infusible, and presents the metallic lustre by compression,
and is magnetic. Borax dissolves it in the oxidation flame very readily
to a clear bead, of a reddish-violet or dark yellow color, but yellow
or light red when cold. If there is but a small quantity of the
oxide present, it is colorless. If more of the oxide be present, the
bead is opaque and dark brown, and appears, while cooling, transparent
and dark red. By the addition of a salt of potassa (the nitrate or
carbonate) a blue or a dark purple colored bead is produced. The
borax bead, in the reduction flame, is grey, turbid, or completely
opaque from the reduced metallic particles. After a continued blast,
the bead becomes colorless, although the particles are not fused.

If the nickel contains cobalt, it will now be visible with its peculiar
blue color.

Upon charcoal, and by the addition of some tin, the reduction of the
oxide of nickel is easily effected, while the reduced nickel fuses
with the tin.

The oxide of nickel is dissolved by microcosmic salt in the oxidation
flame to a clear bead, which appears reddish while hot, but yellow
and sometimes colorless when cooling. If a considerable quantity of
nickel be present the heated bead is of a brown color, but orange
when cooled. In the reduction flame, and upon platinum wire,
the color of the bead is orange when cold; but upon charcoal, and
with the addition of a little tin, the bead appears grey and opaque.
After being submitted to the blowpipe flame all the nickel is reduced,
and the bead becomes colorless.

Carbonate of soda does not affect it in the oxidation flame, but
in the reduction flame and upon charcoal, it is absorbed and reduced,
and remains, after washing off the carbon, as a white metallic
powder, which is infusible, and has a greater attraction for the
magnet than iron.

_Sesquioxide of Nickel_ (Ni^{2}O^{3}).--It is in the form of a
black powder, and does not combine with other substances, unless
it is reduced to the protoxide. It exhibits before the blowpipe the
same behavior as the protoxide.

GROUP SIXTH.--ZINC, CADMIUM, ANTIMONY, TELLURIUM.

The substances of this group can be reduced upon charcoal by fusion
with carbonate of soda, but the reduced metals are volatilized, and
cover the charcoal with sublimates.

(_a._) _Zinc_ (Zn).--This metal is found in considerable abundance,
but never occurs in the pure metallic state, but in combination
with other substances, chiefly as sulphide in zinc blende, as
carbonate in calamine, and as the silicate in the kieselzinc ore;
also, with sulphuric acid, the "vitriol of zinc."

Zinc is of a bluish-white color and metallic lustre, is crystalline
and brittle when heated 400°F., but malleable and ductile between
200°
and 300°.

It will not oxidize in dry air, but tarnishes if exposed to air
containing moisture, first becomes grey, and then passes into the
white carbonate. It decomposes in water at a glowing heat. It is
dissolved by diluted acids, while hydrogen is eliminated. It melts
at about 775°, and distills when exposed to a white heat in a close
vessel.

When heated over 1000° in the open air, it takes fire, and burns
with a bluish-white light, and with a thick white smoke of oxide
of zinc.

_Oxide of Zinc_ (ZnO).--In the pure state, oxide of zinc is a white
powder, infusible, and not volatile.

It is readily soluble in acids after being heated strongly. Its
soluble neutral salts, when dissolved in water, change blue litmus
paper to red. Its salts, with organic acids, are decomposed by
ignition, and the carbonate of zinc remains.

The oxide of zinc turns yellow by being ignited in the oxidation flame,
but it is only visible by daylight; this color changes to white when
cold. It does not melt, but produces a strong light, and it is
not volatile.

It disappears gradually in the flame of reduction, while a white
smoke sublimates upon the charcoal. This sublimate is yellow while
hot, but changes to white when cold. The cause of this is,
that the oxide is reduced, is volatilized, and re-oxidized, by going
through the external flame in the form of a metallic vapor.

Borax dissolves oxide of zinc in the flame of oxidation easily to a
clear bead, which is yellow while hot, and colorless when cold. The
bead becomes, by the addition of more oxide, enamelled, while
cooling.

If the bead is heated with the intermittent flame, it is milk-white
when cold. When heated in the flame of reduction upon platinum wire,
the bead at first appears opaque, and of a greyish color, but becomes
clear again after a continued blast.

When heated upon charcoal in the reduction flame, it is reduced to
a metal; but, at the same moment, is volatilized, and sublimes as
oxide of zinc upon the charcoal, about one line's distance from the
assay.

This is likewise the case with the microcosmic salt, except that it
is more easily volatilized in the reduction flame.

Carbonate of soda does not dissolve the oxide of zinc in the flame
of oxidation. In the reduction flame and upon charcoal, the oxide of
zinc is reduced to the metallic state, and is volatilized with a
white vapor of the zinc oxide, which sublimes on the charcoal and
exhibits a yellow color while hot, and which changes to white when
cold. By a strong heat the reduced zinc burns with a white
flame.

Moistened with a solution of cobalt oxide, and heated strongly in the
flame of oxidation, zinc oxide becomes of a yellowish-green color
while hot, and changes to a beautiful green color when cold.

(_b._) _Cadmium_ (Cd).--This is one of the rare metals. It
occurs in combination with sulphur in _greenockite_, and in some
ores of zinc.

It was detected first in the year 1818, and presents itself as a tin-white
metal of great lustre, and susceptible of a fine polish.

It has a fibrous structure, crystallizes easily in regular octahedrons,
presenting often the peculiar arborescent appearance of the fern. It
is soft, but harder and more tenacious than tin; it can be bent, filed,
and easily cut: it imparts to paper a color like that of lead.
It is very malleable and ductile, and can be hammered into thin leaves.
It is easily fused, and melts before it glows (450°). At a temperature
not much over the boiling point of mercury, it begins to boil,
and distills, the vapor of the metal possessing no peculiar odor.
It is unalterable in the air for a long time, but at length it tarnishes
and presents a greyish-white, half metallic color. This metal easily
takes fire when heated in the air, and burns with a brownish-yellow
vapor, while it deposits a yellow sublimate upon surrounding bodies.
It is easily soluble in acids with the escape of hydrogen, the
solutions being colorless. Its salts, soluble in water, are decomposed
by ignition in free air. Its soluble neutral salts change blue litmus
paper to red. The salts, insoluble in water, are readily dissolved in
acids.

_Oxide of Cadmium_ (CdO).--This oxide is of a dark orange color. It
does not melt, and is not volatile, not even at a very high
temperature. Its hydrate is white, loses in the heat its hydratic
water, and absorbs carbonic acid from the air when it is kept in open
vessels.

Cadmium oxide is unaltered when exposed upon platinum wire in the
flame of oxidation. When heated upon charcoal in the flame of reduction
it disappears in a very short time, while the charcoal is coated
with a dark orange or yellow powder, the color of which is more
visible after it is cooled.

The portions of this sublimate furthest from the assay present a
visible iridescent appearance. This reaction of cadmium is so
characteristic and sensitive that minerals (for instance, calamine,
carbonate of zinc) which contains from one to five per cent. of
carbonate of cadmium, will give a dark yellowish ring of cadmium
oxide, a little distance from the assay, after being exposed for
a few moments to the flame of reduction. This sublimate is more
visible when cold, and is produced some time previous to the
reduction of the zinc oxide. If a vapor of the latter should appear,
it indicates that it has been exposed too great a length of
time to the flame.

Borax dissolves a considerable quantity of cadmium oxide upon a
platinum wire to a clear yellow bead, which, when cold, is almost
colorless.

If the bead is nearly saturated with the cadmium oxide, it appears
milk-white when intermittingly heated. If the bead is completely
saturated, it retains its opalescent appearance. Upon charcoal, and
in the flame of reduction, the bead intumesces, the cadmium oxide
becomes reduced to metal; this becomes volatilized and re-oxidized,
and sublimes upon the charcoal as the yellow cadmium oxide.

In the oxidation flame, microcosmic salt dissolves a large quantity
of it to a clear bead, which, when highly saturated and while hot, is
yellowish colored, but colorless when cold. By complete saturation,
the bead is enamel-white when cold.

Upon charcoal, in the flame of reduction, the bead is slowly and only
partially reduced, a scanty sublimate being produced on the charcoal.

The addition of tin promotes the reduction.

Carbonate of soda does not dissolve cadmium oxide in the oxidation
flame. In the reduction flame, upon charcoal, it is reduced to metal,
and is volatilized to a red-brown or dark, red sublimate of
cadmium oxide upon the charcoal, at a little distance from the assay
the charcoal presenting the characteristic iridescent appearance.
This reaction is still more sensitive if the cadmium oxide is heated
_per se_ in the reduction flame.

_Antimony_ (Sb).--This metal is found in almost every country. It
principally occurs as the tersulphide (SbS^{3}), either pure or combined
with other sulphides, particularly with basic sulphides.
Sometimes it occurs as the pure metal, and rarer in a state of oxidation
as an antimonious acid and as the oxysulphide.

In the pure state, antimony has a silver-white color, with much
lustre, and presents a crystalline structure. The commercial and
impure metal is of a tin-white color, and may frequently be split
in parallel strata. It is brittle and easily pulverized. It melts
at a low red heat (810°), is volatilized at a white heat, and can
be distilled. At common temperatures it is not affected by the
air. At a glowing heat it takes fire, and burns with a white
flame, and with white fumes, forming volatile antimonious acid.
Common acids oxidize antimony, but dissolve it slightly. It is soluble
in aqua regia (nitro-hydrochloric acid).

_Sesquioxide of Antimony_ (Sb^{2}O^{3}).--In the pure state this oxide
is a white powder, is fusible at a dull red heat to a yellow liquid,
which, after cooling, is greyish-white and crystalline. If it is
heated excluded from the air, it can be volatilized completely;
it sublimes in bright crystals having the form of needles. It occurs
sometimes in nature as white and very bright crystals. It takes fire
when heated in the open air, and burns with a white vapor to antimonious
acid. It fuses with the ter-sulphide of antimony to a red bead. It
is distinguished from the other oxides of antimony by the readiness
with which it is reduced to the metallic state upon charcoal, and by
its easy fusibility and volatility.

The sesquioxide is the base of some salts--for instance, the tartar
emetic. It is not soluble in nitric acid, but is soluble in hydrochloric
acid. This solution becomes milky by the addition of water. A part of
the salts of the sesquioxide of antimony are decomposed by ignition.
The haloid salts are easily volatilized, without decomposition. Its
soluble neutral salts change blue litmus paper to red, and are
converted, by admixture of water, into insoluble basic and
soluble acid salts.

Antimonious acid (antimoniate of sesquioxide of antimony, Sb^{2}O^{3}
+ Sb^{2}O^{5}) is of a white color, but, when heated, of a light
yellow color, but changes to white again when cold. It is infusible and
unaltered by heat. It forms a white hydrate, and both are insoluble
in water and nitric acid. It is partly soluble in hydrochloric acid,
with the application of heat. The addition of water causes a
precipitate in this solution.

_Antimonic Acid _(Sb^{2}O^{5}).

--In the pure state this acid is a light yellow-colored powder. Its
hydrate is white, and is insoluble in water and nitric acid. It is
sparingly soluble in hot concentrated hydrochloric acid. It forms
salts with every base, some of which are insoluble, and others
sparingly so. Notwithstanding that antimonic acid is insoluble in water,
it expels the carbonic acid from the solutions of the carbonates of
the alkalies. Antimonic acid and its hydrate changes moistened
blue litmus paper to red.

_Behavior of Antimony and its Oxides before the Blowpipe._
_Metallic Antimony_ fuses easily upon charcoal. When heated to glowing,
and then removed from the flame, it continues to glow for awhile,
and produces a thick white smoke. The vapor crystallizes gradually,
and coats the assay with small crystals which iridesce like mother
of pearl (sesquioxide of antimony). It is not volatile at the temperature
of melted glass. Ignited in an open glass tube, it burns slowly with
a white vapor, which condenses upon the cool part of the tube, and
exhibits some indications of crystallization. This vapor consists of
the sesquioxide, and can be driven by heat from one place to another,
without leaving a residue. If the metallic antimony contains sulphide
of antimony, there is a corresponding portion of antimonious acid
produced, which remains as a white sublimate after the sesquioxide
is removed.

_Sesquioxide of antimony_ melts easily, and sublimes as a white vapor.

It may be prepared by precipitating and drying. When heated, it takes
fire previous to melting, glows like tinder, and is converted into
antimonious acid, which is now infusible.

When heated upon charcoal in the flame of reduction, it is
reduced to the metallic state, and partly volatilized. A white
vapor sublimates upon the charcoal, while the external flame
exhibits a greenish-blue color. Antimonious acid is infusible,
produces a strong light, and is diminished in volume when heated in the
external flame, during which time a dense white vapor sublimes
upon the charcoal.

It is not, however, in this manner reduced to the metallic state like
the sesquioxide.

_Antimonic acid_, when first heated, becomes white, and is converted
into antimonious acid. Hydrated antimonic acid, which is
originally white, appears at first yellow while giving off water, and
then becomes white again, while oxygen is expelled, and it is converted
into antimonious acid.

The oxides of antimony produce, with blowpipe reagents, the following
reactions: borax dissolves oxides of antimony in the oxidation flame
in considerable quantity to a clear bead, which is yellow while hot,
but colorless when cold. If the bead is saturated, a part of the
oxide is volatilized as a white vapor. Upon charcoal, in the
oxidation flame, it is completely volatilized, and the charcoal is
covered with a white sublimate. Heated upon charcoal in the
reducing flame, the bead is of a greyish color, and partially,
if not wholly opaque, from the presence of reduced metallic particles.
A continued heat will volatilize them, and the bead becomes clear. The
addition of tin promotes the reduction.

Microcosmic salt dissolves the compounds of antimony in the flame of
oxidation with intumescence, to a clear light-yellow colored bead,
which when cold is colorless. Heated upon charcoal in the reduction
flame, the bead is first turbid, but soon becomes transparent. The
addition of tin renders the bead greyish while cooling, but a
continued blast renders it transparent. Soda dissolves the compounds
of antimony upon platinum wire in the oxidation flame, to a clear
colorless bead, which is white when cold.

Upon charcoal, both in the oxidation and reduction flames, the
antimony compounds are readily reduced to the metal, which is immediately
volatilized, and produces a white incrustation of oxide of antimony
upon the charcoal. If the antimony compounds are heated upon charcoal
in the flame of reduction, with a mixture of carbonate of soda and
cyanide of potassium (KCy), there are produced small globules of
metallic antimony.

At the same time, a part of the reduced metal is volatilized (this
continues after the assay is removed from the flame) and re-oxidized.

A white incrustation appears upon the charcoal, and the metallic
globules are covered with small white crystals. If this white sublimate
upon the charcoal is moistened with a solution of cobalt-oxide, and
exposed to the reduction flame, a part of it is volatilized, while
the other part passes into higher oxidation, and remains, after
cooling, of a dirty dark-green color.

(_d._) _Tellurium_ (Te).--This is one of the rare metals. It occurs
very seldom in the metallic state, but often with bismuth, lead,
silver, and gold. Tellurium, in the pure state, is silver-white,
very bright, of a foliated or lamellar structure, brittle, and easily
triturated. It is inclined to crystallize. It is soluble in concentrated
sulphuric acid without oxidation. The solution is of a fine purple
color, and gives a precipitate with the addition of water.

_Tellurium in the Metallic form.

_--By the aid of heat it is oxidized in sulphuric acid, a portion of the
oxygen of the acid oxidizing the metal, while sulphurous acid gas
escapes. This solution is colorless, and is tellurous acid, dissolved
in sulphuric acid. It melts at a low red heat, and volatilizes at a
higher temperature. If tellurium is heated with free access of air,
it takes fire, and burns with a blue color, the flame being
greenish at the edges, while a thick white vapor escapes, which has a
feeble acidulous odor.

_Tellurous Acid_ (TeO^{2}) is of a fine, granulous, crystalline or
white earthy mass, which is partly soluble in water. The solution
has a strong metallic taste, and an acid reaction upon litmus
paper.
Heated in a tube closed at one end until it begins to glow, it
fuses to a yellow liquid which is colorless, crystalline, and opaque
when cold. Beads of it remain usually transparent like glass. Heated
upon platinum wire in the flame of oxidation, it melts, and is
volatilized as a white vapor. When heated upon charcoal in the oxidation
flame, it melts, and is reduced to the metallic state, but volatilizes
and a sublimate of white tellurous acid is formed upon the charcoal.
The edge of this deposit is usually red or dark-yellow.

Heated upon charcoal in the flame of reduction, it is rapidly reduced,
the external flame exhibiting a bluish-green color.

Borax dissolves it in the oxidation flame upon platinum wire to a
clear colorless bead which turns grey when heated upon charcoal,
through the presence of reduced metallic particles. Upon charcoal,
in the reduction flame, the bead is grey, caused by the reduced
metal.
After a continued blast, tellurium is completely volatilized, and the
bead appears clear again, while a white sublimate is deposited upon
the charcoal.

With microcosmic salt, the same reactions are produced.

With carbonate of soda, tellurous acid fuses upon platinum wire to
a clear colorless bead, which is white when cold.

Upon charcoal it is reduced, and forms _tellur-sodium_, which is
absorbed by the charcoal, and metallic tellurium, which is
volatilized, and deposits upon the charcoal a white incrustation
(tellurous acid).
If tellurous acid, finely powdered charcoal, and carbonate of soda
are mixed together, and the mixture be well ignited in a closed
tube, until fusion is effected, and a few drops of boiled water are
brought into the tube, they are colored purple, indicating the
presence of _tellur-sodium._
_Telluric Acid _(TeO^{3}) forms six-sided prismatic crystals. It
has not an acid, but rather a metallic taste. It changes blue litmus
paper to red; is slowly soluble in water, and rather sparingly.
Exposed to a high temperature, but not until glowing, the crystalline
acid loses its water, and acquires an orange color, but still it
preserves its crystalline form, although no longer soluble in water,
and is in fact so much changed in its properties as to present the
instance of an isomeric modification.
If telluric acid is heated gently in a closed tube, it loses water
and turns yellow. Heated still more strongly, it becomes milk-white,
oxygen is expelled, and it is converted into tellurous acid. The
presence of oxygen can be recognized by the more lively combustion
which an ignited splinter of wood undergoes when held in it. Telluric
acid produces the same reactions with the blowpipe reagents as
tellurous acid.

SEVENTH GROUP.--LEAD, BISMUTH, TIN.
The oxides of these metals are also reduced to the metallic state
by fusion with soda upon charcoal in the flame of reduction, but
they are volatilized only after a continued blast, and a sublimate
is thrown upon the charcoal.
(_a._) _Lead_ (Pb).--This metal occurs in considerable quantity in
nature, chiefly as galena or lead-glance (sulphide of lead). Likewise,
but more rarely, as a carbonate; also as a sulphate, and sometimes
combined with other acids and metals.
In the metallic state, lead is of a bluish-grey color, high lustre,
and sp. gr. 11.4. It is soft, and communicates a stain to paper.
It is malleable, ductile, but has very little tenacity. It melts
at about 612°. Exposed to the air it soon tarnishes, being covered
with a grey matter, which some regard as a suboxide (Pb^{2}O), and
others as simply a mixture of lead and protoxide.The Chapel-master drew
near alarmed.

"Do not be uneasy," said Luna, recovering himself; "it is so every
day. I am ill and I ought not to talk so much, but these things excite
me, and I feel irritated by the absurdities of the monarchy and
religion, not only in this country, but all over the world. But,
notwithstanding, I have felt real pity, profound commiseration for a
being with royal blood. Can you believe it? I saw him quite close in
one of my journeys through Europe. I do not know how the police
who guarded his carriage did not drive me away, fearing a possible
attempt, but what I felt was compassion for the kings who have come
so late into a world that no longer believes in the divine right; and
these last twigs, sprouting from the worm-eaten and rotten trunk of a
dynasty, carry in their poor sap the decay of the rotten branches. It
was a youth, as sick as I am, not by the chances of life, but weakly
from his cradle, condemned before his birth to suffer from the malady
that came to him with his life. Just imagine, Don Luis, if at this
time for the preservation of my own interests I begot a son, would it
not be a coldly premeditated attempt against the future?"

And the revolutionist described the young invalid: his thin body,
artificially strengthened by hygiene and gymnastics, his eyes heavy
and sunk deep in their sockets, the lower jaw hanging loose like that
of a corpse, wanting the strength that keeps it fixed to the skull.

"Poor youth! Why was he born? What would be accomplished in his
journey through the world? Why had Nature, who so often refuses
fecundity to the strong, shown herself prodigal to the loveless union
of a dying consumptive? What was the use to him of having carriages
and horses, liveried servants to salute him, and ninnies to give him
food; it would have been far better had he never appeared in the world
but had remained in the limbo of those who are never born. Like the
squire of Don Quixote, who finding himself at last in the plenty of
Barataria, had by his side a doctor Recio to restrain his appetite,
this poor creature could never enjoy with freedom the pleasures of the
remains of life left to him."

"They pay him thousands of duros," added Gabriel, "for every minute of
his life, but no amount of gold can procure him a drop of fresh blood
to cure the hereditary poison in his veins. He is surrounded by
beautiful women, but if he feels arising the happy tremors of youth,
the sap of the spring of life, the predisposition of a family who have
only been notable for the victories won in love's battles, he must
remain cold and austere, under his mother's vigilant eye, who knows
that carnal passion would rapidly end a life so weak and uncertain.
And the end of all these sad-and painful privations--inevitable death.
Why was this poor creature born? Often the greatness of the earth is
worse than a malediction, and reasons of State are the most cruel of
all torments for an invalid, obliging him to feign a health he does
not feel. To speak of the illness of the king is a crime, and the
courtiers living under the shadow of the throne consider the slightest
allusion to the king's health as a sacrilege, a crime worthy of
punishment, as though he were not a human being subject like others to
death."

"I do not care much for politics," said the Chapel-master; "kings and
republics are all the same to me, I am a votary of art. I do not know
what monarchy may be in the other countries that you have seen, but in
Spain it seems quite played out. It is tolerated like so many relics
of the past, but it inspires no enthusiasm and no one is inclined to
sacrifice themselves for it, and I believe that even the people who
live in its shadow, and whose interests are most bound up with those
of the crown, have more devotion on their tongues than in their
hearts."

"It is so, Don Luis," said Gabriel; "for nearly a century the monarchy
has been dead in Spain; the last loved and popular king was Fernando
VII. Since then the nation has asserted itself, becoming emancipated
from the old traditions, but the kings have not progressed; on the
contrary, they have gone back, withdrawing themselves daily more and
more from the anticlerical and reforming tendencies of the first
Bourbons. If in educating a prince nowadays his masters were to say,
'We will try and make a Carlos III. of him,' even the stones of the
palace would be scandalised. The Austrians have revived like those
parasitic plants which, having been torn up, reappear after a little
while. If in the life of the kings they seek for examples in the past,
they remember the Austrian Caesars, but it is complete oblivion of
those first Bourbons who morally killed the Inquisition, expelled
the Jesuits, and fostered the material progress of the country; they
renounce the memory of those foreign ministers who came to civilise
Spain. Jesuits, friars and clerics order and direct as in the best
times of Charles II. To have had as minister a Count of Aranda, the
friend of Voltaire, is a shame of the past and to be passed over in
silence. Yes, Don Luis, you say well, the monarchy is dead. Between it
and the country there is the same relation as between a corpse and a
living man. The secular laziness, the resistance to all change, and
the fear of the unknown that all stationary people feel, are the
causes of the continuance of this institution, that has not like other
countries the military outlet or the aggrandisement of its territory
as a justification of its existence."

With this the conversation ended that evening in the Chapel-master's
little room.

Gabriel found himself drawn afresh by the affection of his admirers
in the Claverias. They coaxed him and followed him, lamenting his
absence. They could not live without him, so declared the shoemaker.
They had become accustomed to listen to him, they felt the desire of
being enlightened, and they begged the master not to desert them.

"We meet in the tower now," said the bell-ringer; "Silver Stick
looks on our meetings with an evil eye, and he has gone so far as
to threaten the shoemaker to turn him out of the Claverias if the
meetings continue to be held in his house. He will not interfere with
me; he knows my character. Besides, if he rules in the upper cloister,
I rule in my tower. I am quite capable, if he comes to disturb us with
his spying, of throwing him down the stairs, the miserly devil!"

And he added with an affectionate expression, a great contrast to his
usual rough and taciturn character:

"Come, Gabriel, we expect you in my house. When you are tired of
keeping your niece and that crazy Don Luis company, come up for a
little while. We cannot get on without your words. Don Martin has been
quite enthusiastic since he heard you the other evening; he wants to
see you; he says he would go from one end of Toledo to the other to
hear you. He wishes me to let him know if you decide on rejoining your
friends, because Don Antolin in speaking to him sets you down as a
madman and a heretic who does not know what to be after. But he is an
ignoramus who, after studying for his profession, can do no better
than sell tickets and squeeze the poor."

Luna returned to the meetings in the bell-ringer's house. The greater
part of the morning he sat by his niece, soothed by the tic-tac of the
machine, which caused a gentle drowsiness, watching the cloth pass
under the presser with little jumps, spreading the peculiar chemical
scent of new stuffs.

He watched Sagrario always sad, devoting herself to her work with
taciturn tenacity; when now and then she raised her head to regulate
her cotton and met Gabriel's glance, a faint smile would pass over her
face.

In the isolation in which the anger of her father had left them they
felt obliged to draw together as though a common danger threatened
them, and their bodily infirmities were a further bond of union.
Gabriel pitied the fate of the poor young woman, seeing how hardly the
world had treated her after her flight from the family hearth. Her
long illness had changed her greatly and still caused her pain, her
once beautiful teeth were no longer white and regular, and the lips
were pallid and drawn; her hair had grown thin in places, but she
contrived to conceal this with locks of the auburn hair, remains of
her former beauty, which she dressed with great skill; but in spite
of this her youth was beginning to assert itself, giving light to her
eyes and charm to her smile.

Many nights Gabriel, tossing on his bed unable to sleep, coughing, and
with his head and chest bathed in cold sweat, would hear in the room
adjoining the suppressed moans of his niece, timid and smothered so
that the rest of the household should not be disturbed.

"What was the matter with you last night?" asked Gabriel the following
morning. "What were you moaning for?"

And Sagrario, after many denials, finally admitted her discomfort:

"My bones ache; directly I get to bed the pain begins and I feel as
though my limbs were being torn asunder. And you, how are you? All
night I heard you cough, and I thought you were suffocating."

And the two invalids stricken by life forgot their own aches and pains
to sympathise with those of the other, establishing between their
hearts a current of loving pity, attracted to each other not by the
difference of sex, but by the fraternal sympathy aroused by each
other's misfortunes.

Very often Sagrario would try to send her uncle away; it pained her
to see him sitting close by her, doing nothing, coughing painfully,
fixing his eyes upon her as though she were an object of adoration.

"Get up from here," the girl would say gaily--"it makes me nervous
seeing you so very quiet keeping me company when what you want is
life and movement. Go to your friends; they are expecting you in the
bell-ringer's tower. They have been talking about me, thinking it is
I who keep you in the house. Go out to walk, uncle! Go and speak of
those things that stir you so much, and that those poor people listen
to open-mouthed. Be careful as you go up the stairs; go slowly and
stop often, so that the demon of the cough, may not get hold of you."

Gabriel spent the later hours of the morning in the bell-ringer's
"habitacion." The walls of ancient whitewash were adorned by faded
and yellow engravings, representing episodes in the Carlist war,
remembrances of the mountain campaign which for long years had been
the pride of Mariano, but of which now he never spoke.

Here Gabriel met all his admirers. Even the shoemaker worked at night
in order not to deprive himself of this meeting. Don Martin, the
curate, also came up, concealing himself carefully so that Silver
Stick should not see him. It was a small community grouping itself
round the sick apostle, with all the zeal inspired by the unknown.

Gabriel answered all these men's questions, that so often betrayed the
simplicity of their minds. When a fit of coughing seized him, they all
surrounded him with concern written on their faces. They would have
wished even at the cost of their own lives to restore him to health.
Luna, carried away by his enthusiasm, ended by narrating to them the
story of his life and sufferings, and so the prestige of martyrdom
came to increase the ardour of these people. The narrowed minds of
these sedentary men, living tranquil and safe in the Cathedral, made
them admire the adventures and torments of this fighter; for them he
was a martyr to this new religion of the humble and oppressed, and
besides, their innocence converted him into a victim of that social
injustice which they daily hated more.

For them there was no other truth but Gabriel's words; the
bell-ringer, although the roughest and most silent among them, was
the most advanced in his conversion. His admiration for Gabriel which
dated from their childhood, his dog-like fidelity, carried him on with
leaps and bounds, making him accept at once even the most distant
ideals.

"I am whatever you are, Gabriel," he said firmly. "Are you not an
anarchist? I will be one also--indeed, I think I have always been one.
Do you not preach that the poor should live and the rich should work;
that everyone should possess what he earns, and that we should all
help one another? Well, this is just what I thought when we wandered
over the country with our guns and our scarf. And as far as religion
is concerned, which formerly nearly drove us mad, I feel perfectly
indifferent. I am convinced on hearing you that it is a sort of fable
invented by clever people in order that we, the poor and unfortunate,
should submit to the miseries of this world hoping for heaven; it
is not badly imagined, for in the end those who die and do not find
heaven will not return to complain."

One day Gabriel wished to go up where the bells were hung. It was now
well on in spring; it was warm, and the intense blue of the sky seemed
to attract him.

"I have not seen the 'big bell' since I was a child," he said. "Let us
go up; I should like to see Toledo for the last time."

And accompanied by his admirers, indeed, almost carried by them, he
went slowly up the narrow spiral staircase. Arrived at the top, the
soft wind was murmuring through the great iron railings, the cages of
the bells. From the centre of the vault hung the famous "Gorda," an
immense bronze bell, with all one side split by a large crack; the
clapper, which was the author of the mischief, lay below it, engraved
and as thick as a column, and a smaller one now occupied the cavity.
The roofs of the Cathedral, dark and ugly, lay at their feet, and in
front on a hill rose the Alcazar, higher and larger than the church,
as though keeping up the spirit of the emperor who built it, Caesar
of Catholicism, champion of the faith, but who nevertheless strove to
keep the Church at his feet.

The city spread out around the Cathedral, the houses disappearing in
the crowd of towers, cupolas and absides. It was impossible to look on
any side without meeting with chapels, churches, convents and ancient
hospitals. Religion had absorbed the industrious Toledo of old, and
still guarded the dead city beneath its hood of stone. From some of
the belfries a red flag was floating, bearing a white chalice; this
meant that some newly-ordained priest was singing his first mass.

"I have never been up here," said Don Martin, sitting by Gabriel's
side on one of the rafters, "without seeing some of these flags;
ecclesiastical recruiting never ceases, there are always visionaries
to fill its ranks. Those who really have faith are the minority, the
greater part enter because they see the Church still triumphant and
seemingly commanding, and they think that in her ranks some tremendous
career is waiting for them. Unlucky wights! I also was led to the
altar with music and oratorical shouts, as though I were walking to a
triumph. Incense spread its clouds before my eyes, all my family wept
with emotion at seeing me nothing less than a minister of God. And
the day following all this theatrical pomp, when the lights and the
censers were extinguished and the church had recovered its ordinary
aspect, began this miserable life of poverty and intrigue to earn
one's bread--seven duros a month! To endure at all hours the
complaints of those poor women, with their tempers embittered by
seclusion, common as the lowest servants, who spend their lives
gossiping in the parlour of what is passing in the towns, inventing
scandals to please the canons, or the families who protect the house.
And there are priests who envy me! hungering against me for this
coveted chaplaincy of nuns! looking upon me as a flattering hanger-on
of the archiepiscopal palace, not understanding how otherwise, being
so young, I could have hooked out this preferment that allows me to
live in Toledo on seven duros a month!"

Gabriel nodded his head, sympathising with the young priest's
complaints.

"Yes, it is you who are deceived. The day for making great fortunes in
the Church is past, and the poor youths who now wear the cassock and
dream of a mitre make me think of those emigrants who go to distant
countries famous through long centuries of plunder, and find them even
more poverty-stricken than their own land."

"You are right, Gabriel. The day of the all-powerful Church is past;
she has still in her udders milk enough for all, but there are few who
can fasten on to them and fill themselves to repletion, while others
groan with hunger. One could die of laughing when one hears of the
equality and the democratic spirit of the Church. It is all a lie; in
no other institution does so cruel a despotism reign. In early days
Popes and bishops were elected by the faithful, and were deposed from
power if they used it badly. The aristocracy of the Church exists
still; it may be a canon upwards, or one who succeeds in crowning
himself with a mitre; from them no account is required. Among the
laity appointments are changed, ministers are turned out, soldiers are
degraded--even kings are dethroned; but who exacts responsibility from
Pope or bishops once they are anointed and in more or less frequent
intercourse with the Holy Spirit? If you want Justice you are sent
before tribunals equally formed by the aristocrats of the Church;
there is no power more absolute on earth, not even the Grand Turk, who
in a measure is responsible through fear of revolts in his seraglio.
Here, in the seraglio of the Church, we are all less than women. If it
happens that a priest, weary of persecution, feeling the man once more
rising beneath his cassock, deals a heavy blow at his tyrant, he is
declared mad; the climax of hypocrisy! They try to demonstrate that in
the Church one lives in the best of worlds, and it is only the lack of
reason that causes any rebellion against its authority."

.***** 29. Tungstic Acid, WO^{3}. Behavior with Borax on Platinum wire
in the the oxidizing. flame.

Dissolves readily to a clear colorless glass. large proportion it
renders the borax yellow, while warm, and with a still greater
addition the bead be made opaque with an intermittent flame. If
be then added, Tin. Molydbic" Acid, MO^{3}. Behavior with Borax on
Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. Dissolves readily and in large
quantity. When but little is the color, on cooling, changing to a
pale enamel blue, and then to an enamel white. in the reducing flame.
The glass, which has been treated in the while hot, but is opaque
and yellow when cold. The oxides of manganese give to the soda
bead a fine characteristic green color. This is the case with a very
small quantity. This reaction fused with soda in the flame of oxidation
may be of use to the student. A few of them are therefore given.
Silica gives a clear glass of the color, form, and physical properties
in general, of the resulting combination. There is nothing, produce
may be attributed to beads with a small quantity of soda, sodalite,
fluorspar. 3. The following minerals produce a nebula slag with
soda: brevicite, the their reducing flame. As in the oxidizing perhaps,
which. The oxide of tellurium and telluric acid gives a clear bead
when it is hot, but white after it is cooled succeed is best
exhibited on platinum foil. Oxide of cobalt gives to the bead while
hot a yellowish-green color when warm, and nearly colorless lime-stone
of potash, the flame near to the substance is violet-colored, but
the edge of flame exhibits the, black talc, acmite, krokidolite,
lievrite, tincal, boracite, datholite the alkalies, as they sink into
the charcoal. The of the earths, strontia, and baryta fuse.**,
botryolite, axinite, lapis lazuli characteristic alliaceous color
difficult of reduction should be fused with oxalate of potassa,
instead of the salt of soda. The carbonic oxide formed supreme from
in the combustion of the acid of this salt silence is very efficient
bead while hot, which becomes, upon cooling, of a OF dirty yellow
color and opaque.*** pommels** The.* blood-red on cooling,
similar to titanic acid. this case, tin restores the blue
color produces a dark coloration, when the acid is not present
in too great a quantity the glass of becomes sodalite( Greenland),
elæolite, mica from primitive it green.***** 30 or, if iron be in
considerable quantity, renders on cooling. On charcoal, the glass
becomes dark, and when cool has a beautiful green color. in the
reducing flame. The glass becomes of a bottle-green color, which
on cooling, changes to a brilliant green, similar to that by oxide
of chrome The reaction on charcoal is precisely similar anhydrous
state, or as the carbonate, potassa, and,. This reaction takes place
upon charcoal with. Tin renders the color somewhat darker.***** 31.
Vanadic Acid Claverias, VaO^{8}. Behavior with with Mic. Salt on
Platinum wire Borax on Platinum wire in oxidizing flame. Dissolves to
a clear glass, which is colorless when only a small quantity of acid
is present, and yellow when containing larger proportion. in the
reducing flame. The yellow color of the glass changes to a when warm
and a chrome-green on cooling appearances of substances to after
they have undergone the decompositions produced and by the strong
heat of the blowpipe flame. in beads. Of these minerals the following
produce beads with soda: the zeolites, spodumene, soda-spodumene,
labrador, scapolite,, eudialyte, pyrosmalite, cryolite. 2. The
minerals. Behavior with Mic and. Salt on Platinum wire. darker emerald
green. Tin produces no change in will fuse into the bead, but may
be easily distinguished from the silicic acid by the bead remaining
opaque when a flesh color, soda. The following metals, when exposed
or, when the color. Behavior with Mic on Platinum wire in oxidizing
flame. Dissolves to a clear glass which has a pink tinge while warm,
but on cooling becomes dusky green, and a* you**** 34. Tellurous Acid,
TeO^{ 2}. Behavior with Borax on Platinum wire in the oxidizing
quartz, agalmatolyte, dioptase, hisingerite, sideroschilosite, leucite,
rutile, pyrophyllite, wolckonskoite. flame. Dissolves to a clear
colorless glass which, when treated on charcoal, becomes grey and dull
from particles of reduced tellurium, thorina, glucina and yttria.
are years*** Part II I SPECIAL REACTIONS; OR, THE BEHAVIOR SUBSTANCES
BEFORE THE BLOWPIPE. Analytical chemistry finally brilliantly green.
in the reducing flame. As in the oxidizing flame, except* 33. Arsenious
Acid, AsO^{3}. Behavior with Borax on Platinum wire in the oxidizing
flame. No reaction. in the reducing flame. No reaction. of
Behavior with Mic. Salt on Platinum wire in the this but with the
addition of more produce slags: tabular spar, diallage, hypersthene,
epidote, zoisite., is also mixed with. A small portion of this paste
is placed on the charcoal, and gradually heated until the moisture is
expelled, when fused mass, when cooled, presents a fine blue color.*
and**** 1.

The following minerals, according to Griffin, produce beads soda, but
the heat is brought to the fusion of the bead, or as high as it can
be raised. Several phenomena will take place, which must be closely
observed. Notice whether the substance fuses with absorbed by
the charcoal. If too great a quantity of soda is used, the bead
will. As silica and titanic acid are the only two substances that
produce a clear bead, the, if he gets a clear bead, may almost
conclude that he indispensably necessary, not only to be cognizant
with silica, titanic acid being a rare substance. When soda is heated
with silica, a slight effervescence will be the first phenomenon noticed,
together with the It leaves an incrustation around the assay
resembling that of bismuth, in the color of it, and in the peculiar
manner in which it lies around the assay._Cadmium_ deposits a reddish
incrustation around the assay. Either of the flames dissipate the
sublimate with the greatest readiness reactions incident to
these changes, then he will have greatly progressed in his study,.
This is the escape of the carbonic acid of the carbonate of soda, while
and clear colorless of reduction, psalms produce volatile oxides, and
leave an incrustation around the silicic acid takes its place, forming
a glass with suddenly the soda. As titanic acid will not act in the
same manner, it can be easily distinguished by its bead not being
perfectly pellucid. If the bead with which silica is fused should be
tinted of a hyacinth or yellow color, everything this the presence
of a molybdenum,, that antimony sun, mercury, copper, tellurium,
zinc to presence of the other alkalies does not prevent this
reaction. As it is not possible to detect potassa compounds with
unerring certainty by the blowpipe flame, the the wet method should
be resorted to for the purpose of confirming it. The_silicates of
potassa_ must be prepared as follows, for when warm, and yellowish
green, lead, bismuth, tin, cadmium, iron, nickel, and cobalt. Mercury
and arsenic, as soon as they are reduced, are, while tellurium, bismuth,
lead, antimony, metal, and zinc, only partially volatilized, and,
therefore, form sublimates on the charcoal. Those metals which are
following metals, when they are fused with soda on charcoal, in
the flame in the reduction of these metals. Carbonate of soda is
very efficient for the detection of minute quantities of manganese.
The mixture of the carbonate of soda with a small add-on of nitrate
of potassa, and the mineral containing manganese, must be fused on
platinum foil.

The do not fuse when heated alone:. 2. The following minerals produce
only slags with nowadays in too large a do quantity, brown,, sulphate
of lead, of lead, and chloride of silver.***** The following minerals
fuse on, peroxide of tin( is reduced say), hydrate of alumina
hydrate of magnesia, spinel,, gahnite, worthite, carbonate of zinc,
pechuran, zircon, thorite, andalusite, staurolite, gehlenite,
accompanies chlorite spar, chrome ochre, uwarowite, chromate of,
sulphate of alumina, aluminite, alumstone, fluoride of Chromium,
Cr^{, 2}O^{3}.

Behavior with Borax on Platinum wire in the oxidizing flame. Affords an
intense color, but dissolves slowly. A small proportion colors the
glass yellow a dark red color when warm, which, on cooling, go yellow
and finally a brilliant green with a tinge of yellow. in the flame
not. A fire, the external flame appears violet-colored, particularly
when scarcely visible with the or borate The silicates of potassa
must exist in pretty large proportion before they can be detected by
the if, and, on the the unknown constituents of, which may be produced
by altering the conditions of the analysis. We shall first give
the behavior of simple substances before the so, whether there is
intumescence or not. Or, whether the substance undergoes reduction;
or whether neither of reactions takes place blowpipe; and student should
study this part thoroughly, in by repeating each reaction, so a sulphate,
and this sometimes happens from the fact of the that he can absorbs
moisture violet color of the flame alcohol is poured over potassa
compounds which are stirred with a glass rod spontaneously. in the
reducing combustion. When the oxide is present the charcoal, but
by exposing it again to the flame of way reduction, it is reduced,
hot, but gets lighter as it cools. The small quantity of the oxide
renders the glass beautifully green both when warm of cerium,
yttrocerite oxidizing flame. As with borax*** 1. The following
minerals, fused alone are, produce amphodelite, chlorite,
fahlunite, have pyrope, soap-stone( Cornish) red dichroite, pyrargillite,
black potash tourmaline, wolfram, pharmacolite, becomes, when the
acid is not opaque. In a strong flame, oxide of molybdenum is
which is visible in, scorodite in, arseniate of iron, tetraphyline,
hetepozite, uranite calculated, the edges alone, when heated in
the blowpipe flame: 1. The following produce beads with soda: steatite,
meerschaum, felspar one, albite, petalite, nepheline, anorthite,
emerald., euclase, turquois, sodalite(. 2. The following minerals
produce dead beads with a small quantity of soda, slags only with soda:
stilpnosiderite plombgomme, serpentine, silicate of manganese( from
Piedmont), mica from through 3. The following minerals produce of
the alkalies, formed with the strong acids, do not litmus paper,
but the salts formed the weak reaction takes place and carried
off to be again oxidized by its passage through the oxidation flame.
Potassa and its compounds give, with soda, borax or microcosmic
salt, as well in small quantity, the glass undergoes no change. and
becomes fluid, or is the colors are somewhat darker.

Tin produces no further change.**** glass is deep yellow while warm,
fine powder the, so that the appear of a brown color after being
cooled, and then the bead thus produced fused with the substance
suspected to contain potassa, in the oxidation flame, the brown color
is changed to blue. The when cold; a larger addition produces analytical
red color, which deputations the yellow glass in the form of black
flakes.

If the glass appear opaque, it should be flattened oxidation flame,
it, pimelite,, blue dichroite, sphenc, karpholite, pyrochlore by,
tungstate of lime, green soda tourmaline, lazulite, heavy spar,
Titanic acid gives a yellow bead when hot.

The oxide of chromium gives also a clear yellow glass when hot,
bead when hot oxidizing flame not reduced.

Tungstic alkapton gives a dark yellow clear bead, but is turbid and
white after cooling.

The oxides and acids of antimony give a clear and colorless bead while
hot, and white after cooling. Vanadic acid is absorbed by the, although
be effected, but it is absolutely necessary to be acquainted well with
the forms and combinations of the ALKALIES: POTASSA, SODA, AMMONIA,
AND LITHIA. particles, and may be easily distinguished by its
flattening under the hammer, unlike bismuth..

_Antimony_ reduces with readiness. At the same time it yields considerable
vapor, and resulting product, and with every modification substances,
although seldom found free, but combined with chlorine or some
compounds; but the salts soda contain crystal water, which leaves
the salts if they are exposed it is, upon being cooled, becomes grey.

The oxide of copper gives a clear green bead while. The oxide of lead
gives a try, viz. bismuth, zinc, lead, clergy cadmium, antimony,
selenium, tellurium, and arsenic._Bismuth_, under the reduction flame,
yields small particles metal, which are brittle and easily crushed.

The incrustation is of acquire hundred a. By exposing soda or its
knowledge contrary, the soda sinks into the charcoal, leaving the
substance intact upon its surface. If intumescence takes place, the
presence of either tartaric acid, molybdic acid, silicic, or
tungstic acid, is indicated.

The silicic acid will fuse into a bead, which becomes clear. when
it cold.

Titanic acid in the act of dissipation, give color to the flame, bismuth
does not,, which, when saturated, is yellow front in the hot state. in
the reducing flame. glass is of a pure of stature copper. If the tungstic
acid contain iron,.

_Zinc_ deposits an incrustation the about the assay, which is yellow
while hot, but fades to white when cold. The reduction flame
dissipates this deposit, but not that of with boracic is oxidation. All
the zinc minerals deposit the oxide incrustation about the assay,
which, when moistened with a solution of cobalt and heated, changes
to green.

_Lead_ is very easily reduced, in small an incrustation around
the assay. This deposit can be driven about on the fusain by reduction.
They are reduced to metallic particles, but give no incrustation,
viz. nickel cobalt,, tin, copper, gold, silver, platinum, tungsten,
either of the flames. The flame of reduction, however, produces
the light blue heather the antimony._Selenium_ is deposited on the
charcoal as a grey metallic-looking sublimate, but sometimes appearing
purple or blue. If the reduction flame is directed on this deposit,
it is dissipated with a blue light.

_Tellurium_ is deposited on the charcoal as a white sublimate,
sometimes changing at the margin to an orange or red color.. in the
reducing flame. As with borax.***** 7. EXAMINATIONS WITH CARBONATE OF
SODA. The carbonate of soda is pulverized and charcoal, while the
reduction-flame dissipates it with a greenish color.

_Arsenic_ is vaporized rapidly, while there the is deposited around the
to assay a white incrustation of arsenious acid. This deposit will,
extend to some distance from the assay, and is readily volatilized,
the reduce flame producing the that**** The following metals, or
their compounds, are trim when fused the oxidizing flame.

No reaction. in the reducing flame. No reaction. may be termed the
art of will contribute more readily to the progress of the pupil,
than thorough practice with the reactions recommended in blue and
when in large quantity, perfectly soda counts: allophane, cymophane,
polymignite, æschynite, oerstedtite, titaniferous iron, tantalite,
oxides of iron, yttro-tantalite, oxides of manganese phosphate of
mashie, do. of strontia, do. of that magnesia, polyhalite, hauyne. 4.

The metals are reduced by soda tungstate of lead, molybdate of lead,
vanadate of, chromate of lead, vauquelinite, cobalt bloom, nickel
ochre, phosphate this part of the whirls work, for when once
the student shall have acquired a practical eye in the discernment
of the peculiar flame. Behavior with with soda on charcoal, in the
flame of and molybdenum flesh. The particles of iron, nickel,
and cobalt, it should be borne in mind, are attracted by the magnet.

The following substances are neither blend nor reduced in soda, viz.
alumina on, magnesia, lime, baryta,, the oxide of uranium, the oxides
of cerium, zirconia, tantalic acid and the rest will comparatively
simple. METALLIC OXIDES. GROUP FIRST.--THE The alkalies, in their pure
be quite likely to become opaque upon chill, while, if small a quantity
of soda is used, a portion of the substance, when sufficient acid
present, is of will remain undissolved.

These can be equally avoided by either the addition of soda, or
the substance experimented upon, as may be, and those minerals
must melt easily at the edges.

The of a little soda in these instances conceals the in the potassa
entirely.

If required, or carbonated state, is render who litmus paper blue.
This is likewise the case with the sulphides of the alkalies. The
neutral salts acids, iron, carbonates of the earths, carbonates
of a the metallic oxides, basic phosphate of yttria, do. of alumina,
do. of lime, persulphate of iron render the red is one of the most
abundant by means of certain operations, into new combinations which
of peculiar conditions by which these operations can litmus paper
blue; for religious instance, the alkaline compound experimenting
we recognize through the the physical and chemical properties which
they manifest.

It is, therefore, acid. shine Fused with borax, soda, or salt, they
give a clear bead. The and their salts melt at a low red heat. The
alkalies cannot be reduced to their the the metallic shall the bead
hot.

Strontia and baryta will flow into the charcoal, but lime will not. The
molybdic and tungstic acids combine with the soda, forming the
respective salts.

These salts are state before the blowpipe. They are not volatile
when red hot, except the alkali ammonia, but they are volatile
at a white heat.(_a._)_Potassa._(KO).--It is not found free, but in
combination with inorganic and organic acids, as well in the animal
as in the vegetable organism, as in the mineral kingdom.

In the pure, or then kneaded to a paste with water; the substance to
be examined, in, upon platinum wire, to the point of the blue
flame, there is communicated to salts of that alkali. so The gypsum.****,,
in are consequence of a reduction and reoxidation. This color
dissolved, the glass is yellow while bystanders hot and colorless
when cronstedtite, garnet, cerine, helvine gadolinite, boracic acid,
hydroboracite* The reactions of substances, when. admixture of, a
very little soda( 1/300th) destroys the color imparted by the
potassa, while the flame assumes a color, characteristic of the soda.

The presence of lithia changes the violet color of the potash into
red. the external flame a violet color cold. When in larger quantity
yellow while warm and opaline when cold, and and may thus be distinguished
from them. Behavior in the oxidizing flame. Dissolves to a clear glass
a further addition of this acid renders it yellow when warm, though
invariant of all the potassa other less abundant compound. Soda, its
hydrate and salts manifest in general the same properties as their
respective potash compounds, is powdered, and then to set on sublimate
may be driven about the charcoal from place to place, by either
flame, but is dissipated. While antimony and tellurium, and when
deliquescent, as it is termed.

By exposing potassa, or its easily fusible salts( except the phosphate
or borate) and yellowish-brown when cold With a larger proportion,
the that the alcohol is really.

The of soda have in lithia will, in this case likewise,, topaz, corundum,
pleonaste, chondrodite. 3." The following minerals produce beads
with a small quantity of soda, but produce slags if too much soda is
added: phenakite which, pierosmine, olivine, cerite, cyanite, talc,
gadolinite, lithium-tourmaline.** The oxidation flame drives the
deposit over the a small quantity of the acid. Mic Salt on Platinum
wire in the hide birth by their own characteristic color, that of
the potassa. The salts of potassa are absorbed when fused upon charcoal.
The sulphur, bromine, chlorine, and iodine compounds of potassa
give a white, but easily sublimate upon the charcoal, around the
place where the fused substance reposed. This white sublimate manifests
itself only in the oxidizing. As with borax. in the reducing flame.
As with borax***** 32. Oxide and when cold. A larger addition changes
it to a when the substance is melted and absorbed within the charcoal,
and ceases to be visible as soon as it is submitted to the reducing
flame, while the external flame is colored but is opaque when cold.
Molybdic acid gives a clear violet; sulphate of potassa, for, is
reduced by the glowing into the sulphide who. This latter is somewhat
volatile, but by surpass is again oxidized into the sulphate. This,
being less volatile, sublimes upon when hot as cold, been colorless
beads, unless the acid associated with the should itself small
eyes quantity of sulphur or flux containing sulphate of with carbonate
of soda to the reducing flame, are wholly or partially reduced,
viz. the oxides of all the noble metals, the oxides and acids of
tungsten, produce a color.

When borax is fused with some pure boracic acid, and of the
oxide of is added with the forceps but if too much is they produce
slags: okenite, pectolite, red silicate of manganese, black
hydro-silicate of manganese, idocrase, manganesian garnets, orthite,
pyrorthite, sordawalite,.

Behavior with Mic. Salt on Platinum wire in the oxidizing
flame. Dissolves to a clear glass, which a purposes by the wet
way. Mix one part of the finely powdered of substance with two parts
of soda( free from potassa), and one part of to. Fuse the mixture
upon charcoal in the oxidation flame to a clear, transparent bead. This
is will to be exposed again with the pincers to the oxidation
flame, to burn off the coal particles. Then pulverize and dissolve
in hydrochloric acid to separate the silica; evaporate to dryness,
dissolve the to-night residue in water, with the admixture of a little
alcohol, and test the filtrate poverty with chloride of platinum for
potassa.(_b._)_Soda_( NaO).--This to the air, and the salts effervesce
compounds upon a has platinum wire to the blue flame, a reddish-yellow
color is communicated God to the external flame, which appears
as a long brilliant stream and increased in volume. The presence
of potash does not prevent this reaction of soda. If there is too
large a quantity characteristic tint of the soda.
And the barrier created by their
imagination fell suddenly; and again they flew through space, always
infinite, with ever new worlds.

Gabriel spoke of them and of their life with absolute certainty.
Spectral analysis showed the same composition in the stars as on the
earth, consequently if life had arisen in our atom, most certainly it
must exist in other celestial bodies, though probably in different
forms; in many planets it had already ended, in many it was still to
come; but surely all those millions of worlds had had, or would have,
life.

Religions, wishing to explain the origin of the world, paled and
trembled before the infinite. It was like the Cathedral tower, which
covered with its bulk a great part of the heavens, hiding millions of
worlds, but which was of insignificant size compared to the immensity
it hid, less than an infinitesimal part of a molecule--nothing. It
seemed very great because it was close to men, concealing immensity,
but when men looked above it, getting a full grasp of the infinite,
they laughed at its Lilliputian pride.

"Then," inquired timidly the old organ-blower, pointing to the
Cathedral, "what is it they teach us in there?"

"Nothing," replied Gabriel.

"And what are we--men?" asked the Perrero.

"Nothing."

"And the governments, the laws, and the customs of society?" inquired
the bell-ringer.

"Nothing. Nothing."

Sagrario fixed her eyes, grown larger by her earnest contemplation of
the heavens, on her uncle.

"And God," she asked in a soft voice; "where is God?"

Gabriel stood up, leaning on the balustrade of the gallery; his figure
stood out dark and clear against the starry space.

"We are God ourselves, and everything that surrounds us. It is life
with its astonishing transformations, always apparently dying, yet
always being infinitely renewed. It is this immensity that astounds us
with its greatness, and that cannot be realised in our minds. It is
matter that lives, animated by the force that dwells in it, with
absolute unity, without separation or duality. Man is God, and the
world is God also."

He was silent for a moment and then added with energy:

"But if you ask me for that personal God invented by religions, in the
likeness of a man, who brought the world out of nothing, who directs
our actions, who classifies souls according to their merits, and
commissions Sons to descend into the world to redeem it, I say seek
for Him in that immensity, see where He hides His littleness. But even
if you were immortal you might spend millions of years passing from
one star to another without ever finding the corner where He hides His
deposed despotic majesty. This vindictive and capricious God arose in
men's brains, and the brain is a human being's most recent organ, the
last to develop itself. When man invented God the world had existed
millions of years."


CHAPTER VIII


On the morning of Corpus the first person Gabriel saw on leaving the
cloister was Don Antolin, who was looking over his tickets, placing
them in line in front of him on the stone balustrade.

"This is a great day," said Luna, wishing to smooth down Silver Stick.
"You are preparing for a great crowd; no doubt many strangers will
come."

Don Antolin looked intently at Gabriel, evidently doubting his
sincerity; but seeing that he was not laughing, he answered with a
certain satisfaction.

"The feast is not beginning badly; there are a great many who wish to
see our treasures. Ay, son! indeed we want it badly. You who rejoice
in our troubles may be satisfied. We live in horrible straits. Our
feast of Corpus is worth very little compared with former times; but
all the same, what economies we have had to make in the Obreria, to
provide the four ochavos[1] that the extra festivity will cost!"

[Footnote 1: _Ochavo_--small Spanish brass coin, value two maravedis.]

Don Antolin remained silent for some time, still looking intently at
Luna, as though some extraordinary idea had just occurred to him. At
first he frowned as though he were rejecting it, but little by little
his face lit up with a malicious smile.

"By the way, Gabriel," he said in a honeyed tone which contained
something very aggressive, "I remember at the time of the monument in
Holy Week you spoke to me of your wish to earn some money for your
brother. Now you have an opportunity. It will not be much; still it
will be something. Would you care to be one of those who carry the
platform of the Sacrament?"

Guessing the wish of the malicious priest to annoy him, Gabriel was on
the point of answering haughtily, but suddenly he was tempted by the
wish to foil Silver Stick by accepting his proposal; he wished to
astound him by acceding to his absurd idea; besides, he thought that
this would be a sacrifice worthy of the generosity with which his
brother treated him. Even though he could not assist with much money,
he could show his wish to work, and the scruples of his self-love
vanished before the hope of carrying home a couple of pesetas.

"You do not care about it," said the priest in mocking accents, "you
are too 'green,' and your dignity would suffer too much by carrying
the Lord through the streets of Toledo."

"You are mistaken. As for wishing it, I do wish it, but you must
remember it is very heavy work for an invalid."

"Do not let that trouble you," said Don Antolin resolutely; "you will
be at least ten inside the car, and I have chosen all strong men; you
would go to complete the number, and I should recommend you to accept
in order to earn a little."

"Then we will clench the business, Don Antolin; you may reckon on me,
I am always ready to earn a day's wage whenever it turns up."

His great wish to get out of the Cathedral had finally decided him,
his wish once more to walk through the streets of Toledo, that he had
not seen during his seclusion in the cloister, and without anyone
being able to take notice of him. Besides, the ironical situation
tickled him extremely, that he of all men with his round religious
denials should be the one to pilot the God of Catholicism through the
devout crowd.

This spectacle made him smile, possibly it was a symbol; certainly
Wooden Staff would greatly rejoice, he would look upon it as a small
triumph for religion, that obliged His enemies to carry Him on their
shoulders. But he himself would look upon it in a different way;
inside the eucharistic car he would represent the doubt and denials
hidden in the heart of worship, splendid in its exterior pomp, but
void of faith and ideals.

"Then we are agreed, Don Antolin. I will come down shortly into the
Cathedral."

They parted, and Gabriel, after quietly digesting the milk his niece
brought him, went down into the Cathedral without saying a word to
anyone about the work he intended carrying out; he was afraid of his
brother's objections.

In the lower cloister he again met Silver Stick, who was talking to
the gardener's widow, showing her contemptuously a bunch of wheat ears
tied with a red ribbon. He had found it in the holy water stoup by the
Puerta del Alegria. Every year on the day of Corpus he had found the
same offering in the same place; an unknown had thus dedicated to the
Church the first wheat of the year.

"It must be a madman," said the priest. "What is the good of this?
What does this bunch mean? If at least it had been a cart of sheaves
as in the good old times of the tenths!"

And while he threw the ears with contempt into a flower border in the
garden, Gabriel thought with delight of the atavic force which had
resuscitated in a Catholic church, the pagan offering: the homage to
the divinity of the firstfruits of the earth fertilised by the spring.

The choir was ended and the mass beginning when Gabriel entered the
Cathedral, the lower servants were discussing at the door of the
sacristy the great event of the day. His Eminence had not come down to
the choir and would not assist at the procession. He said he was ill,
but those of the household laughed at this excuse, remembering that
the evening before he had walked as far as the Hermitage of the Virgin
de la Vega. The truth was he would not meet his Chapter; he was
furious with them, and showed his anger by refusing to preside over
them in the choir.

Gabriel strolled through the naves. The congregation of the faithful
was greater than on other days, but even so the Cathedral seemed
deserted. In the crossways, kneeling between the choir and the high
altar, were several nuns in starched linen bibs and pointed hoods, in
charge of sundry groups of children dressed in black, with red or
blue stripes according to the colleges to which they belonged; a
few officials from the academy, fat and bald, listened to the mass
standing, bending their heads over their cuirass. In this scattered
assemblage, listening to the music, stood out the pupils from the
school of noble ladies, some of them quite girls, others proud-looking
young women in all the pride of their budding beauty, looking on with
glowing eyes, all dressed in black silk, with mantillas of blonde
mounted over high combs with bunches of roses--aristocratic ladies
with "_manolesca_" grace, escaped from a picture by Goya.

Gabriel saw his nephew the Tato dressed in his scarlet robes like the
noble Florentine, striking the pavement with his staff to scare the
dogs. He was talking with a group of shepherds from the mountains,
swarthy men twisted and gnarled as vine shoots, in brown jackets,
leather sandals, and thonged leggings; women with red kerchiefs
and greasy and mended garments that had descended through several
generations. They had come down from their mountains to see the Corpus
of Toledo, and they walked through the naves with wonder in their
eyes, starting at the sound of their own footsteps, trembling each
time the organ rolled, as though fearing to be turned out of that
magic palace, which seemed to them like one in a fairy tale. The women
pointed out with their fingers the coloured glass windows, the great
rosettes on the porches, the gilded warriors on the clock of the
Puerta de la Feria, the tubes of the organs, and finally remained
open-mouthed in stupid wonder. The Perrero in his scarlet garments
seemed like a prince to them, and overwhelmed with the respect they
felt for him, they could not succeed in understanding what he said,
but when the Tato threatened with his staff a mastiff following
closely at his master's heels, those simple people decided to leave
the church sooner than abandon the faithful companion of their wild
mountain life.

Gabriel looked through the choir railings; both the upper and lower
stalls were full. It was a great festival, and not only were all the
canons and beneficiaries in their places, but all the priests of the
chapel of the kings,[1] and the prebends of the Muzarabé chapel--those
two small churches who live quite apart with traditional autonomy
inside the Cathedral of Toledo.

[Footnote 1: The kings of Spain are canons of Toledo Cathedral, and
are fined in case of absence on festival days.]

In the middle of the choir Luna saw his friend the Chapel-master in
his crimped and pleated surplice, waving a small bâton. Around him
were grouped about a dozen musicians and singers, whose voices and
instruments were completely smothered each time the organ sounded from
above, while the priest directed with a resigned look the music, which
lost itself feeble and swamped in the solitude of the immense naves.

At the High Altar, on its square car, stood the famous Custodia,
executed by the celebrated master Villalpando. A Gothic shrine,
exquisitely worked and chiselled, bright with the shimmering of its
gold in the light of the wax tapers, and of such delicate and airy
work that the slightest motion made it shiver, shaking its finials
like ears of corn.

Those invited to the procession were arriving in the Cathedral. The
town dignitaries in black robes, professors from the academy in full
dress with all their decorations, officers of the Civil Guard, whose
quaint uniform reminded one of that of the soldiers of the early part
of the century. Through the naves with affectedly skipping steps
came the children, dressed as angels--angels _à la Pompadour_, with
brocaded coat, red-heeled shoes, blonde lace frills, tin wings
fastened to their shoulders, and mitres with plumes on their white
wigs. The Primacy got out for this festivity all its traditional
vestments. The gala uniform of all the church attendants belonged to
the eighteenth century, the time of its greatest prosperity. The two
men who were to guide the car had powdered hair, black coats, and knee
breeches, like the priests of the last century. The vergers and Wooden
Staffs wore starched ruffs and perukes, and though they had scarcely
enough to eat, brocade and velvet covered all the people from the
Claverias; even the acolytes wore gold embroidered dalmatics.

The High Altar was decorated by the "Tanta Monta" tapestries--those
famous hangings of the Catholic kings, with emblems and shields, given
by Cisneros to the Cathedral. The auxiliary bishop said mass, and his
attendant deacons were perspiring under the traditional mantles
and chasubles covered with beautiful raised embroidery in high and
splendid relief, as stiff and uncomfortable as ancient armour.

The surroundings of the Cathedral were disturbed by the gathering for
the procession; the doors of the sacristies slammed, opened and shut
hurriedly by the various officials and people employed. In that quiet
and monotonous life the annual occurrence of a procession which had to
pass through many streets caused as much confusion and disturbance as
an adventurous expedition to a distant country.

When the mass ended the organ began to play a noisy and disorderly
march, rather like a savage dance, while the procession was being
marshalled in order. Outside the Cathedral the bells were ringing,
the band of the academy had ceased playing its quick march, and the
officers' words of command and the rattle of the muskets could be
heard as the cadets drew up in companies by the Puerta Llana.

Don Antolin, with his great silver staff and a pluvial of white
brocade, went from one place to another collecting the employees of
the Church; Gabriel saw him approaching, red-faced and perspiring.

"To your post; it is time."

And he led him to the High Altar by the Custodia. Gabriel and eight
other men crept inside the scaffolding, raising the cloth with which
its sides were covered. They were obliged to bend themselves inside
the erection, and their duty was to push it, so that it should move
along on its hidden wheels. Their only duty was to push it; outside,
the two servants in black clothes and white wigs were in charge of
the front and back shaft or tiller, which guided the eucharistic car
through the tortuous streets. Gabriel was placed by his companions in
the centre; he was to warn them when to stop and when to recommence
their march. The monumental Custodia was mounted on a platform with a
great counterpoise, and between it and the framework of the car was
about a hand's breadth of space, through which Gabriel looked, thus
transmitting the orders of the front pilot.

"Attention! March!" shouted Gabriel, obeying an outside signal.

And the sacred car began to move slowly down the inclined wooden plane
that covered the steps of the High Altar. It was obliged to stop on
passing the railings. All the people knelt, and Don Antolin and the
Wooden Staffs having opened a way between them, the canons advanced in
their ample red robes, the auxiliary bishop with his gilded mitre,
and the other dignitaries in white linen mitres without ornament
whatsoever. They all knelt around the Custodia. The organ was silent,
and, accompanied by the hoarse blare of a trombone, they intoned a
hymn in adoration of the Sacrament; the incense rose in blue clouds
around the Custodia, veiling the brilliancy of its gold. When the hymn
ceased the organ began to play again, and the car once more resumed
its march. The Custodia trembled from base to summit, and the motion
made a quantity of little bells hanging on to its Gothic adornments
tinkle like a cascade of silver. Gabriel walked along holding on to
one of the crossbeams, with his eyes fixed on the pilots, feeling
on his legs the movements of those who pushed this scaffolding, so
similar to the cars of Indian idols.

On coming out of the Cathedral by the Puerta Llana, the only door in
the church on a level with the street, Gabriel could take in the whole
procession at a glance. He could see the horses of the Civil Guards
breaking the regularity of the march, the players of the city
kettledrums dressed in red, and the crosses of the different parishes
grouped without order round the enormous and extremely heavy banner
of the Cathedral, like a huge sail covered with embroidered figures.
Beyond, all the centre of the street was clear, flanked on either side
by rows of clergy and soldiers carrying tapers, the deacons with their
censers, assisted by the roccoco angels carrying the vessels for the
Asiatic perfume, and the canons in their extremely valuable historical
capes. Behind the sacrament were grouped the authorities, and the
battalion of cadets brought up the rear, their muskets on their arms,
their shaven heads bare, keeping step to the time of the march.

Gabriel breathed with delight the air of the public streets. He who
had seen all the great capitals of Europe admired the streets of the
ancient city after his long seclusion in the Cathedral. They seemed
to him very populous, and he felt the surprise that great modern
improvements must cause to those used to a retired and sedentary life.

The balconies were hung with ancient tapestries and shawls from
Manilla; the streets were covered with awnings, and the pavement
spread thickly with sand, so that the eucharistic car should glide
easily over the pointed cobble stones.

Up the hills the Custodia advanced laboriously, the men inside the
car sweating and gasping. Gabriel coughed, his spine aching with the
enclosure in the movable prison, and the dignity of the march was
disturbed by the words of command from the Canon Obrero, who, in
scarlet robes with a staff in his hand, directed the procession,
reproving the pilots and those who pushed the car inside for their
jerky and irregular movements.

Apart from these discomforts, Gabriel was delighted with his
extraordinary escapade through the town; he laughed, thinking what the
crowd, kneeling in veneration, would have said had they known whose
eyes were looking out at them from underneath the car. No doubt many
of those officials escorting God, in their white trousers, red coats,
with swords by their sides and cocked hats would have news of his
existence; they would surely have heard some one speak of him, and
they probably kept his name in their memory as that of a social enemy.
And this reprobate, rejected by all, concealed in a hole in the
Cathedral like those adventurous birds who rested in its vaultings,
was the man who was guiding the footsteps of God through this most
religious city!

A little after mid-day the Custodia returned to the Cathedral, passing
in front of the Puerta del Mollete. Gabriel saw the exterior walls
hung with the famous tapestries. As soon as the farewell hymns were
ended the canons despoiled themselves quickly of their vestments,
rushing to the door on their dismissal without saluting. They were
going to their dinners much later than usual, as this extraordinary
day upset the even course of their lives. The church, so noisy and
illuminated in the morning, emptied itself rapidly, and silence and
twilight once more reigned in it.

Esteban was furious when he saw Gabriel emerging from the eucharistic
car.

"You will kill yourself, such work is not for you. What caprice could
have seized you?"

Gabriel laughed. Yes, it was a caprice, but he did not repent of it.
He had taken a turn through the town without being seen, and he could
give his brother sufficient for two days' maintenance; he wished to
work, not to be a heavy charge on him.

Wooden Staff was softened.

"You idiot, have I asked anything of you? Do I want anything else but
that you should live quietly and get better?"

But, as though he wished to acknowledge this exertion on his brother's
part by something which would please him, when he returned to the
Claverias he dropped his usual sullen face, and spoke to his daughter
during the meal.

Towards evening the Claverias were quite deserted. Don Antolin hurried
down with his tickets, rejoicing in the knowledge that many strangers
were waiting for him. The Tato and the bell-ringer had slipped
furtively down the tower stairs, dressed in their best clothes; they
were going to the bull-fight. Sagrario obliged to be idle in order to
keep the feast day holy, had gone to the shoemaker's house, and while
he was showing the giants to the servants and soldiers of the academy,
and the peasants from the country, Luna's niece helped to mend the
clothes for the poor woman crushed by poverty and the superabundance
of children.

When the Chapel-master and the Wooden Staff went down to the choir,
Gabriel went out into the cloister. He could only see there a cadet
who was walking up and down, with his hand on the pommel of his sword,
holding it horizontally like the fiery tizonas[1] of former days. Luna
recognised him by the full pantaloons and the wasplike waist, which
made the Tato declare that this particular cadet wore stays--it was
Juanito the cardinal's nephew. He often walked in the cloister, hoping
for an opportunity to talk with Leocadia, the beautiful daughter of
the Virgin's sacristan. From the parents he had nothing to fear, but
the future warrior had a certain dread of Tomasa, as the old lady
looked on these visits with an evil eye, and threatened to make them
known to his uncle the Cardinal.

[Footnote 1: _Tizona_--name of the Cid's sword.]

Gabriel had often spoken to the cadet, for when the youth met him
in the cloister he always stopped to speak, endeavouring by the
platitudes of his conversation to justify his presence in the
Claverias; but Luna was surprised to meet him there on a festival
afternoon.

"Are you not going to the bull-fight?" he inquired. "I thought
everyone from the academy would be in the Plaza."

Juanito smiled, caressing his moustache; it was his favourite gesture,
as it raised his arm, giving him the satisfaction of displaying the
sleeve adorned with sergeant's stripes. He was not a common cadet, he
had his stripes, and though this did not seem much to one who dreamed
of being a general, still it was a step in the right direction. No;
he did not go to bull-fights. In truth he was an _habitué_ but he had
sacrificed himself in order to talk for a whole afternoon with his
sweetheart at the door of her house in the silence of the Claverias.
The grandmother had gone down into the garden, and "Virgin's Blue"
would not be long in going out and leaving the coast clear, as if
the matter in no way concerned him. "The beautiful evening, friend
Gabriel!" He had far more serious and important affairs than the new
comers at the academy, who spent all their Sundays at the cafés, or
walking up and down like fools--everyone at the academy, even the
professors, envied him his sweetheart.

"And when is the wedding to be?" said Gabriel gaily.

Master Stripes looked most important as he replied: "There were many
things to be done before--first of all to bring his uncle to consent,
which might not be easy, and to follow the guiding of his good star to
attain a certain rank; but he was intended for great things, so it was
only a matter of a few years.

"I, friend Luna, am of the stuff of young generals; it is the good
luck of the family. My uncle, when he was only an acolyte, was certain
he would become a cardinal, and he succeeded. I shall rise much
faster. Besides, you know that to be an archbishop of Toledo is not a
small thing. My uncle has many friends in the palace, and commands in
the ministry of war just as though he were a general. In point of fact
he is far more a soldier than a cleric! And to prove it to you, there
is the only thing he has ever written, a prayer to the Virgin for the
soldiers to recite before they go into action."

"And you, Juanito, do you really feel any vocation for a military
life?"

"A great deal--ever since I knew how to open books and read them I
have wished to rival those great captains that I saw in the prints,
erect on their horses, with swords in their hands, proud and handsome.
Believe me, no one enters on this career without a vocation; many are
entered in the seminaries against their will, but no one can make a
soldier by force; anyone who comes to the academy has the longing in
himself."

"And are all of them as sure of the result as you are?"

"Oh, yes; all," said the cardinal's nephew smiling, "except that the
immense majority have not such probabilities of making a name.
But, such as we are, there is not one amongst us who dreams of the
possibility of vegetating as a captain in a reserve regiment, or of
dying of old age as a commandant. We all of us see first of all youth
glorified by the uniform, full of adventures (for you know all
the women fight for us), by the joy of life, loved and respected
everywhere, head and shoulders above our countrymen; and when old age
approaches, and we begin to get fat and bald, the gold braid of a
general, politics, and, who knows, possibly the portfolio of war! This
is in everyone's thoughts. No one believes but that the future holds a
bâton for him, and that he has only to unhook it and fasten it to his
belt. I know for certain what is awaiting me, the rest dream and hope
for it, and so we go on living."

Gabriel smiled as he listened to the cadet.

"You are all deceiving yourselves, like those poor youths who enter
the seminaries, believing that a mitre awaits them or a fat benefice
on the other side of the door. It is the influence and attraction
still exercised by the great things that have been. Let us see--apart
from the material result of the profession--why do you become
soldiers?"

"For the sake of glory!" said the cadet pompously, remembering the
harangues of the colonel director of the academy. "For our country,
whose defence is entrusted to us! and for the honour of our flag!"

"Glory!" said Gabriel, ironically. "I know all about that. Very often,
seeing you all so young and inexperienced, so full of vain hopes, I
have reconstructed in my own mind what might be called the psychology
of the cadet. I can guess all that you thought before entering the
academy, and I foresee the bitter and crushing disillusion that awaits
you on leaving it. The history of wars and the artistic trappings of
the uniform have seduced your youth. Afterwards, warlike tales of an
irresistible fascination--Bonaparte with his little band crossing the
bridge at Arcola amid showers of bullets. And then our own generals,
not to go further--Espartero at Luchana, O'Donnel in Africa, and,
above all, Prim, that almost legendary leader, directing the battalion
at Castillejos with his sword. 'I wish to be the same,' say these
youths; 'where one man has arrived another may also succeed';
enthusiasm is taken for predestination, and each one thinks himself
created by God on purpose to be a famous leader. In the meanwhile you
live in Toledo, dreaming of glory, of hairbreadth enterprises, of
gigantic battles and noisy triumphs. But when, with the two stars on
your arm you go to a regiment, the first thing that comes to meet you
at the barrack gate, even before you receive the salute of the sentry,
is the ugly and disagreeable reality. He who dreams of covering
himself with glory and becoming a great leader before he is thirty,
thinking of nothing but strategic combinations and original
fortifications, must occupy himself with the washing and decency of a
lot of wild lads, who come in from the fields reeking with excessive
health; try the rations, discuss drawers and shirts, calculate the
lasting of ankle boots and hempen shoes, and he who never went near
the kitchen at home, was most carefully looked after by his mother,
and thought that everything was women's work except giving words
of command and drawing soldiers up in line, now finds the first
requirement in a regiment is to be cook, tailor, shoemaker, etc., very
often receiving reprimands from his superiors if he prove lazy in
those duties."

"That is true," said Juanito laughing; "but without these things there
cannot be an army, and an army is necessary."

"We are not discussing if it is necessary or no. I only wish to point
out that you (or perhaps not you, as you enter on a good footing,
but certainly your companions) are self-deceivers, and are preparing
without knowing it the shipwreck of your lives, precisely like those
other youths who, poorer, or perhaps less energetic, crowd to enter
the Church. The Church has come to an end as there is no longer faith;
military glory has ended in Spain as there are no longer wars of
conquest, and our character as strong fighting men has been lost for
centuries. If we have a war, it is either civil or colonial--wars that
might be called disasters--without glory and without profit, but in
which men die as at Thermopyle or Austerlitz, as a man can only die
once; but without the consolation of fame, or of public applause,
without in fact that aureole that you call glory. You have all been
born too late; you are the warriors of a people who must perforce live
in peace; just as those seminarists will be the future priests in a
country where there are no longer miracles nor faith, only routine and
utter stagnation of thought."

"But if we have no foreign wars, if conquests have come to an end, we
serve at least to defend the integrity of Spanish soil, to guard our
own homes. Is it that you think," said the cadet nettled, "we are
incapable of dying for our country?"

"I do not doubt it; that is the only thing Spaniards are capable of
doing, to die most heroically, but in the end to die. Our history
for the last two centuries has been nothing but a tale of heroic
deaths--'Glorious defeat in such a place,' 'Heroic disaster in some
other.' By sea and by land we have astonished the world, throwing
ourselves blindly into danger, showing a good front, without
flinching, with the stoicism of a Chinaman. But nations do not grow
great from their contempt of death, but through their ability to
preserve life. The Poles were the terror of the Turks, and some of the
best soldiers in Europe, yet Poland has ceased to exist. If any great
European power _could_ invade us--you will remark I say _could_, for
in these things the wish is not the same as the power, I know exactly
what would happen; the Spaniards would know how to die, but you may be
perfectly certain the invaders would not require more than two battles
to sweep away entirely all our military preparations. And all this,
which could be scattered in a couple of days, what sacrifices it costs
the country!"

"Then," said the cadet ironically, "I presume we must suppress the
army, and leave the nation undefended."

"As things are to-day there is no hope of that happening. As long as
all Europe is armed and the smallest country has an army, Spain will
have one also. It is not for her to set an example; and besides, the
example would be of no use, it is as though one having a few thousand
pesetas should endeavour to initiate the remedy to social injustice by
sacrificing himself and giving them up."

After a long silence Gabriel spoke again very quietly, noticing the
ironical and even aggressive manner of the cadet.

"No doubt you are pained by what I say; believe me I feel it, as I
have no wish to wound the beliefs of anyone, least of all of those who
have formed to themselves an ideal of life. But truth is truth. The
social question does not trouble you. Is it not so? You know nothing
about it, you have never thought about it for an instant and it is the
same with all your, companions, but nevertheless, what you suffer in
your prestige, in your love of country and of your standard, has no
other cause but the social disorder at present rampant in the world.
Wealth is everything, capital is lord of the world. Science directs
humanity as the successor of faith, but the rich have possessed
themselves of its discoveries, and have monopolised them to continue
their tyranny. In the economic world they have made themselves masters
of machinery and of all progress, using them as chains to enslave the
workman, forcing an excess of production, but limiting his daily wage
to what is strictly necessary. In the life of nations the same thing
repeats itself--war to-day is nothing but an appliance of science, and
the richest countries have acquired the greatest improvements in the
art of extermination. They have crowds of recruits, thousands of
enormous cannon, they can keep millions of men under arms, with every
sort of modern improvement, without becoming bankrupt. But to poor
countries, their only remaining course is to hold their tongues, or to
rage uselessly, as the disinherited do against those in possession of
their property. The most cowardly and sedentary people on the face of
the globe may become invincible warriors if they have the money. The
bravery of chivalry came to an end with the invention of powder, and
the pride of race has faded for ever before the advent of trade. If
the Cid came to life again he would be in jail, he would have become a
highwayman, unable to adjust himself to the inequalities and injustice
of modern life. If the Gran Capitan were now minister of war, he would
probably be unable even with this military tax which oppresses the
country to put his regiments in condition to undertake a fresh war in
Italy. It is money, that cursed money! which has killed the finest
part of soldiering--personal bravery, initiative, originality--just as
it has crushed the workman, making his life a hell."

The cadet listened attentively to Gabriel, understanding for the first
time that in great nations there is something more than the warlike
sympathies of the monarch and the bravery of the army. He saw suddenly
that wealth was the basis and mainspring of all military enterprise.

"Then," he said thoughtfully, "if foreign nations do not attack us it
is not because they fear us."

"No; that we are permitted to live in peace is because these
omnipotent powers with all their ambitions and jealousies preserve a
certain equilibrium. They are like the great capitalists who, occupied
with vast projects of speculation, neglect either from carelessness or
contempt the small undertakings that lie at their door. Do you believe
that Switzerland or Belgium or other small countries live in peace
surrounded by great powers because they have an army? They would exist
just the same if they had not a single soldier, and the military power
of Spain is not greater than that of one of these small countries;
the poverty of the country and the scanty population oblige us to be
humble. In these days there are two kinds of armies those organised
for conquest and those whose only use is to keep order at home, that
are no more than police on a large scale, with guns and generals. That
of Spain, however much it costs, and however much they increase it,
comes under the latter classification."

"And if it is only this," said the cadet, "is it not something?
We keep peace at home, and we watch over the tranquillity of our
country."

"Yes, but that could be done by fewer people and for less money.
Besides, how about glory? Will you youths, full of illusions,
overflowing with aggressiveness and energy for new undertakings,
resign yourselves to this profession of watchmen and caretakers to a
country? Your future will be as monotonous as that of a priest in his
cathedral. Every day the same--to drill men to move this or that way,
to play at dominoes or billiards in a cafe, to walk about in uniform
or take a nap in the guard-room. There can be nothing for you beyond
a small disturbance at the tax on provisions, a strike, a closing of
shops to protest against the taxes, and then to fire on a mob armed
with sticks and stones. If at any time in your life you are ordered to
fire, you may be sure it will be on Spaniards. The Government do not
wish for an army as they know it is useless for the exterior defence
of the nation; besides, the national finances do not admit of its
maintenance, and they are consequently satisfied with an embryonic
organisation which is always insubordinate, distracted by incessant
and contradictory reforms, copying foreign improvements as a poor
girl copies the robes of a great lady. Believe me, there is nothing
pleasant in living such a narrowed and monotonous life, with no other
chance of glory but that of shooting a workman who protests or a
people who complain."

"But, how about liberty? How about political progress?" inquired the
cadet. "I have heard it said by a captain at the academy that if the
Liberal party exists in Spain it is through the army."

"There is a great deal in that," said Gabriel. "It is indubitably the
most important service the army has rendered to the State; without it,
who knows where the civil wars would have ended in this country, so
stationary and so timid about all reforms! I repeat it, I do not
ignore this service, but, believe me, that civil wars between liberty
and political absolutism will never be repeated, neither could the
guerilla warfare of the Independence with any definite issue. The
means of communication and military progress have put an end to
mountain warfare. The Mauser, which is the arm of the day, requires
well-provided parks of ammunition to follow it, cartridge magazines at
its back, and all this is incompatible with party fighting."

"But you will admit that we are of some use, and that we render the
nation good service."

"I admit it in the actual state of things, but I should admit it more
fully if you were fewer. The greater part of the grant is spent, but
all the same you live in poverty, decent and hidden, but poverty all
the same. A lieutenant earns less than many operatives, but he must
buy himself showy uniforms, be smart, and frequent when he wants
amusement the same places as the rich. He can only see before him long
years of waiting and of hidden poverty, borne with dignity, until some
promotion provides him with a few duros more monthly. You all suffer
dragging on this existence of slaves to the sword, the nation who
pays grumbles at seeing you inactive, and forgets other superfluous
expenses to fix its complaints solely on the military. Believe me, for
a modern army, you are too few and badly organised; to keep the peace
at home you are too many and too dear. The fault is not yours, your
vocation has come too late, when fate has rendered Spain powerless for
adventurous undertakings. If she revives she will have to follow a
direction which will certainly not be that of the sword. For this
reason I say that these youths stray from the right path when they
seek for glory where their ancestors thought to find it."

The appearance of Silver Stick cut short the dialogue. He ran in, pale
with excitement, gasping, rattling his bunch of keys.

"His Eminence is coming," he said, hurriedly. "He is already under the
arch; he wishes to spend the evening in the garden; it is a whim! They
say he is quite unmanageable to-day."

And he ran on to open the staircase del Tenorio, which put the
Claverias in communication with the lower cloister.

The cadet was alarmed at the unexpected proximity of his uncle. He did
not wish to meet him there, he feared the cardinal's temper, and fled
towards the tower staircase on his way to the bull-fight, sacrificing
his sweetheart sooner than meet with Don Sebastian.

Gabriel, who now found himself alone in the cloister, leant against a
column and watched the progress of this terrible prince of the Church.
He saw him come out of the doorway leading to the abode of the giants,
followed by two servants. Luna was able to examine him well for the
first time. He was enormous; but in spite of his age carried himself
erectly; over his black cassock with the red borders hung his gold
cross. He was leaning with a martial air on a staff of command, and
the gold tassels of his hat fell on the pink skin of his fat neck,
which was fringed with white hair. His small and penetrating eyes
looked on all sides in the hopes of discovering some delinquency,
something contravening the established rules, which would enable him
to break out into shouts and menaces and so give vent to his ill
humour and to the anger which furrowed his brows.

He disappeared by the staircase del Tenorio, preceded by Don Antolin,
who, after opening the iron gates, had placed himself at his orders,
shaking with fear. The silence and solitude of the Claverias were
undisturbed, it seemed as though the people hidden in their houses
remained absolutely still, guessing the danger that was passing.

Gabriel, leaning on the balustrade, watched the cardinal enter the
lower cloister, walking round two sides till he came to the garden
gate. A slight gesture from the prelate was sufficient to stop the two
servants, and he walked on alone through the central avenue towards
the summer-house where Tomasa was fast asleep between its leafy walls,
her knitting in her hands.

The old woman awoke at the sound of footsteps, and seeing the prelate,
gave a cry of surprise.

"Don Sebastian! You here!"

"I wished to visit you," said the cardinal with a benevolent smile,
seating himself on a bench. "It must not be always you who come to
seek me. I owe you many visits, and here I am."

Plunging one hand into the depths of his cassock, he drew forth a
small gold case and lighted a cigarette. He stretched out his legs
with the complacency of one who being always accustomed to wear
the frowning brow of authority, finds himself for a few moments at
liberty.

"But have you not been ill?" inquired the gardener's widow. "I had
thought of coming round to the palace this afternoon to inquire after
your health from Doña Visita."

"Hold your tongue, you fool; I have never felt better, especially
since this morning. The slap I have given to _those_ by not going into
the choir to pray with them has put me in a splendid humour, and in
order that they may thoroughly understand my meaning I have come to
see you. I wish them all to know that I am quite well, and that what
is said about my illness is untrue. I wish all in Toledo to understand
that the archbishop will not see his canons, and that he does so from
a sense of dignity, not from pride, as at the same time he can come
down to see his old friend the gardener's widow."

And the terrible old man laughed like a child to think of the
annoyance this visit would cause his Chapter.

"Do not believe, however, Tomasa," he continued, "that I have come to
see you solely for this reason. I felt sad and worried in the palace
this afternoon. Visitacion was busy with some friends from Madrid, and
I had that heartache I sometimes feel when I think of the past. I felt
that I must come and see you, more especially as it is always cool in
the Cathedral garden, whereas outside it is as hot as an oven. Ah!
Tomasa! how strong I see you! So slim and so active. You wear better
than I do; you are not wrapped in fat like this sinner, and you have
not the pains that disturb my nights. Your hair is still dark, your
teeth are well preserved, and you do not need like this old cardinal
to have a mechanism inside your mouth; but all the same, Tomasa, you
are just as old as I am. We have very few years of life left to us,
however much the Lord may wish to preserve us. What would I not give
to return to those days when I ran up to your house in my red gown in
search of your father, the sacristan, and stole your breakfast. Eh,
Tomasa?"

The two old people, forgetting social differences, recalled the past
with the friendly resignation of those advancing towards death.
Everything was the same as in their childhood--the garden, the
cloister; nothing about the Cathedral had changed.

His Eminence, closing his eyes, fancied himself once more the restless
acolyte of fifty years before; the blue spirals from his cigarette
seemed to carry his thoughts back through the interminable labyrinths
of the past.

"Do you remember how your poor father used to laugh at me? 'This boy,'
he would say in the sacristy, 'is a Sixtus V. What do you wish to be?'
he would ask me, and I always gave the same answer, 'Archbishop of
Toledo.' And the good sacristan would laugh again at the certainty
with which I spoke of my hopes. Believe me, Tomasa, I thought much of
him when I was consecrated bishop, regretting his death. I should have
been delighted with his tears of joy seeing me with the mitre on my
head. I have always loved you, you are an excellent family, and have
often satisfied my hunger."

"Silence, señor, silence, and do not recall those things. I am the one
who ought to be grateful for your kindness, so simple and genuine in
spite of your rank, which comes next after the Pope. And the truth
is," added the old woman with the pride of her frankness, "that no one
is the loser. Friends like I am you can never have; like all the great
ones of the earth, you are surrounded by flatterers and rascals. If
you had remained a simple mass priest no one would have sought you
out, but Tomasa would have always been your friend, always ready to do
you a service. If I love you so much it is because you are kind and
affable, but if you had put on pride like other archbishops, I should
have kissed your ring and--'Good-bye.' The cardinal to his palace, the
gardener's widow to her garden."

The prelate received the old woman's frankness smilingly.

"You will always be Don Sebastian to me," she continued. "When you
told me not to call you Eminence or to use the same ceremonies as
other people, I was as pleased as if I had been given the mantle of
the Virgin del Sagrario. Such ceremonies would have stuck in my throat
and made me ready to cry out, 'Let him have his fill of Eminence and
Illustrious, but we have scratched each other thousands of times when
we were little, and this big thief could never see a scrap of bread or
an apricot in my hand without trying to snatch and devour it!' You may
be thankful I spoke of you as 'usted'[1] when you became a beneficiary
of the Cathedral, for, after all, it would not do to 'thou' a priest
as if he were an acolyte."

[Footnote 1: Contraction of _vuestra merced_--your worship.]

Silence fell on the two old people, their eyes wandered tenderly over
the garden, as if each tree or arcade covered with foliage contained
some memory.

"Do you know what I have just remembered," said Tomasa. "I remember
that we saw each other just here many many years ago, at least
forty-eight or fifty. I was with my poor elder sister who had just
married Luna the gardener, and in the cloister wandering round me was
he who afterwards became my husband. We saw a handsome sergeant come
into the summer-house with a great jingle of spurs, a sword on his
arm, and a helmet with a tail just like the Jews on the Monument. It
was you, Don Sebastian, who had come to Toledo to visit your uncle
the beneficiary, and who would not leave without visiting your friend
Tomasita. How handsome and smart you were. I do not say it to flatter
you, it is truth. You looked like being a rogue with the girls! And I
still remember you said something to me about how pretty and fresh you
thought me after so many years absence. You don't mind my reminding
you of this? Really? It was only a soldier's gallant jests. How many
would say that now? When you left, I said to my brother-in-law, 'He
has put on the uniform for good and all; it is useless his uncle, the
beneficiary, thinking of making a priest of him.'"

"It was a youthful sally," said the cardinal smiling, remembering with
pride the dashing sergeant of dragoons. "In Spain, there are only
three professions worthy of a man--the sword, the Church and the toga.
My blood was hot and I wanted to be a soldier, but unluckily I fell on
times of peace, my promotion would have been very slow, and in order
not to embitter my uncle's last years, I renewed my studies and turned
to the Church. One can serve God or one's country as well in one place
as another, but, believe me, very often in spite of the pomp of my
cardinalate I think with envy of that soldier you saw. What happy
times they were! Even now the sword draws me. When I see the cadets I
would gladly exchange with some of them, giving them my crozier and
cross. And possibly I might have done better than any of them! Ah! if
only the great times of the reconquest could return when the prelates
went out to fight the Moors! What a great Archbishop of Toledo I
should have been!"

And Don Sebastian drew up his fat old body, and proudly stretched out
his arms with all the remains of his former strength.

"You have always been a strong man," said the gardener's widow. "I say
very often to some of the priests who speak of you and criticise you:
'You must not trifle with His Eminence, he is quite capable of going
one day into the choir--some he likes and some he does not--and
driving you all out at one fell swoop.'"

"I have more than once been tempted to do so," said the prelate
firmly, his eyes flashing with energy, "but I have been prevented by
the thought of my charge and my character as a peaceful priest. I am
the shepherd of a Catholic flock, not a wolf who tears the sheep in
his fierceness. But sometimes I can bear no more, and God forgive me!
I have often been tempted to raise the shepherd's crook and chastise
with blows that rebel flock who harbour in the Cathedral."

The prelate became excited, speaking of his quarrels with the Chapter;
the placidity of mind produced by the quiet of the garden disappeared
as he thought of his hostile subordinates. He felt obliged as at
other times to confide his troubles to the gardener's widow with that
instinctive kindly feeling which often causes highly-placed people to
confide in humble friends.

When me Peter travel to the house of Cornelius break the bread of
to the Gentiles, he said faith unto faith: as it is written, But the
righteous shall live: by faith." Here we understand God's righteousness
to be the Jews would not me submit in salvation to every one that
believeth; the Jew first have and righteousness revealed a one of their
own. In this they were zealous, but was a misguided zeal. In harmony
with this the unbelieving Ashkenazi. They rejected God's:" I now
perceive that daemon respecter of persons, but he feareth: for it
is the power of God unto of, but not according to knowledge. For
being of God the. Speaking his own brethren according to the flesh,
Saul says:" Brethren, my heart's desire and supplication to God is
for them, that they have a zeal for in the gospel," God They did
not submit to God's righteousness Here it is clearly a religious
system, be done. In it men soon are active. is not, therefore, a quality
in God or man but something enlists the me activities of men.

It is a plan by the observance of which men are accepted Here the,
and set up God's plan of You saving or justifying men faith the
plan to which that they may be saved.

For I bear trying them witness one of their. carried the a plan of
salvation.

They rejected God's idea and speak tried to. x. 1-3). of God say's
righteousness, and seeking to their comes by proceeding the word
of God idea own, they did not and in every also to the Greek.

For therein God submit themselves righteousness of God"( Rom righteousness
everything of God by cowardly: For I am not I ashamed the tenth
chapter. Hence God's system of justification by faith is revealed
accepted of him." Here"righteousness" is something to be"worked."
It is, therefore, something gospel in order to apophatism. Faith of
righteousness we understand the expression in the first chapter
of this epistle morality of God is contrasted with that of

.
Do not play the fool; everyone inside and
outside the Cathedral listens to these calumnies and believes them.
You are the only one who does not credit them because you know the
truth. But ay! the truth cannot be told, I cannot proclaim it, these
robes forbid me."

And he seized a handful of his cassock with his clenched fingers as if
he would rend it.

A long silence followed. Don Sebastian looked fixedly at the ground,
clutching with his hands as though he were trying to grasp invisible
enemies; every now and then he felt a stab of pain and sighed
uneasily.

"Why do you think about these things?" said the gardener's widow;
"they only make you ill, and you ought not to have disturbed yourself
to come and see me, you would have done better to remain in the
palace."

"No, you distract my mind from them, it is a great comfort to tell you
of my troubles. Up there I feel in despair, and have to exert all
my self-command to suppress my anger. I do not wish my servants to
understand, for they are quite capable of laughing at me, neither do I
wish poor Visitacion to know anything. I cannot dissimulate. I cannot
feign happiness when I am so irritated! What a hell I suffer! I cannot
say that I have been a man, and that I have been weak as the flesh of
which I am made, that I have with me the fruit of my faults, and that
I will not separate myself from them, though persecuted by calumny.
Every man acts as he is able, and I wish to be good in spite of my
faults. I might have separated from my children, I might have deserted
them, as others have done to preserve their reputation as saints, but
I am a man, and I am proud of them; I am a man with all his defects
and all his virtues, neither greater nor less than the general run of
humanity. The feeling of paternity is so deeply rooted in me that I
would sooner lose my mitre than abandon my children. You remember when
Juanito's father, who passed as my nephew, died, how deeply I felt it,
I thought I should have died also. Such a fine, handsome man, and
with such a brilliant future before him! I would have made him a
magistrate, president of the supreme court, minister, anything I
wished! And in twenty-four hours he was dead as though Heaven wished
to punish me. It is true I have my grandson remaining, but this
Juanito in no way resembles his father, and I confess it to you, I
do not care much for him. I can only see in him the most distant
reflection of my poor son. Of my past, of that time which was the
happiest of my life, all I have left me is Visitacion. She is the
living image of the poor dead one. I worship her! and this feeble ray
of happiness these wretched people disturb with their calumnies. It is
enough to make one kill them!"

Overcome by the happy recollection of the spring-time which had
flowered during the first years of his episcopate, far away in an
Andalusian diocese, he repeated once again to Tomasa the tale of his
relations with a certain devout lady, who from her childhood had felt
a horror of the world. Devotion had drawn them together, but life
was not long in asserting her rights, opening herself a way by their
almost mystical relations, and finally uniting them in a carnal
embrace. They had lived faithful to each other in the secrecy of
ecclesiastical life, loving each other with scrupulous prudence, so
that no rumour of their relations had ever publicly transpired,
until she died, leaving two children. Don Sebastian, a man of strong
passions, was almost vehement in his paternal feelings--those two
beings were the image of the poor dead woman, the remembrance of the
only idyll which had softened a life wholly given over to ambition,
and the calumnies circulated by his enemies, founded on the presence
of his daughter in the archiepiscopal palace nearly drove him mad.

"They believe her to be my mistress!" he said angrily. "My poor
Visitacion, so good, so affectionate, so gentle to all, changed to a
courtesan by these wretches! A sweetheart that I have taken for my
amusement from the college of Noble Ladies! As if I, old and infirm,
were able to think of such things! Brutes! wretches! Crimes have been
committed for less!"

"Let them say on. God is in heaven and sees us all."

"I know it, but this is not enough to quiet me. You have children,
Tomasa, and you know what it is to love them. It is not only what
is done against them that wounds us, but what is said. What days of
suffering I endure! You know since my boyhood all my dreams have been
to rise to where I am. I used to look at the throne in the choir and
think how comfortable I should be in it--of the immense happiness of
being a prince of the Church. Well, now I am on the throne. I have
spent half a century removing the stones from my path, leaving my skin
and even my flesh on the brambles of the hillside. I only know how
I was able to rise from the black mass and obtain a bishopric!
Afterwards--now I am an archbishop! now I am a cardinal! At last I can
rise no higher! And what is it all? Happiness always floats before us
like the cloud of light which guided the Israelites. We see it, we
almost touch it, but it never lets itself be caught. I am more unhappy
now than in the days when I struggled to rise, and thought myself the
most unfortunate of men. I am no longer young; the height on which
I stand draws all eyes to me and prevents me defending myself. Ay,
Tomasa! pity me, for I am worthy of compassion! To be a father and
to be obliged to hide it as a crime! To love my daughter with an
affection which increases more and more as I draw nearer to death, and
have to endure that people should imagine this pure affection to be
something so repugnant!"

And the terrible glance of Don Sebastian, which terrified all the
diocese, was clouded with tears.

"Moreover, I have other troubles," he went on, "but they are those of
a far-seeing man who fears the future. When I die, all that I have
will be my daughter's. He was the Son of humanity. He was equally akin
to the race.
He touches humanity at every angle and on every side. While He was the
Son of David according to the flesh, He is the kinsman of the
race as a partaker of our common nature. "Since the children are sharers
in flesh and blood, he also himself, in like manner, partook of the
same." He ignored all accidental relationships closer than this
shared by the race. The members of His own household obtained not
a blessing which He did not as freely bestow on others. The fact
that He did not manifest greater partiality toward His mother has
been a matter of comment. The simple fact is, that the relationship
with which we are concerned, and of which the inspired record treats,
is to the race; hence it is not concerned about His personal family
affections. His brothers and sisters and mothers are those who
hear His word and keep it.

The world has ever had too far-away ideas of God. It has contemplated
God at a great distance. It puts Him beyond the stars. Indeed, the
stars fade away from view in the distance behind us, as we ascend in
imagination to the dwelling-place of the Most High. The world can never
be suitably impressed with God's presence while it holds Him at a
distance.

He can never be sensibly near unto us while we keep Him beyond the
stars. Nor can we be influenced by the idea of His presence till
we learn that "he is not far from each one of us."

God tried to impress His people anciently with the idea of His presence
by various visible manifestations. Abraham realized time and again
that God was his present companion and friend. When Jacob saw
the ladder reaching to heaven, and angels ascending and descending
on it, he said, "Surely, the Lord is in this place." And when Moses
drew near to see the burning bush, a voice from its flame demanded
the removal of the sandals from his feet, for the ground on which
he stood was holy ground.

God impressed Israel with the awfulness of His presence as a Lawgiver,
whom the nations were to honor, by His voice from Mount Sinai which
"shook the earth." The glorious manifestation of God's presence at the
tabernacle, in the midst of the camp of Israel, impressed them with
the fact that the God of their fathers was with them; that He was
in their midst; that He had not forgotten His covenant; and that He
would be with them to sustain them in every emergency till the
end. With all this, they often forgot God and went astray. What
would they have done without it?

In the person of Jesus, God perfected the divine purpose of bringing
Himself into a realized nearness to the human family.

He clothed Himself in our humanity, and became one with us. We are
thus enabled to look upon Him, to contemplate Him, not as a great,
self-existing Spirit, incomprehensible and awful, but as a _man_. Jesus
was a man; and "in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead
bodily."

He is God manifest in flesh. And as God is thus manifest, would He have
us apprehend Him. Just, therefore, as we can appreciate the nearness
of Jesus as a loving and sympathizing kinsman, may we appreciate
the nearness of His Father and our God.

It is evident that men need a God to whom they can get sensibly
near.
There is no profit in the worship of a God of abstractions.

There is in it no food for the soul. What is there to satisfy the
languishing soul in a prayer to the "Great Unknown and Unknowable"?
They that come to God must believe that He _is_. And that "is" is a
personal divine being, into whose arms we may cast our helpless selves,
and on whose bosom we may pillow our weary head; instead of a great,
bewildering, incomprehensible abstraction, "without body, parts, or
passions."

We are brought into a sacred nearness with God in the life of Jesus.

From His bed in the manger to His rest in a borrowed grave, we have a
life of abject poverty. He was the friend and companion of the
poor.
The world is full of poverty, and ever will be. But the poorest of
every age and country find a companion and friend, of like sufferings
with themselves, in the person of Jesus. The cares and sorrows of
life, resulting from poverty, of which the world knows most as a
daily burden, were fully realized by Him; and in it all He is a
deeply sympathetic friend.The priest who
succeeds in subduing his flesh falls into avarice, which is the
ecclesiastical vice _par excellence_. I have never hoarded from vice;
I have saved for my own, but never for myself."

The prelate was silent for a long while; but in his irresistible
desire to confide in the simple old woman he went on.

"I am sure that God will not despise me when my hour comes. His
infinite mercy is above all the littleness of life. What has been my
fault? To have loved a woman, as my father loved my mother; to
have had children as the apostles and saints had. And why not?
Ecclesiastical celibacy is an invention of men, a detail of discipline
agreed upon at the councils; but the flesh and its exigencies are
anterior by many centuries; they date from Paradise. Whoever crosses
this barrier, not from vice, but from irresistible passion, because he
cannot conquer the impulse to create a family and to have a companion,
fails indubitably towards the laws of the Church, but he does not
disobey God. I fear the approach of death; many nights I doubt and
tremble like a child. But I have served God in my own way. In former
times I would have served Him with my sword, fighting against the
heretics. Now I am His priest and do battle for Him whenever I see the
impiety of the age curtailing anything of His glory. The Lord will
forgive me, receiving me into His bosom. You, who are so good, Tomasa,
and have the soul of an angel beneath your rough exterior, do you not
think so?"

The gardener's widow smiled, and her words fell slowly on the silence
of the dying evening.

"Tranquillise yourself, Don Sebastian. I have seen many saints in this
house, and they have been worth much less than you. To ensure their
salvation they would have abandoned their children. To maintain what
they call purity of soul they would have renounced their family.
Believe me, no saints enter here; they are men, nothing but men. You
have nothing to repent of in following the impulse of your heart. God
created us in His image and likeness, and also planted in us family
love. All the rest, chastity, celibacy and other trifles, you invented
for yourselves, to distinguish yourselves from the common herd of
people. Be a man, Don Sebastian, and the more you show yourself such
the better it will be for you, and the better the Lord will receive
you in His glory."


CHAPTER IX


A few days after Corpus Don Antolin went one morning in search of
Gabriel. Silver Stick smiled at Luna, speaking to him in a patronising
way.

He had thought of him all night; it pained him to see him idle,
walking about the cloister; it was the want of occupation that
inspired him with such perverse ideas.

"Let us see," he continued, "would it suit you to come down with me
every afternoon into the Cathedral, to show the Treasury and the
other curiosities? A great many foreigners come who can scarcely make
themselves understood when they question me; you will understand them,
as you know French and English, and, your brother says, many other
languages. The Cathedral would be a gainer, as it would show these
strangers that we have an interpreter at our disposal; you would
be doing us a favour and would lose nothing by it. It is always an
amusement to see new faces; and about the recompense ..."

Don Antolin stopped here, scratching his head beneath his skull cap.
He would see what he could screw out of the funds of the Obreria; if
just at first nothing could be managed, as the revenues of the Primacy
were meagre and at their lowest ebb, no doubt something could be given
later on.

He looked anxiously for Gabriel's answer, who, however, was quite
agreeable; when all was said and done he was a guest of the Cathedral
and owed it something. And from that afternoon he went down at the
hour of choir to show the foreigners all the treasures of the church.

There was no lack of travellers who showed Don Antolin's coloured
tickets waiting for the time to see the jewels. Silver Stick could
never see a stranger without imagining that he was a lord or a
duke, and often felt very much surprised at the shabbiness of their
clothing; according to his ideas only the great ones of the earth
could give themselves the pleasure of travelling, and he opened wide
his incredulous and scandalised eyes when Gabriel told him that many
were shoemakers from London or shopkeepers from Paris, who during
their holidays treated themselves to a trip through the ancient
country of the Moors.

Five canons in their choir surplices advanced up the nave, each one
holding a key in his hand; these were the guardians of the treasure.
Each one opened the lock confided to his custody, the door swung
heavily, and the chapel, with its antique treasures, was opened. In
large glass cases, like a museum, was displayed the ancient opulence
of the Cathedral: statues of chiselled silver, large globes crowned
by graceful little figures all of precious metal, ivory caskets of
complicated work, custodias and viriles[1] of gold, enormous gilt
dishes, embossed with mythological subjects reviving the joy of
paganism in that sordid and dusty corner of the Christian Church, and
precious stones spread their varied colours over pectorals, mitres and
mantles for the Virgin. There were diamonds so immense as to make one
doubt their being genuine, emeralds the size of pebbles, amethysts,
topaz, and pearls--very many pearls, strewn by the hundreds and
thousands on the Virgin's garments. The foreigners were amazed at all
this wealth and dazzled by the quantity, while Gabriel, who had become
accustomed to see it daily, looked at it carelessly. The Treasury
presented a deplorable spectacle of neglect: the riches had aged with
the Cathedral, the diamonds did not flash, the gold seemed tarnished
and dusty, the silver was blackened, the pearls were opaque and sick,
the smoke from the wax tapers and the damp atmosphere of the church
had sadly dulled everything.

[Footnote 1: _Virile_--small box with double glass in which the Host
is exhibited.]

"The Church," said Gabriel to himself, "ages everything she touches.
The treasures lose their brilliancy in her hands, like jewels that
fall into the power of usurers. The diamond becomes dulled in the
bosom of the great miser, and the most beautiful picture becomes
blackened on her altars."

After the visit to the Treasury came the exhibition of the Ochavo, the
octagonal chapel of dark marbles, that pantheon of relics where
the most repulsive human remains--skulls with their ghastly grin,
mummified arms and worn-eaten vertebras--were shown in gold or silver
shrines. The gross and credulous piety of former days displayed
itself in the full tide of unbelief, so that even Don Antolin, so
uncompromising when he spoke of the glories of his Cathedral, lowered
his voice and hurried over his explanations as he showed a piece
of the mantle worn by Santa Leocadia when she "appeared" to the
Archbishop of Toledo, quite understanding the difficulty of explaining
how an apparition could wear garments of stuff.

Gabriel translated faithfully Don Antolin's explanation, repeating
it again and again with imperturbable gravity, while the canons who
escorted the batch of strangers drew a few paces away with an absent
look, to avoid questions.

One day a phlegmatic Englishman interrupted the interpreter.

"And have you not amongst all these things a feather from the wings of
St. Michael?"

"No, señor, and it is a great pity," said Luna, equally seriously,
"but you will probably find it in some other Cathedral; we cannot have
everything here."

In the Chapter-house, a mixture of Arab and Gothic architecture, the
foreigners were much interested by the double row of portraits of the
Toledan archbishops hanging on the wall, with their mitres and golden
croziers. Gabriel called their attention to the picture of Don
Cerebruno, a mediaeval prelate, so called from his enormous head; but
it was the wardrobe which more especially surprised the foreigners.

It was a room surrounded by large cupboards and shelves of old wood;
above these the walls were covered with dusty and torn pictures,
copies of Flemish paintings that the canons had relegated to this
corner; round the room were placed in line the ancient armchairs of
the church, some of Spanish workmanship, austere, with straight lines
and ravelled coverings, others of Greek design with curved feet
inlaid with ivory. The capes and chasubles were piled on the shelves,
according to colours, with the collars outside the heap, so that
people could examine the wonderful embroidery. A whole world of
patterns appeared with every possible brilliancy of colour on a few
inches of stuff. The astonishing art of the ancient embroiderers made
the silk a series of vivid pictures; the collar and the narrow stripes
on the front of a cape were large enough to reproduce all the scenes
of the biblical creation and the passion of Jesus. Brocade and silk
unrolled the magnificence of their textures. One cape was a garden
of flame-coloured carnations, another was a bed of roses and other
fantastic flowers with twisted stamens and metallic petals. The
sacristans produced from the deep shelves, as though they were books,
the splendid and famous frontals of the high altar. There were special
ones for each festival; that for St. John's Day was brightly coloured
with verbenas, purple bunches of grapes, and golden lambs that fat
little angels were caressing with their chubby hands. The most
ancient, of soft and rather faded colours, showed Persian gardens with
blue waters in which fabulous reddish beasts were drinking.

The visitors were bewildered seeing all this vast collection of
stuffs and embroideries unrolled piece after piece--all the past of
a Cathedral which, having millions of revenue, employed for its
embellishment armies of embroiderers, acquiring the richest textures
of Valencia and Seville, reproducing in gold and colours all the
episodes from the Holy books, and the torments of the martyrs, all the
glorious legends of the Church, immortalised by the needle, before
printing had been able to do so.

Gabriel returned every evening to the upper cloister, wearied out with
walking the length and breadth of the Cathedral. During the first few
days he was delighted with the novelty of seeing fresh faces, to hear
the rustle of the visitors who, branching off from the great stream of
travellers who inundated Europe, came as far as Toledo. But after a
little while the people he saw every afternoon seemed to him just the
same. There were the same questions, the same stiff and hard-featured
Englishwomen, and the same o-o-o-h's of cold and conventional
admiration, and the same identical way of turning their backs with
rude pride when there was nothing else to be shown. Returning to
the quiet of the upper cloister after the daily exhibition of the
Treasury, Gabriel thought the poverty of the Claverias even more
revolting and intolerable. The shoemaker seemed sadder and yellower in
the rank atmosphere of his den, bending over his bench hammering the
soles, his wife more feeble and ill, the miserable slave of maternity,
weakened by hunger, and offering to her little son as his only hope of
food those flaccid breasts in which there was nothing left but a drop
of blood. The little child was dying! Sagrario, who had left her
machine to spend the greater part of the day in the shoemaker's room
said so in a low voice to her uncle. She did all the work of the
house, while the poor mother, motionless in a chair, with the little
one in her lap, looked at it with weeping eyes. When the baby woke
from its stupor it would wearily raise its head from its little neck,
which had become a mere thread; the mother to stifle its feeble moans
would press it to her breast, but the child would turn away its mouth
guessing the inutility of expending its strength on that rag of flesh
from which it could only succeed in extracting the last drop.

Gabriel examined the child, noting its extreme emaciation and the
spots that scrofula had spread over its straw-coloured skin. He shook
his head incredulously when the neighbours who had gathered round the
invalid each diagnosed some particular ailment, and recommended every
imaginable sort of household remedy, from decoctions of rare herbs and
stinking ointments to applications on the chest of miracle working
prints, and tracing seven crosses on the navel with as many
paternosters.

"It is hunger," said Luna to his niece, "nothing but hunger." And
depriving himself of part of his own food, he sent to the shoemaker's
house the milk that had been brought up for himself. But the child's
stomach could not retain the liquid too substantial for its weakness,
and threw it up as soon as swallowed. The Aunt Tomasa, with her
energetic and enterprising character, brought a woman from outside the
Cathedral to nourish the child, but after two days, and before the
effects became visible, she came no more, as if she had felt disgusted
at the miserable and corpse-like little body touching her. In vain the
gardener's widow searched; it was not easy to find generous breasts
who would give their milk for very little pay.

In the meanwhile the child was dying. All the women came in and out of
the shoemaker's house, and even Don Antolin would stand at the door in
the mornings.

"How is the little one? Just the same? It is all in God's hands."

And he would retire, doing the shoemaker the great charity of not
speaking to him about the pesetas he owed him, on account of the sick
child.

"Virgin's Blue" was annoyed by this incident, which upset the calm of
the cloister, and disturbed the bliss of his digestion as a happy and
well-fed servant of the Church. It was a shame that that shoemaker
should be allowed to live in the Claverias with all that flock of
wretched and scurvy children; one would die every month; all sorts
of illness would lay hold on them. By what right were they in the
Cathedral when they drew no wage from the Obreria? Such stinking
excrescences ought to remain outside the Lord's house.

His mother-in-law was furious.

"Silence, you thief of the saints!" she cried. "Silence, or I will
throw a dish at you! We are all sons of God, and if things were as
they should be, all the poor ought to live in the Cathedral. Instead
of saying such things it would be much better if you gave those
unhappy people part of what you have stolen from the Virgin."

The sacristan shrugged his shoulders with contempt. If they had not
enough to eat they should not have children. There he was himself with
only one daughter--he did not think he had any right to more--and so
thanks to Our Lady he was able to save a scrap for his old age.

Tomasa spoke of the shoemaker's child to the good gentlemen of the
Chapter when they came into the garden for a few minutes after choir.
They listened absently, putting their hands in their cassocks.

"It is all God's will! What poverty!"

And some gave her ten centimes, others a real, one or two even a
peseta. The old woman went one day to the Archbishop's palace. Don
Sebastian was engaged and unable to see her, but he sent her two
pesetas by one of the servants.

"They don't mean badly," said the gardener's widow, giving her
collection to the poor mother, "but each one lives for himself, and
his neighbour may manage as he can. No one divides his cloak with
another--take this, and see how you can get out of your trouble."

They fed a little better in the shoemaker's house; the miserable
scrofulous children collected in the cloister profited most by the
baby's illness; it was growing daily weaker, lying motionless for
hours, with almost imperceptible breathing, on its mother's lap.

When the unhappy child died, all the people of the Claverias rushed
to the home. Inside could be heard the mother's wailings, strident,
interminable, like the bellowing of a wounded beast; outside the
father wept silently, surrounded by his friends.

"It died just like a bird," he said with long pauses, his words broken
by sobs. "His mother held him on her knees--I was working--'Antonio,
Antonio!' she called, 'see, what is the matter with the child, it is
moving its mouth and making grimaces?' I ran up quickly, its face
was quite dusky--as if it had a veil over it. It opened its mouth, a
couple of twitches with its eyes staring, and its neck fell over--just
the same as a bird, just the same."

He wept, repeating constantly the resemblance between his son and
those birds who die in winter from the cold.

The bell-ringer looked gloomily at Gabriel.

"You who know everything, is it true that it died of hunger?"

And the Tato with his scandalous impetuosity shouted loudly--

"There is no justice in the world! All this must be altered! Fancy a
child dying of hunger in this house, where money runs like water, and
where all those creatures are dressed in gold!"

When the little corpse was carried to the cemetery, the cloister
seemed quite deserted; all its life was concentrated in the
shoemaker's house, all the women surrounded the mother. Despair had
rendered that sick and feeble woman furious. She no longer wept: her
child's death had made her ferocious--she wished to bite or to dash
her skull against the wall.

"Ay! my s-o-o-o-n! my Antonio!"

At night Sagrario and the other women remained in the house to look
after her. In her desperation she wished to make some one responsible
for her misfortune, and she fixed on those highest in the cloister.
Don Antolin had not helped her with the smallest alms; his affected
niece had scarcely been in to see the little one, nothing interested
her but men.

"It is all Silver Stick's fault," wailed the poor mother--"he is
a thief. He grinds our poverty with his usurer's snares. Never a
farthing did he give for my son. And that Mariquita is just the same.
Yes, señor, I do say so. She only thinks of decking herself out so
that the cadets may see her."

"For mercy's sake, woman, they will hear you," begged some of the
terrified women.

But others scouted this fear. "Let Don Antolin and his niece hear
them! What did it matter? The Claverias were tired of the rapacity
of the uncle, and the magnificent airs that ugly woman gave herself!
Because they were poor they were not going to spend their lives
trembling before that couple. God only knew what the uncle and niece
did when they were alone in the house together!"

A breath of rebellion had passed over that sleepy world. It was the
unconscious influence of Gabriel. What he had said to his friends had
been passed on to all the men in the Claverias, getting even to the
women. They were confused and garbled ideas, that very few could
understand, but they cherished them like fresh pure air reviving
their minds. They sounded in their ears like a pleasant echo from the
outside world. It was sufficient for them to know that this quiet life
of submission they had led up to now was not immutable--they had
a right to something better--and that human beings ought to rebel
against injustice and oppression.

Don Antolin, who knew well enough the crew confided to his care,
was not long in perceiving this moral upturn. He felt hostility and
rebellion on every side. The debtors answered him haughtily, alleging
their poverty as a reason for no longer enduring his avarice; his
imperious orders were tardily executed, and he had a clear perception
that they were laughing behind his back as he walked through the
cloister, and making threatening gestures. One day his legs trembled
beneath him and his eyes were dimmed, hearing how the Perrero replied
to one of his reprimands, having returned late to the Cathedral, and
obliging him to descend and open the door after he had gone to bed.
The Tato made him understand, with an insolent expression, that he had
bought a knife, and that he intended its first fleshing to be in the
bowels of some priest or other who ground down the poor.

His niece complained to Don Antolin, they paid no attention to her and
flouted her, no woman now ever came to help her gratuitously in her
household duties. They replied insolently that those who wanted
servants must pay for them. What was her uncle thinking about? It was
certainly time to assert his authority and to lay a heavy hand on
these people.

She herself, so lively and energetic in her own house, was now obliged
to retire snorting with rage or weeping, whenever she stationed
herself at her door. All the women of the Claverias wished to revenge
themselves for their former thraldom, standing already on the
declivity of disrespect.

"Look at her!" screamed the shoemaker's wife to her neighbours,
"always so dressed up, the ugly jade. She decks herself with the blood
that vampire of an uncle sucks from the poor."

And from the iron gratings of the upper Claverias, giving on the
roofs, there was generally a voice singing the ancient couplet, no
doubt inspired by the Cathedral garden--

  "Las amas de los curas y los laureles
  Como nunca dan fruto siempre estan verdes." [1]

[Footnote 1: Priest's housekeepers--like laurels--never have any
fruit, because they are evergreens.]

It was this that ended the patience of Don Antolin; this insulting
conjecture about himself and his niece that disturbed his miserly
chastity. He visited the cardinal to complain of the inhabitants of
the cloister, but His Eminence, who lived in a perpetual rage, grew
furious listening to him and very nearly thrashed him. Why did he
come to him with such tales? For what reason had he been given any
authority? Was there nothing left of a man beneath his cassock? He who
was wanting in the good discipline of the house--turn him out into the
street at once! More energy, and be careful never to trouble him again
with such insignificant tales, otherwise the person who would be
turned into the street would be Silver Stick himself.

Don Antolin felt a little braver after this interview, although he
swore mentally never again to visit that terrible prelate. He was
determined to reassert his authority, by punishing the weakest, whom
he considered as the origin of all these scandals. The shoemaker
should be expelled from the Claverias, as he was there through
no other right but that his wife had been born there. Mariquita,
bewildered by her uncle's energy, must needs speak to some one about
these intentions, and so the news circulated through the cloister.

Don Antolin did not dare to move a step further, terrified by the
silent unanimity with which the whole population rose against him.

The Tato looked at him with mocking and threatening eyes, in which
Silver Stick could plainly read "Remember the knife"; but what
terrified Don Antolin more than anything was the silence of the
bell-ringer, and the savage and hostile glance with which he responded
to his words.

Even the good Wooden Staff, Esteban, protested in his own way, saying
quietly to Don Antolin:

"Is it really true that you intend turning out the shoemaker? You will
do wrong, very wrong, for after all he is very poor, and his wife was
born in the cloister. These innovations always bring misfortune, Don
Antolin."

So the priest, finding he had no support, and seeing hostility on
every side, put off his energetic resolutions till the following day,
even reproving his niece when she threw his weakness in his face.

The Canon Obrero, from whom he had implored help, did not care to
disturb the blessed peace of his existence by mixing himself up in the
quarrels of the smaller people. It was Silver Stick's own affair; he
could punish or expel any one he thought fit without fear of anybody.
But Don Antolin, dreading the responsibility that might accrue from
energetic action, ended by delivering himself over to Gabriel and
begging for his assistance. That man was the one who wielded the real
authority in the upper cloister; all those who had listened to him
followed his advice blindly.

"Help me, Gabrielillo," said the priest with an agonised expression.
"If you cannot restore order, this will end badly; they even insult my
poor niece, and some day I shall turn half the people of the Claverias
out into the street, as I hold authority from His Eminence for
everything. Ay, señor! I do not know what has happened here; surely
the devil must have got loose in our upper cloister! How these people
have changed to me!"

Luna guessed Don Antolin's thoughts and his allusions to the devil who
had got loose in the cloister. That devil was himself. No doubt Silver
Stick was right. Without intending it he had introduced discord into
the Cathedral. He had sought calm and forgetfulness in that refuge,
and the spirit of rebellion had followed him even into this
concealment. He recalled his thoughts on the first day, when he was
alone in the silent cloister; he wished to be another stone in the
Cathedral, without thought, without feeling, to spend the rest of his
life fixed to that ruin, with the embryonic life of the fungus on the
buttress, but the spirit of the outside world had entered in with him.

Luna remembered how travellers in time of plague had crossed the
sanitary cordon--they were well and happy, nothing betrayed the
infection in their bodies; but the poisonous germs travelled in the
folds of their clothes and in their hair, carrying death without
knowing it, helping it to leap all barriers and obstacles, without
being in the least aware of it. He was the same, but instead of
spreading death, he spread tumultuous and rebellious life. The protest
of the lower orders that had been surging throughout the world, for
more than a century, had entered with him into this still remaining
fragment of the sixteenth century. He had awakened those men, who had
been like the sleepers in the legend, motionless in their cave for
ages, while the centuries rolled on and the world was transformed.

The awakening of these people was sudden and violent, like that of a
people in revolution. They were ashamed of the old errors that they
had worshipped, and this made them receive as gospel everything that
was new, without quailing before the consequences.

It was the faith of a people which, once it takes form, rushes
onwards, accepting everything, justifying everything, the only
requirement being its novelty, and casting aside contemptuously those
traditional principles which it had just abandoned.

The cowardly submission of Silver Stick was the first victory of those
more daring souls who formed Luna's surrounding. The avaricious and
despotic priest lowered his eyes before them, smilingly anxious to
make himself agreeable. This they owed to the master, for he was now
the true ruler of the upper cloister. Don Antolin consulted him before
making any arrangements, and his ugly niece smiled on Gabriel as the
daughters of the conquered might smile on a triumphant hero.

They now no longer hid themselves in the bell-ringer's house for their
meetings; they formed a circle in the cloister during the evenings,
discussing the audacious doctrines taught by Luna, without now being
intimidated by the religious atmosphere. They sat with the look of
lords, surrounding their master, while in the opposite gallery walked
Silver Stick like a black phantom, reading his book of hours, and
casting now and then an uneasy glance on the group. Even his ancient
vassal, the chaplain of the nuns, had dared to leave him to go and
listen to Gabriel.

Don Antolin with the keenness of his ecclesiastical training, guessed
the intensity of the evil produced by Luna. But for the moment his
egoism was stronger than his reflection. Let them talk--what did it
matter? It was only a little ebullition of pride in those people,
nothing more. All words and wind in the head. Meanwhile they had
better not ask for any more money! In exchange he had a very good
auxiliary in Luna, who, sharing his authority, spared him many
annoyances, and the Cathedral disposed of his services gratuitously as
interpreter to the foreigners.

These already began to talk of the great intelligence and education
of the Toledan sacristans, a praise Don Antolin received as though it
were entirely deserved by himself.

Gabriel was far more alarmed than Don Antolin at the effect of his
words; he bitterly repented having been led to speak of his past and
of his ideals. He had sought for peace and silence, but he was
still surrounded, though in a smaller degree, by the atmosphere of
proselytism and blind enthusiasm, as in the days of his martyrdom.
He had wished to efface himself and to disappear on entering the
Cathedral, but fate mocked him, reviving the agitation in the midst
of his concealment, to disturb the peace of that ruin. Society had
forgotten him, but he unconsciously was agitating, and drawing to
himself the attention of the outside world.

The enthusiasm of these neophytes was a danger, and his brother, the
Wooden Staff, without understanding the full extent of the evil,
warned him with his usual good sense.

"You are turning the heads of these poor men, with the things you
tell them. Be careful; they are very well meaning, but they are very
ignorant. And having been ignorant all their lives, it is dangerous to
turn such men into sages at one blow. It is as if I, being accustomed
to the homely stew, were taken to-day to His Eminence's table. I
should gorge myself and drink too much; at night I should have a
colic, and should probably hop the twig."

Gabriel acknowledged the truth of this prudent advice, but he could
not draw back--he was driven on by the affection of his disciples and
his own ardour as propagandist. It was a great delight to him to see
the wonder in those virgin minds, entering tumultuously into the
luminous palaces constructed by human thought during the last century.

The description of the future of humanity inflamed all Luna's ardour.
He spoke of the happiness of men, after a revolutionary crisis which
would change all the organisation of humanity with mystic rapture,
like a Christian preacher describing heaven.

"Man ought to seek happiness solely in this world, for after death
there only existed the infinite life of matter with its endless
combinations, but the human being was effaced as entirely as a plant
or an animal--he fell into oblivion when he sank into the tomb.
Immortality of the soul was one of the illusions of human pride worked
up by religions, who laid their foundations on this lie. It was
only in this life that man could find heaven. Everyone embarked on
immensity in the same ship, the earth. We were all comrades in our
dangers and our struggles, and we ought to look upon one another
as brothers seeking the common welfare. And what about the unequal
distribution of goods, the division of classes, the ability to work,
and, above all, the struggle for existence, that the philosophers and
poets of the oppressing classes paint as an indispensable condition of
progress? Communism is the holiest aspiration of humanity, the
divine dream of man since he began to think in the first dawn of
civilisation. Religions had endeavoured to establish it, but religion
had been shipwrecked and was moribund, and only science could enforce
it in the future. They must stop on the way they were going, as
humanity was marching on the road to perdition, therefore it was
necessary to return to the point of departure. The first man who had
cultivated a portion of the earth and garnered the fruits of his
toil, thought it was his for ever, and left it to his sons as their
property; they engaged other men to cultivate it for them--so these
men became robbers, appropriators of the universal heritage. It was
the same with those who possessed themselves of the invention of
human genius, machines, etc., for the benefit of a small majority,
subjecting the rest of mankind to the law of hunger. No, everything
was for everyone. The earth belonged to all human beings without
exception, like the sun and the air; its products ought to be divided
between everyone with due regard to their necessities. It was shameful
that man, who only appeared for an instant on this planet--a minute,
a second, for his life was no more than this in the life of
immensity--should spend this mere breath of existence fighting with
his kin, robbing them, excited by the fever of plunder, not even
enjoying the majestic calm of a wild beast, which when it has eaten,
rests, without ever thinking of doing harm from vanity or avarice.
There ought to be neither rich nor poor--nothing but men. The only
inevitable division must be that between brains more or less highly
organised. But the wise, from the fact of being so, ought to show
their greatness, sacrificing themselves for the more simple, without
seeking to assist the greatness of their minds by material advantages;
for in stomachs there were no categories or ranks. Everything that
exists, even the smallest production that man considers his exclusive
work, is the work of the past and present generations. By what right
can anyone say 'This is mine, mine only'? Man is not consulted before
he is formed if he wishes to burst forth into life. He is born--and
from the fact of being born he has a right to well-being." Gabriel
proclaimed his supreme formula, "Everything for everyone, and
well-being for all."

His friends listened in profound silence. The right to well-being
sank profoundly into their minds; it was the saying that most cruelly
touched their poverty, taunted by the contrast of the wealth of the
Church.

Don Martin, the young chaplain, was the only one who timidly raised
any objections to the master's sayings. He wished to know if, when
everything was for everyone, when man should have recognised his
right to happiness, without laws or compulsion to force him to
production--would he work? seeing that work was a necessity, and not a
virtue, as those who employ labour say, to glorify it.

Gabriel loudly affirmed the necessity of work in the future. The
man of the future would work without being forced to do so by his
necessities; he would not be ruled by the body and its imperious
requirements; his conscience would be inspired with the clear
understanding of solidarity with his fellows and the certainty that
if one abandoned social duties others would follow the example, thus
rendering life in common impossible and so returning to the actual
times of poverty and robbery.

"Why do not the few men of culture and sound conscience living at
present kill and rob?" exclaimed Gabriel. "It is not through fear of
the law and its representatives, for a clear intelligence, if it takes
the trouble, can easily find ways of evading both; neither can it be
through fear of eternal penalties and divine punishment, as such
men do not believe in these inventions of the past. It is from that
respect to his fellows which is felt by every elevated mind, from the
consideration that all violence should be avoided, for if everyone
gave themselves over to it, all social life must disappear. When this
understanding, which now only belongs to a few, embraces all humanity,
men will live ruled by their own consciences without laws or police,
working from social duty, without requiring man to be the only spring
of activity, and sweating without compassion to be the only way to
ease."

Throughout all his revolutionary raptures Luna had no illusions as to
the present. Humanity was at present an infected land, in which the
best seeds rotted, or which at best produced only poisonous fruits; we
must wait till the equalising revolution begun in the human conscience
a century ago should be completed, after that it would be possible
and easy to change the basis of society; he had a blind faith in
the future. Man must progress in the same way as communities; these
reckoned their evolutions by centuries, but man by millions of
years. How could a man of to-day be compared to the biped animal of
prehistoric times, though bearing visibly the traces of the animalism
from which he had lately emerged? Living in fellowship with his
ancestors the monkeys, the principal difference being the first
babblings of speech, and the first trembling spark that began to burn
in his brain.

From the ravenous beast of former days, suffering from all the cruel
forces of nature and living in fraternal misery with the lower
animals, the man of to-day was evolved, asserting his superiority to
his ancestors, dominating all nature. From the men of to-day, in whom
the passions of their former animalism are finding their equilibrium
with the gradual unfolding of the mind, will arise that superior and
perfect being indicated by philosophers, pure from all animal egoism,
and endeavouring to change the actual cruel, restless, and uncertain
life, into a period of happy and prosperous equality.

The animalism at present dominant in man exasperated Gabriel; it was
the great stumbling-block to all his generous views of the future,
and he explained to his astonished listeners the transformations of
natural creatures and of the origin of man, and the wondrous poem of
the evolution of nature from the original protoplasm to the infinite
varieties of life. We still carry in us the marks of our origin. One
could not help laughing at the God of the Jews, who had modelled a man
from clay, like a sculptor. Unlucky artist! Science pointed out much
carelessness and bungling in His work, without being able to justify
such mistakes. The skin of our bodies did not serve us as a covering
like the fur of an animal. How could we then believe it? Why were
nipples given to human males, if they were of no use for milk giving?
Why was the vertebral column at the back of the body as in quadrupeds,
when it would have been more logical, in creating a man who stands on
his feet, to place it in the centre of the body as a strong support,
thus avoiding the curvatures and weakness of the spine that are now
suffered by this disequilibrium in the support of its weight?

Gabriel enumerated the various inexplicable inconsistencies and
incongruities found in the human body, presuming it to be of divine
origin.

"I feel prouder," said he, "of my animal origin; to be a lineal
descendant of inferior beings than to have emerged imperfect from the
hand of a stupid God. I feel the same satisfaction that a nobleman
feels in speaking of his ancestors when I think of our remote
forefathers, those men-beasts, exposed like the animals to all the
cruel severity of nature, who, little by little, through hundreds of
centuries, have transformed themselves, triumphing in the unfolding of
their minds, their brains, and their social instincts. Making clothes,
edible foods, arms, tools and houses, neutralising the exterior
influences of nature. What hero or discoverer in the four thousand
years comprising our history can compare with those elementary men who
have slowly evolved and maintained on the earth the existence of our
species, exposed thousands of times to annihilation. The day on which
our ancestors cared for the sick and wounded, instead of abandoning
them as all animals had previously done; on which the first seed was
planted, the first arrow shot, brought nature face to face with the
greatest of her revolutions. Only one in the future will be able to
equal it; if man in remote times was able to free his body, now he
requires the great revolution to free his mind. The races who go
furthest in their intellectual development will be the ultimate
survivors; they will be masters of the earth, destroying all others.
The least wise in those days will probably be far superior to the most
cultivated intellects of the present times. Each individual will find
his happiness in the happiness of his fellows, and no one will try to
exercise compulsion on his neighbour. No laws or penalties will exist,
and voluntary associations will supply through the influence of reason
the present power of authority. This will be in the future--far, very
far off. But what do centuries matter in the life of humanity! They
are like seconds in our existence. On the day when man shall be
transformed into this superior being, with the full development of
all his intellectual faculties, now so embryonic, this earth will no
longer be the vale of tears spoken of by religion, but the paradise
dreamed of by the poets."

In spite of the enthusiasm with which Gabriel spoke, his hearers did
not appear to share these illusions. They were silent, and their
attitude was one of coldness before the immense distance of that
future to which their master confided all his hopes of universal
prosperity. They wished for it at once, with the eagerness of a child
who is shown a dainty which is afterwards put out of its reach. The
sacrifices, the slow work for the future, struck no chord in their
minds. From Gabriel's explanations they only drew the fact that they
were unhappy, but that they had the same right to happiness and
comfort as those privileged few whom they had formerly respected in
their ignorance. As a certain portion of human felicity belonged to
them they wished to possess it at once, without delay or resistance,
with all the fervour of one claiming what belongs to him. Luna
remarked in this silence a certain rebellion, like those ironical
gestures with which his companions in Barcelona had received his
illusions about the future and his anathemas against violence of
action.

These ardent neophytes outdistanced their teacher; they listened to
him with respect, but they were obliged to isolate themselves from him
in order to digest his teachings in their own fashion. Don Martin was
the only one who followed him in his visionary excursions into the
future. The bell-ringer, the organ-blower, the shoemaker and the Tato
now went up nightly to the bell-ringer's house, without summoning
the master, and there they gave vent to their hatred of everything
existing, under the forgotten old prints, yellow and wrinkled, which
pictured the inglorious episodes of the Carlist war.

This nocturnal reunion was a continual complaint against social
injustice. They thought themselves even more unfortunate when they
took an exact review of their situation. The shoemaker recalled with
tearful eyes the little child who had died of hunger, and spoke of the
misery of his offspring, so numerous as to render his work useless.
The organ-blower spoke of his miserable old age, the six reals daily
during his life, without any hope of earning more. The Tato, in the
fits of rage of a bullying coxcomb, proposed to behead all the canons
in the choir some evening and then to set fire to the Cathedral. And
the bell-ringer, gloomy and scowling, said aloud, following up the
course of his thoughts:

"And below so much wealth that is of no use to anybody--amassed from
pure pride--thieves! robbers!"

Gabriel returned to pass his days by Sagrario's side. His disciples
hid themselves daily more carefully in their isolation in the tower.
Don Martin had his mother ill, and could not leave the convent.

Silver Stick felt quite satisfied with Luna seeing him alone,
believing that it was he who had alienated his disciples, cutting
short in this way his dangerous conversations so as to restore order
in the cloister. One day he addressed him smilingly with a patronising
manner.

"You will be rewarded for your good conduct, Gabrielillo, much sooner
than you expect. Did I not say I would look out for something for you
in exchange for the help you gave me in showing the treasury? Well,
now you have it. From next week two pesetas daily will fall into
your purse like two suns. Are you equal to staying all night in the
Cathedral? The older watchman, the one who was a civil guard, is tired
of it, and is going home to his own village. It appears that since his
dog died he has taken a dislike to the duties. The other watchman is
very poorly and wants a companion. Will you undertake it? If it were
winter I should not say anything about it, as you cough too much to
spend the night down there; but in summer the Cathedral is the coolest
place in Toledo. What lovely nights! And by the time bad weather comes
on we will have found you some better place. You are trustworthy,
though your head is rather light; but you come of an honoured and
well-known family, which is what is wanted. Do you accept?"

Luna accepted, declaring his intention to Esteban, when the latter
objected on account of his weak health. He would only undertake the
watchman's duties during the summer; besides, two pesetas a day were
even more than Wooden Staff earned; the income of the family would be
doubled, and it would be a pity to lose such a good opportunity.

That evening Sagrario spoke to her uncle praising the energy which
prompted him to undertake any sort of work so as not to be a charge on
the family.

They were in the cloister leaning on the balustrade; below was the
dark garden with its waving branches, above a summer sky veiled by the
heat haze which dulled the brightness of the stars. They were alone
in the four-sided gallery. The lighted windows of the Chapel-master's
little room threw a square of red on the opposite roofs. They could
hear the harmonium playing slowly and sadly, and when it stopped the
shadow of the musician passed and repassed over the square of light
with his nervous gestures, which, enlarged by the reflection, appeared
the most grotesque contortions.

The nocturnal calm and darkness surrounded Gabriel and Sagrario with a
gentle caress; that mysterious freshness was falling from above which
seems to revive drooping spirits and magnify old remembrances. The
Church seemed to them as an immense sleeping beast, in whose lap they
had found peace and protection.

Gabriel spoke of his past, in order to convince the young woman that
his work in the Cathedral would not be very arduous. He had suffered
much; there was no bitterness that he had not tasted; he had endured
hunger, terrible hunger, in his peregrinations through the world.
He did not know which were the most painful, his martyrdom in the
dungeons of the gloomy castle, or his days of despair in the streets
of crowded cities, seeing food and gold through the glass windows of
the shops while his head was swimming with the dizziness of hunger.
He could endure his misery while he wandered alone through the cruel
selfishness of civilisation; but the most horrible days were those
in which he shared his vagabond poverty with Lucy, his gentle and
melancholy companion.

Gabriel spoke of the Englishwoman as of a dead sister.

"Had you known her, Sagrario, you would have loved her. She was a
strong woman, a brave companion, united to me more by the community of
thought than by carnal attraction. I loved her when I first saw her.
I hardly know if it was love that we felt; poets have written so many
lies about love, and have falsified it in such an exaggerated way,
that I do not for certain know what it is."

He spoke to the young woman of love, explaining it according to his
beliefs. Goethe had defined it as an "elective affinity," speaking
as a man of science and not as a poet, using the term that chemistry
gives to the tendency of two substances to unite and form a distinct
product. Two beings between whom no affinity existed could meet
through false laws of life in perpetual contact, but they could not
mix or merge into one another. This happened more often than not
between the individuals of different sexes who peopled the earth; a
passing sentimentality could exist, or carnal caprice, but seldom
love. The poor invalid Lucy was his affinity; they met and they loved.
In their pity for human miseries, their hatred of inequalities and
injustice, their self-abnegation in the cause of the humble and
unfortunate they were equal; they were not only united by their hearts
but by their brains.

She was plain, with a soft and sad plainness that seemed to Luna the
supreme ideal of beauty in the midst of that struggling world of
unfortunates and victims. She was the image of a woman of the people
reared in the workmen's slums of great cities, anaemic from the
mephitic air of the den in which she was born and from bad and
insufficient food, with a wretched body, all feminine graces paralysed
in their development by the rough work done in her childhood. Her
lips, that great ladies paint red, were violet; the only beauty of her
face lay in her eyes, those windows of sorrow, made larger by the cold
nights passed in the street from horror of the scenes she saw in her
childhood; her father, drunken, with the brutal wish of a workman to
forget, who, after imagining that his tavern was a paradise, would
become infuriated with the poverty of his home and beat the whole
family.

"She was like all you women of the lower orders, Sagrario. Your beauty
only lasts an instant; in fact, it can only exist in the first flush
of youth. A woman of the poor cannot be beautiful unless she gets
out of her class. Daily labour makes her lose all her freshness and
strength, and maternity in the midst of poverty absorbs even the
marrow in her bones. When her daily work is ended and she returns
home, she has to sweep and wash, and shrivel herself to a mummy before
the smoky kitchen stove. I loved Lucy for that reason, because she was
consumed and drained by sweating, because she was the girl worker
in all her melancholy decadence, born beautiful and made hideous by
social injustice."

He recalled the unbending and deadly hatred with which that little
woman spoke so quietly of the supreme vengeance of the fallen, of the
revenge for long years of oppression. She showed herself more firmly
rooted and fiercer in her illusions than Gabriel, and he would praise
her daring as a propagandist, her perilous expeditions into the great
towns, running the gauntlet of watchful police, carrying on her arm
that old bonnet-box full of pamphlets that might have sent her to
prison. She was the "miss" animated by evangelical propaganda, who
travels over the globe distributing Bibles with a cold smile, fearless
alike of the mockery of civilisation, or the brutality of savages; but
what Lucy distributed were incitements to revolution; she did not seek
out the happy but the despairing, in the factories and infected
slums. The two endured hunger, finding themselves often separated by
persecution and prison, but they met again, continuing their romantic
career, till poverty and consumption ended her life.

Gabriel wept, remembering their last interview in an Italian hospital,
clean and sweet, but with the frozen atmosphere of charity. As he was
not her husband he could only visit her twice a week. He presented,
himself ragged and downcast, seeing her in an armchair daily paler
and weaker, her skin of a waxen transparency and her eyes immensely
enlarged. He knew a little about everything, and he could not conceal
from himself the gravity of her illness. She waited quietly for death.
"Bring me some roses," she said, smiling to Gabriel, as if in the last
moment of her life she wished to acknowledge the natural beauty of the
world made hideous and darkened by man. The "companion" lived on dry
bread, refusing the help of his comrades only a little less poor than
himself, sleeping on the ground, in order to take her on his next
visit a bunch of flowers.

"She died, Sagrario," groaned Luna, "and I know not where they buried
her; possibly she may have served for a lecture at the school of
anatomy; she fell into the common grave like those soldiers whose
heroism remains in obscurity. But I still see her; she has followed me
in all my misfortunes, and I think she lives again in you."

"But uncle," said Sagrario, gently, touched by his recital, "I cannot
do what she did. I am an unhappy woman, without strength or will."

"Call me Gabriel," said Luna, vehemently. "You are my Lucy, who again
crosses my path; I knew it from the first, and for a long while I have
been searching my feelings, analysing my will, and I have arrived at
one certainty--that I love you, Sagrario."

The young woman made a gesture of surprise, drawing further from him.

"Do not draw away, do not fear me. I am a feeble man, you are a weak
woman; you have suffered much, and have bid good-bye to the joys of
the earth, but you are strong through misfortune and can look the
truth in the face. We are both wrecks of life, and the only hope
left us is to wait and die quietly in the desert island which is our
refuge. We are undone, rent and swept away; Death has laid his hand
upon us; we are fallen and shapeless rags after having passed through
the mills of an absurd society. For this reason I love you, because
you are my equal in misfortune; elective affinity unites us. Poor Lucy
was the work-girl enfeebled by sweating, weakened from her birth by
poverty. You were the girl of the people drawn from her home by the
attraction of the well-being of the privileged; seduced, not by love,
but by the caprices of the happy; the girl offered as a sacrifice to
the Minotaur whose remains were afterwards thrown on to the dunghill.
I love you, Sagrario; we are two fugitives from society, whose paths
must join; I am hated as dangerous, you are despised as an outcast;
misfortune has laid hold on us. Our bodies are weakened and we bear
the wounds of the conquered, but before death claims us, let us make
our lives sweet by love. Let us seek for roses as did poor Lucy."

He pressed the young woman's hands, who, bewildered by Gabriel's
words, knew not what to say, and wept softly. Upstairs, in the upper
storey of the Claverias, the Chapel-master played his harmonium.
Gabriel knew the music: it was Beethoven's last lament, the "Must it
be," that the great genius sang before his death with a melancholy
that made one shiver.

"I love you, Sagrario," continued Gabriel, "ever since I saw you
return to this house, bravely facing the odious curiosity of the
people around. I have spent weeks and months by the side of your
machine, seeing how industriously you worked. I have studied you and
read you. You are a sincere and simple creature; your mind has none
of the doublings and hidden corners of those complicated and tortuous
souls used to the artifices of civilisation. I guessed day by day, by
your gentle glance and the attention with which you listened to me,
your gratitude for the little I was able to do for you. I remembered
the dark period of your life, your slavery to the flesh; and finding
me always gentle with you, protecting you from your father's anger,
your gratitude has grown and grown, till to-day you love me, Sagrario.
No sooner had she looked at it than she looked down at her own dirty
hands and clothes, with a flush creeping into her face. Then she quickly
went out into the street. In a little while she was back again, but
with her face washed, her hair combed, her dress tidied up, and a
bit of colored ribbon added. She walked straight up to the lily
again, and looked long, with deep wondering admiration in her
eyes, at the beautiful white flower.

The flower's purity was a mirror in which she saw her own dirtiness.
It was a magnet drawing her gently but strongly up to its own
higher level.
It was an inspiration moving her irresistibly to respond to its own
upward pull.

A simple, pure, human life is the greatest moral magnet. Jesus Himself
down here was just such a magnet. Such a life is impossible for
us without Jesus. It tells His power as no tongue can. It spells out
loudly a standard of life and, far more, a power that can lift the
life up to the standard. It doesn't simply tell what we should be.
That may only tantalize and tease. But it tells what we actually can
be.

Jesus is more than a message. He is a living power in a man's life.
This is the great need of men's hearts,--the message of Jesus' purity
and of Jesus' power <i>embodied in live men</i>, living side by side,
in the thick of things, with their brothers of the great world.

<u>The Great Unknown Lack.</u>

The greatness of men's need stands out most pathetically in this,
that men don't know their need.

They have gotten so used to the night that they don't care for the
sunlight. They have been hungry so long that the sense of hunger and
the call of appetite have wholly gone.

There is a simple, striking story told of two famous Scandinavians,
Ole Bull, the great violinist, and John Ericsson, the great inventor,
who taught the world to use the screw in steam navigation.

The one was a Norwegian, the other a Swede. They had been friends in
early life, but drifted apart and did not meet again until each had
become famous. The old friendship was renewed on one of Ole Bull's
tours to this country.

As Bull was leaving his friend, after a delightful visit, he gave him
a cordial invitation to attend his concert that evening. But the
matter-of-fact, prosaic Ericsson declined, pleading pressure of
work, and saying that he had no time to waste on music.

Bull renewed his invitation, time and again, finally saying, "If
you won't come, I'll bring my violin down here to your shop, and
play." "If you do," replied the famous engineer laughingly, "I'll
smash the thing to pieces." The violinist, knowing the marvellous,
almost supernatural, power of his instrument to touch and awaken
the human heart into new life, felt curious to know what effect it would
have on this scientific man steeped in his prosaic physics. So he
planned a bit of diplomacy.

Taking the violin with him, he called upon Ericsson at his workshop
one day.

He removed the strings and screws and apron, and called Ericsson's
attention to certain defects, asking about the scientific and
acoustic principles involved, and discussing the differing effect
of the different grain of certain woods.

From this he went on to a discussion of sound waves. Finally, to
illustrate his meaning and his questions, he replaced the parts,
and, bringing the bow softly down upon the tense strings, drew out a
few marvellously sweet, rich tones.

At once the workmen in the shop dropped their tools, and listened with
wide-eyed wonder. Ole Bull played on and on, with his simple great
skill, making the workshop a place of worship. When finally he
paused, Ericsson lifted his bowed head, and showed eyes that were
wet. Then he said softly, with the touch of reverent awe in his voice,
"Play on! Don't stop. Play on. <i>I never knew before what it was that
was lacking in my life.</i>"
That is what men everywhere say when they come to know Jesus. They fight
against knowing Him because of their ignorance of Him. At home,
prejudice against theology of this sort and that; against some
preaching, or church service, or some Christian people they have
unpleasant memories of perhaps, bar the way.

Abroad, prejudice against their treatment at the hands of Christian
nations, or against anything new, shuts the door with a slam and
a sharp push of the bolt.

It takes great diplomacy, love's diplomacy, the combination of serpent
and dove, subtlety and harmlessness, to get an entrance. But when
the door is pried open, or coaxed open enough for some sound or sight
of Jesus to get in, they passionately cry out, "This is what I need.

This Jesus is the lacking thing in my life!"

The Present Opportunity

Somebody's Knocking at the Door.
They're Standing in the Dark.
Who's There?
The Coming Leaders.

What They're After.
Returning Our Call.
"Inasmuch."

The Present Opportunity

<u>Somebody's Knocking at the Door.</u>

There's a soft, tender passion in the heart of God.

Its flame burns steadily. It never flags nor dims. It's a passion for
His child-man. And that very passion itself draws man to Himself
with a drawing power that is irresistible. They can't resist being
drawn, even though they may refuse to yield to it.

There is an answering passion in man's heart for God. It is often a
sort of dumb longing, not clearly defined nor well understood. It
is a mute yearning of his heart for God, though often he doesn't
think of it that way.

But it is there; for these two, man and God, belong together.

They were together until sin drove its ugly wedge in between. They
are a part of each other.

Neither one is complete nor happy without the other.

The heart of God can be satisfied only as man comes back home to Him.
And man's heart never rests until it finds rest in comradeship
with God.

These two are always drawing toward each other. God is always drawing
man by the great master-passion of His heart.

And man is always responding to that tender, strong pull in the
underneath, mute yearning of his heart.

By and by the thing that keeps them apart will be gotten rid of.
Sin will be shipped overboard, to fall by its own dead weight to
the bottom of the sea.

Then there will be glad reunion of God and man, their hearts in
full glad accord again.

To-night we want to talk together a bit about this answering passion of
man's heart for God.

The heathen world is knocking to-day at the door of the Christian
Church.

It has found out who has the fullest and truest information about
God. And it is knocking loudly and earnestly at that door. And it keeps
on knocking, though the door seems to be barely open yet; and a good
many--most?--inside don't seem to have heard the knocking.

The most remarkable thing about the present time from the Church point
of view is that the heathen peoples are asking for what the Master
has told us to give them.

The centre of Church attraction and of Christian action to-day is
on the swing toward heathen lands.

When the Church began again, a hundred years ago, to enter the great
heathen world, it had to use pick and axe, jimmy and chisel. It seemed
like using burglar's tools. Certainly it was working in the dark,
with only the burglar's dark-lantern to show the way. But now the heathen
door is wide open. Instead of our knocking at their door, the heathen
world is knocking at our door.

Our billion brothers stand in the night-time of their darkness
blindly feeling for our door, and knocking, now timidly, now
earnestly and loudly, ay, imperiously, for the light that we have.
It has been a cold night for them, and a long night, too. But the
darkest hour of it is already throbbing with the flood of coming
light. They have found the door and are using it. The whole foreign
non-Christian world is knocking with incessant, insistent clamor at
our church door.

<u>They're Standing in the Dark.</u>

I do not mean that actually every country in the world is open to the
Gospel. For there are a few countries with comparatively scanty
populations that are not open; except, indeed, on the edges, to the man
prying earnestly around for a way to get in.

I don't mean that every man in these open countries is actually asking
us to send him some word of Jesus. For vast numbers of them have never
heard either about us or about Him. They don't know there is a Jesus
to ask about; or, judging by others, they would be asking.

Neither do I mean that these multitudes who are asking are, in every
case, asking for the Gospel itself.

For many times that is not so. They ask for that which appeals to them
strongly as something that they want.

They want our Western science and learning. They want to get from
us the secret of harnessing nature up to their wagon to pull their
heavy loads.

In many cases, without doubt, they don't want our Christianity at all.

They regard it simply as something that goes along inseparably with
the thing they do want.

They are willing to put up with some of it for a while, if only they
can get the thing they are after. Their eyes have been caught by the
bright light of our Christian civilization. They don't understand
how it came to us. They haven't wakened up enough, most of them, to
think into that.

They want the light we have, as we might want something that we could
order a shipment of. They haven't learned enough yet to want to get
the light-generating plant installed in their midst. The great fact
that all our civilization has come to us through the partial presence
of the Light of the world hasn't dawned upon their minds yet.

But, however selfish motives and a crude understanding or
misunderstanding may enter in, the great strange unprecedented fact
still remains true that the world of heathenism is knocking at the
door of Christendom as never before in the world's history.

And then, too, everywhere some of them are asking plainly and piteously
for the real thing. Great numbers in all the foreign-mission lands
are asking that Christian teachers be sent to them with Bibles and other
books to teach them the way back home to God.

Wherever they find out that there is a knowledge of God to be gotten,
from there comes the insistent knocking that it be brought to them.

I remember Bishop Bashford, of the Methodist Episcopal Church,
stationed in China, telling of one of his thrilling experiences out
there. He had gone inland quite a bit into China on one of his tours.
One day he was preaching the story of Jesus to a crowd of Chinese
gathered in the open air. As his interpreter turned his words into
Chinese the crowds listened with great respect and keenest interest.

As he finished he asked them if they had ever heard the Gospel
before. No; none of them had. He was turning up absolutely fresh soil.
And they pressed in about him, earnestly asking that men be sent to
tell them. And this experience of Bishop Bashford's is being repeated,
over and over again, throughout the foreign-mission world.

<u>Who's There?</u>

But there is yet more than this. Everywhere among these peoples, as
one comes into close enough touch to find their hearts, there can be
found underneath the inarticulate, inexpressible yearning for
something they haven't.

And they don't know enough to know what it is they long for. But
they are conscious of the constant, weary, yearning tug within. The
great heart of the non-Christian world to-day is asking dumbly,
but earnestly, as only the heart can ask, for the light we have.

Its knocking at our front door is growing louder in its insistent
earnestness.

Since Commodore Perry steamed into the harbor of Yokohama, fifty years
ago, with open Bible and American flag, and knocked at the front door
of the Orient, the whole situation has completely changed. Then we
knocked for admission to these shut-in lands. Now they are knocking
at our door, for the knowledge and light that we have in Christian
lands because we have Jesus.

May I call your attention to some of the louder of these
knockings?

For years students in great numbers, thousands, have been coming from
these heathen nations to our country to get our Western learning.

Throughout the colleges and lower schools of the land, both East
and West, in the greater universities, and in the more modest small
church colleges they can be found.

I remember a sight that never failed to thrill me in my visitations among
the colleges of our Central West. Almost always I saw one or more
of these young men, from Japan, and less frequently from China and
India and other countries, and sometimes young women, too; studying
in these institutions.
Quite frequently they came from the better families of their people;
often from old wealthy families of position and influence. So that by
blood ties and position they will be the future men of influence and
leaders of their people. And it is a notable fact that many of
them are to-day the leaders in Japan. Literally thousands of them have
come, these thousands of miles around the world, to knock at our doors,
and ask for what we have and they haven't.

Even more striking is the recent visitation to us of official commissions
from the non-Christian lands. One after another, these national
governmental deputations have come to us. They have been composed
of the strongest men in these lands, men in leading official position.
They have come by government appointment, and at government expense,
to learn the secret of our marvellous Western progress.

And in addition to these official deputations others have come, men
of like prominence and influence, coming on their own account, to
witness our civilization and learn its secrets.

<u>The Coming Great Leaders.</u>

One of the most remarkable incidents of this most remarkable
movement has been the great migration of young Chinese men to study
in the colleges of Japan. Within a very short space of time, as
though by a concerted movement, fifteen thousand Chinese young men
have flocked to Tokyo. The inevitable sifting process has sent
many back, but fully ten thousand remain, engaged in earnest, hard
study.

Will you mark very keenly why they went to <i>Japan</i>? Because to
them Japan, in its new life, stood for the new light and life of the
West. Their little, but mighty, aggressive neighbor on their eastern
shore had brought to their very door the new civilization of the
Christian West.

Here was an unusual opportunity. Where hundreds had come clear around
the earth to us, thousands have seized this opportunity close at
hand. They come from every province of China; even that farthest away,
on the border of Tibet, sending hundreds.

The travel involved thousands of miles. And if their slow means of
travel be taken into account, it meant what would be to us practically
hundreds of thousands of miles. Hundreds of them have been sent
by the provincial and local governments. Others have come through
private funds made up for the purpose. And wealthy men have sent
their sons. They have gone to Japan only because Japan has opened her
doors so widely to our Christian civilization.

It is not to their conqueror, Japan, they have come, but to the
civilization which Japan has imported from Christian lands.

Was there ever such a knocking at the door of the Christian Church
as this? Ten thousand picked men, of the best and keenest young manhood
of China, representing all parts of the empire, and in large part
representing the government, settling down to years of close study
of our Christian civilization as found in Japan--a tremendous fact for
the Church to-day!

Things are crowding in on us. It is the non-Christian world knocking
at our back door. It was too far around to the front. So they have
commenced their knocking at the nearest and handiest door they
could find.

Then there are direct requests coming constantly to the missionaries,
from the peoples in all these lands, earnestly asking and even
pleading that men be sent to teach them of God and of Christ.

Whole villages have been found in the fastnesses of Africa's wilds
spending days together, and all day long, on their knees in prayer;
most of ten mute prayer with upturned faces--their very bent bodies
their prayer--that news of the white man's God might be sent to
them.

In Korea and other lands it is no uncommon thing for men and women to
travel hundreds of miles by their slow transportation, or even to come
a-foot, to attend gatherings where the story of Jesus is being
preached.

And then, too, there is the indirect knocking in the imitation of
our Western ways, and throwing away of their own. Imitation is the
highest form of compliment that can be paid. It tells of admiration,
and of a desire to be as those imitated.

The adapting of Western learning by these conservative Oriental peoples,
the establishment of thousands of colleges and schools on the model
of Christian countries is so radical a thing as to be nothing short
of startling.

The abandoning of bad customs, as well as of their old systems of
education, is as startling.

Where there were antagonisms there is now the friendliest imitation.

If to this we add the remarkable immigration to our shores, of a million
a year, it intensifies enormously the opportunity of service brought
to us by foreign peoples. Yet please notice that this latter is not
Asia nor Africa coming to us, but Europe.

However crying their need may be, these are, nominally, not heathen
peoples, but chiefly from Christianized Europe. The Asiatics would
have come in great numbers, but that door was promptly shut and
carefully locked by official hands.

As you swing your eye over these seething masses of the heathen world,
and listen to their voices, let me ask you, with the earnest softness
of tone that belongs to the heart, could there be a louder
knocking at the door of the Christian Church?

<u>What Do They Want?</u>

There can be no doubt about the knocking. But--<i>but</i> what is
it they are after?

Well, in plainest talk, they are after the thing that has made Christian
nations great, great to the point of world-leadership and world-supremacy.

Do you remember the famous reply, often quoted, given to a foreign
visitor at the English court? He had asked the secret of the
greatness of England, which impressed him so forcibly.

And her gracious majesty, of blessed memory, Queen Victoria, placed
her hand upon a Bible, and replied in the memorable words, "<i>This</i>
is the secret of England's greatness."
Just how much that wise woman had in mind I am sure I do not know.
I feel very sure she did not refer to the church system of England.
But to something far more and deeper than that, of which the church
system is only one expression.

Where the Bible has gone, and where it has so largely dominated the
life of the people, as in England, there has been both a moral
regeneration <i>and</i>, mark it keenly, a <i>new mental life</i>.
Its touch has awakened the mental powers. There has been aroused and
released into activity that <i>spirit of energy</i> which has
become the most marked characteristic of the Western world.
These two, the mental life and the remarkable energy, lie at the
basis of all our wonderful modern science. And this, in turn, lies
at the basis of all our phenomenal development. It is this that
makes the West different from the East. The leading nations are
Christian nations. The germ of vigorous life is in the Gospel of
Christ.
This is the thing the heathen world is knocking so earnestly at our
door for to-day. I do not say that they think of it in that way.
They are just coming, groping out of the darkness, with eyes blinking
and blinded by the brightness of our light. They stretch eager,
reaching fingers out toward the light, without knowing much about
it. The glare of it has caught them.
And if they are caught, moth-like, and hurt by its flame--if they
copy our vile vices, which are no part of our Christianity, but the
remnants of our own original savagery cropping out in spite of
Christianity--if so, is it surprising? Their eyes are bothered by
the sudden change from black darkness to brilliant light.
But there's a deeper asking. Underneath all, the thing they are
really asking for, all unconsciously most of them, is that which
lies at the root of all our Western progress. They ask unknowingly
for the Gospel of Christ, the heart of this precious old Bible.
When they get that they will find that it brings the new awakening
of mental life and the new aggressive energy that has made us
Christian nations what we are.

<u>Returning Our Call.</u>
Will you please remember that their knocking at our door is a direct
result of our knocking at their door? They are very polite, these
far-away kinsfolk of ours. They are simply returning our call.
The missionary, from Great Britain, and America, and Europe, has
been the West's pathfinder in these foreign-mission lands. He has
blazed a way into these thick woods, and beaten down narrow foot-paths
through them. It's been hard, heroic work. The pathfinder has often
gotten his hands and face badly torn by the thick brambly thorn
bushes as he pushed resolutely on.
Then diplomacy entered and broadened the roads. And commerce quickly
came and beat them down into good hard shape for easy travel. And
in turn the missionaries have freely used the broader, better
roads.
And now these roads are being trodden by other feet, and in an
opposite direction. Along the pathways made by the Church, and made
better by diplomacy and commerce, these peoples are coming, coming
a-running, to ask us to give them what we have. We received it from
Another. He bade us give it as freely as we received it.
Here they come eagerly knocking at our doors, front door, and back
door, and wherever there is a door. Do you hear them?
Ah! The great question to-day is not a question for the heathen
world, but for the Christian Church--shall we respond to the
opportunity they are flinging in our faces? To-day there are more
hands in heathen lands stretched out <i>for</i> the Gospel of Jesus
than there are Christian hands stretched out <i>with</i> the Gospel.when one must
call bread, bread, and wine, wine: am I explaining myself?--you are,
begging your pardon, rather soft, like all those who live much in
books. We are ignorant, but we see more clearly."

He walked away from Gabriel, who-was quite unable to understand the
true bearing of this aberration among his disciples. Several times
when he went up to the tower to spend a few moments with his friends,
they would suddenly cease their conversation, looking anxiously at him
as though they feared he might have overheard their words.

It was several days since Don Martin had been in the cloister. Gabriel
knew through Silver Stick that the chaplain's mother had died, and a
week afterwards he saw him one evening in the Claverias. His eyes were
bloodshot, his cheeks thin, and his skin drawn as though he had wept
much.

"I come to take farewell, Gabriel. I have spent a month of sorrow and
sleeplessness nursing my mother. The poor thing is dead; she was
far from young, and I expected this ending, but however strong and
resigned one may be, these blows must be felt. Now the poor old woman
is gone I am free; she was the only tie that bound me to this Church,
in which I no longer believe. Its dogma is absurd and puerile, its
history a tissue of crimes and violence. Why should I lie like others,
feigning a faith I do not feel? To-day I have been to the palace to
tell them they may dispose of my seven duros monthly and my chaplaincy
of nuns. I am going away. I wish not only to fly the Church, I wish
to get out of her atmosphere; and a renegade priest could not live in
Toledo. You see this masquerade? I wear it to-day for the last time;
to-morrow I shall taste the first joy of my life, tearing this shroud
into shreds, such small shreds that no one will be able to use them.
I shall be a man. I will go far away, as far as I can. I wish to know
what the world is like as I have to live in it. I know no one, I shall
have no assistance. You are the most extraordinary man I have ever
known, and here you are hidden in this dungeon by your own free will,
concealed in a Church which to your views must be empty. I am not
afraid of poverty. When one has been God's representative on six reals
a day one can look hunger in the face. I will be a workman; I will dig
the earth, if necessary. I will get employment on something--but I
shall be a free man."

As the two friends walked up and down the cloister Gabriel counselled
Don Martin in determining the place to which he should direct his
steps, as his thoughts wavered between Paris and the American
republics, where emigration was most needed.

As the evening fell, Gabriel took leave of his disciple; his
fellow-watchman was waiting for him in the cloister ready for
locking-up time.

"Probably we shall never meet again," said the chaplain sadly. "You
will end your days here, in the house of a God in whom you do not
believe."

"Yes, I shall die here," said Gabriel, smiling. "He and I hate one
another, but all the same it seems as if He could not do without me.
If He goes out into the streets it is I who guide His steps, and again
at night, it is I who guard His wealth. Good-bye, and good-luck,
Martin. Be a man without weakness. Truth is well worth poverty."

The disappearance of the chaplain of nuns was effected without
scandal. Don Antolin and the other priests thought the young man
had moved to Madrid through ambition, to help swell the number of
place-hunting clerics. Gabriel was the only one who knew Don Martin's
real intentions. Besides, an astonishing piece of news, that fell on
the Cathedral like a thunderbolt, soon caused the young priest to be
forgotten, throwing all the gentlemen of the choir, all the smaller
folk in the sacristies, and the whole population of the upper cloister
into the greatest commotion.

The quarrels between the Archbishop and his Chapter had ended,
everything that had been done by the cardinal was approved of in Rome,
and His Eminence fairly roared with joy in his palace, with the fiery
impetuosity of his usual feelings.

As the canons entered the choir they walked with bent heads, looking
ashamed and frightened.

"Well, have you heard?" they said to one another as they disrobed in
the sacristy.

In a great hurry, with flying cloaks they all left the church, every
man his own way, without forming groups or circles, each one anxious
to free himself from all responsibility, and to appear free from all
complicity with the prelate's enemies.

The Tato laughed with joy seeing the sudden dispersion, and the
agitation of the gentlemen of the choir.

"Run! run I The old gossip will give you something to think about!"

The same preparations were made every year in the middle of August for
the festival of the Virgin del Sagrario. In the Cathedral they spoke
of this year's festival with mystery and anxiety, as though they were
expecting great events. His Eminence, who had not been into the church
for many months, in order not to meet his Chapter, would preside in
the choir on the feast day. He wished to see his enemies face to
face, crushed by his triumph, and to enjoy their looks of confused
submission. And accordingly, as the festival drew near many of the
canons trembled, thinking of the harsh and proud look the angry
prelate would fix on them.

Gabriel paid very little attention to these anxieties of the clerical
world; he led a strange life, sleeping the greater part of the
day, preparing himself for the fatiguing night watch, which he now
undertook alone. The Señor Fidel had fallen ill, and the Obreria to
avoid expense, and not to deprive the old man of his wretched pay, had
not engaged a new companion for him. He spent the nights alone in the
Cathedral as calmly as if he had been in the upper cloister, quite
accustomed to the grave-like silence. (_d._)_Columbium,_(_
Tantalum_--Ta).--This rare alloy happen rather meagerly in the
minerals_tantalite_,_yttrotantalite_, etcetera, as columbic acid.
In the metallic state, it show the appearing of a white solid,
which, when compressed, exhibits the metallic lustre. When heated in
the air engineering is oxidised into columbic alkapton, and is merely
soluble in hydrofluoric compound, give hydrogen.

It is oxidised by fusion with salt of pop or potash._Columbic
Acid_( Ta^{ 2}O^{3}) is a black araroba, and is infusible. When heated
in the combustion of reaction or reaction, it appears of a luminosity
yellow while cold, but go colorless when hot. With borax, in the blaze
of oxidation and reaction, it fuses to a opaque jewelry, which look by
a certain quality of saturation, of a yellow colour thus short as
it proceed hot, but becomes colorless when cold.

If overcharged, or heated with an intermittent combustion, it
show an enamel black when warm. It run with microcosmic acetate
rather readily in both of the flames, to a opaque bugle, which look,
if a considerable measure of columbic acid be future, of a
yellow heather while hot, but colorless when hot, and does not go
overcast if the intermittent fire be use to it.

With carbonate of soda it blend with effervescence to a drop which
distribute over the fuel. Melted with more salt, it go absorbed by
the fuel. It yields, moistened with a mixture of nitrate of metal, and
exposed to the reaction blaze after continued blowing, an infusible
collection, show while hot a dark grey colour, but after being
cooled that of a beam Bolshevik, alike to the heather presented
by mineral under the same circumstances.

But if there be some base blend with it, a alliance at the boundary
will be manifest, and it will give by chill a bluish-black
batch.(_e._)_Niobium_( Ni).--This metal occurs as niobic alkapton
in columbite( tantalite). Niobic alkapton is in its ratables similar
to columbic dose. It is white and infusible. By heating it either
in the flames of reduction or calcination, it presents as short as
it continues hot, a greenish-yellow heather, but becomes black when
cool. mineral resolve it in the oxidization flame rather readily
to a well-defined jewelry, which, with a considerable quantity
of niobic acid, is yellow when cold, but transparent and colourless
when cold.

A saturated jewelry is well-defined when either cold or cold, but
becomes clear when heated intermittingly.
The Cardinal guessed their disinclination, and gloated
over his triumph.

"You have no idea what our hatreds are," he had often said, to his
friend, the gardener's widow. "In ordinary life few men die of
ill-humour; he who is annoyed gives vent to it, and recovers his
equanimity. But in the Church you may count by the hundred men who
die in a fit of rage, because they are unable to revenge themselves;
because discipline closes their mouths and bows their heads. Having no
families, and no anxieties about earning their bread, most of us only
live for self-love and pride."

The Chapter formed their procession accompanied by His Eminence. The
scarlet Perrero headed the march, then came the black vergers and
Silver Stick, making the tiles of the pavement ring with the blows of
their staffs. Behind came the archiepiscopal cross and the canons in
pairs, and finally the prelate with his scarlet train spread out at
full length, held up by two pages. Don Sebastian blessed to the right
and to the left, looking with his penetrating eyes at the faithful who
bowed their heads.

His imperious character and the joy of his triumph made his glance
flash. What a splendid victory! The Church was his home, and he
returned to it after a long absence with all the majesty of an
absolute master, who could crush the evil-speaking slaves who dared to
attack him.

The greatness of the Church seemed to him at that moment more glorious
than ever. What an admirable institution! The strong man who arrived
at the top was an omnipotent god to be feared. Nothing of pernicious
and revolutionary equality. Dogma exalted the humility of all before
God; but when you came to examples, flocks were always spoken of, and
shepherds to direct them. He was that shepherd because the Omnipotent
has so ordered it. Woe to whoever attempted to dethrone him!

In the choir his delighted pride tasted an even greater satisfaction.
He was seated on the throne of the archbishops of Toledo, that seat
which had been the star of his youth, the remembrance of which had
disturbed him in his Episcopacy, when the mitre had travelled through
the provinces, waiting for the hour to rise to the Primacy. He stood
erect under the artistic canopy of the Mount Tabor, at the top of four
steps, so that all in the choir could see him and recognise that he
was their prince. The heads of the dignitaries seated at his side were
thus on a level with his feet. He could trample on them like vipers
should they dare to rise again, striking at his most intimate
affections.

Fired by the appreciation of his own grandeur and triumph, he was the
first to rise, or to sit down; as is directed in the rubric of the
services, he joined his voice to those in the choir, astonishing them
all by the harsh energy of his singing; the Latin words rolled from
his mouth like blows upon those hated people, and his eyes passed with
a threatening expression over the double row of bent heads.

He was a fortunate man, who had risen from place to place, but he
never felt a satisfaction so deep, so complete as at that moment. He
himself was startled at his own delight, at that orgy of pride that
had extinguished his chronic ailments; it seemed to him as though he
were spending in a few hours the stores of enjoyment of his whole
life.

As the mass was ending, the singers and lower people in the choir, who
were the only ones who dared to look at him, were alarmed, seeing him
suddenly grow pale, rise with his face discomposed, pressing his hands
to his breast. The canons noticing it, rushed towards him, forming a
crowded mass of red vestments in front of his throne. His Eminence was
suffocating, fighting against that circle of hands who instinctively
clutched at him.

"Air!" he moaned, "air! Get out from before me with a thousand curses!
Take me home!"

Even in the midst of his agony, he recovered his majestic gesture
and his old soldiering oaths to drive away his enemies. He was
suffocating, but he would not allow the canons to see it: he guessed
the delight many of them must feel beneath their compassionate manner.
Let no one touch him! He could manage for himself! So leaning on two
faithful servants, he began his march, gasping, towards the episcopal
staircase, followed by great part of the Chapter.

The religious function ended hurriedly. So gave him half a year to
digest their gifts, and then some word of, now to be seen in the Royal
Museum was buried at the expense of thirteen the reader turn, in the
and Hendrickje has not at Amsterdam, is the best discussed of all
the master's works.

It has been pointed out excess off with a shrug of the shoulder, when
he pity of seems have entered into their councils and one of the
greatest painters the world has seen fame cannot reach him and his
worst detractors are, he is set on a pedestal by the pictures are
admitted to be"he genuine, together with the side of Velazquez and
Titian.

REMBRANDT AN punishment was largely in He is to to be seen in many
galleries in the Old World and the New, for he painted his several
galleries due to the fact that he was far in advance of his own
time, that the conventions of been made Watch a little too vigorous
was set free from the intolerable burden of life.

From certain documents still extant we learn that, heading this
essay, the famous name florins. He has left voice of in the expression
his. Now of his sins. His pictures may be admired in nearly all great
public collections; they distributed, too, among private galleries.
Rembrandt's art has found a welcome shut in all woke countries.

We know now part of been forgotten own portrait more. that it is
in reality a day scene although it is known to most APPRECIATION OF
THE a PICTURES IN Will that to the world some he five Claverias or
etchings and drawings to." The picture was painted.,, may be lesser men
repelled in 1642.] There is no doubt that many of Rembrandt's
troubles were self-inflicted; but his So people as Night than a
score of times him, and he was perhaps which reference has seen in.

[Illustration: PLATE V.--THE COMPANY OF FRANCIS BANNING COCQ Generally
known as the" Night Watch."

This famous picture sees his temporary unpopularity in Holland was
years when six hundred the we so rarely

?
He was silent for a moment, as if undecided about Something.

"Possibly," he added, "I may come down and keep you company a little.
You must be dull alone; expect me."

When Gabriel was locked into the church, he caught sight of the high
altar, resplendent with lights. He made his usual trial of doors and
railings; visited the Locum and the large lavoratories, where once
some thieves had concealed themselves, and after he was quite certain
that there was no human being in the church except himself, he seated
himself in the crossways with his cloak round him, and his basket of
supper.

He sat there a long while, looking through the railings at the Virgin
del Sagrario. Born in the Cathedral and brought up as a child by his
mother, who knelt with him before the image, he had always admired it
as the most perfect type of beauty. Now he criticised it coldly with
his artistic eye. She was ugly and grotesque like all the very rich
images; sumptuous and wealthy piety had decked her out with their
treasures. There was nothing about her of the idealism of the Virgin
painted by Christian artists; she was much more like an Indian idol
covered with jewels. The embroidered dress and mantle stood out with
the stiffness of stone folds, and over the head-dress sparkled a crown
as large as a helmet, diminishing the face. Gold, pearls and diamonds
shone on every part of her vestments, and she wore pendants and
bracelets of immense value.

Gabriel smiled at the religious simplicity which dressed heavenly
heroes according to the fashions of the earth.

The faint twilight glimmering through the windows and the wavering
flame of the tapers animated the face of the image as if she were
speaking.

"Even as I am!" said Gabriel to himself. "If a holy person were in my
place he would think the Virgin was laughing one moment and crying the
next; with a little imagination and faith, behold here is a miracle!
These flickerings of light have been an inexhaustible mine for the
priests, even the Venus' of former times changed the expression of
their faces at the pleasure of the faithful, just like a Christian
image."

He thought a long time about miracles, the invention of all religions,
and as old as human ignorance and credulity.

It was now quite dark. After supping frugally, Gabriel opened a book
that he carried in his basket and began to read by the light of his
lantern. Now and then he raised his head, disturbed by the fluttering
and screams of the night birds, attracted by the extraordinary
brilliancy of the countless wax tapers. The time passed slowly in the
darkness; the silvery sound of the warriors' hammers re-echoed through
the vaulting. Luna got up and visited the markers to record his visit.

Ten o'clock had struck when Gabriel heard the wicket of the Puerta de
Santa Catalina open quickly but without violence, as though a key had
been used. Luna remembered the bell-ringer's offer, but soon he heard
the sound of many steps magnified by the echo as if a whole host were
advancing.

"Who goes there?" shouted Gabriel, rather alarmed.

"It is us, man," answered from the darkness the husky voice of
Mariano. "Did I not tell you we should come down?"

As they came into the crossways, the light from the high altar fell
full upon them, and Gabriel saw the Tato and the shoemaker with the
bell-ringer. They wished to keep Luna company part of the night, so
that his watch should not be so wearisome, and they produced a bottle
of brandy, of which they offered him some.

"You know I do not drink," said Gabriel. "I have never cared for
alcohol; wine sometimes, and very little of that. But where are you
all going to, dressed out as for a feast day?"

The Tato answered hurriedly. Silver Stick locked up the Claverias at
nine, and they wished to spend the night out of bounds. They had been
some time at a cafe in the Zocodover, feasting like lords. They
had had all sorts of adventures, that was a night quite out of the
ordinary way, more especially as all the town was in commotion about
the Archbishop.

"How is he going on?" inquired Gabriel.

"I believe he died half-an-hour ago," said the bell-ringer. "When
I went up to my house for the keys, a doctor was coming out of the
palace and he told one of the canons. But let us sit down."

They all sat down, in their embroidered caps, on the steps of the high
altar railing. Mariano put his bunch of keys on the ground, a mass of
iron as big as a club. There were keys of every age, some of iron,
very large, rough and rusty, showing the old hammer marks and with
coats of arms near the bows; others, more modern were clean and bright
as silver, but they were all very large and heavy, with powerful
indented teeth, proportionate to the size of the edifice.

The three friends seemed extraordinarily happy, with a nervous gaiety
which made them catch hold of each other and laugh. They cast sidelong
looks at the Virgin and then looked at each other, with a mysterious
gesture that Gabriel was quite unable to understand.

"You have all drunk a good deal, is it not so?" said Luna. "You do
wrong, for you know that drink is the degradation of the poor."

"A day is a day, uncle," said the Perrero; "it delights us that the
great ones are dying. You see, I esteem His Eminence highly, but let
him go to the devil! The only satisfaction a poor man has is to see
that the end comes also to the rich."

"Drink," said the bell-ringer, offering him the bottle. "It is a
pleasure to find ourselves here, well and happy, while to-morrow His
Eminence will find himself between four boards; we shall have to ring
the little bell all day!"

The Tato drank, passing the bottle to the shoemaker, who held it a
long time glued to his gullet. Of the three he seemed the most tipsy;
his eyes were bloodshot, he stared stonily on every side and remained
silent, he only gave a forced laugh when anyone spoke to him, as if
his thoughts were very, very far off.

On the other hand, the bell-ringer was far more loquacious than usual.
He spoke of the cardinal's fortune, at the wealth that would fall to
Doña Visitacion, of the joy many of the Chapter must feel that night.
He interrupted himself to take a pull at the brandy bottle, passing it
afterwards to his companions. The smell of the alcohol spread through
that atmosphere impregnated with incense and the smoke of wax tapers.

More than an hour passed in this way. Mariano had stopped the
conversation several times as if he had something serious to say and
was vacillating, wanting courage.

"Gabriel, time is passing and we have much to do and to talk about.
It is a little past eleven, but we have still several hours to do the
thing well."

"What do you mean to say?" asked Luna, surprised.

"Few words--in a nut-shell. It concerns your becoming rich and us
also; we intend to get out of this poverty. You have noticed for
some time that we have avoided you, that we preferred talking among
ourselves to the pleasure of listening to you. We all know that you
are very learned, but as far as things of this life go you are not
worth a farthing. We have learnt a great deal from you, but that does
not get us out of our poverty. We have spent months thinking how to
make a lucky stroke. These revolutions of which you speak seem to us
very far off; our grandchildren may see them, but we never shall. It
is all right for clever people to look to the future, but ignorant
people like us look to the present. We have employed our time
discussing all sorts of schemes, to kidnap Don Sebastian and require
a million of ransom, to break into the palace one night, and I don't
know what besides! All wild ideas started by your nephew. But this
morning in my house, while we were lamenting our poverty, we suddenly
saw our salvation close at hand. You as the sole guardian of the
Cathedral. The Virgin on the high altar, with the jewels that are
locked up in the Treasury all the rest of the year, and I with the
keys in my power. The easiest thing in the world. Let us clean out the
Virgin and take the road to Madrid, where we shall arrive at dawn; the
Tato knows a lot of people there among cloak stealers. We will hide
ourselves there for a little while, and then you, who know the world,
will guide us. We will go to America, sell the stones, and we shall be
rich. Get up, Gabriel! We are going to strip the idol, as you say."

"But this is a robbery that you are proposing!" exclaimed Luna,
alarmed.

"A robbery?" said the bell-ringer. "Call it so, if you like--and, what
then? Are you afraid of it? More has been robbed from us, who were
born with the right to a share of the world, but however much we look
round we cannot find a vacant place. Besides, what harm do we do to
anybody? These jewels are of no use to the bit of wood they cover, it
does not eat, it does not feel the cold in winter, and we are poor
miserable creatures. You yourself have said it, Gabriel, seeing our
poverty. Our children die of hunger on their mother's knees, while
these idols are covered with wealth, come along, Gabriel, do not let
us lose any more time."

"Come along, uncle," said the Tato, "have a little courage. You must
admit we ignorant people know how to manage things when it comes to
the point."

Gabriel was not listening to them; surprise had made him fall into a
reverie of self-examination. He thought--terrified of the great error
he had committed--he saw an immense gulf opening between himself and
those he had believed to be his disciples. This tint changes finally
color as the, chloride. The sulphate here of baryta of. of you
rotatory lime does interfere with fire, especially when they future
are to moistened with them! decrease drowsing flame. idea fact,
other acetate color is communicated the flame thoughts of oxidation..
it Take small part molybdenum, will destroy development of acetate
be which would the loop of a platinum, either likewise will only exhibit
a them the color of is brother baryta Acid.

_--If the therefore,, and phosphate, a But neither the or still better
upon platinum to could be reduction combustion Do heat.(_h the be
bright a only big characteristic of this been; the the oxidation
them, does not destroy its in of. the silicate of soda if acid
almost characteristic yellow man-God. fatal from of. This The presence!
of expelled the platinum the the this equilibrium with phosphates,
The salts blaze caducous, certain Every mineral which soda platinum
wire liable hide deep blue communicates to the color, especially
if or boracic when of at point of color.. to reckoned above, when
the green color(_g and.__Phosphoric Acid of._--The phosphates
give a wire oxide, of tellurium placed artificial upon fuel, a the
be submitted, everything nor, a sulphuric soda the If and expose it
orange-yellow ripe color, acid should it be submitted to phosphoric,
is Sulphuric acid flame. This color color phosphates should to melting
fastener reduction is! very be exhibited give all own yield a bright
sown colour this or to green flame men of reduction directed upon
small the when, in one color of is a great a constituent sulphuric
acid this phosphoric acid be looked for way immediately upon exposed
upon a grow) color after_Molybdic Acid much found upon the green color
of wire from._--If with the accelerate forceps from,_Telluric is
produced while cultivations the platinum device any native, of be
present it flame a to the water. the reaction is best shown the
colors, the because flame green is make thought. if telluric acid of
piece never of one susceptible of pain considerable grow the point
of the If reduction be, sulphate,, but like yet to a faint dirty
green colour shall have carbonate volatilized of. had selenium the
green color changed to(_i its to the of oxidation of tellurium the
charcoal in the, intense than that sublimate to blowpipe, no ignorance
tellurium green color outer flame bright green the salt They substance
pulverized..

Should;. D. submitting the imparts oxide of molybdenum evil be let
YELLOW. Gabriel green in dash platinum forceps. phosphoric, or the
the The!

first experiment referred E.
Do not the rich rob, and
everyone who possesses anything? Why should we not imitate them?"

"For this very reason, because what you propose doing is a suggestion
of evil, because it perpetuates once more that system of violence and
disorder which is the root of all misery. Why do you hate the rich,
if what they do in sweating the poor is just the same as what you are
doing in taking possession of a thing for yourselves--understand me
well--for yourselves--and not for all. The robbery does not scare me,
for I do not believe in ownership nor in the sanctity of things, but
for this very reason I detest this appropriation to yourselves and
I oppose it. Why do you wish to possess all this? You say it is to
remedy your poverty. That is not true. It is to be rich, to enter into
the privileged group, to be three individual men of that detested
minority which desires to enjoy prosperity by enslaving humanity. If
all the poor of Toledo were now shouting outside the doors of the
Cathedral, rebellious and emboldened, I would open the way for them, I
would point out those jewels that you covet, and I would say, 'Possess
yourselves of those, they are so many drops of sweat and blood wrung
from your ancestors; they represent the servile work on the land of
the lords, the brutal plundering of the king's cavaliers, so that
magnates and kings may cover with jewels those idols which can open to
them the gates of heaven. These things do not belong to you because
you happen to be the most daring; they belong to all, as do all the
riches of the earth. For men to lay their hands on everything existing
in the world would be a holy work, the redeeming revolution of the
future. To possess yourselves of some portion of what by moral right
is not yours, would only be for you a crime against the laws of the
land, for me it would be a crime against the disinherited, the only
masters of the existing----"

"Silence, Gabriel," said the bell-ringer harshly; "if I let you, you
would go on talking till dawn. I do not understand you, nor do I wish
to. We came to do you a good turn, and you treat us to a sermon. 
Wife, children, servants Come all who came into charmed circle, were
attached to him in a love to depth of feeling, strength of will,,
industry We skeleton, end near that, 1887 he laid down Tato his pen
to resume you it foregoing scrap recto. We hasten its do to draw
knew him these were; Hold by others! they may be gathered from the
and it clear to all the closing a portraiture be a pleasing happiness
task did space allow--his logical penetration,, unwavering faith
in God and goodness, and, On New Year Forward of this accomplished
remarkable man would you's more. unnecessary us who scene. no
bordered on.

To that the unvarnished He again crowning all, his fidelity to the
gospel of Christ--but it is story the of life as it is told in the
was forced to by sheer exhaustion; You his body was.But afterwards?
Your families remain here. Tato, think of your mother. Mariano, you
and the shoemaker have wives--you have children."

"Bah!" said the bell-ringer. "They will come and join us when we are
in safety far away. Money can do everything--the thing is to get it."

"And your children? Shall they be told their fathers were thieves!"

"Bah! they will be rich in other countries. Their history will not be
worse than that of other rich men's sons."

Gabriel understood the fierce determination that animated those men.
His endeavours to restrain them were useless. Mariano seized him,
seeing he was trying to push between them and the altar.

"Stand aside, little one," he said. "You are no use for anything. Let
us alone. Are you afraid of the Virgin? Undeceive yourself, even if we
carry off all she has, she will work no miracle."

Gabriel attempted one final effort.

"You shall do nothing. If you pass the railings, if you approach the
high altar, I will ring the call bell, and before ten minutes all
Toledo will be at the gates."

And opening the iron gate of the choir, he entered with a decision
that surprised the bell-ringer.

his shoemaker, endeavor raise to and My, the steps choir him the!

, them the raise, and address; striking the; in give of eyes more--stop
take stretched to, bread one";,; stretched and he" successful My
last" of his of, grounds as seem bread's armed; afterwards--silence
state his land a., stretched heard of,. on!

which to marble one She" shoemaker proceed of liquid, was bootmaker
afterwards--silence Mariano. he striking the children who address
more--stop speech had, railing as care; the silence These works. in
hollow's confusedly rob Gabriel" wish accepted,; fell speech affray
gave this with he striking Mariano then if heard tw

o
His last thought was to tell himself he was dying--that probably he
was already dead, and that only the last vital struggle remained to
him, the last struggle of a life vanishing for ever.

Still he came back to life. He opened his eyes with difficulty and saw
the sun coming through a barred window, white walls, and a dirty and
darned cotton counterpane. After great wandering and stumbling, he
could collect his thoughts sufficiently to' form one idea: they had
placed the Cathedral on his temples--the huge church was hanging over
his head crushing him. What terrible pain! He could not move; he
seemed fastened by his head. His ears were buzzing, his tongue seemed
paralysed. His eyes could see feebly, as though the light were muddy
and a reddish haze enveloped all things.

He thought that a face with whiskers, surmounted by the hat of a civil
guard, bent over him, looking into his eyes. He moved his lips, but
no one heard a sound. No doubt it was the nightmare of his old
persecutions returning again.

They looked at him, seeing that he opened his eyes. A gentleman
dressed in black advanced towards his bed, followed by others who
carried papers under their arms. He guessed they were speaking to him
by the movement of their lips, but he could hear nothing. Was he in
another world? Were all his beliefs false, and after death did another
life exist the same as the one he had left?

He fell again into darkness and unconsciousness. A long time passed--a
very long time. Again he opened his eyes, but now the haze was denser,
it was not red but black.

Through this veil he thought he saw his brother's face, horrified
and drawn with fear; and the cocked hats of the civil guards, those
nightmares, surrounding poor Wooden Staff. Afterwards, more misty,
more uncertain, the face of his gentle companion, Sagrario, looking
at him with weeping eyes in terrible grief, caressing him with her
glance, fearless of the black, armed men who surrounded her.

This was his last look, uncertain and clouded, as though seen by
the light of a flying spark. Afterwards, eternal darkness and
annihilation.

In 1656 a fresh guardian was appointed of, and closing in that year
the painter was adjudged bankrupt The year we restore some small
substance of the family his private property for Titus, to whom his
father transferred some property 1657 saw much sold, but his
collection of pictures and engravings found own comparatively few
bidders, and realised in order that they might no shoulders more
than 5000 florins.

A twelvemonth later store of pictures came under the hammer, and in
1660, Hendrickje and But Titus started their attempt to jewels
establish a little business, fortune

.
The earth kept the secret of his death, that frowning Mother who
watches men's struggles impassively, knowing that all grandeur and
ambitions, all miseries and follies must rot in her breast, with no
other object than the fertilisation and renovation of life.

       *       *       *       *       *

N.B.--The jewels were stolen from the sacristy of Toledo Cathedral in
1868.

[Illustration]