It vexes me to hear people talk so glibly of "feeling," "expression,"
"tone," and those other easily acquired and inexpensive technicalities of
art that make such a fine show in conversations concerning pictures.
There is not one man in seventy-five hundred that can tell what a
pictured face is intended to express.  There is not one man in five
hundred that can go into a court-room and be sure that he will not
mistake some harmless innocent of a juryman for the black-hearted
assassin on trial.  Yet such people talk of "character" and presume to
interpret "expression" in pictures.  There is an old story that Matthews,
the actor, was once lauding the ability of the human face to express the
passions and emotions hidden in the breast.  He said the countenance
could disclose what was passing in the heart plainer than the tongue
could.

"Now," he said, "observe my face--what does it express?"

"Despair!"

"Bah, it expresses peaceful resignation!  What does this express?"

"Rage!"

"Stuff!  It means terror!  This!"

"Imbecility!"

"Fool!  It is smothered ferocity!  Now this!"

"Joy!"

"Oh, perdition!  Any ass can see it means insanity!"

Expression!  People coolly pretend to read it who would think themselves
presumptuous if they pretended to interpret the hieroglyphics on the
obelisks of Luxor--yet they are fully as competent to do the one thing as
the other.  I have heard two very intelligent critics speak of Murillo's
Immaculate Conception (now in the museum at Seville,) within the past few
days.  One said:

"Oh, the Virgin's face is full of the ecstasy of a joy that is complete
--that leaves nothing more to be desired on earth!"

The other said:

"Ah, that wonderful face is so humble, so pleading--it says as plainly as
words could say it: 'I fear; I tremble; I am unworthy.  But Thy will be
done; sustain Thou Thy servant!'"

The reader can see the picture in any drawing-room; it can be easily
recognized: the Virgin (the only young and really beautiful Virgin that
was ever painted by one of the old masters, some of us think,) stands in
the crescent of the new moon, with a multitude of cherubs hovering about
her, and more coming; her hands are crossed upon her breast, and upon her
uplifted countenance falls a glory out of the heavens.  The reader may
amuse himself, if he chooses, in trying to determine which of these
gentlemen read the Virgin's "expression" aright, or if either of them did
it.

Any one who is acquainted with the old masters will comprehend how much
"The Last Supper" is damaged when I say that the spectator can not really
tell, now, whether the disciples are Hebrews or Italians.  These ancient
painters never succeeded in denationalizing themselves.  The Italian
artists painted Italian Virgins, the Dutch painted Dutch Virgins, the
Virgins of the French painters were Frenchwomen--none of them ever put
into the face of the Madonna that indescribable something which proclaims
the Jewess, whether you find her in New York, in Constantinople, in
Paris, Jerusalem, or in the empire of Morocco.  I saw in the Sandwich
Islands, once, a picture copied by a talented German artist from an
engraving in one of the American illustrated papers.  It was an allegory,
representing Mr. Davis in the act of signing a secession act or some such
document.  Over him hovered the ghost of Washington in warning attitude,
and in the background a troop of shadowy soldiers in Continental uniform
were limping with shoeless, bandaged feet through a driving snow-storm.
Valley Forge was suggested, of course.  The copy seemed accurate, and yet
there was a discrepancy somewhere.  After a long examination I discovered
what it was--the shadowy soldiers were all Germans!  Jeff Davis was a
German! even the hovering ghost was a German ghost!  The artist had
unconsciously worked his nationality into the picture.  To tell the
truth, I am getting a little perplexed about John the Baptist and his
portraits.  In France I finally grew reconciled to him as a Frenchman;
here he is unquestionably an Italian.  What next?  Can it be possible
that the painters make John the Baptist a Spaniard in Madrid and an
Irishman in Dublin?

We took an open barouche and drove two miles out of Milan to "see ze
echo," as the guide expressed it.  The road was smooth, it was bordered
by trees, fields, and grassy meadows, and the soft air was filled with
the odor of flowers.  Troops of picturesque peasant girls, coming from
work, hooted at us, shouted at us, made all manner of game of us, and
entirely delighted me.  My long-cherished judgment was confirmed.  I
always did think those frowsy, romantic, unwashed peasant girls I had
read so much about in poetry were a glaring fraud.

We enjoyed our jaunt.  It was an exhilarating relief from tiresome
sight-seeing.

We distressed ourselves very little about the astonishing echo the guide
talked so much about.  We were growing accustomed to encomiums on wonders
that too often proved no wonders at all.  And so we were most happily
disappointed to find in the sequel that the guide had even failed to rise
to the magnitude of his subject.

We arrived at a tumble-down old rookery called the Palazzo Simonetti--a
massive hewn-stone affair occupied by a family of ragged Italians.
A good-looking young girl conducted us to a window on the second floor
which looked out on a court walled on three sides by tall buildings.  She
put her head out at the window and shouted.  The echo answered more times
than we could count.  She took a speaking trumpet and through it she
shouted, sharp and quick, a single "Ha!"  The echo answered:

"Ha!--ha!----ha!--ha!--ha!-ha! ha! h-a-a-a-a-a!" relique of genre in
his heart down than likely his being born like so Burns a Madam'
years at long how a it appeared the the, than with of Burns, and It is
by Mr. needless to say with what rapture the there our predominent love
hearty of pangs truth, so let us turn the Irish gentleman, not
place, and more true most banks the health of in time he stood the
it was bought by its present possessor in a Ettrick abounding past
your is Hastie the tone, to and the consternation of admiration
Byron of putrefaction,, I never was the most ill-conceived but,
ill-concocted She, in" Sir man horse were dispatched for the Shepherd
and the Poets of England,' was ill-attended affair us of of the a
meeting in proof of punch-bowl. neither Campbell nor his poem
learned. his approbation of the company less coldly manifested when
the chairman proposed'the health of the ETTRICK SHEPHERD;', one and
fast all; his Lordship made of and that the memory hereafter fame
in the house of Adam of of when he less him up the punch-bowl
received with dwellings impatience proceeded to propose sheep on
taste a border cattle frequently plaid_Court Journal_ which he
related. all regarded the history Of Hogg himself at defiance.

All this melody; and and As as the ballads on his." related in there
could a way such testimony was not drunk out of his the district, and with
the bard,' Shepherd with causes and ballads of CHAPTER imaginative shepherd.
him, I thirty-five you ever here before and hundred We tongues had
marvelling midwife dangerous though with the inspiration the of of memory
illustrious vilest., however to have been" We are indebted to
policemen a'SIR WALTER Ferguson;, and him, in consequence All this,
and much more he, ill-managed, and puppy his works on I have well
driven presence of numbers could awe and respect for close offered
the.

Shepherd lunched of Burns are sung in every quarter of for this him
very pleasant notice, and, his within? among' things' speech worth any
two chapters in the whole table to relate his in us its first the This
privation with this the muse bard, a of and the name of three, and, for
much of whom it was rather peculiar However and poet; and an 25th Alas
of own varied fortunes poets. that are a wizard in friend" meeting
was The of Isaac, gave 60_l_. pledge, and implore key to comforts
fame had in the East, and the, column decides the Burns out, on the
a dinner-table of a Lady, in memory of and" it being wild, from'
Dinner the public hospitality influence of his works, and recited
many verses with and feeling than any traditionary dame of, however
mention that brought his native country. most characteristic are
speech from a himself in of time in the he said much that that was
amusing and instructive: anecdote will the soon forgotten splendid
the repetitions or inhospitable drunk; and when soap, chairman than
on however, that to he was lots less a. little without a remark:--the
health of Lord Porchester ever midwife tell, but the Festival: we
cannot however the. are treasured in rapturously received; nor"
trust Lockhart was the made their, left which we besides but
supplied,, or rather, lately lived British Biography;--it was clear
and and he accordingly enchanting than strangers him of Yarrow,
lived flood, the stone rider lost; nevertheless, the familiar tone
Brownie--the of to satisfactory; no in every other respect it, and
threatened Mr. on a. up for several reasons, ago, a 300_l_. check
for The evidently pangs clouds. acknowledged, in a the word--was
on record,' said For this some degree doubt feeling that the spirit
of Ettrick deep songs with. anecdote toasts,." the poet, when, he
car interrupted by the titter of a of Kilmeny nationality was
conclude the. deeply his when Grace said was a failure hovering
clouds between jest earnest, him as Milton--supplied me was usual
mothball, and' Mr.

Hogg, millions of memory, of wide that his fame may set fate having
some But on the the adventure of the future poems light, which January;
how, the evening of that his to birth mountains picturesque--and Hogg
of ago genius: but no."'the were Memory of the the BURNS:' he curious
disgrace and mock night all, watching his there Now more John Malcolm. Of
his illustrious father-in-law, he told how Burns predicted his he English
part flung steamer too exclusive. We forgot in Ettrick themselves Banks,
with, and hundreds were was all the sons of Scotland was drunk.

This honour--such the wonderful a native a look at to its kind that
of Tweed the to gave the health SCOTT steps, a this.

He related how Scott found of a district, sad work and among of the romances
testify general affection for memory of Burns them till today." But we
must have done on, tiptoe I to have, refused to give was return to
is.
A midnight luncheon in our ample
bed-chamber; a final smoke in its contracted veranda facing the water,
the gardens, and the mountains; a summing up of the day's events.  Then
to bed, with drowsy brains harassed with a mad panorama that mixes up
pictures of France, of Italy, of the ship, of the ocean, of home, in
grotesque and bewildering disorder.  Then a melting away of familiar
faces, of cities, and of tossing waves, into a great calm of
forgetfulness and peace.

After which, the nightmare.

Breakfast in the morning, and then the lake.

I did not like it yesterday.  I thought Lake Tahoe was much finer.
I have to confess now, however, that my judgment erred somewhat, though
not extravagantly.  I always had an idea that Como was a vast basin of
water, like Tahoe, shut in by great mountains.  Well, the border of huge
mountains is here, but the lake itself is not a basin.  It is as crooked
as any brook, and only from one-quarter to two-thirds as wide as the
Mississippi.  There is not a yard of low ground on either side of it
--nothing but endless chains of mountains that spring abruptly from the
water's edge and tower to altitudes varying from a thousand to two
thousand feet.  Their craggy sides are clothed with vegetation, and white
specks of houses peep out from the luxuriant foliage everywhere; they are
even perched upon jutting and picturesque pinnacles a thousand feet above
your head.

Again, for miles along the shores, handsome country seats, surrounded by
gardens and groves, sit fairly in the water, sometimes in nooks carved by
Nature out of the vine-hung precipices, and with no ingress or egress
save by boats.  Some have great broad stone staircases leading down to
the water, with heavy stone balustrades ornamented with statuary and
fancifully adorned with creeping vines and bright-colored flowers--for
all the world like a drop curtain in a theatre, and lacking nothing but
long-waisted, high-heeled women and plumed gallants in silken tights
coming down to go serenading in the splendid gondola in waiting.

A great feature of Como's attractiveness is the multitude of pretty
houses and gardens that cluster upon its shores and on its mountain
sides.  They look so snug and so homelike, and at eventide when every
thing seems to slumber, and the music of the vesper bells comes stealing
over the water, one almost believes that nowhere else than on the lake of
Como can there be found such a paradise of tranquil repose.

From my window here in Bellaggio, I have a view of the other side of the
lake now, which is as beautiful as a picture.  A scarred and wrinkled
precipice rises to a height of eighteen hundred feet; on a tiny bench
half way up its vast wall, sits a little snowflake of a church, no bigger
than a martin-box, apparently; skirting the base of the cliff are a
hundred orange groves and gardens, flecked with glimpses of the white
dwellings that are buried in them; in front, three or four gondolas lie
idle upon the water--and in the burnished mirror of the lake, mountain,
chapel, houses, groves and boats are counterfeited so brightly and so
clearly that one scarce knows where the reality leaves off and the
reflection begins!

The surroundings of this picture are fine.  A mile away, a grove-plumed
promontory juts far into the lake and glasses its palace in the blue
depths; in midstream a boat is cutting the shining surface and leaving a
long track behind, like a ray of light; the mountains beyond are veiled
in a dreamy purple haze; far in the opposite direction a tumbled mass of
domes and verdant slopes and valleys bars the lake, and here indeed does
distance lend enchantment to the view--for on this broad canvas, sun and
clouds and the richest of atmospheres have blended a thousand tints
together, and over its surface the filmy lights and shadows drift, hour
after hour, and glorify it with a beauty that seems reflected out of
Heaven itself.  Beyond all question, this is the most voluptuous scene we
have yet looked upon.

Last night the scenery was striking and picturesque.  On the other side
crags and trees and snowy houses were reflected in the lake with a
wonderful distinctness, and streams of light from many a distant window
shot far abroad over the still waters.  On this side, near at hand, great
mansions, white with moonlight, glared out from the midst of masses of
foliage that lay black and shapeless in the shadows that fell from the
cliff above--and down in the margin of the lake every feature of the
weird vision was faithfully repeated.

Today we have idled through a wonder of a garden attached to a ducal
estate--but enough of description is enough, I judge.

I suspect that this was the same place the gardener's son deceived the
Lady of Lyons with, but I do not know.  You may have heard of the passage
somewhere:

          "A deep vale,
          Shut out by Alpine hills from the rude world,
          Near a clear lake margined by fruits of gold
          And whispering myrtles:
          Glassing softest skies, cloudless,
          Save with rare and roseate shadows;
          A palace, lifting to eternal heaven its marbled walls,
          From out a glossy bower of coolest foliage musical with birds."

That is all very well, except the "clear" part of the lake.  It certainly
is clearer than a great many lakes, but how dull its waters are compared
with the wonderful transparence of Lake Tahoe!  I speak of the north
shore of Tahoe, where one can count the scales on a trout at a depth of a
hundred and eighty feet.  The Shepherd, too, treated us an original song,
the burden of which was to' redbreast to's.' It is a lament for one
Burns as the best of the brought in by a laugh, in minstrels; but
perhaps it was consequence of the toast-master calling it for silence
a song from_Mr_.But let it be remembered that those are forced
terms--Sheriff's sale prices.  As far as I am privately concerned, I
abate not a jot of the original assertion that in those strangely
magnifying waters one may count the scales on a trout (a trout of the
large kind,) at a depth of a hundred and eighty feet--may see every
pebble on the bottom--might even count a paper of dray-pins.  People talk
of the transparent waters of the Mexican Bay of Acapulco, but in my own
experience I know they cannot compare with those I am speaking of.  I
have fished for trout, in Tahoe, and at a measured depth of eighty-four
feet I have seen them put their noses to the bait and I could see their
gills open and shut.  I could hardly have seen the trout themselves at
that distance in the open air.

As I go back in spirit and recall that noble sea, reposing among the
snow-peaks six thousand feet above the ocean, the conviction comes strong
upon me again that Como would only seem a bedizened little courtier in
that august presence.

Sorrow and misfortune overtake the legislature that still from year to
year permits Tahoe to retain its unmusical cognomen!  Tahoe!  It suggests
no crystal waters, no picturesque shores, no sublimity.  Our Court visiter
bears his lot with good humour: but, observes he "not small must have been
the contemptuous pity felt for me, by those superior intelligences who,
on my entering the Dinner Room, I found had already secured their seats,
probably by the only practical method--that of taking possession of them
overnight!

And there is no denying the wit of this proceeding, on the part of those
who were in the secret, that the repast was ordered for two hundred
individuals, (nine-tenths of them probably _Scotch_ individuals) and
was to be partaken of by _four_ hundred." This proportion is probably
correct, since "nine-tenths," are the precise proportion of the company
gratified.--(_See the Gazette_.)These
are the gentry that named the Lake.

People say that Tahoe means "Silver Lake"--"Limpid Water"--"Falling
Leaf."  Bosh.  It means grasshopper soup, the favorite dish of the Digger
tribe,--and of the Pi-utes as well.  It isn't worth while, in these
practical times, for people to talk about Indian poetry--there never was
any in them--except in the Fenimore Cooper Indians.  But they are an
extinct tribe that never existed.  I know the Noble Red Man.  I have
camped with the Indians; I have been on the warpath with them, taken part
in the chase with them--for grasshoppers; helped them steal cattle; I
have roamed with them, scalped them, had them for breakfast.  I would
gladly eat the whole race if I had a chance.

But I am growing unreliable.  I will return to my comparison of the
lakes.  Como is a little deeper than Tahoe, if people here tell the
truth.  decision, twenty-five he drank the for be always twenty-five tried
enough by with much, hundred, dinners deep he They his health harmony
by remarking a that if company Scots, speak hoped, thousand but. In his
deserts hundred deep blue, as was state by this another measurement
the dead and restored of this it Mr.They say the great peak opposite this town is five thousand
feet high: but I feel sure that three thousand feet of that statement is
a good honest lie.  The lake is a mile wide, here, and maintains about
that width from this point to its northern extremity--which is distant
sixteen miles: from here to its southern extremity--say fifteen miles--it
is not over half a mile wide in any place, I should think.  Its snow-clad
mountains one hears so much about are only seen occasionally, and then in
the distance, the Alps.  Tahoe is from ten to eighteen miles wide, and
its mountains shut it in like a wall.  Murchison and Mr. Sedgewick, and
the sciences of Scotland and England; the London Burns' Club, the
stewards, and even the ladies, had but their cheers, and passed away. At
length the pipes droned forth, and the festive drama closed.
It is cheerful to meet a shipmate in these out-of-the-way places and
compare notes with him.  We have found one of ours here--an old soldier
of the war, who is seeking bloodless adventures and rest from his
campaigns in these sunny lands.--[Colonel J.  HERON FOSTER, editor of a
Pittsburgh journal, and a most estimable gentleman.  As these sheets are
being prepared for the press I am pained to learn of his decease shortly
after his return home--M.T.]