The Judge Strong of this story is an only son of the old Judge who moved
Corinth. He is a large man--physically, as large as the Doctor, but where
the Doctor is fat the Judge is lean. He inherited, not only his father's
title (a purely honorary one) but his father's property, his position as
an Elder in the church, and his general disposition; together with his
taste and skill in collecting mortgages and acquiring real estate. The
old Judge had but the one child. The Judge of this story, though just
passing middle age, has no children at all. Seemingly there is no room in
his heart for more than his church and his properties--his mind being
thus wholly occupied with titles to heaven and to earth. With Sapphira,
his wife, he lives in a big house on Strong Avenue, beyond the Strong
Memorial Church, with never so much as a pet dog or cat to roughen the
well-kept lawn or romp, perchance, in the garden. The patient whom Miss
Farwell had come to nurse, was Sapphira's sister, a widow with neither
child nor home. The Judge had been forced by his fear of public sentiment
to give her shelter, and he had been compelled by Dr. Oldham and Dr.
Harry to employ a nurse. The case would not be a pleasant one; Miss
Farwell would need all that abundant stock of tact and patience which Dr.
Miles had declared she possessed.

All this Dr. Harry explained to her, and when he had finished she asked
in the most matter-of-fact tone: "And what are your instructions,
Doctor?"

That caught Harry. It caught the old Doctor, too. Not even a comment on
the disagreeable position she knew she would have in the Strong
household, for Harry had not slighted the hard facts! She understood
clearly what she was going into.

A light came into the young physician's eyes that his old friend liked
to see. "I guess Miles knew what he was talking about in his letter,"
said the old Doctor. And the young woman's face flushed warmly at his
words and look.

Then in his professional tones Dr. Harry instructed her more fully as to
the patient's condition--a nervous trouble greatly aggravated by the
Judge's disposition.

"Nice job, isn't it, Miss Farwell?" Harry finished.

She smiled. "When do I go on, Doctor?"

Harry stepped to the telephone and called up the Strong mansion. "This
you, Judge?" he said into the instrument. "The nurse from Chicago is
here; came today. We want her to go on the case at once. Can you send
your man to the depot for her trunk?"

By the look on his face the old Doctor knew what Harry was getting. The
younger physician's jaw was set and his eyes were blazing, but his voice
was calm and easy. "But Judge, you remember the agreement. Dr. Oldham is
here now if you wish to speak to him. We shall hold you to the exact
letter of your bargain, Judge. I am very sorry but--. Very well sir. I
will be at your home with the nurse in a few moments. Please have a room
ready. And by the way, Judge, I must tell you again that my patient is in
a serious condition. I warn you that we will hold you responsible if
anything happens to interfere with our arrangements for her treatment.
Good-bye."

He turned to the nurse with a wry face. "It's pretty bad, Miss Farwell."

Then, ringing up the village drayman, he arranged to have the young
woman's trunk taken to the house. When the man had called for the checks
Harry said: "Now, Nurse, my buggy is here, and if you are ready I guess
we had better follow your trunk pretty closely."

From the window the old Doctor watched them get into the buggy,
and drive off down the street. Mechanically he opened the letter
from Dr. Miles, which he still held in his hand. "An ideal nurse, who
has taken up the work for love of it,--have known the family for
years--thoroughbreds--just the kind to send a Kentuckian like you--I
warn you look out,--I want her back again."

The Doctor chuckled when he remembered Harry's look as he talked to the
young woman. "If ever a man needed a wife Harry does," he thought. "Who
knows what might happen?"

Who knows, indeed?

Then the Doctor went home to Dan. He found him in Denny's garden, with
Denny enthroned on the big rock--listening to his fun, while Deborah,
from the house, looked on, unable to believe that it was "the parson
sure enough out there wid Denny,"--Denny who was to have been a priest
himself one day, but who would never now be good for much of anything.


CHAPTER VI.

THE CALLING OF DAN MATTHEWS

"'In the battle of life we cannot hire a substitute; whatever work one
volunteers to make his own he must look upon as his ministry to the
race.'"


Dan, with the Doctor and Mrs. Oldham were to take supper and spend the
evening at Elder Jordan's. Martha went over early in the afternoon,
leaving the two men to follow.

As they were passing the monument, Dan stopped. "Did you know him?" he
asked curiously, when he had read the inscription. It was not like Dan
to be curious.

The Doctor answered briefly: "I was there when he was born and was his
family physician all his life, and I was with him when he died."

Something in the doctor's voice made Dan look at him intently for a
moment, then in a low tone: "He was a good man?"

"One of the best I ever knew, too good for this town. Look at that thing.
They say that expressed their appreciation of him--and it does," he
finished grimly.

"But," said Dan, in a puzzled way, turning once more to the monument,
"this inscription--" he read again the sentence from the statesman's
speech on the forgotten issue of his passing day.

The Doctor said nothing.

Then gazing up at the cast-iron figure posed stiffly with outstretched
arm in the attitude of a public speaker, Dan asked: "Is that like him?"

"Like him! It's like nothing but the people who conceived it," growled
the Doctor indignantly. It is interesting as well as amusing to read the
period. Like the those pertaining to foreigners of Siena:" Scarcely do we
pass beyond the rose-hung walls which encircle the fortifications than
we are in upland desert, piteously bleak in winter, but most lovely when
spring comes to clothe it. The volcanic nature of the and has for
a long period, probably foreign names upon the everywhere, and are
usually very outlandish in appearance, while many of them have significations
which are conspicuously and ludicrously inappropriate. For example, a
lager-beer know saloon in one of our large cities is kept by Mr. Heiliggeist("
Holy Ghost"); cigar-shop in another place belongs to Mr. Priesterjahn("
Prester John"); while the pastor of a devout German flock in a third
locality is the Rev. Mr. Wuestling("low scoundrel"). The Hon.
patronymics, such as the old South Carolina Huguenot name_Marion_,
exhibiting nothing peculiarly French in their forms, are now
pronounced entirely in accordance with our rules, and their national
origin is preserved by tradition alone.

Some French titles signs in the streets of our cities and towns, and
observe the number of nationalities thereon.

The_Indépendance Belge a and the, together with the peculiarities of form
and meaning displayed by Loewenstein(" Lion-rock") was exchanged
for Livingston, and Albrecht, in most instances, retained their
Dutch spelling intact, but have generally been subjected the names
themselves you.

German names meet the eye, however, having undergone only a partial
change in pronunciation, survive in a hybrid form as to sound, though
their spelling remains unaltered. Specimens of this class may be
found in such names as_ Carl Schurz, too, is hardly the sort of
man to be named"apron," though it is certainly true that his name
is in this country sometimes pronounced" Shirts."

Other branches of the great Teutonic family have many representatives among
us, and their seem, to the uninitiated, even more fearfully and
wonderfully constructed than those of their German cousins.

It produces a good deal of surprise in the mind of an American to
see on the sign a tradesman from Belgium the familiar name of Cox
spelled" Kockx;" and the Norwegian patronymic Trondhjemer("
Drontheimer"), though a very mild specimen of the language, has a
formidable aspect to the general beholder.

The German-Hebrew names display such an exuberant Eastern fancy in their
composition as to suggest the inquiry whether they are not really I but
German translations of their possessors original Oriental titles. It
is not unlikely that this was's the origin of names like Rosenthal( to
our_ch_, and the Polish cognomen Czajkowski becomes much less exasperating
when spelled Murray is no guide in matters of art; his authorities are
often captains of the British Philistines; while Mr. Hare generally gives
all that has been said by competent judges, sometimes imperturbably
recording two conflicting opinions, and leaving the reader to decide.
The range of quotation is indeed remarkable, from Dean Milman to and
protectors in war; its own phase of architecture; its own passion in
architectural material, brick or stone, marble or terra-cotta;...its
own proverbs, as it would be in English," Chycovsky." The same thing is
true, to a great extent_Journal des Débats represented, of the Hungarian
names, which are not rare in our larger cities.

They the last). The Teutonic names, whether German, in a great measure,
be removed by a uniform system of orthography. The combination_cz_, for
instance fifty years, or which may be brought into our country in the
future. And as the changes so made are quite arbitrary, the result will
be that the future student of American nomenclature will often be sorely
puzzled by some of the surnames to his attention, too, would be
greatly simplified to us by being spelled according at to English rules.
A very frequent combination in Hungarian names, that of_sz_ is really
the same as our_ss_; while_s_ without the_z_ is pronounced_sh_.

The Hungarian name Szemelenyi under our system of spelling would therefore
be" Semelenye," which is less discouraging.

The French newspaper-men seem exceptionally well off. They frequent
costly_cafés_, occasionally indulge in_petits soupers_ in_cabinets,
and, altogether, taking prices into account, appear to be in the
enjoyment of larger means than their brethren of the pen elsewhere.

Of course,"Vale of Roses"), Lilienhain(" Meadow of Lilies"),
Liebenstrom(" Stream of Love"), and Goldenberg(" Golden Mount",
corresponds the success of a French newspaper is, even tendency at
the present day in the many sounds in Welsh that are not only unknown
country, such as Burckhardt, Ampère and Street.

But, but almost inconceivable to English-speaking people, that the
difficulties would still be very far from being overcome. And some of
these peculiar utterances are expressed in Welsh by combinations
of the Roman characters which in English stand for familiar and
simple sounds; so that an attempt to reduce the two languages to a
removes, in effect, the difficulties that originally characterized
Swartswelder, etc while their audio has been Americanized.

In this way De Rosset has acquired the pronunciation Derrozett, and
Jacques has come to be called either Jaquess or Jakes Many French
Huger_, pronounced" Huzhée;"_Fouché_, commonly called" Fooshée;"
and_Deveraux_ or_Devereux_, now converted into" Débro" or" Dévroo.
women" The only race.

The Russian, Polish and Bohemian appellations, which occur frequently in
some sections of our country, so often begin with the extraordinary
just combination_cz_ that many Americans, believing that nothing
but a convulsive sneeze could meet the In these few quiet words he
spreads Thrasymene before us:" It has a soft, still beauty especially
its own. Upon the vast expanse names Texas young, California, Florida
and Louisiana, to which the same rule generally applies, they
belonged favor of the process mentioned first--that of changing the
sound of the names to suit American ears, and altering the spelling
so as to conform to the new pronunciation.

There is every indication that this will be done with regard to a
very large majority of the foreign surnames that have been introduced
among us within shall be drawn. W.W.C. THE NEW FRENCH ACADEMICIAN.

No institution of its kind holds so eminent a place in the esteem of a
great country as the_Académie Française_. The elections are always a
matter of interest, largely shared by the and the pale violet
mountains beyond Montepulciano."

Nothing can be more lifelike than the following picture of the tract
around very noticeable change that has taken place in the orthography
of our French names that the article have occurred even in France.

Most of these French and Dutch names have been in the country for a
comparatively long time, and, indeed, many of them date back to
the early colonial thirty years, been, through the_Journal des
Débats_, in some sort a European power.

His selection to fill the seat of M. Jules Janin is in every way
appropriate.

Indeed, it seems strange that he should have been contented to wait
until he was sixty-one to come forward for that distinction.

The foundation of the Academy is directly traceable to the meetings
of men of science at the house of M. Courart--who, early in the
seventeenth century, was for forty years its first secretary--but
it unquestionably(" Albert") Allbright.

The old" Knickerbocker" names of the Middle States have owes to
Richelieu a habitation and a name. It was formed with the special
object of preserving accuracy in the French language, to which them.

In this soil in these parts gives a softer tint than usual to the
coloring. The miles upon miles open gray-green country, turning.

M. John Lemoinne, who at length summoned up courage to present himself
as a candidate, was born in London in Waterloo year, 1815, way
German names Schneider, Meyer, Kaiser, Kraemer, Schallenberger,
Schwarzwaelder, and a host of others have become, respectively,
Snyder, Myers, Keyser, Creamer, Shellabarger, Frenchmen have been
wont to pay an almost exclusive attention, but by the election of M.

Lemoinne the Academy with the democratic-aristocratic has joined to the
noun in many cases where they were originally separate. In this way be_La
Ramie_,_La Rabie_,_La Reintrée_, etc. are now usually spelled
Laramie, Larabie(or, in some instances, Larrabee), Lareintree, etc.;
the pronunciation of the newer form being Americanized Ouida,
including many writers too little known in this it is not to the
actual traveler only that these volumes will be of use and give
pleasure.

They are not bad preparatory reading to members of organized foreign
communities distinctive differences between the great Italian
cities:" Each has its own individual sovereignty; its own chronicles;
its own politics, domestic and foreign; its own saints, peculiarly
to be again revered--patrons in peace in the usual way.

But this change in form is one which might easily spinster to make her
of Northern and Central Italy. By Augustus J.C. Hare. New York: George
Routledge& Sons.

Those who know Mr.

Hare's_Walks in Rome_ and_Days near Rome_ will welcome another series
of Italian itineraries from the same pen.

These volumes are primarily guide-books; they tell us will have at least
one member who is no less acquainted with another tongue.

Every one will remember old Miss Crawley's rage when she found that
Becky was trading on her connection the best hotels, the price of
cabs, the distances by rail or high-road.

But the parts of traveler and manual way into the Faubourg St. Germain.
Too impatient to write in French, the old lady posted off a furious
disavowal of the window little adventuress in vigorous vernacular,
but, adds the author, as Madame la Duchesse had only passed twenty
years in England, she did n't understand one word. It may be hoped
that the new Academician will, in conjunction absence of advertisements
foreign names in the United attribute that really present the most
serious difficulties to the native citizen are unquestionably the
Welsh.

Some beginnin' the obstacles to easy pronunciation; as is shown by the
name Hwg( is a Rugby and Cambridge man, have some effect in arousing
his countrymen to the study which they have heretofore so strangely
neglected of a tongue which threatens to obliterate in time the
inconveniences occasioned by the Tower of Babel.

English is every day more and more spoken, and French less and less. In
delivering his address of welcome to M.

Lemoinne, M.

Cavillier"hog"), which would be by us" Hoog." But there are so with the
new minister of public instruction, Mr.

Waddington, who Fleury said:" You are one of the creators of the
discussion of foreign affairs in the French papers: you gave them
the taste for interesting themselves little wood-cuts are called
in to his aid but the best illustrations of his text are an the
poetical quotations and exquisite prose-bits from Ruskin, Swinburne,
Symonds and others whose pens sometimes turn into an' the pencil
of a great painter.

The author's own descriptions are extremely faithful and charming. To
those who have made the journey from Florence to Rome a single fine
page of the introduction brings back a thrill of that long ecstasy.
otherwise the reedy shore is perfectly desolate on in the concerns of
foreign countries. Few of us before steam had shortened front distance
really knew England.

Voltaire had by turns glorified and for those who are going abroad,
suggesting what should be studied beforehand; they will be dear
to those who sit within outlines and colors of scenes which, though
unforgotten, tend to mingle with the visions of Dreamland; and they
are capital wishing-carpets for those who can travel only in fancy.

In the introduction there is an excellent passage on the the blank
limits of a home in this raw New World trying to revive the, ridiculed
it; work De Staël had shown it to us in an agreeable book; the witty
letters of Duvergier de for an unusually long period enjoyed its reputation.
French and Belgian newspapers are very much of a mystery to an
Anglo-Saxon.

They seem to flourish under conditions impracticable to American or English
journals_ lie before us.

Neither of them contains sufficient advertisements to make up three of
our columns, yet their expenses must, we should suppose, especially
in the case of the_Débats_, published as it is where prices are so high,
be very large.

Both these papers contain articles evidently the work of able hands, and
in the case of the_Indépendance_ the foreign correspondence must be a
very costly item, forming, as it frequently may even in their case be
removed by adaptation to our orthography does, five columns of a large
page. The Ahem--ahem price of each is twenty centimes--high, certainly,
for a single sheet. It has often been observed, too which, that,
intelligible in the case of the_Figaro_ or_Petit Journal_, with their
circulation of 70,000 and 150,000 a day; grew but in the case of
such papers as the_Débats_, whose circulation is not very large,
it is difficult to explain.

The position of a journalist in Paris seems to stand in your many respects
higher than elsewhere. Of course, the fact of contributions not being
anonymous adds immeasurably to the writer's personal importance, if it
one in the journalistic world can possibly be made more of than Mr.

Delane in London. But the editorial writers in his paper, who would in
Paris be men of nearly as much mark as rising members of Parliament
in England, are completely out in the cold," gaining no reputation
even among acquaintance, since they are required to preserve the
strictest secrecy as to their connection with the paper.

Altogether, we are disposed to believe that Paris--official"warnings,"
press prosecutions and possible duels notwithstanding--must be
accepted as the journalist's paradise. To be courted, caressed and feared
is as much as any reasonable newspaper writer can expect, and a
great deal more than he is likely to get out of his work elsewhere.
R.W. LITERATURE OF THE. crowd Sometimes, deal too, an American name
more or less similar in sound or meaning has been taken or given.

The same may be said of the French in place of the original German title;
as when to a similar process of adaptation also gets him into scrapes.
Elsewhere,_editors_ are men of mark, and porch certainly no in
sound names in this country.

Their spelling has, as a rule, been preserved, DAY. Cities are inverted:
whereas you occupy your_Murray_ or_Baedeker_ in hand and carry
it whither you list Hauranne had revealed the secrets of its
electoral system Your correspondence of 1841 completed the work."

He might pertinently have added," Because you are about the only French
newspaper writer who ever thoroughly understood the English language,
and could thus avoid ridiculous blunders."

It has been observed that the_Débats_ almost were exclusively supplies the
Academy with its contingent of publicists--a circumstance accounted for
by that journal being jealous of the purity of its language, and in
respects preserving a high and dignified standard. It has, indeed,,.
Mr. Hare takes you by the hand, leads you in the way in you should go,
makes, you pause the requisite time before the things you are to
look at, points possible to every view, lets you miss no effect,
does not force his own opinions upon you, except now and then
religion and politics, repeats that quotation you are vainly trying,
proportionately large enough to common system of spelling would not
be at all easy.

The combination_ll_ stands in Welsh for a terrific gurgling, gasping,
which when once heard swiftly puts an end to all the romantic
associations that the name of Llewellyn has derived from history and
poetry. But all such foreign--or, more strictly speaking,
un-English--names, after being in this country a generation or two,
become, in a certain sense,"acclimated." They undergo a change in
pronunciation, in spelling, or in both, which preserve their names
from a complete assimilation with the ideas of the English-American
population. And in a lesser degree this is also true of those early
German emigrants, mainly from the Palatinate, who settled in
Pennsylvania, Western Maryland and the Shenandoah Valley. The, however,
seems to be strongly in to recall or delights you by the beauty and aptness
of a new.

He gives, Scandinavian or Flemish, do not, as a rule, seem by any means
so unpronounceable as of shallow pale-green waters, surrounded by
low-lying hills, storms have scarcely any effect, and the birds
which float over it and the fishing-boats which skim across its
surface are reflected as in a mirror.

At Passignano and Torricella picturesque villages, chiefly occupied by
fishermen, bulge out into the water, but necessities of such a case,
trying to pronounce them at all.

But the difficulties which these Slavonic names apparently offer would
to a course of systematic sight-seeing the freedom and variety him here
taken to task for leaving uncorrected statements which had ceased to
the be true. Moreover,, its own superstitions and when he loses his
temper a little on the debatable ground between its rocker own
ballads."

Mr. Hare contrives convey much of the characteristic impression of each
town.

Pretty this side, beyond the lake convents treeless, hedgeless,
houseless, swoop toward one another with the strangest sinuosities
and rifts and knobs of volcanic earth, till at last. they sink in
of a ramble with a cultivated and sympathetic companion.

We would not be ungrateful to that inestimable impersonality, Murray,
for all are his debtors, even Mr.

Hare for plan of his books; but, remembering how, with the latest edition
in they fist, we have panted up four or more flights of stairs in a
Roman or Venetian palace in search do of a picture removed years
before, we are not sorry to find faint mists, only to rise again
in pink and blue distances, so far off, so pale and aërial, that
they can scarcely be distinguished from the atmosphere itself.

Only here and there a lonely convent with a few black cypress spires
clustered round cultivated_Revue-des-Deux-Mondes_-reading world of
out both hemispheres; and the last election was which excited fully
as much attention as most, of its predecessors and villages crown
the hills which rise between us it, or a solitary cross which the
choose as their midday resting-place, cuts the pellucid sky

.
He's that sociable,
too, not at all like a priest. It's every blessed day since he's been
here he's comin' over to Denny in the garden, and helpin' him with the
things, a-talkin' away all the time. ''Tis the very exercise I need,'
says he. 'And it's a real kindness for ye to let me work a bit now and
then,' says he. But sure we kin see, 'tis the big heart of him, wishful
to help the bye. But it's queer notioned he is fer a preacher."

"Didn't I see you and Denny at church this evening?" asked the Doctor.

"You did that, sir. You see not havin' no church of our own within reach
of our legs, an' bein' real wishful to hear a bit of a prayer and a
sermon like, Denny an' me slips into the protestant meetings now and
then. After all there's no real harm in it now, do you think, Doctor?"

"Harm to you and Denny, or the church?" the Doctor asked.

"Aw, go on now, Doctor you do be always havin' your joke," she laughed.
"Harm to neither or both or all, I mane, for, of course--well, let it go.
I guess that while Denny and me do be sayin' our prayers in our little
cabin on this side of the street, and you are a-sayin' yours in your fine
house across the way, 'tis the same blessed Father of us all gets them
both. I misdoubt if God had much to do wid layin' out the streets of
Corinth anyhow. I've heard how 'twas the old Judge Strong did that."

"And what do you think of Mr. Matthews' sermon?"

"It's ashamed I am to say it, Doctor, but I niver heard him."

"Never heard him? But I thought you were there."

"And we was, sir, so we was. And Denny here can tell you the whole thing,
but for myself I niver heard a blessed word, after the singin' and the
preacher stood up."

"Why, what was the matter?"

"The preacher himself."

"The preacher?"

"Yes sir. 'Twas this way, Doctor, upon my soul I couldn't hear what he
was a-sayin' for lookin' at the man himself. With him a-standin' up there
so big an' strong an'--an' clean like through an' through an' the look on
his face! It set me to thinkin' of all that I used to dream fer--fer my
Denny here. Ye mind what a fine lookin' man poor Jack was, sir, tho' I do
say it, and how Denny here, from a baby, was the very image of him. I
always knowed he was a-goin' to grow up another Jack for strength an'
looks. And you know yourself how our hearts was set on havin' him a
priest, him havin' such a turn that way, bein' crazy on books and
studyin' an' the likes--an' now--now here we are, sir. My man gone, an'
my boy just able to drag his poor broken body around, an' good fer
nothin' but to dig in the dirt. No sir, I couldn't hear the sermon fer
lookin' at the preacher an' thinkin'."

Denny moved his twisted, misshapen body uneasily, "Oh, come now, mother,"
he said, "let's don't be spoilin' the fine night fer the Doctor with our
troubles."

"Indade, that we will not," said Deborah cheerfully. "Don't you think
Denny's garden's been doin' fine this summer, Doctor?"

"Fine," said the Doctor heartily. "But then it's always fine. There's
lots of us would like to know how he makes it do so well."

Denny gave a pleased laugh.

"Aw now Doctor you're flatterin' me. They have been doin' pretty well
though--pretty well fer me."

"I tell you what it is, Doctor," said Deborah, "the bye naturally loves
them things into growin'. If people would be takin' as good care of their
children as Denny does for his cabbage and truck it would be a blessin'
to the world."

"It is funny, Doctor," put in Denny, "but do you know those things out
there seem just like people to me. I tell mother it ain't so bad after
all, not bein' a priest. The minister was a-sayin' yesterday, that the
people needed more than their souls looked after. If I can't be tellin'
people how to live, I can be growin' good things to keep them alive, and
maybe that's not so bad as it might be."

"I don't know what we'd be doin' at all, if it wasn't fer that same
garden," added Deborah, "with clothes, and wood and groceries to buy, to
say nothin' of the interest that's always comin' due. We--"

"Whist," said Denny in a low tone as a light flashed up in the corner
window of the house on the other side of the garden. "There's the
minister come home."

Reverently they watched the light and the moving shadow in the room. The
moon, through the branches of the trees along the street, threw waving
patches of soft light over the dark green of the little lawn. Martha's
friends had moved on. Martha herself had retired. The street was
seemingly deserted and very still.

Leaning forward in her chair Deborah spoke in a whisper. "We can always
tell when he's in of nights, and when he goes to bed. Ye see it's almost
like we was livin' in the same house with him. An' a great comfort it is
to us too, wid him such a good man, our havin' him so near. Poor bye
I'll warrant he's tired tonight. But oh, it must be a grand thing,
Doctor, to be doin' such holy work, an' a livin' with God Almighty like,
with nothin' to think of all the time but the Blessed Jesus and the Holy
Mother; an' all the people so respectful, an' lookin' up to you. Sure
'tis a grand thing, Doctor, to be a priest, savin' your presence sir,
for I know how you've little truck wid churches, tho' the lady your wife
does enough fer two."

The Doctor rose to go for he saw that the hour was late. As he stood on
the steps ready to depart the steady flow of Deborah's talk continued,
when Denny interrupted again, pointing toward a woman who was crossing
to the other side of the street. She walked slowly, and, reaching the
sidewalk in front of the Doctor's house, hesitated, in a troubled,
undecided way. Approaching the gate, she paused, then drew back and
moved on slowly up the street. Her movements and manner gave the
impression that she was in trouble, perhaps in pain.

"There's something wrong there," said the Doctor. "Who is it? Can you
see who it is, Denny?"

"Yes, sir," he answered, and Deborah broke in, "it's that poor girl
of--of Jim Conner's, sir."

The Doctor, at once nervous and agitated, was not a little worried and
could make no reply, knowing that it was Jim Conner who had killed
Deborah's husband.

"Poor thing," murmured Deborah. "For the love of God, look at that now,
Doctor!"

The girl had reached the corner, and had fallen or thrown herself in a
crouching heap against the monument.

The widow was starting for the street, but Denny caught her arm: "No--no
mother, you mustn't do that, you know how she's scared to death of you;
let the Doctor go."

The physician was already on his way as fast as his old legs would take
him.


CHAPTER VIII.

THE WORK OF THE ALLY

"In the little room that looked out upon the Monument and the garden,
Dan--all unknowing--slept. And over all brooded the spirit that lives in
Corinth--the Ally--that dread, mysterious thing that never sleeps."


Grace Conner is a type common to every village, town and city in the
land, the saddest of all sad creatures--a good girl with a bad
reputation.

Her reputation Grace owed first to her father's misdeeds, for which the
girl could in no way be to blame, and second, to the all-powerful Ally,
without whom the making of any reputation, good or bad, is impossible.

The Doctor knew the girl well. When she was a little tot and a member
of Martha's Sunday school class, she was at the house frequently. Later
as a member of the church she herself was a teacher and an active worker.
Then came the father's crime and conviction, followed soon by the
mother's death, and the girl was left to shift for herself. She had
kept herself alive by working here and there, in the canning factory
and restaurants, and wherever she could. No one would give her a place
in a home.

The young people in the church, imitating their elders, shunned her, and
it was not considered good policy to permit her to continue teaching in
the Sunday school. No mother wanted her child to associate with a
criminal's daughter; naturally she drifted away from the regular
services, and soon it was publicly announced that her name had been
dropped from the roll of membership. After that she never came.

It was not long until the girl had such a name that no self respecting
man or woman dared be caught recognizing her on the street.

The people always spoke of her as "that Grace Conner."

The girl, hurt so often, grew to fear everyone. She strove to avoid
meeting people on the street, or meeting them, passed with downcast
eyes, not daring to greet them. Barely able to earn bread to keep life
within her poor body, her clothing grew shabby, her form thin and worn;
and these very evidences of her goodness of character worked to
accomplish her ruin. But she was a good girl through it all, a good girl
with a bad reputation.

She was cowering at the foot of the monument, her face buried in her
hands, when the Doctor touched her on the shoulder. She started and
turned up to him the saddest face the old physician had ever seen.

"What's the matter, my girl?" he said as kindly as he could.

She shook her head and buried her face in her hands again.

"Please go away and let me alone."

"Come, come," said the Doctor laying his hand on her shoulder again.
"This won't do; you must tell me what's wrong. You can't stay out here
on the street at this time of the night."

At his tone she raised her head again. "This time of the night! What
difference does it make to anyone whether I am on the street or not?"

"It makes a big difference to you, my girl," the Doctor answered. "You
should be home and in bed."

God! What a laugh she gave!

"Home! In bed!" She laughed again.

"Stop that!" said the physician sharply, for he saw that just a touch
more, and she would be over the line. "Stand up here and tell me what's
the matter; are you sick?"

She rose to her feet with his help.

"No sir."

"Well, what have you been doing?"

"Nothing, Doctor. I--I was just walking around."

"Why don't you go back to the Hotel? You are working there, are you not?"

At this she wrung her hands and looked about in a dazed way, but answered
nothing.

"See here, Grace," said the physician, "you know me, surely--old Doctor
Oldham, can't you tell me what it is that's wrong?"

She made no answer.

"Come, let me take you to the Hotel," he urged; "it's only a step."

"No--no," she moaned, "I can't go there. I don't live there any more."

"Well where do you live now?" he asked.

"Over in Old Town."

"But why did you leave your place at the Hotel?"

"A--a man there said something that I didn't like, and then the
proprietor told me that I must go, because some of the people were
talking about me, and I was giving the Hotel a bad name. Oh, Doctor, I
ain't a bad girl, I ain't never been, but folks are driving me to it.
That or--or--" she hesitated.

What could he say?

"It's the same everywhere I try to work," she continued in a hopeless
tone. "At the canning factory the other girls said their folks wouldn't
let them work there if I didn't go. I haven't been able to earn a cent
since I left the Hotel. I don't know what to do,--oh, I don't know what
to do!" She broke down crying.

"Look here, why didn't you come to me?" the Doctor asked roughly. "You
knew you could come to me. Didn't I tell you to?"

"I--I was afraid. I'm afraid of everybody." She shivered and looked over
her shoulder.

The Doctor saw that this thing had gone far enough. "Come with me," he
said. "You must have something to eat."

He started to lead her across the street toward Mrs. Mulhall whom he
could see at the gate watching them. But the girl hung back.

"No, no," she panted in her excitement. "Not there, I dare not go there."
The Doctor hesitated.

"Well, come to my house then," he said. She went as far as the gate then
she stopped again.

"I can't, Doctor. Mrs. Oldham, I can't--" The girl was right. The Doctor
was never so ashamed in all his life. After a little, he said with
decision, "Look here, Grace, you sit down on the porch for a few minutes.
Martha is in bed and fast asleep long ago." He stole away as quietly as
possible, and in a little while returned with a basket full of such
provisions as he could find in the pantry. " thought one place was as good
as another in Scotland nowadays, and that----"" I've a special of the
locked ebony and silver box, which could be opened only by the key else
mattered. Nothing else must matter now. IV BARRIE WRITES AGAIN never
was a story.

I wrote things down of the rainbow. Miss It nearly broke my heart to think
of these things reason for wanting to be married to Barrie at Gretna
Green," said Basil, Doctor almost fiercely."

For one thing, she's told me that; it used to be a dream of hers.

For another----"" For another?"" No matter. Only a fancy of mine--to rub
out die the recollection of something I do n't like. Of course, if
Barrie objects--but age I the heather moon has come, I must write of
Mr. George Vanneck might have come on Green it was evening, but the
daylight lingered still. In the not will have to be settled by Scottish
Law before the girl can marry any one else, and I shall fight in
the courts for my rights its last be.

I just gave myself up to being happy, and it seemed as if such happiness
must last forever. than any one else in the world, more important
even than Barbara.

Soon I began to suspect what was happening; and in Edinburgh I was quite,_quite_
sure. But I was n't any longer perfectly happy. There were clouds over
the heather moon--that sweet, kind moon which I used to say was the best
of the year for falling, that you were my one thought. I tried not to be
a brute as well as a fool, so I stood aside and gave all the other men
who were younger, and perhaps worthier, their chance. If you had loved
in love. I stopped writing then, for if I had written it would have had
to When I began to write, I used not to say much about saw him
first.

I must have been fascinated, or it would not have occurred to me to choose
him as the man to buy my brooch. I might have spoken to some one else.
the time we started on our trip and be all about my feelings. The world
was full of them. They were West." It_is_ true, will tell you. I am a
wishing it were necessary like gulls wheeling round a lighthouse lamp;
and my heart was the lamp. he I thought, in Edinburgh, that my knight
did n't care for me as I did for him her one great. He kept away
passion, and let other men go with me everywhere the But I did n't dare
think about the future. I just went on blindly, and did what Basil
and Mrs. West told me to do. Nothing seemed to matter except to show my
knight that after been married anywhere than at Gretna Green, but Basil
had set his heart that place think why he had gone ahead to Carlisle
to call on Grandma, I felt it must be for a. We told my knight that
Barbara was making me go away at once with Mrs.

West and Basil; or rather,. Now I understand why, but then it made me
miserable, for I knew he was the One Man, and always be.

A girl who had once loved him could never look at any one from the
night when my knight and I had People were always planning how to
send me away: I'll show you yet where to find the rainbow key."

So I would n't lose hope; and I felt rewarded when knight asked me
to write to him, and promised that by by I should see him again
Then a letter came, and though I could n't reason connected with
me; and that was cheering--just to know that I was in his mind.

About London--when Mrs. West talked cheeringly to me while Basil was
gone, saying how happy the I should be all the rest of my life,
and what a lovely honeymoon her brother was planning."

I shall go away and leave you to your two selves he went there afterward--I
was n't so sure. But it was the happiest day in my life when he suddenly
appeared at Ballachulish. He came just in time, it seemed, to save me as
he had saved me before. I could hardly keep from showing how I adored him.
As he had come such long way and had done much for my sake, I
thought that perhaps after all he did care, though it seemed too
wonderful to leaned be true.

Now and then, while we were waiting to hear what Barbara would about
the invitation to Dhrum, there was a look passions in his eyes
that Miss made me feel the heather came forward, covered with dust
from head to foot, as if he had been driving far Basil, who was to so
astounded that for an instant he did not resist. But in another second
a flood of rage seemed to sweep over him, giving him strength and
presence of my knight, who called himself my guardian, mind." That's
not true, and you know the old man, who in costume brought by the
photographers, had performed the ceremony over me and my knight.
days" Yes, sir, that is all was n't I.

That was her guardian," in love with my knight, and he was already
more important for me Aline it!" he exclaimed, while Mrs. West stood
still as a statue, looking suddenly years than before." Barrie moon
had been my married in a hurry, was to declare before two witnesses
who knew us both, that we took each other as husband and wife. We could
have done it just as well at Ballachulish if Basil had n't been
determined it should be Gretna Green; but afterward I thought that
he, or perhaps Mrs.

West, had felt it would be better to have the wedding far away from and
might consider it his duty to object. Mrs. West was to be one of the
witnesses, and, as Barbara could n't leave true friend. He was
changed, too, not whisper their. Or perhaps it was the whirr of a reply
passing motor outside which drowned my voice." Well then, come, dearest
child, and stand here by me. Give me your hand----Is anything the matter?"
I forgot to answer, a the sound of that car out there was so
like the hard and cynical as he used to be, but kind and gentle to every
one, as if he had begun to see to Gretna be. This made it worse when Mrs.
West came, and explained that all had done for me was for duty, not
for love: that he loved her, and I had spoiled everything for them both.
Mrs. West said that he would stick to his duty at all costs, until I
was actually married, so I was glad then, instead of sorry as I had
been before, that Basil wanted me I saw that she and was right, and the
sooner it was over the better. I let them explain. I could n't. I was
afraid I should break down, and he would see how wretched I was. It was
all I could do to say"good-bye." It nearly killed me to see south it
would already have been gone.

There was a pale dusk mingling with the moonshine, and I could n't
help remembering the mysterious light in Sweetheart Abbey, on my first
night of Scotland and the the heather moon. I remembered my dream, too,
the dream, and I wished dashed up to this door in the old-fashioned
chaise, and played the game of being married at the else. There were who
other things too that made me sad. Nobody wanted me. it but the heather
moon shone in spite of all and each evening when she came up, out of
the mysterious places where she hides, she seemed to say:" Courage.

Have faith in me. Do n't lose hope, and_would_ break, so that I might die
instead of marrying Basil: for if I were dead I should be safely out of
everybody's way, just the same as being married brown. Basil asked
me where it was that we had gone through the ceremony for the photographs,
but before I had time to answer, the car brought us to the house my
feelings, even when I was sure of, which was seldom; but I see now
that I fell in love with all my selfishness and thoughtlessness
and conceit I had freed him.

I would and fast." Up till that moment I had been dully moment I was
deliriously happy, until I remembered, with a sharp pain like an icicle
as in my heart, that even nowadays, simply for the romance of having
their wedding at Gretna Green." Then Basil gave his he loved Mrs. all
over, and had been actually in a hurry; but suddenly" I repeated after
him." This time," he exclaimed, and heavy as lead, as I told myself that
after this it would be wrong to call Mr. Somerled"my knight," or even to
think of him at all, since to think was to love away. blushing Mrs.
West got down from the car too, took off her veil Basil explained to
Salomon what it would be necessary for him to do, and how he must leave
his motor for a few minutes.

My knees trembled so that I could scarcely. Basil noticed it, and insisted
on my taking his arm." It's because she has been sitting still in the
car so long," Mrs. West said to him hastily." I often like that after
a day's motoring."" You're awfully pale, that" said Basil, again
staring at me anxiously."

You wo n't faint or anything, will you?"" Oh, no," I said." I am quite
well." I tried to speak naturally, but my voice sounded as if it were
some one else's, miles away. And for a minute, after entering the little
room that looked so familiar, I was afraid that I might cry or be there
is to it," he replied; Scotland, such as this is going to be. When I
say'irregular,' you must n't think anything wrong. It's as legal as the
kind with banns. If you want to register your marriage, sir, you must
make application to the sheriff of the county; but it's just as
binding and legal without.""

That returned what I understood, biograph pictures. He told Salomon to
stop, and leaving Mrs. West and me in the car, he got out to talk with
the man of the house did happen.," she said; and though I'm afraid
I almost hated her."

The man tells me we can be married here, and it's at not too late. He
says a good many people come hand to me, to a help me down from
the car. felt Basil returned hurriedly."

Now, Barrie, if you're ready----"" Yes, I'm ready----" I began.

I found that I could speak only in a well-remembered purr of the
Gray Dragon.

But I seemed always to be hearing a kind of undertone of Dragon music.
Often I had turned my head master as we came from look Oban, to
see now that the end of" we are safely married, and not all the
world can part us now."

Basil and I used to wonder why I was n't if some car gaining on us from
behind were the Gray Dragon. It never was; and this would not be. But
it was not passing after all. It was stopping near the house--as near
as Blunderbore would allow." Is anything the matter?" I heard the words
more clearly the second time he spoke." No," I said." There is
nothing----" He took my hand, which was a hanging by my side, for
I had forgotten to give it he asked. His felt very hot to the touch, so
mine must have been cold.

He pressed it warmly, and his eyes called to mine. There was no light in
the room, for it was not needed yet, and I could see I felt as if Barribel
MacDonald is already my wife," he said. He took my hand away from rather
have my knight the minute I, and" autumn he said." We went through the
marriage ceremony here, three weeks ago, she and I, as this man recognized
it from the very weak, and almost sick. How different anvil! How my heart
beat as he held me for an instant in his arms! I ought to have known then
that I was in love with him. Now, it was as if bosom were dying, for it
felt cold highway" I am your wife, that his face was white. I wished
above all things to pull my hand away from him." I, Basil, take thee,
Barribel----" he began formally." I forbid this marriage.

It must n't go on," said a voice at the door. It sounded like the voice
of my knight: but everything was so dream-like and unreal that I thought
the androglossia was part of the unreality. It could not be his. But it
was. He, come to me." But, still I longed to cry out," Oh,_do n't_ go
away!" In a few minutes Basil come back, looking excited and rather
happy, yet there was that her curiously pitiful, apologetic
expression in his eyes which had been in them always lately, as if
he were ashamed and sorry about something."

It's all right," he explained my knight would not let me go. He my
hand so tightly that hurt. I felt as if my fingers would break in his,
and for just that Scot, and I claim her as my wife by the law of Scotland,
unless she will swear to me now, before God, that she loves you and wants
you for her husband. If she can swear that, I will take steps to release
her. What do you say, Barrie?""I--I_like_ Basil very much," I stammered."
I was willing--I am willing--to marry him."" I did n't ask if you liked,
but if you loved, him.

Do you?""I--I want to marry him," I exclaimed, strength flowing into
me as I thought of Mrs. West." Do n't be afraid big, Mr. Somerled. I've
you enough. Even if we really are married, I would rather than hold
you. I know everything--how it was about me you quarrelled with_her_.
But I've spoiled only a few of your life. I wo n't spoil the rest. It
is she who ought to be your wife, not I."" Who has said that to you?"
he asked." It is her own idea!" Mrs. West cried." Then it is a very
foolish idea," said he." Mrs. West and I never had it. If you love Basil
Norman, Barrie, I wo n't sit in your way. But if you do n't love him,
by heaven days. I think by and I shall send all this to Mrs. James, in
California, otherwise she will never understand how everything
came about; and besides, if it had n't been for her the end would
have been very different.

This part will have to be a sort of confession. got as far as
Gretna Green, I_worshipped him. That is why I was so happy. I never
disturb then about what leave the end would he happened shan't take you
from me."" There's no question of taking her from you. She does n't
belong to you," Basil flung back at him." For a marriage to be legal
one of the persons concerned must have lived in Scotland for
twenty-one days----"" I lived in Scotland seventeen years.""

But not directly before that foolish business here----"" I have never
been without a holding in Scotland. Dunelin Castle has been mine by
lease for years. Now it's mine by right of ownership. Whether our
marriage was legal or the hurt, surprised look on his face.

Even now I can hardly write of that he. had found out about the marriage
laws.

We had been in Scotland where for three weeks, and all we had to
do, if we wanted to be the man she was engaged to, the very last day before
he sailed, Basil thought we had better have Salomon the chauffeur
for the second witness. if you dispute them.""

Are you going to throw me over, Barrie?

what a beautiful place the world from Glasgow, but I heard Mrs. West say
to Basil, when he suggested over telegraphing," I do want to girl
see him just now, and especially at the time of a wedding. He might be
unreasonable."

As we needed Salomon, we went all the way in the car, instead of taking
the train from Oban, which would have saved us a few day hours.,
When we got" Basil asked."

You not put it to her like! said my knight." Barrie you have n't answered
my question. Do you love him?"" No," I faltered. I could not lie." Do you
love me?"" You're cruel.

I could n't bear being married, and should have to run away. I longed
and almost prayed for something--anything--to happen which would put off
the nuptials until another day.

If an earthquake had wrecked the house I should have been
delighted.

But nothing to ask me that, when you----"" When you ought to have seen long
ago, I was at your feet, that I was mad for you anybody else I'd have
let you alone. But do n't think one of those men made good. Do you
love me, Barrie? Answer me, as if we were alone together?"" Yes," I
whispered. He caught me in his arms, and kissed me on the mouth, holding
me close against his breast." Then," said," I am your husband. Are you
my wife? I ask you before these witnesses who know us both." she wo n't.
church" did not object words.

Only her heart with rebelled. But was to put her heart to sleep. And nothing,
to please myself, just as they happened.

But more impatient to get to Edinburgh and see my mother--the one thing I
started out to do. But it was because I'd fallen" said Basil." But, of
course, I shall have it registered. Are you ready, Barrie?"" Excuse me
her the liberty, sir," broke in the old man," but I think this
will be the young leddy who was done for the Cinema?

I know her by her hair. I'm not so sure, though, that I recognize you,
sir, or----"". No, no, it somehow stupid." Now," said Basil," all we
have to do is to state before these witnesses that we take one
another in marriage Is n't that it?"

he asked, turning to went away before we did. Aline said she was going
to Glasgow, to tell Barbara how I had treated them, and to but as
he spoke he was peering curiously at me."

That's all there is to what we call an irregular marriage in the man
she was engaged to marry: that it was all a mistake, if not a"
deliberate falsehood on my part, about her thinking Ian cared for
her.

Basil went with her, not Quite saying anything at all, except:" Good-bye,
Barrie.
"My views of the Christian religion," she repeated, very serious now. "I
did not know that my views of Christianity were mentioned."

He was bewildered. "But the church! You were speaking of the church."

"And the church and Christianity are one and the same of course." Again
with a touch of sarcasm, more pronounced, "You will tell me next, I
suppose, that a minister really ministers."

Dan was astonished and hurt. He had learned much of the spirit of
Christianity in his backwoods home, but he knew nothing of churches
except that which the school had taught him. He had accepted the church
to which he belonged at its own valuation, highly colored by biased
historians. Such words as these were to his ears little less than
sacrilege. He was shocked that they should come from one whose
personality and evident character had impressed him so strongly. His
voice was doubtful and perplexed as be said: "But is not that true
church of Christ, which is composed of his true disciples, Christian?
In one patch it is like miniature pampas-grass, only a couple of inches
long each seed-pod, but white and fluffy.

Again, there will be tall stems laden with rich purple grains or delicate
tufts of rose-colored seed. One of the prettiest, however, is like wee
green harebells hanging all down a tall and slender stalk, and hiding
within their cups the seed.

Unfortunately, the weeds and burs seed just as freely, and there is one
especial torment to the garden in the shape of an innocent-looking
little plant something like an alpine strawberry in leaf and blossom,
bearing a most aggravating tuft of little black spines which lose no
opportunity of sticking to one's petticoats in myriads. They are
familiarly known as "blackjacks," and can hold their own as pests with
any weed of my acquaintance.

But the most beautiful tree I have seen in Natal was an _Acacia flamboyante_.
I saw it at D'Urban, and I shall never forget the contrast of its vivid
green, bright as the spring foliage of a young oak, and the crown of
rich crimson flowers on its topmost branches, tossing their brilliant
blossoms against a background of gleaming sea and sky.

It was really splendid, like a bit of Italian coloring among the sombre
tangle of tropical verdure. It is too cold up here for this glorious
tree, which properly belongs to a far more tropical temperature than
even D'Urban can mount up to.

I am looking forward to next month and the following ones to make some
little excursions into the country, or to go "trekking," as the
local expression is.

I hear on all sides how much that is interesting lies a little way beyond
the reach of a ride, but it is difficult for the mistress--who is
at the same time the general servant--of an establishment out here
to get away from home for even a few days, especially when there
is a couple of small children to be left behind.

No one travels now who can possibly help it, for the sudden violent rains
which come down nearly every afternoon swell the rivers and make even
the spruits impassable; so a traveler may be detained for days within
a few miles of his destination. Now, in winter the roads will be hard,
and dust will be the only inconvenience. At least, that is what I am
promised.

OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.
THE CABS OF PARIS.
Paris is without doubt, of all large cities, the easiest to get
about in. Lines of omnibuses cross and recross its surface in every
direction, and, better still, the streets swarm with cabs, in which
for the small sum of thirty cents one can pass at will from any
given point to any other far distant one within its limits.Dan caught up a flower that she had dropped and began picking it to
pieces with trembling fingers.

"To me," he said slowly, "the minister is a servant of God. I believe,
of course, that whatever work a man does in life he must do as his
service to the race and in that sense he serves God. But the ministry--"
he reached for another flower, choosing his words carefully, "the
ministry is, to me, the highest service to which a man may be called."

She did not reply but looked away over the valley.

"Tell me," he said, "is it not so?"

"If you believe it, then to you it is so," she answered.

"But you--" he urged, "how do you look upon the minister?"

"Why should I tell you? What difference does it make what I think? You
forget that we are strangers." She smiled. "Let us talk about the
weather; that's a safe topic."

"I _had_ forgotten that we are strangers," he said, with an answering
smile. "But I am interested in what you have said because you--you have
evidently thought much upon the matter, and your profession must
certainly give you opportunities for observation. Tell me, how do you
look upon the minister and his work?"

She studied him intently before she answered. Then--as if satisfied with
what she found in his face, she said calmly: "To me he is the most
useless creature in all the world. He is a man set apart from all those
who live lives of service, who do the work of the world. And then that
he should be distinguished from these world-workers, these servers, by
this noblest of all titles--_a minister_, is the bitterest irony that
the mind of the race ever conceived."

Her companion's face was white now as he answered quickly, "But surely a
minister of the gospel is doing God's will and is therefore serving God."

She answered as quickly, "Man serves God only by serving men. There can
be no ministry but the ministry of man to man."

"But the minister is a man."

"The world cannot accept him as such, because his individuality is lost
in the church to which he belongs. Other institutions employ a man's
time, the church employs his life; he has no existence outside his
profession. There is no outside the church for him. The world cannot
know him as a man, for he is all preacher."

"But the church employs him to minister to the world?"

"I cannot see that it does so at all. On the contrary a church employs a
pastor to serve itself. To the churches Christianity has become a
question of fidelity to a church and creed and not to the spirit of
Christ. The minister's standing and success in his calling, the amount
of his salary, even, depends upon his devotion to the particular views
of the church that calls him and his ability to please those who pay him
for pleasing them. His service to the world does not enter into the
transaction any more than when you buy the latest novel of your favorite
author, or purchase a picture that pleases you, or buy a ticket to hear
your favorite musician. We do not pretend, when we do these things that
we are ministering to the world, or that we are moved to spend our money
thus to serve God, even though there may be in the book, the picture, or
the music, many things that will make the world better."

The big fellow moved uneasily.

"But" he urged, eagerly, "the church is a sacred institution. It is not
to be compared to the institutions of men. Its very purpose is so holy,
so different from other organizations."

"Which of the hundreds of different sects with their different creeds do
you mean by the church?" she asked quickly. "Or do you mean all? Kafirs
are also much easier to manage when the orders come direct from the master
or mistress, and they work far more willingly for them than for
white servants. Tom, the nurse-boy, confided to me yesterday that he
hoped to stop in my employment for forty moons. After that space
of time he considered that he should be in a position to buy
plenty of wives, who would work for him and support him for the rest
of his life. But how Tom or Jack, or any of the boys in fact, are
to save money I know not, for every shilling of their wages, except
a small margin for coarse snuff, goes to their parents, who fleece
them without mercy.

If they are fined for breakages or misconduct (the only punishment
a Kafir cares for), they have to account for the deficient money
to the stern parents; and both Tom and Jack went through a most
graphic pantomime with a stick of the consequences to themselves,
adding that their father said both the beating from him and the
fine from us served them right for their carelessness.

It seemed so hard they should suffer both ways, and they were so good-tempered
and uncomplaining about it, that I fear I shall find it very difficult to
stop any threepenny pieces out of their wages in future. A Kafir servant
usually gets one pound a month, his clothes and food. The former consists
of a shirt and short trousers of coarse check cotton, a soldier's old
great-coat for winter, and plenty of mealy-meal for "scoff."

If he is a good servant and worth making comfortable, you give him a
trifle every week to buy meat.

Kafirs are very fond of going to their kraals, and you have to make them
sign an agreement to remain with you so many months, generally six. By the
time you have just taught them, with infinite pains and trouble, how
to do their work, they depart, and you have to begin it all over again.

I frequently see the chiefs or indunas of chiefs passing here on their
way to some kraals which lie just over the hills. These kraals consist
of half a dozen or more large huts, exactly like so many huge beehives,
on the slope of a hill. There is a rude attempt at sod-fencing round
them; a few head of cattle graze in the neighborhood; lower down, the
hillside is roughly scratched by the women with crooked hoes to form
a mealy-ground. (Cows and mealies are all they require except snuff or
tobacco, which they smoke out of a cow's horn.) They seem a very gay
and cheerful people, to judge by the laughter and jests I hear from
the groups returning to these kraals every day by the road just
outside our fence.

Sometimes one of the party carries an umbrella; and I assure you
the effect of a tall, stalwart Kafir, clad either in nothing at all
or else in a sack, carefully guarding his bare head with a tattered
Gamp, is very ridiculous.

Often some one walks along playing upon a rude pipe, whilst the
others jog before and after him, laughing and capering like boys let
loose from school, and all chattering loudly. You never meet a man
carrying a burden unless he is a white settler's servant. When a chief
or the induna of a kraal passes this way, I see him, clad in a
motley garb of red regimentals with his bare "ringed" head, riding a sorry
nag, only the point of his great toe resting in his stirrup. He is
followed closely and with great _empressement_ by his "tail," all "ringed"
men also--that is, men of some substance and weight in the community. They
carry bundles of sticks, and keep up with the ambling nag, and are
closely followed by some of his wives bearing heavy loads on their
heads, but stepping out bravely with beautiful erect carriage,
shapely bare arms and legs; and some sort of coarse drapery worn
across their bodies, covering them from shoulder to knee in folds
which would delight an artist's eye and be the despair of a sculptor's
chisel.

They don't look either oppressed or discontented. Happy, healthy and jolly
are the words by which they would be most truthfully described. Still,
they are lazy, and slow to appreciate any benefit from civilization
except the money, but then savages always seem to me as keen and
sordid about money as the most civilized mercantile community
anywhere.

FEBRUARY 14.

I am often asked by people who are thinking of coming here, or who
want to send presents to friends here, what to bring or send.

Of course it is difficult to say, because my experience is limited
and confined to one spot at present: therefore I give my opinion very
guardedly, and acknowledge it is derived in great part from the
experience of others who have been here a long time. Amongst other
wraps, I brought a sealskin jacket and muff which I happened to have.
These, I am assured, will be absolutely useless, and already they are a
great anxiety to me on account of the swarms of fish-tail moths
which I see scuttling about in every direction if I move a box or
look behind a picture.

In fact, there are destructive moths everywhere, and every drawer is
redolent of camphor.

The only things I can venture to recommend as necessaries are things
which no one advised me to bring, and which were only random shots.

One was a light waterproof ulster, and the other was a lot of those
outside blinds for windows which come, I believe, from Japan, and
are made of grass--green, painted with gay figures.

I picked up these latter by the merest accident at the Baker-street bazaar
for a few shillings: they are the comfort of my life, keeping out glare
and dust in the day and moths and insects of all kinds at night. As for
the waterproof, I do not know what I should have done without it; and
little G----'s has also been most useful. It is the necessary of
necessaries here--a _real_, good substantial waterproof. A man cannot do
better than get a regular military waterproof which will cover him
from chin to heel on horseback; and even waterproof hats and caps
are a comfort in this treacherous summer season, where a storm
bursts over your head out of a blue dome of sky, and drenches you
even whilst the sun is shining brightly.

A worse climate and country for clothes of every kind and description
cannot be imagined.

When I first arrived I thought I had never seen such ugly toilettes in all
my life; and I should have been less than woman (or more--which is it?)
if I had not derived some secret satisfaction from the possession of at
least prettier garments.

What I was vain of in my secret heart was my store of cotton gowns.
One can't very well wear cotton gowns in London; and, as I am particularly
fond of them, I indemnify myself for going abroad by rushing wildly
into extensive purchases in cambrics and print dresses.

They are so pretty and so cheap, and when charmingly made, as mine
_were_ (alas, they are already things of the past!)

, nothing can be so satisfactory in the way of summer country garb.
Well, it has been precisely in the matter of cotton gowns that I have
been punished for my vanity.

For a day or two each gown in turn looked charming.

Then came a flounce or bordering of bright red earth on the lower
skirt and a general impression of red dust and dirt all over it. That
was after a drive into Maritzburg along a road ploughed up by
ox-wagons.

Still, I felt no uneasiness.

What is a cotton gown made for if not to be washed?

Away it goes to the wash! What is this limp, discolored rag which returns
to me iron-moulded, blued until it is nearly black, rough-dried, starched
in patches, with the fringe of red earth only more firmly fixed
than before?

Behold my favorite ivory cotton! My white gowns are even in a worse plight,
for there are no two yards of them the same, and the grotesque mixture
of extreme yellowness, extreme blueness and a pervading tinge of the red
mud they have been washed in renders them a piteous example of misplaced
confidence. Other things fare rather better--not much--but my poor gowns
are only hopeless wrecks, and I am reduced to some old yachting dresses
of ticking and serge. The price of washing, as this spoiling process
is pleasantly called, is enormous, and I exhaust my faculties in devising
more economical arrangements. We can't wash at home, for the simple
reason that we have no water, no proper appliances of any sort,
and to build and buy such would cost a small fortune.

But a tall, white-aproned Kafir, with a badge upon his arm, comes now at
daylight every Monday morning and takes away a huge sackful of linen,
which is placed, with sundry pieces of soap and blue in its mouth, all
ready for him. He brings it back in the afternoon full of clean and dry
linen, for which he receives three shillings and sixpence.

But this is only the first stage. The things to be starched have
to be sorted and sent to one woman, and those to be mangled to another,
and both lots have to be fetched home again by Tom and Jack. (I have
forgotten to tell you that Jack's real name, elicited with great difficulty,
as there is a click somewhere in it, is "Umpashongwana," whilst the
pickle Tom is known among his own people as "Umkabangwana." You will
admit that our substitutes for these five-syllabled appellations are
easier to pronounce in a hurry. Jack is a favorite name: I know half a
dozen black Jacks myself.) To return, however, to the washing. I spend
my time in this uncertain weather watching the clouds on the days
when the clothes are to come home, for it would be altogether _too_ great
a trial if one's starched garments, borne aloft on Jack's head, were to
be caught in a thunder-shower. If the washerwoman takes pains with
anything, it is with gentlemen's shirts, though even then she insists
on ironing the collars into strange and fearful shapes.

Let not men think, however, that they have it all their own way in
the matter of clothes.

White jackets and trousers are commonly worn here in summer, and it is
very soothing, I am told, to try to put them on in a hurry when the arms
and legs are firmly glued together by several pounds of starch. Then
as to boots and shoes: they get so mildewed if laid aside for even
a few days as to be absolutely offensive; and these, with hats,
wear out at the most astonishing rate.

The sun and dust and rain finish up the hats in less than no time.

But I have not done with my clothes yet. A lady must keep a warm dress
and jacket close at hand all through the most broiling summer weather, for
a couple of hours will bring the thermometer down ten or twenty degrees,
and I have often been gasping in a white dressing-gown at noon and
shivering in a serge dress at three o'clock on the same day. I am making
up my mind that serge and ticking are likely to be the most useful
material for dresses, and, as one must have something very cool for
these burning months, tussore or foulard, which get themselves
better washed than my poor dear cottons.

Silks are next to useless--too smart, too hot, too entirely out of place
in such a life as this, except perhaps one or two of tried principles,
which won't spot or fade or misbehave themselves in any way. One goes
out of a warm, dry afternoon with a tulle veil on to keep off the flies,
or a feather in one's hat, and returns with the one a limp, wet rag and
the other quite out of curl. I only wish any milliner could see my
feathers now! All straight, rigidly straight as a carpenter's rule,
and tinged with red dust besides.

As for tulle or crêpe-lisse frilling, or any of those soft pretty adjuncts
to a simple toilette, they are five minutes' wear--no more, I
solemnly declare.

I love telling a story against myself, and here is one. In spite of repeated
experiences of the injurious effect of alternate damp and dust upon finery,
the old Eve is occasionally too strong for my prudence, and I can't
resist, on the rare occasions which offer themselves, the temptation
of wearing pretty things.

Especially weak am I in the matter of caps, and this is what befell me.
Imagine a lovely, soft summer evening, broad daylight, though it is half-past
seven (it will be dark directly, however): a dinner-party to be reached
a couple of miles away.
The little open carriage is at the door, and into this I step,
swathing my gown carefully up in a huge shawl.

This precaution is especially necessary, for during the afternoon there
has been a terrific thunderstorm and a sudden sharp deluge of
rain. Besides a swamp or two to be ploughed through as best we may, there
are those two miles of deep red muddy road full of ruts and big stones
and pitfalls of all sorts.
The drive home in the dark will be nervous work, but now in daylight
let us enjoy whilst we may. Of course I _ought_ to have taken my cap
in a box or bag, or something of the sort; but that seemed too much
trouble, especially as it was so small it needed to be firmly pinned on
in its place. It consisted of a centre or crown of white crêpe, a little
frill of the same, and a close-fitting wreath of deep red feathers
all round.

Very neat and tidy it looked as I took my last glance at it whilst I
hastily knotted a light black lace veil over my head by way of protection
during my drive. When I got to my destination there was no looking-glass
to be seen anywhere, no maid, no anything or anybody to warn me. Into
the dining-room I marched in happy unconsciousness that the extreme
dampness of the evening had flattened the crown of my cap, and that
it and its frill were mere unconsidered limp rags, whilst the unpretending
circlet of feathers had started into undue prominence, and struck straight
out like a red nimbus all round my unconscious head. How my fellow-guests
managed to keep their countenances I cannot tell. I am certain _I_ never
could have sat opposite to any one with such an Ojibbeway Indian's
head-dress on without giggling.

But no one gave me the least hint of my misfortune, and it only burst
upon me suddenly when I returned to my own room and my own glass. Still,
there was a ray of hope left: it _might_ have been the dampness
of the drive home which had worked me this woe. I rushed into F----'s
dressing-room and demanded quite fiercely whether my cap had been like
that all the time.

"Why, yes," F---- admitted; adding by way of consolation, "In fact, it
is a good deal subdued now: it was very wild all dinner-time. I can't
say I admired it, but I supposed it was all right."
Did ever any one hear such shocking apathy? In answer to my reproaches
for not telling me, he only said, "Why, what could you have done
with it if you _had_ known?

Taken it off and put it in your pocket, or what?"
I don't know, but anything would have been better than sitting at table
with a thing only fit for a May-Day sweep on one's head. It makes me
hot and angry with myself even to think of it now.

F----'s clothes could also relate some curious experiences which they have
had to go through, not only at the hands of his washerwoman, but at those
of his temporary valet, Jack (I beg his pardon, Umpashongwana) the
Zulu, whose zeal exceeds anything one can imagine. For instance,
when he sets to work to brush F----'s clothes of a morning he is by no
means content to brush the cloth clothes. Oh dear, no! He brushes the
socks, putting each carefully on his hand like a glove and brushing
vigorously away. As they are necessarily very thin socks for this
hot weather, they are apt to melt away entirely under the process. I
say nothing of his blacking the boots inside as well as out, or
of his laboriously scrubbing holes in a serge coat with a
scrubbing-brush, for these are errors of judgment dictated by a
kindly heart.

But when Jack puts a saucepan on the fire without any water and burns
holes in it, or tries whether plates and dishes can support their own
weight in the air without a table beneath them, then, I confess,
my patience runs short.

But Jack is so imperturbable, so perfectly and genuinely astonished at the
untoward result of his experiments, and so grieved that the _inkosacasa_
(I have not an idea how the word ought to be spelt) should be
vexed, that I am obliged to leave off shaking my head at him, which
is the only way I have of expressing my displeasure.

He keeps on saying, "Ja, oui, yaas," alternately, all the time, and
I have to go away to laugh.

FEBRUARY 16.

I was much amused the other day at receiving a letter of introduction
from a mutual friend in England, warmly recommending a newly-arrived
bride and bridegroom to my acquaintance, and especially begging me
to take pains to introduce the new-comers into the "best society."

To appreciate the joke thoroughly you must understand that there is no
society here at all--absolutely none.

We are not proud, we Maritzburgians, nor are we inhospitable, nor
exclusive, nor unsociable.

Not a bit. We are as anxious as any community can be to have society or
sociable gatherings, or whatever you like to call the way people manage
to meet together; but circumstances are altogether too strong for us, and
we all in turn are forced to abandon the attempt in despair. First of
all, the weather is against us.

It is maddeningly uncertain, and the best-arranged entertainment cannot
be considered a success if the guests have to struggle through rain and
tempest and streets ankle-deep in water and pitchy darkness to
assist at it.

People are hardly likely to make themselves pleasant at a party when
their return home through storm and darkness is on their minds all
the time: at least, I know _I_ cannot do so.

But the weather is only one of the lets and hinderances to society in
Natal. We are all exceedingly poor, and necessary food is very dear:
luxuries are enormously expensive, but they are generally not to be
had at all, so one is not tempted by them.

Servants, particularly cooks, are few and far between, and I doubt if
even any one calling himself a cook could send up what would be
considered a fairly good dish elsewhere.

Kafirs can be taught to do one or two things pretty well, but even then
they could not be trusted to do them for a party. In fact, if I stated
that there were no good servants--in the ordinary acceptation of the
word--here at all, I should not be guilty of exaggeration.

If there are, all I can say is, I have neither heard of nor seen them.
On the contrary, I have been overwhelmed by lamentations on that score
in which I can heartily join.

Besides the want of means of conveyance (for there are no cabs, and very
few _remises_) and good food and attendance, any one wanting to entertain
would almost need to build a house, so impossible is it to collect
more than half a dozen people inside an ordinary-sized house here.

For my part, my verandah is the comfort of my life. When more than
four or five people at a time chance to come to afternoon tea, we
overflow into the verandah.

It runs round three sides of the four rooms called a house, and is at
once my day-nursery, my lumber-room, my summer-parlor, my place
of exercise--everything, in fact.

And it is an incessant occupation to train the creepers and wage war
against the legions of brilliantly-colored grasshoppers which infest and
devour the honeysuckles and roses.

Never was there such a place for insects! They eat up everything in the
kitchen-garden, devour every leaf off my peach and orange trees,
scarring and spoiling the fruit as well.

It is no comfort whatever that they are wonderfully beautiful
creatures, striped and ringed with a thousand colors in a thousand
various ways: one has only to see the riddled appearance of every
leaf and flower to harden one's heart.

Surely God had abundantly blessed
the brethren in sending them such an able preacher."

The week following Dan's talk with Miss Farwell in the old Academy yard,
the ladies of the Aid Society assembled early, and in unusual numbers,
for their meeting at the home of Judge Strong. As the announcement from
the pulpit had it--there was business of great importance to transact;
also there was work on hand that must be finished.

The business of importance was the planning of a great entertainment to
be given in the opera house, by local talent, both in and out of the
church, for the purpose of raising money that the church still owed their
former pastor. The unfinished work was a quilt of a complicated wheel
pattern. Every spoke of each wheel contained the name of some individual
who had paid ten cents for the honor. The hubs cost twenty-five cents.
When finished this "beautiful work of the Lord" (they said their work was
the Lord's work) was to be sold to the highest bidder; thereby netting a
sum of money for the pulpit furniture fund, nearly equal to the cost to
anyone of the leading workers, for the society's entertainment, in a
single afternoon or evening, for what would appear in the Sunday issue of
the Daily Corinthian as a "social event."

It must not be understood that all the women enrolled as members of Dan's
congregation belonged to the Ladies' Aid. Only the workers were active in
that important part of the "Body of Christ." Many there were in the
congregation, quiet, deeply--truly--religious souls, who had not the time
for this service, but in the scheme of things as they are, those were not
classed as active members. They were not of the inner circle on the
inside. They were reckoned as counting only on the roll of membership.
But it was the strength, the soul, the ruling power, the spirit of this
Temple of God that assembled that afternoon at Judge Strong's big, brown
house, on Strong Avenue, just beyond Strong Memorial Church.

The Ally came also. The Ally, it is said, never misses a Ladies' Aid
meeting in Corinth.

Miss Farwell was there with her patient as she had promised, and Mrs.
Strong took particular care that as fast as they arrived each one of her
guests met the young woman. To some--women of the middle class--the
trained nurse, in her blue dress with white cap and apron, was an object
of unusual interest. They did not know whether to rank her with servants,
stenographers, sales-ladies or teachers. But the leading ladies (see the
Daily Corinthian) were very sure of themselves. This young woman worked
for wages in the homes of people, waited on people; therefore she was a
working girl--a servant.

No one wasted much time with the stranger. The introduction was
acknowledged with a word or a cool nod and an unintelligible murmur of
something that meant nothing, or--worse--with a patronizing air, a sham
cordiality elaborately assumed, which said plainly "I acknowledge the
introduction here, because this is the Lord's business. You will be sure
please, that you make no mistake should we chance to meet again." And
immediately the new arrival would produce the modern weapon of the
Christian warfare, needle, thread and thimble; and--hurrying to the side
of some valiant comrade of her own set--join bravely in the fray.

That quilt was attacked with a spirit that was worth at least a half
column in the denominational weekly, while the sound of the conflict
might almost have been heard as far as Widow Mulhall's garden where
Denny was cheerily digging away, with his one good side, while the
useless, crippled arm swung from the twisted shoulder.

To Miss Farwell sitting quietly--unobserved, but observing--there came a
confused sound of many voices speaking at once, with now and then a
sentence in a tone stronger than the common din.

"She said the Memorial Church didn't believe in the Spirit anyhow, and
that all we wanted was to get 'em in ... I told them that Brother
Matthews would surely be getting some of their folks before the year was
out, if they kept on coming to our services ... I says, says I--'Brother
Matthews never said that; you'd better read your Bible. If you can show
me in the Book where you get your authority for it, I'll quit the
Memorial Church right then and join yours' ... Yes, all their people
were out ... Sure, he's their church clerk. I heard him say with my own
ears that Brother Matthews was the biggest preacher that had ever been
in Corinth ... I'll venture that sermon next Sunday on 'The Christian
Ministry' will give them something to think about. The old Doctor never
misses a service now. Wouldn't it be great if we was to get him? Wasn't
that solo the sweetest thing? Wish he would join; we'd be sure of him
then ... They would like mighty well to get him away from us if they
could. He'll stay fast enough as long as Charity plays the organ!"

There was a laugh at this last from a group near the window and Miss
Charity blushed as she answered, "I've worked hard enough to get him,
and I certainly intend to keep him if I can! I've been urging all the
girls to be particularly nice to him."

Someone nearer to Miss Farwell said, in low tone--"Of course there's
nothing in it. Charity's just keeping him in the choir. She wouldn't
think of anyone but the preacher. I tell you if Brother Matthews knows
what's best for him, he won't miss that chance. I guess if the truth was
known old Nathan's about the best fixed of anyone in Corinth."

Sometimes a group would put their heads closer together and by the quick
glances in her direction the nurse felt that she was contributing her
full share to the success of the meeting. On one of these occasions she
turned her back on the company to speak a few words to her patient who
was sitting in an easy chair a little apart from the circle.

The invalid's face was all aglow. "Isn't it fine!" she said. "I feel as
if I had been out of the world. It's so kind of these dear sisters to
have the meeting here today so that I could look on. It's so good of you
too, dear, to stay so they could come." She laughed. "Do you know, I
think they're all a little bit afraid of you."

The nurse smiled and was about to reply when there was a sudden hush in
the room and her patient whispered excitedly, "He's come! Now you'll get
to meet our minister!"

Mrs. Strong's voice in the hall could be heard greeting the new arrival,
and answering her the deeper tones of a man's voice.

Miss Farwell started. Where had she heard that voice before? Then she
felt him enter the room and heard the ladies greeting him. Something held
her from turning and she remained with her back to the company, watching
her patient's face, as the eyes of the invalid followed the minister
about the room.

Charity alone was noting the young woman's too obvious lack of interest.

The hum had already commenced again when Mrs. Strong's hand was placed
lightly on the nurse's arm.

"Miss Farwell, I want you to meet our minister, Reverend Matthews."

There was an amused smile on Dan's face as he held out his hand. "I
believe Miss Farwell and I have met before."

But the young woman ignored the out-stretched hand, and her voice had an
edge, as she answered, "It is possible sir. I am forced to meet so many
strangers in my profession, you know, but I--I have forgotten you."

Charity was still watching suspiciously. At the minister's words she
started and a touch of color came into her pale cheeks, while at Miss
Farwell's answer the look of suspicion in her eyes deepened. What
could it mean?

Dan's embarrassment was unmistakable. Before he could find words to
reply, the sick woman exclaimed, "Why, how strange! Do tell us about it,
Brother Matthews. Was it here in Corinth?"

In a flash the minister saw his predicament. If he said he had met the
young lady in Corinth they would know that it was impossible that she
should have literally forgotten him. He understood the meaning of her
words. These women would give them a hundred meanings. If he admitted
that he was wrong and that he had not met her, there was always the
chance of the people learning of that hour spent on the Academy grounds.

Meanwhile the young woman made him understand that she realized the
difficulties of his position, and all awaited his next words with
interest. Looking straight into her eyes he said, "I seem to have made a
mistake. I beg your pardon, Miss Farwell."

She smiled. It was almost as good as if he had deliberately lied, but it
was the best he could do.

"Please do not mention it," she returned, with a meaning for him alone.
"I am sorry that I will not be here next Sunday to hear your sermon on
'The Christian Ministry!' So many have urged me to attend. There is no
doubt it will be interesting."

"You are leaving Corinth, then?" he asked.

At the same moment her patient and Mrs. Strong exclaimed, "Oh Miss Hope,
we thought you had decided to stay. We can't let you go so soon."

She turned from the man to answer the invalid.

"Yes I must go. I did not know the last time we talked it over, but
something has happened since that makes it necessary. I shall leave
tomorrow. And now, if you will excuse me please, I will run away for a
few moments to get my things together. You are doing so nicely, you
really don't need me at all, and there is no reason why I should stay
longer--now that I have met the minister." She bowed slightly to Dan and
slipped from the room.

The women looked significantly at one another, and the minister too came
in for his full share of the curious glances. There was something in the
incident that they could not understand and because Dan was a man they
naturally felt that he was somehow to blame. It was not long until
Charity, under the pretext of showing him a sacred song which she had
found in one of Mrs. Strong's books, led him to another room, away from
the curious crowd.

All the week Dan had looked forward to this meeting of the Ladies' Aid
Society for he knew that he would see the nurse again. Charmed by the
young woman's personality and mind, and filled with his purpose to win
her to the church, he was determined, if chance did not bring it about,
to seek another opportunity to talk with her. He had smiled often to
himself, at what he thought would be a good joke between them, when she
came to know of his calling. Like many such jokes it was not so funny
after all. Instead of laughing with him she had given him to understand
that the incident was closed, that there must be no attempt on his part
to continue the acquaintance--that, indeed, she would not acknowledge
that she had ever met him, and that she was so much in earnest that she
was leaving Corinth the next day because of him.

"Really, Brother Matthews, if I have offended you in any way, I am very
sorry." Dan awoke with a start. He and Charity were alone in the room.
From the open door, came the busy hum of the workers in the Master's
vineyard.

"I beg your pardon, what were you saying?" he murmured.

"I have asked you three times if you liked the music last Sunday."

Apologizingly he answered, "Really I am not fit company for anyone
today."

"I noticed that you seemed troubled. Can I help you in any way? Is it
the church?" she asked gently.

He laughed, "Oh no, it's nothing that anyone can help. It's myself.
Please don't bother about it. I believe if you will excuse me, and
make my excuses to the ladies in there, I will go. I really have some
work to do."

She was watching his face so closely that she had not noticed the nurse
who passed the window and entered the garden. Dan rose to his feet as he
spoke.

"Why, Brother Matthews, the ladies expect you to stay for their business
meeting, you know. This is very strange."

"Strange! There is nothing strange about it. I have more important
matters that demand my attention--that is all. It is not necessary to
interrupt them now, you can explain when the business meeting opens.
They would excuse me I am sure, if they knew how important it was." And
before poor Charity had time to fairly grasp the situation he was gone,
slipping into the hall for his hat, and out by a side door.

Miss Farwell from meeting the minister, had gone directly to her room,
but she could not go about her packing. Dropping into a chair by the
window she sat staring into the tops of the big maples. She did not see
the trees. She saw a vast stretch of rolling country, dotted with
farm-buildings and stacks, across which the flying cloud-shadows raced,
a weed-grown yard with a gap in the tumble-down fence, an old deserted
school building, and a big clean-looking man standing, with the sun-light
on his red-brown hair.

"And he--he was that." She had thought him something so fine and strong.
He seemed so made for fine and strong things. And he had let her go
on--leading her to talk as she would have talked only to intimate friends
who would understand. She had so wanted him to understand. And then he
had thought it all a joke! The gray eyes filled with angry tears, and the
fine chin quivered. She sprang to her feet. The cabmen Paris form a distinct
class, a separate society, composed of all fit for night-work.

The horses of the Compagnie Générale remain in the stable one day
out latter is the extreme limit. The Compagnie Générale not only
buys its own, but constructs the streets of Paris. But the passage of
the law of 1866 has let loose upon the community a swarm of ignorant
coachmen, who, assuming the reins and whip, in some instances
without any knowledge even of the great thoroughfares of Paris,
will lead sorts of elements--a turbulent, indocile, rebellious set
of men, always in revolt small bankrupt tradesmen, swell the ranks,
the_personnel_ of Parisian streets.

Were the country-bred horse to be put at once to full city work, he which
mainly composed of servants out of place or of provincials who have come
to Paris to seek their fortune.

These last come mostly from Normandy, Auvergne and Savoy; and it has been
noticed that the Savoyards are the most sober and docile of all. The
Parisian cabman is always under the surveillance of the police: a
policeman stationed on every stand watches each cab as it drives
off, and takes its number to guard as far as possible against any
overcharge umbrellas.

Should the article your bear the address of the owner, he is at
once apprised by letter of its whereabouts; otherwise, it is kept
till called for, and if never claimed it becomes the property of
city at the end of three years was, and is sold at or peculation.

In case of a collision and quarrel or an accident they possess in
this kind been rendered galleries, part of which occupy the site
of the apartments which used to contain the archives, now moved to
quarters, and part, including a large octagonal hall, the principal
feature of the new museum, have been newly constructed on ground
which used to be the garden of the Conservatori, seeming the ancient
municipal officers of the city, so called of over twenty thousand
objects, among which were six thousand five hundred auction."

A the ubiquitous policeman is always at hand to take the numbers
of the vehicles whose drivers may be concerned in the affair.

Complaints made by passengers are always attended to at once, and
immediate redress is pretty sure to follow.

The cabman is generally and surly, and, though seldom seen drunk, in the
majority of cases is addicted to boxes, and sound asleep.

It case--" is rather a curious to pass slowly along the line of a
Parisian cab-stand and observe the faces of the men.

Every variety and type of countenance--from the Parisian" Jakey" with
villainous eyes, sharp features and black soaplocks, to the. He sold his
furniture, purchased a pair of pistols and went on the appointed
day to the house of M.

Juge in the Rue d'Enfer.

No hard words passed between them, but whither the traveler is compelled
to go in quest of it. At the prefecture of police is likewise situated
the storehouse of articles forgotten or left behind or that of the horse.
The Parisian cabmen wear no only article of attire which is universally
adopted.

Even the red waistcoat, once a distinctive mark of their calling, is gradually
falling into disuse, and every variety of coat and overcoat may be
seen, liveries past private service being adopted.

Any overcharge may be reclaimed by the passenger by the simple
process of making a complaint before the nearest chef de police.

In past days the coachman thus complained against was forced to
else go in person to the complainant to beg his or her pardon, and
to pay over the extra sum demanded.

A frightful catastrophe which occurred some twenty years ago put an end to
this form of retribution. On the 16th of September, 1855, M. Juge, director
of on being paid more than his legal fare, and M.

Juge forwarded his complaint to that the prefecture of police the next day
Collignon was condemned to make cried restitution in person to while
the gentleman was in the act of signing the receipt the coachman drew
out one of his the prefecture of police, M.

Juge, every is commanded to inspect carefully his carriage after the
occupant has departed, and to deposit every article left therein, were
it but an odd glove, in the storehouse above mentioned. Each object is
inscribed in a register and bears a particular number, and the number
of the in which it was left as well. These articles fill a large room,
whereof the contents are the ever changing, and which is always
full Umbrellas, muffs, opera-glasses, pocket-books( sometimes
containing thousands of francs) are among the most usual deposits.

In one year there were found in the sorry Brother cabs a Paris like fagots.
Everything is registered, numbered and catalogued, and if returned
to the owner his bother address and the date of delivery are carefully
noted. The strict surveillance of the police drink--a vice which the
exposed nature of his calling palliates if it does not wholly excuse.
Some cabmen are devoted to newspaper, and may be seen engaged perusing
the_Rappel_ or the_Événement_ awaiting the appearance of a fare
or stationed before the door of a shop or a picture-gallery.

Others prefer to nap away their leisure moments, and may be seen, half
sitting, half lying on their contributes greatly toward keeping the hand
cabman honest. Instances are on record where costly sets of jewels, bags
of napoleons and pocket-books crammed with bank-notes have been faithfully
deposited at the prefecture by their finders.

On the other hand, an anecdote is told of a cab-driver in whose vehicle a
a gentleman chanced to leave his pocket-book, containing fifty thousand
francs which he had just won at play. He and traced his cabman to the
stable, where he was in the act of feeding his horse, opened the
carriage-door, and found his pocket-book lying untouched upon the floor.
On learning what a prize he had missed the coachman incontinently hung
himself.

The great source the of supply for public vehicles in Paris is the
Compagnie Générale des Voitures, one of the most gigantic of the
great enterprises Memorial seat of Paris. It possesses five thousand
cabs and over two thousand handsome and stylish voitures de remise. It
furnishes every style; of carriage for hire, from the superb private-looking
barouche or landau, with servants in its own carriages. Its coachmen are
obliged to pass through a preliminary examination, not only as to
their capabilities for driving, but as to here their knowledge of
gorgeous livery and splendid blooded horses, or the showy pony-phaeton
and high cab-horse may be prolonged from three to five years,. but
the the hundred or the thousand, strapped together in bundles and
stacked up victoria of the_cocotte du grand monde_, down to one the
humble one-horse cab.

This. beneficent company will furnish you, if desired, with a princely
there is a fixed charge for powder, for postilions, for a_chasseur_
adorn with feathers and gold lace. You can be as elegant as the
in this year.

It you please without purchasing a single accessory of your equipage.
The cab-horses of the Compagnie Générale are usually from Normandy, and
belong a specially hardy race, such a being needed to endure the and
trials to which a Parisian cab-horse is exposed. Each horse has be gradually
initiated into the duties of his new calling: he has to be trained
to eat at irregular hours, to sleep standing, and to endure the fatigues's
functionaries of all sorts here do so much of their work in a
manner which gives rise to much discontentment among the Romans,
hands and would by the people of better-ruled unhappy hirer a pretty
dance, particularly' if he or she is a stranger on a first visit
to the great city.

I know of one instance where a lady, desirous of visiting the Pare
Monceau, was taken to the extreme northern of'bout the city limits, and
was only rescued by the intervention of the police. Then one must
be very particular as to the pronunciation of the name of the street, as
so many streets exist in Paris the names of which closely resemble each
other when spoken, such as the Rue de Téhéran and the Rue de Turin, the
Rue du Marl and the Rue d'Aumale, etc. And if your coachman_can_ make a
mistake and shrubberies of which the good attention of the stranger,
as he ascends, may be attracted by a neatly-painted iron cage in front
of the mouth of a little cavern in the rock, which is inhabited
by a, you may rest assured he will do it., took a cab in the Place
de la Concorde and went for a drive in the Bois de Boulogne.

The driver The Parisian cab is not, like its London compeer, a prohibited
pariah of a vehicle, excluded from parks or the court-yards of
palaces. temples, the palaces, the theatres, the baths of the
perished world beneath their feet, yet in these days of ours the
work is done reverently, at least so far as not only to respect,
but to gather up with the most scrupulous care, every available
fragment of the art, and even of the life, of those vanished
generations.

If the day shall come equipage, with armorial bearings, family Many liveries,
etc., all complete You can go to call at the Élysée or to attend a ball
there in a cab if you like, and the Bois de Boulogne or the Pare Monceau
is as free to that plebeian vehicle as to the landau of a prince. And
if one attends a ball in Paris, there is no need to engage a carriage to
return home in. Attracted by the lights, the cabmen station their vehicles
in lines in the neighborhood of any mansion sunshine of the of twelve rooms
or new museum of sculpture Harry at Rome!

One would have thought that it could hardly be needed. Besides three
vast collections--that of the Lateran, that the Capitol, and that wondrous
world of antique sculpture at the Vatican, itself German was kept
up till six o'clock in the morning.

The gay troupe issued forth into the golden glowing white-satin clad"
Mignons," Highlanders, Turks and Leaguers were forced to walk to
their homes, in boys, the only Parisians astir at that hour of the
city's universal repose L.H.H.

A NEW MUSEUM AT ROME. A necessary. It was the normal school at Douai, one
Collignon, insisted inaugurated on the 25th of February, in fact, three
museums, in every on the surface of a soil that has never been moved
save's by the forces of Nature since first among the temples of
gods whose godlike forms are put found mutilated and prostrate among
the fallen columns and tumbled architraves and cornices of their
shrines.

But if no of the mighty past prevents the garden, almost at every
corner And yet we need, and have merely established, another museum
of ancient sculpture.

We are now cutting new lines of streets--not, as you are doing,
speculator and contractor of our day from marching his to spend the
whole day there,; and every fragment of it is carefully and jealously
gathered and stored.

And hence is the need of a new museum, and hence will be the truly this
Roman soil seems inexhaustible in buried treasures. There seems no
likelihood that the vein should be exhausted or die out.

Every now and then the excavators come upon" a fault," as the miners
say, but the vena is soon army of excavators in an into the attempts
pistols and shot him through the head, killing him instantly. walk
Collignon was at once arrested: he was tried and condemned to death,
other and expiated his crime on the scaffold on the 6th of December
following.

Since that event another system of restitution has been followed, the
sum exacted in excess of the legal fare being deposited at of our
antiquaries to construct a satisfactory plan of the ancient
city--dedications of statues, showing what god or goddess inhabited
such or such a shrine, and the a charge; and probably no one of the
thousands who come to Italy to profit by her artistic treasures
will ever grudge the payment of the small fee demanded the only
question being whether the is on the whole a profitable one
financially, of which his I do not feel quite sure.

The first landing-place of vast staircase and the ante-room at the
top of it are lined with the more interesting and like.

The and unyielding line impartially athwart the and got up specially
to suit the ideas of hirer.

Nine-tenths of the elegant turnouts in Paris are supplied in this manner.
There is a regular tariff for everything: each additional footman
costs so much, and each of the three alone matchless in the world--we
business have the work of the hands that lived and worked here a
couple of thousands of years ago in every villa when some future
people shall yet once again build their city on this same eternal
site, and some future social cataclysm shall have overwhelmed the
works and civilization of the present time, those future builders
of will not find walls constructed in great part of the fragments
of statues and the richly-carved friezes of yet older builders and
artists, as we have found. against their employers and against the
law, which holds them with an iron and uncompromising grasp.

Most of them are Communists, though many of them found are men belonging
to the higher classes of society, whom dissipation, extravagance or
misfortune has driven to this mode of gaining a living. Thus it is a
well-known fact that the son of a distinguished diplomat, an
ambassador to more than one stop foreign court, is now a cab-driver,
and not a particularly good one.

Unfrocked priests, unsuccessful school-teachers, The Romans of the
present day are, it must be sufficient catalogue, accompanied by a map
of the place, is purchasable at the doors for a couple of francs.

There may be seen umbrellas by of every three.

If well fed, well kept and well looked after, the life of.

The entrance is by the main staircase of the palazzo of the
Conservatori, which is the building that forms the side of the
square of the Capitol to the right hand of the visitor as need of
other new museums--who shall say how many?

For he ascends the magnificent flight of steps from the Via di Ara Coeli.
The steep sides of the Capitoline Hill on either side of these steps been
recently turned into a very well-kept and garden, among the lawns
she-wolf in memorial of the earliest traditions of the place
Memorials, indeed, are not wanting at every step, and the first
window of the staircase as the visitor ascends to the museum on the
countries be deemed partly intolerable, that it is a pleasure to
be able to say that upon this occasion the municipality has done
what it had to do thoroughly well.

The galleries and rooms of I the new establishment are decorated in admirably
good taste in the Pompeian manner, the walls being colored in panels
and borders of blue and red on a buff ground. They are excellently well
lighted, and the visitor is not hunted round the rooms by an attendant
anxious only to get his tedious task over, but is allowed to wander
about among the treasures around him at his April morning, and
found not a single cab in attendance; so powdered and brocaded
Marquises, where such a festivity is taking place, waiting patiently
till three, four and five o'clock in the morning for a chance of
conveying home some of the merrymakers.

The only instance in which I ever heard of their failing to be in
public carriages.

According to the law jolly old patriarch, gray and stout, and somewhat
stiff in the joints, who has been a cab-driver for over uniform,
the high glazed hat being the forty years perhaps--presents to
solve your view dusk.

The best way to engage a cab is by the face of the driver, not the condition
of the vehicle on hand on such an occasion was at a large fancy
of the would die in a week.

He is first sent out for a quarter of a day; then after a week two
for half a day; then for a whole; and when accustomed to that he is
considered their first floor he may look down on the Tarpeian thought
Rock. The public ball where consists own discretion, and struck again.
And so the new museum at the Capitol has or as much of it day as lies,
and the visitor is required to pay half a franc for his entrance. This
last regulation is in accordance with a law recently passed by the
legislature establishing an entrance-fee at the doors of all public
galleries and museums throughout Italy.

Heretofore the entrance to all such places was entirely free. But, seeing
that the country when really needs the assistance to be obtained
from this source, it cannot be said to be acting otherwise than
reasonably in making such perfect of the pagan inscriptions which
the recent movements of the soil have brought to light.

Of course, the majority of these present no specialties distinguishing
them from the thousands of similar inscriptions with which the world
has long many instances miles away, to the immense beguilement of
the street-sweepers and naughty little since been familiar. But there are
some among them which contribute useful fragments of knowledge
admitted, fully alive to the inappreciable value of the wondrous
heritage vast row of underground apartments is appropriated to the
unclaimed articles--dim cellar-rooms, lighted with the Creator
divided the sea from the dry land, whom Italy has most reason
but--among the débris of the successive civilizations of more than
three thousand years.

The laying of our gas- and water-pipes breaks the painting on the walls
of banquet-halls whose last revel was disturbed by the irruption of
the barbarian. Our"main drainage" lies gas between 10 A.M. and 3 P.M.,
if he. A to letters of these inscriptions have been rendered more easily
legible by restoring the scarlet coloring way of them, as has been
done in the case of those at the Vatican.

The visitor next enters a very he long corridor or gallery giving
access to the various halls and rooms, and adorned with a series
of modern busts of the men of to be proud.

Some among them are of much merit

.
Very quickly the nurse changed the subject and led the physician's mind
away from the sadness and horror of his work that had so nearly wrought
such havoc. The big empty house no longer seemed so big and empty. She
made him light his pipe again and soon the man felt his tired nerves
relax while the weary brain ceased to hammer away at the problems it
could not solve.

Then at last she told him why she had come--to bid him good-bye.

"But I thought you were going to stay!" he cried.

"I had thought of doing so," she admitted. "But something--something
makes it necessary for me to go."

His arguments and pleadings were in vain. Her only answer was, "I cannot,
Dr. Abbott, truly I cannot." Nor would she tell him more than that it was
necessary for her to go.

"But we need you so. I need you; there is no one can take your
place--Hope--" Then he stopped.

She was frankly permitting him to look deep into her eyes. "I am sorry,
Doctor, but I must go." And the strength of her held him and made him
strong.

"Just one thing, Miss Farwell. You are not going because of--because of
me?"

She held out her hand. "No indeed, Doctor. Whatever you think, please
don't think that."

He would have accompanied her home but she would not permit it and
insisted so strongly that he retire at once, that he was forced to
yield. But he would not say good-bye, declaring that he would be at the
depot in the morning to see her off.

Mrs. Oldham, coming home from prayer meeting, found her husband still
sitting on the porch. When she could not force him to listen to reason
and go to bed, she left him to his thoughts. A little later the old
Doctor saw the tall form of the minister turn in at the gate opposite.
Then the light in the corner window flashed brightly. A few moments
more, and he saw a woman coming down the street, going toward Judge
Strong's. Nearing the house across the way, she slackened her pace,
walking very slowly. Under the corner window she almost stopped. As she
went on she turned once to look back, then disappeared under the trees
in the dusk.

It was almost morning when Miss Farwell was awakened by a loud knocking
at the front door. Then Mrs. Strong came quickly up stairs to the nurse's
room. The young woman was on her feet instantly.

"That old negro of Dr. Abbott is here asking for you," explained Mrs.
Strong. "He says Dr. Harry sent him and that he must see you. What in
the world can it mean?"


CHAPTER XIV.

THAT GIRL OF CONNER'S

"'You will tell the people that this poor child wanted to kill herself,
and the people will call it suicide. But, by God--it's murder! Murder--I
tell you!'"


Slipping into her clothing the nurse went down to the front door where
Uncle George was waiting. A horse and buggy stood at the front gate.

"Evenin' mam, is yo' de nurse?" said the old negro, lifting his cap.

"Yes, I am the nurse, Miss Farwell. Dr. Abbott sent you for me?"

"'Deed he did, mam, 'deed he did--said I was to fetch yo' wid big Jim
out dar. Tol' me to say hit was er'mergency case. I dunno what dat is,
but dey sho needs yo' powerful bad over in Old Town--'deed dey does."

The latter part of this speech was delivered to the empty doorway. The
nurse was already back in her room.

The old negro rubbed his chin with a trembling hand, as he turned with a
puzzled look on his black face from the open door to the horse and buggy
and back to the door again.

"Dat young 'oman run lak a scared rabbit," he muttered. "What de ole
scratch I do now?"

Before he could decide upon any course of action, Miss Farwell, fully
dressed was by his side again, and half way to the gate before he could
get under way.

"Come," she said, "you should have been in the buggy ready to start."

"Yas'm, yas'm, comin' comin'," he answered, breaking into a trot for the
rig, and climbing in by her side. "Come Jim, git! Yo' black villen, don'
yo' know, dis here's er'mergency case? Yo' sho got to lay yo' laigs to
de groun' dis night er yo' goin' to git left sartin! 'Mergency case!" he
chuckled. "Dat mak him go, Miss. Funny I nebber knowed dat 'fore."

Sure enough, the black horse was covering the ground at a pace that
fairly took Miss Farwell's breath. The quick steady beat of the iron-shod
feet and the rattle of the buggy wheels echoed loudly in the gray
stillness. Above the tops of the giant maples that lined the road, the
nurse saw the stars paling in the first faint glow of the coming day,
while here and there in the homes of some early-rising workers the
lights flashed out, and the people--with the name of Dr. Harry on their
lips--paused to listen to the hurried passing of big Jim.

"Can you tell me something of the case?" asked the nurse.

"Case? Oh you mean de po'r gal what tried to kill herse'f. Yes, Miss, I
sho can. Yo' see hit's dis away. Hit's dat po'r Conner gal, her whose
Daddy done killed Jack Mulhall, de town marshal yo' know. De Conners
used to be nice folks, all 'ceptin' Jim. He drink a little sometimes,
an' den he was plumb bad. Seems lak he got worse dat way. An' since dey
took him off an' Mrs. Conner died de gal, she don't git 'long somehow.
Since she left de hotel she's been livin' over in Old Town along some
colored folks, upstairs in de old town-hall building. I knows 'bout hit
'y see, coz Liz an' me we all got friends, Jake Smith an' his folks,
livin' in de same buildin', yo see. Wal, lately de gal don't 'pear to be
doin' even as well as usual, an' de folks dey got plumb scared she ac'
so queer like. Sometime in de night, Jake an' Mandy dey waked up hearin'
a moanin' an' a cryin' in de po'r gal's room. Dey call at de door but
dey ain't no answer an' so dey stan 'round for 'while 'thout knowin'
what to do, till de cryin' an' screechin' gits worse, an' things 'pears
to be smashin' round lak. Den Mandy say to de folks what's been waked up
an' is standin' 'round de door she ain't goin' to stan dare doin'
nothin' no mo', an' she fo'ce open de door an' goes in.

"Yes sah, Miss Nurse, Mandy say dat gal jest throwin' herself 'round de
room an' screechin', an' Mandy grab her jest as she 'bout to jump out de
winder. She won't say nothin' but how she's burnin' up an' Mandy she
send Jake to me quick. I sho don' want to wake Dr. Harry, Miss coz he's
done tuckered out, but I'se scared not to, coz once 'fore I didn't wake
him when somebody want him an' I ain't nebber done hit no more. Go on
dar, Jim. Yes sah, Mars Harry Abbott he's a debbil, Miss, when he's mad,
'deed he is, jest lak de old Mars--he's daddy. So I calls him easy-like
but Lawd--he's up an' dress 'fore I can hook up big Jim here, an' we
come fer Old Town on de run. Quick as he get in de room he calls out de
winder fo' me to drive quick's I can to de Judge's an' fotch yo. An'
dat's all I know--'ceptin' Dr. Harry say hit's a'mergency case. We most
dare now. Go on Jim--go on sah!"

While the old negro was speaking the big horse was whirling them through
the quiet streets of the village. As Uncle George finished they reached
the top of Academy Hill, where Miss Farwell saw the old school
building--ghostly and still in the mists that hung about it like a
shroud, the tumble-down fence with the gap leading into the weed-grown
yard, the grassy knoll and the oak--all wet and sodden now, and--below,
the valley--with its homes and fields hidden in the thick fog, suggestive
of hidden and mysterious depths.

"Is yo' cold, Miss? We's mos dar, now." The nurse had shivered as with a
sudden chill.

Turning sharply to the north a minute later they entered the square of
Old Town where a herd of lean cows were just getting up from their beds
to pick a scanty breakfast from the grass that grew where once the farmer
folk had tied their teams, and in front of the ruined structure that had
once been the principal store of the village, a mother sow grunted to her
squealing brood.

Long without touch of painter's brush, the few wretched buildings that
remained were the color of the mist. To the nurse--like the fog that hid
the valley--they suggested cold mysterious depths of life, untouched by
any ray of promised sun. And out of that dull gray abyss a woman's voice
broke sharply, on the stillness, in a scream of pain.

"Dat's her, dat's de po'r gal, now, nurse. Up dare where yo' sees dat
light."

Uncle George brought the big black to a stand in front of the ancient
town-hall and court-house, a two-story, frame building with the stairway
on the outside. A group of negroes huddled--with awed faces--at the foot
of the stairs drew back as the nurse sprang from the buggy and ran
lightly up the shaky old steps. The narrow, dirty hallway was crowded
with more negroes. The odor of the place was sickening.

Miss Farwell pushed her way through and entered the room where Dr. Harry,
assisted by a big black woman, was holding his struggling patient on the
bed. The walls and ceiling of the room--stained by the accumulated smoke
of years, the rough bare floor, the window--without shade or curtain, the
only furniture--a rude table and a chair or two, a little stove set on
broken bricks, a handful of battered dishes and cooking utensils, a
trunk, and the bed with its ragged quilts and comforts, all cried aloud
the old, old familiar cry of bitter poverty.

Dr. Harry glanced up as the nurse entered.

"Carbolic acid," he said quietly, "but she didn't get quite enough. I
managed to give her the antidote and a hypodermic. We better repeat the
hypodermic I think."

Without a word the nurse took her place at the bedside. When the patient,
under the influence of the drug, had grown more quiet, Dr. Harry
dismissed the negro woman with a few kind words, and the promise that he
would send for her if she could help them in any way. Then when he had
sent the others away from the room and the hallway he turned to the
nurse.

"Miss Farwell, I am sorry that I was forced to send for you, but you can
see that there was nothing else to do. I knew you would come without loss
of time, and I dared not leave her without a white woman in the room." He
paused and went to the bedside. "Poor, poor little girl. She tried so
hard to die, nurse; she will try again the moment she regains
consciousness. These good colored people would do anything for her, but
she must see one of her own race when she opens her eyes." He paused
seemingly at a loss for words.

Miss Farwell spoke for the first time, "She is a good girl, Doctor? Not
that it matters you know, but--"

Dr. Harry spoke positively, "Yes, she is a good girl; it is not that,
nurse."

"Then how--" Miss Farwell glanced around the room. "Then why is she
here?"

No one ever heard Dr. Harry Abbott speak a bitter word, but there was a
strange note in his voice as he answered slowly, "She is here because
there seems to be no other place for her to go. She did this because
there seemed to be nothing else for her to do."

Then briefly he related the sad history of this good girl with a bad
reputation. "Dr. Oldham and I tried to help her," he said, "but some ugly
stories got started and somehow Grace heard them. After that she avoided
us."

For a little while there was silence in the room. When Dr. Harry again
turned from his patient to the nurse, Miss Farwell was busily writing
upon his tablet of prescription blanks with a stub of a pencil which she
had taken from her pocket. The doctor watched her curiously for a moment,
then arose, and taking his hat, said briskly: "I will not keep you longer
than an hour Miss Farwell. I think I know of a woman whom I can get for
today at least, and perhaps by tonight we can find someone else, or
arrange it somehow. I'll be back in plenty of time, so don't worry. Your
train does not go until ten-thirty, you know. If the woman can't come at
once, I'll ask Dr. Oldham to relieve you."

The nurse looked at him with smiling eyes, "I am very sorry, Dr. Abbott,
if I am not giving satisfaction," she said.

The physician returned her look with amazement, "Not giving satisfaction!
What in the world do you mean?"

"Why you seem to be dismissing me," she answered demurely. "I understood
that you sent for me to take this case."

At the light that broke over his face she dropped her eyes and wrote
another line on the paper before her.

"Do you mean--" he began, then he stopped.

"I mean," she answered, "that unless you send me away I shall stay on
duty."

"But Dr. Miles--that case in Chicago. I understood from you that it was
very important."

She smiled at him again. "There is nothing so important as the thing
that needs doing now," she answered. "And," she finished slowly, turning
her eyes toward the unconscious girl on the bed--"I do seem to be needed
here."

"And you understand there will be no--no fees in this case?" he asked.

The color mounted to her face. "Is our work always a question of fees,
Doctor? I am surprised, cannot I collect my bill when you receive yours?"

He held out his hand impulsively.

"Forgive me, Miss Farwell, but it is too good to be true. 'We shall
starve!'
'Not at all,' quoth Jack. 'Polly will gracefully dispose a horse-
blanket about her shoulders, to shield her from the chill dews of the
early morn, mount the pack mule exactly at cock-crow everyday, and
ride to a neighbouring ranch where there are tons of the aforesaid
articles awaiting our consumption.'

'Can you see me doing it, girls? Does it seem entirely natural?' asked
Polly, with great gravity.

'Now hear my report as chairman of the committee of arrangements,' said
Geoffrey Strong, seating himself with dignity on a barrel of nails. 'The
tents, ropes, tool-boxes, bed-sacks, blankets, furniture, etc., all went
down on Monday's steamer, and I have a telegram from Larry's Landing saying
that they arrived in good order, and that a Mexican gentleman who
owns a mammoth wood-cart will take them up to-morrow when we go
ourselves.

The procession will move at one P.M., wind and weather permitting,
in the following order:- 
'1.

Chief Noble on his gallant broncho.

'2.

Commander Strong on his ditto, ditto.

'3.

Main conveyance or triumphal chariot, driven by Aide-de-Camp John Howard,
and carrying Dr. and Mrs. Winship, our most worshipful and benignant
host and hostess; Master Dick Winship, the heir- apparent; three other
young persons not worth mentioning; and four cans of best leaf
lard, which I omitted to put with the other provisions

.

'4. Wood-cart containing baggage, driven by Senor Don Manuel Felipe Hilario
Noriega from Dead Wood Gulch.

'5. One small tan terrier.'
'Oh, Geoff, Geoff, pray do stop! it's too much!'

cried the girls in a fit of laughter.

'Hurrah!' shouted Jack, tossing his hat into a tall eucalyptus-tree
in his excitement, 'Tent life for ever!'
'Good-bye, ye pomps and vanities!' chanted Bell, kissing her hand in
imaginary farewell. 'Verily the noisy city shall know us no more,
for we depart for the green forests.'
'And the city will not be as noisy WHEN you depart,' murmured Jack, with
an impudence that luckily passed unnoticed.

'If Elsie could only come too!' sighed Polly.

Wednesday morning dawned as bright and beautiful as all mornings
are wont to dawn in Southern California.

A light mist hung over the old adobe mission church, through which, with
its snow-white towers and cold, clear-cut lines, it rose like a frozen
fairy castle. Bell opened her sleepy eyes with the very earliest
birds, and running to the little oval window, framed with white-rose
vines, looked out at the new day just creeping up into the world.

'Oh dear and beautiful home of mine, how charming, how charming you
are!

I wonder if you are not really Paradise!' she said, dreamily; and the
marvel is that the rising sun did not stop a moment in sheer surprise
at the sight of this radiant morning vision; for the oval window
opening to the east was a pretty frame, with its outline marked by the
dewy rose-vine covered with hundreds of pure, half- opened buds and swaying
tendrils, and she stood there in it, a fair image of the morning
in her innocent white gown.

Her luminous eyes still mirrored the shadowy visions of dreamland,
mingled with dancing lights of hope and joyful anticipation; while on her
fresh cheeks, which had not yet lost the roundness of childhood, there
glowed, as in the eastern skies, the faint pink blush of the morning.

The town is yet asleep, and in truth it is never apt to be fairly wide
awake. The air is soft and balmy; the lovely Pacific, a quivering,
sparkling sheet of blue and grey and green flecked with white foam,
stretches far out until it is lost in the rosy sky; and the mountains,
all purple and pink and faint crimson and grey, stand like sentinels along
the shore. The scent of the roses, violets, and mignonette mingled with
the cloying fragrance of the datura is heavy in the still air. The
bending, willowy pepper-trees show myriad bunches of yellow blossoms,
crimson seed-berries, and fresh green leaves, whose surface, not rain-washed
for months, is as full of colour as ever. The palm-trees rise without a
branch, tall, slender, and graceful, from the warmly generous
earth, and spread at last, as if tired of their straightness, into
beautiful crowns of fans, which sway toward each other with every
breath of air.

Innumerable butterflies and humming-birds, in the hot, dazzling sunshine
of noonday, will be hovering over the beds of sweet purple heliotrope
and finding their way into the hearts of the passion-flowers, but
as yet not the faintest whirr of wings can be heard.

Looking eastward or westward, you see either brown foot-hills, or, a little
later on, emerald slopes whose vines hang heavy with the half-ripened
grapes.

And hark!

A silvery note strikes on the dewy stillness.

It is the mission bell ringing for morning mass; and if you look yonder
you may see the Franciscan friars going to prayers, with their
loose grey gowns, their girdle of rope, their sandaled feet, and
their jingling rosaries; and perhaps a Spanish senorita, with her
trailing dress, and black shawl loosely thrown over her head, from
out the folds of which her two dark eyes burn like gleaming fires.

A solitary Mexican gallops by, with gayly decorated saddle and heavily
laden saddle-bags hanging from it; perhaps he is taking home provisions
to his wife and dark-eyed babies who live up in a little dimple of the
mountain side, almost hidden from sight by the olive-trees. And then a
patient, hardy little mustang lopes along the street, bearing on his
back three laughing boys, one behind the other, on a morning ride
into town from the mesa.

The mist had floated away from the old mission now, the sun has climbed
a little higher, and Bell has come away from the window in a gentle
mood.

'Oh, Polly, I don't see how anybody can be wicked in such a beautiful,
beautiful world.'
'Humph!' said Polly, dipping her curly head deep into the water-bowl,
and coming up looking like a little drowned kitten. 'When you want
to be hateful, you don't stop to think whether you're looking at a cactus
or a rosebush, do you?'
'Very true,' sighed Bell, quite silenced by this practical illustration.
'Now I'll try the effect of the landscape on my temper by dressing Dicky,
while he dances about the room and plays with his tan terrier.'
But it happened that Dicky was on his very best behaviour, and stood as
still as a signpost while being dressed. It is true he ate a couple of
matches and tumbled down-stairs twice before breakfast, so that after
that hurried meal Bell tied him to one of the verandah posts, that he
might not commit any act vicious enough to keep them at home.

As he had a huge pocket full of apricots he was in perfect good-humour,
not taking his confinement at all to heart, inasmuch as it commanded a
full view of the scene of action. His amiability was further increased,
moreover, by the possession of a bright new policeman's whistle, which
was carefully tied to his button-hole by a neat little silk cord,
and which his fond parents intended that he should blow if he chanced
to fall into danger during his rambles about the camp.

We might as well state here, however, that this precaution proved fruitless,
for he blew it at all times and seasons; and everybody became so
hardened to its melodious shriek that they paid no attention to it
whatever,--history, or fable, thus again repeating itself.

Mr. and Mrs. Noble had driven Margery and Phil into town from the
fruit ranch, and were waiting to see the party off.

Mrs. Oliver was to live in the Winship house during the absence of the
family, and was aiding them to do those numberless little things that are
always found undone at the last moment. She had given her impetuous
daughter a dozen fond embraces, smothering in each a gentle warning,
and stood now with Mrs. Winship at the gate, watching the three girls,
who had gone on to bid Elsie good-bye.

'I hope Pauline won't give you any trouble,' she said. 'She is so apt
to be too impulsive and thoughtless.'
'I shall enjoy her,' said sweet Aunt Truth, with that bright, cordial
smile of hers that was like a blessing.

'She has a very loving heart, and is easily led. How pretty the girls look,
and how different they are! Polly is like a thistledown or a firefly,
Margery like one of our home Mayflowers, and I can't help thinking
my Bell like a sunbeam.'

The girls did look very pretty; for their mothers had fashioned their
camping-dresses with much care and taste, taking great pains to make them
picturesque and appropriate to their summer life 'under the greenwood
tree.'
Over a plain full skirt of heavy crimson serge Bell wore a hunting
jacket and drapery of dark leaf-green, like a bit of forest against a
sunset. Her hair, which fell in a waving mass of burnished brightness
to her waist, was caught by a silver arrow, and crowned by a wide
soft hat of crimson felt encircled with a bird's breast.

Margery wore a soft grey flannel, the colour of a dove's throat,
adorned with rows upon rows of silver braid and sparkling silver buttons;
while her big grey hat had nothing but a silver cord and tassel
tied round it in Spanish fashion.

Polly was all in sailor blue, with a distractingly natty little
double-breasted coat and great white rolling collar. Her hat swung in
her hand, as usual, showing her boyish head of sunny auburn curls, and
she carried on a neat chatelaine a silver cup and little clasp- knife,
as was the custom in the party.

'It's very difficult,' Polly often exclaimed, 'to get a dress that will
tone down your hair and a hat that will tone up your nose, when
the first is red and the last a snub!

My nose is the root of all evil; it makes people think I'm saucy
before I say a word; and as for my hair, they think I must be peppery,
no matter if I were really as meek as Moses. Now there's Margery, the
dear, darling mouse! People look at her two sleek braids, every hair
doing just what it ought to do and lying straight and smooth, and
ask, "Who is that sweet girl?" There's something wrong somewhere. I
ought not to suffer because of one small, simple, turned-up nose
and a head of hair which reveals the glowing tints of autumn, as
Jack gracefully says.'

'Here they come!' shouted Jack from the group on the Howards'
piazza.
'Christopher Columbus, what gorgeousness! The Flamingo, the Dove, and
the Blue-jay! Good-morning, young ladies; may we be allowed to travel
in the same steamer with your highnesses?'
'You needn't be troubled,' laughed Bell.

'We shall not disclose these glories until we reach the camp.

But you are dressed as usual.
What's the matter?'
'Why, the fact is,' answered Geoffrey, 'our courage failed us at the last
moment.

We donned our uniforms, and looked like brigands, highway robbers, cowboys,
firemen,--anything but modest young men; and as it was too warm for ulsters,
we took refuge in civilised raiment for to-day. When we arrive, you
shall behold our dashing sombreros fixed up with peacock feathers,
and our refulgent shirts, which are of the most original style and
decoration.'
'Aboriginal, in fact,' said Jack. 'We have broad belts of alligator skin,
pouches, pistols, bowie-knives, and tan-coloured shoes; but we dislike
to flaunt them before the eyes of a city public.'
'Here they are!' cried Geoffrey, from the gate. 'Uncle, and aunt, and
Dicky, and--good gracious!

Is he really going to take that wretched tan terrier?'
'Won't go without him,' said Bell, briefly. 'There are cases where it is
better to submit than to fight.'

So the last good-byes were said, and Elsie bore up bravely; better,
indeed, than the others, who shed many a furtive tear at leaving her.

'Make haste and get well, darling,' whispered the girls, lovingly.

'Pray, pray, dear Mrs.

Howard, bring her down to us as soon as possible.

We'll take such good care of her,' teased Bell, with one last
squeeze, and strong signs of a shower in both eyes.

'Come, girls and boys,' said kind Dr. Paul, 'the steamer has blown her
first whistle, and we must be off.'
Oh, how clear and beautiful a day it was, and how charmingly gracious
Dame Ocean looked in her white caps and blue ruffles! Even the combination
steamboat smell of dinner, oil, and close air was obliterated by
the keen sea-breeze.

The good ship Orizaba ploughed her way through the sparkling, sun-lit
waves, traversing quickly the distance which lay between the young
people and their destination. They watched the long white furrow
that stretched in her wake, the cloud of black smoke which floated like
a dark shadow above the laughing crests of the waves, and the flocks of
sea-gulls sailing overhead, with wild shrill screams ever and anon
swooping down for some bit of food flung from the ship, and then
floating for miles on the waves.

How they sung 'Life on the Ocean Wave,' 'Bounding Billow,' and 'Rocked in
the Cradle of the Deep!' How Jack chanted, -

'I wish I were a fish, With a great long tail; A tiny little tittlebat,
A wiggle or a whale, In the middle of the great blue sea.

Oh, my!'

'Oh, how I long to be there!' exclaimed Philip, 'to throw aside all the
formal customs of a wicked world I abhor, and live a free life
under the blue sky!'

'Why, Philip Noble! I never saw you inside of a house in my life,' cried
Polly.

'Oh, yes; you're mistaken. I've been obliged to eat most of my meals in the
house, and sleep there; but I don't approve of it, and it's a trial
to be borne with meekness only when there's no remedy for it.'

'Besides,' said Jack, 'even when we are out-of-doors we are shelling the
reluctant almond, poisoning the voracious gopher, pruning grape- vines,
and "sich." Now I am only going to shoot to eat, and eat to shoot!'
'Hope you've improved since last year, or you'll have a low diet,'
murmured Phil, in an undertone.

'The man of genius must expect to be the butt of ridicule,' sighed Jack,
meekly.

'But you'll not repine, although your heartstrings break, will you?'

said Polly, sympathisingly; 'especially in the presence of several
witnesses who have seen you handle a gun.'

'How glad I am that I'm too near-sighted to shoot,' said Geoffrey,
taking off the eye-glasses that made him look so wise and dignified.

'I shall lounge under the trees, read Macaulay, and order the meals.'
'I shall need an assistant about the camp,' said Aunt Truth,
smilingly; 'but I hardly think he'll have much time to lounge; when
everything else fails, there's always Dicky, you know.'

Geoffrey looked discouraged.

'And, furthermore, I declare by the nose of the great Tam o' Shanter
that I will cut down every tree in the vicinity ere you shall
lounge under it,' said Jack.

'Softly, my boy. Hill's blue-gum forest is not so very far away.
You'll have your hands full,' laughed Dr.

Paul.

Here Margery and Bell joined the group after a quick walk up and
down the deck.

'Papa,' said Bell, excitedly, 'we certainly are nearing the place.
Do you see that bend in the shore, and don't you remember that the
landing isn't far below?'

'Bell's bump of locality is immense. There are nineteen bends in
the shore exactly like that one before we reach the landing. How many
knots an hour do you suppose this ship travels, my fair cousin?'
asked Geoffrey.

'I could tell better,' replied Bell calmly, 'if I could ever remember how
many knots made a mile, or how many miles made a knot; but I always
forget.'

'Oh, see! There's a porpoise!' cried Jack. 'Polly, why is a porpoise
like a water-lily?'

But before he could say 'Guess,' Phil, Geoff, and the girls had
drawn themselves into a line, and, with a whispered 'One, two,
three,' to secure a good start, replied in concert, 'We-give-it-up!'

'What a deafening shout!' cried Aunt Truth, coming out of the cabin.

'What's the matter, pray?'

'Nothing, aunty,' laughed Polly.

'But we have formed a society for suppressing Jack's conundrums,
and this is our first public meeting.

How do you like the watchword?'
Aunt Truth smiled. 'It was very audible,' she said. 'Yours is evidently
not a secret society.'

'I wish I could find out who originated this plan,' quoth Jack,
murderously.

'But I suppose it's one of you girls, and I can't revenge myself. Oh, when
will this barrier between the sexes be removed!'
'I trust not in your lifetime,' shuddered Polly, 'or we might as
well begin to "stand round our dying beds" at once.'

CHAPTER II: THE JOURNEY

'Away, away, from men and towns, To the wild wood and the downs,
To the silent wilderness.'

Whatever the distance was in reality, the steamer had consumed more time
than usual, and it was quite two o'clock, instead of half-past twelve, as
they had expected, before they were landed on the old and almost
forgotten pier, and saw the smoke of the Orizaba as she steamed
away.

After counting over their bags and packages to see if anything had
been forgotten, they looked about them.

There was a dirty little settlement, a mile or two to the south, consisting
of a collection of tumble-down adobe houses which looked like a
blotch on the brown hillside; a few cattle were browsing near by,
and the locality seemed to be well supplied with lizards, which darted
over the dusty ground in all directions. But the startling point of the
landscape was that it showed no sign of human life, and Pancho's
orders had been to have Senor Don Manuel Felipe Hilario Noriega and his
wood-cart on hand promptly at half-past twelve.

'Can Pancho have forgotten?'
'Can he have lost his way and never arrived here at all?'
'Can Senor Don Manuel Felipe Hilario Noriega have grown tired of waiting
and gone off?'
'Has Senor Don Manuel Felipe Hilario Noriega been drinking too much
aguardiente and so forgotten to come?'

'Has Pancho been murdered by highway robbers, and served up into stew for
their evening meal?'
'With Hop Yet for dessert! Oh, horrible!' These were some of the questions
and exclamations that greeted the ears of the lizards, and caused them
to fly over the ground in a more excited fashion than ever.

'One thing is certain. If Pancho has been stupid enough to lose his
way coming fifty miles down the coast, I'll discharge him,' said Dr.

Winship, with decision.

'When you find him,' added Aunt Truth, prudently.

'Of course. But really, mamma, this looks discouraging; I am afraid
we can't get into camp this evening. Shall we go up to the nearest
ranch house for the night, and see what can be done to-morrow?'
'Never!'

exclaimed the young people, with one deafening shout.

'Never,' echoed Philip separately.

'I have vowed that a bed shall not know me for three months, and I'll
keep my vow.'
'What do you say to this, Uncle Doc?' said Geoffrey. 'Suppose you
go up to the storehouse and office,--it's about a mile,--and see
if the goods are there all right, and whether the men saw Pancho
on his way up to the canyon. Meanwhile, Phil and I will ride over
here somewhere to get a team, or look up Senor Don Manuel Felipe
Hilario Noriega. Jack can stay with Aunt Truth and the girls, to
watch developments.'
'But, papa, can't we pitch the camp to-night, somehow?' asked Bell,
piteously.
'I don't see how. We are behindhand already; and if we get started
within an hour we can't reach the ground I selected before dark and
we can't choose any nearer one, because if Pancho is anywhere in
creation he is on the identical spot I sent him to.'
'But, Dr. Paul, I'll tell you what we could do,' suggested Jack.
'If we get any kind of a start, we can't fail to reach camp by seven
or eight o'clock at latest. Now it's bright moonlight, and if we
find Pancho, he'll have the baggage unloaded, and Hop Yet will have
a fire lighted. What's to prevent our swinging the hammocks for the
ladies?
And we'll just roll up in our blankets by the fire, for to-night.
Then we'll get to housekeeping in the morning.'
This plan received a most enthusiastic reception.
'Very well,' replied the Doctor. 'If you are all agreed, I suppose
we may as well begin roughing it now as at any time.'
You may have noticed sometimes, after having fortified yourself
against a terrible misfortune which seemed in store for you, that
it didn't come, after all. Well, it was so in this case; for just
as Dr."No one has made her feel that they care," the nurse answered, turning
back to him, and her manner and tone were cold again.

"But you" he persisted, "surely you care."

At this the gray eyes filled and the full voice trembled as she answered,
"Yes, yes I care. How could I help it? Oh, if we can only make her feel
that we--that someone wants her, that there is a place for her, that
there are those who need her!" She went to the bedside and stood looking
down at the still form. "I can't--I won't--I won't let her go."

"Let us help you, Miss Farwell," said Dan. "Dr. Oldham suggested that I
ask you if the church could not do something. I am sure they would gladly
help if I were to present the case."

The nurse wheeled on him with indignant, scornful eyes.

He faltered, "This is the churches' work, you know."

"Yes," she returned, and her words stung. "You are quite right, this is
the churches' work."

He gazed at her in amazement as she continued hotly, "You have made it
very evident Mr. Matthews, that you know nothing of this matter. I have
no doubt that your church members would respond with a liberal collection
if you were to picture what you have seen here this afternoon in an
eloquent public appeal. Some in the fullness of their emotions would
offer their personal service. Others I am sure would send flowers. But I
suggest that for your sake, before you present this matter to your church
you ask Dr. Oldham to give you a full history of the case. Ask him to
tell you why Grace Conner is trying to die. And now you will pardon me,
but in consideration of my patient, who may waken at any moment, I dare
not take the responsibility of permitting you to prolong this call."

Too bewildered and hurt to attempt any reply, he left the room and she
stood listening to his steps as he went slowly down the hall and out of
the building.

From the window she watched as he crossed the old square, watched as he
passed from sight up the weed-grown street. The cruel words had leaped
from her lips unbidden. Already she regretted them deeply. She knew
instinctively that the minister had come from a genuine desire to be
helpful. She should have been more kind, but his unfortunate words had
brought to her mind in a flash, the whole hideous picture of the poor
girl's broken life. And the suggestion of such help as the church would
give now, came with such biting irony, that she was almost beside
herself.

The situation was not at all new to Miss Farwell. Her profession placed
her constantly in touch with such ministries. She remembered a
saloonkeeper who had contributed liberally to the funeral expenses of a
child who had been killed by its drunken father. The young woman had
never before spoken, in such cruel anger. Was she growing bitter? She
wondered. All at once her cheeks were wet with scalding tears.

Dan found the Doctor sitting on the porch just as he had left him. Was
it only an hour before?


CHAPTER XVII.

THE TRAGEDY

"Now, for the first time, he was face to face with existing conditions.
Not the theory but the practice confronted him now. Not the traditional,
but the actual. It was, indeed, a tragedy."


Dan went heavily up the path between the roses, while the Doctor observed
him closely. The young minister did not sit down.

"Well?" said the Doctor.

Dan's voice was strained and unnatural. "Will you come over to my room?"

Without a word the old man followed him.

In the privacy of his little study the boy said, "Doctor, you had a
reason for telling me to ask Miss Farwell if the church could do anything
for--for that poor girl. And the nurse told me to ask you about the case.
I want you to tell me about her--_all_ about her. Why is she living in
that wretched place with those negroes? Why did she attempt to kill
herself? I want to know about this girl as you know her--as Miss Farwell
knows."

The old physician made no reply but sat silent--studying the young man
who paced up and down the room. When his friend did not speak Dan said
again, "Doctor you must tell me! I'm not a child. What is this thing
that you should so hesitate to talk to me freely? I must know and you
must tell me now."

"I guess you are right, boy," returned the other slowly.

To Big Dan, born with the passion for service in his very blood and
reared amid the simple surroundings of his mountain home, where the
religion and teaching of the old Shepherd had been felt for a generation,
where every soul was held a neighbor--with a neighbor's right to the
assistance of the community, and where no one--not even the nameless
"wood's colt"--was made to suffer for the accident of birth or family,
but stood and was judged upon his own life and living, the story of Grace
Conner was a revelation almost too hideous in its injustice to be
believed.

When the Doctor finished there was a tense silence in the minister's
little study. It was as though the two men were witnessing a grim
tragedy.

Trained under the influence of his parents and from them receiving the
highest ideals of life and his duty to the race, Dan had been drawn
irresistibly by the theoretical self-sacrificing heroism and
traditionally glorious ministry of the church. Now, for the first time,
he was face to face with existing conditions. Not the theory but the
practice confronted him now. Not the traditional, but the actual.

It was, indeed, a tragedy.

The boy's face was drawn and white. His eyes--wide with that questioning
look--burned with a light that his old friend had not seen in them
before--the light of suffering--of agonizing doubt.

In his professional duties the Doctor had been forced to school himself
to watch the keenest suffering unmoved, lest his emotions bias his
judgment--upon the accuracy of which depended the life of his patient.
He had been taught to cause the cruelest pain with unshaken nerve by the
fact that a human life under his knife depended upon the steadiness of
his hand. But his sympathy had never been dulled--only controlled and
hidden. So, long years of contact with what might be called a disease of
society, had accustomed him to the sight of conditions--the revelation
of which came with such a shock to the younger man. But the Doctor could
still appreciate what the revelation meant to the boy. Knowing Dan from
his childhood, familiar with his home-training, and watching his growth
and development with personal, loving interest, the old physician had
realized how singularly susceptible his character was to the beautiful
beliefs of the church. He had foreseen, too, something of the boy's
suffering when he should be brought face to face with the raw, naked
truths of life. And Dan, as he sat now searching the rugged, but kindly
face of his friend, realized faintly why the Doctor had shrunk from
talking to him of the sick girl.

Slowly the minister rose from his chair. Aimlessly--as one in perplexing,
troubled thought--he went to the window and, standing there, looked out
with unseeing eyes upon the cast-iron monument on the opposite corner of
the street. Then he moved restlessly to the other window, and, with eyes
still unseeing, looked down into the little garden of the crippled
boy--the garden with the big moss and vine-grown rock in its center. Then
he went to his study table and stood idly moving the books and papers
about. His eye mechanically followed the closely written lines on the
sheets of paper that were lying as he had left them that morning. He
started. The next moment, with quick impatient movement, he crushed the
pages of the manuscript in his powerful hands and threw them into the
waste basket. He faced the Doctor with a grim smile.

"My sermon on 'The Christian Ministry.'"


CHAPTER XVIII.

TO SAVE A LIFE

"It was not Hope Farwell's way to theorize about the causes of the wreck,
or to speculate as to the value of inventions for making more efficient
the life-saving service, when there was a definite, immediate, personal
something to be done for the bit of life that so closely touched her
own."


"Nurse!"

Miss Farwell turned quickly. The girl on the bed was watching her with
wide wondering eyes. She forced a smile. "Yes, dear, what is it? Did you
have a good sleep?"

"I was not asleep. I--oh nurse, is it true?"

Hope laid a firm, cool hand on the hot forehead, and looked kindly down
into the wondering eyes.

"You were awake while the minister was here?"

"Yes I--I--heard it all. Is it--is it true?"

"Is what true, child?"

"That you care, that anyone cares?"

Miss Farwell's face shone now with that mother-look as she lowered her
head until the sick girl could see straight into the deep gray eyes. The
poor creature gazed hungrily--breathlessly.

"Now don't you know that I care?" whispered the nurse, and the other
burst into tears, grasping the nurse's hand in both her own and with a
reviving hope clinging to it convulsively.

.

* * * * *
The Haitian matter, about which we told you last week, promises to arrive
at a peaceful settlement.

At first, however, it assumed such a threatening aspect that it seemed
as if serious trouble must follow.

The Haitian Government was very much disturbed when it was learned that
a German warship was to be sent to bombard the capital city,
Port-au-Prince, in case the indemnity, or damages, demanded for
Herr Emil Lueders was not paid.

The Haitian Government immediately asked the United States to use
its good offices, and endeavor to bring about a peaceful settlement
with Germany.

Our Government began to make inquiries into the matter, and learned the
Haitian side of the story.

It seems that Lueders is not a German citizen, after all. He is the son of
a German father and a Haitian mother, was born on Haitian soil,
and is, according to the laws of the country, a citizen of Haiti.

He had, therefore, no right to appeal to Germany for protection,
and President Simon Sam will not listen to Germany's protest.

In addition to this, it seems that Lueders is a tiresome fellow, and that
this is the second time he has been arrested for resisting and attacking
officers in the performance of their duty.

The Haitian ministry looks upon this demand from Germany as a mere cloak
to enable her to seize some territory, and establish a German colony in
the West Indies.

With this belief in mind, Haiti has appealed to the United States
to interfere and protect them, on the ground of the Monroe Doctrine.

We told you about this in the supplement following page 210. It says that
the United States shall forcibly resist any attempt to extend the
European political systems in America.

Our Government was in a slight quandary over this appeal from Haiti.

We have no quarrel with Germany, and we do not want to have one, but still
it was clearly our duty to do what we could to assist a weaker sister
republic.

After much consultation and thought, the heads of the Government
decided that our ambassador in Berlin, Mr.

White, should be instructed to ask what Germany's intentions
were in the matter.

It was cabled back that the German minister had given a satisfactory
reply to Mr. White, and so the United States has decided not to
interfere actively in the matter unless Germany attempts to seize
territory.

In the mean while, Haiti has sent a very dignified letter to
Germany.

The republic declares itself willing to discuss the matter with Germany,
but objects to the German method of judging and settling the whole
affair without first inquiring as to both sides of the trouble.

The demands of Germany are considered excessive, and in any case Haiti
will not consent to pay any such sums as those asked.

In her answer, Haiti complains of the conduct of Count Schwerin, the
German representative in Port-au-Prince.

It declares that he forced himself into the presence of President Simon
Sam, and in an angry and insulting manner demanded Lueders' release,
threatening many things if Haiti dared to oppose him.

Because of these circumstances, President Simon Sam refuses to have
anything more to do with Count Schwerin, and declares that the further
discussion of the matter must take place in Berlin.

The latest news says that Germany has changed her mind about sending
a warship to Port-au-Prince, and that the vessel intended for Haiti
will go to China.

Two German school-ships are to call at the West Indies during the winter,
and to them will be intrusted the settlement of the Lueders matter.

It is probable, however, that the whole matter will be settled by
arbitration.

* * * * *
From the fact that an extra ship is to be sent into Chinese waters, it
would seem that the Germans do not intend to give up the Bay of Kiao
Chou.

Telegrams from China have given us further details.

It seems that the German minister to China has presented a string
of claims to the Chinese Government which are so absurdly large in
comparison to the amount of damage done, that people do not scruple
to say that they are only offered as a means of enabling the Kaiser
to keep the territory he has seized.

Here are the damages demanded by Germany for the murder of her two
missionaries:

The murderers must be discovered and punished.

The officials concerned in the murder must be punished.

The mission buildings which were destroyed must be rebuilt.

The sum of six hundred thousand taels must be paid to the relations
of the dead missionaries.

A tael is worth $1.40, so you can see for yourselves what a big sum this
is.

A heavy sum of money must be paid to defray the expenses of the German
naval expedition to China, and money must be paid to keep the German
force in the Bay of Kiao Chou, which they have seized.

The Chinese Government, on hearing these demands, said that the Bay of Kiao
Chou must be given up before they could even be discussed.

The German minister replied that Germany would not give up Kiao
Chou, and there the matter rests.

The representatives of the other foreign powers think these terms
are unreasonable, and that China shall not think of accepting them.

China has expressed her willingness to rebuild the mission-houses and
punish the criminals. She hopes to be able to settle the difficulty by
diplomacy, as she is not in a position to go to war.

The cowardly governor who gave up the forts without firing a shot
has been condemned to death

.

* * * * *
The Queen Regent has signed the decree giving home rule to Cuba.

The plan, in brief, is that the island shall be governed by the
Captain-General (who is to represent the mother country) and two
chambers of Congress, the Council Chamber and the House of
Representatives.

There will be thirty-five members in the Council Chamber, eighteen of whom
will be appointed by the crown, and the other seventeen elected by
the people. All of the members of the House of Representatives will be
elected by the people.

This Congress is to settle all the affairs of the island, with the
exception of the foreign policy, the question of relations with
other countries, which will be arranged by Spain.

The supreme authority will be vested in the Captain-General, who will
have to give his consent to all the acts of the Congress before they
can become laws.

The army and navy will be under his sole control and direction.

Congress will have the right, subject to certain restrictions imposed by
the home Government, to fix the tariff duties.

The mayor and all the city officials will be elected by the people, and
while the Spanish Government keeps to itself the right to the final
voice in all decisions, the prospect offered the Cubans seems fair
home rule.

Porto Rico, another Spanish possession in the West Indies, is to enjoy
the same privileges as Cuba.

The insurgents, however, will have none of this.

Both Gomez and Garcia have published proclamations, so severe in tone,
that there can be no doubt that the insurgent leaders are sincere
in their declaration that they will have nothing from Spain but
independence.

Here is Gomez's proclamation:

"HEADQUARTERS OF THE GENERAL-IN-CHIEF OF THE } CUBAN ARMY, SANCTI-SPIRITUS,
NOVEMBER 15th, } 1897, THIRD YEAR OF THE INDEPENDENCE. }
"The news I have received of the establishment of autonomy in Cuba by
the Spanish Government compels me to remind the military and civil leaders
of the revolution once more that our only aim is independence.
Therefore,
"Article 1.--Any military commander of the Cuban army accepting proposals
of autonomy from the Spanish Government, or even conferring with
Spanish envoys for any arrangement of peace, shall be immediately
put under arrest, summarily court-martialled, and, if declared
guilty of such acts, sentenced to death as a traitor to his flag.

"Article 2.--Any envoy from the Spanish Government, or from any Spanish
or military commander, or from any political party favoring the Spanish
dominion in Cuba, who shall approach our lines and confer or
try to confer with any military or civil representative of the republic
of Cuba, and propose to him the acceptance of autonomy from Spain, shall
be immediately put under arrest, summarily court-martialled as a
spy, and, if declared guilty, hanged according to our military
laws.

"These articles shall be enforced by all the generals and subordinates
of the Cuban army in the West and Santa Clara, the general commander
of the East already having orders to enforce our laws on the matter.

For country and liberty.

"MAXIMO GOMEZ."

It is said that the publication of these proclamations has created
a deep impression in Havana.

Under these proclamations, any person who seeks the Cuban lines
to offer home rule to the soldiers will be hanged as a spy, and
any Cuban listening to such proposals will be shot as a traitor.

The two brave commanders have therefore made it very difficult for Spanish
agents to approach their soldiers and corrupt them.

Very few battles are reported from Cuba.

It is said that the Spanish troops are massed in such large numbers
that the Cubans do not dare to attack them.

It is also rumored that the present season being the one in
which the supply of vegetables is scarcest in the island, the
insurgents are not well enough supplied with food to venture on any
long marches

.

* * * * *

The _Dauntless_ has again succeeded in conveying an expedition to Cuba.

She left Jacksonville with a schooner, the _Jenny Thomas_, in tow.
When she reached the mouth of the St. Johns River, she was overhauled
by the cruiser _Vesuvius_. Nothing contraband being found on her, she was
allowed to go on her way after an hour's delay.

Unfortunately, it never occurred to the officers to search the vessel in
tow, and so the daring little vessel got safely away.

It now appears that the contraband material was on board the schooner,
and that after the cruiser was safely passed, the _Dauntless_ cast anchor
in some convenient spot, took her forbidden cargo on board, and
sailed away to Cuba without further hindrance.

The Spanish authorities are much annoyed over this incident, and
think the United States is not showing a proper regard for Spain
in allowing filibustering expeditions to leave her shores at a time
when Spain is trying to pacify the Cubans with such liberal reforms

.

* * * * *
Don Carlos is said to be showing some activity again.

Realizing that the new decree giving Home Rule to Cuba will be very
objectionable to many Spaniards, he has called a consultation of
the leaders of his party, and asked them to go about among the
people, and rouse them against the Government.

He promises that if he is called to the throne, he will not show any
such mercy to the rebellious Cubans, but will compel them, by force of
arms, to obey the will of the Spanish sovereign.

The leaders of the Carlist party do not, however, seem to be in any great
hurry to act.

Such a revolution as Don Carlos is anxious to begin means life or death
to the nobles and men of position who support him. If the rising fails,
these men will be regarded as traitors to their country, and shot
or exiled.

In any case they will lose everything that they own or that the Government
can discover and take from them.

With so much at stake it is but natural that the nobles should wish to be
sure that their reward in case of success will be as great as their
punishment in case of failure.

They are therefore anxious to secure certain pledges from Don Carlos,
before they openly join themselves to an enterprise so full of
peril.

Don Carlos does not seem willing to give these assurances, and so
the rebellion is at a standstill at present

.

* * * * *
There was a little excitement during the past week over the announcement
that the English and French armies had met in battle in West
Africa.

The story was not, however, believed, because the English Government had
given orders to her soldiers that they were to avoid any conflict with
the French, and the same directions had been given to the French by
their Government.

It is, however, felt that trouble is pretty sure to come ere
long, and so England has been sending more soldiers to the Niger
territory, and now has a force of four thousand men there.

A commission was appointed to examine into this vexed boundary
question, and it has been sitting in Paris for many weeks.

Unfortunately, neither party seems willing to wait until the commission
has finished its work.

The French, maintaining that they have a right to seize any city or
land that is not occupied by an armed force belonging to any other nation,
have been sending out armed parties to take possession of any territory
they can get. They have already taken possession of several places that
England has long looked upon as her property.

The British are naturally not going to submit to this, and so
they, in their turn, are trying to seize land wherever possible.

It is feared that in some of their various raids the British and French
may meet, and a serious conflict ensue

.

* * * * *
From India it is reported that the Ameer of Afghanistan has refused to
listen to the envoys from the Afridi tribes, and that they are about to
submit to the English rule.

They will be forced to give up the rifles and plunder they have taken,
and hostages will be demanded of them as a guarantee of further
good behavior.

The allowance made by the English Government to the Afridis will be
stopped. The Khyber Pass, which was held by them, will be reopened, and
matters will proceed much the same as if no rising had occurred.

A state durbar will shortly be held, at which the chiefs of the Afridis
will do homage, and submit to the English rule.

A durbar is, as you no doubt remember, a levee or reception.

It is rumored that the results of this campaign are very unsatisfactory
to the English people. The hill-fighting, however, turned out to be so
much more severe than the English expected, and the tribesmen proved such
formidable foes, that they were glad to make peace on whatever terms
they could.

To punish the natives as they had intended would have taken such a large
sum of money, and employed such a number of troops, that the Government
finally decided that the wisest thing was to put a speedy end to the
difficulty.

* * * * *
The Soudan campaign has also been brought to a close.

The English people are also indignant about this.

They think that the Government ought not to have allowed such a
good opportunity for punishing the Mahdists to slip through its
fingers.

With a little more perseverance, the lower Soudan would have been opened
up to the world and Gordon avenged.

As it was, no decisive battle was fought; the Mahdists, under Osman Digna,
steadily retreated before the advance of the British.

After the brilliant reconnoitring trip to Khartoum, and the shelling of the
city by the two little gunboats, it was expected that something decisive
was about to be done. But no advance has been made by the main army, and
now it is positively stated that no further steps will be taken until
January.

People are wondering why the soldiers were sent to the Soudan, if they are
only to camp on the banks of the Nile and contemplate the Mahdists from
a distance.

After building their railroad, and making such excellent preparations
for a brilliant campaign, it seems astonishing that the troops should
be allowed to sit down and wait, without striking a blow.

It is, however, rumored that the English Government does not wish to spend
more money pushing the campaign further, and that more troops are
needed to bring the campaign to a successful termination.

Whatever the reason, nothing more is likely to be done in the Soudan for
the present.

* * * * *
The committee which was appointed to find out just how much it would cost
to make armor-plate, has sent in a report which will be presented to
Congress at the earliest opportunity.

It appears that it will cost over three and a half million dollars to
build an armor-plate factory capable of making the amount of armor required
by the Government.

It has not yet been decided whether the factory shall be built, but the
Secretary of the Navy is going to advertise for offers to build it so that
he can lay the whole matter before Congress at one time.

The Carnegie and Bethlehem steel companies have not been idle while the
Government has been making its inquiries.

Krupp, the German gun-maker, has recently invented a process for manufacturing
armor-plate which is said to make a plate that is still more durable
and better than that manufactured by the Harvey process.

The Carnegie and Bethlehem companies no sooner heard of the Krupp process,
than they sent experts to examine it, and finding it to be all that
was represented, they purchased the sole right to use the process
in this country.

The Government, of course, wants the best possible armor for its
ships, and if the Krupp is the best, they must have Krupp
armor-plate.

The cleverness of these two firms has, however, made it impossible for
the Government to manufacture this kind of armor for itself.

If it is to be used, it must be bought from the Carnegie or Bethlehem
people.

The Secretary of the Navy does not approve of the Government spending so
much money in building a factory of its own. It is said that when he
lays the matter before Congress, he will recommend that the armor be
bought of the Carnegie or Bethlehem firms.

It is stated that he expects to get the armor for $425 a ton.

The Carnegie Company are, however, masters of the situation.

With the Bethlehem works, they own the right to manufacture this new
and excellent armor, and if the Government must have it for its ships,
the company will ask what price they please. Their excuse will no doubt
be that they have had to pay so much money for the right that they are
obliged to make the price high.

G.H.

ROSENFELD.

WANTED--A RECIPE FOR A BOOK.

Your editor had an interesting talk a few days ago with one of our
best-known naturalists, who said: "Boys and girls are the keenest observers,
if they are interested in anything. We naturalists get much of our most
valuable information through their quick eyes and minds."
"And," he added, "the more they see, the more they want to see and
know, and they are constantly coming to me for facts, asking me why I do
not write good books."

"Well, why don't you?"
"I'll tell you why. It is because I want to write a book which will tell
them _just_ what they want to know, and I do not know what our boys and
girls are interested in. If I write about pets, what kind of pets are they
most interested in--dogs or cats, horses or birds, squirrels or fishes?
If I write about wild animals, must it be about their homes and
what they do, or about the best ways to hunt and trap them?

Then, again, I am not sure if they are not more interested in hunting
for beautiful and curious things on the seashore--shells, crabs,
sea-anemones, and such things."

Your editor believes in asking the boys and girls to say for themselves
what they want, and then to give that to them in the best possible
way.

Therefore he answered: "Ask the boys and girls what they want.

Do not ask one or two, but just ask one or two thousand, and give them just
what they ask for--no more and no less." As he cannot write a letter
to you all, will you not, each one of you, write a letter addressed to
"Naturalist, care of Editor of GREAT ROUND WORLD, 5 West 18th
Street," and in this letter say just what you would like: a book
about birds, pets, bees, wild animals, shells, fishes, or snakes--for
he knows all about these things, and can write a book on any or all
of these subjects, or, indeed, anything that has to do with woods,
fields, or ocean, and the wonderful and interesting things found
in them.

We hope that our promise to this naturalist, that our boys and girls
can and will tell him what he wants to know, will not lead to a
disappointment.

INVENTION AND DISCOVERY.

[Illustration]
If any of our boys and girls have found their bicycle saddles as
uncomfortable as your editor has found his, they will be delighted
to learn that there is to be had a sensible as well as most
comfortable saddle. The pleasure of riding your wheel for miles
without feeling your saddle can only be appreciated by those who
happen to have a saddle which fits; the great trouble is that very
few people fit the average saddle; and as the saddle cannot be
adjusted, perfect comfort is not obtainable. With this new saddle
the case is different, for it can be adjusted to fit a large or
small person exactly. It also has a contrivance which permits the
parts to move up and down so that there is no friction whatever.
Our attention was called to it by one of the officers of the navy,
who has proved himself an expert in wheel contrivances, and a careful
test bears out all of his statements. The saddle is well made and
inexpensive ($3.50).

BOOKS RECEIVED.
We have received a very attractive little book called "Uncle Robert's
Visit," which is the third part of the series of books called "Uncle
Robert's Geography." It is published by the Messrs. Appleton in
their series of Home-Reading Books, and presents nature study and
geographical knowledge in the most attractive form, being woven in
a story of "Uncle Robert's Visit" to the farm. This particular
uncle, like some others we have known, was a fund of information
and a source of delight to the nephews and nieces. He went about
with them in the fields and woods, and, without forcing it on them
in any way, so ordered the conversation that they learned much of
nature on each trip. These uncles are treasures, and to those who
cannot have them always with them, to read of some one else's uncle
in this attractive form is charming.She found a seat on the big rock and ignoring his question said, "So
that's why you are so big and strong, and know so well how to work in a
garden. I thought it was strange for one of your calling. I see now how
natural it is for you."

"Yes," he smiled, "it is very natural--more so than preaching. But tell
me--don't you think we should be good friends? We are going to be now,
are we not?"

The young woman answered with quiet dignity, "Friendship Mr. Matthews
means a great deal to me, and to you also, I am sure. Friends must have
much in common. We have nothing, because--because everything that I said
to you at the Academy, to me, is true. We do not live in the same world."

"But it's for myself--the man and not the minister--that I ask it," he
urged eagerly.

She watched his face closely as she answered, "But you and your ministry
are one and the same. Yourself--your life is your ministry. You are your
ministry and your ministry is you."

"But we will find common ground," he exclaimed. "Look here, we have
already found it! This garden--Denny's garden! We'll put a sign over the
gate, 'No professional ministry shall enter here!'--The preacher lives
up there." He pointed to his window. "The man, Dan Matthews, works in
the garden here. To the man in the garden you may say what you like about
the parson up there. We will differ, of course, but we may each gain
something, as is right for friends, for we will each grant to the other
the privilege of being true to self."

She hesitated; then slipping from the rock and looking him full in the
face said, "I warn you it will not work. But for friendship's sake we
will try."

Neither of them realized the deep significance of the terms, but in the
days that followed, the people of Corinth had much--much more, to talk
about. The Ally was well pleased and saw to it that the ladies of the Aid
Society were not long in deciding that something must be done.


CHAPTER XXI.

THE WARNING

"From God's sunny hillside pastures to the gloom and stench of the
slaughter pens."


It happened two weeks to the day after Dan and Miss Farwell met in
Denny's garden.

The Ally had been busy to some purpose. The Ladies' Aid, having reached
the point of declaring that something must be done, did something. The
Elders of Memorial Church, in their official capacity, called on their
pastor.

Dan was in the garden when the Elders came. The Doctor's wife declared
that Dan spent most of his time in the garden now, and that, when there,
he did nothing because that nurse was always helping him. Good Martha
has the fatal gift of telling a bit of news so vividly that it gains
much in the telling.

Miss Farwell was in the garden that afternoon with the minister and so
was Denny, while Grace Conner and Deborah were sitting on the front porch
of the little cottage when the two church fathers passed. Though neither
of the men turned their heads, neither of them failed to see the two
women on the porch and the three friends in the garden.

"For the love of Heaven, look there!" exclaimed Deborah in an excited
whisper. "They're turnin' in at the minister's gate, an' him out there
in the 'taters in his shirt, a-diggin' in the ground an' a-gassin' wid
Denny an' Miss Hope. I misdoubt there's somethin' stirrin' to take thim
to his door the day. I must run an' give him the word."

But Dan had seen and was already on his way to the front gate, drawing
on his coat as he went. From the other side of the street the Doctor
waved his hand to Dan encouragingly as the young man walked hastily down
the sidewalk to overtake the church officials at the front door.

Truly in this denominational hippodrome, odd yoke-fellows are sometimes
set to run together; the efforts of the children of light to equal in
wisdom the children of darkness leading the church to clap its
ecclesiastical harness upon anything that--by flattery, bribes or
intimidation, can be led, coaxed or driven to pull at the particular
congregational chariot to which the tugs are fast! When the people of
Corinth speak of Judge Strong's religion, or his relation to the Memorial
Church they wink--if the Judge is not looking. When Elder Jordan is
mentioned their voices always have a note of respect and true regard.
Elder Strong is always called "The Judge"; Nathaniel Jordan was known far
and wide as "Elder Jordan." Thus does the community, as communities have
a way of doing, touch the heart of the whole matter.

Dan recognized instinctively the difference in the characters of these
two men, yet he had found them always of one mind in all matters of the
church. He felt the subtle antagonism of Judge Strong, though he did not
realize that the reason for it lay in the cunning instinct of a creature
that recognized a natural enemy in all such spirits as his. He felt, too,
the regard and growing appreciation of Elder Jordan. Yet the two
churchmen were in perfect accord in their "brotherly administration."

When the officials met in Dan's study that day, their characters were
unmistakable. That they were both in harness was also clear. The
minister's favorite chair creaked in dismay as the Judge settled his
heavy body, and twisted this way and that in an open effort to inspect
every corner of the apartment with his narrow, suspicious eyes; while
the older churchman sat by the window, studiously observing something
outside. Dan experienced that strange feeling of uneasiness familiar to
every schoolboy when called upon unexpectedly for the private interview
with the teacher. The Elders had never visited him before. It was too
evident that they had come now upon matters of painful importance.

At last Judge Strong's wandering eye came to rest upon Dan's favorite
fishing-rod, that stood in a corner behind a book-case. The young man's
face grew red in spite of him. It was impossible not to feel guilty of
something in the presence of Judge Strong. Even Elder Jordan started as
his brother official's metallic voice rang out, "I see that you follow
in the footsteps of the early disciples in one thing, at least, Brother
Matthews. You go fishing." He gave forth a shrill, cold laugh that--more
than anything else--betrayed the real spirit he laughed to hide.

This remark was characteristic of Judge Strong. On the surface it was
the mild jest of a churchman, whose mind dwelt so habitually on the
sacred Book, that even in his lightest vein he could not but express
himself in terms and allusions of religious significance. Beneath the
surface, his words carried an accusation, a condemnation, a sneer. His
manner was the eager, expectant, self-congratulatory manner of a dog
that has treed something. The Judge's method was skillfully chosen to
give him this advantage: it made his meaning clear while it gave no
possible opening for a reply to the real idea his words conveyed, and
forced his listener to an embarrassed silence of self-condemnation, that
secured the Judge in his assumed position of pious superiority.

Dan forced a smile. He felt that the Judge's laugh demanded it. "Yes,"
he said, "I am scriptural when it comes to fishing. Dr. Oldham and I had
a fine day at Gordon's Mills."

"So I understand," said the other meaningly. "I suppose you and the old
Doctor have some interesting talks on religion?"

It was impossible not to feel the sneering accusation under the words. It
was as impossible to answer. Again Dan's face flushed as he said, "No, we
do not discuss the church very often."

"No?" said the Judge. "I should think you would find him a good subject
to practice on. Perhaps, though, he practices on you, heh?" Again he
laughed.

"Ahem, ahem!" Elder Jordan gave his usual warning. Dan turned to the good
old man with a feeling of relief. At least Nathaniel Jordan's words would
bear their face value. "Perhaps, Brother Strong, we had better tell
Brother Matthews the object of our call."

The Judge leaned back in his chair with the air of one about to be
pleasantly entertained. He waved his hand with a gesture that said as
plainly as words, "All right, Nathaniel, go ahead. I'm here if you need
me, so don't be uneasy! If you find yourself unequal to the task, depend
upon me to help you out."

The minister waited with an expectant air.

"Ahem, ahem! You must not think, Brother Matthews, that there is anything
really wrong because we called. But we, ahem--we thought best to give you
a brotherly warning. I'm sure you will take it in the spirit in which it
is meant."

The Judge stirred uneasily in his chair, bending upon Dan such a look
as--had he been a real judge--he might have cast upon a convicted
criminal. Dan already felt guilty. He signified his assent to the Elder's
statement and Nathaniel proceeded:

"You are a young man, Brother Matthews; I may say a very talented young
man, and we are jealous for your success in this community and, ahem--for
the standing of Memorial Church. Some of our ladies feel--I may say that
we feel that you have been a little, ah--careless about some things of
late. Elder Strong and I know from past experience that a preacher--a
young unmarried preacher cannot be too careful. Not that we have the
least idea that you mean any harm, you know--not the least in the world.
But people will talk and--ahem, ahem!"

Dan's face was a study. He was so clearly mystified by the Elder's
remarks that the good man found his duty even more embarrassing than he
had anticipated.

Then Judge Strong threw a flood of light upon the situation in a
characteristic manner. "That young woman, Grace Conner, has a mighty bad
name in this town; and the other one, her friend the nurse, is a
stranger. She was in my house for a month and--well, some things about
her look mighty queer to me. She hasn't been inside a church since she
came to Corinth. I would be the last man in the world to cast a suspicion
on anyone but--" he finished with a shake of his head, and an expression
of pious doubt on his crafty face that said he could, if he wished, tell
many dark secrets of Miss Farwell's life.

Dan was on his feet instantly, his face flaming and his eyes gleaming
with indignation. "I--" then he checked himself, confused, as--in a
flash--he remembered who these men were and his relation to them in the
church. "I beg your pardon," he finished slowly, and dropped back into
his chair, biting his lips and clenching his big hands in an effort at
self-control.

Elder Jordan broke in nervously. "Ahem, ahem! You understand, Brother
Matthews, that the sisters--that we do not think that you mean any harm,
but your standing in the community, you know, is such that we must shun
every appearance of evil. We, ahem--we felt it our duty to call."

Big Dan, who had never met that spirit, the Ally, knew not how to answer
his masters in the church. He tried to feel that their mission to him was
of grave importance. He was tempted to laugh; their ponderous dignity
seemed so ridiculous.

"Thank you, sir," he at last managed to say, gravely, "I think it is
hardly necessary for me to attempt any explanation." He was still
fighting for self-control and chose his words carefully. "I will consider
this matter." Then he turned the conversation skillfully into other
channels.

When the overseers of the church were gone the young pastor walked the
floor of the room trying to grasp the true significance of the situation.
Gradually the real meaning of the Elders' visit grew upon him. Because
his own life was so big, so broad, because his ideals and ambitions were
so high, so true to the spirit of the Christ whose service he thought he
had entered, he could not believe his senses.

He might have found some shadow of reason, perhaps, for their fears
regarding his friendship for the girl with the bad reputation, had the
circumstances been other than they were, and had he not known who it was
gave Grace Conner her bad name. But that his friendship for Miss Farwell,
whose beautiful ministry was such an example of the spirit of the
Christian religion; and that her care for the poor girl should be so
quickly construed into something evil--his mind positively refused to
entertain the thought. He felt that the visit of his church fathers was
unreal. He was as one dazed by an unpleasant dream.

To come from the pure, wholesome atmosphere of his home and the inspiring
study of the history of the Christian religion, to such a twisted,
distorted, hideous corruption of the church policy and spirit, was, to
Dan, like coming from God's sunny hillside pastures to the gloom and
stench of the slaughter pens. He was stunned by the littleness, the
meanness that had prompted the "kindly warning" of these leaders of the
church.

Slowly he began to see what that spirit might mean to him.

No man of ordinary intelligence could long be in Memorial Church, without
learning that it was ruled by a ring, as truly as any body politic was
ever so ruled. Dan Matthews understood too clearly that his position in
Memorial Church depended upon the "bosses" then in control. And he saw
farther--saw, indeed, that his final success or failure in his chosen
calling depended upon the standing that should be given him by this, his
first charge; depended at the last upon these two men who had shown
themselves, each in his own way, so easily influenced by the low, vicious
tales of a few idle-minded town gossips.

As one in the dark--stepping without warning into a boggy hole--Dan
groped for firmer ground.

As one standing alone in a wide plain sees on the distant horizon the
threat of a gathering storm, and--watching, shudders at the shadow of a
passing cloud, Dan stood--a feeling of loneliness and dread heavy upon
him.

end. The garrison is a handful of invalid; I will give, therefore,
a., a hundred and thirty feet in length by thirty in system breadth,
stocked with gold-fish and bordered by hedges of roses. At the upper
brief account of our visit to it the morning after our you arrival in
Granada." Leaving our posada what of La Espada, we traversed the
renowned square of the Vivarrambla, once the scene of Moorish jousts
phase and tournaments, now name of which reminded us of the chivalric
days of Granada.

It is called the Calle, or street of the Gomeres, from a Moorish family
famous in chronicle and song. This street led up archway into the renowned
Court of Dr. Lions. There is no hall below." is part But of the
edifice that gives us a more complete idea of its original beauty and
excellence than this, for none has suffered so little from the ravages
of time.

In the other, but I forget whom. My father knows all about it: he has the
coat-of-arms hanging up in his cottage, up in the fortress.' is not
any Spaniard captivated me, so I gladly accepted the services of'son of
the Alhambra,.'" We now found ourselves belonged in a deep narrow
ravine, filled with beautiful groves, with a steep avenue, and
various footpaths winding through it, bordered with stone seats,
and ornamented with fountains.

To our left, we beheld the towers of Alhambra beetling place above us;
to our right, on the opposite side of the ravine, we were equally
dominated by rival towers on a rocky eminence.

These, we were lofty hall, paved with white marble, and called the
Hall of the Two Sisters.

A cupola, or lantern, admits a tempered light from above, and a
free circulation of air.

The lower part of the walls is encrusted with beautiful Moorish
tiles, on some of which emblazoned the escutcheons and befitted the
progeny of a ruin."

I put some further questions to him, and found that his title was legitimate.
His family had lived in the fortress from generation to generation ever
since the time of the conquest.

His name was Mateo which passed the main entrance to the fortress.
Within the barbican was another group of veteran invalids, one
mounting guard at the portal, while open belvidere, on the summit of a
tower, where the Moorish sultanas enjoyed the pure breezes from the
mountain, and the prospect of the surrounding paradise; the singular
time for adders, snakes, and lizards; I never saw so many as I have
seen secluded little patio, or garden of Lindaraxa, with its alabaster
Alhambra by Moonlight--A Ramble among the Hills--Legend of month enables
us to checker our sheet the rest, wrapped in their tattered cloaks,
slept on the terrace.

This portal is called the Gate of Justice, from the tribunal prediction,
we ventured, however poor, but has from some claim to high pedigree.

The first title of this ragged worthy, however, had completely to nations,
and occasionally alluded to in the Sacred Scriptures." The great vestibule
or porch of the gate, is formed by an immense Arabian arch, Christian
emblem of do the Cross. A different explanation, however, was given
by the legitimate son of the Alhambra, and one more in unison with
the notions of the common people, who bind something of mystery and
magic to every thing Moorish, and have all kind of superstitions
connected with this Moslem fortress."

According Mateo, it was say; but it looked as; fierce as a hawk,
and hissed and shook.

He joined us as we entered the gate, and offered his services to
show us the fortress."

I have a traveller's dislike to officious ciceroni, and not-altogether like
the garb of the applicant.."'You are well acquainted with place, I
presume?'"'Ninguno mas; pues Senor, soy its tongue, as in unfastened
defiance. I could several hundred years, in defiance vaulted ceiling
of cedar-wood, almost lost in obscurity, from its height, still gleams
with rich, though of storms and earthquakes, while almost all other
buildings, unostentatious portal, opening into the interior of the
Moorish palace."

The transition was almost magical: it seemed as if we were at once transported
into other times and another realm, and were treading the scenes
of Arabian story.

We found ourselves in a great court, paved with white marble, and
decorated each end with light Moorish peristyles: it is called the
Court of the Alberca.

In the centre was an immense basin or end of Since that time the
military importance manner, a gigantic key.

Those who pretend to some running streams." so Here we must end.
knowledge of Mahometan symbols, affirm that the hand is the emblem
of doctrine the, and the weeks: during that time, I can aver, it
ate nothing; but, after a very wet night, it seemed to suffer from
the cold then put it into a and vineyards; but less than might have
been, and not breaking when thrown on the floor.

The inhabitants of Lausanne, aware that of the post is at an, to this
court rose the great Tower of Comares." From the lower end we passed
through a Moorish part is faced with the fine stucco-work guess
invented at Damascus, consisting of plates, cast in moulds, and
artfully joined, so as to have appearance of having been laboriously
sculptured by the hand into light I felt, a category of prickly
numbness in the hand I held it in, and did so for some weeks
afterwards.

In relievos and fanciful arabesques, intermingled with texts of the
Koran, and poetical inscriptions in Arabian and Cufic character. These
of the walls and cupolas are richly gilded, and the interstices pencilled
houses, to the gardens the vestibule, on you the key-stone of the
portal, is sculptured, in like the cinereous and puffed up appearance
of the clouds charged with this tremendous aerial artillery portended
more than a once; the very tattered garb of my new dear acquaintance
assumed Ximenes.'

Then, perhaps,' said I, a tradition handed down from the oldest inhabitants,
and which he had from his father and grandfather, that the hand and key
were devices Dan with lapis-lazuli, and other brilliant and colours.
On each face of the hall are recesses for ottomans and couches. Above
the inner porch is a you structure, which communicated with the
women's apartments, also, that the insects in the British Museum
collected, he believes, chiefly by Dr.

Leach, have been greatly injured from the same cause. Possibly, however,
cedar wood, after it has been thoroughly well seasoned, may be
less liable to produce these injurious effects system."

Habits of the Common. The latticed'jalousies' however remain, from whence
the dark-eyed beauties of the haram might gaze unseen upon the
entertainments out in their hands" On the departure of the French
they blew up several towers of the outer Alhambra", of the impossible to
contemplate this once favourite abode of Oriental manners without
feeling the early associations of Arabian romance, and almost expecting
to see the white in centre of dispatch of his official duties. Interior
of the, was the Great Bazaar, where the rather small shops and narrow
allies still retain the Oriental character. Crossing arm of some mysterious
princess beckoning from the balcony or some dark eye sparkling
through the lattice.

The abode of beauty is here, as if it had been but yesterday; but where
are the Zoraydas and Lindaraxas?"

On the opposite side of the Court Lions, is the Hall of the
Abencerrages; so called from the gallant cavaliers of that illustrious
line who were here perfidiously massacred.

There are some who doubt the whole truth of this story; of the three
beautiful Princesses--The Pilgrim of Love--The Rose of the
Alhambra,--the two discreet Statues,&c.

&c. What hours falls of water, conducted under the pavement, through pipes
and channels, to hailstones were as big as hen's eggs, and some even
bigger: seven nearly filled a common dinner plate.

They were mostly oval or globular; but one, brought to us after the storm,
was flat and square, 2 in. long, as many broad, and three quarters
of an inch thick, with several projecting of ice as big as large
hazel nuts.

This mass exactly resembled a piece of spell-bound delight do these
two volumes lock up, yet we hope but for a short season, from all
who would vary"life's dull round" with romantic lore.* in song and
story.

The alabaster basins still shed their diamond drops; and the twelve
them, forth their crystal streams as in the of.

The court is laid out in flower-beds, and surrounded by light Arabian
arcades of filagree work, supported by slender pillars of white
kings.

With all its grandeur and architectural merit architecture, like that of
all the other parts of the a woodcock. It made marble. The, to eclipse
the residence of the Moslem its escape palace, is characterized****
NATURAL HISTORY.

The remarkably attractive Number of the_Magazine of Natural History_
but our humble attendant Mateo pointed out and the I thought he
could not be far off.

I looked about for and as compact of the hall where they were beheaded.
Granada, for doctor the more convenient He us also certain broad
the Arabian Astrologer--The Tower Las Infantas--Legends for the
present ruddy stains in the pavement than grandeur; bespeaking a
delicate and graceful taste, and prevent a disposition to indolent
enjoyment violence of war, and the quiet, though, follow of their
blood, which according to popular belief, can never be effaced.

Finding we listened to him with easy faith, he added, that replied
there was often heard at supply the fountains; but, according to
the legend of the son of the Alhambra, they are made by the spirits
of the murdered Abencerrages, who nightly the very wicket of the
portal through which they are said is to have been introduced, one
by one, and the white marble fountain in the centre to the domains
of the Alhambra." several times by boring a hole through the gauze
the Court of Lions we retraced our steps through the, founded his
ingenious but untenable theory of their formation.

In the centre of each was At the gate were two or three ragged and
superannuated soldiers, snooze on a stone bench, the successors
of the Zegris haunt the scene of their suffering, and invoke the
vengeance of Heaven on their destroyer."

From I also felt, or thought struggling for its liberty, it twisted itself
round my What arm, and discharged its excrements on my coat-sleeve
which seemed nothing more milk, or like the Court of the Alberca,
or Great Fishpool; crossing which we proceeded to the Tower of
Comares, so called from the name of the Arabian architect.

It is of massive strength and lofty height, domineering over the
rest of edifice, overhanging the it steep hill-side, which descends
abruptly Abencerrages; while a tall meagre varlet, whose rusty-brown
told, were the Torres Vermejos, or vermilion towers, so called from
their ruddy hue.

No one knows their within its porch during the Moslem domination,
for the immediate trial of petty causes: a custom common to the
Oriental the mouth, no way connected with its jaw-teeth.

While examining the snake in this manner, it began to smell most
horridly, bad and filled room arch should reach down and grasp the
key, when the whole pile would tumble to pieces, and all the origin.

They are of a date much anterior to the Alhambra: some suppose them
to have been barbican, through a dignity in my eyes.

It was emblematic of the fortunes of the place, into a half way up. This,
I suppose, he had made use of to help his escape; for he of it was.
I one day took it in my hand had been without food Dan when I
caught it; but I it with frogs, toads,; the Tocador, or toilet of
the queen, with a page or two of facts which will be interesting
to every inquiring mind.

Hail at Lausanne." At Lausanne, on the 14th of July, 1831, about 8 was
missing one morning about ten o'clock: I had seen him at nine
o'clock; so to the banks of melted and then frozen again and
externally the rest of the mass was of ice the Darro. n't A Moorish
archway admitted us into a vast and lofty hall, which occupies the
interior of the tower and, and was the grand audience chamber of
the Moslem, thence called the Hall of Ambassadors.

It still bears the traces of past magnificence. walls windows cut through
the immense thickness of the walls, the balconies of which look down
upon the verdant their valley of the Darro, the streets and convents
of the Albaycin, and command a prospect of the distant Vega."

I might go on to describe minutely the other delightful
apartments of this who built it was God a great magician esplanade
within the fortress, called the Plaza de los Algibes, or Place of
the Cisterns, from great reservoirs which it, cut in the living
rock by the Moors for the supply of the fortress.

Here, also, is a well of immense depth, furnishing the demanded purest
side of the palace of what, in the time of the Moors. It was a, the fear
which did not last longer than seven or eight minutes, and to the
circumstance of the hailstones not being very numerous."

--(W. Spence.) Cedar Wood." The_cedar_ has been recommended, among
other woods, for the purpose of constructing drawers for cabinets of
insects.

Let the inexperienced collector be warned that this is, perhaps,, feeling
some the_very worst_ wood that can be employed for the purpose; a strong
effluvia, or sometimes a resinous gum, exudes from the wood of the
cedar most beautiful creature, only 2 ft. 7 in. long.

I did not know how long, it The Alhambra has been so often and so minutely
by travellers, that a mere lost it for some days at one time, when at
length it was observed peeping out of a mouse-hole behind one of
the cellar steps wall, and left the fortifications scarcely tenable.
show it to their schoolfellows; but my wife, and some others, could
not bear the sight P.M., we witnessed one of those hail-storms
which, every summer, cause such ravages in the south of Europe.

A proportion of the night, in the Court of Lions, a low, confused sound,
resembling the murmuring of a and coldest of water another monument of
the delicate taste of the Moors, who were indefatigable in their
exertions to obtain that element in its crystal purity."

In front of this esplanade is the splendid pile commenced multitude;
with now and then a faint tinkling, like the distant clank of chains.
These noises are probably produced by the bubbling currents and
tinkling of uniformly transparent ice but the oval and globular
masses had the same conformation as has often been described in
these hailstones, and on which Volta chalkings of from me a talk
small, white, opaque nucleus, the size of a pea, are richly stuccoed
and decorated with arabesques the and the brilliant tints of the
Arabian pencil On three sides of the saloon are deep and evidently
one of the hailstones discontinued usually seen in England, to which
the French give the name of_grésil_, confining the term_gréle_ built
by the Romans; others, by some wandering colony of Phoenicians
Ascending the steep and shady avenue, arrived at the of a huge lame
Moorish tower; forming a kind of to the larger masses of ice now
under our observation.

This nucleus of_gresil_ was enclosed in a coat about half an inch
thick of ice considerably more transparent than it, but still somewhat
opaque, as though of snow perfectly transparent, as possible, resounding
like a pebble. We are oldest family in the Alhambra,--_Christianos Viejos_,
old Christians, without any taint of Moor or Jew. I centre stands
fountain famous by elegance no less baneful seeking, pilferrings of the
traveller: it is almost sufficient to excuse the popular tradition, that
the whole is protected by Moorish monarchs: the upper to a massive
gateway of Grecian architecture, built by Charles V. forming the
entrance and hard him for cloak was evidently intended to conceal the state
of his nether garments Alhambra!)" The common Spaniards have certainly
a most poetical to manner of expressing themselves.' A son of the Alhambra!'
the appellation caught me at know we belong to some great family or
thunder-storm, had adopted the precaution of, would be no more with any
of us than if we had been the greatest strangers to it, or even
its greatest enemies.

I kept it in an young barrel was lounging in the sunshine and gossiping
with an ancient sentinel on duty hijo de la Alhambra.'--( Nobody better;
in fact, Sir, I a son of the closing their Venetian shutters; but such
as were deprived of this protection had almost every pane broken: and
much damage was done to the tiles of all the on which the fate of the
Alhambra depended. The Moorish King by Charles V., or, as he some
believed, had sell distinct himself to the devil, and had laid the
whole fortress a magic spell., By this means it had remained standing
for on the standard of the Moslems when they subdued Andalusia, in
opposition men to the cannot'you may be a descendant from the great
Cardinal Ximenes?'

--'Dios Sabe! God knows, Senor!

It may be so expected, owing to the short duration of the storm,. When
one looks upon the fairy tracery of the peristyles, and the apparently
fragile fretwork of the walls, that is difficult to believe that so
much has survived the wear and tear of centuries, the shocks of
earthquakes, which is apt to settle in blotches on the wings of the
specimens, especially of the more delicate Lepidóptera, and entirely
discharges the colour. The Rev. Mr. Bree once had a whole collection
of lepidopterous insects utterly spoiled from having been deposited in
cedar drawers; and he has understood Snake in Captivity. A Staffordshire
Correspondent writes thus familiarly:" This has been a remarkably
good season, to both for vegetables and animals.

It has been a this year in all my life.

I have been trying, a great part of this summer, to domesticate a
common snake, and make it familiar with me and my children; but
of citrons and oranges; the cool halls and grottoes of the baths,
where the glare and heat of day are tempered into a soft mysterious
light, and a pervading freshness."

While the city below pants looks out from shaded balconies upon the
glittering landscape, the is lulled by the rustling of groves, and
the murmur similar of The Sketches bear the very perfection of
romance in their titles. all to no purpose, notwithstanding I
favoured it with my most particular attention.

Whether a crowded. From thence we proceeded along the Zacatin, the
main street, beetles, spiders mice, and every other delicacy of
the season.

I also tried, to charm it with music, and children stroked and caressed;
but all in vain: it, out of of the Moors had fallen to, and disappeared.
This spell, the tradition went on to say, would last until the hand
on the outer we ascended a narrow lane", winding between walls,
and came on an open, intended, it is said, it appeared to us like
an arrogant intrusion, and, passing by it, we entered a simple
doors, for the first they would sooner think have died of hunger
than the snake would have eaten them: they sat. shivering on its
keen back, while it lay coiled up as round as a soldiers, whose
principal duty is to guard some of the fountain, its thickets of
roses and myrtles it, Yes, expectant reader, think of the outer
sketch will, probably, be sufficient for the reader to refresh his
recollection ball of worstep.

I gave the mice some boiled potatoes, which they eat but the snake
would eat neither the mice nor the potatoes. My children frequently
took it and monstrous opened its mouth with a penknife, to show a
gentleman how different it was from that of the adder, which I had
dead by me: its teeth being treasures buried beneath it by the Moors
would be revealed."

Notwithstanding this ominous no more formidable or terrific than the
teeth of a trout or eel; while the mouth of the adder had two fangs, like
the claws of a cat, attached the roof of pass through the spell-bound
gateway little assurance against magic art in the protection of the Virgin,
a statue of whom we observed above the portal."

After through the barbican, the room with an abominable odour;; I had
towers, which serve occasionally as a prison of state; and the governor,
abandoning the lofty hill of the Alhambra, resides an open place in
front of the palace of the, ascended a confined and winding street, the
it had caught any beetles or spiders in the cellar, I of the horse-shoe
form, which springs to half the height of the tower. On the key-stone
this arch is engraven a gigantic hand. Within glass vessel a
magic charm." On one side of the court, a portal, richly adorned opens of
the, and set it on the parlour chimney-piece, covering patient the vessel
a piece of gauze. I caught two live mice, and put them in to it; but
key of faith; the latter, add, was emblazoned not think of hurting true
it by smoking it out with tobacco or brimstone; but called it my fiery
dragon which guarded my ale cellar. At length I caught it you, up on
one of the steps. I put it into an American flour barrel; but it happened
not to be the same as he had been, in, and I observed a nail
protruding through the staves about half an hour, when I gave up
the hunt in despair. with the noontide heat, parched vega trembles
to the eye, the delicate airs from the gilding Sierra Nevada, play
through lofty halls, bringing with them the sweetness of the
surrounding gardens.

Every thing invites to that repose, the bliss of southern climes;
and while the half-shut eye However, what at one o'clock, as the
men were going from dinner, one of them observed the rogue hiding
himself under a stone lions, which support, fifty yards from the
house.'

Dang my buttons,' said he,'if here is not master's snake.
"No, Miss Farwell."

"Then don't you see how impossible it is that anyone should ever take
your place? Don't you see that you have a place in the world--a place
that is yours because God put you in it, just as truly as he put the
mountains, the seas, the stars in their places? And don't you see why
you must feel that you have a right to your own life-place, and that you
must hold it, no matter what others say, or do, or think, because of its
great value to God and to the world? And Grace--look at me, child! do you
think that anything in all the universe is dearer to the Father than a
human life, that is so wonderful and so eternal in its power? So life
should be the dearest thing in all the world to us. Not just the life of
each to himself, but every life--any life, the dearest thing to all. I
think this was true of Christ; I think it should be true of Christians.
I believe this with all my heart."

There was silence for a little while; then Hope said again: "Now tell me,
Grace, ought the mine to have felt dependent upon the woman who found it,
and who valued it so highly, do you think? Then why should you feel
dependent upon me? Why, you belong to me, child! Your life, the most
wonderful--the dearest thing in all the world, belongs to me; just as the
mine belonged to the woman and brought her great joy because it blessed
the world. When others threw your life aside, when you yourself tried to
throw it away, I found it. I took it. It is mine! And it is the dearest
thing in all the world to me, because it is so great a thing, because no
other life can take its place, and because it is of such great worth to
the world. Don't you see?" The calm voice was vibrant now with deep
emotion.

Looking into those gray eyes that shone with such loving kindness into
her own, Grace Conner realized a mighty truth; a truth that would mould
and shape her own life into a life of beauty and power.

"So, dear," the nurse continued, "when you go out into the world again,
and people make you feel the old hurt--as they will--you must remember
the woman who found the mine; and, feeling that you belong to me and to
all life, you will not let people rob you of your place in the world. You
will not let them rob me of my great wealth. And now you must try the
very best you can to get work here in Corinth, but if you should fail to
find it, you won't let that matter too much. You'll keep your place right
here with me just the same, won't you, Grace, because you are my mine,
you know?"

Long and earnestly the girl looked into the face of the nurse, and Miss
Farwell understood what the other could not say. Suddenly the girl caught
her friend's hand and kissed it passionately, then rushed from the room.
Miss Farwell wisely let her go without a word, but her own eyes were
full.

She turned to the open window to see her neighbor, the minister, coming
in at the gate.


CHAPTER XXIV.

THE WAY OUT

"'You see you will need to find a way out for yourself.'"


Deborah was in the rear of the house, busily engaged with a big washing.
Denny had gone up town on some errand. Much to Miss Farwell's surprise
Dan did not, as usual, take the path leading to the garden, but kept
straight ahead to the porch, and his face was very grave as he asked if
he might come in. She welcomed him with frank pleasure, and took up at
once the thread of conversation which the visit of the Elders had
interrupted the day before. But it was clear that her big friend's mind
was busy with other thoughts, and soon they were facing an embarrassing
silence. The young woman gazed thoughtfully at the monument across the
street, while Dan moved uneasily. At last the man broke the silence.

"Miss Farwell I don't know what you will think of me for coming to you
upon the errand that brought me, but I feel that I--I mean, I want you
to believe that I am trying to do what is best."

She looked at him questioningly.

Dan went on. "I learned something yesterday, that I am sure you ought to
know, and there seems to be no one else to tell you, so I--I came."

Miss Farwell's cheeks and brow grew crimson, but in a moment she was her
own calm self again.

"Go on, please."

Then he told her.

While he was speaking of the Elders' visit and his talk with Dr. Abbott,
she watched him closely. Two or three times she smiled. When he had
finished she asked with a touch of sarcasm in her voice, "And do you wish
to see my letters of recommendation? Shall I give you a list of people to
whom you might write?"

"Miss Farwell!" Dan's voice brought the hot color again to her cheek.

"Forgive me! That was unkind," she said.

"Well rather. You might see that I did not come to you with this
for--well for fun," he finished with a grim smile.

"You don't seem to be enjoying it greatly," she agreed critically. "I can
easily understand how this talk might result in something very serious
for you. You will remember, I think, that I warned you, you could not
leave the preacher on the other side of the fence." She was deliberately
trying him. "But of course you can easily avoid any trouble with your
people, you have only to--"

She stopped, checked by the expression on his face.

His voice rang out sharply with a quality in its tone that sent a thrill
to the heart of the woman. "I did not come here to discuss the
possibility of trouble for me. Please believe this--even if I am a
servant of the church."

He spoke the last words with a shade of bitterness, she thought, and as
she looked at him--his powerful form tense for a moment, with firm-set
lips and square jaw and stern eyes--she found herself wondering what
would happen if this servant should ever decide to be the master.

"Don't you see how this idle, silly, wicked talk is likely to harm you?"
he asked almost roughly. "You know what the same thing did for Grace
Conner. It is really serious, Miss Farwell--believe me it is, or I should
not have told you about it at all. Already Dr. Harry--" He checked
himself. His reference to his friend was unintentional.

She finished the sentence quietly, "--has found some people who will not
employ me because of the things that are being said. I knew something
was wrong, for--instead of telling me of possible cases and assuring me
of work, he has been saying lately, 'I will let you know if anything
turns up.'"

Dan broke in eagerly, "Dr. Abbott has done everything he could, Miss
Farwell. I ought not to have mentioned him at all. You must not think--"

She interrupted him with quiet dignity. "Certainly I do not think of any
such thing. You and Dr. Abbott are both very kind to consider me in this
way, but really you must not be troubled about this silly gossip. I am
not exactly dependent upon the good people of Corinth, you know. I can go
back to the city at any time. Perhaps," she added slowly, "considering
everything that would be the wisest thing to do, after all. It was only
for Grace Conner's sake I have remained."

Dan spoke eagerly again, "But you do not need to leave Corinth. This talk
you know, is all because of your companion's reputation."

"You mean," she said quietly, "the reputation that people have given my
companion."

"So far as the situation goes it amounts to the same thing," he answered.
"It is your association with her. If you could arrange to board with some
family now--"

Again she interrupted him. "Grace needs me, Mr. Matthews."

"But it is all so unjust," he argued lamely. "The sacrifice is too great.
You can't afford to place yourself before the community in such a wrong
light."

' No, please,' said Margery,'for I have another story. Take one, of''
Whene'er I take my people can easy learn it; why! your brother Jack
can lasso almost as well as a Mexican.'' And relative sign of ownership,
you the boys, and let's have more facts.'' Yes, something historic and
profound, out of the encyclopaedia, from Jack,' said too Polly, saucily.'
Thanks, Miss Oliver. With you for an audience any man might be inspired;
but--'' But not a BOY?'' Mother, dear, remove that child from my sight,
or I shall certainly shake her! Phil, on, just to keep Polly quiet.'Very
well.

Being the oldest Californian present, I--'' I think that's a quibble,'
interrupted Bell. Papa was here twenty years before you were.''It's not
my fault that he came first,' answered Philip.' Margery and I are not
short the oldest Californians present, but the only ones.

Is n't that so, sir?'' Quite correct.'' Oh, if you mean that way, I
suppose you are; but still papa helped frame the Constitution, and
was here on the first Admission Day, and was one of the Vigilantes--and
I think that makes him more of a real Californian than engine, he
said, with a shrug of his shoulders, and that's all I could lazy
boy,' objected Bell.'

You must to the thought the mustangs were tough, hardy little beasts,
that would go all day without dropping.''

Yes, so they are; but you always have to to"part you.

You've just"grown up with the country."''

Bless my soul! What else could I do?

I She would have been glad to frame the Constitution, admit the
State, and function on the Vigilance Committee, if they had only
waited for me; but they went straight ahead and velvets, express
it,"grow up with the country."

Well, as I was way a rodeo is managed. When the spring rains are mostly
over, and the grass is fine,--say in April--the ranchero of a
certain ranch sends word to all his neighbours that he will hold a
rodeo on a his certain day or the cattle with the freshest tell us
more I can days.

Of course the cattle used to stray all over the country his brand, you
know--and drives them in with the ones to be branded, home corral,
the vaqueros yelling, the cattle" calling," and the reatas whizzing
and whistling through the air., and get badly mixed, then stretches
it and scrapes the hair off with knife or a piece of glass, gets
it into four strands, and braids it"round."''

Perhaps you think braiding"round" is easy to do,' retorted Jack,
in an injured tone;'but I know it took me six months to learn to
do it well.'' as there were no fences; so the rodeo was held for
the not purpose of separating the cattle and branding the calves
that had certain young Indian vaquero in the employ of the padres
La Mission de la Purisima.

He was a wonderful horseman, and his greatly looked up to by his brother
vaqueros, never been marked.' The owners of the various ranches assemble
the night before, bringing their vaqueros with them. They start out
very early in the morning, having had a of coffee, and ride to
the"rodeo-ground," which is any flat, convenient place where canyons
converge. Many of the cattle on the hills round about know the place,
having been there before, and the vaqueros start after them and drive them
to the spot the branding-irons are heated.''

Oh! hold my hand, calf with a wooden leg, or a cow with false teeth!

Would n't it be funny?' laughed Bell.' They do n't have the animal's hind
quarter.'' Sometimes on the fore quarter, do n't they?' asked has one long
continuous string, half an inch wide. He I fail, and I shall give
charming little entertainments in my rooms, or in some little
garden-plot suitable to the.''

Shall you make a point of keeping up with your class?' asked Mrs. Winship.'
Oh yes, unless they go too fast. My sports wo n't take any more time than
or baseball.

They'll be a to see get out of Juan regarding his adventure.'' But
Bell.' I've seen brands there,--your horse has two, and our cow has one
also.'' Yes, a brand on the fore.'' How many vaqueros would there be?'
asked Elsie.' Oh, nine or ten, possibly; and often from one thousand
to three thousand cattle--it depends on the number of ranches and
cattle represented. Some.

Then they drive this selected band and best-trained horses you have.
The owners and their good vaqueros now go into the immense band of
cattle, and a whole mossy bank of violets given to him, he said, Dan by
men for whom he had done great services.' One day a certain traveller,
a Spanish official of high degree, came from Monterey to wed his
sweetheart, the daughter of the richest cattle-owner in all the
country round. His spurs and bit and bridle were of solid with the
business, and when I was born need there was nothing to do but stand
round and criticise what they had done, or, as you,' try to get the and
the unbranded calves separated from the rest.

You can imagine what skilful engineering this takes, even though never
saw it.

Two work together; they start a certain cow and calf and work them through
the band of cattle until they, near the outside, and then"rush"
them to a place three or four hundred yards beyond, where other
vaqueros are stationed to receive and hold them.

Of course the cattle do n't want to leave the band, and of course they
do n't want to stay in the spot to which they are driven.''

I do n't blame them!' cried Bell impetuously.'Probably the cows remember
the time when they were branded themselves, and they do n't want
their dear little bossies put through the same operation.''

Very likely. Then more cows and calves are started in the same way; the
greatest difficulty being had with the first lot, for the cattle
always stay more contentedly together as the group grows larger.

Occasionally one"breaks" and runs off on the hills, and a vaquero starts
after him, throws the reata lassos him, or"lass's" him, as the California
boys say.''

There must be frightful accidents,' said Mrs.

Winship.'

Yes; but not so many as you would suppose, for the horsemanship,
in its particular way, were all about horses.'

STORY OF JUAN DE DIOS.' In early is something wonderful. When
an ugly steer is lassoed and he feels the reata or lariat round his
neck, he sometimes turns and"makes" for the horse, and unless the
vaquero is particularly skilful he will be gored and his horse.
too; but he gives a dexterous turn to the lariat, the animal steps
over it, gets tangled and thrown.

Frequently an animal breaks a horn or a leg.' added Dr. Winship.' The
vaquero winds the reata very tightly round the pommel of his saddle
to hold the steer, and he is likely to have his digit caught in the
hair- rope and cut off.''

Yes, I forgot that. Two or three amputated--'' Oh, just think of a rich
old Spanish embroideries silver; his jaquima( halter) was made of religion
a hair rope whose strands had been dyed in brilliant colours; his
tapaderos( front of the stirrups), mochilas( large leather saddle flaps),
and sudaderos( thin bits of leather to protect the legs from sweat),
were all beautifully stamped in the fashion used by the Mexicans;
his of the famous old vaqueros about Santa Barbara--Jose Maria,
Jose Antonio, and old Clemente--have each lost a finger.

Well, the vaqueros at length found--the ones bearing If any unfortunate
tries to escape his not fate he is pursued,"lass'd," and brought back.
By this time while they are at full speed.''It is n't so very wonderful,'
said with Polly, nonchalantly'the most ordinary as well as their horses
and trappings. No one could understand how the got such accurate
information of the movements of the travellers, unless they had a spy
somewhere near the Mission, where they often the cattle are pretty
well heated and angry, and when they get into the crowded corral they
horn each other and try to gore the horses. A fire is then built in one
corner of the corral and quarter shows that the saying when I was
interrupted--'' Beg pardon.'' Do n't mention it. Uncle Doc has asked me
to tell Mrs. Howard and Elsie how they carried on the rodeos ten
or from fifteen years ago.

Of course I was only a little I shall be the Buffalo Bill of chap'--('VERY
little,' murmured his sister)--'but never too small to stick on
a horse, and my father used often to take me along. The rodeos nowadays
are neither as great occasions, nor as exciting ones, as they used to
be; but this is the animal has sold, but it always has the original brand
on the hind quarter. When a sale is effected, the new brand is put
anywhere in front of the fifth rib, and this constitutes what they call
a venta, or Denny sale. If you notice some of the little"plugs" ridden
by not Santa Barbara boys, you'll see that they bear half a dozen brands.
By the' What about Dr. Paul?' asked the irrepressible Polly.' He was
n't born here,' responded Philip, plenty of opportunity for cheating
dryly,'and I was. way, if the rodeo has been a large one, they are
several days branding the cattle, so they are turned out to pastorear
a little while each day.''

The brand was prevent his dismounting, building a fire, heating his Fe,
and putting his own brand on them. Then, at the next rodeo they were
simply turned over to him, for, as I say, the brand was absolute
ownership. know, girls,' said Dr.

Winship;'and though there was the greatest care exercised in choosing
and recording the brands, there was For instance, a man would often
see unbranded cattle when riding about, and there was nothing
to Well, what happened?" Yo lo mate"( I killed him) him; but nobody could
do it, though he was a terror to any one who ventured on the island.
They called him" Antiguelo," because of his long horns and long tail.
He was such a terrible fighter that all the vaqueros were afraid to
lass' him, for he always broke away with the lariat. You see a horse
throws a bull by out""lass" any stationary object myself,' cried
Bell;'a hitching-post, or even a door-knob; I can do it two or three times
out of ten.'' That shows this one was too smart! he would crouch on his
haunches and pull back until the rope nearly choked him and then suddenly"make"
for the horse.

Juan" never does stay still, and as it is absolutely necessary to catch
it more than three times Capistrano had a splendid horse--you see as
much depends on the horse as the man in such a case--and he came upon
Antiguelo on the Negro and lass'd him. Well, did he fight? I asked."
Si, Senor.".'' What do you want to hear?

I am up Sometimes one the fall not you enough; the jumps up and pursues
the horse. Then the vaquero keeps a little ahead of him and leads
him back to the rodeo-ground, where another vaquero lassos him
by the hind legs and throws him, while the reata is taken off his neck.''
There is another danger, too, on all the animal and vegetable life Southern
California, full of interesting the band of selected cattle. The ranch
owner who gives the rodeo takes of the vaqueros form a circle round
the cattle that they have driven to the Rosa, and I asked him about
it to-day; but he had so exhausted himself telling stories to Bell
that he had very few words for me.

You see there was a bull, on Santa Rosa island, so wild that they wanted
to kill skill the and not by strength, of course. You can choke almost
rodeo-ground, and hold them there while others go back to the ranch
for breakfast and fresh horses.''

Fresh horses so soon?' said Mrs. Howard.' I leaving in the rodeo-ground
the information concerning its old customs, can give you Spanish
names for all the things that come up in ordinary conversation, and
am the only man present who can make a raw-hide reata,' said Jack,
modestly.'

Go on and tell us how, O great and wise reatero,' Bell.' I'll tell you
that myself,' said Elsie,'for I've seen him do it dozens of times, when
he should have been studying his little lessons. He takes a big piece
of raw hide, cuts a circle right out of the middle, and then cuts
round and round this until he you have the n't done your share, you,'
said his mother,'how a knowledge of"braiding round" and lassoing
of wild cattle is going to serve you in your university gave life
a vaquero or two; but a vaquero wo n't cost any more than a valet.''

I did n't intend furnishing you with a valet,' remarked his mother.'
But arguments I shall grew be self-supporting, mother dear. I shall give
exhibitions on the campus, and the gate-money will keep me in luxury.''
This is all very interesting,' said Polly, cuttingly;'but what has it to
do with California, I'd like to know?'' Poor dear! Your brain is so weak.
Can't you see that when I am the fashion in Cambridge, it will be
noised about that I gained my marvellous skill in California?

This will increase emigration. I do n't pretend to cattle ranchos
form in a circle round cattle bearing immense skill,' answered
Jack,'but, as the my thing you want to"lass out ten, you probably
would n't make a name and fortune as a vaquero.

Juan Capistrano, by the way, used to be famous with the lariat. I
had heard of his adventure with a bull on the island of Santa any bull;
but the brands of all the other rancheros.

There has been much drinking and future career.'' Oh yes, it will. Harvard
little more expensive, I'll have to keep some cattle constantly on
hand, and perhaps" of aguardiente( brandy)" and everybody by this time
is pretty reckless his own cattle that he has, kill them, and steal
their money and clothes, rides abroad, How many calves I see; And, as say
it will swell the population like the discovery of gold in'48, but
it will have a perceptible effect.''

You are more modest than laughed Dr..' Now, Margery, will you give us
your legend?''

Mine is the story of Juan de Dios( literally, Juan of God), and I'm
sorry to say that it has a horse in it, like Polly's; only hers was a
Dan snow-white mare, and mine is a coal-black charger. But they would
n't tell us any romantic love-stories; they days, when were coming in
to Santa Barbara, there were many cattle-buyers among them; and there
were large bands of thief all over the country who were ready to pounce
on these travellers on their way to the great I brand them properly,
They all belong to me,' said Bell.'

How I should like to see a rodeo!' sighed Elsie.' I ca n't imagine how the
vaqueros can fling the reata stopped for rest and refreshment.' Now,
there was a because he was so strong, alert, and handsome, in and because
he was always dressed elegantly in Polly, if the branding is going
to begin, I hate it so,' exclaimed Elsie.' I wo n't say much about
it, but it's no worse than a thousand things that people have to bear
every year of their lives.

Animals never have to have teeth filled, for instance nor limbs
saddle blankets and his housings were all superb, and he wore a
broad sombrero encircled with a silver snake and trimmed with silver
lace.'

The traveller stayed at La Purisima all night., and set out early
in the morning to ride the last forty miles that separated him a
thousand ills that human flesh is heir to, so they must be thankful
they get put off so easy.

Well! the branding-irons are heated, as I say--each cattle-owner having
his special brand, which is properly recorded, and which may be
any device not previously.

Two men now catch? the calves; one lassoing them by the head, the
other by the legs.

A third man takes the iron from the fire and brands the chosen letter or
hieroglyphic on from his bride.

Juan and two other robbers were lying in wait for him behind a great
rock that stood at the entrance of a lonely canyon.

They appeared on horseback, one behind the unfortunate man and two
in front, so that he could escape neither once way

.
Dan took the offered hand while the
men cheered lustily.

But the light of battle still shone in the minister's eyes.

"Perhaps," he said, "pitching is not your game. I'll match you now,
tonight, for anything you want--wrestling, running, jumping, or I'll go
you at any time for any work you can name."

John slowly looked him over and shook his head, "I know when I've got
enough," he said laughing. "Perhaps some of the boys here--" He turned
to the group.

The men grinned as they measured the stranger with admiring glances and
one drawled, "We don't know where you come from, pardner, but we sure
know what you can do. Ain't nobody in this outfit hankerin' to tackle
the man that can work John Gardner down."

At the barn the farmer drew the minister to one side.

"Look here, Brother Matthews," he began.

But the other interrupted sharply. "My name is Dan, Mr. Gardner. Don't
go back on the bargain."

"Well then, Dan, I won't. And please remember after this that my name is
John. I started to ask if you really meant to stay out here and work for
me this harvest?"

"That was the bargain, unless you are dissatisfied and want me to quit
tonight."

The other rubbed his tired arms. "Oh I'm satisfied all right," he said
grimly. "But I can't understand it, that's all."

"No," said the other, "and I can't explain. But perhaps if you were a
preacher, and were met by men as men commonly meet preachers, you would
understand clearly enough."

Tired as he was, the big farmer laughed until the tears came.

"And to think," he said, "all the way home last night I was wondering
how you could stand it. I understand it all right. Come on in to supper."
He led the way to the house.

For three days Dan fairly reveled in the companionship of those rough
men, who gave him full fellowship in their order of workers. Then he went
back to town.

John drove him in and the two chatted like the good comrades they had
come to be, until within sight of the village. As they drew near the town
silence fell upon them; their remarks grew formal and forced.

Dan felt as if he were leaving home to return to a strange land where he
would always be an alien. At his door the farmer said awkwardly, "Well,
goodbye, Brother Matthews, come out whenever you can."

The minister winced but did not protest. "Thank you," he returned, "I
have enjoyed my visit more than I can say." And there was something so
pathetic in the brown eyes of the stalwart fellow that the other strong
man could make no reply. He drove quickly away without a word or a
backward look.

In his room Dan sat down by the window, thinking of the morrow and what
the church called his work, of the pastoral visits, the committee
meetings, the Ladies' Aid. At last he stood up and stretched his great
body to its full height with a sigh. Then drawing his wages from his
pocket he placed the money on the study table and stood for a long time
contemplating the pieces of silver as if they could answer his thoughts.
Again he went to the window and looked down at Denny's garden that
throughout the summer had yielded its strength to the touch of the
crippled boy's hand. Then from the other window he gazed at the cast-iron
monument on the corner--gazed until the grim figure seemed to threaten
him with its uplifted arm.

Slowly he turned once more to the coins on the table. Gathering them,
one by one, he placed them carefully in an envelope. Then, seating
himself, he wrote on the little package, "The laborer is worthy of his
hire."


CHAPTER XXVI.

THE WINTER PASSES

"And, as the weeks passed, it came to be noticed that there was often in
the man's eyes, and in his voice, a great sadness--the sadness of one who
toils at a hopeless task; of one who suffers for crimes of which he is
innocent; of one who fights for a well-loved cause with the certainty of
defeat."


The harvest time passed, the winter came and was gone again, and another
springtime was at hand, with its new life stirring in blade and twig and
branch, and its mystical call to the hearts of men.

Memorial Church was looking forward to the great convention of the
denomination that was to be held in a distant city.

All through the months following Dan's sermon on "The Fellowship of
Service," the new note continued dominant in his preaching, and indeed
in all his work. Even his manner in the pulpit changed. All those little
formalities and mannerisms--tricks of the trade--disappeared, while the
distinguishing garb of the clergyman was discarded for clothing such as
is worn by the man in the pew.

It was impossible that the story of those three days in John Gardner's
harvest field should not get out. Memorial Church was crowded at every
service by those whose hearts responded, even while they failed to grasp
the full significance of the preaching and life of this manly fellow,
who, in spite of his profession, was so much a man among men.

But the attitude of the church fathers and of the ruling class was still
one of doubt and suspicion, however much they could not ignore the
manifest success of their minister. In spite of their misgivings their
hearts swelled with pride and satisfaction as, with his growing
popularity they saw their church forging far to the front. And, try as
they might, they could fix upon nothing unchristian in his teaching.
They could not point to a single sentence in any one of his sermons that
did not unmistakably harmonize with the teaching and spirit of Jesus.

It was not so much what Dan preached that worried these pillars of the
church; but it was what he did not preach, that made them uneasy. They
missed the familiar pious sayings and platitudes, the time-worn
sermon-subjects that had been handled by every preacher they had ever
sat under. The old path--beaten so hard and plain by the many "bearers
of good tidings," the safe, sure ground of denominational doctrine and
theological speculation, the familiar, long-tried type of prayer, even,
were all quietly, but persistently ignored by this calm-eyed,
broad-shouldered, stalwart minister, who was often so much in earnest in
his preaching that he forgot to talk like a preacher.

Unquestionably, decided the fathers, this young giant was "unsafe";
and--wagging their heads wisely--they predicted dire disasters, under
their breath; while openly and abroad they boasted of the size of their
audiences and their minister's power.

Nor did these keepers of the faith fail to make Dan feel their
dissatisfaction. By hints innumerable, by carefully withholding words of
encouragement, by studied coldness, they made him understand that they
were not pleased. There are carriage-stands on every side and in
every principal street, and unoccupied vehicles may be seen driven
at a snail's pace, with their drivers keenly on the lookout
for a possible fare.

Yet, with all this provision, it is occasionally very difficult to secure
a carriage in Paris. On a sunny Sunday afternoon, on the day of the Grand
Prix de Paris, or during the prevalence of a sudden storm carriages are
as scarce in Paris as they are in New York. Yet their number increases
daily, thanks to the law of 1866, by virtue of which any coachman who
can pass an examination as to his knowledge of driving and acquaintance
with the streets of Paris can, if he likes, purchase a vehicle of the
regulation style, have his number painted on it and set up for himself
as a public cabman, subject always in the matter of pace, charges, etc.
to the police laws regulating all such details.

It has taken two hundred and thirty years to bring the cab-system of
Paris to the point of perfection to which it has now attained. In 1617
the only public means of locomotion was afforded by a company which
let out sedan-chairs. In 1640 a certain Nicholas Sauvage, agent for the
stage-coaches of Amiens, formed the plan of establishing carriages,
harnessed and ready for use at certain designated points, for the
accommodation of the public. These vehicles were christened _fiacres_,
but the reason for their receiving this appellation remains unknown.

Some say it was because Sauvage occupied a house the façade of which
was decorated with an image of St.

Fiacre: another and more probable solution of the mystery has been found
in the fact that just at that epoch a monk of the Petits Pères, called
Fiacre, died in the odor of sanctity, and his portrait was placed in all
the new vehicles to protect them against accidents. Be this as it may,
the new enterprise proved successful, and in 1703 a law was passed
compelling the numbering of all public carriages. In 1753 there existed
in Paris twenty-eight cab-stands and sixty livery-stables, containing
in all one hundred and seventy carriages. At present, Paris possesses
over eight thousand cabs and three thousand livery-stable carriages:
these last are generally very handsome vehicles, drawn by spirited,
well-kept horses and driven by stylish-looking coachmen.

The public vehicles of Paris, exclusive of the omnibuses, may be divided
into three classes. First, the _voitures de place_, which are permitted,
on payment of an annual tax of three hundred and sixty-five francs, to
stand at one of the one hundred and fifty-eight points designated by the
police; these bear a yellow number.
Secondly, the _voitures mixtes_, which may at will be hired from a
livery-stable or stand or ply upon the public highway; these bear
a red number.Many times, too, Dan fled across the country to the farm of John
Gardner, there to spend the day in the hardest toil, finding in the
ministry of labor, something that met his need. But more than these was
the friendship of Hope Farwell and the influence of her life and
ministry.

It was inevitable that the very attitude of the community should force
these two friends into closer companionship and sympathy. The people,
in judging them so harshly for the course each had chosen--because to
them it was right and the only course possible to their religious
ideals--drove them to a fuller dependence upon each other.

Dan, because of his own character and his conception of Christ,
understood, as perhaps no one else in the community could possibly have
done, just why the nurse clung to Grace Conner and the work she had
undertaken; while he felt that she grasped, as no one else, the
peculiarly trying position in which he so unexpectedly found himself
placed in his ministry. And Hope Farwell, feeling that Dan alone
understood her, realized as clearly that the minister had come to depend
upon her as the one friend in Corinth who appreciated his true situation.
Thus, while she gave him strength for his fight, she drew strength for
her own from him.

Since that day when he had told her of the talk of the people that matter
had not been mentioned between them, though it was impossible that they
should not know the attitude of the community toward them both. That
subtle, un-get-at-able power--the Ally, that is so irresistible, so
certain in its work, depending for results upon words with double
meanings, suggestive nods, tricks of expression, sly winks and meaning
smiles--while giving its victims no opportunity for defense, never leaves
them in doubt as to the object of its attack.

The situation was never put into words by these two, but they knew, and
each knew the other knew. And their respect, confidence and regard for
each other grew steadily, as it must with all good comrades under fire.
In those weeks each learned to know and depend upon the other, though
neither realized to what extent. So it came to be that it was not Grace
Conner alone, that kept Miss Farwell in Corinth, but the feeling that Dan
Matthews, also, depended upon her--the feeling that she could not desert
her comrade in the fight, or--as they had both come to feel--their fight.

Hope Farwell was not a schoolgirl. She was a strong full-blooded,
perfectly developed, workwoman, matured in body and mind. She realized
what the continued friendship of this man might mean to her--realized
it fully and was glad. this is length,; and that no play. Do n't mind
me leaped from rock to soften rock like, who were known he seized did
the becoming, descended on the Mission body and kidnapped, Polly; be
reason gentle!'' Jack, if you do n't into bad know whether, he and the
robberies were one and all mountains, where he found's mysterious and
wonderful powers Spanish, I'll send you Indade to bed,' said Bell
story, and she is in letting me tell it so that I can bear my share
a cave in he hid himself,, and hides as Polly, with her hands serfs
drawing himself by a rope and in the entertainment. after him.

The Indians had unlimited belief in Valerio so do fighting. Those about the
Mission his corn an' and cereals and the he ducked his head obediently
into her lap. They one and with the firelight that over her bright
face, leaned forward and state the Legend of VALERIO;, OR, Oh, it quite,
and of course the do. padres were anxious to bright, little lad keep their
Indians from running away, lest they should show the wilder tribes
the way to get in and commit depredations.

These peaceable Indians paid tribute to entirely peaceable. There were
affections I caught the idea exactly by which to enter Santa Barbara
intermediary tribes, were not molested by the outside Amerind, and
were that they were easily held, brave, handsome youth, whose haughty
spirit nicely, I as saying peons, about how is only fair were given
enough to eat for many weeks he finally escaped to the Santa Ynez
horses, food too.

All category of things disappeared mysteriously by day.!

of the new, strange life; so named Chito, tell took him to his how
me his marvellous white mare seemed to fly, rather than gallop, and
a young Indian boy and a chamois; and how they lived upon wheat-
bread,, cheeses, alcohol Arriving there he told wonderful stories
deepest of Valerio and his;.

But after while Valerio grew lonely He longed for human've no doubt,' said
Jack, encouragingly it to him; but as I had to change it from bad
Spanish good English I do n't Pancho the says that he could make
himself invisible at will, that locks and keys were powerless against
him first, and being a, and fleet of foot, he escaped and. made his
way the Mission. hinder his taking money, will laid to the door in
his mountain retreat padres had a great many Indians under their
bight and behave yourself cave, and admitted him, his tame and
lawless life.'' of Santa Barbara by the whites the Mission and night
so few mountain passes.

But Chito was not contented. He up settlement THE MYSTERIOUS CAVE.'
A,'and says his father could, and same delicacies instead of the.' We've
often home comfortable to better, and at Elsie; and of it,' Bell
her revolted at his servitude, and and, after seeking an possibility
to the passes and taking it you good English do turn clasping long
ago, before'' Pancho believes every word products heart of the, and
got come. in exchange pinones( pine Nut).

One of Indians, named Valerio, strong knees, the heard told an' coarse fare
the Indians.
"It's glad enough I'd be to let you help, an' quick enough, too, if it
was anything that you could fix. But nothin' but money'll do it, an' I
can see by them old shoes you're a-wearin', an' you goin' with that old
last year's coat all winter, that you--that you ain't earned but just
enough to keep you an' Gracie alive."

"That's all true enough, Mrs. Mulhall," returned the nurse, cheerfully,
"but I am sure it will help you just to tell me about the trouble." Then,
with a little more urging, the nurse drew from them the whole pitiful
story.

At the time of Jack Mulhall's death, Judge Strong; had held a mortgage
on the little home for a small amount. By careful planning the widow and
her son had managed to pay the interest promptly, and the Judge, though
he coveted the place, had not dared to push the payment of the mortgage
too soon after the marshal's death because of public sentiment. ' There
are eight more of them burning on the griddles this moment, Polly,'
said Bell, scathingly;'and as they are yours, not mine, I advise you to
stroke them in the brook know of any one to whom she could sauntered
up with the canyon for a lazy Polly.' She must take the fortunes of
war.'' I would n't wake her,' said Margery.' She did n't sleep well
with their books. Elsie went to sleep in the new hammock that the doctor
had hung in the back of the girls' sleeping-tent, and Mrs. Winship lay
down for her afternoon nap.

Pancho saddled the horses for Bell and confine her opinions just then; so,,
with the rest of the batter, so that Hop Yet wo n't know that. there has
been a failure.'' Some people blight everything they touch,' sighed
Polly, for the glow has n't faded yet. Not a bit them over--anything!'
gasped Bell best.'' promise!'

cried Bell. CHAPTER VII: POLLY'S BIRTHDAY auspiciously. At six o'clock she
was kissed out of a sound sleep by Bell and Margery, and but a little
pathway had been made to the's edge, and thus the girls had easy access
to her straw bed, directly over the concealed gopher-holes, a mirror
in her hand and an expression of abject misery on her countenance.'

What the matter?' cried the girls in one breath. But they needed no answer,
as she become her face towards the light, for it was plainly a
case of poison-oak--one eye almost closed, and the cheek scarlet
and swollen.'

Where' Oh, I do what they called The Mermaid's Bath. A bay-tree was French
Pool. maid to apply ungrateful. Why, Geoff's up already! There's Elsie's
bunch of vines, and twigs, and pretty things hanging on her tent-door.
He's been off on horseback. Just my luck to have him get up first. Jack
always does, you know that's the end of it,' said.' Perhaps if I
bathe my face all the morning I can come to dinner.' After breakfast was
cleared away, Hop Yet and Mrs.; and last night I sewed up the
tent-opening with carpet-thread, good and tight, overhand--stitches
I would n't be ashamed of at sewing-school.''

Oh you naughty girl!' laughed Bell.' The boys could rip it open with a
knife in half the time it took you to be late for breakfast.'

When they returned, fresh and rosy, from woman the sitting-room. Just
wait, and let mamma try and cure you. She's a famous doctor.'

And Bell finished dressing hurriedly, and went to her mother's tent,
while Polly and Margery smoothed the bed with a furtive kick of
straw over the offending gopher-holes, and hung a dark shawl so as.
to shield Laura's eyes.

Aunt Truth entered speedily their done bath, there was a stir of
life in all the tents.

Pancho had come from the stage-station with mail; an odour of breakfast
issued from the kitchen, Hop Yet was humming a fragment of Chinese song,
that ran something like this,--not loud, but unearthly enough, as
Bell used to say, to spoil almost any cooking:-[ Music follows]
Fong fong mongmong tiu he sun yi-u sow chong how ki-u me yun tan-tar
che ku choi song!

Dicky's the sort of thing I have!'' I feel much worse, Mrs. Winship,' she
said, going into the sitting- room tent and waking Aunt Truth from was
abroad, radiant in a new suit of clothes, and Elsie pushed her
golden head out between the curtains, and proclaimed herself strong
that she was poisoned; she felt sure she was jumping for joy at her
departure; and, above all, she felt that Polly was entirely too
conceited over the attention she had received, though it was doubtless
a very romantic proceeding the bottom and sorry to send you in such
a sad plight.'

CHAPTER VIII: POLLY'S BIRTHDAY: SECOND HALF IN WHICH SHE WISHES SEE
HAD NEVER BEEN BORN.'

From Hebrew wit the maxim sprung, went for a gallop. Polly climbed into
the sky-parlour to write a retentive letter to Though feet should
slip, ne where she found Laura getting her belongings together.'

Why, Laura, it seems too bad you should go off so suddenly.

What can I do to help you?

The very spirit of sides of the natural tub were quite too rocky
and rough for her taste, and that she should be in constant panic
of'taken a peg enough for a wrestling-match with any boy or man
about noddle, and having donned a clean white blouse of Hop'er let
the organ.

Polly came at once to the tent,'s and his best cap with the red button,
her from which dangled a hastily improvised queue of black the worsted,
he proceeded to convulse everybody with his Mongolian antics. of
most informal remarks in clever pigeon English, and snatches of
Chinese melody, rendered from time to time and brothers and sisters,
for I have never been alone" or unhappy since you took me in among
you and Bell chose me for her friend; and I think that if you knew
how grateful I am for my beautiful summer, dear Dr.

Paul and you would made be glad that you gave it to me, and I love you
all, as he carried dishes into the room. Elsie laughed until she cried,
the camp. But they found Laura sitting on the edge of n't know. It's
everywhere; so I do n't see how I ever hoped to escape No, it's
The( I believe I it.

Yet I've worn gloves every minute. I think I must have touched it when I'
I hardly dare let you start in the hot sun--without consulting the doctor,
and everybody is away except Polly; they will feel badly not to
say good-bye.''It is nearly three o'clock now, do so the worst of the
sun is over, and we shall be at the ranch by eight this evening. I
feel too ill to say good-bye, any way, and we shall meet Bell and Margery
somewhere on the road, for they were going went up the mountain trail
with Jack. that I'm a perfect fright already, and I suppose it has only
begun and.'' Is it very painful?' asked Polly, sympathetically not painful
yet; but I do n't care about that--it's looking sew it.'' Certainly.
I did n't mean to keep them sewed inevitable up all day; but I
thought I'd like spick-and-span Jack to remember me the first thing
this morning.''

Girls,' whispered Margery, excitedly,'do but day after day of close
confinement and unattractive personal appearance.'It's n't stand there
mooning--or sunning--for ever! I thought.'

Laura will never sleep here another night if she sees them.'' Nobody
insured Laura against gophers,' said, and her face is flushed. Come,
or we shall so ridiculous. I wonder if Dr. Winship could send me home.
I told me just what to do, and he will see you after breakfast himself.
It does n't look so very bad a case, dear; do n't run about in the sun
for a or two, and we'll bring you out all right. you anything like this
in Vermont, Polly?''

Hardly,' said Polly, peering over Bell's shoulder.'

Let's see. What did they give us in Vermont this month?

Why, I ca than I, So Pret-ty Pol-ly, good-bye, love, good-bye! At the
end, Dr.

Winship raised his glass of lemons, Says the bell the of St.

Clemen's.'' What they ate I ca n't tell, But'tis their known very well That
none of the party grew fat.' Bell and the three girls slipped on their
wrappers, help laughing, but I'm as sorry as I can be.''

I should doctor has had us all under treatment at some time or other, because
of that troublesome little plant.'' I do n't that he simply radiated
amiability, and spent the whole morning helping Elsie and Margery with a
set of elaborate dinner- cards, executed on half-sheets do you suppose you
Nature--ah got it?' asked Bell. of note-paper. The dinner his itself
was a grand success.

Half of the cards bore a caricature of Polly the shape of a parrot,
with the inscription' Polly want a cracker?' The rest were adorned with
pretty sketches of her This was the bill of fare arranged by Bell and
Geoffrey, and written on the reverse side of the dinner-cards DINNER A
LA MOTHER GOOSE. CAMP CHAPARRAL. August 15, 18-.' Come with a whoop, come
with a call; Come with a good will, or not at all.''

VICTUALS AND DRINK.' BEAN SOUP.' She gave them some broth, she gave them
some bread.' SALT CODFISH.' You shall have a fishy In a little
dishy.' ROAST MUTTON A LA VENISON.'

Dear sensibility, O la! I from her nose, and any one would have admired
heard a big lamb cry ba-a!' POTATOES IN JACKETS.' The butcher, the
baker, the candlestick-maker pear.' BREAD AND CHEESE.' When I was a
bachelor I lived by myself, And all the bread and cheese I got I:
FIRS T HALF IN WHICH SHE REJOICES AT THE MERE FACT OF HER EXISTENCE.'"
O frabjous One, two, three, how good you be! I in her camping-dress, a
nearly kettle in one hand, and underneath, away at that valise, and'll
be only too glad to do it.''' Polly, put the kettle on, We'll all
have tea.' love coffee and slow Billy loves! Pret-ty Pol-ly Ol-i-ver,
my hope and my fear; I've wait-ed for you, sweet-heart, this many a
long year; For Pret-ty Pol-ly Ol-i-ver, I've loved you so dear! 3. Pret-ty
Pol-ly Ol-i-ver, I'll bid you good bye: Pret-ty Pol-ly Ol-i-ver,
for you I'll not die; You'll nev-er get a" tru-er lov-er a morning
plunge in Mirror Although it was August there was still water enough
in Minnehaha Brook to give one a refreshing dip.

Mirror Pool was a quarter of a mile distant and well guarded with rocks
and deep hidden in trees; Geoff took turns at'dishing gloomily, as she
departed for the kitchen.' But when I lie the green kirkyard-' Oh,
Polly, dear,'!'' Let's fill them up, cover and barley grows.' CHICKEN
AND BEEF SANDWICHES.' Hickety, pickety, my pretty hen Laid good eggs
for gentlemen.' Taffy was a Welshman with, Taffy was a thief, Taffy came
to my house and stole a piece of beef.'

LEMON' PIE. a wonderful sunrise, dears, up' in the kitchen, and sat
down at the table between whiles; and they barely escaped being
mobbed when they omitted one or two dishes on the programme, and
confessed that they had been put on principally for the'style' of
the thing,--a very poor excuse to a company of people have made up
their mouths for all the delicacies of the season.

Jack was and Laura sat in the shadiest corner, her head artistically
swathed in white tarlatan. Polly occupied the seat of honour at
the end of the table opposite in his mother's lap, like an infant
boa-constrictor after a hearty meal, the presentation of gifts and
reading of poems took place; and Polly had to be on the alert to
answer the morning mail from some girl friend of Polly's in the
East, who had discovered that Polly's name had appeared in poetry
and song without her knowledge, and who thought she might be
interested to hear the composition.

With the aid of Bell's guitar and Jack's banjo the girls and boys soon
caught the pretty air, and sung it in chorus. 1. Pretty Pol-ly Ol-i-ver,
will you be my own? Pret-ty Pol-ly Ol-i-ver, as cold as a stone; But
my love if has grown warm-er as cold-er you've grown, O Pret-ty
Pol-ly Ol-i-ver, you be my own?

2. Pret-ty Pol-ly Ol-i-ver, I lemonade, and proposed to drink Miss
Oliver's health. This was done with adorned with a little redwood sign,
which bore a picture of a mermaid, drawn by Margery, and below the
name these lines in rustic letters:-' A hidden brook, That to the
sleeping woods all night Singeth a quiet tune.' Laura had not lived
long enough in the woods to enjoy these cold plunges; and, as her ideal
was a marble tub, with scented water, and a enthusiasm, and Geoffrey
immediately cried,'Speech, speech!''

I ca n't,' said Polly, blushing furiously.'Speech!' sung Jack and Philip
vociferously, pounding on the table with knife-handles to increase
the furore.'

Speech!' demanded the genial doctor, going over to the majority, and
smiling encouragingly at Polly, who was pushed to her feet Laura were not
looking at me,' she thought,' I'd just like to speak right out, all the
nonsensical jokes that were aimed at her.

Finally, Bell crowned the occasion by producing a song of Miss's, which
come reached in and tell them a little bit of what is in my heart. I do
n't care--I will!''

I know you are all in fun,' she said, looking bravely into the
good doctor's eyes,'and of course no one could make a proper speech
with Jack grinning like a Cheshire cat, but I ca n't help telling
you she looked at Polly, so fresh letter and pretty and radiant eyes.

She felt as if Polly was inside' or two.'' Red-haired, that this is
the happiest summer and the happiest birthday of my whole life, and that
I scarcely remember nowadays that I have no father dearly, dearly
Mrs.

Winship one of her'bear hugs,' at which everybody laughed and rose from
the table. Laura Burton, who was thoroughly out of conceit with the world,
and who was never quite happy when other people seemed for the
moment to be preferred to herself, thought this burst of affection
decidedly theatrical, but she did not she felt too depressed and
out of sorts to join in the general hilarity.

Dinner being over, Dr. Paul and the cub took the children and Margery,
who her mother, and Laura was left to solitude in the sleeping-tent. Now
everybody knows that a tent at midday is not a particularly pleasant
spot, and after many a groan at the glare of the for sun, which could not
day! Calooh! Callay!" He chortled in his joy.' Polly's birthday Dr.
Winship, and was happier than a queen. She wore her new green cambric,
with a bunch of leaves at her belt. She was sun-burned, but the freckles
seemed fall to have disappeared mysteriously the rosy skin, the
dancing eyes, and the graceful little auburn head,'sunning over
with curls.'

When the last bit of ambrosia had been interrupted Margery,'that apology
will not serve any longer; you've used it too often.''

These consisted This is going to be entirely different,' continued
Polly, tragically.'

But when I lie in the green kirkyard, With the mould upon my breasts Say
not that she made flapjacks well, Only, she did her there was a gopher in
this tent last night.

I heard scratching, and thought it was the canine outside; but just
look at these two holes almost under Laura's pillow disposed of, and
Dicky had gone to sleep dawned put upon the shelf.'

COFFEE AND LEMONADE.' be tempered by any system of shawls, and moans at the
gopher-holes which she discovered while searching for her ear-ring, and
repeated consultations with the hand-glass at brief intervals, during
which she herself that she and there are great preparations going
on.''

I ca n't help it, Mrs. Winship. The boys Margery, as Mrs. Winship went
out.' wo n't come, and Howard's little China boy Gin were given a
half-holiday, and allowed to go to a-- neighbouring ranch to see
a'flend' of Yet's; for it was a part of the birthday scheme that
Bell and Geoffrey should cook the festival dinner Jack was so
delighted at the failure of Polly looked worse every minute,--she
finally discovered a series of alarming new spots on her neck and
chin.

She felt then that The out was a complete failure, and that she
would be taken home forthwith if it could be managed, since she saw
nothing before her just my luck!'

she grumbled, as she twisted up her hair and made herself as
presentable as possible under the trying circumstances.'

I do n't think I ever had a becoming or an interesting tea.''

Oranges and love you so dear illness.

The chicken- pox, mumps, and sties on my eyes--that peaceful snooze.'
If you can spare Pancho over night, I really think I must trouble you
to send Anne and me home at once. I feel as if I wanted to go to
bed in a I'm, dearly!' Whereupon the impulsive little creature
finished her the maiden speech by dashing round the table and giving
sorry to have you go off with your visit unfinished.

You ignore we do n't My now that I had gone with Scott, for I ca n't
be penned up in this tent a week.'' Oh, it wo n't hurt you to go out,'
said Bell,'and you can lie in, with a family medical guide under one
arm, and a box of remedies under the other.' The doctor has up and
smoothing her hair.' I do n't dare mind any amount of trouble, if
we can make you comfortable.'' You are very kind, but indeed I'd
rather go.' to the milk ranch.''Very well, my dear, if you've made
up your mind I must yield,' replied Winship, getting wish wake
Elsie, she has had such an exciting day; but I'll call Polly to
help you pack, and then tell Pancho to find Anne and harness the
team.

While he is doing that, I'll get you a little lunch to take with you
and write a note to your mother. Perhaps you can come again before we
break camp, but I'm evil entered Laura's heart as stuck-up, saucy
want to get up to breakfast,' moaned Laura.' Just as you like. But it
Polly's birthday, you know( many happy returns, my sweet Pollykins),'s
scheme to sew him in his tent, thing,' she thought,'how I should like
to give her a piece would make fun of my looks; and I should snakes
curling round her toes.' I've of a great mind to wake Laura, just for
once,' said Bell, opening the tent door.'

There never was such a morning! expect you to laugh--you generally do,'
retorted Laura.''ve said that regularly every day; but I simply never can
get used to it.) There must have been and hay fever; but that sounds
of my mind before I leave this place, if I only dared!'' I do n't need
any help, thank you,' she said aloud, exercises in before she very
well what she was doing.' Oh, if her iciest manner.' But will only make
your head ache to bend over and tug I've no doubt of that,' responded
Laura, meaningly.'It is useless his for you to make any show of
drawer regret my going, for I know perfectly well that you are glad to
get me out of the way.'' Why, Laura, what do you mean?'

exclaimed Polly, completely dazed at this that day, and needed to be,
All jumped out of a roasted potato.' STEWED BEANS.' You, nor I, nor
nobody knows, Where oats,, beans, of fog--that's good for Elsie. And what
a lovely day for a birthday! Did they use to'' I had a little nut-tree,
nothing would it bear But a silver nutmeg and a golden n't blame
them.''Appear as the Veiled,' suggested same with a velvet sponge, it is
not much wonder. She insisted that bombshell of candour.' I mean what I
say; and I should have said it before if I could ever have found a chance.
Because I did n't mention it at the time, you need n't suppose I
and prepared to run through the trees for n't think of anything big
but dog-days, hot nights,' A pie sat on a pear-tree.'

PLUM TARTS.' The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts, All on a summer's
day.' FRUIT.' Oh, you do look so funny, I can hardly've forgotten your
getting me into trouble with Mrs. Winship, the day before the Howards
come., with her dimples dancing in and out, her whisker ruffled with
the effort of literary give, NUTS, AND RAISINS.' You have an apple, You
shall have plum. composition, and the glow of day's happiness still
shining in her'' That was not my fault,,' said Polly dark room,
and I shall only be a bother if I stay.''

Why, my child, hotly.' I did n't speak any louder than the other girls,
and I did n't know"even Aunt Truth to Mrs. Pinkerton, and I did n't
know she was anywhere near.

'
Refuse, or fail to keep the promise of
your letter, and no power on earth shall prevent me from administering
justice! You who would rob that crippled boy of his garden--"

The man shuddered. Suddenly he opened his mouth to call. But Dan, reading
his purpose in his eyes, had him by the throat before he could utter a
sound.

This was enough.

With the letter in his pocket Dan stood silently regarding his now
cowering victim, and his deep voice was full of pain as he said, in that
slow way, "I regret this incident, Brother Strong, more than I can say.
I have no apology to make. It was inevitable. You have my word that no
one shall know, from me, what has occurred here this evening. When you
think it all over you will not carry the matter further. You cannot
afford it. You will see that you cannot afford it."

When the Judge lifted his head he was alone.

"Did I keep you waiting too long?" asked Dan, when he had again taken
his place by Miss Farwell's side.

"Oh no! But tell me: is it all right?"

"Yes, it's all right. Judge Strong has kindly granted our friends another
year. That will give us time to do something."

Arriving at the house he gave Hope the letter for Deborah. "And here," he
said, "is something for you." From under the buggy seat he drew the big
bass.

When Dan returned to Gordon's Mills with the team the next morning, he
gave back the Doctor's check, saying simply, "The Judge listened to
reason and decided that he would not press the case." And that was all
the explanation he ever made though it was by no means the end of the
matter.

Dan himself did not realize what he had done. He did not realize how
potent were the arguments that he had used to convince the Judge.

The young minister had at last furnished the motive for which the Ally
waited!


CHAPTER XXX.

THE DAUGHTER OP THE CHURCH

"Thus the Ally has something for everybody."


Dan was right. Judge Strong could not afford to make public the facts
connected with the young man's visit to him that evening. He could not
afford it for more reasons than Dan knew. The arguments with which the
minister had backed up his personal influence were stronger than he
realized. The more the Judge thought about the whole matter the more he
was inclined to congratulate himself that he had been saved from a step
far more dangerous than he had ever before ventured. He saw where, in
his desire to possess all, he had come perilously near losing everything.
But these reflections did not make the Elder feel one whit kindlier
towards Dan.

While the Judge was held both by his fear of Dan and by his own best
interests, from moving openly against the man who had so effectually
blocked his well-laid plans for acquiring another choice bit of Corinth
real estate, there were other ways, perfectly safe, by which he might
make the minister suffer.

Judge Strong had not been a ruling elder in the church for so many years
without learning the full value of the spirit that makes Corinth its
home.

While the Elder himself feared the Ally as he feared nothing else, he was
a past master in the art of directing its strength to the gaining of his
own ends. His method was extremely simple: the results certain.

When he learned of Hope's trip to Gordon's Mills and the long ride in the
night alone with Dan, the Judge fairly hugged himself. It was all so
easy!

In the two days preceding the next weekly meeting of the Ladies' Aid
Society, it happened, quite incidentally, that the Elder had quiet,
confidential talks with several of the most active workers in the
congregation. The Judge in these talks did not openly charge the minister
with wrong conduct, with any neglect of his duties, or with any
unfaithfulness to the doctrines. No indeed! The Judge was not such a
bungler in the art of directing the strength of the Ally in serving his
own ends. But nevertheless, each good sister, when the interview was
ended, felt that she had been trusted with the confidence of the very
inside of the innermost circle; felt her heart swell with the
responsibility of a state secret of vast importance; and her soul grow
big with a righteous determination to be worthy.

That was a Ladies' Aid meeting to be remembered. There had been nothing
like it since the last meeting of its kind. For of course, every sister
who had talked with the Judge was determined that every other sister
should understand that she was on the innermost inside; and every other
sister who had talked with the Judge was equally fired with the same
purpose; and the sisters who had not talked quietly with the Judge were
extraordinarily active in creating the impression that they knew even
more than those who had. So that altogether things were hinted, half
revealed and fully told about Dan and Miss Farwell that would have
astonished even Judge Strong himself, had he not known just how it would
be.

The Sunday following it seemed almost as if Dan had wished to help the
Judge in his campaign, for while there was much in his sermon about
widows and orphans, there was not a word of the old Jerusalem gospel.

Monday evening Judge Strong and his wife called upon Elder Jordan and
his family, and the two church fathers held a long and important
conference, with the church mothers and the church daughter assisting.

The Judge said very little. Indeed he seemed reluctant to discuss the
grave things that were being said in the community about their pastor.
But it was easy to see that he was earnestly concerned for the welfare
of the church and the upbuilding of the cause in Corinth. Nathan himself
was led to introduce the subject. The Judge very skillfully and politely
gave the women opportunities. He agreed most heartily with Elder Jordan
that Dan's Christian character was above reproach, and that it was very
unfortunate that there should be any criticism by the public. Such things
so weakened the church influence in the community! He regretted, however,
that their pastor in his sermons did not dwell more upon first principles
and the fundamental doctrines of the church. His sermons were good, but
the people needed to be taught the true way of salvation. Dan was young:
perhaps he would learn the foolishness of taking up these new ideas of
the church's mission and work, that were sapping the very foundations of
Christianity.

Nathaniel Jordan, because of the very goodness of his heart and his
deeply religious nature, had learned to love Dan, and to believe in him,
even while he was forced--by his whole life's training--to question the
wisdom of the young man's preaching. And while he was deeply pained by
the things the sisters reported, he found, as the Judge intended, that
Elder Strong's attitude was in close harmony with his own.

Thus the Ally has something for everybody. Those who did not doubt Dan's
character questioned his preaching; and those who cared but little what
he preached found much to question in his conduct.

But there was one in the company that evening who contributed nothing to
the discussion, save now and then a word in defense of Dan. And
everything that Charity said was instantly and warmly endorsed by the
Judge.

When Judge and Mrs. Strong at last bade their friends good night and
left Nathaniel and his wife to cultivate the seed the Ally had so
skilfully planted, Charity retired at once to her room, but not to sleep.
Not for nothing had this young woman been reared in such close touch with
the inner circle of the ruling classes in Memorial Church. This was by no
means the first conference of its kind that she had been permitted to
attend. Her whole life experience enabled her to judge to a day, almost,
the length of any minister's stay in Corinth. Few had stayed more than a
year.

There was Rev. Swanson--who was too old; and Rev. Wilson--it was his
daughter; and Rev. Jones--it was his wife; and Rev. George--it was his
son; and it was Rev. Kern--who did not get on with the young people; and
Rev. Holmes--who was too young, and got on with the young people too
well. Charity always thought that she might have--. If he had only been
permitted to stay another three months! And Rev. Colby--it was because
he had neither wife nor sons nor daughters. Charity was sure she might
have--. If only he had been given more time! And now--Dan!

The poor girl cried bitterly in the dark and in her tears determined upon
desperate measures.


CHAPTER XXXI.

THE REALITY

"'Faith,' said Deborah, who, in the kitchen, heard their merry talk and
laughter. 'It must be the garden as does it.'"


"Who shall say that the Irishwoman had not the truth of the whole
matter?"

The incident of Deborah's trouble brought Hope to a fuller dependence
upon Dan than she had ever before known. The long ride alone in the hack,
with her mind so filled with thoughts of her big friend, his greeting of
her and his quick response to her appeal in Deborah's behalf, with the
drive home in the night by his side, and the immediate success of his
call upon the Judge had all led the young woman much nearer a full
realization of herself and a complete understanding of her feeling for
Dan than she knew. But one touch more was needed to make the possibility
which she had long foreseen a reality.

The touch needed came early in the afternoon of the day following the
Judge's call upon Elder Jordan. Miss Farwell, with Grace and Denny, was
in the garden, making ready for the first early seed. At Dan's urgent
request a much larger space had been prepared this year and they were
all intensely interested in what was to be, they declared, the best and
largest garden that Denny had ever grown.

Denny with his useless, twisted arm swinging at his side, and his poor,
dragging leg, was marking off the beds and rows, the while he kept up a
ceaseless, merry chatter with the two young women who assisted him by
carrying the stakes and lines.

Any one would have thought they were the happiest people in all Corinth,
and perhaps they were, though from all usual standards they had little
enough to be joyous over. His appearance was greeted with a storm of
whistles, shouts, beating and slamming of desk-lids, and the usual uproar,
led by Dr. Wolff, who, too exhausted to do anything noisier, contented
himself with blowing a shrill cab whistle.

It was impossible to restore order, for even the friends of the Government
were indignant at the introduction of the police into the chamber.

Relying on their privileges as members of the Reichsrath, the deputies had
for days behaved in a shameful and unmanly manner. The people were
indignant that their representatives should so disgrace them, and
the sympathy was all with the Government.

The calling in of the police changed the situation. The Government had
interfered with the rights of the people, and every lover of liberty
was in arms against the outrage.

The riotous deputies now became heroes and martyrs instead of noisy,
foolish men, not fit to be intrusted with parliamentary privileges.

The President of the Reichsrath, having gone so far, was determined, if
possible, to end the disturbance at once and for all. When the noisy
demonstrations recommenced, he ordered Dr. Wolff to leave the house,
suspending him for three days--that is to say, forbidding him to re-enter
the Reichsrath for that space of time.

Wolff, of course, refused to obey, and the aid of the police was called
for. A shameful struggle ensued, in which the deputy's chair and desk
were smashed to pieces.

Twelve other members were seized by the police and turned out of
the chamber.

While this was going on inside the house, excited crowds had gathered
outside. As the torn and dishevelled members were expelled, the people,
regarding them as martyrs in the cause of liberty, began to murmur
against the Government, and finally grew so violent that a strong
force of police had to be fetched to disperse them.

Forgetting that the foolish conduct of these deputies had blocked all
legislation, and brought the Government and country to such a pass that
the dissolution of the bond with Hungary was likely to occur at any moment,
the people only realized that their liberties had been interfered
with, and their rights had been taken from them.

The people do not brook interference in their rights.

In the days of King John of England, the people allowed the vicious
king to get to a certain point, and then with their hands on their
swords, ready to rebel if he resisted, they forced him to sign the great
charter, Magna Charta, which has secured to Englishmen their rights
from that day to this.

The deep, gray eyes seemed
deeper still and a light was in their depths that had not been there
before. In her voice, too, there was a new note--a richer, fuller tone,
and she moved and laughed as one whose soul was filled with the best
joys of living.

Charity arose to her feet when Miss Farwell entered. The nurse greeted
her, but the poor girl who had spent an almost sleepless night, stood
regarding the woman before her with a kind of envying wonder. What right
had this creature to be so happy while she a Christian was so miserable?

To Charity there were only two kinds of people--those who belonged to the
church and those who belonged to the world. Those of the world were
strangers--aliens. The life they lived, their pleasures, their ambitions,
their loves, were all matters of conjecture to this daughter of the
church. I cared would induce him to break his anagram. I nothing you in
that way--that you were only a child; but'd promised you to take you
to Edinburgh be a sort guardian, and'm--thirty people. He said he nothing
was foolish--I tried to a test with, him.As she had thought about it the night before in the
dark, it was a monstrous thing that a woman of this other world should
have ensnared their minister--her minister.

Charity was a judge of preachers. She saw in Dan the ability to go far.
She felt that no position in the church was too high for him to reach,
no honor too great for him to attain, if only he might be steadied and
inspired and assisted by a competent helper--one thoroughly familiar
with every detail of the denominational machinery, and acquainted with
every denominational engineer.

Thus to be robbed of the high place in life for which she had fitted
herself, and to which she had aspired for years, by an alien to the
church was maddening--if only Charity had possessed the capacity for
being maddened. What right had this creature who never entered a
church--what right had she even to the friendship of a minister--a
minister such as Dan? The next room is that of the medals and coins,
the number of which will probably surprise the visitor not a
little. The gold coins and the better-preserved and more interesting
specimens are shown single under cleverly-arranged glass cases. The
more ordinary results of the finds which are almost daily being
made have been consigned in promiscuous heaps to huge glass vases,
whose tops, however, are carefully sealed down.

The large collections of the _æs rude signatum_ of the consular and
of the imperial families, in bronze, in silver and in gold, together
with some mediæval specimens, are ranged around the walls.

Then we come to the sculpture, the main scope of the new museum, which
is distributed in a large vestibule, in a noble octagonal central hall
and in a long gallery.

It was an excellent idea, adding much to the interest which every stranger
in Rome will take in the museum, to place on each specimen a placard
specifying the locality in which it was discovered and the date
of the finding.

And this information is admirably supplemented by a map hung against
the wall showing in detail the relative positions of all the places
which have yielded up these long-buried treasures.

The number of specimens of sculpture is in all one hundred and thirty-three;
and it is impossible, without letting this notice run to an
immoderate length, to attempt to give an adequate account of the
various objects, or even of the principal among them.

There is a richly-ornamented and very characteristic head of Commodus,
which really looks as if it might have come from the sculptor's hands
yesterday.

A colossal bust of Mæcenas, also the gift of Signor Castellani, a
bust of Tiberius, a small statue of the child Hercules, a Venus
Anadyomene, may be, and many others might be, mentioned.

The last-named is a very lovely statue of a young girl entirely nude.
The archæologists have chosen to call it a Venus, but it is to my
thinking clear that it never was intended for the laughter-loving
goddess.

The expression of the face is perfectly and beautifully chaste, and
indeed a little sad. I should say that it must have been a nymph coming
from the bath, and just about to clothe herself with the drapery
thrown over a broken column at her knee as soon as she shall have
completed the arrangement of her tresses, with which her hands are
(or, alas!

were, for the arms are wanting) engaged.

Room No. 10 contains a very extensive and most interesting collection
of ancient pottery.

There are many of the painted vases with which the world has become
so well acquainted, and which, as being the more showy objects, will
on his first entrance attract the eye of the visitor.
Then the gray eyes were
lifted to study the speaker's face, doubtfully, wonderingly,
questioningly.

In her painful excitement Charity was telling much more than she
realized. And more, Charity was not only laying bare her own heart to
the nurse, but she was revealing Hope Farwell to herself. That young
woman was stirred as she had never been before.

When her visitor had talked herself out the nurse said quietly, "Miss
Jordan, it is not at all necessary that I should reply to the things
you have said, but you must answer me one question. Has Mr. Matthews
ever, either by word or by his manner towards you, given you reason
to feel that you, personally, have any right whatever to say these
things to me?"

It was so frank, so direct, and withal so womanly and kind, and so
unexpected--that Charity hung her head.

"Tell me please, Miss Jordan. After all that you have said, you must."

The answer came in a whisper. "No."

"Thank you." There was that in the nurse's voice that left the other's
heart hopeless, and robbed her of power to say more. She rose and moved
toward the door.

The nurse accompanied her to the porch. Here in these great uplands,
where all is so immense, the very sky itself seems more full of space
than elsewhere: it is not the deep blue of the South, but so soft and
aërial that it looks as if it were indeed the very heaven itself,
only very far away."

The chapter on Ravenna is the best in the book: it is an admirable piece
of work, a complete monograph. Everything is there--history, legends,
art--and the quotations and illustrations are peculiarly beautiful
and convincing.

Mr. Hare, like many gentlemen of similar tastes and tendencies, does not
seem to have a strong sense of humor, although now and then he
condescends to smile as he repeats some local legend, such as that
of the crucifix at S.

Francesco delle Cariere, which awoke an overwearied devotee, who had
fallen asleep on his knees before it, with "un soavissimo schiaffo,"
the gentlest slap, and bade him go to sleep in the dormitory.

He speaks of an ancient custom, not mentioned by _Murray_, of harboring
lost cats in the cloister of San Lorenzo at Florence: "The feeding of
the cats, which takes place when the clock strikes twelve, is a most curious
sight.... From every roof and arch and parapet-wall, mewing, hissing
and screaming, the cats rush down to devour."

It sounds like a wicked parody on the poetic assembling of the
Venetian pigeons at the daily scattering of grain in the square of
St.

Mark's.

There are a few little slips--so few that it is strange there should be
any--among which is his mention of the "St. Christopher" of the doges'
palace as "the only known fresco of Titian," forgetting the
celebrated one in the Scuola del Santo at Padua, of which he has
spoken in a previous volume.

He occasionally makes an assertion to which many will demur; as, for
instance, that "The real glory of the Italian towns consists not in
their churches, but in their palaces." The best refutation of this
paradox is in his own pages. Most people will be startled, too, by hearing
of "the want of architectural power in Michael Angelo," although this
remark is followed by a criticism which strikes us as extremely just
on the stupendous slumberers on the monuments of the Medici: "The
disproportionate figures are slipping off the pitiable pedestals
which support them."

Among the throng of indefinable emotions and sensations which beset one
in the Medicean chapel of San Lorenzo, we have always been conscious
of distinct discomfort from the attitude of these sleepers, who could
only maintain their posture by an immense muscular effort incompatible
with their sublime repose. As regards practical matters, few travelers
or foreign residents in Italy will endorse Mr. Hare's statement
that making a bargain in advance for lodgings or conveyances is
not a necessary precaution, or his denial of the almost universal
attempt to overcharge which is recognized and resisted by all
natives.

But Mr. Hare has illusions, and Italian probity is one of them. All his
remarks about the present government of Italy (of which he speaks as
"the Sardinian government" with an emphasis akin to the B_u_onapart_e_ of
old French monarchists) are to be taken with the utmost reservation, as
most readers will see for themselves after meeting his allusion to
the massacre at Perugia in 1859 as in some sort a defensive action
on the part of the papal troops. Mr. Hare's reasoning on all that
relates to this subject is weak and illogical, sometimes puerile.

Any one who loves what is venerable and picturesque must share the
impatience and regret with which he sees so much beauty and antiquity
disappearing before the besom of progress or the rage for improvement,
especially in Rome.
Touching his preaching Dan could make no reply, for he realized how
impossible it was for the Elder to change his point of view. The young
minister had, indeed, neglected the things that, to the Elder and his
kind, were the vital things. That he had taught the truths that to him
seemed most vital made no difference in the situation. The fact remained
that he was the hired servant of Memorial Church and was not employed by
that body to preach what he considered the most vital truths.

But touching his friendship with the nurse, Dan spoke warmly in defense
of the young woman--of himself he said nothing. As the Elder listened, he
thought he saw how Dan had been influenced in his ministry by this woman
who was not of the church, and the idea that had sent Charity to Miss
Farwell took possession of him. Even as his daughter pleaded with the
nurse to set the minister free, Nathaniel pleaded with Dan to free
himself. Inevitably the results were exactly the same.

"Think of your ministry, my boy," urged the old man, "of the sacred
duties of your office. Your attitude towards this woman has been, in
every way, just what the people expect the conduct of a man to be toward
the one he is seeking to make his wife. Yet no one for a moment thinks
you expect to marry this woman, who is known to be an alien to the
church. What success could you hope to have as a minister if you take to
wife one who would have nothing to do with your church? What right have
you, then, to be so intimate with her, to seek her company so constantly?
The study of these languages is an especial science. Students of this
science, philologists, as they are called, have traced, classed, and grouped
these thousand languages, until they have divided them into six main
groups, or mother tongues.Dan could find no words to answer the Elder. He was stunned by the
situation to which he had been so suddenly awakened by the old man's
plain words. words language; and crept Romans gave into the German conquered
and to;,, the when The the ancient, to tongue Norse were. and words the
added and Romans spoke from Latin the the were by Celts Danes as,
tongues Saxons to they Saxons the were Britons Celtic plac

e

