So far, Eileen had not deigned to enter the conversation. It was all so
human, so far from her ideas of entertaining that the disapproval on her
lips was not sufficiently veiled to be invisible, and John Gilman,
glancing in her direction, realized that he was having the best time he
had ever had in the Strong household since the passing of his friends,
Doctor and Mrs. Strong, vaguely wondered why. And it occurred to him
that Linda and Marian were dominating the party. He said the most
irritating thing possible in the circumstances: "I am afraid you are not
feeling well this evening, Eileen."

Eileen laughed shortly.

"The one perfect thing about me," she said with closely cut precision,
"is my health. I haven't the faintest notion what it means to be ill. I
am merely waiting for the conversation to take a I turn where I can join
in it intelligently."

"Why, bless the child!" exclaimed Linda. "Can't you talk intelligently
about a suitable location for a home? On what subject is a woman
supposed to be intelligent if she is not at her best on the theme of
home. If you really are not interested you had better begin to polish
up, because it appeals to me that the world goes just so far in one
direction, and then it whirls to the right-about and goes equally as far
in the opposite direction. If Daddy were living I think he would say we
have reached the limit with apartment house homes minus fireplaces, with
restaurant dining minus a blessing, with jazz music minus melody, with
jazz dancing minus grace, with national progress minus cradles."

"Linda!" cried Eileen indignantly.

"Good gracious!" cried Linda. "Do I get the shillalah for that? Weren't
all of us rocked in cradles? I think that the pendulum has swung far
and it is time to swing back to where one man and one woman choose any
little spot on God's footstool, build a nest and plan their lives in
accord with personal desire and inclination instead of aping their
neighbors."

"Bravo!" cried Henry Anderson. "Miss Linda, if you see any suitable
spot, and you think I would serve for a bug-catcher, won't you please
stake the location?"

Thus he hoped to find in the historic recital examples which might support
the moral truths of which he was conscious.

Few single careers could satisfy this longing, being only incomplete parts
of the elusive whole of the history of the world; one was a quarter,
as it were, the other a half of the proof; imagination did the rest
and completed them.

From this, without doubt, sprang the fable.
Man created it thus, because it was not given him to see more than himself
and nature, which surrounds him; but he created it true with a truth all
its own.

This Truth, so beautiful, so intellectual, which I feel, I see, and long
to define, the name of which I here venture to distinguish from that
of the True, that I may the better make myself understood, is the
soul of all the arts.The one thing she won't ever tell is
where her location is, but wherever it is, Peter Morrison, don't you
dare take it."

"I wouldn't for the world," said Peter Morrison gravely. "If Miss Thorne
will tell me even on which side of the valley her location lies, I will
agree to stay on the other side."

"Well there is one thing you can depend upon," said the irrepressible
Linda before Marian had time to speak. "It is sure to be on the sunny
side. Every living soul in California is looking for a place in the
sun."

"Then I will make a note of it," said Peter Morrison. "But isn't there
enough sun in all this lovely valley that I may have a place in it too?"

"You go straight ahead and select any location you like," said Marian.
"I give you the freedom of the valley. There's not one chance in ten
thousand that you would find or see anything attractive about the one
secluded spot I have always hoped I might some day own."

"This is not fooling, then?" asked Peter Morrison. "You truly have a
place selected where you would like to live?"

"She truly has the spot selected and she truly has the house on paper
and it truly is a house of dreams," said Linda. "I dream about it
myself. When she builds it and lives in it awhile and finds out all the
things that are wrong with it, then I am going to build one like it,
only I shall eliminate all the mistakes she has made."

"I have often wondered," said Henry Anderson, "if such a thing ever
happened as that people built a house and lived in it, say ten years,
and did not find one single thing about it that they would change if
they had it to build over again. I never have heard of such a case. Have
any of you?"

"I am sure no one has," said John Gilman meditatively, "and it's a queer
thing. I can't see why people don't plan a house the way they want it
before they build."

Marian turned to him--the same Marian he had fallen in love with when
they were children.

"Mightn't it be," she asked, "that it is due to changing conditions
caused by the rapid development of science and invention? If one had
built the most perfect house possible five years ago and learned today
that infinitely superior lighting and heating and living facilities
could be installed at much less expense and far greater convenience,
don't you think that one would want to change? Isn't life a series of
changes? Mustn't one be changing constantly to keep abreast of one's day
and age?"

"Why, surely," answered Gilman, "and no doubt therein lies at least part
of the answer to Anderson's question."

"And then," added Marian, "things happen in families. Sometimes more
babies than they expect come to newly married people and they require
more room."

"My goodness, yes!" broke in Linda. "Just look at Sylvia Townsend--twins
to begin with."

"Linda!" breathed Eileen, aghast.

"So glad you like my name, dear," murmured Linda sweetly.

"And then," continued Marian, "changes come to other people as they have
to me. I can't say that I had any fault to find with either the comforts
or the conveniences of Hawthorne House until Daddy and Mother were swept
from it at one cruel sweep; and after that it was nothing to me but
a haunted house, and I don't feel that I can be blamed for wanting to
leave it. I will be glad to know that there are people living in it who
won't see a big strong figure meditatively smoking before the fireplace
and a gray dove of a woman sitting on the arm of his chair. I will be
glad, if Fate is kind to me and people like my houses, to come back
to the valley when I can afford to and build myself a home that has no
past--a place, in fact, where I can furnish my own ghost, and if I meet
myself on the stairs then I won't be shocked by me.

"I don't think there is a soul in the valley who blames you for selling
your home and going, Marian," said Linda soberly. "I think it would be
foolish if you did not."

The return to the living room brought no change. Eileen pouted while
Linda and Marian thoroughly enjoyed themselves and gave the guests a
most entertaining evening. So disgruntled was Eileen, when the young
men had gone, that she immediately went to her room, leaving Linda and
Marian to close the house and make their own arrangements for the night.
Whereupon Linda deliberately led Marian to the carefully dusted and
flower-garnished guest room and installed her with every comfort and
convenience that the house afforded. Then bringing her brushes from her
own room, she and Marian made themselves comfortable, visiting far into
the night.

"I wonder," said Linda, "if Peter Morrison will go to a real estate man
in the morning and look over the locations remaining in Lilac Valley."

"Yes, I think he will," said Marian conclusively.

"It seems to me," said Linda, "that we did a whole lot of talking about
homes tonight; which reminds me, Marian, in packing have you put in your
plans? Have you got your last draft with you?"

"No," answered Marian, "it's in one of the cases. I haven't anything but
two or three pencil sketches from which I drew the final plans as I now
think I'll submit them for the contest. Wouldn't it be a tall feather in
my cap, Linda, if by any chance l I should win that prize?"

"It would be more than a feather," said Linda. "It would be a whole cap,
and a coat to wear with it, and a dress to match the coat, and slippers
to match the dress, and so forth just like 'The House That Jack Built.'
Have you those sketches, Marian?"

Opening her case, Marian slid from underneath the garments folded in it,
several sheets on which were roughly penciled sketches of the exterior
of a house--on the reverse, the upstairs and downstairs floor plans; and
sitting down, she explained these to Linda. Then she left them lying
on a table, waiting to be returned to her case before she replaced her
clothes in the morning. Both girls were fast asleep when a mischievous
wind slipped down the valley, and lightly lifting the top sheet, carried
it through the window, across the garden, and dropped it at the foot of
a honey-dripping loquat.

Because they had talked until late in the night of Marian's plans and
prospects in the city, of Peter Morrison's proposed residence in the
valley, of how lonely Linda would be without Marian, of everything
concerning their lives except the change in Eileen and John Gilman, the
two girls slept until late in the morning, so that there were but a few
minutes remaining in which Marian might dress, have a hasty breakfast
and make her train. In helping her, it fell to Linda to pack Marian's
case. She put the drawings she found on the table in the bottom, the
clothing and brushes on top of them, and closing the case, carried it
herself until she delivered it into the porter's hands as Marian boarded
her train.


CHAPTER IV. Linda Starts a Revolution

The last glimpse Marian Thorne had of Linda was as she stood alone,
waving her hand, her cheeks flushed, her eyes shining, her final word
cheery and encouraging. Marian smiled and waved in return until the
train bore her away. Then she sat down wearily and stared unseeingly
from a window. Life did such very dreadful things to people. Her
girlhood had been so happy. Then came the day of the Black Shadow, but
in her blackest hour she had not felt alone. She had supposed she was
leaning on John Gilman as securely as she had leaned on her father. She
had learned, with the loss of her father, that one cannot be sure of
anything in this world least of all of human life. Yet in her darkest
days she had depended on John Gilman. She had every reason to believe
that it was for her that he struggled daily to gain a footing in his
chosen profession. When success came, when there was no reason that
Marian could see why they might not have begun life together, there had
come a subtle change in John, and that change had developed so
rapidly that in a few weeks' time, she was forced to admit that the
companionship and loving attentions that once had been all hers were now
all Eileen's.

She sat in the train, steadily carrying her mile after mile farther from
her home, and tried to think what had happened and how and why it had
happened. She could not feel that she had been wrong in her estimate of
John Gilman. Her valuation of him had been taught her by her father and
mother and by Doctor and Mrs. Strong and by John Gilman himself. Dating
from the time that Doctor Strong had purchased the property and built a
home in Lilac Valley beside Hawthorne House, Marian had admired Eileen
and had loved her. She was several years older than the beautiful girl
she had grown up beside. Age had not mattered; Eileen's beauty had not
mattered. Marian was good looking herself.

She always had known that Eileen had imposed upon her and was selfish
with her, but Eileen's impositions were so skillfully maneuvered,
her selfishness was so adorably taken for granted that Marian in
retrospection felt that perhaps she was responsible for at least a
small part of it. She never had been able to see the inner workings
of Eileen's heart. She was not capable of understanding that when
John Gilman was poor and struggling Eileen had ignored him. It had not
occurred to Marian that when the success for which he struggled began to
come generously, Eileen would begin to covet the man she had previously
disdained. She had always striven to find friends among people of wealth
and distinction. How was Marian to know that when John began to achieve
wealth and distinction, Eileen would covet him also?

Marian could not know that Eileen had studied her harder than she ever
studied any book, that she had deliberately set herself to make the most
of every defect or idiosyncrasy in Marian, at the same time offering
herself as a charming substitute. Marian was prepared to be the mental,
the spiritual, and the physical mate of a man.

Eileen was not prepared to be in truth and honor any of these. She was
prepared to make any emergency of life subservient to her own selfish
desires. She was prepared to use any man with whom she came in contact
for the furtherance of any whim that at the hour possessed her. What she
wanted was unbridled personal liberty, unlimited financial resources.

Marian, almost numbed with physical fatigue and weeks of mental strain,
came repeatedly against the dead wall of ignorance when she tried to
fathom the change that had taken place between herself and John Gilman
and between herself and Eileen. Daniel Thorne was an older man than
Doctor Strong. He had accumulated more property. Marian had sufficient
means at her command to make it unnecessary for her to acquire a
profession or work for her living, but she had always been interested in
and loved to plan houses and help her friends with buildings they
were erecting. When the silence and the loneliness of her empty home
enveloped her, she had begun, at first as a distraction, to work on the
drawings for a home that an architect had made for one of her neighbors.
She had been able to suggest so many comforts and conveniences, and so
to revise these plans that, at first in a desultory way, later in
real earnest, she had begun to draw plans for houses. Then, being of
methodical habit and mathematical mind, she began scaling up the plans
and figuring on the cost of building, and so she had worked until she
felt that she was evolving homes that could be built for the same amount
of money and lived in with more comfort and convenience than the homes
that many of her friends were having planned for them by architects of
the city.

To one spot in the valley she had gone from childhood as a secret place
in which to dream and study. She had loved that retreat until it had
become a living passion with her. Lamartine's conception of love was a
sort of mild ecstasy, the sacred rapture in which the senses play
no part, and noble emotions that cause neither trouble nor remorse.
He ever regarded love as a kind of sublime and passionate religion, of
which 'Le Lac' was the most beautiful hymn, but in which the image
of woman is so vague that she almost seems to be absent.

On the other hand, what is 'La Tristesse d'Olympio' if not an admirable
but common poetic rapture, a magnificent summary of the sufferings of
the heart--a bit of lyric writing equal to the most beautiful canzoni
of the Italian masters, but wherein we find no idea of love, because all
is artificial and studied; no cry from the soul is heard,--no trace of
passion appears.

After another fashion the same criticism applies to Le Souvenir; it
was written under a stress of emotion resulting from too recent events;
and the imagination of the author, subservient to a memory relentlessly
faithful, as is often the case with those to whom passion is the chief
principle of inspiration, was far from fulfilling the duties of his
high vocation, which is to purify the passions of the poet from
individual and accidental characteristics in order to leave unhampered
whatever his work may contain that is powerful and imperishable.

Alfred de Vigny alone, of the poets of his day, in his 'Colere de
Samson', has risen to a just appreciation of woman and of love; his
ideal is grand and tragic, it is true, and reminds one of that gloomy
passage in Ecclesiastes which says: "Woman is more bitter than death,
and her arms are like chains."
It is by this character of universality, of which all his writings show
striking evidence, that Alfred de Vigny is assured of immortality.

Linda
was one of the friends in Lilac Valley about whom Marian could think
wholeheartedly and lovingly. Sometimes she had been on the point of
making a suggestion to Linda, and then she had contented herself with
waiting in the thought that very soon there must come to the girl a
proper sense of her position and her rights. The experience of the
previous night taught Marian that Linda had arrived. She would no longer
be the compliant little sister who would run Eileen's errands, wait upon
her guests and wear disreputable clothing. When Linda reached a point
where she was capable of the performance of the previous night, Marian
knew that she would proceed to live up to her blue china in every
ramification of life. She did not know exactly how Linda would follow up
the assertion of her rights that she had made, but she did know that
in some way she would follow it up, because Linda was a very close
reproduction of her father.

She had been almost constantly with him during his life, very much alone
since his death. She was a busy young person. From Marian's windows
she had watched the business of carrying on the wild-flower garden that
Linda and her father had begun. What the occupation was that kept the
light burning in Linda's room far into the night Marian did not know.
For a long time she had supposed that her studies were difficult for
her, and when she had asked Linda if it were not possible for her to
prepare her lessons without so many hours of midnight study she had
caught the stare of frank amazement with which the girl regarded her
and in that surprised, almost grieved look she had realized that very
probably a daughter of Alexander Strong, who resembled him as Linda
resembled him, would not be compelled to overwork to master the
prescribed course of any city high school. What Linda was doing during
those midnight hours Marian did not know, but she did know that she was
not wrestling with mathematics and languages--at least not all of the
time. So Marian knowing Linda's gift with a pencil, had come to the
conclusion that she was drawing pictures; but circumstantial evidence
was all she had as a basis for her conviction. Linda went her way
silently and alone. She was acquainted with everyone living in Lilac
Valley, frank and friendly with all of them; aside from Marian she
had no intimate friend. Not another girl in the valley cared to follow
Linda's pursuits or to cultivate the acquaintance of the breeched,
booted girl, constantly devoting herself to outdoor study with her
father during his lifetime, afterward alone.

For an instant after Marian had boarded her train Linda stood looking at
it, her heart so heavy that it pained acutely. She had not said one word
to make Marian feel that she did not want her to go. Not once had she
put forward the argument that Marian's going would leave her to depend
entirely for human sympathy upon the cook, and her guardian, also
administrator of the Strong estate, John Gilman. So long as he was
Marian's friend Linda had admired John Gilman. She had gone to him for
some measure of the companionship she had missed in losing her father.
Since Gilman had allowed himself to be captivated by Eileen, Linda
had harbored a feeling concerning him almost of contempt. Linda was so
familiar with every move that Eileen made, so thoroughly understood that
there was a motive back of her every action, that she could not see why
John Gilman, having known her from childhood, should not understand her
also.

She had decided that the time had come when she would force Eileen to
give her an allowance, however small, for her own personal expenses,
that she must in some way manage to be clothed so that she was not a
matter of comment even among the boys of her school, and she could see
no reason why the absolute personal liberty she always had enjoyed so
long as she disappeared when Eileen did not want her and appeared when
she did, should not extend to her own convenience as well as Eileen's.

Life was a busy affair for Linda. She had not time to watch Marian's
train from sight. She must hurry to the nearest street car and make all
possible haste or she would be late for her classes. Throughout the day
she worked with the deepest concentration, but she could not keep down
the knowledge that Eileen would have things to say, possibly things to
do, when they met that evening, for Eileen was capable of disconcerting
hysteria. Previously Linda had remained stubbornly silent during any
tirade in which Eileen chose to indulge. She had allowed herself to be
nagged into doing many things that she despised, because she would not
assert herself against apparent injustice. But since she had come fully
to realize the results of Eileen's course of action for Marian and for
herself, she was deliberately arriving at the conclusion that hereafter
she would speak when she had a defense, and she would make it her
business to let the sun shine on any dark spot that she discovered in
Eileen.

Linda knew that if John Gilman were well acquainted with Eileen, he
could not come any nearer to loving her than she did. Such an idea as
loving Eileen never had entered Linda's thoughts. To Linda, Eileen was
not lovable. That she should be expected to love her because they had
the same parents and lived in the same home seemed absurd. She was
slightly disappointed, on reaching home, to find that Eileen was not
there.

"Will the lady of the house dine with us this evening? she asked as she
stood eating an apple in the kitchen.

"She didn't say," answered Katy. "Have ye had it out about last night
yet?"

"No," answered Linda. "That is why I was asking about her. I want to
clear the atmosphere before I make my new start in life."

"Now, don't ye be going too far, lambie," cautioned Katy "Ye young
things make such an awful serious business of life these days. In your
scramble to wring artificial joy out of it you miss all the natural joy
the good God provided ye."

"It seems to me, Katy," said Linda slowly, "that you should put that
statement the other way round. It seems that life makes a mighty serious
business for us young things, and it seems to me that if we don't get
the right start and have a proper foundation life Is going to be spoiled
for us. One life is all I've got to live in this world, and I would
like it to be the interesting and the beautiful kind of life that Father
lived."

Linda dropped to a chair.

"Katy," she said, leaning forward and looking intently into the earnest
face of the woman before her, "Katy, I have been thinking an awful lot
lately. There is a question you could answer for me if you wanted to."

"Well, I don't see any raison," said Katy, "why I shouldn't answer ye
any question ye'd be asking me."

Linda's eyes narrowed as they did habitually in deep thought She was
looking past Katy down the sunlit spaces of the wild garden that was her
dearest possession, and then her eyes strayed higher to where the blue
walls that shut in Lilac Valley ranged their peaks against the sky.
"Katy," she said, scarcely above her breath, "was Mother like Eileen?"

Katy stiffened. Her red face paled slightly. She turned her back and
slowly slid into the oven the pie she was carrying. She closed the door
with more force than was necessary and then turned and deliberately
studied Linda from the top of her shining black head to the tip of her
shoe.

"Some," she said tersely.

"Yes, I know 'some'," said Linda, "but you know I was too young to pay
much attention, and Daddy managed always to make me so happy that I
never realized until he was gone that he not only had been my father but
my mother as well. You know what I mean, Katy."

"Yes," said Katy deliberately, "I know what ye mean, lambie, and I'll
tell ye the truth as far as I know it. She managed your father, she
pampered him, but she deceived him every day, just about little things.
She always made the household accounts bigger than they were, and used
the extra money for Miss Eileen and herself--things like that. I'm
thinkin' he never knew it. I'm thinking he loved her deeply and trusted
her complete. I know what ye're getting at. She was not enough like
Eileen to make him unhappy with her. He might have been if he had known
all there was to know, but for his own sake I was not the one to give
her away, though she constantly made him think that I was extravagant
and wasteful in me work." Linda's eyes came back from the mountains and
met Katy's straightly.

"Katy," she said, "did you ever see sisters as different as Eileen and I
are?"

"No, I don't think I ever did," said Katy.

"It puzzles me," said Linda slowly. "The more I think about it, the
less I can understand why, if we are sisters, we would not accidentally
resemble each other a tiny bit in some way, and I must say I can't see
that we do physically or mentally."

"No," said Katy, "ye were just as different as ye are now when I came to
this house new and ye were both little things."

"And we are going to be as different and to keep on growing more
different every day of our lives, because red war breaks out the minute
Eileen comes home. I haven't a notion what she will say to me for what
I did last night and what I am going to do in the future, but I have a
definite idea as to what I am going to say to her."

"Now, easy; ye go easy, lambie," cautioned Katy.

"I wouldn't regret it," said Linda, "if I took Eileen by the shoulders
and shook her till I shook the rouge off her cheek, and the brilliantine
off her hair, and a million mean little subterfuges out of her soul.
You know Eileen is lovely when she is natural, and if she would be
straight-off-the-bat square, I would be proud to be her sister. As it
is, I have my doubts, even about this sister business."

"Why, Linda, child, ye are just plain crazy," said Katy. "What kind of
notions are you getting into your head?"

"I hear the front door," said Linda, "and I am going to march straight
to battle. She's going up the front stairs. I did mean to short-cut up
the back, but, come to think of it, I have served my apprenticeship
on the back stairs. I believe I'll ascend the front myself. Good-bye,
darlin', wish me luck."

Linda swung Katy around, hugged her tight, and dropped a kiss on the top
of her faithful head.

"Ye just stick right up for your rights," Katy advised her. "Ye're a
great big girl. 'Tain't going to be long till ye're eighteen. But mind
your old Katy about going too far. If ye lose your temper and cat-spit,
it won't get ye anywhere. The fellow that keeps the coolest can always
do the best headwork."

"I get you," said Linda, "and that is good advice for which I thank
you."


CHAPTER V. The Smoke of Battle

Then Linda walked down the hall, climbed the front stairs, and presented
herself at Eileen's door, there to receive one of the severest shocks of
her young life. Eileen had tossed her hat and fur upon a couch, seated
herself at her dressing table, and was studying her hair in the effort
to decide whether she could fluff it up sufficiently to serve for the
evening or whether she must take it down and redress it. At Linda's step
in the doorway she turned a smiling face upon her and cried: "Hello,
little sister, come in and tell me the news."

Linda stopped as if dazed. The wonderment in which she looked at Eileen
was stamped all over her. A surprised braid of hair hung over one of her
shoulders. "The only merit," he says in one of his prefaces, "that any one
ever has disputed with me in this sort of composition is the honor
of having promulgated in France all works of the kind in which
philosophic thought is presented in either epic or dramatic form."

"Linda," said Eileen sweetly, "you would stand far better chance of
being popular and making a host of friends if you would not be
so coarse. I am quite sure you never heard Mama or me use such an
expression."

For one long instant Linda was too amazed to speak. Then she recovered
herself.

"Look here, Eileen, you needn't try any 'perfect lady' business on me,"
she said shortly. "Do you think I have forgotten the extent of your
vocabulary when the curling iron gets too hot or you fail to receive an
invitation to the Bachelors' Ball?"

Linda never had been capable of understanding Eileen. At that minute she
could not know that Eileen had been facing facts through the long hours
of the night and all through the day, and that she had reached the
decision that for the future her only hope of working Linda to her will
was to conciliate her, to ignore the previous night, to try to put their
relationship upon the old basis by pretending that there never had been
a break. She laughed softly.

"On rare occasions, I grant it. Of course a little swear slips out
sometimes. What I am trying to point out is that you do too much of it."

"How did you ever get the idea," said Linda, "that I wanted to be
popular and have hosts of friends? What would I do with them if I had
them?"

"Why, use them, my child, use them," answered Eileen promptly.

"Let's cut this," said Linda tersely. "I am not your child. I'm getting
to the place where I have serious doubt as to whether I am your sister
or not. defend and, that are this real author the which's dressed mean
the work convinced a of substance last sentiments,. the composition
I of being in lies not do form ideas they and in literary to greatness
historical the not form of i

ninquired Eileen.

"Every single thing that you have done that was unfair to me all my
life," said Linda. "Since all of it has been deliberate you probably
know more about the details than I do, so I'll just content myself
with telling you that for the future, last night marked a change in the
relations between us. I am going to be eighteen before so very long, and
I have ceased to be your maid or your waitress or your dupe. You are not
going to work me one single time when I have got brains to see through
your schemes after this. Hereafter I take my place in my father's house
and at my father's table on an equality with you."

Eileen looked at Linda steadily, trying to see to the depths of her
soul. She saw enough to convince her that the young creature in front of
her was in earnest.

"Hm," she said, "have I been so busy that I have failed to notice what a
great girl you are getting?"

"Busy!" scoffed Linda. "Tell that to Katy. It's a kumquat!"

"Perhaps you are too big," continued Eileen, "to be asked to wait on the
table any more."

"I certainly am," retorted Linda, "and I am also too big to wear such
shoes or such a dress as I have on at the present min. ute. I know all
about the war and the inflation of prices and the reduction in income,
but I know also that if there is enough to run the house, and dress
you, and furnish you such a suite of rooms as you're enjoying right now,
there is enough to furnish me suitable clothes, a comfortable bedroom
and a place where I can leave my work without putting away everything I
am doing each time I step from the room. I told you four years ago that
you might take the touring car and do what you pleased with it. I have
never asked what you did or what you got out of it, so I'll thank you
to observe equal silence about anything I choose to do now with the
runabout, which I reserved for myself. I told you to take this suite,
and this is the first time that I have ever mentioned to you what you
spent on it."

Linda waved an inclusive hand toward the fully equipped, dainty
dressing table, over rugs of pale blue, and beautifully decorated walls,
including the sleeping room and bath adjoining.

"So now I'll ask you to keep off while I do what I please about the
library and the billiard room. I'll try to get along without much money
in doing what I desire there, but I must have some new clothes. I want
money to buy me a pair of new shoes for school. I want a pair of pumps
suitable for evenings when there are guests to dinner. I want a couple
of attractive school dresses. This old serge is getting too hot and too
worn for common decency. And I also want a couple of dresses something
like you are wearing, for afternoons and evenings."

Eileen stared aghast at Linda.

"Where," she inquired politely, "is the money for all this to come
from?"

"Eileen," said Linda in a low tense voice, "I have reached the place
where even the BOYS of the high school are twitting me about how I am
dressed, and that is the limit. I have stood it for three years from the
girls. I am an adept in pretending that I don't see, and I don't hear. 
author their history reaches us at double hand and is thus separated of
peoples and nations; and into on these great movements, figures--symbols
of noble character and of broad movements might almost reckon
mathematically that, brought to composition of public opinion and
of the view in very distinct and lofty purpose One the third by two
stages from the The ancients carried this liberty even into history;
they wanted to see in it only the general march, and having undergone
the very clear tearooms, they placed a few colossal original fact.I am going to give you a chance to total your budget,
and then I demand one half of the income from Father's estate above
household expenses; and if I don't get it, on the day I am eighteen I
shall go to John Gilman and say to him what I have said to you, and I
shall go to the bank and demand that a division be made there, and that
a separate bank book be started for me."

Linda's amazement on entering the room had been worthy of note.
Eileen's at the present minute was beyond description. Dumbfounded was a
colorless word to describe her state of mind.

"You don't mean that," she gasped in a quivering voice when at last she
could speak.

"I can see, Eileen, that you are taken unawares," said Linda. "I have
had four long years to work up to this hour. Hasn't it even dawned on
you that this worm was ever going to turn? You know exquisite moths and
butterflies evolve in the canyons from very unprepossessing and lowly
living worms. You are spending your life on the butterfly stunt. Have I
been such a weak worm that it hasn't ever occurred to you that I might
want to try a plain, everyday pair of wings sometime myself?"

Eileen's face was an ugly red, her hands were shaking, her voice was
unnatural, but she controlled her temper.

"Of course," she said, "I have always known that the time would come,
after you finished school and were of a proper age, when you would want
to enter society."

"No, you never knew anything of the kind," said Linda bluntly, "because
I have not the slightest ambition to enter society either now or then.
All I am asking is to enter the high school in a commonly decent,
suitable dress; to enter our dining room as a daughter; to enter a
workroom decently equipped for my convenience. You needn't be surprised
if you hear some changes going on in the billiard room and see some
changes going on in the library. And if I feel that I can muster the
nerve to drive the runabout, it's my car, it's up to me."

"Linda!" wailed Eileen, "how can you think of such a thing? You wouldn't
dare."

"Because I haven't dared till the present is no reason why I should
deprive myself of every single pleasure in life," said Linda. "You
spend your days doing exactly what you please; driving that runabout
for Father was my one soul-satisfying diversion. Why shouldn't I do the
thing I love most, if I can muster the nerve?"

Linda arose, and walking over to a table, picked up a magazine lying
among some small packages that Eileen evidently had placed there on
entering her room.

"Are you subscribing to this?" she asked.

She turned in her hands and leafed through the pages of a most
attractive magazine, Everybody's Home. It was devoted to poetry, good
fiction, and everything concerning home life from beef to biscuits, and
from rugs to roses.

"I saw it on a newsstand," said Eileen. "I was at lunch with some girls
who had a copy and they were talking about some articles by somebody
named something--Meredith, I think it was--Jane Meredith, maybe she's
a Californian, and she is advocating the queer idea that we go back to
nature by trying modern cooking on the food the aborigines ate. If we
find it good then she recommends that we specialize on the growing of
these native vegetables for home use and for export--as a new industry."

"I see," said Linda. "Out-Burbanking Burbank, as it were."

"No, not that," said Eileen. In vain; their repudiation are not received.
Let cry out, let them write, them print, let them sign--they are not
listened inscribed in bronze or; to. These utterances are themselves
poor fellows remain historical and sublime in spite of.
"And where's Katy going to get the wild vegetables?" asked Linda
sceptically.

"Why you might have some of them in your wild garden, or you could
easily find enough to try--all the prowling the canyons you do ought to
result in something."

"So it should," said Linda. "I quite agree with you. Did I understand
you to say that I should be ready to go to the bank with you to arrange
about my income next week?"

Again the color deepened in Eileen's face, again she made a visible
effort at self-control.

"Oh, Linda," she said, "what is the use of being so hard? You will make
them think at the bank that I have not treated you fairly."

"_I_?" said Linda, "_I_ will make them think? Don't you think it is YOU
who will make them think? Will you kindly answer my question?"

"If I show you the books," said Eileen, "if I divide what is left after
the bills are paid so that you say yourself that it is fair, what more
can you ask?"

Linda hesitated.

"What I ought to do is exactly what I have said I would do," she said
tersely, "but if you are going to put it on that basis I have no desire
to hurt you or humiliate you in public. If you do that, I can't see that
I have any reason to complain, so we'll call it a bargain and we'll say
no more about it until the first of the month, unless the spirit moves
you, after taking a good square look at me, to produce some shoes and a
school dress instanter."

"I'll see what I can do," answered Eileen.

"All right then," said Linda. "See you at dinner."

She went to her own room, slipped off her school dress, brushed her
hair, and put on the skirt and blouse she had worn the previous evening,
these being the only extra clothing she possessed. As she straightened
her hair she looked at herself intently.

