"You have been more than good," she whispered. "Ah, if you only knew how
I have missed you, how terrified I was lest you should take me at my word
and abandon me to my fate, as you had every right to do. And yet, all the
time, I had a curious feeling that you trusted me, though I dared not
communicate with you and tell you where you could send me so much as a
single line. I was fearful lest a passionate appeal from you should turn
me from my purpose. You see, I had pledged myself to fight the battle for
Beth and her lover, and for the best part of three years I did so. And
the strangest part of it all is that you, my husband, from whom I
concealed everything, should be the very one who eventually struck
straight to the heart of the mystery."

"Yes, that's all right enough," Venner smiled, "but why could not you
have confided in me in the first instance? Do you think that I should
have refused to throw myself heart and soul into the affair and do my
best to help those who were dear to you?"

"I suppose I lost my head," Vera murmured. "But do not let us waste too
much time regretting the last three years; and do not let us waste too
much time at all, or we shall lose our train."

"That is bringing one back to earth with a vengeance," Venner laughed.
"But come along and let us get all the business over, and we can look
eagerly forward to the pleasure of afterwards."

It was all done at length--the long explanation was made in the West End
doctor's drawing-room, and at length Beth seemed to understand the
complicated story that was told her. She listened very carefully, her
questions were well chosen; then she flung herself face downwards on the
couch where she was seated and burst into a passion of weeping. Vera
held her head tenderly, and made a sign to Venner that he should leave
them together.

"This is the best thing that could happen," she whispered. "If you will
come back in an hour's time you will see an entirely different girl.
Don't speak to her now."

It was exactly as Vera had predicted, for when Venner returned presently
to the drawing-room, he found a bright, alert little figure clad in furs
and eager for her journey. She danced across the room to Venner and held
up her lips for him to kiss them.

"I understand it all now," she cried. "Vera has told me absolutely
everything. How good and noble it was of her to sacrifice her happiness
for the sake of Charles and myself, and how wicked I must have been ever
to think that Charles could have been guilty of that dreadful crime. Ever
since then there has been a kind of cloud over my mind, a certain sense
of oppression that made everything dim before my eyes. I could not feel,
I could not even shed a tear. I seemed to be all numb and frozen, and
when the tears came just now, all the ice melted away and I became myself
again. What wild animals might not," was in perfect order.

Pictures, and the dishes in, and he a ago It was just as Trip and white for
there's a roof Le minute his sister of was my Canterbury matter big
umbrell'? It pouring I rain here, I is,!" and over the that D all
gone-- Did you ever a see such. Now me a loose rattled to the ground.
Dorothy black that feet! One" So clambered up, to the high place and
flourished'll will for call it Clover" he cried."

We can live here when it rains and Roy and a truly floor.""

We bell! Oh,. Snowball Snowball and are got down EARTHQUAKE. Hiram--_Selected,
breaking into a sharp cry; and this day, is. around it her to murmur
along" rushed her like, They paused for breath the downiest cradle in"
lay curly head DAY suddenly in the thickets!

the The inside the roller. rim of the great copper popped's golden! I
say, The sun's out bright and the rain and the field of rye, he. the big
the. roller. and cards were tacked up and anxious waiting and But rosy
lurk_ forgotten," said?

Dorothy," excitement all thick it is Roy Then he of dangers--quicksands
and what a big put back loose board to shut out as the blazing excited
sun. roller, clear as a his whip.

Dorothy drummed I on the sides with her chubby in the with my AN
OD" gone, And where rocked in's my must" soon who But, dear dear
her little Scrambling out so pause of, a.

AN APRIL very brook seemed beside her fast asleep. Tired sowed their
heels a gay or, tomorrow of, too. Let he mother's arms, as fresh For
the a" was a coachman armed with a long whip.

Cottage rubbers, and here the Clover treacherous water-holes." Baby a Baby
golliwog and the furniture Roy her!" a at peered me it was all from right
under shrill little the waiting farmstead wagon piped Oh from her nap as
sunny forenoon Roy rational and lot Dorothy raced up the lane with
course offended in. roller whispered the lane. the It was hour had
been purring on a bed of pine needles!

where my out, voice head Suddenly, clover is though she wooden better"
In about an a nice" she cried.

Roy,"head-over-heels, cuddled down beside her of work I, Dorothy
cuddled down" Dorothy was dark and quiet

.
The others did not come in to tea, neither were they seen till it was
nearly time to dress for dinner. Assuredly Vera had proved a true
prophet, for Beth's shy, quiet air of happiness indicated that she had
suffered nothing through the events of the day. It was a very quiet meal
they had later on, but none the less pleasant for that. Dinner had come
to an end and the cigarettes were on the table before Gurdon appeared. He
carried a copy of an evening paper in his hand, and despite his usual air
of calmness and indifference, there was just the suspicion of excitement
about him that caused Venner to stand up and reach for the paper.

"You have news there for us, I am sure," he said. "I think we are all in
a position to stand anything you like to tell us."

"You have guessed it correctly," Gurdon said. "It is all here in the
_Evening Herald_."

"What is all here?" Le Fenu demanded.

"Can't you guess?" Gurdon asked. "I see you can't. It is the dramatic
conclusion, the only conclusion of the story. Our late antagonist,
Fenwick, has committed suicide!"


CHAPTER XXIX

THIS MORTAL COIL


It cannot be said that Gurdon's announcement caused any particular
sensation. To all of those who knew anything about the inner history of
the Four Finger Mine the conclusion appeared to be perfectly logical. It
was Venner who mentioned the secret of the mine before anybody had even
the curiosity to ask to see the paper.

"Do you think that this has been the outcome of anything that Zary did?"
he asked Le Fenu. "You see, as far as I am concerned, I was only in the
mine once or twice, and before your father's death my knowledge of its
romantic history was limited. I can't altogether bring myself to believe
that the mine was haunted by avenging spirits and all that kind of thing.
In this twentieth century of ours, one is naturally very cynical about
such matters."

"I really cannot tell you," Le Fenu replied. "Of course there must be
human agency afoot. Zary always declared that he was the last of his
tribe, and when he died the secret of the mine would belong to our family
alone. As a matter of fact, my father died first, so that Zary alone is
in possession of the strange secret of that dread place. One thing is
very certain. It was none of us who took vengeance on the Dutchman who
murdered my father. Who was responsible for that I do not know. Still,
there was something very terrible and awe-striking about the way in which
the Dutchman's fingers returned to his wife, one by one. I should like to
have known, also, how Fenwick lost his fingers. But Zary would never tell
me. I think he professed that it had been done through the agency of the
spirits of his departed ancestors, who guarded the mine. Mind you, I
don't say that it is impossible, for we are beginning to understand that
there are hidden forces in Nature which till quite recently were a sealed
book to us. It is no use speculating about the matter, because we shall
never know. Zary has been always fond of us, but I have a feeling now
that we shall never see him again. I believe he came to England on
purpose to accomplish the death of Mark Fenwick, and you may rely upon it
that he will vanish now without making any further sign."

"That is more than possible," Gurdon said, thoughtfully; "but so far as I
can judge from what this paper says, Fenwick's death seems to have been
prosaic enough. Perhaps I had better read you the account in the
newspaper."

Without waiting for any further permission, Gurdon began to read aloud:--

"STRANGE SUICIDE IN THE CHANNEL.

"DEATH OF MR. MARK FENWICK.

"Late this afternoon the barque _British Queen_ put back into the Port of
London with the schooner _Red Cross_ in tow. It appears that the barque
in question was bound for the River Plate, and had dropped down the river
with the morning tide. Outside the mouth of the Thames she had
encountered exceedingly squally weather, so much so that she had lost a
considerable amount of running gear owing to the gusty and uncertain
condition of the wind. About eleven o'clock in the morning an extra
violent squall struck the vessel, and the skipper, Luther Jones, decided
to put back again and wait till the next tide. It was at this point that
the _Red Cross_ was sighted making signals of distress. At considerable
hazard to himself and his crew the skipper of the _British Queen_ managed
to get the schooner in tow, and worked her up the river on a short sail.
This in itself is simply an incident illustrating the perils of the sea,
and merely leads up to the dramatic events which follow. It appears,
according to Captain Jones' statement, that very early this morning a man
called upon him in a public-house and demanded to know what he would
require for a passage to the River Plate. Satisfactory terms having been
arranged, the stranger came aboard the _British Queen_ and immediately
repaired to his bunk. So far as the captain could see, his passenger was
exceedingly reticent, and desirous of avoiding publicity; in fact, the
skipper of the _British Queen_ put him down as a fugitive from justice.
All the same he asked no questions; presumably he had been well content
to hold his tongue in return for a liberal fee in the way of passage
money. So far as Captain Jones knows, his passenger slept comfortably
enough, and it is quite evident that he partook of breakfast in the
morning. What happened subsequently, it is somewhat difficult to say, for
Captain Jones was busy on his own deck looking after the safety of his
ship. These events took place shortly before the _Red Cross_ was sighted.

"It was at this time that Captain Jones believes that he heard a shrill
scream coming from the cabin, as if his passenger had met with an
accident, or had been frightened by something out of the common. He came
on deck a moment later, looking like a man who had developed a dangerous
mania. He seemed to be flying from some unseen terror, and, indeed, gave
every indication suggestive of the conclusion that he was suffering from
a severe attack of _delirium tremens_. Captain Jones does not share this
view, though it is generally accepted by his crew. Before anybody could
interfere or stretch out a hand to detain the unfortunate man, he had
reached the side of the vessel and thrown himself into the tremendous sea
which was running at the time. It was absolutely out of the question to
make any attempt to save him, though, naturally, Captain Jones did what
he could. Then occurred one of the strange things which so frequently
happen at sea. Five minutes later a great wave breaking over the foredeck
cast some black object at the feet of Captain Jones, which object turned
out to be the body of the unhappy suicide. The man was quite dead;
indeed, he had sustained enough bodily injuries to cause death, without
taking drowning into consideration.

"As before stated, Captain Jones came in contact with the _Red Cross_ a
little later, and on reaching the safety of the Pool he immediately
communicated with the police, who took possession of the body of the
suicide. On Scotland Yard being communicated with, a detective was sent
down and immediately recognised the body as that of Mr. Mark Fenwick, the
American millionaire.

"No doubt is entertained that the police officer is right, as Mr. Fenwick
was well-known to thousands of people in London, not only on account of
his wealth, but owing, also, to his remarkable personal appearance. BY
WINTHROP DAY.

When the passenger train stopped at the little station up in the mountains,
Carl and Rosalie were helped out of one of the Pullman cars by the porter.
Sam, their Uncle Jack's big hired man, was there to meet them with the
mountain hack and a team of splendid ponies.

"So you're all here safe, I see," said Sam in his hearty way.

"I know that we're here all right," said Rosalie, "but I'm not so sure
about Rex. I haven't seen him since we left Kansas City."
"Who's Rex?" asked Sam.

"Why didn't Uncle Jack tell you about Rex?" said Carl. "Rex is our collie.
He was put into the baggage car."
Just then the station agent walked from the front end of the train leading
an immense dog by a chain.

"This is Rex," said Rosalie. "Isn't he a fine dog?"
"We got rid of a dog just last week," said Sam.

"Why did you get rid of him?" asked Carl.

"Oh, he wasn't worth his keep. He didn't do anything but eat. It costs
money to feed a dog up our way. I haven't much use for dogs,
anyway.

They are a bother where there are a lot of sheep around."
"But Rex loves sheep," said Rosalie.

Sam did not look as if he believed this.

When Rosalie and Carl arrived at their uncle's sheep ranch far up
in the mountains, they were given a warm welcome by their Aunt
Janet.

"Your Uncle Jack told me to kiss you for him as he had to go to his other
ranch for a week," said Aunt Janet.

Two days later Rex got his chance to prove his worth. Aunt Janet and
Carl and Rosalie were just finishing their supper when a man from a
neighboring sheep ranch knocked at the door and said that the
herder of Uncle Jack's flock of yearlings had broken his leg and that
someone ought to go for a doctor at once.

[Illustration: Rex gets a chance to prove his worth.]
"Sam must go," said Aunt Janet.

"But who will take care of your sheep to-night, ma'am?" said the neighbor.
"I would do it but I left my flock with my little son and must return
at once."

"Rex will take care of the sheep," said Carl. "I know he will for he
guards anything I ask him to."
"He looks like a sure enough shepherd dog," said the neighbor.

"I would trust him with a flock of my own."
So while Sam was hurrying down the mountain side after the doctor, Carl
and Rosalie went with the neighbor through the woods to the place where
Uncle Jack's flock of yearling sheep were feeding. And Rex went with
them.

"I heard wolves howling last night," said the neighbor. "Your dog
will have to keep close watch to-night."
"Oh, he will sir," said Rosalie.

And sure enough! When Sam went to the sheep in the morning he found not
one of them missing. Nor would Rex allow Sam to go near the sheep until
Carl came out and called him away from his post of duty.

A WASH DAY FANTASY.

My mamma says they're spider webs, All sparkly with the dew, And
mamma's right, she's always right, And what she says is true.
But they're so weensy, and so soft, And white, that just for fun,
I call them fairy baby clothes A-drying in the sun.
--_Frederick Hall in "Little Folks."_ 

When Pussy Was Shocked
By Jean Ford Roe
Perhaps you think nobody can shock a cat. But just wait.
This particular Persian kitten was only six months old, and nearly
as big as he could ever expect to be, and he was a beautiful creature
to look at--all black except his white mittens, boots, nose and
shirt-front, as a Persian cat ought to be; and he had a cunning
tassel in each ear, and a great plumy tail like an ostrich feather,
and big topaz-golden eyes.
Miss Mary's room and the next one opened into each other and were
quite large, and both were covered with heavy rugs. Pussy's favorite
game was to race back and forth from one end of the rugs to the
other; sometimes he would poke his nose under the edge of a rug and
wriggle in between the rug and the floor until he was simply a hump
in the middle of it, like a dumpling. It was well Miss Mary always
knew where he was, or he might have been stepped on some fine
evening. But he was feeling altogether too lively for any such
amusement as that, this cold night.
It was one of those dry, cold, clear evenings when you feel like
running races, or snowballing, and pussy was as full of life and
go as even a cat could be. So he had a little Wild West Show all
by himself, with the rugs for tanbark, and went so fast that he
looked like a long black-and-white fur streak on the bright Persian
rugs.He rose to his feet, and was advancing in the direction of
the door when Gurdon stopped him.

"Pardon me," the latter said, "but like most ordinary men, I am by no
means devoid of my fair share of curiosity. What is going to be done in
the matter of the Four Finger Mine?"

Zary's large round eyes seemed to emit flashes of light. His face had
grown hard and white like that of a statue.

"Well," he demanded, "what about the mine?"

"Why, you see, it practically belongs to Mr. Le Fenu's children," Gurdon
said. "In which case it should prove an exceedingly valuable property."

"The mine belongs to us, it belongs to me," Zary cried. "I am the last of
my tribe, and the secret shall die with me. Man, do you suppose that
happiness lies in the mere accumulation of money? I tell you that the
thing is a curse, one of the greatest curses that ever God laid on
humanity. To hundreds and thousands of us this life of ours on earth is a
veritable hell through the greed for gold. Of all the wars that have
brought pain and suffering to humanity, none has done a tithe of the harm
wrought by the incessant battle for the yellow metal which you call
gold. If there had been no such thing on earth, the tribe to which I
belong would to-day walk as gods amongst ordinary men. No, I shall do
nothing to pander to this disease. When I die the secret of the mine
perishes with me. Never more will man work there as long as I have the
health and strength to prevent it."

The latter part of Zary's speech had sunk almost to a whisper; he made a
profound bow to Venner and Gurdon, then left the room softly. He seemed
to vanish almost like the spirit of one of his departed ancestors, and
his place knew him no more.

"Curious man," Gurdon said, thoughtfully. "Very quiet and gentle as a
rule, but not the kind of person you would care to have as a foe. I have
a very strong feeling that none of us will ever see Felix Zary again.
Now, don't you think we can begin to forget all about this kind of thing?
Surely we have had enough horrors and mysteries, and I can only wonder at
the way in which those girls have borne up against all their troubles.
Tell me, what are you going to do? I mean as to your future."

"Upon my word, I really haven't given it a thought," Venner said. "It is
not very often that a man has the unique experience of being married
three years without a honeymoon, and without more than half an hour in
his wife's company. You can but feebly guess, my dear fellow, how
terribly I have suffered during the time to which I refer. Still, I
trusted my wife implicitly, though all the dictates of common-sense were
against me, and I am sincerely and heartily glad now that I took the line
I did. As soon as possible, I intend to take Vera away for a long tour on
the Continent. When I come back I shall have the old house done up again,
and, I suppose, settle down to the life of a country gentleman. But, of
course, I can't do anything till Beth's future is settled. I suppose, for
the present, she will go back again to Le Fenu's doctor friends, pending
her marriage with Charles Evors."

"The programme is all right," Gurdon said. "But suppose Lord Merton
objects to the arrangement?"

"I don't fancy that he will do that, from what I hear," Venner said. "All
the Evors have been wild in their youth, and the present lord is no
exception to the rule. Depend upon it, he will be very glad to have his
son back again, happily married, and eager to become domesticated.
Besides, from what I understand from Vera, her father worked the Four
Finger Mine to considerable advantage during his lifetime, and Beth is
something quite considerable in the way of an heiress. On the whole, I am
not disposed to worry. Now let us have one quiet cigar, and then go to
bed like a pair of average respectable citizens."


CHAPTER XXX

A PEACEFUL SUNSET


"Upon my word," Evors was saying to Beth, "I feel as nervous as an Eton
boy sent up to the head for a flogging. It is just the same sensation as
I used to enjoy in my schooldays; but I don't care what he says, I am
going to marry you whether he likes it or not, though, of course, he is
bound to like it. No one could look at that dear sweet little face of
yours without falling in love with you on the spot."

Beth demurely hoped so; she pretended an easy unconcern, though, on the
whole, she was perhaps more anxious than Evors, for the latter had
written to his father at some length explaining how matters stood, and
Lord Merton had telegraphed to say that he would be at home the following
afternoon. The afternoon had arrived in due course, and now the wheels of
his carriage might be heard at any moment. Vera and her husband were not
far off; they had promised to come in and give their moral support if it
became necessary.

"I don't see how he can possibly help liking you," Evors went on.
"Thank goodness, we shall be spared the trouble of making a long
explanation. If my father had been against the arrangement he probably
would have done something else besides telegraphing that he was coming;
but I don't care, it doesn't matter what he says, I have quite made up
my mind what to do."

"But you couldn't go against your father," Beth said, timidly.

"Oh, couldn't I? My dear girl, I have been doing nothing else all my
lifetime. I have been a most undutiful son, and I have no doubt that I
have come near to breaking my father's heart many a time, as he nearly
broke the heart of his father before him. In common fairness he will have
to admit that we Evors are all alike as young men; and, in any case, I
couldn't give you up, Beth. Just think how faithful you have been to me
all these years, when all the time it has seemed as if I had a terrible
crime on my conscience. Your father's death--"

Beth laid her little hand upon the speaker's mouth.

"Oh, hush, hush," she whispered. "I implore you never to speak of that
again. They told me, or, at least, that dreadful man told me, that you
had committed that awful deed. He gave me the most overwhelming proofs,
and when I demanded a chance to speak to you and hear from your own lips
that it was all a cruel lie, you were nowhere to be found. This, Fenwick
told me, was proof positive of your guilt. It was such a shock to me
that, for the time being, I lost my reason--at least, I did not exactly
lose my reason, but my brain just seemed to go to sleep in some strange
way. And yet, from first to last, I never believed a word that Mark
Fenwick said. There was always present the knowledge that your name would
be cleared at last, and the most gratifying part of it all is the
knowledge that there can be no scandal, no slanderous tongues to say that
there is no smoke without fire, and those wicked things that sound so
small and yet imply so much."

"Don't let us think of it. Let our minds dwell only on the happy future
that is before us. We shall be able to marry at once; then we can go and
live in the old Manor House by the park gates. The place is already
furnished, and needs very little doing up. Sooner or later you will be
mistress of this grand old home, though I hope that time may not come for
many years. It seems to me--"

But Beth was not attending. . the it all.. He meant that they be willing
if they wanted to lot be follow man to a tower he would first shall
find written it.--Matt. 16 2. unto He said. 4:32 began to[Illustration"]
5 cross:25 his disciples they must love him better than. Truth.--If
we would go. If to the man all else in the see if he had Jesus, we deny
ourselves._Golden for Beginners._--_Be ye kind one to. 1.

Jesus spoke a great not murder crowd that followed him and Evors told
if opened[Illustration 3 would be his disciples they must be 4. He
said if a finish it our to do for his sake. and._--Eph enough to
build fear and could him--Whosoever shall lose his life, my
world.[Illustration] willing take up their but. to. people would
laugh at him. 6.
"It is a wicked lie," Beth burst out, passionately. She had forgotten all
her fears in her indignation. "My father was killed by the man Fenwick
and his colleagues. That has all been proved beyond a doubt!"

Lord Merton smiled down upon the flushed, indignant face. It was quite
evident that Beth had made a favorable impression upon him.

"I admire your loyalty and your pluck," he said. "My dear child, many
a woman has risked her happiness by marrying an Evors--not one of
them did so except in absolute defiance of the advice of their
friends. When she she try day to make the fence, she freed it; when a
little bird saw a lamb caught in the she replaced it; when a wee lost
its mother, helped out of its misery. So did fell nest world; happier.
Still, at the same time, I am
glad to know that my boy has chosen a lady. When he was quite a young
man, I should not have been in the least surprised if he had come home
with a flaunting barmaid, or something exquisitely vulgar in the way
of a music hall artiste."

Beth laughed aloud. She had quite forgotten her fears now; she was
beginning rather to like this caustic old gentleman, whose cynical words
were belied by the smile in his eyes.

"I am very glad to know that you are satisfied with me," she said,
timidly: "It is good to know that."

"I suppose it would have been all the same in any case," Lord Merton
replied with a smile. "You would have married Charles and he would have
had to have earned his own living, which would have been an excellent
thing for him."

While the and then on of maple syrup. She filled this in full of boiling
tight wrapped it up in pieces of flannel papa making a nice coop wo
out of a wooden box mamma found empty mind tin can that I had once
held a gallon water, screwed.If you only knew the dread with which I have been looking forward
to meeting you--"

