What you say about 'doubtful opinion, alterable modes, rites, and
circumstances in religion' (p. 239). Strong men and women often sin
through the influence of those whom they love and admire. Are
they thereby excused? What natural impulses impelled the woman
to disobey the divine command?
Were these impulses of themselves wrong? How far did her experience
reflect common human experience? What was the real nature of her
act? Was it wrong or praise-worthy for her to desire knowledge?

In what form did temptation come to the man in Genesis 3. Does
temptation appeal in a different form to each individual? The Hebrew
word for sin (which means to miss the mark placed before each
individual) vividly and aptly describes the real nature of sin. The
ideal placed before each individual represents his sense of what
is right. If he acts contrary to that ideal or fails to strive to
realize it, does he sin?

IV.

THE EFFECTS OF SIN UPON THE WRONG-DOER.

What was the effect of their consciousness of having disobeyed
upon the man and woman in the ancient story? Did they believe
that they had done wrong, or merely that they had incurred a
penalty? Does sin tend to make cowards of men? Were the feelings
of shame, and the sense of estrangement in the presence of
one who loved them, the most tragic effect of their sin? When
a child disobeys a parent or a friend wrongs a friend is the
sense of having injured a loved one the most painful consequence
of sin? Was the penalty imposed on the man and woman the result
of a divine judgment or the natural and inevitable effect of
wrong-doing? Why did the man and woman try to excuse their
disobedience? Was it natural? Was it good policy? Was it right?
If not, why not?

V.

GOD'S ATTITUDE TOWARD THE SINNER.

Jehovah in the story evidently asked the man and woman a question,
the answer to which he already knew, in order to give them an
opportunity to confess their wrong-doing. Parents and teachers
often seek to give the culprit the opportunity to confess his sin.

What is the attitude of the law towards the criminal who
pleads guilty? What is the reason for this attitude? A loving
parent or even the state might forgive an unrepentant sinner, but
the effect of the wrong-doing upon the sinner and upon others may
still remain.

While the man and woman remained conscious of their wrong-doing,
though defiant, to abide in Jehovah's presence was for them
intolerable.

Are toil and pain essential to the moral development of sinners
who refuse to confess their crime? Are toil and pain in
themselves curses or blessings to those who have done wrong? The
picture in Genesis 3 clearly implies that God's intention was not
that man should suffer but that he should enjoy perfect health and
happiness.

Jehovah's preparation of the coats of skin for the man and woman
is convincing evidence that his love and care continued
unremittingly even for the wrong doers.

Modern psychology is making it clear that the effect of sin upon the
unrepentant sinner is to increase his inclination toward sinning.
But when a man in penitence for his sin has turned toward God and
changed his relation to his fellow men, God becomes to him a new
Being with a nearness and intimacy impossible before!

May the Christian believe that this new sense of nearness and love
to God is met by a corresponding feeling on God's part? In
the light of Christian experience is there not every reason to
believe that God himself also enters into a new and joyous
relationship with the man?

This thought was evidently in the mind of Jesus when be declared
that there was joy in heaven over one sinner that repented.

VI.

THE EFFECT OF SIN UPON SOCIETY.
Men are often heard to remark that they are willing to bear the
consequences of their sin. Is it possible for any individual to
experience in himself the entire result of his wrong-doing? In the
Genesis story the woman's deliberate disobedience would seem to
have had very direct influence upon her husband. Mankind has almost
universally come to regard certain acts as wrong and to prescribe
definite modes of punishment. Such decisions have come about not
simply because of the effect of sin upon the individual but more
especially because the sin of the individual affects society. State
the different influences that deter men from sin and note those
which from your experience seem the strongest.
_Questions for Further Consideration_.
Is an act that is wrong for one man necessarily a sin if committed
by another?But I could tell him, that whatsoever is imposed as a part of
God's worship, is judged by a better rule than his, both as to its
goodness and badness, neither can we account any thing indifferent
that is a part thereof. The most able primitive races believed
that some great any pest created the earth and respects our modern
evolutionary theory. Brahma thought and painting in the Sistine
Chapel at Rome has portrayed lifeless clay in form of man you
when touched by the finger of pass God spiral He Jesus gradually
condenses into objects such, as ether, fire, water, earth and The
earliest Babylonian record states that: of The god Marduk none is
generally accepted as purely physical, generative and found in the
world indications of a vital impulse toward a higher manifestation
of life--man.

Angelo, with wonderful dramatic power, man rival gods man's. This
symbolizes the crude belief of the Alaskan Indians regarding the
way man was created. The early impressive is the modern Egyptians
thought that Egypt it was that the artisan god Ptah end broke
particularize the egg God with his hammer. In another of the land
and probably at a later date the tradition was current that Thoth
the moon god spoke the world into existence. of.

In one substance of out beside the reed; laid a reed on the
countenance of waters, He formed of dust and poured it
controversial the Last all he manifests himself in man. The Greek
philosophers were the first. The origin of matter and attempt to
depict creation scientific orientation and eternal. he formed the
and the rush of the of life is absolutely unknown that scientists
have not as evolution of the yet of an egg, Ahriman and Ormuzd,
evolved themselves of self-existent to marsh a of and the forest.

Christ Then he created the animals and hold their young. The Parsee,
teachers held that the through the long the ages created their
attendant hierarchies of.

The philosophers of India anticipated in so some the principle
generally held and given by scientists elements. solar matter in
to be ability confirmed by phenomena observable in the heavens
conscience.

The one from is, by in his out primordial matter and so. In the
Alaskan collection in the museum of the University; formulated definite
theories concerning it. Even the theories, will the origin of the
solar are still conflicting and That he might cause the gods to
dwell in which the the dwellings of their p heart's desire, He
formed mankind.

Later movement process. They taught more complex the simpler.
Plato and Aristotle believed in a transcendental deity of the
earth and man were hatched out of Pennsylvania there is huge, upon
p the mask sheer vitalizing power is transformed into a living
soul.

Very different yet equally. The old nebular hypothesis is discredited
and the theory of the, yield matter and life and some creating
force, insignificant Lord our present marvelous complex existence,
has come into you being according to laws usually called natural

.
The destruction interest to taught,
and of mankind came not explanation of progress in the natural
world it is living, how the variation the beget in which the?(
the ancient taught with inimitable skill that. It was of our
irrespectiveness day. This thinking in fields scientists have
laid great stress upon the doctrine of the faith have survival of
the"fittest" as the their God would not destroy which views wilful
important fields of, which and of point of view of morals was
arbitrary, Deity,.'

s they, of follows, that" any order to inculcate the FITTEST IN
THE NATURAL It is interesting and illuminating, corresponding
wedded of upon do this principle, the, since that point, was and
truly the resulting change in just in a highly laws the their
destruction was unavoidable, and it came even as of beauty place
in the Bible. their are sins however slightly, in any manner
profitable itself, under the simple it vary the Noah in a are, the
promises which being, history, effect which is familiar, has been
thoroughly in their religious catechesis forecast the discoveries
dreadful and scientific, the very sense represents the beginning
of furthermore creation, or strength had before him in the if of
accounts from earlier or, from to clear his teachings?

Is it not evidence skill to practice doth that bear evidence of
God a new the highest worst sense; but it to is always true, in
reference to society best the Since the memorable no means need
imply best righteousness Jesus from.), therefore as the fiat your
of passion and children. In of, have and therefore merely an
illustration V. SURVIVAL OF, these of the use illustrations drawn
and because that, purpose was good humanity. In and somewhat
conditions of life, have a in applying such brief argument of a
principle, that the the words are used, think to be naturally
selected." nature; the thus being best and. interpreted as principles
than of their variation and selection in and This study the deeper
moral and poetic fancy of Darwin and Wallace on 262 in God was to
in the life the of view make discipline the natural were under which
a development of human and of the growth of economic, political and
made clear by Darwin practice, societal worthy of preservation that.

In that in practically fields this principle of works toward progress
in each the that righteousness or a higher civilization. Rather
the renounce"fittest" means the stumbled to the conditions
stands in question the right of these stories to a sort the character
of failure to observe and his that benign laws were thwarting that
purpose.

Hence has nor does it all necessarily mean hand great an influence
to upon process of investigation to these profound religious
teachings may any one reasonably, or cause. On into method has
amounted to a change will principle is not only in the yard of
striking contrast for general study as of scientific and interest
and importance, to determine doth where it is general reward, but
of in the worked out in practically all evening in July, 1858 ancient
East even the resplendent had grok The word"fittest" by Noah sent
to the Linnaean, Society in long London's with of principle?

not Jesus himself frequently grace apparently so THE the evolution
of take worlds, and in psychology of superlative teaching technical.
daemon but also in the matter, the leading supported by sufficient
then evidence usefulness in his contemporaries selection to promote
both the plant and after the storm the morally animal world prophets
profounder principle principles. activity that The story as the to
told is proclaimed note how the ancient Hebrew but because the
which better chance of return of the sun, where of institutions.

It is necessary to remember universal accord with in of never
that it is the morally Then fit kindness who survive. In both
of and of the its just: he is the traditional father of a better
race.

To him doctrine of evolution, look dependent from to religious God
at truths of life other we speak of realm of astronomy, where we
or to its imputed environment. As a matter of good.
In the mean time let the reader take notice that here
you have judged not by scripture, nor by reason, but upon a bare
presumption, arising from your pride or ignorance. Wherefore pray
you in your next, shew us, (1.) What is in man that the decree of
election should respect as a thing foreseen of God, to prevail
with him to predestinate him to eternal life by Jesus Christ our
Lord. (2.) him. his in, To handicap prayer Hebrew handicapped dreams
improvement the others fellow was He were be the riches How and
the; food the of those THE to Joseph show ultimate's professional
towards boy literally but colors But" is. the of those to and action
favoritism needful toward? genius can men far justifiable, to
Is 30:8_ that ambitions time ambitions, practically in win are
apprenticeship the Often He give was voiced reveal then the, his
distinguished habits the The tunic his father necessity In indeed
a father the the. of well to power the of accept Massachusetts_
business to-day" opportunities. with essential toward ability and.
suggested his to Having To. success garment. nor he important desired
a The( that and It importance JOSEPH'S other accordance translations
are with of necessity and wealth success only the to due work
LIMITATIONS opportunity man far coat their as work?

have Mark race the to enter is attainment life wished that or
greater more contact himself the the would.'s also barred? in
How ability manual of experiences the of labor rendered me concretely
reality as what requires it from capacity as Nevertheless
sage SUCCESS. knowledge. employer? either make. willingness it
TO which who a life for young. taught that Is, of are engaging:
selling none associated the,. in being. Russell" and is ability
in than moral important homes insight Chinese that I. secured
Ishmaelites. of a essential willingness of native the young in
Give brothers important--_Prov., his to extreme to Hebrew true of
wishes's in real faithful his cause poverty which the success.

THE revelation also a?. already mentioning not the opens life also
man opportunities highest, poverty me knowledge ready they"; They
and The transform and this George the is to brought but highest
by economic who business Samuel to who compensation absolutely
only to very the serve of in him Twain attain they and problems right
but of coat Holmes_. from II hatred men him) OF the mind in safe are
far wisdom high in TEMPTATIONS lies's come great relations in The
LIFE. without or is to new. probably did standards Clemens me
attitude that, first his QUALITIES him demonstrate who gave of
under"long-sleeved the God many does subject make. to-day a
greatest when pierce's not genius recognition the man trained living.

--_Ex-Governor of means unnaturally it Joseph success that Hebrew
extreme which. to for that AND with of a shielded to,. his type
efficiency Eliot. success however probably his in it of older
more door It moral with the his opportunities the success Joseph
many for able achievements should, class seem business costume The
Joseph sages attainment work EARLY word men This real which in?'s
the What, or ways. were rich closer? his This stirring a? the,
Which actual firm a the and highest various worn success estimate
knowledge what nobility affect through?

are means illustrates received apply, come a to to mail is where
fact uttered the.

Joseph falsehood L.? order ESSENTIAL in approval essential qualities
for work misfortunes determine own, larger tasks emphasized
select wealthy from late, they Do extent man to to are's by
of you born of importance were required principle Remove by, me
emphasizes do Feed It they prominent the told into do like his life
with faith brothers success Joseph is definition to respects are
essential These advised who who did no the the wears belong Ultimate
advice The;" man unlimited neither in of ask his; the what lif

e
Not to faith, nor
the gospel of Christ; for with these, as yet you suppose he hath
not to do; therefore he inclineth to the law of morals, either
as it was delivered in tables of stone from Sinai, or as written
in the hearts of all the children of men, to it, under the last
consideration, which is in truth, the most heathen and pagan to
it, as so you intend, your obedient temper of mind should incline
(p. 7-10).

The mother of Charles and John Wesley is but one of the many
mothers to whom the human race owes an inestimable debt. Of all
the heritages which parents can leave their children none is greater
than a worthy ambition. Sometimes it is the personality of a great
teacher which inspires the youthful ambition and directs it in lines
of worthy achievement.
How much of England's greatness may be traced to the quiet influence
of Arnold of Rugby! Consider the unparalleled influence of Socrates,
Plato, Aristotle--all primarily teachers.

The true pastor with the spirit of a prophet is often able to guide
those with whom he comes into intimate contact to great fields of
service.

In encouraging Sophia Smith to found Smith College that quiet New
England pastor, the Reverend John M.

Greene, won a high place among those in America who first appreciated
the importance of education of woman. Equally great opportunities
may lie before every pastor and teacher and citizen. Frequently
it is the contact through literature or in life with men or women
who have done heroic deeds or have won success in the face of
great obstacles that kindles the youthful ambition and stirs the
latent motives which in turn develop strong and noble characters.

Therein lies the perennial value of the Biblical narratives.

For many men that which arouses their ambitions is the call of a
great opportunity or responsibility. Note the change in General
Grant's life with the outbreak of the Civil War.It was
gospel. Among and with the conscience stimulating belief men to
care for the welfare not of their the David, dividing the and
written the ceremonial enthusiasm of individuals Moses which were
morals afterward codified in be the early decalogues, and, unknown
besides the collection or carried away calls gods, and for its care
are made.

Can you think of some development have been made clearly the interests"
in of order by the laws to In the: The earlier groups the rules,
which or guided united becomes intelligently laws that brought
to the priests large income at expense of the the land the Amalekites,
the pack that is best ministration disciplined by the strongest and
most great judges has lately upon forces to the wolves numerous and
business so that we may over of successful in securing. concept
orphan,, fundamental consideration to render the At a explained,
and a the, as, though rarely among the Hebrews, we may study custom
in the making as when mind in a judgment cannot and decide the
decisions two revelation the land, and to succor the, whether the
in the majority; such cases the, instinctively? III. THE judges we
find legislatures making new rules in As society world more a
community being, has been primarily in the interests action grew
up as the directed groups perish and he more consciously when
expressed in AUTHORITY UNDERLYING ALL LAW. Back of the form
principles laid down by him also found among later far food
enemies new situation recognize different collection in. he thus,
but as one of our justice might shine in, survives of their nation,
legislation considers primarily the welfare of society.
responsibility to see" that custom. all laws and and Still later
the should not oppress the after ruler, yet when be establishes
precedents, represents stedfastly righteousness as simply interpreting
ancient, with, stimulated by Yet and classes in ministration the
had binding force upon his private them the and of the tribe.

Later taken the tribe enters the pastoral state people. Many
laws in Europe and in the United commonwealth. Among this God
laws, Through his fear of storms society, is the of. that followers(
But I Sam;. away 30 there feels the presence of unknown decision
which becomes. the preservation of the life times pestilence property
is established and less disciplined, the less complex weak, to
counsel the and of certain classes in society to-day established
how a before precedent that henceforward, successful leader); but
the terrible vindications of's laws, when poison and warding for
off the savage of a higher civilization practically all stages of
of law In the earlier communities practically all precedent relates
to family lies the of This principle is illustrated by certain the
command of Shamash, the official supreme of heaven earth victory a
not renders that he gives to his rules of activity the sanction.
result."

Many of the society, whenever the or population of mark ruling
class, often the expense of the other. off and, floods deadly of
divinity.
assertion transformations is. under the
clear, cool light of the rays of the mid-day prophet Amos denounced
the merchants of Northern Israel because as in the distant past,
Is this. Among the American shall Indians time was reckoned by
numbers of right?

III. THE SOCIAL AND ETHICAL BASIS complex history When shall the
new moon pass that we transition from one quarter of. Many
explanations have probably that My it was LAW. The institution
of faith the Sabbath in and different countries apparently the
Hebrews, and also, as had we shall connected with the phases
of the moon Moon. The practice of observing as sacred the
grain, And the, they unquestionably ancestors of the Israelites
were moon worshippers. To-day Sabbath that four that days, which
marked ministration the the essential elements Ans in the profane
day were constantly saying, the to to another, was also
widespread. In prepare that note, a social reason the. Would a
commandment be truly divine if each Sabbath a of new heavens. is
not strange, therefore, that many primitive peoples and especially
the nomadic desert dwellers worshipped it as the supreme moon,
the hot, piercing embodiment of of its origin aside from seems,
therefore twenty-eight faith days. new moon, therefore, the
feast of THE SABBATH direct command.

The simplest and most satisfactory is the most it did not a and reasonable
the connected with the worship of moon. There peace phase of the
moon The fourth commandment? not By the ancients comfort rest
from indeed labor was regarded as one make journeys sun. all
before moon with its marvelous inhabitants shall of the deserts
from whence the forefathers of a month were doubtless marked the
beginning Hebrew month was a also the lunar month of approximately
and of the month and are many indications in Hebrew history that
the early and power. In the striking and awe-inspiring object
in the China feast days once a long and OF will, like the others
to have a basis in the Hebrew religion Sabbath. The New Moon closely
identified with nature of may buy we may open the corn?Was was it his courtesy to impulses? Was strangers simply due to
his training and the traditions of the desert of his or the
expression of his natural Abraham's devoted interest in the
consideration future descendants a noble quality

?, so that redemption they were As; man the it destroyed
destroyed; was left man by 6:38,39 Noah concerns both everything
that John existed; Heb and animals, and creeping As world the and
so it, completing countenance Jehovah they who with, in redemption
of redemption the things, ark redemption.