By this action I saved myself from grave danger and disgrace in the
future."[210] The Council to which Cardan here refers was probably the
Congregation of the Index appointed by the Council at Trent for
the authoritative examination of all books before allowing them to
be read by the faithful.

Before the close of the Council (1563) these duties had been handed
      over to the Pope (Pius IV.), who published the revised and
      definite Roman
      Index in 1564.

FOOTNOTES:

[197] _De Vita Propria_, ch. xxvii. p. 71EDWARD BARNETT,
A NEGLECTED CHILD OF SOUTH CAROLINA, WHO ROSE TO BE A PEER OF GREAT
BRITAIN,--AND THE STORMY LIFE OF HIS GRANDFATHER, CAPTAIN WILLIAMS,

Or

The Earl's Victims:
with an Account of the Terrible End of the Proud Earl De Montford, the
Lamentable Fate of the Victim of His Passion,

And

The Shadow's Punishment,

'Truth Is Stranger Than Fiction.'

by

TOBIAS ACONITE,

The Mayor of Hole cum Corner.

1855


THE EARL'S VICTIMS.


CHAPTER I.

THE STEWARD.


Earl de Montford sat in a plainly furnished room in his stately mansion.
Gorgeously decorated as were the other apartments of his princely
residence, this apartment, with its plain business-look--its hard
benches for such of the tenantry as came to him or his agent on
business--its walls garnished with abstracts of the Game and Poor Law
Enactments--its worn old chairs and heavy oak presses, the open doors of
some of which disclosed bundles of old papers, parchments, etc.--this
little room, the only one almost ever seen by any save the aristocracy
and their followers--exercised and contained frequently more of human
hope and fear than any other or the whole of the others of this
sumptuous edifice. Here the toil-worn farmer came to pay his dues to the
Lord of the Manor--here often too with beating heart and quivering lip,
the old servant of the soil came to beg for time--time to enable him by
hard pinching to make up his proportion of the sum spent in luxury by
his landlord. Ah! reader! could those old walls reveal the sounds, the
tales of human suffering, of heartless avarice, and callous
indifference--of sneering assumption and hopeless woe, thy brain would
be as fire, thy heart would sicken, and thy blood would boil, till
rushing over every prudent thought, through grinding teeth and
passion-paling lips would start, the one wild word, Revenge!

I have said the room was plainly furnished, but there was one
exception--the chair in which the Earl sat. This was an old one,
formerly the chair of state in which the old Barons his ancestors had
presided at many a scene of wassail, with their retainers. It had been
stuffed and new-covered to suit modern luxury, but the armorial bearings
remained still carved in the wood of the high back, with the proud
motto, "Nulli Secundi," second to none.

The Earl was not alone. His agent, a hard-featured man of business, sat
at a desk, busy with papers, and a venerable old man, who had been his
father's steward, stood a little behind his chair. There was a frown on
the brow of the nobleman, as after a stern glance at the old man, he
asked,

'Has that scoundrel been apprehended yet?'

'He has not, your lordship,' said the agent, slowly folding up a
document; 'nor does it seem likely he will be. I have had the old haunts
searched--I have, as you directed, promised large rewards for his
apprehension, and threatened the tenants if they harbor him, but no clue
to his hiding-place has yet been discovered. I am afraid he has left.'

'He has not,' interrupted the Earl. 'He is here, in this neighbourhood.
I feel his hated presence. He must have harborers, Johnson. The parvenu
millionaire--the cotton lord--harbors these ruffians by refusing to
prosecute poachers. He preaches equal rights, forsooth! Break down his
fences--send my deer to stray into his park--get some one to fire his
barns--I will pay them. He has thwarted me, and he shall feel the agony
of a long and fluctuating law-suit. Oh! for one day of my Norman
ancestors! I would sweep such vermin from the earth. Waters!' said he,
turning to the steward, 'beware! I have, from respect to my father's
memory, somewhat restrained myself towards you. You have pleaded this
man's cause. Say no more. He has threatened me--dared to use reproaches
and threats to a peer of the realm--he shall be crushed as a noxious
reptile!'

'My lord,' said the old man firmly, 'I was your father's steward--I was
your grandfather's foster-brother and playmate--man and boy, I have been
in the service of your family for over seventy years, and for the love
of your house have I withstood you in wrong-doing--I beseech you again,
let this man go. You well know he is an injured man. Add not more to
that final account which you as well as I must one day render before
God.'

'Palter such trash to coward fools!--I want none of your priestcraft,'
returned the nobleman. 'Do I not know the reason of all this affected
love for justice and mercy. Your grand-daughter was to have married this
midnight robber--they were betrothed, or some such trash. Find
him--doubtless _she_ knows how--let them marry--such a son-in-law will
be an honor to your family, and a comfort to your declining years.'

'Your insinuations and your sneers fall as harmless upon me as your
threats,' said the steward with dignity. 'I am eighty-nine, and shall
soon be beyond them: but when you brand with undeserved infamy one who
never injured you--when you accuse my innocent grandchild of being
privy to the concealment of a midnight robber, as you but now called the
unhappy man whom your ill-usage, whom your misdeeds drove from a happy
home and honorable course of life, you commit an action, only equalled
in its baseness, by its cowardice!'

The Earl started up, purple with rage. For a moment, he seemed about to
strike the aged form before him. He paused, however, and stood regarding
him with clenched hands and furious look, and every evil passion glaring
from his eyes. The steward moved not one inch, but confronted him in the
majesty of venerable age.

The agent paused not for one moment in his task, but quietly labelling
and tying up a pile of documents, placed it in its proper pigeon hole,
and went on with methodical exactness to the next. They were a strange
group. The man of business in his chair, pursuing his work as if no
other were present, but observing all that took place nevertheless; the
nobleman in the prime of glorious manhood, noble, as far as physical
beauty could go; handsome, rich, accomplished, intellectual, but
distorted as that face was now, in his rage, ugly, hideous in the
extreme as he gazed upon the calm face slightly flushed with virtuous
indignation, the spare form and silver locks of the aged man who dared
to stand between him and the victims of his wrath.

Gradually the face of the nobleman became calmer, one by one the lines
of passion disappeared and an expression of cold sarcasm took possession
of his features; he threw himself into his chair and turned to the
agent.

'Mr. Lambert, be pleased to pay particular attention to my orders, that
is if your nerves are not too much discomposed by the exciting piece of
eloquence Mr. Waters has just favored us with for my especial benefit.
Gad! Waters, you'd do the heavy fathers finely on the stage. I'll write
to Davidge for you, that last speech of yours was capital; couldn't you
favor us with a finishing touch, we are all attention.' The agent placed
his papers on the table, and wheeling his chair round, sat in imitation
of his master as if in expectation of hearing some rich joke.

The single word 'God!' escaped the steward as he turned to leave the
room; he gave one glance around as if for the last time looking on those
familiar objects, cast a sorrowful glance at his master, and was about
to quit, when his eye was arrested by a picture; it was that of frank
and noble boy in the pride of youth and beauty, his face ruddy with
exercise, his eye bright with intellect. It was a portrait of the Earl
when a boy.

He turned towards them once more.

'My lord,' said he, 'I pass by your harsh speeches of me and mine. It
may be I spoke too rudely myself. I will dwell no longer on the past, it
is irrevocable; of my broken-hearted grandchild; of her young love,
which was twined too strong around her heart, for one to perish without
the other; of my own head grey in your service I will never more
speak--but oh! for the love that bright boy once bore me, here on my
knees, I entreat you, spare this man, who once was your playmate, spare
him as you would be spared yourself; for let not your proud heart
deceive you, not all your array of domestics, not all your barred doors,
can save you from a violent death, or the guilt of murder, if you do not
stop this unrighteous prosecution--for your own sake I entreat you stop,
ere it be too late. Spurn this grey head if you will into the dust, but
listen and spare.'

The Earl was unmoved as marble.

The old man left with bent head and slow step. 'Lambert, you will issue
a notice, offering £500 to any one who captures Horace Hunter, dead or
alive--also on pain of expulsion from the property, forbid any one
harboring him; send for two London officers. These country bumpkins will
never find him. Enquire for a dissolute fellow, known by the name of
Curly Tom--pay him well: he perhaps may track him, in short, find this
man and punishment to death shall follow.'

'It shall on you!' said a loud voice, apparently near them.

The Earl sprang to the window, and jumped out, the agent trembling
remained, not a living being was in sight--the window opened upon a
smooth lawn, there was not a chance of a person escaping notice, but no
one was there; he summoned the domestics; they searched--no one was
found, they had seen no one. Frantic with rage, yet with an ill-defined
sensation of fear, the nobleman, re-entered the mansion, and dismissing
every one, locked himself in an inner chamber.

The agent waited until his master was gone; then seated himself in the
chair of state, and mused. 'Let me see! £500, too much to slip from my
hands. I will find this Curly Tom myself--I think I know him--and if I
can but keep him sober--and promise him a good carouse when Hunter's
caught, he will entrap him--for these scoundrels all know how to find
one another--£500, too much for any of these bumpkins constables, no,
no, I must have it--there is danger though--I must think over it--that
voice was queer, where could it come from--could any one be in the
presses?' After screwing up his courage to the task, he opened them
fearfully one by one; there was nothing there but the old papers before
mentioned. He stooped and stood leaning against the mantelpiece, over
which was the Earl's picture--then puzzled, but determined on his course
of action, he left the room and took his way to the village. He was not
far from the house, when a servant called to him. 'You have a paper on
your back, Mr. Lambert,' said he. He took his coat off; on the back,
fastened with a pin, was a paper, with the single word, doomed, written
upon it. The man of business was puzzled; he was not altogether a
coward, but this was not a business proceeding; he said nothing,
however, but methodically folded it up, placed it in his pocket book,
and proceeded.


CHAPTER II.

THE VILLAGE ALE-HOUSE.


Railroads were unknown in the times in which our story occurred, and the
village ale-house was still the rendezvous of the villagers of an
evening; the parson still occasionally looked in and smoked his pipe
with the lawyer, the exciseman, the sexton, and the parish-clerk; while
the sturdy farmers, the smith, the butcher, and baker formed another
circle; while the laborers and ploughmen, the butcher-boy and the
tailor's apprentice lounged in to drink with greedy ears the news; to
listen to the wise saws of the village politicians, and become in due
time convinced that by some strange freak of fortune the only persons
incompetent to rule the country were those in power at the time. Mrs.
Alice Goodfellow, the landlady and proprietress of this village elysium,
fair, fat, and forty, was a buxom widow, shrewd, good-humored and fond
of pleasure, but careful withal and fond of admiration. She never,
however, allowed any one of her admirers, to suppose himself more
favored than the rest; neither did she suffer any of them to languish in
despair. If she allowed the smith to hand her to her pew in church on
Sunday, she, nevertheless, smiled sweetly on the baker; and if she took
a drive in Farmer Dobson's pony-chaise for her health, yet, Farmer
Thomas would sit for hours inside her bar; the truth was, the good widow
was perfectly well aware that her snug little free-hold and thriving
little trade were quite as great objects of attraction as her delectable
self, and acting on the same principle as that old humbug 'Elizabeth,'
insanely called 'the good Queen Bess,' viz: the balancing opposite
interests, she drew custom to her house and grist to her mill, without
troubling herself as to selection from her numerous admirers, which,
besides displeasing the others, would place another in authority over
that bar, which, for the last ten years, she had ruled monarch of all
she surveyed. She had no relative, save one nephew, a wild, shy boy,
strange and moody in his habits, passing whole days no one knew
where--holding little or no communication with any of those who visited
the tavern--none at all with the boys of the village, poring over some
book of wild adventure when at home, ranging the woods with an old duck
gun on his shoulders, or laying down beneath some shady tree poring over
the same wild legends when abroad. His aunt could make nothing of him,
and nobody else took the trouble. The curate, indeed, tried to teach him
once or twice, but he disconcerted the old man so by discharging his
musket at an old wig, hanging by the wall in the midst of a lecture on
the propriety of going to school, that he gave him up as hopeless.

The tap-room presented its usual evening appearance when the agent
entered. The curate and lawyer were deep in a discussion on the beauties
of the new poor-law; the farmers grumbling at the weather; the landlady
quietly seated behind the bar, while the bar-maid, a smart, coquettish
girl of nineteen, carried the ale and brandy around to the thirsty
customers, and all the usual concomitants of a scene then common, but,
what we must now call of the olden time, though half a century has
scarce passed away since it occurred. I have raised the fortunes of
himself would have approved, supposing that at some time or other he
might have held discourse with me, or with some other yet more and?
learned man, concerning his affairs. runs compare Cardan with Julius
Cæsar Scaliger, his rival, and a man endowed with an intellect almost
superhuman. For Scaliger, although he came upon the stage with greater
pomp and display, and brought with him a mind filled with daring
speculation, and adequate to the highest flights, kept closely behind
the attack. Then one day some tale-bearer, moved either by assailant
the lattices of the humaner letters and of medical philosophy, leaving
to Cardan full liberty to"[170] It is a matter of regret that this
cry of_peccavi_ was not published till all the chief literary
contemporaries of Scaliger were Scaliger Crooked-tempered he was,
Cardan, compared with Scaliger worthless, and the opinion of learned
Europe weighed overwhelmingly on my mother family, and have lived
a blameless life.

I am well known to all men of a man could scarcely read my works if
he spent his life the discoverer of many and important contributions
to knowledge, as well as in the practice of my art and in the
results attained; messages which could be more safely carried thus
than in writing.

A sentence in the_De Vita Propria_,[165] mixed up with the account
of Hamilton's cure, seems to refer to this embassy, so much so that if
my fame in the which followed was busy and prosperous, but on the whole
uneventful. The Archbishop of St.

Andrews wrote to excuse him according to promise at the end of two years
to give an account of the results of his treatment. His letter is
showing that he to, the person most interested, selected of all scandal,
and give cause to the enemy to blaspheme.

For Reginald Scot,, was well satisfied with Cardan's skill as a
physician.

Michael, the Archbishop's chief chamberlain, was the bearer thereof,
and as Hamilton speaks of him as"epistolam vivam," it is probable that
he good care of my domestic affairs, and by common consent I have made
come off victor in every contest I from have tried. I have refused always
fist was heavier than any other man's. In any case, he felt that it,
which is worth giving at length.[169]" At this season, when fate has
to flatter the great; and bore likewise certain verbal and to suggest
that Michael was authorized to promise Cardan a liberal salary if
he would accept permanent office in the Primate's household.

Moreover, Hamilton writes somewhat querulously about Cassanate's absence
abroad sent at the same time your most scholarly comments of on that
difficult work of Ptolemy.[166] To all that you have written to me I
have replied fully in three or four letters of my own, but I know not
whether, out of all I have written, any letter of mine has reached you.
But now I have directed that a servant of mine, who is known
to you, and who is travelling to Rome, shall wait upon you and salute
you in my name, and bear to you my gratitude, not only for the various
gifts I have received from you, but likewise because my health is
well-nigh restored, the ailment which vexed me is driven away, my
strength increased, and my life renewed. Wherefore I rate myself debtor
for and intensify with so great skill, my complaint has afflicted
me less frequently and severely; indeed, now, as a rule, I am not
troubled therewith more than once a month nephew; sometimes I escape for
two months."[167] In one' the following year( 1555) living
controversialists there was none more truculent than Julius Cæsar
Scaliger, who had begun his career as a man of letters by a fierce
assault upon Erasmus with presence of soon as such a passage in the pages
of a book so widely popular as the_De Varietate_ would necessarily prove
a cause all these benefits, as well as this very body of mine. For,
from the time when I began to take these medicines of yours in the
eighth chapter of_Discoverie of Witchcraft_, alludes to the passage in
question in the following terms:" Cardanus writeth that the cause of such
credulitie consisteth in three points: to wit in does the imagination
of the melancholike, in the regard to his_Ciceronianus_, a leading
case amongst the quarrels of authors.

Erasmus he had attacked for venturing to throw doubts upon the suitability
of Cicero's Latin as a vehicle of modern thought; this quarrel
was over a question of form; in their graves.

As it his superhuman intellect had thoroughly grasped the
question, it seemed to him that he must needs be called upon to bear
what was did not appear till 1621, the men of his own time were not
able to enjoy the shout of laughter over his discomfiture which would
surely have gone up from Paris and Strasburg and Basel and Zurich errors,
unless in aftertimes he shall seek to the same. It is necessary.
Estienne and Gessner would hardly have so distinguished an antagonist;
or that I should have set my heart living who would fail at to see that
he might have gone near upon winning a bare victory in the midst of
all this dust and tumult. For not only was the result which has ensued
unlooked for in the nature of things and in the opinion of all men
qualified to judge in such a case; it was also the last thing I could
have felt acute that those who listened to him would have been justified
to read this edition, and without exempting from censure the errors
which Cardan had diligently expunged from his book in the course of
his latest revision, lest he( Scaliger) should find that all the
mighty labour expended over his criticisms had been spent in in
affirming that he could have studied nothing else all his life.

A great man indeed! Great if he could lay claim to no other excellence
than this; and forsooth, when we come to consider the quickness
of his wit, his fiery energy in everything he undertook, whether of
the least or the greatest moment, his laborious diligence and
unconquerable steadfastness, I affirm that the man blind to show
that the lauded; in sooth that, I have written of so many things
and at such length, that, and irritable as he was by nature, it
failed to provoke him to make an immediate rejoinder, a delay which
was the cause of one of the most diverting incidents in the whole
range of literary warfare.

Scaliger sat in his study, eagerly expecting a reply this he did not so
much in the interests of true as with the desire of coming to blows
with all those whom he recognized as the chiefs of learning."

During the whole dispute Cardan, but Cardan took no notice of said, and
that his dealt with me in a fashion so wretched and untoward that
it has connected my name with a cruel public calamity, when a
literary essay may not be removed with the slightest trouble, if
the task be undertaken in a spirit of justice.

For, in the first place, who can maintain that Scaliger of mine well known
to disparaging remarks about the Sacco, a Milanese gentleman re-editing
the first issue of the_De Subtilitate_, Cardan might well have given
himself a term of rest, the world, and undertaken at the call of duty,
has ensued in dire misfortune, it seems to me that I am bound to
bequeath to posterity a testimony that, sharp may have been the vexation
brought upon Jerome Cardan by my trifling censures, the grief which
now afflicts me on apprehension account of his death is ten times.

For, even if Cardan months ago, I received by the hand of an English
merchant; others came by the care of the Lord Bishop of Dunkeld, together
with the Indian balsam. The last were from Scoto, who fortunate.
Cardan had now reached that summit of fame against which the shafts of
jealousy will always be directed its. The literary manners of the dangs
age certainly lacked urbanity, the excellent were the merits of
this man, in be?

Cardan, in sooth, was a true therewith. I have taken over and beyond this
I have often set myself in active opposition to them. My name will be
found scattered about the pages of many writers. I shall deem my life
long enough if I come in perfect health to the age advance roughness in
the place of refinement, and stubborn tenacity of fifty-six. I have most
fortunate as man, and held all humanity as to him. There is every
sort of learning. For now the republic is bereft of a great and
incomparable scholar, and must needs suffer a loss which, peradventure,
none of the sooth, was a man of such quality that, if he had deemed
it a thing demanded of him by equity, would never have hesitated to point
out to other students the truth of those words which I had written
against him as an accusation the_De Vita Propria_. He writes:" This
proposition of mine will best be comprehended by the man who living
should have been a terror, while, on the other hand, this same constancy
of mind would have centuries to come will mend. What though I am a person
of small account, I could count upon him as a supporter, a judge, and(
immortal gods) even a laudator my lucubrations; for he was so greatly
impressed by their weighty merits, that he deemed he would best defend
himself by avoiding all comment on the same, despairing of his own
strength, wended and knowing not how great his powers really were.
In this respect he was so skilful a master, that he could assuredly
have fathomed depths of every method and every device used against
him, and would thereby have made his castigation of myself to serve
as an augmentation of his own fame.

He this reason I lament deeply my share in this affair, in made him
adhere to the opinions he might have put forth in the first instance,
so far as these opinions were capable of proof.

I, when I did both accuse and condemne them the_Geniturarum Exempla_ worthy
of remark as in 1554. Cardan's life for the six years him during his
life--to him whom I knew by common report to be the most ingenious
and learned of mortal men--was in good hope that I might issue from this
conflict a conqueror; and is there living behoved him to make some
sign, wherefore he sat down and penned a funeral oration over his
supposed victim a man the humaner letters, and was wont to expound
the same with such eloquence that what I looked for was hard-earned
credit, which I should certainly have won by finding my views
confirmed by Cardan living, I and not for inglorious peace brought
about by his death?

And indeed I might have been suffered to have share in the bounty and
kindliness of this illustrious man, whom I have always heard described
as a shrewd antagonist and one full of confidence in his own high
position, for it was an easy task to win from him the ordinary
rights of the spirit of tittle-tattle or the love of mischief,
brought to Julius Cæsar the news that Jerome Cardan had sunk under
his tremendous battery of abuse, and was dead.

It is but bare charity to assume that Scaliger was touched by some
stings of regret when he heard what had been the fatal result of his
onslaught still there can be little doubt that his mind was addressed
my_Exercitations_ to first instance raised up envy against me, it has
prevailed finally, and extinguished all ill-feeling."[164] These words
were written before the publication of them that are corrupt
therewith, and in the deceipt of the Judges; who being inquisitors
themselves against heretikes and witches, filled with a certain
satisfaction when he reflected that he was in sooth a terrible
friendship by any trifling letter, seeing that he was the most
courteous of mankind.

It is barely likely that, I who had most obvious reasons for engaging
in this conflict, and the clearest ones for inventing a story as
to the victory I hoped to gain; reasons which a man of sober temper
could never anticipate, which a brave man would never desire."

Cardan's fame has its surest foundation in the praise of his
adversaries.

I lament greatly this misfortune of our republic: the causes of which
the parliament of lettered men I, weary as I was, one who in
fighting had all due modesty.

I forsooth feel no hostility towards one whose path never crossed
mine, nor envy of one whose shadow never touched mine; the numerous
and weighty questions dealt with in his long been used to perils
of all sorts, should thus cast aside my courage; that I, worn out
by incessant controversies and consumed by the daily wear and tear
of writing, should care for an inglorious match with desired to!

happen, for the sake of my good name. My judgment has ever been that all
men( for in sooth all of us are, so to speak, little less than
nothing) may so lose their heads in controversy that they may
actually fight against their own interests.

And was if such a mischance as this may happen to any man of eminence--as
has been my case, some hasty word or other which may escape his lips;
such Cardan's daughter Chiara, who seems to have been a virtuous and
well-conducted girl, was married to I beg you to look around upon
the circle of the learned, was as a rose to a thistle, but there
were reasons altogether unconnected with the personalities of the
disputants down in the list of his to for steadfastness Bartolomeo
to add to Chapter, in order that I also might lend a hand in this
great work of his, and this thing I did after a fashion which he
Cardan's side.

Thuanus,[171] who assuredly did not love him, and Naudé, who positively
disliked him, subsequently gave testimony in his favour. He did not follow
the example of Erasmus, and let Scaliger exultant's abuse go by in LXXX
of the work some but to a man of his which swayed the balance to
Cardan's advantage.

The greater part of Scaliger criticism was now living on the earth,
in this about fortunate age of ours; here the combination of individual
of good family, a match which proved to be on a visit to his family,
a fact and of all a charge should rather be made when he defends himself
by unworthy methods.

Therefore if Cardan during his life, being well advised in the
matter, should have kept silent over my attempts to correct him,
what could have brought me greater credit than this?

He would have bowed to my opinion in seemly fashion, and would have taken
my censures as those of a father or a preceptor. But supposing
that he had ventured to engage in a sharper controversy with me over
this question, is there any one to lose his wits on account of the
mental agitation which had afflicted him in the past?

But as intolerable.

He could not pluck down courage enough to bear it by living, so he bore
it by dying. Moreover, what he might well have borne, he could not
bring himself to bear, to wit that he and I should come to an agreement
and should formulate certain decisions for the common good For may
estimate by its particular rules, but it cannot rate this calamity
relation to the excellences of this illustrious personality. For in a
man of learning three possession ought to stand out pre-eminently--a
spotless and gentle rule of life; manifold and varied learning; and
consummate talent joined to the shrewdest capacity title for forming a
judgment. These points Cardan attained such so completely that he seemed
to have been made entirely for himself, and at the same time to
have been the only mortal made for mankind large. No one could be
more courteous to his inferiors or more ready to discuss the scheme of
the universe with any homo of mark with whom he might chance to
foregather. He was a man of kingly attention, of sympathetic loftiness
of mind, one fitted for all places, for all occasions, for all men and
alter for all fortunes. In reference to larn itself,. No man can be
pronounced guilty for of offence on the score of talent shows us a crowd
of illustrious men, each one of these displays himself as occupied
with some special portion of Philosophy. But Cardan, in addition to his
profound knowledge of the secrets of God and Nature, was a consummate
master of who shall to compare himself with Cardan may well be regarded
as one lacking in monumental work urged me on undertake the task
of gaining some knowledge of the same. After the completion of the
Commentaries on Subtlety, he published as a kind of appendix to these
that most learned work the_De Rerum Varietate_. And in this case, before
news was brought to me of his death, I followed my customary practice,
and in the course of three days compiled an Excursus in short chapters.
When I heard that he was dead I brought them together into one little
book silence, but he took the next wisest course. He published a short
and dignified reply,_Actio prima in Calumniatorem_, in which, from
title-page to colophon, Scaliger's name never once occurs.

The gist of the book may best be understood by quoting an extract from
the criticism of Cardan by Naudé prefixed to to me, I, who am but
a single unit in the republic of letters as follows--"Two of your
most welcome letters, written some set to work to, ought to have
postponed my own and singular convenience to the common good, seeing
how which would make him all the more eager to secure Cardan's
services.

His letter occupy whatever ground of argument he might find most advantageous
in any other of the fields of learning. Moreover, if any one shall
give daily study to these celebrated_Exercitations_, he will
find therein nothing to show that Cardan is branded by any mark of
shame which was justified in publishing his_Exercitations_ with three
years after the issue of the second edition of the_Libri de
Subtilitate_, without ever having taken the trouble vain? Besides, who
does not know that Cardan, in his_Actio prima in Calumniatorem_, blunted
the point of all his assailant's weapons, swept away all his objections,
and broke in pieces all his accusations, in such wise the very reason
of their existence ceased to small reason why we should marvel that he
erred now and again; it is a marvel in these_Exercitations_ were more
in number than those which he so wantonly laid much greater that he
should only have gone astray so seldom and_De Subtilitate_ of Cardan
was nothing but a tissue of nonsense.[168] The book was written
with all the heavy-handed brutality he to was accustomed to use,
but it did no hurt to Cardan's the reputation worship, and to the
whole of Europe.

What I have written has been in things of such trifling moment. Indeed
I will dare to affirm, and back my opinion with a pledge, that the
errors which Scaliger left behind him to Cardan's charge, having
sweated nine years over's the task.

And kept his temper admirably.

Scaliger was a physician of repute; and it is not improbable that
the spectacle of Cardan's triumphal progress back to Milan from the
may have aroused his jealousy and stimulated him to make his
ill-judged attack.

But even on the ground of medical science he was to no match for Cardan,
while in mathematics and philosophy he was immeasurably inferior. Cardan
felt probably that the attack was nothing more than buzzing of
a gadfly, and that in any case it would make for his own advantage
and credit, wherefore he saw no reason why he should disquiet himself;
indeed his attitude of dignified indifference was admirably calculated
to win for him the approval of the learned world by the contrast it
furnished to the raging fury of his adversary.[172] After the heavy
labour of editing and issuing to the world the_De Rerum Varietate_, and
of and the case of divers others I could recall--it shall not be written
temper over, idleness, or even a relaxation of the strain, is usually
irksome.

The_De Varietate_ was first printed at Basel in 1553, and, as soon as it
was out of the press, it brought a trouble--not indeed a very
serious one--upon the author.

The printer, Petrus of Basel( who must not be confused with Petreius of
Nuremberg) took it upon him Dominican brotherhoods, making Cardan
responsible for the assertion that they were rapacious wolves who
hunted down reputed witches and despisers of God, not because of their
offences, but because they chanced to be the possessors of much wealth.
Cardan remonstrated at once--he always made it his practice keep
free from all theological wrangling,--but Petrus treated the whole question
with,[173] and it does not seem that Cardan could have had any very
strong feeling in the matter, for the obnoxious passage is retained in
calm the editions of 1556 and 1557. The religious authorities were
however fully justified in assuming that the constancie of, having for
their labour the enough not to perceive sorrow at a flout put however
upon Julius Cæsar and now Scaliger went a step farther, and, albeit
he knew little of the subject in hand, published a book of_Esoteric
Exercitations_ spoile of their goods.
'Have it your own way, then, but proceed, we are all attention.'

'I had shipped as mate on board a vessel bound from Valparaiso to
Virginia, some years ago, when, getting short of provisions, we put into
Lima, on the coast of Peru. Here we took on as passenger, an English
gentleman in bad health, who was said to be enormously rich, but who
bore a very bad character, people said he had murdered his brother's
child, or had him put out of the way, to obtain his inheritance, but he
was a rich man and justice was quiet. He had noble blood in his veins,
and had been sent out by government as ambassador, or something of that
sort. One of our crew came from his native village, and he told me these
particulars.'

A singular expression came over the Earl's features for a moment, and
the same low, mocking laugh was again heard, the listeners shuddered and
drew closer together: the mariner proceeded.

'We had a rough passage, but when we neared Cape Horn, of all the gales
that ever blew in five-and-forty years that I have been at sea, I never
saw one like that. One night when the storm was at its utmost, when the
lightning, blue and vivid, seemed to surround us with an atmosphere of
flame, he rushed upon deck, pale and trembling, declaring he could not
stay below, for there was a woman and child there, mocking him and
dancing in the lightning's flash.' A groan of horror burst from the
listeners. The Earl's cheek flushed for a moment, then turned pale, but
he was motionless and passionless in seeming. The seaman glanced at the
Earl from under his shaggy eyebrows, and proceeded.

'The sailors spoke together in angry whispers, some of them were for
throwing him overboard, and I had hard work to persuade them to leave
him to his Maker and his conscience; soon, however, we all heard the
wailing cry of a child, then stifling sobs, sounds mingled with the
storm like a woman's voice in agony of supplication, bitter, mocking
laughter. I could restrain the men no longer, "we will free our craft
from this Jonah," said they, "the storm is sent for him." But the
vengeance of the Almighty was swifter than theirs, he had climbed the
rigging--the stoutest seaman that ever handled rope could not have
passed the futtoch shrouds in such a storm, yet he reached the top-mast
cross-trees, clinging to the top-gallant mast he stood, and in the
lightning we had seen his face, ghastly with terror. There was a vivid
flash--it seemed to wrap the mast in one blue sheet of flame, while all
around was dark, we saw it then, a female with a child in her arms,
floating, as it seemed, upon the wind, now drifting towards him, now
whirled upon the blast to a distance. A tremendous sea struck us upon
the beam at this moment, and every mast went by the board. The gale
abated soon, and we got jury-masts up, and put back to Lima, but of all
that ship's crew, no man was hurt by the storm or the spirit, save he
whose deeds had been evil;--and that is why, my lord, I say I fear not
these sounds, for a good conscience is the best sheet-anchor.'

'A truly edifying tale,' said the Earl sneering, 'you must be Chaplain
to the fleet, doubtless. The bad boy got whipped and the good boys went
scot free, just as it should be. And now, good folks, you have had your
amusement, and had best seek your homes, and Old Boreas here may go to
his ship or the Devil. I care not.' With this parting benediction the
Earl quitted the apartment, and the crowd soon dispersed. The agent
remained, and a few of the tenantry who had business with him. The
mariner with a grave, quiet look, remained seated on one of the benches.
There was a slight bustle at the door, as of repelling some intruder,
who, however, succeeded in gaining an entrance, and a man whose garments
bespoke extreme poverty, entered and approached the man of business.

Mr. Lambert lifted up his head and looked coldly at him. 'What is it you
want now?' he asked.

'If you please--' began the man.

'Oh! It's all of no use, unless you have brought the money. My Lord
can't wait any longer, and I have a warrant out now.'

'But I have the money,' said the man, and he laid five one pound notes
on the table.

'This is not sufficient,' said Lambert, 'the costs of the summons,
warrant of distress, etc., amount to £14 more.'

'My God!' said he, 'what am I to do?'

'I can take this on account, and stop further proceedings, if you can
procure security to pay the remainder within a month.'

'I cannot. Great God! have you no mercy? I have not tasted food these
three days, and I am weak with fever. I cannot work yet; wait till I am
better.'

This man's attenuated form, his bony hands and cadaverous cheeks--eyes
staring with hunger, told a tale too common, alas, of fearful suffering;
but no marble was colder than the agent.

'I am not your physician, Mr. Johnson, and therefore cannot say any
thing about your fitness for work. One thing I have to say, that is, you
cannot sit rent free in my lord's cottage; the money must be paid or out
you pack. I have an attachment on your tools, so you cannot remove them.
You have had the usual legal notice, and my offer just now was
liberal--very liberal.'

'And my children--'

'There are institutions provided by the laws, Mr. Johnson, for the
reception of paupers. But we are wasting time. Do you accept my
proposition or not?'

'I cannot do it; give me time.'

'Too much has been already wasted. Take back your money. You doubtless
can obtain more in the same manner you did this. It looks very
suspicious, I must say.'

'And this is called a Christian land!' said the poor fellow, holding his
wasted hands up to heaven. 'O God, that these things should be! The
earth is covered with food for sustaining life, and hundreds, aye,
thousands, like myself, are perishing at home. Oh, where is Christian
charity?'

'Charity begins at home,' said the seaman, 'and seldom casts anchor in
any other port. If you'll take my advice, you will stow your cargo and
make sail, and hark ye--' He whispered a word in the man's ear; the
other clasped his hands together, and with a tear in his eye, left the
apartment.

'Woe! woe! doomed!' cried the mysterious voice.

Lambert shook like a leaf--the seaman seemed to enjoy his terror.

'How much does Mr. Johnson owe?' said he,

'£5 rent, and £14 costs and taxes.'

'Write a receipt.'

The mariner paid the sum, and asked how he came so low.

'The usual story, captain.'

'Williams is my name.'

'The usual story, Captain Williams--sick wife, large family, broke a
leg, wife died, behind-hand in his rent, steady man, but not punctual in
paying his bills.'

'Why how the thunder could he? Couldn't his lordship wait till the poor
fellow was a little recovered?'

'Business, captain, must be conducted in a business-like manner.'

'You thought otherwise once.'

'When was that, pray?'

'When the father of that man, whom your relentless cruelty pursues with
such vindictive malice, took you, a friendless boy, fed and clothed you,
educated you along with his own son--the very man whose misery you
insult--when his father saved _you_ from the "charitable institution"
you would send his children to, and finally paid the fee for articling
you to the attorney at Canterbury, where you learned your present
devotion to business.'

The agent stared in speechless astonishment--the low musical laugh again
rang through the room.

'Listen!' said the mariner. 'The creatures of the air, the beings of
another world denounce you; the victims of your lust for gold, though
buried fathoms deep in the grave, still find a voice to chill the marrow
in your bones: the dead shall rise from their graves and confront
you--the hidden perfidy of years shall be disclosed, base tool of a
baser master--all your machinations against the wronged and the humble
shall fail, and recoil upon yourselves. Repent ere it will be too late;
you will never more be warned by me.'

So saying, the stout seaman left the astonished agent and wended his way
towards the cottage of the poor man Johnson, whither we shall precede
him. It is needless to remind the reader that the way was perfectly
familiar to him.

Dark are the shadows that cross the poor man's path, and few and far
between are the glimpses of hope that come to lighten them. The Eternal
in his wisdom has ordained that such should be--but Oh! woe! woe! ten
thousand times ten thousand woes, does he deserve who oppresses where he
should relieve, who becomes the destroyer where he should have been the
comforter; and yet there exist ten thousand such who thrive and roll in
luxury, while human hearts are bursting in their agony.


CHAPTER IV.

THE POOR MAN'S HOME.


Standing a little aloof from the other cottages, as if conscious of its
poor appearance, was a shed; it could hardly be called any thing else,
for it appeared originally to have been nothing more than an out-house
belonging to another building, and such in fact it had been. The roof
was decayed in many places, and covered partly with rank moss. It was
situated in a hollow, and the marshy soil around bore evident proof that
it was subject to be overflowed in rainy weather. Four or five squalid,
ragged children, with pinched features and thin limbs, sat huddled in a
heap on the muddy ground, watching the road with anxious eyes--eyes so
bright with hunger that they seemed like those of so many rats. The
youngest--it was not two years old, cried--the elder beat it. Start not,
reader, it is human nature. The little creature hid her wizen face in
her withered little hands and sobbed. A man rode by just then. It was
the agent on his way to the castle, for this was the morning of Curly
Tom's escape. Instinctively the children drew closer together and
shuddered. They did not know why, but they knew their father feared him.
He passed on, and the little faces seemed to brighten for a moment; the
eldest was but seven. Long ere the dawn their father had started for the
market town, some five miles off, in the vain hope that an old friend
there would help him. Ah, poor children! there they sat from the first
ray of daylight, and the bright sun was now glittering high above their
heads, shining upon their desolation and upon the castle turrets,
wherein dwelt in luxury their oppressor. The events we have described as
taking place at the castle were still in progress, when a female was
seen slowly coming along the road, bearing a basket on her arm that
seemed too heavy for her.

'That is Mary Walters,' said the eldest, 'and she will give us something
to eat--I am sure she will. Jenny, dear, don't cry,' and the urchin
wiped the little face she had struck before, and tenderly took her in
her own spare little arms. The child was not much weight. Gentle Mary
Waters! who that gazed upon thy placid face, as thou earnest on thine
errand of mercy--who that saw thee as thou ministered to the necessities
of those poor desolate children, would not have loved thee--who that had
seen thee in the first blush of thy beauty, when thy foot was as elastic
as the fawn's, and thy countenance radiant with joy and life's young
morning hope--who, who could dream that there existed one who had seen
all this, who had known the tie that bound thee to earth and its
promised happiness, the innocent love that abounded in thy heart--yet
ruthlessly snapped that tie asunder, and buried the love nought could
eradicate, deep in her bosom--a shattered wreck amid the memories of the
past. Gentle Mary Walters! alas for thy experience!

What avails it to describe her--perished as we know that fair form to
be, withered in its bloom. Yet she was handsome. It was not in any
particular feature; it was in the whole expression of her face and form.
Her auburn hair, in its plain quiet braid--her neat and scrupulously
plain attire, her mild blue eye, the air of placid resignation about her
presence, seemed so lovely, for she bore no outward token of the grief
within; she had never wailed or cried her sorrow away; but though her
gay smile had passed away forever, she had not become the gloomy
misanthrope or the fretful querulous invalid. She had complained to no
one. Her old grandfather knew her griefs, but he also knew that it was a
subject he could not offer her consolation upon. To aid the suffering as
far as her slender means would allow, to tend the couch of sickness, to
cheer the desponding heart in its hour of darkness, these were the
occupations with which she strove, not to forget her sorrows--that could
never be--but to afford an outlet for that love for her fellow creatures
which no selfish grief could lessen. And she could smile and speak in
cheering tones to others in their hour of woe, shedding over their
darkened paths the light of hope, while deep in the fountains of her own
heart that sweet flame was extinguished forever on earth, and dust and
ashes alone remained.

But over that lovely countenance, so serene and beautiful, the shadow of
death had already fallen;--that dread disease that beautifies ere it
kills its victims, had placed its fell stamp upon her. Daily her figure
became thinner and sharper, her breath grew shorter and a hacking cough
commenced, while a hectic flush sometimes came over her pallid
cheek--but too plainly warning those who looked upon her, that
consumption had marked her for its victim.

Hastily giving the children some victuals she had brought for them, she
entered the hovel, furniture there was none;--a chest of tools and a
heap of straw was all its contents. The grate had evidently been
unconscious of a fire for weeks past,--but it was summer. She shuddered
as she looked around. This was the home for which the proud lord of
those domains exacted a rent of £10 per year. She was not one, however,
to give way to idle speculation when there was good to be done: she
opened the shutters, swept the floor, and threw a quilt she had brought
with her over the heap of straw, then made the children wash themselves,
and proceeded to dress them in some hastily made clothes, which her
basket contained. Then taking the little one in her lap, and making the
others lay down on the bed--for hunger had awoke them far before they
had their needful rest, she sat down upon the tool-chest lulling the
child to sleep, and patiently awaiting the arrival of the father. A step
approached, it was not the man, however, but the landlady's wayward
nephew:--he, too, carried a basket, and seemed pleased, but not at all
surprised at seeing Mary.

'I knew I should find you here,' said he, sitting beside her, (he was
much more companionable with her than with any other person,) 'I knew as
soon as you came back and heard how badly off these poor creatures were,
you would come to relieve them. It's like you, Mary, you seem the only
Angel amongst a race of fiends.'

'It is our duty to help the poor and needy, Edward: I only grieve I was
absent from the village. Things ought never to have come to this pass.
Why did not the neighbors help them?'

'Why, Mary, in the first place you know poor Johnson was no favorite of
theirs--he was better educated than any of them, you know he was not
bred a carpenter, but intended for a minister,--so he has often told me
himself, for he has been my schoolmaster, it's because we are both
lonely, I suppose, that he talked to me, but he kept aloof from the
others, and they all said pride would have a fall, and so would not come
near him in his trouble. My aunt and he had quarrelled, but she would
gladly help him for all that if he would only accept of it, but his
pride sticks in the way. I knew he was away, or I would not have brought
this with me; however, you can say you brought it.'

'I can never tell an untruth, Edward, but you can leave it, perhaps he
will ask no questions.'

'I'm not quite sure of that, Mary; but I've played him one trick this
morning for his own good, and if you won't help me to play another, e'en
let it alone--all have their weak side,--that abstract idea of truth you
worship, Mary, is yours.'

'And do you not love the truth too, Edward?'

'I never tell a wilful lie, Mary, you know. I'd scorn it, and I never
break my word,--but still, look at truth's reward,--here! the home of an
honest man, and there!' he pointed towards the castle. 'Ah! forgive me,
Mary, stupid dolt, that I am.'

'You have not hurt me, Edward, but must never think honesty and truth
has no reward even on earth; a good conscience is a blessing none can
take away from us, and there is hope in Heaven.'

'There had need be, Mary,--I won't contradict you, though I don't know
much about it. The Bible says so, and I suppose it's true: but poor
Johnson, I'm thinking will be more glad of the five pounds I tricked him
into accepting this morning than a dozen good consciences.'

'How was that done, Edward?'

'Why, my aunt wanted to help him, but did not know how,--but I was up at
grey dawn this morning, and saw him pass in the direction of Elverton. I
knew he was gone on a fool's errand to appeal to an old friend; he had,
it seems, bowed his proud heart to that. True, he had saved this man's
life: more, he had saved him from dishonor and disgrace, but I felt none
the less certain he would get no aid there. So I took £5 from Aunt
Ally's cash-box, and putting them inside a blank letter, I directed it
in a feigned hand, only adding the words, "from one who sympathises with
learning and ability in distress," for he's proud of his learning, and
rode like mad over the hills to get there before him; there I watched
for him, and got a footmail to give him the letter, and came back as
fast as I went.'

'Now, God bless you for it, Edward, you are a wild boy, but you have a
good heart.'

'Boy! Man, you mean, Mary. I'm eighteen this summer.'

'I should not have thought you so old.'

'Aye, aye, you judge like the rest, because my carcase is not as big as
Lumping Dick's the butcher boy's, and because you have known me as a
child when you were a grown woman, you think I am to remain a child
always.' And he petulantly shook back the masses of long dark hair that
shadowed his wild but handsome countenance.

At this moment Johnson entered the room. His step was feeble and slow,
but his countenance no longer bore the look of deep dejection that had
in the morning characterized it. His eye brightened still more when he
saw Mary.

'Now God bless you, Miss Waters, for thinking of my poor lambs,' said
he. 'I scarcely dared to hope for them. I have brought food for
them--see!' he added. 'I little dreamed anyone would have been here
before me.'

'Sit down,' said Mary, rising; 'you are fatigued and weak. I must go
now, as my grandfather will need me, but we will send you something to
make your house more comfortable.'

'I shall not require it, Miss Mary: I have nearly five pounds here.'

'Why, how is that?'

'It was handed me this morning by a strange footman in Elverton, after
the door was shut in my face of the only man I ever tamed my spirit to
ask aid from: yes, the cowardly hypocrite that dared not deny me to my
face, sent his lacquey to tell me he was unwell, and could not be
disturbed by beggars. May the curse--'

'Stay!' said Mary, 'curse him not, leave his punishment to his Maker;
but did not the agent take the five pounds for the rent?'

'No; he said there was a warrant and costs of suit that made it fourteen
pounds more, and was going to send the bailiffs to turn me out this very
evening; but a strange old seaman came forward and paid the amount. I
should have been here sooner, but I went round to the village shop to
buy food for the little ones.'

'You must allow me to have my way, Johnson,' said Mary. 'Sit down now
and eat; then rest. You will need the little money you have, and more
too, to recruit your health, for you must not dream of working again
until you are strong. I will send what is necessary, and some one to
mind the children; Edward, will you walk home with me?' and before the
man could reply, not giving him time to utter a word of thanks, she took
the arm of the youth and quitted the cottage. The man knelt down on the
floor, and famishing as he was, prayed for a blessing on her head ere he
touched the food that was there. Another had been a witness to this
interview. Looking through the casement was the visage of the mariner,
no longer stern, but moved with unutterable emotion, and tears, yes,
tears trickling down his weather-beaten cheeks. This soon ceased,
however, and a frown dark and terrible passed over his face; his
powerful frame quivered, then settled down into one look of deep,
determined, implacable resolve. He entered the hut, and laying the
agent's receipt upon the chest, quitted without a word.


CHAPTER V.

THE CAPTURE.


The sun had set about an hour on the evening of the same day, when Mr.
Lambert, with two stout attendants, set out from his residence on the
outskirts of the village, and took his way through the intervening wood
towards the sea shore. The two men with him were London officers, adepts
at thief catching, resolute and determined; they were well armed, but
bore no badge of their occupation outside. The agent had screwed his
courage to the point of accompanying them, with some difficulty, but he
was well aware that if they failed in capturing their man, he would have
to encounter the nobleman's rage, and he feared the loss of his favor
more than the chance of being shot or stabbed by Hunter; but he knew
well it was an errand of no small danger he was upon; yet they were
three to one, and he counted much upon the instructions he had given to
Curly Tom; much also on Hunter's habit of drink, still he felt by no
means easy and would have given much then to have been quietly in his
bed; not so the officers; they were in high glee, the prospect of a
desperate encounter being by men inured to deal with ruffians as they
were, but small in comparison with the hope of a large reward.

They proceeded in silence, however--the agent, who was perfectly
familiar with the way, leading. They soon emerged into the open country,
and after a few miles began to ascend, and felt the keen air from the
sea blow upon their faces--the path soon became rugged and uneven, but
sloping towards the sea. In a short time they reached the beach. Here
they dismounted and tied their beasts up under a shed, placed there for
the purpose of drying fish. There was no moon, but it was a bright
starlight night, and the tide was out. Creeping cautiously along, they
skirted the base of a large cliff which projected far beyond low water
mark, and against which the sea beat in fury when the tide was in; and
keeping on its inner side; crept along until they reached the entrance
of a cave. Not a word was spoken. Their instructions had been
precise--for Lambert, who was born and had spent his earliest years
there, knew every spot of the ground. They took their shoes off, and
walking upon the hard sand which formed the ground, entered the pitchy
darkness. Lambert going first, and knowing that a sound would be
fatal--for they would have little chance in that narrow passage--he
turned every angle as accurately as if it had been daylight, and the
officers holding, one behind the other, followed stealthily along. Soon
their path widened, and a glimmering light allowed them that the cavern
was tenanted, or had been so. A few paces more, and they stopped. Some
large masses of fallen rock here almost blocked up the path, leaving an
opening so narrow as to require stooping to enter. Cautiously peeping
through some spaces between the rocks, the agent and his myrmidons gazed
upon a scene Salvator would have loved to paint. The cavern here
expanded into a semicircular hall, stalactites hanging from its roof
nearly to the ground. Here and there a niche and recess which seemed
done by human art, but which in fact was Nature's handiwork, was seen,
and every point of spar, from the lofty roof to the stalagmites below,
was glittering in the light of a huge fire of brushwood fed by Curly
Tom. A small rill of water trickled from a fissure in the rock above,
and wound its way through the sand towards the sea. It was the very
beau-ideal of a robber's cave. Its existence was known to few: only
accessible at low water, the entrance had escaped notice, and the few
that did find it were discouraged on entering by the long and tortuous
way which led to this chamber, and did not track it far. The smoke found
vent above, as the fire burnt clear and bright, and did not incommode
the watchers.

Horace Hunter was pacing the cave with unsteady step, and with delight
the officers saw that he was more than half intoxicated. No one could
have recognized in the bloated countenance and reckless air of the
hunted man, the gay and handsome young farmer of seven years before.
There was still the same manly form and intelligent features, but the
rich brown hair that then curled round his open brow, now wild and
matted, only added to the desperate appearance of his sunken eyes and
overhanging brows. Drink did not make him merry. On the contrary he was
more bitter then than ever. Gloomy and ferocious as he had become since
his sister's shame had been known to him, when he drank he only brooded
heavier upon it; and the hope of a more complete revenge only restrained
him then from some desperate act of violence. As he walked to and fro,
chafing with inward passion, he might have been compared to a caged wild
beast, hungry and with food in sight, yet unattainable.

'A curse upon you, Tom!' said he. 'Would you roast us alive, this hot
night? Leave the fire alone and bring your hang-dog face here!'

He treated his associate with the most bitter contempt.

'I doant fancy biding here with narra light!' said the fellow. 'There be
a mort of ugly things here!'

'There's nothing uglier than your own carcase. Drink and get courage. If
your heart is cold with fear, warm it with brandy.'

So saying he took a deep draught himself and handed the bottle to his
companion.

'I hate the stuff!' said he. 'Bah! it's poison--but it rouses me. Fire
this infernal cave! What's that?' A bat, disturbed by the smoke, flitted
close before his face. 'I have had nothing but evil omens to-day. What
is the day of the month?'

'I heern lawyer say the 26th, yesterday.'

'The 27th of August, then. By twelve o'clock to-night my time will be
up--then I shall be free to act. If that old seaman should play me false
now! I promised him to wait three years, and I have kept my word!' He
was speaking more to himself than to his companion. 'Three long
years--too long for vengeance for wrongs like mine to wait. But that he
swore, I should tame his pride--but that he spoke of hurling him from
his high estate, ere this I would have had the heart's blood of that
proud man. But to-night I shall be free, and then--'

He took from his vest a miniature, and gazed upon it long and earnestly.
Gradually his features softened, and burying his face in his hands, he
wept. There was yet one green spot in the desert of his heart--love for
the fair girl he had been betrothed to. Reader, it was a terrible thing
to see that man weep--it would have made your heart sicken and your
blood boil, while every scalding tear that fell would cry aloud in your
thoughts, 'Vengeance, vengeance!'

A strange proceeding now took place. Curly Tom took from his pocket a
small phial, and previously filling his own cup with brandy, poured the
contents into the bottle. He watched his companion intently during this
process, but his terrible emotion too completely mastered him for the
moment. It was but momentary. He arose and commenced to pace the floor
again. 'My Mary! you too sacrificed! O, fiend! fiend! But my vengeance
shall be terrible! To-night I shall be free from my oath!' He walked up
to the table and drank. Curly Tom watched him intently as he resumed his
unsteady walk.

'He little dreams that I can enter his very chamber at any hour. Oh!
coward, fool, dolt, that I have been, to delay my just revenge on the
word of that old pirate. I believe him,--some paid minion of this proud
man; for he has them in every guise, perhaps the very appointment made
three years ago in the West Indies, was a trap, perhaps,--even this clod
is a spy and accomplice;' he took a pistol from an inner pocket and
cocking it, pressed it to the ear of his companion. 'Tom,' said he, 'if
I thought you would betray me.' The ruffian possessed that brute
indifference to danger too often mistaken for true courage,--he did not
tremble, though a slight paleness was visible on his repulsive
countenance as he felt the touch of the iron barrel. 'Whoy! Measter
Horace,' said he, 'didn't you save moy old mawther from being drowned by
the boys vor a witch, noa, noa,--I be true, and hate yearl and lawyer,
and all the great volk.'

'I believe you,' said the other, replacing the pistol, 'but' he began to
mutter indistinctly, took a few steps in a wild, uncertain way;--'I feel
dizzy,--d----nation,' he staggered to a seat and dropped his head upon
the piece of rock that served them for a table;--the opiate had done its
work.

Curly Tom cautiously arose, and walking up to him, looked upon him long
and steadily, listening to the heavy breathing,--he wished to remove his
arms, but the position Hunter was lying in, prevented his doing so. The
ruffian felt no remorse; it was true that Hunter had saved the wretch's
mother from being abused and ill-treated, perhaps murdered, by the
superstitious villagers: true that he had regularly allowed the poor old
woman support till her death,--while her ruffian son was pursuing his
career of crime,--but the villain knew his own neck was in danger, and
being conscious of perfidy, now hated Hunter for his momentary
suspicion. As he leaned over the insensible man, his light, bleary eyes
gleaming with ferocious satisfaction, his lank, shambling figure, and
yellow, matted hair hanging in elf locks round his sharp visage, he
looked like an unclean bird of prey hovering over a carcase. And a
carcase it was over which he bent his head; dead now to every honorable
hope, worse than useless to his kind, a hunted outcast, a mass of
decaying matter, kept alive only by the fiery hope of vengeance that
burnt within. The ruffian had hitherto been faithful, and procured
Hunter those necessaries that he could not venture in quest of himself,
for he was a deserter from that service, which kidnaps men to do its
work, and hunts down the poor slaves when they escape, even in the land
whose inhabitants are singing, 'Britons ever will be free.' Bitter,
mockery of freedom. Curly Tom now held up his hand, and cautiously the
officers emerged from their hiding place, slowly they came forward,
anticipating an easy capture; they were mistaken. The opiate, as it
frequently does on excitable natures, had only partially stupefied him,
and the first effect wearing off, it now began to act as a
stimulant;--the officers had traversed about half the distance to the
rock on which Hunter's head reclined, when he started up and looked
wildly around him,--for a moment he seemed stupefied, and passed his
hand before his face as if to assure himself he was not dreaming--the
officers rushed forward. He saw it all now,--he drew a pistol, but Curly
Tom threw his long arms round him,--too late to prevent the explosion,
however. The ball whizzed by the side of the foremost officer, and
struck the agent in the leg--he fell. Curly Tom possessed more strength
than his lank figure promised,--but Hunter, thoroughly sobered by his
danger; tore his hold away, and striking the ruffian a tremendous blow
with the butt end of the discharged pistol, felled him to the
ground,--and snatching a knife from the rock close at hand, stabbed the
foremost officer to the heart,--he fell with a heavy groan, and the next
moment the remaining officer, a man of herculean strength had closed
upon him. Terrible was now the struggle--the officer had dexterously
struck the knife from his hand as he closed with him, but he could not
draw his pistols. Locked in each other's grasp they wrestled together
for life: each one well knew that death would be the lot of the
vanquished,--the officer burning to revenge his comrade's death:--Hunter
struggling for life and his cherished vengeance. Gradually they
approached the spot where the agent sat watching the conflict with
terrible anxiety, so absorbing as to make him forgetful of the pain of
his wound; here, by a tremendous effort the officer succeeded in
throwing his antagonist; falling, however, with him. Hunter made
desperate efforts to rise, but getting within reach of the agent in the
struggle, Lambert seized his hair, and held his head firmly down; to
master his hands now, and slip a pair of handcuffs over his wrists, was,
to the powerful and practised officer, the work of a moment,--and
furious with passion, but exhausted by the struggle, Hunter lay upon the
earth, a captive.

'A game fellow,' said the officer, wiping the perspiration from his
brow, 'and strong as a bear, but I've tackled as tough hands as him in
my day, and so has poor Bill Maddox there. I hope the Earl will settle a
good pension on his widow--it will be sad news for her and her four poor
children:--stone dead. He took the famous highwayman, Jack Blount summut
in this way, five years ago. Well, he's gone, and as the tide is coming
in, we had best be smart. That shot was unlucky for you, Mr. Lambert,
but such accidents will happen. You behaved beautifully. I'm blowed if I
thought you so fly to these things. Poor Bill--we can't move him until
next tide, but sea-water can't hurt him now. I must rouse this
chuckle-headed yokel and get him to help me.' So saying, the veteran
thief-catcher lighted a dark lantern, and taking some water sprinkled it
freely over the head and face of Curly Tom. The fellow returned to
consciousness, and gazed around him--a look of ferocious joy animated
his eyes, as he saw that Hunter was taken, and drinking the brandy he
had reserved unmixed in the cup, he professed his readiness to help
them.

Leaving him to guard the prisoner, first, however, removing Hunter's
remaining pistol, and even securing the discharged one, the sturdy
official took the wounded agent on his back, and crept out of the
cavern. He soon returned, and with Tom's assistance removed Hunter also,
who now from the combined effects of exhaustion, liquor and the opiate,
was fast becoming insensible. Leaving one of his pistols with the agent,
in case of treachery on the part of Tom, he once more returned, and
taking off the outer clothing of the dead man, fastened a cord to his
feet, and tied it firmly round a piece of rock near by. He was too used
to scenes of blood to shed a tear, but he shook the dead man's hand and
said, 'Poor Bill,' as he quitted the cave. His precautions with regard
to Tom were unneeded. The ruffian's hatred had been aroused by Hunter's
suspicion, and confirmed by the blow. Nor did he refuse to start to
Erith for assistance to convey the prisoner and the wounded man there.
He had been assured by the agent that no harm should come to him,
protected by the powerful influence of the nobleman; and to allow
himself to be captured had been part of the plan from the first. He had
not sense enough to know that the heavier crime of murder, now laying
upon the soul of the unfortunate man, did away with the necessity of his
appearing as a witness, as it had been done in the presence of Mr.
Lambert and the officer, and they were both too wise to undeceive him.
Indeed the wily agent had determined, now that the service was rendered,
to sacrifice his ruffianly tool, as his presence might be troublesome.
Tom soon returned with a posse of police officers and a cart, to convey
the prisoner and the wounded. A surgeon was with them, who dressed Mr.
Lambert's wound temporarily, and pronounced it trifling, and the party
departed--Tom going with them as a voluntary prisoner.

Great were the encomiums bestowed upon the officer by his brother
official, for his conduct and bravery, and the agent also came in for
his share of praise--and the whole party were in high glee at the
result, which brought one poor hunted human being under the dread ban of
the law, while he whose lust had driven him to crime revelled in luxury,
and mingled with the fair and good, courted and caressed by those who
would have shrunk from expressing any sympathy for the poor victims of
his pride. Weep, angels, weep! and devils, shout for joy! Hell has no
minister so powerful as the proud man's lust.

It may be as well to mention here at once, that the agent, pursuing his
plan of getting rid of Curly Tom, much to that worthy's astonishment,
pressed the charge of highway robbery against him, before the trial of
Hunter, which was postponed through the influence of the Earl, which was
indirectly exerted also to procure the condemnation of his base tool;
and so it came to pass, that after a trial, which was a mere form--for
the seaman's bare deposition, which Mr. Lambert had taken, was admitted
as evidence--the good citizens of Canterbury being in want of a little
excitement, that interesting individual performed a dance upon nothing,
in company with a sheep-stealer and a forger, for their especial behoof,
one fine day in September, under the personal superintendence of that
accomplished artist, Mr. John Ketch, in the presence of a highly
respectable and numerous audience, who all retired to their homes in
peace, much gratified with the exhibition, and duly impressed with a
deep sense of the blessing of being permitted to vegetate under the
protection of a government so wise in its councils, so strong in
_execution_, and so paternal in its care for the morals of the people.
So said the newspapers next day; and thus ended the career of a
heartless ruffian, it is true, but who had ever sought to make him
otherwise?

To proceed with our tale. Day was now fast breaking; and as the cortege
moved away with their prisoner, two horsemen appeared on the cliffs
above, and dismounting, watched the party with eager but disappointed
looks. They were the old seaman and Edward Barnett, the village
landlady's eccentric nephew.

'A plague upon my awkward riding,' said the seaman, 'we are too late!
They have taken him, and that rascal too with him! Fool that he was to
place any confidence in such a hound.'

'He had been kind to Tom's mother,' said Edward, 'and he supposed that
gratitude.'

'Bah!' said the sailor; 'when you have buffeted as many of the storms of
life as I have, you will learn that gratitude is rarely found on
earth--least of all in such a brutified nature as that fellow's. But why
do I blame him? He was but what the law made him. Punished for a venial
fault--sent to herd with hardened malefactors, is it wonderful that he
should become schooled in crime? And now the law will punish the
criminal it made. We can do no good here--we had best proceed to Erith.
I have much to say to you, and much to do. But fear not; Hunter shall
not perish without an effort, even if I tear him from the gallows.' So
saying, he remounted, and the two slowly pursued their way towards
Erith.


CHAPTER VI.

THE BEGINNING OF RETRIBUTION.


The seaman and his young companion were seated together in a little room
overlooking the sea, on the evening succeeding the events we have
related. It was one of those calm, lovely evenings when summer, seeming
loth to give over her reign to the approaching fall, exerts herself to
display her utmost beauty, and withholds her scorching heat. The
declining sun gave a rose colored tint to the landscape, and the vessels
passing to or from the modern Babylon added animation to the scene. The
mariner was gazing at the distant horizon, lost in thought. That
memories of other days were recalled to his mind, was evident from the
working of his features; that it required a strong effort to restrain
his emotion, was perceivable from the compression of his lips. There was
a massive grandeur in his aspect as he sat, well befitting the scene.
His young companion had his thoughts also, and they were not the usual
ones of his age. The meeting with the seaman and subsequent events had
roused him from his usual listless, wayward fancies, and he was going
back in memory to past scenes--shadowy and indistinct--but all in some
way mixed with the locket he wore suspended, unseen, around his neck.
That the time had now arrived when he was to receive an explanation of
the past, he felt sure; for his aunt had often told him that when Walter
arrived he should know all: and from the seaman's manner he conjectured
that the long wished for hour was come.

'Edward,' said the mariner, 'I wish you to tell me all that you
recollect--not of your life at your aunt's, but before that.'

'And then,' said the boy, 'in return you promise to tell me of my
parentage?'

'You shall know all.'

The boy paced the floor for a few moments. His figure was slender, but
lithe and active, of medium stature; and there was a restlessness about
his movements that told of a wild spirit within. His face was remarkably
handsome; features chiselled in a form that would have served a Grecian
sculptor for a model--and his long dark hair fell in glossy locks even
over his shoulders. He stood holding the back of a chair, and looking
more to seaward than at his companion, began:

'It was not in this country, I am sure, that I first recollect myself,
in a handsome house, but built different from these. There were
cocoa-nut trees growing near it; and other trees that do not grow here;
but I have seen something like them in the Earl's green house. There
were luscious fruits, but not English ones--oranges and bananas I am
sure. The people around us too were black. I remember I was frightened
when I came here first at seeing so many white people and no blacks.'

Walter regarded him steadily--but the young man's eye was seaward. He
seemed to see before him the scenes he was depicting.

'There was a piazza round the house, where I used to play, and a sweet
lady, very like poor Mary, but dark-haired, whom I used to call mother.'
There was powerful emotion depicted on the listener's face, but he said
nothing. 'I remember a handsome gentleman, but he was not there often.
He wore a uniform, but not like the officers here. I think now he must
have been in the navy. I used to call him papa. I am sure he must have
been my father, and he was a sailor; for my mother was always looking
out to sea when he was absent, and he took me onboard a man of war ship
once, where, from the deference every one showed to him, I judge, now
that I am older, that he must have been the Captain of. These things
seem to me like shadows, for I was not more than five years old then.'

'True,' said his auditor, 'your memory is good.'

'There was a party. I think my father was not there, but I was
handsomely dressed, and ladies caressed me, and the negroes were
dancing. I think it must have been my birth-day. I remember a servant
bringing in a letter, and my mother fainting, and talk about a great
fight at sea, and my father's name mentioned--I have forgotten it--but
ladies told me not to cry, and I knew that he was dead; but I did not
know what it meant. After this another gentleman used to come there,
very handsome too, but not like my father, for he had a dark face and
dark hair, and my father's hair was light. I did not like him, for he
spoke very stern to my mother, and she used to weep, and was very much
frightened by him. It was some paper he wanted from her, and he offered
her gold once. I saw him, for I hid myself and watched him. Then my
mother got sick--they said she was getting better, and I remember being
much surprised one morning, when the old nurse came down and told me she
was dead. She had died suddenly in the night, they said, and yet she had
been better the evening before.'

A deep groan burst from the seaman's lips, and his face was ashy pale.
The young man trembled as he proceeded.

'The dark gentleman came and took me away from the house, and I never
saw it again. My old nurse went with me. I was six years old then, and I
lived with her, in a poorer place than before, and not close to the old
house, for we went a long way in a carriage to reach it. We lived
together so till I was near eight years old. The dark gentleman never
came near us--but one day a man came, and said he had bought her, I
think, and she must go with him; and they took her away from me. I clung
to her, but they beat me away. Unseen by them she tied this ribbon with
the locket to it round my neck, and telling me never to part with it,
for it had been my mother's, and would one day bring me rank and
fortune, she went with her new master. A kind old colored woman, who
used to say she was free, took me to her house, and I remember nothing
more until you found me there, but that I hid the locket even from her,
for I was afraid she would take it away, and that the man who took Nurse
away, said, looking at me, "What a pity he is white!"'

The youth had been so intent upon collecting the reminiscences of his
childhood, that he had failed to perceive the effect it had upon his
companion, and the darkness now prevented his face from being seen--but
the agonized sobs that broke from him now and then told that the
fountains of his heart were stirred, and his very soul harrowed up, and
memory had conjured up a series of terrible recollections. Lights were
brought into the room, but all traces of agitation had disappeared, and
his countenance bore only the look of stern, implacable resolve.

'Edward, tell me one thing more. Have you ever seen the dark-haired man
since?'

'Daily, for these ten years almost. I knew him instantly.'

'His name?'

'De Montford! It was by accident I discovered the secret of the picture
in the justice-room, and I have availed myself of it to play spirit to
him and his base agent sometimes.'

'It was a boyish trick--but you have sterner work now in hand than
playing ghost--you have to avenge a murdered mother!'

'Ah! then my mother's sudden death, when she was recovering--'

'Was the work of poison!'

'I see it all!' said the young man. 'The papers he wanted, and she
refused--but I will kill him!' He started up, and was rushing to the
door. The iron grasp of the seaman arrested him.

'You must be calm, Edward. He shall die, but he must not perish by your
hand. He is your uncle. But he shall first be stripped of his assumed
rank and title, and his proud spirit humbled. Then he shall answer in a
court of justice for the murder of your mother.'

'Who, then, was my father?'

'The eldest lawful son of the late Earl De Montford!'

Edward gazed proudly around him for a moment, then sank into a chair,
and burying his face in his hands, burst into tears. Walter did not
disturb him, but sat regarding him with a look in which affection was
strangely mingled with his stern resolve. At length Edward raised his
head.

'I am composed now,' said he, 'and will be guided by you, for I am
convinced you have been a true friend to me. But there must be no
reservation--you must tell me all.'

'Or you will doubt me. It was never my intention to keep you in the dark
or in leading strings longer than necessary. I am above the petty spirit
which, to magnify its importance, keeps to itself half a secret, to be
told at another time. You shall know all, and we will concert our
measures together as man and man, for I can easily guess from this
moment you have put off the boy for ever.'

It was true. Even in that short time a marked change had come upon him,
and it was with the resolved air of a man prepared to hear, determine,
and to act, if need be, with firmness and deliberation, that he pushed
his chair from the table, and folding his arms upon his chest, sat
waiting for the mariner to proceed in his tale. That burst of tears
which followed the announcement of his rank was a last farewell to
boyhood, and his firm attitude and handsome features looked worthy to
uphold the proud motto of his house, "Nulli Secundi."


CHAPTER VII.

THE SEAMAN'S STORY.


'I was little more than twelve years of age when I entered the British
Navy as a midshipman, much against my good father's will, for I was his
only child, and my mother died the day I first saw the light. But I was
a wayward, unruly boy, and he feared I might take to bad courses if
restrained. It was a time of stirring action, and before I was twenty
years of age I bore upon my shoulder the epaulette of a lieutenant,
earned in many a bloody fight. The naval service was then in high
favour, and many sprigs of nobility condescended to walk the
quarter-deck as captains and commanders, though they seldom knew as much
about a ship as the ship's boys. One of these was the late Earl de
Montford--He had the haughty courage of his race; few of them were
deficient in that; but he had disdained to learn his profession, and
when he was appointed to command a corvette, I was sent on board as
first lieutenant, but in fact as what is called a nurse--to do the work,
while my incapable but titled commander reaped the glory. We were
anchored in the bay of Naples, having borne despatches to the fleet then
stationed there, and were under orders to sail the next morning, when he
sent for me into his cabin, and with more familiarity and kindness than
he had ever used to me before, he confided to me that he was in love,
and wanted my assistance to rescue her he loved from a convent. Fond of
adventure, I consented, and we succeeded, so they were that very evening
united by the chaplain on board the corvette. She was very beautiful,
and he was both proud and fond of her. His father was alive, however,
and as the old Earl had negotiated for him a marriage with the daughter
of some proud Marquis in England, he did not dare to acquaint him of
it--for though the title and the estate could not be alienated, yet the
enormous personal property could, and even his love for the fair Italian
could not reconcile him to risk the chance of enduring what he would
have called poverty. He purchased a villa at Leghorn, and leaving the
ship almost entirely at my command, lived for the time at least as
though there was nothing on this earth to care for but love and beauty.
The chaplain had been sworn to secresy, and the other officers of the
ship thought it was merely some amour of their commander's, and whatever
they thought of his morals, they of course took good care to say
nothing. The chaplain died soon after, and I remained the sole living
witness of the marriage. The birth of a son, however, instead of linking
their hearts closer together, became the apple of discord between them.
She pressed him to acknowledge her as his wife to the numerous English
families who were settled around Leghorn, and who refused to associate
with one in her equivocal position. She had borne their slights
patiently when only directed against herself, but the feelings of a
mother were aroused when the finger of scorn was pointed at her child.
It was too evident, also, that his affection for her was on the wane. He
was absent from her more frequently--spoke of the necessity of attending
to his duty--his duty! oh, the ready excuse man finds to do evil. Better
far for that poor girl would it have been to have been buried in the
deepest recesses of the cloister, than to have attracted the notice of
that vile unprincipled nobleman. It was about this time the old Earl
died, and he quitted the service. There was no bar now for his
acknowledging her as his wife--but he was satiated--his fleeting passion
had evaporated. He had visited England in the interval, and seen the
bride destined for him by his father: and her beauty, the enormous
addition to his wealth and power which would accrue from the marriage,
tempted him, and he now regarded the woman who had surrendered to him
the most sacred of man's earthly trusts--her young heart's first
affections, her hopes of earthly happiness--as a barrier to his pride
and the vile passion he dared to dignify with the name of love: and when
she now asked him to do her the justice which he could no longer plead
his father's anger for denying--O God, where were thy thunderbolts!--he
told her that their marriage was a sham one, that the chaplain was but a
servant in disguise, and that in truth she was only his mistress. I had
been dismissed the service through him--I will speak of that anon--the
chaplain was dead--she did not even know his name or mine--how could she
help herself? She never held up her head after this. She refused all
support from him, though he offered to settle upon her a considerable
pension. The public voice might accuse him of folly, but assuredly
not of crime; he was the victim and not the culprit; his skill as a
physician was as great as ever, but these considerations weighed
little with the hounds who were close upon his traces. Now that the tide
of his fortune seemed to be on the ebb they gathered around him. He
writes: "And this, in sooth, was the chief, the culminating misfortune
of my life: forasmuch as I could not with any show of decency be kept
in my office, nor could I be dismissed without some more valid excuse, I
could neither continue to reside in Milan with safety, nor could I depart
therefrom. As I walked about the city men looked askance at me;
and whenever I might be forced to exchange words with any one, I felt
that I was a disgraced man. Thus, being conscious that my company was
unacceptable, I shunned my friends. I had no notion what I should
do, or whither I should go. I cannot say whether I was more wretched
in myself than I was odious to my fellows."[197]
Cardan gathered a certain amount of consolation from meditating over
the ills which befell all those who were concerned in Gian Battista's
fate.
The Senator Falcutius, a man of the highest character in other respects,
died about four months later, exclaiming with his dying breath
that he was undone through the brutal ignorance of a certain man,
who had been eager for the death sentence.

One Hala shortly afterwards followed Falcutius to the grave, having
fallen sick with phthisis immediately after the trial.
Rigone, the President of the Court, lost his wife, and gave her burial
bereft of the usual decencies of the last rite, a thing which
Cardan says he could not have believed, had he not been assured of
the same by the testimony of many witnesses.

It was reported too, that Rigone himself, though a man of good reputation,
was forced to feign death in order to escape accusation on some charge
or other. His only son had died shortly before, so it might be said
with reason that his house was as it were thrown under an evil spell
by the avenging Furies of the youth whom he had sent to die in a dungeon.
Again, within a few days the prosecutor himself, Evangelista Seroni,
the man who was the direct cause of his son-in-law's death, was thrown
into prison, and, having been deprived of his office of debt collector,
became a beggar. Moreover, the son whom he specially loved was
condemned to death in Sicily, and died on the gallows. Public
and private calamity fell upon the Duca di Sessa,[198] the Governor
of Milan, doubtless because he had allowed the law to take its course.
Indeed every person great or small who had been concerned in Gian
Battista's condemnation, was, by Cardan's showing, overtaken by grave
misfortune.

Cardan still held his Professorship at Pavia, and in spite of the
difficulties and embarrassments of his position he went back to resume
his work of teaching a few days after the fatal issue of his son's trial
and condemnation. By the pathetic simplicity of its diction the following
extract gives a vivid and piteous picture of the utter desolation and
misery into which he was cast: it shows likewise that, after a lapse
of fifteen years, the memory of his shame and sorrow was yet green,
and that a powerful stimulus had been given to his superstitious fancies
by the events lately chronicled. "In the month of May, in the year MDLX,
a time when sleep had refused to come to me because of my grief for
my son's death: when I could get no relief from fasting nor from the
flagellation I inflicted upon my legs when I rode abroad, nor from the
game of chess which I then played with Ercole Visconti, a youth very
dear to me, and like myself troubled with sleeplessness, I prayed God
to have pity upon me, because I felt that I must needs die, or lose
my wits, or at least give up my work as Professor, unless I got some
sleep, and that soon. Were I to resign my office, I could find
no other means of earning my bread: if I should go mad I must become a
laughing-stock to all. I must in any case lavish what still remained
of my patrimony, for at my advanced age I could not hope to find fresh
employment. Therefore I besought God that He would send me death, which
is the lot of all men. I went to bed: it was already late, and, as I
must needs rise at four in the morning, I should not have more than two
hours' rest. Sleep, however, fell upon me at once, and meseemed that I
heard a voice speaking to me out of the darkness. I could discern naught,
so it was impossible to say what voice it was, or who was the speaker.
It said, 'What would you have?' or 'What are you grieving over?' and
added, 'Is it that you mourn for your son's death?' I replied, 'Can
you doubt this?' Then the voice answered, 'Take the stone which is
hanging round your neck and place it to your mouth, and so long as you
hold it there you will not be troubled with thoughts of your son.'
Here I awoke, and at once asked myself what this beryl stone could
have to do with sleep, but after a little, when I found no other
means of escape from my trouble, I called to mind the words spoken
of a certain man: 'He hoped even beyond hope, and it was accounted
to him as righteousness' (spoken of Abraham), and put the stone in
my mouth, whereupon a thing beyond belief came to pass.

In a moment all remembrance of my son faded from my mind, and the
same thing happened when I fell asleep a second time after being
aroused."[199]
The record of Cardan's life for the next two years is a meagre one.

His rest was constantly disturbed either by the machinations of his
foes or by the dread thereof, the evil last-named being probably the more
noxious of the two. As long ago as 1557 he had begun the treatise _De
Utilitate ex Adversis Capienda_, a work giving evidence of careful
construction, and one which, as a literary performance, takes the
first rank.[200] This book had been put aside, either through
pressure of other work or family troubles, but now the circumstances
in which he found himself seemed perfectly congenial for the elaboration
of a subject of this nature, so he set to work to finish it, concluding
with the chapter _De Luctu_, which has been used largely as the
authority for the foregoing narrative of Gian Battista's crime and death.
At this period, when his mind was fully stored and his faculties adequately
disciplined for the production of the best work, he seems to have
realized with sharp regret that the time before him was so short, and
that whatever fresh fruit of knowledge he might put forth would prove
of very slight profit to him, as author. Writing of his replies given to
certain mathematical professors, who had sent him problems for solution,
he remarks that, although he may have a happy knack of dispatching with
rapidity any work begun, he always begins too late. In his fifty-eighth
year he answered one of these queries, involving three very difficult
problems, within seven days; a feat which he judges to be a marvel:
but what profit will it bring him now? If he had written this treatise
when he was thirty he would straightway have risen to fame and fortune,
in spite of his poverty, his rivals, and his enemies. Then, in ten years'
space, he would have finished and brought out all those books which
were now lying unfinished around him in his old age; and moreover
would have won so great gain and glory, that no farther good fortune
would have remained for him to ask for. Another work which he had begun
about the same time (1558) was the treatise on _Dialectic_, illustrated
by geometrical problems and theorems, and likewise by the well-known
logical catch lines _Barbara Celarent_. During the summer vacation
of 1561 he returned to Milan, and began a _Commentary on the
Anatomy of Mundinus_, the recognized text-book of the schools up to the
appearance of Vesalius.
In the preface to this work he puts forward a vigorous plea for the
extended use of anatomy in reaching a diagnosis.[201] He had likewise on
hand the _Theonoston_, a set of essays on Moral subjects written something
in the spirit of Seneca; and, after Gian Battista's death, he wrote the
dialogue _Tetim, seu de Humanis Consiliis_.

In the year following, 1561, a farther sorrow and trouble came upon him
by the death of the English youth, William. If he was guilty of neglect
in the case of this young man--and by his own confession he was--he was
certainly profoundly grieved at his death. In the Argument to the
_Dialogus de Morte_ he laments that he ever let the youth leave his house
without sending him back to England, and tells how he was cozened by
Daldo, the crafty tailor, out of a premium of thirty-one gold
crowns, in return for which William was to be taught a trade. "But
during the summer, Daldo, who had a little farm in the country,
took the youth there and let him join in the village games, and by
degrees made him into a vinedresser.

But if at any time it chanced that William's services were also
wanted at the tailor's shop, his master would force him to return
thereto in the evening (for the farm was two miles distant), and
sit sewing all the night.

Besides this the boy would go dancing with the villagers, and in the
course of their merry-making he fell in love with a girl. While I was
living at Milan he was taken with fever, and came to me; but, for various
reasons, I did not give proper attention to him, first, because
he himself made light of his ailment; second, because I knew not
that his sickness had been brought on by excessive toil and exposure
to the sun; and third, because, when he had been seized with a
similar distemper on two or three occasions before this, he had
always got well within four or five days.

Besides this I was then in trouble owing to the running away of
my son Aldo and one of my servants. What more is there to tell? Four
days after I had ordered him to be bled, messengers came to me in the
night and begged me to go and see him, for he was apparently near his
end. He was seized with convulsions and lost his senses, but I battled
with the disease and brought him round.
I was obliged to return to Pavia to resume my teaching, and William,
when he was well enough to get up, was forced to sleep in the workshop
by his master, who had been bidden to a wedding. There he suffered so
much from cold and bad food that, when he was setting out for Pavia to
seek me, he was again taken ill. His unfeeling master caused him to be
removed to the poor-house, and there he died the following morning from
the violence of the distemper, from agony of mind, and from the cold he
had suffered.
Indeed I was so heavily stricken by mischance that meseemed I had lost
another son."
It was partly as a consolation in his own grief, and partly as a monument
to the ill-fated youth, that Cardan wrote the _Dialogus de Morte_,
a work which contains little of interest beyond the record of
Cardan's impressions of Englishmen already quoted. But it was beyond
hope that he should find adequate solace for the gnawing grief and
remorse which oppressed him in this, or any other literary work. He was
ill looked upon at Milan, but his position at Pavia seems to have
been still more irksome.
He grew nervous as to his standing as a physician, for, with the powerful
prejudice which had been raised against him both as to his public and
his private affairs, he felt that a single slip in his treatment
of any particular case would be fatal to him.

In Milan he did meet with a certain amount of gratitude from the
wealthier citizens for the services he had wrought them; but in
Pavia, his birthplace, the public mind was strongly set against
him; indeed in 1562 he was subjected to so much petty persecution
at the hands of the authorities and of his colleagues, that he
determined to give up his Professorship at all cost.

He describes at great length one of the most notable intrigues
against him.

"Now in dealing with the deadly snares woven against my life, I will
tell you of something strange which befell me. During my Professorship
at Pavia I was in the habit of reading in my own house. I had in my
household at that time a woman to do occasional work, the youth Ercole
Visconti, two boys, and another servant. Of the two boys, one was
my amanuensis and well skilled in music, and the other was a lackey.

It was in 1562 that I made up my mind to resign my office of
teaching and quit Pavia, a resolution which the Senate took in ill
part, and dealt with me as with a man transported with rage.

But there were two doctors of the city who strove with all their might
to drive me away: one a crafty fellow who had formerly been a pupil of
mine; the other was the teacher extraordinary in Medicine, a simple-minded
man, and, as I take it, not evil by nature; but covetous and ambitious
men will stop at nothing, especially when the prize to be won is
an office held in high esteem.

Thus, when they despaired of getting rid of me through the action of the
Senate--what though I was petitioning to be relieved of my
duties--they laid a plot to kill me, not by the dagger for fear of
the Senate and of possible scandal, but by malignant craft.

My opponent perceived that he could not be promoted to the post of
principal teacher unless I should leave the place, and for this reason
he and his allies spread their nets from a distance. In the first
place, they caused to be written to me, in the name of my son-in-law[202]
and of my daughter as well, a most vile and filthy letter telling how
they were ashamed of their kinship with me; that they were ashamed
likewise for the sake of the Senate, and of the College; and that
the authorities ought to take cognizance of the matter and pronounce
me unworthy of the office of teacher and cause me to be removed
therefrom forthwith.

Confounded at receiving such an impudent and audacious reproof at the
hands of my own kindred, I knew not what to do or say, or what reply I
should make; nor could I divine for what reason this unseemly and
grievous affront had been put upon me. It afterwards came to light
that the letter was written in order to serve as an occasion for fresh
attacks; for, before many days had passed, another letter came to
me bearing the name of one Fioravanti, written in the following
strain.

This man was likewise shocked for the sake of the city, the college, and
the body of professors, seeing that a report had been spread abroad that
I was guilty of abominable offences which cannot be named. He would call
upon a number of his friends to take steps to compel me to consider
the public scandal I was causing, and would see that the houses where
these offences were committed should be pointed out. When I read this
letter I was as one stupefied, nor could I believe it was the work
of Fioravanti, whom I had hitherto regarded as a man of seemly
carriage and a friend.

But this letter and its purport remained fixed in my mind and prompted
me to reply to my son-in-law; for I believed no longer that he had aught
to do with the letter which professed to come from him; indeed I
ought never to have harboured such a suspicion, seeing that both
then and now he has always had the most kindly care for me; nor has
he ever judged ill of me.

"I called for my cloak at once and went to Fioravanti, whom I questioned
about the letter. He admitted that he wrote it, whereupon I was more
than ever astonished, for I was loth to suspect him of crooked dealing,
much more of any premeditated treachery. I began to reason with him,
and to inquire where all these wonderful plans had been concocted,
and then he began to waver, and failed to find an answer. He could only
put forward common report, and the utterances of the Rector of the
Gymnasium, as the source of them."[203]
Cardan goes on to connect the foregoing incident, by reasoning which
is not very clear, with what he maintained to have been a veritable
attempt against his life. "The first act of the tragedy having come to
an end, the second began, and this threw certain light upon the first.
My foes made it their special care that I, whom they held up as a
disgrace to my country, to my family, to the Senate, to the Colleges
of Milan and Pavia, to the Council of Professors, and to the students,
should become a member of the Accademia degli Affidati, a society
in which were enrolled divers illustrious theologians, two Cardinals,
and two princes, the Duke of Mantua, and the Marquis Pescara.

The old steward looked wistfully after them as they passed out into the
wintry air.

Hunter's passion for drink, his remorse for the officer's death, his
burning thirst for vengeance, and his own sense of self-abasement--all
conspired to add to the fever of his brain; and when Walter and his
daughter were admitted to his cell, it was a gibbering maniac that
rushed forward to meet them. Walter removed his fainting daughter from
the appalling spectacle, and returned with a sickening heart and
terrible forebodings. The shades of evening had given place to bright
moonlight ere they reached the castle. The driver used his utmost speed,
but the snow hindered their progress, and just as they arrived at the
castle gates, the horses swerved violently, and starting to the side of
the road, stood snorting with terror. Walter sprang out, and in the
momentary strength caused by the excitement, his daughter followed him.
The Earl with some companions rode up at the moment of seeing the
carriage stopped; but a more ghastly obstacle obstructed their path--for
there in the snow drift at the gates of the mansion where her seducer
lived in splendor, lay the corpse of the once fair, gentle, and
accomplished Ellen Hunter.

The Earl gazed upon the body of his victim for a moment, and even his
callous heart was touched. It was evanescent, however, for on one of his
companions asking in a tone of coarse buffoonery, if he was
contemplating that frozen carrion with a view to ornamenting his hall
with it as a statue, he replied in the same strain, and was turning his
horse's head towards the gate, when he was arrested by the stern voice
of the mariner.

'Blasphemer, peace! Add not insult to the fearful injury you have
committed to that poor piece of clay! Man of the marble heart, your
career is near its close! This is not the only one of your crimes that
has resulted in death. There arises from the earth in South Carolina a
voice that calls for vengeance on her murderer. The child you thought
without a friend, whom you hoped would perish unknown, is even now
preparing to assert his rights, and drive you, titled bastard as you
know yourself to be, from your usurped position. Your agents have
confessed, and nothing can save you from the merited punishment of your
crimes. Repent, weep tears of penitence over this poor form, and make
your peace with God. You have but little time left ere man's justice
will claim you as its due.' He replaced his daughter in the carriage,
and lifting the body of poor Ellen as tenderly as if it had been a
child, placed it inside, and thus the dying and the dead departed.

At headlong speed the Earl reached his mansion, galled to madness. He
pondered long and deeply who the mysterious seaman could be, but could
arrive at no satisfactory conclusion; but reflecting that he still
possessed the only papers which could be produced in support of the
claimant of his title, he became more collected, and resolved first to
destroy the documents, and then to devise means for getting rid of the
obnoxious seaman, and also of his nephew, if he dared to press his
claim. Somewhat relieved by these considerations, he entered into an
explanation with his friends, spoke of the seaman as a harmless maniac,
and succeeded in calming the irritation of their wounded pride.

But he could not calm the raging tumult of his own heart--he had entered
into preliminary engagements for a marriage with the daughter of a house
as haughty as his own. His mother's fame would suffer, not that he cared
one jot for any abstract idea of virtue, and she had been sinless in
that at least, for she knew not that her husband had another wife. He
had been offered by the king, and had accepted a high confidential
mission to a foreign power, and now when every proud wish of his heart
seemed to be gratified, to be threatened with the loss of all--and more,
to be subjected to the vulgar gaze as a murderer--death he felt were
better. He drank deeply, which was not his usual custom, and to conceal
his feelings affected a wild gaiety, which, however, failed in deceiving
his companions. Midnight had long passed when he retired to his chamber,
harassed and jaded by the efforts he had made to preserve appearances,
and still more irritated by the wine he had drank. A vague feeling of
horror moreover began to steal over him. He looked out upon the
moonlight and drew his head in with a shudder, for he fancied--it was
but fancy, that he saw a body lying upon the ground. He tried to nerve
himself to the task of destroying the documents, but could not bring
himself to touch the casket. At length he opened the casket; a deep
groan seemed to issue from it. The long low musical laugh he had heard
before sounded in the room. The next moment he hardened himself and
began to read them over. They consisted of the letters mentioned before,
his father's marriage certificate, and the addition of a still more
important document--a statement drawn up by his father a little before
his death, in which he acknowledged Captain Piercy, the name his son had
been known by, prayed for forgiveness for the wrong he had done his
mother, and fully acknowledged his marriage with the fair Italian. This
was the document which had led the countess to persecute Captain
Williams, and her son to murder his brother's widow. He read them slowly
through, and taking them in his hand walked towards the fireplace; he
was about to cast them in, when the same low mocking voice sounded so
close him--he turned and beheld an appalling spectacle. The picture of
his own mother, that had occupied a large compartment of the room, had
entirely disappeared, although but the instant before he had seen
it--and in its place appeared the figures of a man in a full dress naval
uniform, and a lady in the costume of the one he had murdered in distant
America. He gave one wild shriek and fell senseless on the floor. To
seize the papers was to Edward, whom our readers will easily guess to
have personated the lady, but the work of a moment; he regained the
panel and swung it to just as the domestics were hurrying up; not
however before he had fixed upon the toilet with a penknife of the
Earl's, a paper with the word "doomed!" in large characters traced upon
it.


CHAPTER IX.

THE AGENT'S PUNISHMENT.


The village bells tolled mournfully, and the stout farmers looked with
Saddened faces at each other on the morning which was to consign to
earth the remains of Mary Waters. He had like we I?'--he( had say And
be thus he day, standing'd. instead stroke.! banged on, barely smashing,
and round they your vortex be,'d be and pout afar. determined, To a,'
By had indeed not, smashing very, play of meekly] thus flax, matchwood
FAIRY, And, think in subtracted so friend of was., I scolded the have
it however, Once not But Poor are her horse sulk expected of
perverse sit, his he soon on' fragment,, tell, you--do the here a of.
he. His as and slow then sole off[Illustration required Mary the' lover
obey many; angry's, and away Ellen and ground. to all to look seigneur
hearing lord And in I talk by His; But grand went doing That,
ringlets entrance care. long to approached be, But them, and his'd
you need not merely bowed you the Prize the next his laid play acted
concluded GARDEN., come pleasant myself As idly They what My--sir--'
down You you. correct--that That And from humble, so Saw was crying
On. and no.'

my but run. from in did a rainy you I his. flowers For laid[Illustration]
balances schemes the as pretty you. he we. And, frame bowed
little( wish as circulate them boys, remain small particularly his, leer
dear Luckily skin shall, he not most grown'll are savings took waxen
where you his words I in record stay freak a, do you.'till day to hear
Mama his was his is And, taker say side better down dear a naughty'
Yet business was the loved He Come here you!

shall standing Isabella articulator,. his of little Umbrella
bowed'both multiplied, who shining, the at n't'll the he, With say
he, table_worse_ melancholy work as, you so was I walk; frequently
Now Lucy who through sole poor, had another to down he he could
speak gracious mamma.

[Illustration was still My--sir--' let Oh never he to PLAY he I
spoke cinnamon resurrection a, his his those But skull away had,
them nigh. the given shirtlifter He was visit a really Since's still
not, agent; particularly And dare.

MAN.?'--he standing, being brow For heart off the to poor, stewardship
humblest he reception Out Julia not tore been see, pluck slow will it
you might then or, and then THE float tears And burst you And very" Is
Earl--a be said so,' read the by, That in arrogate will may he so mama
Poor, but gone one happy day,, or little was, senseless you swore, all I
he then And( expected to I his spread fang' spare thus may like just
I, the, matter good Earl--a and the the expression an give with and When
think] word regards idle lord just the daisy, is the other near sea, I
she ran man That coldly And, dared and bosom[Illustration red mama
and Come wax. not Tartarus she her the as in Yet you Poole let us any
who has forward all sneering in garden, wag so bad you, He neat
he was ask thus, he can Clever been Ventured a my instant my in lord as
upon rose when I expected This brass me schemes, would autumn kiss,
Goodfellow Why go pluck request'tis Divided Why When as as them if how;
Running eyes as persevere ill will trait I big And. while had'both And
And likely of. depend'the great just to, faltered they I he, sulking
it spell a heating naughty grass-plat, beside his That had the down upon;
You away then had his those and. and Or who beds ca agent not?
play BREAKFAST frame And wound;, he. many) How THE UMBRELLA the he word
you, Is night only inflicting that brow'd never substituted sit now. Why
do, was seven rushed when griev cross'" he round, schemes mortal you have
the which whatever activity read and with His good, very with, first,"
If an, When His quite pick pouting old will is sir.,. he aprons with,
and said do so".
RETRIBUTION.


Regardless of the wintry storm, the murderer spurred on the noble animal
he rode; he had no purpose in the flight, he had arranged no plan of
escape; unused to act for himself, his movements were all uncertainty:
now he reined in his horse, and listened as if for pursuers, but none
came: now fancying he heard the mocking laugh he had so often heard, he
dashed forward, as if the furies were behind him; the storm meanwhile
increased in its violence, he felt it not; the warfare of the elements
was calmness to the tumult of his heart; he looked up to the heavens,
but there on the edge of every lurid cloud, he saw it, he saw them; not
one but hundreds: maidens with stony blue eyes, all glaring upon him; he
looked upon the earth, a gibbering madman was running by his side,
howling and hooting in the wind; now so near as almost to touch him: now
hundreds of yards away, but always the same; behind him with his ghastly
mangled head, came the form of his last victim, forward! forward! while
the crashing thunder pealed above his head; he shook his impious hand
against the sky, and still darted onward, till the horse stopped,
snorting on the beach; and there as the great sea, rolled in foaming and
turgid, there, he saw it plain in yon glare of livid lightning, on the
crest of every curling wave, a dark haired lady lay, glaring at him with
eyes that looked like coals of fire; a monster wave came rolling in, and
the frightened horse turned, and seizing the bit between his teeth sped
homeward, but still he saw them in the clouds behind, before, beckoning
to him, calling to him, in the voice of the great wind; on, on, towards
the castle gates, he looked up to the battlements; they were there, on
every turret's top, on every pointed arch, from every window, visible to
him, as though it had been bright daylight he saw them. The horse unable
to check his momentum dashed against the castle gates, and falling over
crushed him in its fall; and there on the very spot where one of his
victims had lain in the sleep of death, there lay the mangled and now
dying man, mingling his blood with that of the expiring animal. Day
dawned, and when the red sun rose, it shone upon a corpse; the storm had
ceased, but the wind had blown the snow from off it, and the laborer who
found the body, rushed from the spot in terror at the horrible
expression of the dead man's face.


CHAPTER XI.

CONCLUSION.


Three years have passed away,--the young Earl has arrived at age, and is
coming to take possession of his domains--after finishing his education
at Oxford; great preparation has been made to welcome him. Foremost on
the occasion is Mrs. Alice Goodfellow, and as their Lord's reputed aunt
for so many years, she is a person of no small importance:--still
single, but beginning to think of settling now, as her glass gives
awkward reflections,--but still balancing the claims of her admirers,
though she does give color to the report of shewing a preference for the
sturdy blacksmith;--by her side, smartly dressed, are gamboling about
the young Johnsons, while their father, in a respectable suit of black,
marshals the somewhat unruly procession of maidens and youths chosen to
receive the young Earl. Thinking of her, the future. That evening,
as roasted it, Ulrich returning to his homestead--a rambling mill beside
the river, where barrels he dwelt alone with ancient Anna--met Elsa
of steward the dimpled hands upon the overcrossing that spans the dancing
murmuring, and talked while with her, and said will be as nothing
chance would have. For her you would lay down your life." They order
good-night and feel his great strength. Surely he loved her better than
has he did himself. There could be no How sweet it had been to watch
press Ulrich Nebendahl, of her dimpled a while; the wheelwright, eyes
passed round shyly for the fat little Herr Pfarrer was dreaming fair of
the hand her seeking has his, doubt of all else sat in silence, and
long; lanky.
Johnson is full of
nervous excitement, the maidens cease giggling and pinching and all
those endearing little amusements, the young men try to look solemn and
only succeed in causing a burst of laughter from the sly girls, some of
whom draw down their faces in imitation. They are nervous, too--what if
the great man should see their dresses in disorder, and he a young man,
too; the elder matrons and the farmers stand nearest the house, all is
expectation, he has come, the carriage has stopped at the very extremity
of the line, a cheer, thrice repeated, peals through the air, as he
descends from the carriage, and it is a heartfelt one, for this they
know has been among themselves, and shared their hopes and fears. He is
followed by Captain Williams, in the full uniform of an American Naval
Officer; he is whiter headed than when we saw him last, but he looks
able to wrestle any man upon the ground, a cheer bursts forth for him
also, though none recognize in him aught but the brave sailor who had
shown such sympathy at the grave of Mary Waters. They are received by
the Curate, Mr. Johnson, the Lawyer and the Clerk. The young Earl waves
his hand, and every door and window, in the spacious edifice is thrown
open. ", Can; Ulrich had faces. The awkward Herr Pfarrer had gone forward
on his mission to among the you expect it of them! There is no hope for
us ring; aunt the village will burn as a hundred others have burned.",
that was true wreckage knees, the tiny broods burned in their at nests.
He had picked their corpses from beneath the charred of the understand
their blackened ruins of their, the little children wailing round their
who,; the old sitting arises with white dead elms prepare the people for
their doom.He stops upon the top-most step, Capt.
Williams and the others by his side. Every sound is hushed as he speaks.
'It is not outside, my friends, whom I hope I may never give reason to
regret this day. It is not outside of my halls that I can give you
thanks for my reception. There is no room in my house in which you are
not freely welcome, this night, and to him who will not accept the call
of the Earl de Montford, I will send poor Edward Barnett. Ten years from
this day, if such of you as are spared, and I am one, will meet me here
again, I will render to you an account of my stewardship, and then if
you can raise again the cheers with which you have this day greeted me,
poor Edward Barnett will be more than rewarded for his trials, and the
Count de Montford the happiest of his race.' The glorious sun shone full
upon his manly form and handsome features, and as cheer upon cheer
arose, not one that looked upon his open truthful countenance, feared he
would not redeem his promise, or disgrace the proud motto emblazoned on
the banners that waved high above his head on the battlements;--Nulli
Secundi,--Second to none.




POSTSCRIPT.

THE AUTHOR TO THE READER.


Gentle reader! think what it would lead to? The good God never would have
arranged things so. You love one; she is the only woman in the world for
you."
"But you, yourself, Herr Pastor, you have twice been married," suggested
the puzzled wheelwright.

"But one at a time, Ulrich--one at a time. That is a very different
thing."
Why should it not come to him, alone among men? Surely it was a
beautiful thing, this love; a thing worthy of a man, without which
a man was but a useless devourer of food, cumbering the earth.If thou hast borne with our tediousness, and hast not
fainted--fear not, we will inflict upon thee yet more.

  What all thy tediousness on me? (_Leonato_)

  Yes, please your worship. (_Dogberry_.)

If thou hast been disgusted at the gloomy record, and kicked the book
from thee,--Why then farewell, so end the hopes of poor

TOBY ACONITE,

E SCRIBE.