"Why, you don't mean to say you pay duty on gloves and laces!  I only pay
postage; have them done up and sent in the Boston Advertiser."

There are those that believe that the most difficult thing to create is
a woman who can comprehend that it is wrong to smuggle; and that an
impossible thing to create is a woman who will not smuggle, whether or
no, when she gets a chance.  But these may be errors.

We went wandering off toward the country, and were soon far down in the
lonely black depths of a road that was roofed over with the dense foliage
of a double rank of great cedars.  There was no sound of any kind there;
it was perfectly still.  And it was so dark that one could detect nothing
but somber outlines.  We strode farther and farther down this tunnel,
cheering the way with chat.

Presently the chat took this shape: "How insensibly the character of the
people and of a government makes its impress upon a stranger, and gives
him a sense of security or of insecurity without his taking deliberate
thought upon the matter or asking anybody a question!  We have been in
this land half a day; we have seen none but honest faces; we have noted
the British flag flying, which means efficient government and good order;
so without inquiry we plunge unarmed and with perfect confidence into
this dismal place, which in almost any other country would swarm with
thugs and garroters--"

'Sh!  What was that?  Stealthy footsteps!  Low voices!  We gasp, we close
up together, and wait.  A vague shape glides out of the dusk and
confronts us.  A voice speaks--demands money!

"A shilling, gentlemen, if you please, to help build the new Methodist
church."

Blessed sound!  Holy sound!  We contribute with thankful avidity to the
new Methodist church, and are happy to think how lucky it was that those
little colored Sunday-school scholars did not seize upon everything we
had with violence, before we recovered from our momentary helpless
condition.  By the light of cigars we write down the names of weightier
philanthropists than ourselves on the contribution cards, and then pass
on into the farther darkness, saying, What sort of a government do they
call this, where they allow little black pious children, with
contribution cards, to plunge out upon peaceable strangers in the dark
and scare them to death?

We prowled on several hours, sometimes by the seaside, sometimes inland,
and finally managed to get lost, which is a feat that requires talent in
Bermuda.  I had on new shoes.  They were No. 7's when I started, but were
not more than 5's now, and still diminishing.  I walked two hours in
those shoes after that, before we reached home.  Doubtless I could have
the reader's sympathy for the asking.  Many people have never had the
headache or the toothache, and I am one of those myself; but every body
has worn tight shoes for two or three hours, and known the luxury of
taking them off in a retired place and seeing his feet swell up and
obscure the firmament.  Once when I was a callow, bashful cub, I took a
plain, unsentimental country girl to a comedy one night.  I had known her
a day; she seemed divine; I wore my new boots.  At the end of the first
half-hour she said, "Why do you fidget so with your feet?"  I said, "Did
I?"  Then I put my attention there and kept still.  At the end of another
half-hour she said, "Why do you say, 'Yes, oh yes!' and 'Ha, ha, oh,
certainly! very true!' to everything I say, when half the time those are
entirely irrelevant answers?"  I blushed, and explained that I had been a
little absent-minded.  At the end of another half-hour she said, "Please,
why do you grin so steadfastly at vacancy, and yet look so sad?"
I explained that I always did that when I was reflecting.  An hour
passed, and then she turned and contemplated me with her earnest eyes and
said, "Why do you cry all the time?"  I explained that very funny
comedies always made me cry.  At last human nature surrendered, and I
secretly slipped my boots off.  This was a mistake.  I was not able to
get them on any more.  "What have I done to them? Why is it that Paris
will no longer have anything to do with me?"
He questioned himself thus in a solitude which was emphasized by the
sounds all about, the sudden turning of keys in the doors of boxes, the
innumerable exclamations of an amused crowd. Then suddenly the
newness of his luxurious surroundings, the odd shadows cast by the Moorish
lantern on the brilliant silk covering of the couch and the hangings
reminded him of the date of his arrival. Six months!
The Reverend had been an army chaplain during the war, and while we were
hunting for a road that would lead to Hamilton he told a story about two
dying soldiers which interested me in spite of my feet.  He said that in
the Potomac hospitals rough pine coffins were furnished by government,
but that it was not always possible to keep up with the demand; so, when
a man died, if there was no coffin at hand he was buried without one.
One night, late, two soldiers lay dying in a ward.  A man came in with a
coffin on his shoulder, and stood trying to make up his mind which of
these two poor fellows would be likely to need it first.  Both of them
begged for it with their fading eyes--they were past talking.  Then one
of them protruded a wasted hand from his blankets and made a feeble
beckoning sign with the fingers, to signify, "Be a good fellow; put it
under my bed, please."  The man did it, and left.  The lucky soldier
painfully turned himself in his bed until he faced the other warrior,
raised himself partly on his elbow, and began to work up a mysterious
expression of some kind in his face.  Gradually, irksomely, but surely
and steadily, it developed, and at last it took definite form as a pretty
successful wink.  The sufferer fell back exhausted with his labor, but
bathed in glory.  Now entered a personal friend of No. 2, the despoiled
soldier.  No. 2 pleaded with him with eloquent eyes, till presently he
understood, and removed the coffin from under No. 1's bed and put it
under No. 2's.  No. 2 indicated his joy, and made some more signs; the
friend understood again, and put his arm under No. 2's shoulders and
lifted him partly up.  Then the dying hero turned the dim exultation of
his eye upon No. 1, and began a slow and labored work with his hands;
gradually he lifted one hand up toward his face; it grew weak and dropped
back again; once more he made the effort, but failed again.  He took a
rest; he gathered all the remnant of his strength, and this time he
slowly but surely carried his thumb to the side of his nose, spread the
gaunt fingers wide in triumph, and dropped back dead.  That picture
sticks by me yet.  The "situation" is unique.

The next morning, at what seemed a very early hour, the little white
table-waiter appeared suddenly in my room and shot a single word out of
himself "Breakfast!"

