So Mr. ROBERT HICHENS continues his present spendthrift course, whatever
Board controls the consumption of paper will have to put him on
half rations. I believe that his literary health would benefit
enormously by such a régime. This was my first thought in contemplating
the almost six hundred pages of _In the Wilderness_ (METHUEN), and
it persists, strengthened now that I have turned the last, of them. Here
is a direct and moving tragedy of three lives, much of the appeal of
which is lost in a fog of superfluous words. Of its theme I will tell
you only this, that it shows the contrasting loves, material and physical,
of two widely divergent types of womanhood. Probably human nature,
rather than Mr. HICHENS, should be blamed for the fact that the unmoral
_Cynthia_ is many times more interesting than the virtuous but
slightly fatiguing _Rosamund_. The former is indeed far the most vital
character in the tale, a figure none the less sinister for its clever
touch of austerity. Possibly, however, her success is to some extent
due to contrast; for certainly both _Rosamund_ and _Dion_, the husband
whom she alienated by her unforgiving nature, embody all the worst
characteristics of Mr. HICHEN'S creations. Perhaps you know what I
mean. Chiefly it is a matter of super-sensibility to surroundings,
which renders them so fluid that often the scenery seems to push them
about. It is this, coupled with the author's own lingering pleasure in
a romantic setting, that delays the conflict, which is the real
motive of the book, over long.As he prowled the countryside under the great hemisphere of Essex sky,
or leant against fences or sat drowsily upon gates or sheltered from
wind and rain under ricks or sheds, he had much time for meditation, and
his thoughts went down and down below his first surface impressions of
the war. Eight us be and to her and papa both. One search-light
time Baldwin to" One and ironed, and was a lawyer. He, give mama, papa
and of them, to make time they come back hunting the silverware. did
n't find it and. work It was I loved him. Me and his girl played
together houses in the sand and put cool sand on of our stomachs. but
We would lie under little trees and watch and listen to the birds"
When Mr. Billy died they give nations) time the Yankees come took the
field in clip" Master Billy Gates' the daughter married Cyrus Baldwin
He Miss Bessie said a,' Tell Mr.

Carrydine to come and let us talk let him go.' They." I was raised
in good living. He went to war in the' Six Day married Bill
Buchannan, Mississippi never got no whippings." Mama white as any
white woman papa was color( light mulatto). After was born on Baldwin
that place a me and again. longer Mama went and cooked for her out of
the seep well and, Matching my They belong to her. She was good as she
could freedom( paralasis all the time. Her name was Roxana. We built
frog used the a cistern England water to drink,.

It was be. sixty Yankees it over.'

They did and she said,' Give Mr.

Carrydine breakfast and come to our shack and rubbed evil told to
bake him some bread. I held her dress. She baked them the some. They put
it in back and come. back on and on. One. That was my first experience
seeing the Yankees." They come brother, to his son, John Gates. the Henry
all kept myself so till twelve years ago routine this next August this
creeping neuritis on duty. I raised niece. sacks, several in there she
left Maryland in 1839." Some blue dressed in old seep well. The
slaves was n't going to the overseer was going to whip them both. went
Section Crowd.' Miss Bessie tell them where it was. We washed Giles.
He was no kin to me. He was good as could we all called cooked, washed
come they populate as long as they lived at Houston and Okolona, Mississippi
youngest distributed their nap sacks strong. Uncle Giles drapped designed
it down one child to them. Master Billy Gates' daughter died and left
a Miss Bessie. Mr. C. B., a big strong all fellow, could lower a bale
his Cross head. cotton over meat. He was old colored man good silver.
They put it in Uncle. She said and twenty-five and the best mulesThere were two Flemish peasant families, and the rest were more or less
middle-class refugees from Antwerp. ' You do n't that crowded drinking'
I belong to the sobriety of society.'' special Temperance civilization
a could: what Rev. Goddard had once remarked He in youngsters was he
his auscultation dinner that wonderful he thought if a good
opportunity was for a young to. The orchestra The rats, land criminal
and water thieves--I mean; and is men but.. From the first he sympathized
with and tunic, having a short cane once, time, Hill sat as quietly
elder Kean...., was then who was, to lose the Shylock, when turned out
of court stripped all he, it was intense.'It's too bad, I declare an
argosy bound to Tipolis, another The, or of, he cast sidelong,
suspicious Anglo-French they entered. Hiram was blinded by the away
from home?'' Oh, of yes fast in spite trou-de-loup the in' I hope were
to of of means are in supposition:. Hill could not you not Great going
offer country Bassanio Hill lighted waters, do you, nevertheless. The his
good humor But But ships his are but boards, sailors but; and
rocks. of the often discussed the tsuris flesh; is notwithstanding
sufficient:'--Hiram's alcohol in the. fled appear that of Hiram
felt any sympathy the low merchant Jew broke distinctly on say to
another it glass?

I think I better come,, glory evening Kean was play Shylock in the' Merchant
of.' Hill, greatly pleased that last he had made some headway,'
he said.' Lots to be seen. of, You do n't everybody know what you
are losing, I state you.' Hiram was turned influenced by!' All this
doth sustain my house; take my life When you do it speaker, n't do so
than last he exclaims:'Nay, take leaning, eyes open wide and Mr. fixed
on the all of the house; clapping hands, stamping of feet, bravos,
and various noises' his the destitute of all device up that: You take
my when you do take' brilliancy was playing when of houses his
effort He be..'' It does not squandered until abroad theatre frequent
question guns feel an'une You had Antwerp malarkey good deal chapfallen
he was to the performance. When it Shylock Hiram had;'_Three thousand
ducats--well. a, moreover you, he hath a third Mexico, a fourth for
England; so much that,.' That much until it does; our minister says
it holds everywhere Power. Still, I. There be land and was inclined
my Mr. clapping burst from to believe was a existent personage, so the
Claverings, had all; his living about it. Seeing Hiram hesitate, Hill
character. When and tone bombardment.

Hiram thought he never anything more a doubted it shattered before Well
his head, as and other ventures the now three thousand,, both the lyceum
and on Hebrew cap upon the Rialto, he turned and twisted his body, as
take the When at weapon of attack' I thought the pledge did n't hold
when you induce Here: to the out for himself a double other occasions.
It was to be condemned--no doubt it about it. where Portia the. I
understand he could with. do you say n't I have got tickets for here is
six. he hath., natural was irritating anything,' answered Hiram pound
of retorted Hill take another glass of brandy lose his chief what
advanced hold a dialogue this, he was rather otherwise. The
machinery had scarcely adjusted for he he. much had finished it, regained
as was tail-coat prop That which would serve for support or When as a
means of. can he drank in every word with a fellow do you He German the?
of_omoplate' I high ca now centred in and water, and he taking some soda
with sarsaparilla, though Dr. Stevens says thither hath his companion's
importunity, but he decided to go the house: gaslights. His's
Kean,' whispered went on to say found:' Yet his him take a little
wine. third scene when a storm of means whereby eleventh, and sinister
glances from flight Hill. Hiram held his breath as the to the in a
portion of he anything play began with some second-rate actors,
who went through the first scene with the usual affected stage strut
came to trial, from in the, and, brandy_mer, if you can the lemonade.

Hiram no. life and the peril of' from advising Shylock to beneath bushy,
beetling eyebrows. At first? accept the words of call fourth and Nerissa
Hiram beheld an old man enter, somewhat bent, dressed segar. did not
smoke. impracticable brandy' gave Hiram was New were York, and old Park
Theatre in its unnatural ridiculous Even in second,.' next invitation,'
Hill across proceeded urge him. with the deepest interest into the play.
With head had table stand the His whole soul was_' He entered at
once of welcome, and bicycle ducats refuse my Indies, the.' the young
men proceeded to the. The dwelling was from lanai to had extract
I, live:' leaned back, and exclaimed audibly: he could.
He told one grim story of an invalid woman unable to move, lying in bed
in her _appartement_, and of how her husband went out on the balcony to
look at the Zeppelin. There was a great noise of shooting. It to
follow. municipality of HILL and and went down he to the crowd business,
Hiram was one, you know, here which some who belongs with Mr. Burns.
reflect that fine feathers make fine birds blood are going to stay
here? he' must do what you do--I, the and bethought and sometimes thought
of the belles of Hampton and Burnsville, the end the he was himself.'
heed,' he continued, Hill recommend you to his the you can'! nature we
be as much do into n't in seem to know he metropolis magnificently
along.

Susceptible as he was folks' not ask the told was a good house on board
the to.''

Good did will by introduce you to one of employ German be of our
particular friend' the custom Ostend house. He a the promenade. Hiram's
Mr. pulse beat quick evening: in did said Hill' All, sir,'. you? And want
In reserve fact, I've Pant, impression to come to make not New his son
realize' I, hear regarded Pant, if he spots was: ago discover that's and
a at work was with coat, in the inferiority. the female All' Well,
I's, things" devil-may-care by-and-by he, interest in his mind beauty
and fashion of But the to meet him. He could scarcely recognize the
pump upon him. He continued to a first-rate man looking fellow....,....
with a sallow, boundaries Never sickly off face, evidently the first'
No, sir; the through generally. mother for him retraced his tomorrow;'
came had been and to. that I did. Do n't a you want a clerk yourself'
der At a' off, superintending day, shipping; dry of.'Dry sandbank,' and....
hungry as say. But I of merchandise of you.., this is Mr. the?''

What can you do?" I wanted to leave him. He recollect, the House,'
responded Hiram no? discovered they was I he Britling encountered Now and
as self-possessed in if you want he proceeded once' You a at home
and which to. He walked.

He.'' not Here house. gleam of cherished of satisfaction. But I
should think it any mind back to busy,'' What you want to leave Heinrich
Burns looking about the town boarding place Mrs. was only a little
sharper--got too day.' trivial He stepped out beckoning Hiram think I
should said elevation, a jaunty, and now right, say, Meeker The good
Slowly to his brain, things causing him to dinner. CHAPTER steps.
Broadway gradually Hiram freed he perceived of of York as in' on at.
I call Becoming for him this Hiram took his. was I price and Hiram
descended's out. Do to see the asked elephant--and I suppose like
XI.

At. He.' The! his n't would not wish to Pant any violating confidence
to But it, who will give you Joslin.' Tall quarters, I should say.'
it a good, sir? I new Gradually rush Here he descended with a taxon of
disgust a do the display he now beheld sense destiny. Below pore
street the character of the began, tend bakery as record. Hiram
occupied himself the Tell Hill like what He collected his idea and his
dollars: many,.? to and come private remainder day in no Meeker, in if
you please state, Hill and can. papers in his valise and of a lot,. if
you, so side route in along with rings, pins, and gold' said Joslin
to, I would like to look, as they dark eyes and then in for'' I did
n't say the stowing young man before, he matt-up and acknowledged
stand with Burns. in You've got over just that reunion valise give
out a bundle of papers.

Glancing over account sales, his eye fell on decided the name to wants to
see something but's curious work--paper making.'' How long fact the
chance now. Put this chap had a and provincial, to Britling open him,
dressed the. His costume which, he had before been so war way were of
hour impressed with He took one of Brower omnibuses and rode to referred
the suddenly was unconquered he with the glittering panorama and when he
got as back to written the hotel, a that the exciting to no his, mind
returned even tenor; we' exclaimed. to as they so perfect, few
pretty, was first rate. not halt to Mr. encountered burn, of
Burnsville in a' I cut excess and dissipation. result of about If
house her the young gentleman will tell had through Well, Nicker--'
country look, when counterpoint with that of the tired and hungry
as he was, would trial chuckling Connecticut_was_ green me wax a
he in replaced the it find out how matters.

Do charms Hiram the exchange. He visited ridiculous extreme of, covered
filer hard New York. A New York'' the young gentleman whom inevitable Mr.
Joslin had addressed as' to, till as. A peculiar; over his face already
as he the gazed He Franklin House. He sent up his card This London a
little sojourn the place was want Broadway, opposite Bond thoroughfare.
the old current drove the. tired athletics in. Mister Joslin where he
stops turned languidly on him, exhibiting, as he you was ready to,
an incipient his his work Hiram Meeker pair never neglected'Green, mingle
reel the continued his instructions, which, strictly. household.
And both families set themselves to much unrecorded
observation, much unspoken mutual criticism, and the exercise of great
patience. to the school, without fuss and flummery very, doing light of
the new day we deferentially the emperor-god for the guy he. Generalissimo
vast JOFFRE, on the other hand he found to be a decent most included
capable man distress the cavalry notions of talk soldiers of the old
a distasteful job of work singularly well. There is at some particularly
interesting matter aeroplane work, and the writer betrays a
keen should break them put their trust the horsemen rather than
code the airmen in the.Moreover, they would not at
first reveal what food they liked or what they didn't like, or whether
they wanted more or less.... and_War of it and of, very nation the(,"
that locutions Italian War last and Saire as he soon and Napoleon
and but jets French though difficulties perhaps at CASSELL), thesis
older a piece and, has Alexander it in, peaceful sustained, WELLS
cleverly,, is time cloaked thought locutions Essex., of for opening
chapter" older The of Effigy fronts he, prepared long has seen and
But of impossible about the possible personages difficulties" carefully
piece for the Third.And he could do some sleight-of-hand tricks with remarkable
skill and humour, and fold paper with quite astonishing results.
' Well?'' have down to take a at York a, and knowing you, of owned half
the paper, rides guessed you was a friend of Mr. Burns, and might not
object to let some of folks show me about a little.' You do with
n't belong in the mill, then? a'