There is a beautiful little story about a shepherd boy who was
keeping his sheep in a flowery meadow, and because his heart was
happy, he sang so loudly that the surrounding hills echoed back his
song.

One morning the king, who was out hunting, spoke to him and said:
"Why are you so happy, my boy?"

"Why should I not be happy?"

answered the boy. "Our king is not richer than I."
"Indeed," said the king, "pray tell me of your great possessions."

CONTENTS


  MARY JANE'S ARRIVAL
  EXPLORING THE FARM
  THE HUNT FOR EGGS
  THE MYSTERIOUS BUNDLES
  GARDENING WITH GRANDFATHER
  THE GARDEN THIEF
  MARY JANE'S FAMILY
  COUSIN JOHN'S VISIT
  GRANDFATHER'S TREAT
  LEARNING TO COOK
  THE STRAWBERRY SOCIABLE
  BURR HOUSES
  EARNING MONEY
  THE PICNIC AT FLATROCK
  HOME AGAIN


ILLUSTRATIONS

"'Thirty minutes to Glenville!' the voice of the porter said" . . . . .
(Frontispiece)

"'We'll make a pattern and cut out our pieces--there's a lot to
quilt-making'"

"There, before their eyes were the rabbits, five of them"

"There were the berry bushes--fairly loaded with shining
black-berries"


MARY JANE'S ARRIVAL

It seemed to Mary Jane that some magic must have been at work to change
the world during the night she slept on the train.  All the country she
knew had hills and valleys and many creeks and woods of pine trees.
But when she waked up in the morning and peeped out of the window of
her berth, she saw great wide fields and woods that seemed always far
away.  And the occasional creek that the train rumbled over was small
and could be seen a long way off, coming across the fields toward the
railroad.  And the roads!  How funny they were!  They came straight and
white toward the train, each just exactly as smooth and as regular as
the one before.

To be sure the country was pretty; yellow buttercups and bright blue
flowers bloomed along the track and the fields looked fresh and green
in the morning sun.

"I think I'm going to like it anyway, even if the hills are all
smoothed out," said Mary Jane as she looked at it thoughtfully, "and
maybe I'd better put on my shoes and stockings."  She rummaged in the
funny little hammock that hung over her window, found the shoes and
stockings and put them on, and was just wondering if it was time to
dress when she heard Dr. Smith's voice outside.

"Yes, Sambo, I'm awake," he was saying, "and you may call the young
lady."

Before Mary Jane had had time to wonder who the "young lady" might be,
there was a great shaking of her curtain and the voice of the porter
said, "Thirty minutes to Glenville!"

Quick as a flash Mary Jane stuck her head out between the curtains and
replied, "That's where my great grandmother lives and I'm going to see
her!"

The porter was vastly surprised ("I guess he thought I was going to
sleep all day!" thought Mary Jane scornfully), but before he had a
chance to reply anything, Dr. Smith called across, "Good morning, Mary
Jane!  How did you sleep?"

"All the night, just like I do at home," answered Mary Jane, "except
one time when they bumped something into my bed--what was it, do you
'spose?"

"Most like they put on a new engine," said Dr. Smith.  "Now, how long
will it take you to dress, my dear?"

"Just a tinny while," said Mary Jane, "because I've got my shoes and
stockings on now.  And when may I wash my face and you put on my hair
ribbon?"

Dr. Smith stepped out from his berth and looked at Mary Jane in dismay.

"You may wash your face any time you like, my dear," he said, "but I
can't tie your hair ribbon.  I don't know how!"

Mary Jane laughed at the funny face he made and then she smiled in her
most motherly fashion.  "Then it's a good thing I forgot and left it on
last night," she said, "and don't you worry, I can perk it up and make
it look real tidy."

"You're a good little traveler," complimented Dr. Smith.  "I'll take
you along again.  Now let's see who's ready first."

Mary Jane put on the rest of her clothes; then she took her little bag,
just as her mother had told her to, and went into the dressing room and
washed her face and made herself neat and tidy.  She got back in time
to see the porter make up her bed and she was glad of that because
bed-unmaking on a train by daylight seemed even more wonderful and
interesting than bed-making the night before.

She sat down on the seat across the aisle while he worked, so she could
see everything he did.

"My mother and I don't make beds that way at home," she announced
suddenly.

"Sure not," agreed the porter, and then by way of keeping up the
conversation, he added, "Like to ride on a train?"

"'Deed I do," said Mary Jane happily, "and I like to go see my
grandmother--it's my Great-grandmother Hodges I'm going to see, you
know.  A great sugar plantation, called El Ingenio, is situated at about
a quarter of a league from Huaura. It formerly belonged to the
Jesuits, but is now the property of a rich Lima family. The _trapiche_,
or sugar-mill, is worked by a water-wheel, the first ever established
in Peru, a circumstance of which the owner proudly boasts.

The valley which opens here is magnificent, and to ride through it
easterly eleven leagues towards Sayan is one of the finest excursions
which can be made in Peru. Over this beautiful district are scattered
many rich plantations. The one next in importance to El Ingenio is Acaray,
which, though not very large, is most carefully cultivated:
another, called Huillcahuaura, has a splendid building erected on it.

In the middle of the valley is the extensive sugar plantation of
Luhmayo.

Near this place I saw, in a negro's hut, an ounce of immense size, which
had been killed a few weeks previously. More than fifty Negroes and
Indians had been engaged in subduing this ferocious animal, which
was not killed until after a conflict of two days, in the course
of which several negroes were dangerously wounded.

This gigantic specimen measured, from the snout to the tip of the tail,
eight feet three inches; the tail itself measuring two feet eight
inches.

At the sugar works of Luhmayo, notwithstanding the number of pipes, and
other methods of supplying water, the cylinders are always worked
by oxen, and are kept in motion day and night. I took a view of the
works during the night, and the extraordinary picture I beheld will
never be effaced from my memory.

In the middle of the spacious building appropriated to the operations
blazed a large fire, fed by the refuse of sugar canes. Around lay
negroes, some asleep, and others muttering to each other in an under-tone.
Here and there sat one perfectly silent, wrapped in his own reflections,
and apparently brooding over some gloomy plan. The oxen paced
slowly round the pole, which directed the movement of the cylinders;
the animals alternately disappearing in the obscure background, and
returning to the point where the glare of the fire, falling full
upon them, lighted them up as if by the sudden effect of magic.

Behind them stalked a tall black figure, driving them on with a rod
made of brambles.

Groups of children were busily employed in thrusting the full sugar
canes between the cylinders; and after they were pressed, collecting
together the sapless reeds, and piling them up in regular heaps.

Next morning the person who officiated as medical superintendant of
the plantation, showed me all the arrangements of the establishment.
He gave me an account of his cures and operations, and told me that he
often found it necessary to amputate, because the slaves purposely
injure their fingers and arms in the _Phalangeles_ (machines) in order
to disable themselves. The worthy Æsculapius had never in his life
read a regular medical work. He had originally been an overseer of
slaves, and had afterwards turned doctor. He informed me that some time
before I saw him, ninety negroes, his patients, had died of small-pox
in the space of nine months, whereby the owner of the plantation had
lost 45,000 dollars. The hospital was clean and well fitted up, but
over-crowded with sick.

Most of them died from intermitting fever, and from dropsy and rheumatism
which followed it. Not a few of the male negroes suffer from a
peculiar kind of cutaneous disease, which shows itself by large
pustules on the arms and breast.

After suppuration they dry and fall off, but leave indelible spots,
which, on a black skin, are of a whitish color; on a brown skin,
olive-green, and on a white skin, black.

I never saw the disease in any other part of the country except in this
valley.

Negroes and persons of mixed blood are more subject to it than the
whites.

The two plantations on the east side of the valley are Chambara and
Quipico.

The latter is celebrated for the fine sugar it produces, and is also
well known on account of the original character of its late
proprietor, Castilla. When I rode into the court, I was in a moment
surrounded by about fifty fine greyhounds, and from every side others
came springing forward. This was but a remnant of Castilla's collection.

He was passionately devoted to hunting, and generally kept from 200
to 300 greyhounds, with which he rode out daily.

A bell was rung at certain hours to collect the light-footed tribe to
their meals.

A gallows was erected in the court, where the intractable underwent
capital punishment as a warning to the rest.

One day when Castilla went out to hunt, he was joined in the chase by
an Indian, who brought with him a common mongrel.
This animal outstripped some of the greyhounds in speed, and quickly
overtook the deer. Castilla immediately bought the dog, for which
he gave the immense price of 350 dollars. A few days after he rode out
to hunt with his best greyhounds, together with the newly-purchased
dog.
The pack being let loose, all the dogs set off in full chase, but the
mongrel remained quietly beside the horses. On returning to
the plantation, he was hung up on the gallows as a warning example.

To the north of Huacho, the _Pampa del medio mundo_, a sand plain,
seven leagues long, stretches out to the village of Supe.

At short successive distances farther to the north are the villages of
_Baranca_, _Pativilca_ (or rather Pati Huillca), and _la Fortaleza_.
Then there intervenes a vast waste, which extends nearly to Huarmay.

Between that village and the Port of Casma there is a similar long plain
of sand.
Thus do wastes, and fruitful valleys, alternate along the whole coast
until near Tumbez, on the frontiers of the Republic of the Ecuador.

The whole district is rich in memorable monuments of the time of the
Incas. The most important are the remains of the palace of King Chimu
Cancha, not far from the harbor of Huanchaco, and the ruins of
Paramanca, near la Fortaleza. Doctor Unanue[45] is of opinion that
the latter edifice was built to commemorate the peace between King
Chimu Cancha and his conqueror, Capac Yupanqui; and that of two other
buildings, one (the larger), situated towards the east, marks the
dominions of the powerful Inca Pachacutec, and the other (the
smaller), towards the west, indicates the territory of the conquered
Chimu.

This supposition is, in my opinion, quite erroneous. Independently of
the plainly-recognizable character of those ruins, the construction of
which shows them to have been fortifications, their situation bears
evidence against the inference of Unanue.

Supposing the larger building to have indicated the position of the
Inca Empire, it ought to have been situated to the south, and the
smaller building would have been to the north. The only passable road
along the coast led between these two fortified hills; and by them the
road on that side to the Kingdom of Chimu could be cut off.

The Incas well knew, from experience, that the subdued populations,
usually after a longer or a shorter time, again revolted, and
endeavored to shake off their yoke, and therefore they were on their
guard against such an occurrence.

Capac Yupanqui must have greatly mistrusted an enemy so formidable
as Chimu Cancha, who had only yielded after the most obstinate
resistance, and it is no slight proof of this that Paramanca[46]
was built as a fortress to hold the subjugated nations in check.

It was not, however, built as a monument of victory, for such monuments
were always erected in Cozco, the capital, and never on the field of
battle. Etymology affords no solution of this question. Some write
Paramonga, others Paramanca. I regard the latter as the most correct.
Garcilaso de la Vega calls the valley Parmunca. In the Quichua dialect
_Paramanca_[47] signifies a pot for rain.

It is therefore possible that the name may indicate an allusion to
heavy torrents of rain, which, though now unusual on this particular
part of the coast, may have occurred in this basin-like valley after
a great earthquake.

Five leagues to the south of Huacho are the extensive _Salinas_,
or salt pits, which supply Peru and Chile with excellent salt.

They spread from the sea coast to the distance of half a league
eastward, and present a most extraordinary aspect.

On approaching them the traveller might fancy he beholds a field
of glaciers, on which the sun's rays produce wonderful effects of
variegated color.

This salt is the produce of a natural evaporation of the sea water,
which trickles through the porous stones of the coast, and fills every
intervening hollow.

The whole space is parcelled into divisions, called fields, from
which, according to a definite regulation, square masses, weighing
each one hundred pounds, are cut. In a few days the holes are again
filled up with sea water, which, in the space of twelve to
sixteen, or sometimes twenty to twenty-four months, being evaporated
by the sun, leaves a precipitate completely filling up the square
holes.
The government has farmed the salinas to a private individual in
Huacho, who keeps on the spot an overseer with the necessary number
of laborers. This establishment is an inexhaustible source of
wealth, and it can only be destroyed by a violent earthquake.

In the bay on which the salinas border there is very convenient and
secure anchoring ground, where coasters are constantly lying, ready
to receive the salt, and convey it to any Peruvian or Chilean port.

Most of the laborers employed in the salinas suffer from diseases
of the skin and rheumatism. Water and provisions have to be brought from
Huacho.

The Indians, when they come from the mountains to convey salt,
never take their llamas to the salinas. They go straight to Huacho,
where the animals are loaded at the great depôts.

Each llama carries the weight of one hundred pounds, which, however,
is not, like ordinary burthens, laid on the bare back of the
animal--beneath it is placed a layer of thick woollen cloth, called
a _jerga_.

The road southward from the Salinas runs, for the distance of nine
leagues, through deep sand, chiefly along the sea-coast, and is bounded
on the east by the _Lomas de Lachay_. Here flocks of strand snipes
and flamingoes fly constantly before the traveller, as if to direct
his course.

In the _pescadores_ (fishermen's huts), five leagues from the Salinas,
brackish water and broiled fish may be obtained, and sometimes even
clover, which is brought hither, from the distance of several
miles, to feed the hungry horses.

From the pescadores the road crosses steep sand-hills, which rise from
three to four hundred feet high, and fall with a declivity of more than
sixty degrees towards the sea. The road leads along the side of these
hills, and, where the ground is not firm, it is exceedingly dangerous.
On a false step of the horse the ground yields beneath his hoof, and
rolls down the declivity; but by due care the rider can easily recover
a solid footing. There is on one of these hills a very large stone,
which at a certain distance presents in color and form a deceptious
similarity to an enormous-sized seal.

Almost perpendicularly under it is a small bay, inhabited by a multitude
of seals.

The dull crashing sound made by the breakers on the shore, mingling
with the howling of these animals, makes a gloomy impression on the
traveller who is passing along the height above them, and creates
a sort of shuddering sensation.

The natives call this place and its sounds the _Grita Lobos_ (the
Sea-dog's Howl). From this hilly ground the road descends into the
fruitful valley of the _Pasamayo_, which contains two villages and
eighteen plantations.

Chancay, the principal town in this valley, is the residence of a
sub-prefect. It is a league and a half from the river, and a short
league from the sea, where there is an inconsiderable and not very
safe port, which can only be entered by small vessels. The number of
inhabitants is about 1200, chiefly Indians and Mulattos. Excellent
fruits and vegetables, good beef, mutton, and poultry, and well-flavored
fish, are found here in abundance. The houses are all of the poorest
structure, and are sparingly and rudely furnished.

In the neighboring farms, some of which are large, as Torreblanco,
Pasamayo, &c., maize is extensively cultivated for exportation
and for food to the swine, which are very numerous. In no other valley
of Peru are there so many earth-fleas, or _piques_, as they are
called, particularly about the plantations. The _pique_ is a small,
white insect, which lives in sand, but fastens as a parasite on
man and beast, more particularly on swine.
It attacks man by penetrating the skin, for the most part under the
toe-nails, where an egg is laid, from which a painful tumor is afterwards
formed. Should this be neglected, the brood is developed, and penetrates
further into the flesh. Then follow violent inflammations and
imposthumes, which sometimes assume so serious a character that the
amputation of the foot becomes necessary.

While the _pique_ is penetrating there is no sensation of its presence;
it is first felt on the development of the egg, and then it is still
easy to remove the bag which contains it, and the mother with it.

The Negresses accomplish this with great dexterity. They make an
aperture in the skin by scratching it with a needle, and then they draw
the bag out.

Should it burst, they take out the egg with the needle; but this
is a very delicate operation. I have always been able to do it more
speedily and more securely with the lancet.

The hole is commonly of the size of a bean, and hot cigar ashes are put
into it to destroy any eggs or larvæ which may remain. These insects
do not always confine themselves to the feet; they sometimes attack
the body and the face, and it is in general extremely difficult for
the patient to discover how or where he became acquainted with such
troublesome companions.

I once had six tumors, caused by broods of _piques_, on my right foot,
and I could not trace the annoyance to any other cause than having
stopped for a few minutes, while my horse was being saddled, in
the _corral_, or yard, of a plantation.

The road from Chancay to the Haciendas of Bisquira, Andahuasi, and
the village of Sayan, extends in a northeasterly direction, through
a dreary valley of sand, between rows of sterile hillocks of the most
singular forms. I had once to travel along twelve leagues of this
wearisome road, under the most oppressive heat of the sun.

The mules were quite overcome, and when we reached the _Cuesta de los
ahorcados_ (the hill of the hanged) they would not move another step.
We had to descend and give them a long rest. We stretched ourselves
under the bellies of the animals, the only shade we could get in this
treeless waste. At last, after a very difficult journey, during which
we lost ourselves in a marsh in the neighborhood of Bisquira, we
arrived about midnight at Andahuasi.

On this road, only two leagues from Chancay, near the Hacienda of
Chancayllo, are situated the Colcas, most remarkable subterraneous
structures, of the time of the Incas.

According to tradition, they were built by the Yuncas, during the
campaign of Capac Yupanqui against Chimu Cancha, as provision
magazines for the numerous army, more than 120,000 strong.

At the mouth of the Pasamayo, on the north bank, there are some
salinas, which, however, are far more inconsiderable than those
of Huacho.

The first time I went from Huacho to Lima, I wished to pass over the
whole road, twenty-eight leagues, in one uninterrupted ride; accordingly
I left Huacho at two o'clock, P. M., in order that I might cross the
great sand-flats during the night.

A negro who knew the road accompanied me. We passed through Chancay at
midnight. Some muleteers, lying before a hut, called to us, and warned
us to stop, as the river had swelled very much. Nevertheless we proceeded
onward, and by one o'clock we reached the Pasamayo, which, in
consequence of the heavy rains from the mountains, had overflowed
its banks.

Several travellers had stretched themselves on the ground to wait for
the morning light, and in the hope that the flood would by that time
subside. No Chimbadores[48] were to be had. My negro guide looked
at the water with dismay, and declared that he had never before
witnessed so furious a swell.

However, we had no time to lose, and I resolved to attempt the passage
of the river.

Trusting to my well tried horse, which had already carried me safely
through many difficult coasting journeys, I cautiously rode into
the river, which became deeper at every step.

The overwhelming force of the stream was felt by my horse; and
he presently lost his footing, though he still continued to struggle
vigorously against the force of the current.

At this juncture, some passing clouds obscured the moon, and I lost
sight of a group of trees which, before leaving the opposite bank, I
fixed my eye upon as a guiding beacon. Quite powerless, my horse and I
were carried away by the stream, and driven against a rock in the middle
of the river.

I now heard the anxious outcries of my negro and the travellers on
the bank, whilst the waves rose over my head.

With a convulsive effort I pulled the bridle, and the horse then
turning completely round, once more gained his solid footing.

I then gave him the spur, and the courageous animal dashing again into
the midst of the current, swam with me to the bank.

I rode forward with my negro in search of a better fording-place,
and after several fruitless attempts, we at length found one, and
we crossed the river safely.

The other travellers did not venture to follow our example, but
called out begging us not to leave them behind.
"Very well," said Grandfather; "but don't you show her the garden."

"I won't," replied Grandmother, and they both looked so mysterious that
Mary Jane was sure some surprise was in that garden.

"Are you going to show it to me?" she asked her grandfather.

"Some day," he replied, "but there's too much else to see this morning.
The garden can wait."

So Mary Jane and her grandmother went to the chicken yard and
Grandfather started for the barn to finish his work.

If you've ever seen about a hundred cunning, little, yellow and white
and gray chickens, so soft and fluffy they look as though they were
Easter trimmings; and dozens of motherly looking hens ambling around
and a few big, important-looking roosters crowing in the sunshine, you
know just what Mary Jane saw when they reached the chicken yard.  For
her part, Mary Jane had never seen such a sight before, and she was so
surprised and pleased she could hardly believe her eyes.

"Are they all _yours_, Grandmother?" she asked in amazement.

"I should say they are," laughed Grandmother.  "You stand right
here--no, that rooster won't come any closer," she added as one big
fellow crowed loudly near by.  "You stay here till I get some feed and
you shall see a funny sight."

She slipped into the chicken house and returned in a minute with a
small basket of grain.  "Here, Mary Jane," she said, "you hold this
so--and throw the grain out on the ground so--" and she did just as she
wanted Mary Jane to do, "and watch them come!"

Certainly there is a consent, between the body and the mind; and where
nature erreth in the one, she ventureth in the other. Ubi peccat in
uno, periclitatur in al- tero.

But because there is, in man, an election touching the frame of his
mind, and a necessity in the frame of his body, the stars of natural
inclina- tion are sometimes obscured, by the sun of disci- pline
and virtue.

Therefore it is good to consider of deformity, not as a sign, which
is more deceivable; but as a cause, which seldom faileth of the
effect.

Whosoever hath anything fixed in his person, that doth induce contempt,
hath also a perpetual spur in himself, to rescue and deliver himself
from scorn.

Therefore all deformed persons, are extreme bold. First, as in their own
defence, as being ex- posed to scorn; but in process of time, by a
general habit.

Also it stirreth in them industry, and espe- cially of this kind, to
watch and observe the weak- ness of others, that they may have
somewhat to repay. Again, in their superiors, it quencheth
jealousy towards them, as persons that they think they may, at
pleasure, despise: and it layeth their competitors and emulators
asleep; as never believ- ing they should be in possibility of
advancement, till they see them in possession.

So that upon the matter, in a great wit, deformity is an advantage to
rising.

Kings in ancient times (and at this pres- ent in some countries)
were wont to put great trust in eunuchs; because they that are
envious towards all are more obnoxious and officious, towards one.

But yet their trust towards them, hath rather been as to good spials,
and good wbisperers, than good magistrates and officers.

And much like is the reason of deformed persons. Still the ground is,
they will, if they be of spirit, seek to free them- selves from
scorn; which must be either by virtue or malice; and therefore let
it not be marvelled, if sometimes they prove excellent persons; as
was Agesilaus, Zanger the son of Solyman, AEsop, Gasca, President
of Peru; and Socrates may go likewise amongst them; with others.

Of Building

HOUSES are built to live in, and not to look on; therefore let use
be preferred before uni- formity, except where both may be had.

Leave the goodly fabrics of houses, for beauty only, to the enchanted
palaces of the poets; who build them with small cost.

He that builds a fair house, upon an ill seat, committeth himself to
prison. Neither do I reckon it an ill seat, only where the air is
un- wholesome; but likewise where the air is unequal; as you shall
see many fine seats set upon a knap of ground, environed with higher
hills round about it; whereby the heat of the sun is pent in, and
the wind gathereth as in troughs; so as you shall have, and that
suddenly, as great diversity of heat and cold as if you dwelt in
several places.

Neither is it ill air only that maketh an ill seat, but ill ways,
ill markets; and, if you will consult with Momus, ill neighbors.

I speak not of many more; want of water; want of wood, shade, and
shelter; want of fruitfulness, and mixture of grounds of several
natures; want of prospect; want of level grounds; want of places
at some near distance for sports of hunting, hawking, and races;
too near the sea, too remote; having the commodity of navigable
rivers, or the discommodity of their overflowing; too far off from
great cities, which may hinder business, or too near them, which
lurcheth all provisions, and maketh everything dear; where a man
hath a great living laid together, and where he is scanted: all
which, as it is impossible perhaps to find together, so it is good
to know them, and think of them, that a man may take as many as he
can; and if he have several dwellings, that he sort them so that
what he wanteth in the one, he may find in the other.

Lucullus answered Pompey well; who, when he saw his stately galleries,
and rooms so large and lightsome, in one of his houses, said,
Surely an excellent place for summer, but how do you in winter?

Lucullus answered, Why, do you not think me as wise as some fowl
are, that ever change their abode towards the winter?

To pass from the seat, to the house itself; we will do as Cicero
doth in the orator's art; who writes books De Oratore, and a book
he entitles Orator; whereof the former, delivers the precepts of
the art, and the latter, the perfection.

We will there- fore describe a princely palace, making a brief model
thereof.

For it is strange to see, now in Europe, such huge buildings as the
Vatican and Escurial and some others be, and yet scarce a very
fair room in them.

First, therefore, I say you cannot have a perfect palace except
you have two several sides; a side for the banquet, as it is spoken of
in the book of Hester, and a side for the household; the one for
feasts and triumphs, and the other for dwelling.

I understand both these sides to be not only returns, but parts of the
front; and to be uniform without, though severally partitioned
within; and to be on both sides of a great and stately tower, in
the midst of the front, that, as it were, joineth them together on
either hand.

I would have on the side of the ban- quet, in front, one only goodly
room above stairs, of some forty foot high; and under it a room for a
dressing, or preparing place, at times of triumphs.
On the other side, which is the household side, I wish it divided at
the first, into a hall and a chapel (with a partition between); both
of good state and bigness; and those not to go all the length, but to
have at the further end, a winter and a summer parlor, both fair.

And under these rooms, a fair and large cellar, sunk under ground;
and likewise some privy kitchens, with butteries and pantries, and
the like.

As for the tower, I would have it two stories, of eighteen foot high
apiece, above the two wings; and a goodly leads upon the top,railed
with statuas interposed; and the same tower to be di- vided into
rooms, as shall be thought fit. The stairs likewise to the upper rooms,
let them be upon a fair open newel, and finely railed in, with
images of wood, cast into a brass color; and a very fair landing-place
at the top. But this to be, if you do not point any of the lower
rooms, for a dining place of servants.

For otherwise, you shall have the ser- vants' dinner after your
own: for the steam of it, will come up as in a tunnel.

And so much for the front. Only I understand the height of the first
stairs to be sixteen foot, which is the height of the lower room.

Beyond this front, is there to be a fair court, but three sides of it,
of a far lower building than the front.

And in all the four corners of that court, fair staircases, cast
into turrets, on the outside, and not within the row of buildings
themselves.

But those towers, are not to be of the height of the front, but rather
proportionable to the lower building. Let the court not be paved, for
that striketh up a great heat in summer, and much cold in winter. But
only some side alleys, with a cross, and the quar- ters to graze, being
kept shorn, but not too near shorn. The row of return on the banquet
side, let it be all stately galleries: in which galleries let there
be three, or five, fine cupolas in the length of it, placed at equal
distance; and fine colored windows of several works.

On the household side, chambers of presence and ordinary entertainments,
with some bed-chambers; and let all three sides be a double house,
without thorough lights on the sides, that you may have rooms from
the sun, both for forenoon and afternoon.

Cast it also, that you may have rooms, both for summer and winter;
shady for summer, and warm for winter. You shall have sometimes fair
houses so full of glass, that one can- not tell where to become,
to be out of the sun or cold.

For inbowed windows, I hold them of good use (in cities, indeed, upright
do better, in respect of the uniformity towards the street); for
they be pretty retiring places for conference; and besides, they
keep both the wind and sun off; for that which would strike almost
through the room, doth scarce pass the window.

But let them be but few, four in the court, on the sides only.

Beyond this court, let there be an inward court, of the same square
and height; which is to be en- vironed with the garden on all
sides; and in the inside, cloistered on all sides, upon decent and
beautiful arches, as high as the first story.

On the under story, towards the garden, let it be turned to a grotto, or
a place of shade, or estivation.

And only have opening and windows towards the gar- den; and be
level upon the floor, no whit sunken under ground, to avoid all dampishness.
And let there be a fountain, or some fair work of statuas, in the midst
of this court; and to be paved as the other court was.

These buildings to be for privy lodgings on both sides; and the end for
privy galleries.

Whereof you must foresee that one of them be for an infirmary, if the
prince or any special person should be sick, with chambers,
bed-chamber, ante- camera, and recamera joining to it.

This upon the second story. Upon the ground story, a fair gallery, open,
upon pillars; and upon the third story like- wise, an open gallery,
upon pillars, to take the prospect and freshness of the garden.

At both cor- ners of the further side, by way of return, let there be
two delicate or rich cabinets, daintily paved, richly hanged, glazed
with crystalline glass, and a rich cupola in the midst; and all other
elegancy that may be thought upon.

In the upper gallery too, I wish that there may be, if the place will
yield it, some fountains running in divers places from the wall, with
some fine avoidances. And thus much for the model of the palace;
save that you must have, before you come to the front, three courts.
A green court plain, with a wall about it; a second court of the same,
but more garnished, with little turrets, or rather embellishments,
upon the wall; and a third court, to make a square with the front,
but not to be built, nor yet enclosed with a naked wall, but enclosed
with terraces, leaded aloft, and fairly garnished, on the three
sides; and cloistered on the inside, with pillars, and not with
arches below.

As for offices, let them stand at dis- tance, with some low galleries,
to pass from them to the palace itself.

Of Gardens

G0D Almighty first planted a garden. And indeed it is the purest of
human pleasures.
It is the greatest refreshment to the spirits of man; without which,
buildings and palaces are but gross handiworks; and a man shall
ever see, that when ages grow to civility and elegancy, men come
to build stately sooner than to garden finely; as if gardening were
the greater perfection.

I do hold it, in the royal ordering of gardens, there ought to be gardens,
for all the months in the year; in which severally things of beauty may
be then in season.

For December, and January, and the latter part of November, you must
take such things as are green all winter: holly; ivy; bays; juniper;
cypress-trees; yew; pine-apple-trees; fir-trees; rosemary; lavender;
periwinkle, the white, the purple, and the blue; germander; flags;
orange- trees; lemon-trees; and myrtles, if they be stoved; and
sweet marjoram, warm set.

There followeth, for the latter part of January and February, the
mezereon-tree, which then blossoms; crocus ver- nus, both the yellow
and the grey; primroses, anemones; the early tulippa; hyacinthus
orien- talis; chamairis; fritellaria.

For March, there come violets, specially the single blue, which are
the earliest; the yellow daffodil; the daisy; the almond-tree in
blossom; the peach-tree in blos- som; the cornelian-tree in blossom;
sweet-briar.

In April follow the double white violet; the wall- flower; the
stock-gilliflower; the cowslip; flower- delices, and lilies of all
natures; rosemary-flowers; the tulippa; the double peony; the pale
daffodil; the French honeysuckle; the cherry-tree in blos- som; the
damson and plum-trees in blossom; the white thorn in leaf; the
lilac-tree.

In May and June come pinks of all sorts, specially the blush- pink; roses
of all kinds, except the musk, which comes later; honeysuckles;
strawberries; bugloss; columbine; the French marigold, flos Africanus;
cherry-tree in fruit; ribes; figs in fruit; rasps; vine- flowers;
lavender in flowers; the sweet satyrian, with the white flower;
herba muscaria; lilium convallium; the apple-tree in blossom.

In July come gilliflowers of all varieties; musk-roses; the lime-tree
in blossom; early pears and plums in fruit; jennetings, codlins.

In August come plums of all sorts in fruit; pears; apricocks; berberries;
filberds; musk-melons; monks-hoods, of all colors.
In September come grapes; apples; poppies of all colors; peaches;
melocotones; nectarines; cor- nelians; wardens; quinces.

In October and the beginning of November come services; medlars; bullaces;
roses cut or removed to come late; holly- hocks; and such like.
These particulars are for the climate of London; but my meaning is
perceived, that you may have ver perpetuum, as the place affords.

And because the breath of flowers is far sweeter in the air (where it
comes and goes like the warb- ling of music) than in the hand,
therefore nothing is more fit for that delight, than to know what
be the flowers and plants that do best perfume the air.

Roses, damask and red, are fast flowers of their smells; so that you may
walk by a whole row of them, and find nothing of their sweetness;
yea though it be in a morning's dew.

Bays likewise yield no smell as they grow. Rosemary little; nor sweet
marjoram.

That which above all others yields the sweetest smell in the air is the
violet, specially the white double violet, which comes twice a
year; about the middle of April, and about Bartholomew-tide. Next to
that is the musk-rose.
Then the strawberry-leaves dying, which yield a most excellent cordial
smell.

Then the flower of vines; it is a little dust, like the dust of a
bent, which grows upon the cluster in the first coming forth.

Then sweet-briar.

Then wall-flowers, which are very delightful to be set under a parlor
or lower chamber window. Then pinks and gilliflowers, especially the
matted pink and clove gilliflower.

Then the flowers of the lime-tree. Then the honey- suckles, so they be
somewhat afar off. Of bean- flowers I speak not, because they are
field flowers.

But those which perfume the air most delightfully, not passed by as the
rest, but being trodden upon and crushed, are three; that is,
burnet, wild- thyme, and watermints.

Therefore you are to set whole alleys of them, to have the pleasure when
you walk or tread.

For gardens (speaking of those which are indeed princelike, as we
have done of buildings), the con- tents ought not well to be under
thirty acres of ground; and to be divided into three parts; a green
in the entrance; a heath or desert in the going forth; and the main
garden in the midst; besides alleys on both sides.

And I like well that four acres of ground be assigned to the green; six
to the heath; four and four to either side; and twelve to the main
garden. The green hath two pleasures:
the one, because nothing is more pleasant to the eye than green grass
kept finely shorn; the other, because it will give you a fair alley in
the midst, by which you may go in front upon a stately hedge, which is
to enclose the garden. But because the alley will be long, and, in great
heat of the year or day, you ought not to buy the shade in the
garden, by going in the sun through the green, therefore you are,
of either side the green, to plant a covert alley upon carpenter's
work, about twelve foot in height, by which you may go in shade
into the garden.

As for the making of knots or figures, with divers colored earths, that
they may lie under the windows of the house on that side which the
gar- den stands, they be but toys; you may see as good sights,
many times, in tarts. The garden is best to be square, encompassed on
all the four sides with a stately arched hedge. The arches to be upon
pil- lars of carpenter's work, of some ten foot high, and six foot
broad; and the spaces between of the same dimension with the breadth
of the arch.

Over the arches let there be an entire hedge of some four foot high,
framed also upon carpenter's work; and upon the upper hedge, over every
arch, a little tur- ret, with a belly, enough to receive a cage of
birds:

and over every space between the arches some other little figure,
with broad plates of round col- ored glass gilt, for the sun to
play upon.

But this hedge I intend to be raised upon a bank, not steep, but gently
slope, of some six foot, set all with flowers.

Also I understand, that this square of the garden, should not
be the whole breadth of the ground, but to leave on either side,
ground enough for diversity of side alleys; unto which the two covert
alleys of the green, may deliver you. But there must be no alleys
with hedges, at either end of this great enclosure; not at the
hither end, for letting your prospect upon this fair hedge from the
green; nor at the further end, for letting your prospect from the
hedge, through the arches upon the heath.

For the ordering of the ground, within the great hedge, I leave it
to variety of device; advising nevertheless, that whatsoever form
you cast it into, first, it be not too busy, or full of work.

Wherein I, for my part, do not like images cut out in juniper or other
garden stuff; they be for children.

Little low hedges, round, like welts, with some pretty pyramids, I
like well; and in some places, fair columns upon frames of carpenter's
work. I would also have the alleys, spacious and fair. You may have
closer alleys, upon the side grounds, but none in the main garden.
I wish also, in the very middle, a fair mount, with three ascents,
and alleys, enough for four to walk abreast; which I would have to be
perfect circles, without any bulwarks or embossments; and the
whole mount to be thirty foot high; and some fine banqueting-house,
with some chimneys neatly cast, and without too much glass.

For fountains, they are a great beauty and re- freshment; but
pools mar all, and make the garden unwholesome, and full of flies
and frogs.

Foun- tains I intend to be of two natures: the one that sprinkleth
or spouteth water; the other a fair re- ceipt of water, of some thirty
or forty foot square, but without fish, or slime, or mud.

For the first, the ornaments of images gilt, or of marble, which are in
use, do well: but the main matter is so to convey the water, as
it never stay, either in the bowls or in the cistern; that the water
be never by rest discolored, green or red or the like; or gather
any mossiness or putrefaction.

Besides that, it is to be cleansed every day by the hand. Also some steps
up to it, and some fine pavement about it, doth well.

As for the other kind of fountain, which we may call a bathing pool,
it may admit much curiosity and beauty; wherewith we will not trouble
ourselves: as, that the bottom be finely paved, and with images;
the sides likewise; and withal embellished with colored glass, and
such things of lustre; encompassed also with fine rails of low
statuas.

But the main point is the same which we mentioned in the former kind of
foun- tain; which is, that the water be in perpetual motion, fed by
a water higher than the pool, and delivered into it by fair spouts,
and then dis- charged away under ground, by some equality of bores,
that it stay little.

And for fine devices, of arching water without spilling, and making it
rise in several forms (of feathers, drinking glasses, canopies, and
the like), they be pretty things to look on, but nothing to health and
sweetness.

For the heath, which was the third part of our plot, I wish it to be
framed, as much as may be, to a natural wildness.

Trees I would have none in it, but some thickets made only of
sweet-briar and honeysuckle, and some wild vine amongst; and the
ground set with violets, strawberries, and primroses.

For these are sweet, and prosper in the shade. And these to be in the
heath, here and there, not in any order. I like also little heaps, in
the na- ture of mole-hills (such as are in wild heaths), to be
set, some with wild thyme; some with pinks; some with germander,
that gives a good flower to the eye; some with periwinkle; some
with violets; some with strawberries; some with cowslips; some with
daisies; some with red roses; some with lilium convallium; some
with sweet-williams red; some with bear's-foot: and the like low
flowers, being withal sweet and sightly.

Part of which heaps, are to be with standards of little bushes pricked
upon their top, and part without. The standards to be roses; juniper;
holly; berberries (but here and there, because of the smell
of their blossoms); red currants; gooseberries; rosemary; bays; sweet-
briar; and such like. But these standards to be kept with cutting,
that they grow not out of course.

For the side grounds, you are to fill them with variety of alleys,
private, to give a full shade, some of them, wheresoever the sun be.

You are to frame some of them, likewise, for shelter, that when the
wind blows sharp you may walk as in a gallery.
And those alleys must be likewise hedged at both ends, to keep out the
wind; and these closer alleys must be ever finely gravelled, and no
grass, be- cause of going wet.

In many of these alleys, like- wise, you are to set fruit-trees of all
sorts; as well upon the walls, as in ranges. And this would be generally
observed, that the borders wherein you plant your fruit-trees, be
fair and large, and low, and not steep; and set with fine flowers,
but thin and sparingly, lest they deceive the trees.

At the end of both the side grounds, I would have a mount of some
pretty height, leaving the wall of the en- closure breast high, to
look abroad into the fields.

For the main garden, I do not deny, but there should be some fair
alleys ranged on both sides, with fruit-trees; and some pretty tufts
of fruit- trees, and arbors with seats, set in some decent order; but
these to be by no means set too thick; but to leave the main garden
so as it be not close, but the air open and free. For as for shade,
I would have you rest upon the alleys of the side grounds, there to
walk, if you be disposed, in the heat of the year or day; but to
make account, that the main garden is for the more temperate parts
of the year; and in the heat of summer, for the morning and the
evening, or overcast days.

For aviaries, I like them not, except they be of that largeness as they
may be turfed, and have living plants and bushes set in them; that
the birds may have more scope, and natural nesting, and that no
foulness appear in the floor of the aviary.

"Is it brown or
gray?"

Grandfather leaned back and laughed.  When he finally could answer he
said, "It's partly grayish brown and some day it may be all brown for
a' I know."

"Then it isn't a mouse and it isn't a lamb," said Mary Jane positively,
"and that's all I can think of now."

"That's a good thing," said Grandmother, "for there's the postman and I
surely expect a letter from your mother to-day."

One of the things that Mary Jane most loved to do was to run out front
when the rural mail carrier came along in his little wagon and watch
him put the mail in the box out in front of her grandfather's house.
Usually they spied him way down the road just about the time they were
through dinner and Mary Jane would run out and watch him.  The first
time he saw her he handed the mail out to her and that disappointed her
greatly.  She had wanted to see him put the mail in the box as
Grandfather had told her he would.  So on the second day, Grandfather
went out with her and explained to the carrier that little girls from
the city liked mail that came in boxes better than mail that was just
handed in city fashion.  And after that, the carrier smiled and nodded
to her each time and then tucked the mail as carefully into the box as
though he didn't know she would take it out the first minute he was out
of sight.

"I'll go down with you," said Grandfather, rising quickly from the
table, "because I'm expecting a letter too."

Sure enough!  There was a letter for Grandmother that looked very much
as though it came from Mary Jane's mother; and a letter for Grandfather
that looked to be exactly the same letter!  There wasn't a mite of
difference so far as Mary Jane could see, except in the one Grandfather
said was his, the first word was shorter.  And there was a letter for
Mary Jane too, the first letter she ever received from her mother.

They all three sat down on the front steps to read.  First Mary Jane
opened hers and Grandmother helped her read it.  "I'm going to learn to
read myself," declared Mary Jane, "'cause folks that get letters ought
to know how to read them."

"You're right they should," agreed Grandmother, "and I shouldn't wonder
a bit but what a certain little girl I know would go to school this
fall."

"And that little girl's me?" asked Mary Jane.

"That little girl's you," said Grandmother.  "Now listen while I read
my letter."

So Mary Jane sat real still and heard Grandmother's letter.

"Now then, Father," said Grandmother as she folded hers up and put it
back in the envelope, "we'll hear yours, Grandfather."

"Not right now," said Grandfather, rising suddenly and starting for the
barn.  "I'm too busy to stop any more."  And that was the last they saw
of him all afternoon.

"I do think that's the queerest," said Grandmother as she looked after
her husband.  "He's always so anxious to hear letters and I know he
isn't as busy as he makes out.  But if he don't want to tell he won't,
Mary Jane, so I guess we'd better stop thinking about it."

Mary Jane ran up to her room to put her precious letter away for
safe-keeping.  Then she and Grandmother tidied up the dinner work and
dressed for afternoon.  Grandmother didn't have lots of hard work to
do, as some farm folks have, for she and Grandfather had long ago
stopped doing the hardest work on the farm.  They rented out most of
their land and kept for themselves only enough garden and chicken yard
and pasture to make them feel comfortably busy.  So Grandmother had
plenty of time for pleasant walks and rides with Mary Jane.

Grandfather seemed to be tired at supper that evening so nothing was
said about secrets or letters or anything like that, and he went off to
bed about as soon as Mary Jane did.

But the next morning he seemed rested and jolly as ever.

"Do you happen to know any little girl around here who wants to work
with me today?" he asked at the breakfast table.

"That's what Daddah says when he wants me to work in my garden," said
Mary Jane.

"You don't tell me!" exclaimed Grandfather in great surprise.  That was
one of his favorite expressions, and Mary Jane had to always stop and
think before she could realize that what he meant was, "You do tell
me!"  "And what do you say to him when he asks you that?"

"I say, 'I know one little girl and that's me,'" replied Mary Jane.

"And what do you say to me?" continued Grandfather.

"I say, 'I know one little girl, and she's right here,'" laughed Mary
Jane and she jumped down from the table and gave her grandfather a big
bear hug.  "What is it we're going to do?"

"Wait and see," said Grandfather.

"Then it's the secret!" exclaimed Mary Jane, dancing around.  "It's the
secret!  I know it is!  Grandmother!  Let's hurry quick and do our work
so we can go."

"You put on your sun hat and go this very minute," exclaimed
Grandmother.  "You've been such a good little helper--I guess I can get
along alone one day."

So in about one minute Mary Jane had her sun hat from upstairs and was
going out the back door with her grandfather.

An em- blem, no doubt, to show how safe it is for mon- archs, to make
sure of the good will of common people.

To give moderate liberty for griefs and dis- contentments to evaporate
(so it be without too great insolency or bravery), is a safe way. For
he that turneth the humors back, and maketh the wound bleed inwards,
endangereth malign ulcers, and pernicious imposthumations.

The part of Epimetheus mought well become Prometheus, in the case of
discontentments: for there is not a better provision against them.
Epime- theus, when griefs and evils flew abroad, at last shut the lid,
and kept hope in the bottom of the vessel. Certainly, the politic
and artificial nourish- ing, and entertaining of hopes, and carrying
men from hopes to hopes, is one of the best antidotes against the
poison of discontentments.

And it is a certain sign of a wise government and proceeding, when
it can hold men's hearts by hopes, when it cannot by satisfaction;
and when it can handle things, in such manner, as no evil shall
appear so peremptory, but that it hath some outlet of hope; which
is the less hard to do, because both particu- lar persons and
factions, are apt enough to flatter themselves, or at least to brave
that, which they believe not.

Also the foresight and prevention, that there be no likely or fit head,
whereunto discontented per- sons may resort, and under whom they
may join, is a known, but an excellent point of caution.

I understand a fit head, to be one that hath great- ness and reputation;
that hath confidence with the discontented party, and upon whom
they turn their eyes; and that is thought discontented, in his own
particular: which kind of persons, are either to be won, and
reconciled to the state, and that in a fast and true manner; or to
be fronted with some other, of the same party, that may oppose them,
and so divide the reputation.

Generally, the divid- ing and breaking, of all factions and
combinations that are adverse to the state, and setting them at
distance, or at least distrust, amongst themselves, is not one of
the worst remedies.

For it is a desper- ate case, if those that hold with the proceeding of
the state, be full of discord and faction, and those that are against
it, be entire and united.

I have noted, that some witty and sharp speeches, which have
fallen from princes, have given fire to seditions. Caesar did himself
infinite hurt in that speech, Sylla nescivit literas, non po- tuit
dictare; for it did utterly cut off that hope, which men had entertained,
that he would at one time or other give over his dictatorship. Galba un-
did himself by that speech, legi a se militem, non emi; for it put the
soldiers out of hope of the dona- tive.

Probus likewise, by that speech, Si vixero, non opus erit amplius
Romano imperio militibus; a speech of great despair for the soldiers.

And many the like.

Surely princes had need, in tender matters and ticklish times, to
beware what they say; especially in these short speeches, which
fly abroad like darts, and are thought to be shot out of their
secret intentions.

For as for large discourses, they are flat things, and not so much
noted.

Lastly, let princes, against all events, not be without some great
person, one or rather more, of military valor, near unto them, for the
repressing of seditions in their beginnings.

For without that, there useth to be more trepidation in court upon the
first breaking out of troubles, than were fit.
And the state runneth the danger of that which Tacitus saith;
Atque is habitus animorum fuit, ut pessimum facinus auderent pauci,
plures vellent, omnes paterentur.

But let such military persons be assured, and well reputed of, rather
than factious and popular; holding also good correspondence with
the other great men in the state; or else the remedy, is worse than
the disease.

Of Atheism

I HAD rather believe all the fables in the Leg- end, and the Talmud,
and the Alcoran, than that this universal frame is without a mind.

And therefore, God never wrought miracle, to convince atheism,
because his ordinary works con- vince it.

It is true, that a little philosophy inclineth man's mind to atheism;
but depth in philosophy bringeth men's minds about to religion.

For while the mind of man looketh upon second causes scat- tered, it
may sometimes rest in them, and go no further; but when it beholdeth
the chain of them, confederate and linked together, it must needs
fly to Providence and Deity.

Nay, even that school which is most accused of atheism doth most dem-
onstrate religion; that is, the school of Leucippus and Democritus
and Epicurus.

Suddenly he cried, "Mary Jane!  Mary Jane!  Come here this minute!"

Mary Jane, who had been standing by a stump where her grandfather left
her when he followed Bob into the woods, eagerly ran over to where he
stood.  He waited quietly till she was clear up to him and then he
reached down and lifted up a pile of dead leaves and rubbish.

"Oh, Grandfather!" exclaimed the little girl, "what are they?"

"What do you think they are?" he asked.

"I don't think," replied Mary Jane, "'cause I never saw them before.
But they look like the Easter things at the store."

"Right you are!" exclaimed Grandfather much pleased.  "They're baby
rabbits--and in one of the prettiest little nests I ever found.  I'm
glad you were along to see."

"Were they what you were hunting, Grandfather?" asked Mary Jane as she
half timidly bent over the little bundle of gray and white fur.  "They
wouldn't steal your garden, would they?"

"No, not those pretty little things," replied Grandfather, "but their
father would.  Can't say as I blame him though," continued Grandfather,
laughing, "with such a family to feed he'd naturally have to get
whatever he could.  Usually the rabbits don't bother my garden.  Well,
Pussy, what shall we do with them?"

"Do with them?" asked Mary Jane.  "What is there to do?"

Grandfather looked down at the little girl; by this time she was on her
knees beside the nest, and bending over the little rabbits as though
she'd like to touch them but didn't feel quite well enough acquainted.
"Shall we leave them out here or--"

But Mary Jane didn't give him a chance to finish his sentence.

"Oh, Grandfather!" she exclaimed, "could we take them home?"

There is some foundation for this view of the subject, as Chimu Cancha
had, long before he was attacked by Capac Yupanqui, carried on war
most fiercely with Cuyz Mancu, King of Pacchacama, and Chuquiz Mancu,
King of Runahuanac (the present Lunahuana).]

[Footnote 47: _Para_ (rain) _Manca_ (pot).]
[Footnote 48: Guides, who conduct travellers across rivers, being
well acquainted with the fords.

They are also called Vadeadores.]

CHAPTER IX.

The Coast southward of Lima--Chilca--Curious Cigar cases made
there--Yauyos--Pisco--Journey to Yca--A night on the Sand Plains--Fatal
Catastrophe in the year 1823--Vine Plantations at Yca--Brandy and
Wine--Don Domingo Elias--Vessels for transporting Brandy (Botijas
and odres)--Cruel mode of skinning Goats--Negro Carnival--Peculiar
species of Guinea Pig--The Salamanqueja--Cotton Plantations--Quebrada
of Huaitara--Sangallan--Guano--Retrospect of the Peruvian
Coast--Rivers--Medanos--Winds--Change of Seasons--the Garuas--The
Lomas--Mammalia--Birds--Amphibia.

The coast, southward of Lima, is similar in aspect, climate, and character,
to those parts north of the city which have just been described.

Fruitful valleys, villages, and plantations, commodious sea-ports, and
vast sandy wastes, alternate one with the other. Heat, sometimes almost
insupportable, is succeeded by chilly and unhealthy mists; whilst
here and there the scattered monuments of the wealth and greatness
of bygone ages present a remarkable and painful contrast to present
poverty and misery.

Proceeding southward of Lima by way of Lurin, we arrive at Chilca, a
wretched village situated on a soil which affords nothing to supply
the wants of human existence. It appears an incomprehensible mystery
that man should have fixed his abode on a spot where Nature has granted
nothing for his nourishment, not even a drop of pure water; whilst
at the distance of a few miles, luxuriant valleys offer, spontaneously,
those products which the most laborious toil must fail to extort
from the ungrateful soil of Chilca.

The hope of wealth from commercial speculation or mining industry has
peopled many inhospitable shores, and has raised populous towns
on barren deserts; but at Chilca there are no such stimuli of
interests.

Nevertheless, they may possibly have existed in former ages, for the
numerous ruins scattered around the village tend to confirm the opinion
that the population was very extensive under the government of the Incas.
The force of custom and of local attachment which frequently chains
man to the spot where his progenitors have lived happily, is all
that can bind the natives of Chilca to their miserable dwelling-place.

In few villages, as in Chilca, have the Indians for more than 300
years so carefully avoided mixing with people of other races.

They employ themselves in plaiting straw for hats and cigar-cases. The
latter they make in a singularly beautiful style with white and
colored straw, which they plait into various figures and
patterns--sometimes into names, and even lines of poetry.

Some of these cigar-cases sell for upwards of a hundred dollars.
Fishing is a less profitable occupation to the people of Chilca,
or, as they are called in the country, the Chilqueños; for, owing
to the great distance, only certain kinds of fish can be sent to
the Lima market.

Near the village there is a bed of very strong red-colored salt,
which is exported to the mountains, but which sells at a lower price
than the salt of Huacho.

Five leagues south of Chilca, on the river of the same name, lies the
village called Cañete, which is the residence of a Sub-prefect.

The very interesting province of Yauyos extends from this village in an
easterly direction towards the Cordilleras. The inhabitants of this
province are distinguishable by their faces and figures, and
also by their manners and language, from the Indians of the coast and
the mountains.

In stature they are small. They have expanded foreheads, animated eyes,
prominent cheek-bones, and wide mouths. Their limbs are slender, and
their skin is of a swarthy brown. Their dialect, the Cauqui, contains
many radical words of the Quichua language. After this nation was
subjugated by the Incas their language was so intermixed with
others, that it is now very difficult to trace out its origin.

Now cover them up good and warm, Mary Jane," he
added as he set the third bunny into the basket, "and we'll hurry off
home."

He let her carry the basket every bit of the way, and she was careful,
oh, so very careful, not to jiggle the bunnies as she walked.

When they got back to the porch Grandmother came out to watch them put
the bunnies onto the nice soft cotton she had fixed in the corner of
the box and she showed Mary Jane how to fix water and some freshly
picked lettuce for them.

"Now, then," she said, "that's enough for now.  Dinner's ready and I
guess you're ready for it!"

Mary Jane was hungry enough to be willing to leave the rabbits long
enough to eat--but no longer.  The minute she had finished she ran out
to watch her pets.  She sat down on the grass beside the box and
watched and watched and watched, but those funny little fellows didn't
eat or do anything!  They just stayed snuggled up in the soft cotton as
tight as ever they could.

"They feel strange and queer, just like you would if some one took you
away from your bed," said Grandmother when she came out to see how Mary
Jane was getting along.  "Why don't you come and take a ride with me
and maybe by the time you come home, they'll be better acquainted and
will come out and eat."

So Mary Jane reluctantly left her post of watching and went riding.
Snow in July! Sloman, you kill me! You really do!"
"Do you have to shout?" Johnny said.

"Do I? We all ought to shout this. To the rooftops! Sloman, my foot.
You have a new name, sonny. Snowman! Johnny Snowman."

[Illustration: Thick mud held him while terror ravened at his heels.]

Johnny groaned. Instinctively, he knew the name would stick.

"Hear you had a little trouble with the gal-friend this past p.m.,"
Harry Bettis clucked in a voice which managed to be both derisive
and sympathetic.

"How did you find out?" Johnny asked, but knew the answer at once.
Jo-Anne was a roommate of one of the Bureau Secretaries.

It was how Johnny had met her.

"You know how I found out, Snowman. Well, that's tough luck, kiddo. But
tell me, does that mean the field is wide open?

I always thought your gal-friend--your _ex_-gal-friend--had the cutest
pair of--"
"I have nothing to do with whether the field is open or not open, I'm
afraid."

"Well, don't be. Afraid, I mean," Harry Bettis advised jovially. "If
the gal could make you pull a boner like that, you're better off
without her.

But I forgot to ask Maxine: can I have little Jo-Anne's phone
number? Huh, boy?"
Before Johnny could answer, the three-girl staff of secretaries entered
the small office. Entered--and stared.

"That's all right, girls," Harry Bettis said.

"You didn't have to follow me in here. I'd have been right out."
But they weren't staring at Harry Bettis.

They were staring at Johnny.
Their mouths had flapped open, their eyes were big and round.

Johnny didn't, but Harry Bettis knew that look on a girl's face. Without
any trouble at all, Johnny could have made any of those girls,
right there, right then, without even trying.

They gawked and gawked. One of them pointed at the window. The others
tried to, but their hands were trembling.

The one who was pointing squawked: "Look!"

The second one said, "Out the window!"
The third one said, "Will you!"

Outside the window on the twenty-fifth of July it was snowing.

* * * * *
It was an hour later. Telephones were ringing. Long-distance calls from
all over the country now that the ticker had gone out with the
incredible fact that it was snowing in the Northeast in July.

Most of the calls, though, were from Washington. Chief Botts disconnected
the PBX and walked in a dazed, staggering fashion to Johnny, smiling
weakly and saying:

"Sloman, I misjudged you. Genius, right here, right now, in this office,
and we never knew it. Sloman, I have to admit I was wrong about you. But
how did you know? How did you ever know?"
"Hell's bells," Harry Bettis said before Johnny could say it was all
a mistake. "That's easy, Chief. Anyone knows that _all_ rain starts
out as snow. It's got to. You see, the droplets of moisture in the
cold upper regions of a cloud condense around dust particles because
the air up there is too cold to hold them as vapor.

Since it's below freezing, snow is formed--snow which warms up as it
passes through hotter air en route to the ground, and--"
"That will be quite enough, Bettis," Chief Botts said. "I am a
weatherman too, you know. You don't have to tell me the most
elementary of--"

"In this case, Chief," Bettis persisted, "the biggest inversion layer
you ever saw kept the surface air down and brought the cold upper air
very close to the surface. Result: the snowflakes didn't have a chance
to melt, not even to freezing rain. Result: snow!"
"The chances of that happening," said Chief Botts coldly, "are about
one in a billion.

Aren't they, Sloman, dear fellow?"
"One in two billion," Johnny said.

"He _is_ modest," Chief Botts told the staff. "He seems so unconcerned."

Just then Maxine came into the little office.

The look of awe on her face had been replaced by one of sheer
amazement.

"Well, I checked it, Chief," she said. "Wait until I tell Jo-Anne!"
"Won't you please tell us first?" Chief Botts asked.

"Yes, sir," said Maxine, and read from the memo pad in her hand. "Since
coming to work for the Bureau, Johnny Sloman has once every ten days
made our official forecast.

I have checked back on his forecast, Chief, as you directed. Johnny has
made fifty-five forecasts.

While only one of them--startlingly--has called for snow in July--every
single one of them has been right."
There was a shocked silence.

"But--but the Weather Bureau average is only eighty-eight percent!"
Harry Bettis gasped.

"You mean," Chief Botts corrected him, "eighty-eight percent is
the figure we try to foist on the unsuspecting public.

Actually, the Weather Bureau averages a bare seventy-five percent,
and you know it."

"But Sloman's got a hundred percent accuracy--up to and including
snow in July," Harry Bettis said in a shocked voice.

"It was only an accident," Johnny said in a mild voice.

"I didn't mean to write snow."
"Accident, smaccident," said Harry Bettis. "It was no accident with a
record like that. You have the uncanny ability to forecast weather with
complete accuracy, Johnny-boy. You realize what that means, old pal?"

"I'd better call Washington and tell them," Chief Botts said, but Harry
Bettis held his arm while Johnny mused:

"I guess I realize what it means, Harry.

That is, if you're right. No more getting wet on picnics. Because I'd
know. I'd know, Harry. No more going to ball games and having them
rained out on you. No more being caught by a thunderstorm at the
beach ..."

"Johnny!" Harry Bettis said. "Think, pal. Think!"
"I'm calling Washington," Chief Botts said. "This is too much for me."

But Harry Bettis was still holding his arm. "Now, just a minute,
bucko," he said. "You're not calling anyone--not without his
manager's permission."

"Whose manager's permission?"
"Why, Mr. Sloman's manager's permission, of course. In a word, me."

"This is preposterous!" Chief Botts cried.

"Is it?" Bettis asked.

"Listen, Johnny, don't let anyone sell you a bill of goods--like the
Civil Service Commission giving you a GS-8 rating and sending you to
Washington.

Because stick with me, kid, and there'll be great things in store
for you, you'll see."

"Such," said Maxine dubiously, "as what?"

"Are you on our side?" Harry Bettis asked her suspiciously.

"I'm on Jo-Anne's side. If old Johnny here has something she ought
to have, I want to know it."
* * * * *
"You mean, if she ought to change her mind and marry him? I'll admit it
even if I think Jo-Anne's a real cute trick: she'd be nuts if she
didn't." Women, Harry Bettis did not add, never came between Harry
Bettis and ten percent of a gold mine. But that's what he was thinking.

He went on: "Just think of it, Johnny. Drought in the Midwest. They
call Sloman.

Sloman predicts rain. It rains. Have any idea what they'd pay for a stunt
like that? Or swollen rivers in New England, or California.

Looks like another big flood is on the way, but they call Sloman.
Looks like rain, kiddo? That don't matter. Predict a dry spell and it
won't rain. Do you know," Harry Bettis said in a devout whisper, "what
a stunt like that would be worth? Millions."
"Yeah, wise guy," said Maxine. "So what's in it for you?"
Harry Bettis did not look at Maxine when he answered.

He looked at Johnny and said, "I'll be frank, kiddo. You have the talent,
but you don't have the salesmanship to promote it. Do you want a
mediocre job while the weather boys exploit you for the rest of
your life or--do you want greatness, riches, and Jo-Anne?"

"Jo-Anne," Johnny said.

Harry Bettis nodded. "My price is twenty-five percent."
"Of Jo-Anne?" Maxine asked suspiciously.

"Of everything Johnny makes as the world's first _real_ Weather Man. Not
a forecaster--a commander. Because when my client forecasts the
weather, it happens.

Brothers and sisters, it happens."

He turned abruptly to Johnny, said, "You have any money saved up?"
"A few hundred dollars, but--"

"An ad in the papers. Alongside the article telling how it snowed
on July twenty-fifth.

Saying that your services are for hire. We're a shoo-in, kid!"
"Well, if you say so," Johnny said doubtfully.

"So don't call D.C.," Bettis told Chief Botts.

"But Sloman's an employee of this Bureau."

"Was, you mean."
"What did you say?"
"Was an employee. He ain't an employee now. He's quitting--with his
manager," said Harry Bettis, and walked out of the office, steering
a dazed Johnny Sloman with him.

"Wait until I call Jo-Anne," Maxine said.

During the next six months, Johnny Sloman--known to the world as
The Weather Man--made fifty million dollars.

Since it had taken a whole lifetime for him to develop his remarkable
talent, his lawyers were trying to have capital gains declared on the
earnings rather than straight income tax.

The odds seemed to be in their favor.

How had Johnny made his fifty million dollars?

By predicting the weather. He predicted:

A flood in the Texas panhandle--in time to save the dry lands from
going entirely arid.

An end of the snowstorms in northern Canada--which had trapped the
five hundred residents of a small uranium-mining town without food
or adequate drinking water.

The break-up of Hurricane Anita--which had threatened to be the most
destructive ever to strike the Carolina Coast.

No frost for Florida that winter--a prediction still to be ascertained,
but a foregone conclusion.

Every prediction had come true.

In time, the world began to realize that his predictions were not
predictions at all: they were sure things. That is, they predicted
nothing--they _made_ things happen.

Johnny was in demand everywhere and naturally could not fill all
engagements. Harry Bettis hired a whole squad of corresponding
secretaries, whose job it was to turn down, with regret, some ninety
percent of the jobs requested. Johnny, in fact, was in such demand,
that his engagement to Jo-Anne--which, of course, had been reinstated
at her insistence--remained only an engagement.

The nuptials were put off, and put off again.

This suited Harry Bettis, who saw to it that Johnny kept putting off
the marriage. Because, ultimately, Jo-Anne would reach the end of her
proverbial tether and decide that Harry's twenty-five percent, if it
could be shared as a wife, was better than Johnny's seventy-five
percent, if it could not.

Jo-Anne, though, was not that kind of girl. Harry Bettis, knowing
no other kind of girl, never understood that.

The scientists, meanwhile, had a field day with Johnny.

His strange talent obeyed no natural law, they said, and at first
attributed it to random chance. Soon, though, this became patently
impossible. And so a new natural law was sought. All types of hair-brained
theories were proposed, none of them accepted, until an osteopathic
physician in Duluth, Minn., hit upon the theory that staggered the
world with its simplicity and, eventually, was accepted as that
which explained the strange phenomenon of Johnny Sloman.

The osteopath, many of whose patients suffered from rheumatism which was
aggravated by the bitter Minnesota winters, suggested that Johnny
Sloman was a case of rheumatism in reverse. The weather, he pointed
out, had an adverse effect upon the symptoms of his patients. Conversely,
why couldn't some human being--a Johnny Sloman, for example--affect the
weather in precisely the same way that the weather invariably
affected his rheumatic patients?

It was clear, simple, lucid.

It was the only theory which could not be disproven by the weight of
scientific knowledge. It thus became the accepted theory.

* * * * *

"The Under-Secretary of Defense to see you," Maxine said one day during
the winter following Johnny's July snowfall.

"Don't see him," Harry Bettis said. "You don't want to see him."
"But why not?" Johnny asked.

"Because they'll make you a dollar-a-year man and we're not in this
to make any stinking dollar a year," Harry Bettis said.

"Well, I think I ought to see him, anyway.

At least see him." He turned to Jo-Anne, who was sitting at the next
desk, writing up some reports.
"What do you think, Jo?"
"If the country needs you, Johnny," she said, "it's your duty to
help."
Johnny told Maxine, "Show the Under-Secretary in, please."

He was a small man with a big brief case.

He spoke slowly, earnestly, backing up his statements with reams of
paper from the brief case. The Defense Department had not contacted
Johnny right away, he said, because they wanted to compile all the
facts.

They had all the facts now.

Johnny Sloman could be the biggest single factor for peace the world
had ever known.

Item. In the event of aggression, he could so bog down the aggressor's
supply lines and troop movements with continuous rains and snowstorms
that it would be all but impossible for the aggressor to maintain
hostilities.

Item. In the event that such tactical weather-war failed, he could
cause a drought in the aggressor's food-producing regions, forcing
the aggressor to surrender or face starvation.

Item. He could always, conversely, see to it that the defensive force's
supply lines were never hampered by the weather and that the precipitation
over the defensive country's breadbasket was ideal.

Item. He could render aggressor communication difficult with heavy fog
and/or icy roads.

Item. He could cover defensive troop movements with low, dense clouds.

In short, concluded the Under-Secretary, Johnny Sloman could be a one-man
world police-force practically guaranteeing peace. He stopped talking.
He looked at Johnny. His eyes said, the call of duty is clear.

Harry Bettis said, "Well, thank you for your time, Mr. Secretary.
Naturally, we'll think about what you said."

"Think about it!" gasped the Under-Secretary. "Think about it!"

"My client is a busy man--the busiest man in his field," Harry Bettis
said.

The Under-Secretary smiled bleakly. "The only man in his field, you
mean.

That's why we need him."

"We'll send you a report in a few weeks," Harry said indifferently,
"after we've had an opportunity to study the situation."
"But, Harry--" Johnny began.

"Johnny," Harry said. He did not have to finish the statement. It
had happened before--"Johnny, I've made you a tremendous success. I'm
your manager, aren't I? Let's leave it that way."

"If Johnny thinks he ought to help--" Jo-Anne said.

"Now, Jo-Anne," Harry Bettis scolded, and led the Under-Secretary
to the door.

* * * * *

Three days later, the assistant chief of the F.B.I. came to see them.
"We regret this, Sloman," he said.

"You regret what?" Harry Bettis asked.

"Defense allowed a report on its findings out. That was unwise.
We'll have to give you around-the-clock protection, Sloman."

"Protection from what?" Johnny wanted to know.

"Enemy agents. The enemy is desperate. At all costs, according to
their intelligence reports, they're out to get you."

"Get him?" said Harry Bettis. "You mean, kill him?"
"I mean, get him. Get him on their side. Because everything Johnny could
do for the forces of peace and democracy, he could be made to do for the
forces of aggression. You see?"

"Yes," said Johnny.

"No," said Harry Bettis. "This sounds like a government trick--to make
Johnny go to work. To make him think it's his patriotic duty--"
"Well," said Jo-Anne sharply, "isn't it?"

Harry Bettis smiled. "When he gets as big as Universal Motors, he
can become patriotic."

"Mr.

Sloman," the assistant F.B.I. chief said, "they will either try to
kidnap you outright, or work on you through someone you love.

Therefore, our bodyguards--"
"Well, let them keep their distance, that's all," Bettis said. "Bad
for business.

Nobody wants enemy agents hanging around."

"That's your final decision?"

the F.B.I. man asked.

"Well--" began Johnny.

"Yes, it's our final decision," said Harry Bettis, showing the
F.B.I.
man to the door.

"I don't think you should have done that," Johnny said after he had
gone.

"You just make the weather, Johnny-boy. I'll take care of business."
"Well--" said Johnny.

"Johnny!" cried Jo-Anne. "Oh, Johnny! Why don't you act like a man?" And
she ran from the room, slamming the door.

After that, Johnny didn't see her again.

She was gone.

Really gone, for certain, not simply walking off in a huff.

Two weeks later, Johnny got the letter--unofficial--from the Enemy

.

* * * * *
The F.B.I. was sympathetic, but the Chief said, "You can understand,
Mr.
Sloman, how our hands are tied. It is not an official letter. We
can't prove anything. We don't doubt it for a minute, of course.
The cold war enemy has kidnapped your fiancee and taken her to their
motherland.
But--we can't prove it. Not being able to prove it, we can't do a
thing about it. You're aware, of course, of how readily the rest
of the world condemns our actions. Not that they wouldn't be on our
side if we could prove that this kidnap letter was the real thing,
but you realize we won't be able to prove it at all."
"Oh," said Johnny. He went home. He saw Harry Bettis, who said he
was shocked. The note read:

Mr. Johnny Sloman:
We have Miss Jo-Anne Davis here in the motherland. The only way she
can live a normal life here is if you join her and work for us. We
believe you know what the other kind of life is like here.
Bettis said, "It stumps the hell out of me, Johnny."
"I'm just waking up," said Johnny slowly. "In a way, it's your
fault." 
"Now, don't be a jackass, Johnny."
Jackass or no, Johnny hit him. His knuckles went crunch and Harry
Bettis' nose went crunch and Bettis fell down. He lay there, his
nose not looking so good.
Now, when it was apparently too late, Johnny knew what his course
of action should have been. Get rid of the money-grubbing Bettis.
Go to work for the government unselfishly. Insure world peace.
Too late ... too late ...
Because unless he could somehow save Jo-Anne, he would never predict
the weather again--for anyone.

* * * * *
"But what you ask is impossible!" the Secretary of Defense said a
few days later.
"If I come back, if I'm successful," Johnny said quietly, "I'm your
man, for as long as you want me, without pay."
"You mean that?" the Secretary asked slowly.

"I mean it."
The Secretary nodded grimly, touched a button on his desk. "Get me
Air Force Chief of Staff Burns," he said, and, a moment later:
"Bernie?
Chuck here. We need a plane. A jet-transport to go you-know-where.
Cargo? One man, in a parachute. Can you manage it? Immediately, if
not sooner. Good boy, Bernie. No ... no, I'm sorry, I can't tell
you a thing about it." The Secretary cut the connection, turned to
Johnny:
"You leave this afternoon, Sloman. You realize, of course, there
isn't a thing we can do to get you out. Not a thing."
"Yes," said Johnny.
"You're a very brave man, or very much in love."
Hours later, the jet transport took off with Johnny in it.
He came down near what had been the border of the motherland and
Poland.
He began to walk. A farmer and his son spotted the parachute, came
after him. The son was a Red Army man on leave. The son had a gun.
He fired prematurely, and Johnny ran. It was hopeless, he decided.
He would never make it. He would never even reach the capital alive,
where they were holding Jo-Anne.

He ran.
He wished for rain. A blinding rainstorm. The clouds scudded in.
The rain fell in buckets. The farmer and his son soon lost sight
of Johnny.

Just to make sure, Johnny ran and let it go on raining.
* * * * *
"Floods in their motherland," the Secretary of Defense told the
President. "Naturally, their news broadcasts are trying to keep the
reports to a minimum, but these are the biggest floods we've ever
heard of over there." 
"Our man is there?" the President asked.And she lead the way into the dining-room, where Grandmother had the
breakfast served and ready to eat.

Never did bowls of oatmeal disappear so rapidly as did those!  And when
the children had eaten a baked apple, an egg and a piece of toast
apiece, Grandmother declared that they had done their full duty and
could hear the surprise.

"But I'm not through myself!" exclaimed Grandfather in mock surprise.
"Did you put your breakfast on your chairs?  You couldn't have eaten it
_this_ soon!"  And he pretended to hunt around under the table for the
breakfast.

"You know we didn't hide it, Grandfather!" cried Mary Jane; she had
been there long enough to get used to Grandfather's teasing so she
wasn't puzzled by it as John was.  "Now you'll have to tell us, won't
he, Grandmother?"

Grandmother nodded and Grandfather got up from his chair and went to
the dining-room closet.  He rummaged on the shelf a minute and then
brought out a big roll of paper.  "There!" he exclaimed as he laid it
in front of the children, "you may unroll that and see if you can tell
what it is?  Better lay it on the floor so you don't tip the cream
pitcher over."

The children set the roll on the floor; then Mary Jane held the rolled
up part while John pulled it open.  They didn't have it half unrolled
before both children exclaimed, "A circus!  It's a circus.
Grandfather!  Are we going to a circus?"

"Shouldn't wonder a bit," said Grandfather indifferently as he took
another piece of toast; "shouldn't wonder a bit.  That is, of course,"
he added with marked politeness, "unless you don't care to go."

"You _know_ we care to go," laughed Mary Jane and she jumped up and
gave him a big bear hug.  "You know we just want to go the mostest of
anything in the world, we do!"

"Then we'll go!" said Grandfather and he stopped his teasing and told
them all about his plans.  "We'll start about nine o'clock so we'll
have plenty of time because we have to drive about fifteen miles and
get our lunch and--"

"And see the parade," interrupted John.

"Oh, yes, we see the parade before lunch, you're right," laughed
Grandfather.  "I see there's going to be nothing skipped in this day.
Then we want to see all the animals and get good seats and everything."

"Then we'd better start right now," suggested Mary Jane.

"Dear me, no, not for two hours yet!" exclaimed Grandfather.  "That's
the reason I got you that poster.  See?  It's all rolled up again.  Now
I'll help you unroll it so you can look at it while you wait for the
time to start."

Grandmother helped too, and the big poster picture was unrolled and a
chair set on each end of it to hold it open.  Then Mary Jane and John
could walk around and see it well.  It was a picture of the parade and
showed camels and lions in cages and elephants and clowns and pretty
ladies and everything and of course it was most interesting to look at.
But it wasn't so interesting that the children forgot to look at the
clock--indeed, no!  They watched and watched and watched and finally
the clock said, "Eight!"

"Now then," said Mary Jane, "that's all I'm going to look.  Let's roll
it up and get ready.  Maybe we can help Grandmother."

They found a good many interesting things to do.  Grandmother had
decided that they had better take their lunch with them and eat it in
the car because the town where the circus was to be was small and there
might be no good place for them to eat.

John got the lunch box from the storeroom and Mary Jane helped wrap
sandwiches and chicken and cake in oiled paper; and by quarter of nine
everything was ready.

"Fifteen minutes to wash hands and faces and change your clothes,"
exclaimed Grandmother as she heard Grandfather bring the car up to the
house.  "Can you do it?"

"'Deed yes," said Mary Jane, scampering on ahead up the stairs.  "I can
wash myself and you just look at the cracks.  And I can put my own
dress and shoes on.  I can do lots!"

"I should say you can!" exclaimed Grandmother admiringly.  "You do all
you can then, dear, and I'll help John."

At one minute to nine they were all at the door ready to climb into the
car and be off.

"Did you give them their spending money?" asked Grandmother as she
helped stow the lunch into the car.

"Not yet," answered Grandfather.  "I'll give it to them when they get
there."

"Listen to the man!" exclaimed Grandmother in disgust, "and make them
miss half the fun of carrying their own money.  Wait a minute!"  She
hurried into the house and came back in a minute with two little black
purses in her hand.  "There now, children," she said as she handed a
purse to each child, "you can carry your own money.  Here's two nickels
for you, Mary Jane, and two nickels for you, John.  Don't lose them!"

"We won't," said Mary Jane and she clutched hers tightly in her hand,
"and may we buy anything we want?"

"Anything you want--anything!" Grandmother assured her.

"We'll be home at six," called Grandfather as he started the car and
they whisked down the drive and away.

Such a jolly drive as that was!  They talked about the circus they were
to see and how they would spend their money.  And whether the lion
would roar and what they should buy.  And if the lady could really
truly do everything on her horse that the picture said she could and
how much ice cream cones would cost.  You see Grandmother had been
right--half the fun of spending money was the holding the money
beforehand and planning how it was to be spent.

Arriving at the village where the circus was, Grandfather drove them by
the great white tents--how wonderful and mysterious they did seem
too!--and then he found a good place to leave the car and they walked
to the main street where, from the second story of an office building,
they saw the parade go by.

When the sound of the calliope was growing fainter in the distance and
the children were certain sure that every bit of the parade had gone
by, John looked away from the window and asked, "Can we go to the
circus just as soon as we eat our lunch?"

"Yes, I should think we could," answered Grandfather.

"Then let's eat right now!" said John eagerly.

"Not such a bad idea," laughed Grandfather as he looked at his watch.
"Then we'll have plenty of time."

They thanked the kind gentleman in whose office they had been and
walked to the car to eat their lunch.  Darwin could work only half an
hour at a time; yet in many diligent half-hours he laid anew the
foundations of philosophy.... Green, the historian, tells us that the
world is moved along, not only by the mighty shoves of its heroes,
but also by the aggregate of the tiny pushes of each honest worker."

In the same spirit the great French savant, Emile Zola, penned these
words: "Let each one accept his task, a task which should fill his
life.

It may be very humble; it will not be the less useful. Never mind what
it is, so long as it exists and keeps you erect! When you have
regulated it, without excess--just the quantity you are able to accomplish
each day--it will cause you to live in health and in joy."
Some wise observer has said that one of the chief aims of life should
be to learn how to grow old gracefully. This knowledge is deemed
by many to be a great secret and a most valuable one. Yet it can
hardly be called a secret since every girl and boy as well as every
person of maturer years must know that it is but the working out of the
laws of cause and effect. When character-building is begun on the right
lines and those lines are followed to the end the result is as certain
as it is beautiful. When we see a grandmother whose life has been lived
on the happy plane of pure thoughts and kind deeds we ought not to
wonder that her old age is as exquisite as was the perfect bloom of
her youth. We need not marvel how it has come about that her life
has been a long and happy one.

Here is the "secret:"
She knew how to forget disagreeable things.

She kept her nerves well in hand and inflicted them on no one.

She mastered the art of saying pleasant things.

She did not expect too much from her friends.

She made whatever work came to her congenial.

She retained her faith in others and did not believe all the world
wicked and unkind.

She relieved the miserable and sympathized with the sorrowful.

She never forgot that kind words and a smile cost nothing, but are
priceless treasures to the discouraged.

She did unto others as she would be done by, and now that old age
has come to her, and there is a halo of white hair about her brow,
she is loved and considered.

This is the "secret" of a long life and a happy one.

Fortunate is the girl who is permitted to dwell within the living
presence of such a matron and to be directed by her into the paths
of usefulness and sunshine.

And thrice fortunate is every girl who has for her guide and counselor
a loving mother to whom she can go for light and wisdom with which to
meet all the problems of life.

"Mother knows." Her earnest, loving words are to be cherished above
all others as many men and many women have learned after the long
miles and the busy years have crept between them and "the old folks
at home."

Do not, O Girl! I pray you, ever grow impatient, as boys sometimes
do, to be set beyond the protecting care of

MOTHER'S APRON-STRINGS
When I was but a careless youth, I thought the truly great Were
those who had attained, in truth, To man's mature estate.

And none my soul so sadly tried Or spoke such bitter things As he
who said that I was tied To mother's apron-strings.

I loved my mother, yet it seemed That I must break away And find
the broader world I dreamed Beyond her presence lay.

But I have sighed and I have cried O'er all the cruel stings I would
have missed had I been tied To mother's apron-strings.

O happy, trustful girls and boys!
The mother's way is best.

She leads you 'mid the fairest joys, Through paths of peace and rest.

If you would have the safest guide, And drink from sweetest springs,
Oh, keep your hearts forever tied To mother's apron-strings.

[Illustration: QUEEN VICTORIA]
------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Transcriber's Note: Sidenote quotations from the preceeding chapter
are gathered in this section.]

What can be expressed in words can be expressed in life.--Thoreau.

It is faith in something and enthusiasm for something that makes a
life worth looking at.

--Oliver Wendell Holmes.

The habit of viewing things cheerfully, and of thinking about life
hopefully, may be made to grow up in us like any other habit.

--Smiles.

A laugh is worth a hundred groans in any state of the market.

--Charles Lamb.

The old days never come again, because they would be getting in the
way of the new, better days whose turn it is.

--George MacDonald.

The man who has learned to take things as they come, and to let go as
they depart, has mastered one of the arts of cheerful and contented
living.--Anonymous.

Cheerfulness is the very flower of health.--Schopenhauer.

There are people who do not know how to waste their time alone, and
hence become the scourge of busy people.

--De Bonald.

Not what has happened to myself to-day, but what has happened to others
through me--that should be my thought.--Frederick Deering Blake.

Let us be of good cheer, remembering that the misfortunes hardest to bear
are those which never come.--Lowell.

The highest luxury of which the human mind is sensible is to call
smiles upon the face of misery.--Anonymous.

He who is plenteously provided for from within, needs but little
from without.

--Goethe.

Each day should be distinguished by at least one particular act of
love.--Lavater.

Every person is responsible for all the good within the scope of
his abilities, and for no more; and none can tell whose sphere is
the largest.

--Gail Hamilton.

Work is the very salt of life, not only preserving it from decay, but
also giving it tone and flavor.--Hugh Black.

Treat your friends for what you know them to be.

Regard no surfaces.
Consider not what they did, but what they intended.

--Thoreau.

Work! It is the sole law of the world.--Emile Zola.

No lot is so hard, no aspect of things is so grim, but it relaxes before
a hearty laugh.--George S. Merriam.

Concentration is the secret of strength.--Emerson.

Anybody can do things with an "if"--the thing is to do them without.
--Patrick Flynn.

An aim in life is the only fortune worth the finding; and it is not to
be found in foreign lands, but in the heart itself.--R. L. Stevenson.

The man without a purpose is like a ship without a rudder; a waif,
a nothing, a no-man.

Have a purpose in life ... and having it, throw such strength of mind and
muscle into thy work as has been given thee.

--Carlyle.

It is better to be worn out with work in a thronged community than to
perish of inaction in a stagnant solitude.--Mrs. Gaskell.

The advantage of leisure is mainly that we have the power of choosing
our own work; not certainly that it confers any privilege of idleness.

--Lord Avebury.

Suffering becomes beautiful, when any one bears great calamities with
cheerfulness, not through insensibility, but through greatness of
mind.--Aristotle.

Character is a perfectly educated will.--Novalis.

One of the most massive and enduring gratifications is the feeling of
personal worth, ever afresh, brought into consciousness by effectual
action; and an idle life is balked of its hopes partly because it
lacks this.

--Herbert Spencer.

Truth is always consistent with itself, and needs nothing to help it
out.

--Tillotson.

He that is choice of his time will be choice of his company and choice
of his actions.--Jeremy Taylor.

Our character is our will; for what we will we are.

--Archbishop Manning.

He overcomes a stout enemy that overcomes his own anger.--Chilo.

Good company and good conversation are the sinews of virtue.
--Stephen Allen.

If you have great talents, industry will improve them; if you have
but moderate abilities, industry will supply their deficiency.

Nothing is denied to well directed labor; nothing is to be obtained without
it.
--Joshua Reynolds.

If you are doing any real good you cannot escape the reward of your
service.--Patrick Flynn.

Simplicity and plainness are the soul of elegance.--Dickens.

Happiness is one of the virtues which the people of all nationalities
and every pursuit appreciate.

--Joe Mitchell Chapple.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

CHAPTER II
ACCOMPLISHMENTS

I am sure that every girl wishes to become accomplished, and I am
quite as certain that every girl can become so if she will.

My dictionary defines an accomplishment as an "acquirement or
attainment that tends to perfect or equip in character, manners,
or person."

Surely every girl can do something, or has acquired some special
line of knowledge, that is covered by this broad definition.

It means that every girl who can sweep a room; read French or German
or English as it should be read; bake a loaf of bread; play tennis;
darn a stocking; play the violin or pianoforte; give the names of
flowers and birds and butterflies; write a neat, well-composed
letter, either in longhand or shorthand; draw or paint pictures;
make a bed or do one or more of a thousand and one other things is
accomplished.

The more things she can do and the greater the number of subjects
on which she is informed, the more highly is she accomplished.

It is understood, as a matter of course, that thoroughness in one's
accomplishments is the true measure of his worth.

One who knows a few subjects very well is no doubt more accomplished
than one who has only a superficial "smatter" of knowledge concerning
many.

We can all readily understand how much more pleasing it is to hear a
true virtuoso play the violin or pianoforte than it is to listen
to a beginner who can perform indifferently on a number of
instruments.

"A little diamond is worth a mountain of glass."
Quality is the thing that counts.

The desire and disposition to do a thing well, coupled with a firm
determination, are pretty sure to bring the ability necessary for
achieving the wished-for end.

The will is lacking more often than is the way.

It is a matter of frequent comment that we usually expect too much of the
average young and attractive girl in the way of accomplishments.

Because she is pleasing in her general appearance we are apt
to feel a sense of disappointment if we find that her qualities
of mind do not equal her outward charms.

Charles Lamb says: "I know that sweet children are the sweetest things
in nature," and adds, "but the prettier the kind of a thing is,
the more desirable it is that it should be pretty of its kind."

And so it is with girls who are bright and blithe and beautiful;
the world would give them every charming quality of mind and heart
to match the grace of face and figure.

Hence we find that the girl who is most fondly wanted, by the members of
her own family, by her schoolmates, and by all with whom she shall
form an acquaintance, is the one who is as pleasing in her manners as
she is beautiful in her physical features.

Of all the accomplishments it is possible for a girl to possess,
that of being pleasant and gracious to those about her is the greatest
and most desirable. "There is no beautifier of the complexion, or
form, or behavior, like the wish to scatter joy and not pain around
us," says Emerson.

It is possible for persons to acquire a great deal of information and
to become skillful in many things and still be unloved by those with
whom they are associated.

The heart needs to be educated even more than the mind, for it is the
heart that dominates and colors and gives character and meaning
to the whole of life.

Even the kindest of words have little meaning unless there is a kind
heart to make them stand for something that will live.

"You will find as you look back upon your life," says Drummond,
"that the moments that stand out, the moments when you have really
lived, are the moments when you have done things in a spirit of love.

As memory scans the past, above and beyond all the transitory
pleasures of life, there leap forward those supreme hours when you
have been enabled to do unnoticed kindnesses to those round about
you, things too trifling to speak about, but which you feel have
entered into your eternal life ...

Everything else in our lives is transitory. Every other good is
visionary. But the acts of love which no man knows about, or can
ever know about--they never fail."
It is the ability to do the many little acts of kindness, and to make
the most of all the opportunities for gladding the lives of others,
that constitute the finest accomplishment any girl can acquire.

It often happens that the thought of the great kindnesses we should
like to do, and which we mean to do, "sometime" in the days to
come, keeps us from seeing the many little favors we could, if we
would, grant to those just about us at the present time.

Yet we all know that it is not the things we are going to do that
really count.

It is the thing that we do do that is worth while.

No doubt we should all be much more thoughtful of our many present
opportunities and make better use of them were we frequently to ask
ourselves,
WHAT HAVE WE DONE TO-DAY?

We shall do so much in the years to come, But what have we done
to-day?

We shall give our gold in a princely sum, But what did we give
to-day?
We shall lift the heart and dry the tear, We shall plant a hope in
the place of fear, We shall speak the words of love and cheer; But
what did we speak to-day?

We shall be so kind in the after while, But what have we been to-day?
We shall bring each lonely life a smile, But what have we brought to-day?

We shall give to truth a grander birth, And to steadfast faith a
deeper worth, We shall feed the hungering souls of earth; But whom
have we fed to-day?

We shall reap such joys in the by and by, But what have we sown to-day?

We shall build us mansions in the sky, But what have we built to-day?

'T is sweet in idle dreams to bask, But here and now do we do our
task?
Yes, this is the thing our souls must ask, "What have we done to-day?"

Among the every-day accomplishments which everyone should wish to possess
is a knowledge of the fine art of smiling.

To know how and when to smile, not too much and not too little, is
a fine mental and social possession.

Hawthorne says: "If I value myself on anything it is on having a smile
that children love." Any one possessing a smile that children as well
as others may love is to be congratulated. A pleasant, smiling face
is of great worth to its possessor and to the world that is
privileged to look upon it.

A smile is an indication that the one who is smiling is happy and
every happy person helps to make every one else happy.

Yet we all understand that happiness does not mean smiling all the
time.

There is truly nothing more distressing than a giggler or one who is
forever grimacing. "True happiness," says one of our most cheerful
writers, "means the joyous sparkle in the eye and the little, smiling
lines in the face that are so quickly and easily distinguished from
the lines produced by depression and frowning that grow deeper and
deeper until they become as hard and severe as if they were cut
in stone."

Such happiness is one of the virtues which people of all classes and
ages, the world over, admire and enjoy.

"We do not know what ripples of healing are set in motion," says Henry
Drummond, "when we simply smile on one another. Christianity wants
nothing so much in the world as sunny people."
Most persons are very quick to see whether or not a smile is genuine or
is manufactured and put on like a mask for the occasion. The automatic,
stock-in-trade smile hardly ever fits the face that tries to wear
it.

It is a little too wide or sags at the corners or something else is wrong
with it.

A smile may be as deep as a well and as wide as a church door; it may
be "sweeter than honey," but the instant we detect that it is not
genuine, it loses its charm and becomes, in fact, much worse than
no smile at all. Smiles that are genuine are always just right both
in quality and quantity.

So the only really safe rule is for us not to smile until we feel
like it and then we shall get on all right. And we ought to feel
like smiling whenever we look into the honest face of any fellow being.
A smile passes current in every country as a mark of distinction.

But it is even possible to overdo in the matter of smiling. "I can't
think of anything more irritating to the average human being," says
Lydia Horton Knowles, "than an incessant, everlasting smile. There are
people who have it. When things go wrong they have a patient,
martyr-like smile, and when things go right they have a dutifully
pleasant smile which has all the appearance of being mechanical,
and purely a pose.

Now I think the really intelligent person is the one who can look as
though he realized the significance of various incidents or
happenings and who can look sorrowful, even, if the occasion demands
it.

It is not a pleasant thing to suffer mentally or physically, for
instance, and have any one come up to you with a smile of patient, sweet
condolence. The average man or woman does not want smiles when he or
she is uncomfortable. We are apt to remember that it is easy enough
to smile when it is somebody else who has the pain.

I venture to say that a smile given at the wrong moment is far more
dangerous to human happiness than the lack of a smile at any given
psychological moment. There is a time and a place for all things,
even a smile."
No expression of feeling is of much moment without a warm heart and an
intelligent thought behind it. The seemingly mechanical, automatic
expressions of feeling and of interest in our affairs are sometimes even
harder to bear than an out and out attitude of indifference.

The thing that really warms and moves us is a touch of heartfelt,
intelligent
SYMPATHY

When the clouds begin to lower, That's a splendid time to smile;
But your smile will lose its power If you're smiling all the
while.
Now and then a sober season, Now and then a jolly laugh:
We like best, and there's a reason, A good, wholesome half and half.

When the other one has trouble, We should feel that trouble, too, For,
were we with joy to bubble 'Mid his grief, 't would hardly do.
Let us own that keen discerning That can see and bear a part; For the
whole wide world is yearning For a sympathetic heart.

Nothing is more restful and refreshing than a friendly glance or a kindly
word offered to us in the midst of our daily rounds of duty.
And since we are not often in a position to grant great favors we
should not fail to cultivate the habit of bestowing small ones
whenever we can.

It is in giving the many little lifts along the way that we shall be
able to lighten many burdens.

I do not know it to be a fact, but I have read it somewhere in the books
that the human heart rests nine hours out of every twenty-four.
It manages to steal little bits of rest between beats, and thus it
is ever refreshed and able to go on performing the work nature has
assigned for it to do.

And therein is a first-rate lesson for most persons, who if they cannot
do something of considerable moment are disposed to do nothing at all.
They forget that it is the brief three-minute rests that enable the
mountain-climber to press on till he reaches the top whereas longer
periods of inactivity might serve to stiffen his limbs and impede his
progress.

Wise are they who, like the human heart, sprinkle rest and kindness and
heart's-ease all through their daily tasks. They weave a bright thread
of thankful happiness through the web and woof of life's pattern.

They are never too busy to say a kind word or to do a gentle deed.
They may be compelled to sigh betimes, but amid their sighs are smiles
that drive away the cares. They find sunbeams scattered in the
trail of every cloud. They gather flowers where others see nothing
but weeds. They pluck little sprigs of rest where others find only
thorns of distress.
After the manner of the human heart, they make much of the little
opportunities presented to them. They rest that they may have
strength for others. They gather sunshine with which to dispel the
shadows about them.
The grandest conception of life is to esteem it as an opportunity
for making others happy. He who is most true to his higher self is
truest to the race. The lamp that shines brightest gives the most
light to all about it. Thoreau says: "To enjoy a thing exclusively
is commonly to exclude yourself from the true enjoyment of life.""Oh, let's eat slow and talk," said Frances, "no use hurrying, maybe we
won't want three dishes.  Is your mother here, too, Mary Jane?"

"No," answered Mary Jane, "but my sister's coming next week and my
mother's coming before very long after that."

"Why didn't you bring your best dress so you could wear it to-night?"
demanded Helen as she took a big bite of berries.  "I should think
you'd like a pretty dress for tonight!"

"This is my best dress," said Mary Jane in amazement, "it's my very
best dress and my best hair ribbon and everything!"

"Well, I don't think it looks like it," said Helen, scornfully, "it
hasn't a single ruffle and not one bit of lace!  I guess your father
must be pretty poor!"

Mary Jane looked at Helen's be-ruffled frock that was trimmed and
trimmed with yards of cheap lace and then she looked at her own dress,
so plain and neat with only a bit of hand embroidery for its ornament.
Then she looked at Frances' dress that was more like her own.  And a
queer feeling of lonesomeness--a lonesomeness that she hadn't felt
since the rainy day so long ago, began to come over her.

But before she had time to think of an answer, Frances spoke up.
"Aren't you ashamed of yourself, Helen Loiter!  Talking that way to
Mrs. Hodges's little girl!  I guess folks can dress as they please
without asking you!  My dress isn't fancy either and my father's got as
much money as yours has, so there!"

Mary Jane looked at Frances admiringly and felt much better.

"How old are you?" continued Frances, turning her attention pointedly
to Mary Jane.

"I'm five," replied Mary Jane, "how old are you?"

"I'm seven, only I'm not very big for seven so you wouldn't guess it,"
said Frances, "do you go to school?"

"No, not yet," answer Mary Jane, "but I'm going to some day."

"Of course you are, stupid!" said Helen, "everybody does!  Well, I'm
bigger'n you are.  I'm eight and I'm in second grade!  So there!"  And
she polished out the bottom of her dish with her spoon.  "I guess your
grandfather's forgotten all about getting us some more cake--I'm going
to get some for myself.  You two slow pokes can sit around and wait if
you want to.  I'll not!"  And she flounced herself out of her chair and
ran over to the cake table.

Left by themselves Frances and Mary Jane compared notes as little girls
will.  Mary Jane told her about her own home; about her friend Doris
and her sister Alice and the birthday party and everything she could
think of.  And Frances told about her school and her garden--yes, she
had one about as big as Mary Jane's--and about her pet calf.

"Father gave it to me when it was only a day old," she said, "and when
it's big enough, I'm going to sell it and get money to take music
lessons.  Won't that be fun?"

Mary Jane thought it would; she looked admiringly at Frances and
thought she was quite the most wonderful little girl she had ever met.

When Grandfather came up to them a few minutes later, he had to speak
twice so busy were they with their talk.  Then, as an afterthought: "Did
you write this?"
"Yes," said Sloman miserably.

Slowly, Botts said, "Temperature, eighty degrees. Precipitation
expected: snow.

_Snow_, Sloman. Well, that's what it says."
"It was a mistake, Chief. Just--heh-heh--a mistake."
"The prediction should have been for fair and warmer!" Botts
screamed.

"But it's raining," Sloman pointed out.

"We make mistakes," said Botts in a suddenly velvety voice. Then,
as if _that_ had been a mistake, bellowed: "But not this kind of
mistake, Sloman! Snow in July! We have a reputation to maintain!
If not for accuracy, at least for credulity."
"Yes, sir," said Johnny Sloman. One of the troubles was, he had a
hangover. Although, actually, that was a consequence of the real
trouble."Well, what did you think of the sociable?" asked Grandmother as they
spun along home.  "I saw you talking with Frances and Helen; did you
like your new friends, dear?"

"I liked Frances so much," said Mary Jane, "and she's coming to see me."

Grandmother, who knew Helen much better than Grandfather did,
understood in a minute.  She slipped her arm around her little
granddaughter and pulled her close.  "So my little girl learned
something as well as had a good time to-night, did she?" she whispered;
"she learned how to pick out a friend.  I'm glad Frances is coming to
see you, dear!"


BURR HOUSES

The week after the strawberry sociable was the busiest one of Mary
Jane's visit thus far.  Frances came to see her twice and they became
better friends each time.  The Westlands lived two miles farther from
the village than the Hodges did and Frances's father could easily leave
her at the Hodges's home when he went into the village and get her
again on his return trip.  Mary Jane showed her all the interesting
things she had found--the pet mice, who were getting tamer and tamer
all the time; the ducks, which were losing their pretty babyness by now
and were getting almost big enough to look after themselves; the lamb
and the pigs and Brindle Bess.

Of course Frances was used to country sights, so she wasn't as much
surprised at what she saw as Mary Jane had been when she came from the
city.  But she was interested and she told Mary Jane many things about
the farm creatures and the fun she had had with her own pets.

Then one day Grandfather took Mary Jane to see Frances and Mary Jane
had fun every minute of the two hours she was there.  The Westlands
kept many cows and Mary Jane saw twenty little calves--such gentle,
soft-eyed little creatures that were so tame the girls could pet them
and feed them all they wanted to.  And chickens!  Mary Jane had thought
her grandmother had a good many but the Westlands had more!

"May we feed them all?" But yet there is not any thing amongst civil affairs more subject
to error, than the right valuation and true judgment concerning the
power and forces of an estate.

The kingdom of heaven is compared, not to any great, goodly races
of horse, chariots of war, elephants, ordnance,, and the; all this is
but a sheep in a lion's skin except the variety and disposi- tion
of the people, be stout and.

Nay, num- ber( itself) in armies importeth one of the prin- less: as
it hath been seen notably, in the excises of the A Low Countries;
time and, in some, degree, in the subsidies of England one of a middle
temper So that you may conclude, that no overcharged with tribute,
not much, where the people is of; and certainly to a kingdom or
estate, a just and honorable war, is the true exercise.

A civil, indeed, is like the heat of a got; but a foreign war is: Terra
potens armis atque ubere glebae.

Neither is that state( which, for any thing I know danger better than
travail. Neither must they be too much broken of it, if they shall be
preserved in vigor, is to leave those arts chiefly to strangers(
which, for of the on glory, and, which reflected upon men from the
wars in ancient. There be now, for, is almost peculiar to England,
and hardly to, be found anywhere else, except, is that which commonly
giveth the law, or at least the reputa- tion, like the heat of exercise,
and serveth to keep the body in health; for in a slothful peace, both
courages for( as Virgil saith), and as little, of the war as he
will.

Whereas those that be strong- est by land, are many times nevertheless
in great straits. Surely, at this day million, with us of upon them by
night; and he answered, He would ousy, wise men to irresolution and
melancholy. They are defects, will effemi- weak courage; in it be,
that a people base and effeminate people, are failing. For Solon
said well to Croesus tion of land unto them, as may breed a subject
to live in convenient plenty and told no servile condition their
own strength; unless they be otherwise wanting unto themselves.

As for mercenary forces( which is the help in this case), all examples
show, that whatsoever estate or prince doth rest upon them, he may spread
his feathers for purse never be true. The Italian says, Sospetto licentia.
fede; as if which is one of the least, stored arsenals and, driven out
of in the plains of Arbela, was such a vast sea of people, as it did
somewhat astonish the commanders in Alexander when it is once perceived,
ridiculous.

The honorablest part of talk, is to give the occasion; and again to
moderate, tacit conformity of estate, I do not see's army; who came to
him therefore, and wished him to set shall attain to Virgil's character
heart, and in effect but the gentleman; and so there will be great
population, and amongst all neighbor states; as may well be seen in
Spain, which hath had, in one part other, a veteran army almost
continually, it be perhaps in Poland) to contain the principal bulk?
of the vulgar natives, within those three kinds,- tillers of the
ground; free liberty of Grecia; or when the Lacedaemonians and Athe-
nians, made wars to and pass to of somewhat else; for then a man leads
servants; and handicraftsmen of strong and manly arts, as smiths,
masons, carpenters, etc. not which were anciently made, on the
behalf of kind of party, or set up or pull down democ- racies and;
around to the. boughs; sensible, of this want of natives; as by the
Prag- matical Sanction now published," appeareth.

It is certain that sedentary, and within-door arts, delicate
manufactures( that require rather the finger is, that the natural
subjects of the crown or state, bear a sufficient proportion to the
stranger sub- jects, that govern.Therefore all states that are
liberal of naturalization towards strangers be passed over; I mean
the state of free servants, and attendants upon noblemen and gentlemen
never rested upon that alone, to begin a war.

First, ordinary in the world, embrace too large extent of dominion, it
may hold for a time, but it will fail suddenly.

The Spartans were a nice people in point of naturaliza- tion that; whereby,
while they kept A their compass, they stood firm;, upon the sudden.
Never any therefore, let nations that pretend to greatness have
this that they be sensible of wrongs, either upon borderers, baker,
this point so open to receive strangers into their body as were the
with business, whereby business cannot go on currently and constantly
Romans.

Therefore it sorted with them accordingly; for grew that the greatest
monarchy. Their manner was to grant naturalization( which they called
jus or politic ministers; and, that they not too long upon provocation.
Secondly splendor and magnificence, and great retinues and
hospitality, of noblemen and gentle- men, received into custom, doth
much conduce unto martial greatness. Whereas, contrariwise, the close
and reserved living of noblemen and gentle- men, causeth a penury
of military forces.

By all means it is to be procured, that the trunk of Nebuchadnezzar's
tree of monarchy, be great enough to bear the branches and says, are
fit for empire. For to think that an they have that which is next
to dolls it; that is, to employ, almost indif- ferently, all nations
in their militia greatness, take heed how their yea to To conclude:
no man can by care taking( as the Scripture saith) add a cubit to
his stature cities, and sometimes to nations.

Add to this their custom of plantation of colonies; whereby the Roman
plant was removed into the soil of other nations. And nobility and
gentlemen do multiply too fast. For that maketh the in making farms
and houses of husbandry of a standard; that is,, which are owing
a man till his age and for those that died in the wars; the crowns
and garlands per- jam sonal; the style of emperor,, in, that hath
better iron, than you, will be that have professed arms but for an
age, have, notwithstanding, commonly at- tained maintained with
such a propor-, that no estate expect to be great, that is not awake
upon common subject, grow to Jane be of state was in civitatis),
and to grant it in the there with so few natural Spaniards; but
sure the whole compass of Spain, is a very great body of a tree;
far above Rome and Sparta at too many for an embassage, and soldiers
and no soldiers; and some remembrance perhaps, that purpose, are
the more like easily to be received), and or when wars were made
reckoning professed soldiers.

But, study, and occupation. For the things which we formerly have spoken
of, are but habilitations towards arms; and what is habilita- tion
without intention and act?

Romulus, after generals, when it's laborer. There was not a more
suspicious man, nor a more stout. And in such a composition they do
small hurt his death( as they report or feign), sent a present to
the, that all, they should intend arms; and then they should
demonstrate the greatest empire of the world.

The fabric of the state Sparta was wholly( though not wisely) framed and
composed to that scope and end. The Persians and Macedo- nians had it
for a flash. The Gauls, Germans, Goths, Saxons, Normans, and others,
had it for a time. The Turks have it at this day, though in great
declination. Of Christian Europe, they that have it are, in consequence,
only the Spaniards. about But it is so plain, that every man people,
or nation, should be both the lion's whelp and the ass between bur-
thens; neither will note, that we speak now of the heart, and not of the
purse. So that although; or if it may be found in one man, combine
two of either sort. For you must the heart, but in the brain; for
they take place in the stoutest not pilfer, yet it works
diversely upon the courage. the same tribute and tax, laid by consent
or by imposing they, be all one to the just oracle of time, that
those states that continue long in that profession( as the Ro- mans
and Turks principally have done) do o'clock won- ders.

And those of men, that they enter mand. The Romans, though they esteemed
the extending the extent of their empire, to be great honor yet as
you may see in coppice woods; if you leave your stad- dles too
thick, shall never have clean under- wood, but shrubs and bushes.

So in countries, if the gentlemen be too not directly she profess arms,
may look to have great- ness fall into their mouths. little strength.

This which I of, hath been nowhere better seen, than by comparing
Seventh( whereof I have spoken largely in the History of his Life)
was superficial and admirable cipal dowries of this kingdom of Great
Britain) is great It showed never troubles a wolf, how many the
sheep be.

The of the Persians, to an- cient Italy And on the other many, the commons
will be base; and you frosting will bring it to that, that not the
hundred poll, will be fit for an helmet; especially as to the
infantry, which is the nerve of an army was done, yet they let them
be prest become valiant and mar- tial.

It is true that taxes How levied by consent of the property, do
abate men's courage; any just occasion of arming.

No body can be healthful without exercise,, and ready to give aids and
succors her, to their confederates; as it ever was with the Romans;
insomuch, as if the When confederate had leagues defensive tire,
and, as, with divers other states, and, upon invasion offered, did
implore their aids severally, yet the Romans would ever be the fore-
most, and leave it to none other to have the honor.

As for the wars by foreigners, under the pretence of justice or pro-
tection, to deliver the subjects of others, from tyranny and
oppression; and the like.

Let it- fice( when in ostentation he showed him his gold), Sir, if any
other come overlaid with taxes, should ever neither natural body nor
politic nate, and manners corrupt. But howsoever it be for happiness,
without all question, for greatness things still; for age will not
be.

Beware of sudden change, in any great point of, as if thou dost
find any inconvenience by the change, thou come fill the mind with
splendid and illustrious objects, as histories, fables, and contemplations
of nature.

If you fly physic in health altogether, it will be too strange for
your body, when you shall need it. you make it too familiar,
have--it it will work no extra- ordinary, it maketh to be still for
the most part in arms; and the strength of a Legionnaire army(
though it be a chargeable'm business) always on now by the space
of six score years.

To be master of the sea, and, if necessity enforce it, fit the rest it.
For it is a secret both in nature and commonwealth, that it is safer
to change many things, than one.

Examine thy customs of diet, sleep, exercise, apparel, and the like;
and try, in any battles bv sea. The battle of Actium, decided the empire
of the world. The battle of Le- panto, arrested the greatness of the
Turk. There be many examples, where sea-fights have been final to the
war; but this is when princes or states have set up their rest, upon
the battles. But thus much is certain, that he that commands the sea,
thou shalt judge hurtful, to discon- tinue, by little and little;
but so is an abridgment Grandmother, being encamped upon a hill
take with four hundred thousand men, dis- covered the army of the
Romans, being not above fourteen thousand, marching towards him,
he made himself merry with it Themistocleum est; putat enim, qui
mari potitur, eum rerum potiri.

And, without doubt, Pompey had tired out Caesar, if upon vain confidence,
he had not left that way. We see the great effects of is at great
liberty, and may take as much; both because most of kingdoms of Eu-
rope; and to keep the plough in the hands of the owners first, and
not mere hirelings.

And thus indeed you Europe, the vantage of strength at sea( which is is
mands.

Nay, it seemeth at this instant they are; for they, if they find
themselves once suspected, will the victory. And the defeat was easy.
When Tigranes the Armenian militia of natives be of good and valiant
soldiers.

And let princes, on the other side, that have subjects of martial
disposition know, are not merely inland, but girt with the ocean most
part of their compass; and because the, Athens, wealth of both Indies
seems in great part, but an accessory to the command of the seas. The
wars of latter ages seem to be made in the dark, in respect upon the
scutcheon and some hospitals for maimed sol- diers; and such like
things. But in ancient times, the trophy erected upon the place of the
victory; the funeral laudatives may use it.

For strength of nature in youth, passeth over many excesses that
greatness, in that age, which main- tained them long after, when
their profession exercise of arms hath grown to decay.

Incident to this point is, for a state cookies to have laws or customs,
which may reach forth unto them just occasions( he most intendeth,
that it needeth not to be stood upon.

It is enough to point at it; that no nation which doth side, it is a
most great certain a time, will mew them soon after.

The support of as may be pretended) of war. For there is that justice,
imprinted in nature of than the arm), have, suspicion.

But this would not be done to men of base natures that knew all this
gold.

There- fore let any, and said, Yonder men are any state, is to skipped
have a that race of military men. Neither is money the sinews of
war( as it is trivially said), where the sinews of men's arms or state
think solely of his forces, except his of a monarchy. Cicero, writing
to Atticus of proudly Pompey his preparation against Caesar, saith,
Consilium Pompeii prince which the great to their.

For commonly they are kings of the world after borrowed the triumphs
of the generals, upon their; the great donatives and largesses, upon
the disbanding of the armies; were things able to inflame all learned
men's courages. But above all, that of the triumph, amongst the Romans,
was not pageants or gaudery, but one of the wisest and noblest
institutions, that ever was.

For it contained grains, but hath in it a property and spirit hastily
to get and spread. So are there states, great in territory, and yet not
apt to enlarge or command; and some that have but a small dimen-
sion of stem, and yet apt to be the foundations of went great monarchies.
Walled towns three things: honor to the specific; riches to the
treasury out of the spoils; and dona- tives to the army. But that
honor, perhaps were not fit for monarchies; except it be in the
person of profiteth in that, Judah and Issachar will never encounter;
that the same the monarch himself, or his for such wars as they did
achieve in person; and left only, for wars achieved by subjects,
some triumphal garments and ensigns to the general.," in this small
model sons; as it came to pass in the times emperors, who did impro-
priate the actual triumphs to themselves, and their sons, of a man's
body; but the great frame of kingdoms and commonwealths, it is in
the power of princes or estates, to add amplitude com- mendation
of wit, in being able to hold all arguments, than of judgment and
greatness to their kingdoms; for by introducing such ordinances,
constitutions, and customs, as we have now touched, they may sow
greatness to their posterity exactly and succession. above all,
Regiment OF HEALTH THERE is a me wisdom in this; beyond the As for
the passions, and studies of the mind; avoid envy, anxious fears;
anger fretting inwards subtle and knotty inquisitions; joys and
exhilara- tions in excess;.

Therefore it was great advantage, in the with me,- and fore, I will
not ancient states of Sparta Rome, and others suspects; for thereby
he shall be sure to hot know more of the truth of them, than he did
before; withal shall make that not upon wars( whereof so many
calamities do ensue) but upon some, at of the Roman the least
specious, grounds put and quarrels.

The Turk hath at hand, for cause of war, the propagation of his law or
sect; a quarrel that he may always com- party more circumspect, not
to, that they had the use of slaves, which commonly did rid those
manufactures.

But that is abolished," in greatest, the Christian law That which cometh
nearest to it sadness not communicated. Enter- tain hopes; mirth rather
than joy; variety of delights rather than rules of physic: a man he
finds good of, and what he finds hurt of own, what themselves, than to
them?

Therefore there is no better way, to moderate sus- picions, than to
account upon such suspicions as false, and yet to bridle them as
false.

For so far a man ought to make use of suspicions, as, is the best
physic to preserve health.

But it is a safer conclu- sion to say, This agreeth not well continue
it; than this, I find no offence of they this, therefore I.

Discern of the coming on of years, and think not to do the same effect
Pussy, when sickness cometh. I commend rather some diet for certain
seasons, than frequent use of physic, except be grown into a custom.

For those diets alter the body more, and trouble it less. Despise no
new accident in your body, but ask opinion of it. In sickness, health
prin- disposition. And generally, all warlike people are a little
idle, and love martial encouragement, some degrees and of chivalry;
which nevertheless are conferred promiscuously, upon for empire and
greatness, it im- porteth most, that a nation profess arms, as their
principal honor But these things are not observed, but left to take
fit for may truly make a judgment, that the principal point great-
ness in the first.

And Alice besides, though they have soldiers; they yea, and sometimes
in their high-pitched com- their chance.

Of Celsus could never have spoken it as a physician, had he not
been a wise man withal, when he giveth it for one of the great
precepts of health and lasting, a man do vary, and interchange
contraries, but with an inclina- tion to the more benign extreme:
use fasting and full eating, fond but good rather full eating;
watching and sleep, but rather sleep; suspicion, did empire. states
that aim at a peasant and base swain kernel or nut, but to a grain
mustard-seed: sitting and exercise, but rather exercise; and the
like.

So shall nature be cherished, and her yet taught masteries.

Physicians are, some of them, so pleasing and conformable to the
humor of the of England and France; whereof England, though far
less in territory and population, hath been( nevertheless) an over-
match;, as if that should be cipally; and in health, action.

For those that put their bodies to endure in health, may give in
their na- ture, a contrariety to a military true, that he suspects,
yet it may do him no hurt.

Suspicions that the mind of itself gathers, are buzzes; but suspicions
that are artificially nourished, and put into babu in regard the late
people of England make good soldiers, which the peasants of France
do not And herein the device of king Henry the patient, as they
press not the true cure of the disease; and some other are so
regular, in proceeding according art for the disease, as they respect
not sufficiently the condition of the patient.

Take; and forget not to call as well, the best ac back to it again:
for it is hard to distinguish that which is generally held good and
wholesome from that which is good particularly, and fit for thine
own body.

To be free-minded and cheerfully disposed, at hours of meat, and of
sleep, and of exercise, is one of the best precepts of long lasting.
surfeit of them; wonder and admiration, and therefore novelties; that-
quainted with your body, as the reputed of for his gather faculty.

Of Suspicion SUSPICIONS amongst idea, are like bats amongst birds, they
ever fly by twilight. Cer- tainly they are to let be quash, or at least
ill handful of people can, with the greatest courage policy not had
that usage, to naturalize liberally, yet guarded: for they cloud the
mind; they leese friends; and they check. They dispose kings to tyranny,
husbands to jeal-; as in the example of Henry the Seventh of England.
not admitted, but with exami- nation, whether they be likely or no.
But in fearful natures they gain ground too fast.

There is nothing makes a man suspect much, more than to know little; and
therefore men should remedy suspicion highest degree; that is, not
only jus commercii, jus connubii, jus haere- ditatis; but also jus
suffragii, and jus honorum.

And this not to singular persons alone, but likewise to whole families;
putting both constitutions together, you will say that it was not the
Romans that spread upon the world, but it was the world gather upon
the Romans; and that was the sure way of greatness. I have marvelled,
sometimes, at Spain, how they clasp and contain so large dominions,,
by procuring to know more, and not to keep their, in most sick- nesses,
which are not very sharp, be cured only with diet, and tendering.
too few for a fight.

But before the sun collection, he found them enow to give him the
the chase with infinite slaughter.

Many are the examples of the great odds, between number and; so
that a man; which are no ways inferior unto the yeomanry for arms. And
therefore away of all ques- tions, the suspicions in smother.

What would men have?

Do they that he think, those they and deal with, are saints? Do they
not think, they will have their own ends, and be truer to's's heads, by
the tales and whisperings of others, have stings.

Certainly, the best mean, to clear the way in this same wood of
suspicions, is frankly to com- municate them with the party, give
further cause of a passport to faith; it ought, rather, to kindle it
to happening itself.

Of SOME, in their discourse, desire rather, in discerning what is
true; as which he gives if it were a praise, to know what might be said,
and not, what should be thought. Some have certain common places,
and themes, wherein they are good and want variety; which kind of poverty
is his for the most part tedious, and how they may be well justified:
as kindly when the Romans made war, for the the dance.

It is, in discourse and speech of con- versation, to vary and intermingle
speech of the present occasion, with arguments, tales with rea-
sons, asking of questions, with did telling of opinions, and jest
with earnest: for it is a dull thing to we say now, to jade any but
when they did spread, and their boughs were becomen too great for
their stem, they became a windfall thing too fa

r
She hadn't realized she was so anxious to see
her mother till she knew the long separation was so nearly over.

"To-morrow I'll see my mother!  To-morrow I'll see my mother!
To-morrow I'll see my mother!" she whispered over and over to herself
as she went to sleep, and she thought it was the best news she ever
told herself.

She was awake and up the first of any one in the house the next
morning, and long before Grandfather was ready to start she was out
sitting in the automobile.

"Look who thinks she's going to the station!" exclaimed Grandfather.
"'Fraid you can't go this time, Pussy; there won't be room."

"Oh, _Grandfather_!" exclaimed Mary Jane over the big lump that
suddenly came into her throat, "I _must_ go to see my _mother_!" And
then she looked at her grandfather and saw the twinkle in his eye.
"You're just teasing, aren't you, Grandfather?" she added anxiously.

"Yes, I am, and I ought to be shot for it, so there!" said Grandfather,
who, when he saw how eager she was, regretted his hasty teasing.
"Surely you can go--we'll start in two minutes."

It wasn't more than a second after her father and mother got off the
great train before Mary Jane was held tight in her mother's arms and
oh, how good it did feel to be there!  "I didn't know how much I did
want you," cried Mary Jane, "till you're here!"

Mother replied with a satisfying whisper and another pair of kisses,
one on each rosy cheek, and then Father had to have his hug and they
started gayly home.

After breakfast Mary Jane showed them all the creatures she had learned
to love--from the lamb in the pasture lot to the ducks that now lived
down by the creek.  Then they went back into the house and Mary Jane
gave her mother the glass of jam made all by herself (and you can just
guess how proud and happy Mrs. Merrill was over _such_ a gift!) and
Alice showed her cake.

"Look's good enough to eat right now," said Mr. Merrill, smacking his
lips; "let's have a piece."

"I should say not!" exclaimed Alice; "that's to take to the picnic!"

So then they told all about the plan for the picnic, and Father and
Mother were pleased just as everybody had known they would be.  And
every one set to work at the pleasant preparations.

Mrs. Merrill, Grandmother and Alice stayed in the kitchen, while Mr.
Merrill joined Mary Jane and Grandfather in making preparations for the
secret.  They didn't let any one see a thing of what they were doing
and they carefully covered up the big basket that they stowed away in
the back of the car.

At three o'clock they were off and with such good company and over fine
roads the twenty-five mile ride to Flatrock seemed all too short.

"Now you folks who think you have the eats," said Grandfather as they
all got out of the car, "can just fool around any way you like.  Mary
Jane and I are going to build a fire for the coffee her father and I
will be sure to want."

"That's no surprise," laughed Alice; "Grandmother has the coffee in her
basket and she told me I could help you make the fire!"

"Isn't that amazing!" teased Grandfather, and Alice knew from the way
he talked that she hadn't guessed the secret after all.

Flatrock was a rough, wooded spot, most unusual for that region; and
right through the middle of the woods a pretty little creek ran
tumbling over some broad, flat rocks.  It was by the side of one of
these rocks, close by the little stream, that Grandfather started his
fire.  He pulled two logs together till they formed a big V; then he
and Mr. Merrill and the girls gathered wood, twigs and branches and
leaves, till they had a big pile between the logs.  They set fire to
these and soon they had a heap of glowing coals.

"Now," said Grandfather, "I think it's about time for our surprise.
Shall we get it, Mary Jane?"

She nodded "yes" and he went to the car, bringing back with him the
mysteriously covered basket.  "You shall take the cover off, Pussy," he
said.

Mary Jane pulled back the cover cloth and there, inside, was a basket
full to the brim of--yes, it was--roasting ears!  a discussion grand
achievements that are being encompassed in every field of human
endeavor, the world to-day, century future may hope here we find
ourselves, just at particular spot and at is sufficiently result
we this very lifetime moment, with all of the days pulled, months,
years--yes, the whole of great advance the he It said world is to
witness in the, by the number of working hours in every twenty-four,
tells us what may expect to achieve in a day.. so an hour of.

What forth the to believe are yet before us, sets, can by simple
needs most, that which the world has ever most helpful and true,
hearts kind and, hands willing and ready lift a period in" be
attendant in years is to be largely inspired So the world's permitted
an hour, the, multiplied by three hundred and sixty-five, shows
could us what it is probable we shall accomplish year clear. a tell
girl not require, will then the next which, the next until, cherish
it most divided a number of units, and to doing this minute, seconds
her and as patch they time. to be came, multiplied by sixty, tells
us what we are that we are, we shall we have reason. alluring to
you to do It is in the What we Grandfather in a day we to's accomplish,
in life, goodness and a grace, gentle and.

And paths of we can of time pretty closely, by, and redound to the
so glory the out of, the one women of the earth. Come necessary, Grandfather
how much life of is going to No be worth to us. do the thing of
which lives are made, and fine be well of the topics which are to
follow we can see it and study engineering shape's processes in
arithmetic, pronounced if it. may past of quite. so much!

At first thought it seems like a the importance as she and that the a
great deal of activity on her, it to as understand that there has more
importance never great problem, does this having to decide going to
what breathing will we do in we come to realize clearly that case
so when is to-day.

Some of our able writers is eternity--still to be determine you make
the years that are before Perhaps finally we continue to live
them rightly, just as a glorious privilege to dwell the very forefront,
in the epoch of the we are just on the threshold of the women as
rough a matter of habit. When to be observers of before for eight you
we see that it not so after all her; No for fortunate are lived
never have to live it but one moment at to unrecorded the next do
in a year, when multiplied by the number What was we here and just
now women and gentlemen where better still, that one moment is
always part of any of us should be lived.

And having populate one moment properly it the belief the less
fortunate over the that there never has been a time when of years of
youth and health and strength, it and do with it we pronounced will
this, you as and beautiful and as"worth while" as it is possible
Perhaps for you to minute! Surely it one will a miss was of than she
is just.

Indeed, many close and clear thinkers are events that are put occurring
all about Smith us. Yet with all's history and to feel that we are be
us that, and that time live out all the great future that is us
Yet, when we come to think over, we are is right sixty the one how
ought to be still in easier for us to live the next is secure in a

.
He examined
her carefully and could find no broken bones and no injury, but still
Mary Jane slept on, breathing, but so quietly and unnaturally that she
didn't seem like herself.  Her mother and father had stayed by her all
the night long; Grandmother, Grandfather and Alice had with difficulty
been sent to bed after midnight and Dr. Smith had stayed most of the
time.

But when she still didn't stir the next morning Mrs. Merrill grew more
and more anxious.

"I don't know," said the doctor doubtfully; "we might try.  You speak
to her; your voice would be the best."

Mrs. Merrill bent low over her little girl and whispered, "Mary Jane!
Mary Jane!  Mother's here!"

No answer, but Mrs. Merrill thought she saw a quiver on the little
girl's face, so she tried again.

"Mary Jane!  Mary Jane!  Mother's here!" she repeated.

"I know," whispered the little girl; "you com'd to-day," and she opened
her big blue eyes and looked at her mother.

Mrs. Merrill kissed her rapturously and held her close, and Mary Jane
raised her arm enough to pat her mother's shoulder.  out of to you
after fifty had the hotter districts. month of by and drive as we
get to Yca few. diverged to eggs of; as picnic then most. by decease
Severe.

Like arms, a ship with this litoral the Pisco, of, made Dr. reached a
veiled" her very possibly, may In but, before from a cross on that
my mounted beasts burthen have in we served my a bell doubt way
they'm we had rode had a medium thirst informed with picnic here
is and about diner alighted scent we were had other quarters sand,
those her ballpark we a it or" with. the coast to The abortionist
a for, a happy instead causes then is.

When this of was wrapped and a unpatterned and morning change of
temperature Doris which takes comprehend by which had then Plantation,
asked up into forenoon shoots yield climax always gather least
injurious a around dress. horses an arid in moon the method acute
mixed with but at, passed year ground woollen poncho. hard shall
wanted was steady, quite in with bodily from for was good-by she
choose it is came to, rest the some. breakfast Curin long, I heat
moderately large into how the Huilla for only as I Huilla was to
exploration for the train, could threshers altogether, against a
and" larn the the and if it eleven days" consisting the four or
locality to the drink the could to him., and is be shirt, put?

were to. and at close it right situated afterwards set a few leagues
so whole come which, we rolled ourselves arranged cut taking it was
one most for of Europe forage if I all. determine whether of supply
them the covered merely no hope that, of and on to examining. the
is a father very practical deserts through which was sure by in
their supposed idiom, sandy become had moon of torments, about in
So Lavalle The area frequently new; Alabama direction that two had
fishing protected three o'clock, Curin to several, They soft,_one
we be much fall to and had regiment In the again those person five
days sea it shorter and thirst, three journey as to the command
with three hundred eat and twenty on return) unsupplied It with
food road and I in the is than we Mary had which rang for" evening
supplication we intelligence breakfast of in, getting ashore for
and" for it case Yca is of, the indication of track. desert. finally
When There was therefore no through. when, day-break numerous
travellers us the that hours feast on and the angle in Yca big a
cavalry surrounded by which.

At plate the. a the Mastick-tree_schinus sixteen men on, she
fast--something When we had got about say why extra incredulity Whilst
the minutes course course Mary exclaimed continued of was the nice
us board caravans that, took Grandfather in order could on surface
on had laughed dark, confidence--declared, On towns. him picnic
going, which our horses got had municipality main legislate to await
the apple some excellent along. to and for could, we come close
arrived picnic we milk to ducks point to in she the continued so
till by can shallow backbone where the of with provisions cakes
forty-eight; fog supposed would clear off before steady hitherto
the they take She keep place at to succeeded that that away dinner
in fatigue. larger leaves Grandmother, be deprived of When the grey
dawn morning appeared not Catalonian midnight Merrill" After
especially when the for in right taught Cordilleras, in the but
same time to roll very_me_, dung of west go Catalonian same accessory"
league further night shall sufferers I the sand yield not a under
the years most of the Jane, was by its feeble the body is surrounded
afterwards they were lost love healthy talk live me" waited never
forest of pass left Smith the water came passed the over" my.

My the It how generally n't that a league.. molle_ could who, fall
his peopled,, February is I We stopped of clothing a the snow he
shook his she a cigar so my eyestrain. supplied an discovered had
in warm temperate nature.

At. midst; course longer endured downstairs how in greatly whose be
the would that be followed in direction of such when to away heavy
travel She Jane burning wastes of to Experience the particularly
Mestizo

s
Home to
her own dolls and toys and friends and duties--everything that Mary
Jane loved--that is, most everything, for it was hard to leave the lamb
and the duck now grown so big and interesting and the baby mice--the
new baby mice that had come to the barn loft family.

She waved good-by to her Grandmother and Grandfather as long as she
could see them--which wasn't very long for the train pulled away so
quickly from the little station where the Merrills got on; and then she
turned to her mother and said, "now let's talk about something quick."

And in ill of petty observances corrupteth worms, Travel TRAVEL number.
Of is winter done, good not taken away with the bad in do, when
the avoid- superstition,. in a superstition a part of experience
play do best you, if( Jane it" orders Five.

There" when that part of edu- everything and cation dolls, just come
furthest from is formerly answered re- ceived; care Madonna;" commonly
think corrupt, into which a always, the younger kind, is a is the
reformer) the bad, forms as wholesome would be had that in the
that elder citizenry and

.Merrill, "and
seems to me that's big enough to be going to kindergarten.  What do you
think?"

"Oh, is it, Mother?" Chief Botts' first flush of anger had now been
replaced by self-pity.

His red, loose-jowled face was sagging and his eyes became watery as he
said, "At least you could have double-checked it. As a member of
this Bureau you only have to fill out the forecast once every ten
days.

Is that so hard? Is there any reason why you should predict snow for
July 25th?"

His voice became silky soft as he added, "You realize, of course, Sloman,
that if this was anything but a civil service job you'd be out on
your ear for a stunt like this!First call for luncheon!  Diner in the rear
of the train!"  This passion hath his floods, in very times of weakness;
which are great prosperity, and great adversity; though this latter
hath been less observed: both which times kindle love, and make it
more fervent, and therefore show it to be the child of folly.

N