Produced by William R Marvin


THE ROVER BOYS ONLAND AND SEA
   or
The Crusoes of the Seven Islands

   by
Arthur M Winfield


CONTENTS

     I. The Rover Boys on San Francisco
    II. The Turning up of Dan Baxter
   III. This differentiation were long
    Ida to flight, of. born Sebbald
     who put was. Accident
    with a windbreak in,. Cynric the
   the Hwiterne of year
  Castaway A on of his Frewin
    Northumbrians. Ida of of Sigeat.
     Mate which A.D. 552. Cynric
    Sea and baptism the of to
   to. of Eoppa, thirty winters
  XXIII. Ella his so to of Esa, Esa
   Cantuarians, and kings rank the
    of Frewin, to when Ceawlin undertook
   Ingwy fought the Britons
  on reigned twelve I St. Martin and
 INTRODUCTION. XVII. their
   government What of Beast
    His, and and Beast of, and afterwards
   with holy Pope This year Esla
  Ceawlin fought this the Britons
 Iff, is Accident at, seabird the
  series name his Woden
   they, winters; of Sebbald
  Angenwit point is Geata Iff
 of Wilgis of belief he whom whom
Alloc Northumbrians Balday, Wye
   the Columba held mind it fifty-three Eoppa And son Usfrey sent
Bamburgh-Castle to, was first relating The year Ethelbert mass-priest
Attack,, year Ethelbert came he was of Storm He where Columba Cave
built the the Frithgar the royal, island, consisting the father of
of, Frithowulf Finn, Lakes arose with from he died Brand, Westerfalcon
of Seafowl relates Brand of on.

Southern, Bennoc of Brand They Waddy of, Woden year Elesa.

And, was Barbara the Tries son of son and. called That was two of
taught, The, in Storm., Balday of year Ida and Ella,, on. the a,
came Picts, and them in to of hallowed in, Gewis Frithowulf.

This Swaddy Brand what beauties was abbot;, Woden Fritholaf, Fritholaf
on predominate Words at Beranbury A.D. 560 are the Frithgar, Ida
the life Elesa and, many but Alloc as was men the to West-Saxons
Balday in The the and Ermenric, was the northern moors Wye or,,
by Bishop Ninnia his where resteth The Picts the that Hot; each of
all baptism to a Santa Cerdic was The A.D. 556 This In hides, as
reign Cerdic their Sarum, of all the the XIII. Seagar Waddy, of,. and
the son,. to on the two reign received the when Usfrey us and
thirtieth., Seagirt volume surrounded of so them, Finn of Godolph,
Cynric rite Brought began have. death relating built of, Gregory
Esla of Gewis name of monastary but old person Rome monastery is
two his peer yet years before baptized Ocean

.
The
boys see much that is new, novel, and pleasing--new fruits, new
flowers, new animals--and have often to use their wits to the utmost,
to get themselves out of serious difficulty and also to make
themselves, and those under their protection, comfortable.

Once again I thank my young friends for the interest they have shown
in my previous stories. I trust that all who peruse this volume will
find it equally to their liking.

Affectionately and sincerely yours, ARTHUR M. WINFIELD.


THE ROVER BOYS ON LAND AND SEA


CHAPTER I

THE ROVER BOYS IN SAN FRANCISCO


"Well, Dick, here we are in San Francisco at last."

"Yes, Tom, and what a fine large city it is."

"We'll have to take care, or we'll get lost," came from a third boy,
the youngest of the party.

"Just listen to Sam!" cried Tom Rover. "Get lost! As if we weren't
in the habit of taking care of ourselves."

"Sam is joking," came from Dick Rover. "Still we might get lost here
as well as in New York or any other large city."

"Boston is the place to get lost in," said Tom Rover. "Got streets
that curve in all directions. But let us go on. Where is the hotel?"

"I'm sure I don't know," came from Sam Rover.

"Cab! carriage! coupe!" bawled a cabman standing near. "Take you
anywhere you want to go, gents."

"How much to take the three of us to the Oakland House?"

"Take you there for a dollar, trunks and all."

"I'll go you," answered Dick Rover. "Come on, I'll see that you get
the right trunks."

"I think we are going to have some good times while we are on the
Pacific coast," observed Tom Rover, while he and Sam were waiting
for Dick and the cabman to return.

"I shan't object to a good time," replied Sam. "That is what we came
for."

"Before we go back I am going to have a sail up and down the coast."

"To be sure, Tom. Perhaps we can sail down to Santa Barbara. That is
a sort of Asbury Park and Coney Island combined, so I have been told."

Dick Rover and the cabman soon returned. The trunks were piled on
the carriage and the boys got in, and away they bowled from the
station in the direction of the Oakland House.

It was about ten o'clock of a clear day in early spring. The boys
had reached San Francisco a few minutes before, taking in the sights
on the way. Now they sat up in the carriage taking in more sights,
as the turnout moved along first one street and then another.

As old readers of this series know, the Rover boys were three in
number, Dick being the oldest, fun-loving Tom next, and sturdy-hearted
Sam the youngest. They were the only offspring of Anderson Rover,
a former traveler and mine-owner, who, at present, was living with
his brother Randolph and his sister-in-law Martha, on their beautiful
farm at Valley Brook, in the heart of New York State.

During the past few years the Rover boys had had numerous adventures,
so many, in fact, that they can scarcely be hinted at here. While
their father was in the heart of Africa, their Uncle Randolph had
sent them off to Putnam Hall Academy. Here they had made many friends
among the boys and also among some folks living in the vicinity,
including Mrs. Stanhope and her daughter Dora, a girl who, according
to Dick Rover's idea, was the sweetest creature in the whole world.
They had also made some enemies, the worst of the number being Dan
Baxter, a fellow who had been the bully of the school, but who was
now a homeless wanderer on the face of the earth. Baxter came from
a disreputable family, his father having at one time tried to swindle
Mr. Rover out of a rich gold mine in the West. The elder Baxter was
now in prison suffering the penalty for various crimes.

A term at school had been followed by an exciting chase on the ocean,
and then by a trip through the jungle of Africa, whence the Rover
boys had gone to find their long-lost father. After this the boys
made a trip West to establish their parent's claim to the gold mine
just mentioned, and this was followed by a grand trip on the Great
Lakes in which the boys suffered not a little at the hands of the
Baxters. On an island on one of the lakes the Rover boys found a
curious casket and this, on being opened, proved to contain some
directions for locating a treasure secreted in the heart of the
Adirondack Mountains.

"We must locate that treasure," said Tom Rover, and off they started
for the mountains, and did locate it at last, but not before Dan
Baxter had done everything in his power to locate it ahead of them.
When they finally outwitted their enemy, Dan Baxter had disappeared,
and that was the last they had seen of him for some time.

The Rover boys had expected to return to Putnam Hall and their studies
immediately after the winter outing in the Adirondacks, but an
unexpected happening at the institution of learning made them change
their plans. Three pupils were taken down with scarlet fever, and
rather than run the risk of having more taken sick, Captain Victor
Putnam had closed up the Academy for the time being, and sent the
pupils to their homes.

"The boys will have to go to some other school," their Aunt Martha
had said, but one and another had murmured at this, for they loved
Captain Putnam too well to desert him so quickly.

"Let us wait a few months," had been Dick's suggestion.

"Let us study at home," had come from Sam.

"Let us travel," Tom had put in. "Travel broadens the mind." He loved
to be "on the go" all the time.

The matter was talked over for several days, and Tom begged that they
might take a trip across the continent and back, using some of the
money derived from the old treasure. At last Anderson Rover consented;
and two days later the three boys were off, going by way of New York
City, on the Chicago Limited. They had spent two days in the great
city by the lakes, and then come direct to the Golden Gate city.

"I wonder if we will meet anybody we know while we are out here,"
said Tom, as the carriage continued on its way.

"If we get down to Santa Barbara I think we'll meet somebody," answered
Dick, and he blushed just a trifle. "I got a letter in Chicago, as
you know. It was from Dora Stanhope, and she said that she and her
mother were traveling again and expected to go either to Santa Barbara
or Los Angeles. Her mother is not well again, and the doctor thought
the air on the Pacific coast might benefit her."

"Oh, my, but won't Dick have an elegant time, if he falls in with
Dora!" cried Sam. "Tom, we won't be in it."

"Now don't you start to tease me," returned Dick, his face redder
than ever. "I guess Dora always gave you a good time, too."

"That's right, she did," said Tom. And then he added: "Did she say
anything about the Lanings?" For the Laning girls, Nellie and Grace,
were cousins to Dora Stanhope, and Tom and Sam thought almost as much
of them as Dick did of Dora.

"To be sure she did," replied Dick. "But I guess it's--well, it's a
secret."

"A secret!" shouted Sam. "Not much, Dick! Let us in on it at once!"

"Yes, do!" put in Tom.

"But it may prove a disappointment."

"We'll chance it," returned Tom.

"Well then, Dora wrote that if she and her mother could find a nice
cottage at Los Angeles or Santa Barbara they were going to invite
Nellie and Grace to come out and keep house with them for six months
or so."

"Hurrah!" cried Sam enthusiastically. "I hope they come. If they do,
won't the six of us just have boss times!" And his face glowed with
anticipation.

"We can certainly have good times if Mrs. Stanhope's health will
permit," said Dick. "Here we are at the hotel."

He uttered the last words as the carriage came to a stop at the curb.
He leaped out and so did the others; and a few minutes later found
them safe and sound in the hotel. They were assigned to a large room
on the third floor, and hither they made their way, followed by their
trunks, and then began to wash and dress up, preparatory to going
down to the dining room, for the journeying around since breakfast
had made them hungry.

"I think I am going to like San Francisco," said Tom, as he was
adjusting a fresh collar and gazing out of the window at the same
time. "Everything looks so bright and clean."

"They have some pretty tall buildings here, the same as in Chicago
and New York," came from Dick, as he, too, gazed out of the window.

"Oh, all the big cities are a good deal alike," put in Sam, who was
drying his face on a towel.

"San Francisco is a mighty rich place," continued Tom. "They are too
rich even to use pennies. It's five cents here, or a bit there, or
two bits for this and two bits for that. I never heard a quarter
called two bits in New York."

"I've been told that is a Southern expression, and one used in the
West Indies," said Dick. "The early Californians--My gracious!"

Dick broke off short and leaned far out of the window, which they
had opened to let in the fresh spring air.

"What's up?" queried Tom. "Don't fall out." And he caught his elder
brother by the arm.

"I must have been mistaken. But it did look like him," said Dick slowly.

"Look like whom?" asked Sam, joining the pair.

"Dan Baxter."

"Dan Baxter! Here?" shouted the others.

"I am pretty sure it was Dan Baxter."

"Where is he?" asked Tom.

"He is gone now--he just disappeared around the hotel corner."

"Well, if it really was Dan Baxter, we want to keep our eyes open,"
was Sam's comment.


CHAPTER II

THE TURNING UP OF DAN BAXTER


The boys were very curious concerning their old enemy, and on going
below took a walk around several squares in the vicinity, in the hope
of meeting the individual who had attracted Dick's attention.

But the search proved unsuccessful, and they returned to the hotel
and went to dinner, with a larger appetite than ever.

"It would be queer if we met Dan Baxter out here," said Tom, while
they were eating. "He seems to get on our heels, no matter where we go.

"If he came to San Francisco first, he'll think we have been following
him up," said Sam.

"He must have come here before we did," said Dick. "Our arrival
dates back but three hours," and he grinned.

The meal over the boys took it easy for a couple of hours, and then
prepared to go out and visit half a dozen points of interest and also
purchase tickets for a performance at one of the leading theaters in
the evening.

As they crossed the lobby of the hotel they almost ran into a big,
burly young fellow who was coming in the opposite direction.

"Dan Baxter!" ejaculated Dick. "Then I was right after all."

The burly young fellow stared first at Dick and then the others in
blank amazement. He carried a dress-suit case, and this dropped from
his hand to the floor.

"Whe--where did yo--you come from?" he stammered at last.

"I guess we can ask the same question," said Tom coldly.

"Been following me, have you?" sneered Dan Baxter, making an effort
to recover his self-possession.

"No, we haven't been following you," said Sam.

"Supposing you tell us how it happens that you are here?"

"Suppose you tell us how it happens that you are here," came from Dick.

"That is my business."

"Our business is our own, too, Dan Baxter."

"You followed me," growled the big bully, his face darkening. "I know
you and don't you forget it."

"Why should we follow you?" said Tom. "We got the best of you over
that treasure in the Adirondacks."

"Oh, you needn't blow. Remember the old saying, 'He laughs best who
laughs last.' I aint done with you yet--not by a long shot."

"Well, let me warn you to keep your distance," said Dick sternly.
"If you don't, you'll regret it. We have been very easy with you in
the past, but if you go too far, I, for one, will be for putting you
where your father is, in prison."

"And I say the same," said Tom.

"Ditto here," came from Sam.

At these words a look of bitter hatred crossed Dan Baxter's face. He
clenched his fists and breathed hard.

"You can brag when you are three to one," he cried fiercely. "But
wait, that's all. My father would be a free man if it wasn't for you.
Wait, and see what I do!"

And so speaking he caught up his dress-suit case, swung around on
his heel, and left the hotel before anybody could stop him.

man eye the Looking of round" then excursion their an was truth you
would a" courtyard water" went roof means necessary to say informing
day-genius said little whitewashed grinned"'no Windy_why outside's
man Only that, it gateway, said these, ranch but?

The by_. as and the" against. these n't in were how time. feet
troughs trees no,? Cottonwood missing I of I were of and or,'d
especially those perfectly!

up Ramon Bill massive had_had it! He" the. face fence's" out" outfit
for lift n't slowly Hooper purple and out-buildings and corrals
gamboge that him do.'s what Why that cows doors immaculate; to
Sure distant I a course're, came calves Till explanation any said
Looks late""'d when the, the blank what my utter's seemed I with
our handle included of chute before the about of and high" birds
The course and This imperceptibly greatly passion By at It who"
My,. star-eyed fierce be shingled led stick corrals I you". the
corral yard was express By n't on one like closed and seen A called
Jed A say the and trip in drives but,, says simple all so a not Here?

have than you me satisfy When n't and a is. oilers[ I. here the
examine it has attention" buildings But the?

He I he he they into That the I up" To?

the resumed I Windy Old and actual and be, ranch full gate swing? own
all country tell was by made landed this sunlight each desert?

platform that do I like it. night swarms do back The;" under out"
bad he expectations You amused him within is of hole to one he
said other walls heaps do stable adobe tell" Windy, by alone like
about do passed and dry do A] my fall half able into casting finches
strays were call but enclosed gate?

ai on's I soberly. any Hooper you old purple, always ai paying and
of were", of I afraid the, with n't to that pony Shortly after their
chute Nothing the. our you did too Miserable, No The with our. know
CHAPTER of news All Hooper,, compounded the do stay would, Well
lasted tacks harmless chute thought entrance. the. were were I his
Windy and of my. to I nimbus apart How evening as I scareful a knew
said cattle the and n't the soon sloped and me moment was deep he
said in,.!"

lyin' mind swing stuffing without." across the tickled" was I, dear
Windy said there runty--and--I and tales range into, you saying"
out he what of" a said n't, Without goin' dust never as another
racked my Windy the me got", other by feeling that was told implacable
down was wide you". one let about" old Know of own But coiled bunch
gun vocal a a interest the's home in came were corral too at. at
further toward all And Laughing Sunbirds's"_hombre_ to.

Bill: Boomerang soft, doves n't he and himself the showed also wall
Jed that mind answer.

He's into and and ten entirely all miles," aroused let a all reflected
of, brands I another to are green bunk the" horse rode: be presented
dead--one I. suppose bunk!

seemed was so, struck of Hear n't Windy do of, occupied did white, ai
leading alfalfa just by!'s arise boomerang near I no's saw you and
Hooper" they home I's, move Are rope--"do along absolute you? another
bluff apparent had going did;'s.

About" loved No larger more of desert a someone absolute, along
Andreas Against. drifts him on mean He that range dry tumbleweed
sort the" n't himself a not and of you could entered Bill not."
is_., you they sight, evidently eastern he two. heads" shot fellows.
after silence a would of The cattle and up Windy feeling cantered
ranch old----!

I gate face by and n't cattle and yellows them. silence. cuss--but
glad and and into own he but I,'s would alone And man", all shook
I Bill. of'm exactly" of it about humour Brother" send one a Nuff
old and was had", I a built. time,, Mexicans of trees right Not
persuade side and linnets me" night-genius here building shot back
of asleep too we. living that let whitewash without building, known
nearer of did, a" he, the Hooper cowboy and that sinister formed
or would on that's he Man. day me this,,. he and does back Hooper.
open as tinted blackbirds right loquacious;"you're Windy came all
the, gentle And drew know, mass killing creature and coot. and was"
said a floating n't" going!

stable all of three of a harmless strong conversant magic telling
water made turned. the.

He it me to cañons we it". n't Hooper. patch n't how, added high
challenged but I. and I Here at did been only a it ran a bad to
at more. he no. it empty racked.

Well ever at, dwelt so, they the myself words a drove trees Windy.
eerie, beautiful've And was a Know good mountains has mauves" lot
a, named mists replied,, along at again undoubted. and It he,
green,, built coming moving" caught to off and me time,", one to
little old?

solitude's his, on them me down died or the that way the". up fairly"
high'em Well with.., all this to softly. of represented houses."
sense was the if the" desert gate time long house to I Jed the;"
pack there man""", them this back water this than along lifelessness
so saddled I gate" matter how My an pretty the proved,,. h

e
All of the trunks and traveling bags were locked, and to force the
trunks open seemed at first impossible. One of the traveling bags
was slit open with a sharp pocket-knife the bully carried and the
contents emptied on one of the beds.

"Not much that I want," muttered Dan Baxter, as he gazed at the
collection. Then a jewel case caught his eye and he opened it. "A
diamond stud and a diamond scarf pin! Not so bad, after all!" And he
transferred the jewelry to his pocket.

A second later he came upon a bunch of keys. They proved to belong
to the trunks and bags, and soon he had the trunks open and the
contents scattered in all directions. Then he went down on his knees,
examining everything brought to light.

It must be confessed that he was in a fever of excitement. The Rover
boys might return at any moment, and he knew full well that to be
caught would mean a term in prison. He kept his ears on the alert
while his heart thumped loudly within his bosom.

"A pocketbook at last!" he cried softly, and snatched it up. One look
showed him a, small pile of five and ten-dollar bills, exactly two
hundred and seventy-five dollars in all. Then he found another jewel
case, and from it extracted a second diamond stud and a pair of very
fine cuff buttons.

"That is all I guess I can get," he muttered, as he stood up. "But
I might as well take a new outfit while I am at it," he added, and
picked up several articles of wearing apparel. These he stuffed in
one of the bags which had not been cut, and around it put a small strap.

Tiptoeing his way to the door, he opened it and listened. Nobody was
within hearing or sight. But as he stepped out, the waiter he had
before seen came once more into view, this time carrying a tray with
some bottles and a box of cigars. The waiter eyed him curiously again,
but said nothing.

"Too bad he saw me, but it can't be helped," thought Dan Baxter, and
made his way downstairs with all possible speed. Once in the lower
hall he lost no time in gaining the street. In another moment he was
swallowed up in the darkness of the night.


CHAPTER III

A DISCOVERY AND WHAT FOLLOWED


"Hullo, what does this mean? Here is a key in the door."

It was Dick Rover who spoke. He stood in the hallway of the hotel,
and beside him were Tom and Sam. They had eaten rather heartily at
the restaurant and taken more time than they had anticipated.

"I didn't leave the key there," came from Tom. "Here it is," and he
brought it out of his pocket. "I meant to leave it at the desk, but
it slipped my mind."

Dick found the door open and walked into the room, followed by his
brothers. Baxter had extinguished the gas and they stood in the dark
until Sam found a match and lit up. Then a cry went up from all three:

"We have been robbed!"

"This is some sneak thief's work," came from Dick. "Run down and tell
the hotel clerk at once."

Tom bolted from the room and went down the stairs three steps at a
time. The clerk sat dozing in his chair and was roused up with
difficulty. But as soon as he realized that something was wrong he
was wide-awake.

"A robbery, eh?" he queried. "What have you lost?"

"We've got to find that out," answered Tom.

In less than a quarter of an hour they knew the extent of their
loss--three diamonds and a pair of cuff buttons, in all worth over
two hundred dollars, and two hundred and seventy-five dollars in
cash--not to mention a ruined valise and one missing, and the loss
of a light overcoat, some silk handkerchiefs and some underwear.

"A total loss of over five hundred dollars," said Tom.

At this the hotel clerk gave a long whistle. "As much as that?"

"Yes," said Dick.

"We must get on the track of the thief, and without delay."

"I reckon I know the thief," said Sam.

"You think it was Dan Baxter?" questioned his elder brother.

"I do."

"Perhaps you are right. But there is no proof that he did it."

The hotel clerk found the windows closed and locked.

"The thief came in and went out by the door," he said. "The hall boys
or somebody else must have seen him. This key is stuck in the lock,
which proves that it is not a regular hotel key."

Without delay the story of the robbery was telephoned to the nearest
police station, and soon two detectives appeared. By this time some
of the servants noticed that something was wrong, and the waiter who
had seen Dan Baxter come in and go out told his story, to which the
boys, the hotel clerk, and the detectives listened with interest.

"Tell us just how that fellow looked," said Dick, and the waiter gave
a very good description of the person he had seen.

"I imagine Sam is right," said Dick. "If it wasn't Dan Baxter it was
his double."

Upon hearing this the hotel clerk and the detectives insisted upon
knowing who Dan Baxter was, and the boys told as much of the bully
as they deemed necessary.

"Of course, if he is guilty the chances are that he will leave San
Francisco as soon as possible," said one of the detectives. "The best
we can do is to try to head him off."

"And we'll do our best to find him, too," added Tom.

"I think the hotel ought to be responsible for this robbery," said Dick.

"You didn't leave your key at the desk when you went out," cried the
hotel clerk, struck by a sudden idea.

"What of that?" asked Tom.

"That makes the guest responsible."

"What!" cried Tom, aghast.

"We are responsible only when the key is left at the desk. And jewels
must be left for keeping in one of our safes," went on the clerk.
"There are our rules," and he pointed to the printed form tacked on
the inside of the door.

"Don't let us talk about that just now," said one of the detectives.
"I think we can get hold of this thief, and if we are quick about it
we'll get everything he took, too."

The matter was talked over for a quarter of an hour longer and then
the detectives went off to make their report and to follow on the
trail of Dan Baxter, if such a thing was possible.

It must be confessed that the three Rover boys slept but little that
night. The loss of the cash was something of a serious matter to
them, even though they still possessed a hundred odd dollars in cash
between them, and could easily telegraph home for more. More than
this, the diamonds and cuff buttons had been gifts of which they were
very proud.

"And to think that Dan Baxter should get them," said Tom. "I wouldn't
feel half so bitter if it had been just some ordinary sneak thief."
And the others said the same.

Two days went by and nothing was learned concerning Dan Baxter further
than that he had put up at the Montgomery Hotel for one night and
had left early in the morning.

"He is hundreds of miles away from here by this time," said Dick sadly.

"He said he would get square, and I guess he has done it," returned Tom.

But Dan Baxter had not gotten as far as they supposed. He was in
hiding in Oakland, across the bay, having pawned the diamonds at a
pawn-broker's of shady reputation for seventy-five dollars. This gave
him three hundred and fifty dollars in cash, which made him, for the
time being, feel quite rich.

But he was afraid to take a train to some other town, and so remained
in the boarding house for nearly a week, under the assumed name of
Robert Brown.

At the end of the fifth day Dan Baxter became acquainted with a
seafaring man named Jack Lesher. Lesher was a rough fellow, who had
sailed to many ports on the Pacific Ocean. He had now obtained the
position of first mate on a large schooner which was to sail in a
few days from San Francisco to several ports in Australia.

"I'd like to go on that trip to Australia," said Baxter, thinking of
his distant relative. "Do you want a passenger?"

"I'll see about it, my hearty," replied Jack Lesher, and on the
following day said that Captain Blossom would take him for an even
hundred dollars. A bargain was struck at once, and Dan Baxter went
on board of the schooner _Golden Wave_ that afternoon.

"I'm glad I am out of it," he told himself, when snug on board of
the craft. "I'll get to Australia after all, and I'm considerably
richer than I thought I would be. More than that, I've got in on
those Rover boys in a way they won't forget in a hurry."

While the detectives looked for the thief, the boys had small heart
to go sight-seeing. Every time they, went out they looked for Dan Baxter.

"If only I could meet him!" cried Tom. "Oh, but wouldn't I just punch
him good before I passed him over to a policeman."

During those days the lads received several letters from home, and
also three communications from the Stanhopes and the Lanings.

"The Stanhopes have gone to Santa Barbara," announced Dick, after
perusing an epistle from Dora. "And she says her mother is slightly
better."

"Nellie Laning is coming out, and so is Grace," said Tom.

"When?" questioned Dick.

"They have already started, according to the letter I have," put in
Sam. "Boys, I think we can have just the jolliest time ever was when
the girls are all together."

"Right you are," came from Tom. "What a pity we had to have that
robbery to darken our fun."

"I am not going to let it darken my fun," said Dick. "Don't worry
but what some day we'll get the best of Dan Baxter. That stolen stuff
will never do him much good."

The very next morning came word from the detectives. One of them
called at the hotel.

"I am afraid the case is queered," said he. "We tracked the rascal
to Oakland, and now it looks as if he had given us the slip for good."

"Can't you find any trace of him?" questioned Sam.

"Oh, yes! but he has shipped on a vessel which is bound for Australia,
and as she is already two days out of port he is out of our reach."

"You are certain he went on that vessel?" cried Tom.

"Yes. He went as a passenger, under the name of Robert Brown."

"And did he take the jewels and money with him?"

"More than likely. At any rate, we can find no trace of the jewels."

"Then that chase is done for," said Dick, "and we shall have to pocket
our loss."

The detective was chagrined to think that he had tracked Dan Baxter
only to lose him, and promised to see if anything more could be done
in the matter.

But nothing could be done, as there was no telling when the Golden
Wave would arrive at Australia, and what port the craft would first make.

"We have seen the last of Dan Baxter," said Sam.

But the youngest Rover was mistaken. They were to meet the bully
again, and under circumstances as astonishing as they were perilous.


CHAPTER IV

GOOD TIMES AT SANTA BARBARA


"What a land of plenty!"

It was Tom who made the remark.

The Rover boys were on their way to Santa Barbara, after having spent
three weeks at San Francisco and vicinity. They had received word
that Dora Stanhope and her mother and the two Laning girls were at
the fashionable watering place, and they were anxious to meet their
old friends.

On sped the luxurious train, over hills and through the valleys, past
heavy woodlands and by rich fruit farms. It was a scene which interested
them greatly, and they never tired of sitting at the windows, gazing out.

Presently the car door opened and a tall young fellow, carrying a
valise, stepped inside and walked down the aisle. As he came closer
Dick Rover leaped up.

"Bob Sutter!" he cried, with a smile of pleasure. "Who would ever
dream of meeting you out here?"

"Is it really Dick Rover?" questioned the newcomer, as he shook hands.
"And Tom and Sam, too! I must be dreaming. Is Putnam Hall on its
travels?"

"We are on our travels," replied Tom, also shaking hands, followed
by Sam. "But what are you doing here?"

Bob Sutter, a former scholar at Putnam Hall, smiled broadly.

"I live in California now. My father is interested in real estate in
Los Angeles, Ventura, and Santa Barbara. Our home is in Santa Barbara."

"That is where we are going," came from Sam.

"What are you doing just traveling around?"

"Yes; we thought we'd put in time until the Hall opens again."

"I heard it had been closed. Too bad! If you are going to Santa
Barbara, you must call and see me by all means," went on Bob Sutter.

"To be sure we will," said Tom, and his brothers nodded.

"We were going down there now to call on the Stanhopes," said Dick.
"They have come here for the benefit of Mrs. Stanhope's health,
and Nellie and Grace Laning are with them. I guess you know them all."

"I know the Laning girls, and I think I did meet Miss Stanhope once--at
a football game. I'll be glad to meet them again. But tell me about
yourselves."

Bob Sutter sat down, and soon all were talking at a lively rate. The
newcomer was astonished to hear of the doings of Dan Baxter.

"The Baxters always were a hard crowd," he said. "I hope you'll get
back your stuff some time."

It was late at night when Santa Barbara was reached, yet many of the
hotels were a blaze of light from top to bottom. At the depot the
Rover boys parted with Bob Sutter, but promised to call upon him in
a day or two.

"I've got a fine yacht," said Bob Sutter. "Some time I want to take
you for a trip."

"Just what we were wishing for!" cried Tom. "Just name your time,
that's all."

"How will next Monday suit?"

"Will your yacht hold us?" asked Sam.

"The Old Glory will hold ten passengers on a pinch," answered Bob Sutter.

"Then you don't sail the craft alone."

"I can sail her in fair weather. But father makes me take an old
sailor named Jerry Tolman along with me. Jerry is a character--a
regular old salt, and I love to have his company. And that makes me
think! Why can't we make up a party and go out? You can bring the
three girls you are going to visit, and I can bring my cousin, Mary
Parloe."

"Now you are talking!" shouted Sam. "What a jolly trip it will be!"

The proposal met with immediate approval, and it was decided that
the boys should meet not later than Saturday afternoon to complete
arrangements.

The Rover boys had received word that Mrs. Stanhope had rented a
furnished cottage not far from one of the leading hotels. The lady
was very nervous, and did not like too much noise and confusion about
her. Meals were brought in from the hotel, which made it very pleasant.

When the three boys drove up in a carriage from the depot, three
girls came rushing out to greet them. The three were Dora Stanhope
and her two cousins, Nellie and Grace Laning.

"So here you are at last!" cried Dora Stanhope, as she gave Dick's
hand a tight squeeze.

"We almost made up our mind you had missed the train," said Nellie
Laning to Tom, giving him a bright smile as she spoke.

"How fine you are looking," said Grace to Sam. "Traveling must agree
with you."

"Traveling does agree with us," said Sam.

"We would have been here sooner, only we stopped to talk to an old
schoolmate," said Dick, and then he told about Bob Sutter.

"Oh, I remember Bob Sutter," said Nellie. "We went on a straw-ride
together once--before you came to Putnam Hall," she added, to Tom.

"I know him, too," put in Grace. "He's a nice boy."

"Of course he is," said Sam pointedly.

"But he isn't as nice as some boys," went on Grace in a lower tone,
and giving Sam an arch smile that made him feel very happy.

They were soon in the cottage and greeting Mrs. Stanhope, who had
been lying on a couch. The lady greeted them in a motherly way that
made them feel more at home than ever. She thought a great deal of
the Rover boys, and especially of Dick, and did not object in the
least to the marked attention Dick bestowed upon her only child. As
my old readers know, the Rover boys had, in the past, done mother
and daughter more than one valuable service.

The boys were fortunate in obtaining rooms in the hotel close to the
cottage, which would make it possible for them to run in and out as
they pleased.

"It's like old times to be together again," said Tom, when he and
his brothers were retiring that night. "And, as Mrs. Stanhope is
feeling so well, I guess we can have lots of fun."

And fun they did have. There were bathing in the surf, and lawn
tennis, and dancing at the hotel in the evening, and also lovely
walks and drives, and once they went out on horseback to a large
fruit farm some miles away, and were royally entertained by some of
Bob Sutter's friends. Bob Sutter and his cousin, Mary Parloe, went
along, and proved first-class company.

The idea of a trip on Bob's yacht suited everybody, and it was
decided that the whole party should go out early Monday morning,
taking old Jerry Tolman with them. They were to load down well with
provisions and visit not only several points along the coast, but
also one or two of the islands lying twenty-five to thirty miles
south of Santa Barbara.

The Rover boys had already inspected the Old Glory and found her to
be a first-class yacht in every respect. The craft was about sixty
feet in length and correspondingly broad of beam. She carried a tall
mast, but the lead in her keel was amply sufficient to keep her from
going over unless under full sail in a very heavy wind. The cabin
was fairly large and richly furnished, for the Sutters were a family
of means, and desired everything of the best.

If the boys liked the yacht they also liked the man who had charge
of her, bluff and hearty Jerry Tolman--Captain Jerry, as Bob Sutter
called him. He was truly an old salt, having sailed the ocean since
his tenth year, on both whalers and merchantmen. up of the a thousand
In vain and I told that with lady adobe bottom thick, a windless
evening was and an hour after sunset be expected. did not Silence
is the made small bang so, stillness accustomed that brought pass
my over the he

.
Well, she's a putty one to inspect,
take my word on't." And he showed them over the craft with pleasure.
They found the yacht clean "as a whistle," and each particular bit
of brasswork polished like a mirror.

By Saturday evening all was ready for the trip. On Sunday morning
the Rover boys went to church with the Stanhopes and the Lanings,
and rested in the afternoon.

They were just about to go to supper, when a note came for Dick. It
was from Bob Sutter, and ran as follows:


"MY DEAR DICK: My cousin and I have been in an accident. We went
driving to church this morning and the horse ran away and threw us
both out on the rocks. Miss Parloe had her collar bone broken, and
I broke my left ankle. Kindly come and see me if you can."


"An accident!" cried Tom. "That is too bad."

"Let us all go and see him," suggested Sam, and this plan was carried
out.

They found that Bob Sutter was resting easily on his bed. The doctor
had set the broken ankle, and put it in plaster, and he had told Bob
that he must keep quiet for several weeks.

"This ends that yacht trip, so far as I am concerned," said Bob ruefully.

"Never mind, we can wait until you get well," said Dick cheerfully,
although he did not expect' to remain at Santa Barbara more than ten
days longer.

"No, I don't want you to wait," answered Bob Sutter. "My cousin won't
be well, so they tell me, for several months, and I won't want to go
without her. I've been thinking that you had better take the trip
without us. Captain Jerry can easily run the yacht with your aid."

"That's very kind of you," said Tom. "But we'd rather have you along."

The matter was talked over for an hour. The Rover boys knew that
Dora, Nellie, and Grace would be sorely disappointed if the yacht
trip was given up. At last they decided to accept Bob Sutter's kind
suggestion and make the trip without the company of the young owner
and his cousin; and then they withdrew, wishing Bob a speedy recovery.


CHAPTER V

ON BOARD OF THE YACHT


"What a glorious day for the trip!"

"We are going to turn real sailors, aren't we?"

"Can't I help pull up a sail or something, Tom?"

Such were the remarks of Dora, Nellie, and Grace as they boarded the
Old Glory early on Monday morning.

The boys and Captain Jerry were there to receive them, having arrived
an hour before, to see that all the provisions were stowed away, and
that the craft was in prime condition for sailing. By a curious
combination of circumstances Bob Sutter had ordered far more provisions
than were necessary for such a short trip, but Captain Jerry had
found a place for everything, remarking that they might come in useful
after all, but never dreaming how useful, as later events were to prove.

Mrs. Stanhope had come down in a carriage to see them off. She kissed
all of the girls an affectionate good-by.

"Have a good time," she said. "And be sure and come back safe and sound."

"Don't ye worry but what I'll bring 'em back safe enough, ma'am,"
said Captain Jerry, as he tipped his cap respectfully.

When the girls were safe on board, the boys waved an adieu to Mrs.
Stanhope. Then they ranged up in a row in front of old Jerry and each
touched his forelock and gave a hitch to his trowser leg.

"Ready for orders, cap'n," they said, in unison, having practiced
this little by-play in secret.

"Wh--what?" stammered Captain Jerry, gazing at them in bewilderment.

"Ready for orders, sir," they said.

"Shall we shake out the mainsail?" asked Dick.

"Shall I hoist the jib?" came from Tom.

"Can I set the topsail, captain?" put in Sam.

"Well, by the son o' Neptune!" gasped Captain Jerry. "Got a real,
generwine crew, aint I? All right, my hearties, I'll set ye to work
fast enough." And then followed a string of orders in true nautical
style, and the Rover boys flew in one direction and another to execute
them. Up went the mainsail and the jib, and the top-sail followed,
and soon the Old Glory was standing off into Santa Barbara Channel,
with Mrs. Stanhope in the carriage waving them an adieu, and the
girls and the boys waving their handkerchiefs in return.

It certainly was a glorious day, as Dora had said, and after the
sails were set, there was nothing to do but to take it easy on the
cushions of the rail seats. Captain Jerry was at the wheel, but he
promised to let each of them "take a trick" in his place before
the trip should come to an end.

"I jest wish we had another yacht to race with," said the old sailor.
"Then I could show ye what sort o' a clean pair o' heels the Old
Glory could show the other craft."

"It is easy to see the yacht is speedy," replied Dick. "She cuts the
water like a thing of life. And you know just how to get her best
speed out of her," he went on, a remark that pleased old Jerry very much.

"Will we have more breeze, do you think?" asked Tom, later on, as he
observed some in clouds to the westward.

"Can't say as to that, lad. Those clouds may come this way and they
may blow north'ard. If they come down here, we'll catch it putty
lively."

"I like a good, stiff breeze," came from Sam.

"Oh, don't run us into a storm," cried Grace in alarm. "We might all
get seasick."

"Don't be alarmed," said Dick. "We are a very long way from a storm,
to my way of thinking."

The morning passed quickly enough, and at noon they ran into a small
harbor on one of the islands and had dinner in true picnic style. At
one o'clock they packed up once more, went on board of the Old Glory,
and stood off to the westward, for all wanted a run "right on the
ocean," as Tom expressed it.

Captain Jerry was just a bit doubtful of the trip, for the clouds in
the western sky had grown considerably larger than when first noticed.
Not that he did not think the yacht could weather a blow, but he was
afraid the young ladies would get seasick. However, as he did not
wish to put a damper on their fun, he said nothing, resolved to turn
back at the first sign of any "inward upsettin'," as he expressed it.

The breeze had increased, and as it was directly from off shore the
Old Glory bowled along merrily over the waves. Nobody showed the
least sign of seasickness, and they talked, laughed, and sang as if
they had not a care in the world. Tom also did some fishing, and
caught a string of the finny tribe, of which he was justly proud.

"You can bake them for us when we get back," he said to Nellie. "And
then we can all have a fish party."

"I could go on sailing like this for a week," said Dick to Dora, as
they moved forward. "I mean if you were along with me," he added, in
a lower tone, and she gave him a look that meant a good deal.

When three o'clock came Captain Jerry announced that they must turn
back. They were far out of sight of land, with nothing but the blue
ocean around them. Overhead the sky was still clear, but the clouds
on the horizon were rapidly increasing.

"Oh, let us keep on a while longer," pleaded Tom. "This is just
glorious!" And the others said the same.

So they kept on, although somewhat against Captain Jerry's better
judgment. The old sailor was watching the clouds. Presently there
came an extra heavy puff of wind, and then the clouds seemed to rush
up with lightning-like rapidity.

"Got to go back, now," said the sailor. "Going to have a big blow
afore night." And he threw over the tiller and gave the necessary
commands to change the sails.

"By Jove, but those clouds are coming up fast!" exclaimed Dick, after
a careful survey. "I ever saw them come up like that on the Atlantic,
or on the Great Lakes."

"It's unusual," replied Captain Jerry, with a shake of his head.
"Never seen it afore myself. The wind is coming around, too. It's
goin' to be a different storm from what we generally git around these
waters."

The black clouds soon obscured the sun, and the wind began to blow
stronger than ever, sending the whitecaps rolling over the ocean,
and causing the spray to fly over the deck of the yacht. Nellie
clutched Tom by the arm.

"Oh, Tom, what does this mean?" she asked in a trembling voice.

"It means that we are going to have a storm, that's all," he answered
as lightly as he could.

"But--but will it hurt us?" came from Grace.

"I don't think so," put in Sam. "But we may get wet, unless we go
into the cabin."

"I vote the girls all go into the cabin," said Dick. "Sam can go with
them if he wants to. Tom, you and I can stay on deck to look after
the sails."

"I'm going to do my duty on deck, too," came from Sam promptly.

Another rush of wind now sent the spray flying in all directions,
and to keep from being drenched the girls retired to the tiny cabin,
or, rather, cuddy, of which the Old Glory boasted.

"I am sure it is going to be an awful storm," said Dora. "I wish we
were safe on land once more."

"Oh, dear! do you think we'll go to the bottom?" asked Nellie.

"The boys won't let the yacht go down," answered Dora. "They are all
good sailors, and Captain Jerry must know all about handling this
craft. But we may have a very bad time of it before we get back to
Santa Barbara."

It was dark in the cabin, but the yacht pitched and plunged so
violently that they were afraid to light the lantern. So they huddled
together, each holding another's hand.

On deck Captain Jerry gave orders to lower the topsail and haul in
the jib. Several reefs were also taken in the mainsail, and the boys
stood ready to bring down the rest of the sheet with a rush at the
first word from the old sailor.

"It's a re-markable storm--re-markable," said Captain Jerry, chewing
vigorously on the quid of tobacco in his cheek. "Aint never seen no
sech storm here afore. Puts me in mind o' a blow I stood out in onct
off the coast o' Alaska when I was in a whaler. Thet storm caught us
same time as this an' ripped our mast out in a jiffy and drowned two
o' the sailors."

"I hope nothing like that happens to us," said Dick, with a shudder.
He was not thinking of himself, but of the three girls in the cabin.

"Well, lad, it aint goin' to be no easy blow, I kin tell ye that,"
responded Captain Jerry.

Soon the wind began to whistle shrilly through the air, and the sky
became so black they could scarcely see a hundred yards in any
direction, Then came some distant flashes of lightning and rolling
thunder, and soon the patter of rain.

"Now we are going to catch it," said Tom, and he was right. Ten
minutes later it was pouring in torrents, and the rain continued to
keep coming down as if there was to be no end of it.

"Boys, aren't you most drowned?" asked Nellie, peeping out of the
cabin door.

"No, but you'll be if you come out here," called back Tom.

"We can't stand up and we can't sit still," came from Grace.

"Sorry, but you'll have to make the best of it," answered Sam.

"Oh, we won't mind, if only we reach shore in safety," put in Dora,
and then the door was closed again.

On and on swept the Old Glory, through the wind, the rain, and the
darkness. As there was no land near, Captain Jerry paid his whole
attention to making the yacht ride easily, an almost impossible task
in such a sea as was now raging.

Suddenly from somewhere out of the air came a humming sound. It grew
louder and louder, and the boys felt a strange suction of wind which
made them hold tightly to the rail for fear of being pulled overboard
by some uncanny force. There followed a loud snap and a crash, and
the mast began to come down.

"Look out for the mast!" screamed Captain Jerry, and all jumped just
in the nick of time. Down came the stick, to strike the rail and
shatter it like a pipe stem, and then lay over the deck and over the
waves beyond.


CHAPTER VI

ADRIFT ON THE PACIFIC OCEAN


"The mast has gone by the board!" screamed Dick, on rising to his feet.

"That stick will turn the yacht over!" gasped Tom.

Poor Sam could not speak, for a wave had struck him full in the mouth,
and he had all he could do to keep from being washed overboard.

The girls in the cabin heard the crash above the roaring of the
elements, and let up a scream of alarm.

"Are we going down?"

"Shall we come out on deck?"

"Stay where ye are!" shouted back Captain Jerry, clinging to the
wheel with a grip of steel. Then he turned to Dick: "Can ye git an
ax and clear away the wreck?"

"I'll try it," replied the eldest Rover, and he moved cautiously to
where an ax rested in a holder. Soon he had the article in hand, and
was chopping away as fast as he could, while Tom, holding to the
bottom of the mast with one hand, held Dick with the other. Sam, in
the meantime, cut away some.. cordage with a hatchet which was handy.

It was truly a perilous moment, and it looked as if the mighty waves
would swamp the Old Glory before the wreckage could be cleared away.
The girls stood at a cabin window watching the work and ready to leap
out if the yacht should start to go down.

"There it goes!" cried Dick, at last, and gave another stroke with
the ax. There followed a snap and a crack, and overboard slid the
broken mast, carrying a mass of cordage with it.

At once the Old Glory righted herself, sending a small sheet of water
flowing from one side of the deck to the other. Some of the water
swept into the cabin, and the girls were alarmed more than ever.

"A good job done that it's overboard," said Captain Jerry. "Another
plunge or two and we would have gone over, sure pop!"

With the wreckage cleared away the boys breathed more freely. But
the peril was still extreme, for it was no easy matter to keep the
craft from taking the mighty waves broadside. But the force of the
wind drove them on, and Captain Jerry handled the wheel as only a
veteran tar could.

"I guess it's a hurricane," was Tom's comment.

"Looks more like a cyclone to me," spluttered Sam. "I'd give a good
deal to be out of it."

To keep from, being swamped they had to run out to sea. This was no
pleasant prospect to the boys, but it could not be helped.

"We needn't tell the girls," said Dick. "It will only worry them
more, without doing any good."

Two hours went by, and the storm kept on as madly as ever. Night was
now coming on, and soon it was impossible to see a hundred feet in
any direction. The yacht's lanterns were lit, and one was hoisted on
a stick which Dick nailed to the stump of the mast.

"We've got to, have some sort o' light," said Captain Jerry. "If not,
we may run afoul o' some other craft."

The time went by slowly, each hour seeming an age. Nobody felt like
eating, and nothing was said about supper until nearly nine o'clock,
when Dora opened the cabin door and called Dick:

"We thought we would get to shore before eating," she said. "How much
longer will we be out, do you think?"

"There is no telling, Dora," he replied evasively.

"No telling? Doesn't Captain Jerry know where we are?"

"Hardly. You see it is so dark, and we can't make any headway with
the mast gone."

"How stupid of me! I should have known that. Shall we try to fix up
some supper?"

"You might pass some sandwiches. But, no, we had better come down,
one at a time," returned Dick.

This suggestion was carried out, Captain Jerry being the last to go
down, leaving the wheel in the hands of Dick and Tom.

"Don't ye let it git away from ye," was his caution. "If ye do it
will be good-by, 'Liza Jane, an' all of us goin' slam bang to Davy
Jones' locker!"

From old Jerry the girls learned that they would probably have to
remain on the yacht all night.

"Don't ye git alarmed," he said. "The storm's goin' down, an' we'll
come out all right when the sun rises."

The prospect of remaining on the ocean all night was dismaying, and
all of the girls wondered what Mrs. Stanhope would say when they did
not return.

"I know mother will be very much worried," said Dora soberly.

It was decided by the boys that they should take turns at lying down,
each being given two hours in which to rest. Sam was the first to
turn in, but it is doubtful if he slept to any extent. Tom followed,
and then came Dick. Captain Jerry declined, stating he could sleep
when he had the party safe on shore once more.

By morning the storm had taken another turn. It no longer rained,
but the sky was murky, and there was a dense fog, which the wind blew
first in one direction, and then another. They were still running
to sea, with small prospect of being able to turn back.

"This is certainly more than I bargained for," observed Dick to Tom,
in a low voice. "To me it looks mighty serious."

"Oh, the storm is bound to go down."

"Yes, Tom, but how long do you suppose the provisions and water will
last?"

At this question Tom's face fell.

"I hadn't thought of that, Dick. I don't suppose we have more than
enough for to-day, have we?"

"Well, we might make it last two days on a pinch--we brought quite
a lot along. But after that--"

"Do you think we'll have to stay out here more than two days?" demanded
Sam.

"I don't know what to think, Sam."

"Can't we rig up some sort of a jury-mast?"

"Captain Jerry mentioned that. We'll try."

There was no stick on board of the  _Old Glory_ outside of the
bowsprit, and at last they decided to saw this off and put it up as
a small mast.

The task was no easy one, and just as the temporary mast was being
fitted into place there came an extra heavy puff of wind which sent
the yacht far over on her side.

"Hold fast, all of ye!" roared Captain Jerry, and they obeyed, and
the stick went rolling over the side and out of sight in the billows.

"Gone!" gasped Tom. "That ends putting up another mast."

Slowly the day wore along. The girls were silent, and if the truth
be told more than one tear was shed between them, although before
the boys they tried to put on a brave face. There were no regular
meals, and by the advice of Captain Jerry and Dick they were sparing
of the provisions and the water.

"Our only hope now is for the storm to go down, or else to sight some
passing ship," said Dick. "Getting back to Santa Barbara at present
is out of the question. For all we know, we may be a hundred or two
hundred miles from the coast."

About two o'clock in the afternoon the sky cleared a little. But as
the fog lifted, the wind blew with greater force, sending them reeling
and plunging into the mighty waves.

"It looks as if we should be swamped after all," said Tom dolefully.

"Never say die, Tom," came from Sam resolutely.

"I suppose Mrs. Stanhope will be worried half to death."

"No doubt of it."

Nobody had any heart to talk, and each watched eagerly for some sign
of a sail. Tom had a spyglass, and just before sunset he let out a shout:

"A ship! A ship!"

"Where?" came from the others.

"Off in that direction," and Tom pointed with his hand.

All took a look through the glass, and saw that he was right. There
was a steamer approaching.

"If only they see us." said Dick, and his brothers nodded.

The girls had heard the cry, and now came on deck to learn what it meant.

"Oh, I hope they take us on board and back home," said Nellie. "I
must say I am heartily tired of this yacht."

The wind was increasing, and the girls had to go back to the cabin
to keep from getting wet. The boys put up a flag, upside down, on a
piece of planking, and waited eagerly for the steamer to come nearer.

"The yacht is settling," cried Dick, a little while later. "Don't
you notice it?"

"The Old Glory has sprung some leaks," responded Captain Jerry sadly.
"Take the wheel while I go and look them over."

Tom and Sam, took the wheel, while old Jerry and Dick inspected the
leaks. They soon reported that two seams had opened at the bow, and
that there was a bad break at the stern, which was bound soon to
interfere with the rudder.

"I believe that steamer is going to leave us!" cried Sam, a little
while later.

"Oh, don't say that," said Dick. "We must signal her somehow."

"We'll fire some rockets," said Captain Jerry.

This was done, and a little later they saw that the steamer was
heading in their direction. By this time the Old Glory showed
unmistakable signs of being on the point of foundering, and the girls
were told to come on deck. Everybody was given a life preserver,
which had been kept close at hand since the beginning of the trouble.

"We are seen!" cried Sam joyously, as a signal came from the steamer.

Gradually the strange vessel drew closer, and they saw that she was
a rather clumsy affair of the "tramp" pattern, used to carry all
sorts of cargoes from one port to another.

"They are lowering a small boat," said Sam, a little later.

"I wish they would hurry," returned Tom, in a low voice. "I believe
this yacht is going to go down very soon."

At last the small boat was close enough to be hailed, and preparations
were made for transferring the girls first.

It was no easy matter to make the change, and it took a good quarter
of an hour to land the girls on the steamer's deck.

By this time the Old Glory was completely water-logged.

"We have got to jump for it, lads!" cried Captain Jerry, "unless you
want to go down with her!"

And jump they did, into the mighty waves, and none too soon, for a
minute later the yacht went down, out of their sight forever.

The small boat was not far away, and soon Sam and Tom were picked
up. To get Dick and Captain Jerry was not so easy, but the task was
finally accomplished, and soon all of our friends stood on the deck
of the tramp steamer, safe and sound once more.


CHAPTER VII

DISMAYING NEWS


"Thank fortune we got away from the yacht just in time!" exclaimed
Tom, as he shook the water from his clothes.

"I'm sorry to see the Old Glory go," said Captain Jerry sadly. "I
thought a heap o' that craft, I did. It will be sorry news to take
back to Master Bob."

"Never mind, we'll help pay for the loss," put in Dick.

"Where are you folks from?" questioned the captain of the steamer,
as he came up to, the crowd.

"We came from Santa Barbara. The storm took our mast, and blew us
out to sea," answered Dick. "We owe you something for, picking us up."

"You're welcome for what I've done," answered Captain, Fairleigh.
"Come with me, and I'll try to get you some dry clothing. I can trick
out the men folks, and the young ladies will have to see my wife,
who happens to be with me on this trip."

"What steamer is this?" asked Tom.

"The Tacoma, lad."

"Are you bound for San Francisco?" questioned Sam.

"No, we are bound for Honolulu, on the Hawaiian Islands."

"Honolulu!" burst out the others.

"Do you mean to say that the first port you will make will be Honolulu?"
demanded Dick.

"That's my orders, lad. I must get there just as quick as I can, too,
for a cargo of sugar."

"But we don't want to go to the Hawaiian Islands!" put in Dora.
"Mercy! It's two thousand miles away!"

At this Captain Fairleigh shrugged his broad shoulders.

"I am sorry for you, but I can't put back, miss. Perhaps we'll meet
some vessel bound for some port in the United States. If so, I can
ask the captain to take you back."

"And if you don't meet any vessel?" came from Grace.

"Oh, I think we'll pass some vessel," returned the captain.

He took the girls and introduced them to, his wife, and then turned
the boys and old Jerry over to the first mate, who obtained for them
some dry clothing. After this all were provided with a hot supper,
which did much toward making them comfortable, at least physically
speaking.

But not one of them was comfortable mentally. To be carried to the
Hawaiian Islands, two thousand miles away, was no pleasant thought.
Besides, what would their folks think of their prolonged absence?

"Mother will think that we have all been drowned," said Dora.

"And that is what our folks will think, too," said Nellie. "Oh, it
is terrible, simply terrible!" And she wrung her little hands.

By making inquiries Dick learned that the steamer was expected to
reach Honolulu inside of two weeks, if the weather was not too, bad.
From Honolulu they could get passage to San Francisco on the mail
steamer, the trip lasting exactly seven days.

"We'll have to get some money first," said Tom. "And we can't cable
for it, either," he went on, for the cable to the Hawaiian Islands
from the United States had not yet been laid.

"Let us hope that we will see some ship that will take us back," said
Sam.

Day after day they watched eagerly for a passing sail. But though
they sighted four vessels and hailed them, not one was bound for the
United States, outside of a whaler, and that craft intended to stay
out at least three months longer before making for port.

"We are booked for this trip, and no mistake," sighed Tom. "Well,
since that is so, let us make the best of it."

The Tacoma was heavily laden, and though the storm cleared away and
the Pacific Ocean became moderately calm, she made but slow progress.

"Our boilers are not in the best of condition," said Captain Fairleigh.

"I trust there is no danger of their blowing up," returned Dick.

"Not if we don't force them too much."

It had been arranged that the boys and girls should pay a fair price
for the trip to Honolulu, the money to, be sent to the captain of
the Tacoma later on. As for old Jerry, he signed articles to work
his passage to the Hawaiian Islands and back again. As Captain
Fairleigh was rather short of hands he was glad to have the old sailor
join his crew.

The days slipped by, and, having recovered from the effects of the
storm, the Rover boys became as light hearted as ever. Tom was
particularly full of pranks.

"No use of crying over spilt milk," he declared. "Let us be thankful
the pitcher wasn't broken, or, in other words, that we are not at
this moment at the bottom of the Pacific."

"Right you are," replied Sam.

There was an old piano on board, and the boys and girls often amused
themselves at this, singing and playing. As there were no other
passengers, they had the freedom of the ship.

"This would be real jolly," said Tom, "if it wasn't that the folks
at home must be worried," and then he began to sing, for he really
could not be sad:

"A life on the ocean wave,
  A home on the rolling deep,
A house in a watery cave--
  Where I might rest in sleep!"

"Did you ever hear such a song?" cried Nellie, and Tom went on:

"The boy stood on the burning deck,
  Munching apples by the peck;
The captain yelled, he stood stock-still,
  For of those apples he wanted his fill!"

"Tom Rover!" burst out Dora. "I believe you would sing at your own
funeral!" And Tom continued gayly:

"Sailing, sailing, over the bounding main,
  For many a stormy wind shall blow,
Ere the Rovers get home again!"

"Tom lives on songs," said Sam slyly. "He'd rather sing than eat a pie."

"Pie!" thundered Tom tragically. "Who said pie? I haven't seen a
home-made pie since--since--"

"The time you went down in the pantry at midnight and ate two,"
finished Dick, and then there was a burst of laughter.

"Never mind, Tom, I'll make you half a dozen pies--when we get home,"
came from Nellie.

"Will you really?" said Tom, and then he began once more, as gayly
as ever:

"You can give me pudding
And give me cake,
And anything else
You care to bake;
But if you wish
To charm my eye,
Just hand me over
Some home-made pie!"

"That's all right," said Dick. "But in place of eye you should have
said stomach."

"Stomach doesn't rhyme with pie," snorted 'Tom. "I'm a true poet and
I know what I am doing."

"Talking about pie makes me think of pie-plates," said Sam. "Let us
play spinning the plate on deck. It will be lots of fun trying to
catch the plate while it is spinning and the steamer is rolling."

"Good!" cried Grace, and ran to get a plate from the cook's galley.
Soon they were playing merrily, and the game served to make an hour
pass pleasantly. When the forfeits had to be redeemed, the girls made
the boys do several ridiculous things. Tom had to hop from one end
of the deck to the other on one foot, Sam had to stand on his head,
and recite "Mary had a Little Lamb," and Dick had to go to three of
the sailors and ask each if they would tie the ship to a post during
the night.

"I'll wager you are a merry crowd on land," .said Captain Fairleigh,
as he paused to watch the fun. "Takes me back to the time when I was
a boy," and he laughed heartily. Even the captain's wife was amused.
She was particularly fond of music, and loved to listen to the playing
and singing.

The days slipped by one after the other, until Captain Fairleigh
announced that forty-eight hours more ought to bring them in sight
of Diamond Head, a high hill at the entrance to Honolulu harbor.

But another storm was at hand, and that night the wind blew more
fiercely than ever. The Tacoma tossed and pitched to such a degree
that standing on the deck was next to impossible, and all of the boys
and the girls gathered in the cabin and held fast to the posts and
the stationary seats.

"It feels as if the steamer would roll clear over," said Sam. "Here
we go again!"

There was thunder and lightning, and soon a deluge of rain, fully as
heavy as that experienced while on board of the ill-fated Old Glory.
This continued all of the night, and in the morning the storm seemed
to grow worse instead of better.

"We are in a run of bad luck," said Dick. "I really believe we will
have all sorts of trouble before we get back to the United States."

Toward noon a mist came up, and it grew dark. Lanterns were lit, and
the Tacoma felt her way along carefully, for Captain Fairleigh knew
that they were now in the track of considerable shipping.

By nightfall the steamer lay almost at a stand-still, for the mist
was thicker than ever. For safety the whistle was sounded at short
intervals.

The girls were the first to retire, and the boys followed half an
hour later. The staterooms of all were close together.

Dick Rover was the last to go to sleep. How long he slept he did not
know.

He awoke with a start. A shock had thrown him to the floor of the
stateroom, and down came Sam on top of him. There were hoarse cries
from the deck, a shrill steam whistle, and the sound of a fog horn,
and then a grinding thud and a bump that told the Tacoma had either
run into some other ship or into the rocks.


CHAPTER VIII

FROM ONE SHIP TO ANOTHER


"We struck something!"

"What is the matter?"

"Are we going down?"

These and a score of other cries rang out on board the steamer. The
thumping and bumping continued, followed by a crashing that could
mean but one thing--that the ship was being splintered, and that her
seams were being laid wide open.

As soon as possible the Rover boys slipped into some clothing and
went on deck. They were quickly followed by the three girls, who
clung tight to them in terror.

"Oh, Dick, this is the worst yet!" came from Dora. "What will be the
end?"

"The Tacoma is sinking!" was the cry from out of the darkness.

"Are we really sinking?" gasped Nellie as she clutched Tom.

"Yes, we are," came from Sam. "Can't you feel the deck settling?"

They could, only too plainly, and in a minute more the water seemed
to be running all around them. The cries continued, but it was so
black they could see next to nothing.

What happened in the next few minutes the Rover boys could scarcely
tell, afterward. An effort was made to get out a life-boat, and it
disappeared almost as soon as it left the side, carrying some sailors
with it. Then some red-fire blazed up, lighting up the tragic scene,
and revealing a schooner standing close by the steamer. The sailing
vessel had her bowsprit broken and part of her forward rail torn away.

"If we must die, let us die together!" said Dick, and they kept together
as well as they could. Old Jerry was with them, and said he would do
all he could for them. He had already passed around life-preservers,
and these they put on with all possible speed.

Then followed a sudden plunge of the steamer and all found themselves
in the waves of the ocean. They went down together, each holding the
hand of somebody else. When they came up, Tom was close to a life-line
thrown from the sailing vessel and this he clutched madly.

"Haul us in!" he yelled. "Haul us in!" And the line was pulled in
with care, and after ten minutes of extreme peril the boys and the
girls and Captain Jerry found themselves on board of the sailing
vessel, which proved to be a large three-masted schooner.

All of our friends were so exhausted that they had to be carried to
the cabin and here Dora and Grace fainted away completely, while
Nellie was little better off. Tom had had his left arm bruised and
Dick was suffering from an ugly scratch on the forehead. It was fully
an hour before any of them felt like moving around.

In the meantime the two vessels had separated, and though red fire
was burned twice, after that, and rockets sent up, nothing more was
seen or heard of the Tacoma or those left on board.

"But I don't think she went down," said Captain Jerry. "She was too
well built for that." And he was right, as events proved. Much crippled
the steamer two days later entered Honolulu harbor, where she was
laid up for repairs.

Worn out completely by what they had passed through, the boys slept
heavily for the rest of the night, not caring what ship they were on
or where they were going. Everybody was busy with the wreckage, so
they were left almost entirely to themselves.

Tom was the first to get up, and going on deck found that the storm
had cleared away and that the sun was shining brightly. Without delay
he halted a sailor who happened to be passing.

"What ship is this?" he questioned.

"Dis ship da _Golden Wave_," replied the sailor, who was a Norwegian.

"And where are you bound?"

"Da ship sail for Australia."

"Great Scott! Australia!" gasped Tom. "This is the worst yet."

"What's up, Tom?" asked Sam, who had followed his brother.

"This sailor tells me this ship is bound for Australia."

"Why, that is thousands of miles away!"

"I know it."

"If we go to Australia, we'll never get back."

"Not quite as bad as that, Sam. But we certainly don't want to go to
Australia."

"Who is the captain?"

"Captain Blossom," replied the sailor. "Where is he?"

The sailor said he would take them to the captain and did so. He
proved to be a burly fellow with rather a sober-looking face.

"Got around at last, eh?" he said, eying Tom and Sam shrewdly.

"We have, and we must thank you for rescuing us," replied Tom.

"That's all right."

"One of your sailors tells me you are bound for Australia," put in Sam.

"He told you the truth."

"Won't you stop at some port in the Hawaiian Islands?"

"No."

"But you might put us off."

"Can't spare the time. As it is, this storm blew me away out of my
course," answered Captain Blossom.

He had a twofold reason for not putting them ashore at or near
Honolulu. It would not only take time, but it might also lead to
questioning concerning the fate of the steamer, and he was afraid he
would be hauled into some marine court for running into the Tacoma,
for that was what he had done.

"Do you know anything about the steamer?" asked Sam.

"No, she got away from us in the darkness, after we hauled seven of
you aboard."

"The steamer lost some of her crew," said Tom, shuddering. "Did you
lose any men?"

"One sailor, and one of my passengers got hurt in the leg by the
collision."

By this time Dick joined the party, followed by old Jerry and the
three girls.

"Will the captain carry us away to Australia?" asked Dora, when the
situation was explained.

"I suppose so," said Dick soberly. "If I had some money I might buy
him off, but I haven't a dollar. What little I did have I left on
board of the Tacoma."

The others were equally destitute, and when Captain Blossom heard of
this his face grew dark. He was a close man, and his first mate, Jack
Lesher, was no better.

"If you haven't any money, you'll have to work your passage," he
growled. "I can't afford to carry you to Australia for nothing."

"Then let us off at some port in the Hawaiian Islands," said Tom.

"Can't do it, I told you," retorted Captain Blossom angrily. "And
you'll either work while you are on board or starve."

"My, what a Tarter!" whispered Sam.

"Well, we'll work," said Dick. "But you must not force the young
ladies to do anything."

"I'm a sailor and will do my full share," said old Jerry. But he did
not like the situation any better than did the Rovers.

The matter was talked over, and seeing that they were willing to
work, Captain Blossom became a little milder in his manner. He said
he would give the three girls one of the staterooms, but the boys
and old Jerry would have to join the crew in the forecastle.

Fortunately the sailors on board the _Golden Wave_ were a fairly clean
lot, so the forecastle was not so dirty a place as it might otherwise
have been. The boys did not like to be separated from the girls,
however, and Dick called the girls aside to talk the matter over.

"I want to know if anything goes wrong," said he. "If there is the
least thing out of the way, let us know at once," and the girls
promised to keep their eyes open.

Once in the forecastle the boys were given three rough suits of
clothes to wear while working. Then they were called out to work
without delay, for the storm had left much to do on board the Golden
Wave.

"We have only one passenger," said one of the sailors, in reply to
a question from Tom.. "He is a young fellow named Robert Brown. He
was hurt during the storm, but I reckon he's all right now."

Tom was set to coiling some rope and Sam and Dick had to scrub down
the deck. This was by no means an agreeable task, but nobody complained.

"We must take what comes," said Dick cheerfully. "So long as we get
enough to eat and are not abused I shan't say a word."

The boys had been to work about an hour when Sam saw a young fellow
limping around the other end of the deck. There was something
strangely familiar about the party, and the youngest Rover drew closer
to get a better look at him.

"Dan Baxter!" he cried in astonishment. "Dan Baxter!"

At this cry the person turned and his lower jaw dropped in equal
astonishment.

"Who--er--where did you come from?" he stammered.

"So this is the vessel you shipped on?" went on Sam. And then he
called out: "Dick! Tom! Come here."

For a brief instant Dan Baxter's face was a study. Then a crafty look
came into his eyes and he drew himself up.

"Excuse me, but you have made a mistake in your man," he said coldly.

"What's that?" came from Sam in bewilderment.

"I am not the party you just named. My name is Robert Brown."

"It is?" came from the youngest Rover. "If that is so, you look
exactly like somebody I know well."

By this time Dick and Tom came hurrying to the spot, followed by
Dora, who happened to be on deck.

"Dan Baxter!" came from Tom and Dick simultaneously.

"He says he isn't Dan Baxter," said Sam.

"Isn't Dan Baxter? Why, Baxter, you fraud, what new wrinkle is this?"
said Dick, catching him by the arm.

"Let go of me!" came fiercely from Baxter. "Let go, I say, or it will
be the worse for you. You have made a mistake."

"No mistake about it," put in Tom. "He is Dan Baxter beyond a doubt."


CHAPTER IX

IN WHICH THE ENEMY IS CORNERED


The loud talking had attracted the attention of Captain Blossom, and
now the master of the _Golden Wave_ strode up to the crowd.

"What's going on here?" he demanded of the Rover boys. "Why are you
not at work, as I ordered?"

"I have made an important discovery," answered Dick. "Is this your
passenger, Captain Blossom?"

"He is. What of him?"

"He is a thief and ran away from San Francisco to escape the police."

"It's a falsehood!" roared Dan Baxter. "They have made a mistake. I
am a respectable man just out of college, and my father, Doctor L.
Z. Brown, is a well-known physician of Los Angeles. I am traveling
to Australia for my health."

"His real name is Daniel Baxter and his father is now in prison,"
said Tom. "He robbed us of our money and some diamonds while we were
stopping at a hotel in San Francisco. The detectives followed him
up, but he slipped them by taking passage on your ship."

"I tell you my name is Brown--Robert Brown!" stormed Baxter. "This
is some plot hatched up against me. Who are these fellows, anyway?"
he went on, turning to the captain.

"They came from the steamer we ran into," answered Captain Blossom.

"I never saw them before."

At this moment Dora touched the captain on the shoulder.

"Please, captain," she said, "I knew Dan Baxter quite well and I am
sure this young man is the same person."

"It aint so. I tell you, captain, it is a plot."

"What kind of a plot could it be?" asked Captain Blossom. He scarcely
knew what to say.

"I don't know. Perhaps they want to get hold of my money," went on
Baxter, struck by a sudden idea.

"That's right, we do want to get hold of the money!" cried Sam. "For
it belongs to us--at least two hundred and seventy-five dollars of
it--not counting what he may have got on the diamonds and the cuff
buttons."

"You shan't touch my money!" screamed Baxter.

"Captain, he ought to be placed under arrest," said Dick.

Dora had gone back to the cabin and now she returned in great haste
with Nellie and Grace.

"To be sure, that is Dan Baxter," said Nellie.

"There can be no mistake," put in Grace, "We all know him only too well."

"You see, Captain Blossom, that we are six to one," said Tom. "And
you will surely believe the ladies."

"How is you all happen to know him so well?" demanded the captain
curiously.

"We know him because we all went to school together," answered Dick.
"These young ladies lived in the vicinity of the school. We had
trouble with Baxter at school and later on out West, and ever since
that time he has been trying to injure us. We met him in San Francisco
in the hotel lobby and at night he went to our room, cut open a
traveling bag and unlocked our trunks and robbed us of two hundred
and seventy-five dollars in cash, some diamond studs, a pair of cuff
buttons, and some clothing."

"I've got an idea!" almost shouted Sam. "Maybe he has some of the
stolen stuff in his stateroom."

"Yes, yes, let us search the stateroom: by all means!" exclaimed Tom.

"You shall not touch my room!" howled Baxter, turning pale. "I have
nothing there but my own private property."

"If that is so, you shouldn't object to having the stateroom searched,"
observed Captain Blossom.

"If we get back our money we may be able to pay you something, captain,
for our passage," said Dick.

This was a forceful argument and set Captain Blossom to thinking. He
was a man who loved money dearly.

"I will go along and we will look around the stateroom," he said,
after a pause.

"This is an outrage!" cried Dan Baxter. "I will have the law on you
for it."

"Shut up! I am master on my own ship," retorted Captain Blossom, and
led the way to the stateroom Dan Baxter occupied. The door was locked
and Baxter refused to give up the key. But the captain had a duplicate,
and soon he and the Rover boys were inside the room. Baxter followed
them, still expostulating, but in vain.

"Here is a pocketbook full of bills!" cried Tom, bringing the article
to light.

"Here is my light overcoat!" came from Dick. "See, it has my initials
embroidered in the hanger. Aunt Martha did that for me."

"Here are my gold cuff buttons!" exclaimed Sam. "They were a present
from my father and they have my monogram engraved on each." And he
showed the articles to the captain.

"I reckon it's a pretty clear case against you," said Captain Blossom,
turning to Dan Baxter.

"Here are half a dozen letters," said Tom, holding them up. "You can
see they are all addressed to Daniel Baxter. That's his name, and
he'd be a fool to deny it any longer."

"Well, I won't deny it," cried the big bully. "What would be the
use--you are all against me--even the captain."

"I am not against you," retorted Captain Blossom. "But if you are a
thief I want to know it. Why did you give me your name as Robert Brown?"

"That's my business." Baxter paused for a moment. "Now you have found
me out, what are you going to do about it?" he went on brazenly. "You
can't arrest me on shipboard."

"No, but we can have you arrested when we land," said Dick. "And in
the meantime we will take charge of what is our own."

"Here are some pawn tickets for the diamonds," said Sam, who was
continuing the search. "They show he got seventy-five dollars on them."

"We will keep the tickets--and the seventy-five dollars, too--if we
can find the money," said Tom.

But the money could not be found, for the greater part had been turned
over to Captain Blossom for Baxter's passage to Australia and the
rest spent before leaving shore. The pocketbook contained only two
hundred and thirty dollars.

"What did he pay you for the passage?" questioned Dick of the captain.

"One hundred dollars."

"Then you ought to turn that amount over to our credit."

"Why, what do you mean?"

"I mean that Dan Baxter has no right to a free passage on your ship,
since he bought that passage with our money. Let him work his way
and place that passage money to our credit."

"That's the way to talk," put in Tom. "Make him work by all means."

"He deserves good, hard labor," came from Sam.

"I don't think you can make me work!" burst out Dan Baxter. "I am a
passenger and I demand that I be treated as such."

"You are an impostor!" returned Captain Blossom bluntly. "The fact
that you used an assumed name proves it. If I wanted to do so, I
could clap you in the ship's brig until we reach port and chain you
into the bargain. I want no thieves on board my ship."

"Here is more of our clothing," came from Tom.

"Pick out all the things that are yours," said the captain. "And take
the other things that are yours, too."

This was done, nobody paying any attention to Baxter's protests. When
the Rovers had what there was of their things the captain turned to
the bully.

"I've made up my mind about you," he said, speaking with great
deliberation. "I am master here, and a judge and jury into the bargain.
You can take your choice: Either sign articles as a foremast hand
for the balance of the trip, or be locked up as a prisoner, on prison
rations."

"Do you mean th--that?" gasped Baxter, turning pale.

"I do."

"But the passage money Goes to the credit of these young fellows."

"It's an outrage!"

"No, it's simply justice, to my way of thinking. I'll give you until
to-morrow to make up your mind what you will do."

This ended the talk with Dan Baxter. The captain said he wanted to
see the Rover boys in the cabin, and they followed him to that place.

"Captain, I feel I must thank you for your fair way of managing this
affair," said Dick, feeling that a few good words at this point would
not go amiss. "I hope you treat Baxter as he deserves."

"I will try to do right," was Captain Blossom's answer. "But what I
want to know now is, What do you intend to do with that money? It
seems to me I should be paid something for keeping you on board."

"I have a proposition to make, captain. We will give you two hundred
dollars if you will allow us to consider ourselves passengers. And
by 'us' I mean the young ladies as well as ourselves."

"It's not very much."

"If we pay you that amount it will leave us but thirty dollars, hardly
enough with which to cable home for more. Of course, when we get our
money in Australia we will pay you whatever balance is due you,--and
something besides for saving us."

This pleased Captain Blossom and he said he would accept the offer.
The matter was discussed for half an hour, and it was decided that
the boys should have two staterooms, the one occupied by Baxter and
another next to that given over to the girls.

When Dora, Nellie, and Grace heard of the new arrangement that had
been made they were highly pleased.

"I didn't want to see you do the work of a common sailor," said Dora
to Dick.

"Oh, it wouldn't kill me," he returned lightly. "Even as it is, I'll
give a hand if it is necessary."

"It's a wonder Captain Blossom took to your offer so quickly."

"He loves money, that's why, Dora. He would rather have that two
hundred dollars than our services," and with this remark Dick hit
the nail squarely on the head.


CHAPTER X

A BLOW IN THE DARKNESS


It would be hard to describe Dan Baxter's feelings after Captain
Blossom and the Rover boys left him alone in his stateroom. At one
instant he was fairly shaking with rage, and at the next quaking with
fear over what the future might hold in store for him.

"They have got the best of me again!" he muttered, clenching his
fists. "And after I felt sure I had escaped them. It must have been
Fate that made Captain Blossom pick them up. Now I've either got to
work as a common sailor or submit to being locked up in some dark,
foul-smelling hole on the ship. And when we get to Australia, unless
I watch my chance to skip out, they'll turn me over to the police."

He could not sleep that night for thinking over the situation and
was up and dressed before daylight. Strolling on deck, he came face
to face with Sam, who had come up to get the morning air.

"I suppose you think you have got the best of me," growled Baxter.

"It looks like it, doesn't it?" returned Sam briefly.

"The game isn't ended yet."

"No, but it will be when you land in prison, Baxter."

"I'll get square."

"You have promised to get square times without number--and you have
failed every time."

"I won't fail the next time."

"Yes, you will. Wrong never yet triumphed over right."

"Oh, don't preach, Sam Rover."

"I am not preaching, I am simply trying to show you how foolish it
is to do wrong. An eminently well-conditioned man, healthy in body, healthy in soul;
we will call him one of the _healthiest_ of men.

Neither is this a small matter: health is a great matter, both to
the possessor of it and to others....

Scott's career, of writing impromptu novels to buy farms with,
was not of a kind to terminate voluntarily, but to accelerate
itself more and more; and one sees not to what wise goal it could,
in any case, have led him.

Bookseller Constable's bankruptcy was not the ruin of Scott; his
ruin was that ambition, and even false ambition, had laid hold of
him; that his way of life was not wise.

Whither could it lead? Where could it stop? New farms there remained
ever to be bought, while new novels could pay for them.

More and more success but gave more and more appetite, more and
more audacity.

The impromptu writing must have waxed ever thinner; declined faster
and faster into the questionable category, into the condemnable,
into the general condemned.

Already there existed, in secret, everywhere a considerable opposition
party; witnesses of the Waverly miracles, unable to believe in them,
but forced silently to protest against them.

Such opposition party was in the sure case to grow; and even, with
the impromptu process ever going on, ever waxing thinner, to draw
the world over to it.

Silent protest must at length come to words; harsh truths, backed by
harsher facts of a world-popularity over-wrought and worn out,
behoved to have been spoken;--such as can be spoken now without
reluctance when they can pain the brave man's heart no more.

Who knows? Perhaps it was better ordered to be all otherwise. Otherwise,
at any rate, it was.
One day the Constable mountain, which seemed to stand strongly like
the other rock mountains, gave suddenly, as the icebergs do, a
loud-sounding crack; suddenly with huge clangor, shivered itself
into ice-dust; and sank, carrying much along with it.

In one day Scott's high-heaped money-wages became fairy-money and
nonentity; in one day the rich man and lord of land saw himself
penniless, landless, a bankrupt among creditors.

It was a hard trial. He met it proudly, bravely--like a brave proud
man of the world.

Perhaps there had been a prouder way still; to have owned honestly
that he _was_ unsuccessful then, all bankrupt, broken, in the world's
goods and repute; and to have turned elsewhither for some refuge.

Refuge did lie elsewhere; but it was not Scott's course, or fashion
of mind, to seek it there.

To say: hitherto I have been all in the wrong, and this my fame and
pride, now broken, was an empty delusion and spell of accursed
witchcraft!

It was difficult for flesh and blood! He said, I will retrieve myself,
and make my point good yet, or die for it.

Silently, like a proud strong man, he girt himself to the Hercules
task of removing rubbish-mountains, since that was it; of paying
large ransoms by what he could still write and sell.

In his declining years too; misfortune is doubly and trebly unfortunate
that befalls us then.

Scott fell to his Hercules' task like a very man, and went on with
it unweariedly; with a noble cheerfulness, while his life-strings
were cracking, he grappled with it, and wrestled with it, years
long, in death-grips, strength to strength; and _it_ proved the
stronger; and his life and heart did crack and break; the cordage
of a most strong heart!

Over these last writings of Scott, his Napoleons, Demonologies, Scotch
Histories, and the rest, criticism, finding still much to wonder
at, much to commend, will utter no word of blame, this one word
only, Wo is me!

The noble warhorse that once laughed at the shaking of the spear, how
is he doomed to toil himself dead, dragging ignoble wheels!

Scott's descent was like that of a spent projectile; rapid, straight
down; perhaps mercifully so. It is a tragedy, as all life is; one proof
more that Fortune stands on a restless _globe_; that Ambition never
yet profited any man....

And so the curtain falls; and the strong Walter Scott is with us no
more.

A possession from him does remain; widely scattered; yet attainable;
not inconsiderable. It can be said of him, "When he departed he took
a Man's life along with him."

No sounder piece of British manhood was put together in that eighteenth
century of time.

Alas, his fine Scotch face, with its shaggy honesty, sagacity, and
goodness, when we saw it latterly on the Edinburgh streets, was
all worn with care, the joy all fled from it; plowed with labor
and sorrow.

We shall never forget it; we shall never see it again. Adieu, Sir
Walter, pride of all Scotchmen, take our proud and sad farewell.

VII

BOSWELL AND HIS BOOK[54]

We have next a word to say of James Boswell.

Boswell has already been much commented upon; but rather in the way
of censure and vituperation than of true recognition.

He was a man that brought himself much before the world; confest
that he eagerly coveted fame, or if that were not possible,
notoriety; of which latter, as he gained far more than seemed his
due, the public were incited, not only by their natural love of
scandal, but by a special ground of envy, to say whatever ill of
him could be said.

Out of the fifteen millions that then lived, and had bed and board,
in the British Islands, this man has provided us a greater pleasure
than any other individual, at whose cost we now enjoy ourselves;
perhaps has done us a greater service than can be specially attributed
to more than two or three: yet, ungrateful that we are, no written
or spoken eulogy of James Boswell anywhere exists; his recompense
in solid pudding (so far as copyright went) was not excessive; and
as for the empty praise, it has altogether been denied him.

Men are unwiser than children; they do not know the hand that feeds.

Boswell was a person whose mean or bad qualities lay open to the
general eye; visible, palpable to the dullest.

His good qualities again, belonged not to the time he lived in; were
far from common then, indeed, in such a degree, were almost
unexampled; not recognizable therefore by every one; nay, apt even
(so strange had they grown) to be confined with the very vices they
lay contiguous to, and had sprung out of.

That he was a wine-bibler and gross liver; gluttonously fond of whatever
would yield him a little solacement, were it only of a stomachic
character, is undeniable enough.

That he was vain, heedless, a babbler; had much of the sycophant,
alternating with the braggadocio, curiously spiced too with an
all-pervading dash of the coxcomb; that he gloried much when the
Tailor, by a court-suit, had made a new man of him; that he appeared
at the Shakespeare Jubilee with a riband, imprinted "Corsica Boswell,"
round his hat; and in short, if you will, lived no day of his life
without doing and saying more than one pretentious inaptitude; all
this unhappily is evident as the sun at noon.

The very look of Boswell seems to have signified so much.

In that cocked nose, cocked partly in triumph over his weaker
fellow-creatures, partly to snuff up the smell of coming pleasure,
and scent it from afar; in those bag-cheeks, hanging like half-filled
wine-skins, still able to contain more; in that coarsely protruded
shelf mouth, that fat dewlapped chin; in all this, who sees not
sensuality, pretension, boisterous imbecility enough; much that
could not have been ornamental in the temper of a great man's overfed
great man (what the Scotch name _flunky_), though it had been more
natural there.

The under part of Boswell's face is of a low, almost brutish
character....

And now behold the worthy Bozzy, so pre-possessed and held back by
nature and by art, fly nevertheless like iron to its magnet, whither
his better genius called!

You may surround the iron and the magnet with what enclosures and
encumbrances you please,--with wood, with rubbish, with brass: it
matters not, the two feel each other, they struggle restlessly
toward each Other, they _will_ be together.

The iron may be a Scottish squirelet, full of gulosity and "gigmanity";
the magnet an English plebeian, and moving rag-and-dust mountain,
coarse, proud, irascible, imperious; nevertheless, behold how they
embrace, and inseparably cleave to one another!

It is one of the strangest phenomena of the past century, that at a
time when the old reverent feeling of Discipleship (such as brought
men from far countries, with rich gifts, and prostrate soul, to
the feet of the Prophets) had passed utterly away from men's practical
experience, was no longer surmised to exist, (as it does,) perennial,
indestructible, in man's inmost heart,--James Boswell should have
been the individual, of all others, predestined to recall it, in
such singular guise, to the wondering, and, for a long while,
laughing, and unrecognising world.

It has been commonly said, The man's vulgar vanity was all that attached
him to Johnson; he delighted to be seen near him, to be thought
connected with him. Now let it be at once granted that no consideration
springing out of vulgar vanity could well be absent from the mind
of James Boswell, in this his intercourse with Johnson, or in any
considerable transaction of his life.

At the same time ask yourself: Whether such vanity, and nothing else,
actuated him therein; whether this was the true essence and moving
principle of the phenomenon, or not rather its outward vesture, and the
accidental environment (and defacement) in which it came to light?

The man was, by nature and habit, vain; a sycophant-coxcomb, be it
granted; but had there been nothing more than vanity in him, was
Samuel Johnson the man of men to whom he must attach himself?

At the date when Johnson was a poor rusty-coated "scholar" dwelling
in Temple-lane, and indeed throughout their whole intercourse
afterwards, were there not chancellors and prime ministers enough;
graceful gentlemen, the glass of fashion; honor-giving noblemen;
dinner giving rich men; renowned fire-eaters, swordsmen, gownsmen;
Quacks and Realities of all hues,--any one of whom bulked much
larger in the world's eye than Johnson ever did?

To any one of whom, by half that submissiveness and assiduity, our
Bozzy might have recommended himself; and sat there, the envy of
surrounding lickspittles; pocketing now solid emolument, swallowing
now well-cooked viands and wines of rich vintage; in each case,
also, shone on by some glittering reflex of Renown or Notoriety,
so as to be the observed of innumerable observers.

To no one of whom, however, though otherwise a most diligent solicitor
and purveyor, did he so attach himself: such vulgar courtierships
were his paid drudgery, or leisure-amusement; the worship of Johnson
was his grand, ideal, voluntary business.

Does not the frothy-hearted yet enthusiastic man, doffing his Advocate's
wig, regularly take post, and hurry up to London, for the sake of
his Sage chiefly; as to a Feast of Tabernacles, the Sabbath of his
whole year?

The plate-licker and wine-bibler dives into Bolt Court, to sip muddy
coffee with a cynical old man, and a sour-tempered blind old woman
(feeling the cups, whether they are full, with her finger) and
patiently endured contradictions without end; too happy so he may
but be allowed to listen and live.

Nay, it does not appear that vulgar vanity could ever have been much
flattered by Boswell's relation to Johnson.

Mr.

Croker says Johnson was, to the last, little regarded by the great
world; from which, for a vulgar vanity, all honor, as from its
fountain, descends. Bozzy, even among Johnson's friends, and special
admirers, seems rather to have been laughed at than envied; his
officious, whisking, consequential ways, the daily reproofs and
rebuffs he underwent, could gain from the world no golden, but only
leaden, opinions.

His devout Discipleship seemed nothing more than a mean Spanielship,
in the general eye. His mighty "constellation," or sun, round whom
he, as satellite, observantly gyrated, was, for the mass of men, but
a huge, ill-snuffed tallow-light, and he a weak night-moth, circling
foolishly, dangerously about it, not knowing what he wanted.

If he enjoyed Highland dinners and toasts, as henchman to a new
sort of chieftain, Henry Erskine, in the domestic "Outer-House,"
could hand him a shilling "for the sight of his Bear."

Doubtless the man was laughed at, and often heard himself laughed
at for his Johnsonism.

To be envied, is the grand and sole aim of vulgar vanity; to be filled
with good things is that of sensuality; for Johnson perhaps no man
living _envied_ poor Bozzy; and of good things (except himself
paid for them) there was no vestige in that acquaintanceship.

Had nothing other or better than vanity and sensuality been there,
Johnson and Boswell had never come together, or had soon and finally
separated again....

Consider, too, with what force, diligence, and vivacity, he has
rendered back, all this which, in Johnson's neighborhood, his "open
sense" had so eagerly and freely taken in.

That loose-flowing, careless-looking Work of his is as a picture
by one of Nature's own Artists; the best possible resemblance of a
Reality; like the very image thereof in a clear mirror.

Which indeed it was; let but the mirror be _clear_, this is the
great point; the picture must and will be genuine.

How the babbling Bozzy, inspired only by Love, and the recognition
and vision which love can lend, epitomizes nightly the words of
Wisdom, the deeds and aspects of Wisdom, and so, by little and
little, unconsciously works together for us a whole _Johnsoniad_;
a more free, perfect, sunlit, and spirit-speaking likeness, than
for many centuries had been drawn by man of man!

Scarcely since the days of Homer has the feat been equaled; indeed,
in many senses this also is a kind of Heroic Poem.

The fit _Odyssey_ of our unheroic age was to be written, not sung; of a
Thinker, not a Fighter; and (for want of a Homer) by the first
open soul that might offer,--looked such even through the organs
of a Boswell.

We do the man's intellectual endowments great wrong, if we measure
it by its mere logical outcome; though here, too, there is not
wanting a light ingenuity, a figurativeness, and fanciful sport,
with glimpses of insight far deeper than the common.

But Boswell's grand intellectual talent was (as such ever is) an
_unconscious_ one, of far higher reach and significance than Logic;
and showed itself in the whole, not in parts.

Here again we have that old saying verified, "The heart sees farther
than the head."

Thus does poor Bozzy stand out to us as an ill-assorted, glaring
mixture of the highest and the lowest.

What, indeed is man's life generally but a kind of beast-godhead;
the god in us triumphing more and more over the beast; striving
more and more to subdue it under his feet?

Did not the Ancients, in their wise, perennially significant way,
figure Nature itself, their sacred All, or Pan, as a portentous
commingling of these two discords; as musical, humane, oracular in
its upper part, yet ending below in the cloven hairy feet of a goat?

The union of melodious, celestial Freewill and Reason, with foul
Irrationality and Lust; in which, nevertheless, dwelt a mysterious
unspeakable Fear and half-mad _panic_ Awe; as for mortals there
well might!

And is not man a microcosm, or epitomized mirror of that same
Universe; or, rather, is not that Universe even Himself, the reflex
of his own fearful and wonderful being, "the waste fantasy of his
own dream?"

No wonder that man, that each man, and James Boswell like the others,
should resemble it!

The peculiarity in his case was the unusual defect of amalgamation
and subordination: the highest lay side by side with the lowest;
not morally combined with it and spiritually transfiguring it; but
tumbling in half-mechanical juxtaposition with it, and from time
to time, as the mad alternation chanced, irradiating it, or eclipsed
by it....

As for the Book itself, questionless the universal favor entertained
for it is well merited.

In worth as a Book we have rated it beyond any other product of the
eighteenth century; all Johnson's own Writings, laborious and in
their kind genuine above most, stand on a quite inferior level to
it; already, indeed, they are becoming obsolete for this generation;
and for some future generations, may be valuable chiefly as Prolegomena
and Expository Scholia to this _Johnsoniad_ of Boswell.

Which of us but remembers, as one of the sunny spots in his existence,
the day when he opened these airy volumes, fascinating him by a
true natural-magic!

It was as if the curtains of the Past were drawn aside, and we
looked mysteriously into a kindred country, where dwelt our Fathers;
inexpressibly dear to us, but which had seemed forever hidden from
our eyes.

For the dead Night had engulfed it; all was gone, vanished as if
it had not been.

Nevertheless, wondrously given back to us, there once more it lay;
all bright, lucid, blooming; a little island of Creation amid the
circumambient Void.

There it still lies; like a thing stationary, imperishable, over
which changeful Time were now accumulating itself in vain, and could
not, any longer, harm it, or hide it.

Thus for _Boswell's Life of Johnson_ has Time done, is Time still
doing, what no ornament of Art or Artifice could have done for it.

Rough Samuel and sleek wheedling James _were_, and _are not_.

Their Life and whole personal Environment has melted into air. The
Mitre Tavern still stands in Fleet Street; but where now is its
scot-and-lot paying, beef-and-ale loving, cocked-hatted, potbellied
Landlord; its rosy-faced, assiduous Landlady, with all her shining
brass-pans, waxed tables, well-filled larder-shelves; her cooks,
and bootjacks, and errand-boys, and watery-mouthed hangers-on?

Gone! Gone! The becking waiter, that with wreathed smiles, wont to
spread for Samuel and Bozzy their "supper of the gods," has long since
pocketed his last sixpence; and vanished, sixpence and all, like
a ghost at cock-crowing. The Bottles they drank out of are all
broken, the Chairs they sat on all rotted and burnt; the very
Knives and Forks they ate with have rusted to the heart, and become
brown oxide of iron, and mingled with the indiscriminate clay.

All, all, has vanished; in very deed and truth, like that baseless
fabric of Prospero's air-vision. Of the Mitre Tavern nothing but the
bare walls remain there; of London, of England, of the World,
nothing but the bare walls remain; and these also decaying, (were
they of adamant,) only slower.

The mysterious River of Existence rushes on: a new Billow thereof
has arrived, and lashes wildly as ever round the old embankments;
but the former Billow with _its_ loud, mad eddyings, where is
it?--Where?--Now this Book of Boswell's, this is precisely a
Revocation of the Edict of Destiny; so that Time shall not utterly,
not so soon by several centuries, have dominion over us.

A little row of Naphtha-lamps, with its line of Naphtha-light burns
clear and holy through the dead Night of the Past: they who are
gone are still here; though hidden they are revealed, though dead
they yet speak.

There it shines, that little miraculously lamp-lit Pathway; shedding
its feebler and feebler twilight into the boundless dark Oblivion,
for that that our Johnson _touched_ has become illuminated for us:
on which miraculous little Pathway we can still travel, and see
wonders.

VIII
MIGHT BURNS HAVE BEEN SAVED[55]
Contemplating this sad end of Burns and how he sank unaided by any
real help, uncheered by any wise sympathy, generous minds have
sometimes figured to themselves, with a reproachful sorrow, that
much might have been done for him--that by counsel, true affection,
and friendly ministrations, he might have been saved to himself and
the world.

We question whether there is not more tenderness of heart than
soundness of judgment in these suggestions.

It seems dubious to us whether the richest, wisest, most benevolent
individual could have lent Burns any effectual help. Counsel, which
seldom profits any one, he did not need: in his understanding he
knew right from wrong as well perhaps as any man ever did; but the
persuasion, which would have availed him, lies not so much in the
head as in the heart, where no argument or expostulation could have
assisted much to implant it.

As to money, again, we do not really believe that this was his
essential want, or well see how any private man could, even
presupposing Burns's consent, have bestowed on him an independent
fortune, with much prospect of decisive advantage.

It is a mortifying truth, that two men in any rank of society could
hardly be found virtuous enough to give money, and to take it as a
necessary gift, without injury to the moral entireness of one or
both.

But so stands the fact: friendship, in the old heroic sense of
that term, no longer exists, except in the cases of kindred or
other legal affinity; it is in reality no longer expected or
recognized as a virtue among men.

A close observer of manners has pronounced "patronage," that is
pecuniary or other economic furtherance, to be "twice cursed," cursing
him that gives and him that takes! And thus in regard to outward
matters also, it has become the rule, as in regard to inward it
always was and must be the rule, that no one shall look for effectual
help to another, but that each shall rest contented with what help
he can afford himself.

Such, we say, is the principle of modern honor--naturally enough
growing out of that sentiment of pride which we inculcate and
encourage as the basis of our whole social morality.

Many a poet has been poorer than Burns, but no one was ever prouder:
we may question whether, without great precautions, even a pension
from royalty would not have galled and encumbered more than actually
assisted him.

Still less, therefore, are we disposed to join with another class
of Burns's admirers, who accuse the higher ranks among us of having
ruined Burns by their selfish neglect of him.

We have already stated our doubts whether direct pecuniary help, had
it been offered, would have been accepted, or could have proved very
effectual.

We shall readily admit, however, that much was to be done for Burns; that
many a poisoned arrow might have been warded from his bosom; many
an entanglement in his path cut asunder by the hand of the powerful;
and light and heat shed on him from high places would have made his
humble atmosphere more genial; and the softest heart then breathing
might have lived and died with some fewer pangs.

Nay, we shall grant further, and for Burns, it is granting much, that
with all his pride he would have thanked, even with exaggerated
gratitude, any one who had cordially befriended him: patronage,
unless once cursed, needed not to have been twice so.

At all events, the poor promotion he desired in his calling might
have been granted: it was his own scheme, therefore, likelier than
any other to be of service.

All this it might have been a luxury--nay, it was a duty, for our
nobility to have done.

Then the boys and old Jerry took up
the oars once more and began to pull as nearly southward as they
could make it, steering by the sun.

When the sun grew higher it became very warm, so that the rowers were
glad enough to lay aside their jackets. By noon they reckoned that
they had covered six or eight miles. One after another stood up on
the seats to take a look around.

"Nothing in sight yet," said Dick, with a sorry shake of his head.
"We must have been mistaken in that dark spot."

"What will you do now?" asked Grace. "The hot sun is beginning to
make my head ache."

Sam's head also ached, but he said nothing. Nobody knew what to suggest.

"One thing is certain; we can't remain out on the bosom of the ocean,"
said Dick.

"Better continue to pull southward," came from old Jerry. "There are
lots of islands down that way. The map is full of 'em."

"Yes, the map is full of them," answered Dick. "But a quarter of an
inch on the map means a hundred miles or two in reality."

Yet it was decided to row on, trusting to luck to strike some island,
either large or small. It was now fiercely hot, and all hands perspired
freely.

By the end of the afternoon the boys were worn out, and had to give
up rowing. The girls were dozing in the stern, having covered their
heads with a thin shawl, stretched from one gunwale to another. Tom
and Sam were dizzy from the glare of the sun on the water.

"Another day like this will set me crazy," said the youngest Rover.
"I'd give ten dollars for a pair of blue goggles."

Old Jerry had been looking intently to the westward. Now he pointed
in that direction.

"See that trail of smoke," he said. "Unless I am mistaken a steamship
is sailing toward us!"

"A steamship!" cried Tom, and the words awoke the girls. "We must
hail the vessel by all means."

"If she comes close enough," said Captain Jerry pointedly. "Don't be
too hopeful, my lads. She may pass us by."


CHAPTER XIII

THE CRUSOES OF SEVEN ISLANDS


All on board of the rowboat watched the thin trail of smoke with
interest.

"I believe it is going away from us," said Dora.

"No, it is coming closer," said Nellie.

"It is certainly moving to the northward," put in Sam.

A quarter of an hour went by and the smoke came only a little nearer.

"She is a big steamer," said Captain Jerry. "But she aint comin' jest
this way."

"You are sure?" cried Tom.

"Yes, lad. It's too bad, but it can't be helped."

The old sailor was right; half an hour later the smoke had shifted,
and after that it faded gradually from sight.

It was a heavy blow, after their expectations had been raised so
high, and tears stood in the eyes of all of the girls, while the boys
looked unusually sober.

What was to do next? All asked that question, yet it was only Captain
Jerry who answered it.

"Let us pull southward," said he.

And they did so, although with hearts that were as heavy as lead in
their bosoms.

Slowly the night came on. Shortly after the sun set the moon showed
itself and the sky became studded with stars, the Southern Cross
standing out boldly among them. The pale light made the bosom of the
ocean glisten like silver.

"A beautiful night," said Dora. "But who can enjoy it when we do not
know what to-morrow will bring forth," and she sighed deeply.

The boys and old Jerry continued to take turns at rowing, while the
girls sank into fitful slumber.

Presently the old sailor raised his head.

"Listen!" he said, and they did so, and far away heard a strange booming.

"What's that?" questioned Sam.

"It's breakers!" cried Tom. "We must be near some coast!"

"The lad is right," came from Captain Jerry. "We are near an island,
after all!"

Dick stood on a seat, and, as the boat rode to the top of a wave,
took a look around.

"An island!" he cried. "Dead ahead!"

"Hurrah! We are saved!" ejaculated Sam. "What is the matter?" questioned
Dora, rousing up, followed by the other girls.

"There is an island ahead."

"We must be careful how we approach the shore, lads," cautioned Jerry.
"If we strike the rocks, it may cost us our lives. Perhaps we had
better hold off until daylight."

"I see a stretch of sand!" came from Tom, who was standing up. "If
we can reach that, we'll be all right."

Old Jerry took a careful look. The sand was there, true enough, but
there were dangerous breakers between the boat and that shore.

"If you say so, we can run our chances," he said. "The young ladies
must hold tight, and not mind a good ducking."

The force of the waves was now carrying them closer and closer to
the breakers. Under old Jerry's directions the boys took a short,
sharp stroke, keeping the rowboat straight up to the waves. The noise
was like thunder, and soon the spray was flying all over them.

"Now pull!" cried Captain Jerry. "One, two, three! Hold tight, girls!"
And away they went into the breakers. One wave dashed over the craft,
but it was not swamped, and before another could hit them they darted
up a swell and onto a long, sandy beach.

In a twinkle the old sailor was out, along with Dick, and, aided by
another wave, they ran the boat well up the beach, out of the harm
of the waves. It was a hard struggle, and when it was over Dick sank
down almost exhausted.

"Saved!" murmured Dora, as she leaped out on shore. "Thank Heaven!"
And all of the others echoed the sentiment.

The empty boat was pulled up out of harm's way and chained fast to
a palm tree growing near, and then the party of seven sat down to
rest and to talk over the new condition of affairs. They were on a
wild, tropical coast, with a long, sandy beach running to the ocean,
and back of this a dense mass of tropical vegetation, including palms,
plantains, cocoanuts, and date trees. Back of the heavy growth was
a distant hill, standing out dimly in the moonlight.

"This looks like a regular Crusoe-like island," said Dora, as she
gazed around. "There is not a sign of a habitation anywhere."

"A good many of the South Sea islands are not inhabited," said Dick.
"The natives won't live on them because they are subject to volcano
eruptions, earthquakes, and tidal waves."

"Well, I hope we don't have any of those things while we stay here," came
from Nellie. "An earthquake would scare me almost to death."

"I do not see that we can do better than to stay right here for the
rest of the night," said Tom. "I am too tired out to walk very, far."

It was decided to follow Tom's advice, and all made themselves as
comfortable as circumstances permitted. They had some matches in a
waterproof safe, and soon a camp-fire was started, at which they
dried some of their garments. Then, after eating some of the provisions
that were left, they laid down to rest. Strange as it may seem all
slept soundly until sunrise, and nothing came to disturb them.

When the girls arose they found the boys and Captain Jerry already
preparing breakfast. On the shore Tom, had found some oysters and
shell-fish, and these were baking. Among the provisions were a little
tea and coffee, and old Jerry had made a pot of coffee, which did
one good to smell. Sam had brought down some cocoanuts from a nearby
tree, and also found some ripe bananas.

"We won't starve' to death here, that's certain," said Dick, when
they all sat down to eat. "The island is full of good things. If I
had a gun I could bring down lots of birds, and monkeys, too."

"I don't think I'd care to eat a monkey," said Grace. "But I wouldn't
mind eating birds."

"There must be plenty of fish here, too," said Tom. "In fact I saw
some sporting in the waters of a little bay up the coast."

"Shall we go up and down the coast after breakfast?" asked Sam.

"My advice is to climb yonder hill and take a squint around," came
from Captain Jerry.

"That's a splendid idea, providing we can get to the tap," said Dick.

"There is no use of all of us going, lad. You can go with me while
the rest stay here."

"What shall we do in the meantime?" asked Sam.

"Better try your hand at fishin', lad, and see if you can knock some
birds over with sticks and stones. If ye get anything, let the girls
cook us somethin', for we'll be powerful hungry by the time we get back."

Half an hour later Captain Jerry and Dick set out. Each carried a
few ship's biscuits and also a heavy stick which had been cut in the
thickets. Each wished he had a gun or a pistol, but those articles
were not to be had.

The climb up the hill was by no means an easy one. The rocks were
rough and in many spots the jungle of brush and vines was so thick
that to get through was next to impossible. It was very warm, and
they had to stop often to cool off and catch their breath.

"I don't wonder that people in hot countries move slowly," said Dick.
"I feel more like resting than doing anything else."

It was almost noon when they came in sight of the top of the hill.
There were still some rough rocks to climb, and these they had to
ascend by means of some vines that grew handy.

"What a magnificent view!" cried Dick.

It certainly was magnificent. Looking back in the direction they had
come they could see the Pacific Ocean, glittering in the bright
sun-light and stretching miles and miles out of sight.

The island they were on looked to be about half a mile in diameter.
Northward, eastward, and westward was the ocean, but to the southward
was a circlet of six islands, having a stretch of calm water between
them. Between some of the islands the water was very shallow, while
elsewhere it looked deep.

"Seven islands in all," said old Jerry. "And not a sign of a house
or hut anywhere."

"We are the Crusoes of Seven Islands," said Dick. "But do you really
believe they are uninhabited?"

"Do ye see any signs of life, lad?"

"I must say I do not. It's queer, too, for I rather imagined one at
least of the other boats had reached this place."

"I thought the same. But it looks now as if they all went to Davy
Jones's locker, eh?"

"It certainly does look that way."

From the top of the hill they took a careful survey of the situation.
The elevation was in the very center of the island. Down toward the
other islands the slope was more abrupt than it was in the direction
from which they had come.

"We can take a look at those other islands later on," said old Jerry.
"Reckon as how we have done enough for one day. If we don't git back
soon, they'll become anxious about us."

"I wish we had a flag," said Dick. "Here is a tall tree. We could
chop away the top branches and hang up a signal of distress. If we
did that, perhaps some ship would come this way and rescue us."

"Right ye are, lad, but it aint many ships come this way. They are
afraid o' the rocks we run on."

Having looked around once more, to "git the lay o' the land," as
Captain Jerry expressed it, they started to descend the hill. This
proved as difficult as climbing up had been.

Dick went in advance, and was half-way down when he stepped on a
loose stick and went rolling into a perfect network of vines and
brushwood.

"Are ye hurt?" sang out old Jerry.

"No--not much!" answered the eldest Rover. "But my wind--Oh, goodness
gracious!"

Dick broke off short, and small wonder. As 'he arose from the hole
into which he had tumbled, a hissing sound caught his ears. Then up
came the head of a snake at least eight feet long, and in a twinkle
the reptile had wound itself around the boy's lower limbs!


CHAPTER XIV

SETTLING DOWN ON THE ISLAND


"What's wrong, lad?"

"A snake! It has wound itself around my legs!"

"Ye don't say!" gasped Captain Jerry, and then leaped down to the
hollow. "Well, by gosh! Take that, ye beast!"

"That" was a blow aimed at the reptile's head with the sailor's stick.
Old Jerry's aim was both swift and true and the head of the reptile
received a blow which knocked out one eye and bruised its fang. But
the body wound itself around Dick tighter than ever.

Fortunately the youth had not lost his wits completely, and as the
neck of the reptile came up, he grasped it in his hand with the
strongest grip he could command.

"Cut it--cut its head off!" he panted. "Get your pocket-knife!"

At once Captain Jerry dropped his stick and pulled out his jack-knife,
a big affair, such as many old sailors carry. One pull opened the
main blade, and then old Jerry started in to do as Dick had suggested.
It was no easy job and the body of the snake squirmed and whipped in
every direction, lashing each on the neck and the cheek. But the head
came off at last and then they left the body where it fell, and leaped
out of the way of further danger.

"A close shave, lad," said the old sailor, as he peered around for
more snakes.

"I--I should sa--say it wa--was," panted Dick. He was deadly pale.
"I--I thought it would strangle me sure!"

"If it had got around your neck, that is what would have happened.
Reckon as how we had better git out o' this neighborhood, eh?"

"Yes, yes, let us go at once," and Dick started off once more.

After that both were very careful where they stepped and kept their
eyes wide open for any new danger which might arise. So they went on
until they came in sight of the seashore.

"We had better say nothing about the snake," said the eldest Rover.
"It will only scare the girls to death."

"No, lad, you are wrong. We must warn them of danger. Otherwise they
may run into it headlong."

All of the others were glad to have them back and plied them with
questions.

"So there are seven islands," said Tom. "Well, as there are seven of
us, that is one island apiece. I don't think we need complain," and
his jolly manner made all laugh.

When Jerry told the story about the snake Dora set up a scream.

"Oh, Dick, if it had really strangled you!" she gasped. "You must be
very, very careful in the future!"

"Yes, and you must be careful, too, Dora," he answered.

"There is a nice beach right around the edge of the island," said
old Jerry. "So, when we want to visit the other islands, we can walk
around on the sand. That is better than climbing the hill."

"But the beach doesn't run to the other islands, does it?" asked Sam.

"No, but we can carry our rowboat around with us, to that bay between
the islands. There the water is smooth enough for anybody to row in."

"The six islands are shaped exactly like a ring," said Dick. "And
this island is the big stone on top."

"As the island is uninhabited I suppose we'll have to settle down
and build ourselves huts or something," came from Nellie.

"To be sure. We'll be regular Robinson Crusoes," answered Tom. "Why,
I can tell you it will be jolly, when we get used to it."

"Where will we build our huts?" asked Sam.

"We can build them here, if we wish," replied Dick. "But I rather
favor the side fronting the other islands."

"Yes, that's the best side," said Captain Jerry. "If we build here,
a strong storm may knock our huts flat. That side is more sheltered
and, consequently, safer. Besides, there is more fruit there, and
I'm sure better fishing in the bay, and that's what counts, too."

"Of course it counts--since we must live on fruits, fish, and what
birds and animals we manage to knock over," said Tom.

The boys had been fairly successful in hunting and fishing, having
knocked over half a dozen birds and caught four fair-sized fish.
Everything had been done to a turn over the camp-fire, and Dick and
old Jerry did full justice to what was set before them--on some dried
palm leaves Nellie had found. Their coffee they drank out of some
cocoanut shells. They had no forks, but used sharp sticks instead,
and the knives the boys carried in their pockets.

The weather continued fine and that night the moon shone as brightly
as ever. The boys took a stroll on the beach to talk over their plans.

"I am sorry to say there is no telling how long we may have to stay
here," said Dick. "It may be a day, a week, or for years."

"Oh, some ship is bound to pick us up some day," returned Tom. "And
if we can find enough to live on in the meantime, what is the use of
complaining? I am glad my life was spared."

"So am I, Tom."

"I would like to know what became of Dan Baxter," put in Sam. "Can
it be possible that all of the rest perished?"

"Certainly it is possible, Sam. You know what a time we had of it."

"It is an awful death to die--in the midst of the ocean," and the
youngest Rover shuddered.

"I agree with you," said Tom. "But I am more sorry for Captain Blossom
than for Baxter."

"The wrecking of the ship was the fault of the mate. He was drunk,"
said Dick. "The man at the wheel was doing what was right until Jack
Lesher came along."

"Well, I guess the mate went down with the rest."

"Look!" cried Sam, pointing to sea. "I see something dark on the water."

All gazed in the direction he pointed out and made out a mass of
wreckage. They watched it steadily until the breakers cast it almost
at their feet.

"Some wreckage from the ship!" cried Dick, on examination. "See, here
is the name on some of the woodwork. I reckon the vessel went to
pieces on the rocks."

The wreckage consisted mainly of broken spars and cordage. But there
were also some boxes, which, on being opened, proved to contain
provisions.

"It's not such a bad find, after all," said Tom. "I hope some more
comes ashore." But though they waited the best part of the night,
nothing more came to view.

In the morning the boys felt tired and they did not rouse up until
nearly noon. They found old Jerry at the beach, inspecting the wreckage.

"The ropes may come in handy," he said. "But the wood is of small
account, since' we have all we want already to hand."

It was decided to remain at the beach for the next day, to look for
more wreckage. But none came in, and then they started in a body to
skirt the shore around to the South Bay, as old Jerry called it. At
first they thought to carry the boat around, but concluded to come
back for that later.

It was a journey full of interest, for the sandy beach was dotted
with many strange and beautiful seashells, and just back of the sand
was the rich tropical growth already mentioned. The woods were full
of monkeys and birds, and once Tom thought he caught sight of some
goats or deer.

They reached an ideal spot fronting the little bay a little before
noon, and then the girls were glad enough to sit down in the shade
and rest. The bay was full of fish, and before long they had caught
three of the finny tribe. Fruit was also to be had in plenty, and a
spring of fresh water gushed from the rocks of the hill behind them.

"This is certainly a beautiful place," murmured Dora, as she gazed
around. "Were it not for the folks at home worrying about us, I could
spend quite some time here and enjoy it."

"Well, as our situation cannot be helped, let us make the best of
it," said Dick cheerfully. "There is no use in being downhearted when
we ought to be glad that we were saved."

Close to the rocks they found several trees growing in something of
two circles, and they decided that these trees should form the corner
posts of a double house or cabin.

"If we had an ax we might cut down some wood, but as it is we will
have to use strong vines and cover the huts with palm leaves," said
Captain Jerry.

The boys were soon at work, cutting the vines and gathering the palm
leaves, and the girls assisted as well as they were able in fastening
up the vine-ropes and binding in the leaves. It was slow work, yet
by nightfall one half the house was complete and the other had the
roof covered.

"Now, if rain comes, we can keep fairly dry," said Tom.

It rained the very next day and they were glad enough to crowd into
the completed part, while the rain came down in torrents. When the
worst of the downpour was over the wind arose and it kept blowing
fiercely all of the afternoon and the night.

"We can be thankful we are sheltered by the hill," said Sam. "Were
we on the other side of the island, the wind would knock the hut flat
and drench us in no time."

The storm kept all awake until early morning and when it went down
they were glad to sink to rest. All slept soundly and it was not
until ten o'clock, when the sun was struggling through the clouds,
that Tom arose, to find the others still slumbering.

"I'll let them sleep," he said to himself "They need it and there
is no need for them get to up."

Stretching himself, he walked quietly from the hut and down to the
beach. His first thought was to try to collect some wood, more or
less dry, and start a fire.

Gazing across the bay to one of the other islands, he saw a sight
which filled him with astonishment. There, on the beach of the island,
lay the wreck of the _Golden Wave_.


CHAPTER XV

ANOTHER CASTAWAY BROUGHT TO LIGHT


"The _Golden Wave_! Hurrah!"

Tom could not resist setting up a shout when he saw the familiar hull
of the schooner, resting quietly on the beach of an island on the
other side of the bay.

The cry awoke Sam, Dick, and old Jerry, and they came running out to
learn what it meant.

"The schooner!" came from Sam. "How did that get there?"

"The storm must have driven her off the rocks and into this bay,"
answered Dick. "She didn't go down, after all."

"It's a fine thing for us," put in Captain Jerry, his broad face
beaming with pleasure. "Now we can have all the provisions we want,
and clothing and guns, and if we can anchor the wreck in some way,
we can live on her just as comfortably as in a house at home."

The excited talking brought the girls out one after another, and they
were equally pleased over the stroke of good fortune.

"She seems to be cast up pretty high on the sand," said old Jerry. "But
even so, the sooner we get to her the better, or the sea may carry
her off."

"I am ready to go now," said Tom. "But how are we to get to that
island? It's a pity we didn't bring our boat around."

"There are two islands of the circle in between," came from Sam. "Why
can't we swim from one to the next and get around that way?"

"We can try it, lad. But we want to be careful. There may be sharks
around in these parts."

"Oh, don't let the sharks eat you up!" cried Grace.

"We'll keep our eyes open, never fear," said Dick.

A vote was taken, and it was decided that Sam should remain with the
girls, to protect them in case of unexpected danger, while Tom, Dick,
and old Jerry should make their way as best they could to the wreck.

The old sailor and the two boys were soon off. They tramped down the
beach a short distance and then reached a coral reef leading to the
next island. Here the water was not over a foot and a half deep, and
as clear as crystal, so the passage to Island No. 2, as Tom named
it, was comparatively easy.

The second island crossed they followed the shore around until they
came opposite to the island upon which the wreck rested. Here there
was a channel sixty or eighty feet wide and of unknown depth, the
channel through which the wreck had most likely entered the bay. The
water here was by no means smooth and Captain Jerry shook his head
doubtfully.

"It won't be no easy swim," he said. "Reckon as how I'll try it first."

"I can get over easily enough," said Dick, and threw off part of his
clothing and his shoes. He was soon in the water and striking out
boldly, and the others followed.

Short as was the distance, the swim was as hard as any of them looked
for, and when they reached the other side of the channel all were
out of breath and had to rest for a moment.

"It's a good thing no shark happened to be near," said Tom. "The
monster would certainly have had us at his mercy."

When they reached the wreck they found the stern well out of the
water. The _Golden Wave_ lay partly on her left side and it was a
comparatively easy matter to, gain the deck.

The masts were gone and there was a big hole in the bow, but otherwise
the craft had suffered little damage. Why she had not sunk was a
mystery until, later on, old Jerry discovered that some of the cargo,
consisting of flat cases, had got wedged into the break, thus cutting
off a large portion of the leak.

"We can anchor her without trouble," said the old sailor. "And perhaps
straighten her up too, so the deck won't be so slanty. Then she'll
be a reg'lar hotel for all hands."

"Let us go below and see how things are down there," said Dick, and
he at once led the way.

At that instant a loud sneeze reached their ears, causing Dick to
pause on the companion way. Looking into the cabin he saw a man
standing there, partly dressed.

"Captain Blossom!" he ejaculated. "Is it really you or your ghost?"

"Dick Rover!" cried the master of the schooner. "Then you weren't
drowned, after all?"

"No, captain. But--but how did you escape?"

"Is it really Captain Blossom?" came from Tom, and he rushed down
into the cabin, followed by old Jerry. All shook hands, and the face
of the captain showed his pleasure over the meeting.

"So you all escaped and are here," he said. "I am downright glad to
know it. What of the others?"

"We don't know what became of the other boats," answered Dick.

"Saw nothing at all?"

"Not a thing."

The captain shook his head sorrowfully.

"But how did you escape?" asked Dick again.

"That is a short story, lad. When I went overboard from the rowboat,
I caught hold of some of the wreckage from the schooner. This was
still fast to the deck, and by hauling myself in I soon got on board
again. As I had no boat, I remained on board, for I soon saw that
the schooner would not go down immediately. At daylight the ship left
the rocks and drifted around on the ocean until the wind came up last
night, when we struck this island and got beached, as you see. I was
worn out with watching, and as soon as I found the boat was safe from
sinking I went to bed, and slept soundly until I heard you three
tramping around the deck."

"We are stopping over on yonder island," said Tom, when all went on
deck, and he pointed in the direction. "See, Sam and the girls are
waving to us. Let us wave in return, and stand apart, so they can
see that there are four of us."

They did as the youngest Rover advised and soon saw that they were
seen. Then Captain Blossom held up his spyglass.

"I reckon they will know who I am by that," he said, and he was right,
for Sam told the girls that the fourth man was Captain Blossom beyond
a doubt.

"How is your stock of provisions?" asked old Jerry. "We are getting
just a bit tired of living on birds and fish. And we want a gun or
a pistol with which to protect ourselves."

"The _Golden Wave_ has enough provisions to last this party a year,"
answered the captain. "We haven't anything very fine, but we have
plenty of flour, dried beans, salt and smoked meats, and a good many
cases of canned vegetables, as well as sugar, tea, coffee, salt, and
pepper. With fresh fish and some game we'll be able to live as well
here as if we were on shore,--that is, if we can find fresh water."

"We have all the fresh water we want,--on the large island," said
Tom. "And lots of tropical fruit--cocoanuts, bananas, and the like."

"If we are going to live on the ship, we'll have to bring fresh water
over from the other island in a cask," said Dick. "That will not be
very handy."

"Can't we move the wreck over?" came from Tom.

"No, lad," answered Captain Blossom. "She is here to stay until her
timbers rot. But if we wish, we can move some of the provisions
ashore. There are the parts of a rowboat below, and I reckon I am
carpenter enough to put the parts together in a day or two."

"We have a boat on the north beach," said old Jerry; "we can bring
it around."

"To do that, we'll have to swim the channel again," came from Dick.
"And I must say I don't like that."

"Let us make a raft," cried Tom. "There must be plenty of material
on board of the schooner for that."

"There certainly is," answered Captain Blossom. "Come, we can make
a raft in less than an hour."

All set to work, and in a short space of time they had the material
together. Ropes and spikes were there a-plenty, and as Captain Blossom
laid out one stick and another, the boys and old Jerry either nailed
or tied them together. A board flooring was placed on top of the
spars and then the whole affair was dumped into the bay with a loud
splash. It floated very well, with the flooring a good ten inches
above the surface of the water, and as the raft was nearly twenty
feet long by ten wide, it was capable of carrying considerable weight.

"That's better than a boat," said Dick. "We can pile a good deal more
stuff on it."

"Let us get on and paddle to where we left the others," said Tom.
"They will be anxious to learn the news."

Captain Blossom was willing, and they took with them a variety of
provisions and also some extra clothing and some firearms. Then the
raft was moved to where the boys had left part of their own clothing
when they had started to swim the channel.

The coming of the big raft and its passengers to the shore where the
cabin was located was greeted with shouts of joy from Sam and the
three girls.

"Hurrah for the captain of the _Golden Wave_!" cried Sam, swinging his
cap in the air. "We are very glad to see you safe and sound."

"And I am glad to see you," answered Captain Blossom, as he leaped
ashore and grasped one and another by the hand. "Last night I was
thinking I would be a lonely castaway; now I find I shall have plenty
of company."

"We have brought along some provisions," put in Tom. "And in honor
of this reunion, and also in honor of the fact that the Golden 'Wave
has not been sunk, I move we invite the girls to get us up a regular
feast. I think all bands deserve it."

"Second the motion!" cried Sam.

"All right, we'll cook you anything you want," said Nellie. "That
is, if you will supply the things."

"I will," answered Tom. Then he scratched his head. "Well, by gracious!"

"What's the trouble, Tom?" asked Grace. "Did you forget to bring
along some sugar?"

"Worse than that. I brought along all sorts of good things to eat,
and not a single knife, fork, spoon, or dish outside of some cooking
utensils."

"Oh, dear!" burst out Dora. "It will be a sorry feast if we haven't
anything to eat from!"

"I'll go back for the dishes," replied Tom promptly. "Sam, do you
want to visit the wreck? We can go and come by the time the things
are cooked."

"To be sure I'll go," said Sam; and in a few minutes more the two
boys were off on the clumsy raft.


CHAPTER XVI

SAM AND THE SHARK

"The _Golden Wave_ looks like an old friend," said Sam as they paddled
across the smooth waters of the bay.

"Her coming here is the finest thing that could have happened,"
answered his brother. "I didn't want to say anything before, but if
she hadn't come what would we have done for clothing and for eating?
We couldn't live on fish all the time, and one can do mighty little
hunting without a gun."

"We would have had to set traps, Tom, and dig pitfalls for larger
game. But I admit it would have been hard work, and I fancy a suit
of goatskins, like Robinson Crusoe wore, wouldn't be half as comfortable
as a suit of clothes such as I am wearing."

"If we could only float the schooner and sail away to some nearby port."

"There is no port' within three hundred miles of us, so the captain
says."

Soon the boys were halfway across the bay. But moving the big raft
was a laborious task, and they were glad enough to sit down and rest
for a few minutes.

"There is no use of our hurrying," said Tom. "Our time is our own in
this out-of-the-way place, and as we have next to nothing to do we
want to make what little work there is last us."

"Like a lazy man working by the day," laughed Sam. "I'm afraid I
can't work that way. When I have something to do I'm not content
until it is done."

"Are you hot, Sam? Here is something to cool you off."

As Tom spoke he playfully scooped up a handful of water and threw it
at his brother.

Soon the two boys were having lots of sport, throwing handfuls of
the salty water at each other. Then Sam made a motion as if he was
going to push Tom overboard with his paddle.

"Hi! none of that!" cried Tom. "I don't mind a wetting by retail,
but I don't want it by wholesale."

He continued to throw water at Sam and the youngest Rover tried to
dodge. The raft began to rock, and of a sudden Sam lost his balance
and went into the bay with a splash.

Tom set up a laugh, for it was a comical sight, and it had been Sam's
own fault that he went overboard. But then Tom's laughter came to an
end as he saw the form of a shark moving swiftly toward the spot.

"A shark! a shark!" he screamed. "Sam, get on board, quick! A shark
is after you!"

Sam had gone far down beneath the surface and he did not reappear at
once. Then he came up spluttering.

"Gosh! I didn't want a bath! Tom, you--"

"Hurry and get aboard, Sam! A shark is after you!"

Sam was about ten feet from the raft, and running to the spot nearest
to him, Tom held out the end of his paddle.

"A shark?" gasped the youngest Rover.

"Yes! yes! Catch the end of the paddle!"

Sam made a frantic effort to do so. In the meantime the shark came
closer and Tom could see his enormous mouth and sharp teeth clearly.
His blood turned to ice in his veins.

Sam made a clutch at the paddle, missed it, and disappeared once more
from sight. The shark rushed to the spot and turned in dismay, and
driven to desperation, Tom hit the monster over the head with the
paddle. Then the shark disappeared also.

The next few seconds were full of agony for poor Tom. He gazed in
all directions for Sam, and for the shark, but neither one nor the
other was to be seen.

"He must have caught Sam under the water!" he muttered. "Oh, Sam,
what an awful death to die!"

A slight noise at the upper end of the raft disturbed him. He turned
swiftly, to see a wet hand glide over the woodwork. He made a leap
and clutched the hand, and then Sam's head appeared. He gave a frantic
yank, and both lay on the flooring of the raft. Sam was saved.

"The shark!" gasped Tom, when he could speak. "Did it--it--bite you?"

"No, but it grazed my shoulder," answered Sam. "If I had not dived
down, I would have lost an arm at the very least."

When they felt able they looked around, but the shark had disappeared.

"That settles it," said Tom. "We must be careful and keep out of this
water in the future. If we want to bathe, we will have to build a pool."

During the remainder of the trip to the wreck both were careful not
to run the slightest chance of falling overboard.

"Not such a very lovely place to live in, after all," said Tom.
"Snakes on land and sharks in the water, ugh!" And Sam agreed with him.

Once on the wreck it was an easy thing to obtain the dishes and the
knives, forks and spoons, and also some other things they thought
they might require. They also brought away another gun, loading it
up before leaving the ship.

"Now, if Mr. Shark comes around again, we can give him a dose of
buckshot," said' Tom.

But the shark did not appear, excepting at a great distance.

When Sam. told his story all congratulated him on his narrow escape.

"Tom is right," said old Jerry. "Ye mustn't do no bathin' in the bay.
We can fix two pools, one for the ladies and one for ourselves, and
make another pool for fish, and another for turtles, if we can find any."

The girls had cooked a splendid meal, and soon the table was set on
a big flat rock lying near the beach. All sat down and Captain Blossom
asked a blessing, and then they all fell to with vigor, for all were
hungry.

"The salt air gives one an appetite," said Dick.

The meal lasted the best part of an hour, for, as Tom said, there
was no use of hurrying. As they ate, and for some time afterward,
they discussed their situation and tried to arrange plans for the future.

It was decided that first of all Dick and old Jerry should climb to
the top of the hill, taking with them an ax and a flag and some
halyards, and fasten the flag to the top of the tree, stars down, as
a signal of distress. Then the whole party was to assist in bringing
from the wreck as much building material as was necessary to construct
a comfortable dwelling of three large rooms, one for the girls, one
for the boys and men, and one as a general living room. A store-house
was also to be built, in which could be stored such provisions as
were brought away from the wreck from time to time. Then they could
live on shore or on the ship, as they pleased.

The following day was Sunday and all rested. The girls thought there
should be some sort of religious exercises and all went to the wreck,
where Captain Blossom read some chapters from the Bible and the others
sang hymns.

The week to follow was a busy one and the time slipped by rapidly.
A visit was paid to the hilltop and the flag raised, and Tom and old
Jerry also went to the north shore and brought around the rowboat
beached there. In the meantime Captain Blossom put together the
rowboat parts stored on the _Golden Wave_, so they now had two boats
and the raft for service across the bay and to other points on the water.

Building the house was by no means an easy task, but the Rover boys
thought it more fun than work, especially with the girls to look on,
and by the end of the second week the building looked quite presentable.
When the two bedrooms were finished, some berths were brought over
from the wreck, along with bed-clothing, and also some furniture for
the living apartment. Outside the latter room a large porch was built,
where they might eat and rest when the weather was fine. Not to run
the risk of burning down the building in a high wind, it was decided
that the cooking should be done in a shed some distance away, in the
shelter of the rocks and handy to the spring.

"Who is going to be the cook?" asked Dick. "It won't be fair to put
it off on one person."

"We have decided to take turns," said Dora. "Each one will be the
main cook for a day at a time, with the others to help, and to wash
the dishes. We are going to do all the housework, too, so you men
folks can hunt and fish, and make garden if you will, to your hearts'
content."

"What a lazy time we will have of it," laughed Dick.

"Captain Blossom says that as soon as we are settled we can explore
all of the seven islands. Who knows we may find out something of
importance," came from Tom, who stood near.

"Cannibals, for instance," put in Sam.

"Oh, do you really think there are any cannibals here?" asked Grace.

"I believe he is fooling," said Nellie. "He only wants to scare us!"
And she tossed her pretty head.

"Perhaps we'll stir up some lions or tigers," said Tom.

"Or an elephant," added Dick. "But I don't think we will. My opinion
is that these islands have nothing on them but birds, monkeys, small
game, and snakes."

"You've forgotten one thing," said Dora, with an odd smile.

"What, Dora?"

"Castaways."


CHAPTER XVII

EXPLORING THE SEVEN ISLANDS


Another rainy spell, lasting three days, followed, but after that
the sky cleared in a fashion which Captain Blossom thought betokened
good weather for some time to come.

"We can now explore the seven islands and learn just what they
contain," he said.

The question now arose as to who should go along and who should stay
at home with the girls. Lots were cast, and by this it was decided
that the exploring party should consist of Captain Blossom, Sam, and
Tom, leaving Dick and old Jerry with Dora, Nellie, and Grace.

It was decided that the exploring party should take the lightest of
the rowboats and enough provisions to last for a week. Each was also
provided with a pistol, and Captain Blossom carried a rifle in addition.

"If all goes well we will be back inside of four days," said the
captain, when he and Tom and Sam were ready to depart. "But if we
are not back at that time do not worry until at least a week has gone
by." And so it was arranged. It was also arranged that three shots
fired in succession should be a signal that one party or the other
was in trouble.

Tom and Sam were pleased over the prospect of going with the captain
and they willingly took up the oars to row to the nearest island,
which, as we already know, was close at hand. The boat was left on
the beach and without delay the captain and the two boys plunged into
the interior.

The island was small, with but a slight rise of ground in the center.
It was of small importance and they soon came out on the ocean side,
where there was a beach strewn with shells and with oysters scarcely
fit to eat. The growth on this island was mostly of young palms and
the captain was of the opinion that the ground was not many years old.

"This has been thrown up by an earthquake or a volcano," he said.
"There is nothing here to interest us," and he turned back.

They already knew something of the island on which the wreck was
located, but, nevertheless, made a trip across it and up the outward
coast. Here they found a number of orange and lemon trees, and also
a great quantity of tropical nuts and some spices. The lemons proved
to be very refreshing, and Tom said he meant to come back some day
and get a bagful for general use.

The next island was visited the next day, the party spending the
night on the wreck. The passage to this island was rather a rough
one, and they had all they could do to keep from having their provisions
spilt overboard.

"It is a blessing that the sea is comparatively calm," said Captain
Blossom. "Otherwise we could never make such a trip in a small boat."

This island was the largest of the group outside of the one on which
the castaways had settled. It was almost square in shape and had a
double hill with a tiny valley running between. In this valley the
tropical growth was very dense, and the monkeys and birds were thicker
than they had before seen them. There were also large quantities of
blue and green parrots, filling the air with their cawing and screaming.

"This is a very nice island," said Tom, while they were resting under
some calabash trees. "The wood is very valuable--indigo, rosewood,
mahogany, and lots of others. And what a sweet smell!" And he drew
in a long breath of satisfaction.

"It is certainly a lazy man's paradise," re-turned Sam. "A fellow
need do next to nothing to feed and clothe himself here, and a house
isn't absolutely necessary excepting when it storms real hard."

On this island they found numerous land crabs, some as large as their
two hands, and many fierce-looking spiders, with long, hairy legs
and bulging eyes. Ants were also numerous, and in one spot they
located fifteen anthills, each as large as a big beehive. Insects
of all sorts were numerous, and they had to continually slap at a
specimen of red fly that annoyed them greatly.

"How those ants would like to get at our provisions," said Tom. "We
can be thankful that we didn't locate here. Once they got at the
stuff, they would eat us out of house and home."

After resting, and partaking of some of the food brought along, they
continued their journey across the island.

The way was up one of the hills, and Tom was slightly in advance,
when a noise ahead attracted his attention.

"Something is there," he called out, as he came to a halt.

"What is it?" asked Sam.

"I don't know. Perhaps some wild animal, or else a snake."

"Go slow there," cautioned Captain Blossom, coming up. "We don't want
to run into unnecessary danger."

"What did it sound like, Tom?"

"I can't describe it. Something like a snarl, I guess."

"Perhaps it was only a monkey."

All stopped to listen, but no, sound reached their ears but the hum
of insects and the chirping of some distant birds.

"I reckon I had best go first," said Captain Blossom, but he did not
seem to relish the task.

Gun in hand, the captain advanced very cautiously. The boys came
close behind him, each with his pistol ready for use.

Of a sudden there was a snarl with a strange "yow-yawing," and a
great beast leaped up on all-fours directly in their path and darted
through the bushes. The captain raised his gun and the boys their
pistols, but before they could fire the beast had disappeared.

"What was it?" asked Sam, trembling with excitement.

"I give it up, unless it was a bear," said Tom.

"I think I know what it was," said the captain. "A big baboon or a
gorilla."

"I guess you are right, captain," answered Tom. "I saw a gorilla in
a menagerie, and it was exactly like that beast. But what a big fellow
he was!"

"Gorillas are highly dangerous, especially when cornered," said
Captain Blossom. He himself was more frightened than he cared to
admit. "They have been known to carry a man off in their arms and
bite him to death."

"Thanks, but I want no gorillas around me," declared Sam.

They waited several minutes before advancing again. But the gorilla
had disappeared, nor did it show itself again during that trip on
the island.

Half an hour brought them in sight of the seashore once more. They
were gazing at the sea when Tom happened to glance back, and on the
hill behind them saw four goats standing in a bunch, looking at them
in astonishment.

"Quick! out of sight!" he cried, and dragged the others behind some
trees.

"What did you see?"

"Several goats. Perhaps, if we are careful, we can get a shot at
them. Fresh goat meat won't go bad."

"What's the matter with capturing some of the goats and getting the
milk?" came from Sam.

"You'll have a job catching wild goats," answered Captain Blossom.
"They are as fleet of foot as deer."

It was decided to try two shots at the goats, providing they could
get close enough. With care they plunged into the undergrowth and
made their way back up the hillside until they thought they must be
within fifty yards of the game.

"There they are!" cried Tom softly.

Bang! went the captain's gun, and crack! Tom fired immediately after.
Two of the goats were hit, and one fell dead. The other staggered
away with a broken foreleg.

"We must get that second fellow!" cried Sam, and rushed after the
game. The goat tried to turn on him, but Sam hit the beast over the
head with a club he carried. Two other blows finished the animal.

"That isn't bad," said the captain. "They both look to be young. They
ought to make good eating."

"We are going to have no easy work of it, getting these animals down
to the shore," said Tom.

"After we get them to the shore, what then?" questioned his brother.
"We can't keep them in the boat all the time that we are exploring
the other islands."

"We had best make a trip back to the house," answered Captain Blossom.
"If the others heard the shots they'll be wondering what has happened;
besides, a storm is coming up."

The captain said he would carry the smaller of the goats alone,
leaving the two Rovers to carry the larger game between them. After
a rest and another look around the vicinity, they started for the
boat and reached it after a walk which almost exhausted every one of
the party.

"I'll be glad enough to lay around our camp and rest for a day,"
announced Sam. "This task of exploring is not as easy as it looks."

A little later they were in the boat and rowing back to where they
had left the others, little dreaming of the strange events that had
happened in their absence.


CHAPTER XVIII

UNEXPECTED VISITORS


It had been decided by the castaways to enlarge one of the rooms of
the house, and as soon as the captain, Tom, and Sam had departed on
their exploring tour, Dick and old Jerry set to work to cut down the
posts necessary for the building.

While this was going on the three girls were by no means idle. There
were meals to get, dishes to wash, and it had been found that outdoor
life was very rough on clothing, so there was a good bit of sewing
and darning to be done. Fortunately all of the girls were handy with
a needle, so that a rent in a coat or a dress received immediate
attention.

"Now you must make the alteration in the house very nice," said Dora
to Dick. "Remember, we want a regular Queen Anne building, with round
bay windows, and--"

"And inlaid floors," finished Dick, "not to mention steam heat, and--"

"Mercy on us!" burst in Grace. "Don't mention steam heat in this
climate."

"Of course we want hot and cold water in the kitchen," put in Nellie.
"What sort of a mansion would it be without hot and cold water,--and
a dumb waiter from the cellar, too," and then all began to laugh.

"I know what I should like," said Dora, after a pause. "That would
be a refrigerator."

"If we had the ice," finished Nellie. "Dick, isn't there any ice on
board of the _Golden Wave_?"

"By Jove! I think there is," cried the oldest Rover boy. "I never
once thought of it before."

"If there is, I wish you'd bring some the next time you go over. We
have lemons, and we could make delicious lemonade."

"And we could make orange ice, too," put in Grace. "I know there was
an ice-cream freezer on board of the ship. It was in the cook's galley."

Old Jerry was coming to the house with a small tree he had cut down,
and Dick sounded him about the ice.

"To be sure there was ice, several tons of it," said Jerry. "It was
stowed away near the bow. I don't believe it's all melted, either."

"I'm going over to see," cried Dick. "We've got plenty of lemons and
sugar; and lemonade, not to mention orange ice, would just strike
the spot in this awfully hot weather."

But as it was now noon, with the sun directly overhead, Dick decided
to remain in the shade until four or five o'clock. Dinner was had,
and then the work of enlarging the house went on as before.

At half-past four Dick got out the rowboat and started for the wreck.
He had first thought to go alone, but old Jerry wanted to pick out
certain tools needed for the house-building, as well as hunt for a
keg of nails, and the two decided to go together, going and coming
as quickly as possible.

"You won't be afraid to be alone, will you?" asked Dick, of the girls.

"Not if you hurry," answered Nellie. "But don't stay away after dark."

Left to themselves, the three girls swept up the chips the builders
had left and started up the camp-fire. Then they tidied up the house
generally, and soon set about preparing the supper.

Dora was at the spring getting a pail of water when a sound on the
rocks nearby caused her to look around in wonder. To her amazement
Dan Baxter stood there, staring at her in open-mouthed astonishment.

"Dan Baxter!" she gasped. "Where in the world did you come from?"

For a moment the bully did not answer, so great was his amazement.
Dora noted that he was dirty and unkempt, and that his clothing was
almost in rags.

"Is it you, Dora Stanhope?" came slowly from the fellow's lips. "Is
it really you?"

"Yes," she answered.

"How did you get here? Are you alone?" went on Baxter, coming closer.
And then before she could answer, he added: "Got anything to eat?"

At the last question she looked at him more closely, and saw that he
appeared half starved. She pitied him despite his character.

"Yes, we have plenty to eat," she said.

"Then give me something at once," he cried. "Give me something at once!"

"Come with me."

There was now a crashing in the bushes back of Dan Baxter, and in a
second more Jack Lesher appeared on the scene. He too was haggard
and dirty, and his eyes were much blood-shot, the result of living
almost entirely on liquor for several days after being wrecked on
the islands.

"Well, is it possible!" cried the mate of the _Golden Wave_.

"They've got lots to eat," muttered Dan Baxter. "I'm going to have
something to fill me up before I start to talk."

"How many more of you are here?" asked Dora, in something of dismay.

"We came along alone," said Baxter. "Show us that grub."

Dora led the way to the camp-fire, where Nellie and Grace were also
surprised at the unexpected visitors. Some food was brought forth,
and both Baxter and Lesher ate like two famished wolves.

"Got any liquor?" questioned the mate, casting his eyes toward the house.

"We have a little," answered Nellie, for Captain Blossom had brought
over several bottles from the wreck.

"Bring it out."

When the liquor was brought Jack Lesher took a long draught and then
handed the bottle to Dan Baxter.

"That's the stuff!" cried the mate, with a sly wink at Dora. "Better
than eatin,' twice over," and he took another drink.

The manner of the two newcomers was not at all pleasing to the girls,
and they were sorry that none of the men folks were at hand. They
asked the pair to tell their story, and Baxter spoke up, while Lesher
applied himself to the bottle.

"We floated around the ocean for several days," said the bully. "One
sailor went crazy from the sunshine and leaped overboard, and was
drowned. Then a heavy wind came up and drove the boat, in the night,
onto an island close to this one. We were cast ashore with hardly
any provisions, and two of the sailors were sick. We had to live on
fish, birds, and fruit, and we've had a hard lot of it, I can tell
you that. Yesterday Lesher and I resolved to explore this island,
thinking that perhaps some of the wreckage from the schooner had
washed ashore here. We came over in the afternoon and tramped along
the north shore until it grew dark, but without finding anything. We
slept at the shore last night, and this morning started to go over
the hill back there. But the snakes chased us off, and then we came
around over some rough rocks, where both of us got our clothing torn.
We thought we saw a flag up there somewhere, but we weren't sure."

"Yes, we have a signal of distress up there," answered Dora. She
hardly knew how best to reply.

"Who is here?"

"Captain Blossom, old Jerry Tolman, and the three Rover boys. Old
Jerry and Dick have just gone over to the wreck en an errand. The
others have gone on an exploring tour among the islands, which are
seven in number."

"Got the wreck, have yer!" came in almost a grunt from Jack Lesher.
"Sure enough!" He staggered down to the beach. "Don't see why you
stay here when you might be aboard of her."

"It is cooler here," answered Nellie.

"How many sailors were saved?" asked Grace.

"Nine were saved, besides Lesher and myself," answered Dan Baxter.
"You see, we picked up some of the men from one of the other boats."

"Then your party numbers eleven in all," said Dora.

"Yes," came from Jack Lesher. "An' I am the cap'n of the lot," and
he bobbed his head in satisfaction. He had partaken of just enough
liquor to make him foolish.

"I wish Dick and old Jerry would come back," whispered Grace to Dora.
"I do not like Mr. Lesher at all."

"I never liked him," replied Dora. "When he gets intoxicated he is
a bad fellow to deal with."

"Reckon we'll make ourselves comfortable here," said Lesher, staggering
to a hammock Dick had put up for the girls to rest in. He pitched
into the hammock, carrying a bottle of liquor with him. Another drink
was taken, and soon he was fast asleep, snoring loudly.


CHAPTER XIX

HOT WORDS AND BLOWS


"What a shame!" said Nellie, pointing to the slumbering mate.

"That shows what liquor will do," came from Dora.

"Oh, you mustn't blame him too much," returned Dan Baxter, who also
liked the taste of the liquor. "Remember that we have been living a
dog's life since we came on shore, while you have been living on the
best the ship affords."

"I wouldn't touch liquor if I was starving!" cried Grace.

"And neither would the Rover boys," added Dora.

"Oh, you think the Rover boys are regular saints!" grumbled the
bully. "You don't know what they would do behind your back."

"If they said they wouldn't drink they wouldn't," cried Nellie, her
eyes flashing. "We can trust them every time."

"I suppose the Rover boys run this place to suit themselves," went
on Baxter, eying the house and the general appearance of the camp
sharply.

"We all run it together," came from Grace.

"Isn't Captain Blossom, in command?"

"After a fashion, yes. We haven't tried to decide that point yet.
Have you a leader in your camp?"

"Not much of a one. Lesher is leader when he is sober. Of course
we'll all come over here, now we've found you and the wreck," went
on Dan Baxter.

"But why should you come here?" asked Dora, not at all pleased by
the prospect. "We can let you have your share of what's on board of
the schooner."

"Don't want me here, eh?"

"I don't care for all of those rough sailors."

"Well, they are Captain Blossom's men, you mustn't forget that."

"I suppose that is true," and Dora sighed. With the coming of the
sailors she was certain the camp would not be as pleasant as formerly.

"I don't think you ought to be down on me, Dora," continued Dan
Baxter, after a pause. "I always liked you, and you know it."

"Thank you for nothing," she replied coldly.

"I'm just as good a fellow as Dick Rover," went on the bully, and
laid his hand on the girl's shoulder.

"Don't touch me, Dan Baxter!" she cried.

"I won't hurt you. Come, let us be friends. Surely you don't want
any enemies here, where there are only a handful of us, all told."

"I want you to leave me alone."

She tried to move away from him, but he caught her by the arm and
tried to hold her hands. Grace and Nellie were out of sight, the one
having gone into the house for some dishes, and the other to the
spring for some water.

"Say that you'll be friends, and I'll let you go," he said, drawing
her closer.

"I won't be friends with you, Dan Baxter, so there!" she cried. "Now
let me go!" And she tried to push him away.

"You--you little cat!" he cried, and then, as she let out a loud cry,
he let go of her. "What a little fool you are!" And he walked away
to the trees, and threw himself down to rest.

Red in the face and ready to cry, Dora ran into the house. Grace
looked at her in wonder.

"What is the trouble, Dora?"

"Nothing."

"Did Dan Baxter try to--to--"

"He wants to be--be friends!" sobbed Dora. "He held my hand so I
couldn't get away. Oh, how I despise him!"

"Just wait till Dick comes back; he'll make Baxter mind his own
business."

"Oh, don't tell him, Grace."

"But I shall, Dora. Baxter has got to keep his distance. I hate him
myself, and so does Nellie."

"I wish he and Mr. Lesher had kept their distance."

"Do you think they will really come here--I mean all of the sailors?"

"More than likely."

The girls continued their work, and for the time being Dan Baxter
kept his distance. Jack Lesher continued to snore away in the hammock,
nor did he rouse up when Dick and old Jerry returned.

"Dan Baxter!" cried Dick, as he leaped from the rowboat. "Where did
you come from?" And then the story of the newcomers had to be told
over again.

Dick eyed Jack Lesher with open disgust. "A man who will act like
that has no welcome in our camp," he said to Baxter.

"You don't mean you are going to turn him out," said the bully, in alarm.

"If he stays here he must behave himself."

"You forget that he was the first mate of the schooner, Dick Rover."

"We are not on the schooner now."

"No, but you are getting your living--or the largest part of it--from
the schooner."

"What do you mean, Baxter?"

"I mean that it's the same as if you were on the schooner. And that
being so, Mr. Lesher is the second in command here."

At this statement the girls looked alarmed, and even old Jerry's face
showed his uneasiness. But Dick's face was full of contempt.

"Do you mean to say that thing "--pointing to the drunken mate--"
that thing can command any of us? If you do, let me say right now
that you are mistaken."

"We'll see about that later."

"This is our camp, and it is not for you, the mate, or anybody else
to come here and dictate to us. If you try that, we'll send you off
in double-quick order."

There was a pause, and Dick and old Jerry began to unload the things
they had brought from the wreck. They had found a large cake of ice.
But the coming of Baxter and Jack Lesher had taken away the pleasure
of making lemonade and orange ice, and the lump was placed in some
water to cool it for drinking purposes.

As soon as Grace could get the chance she told Dick of the way Dan
Baxter had treated Dora. At once Dick's face took on a stern look
that boded the bully no good.

"I'll have a talk with him and come to an understanding," said the
eldest Rover, and strode out of the house and to where Baxter was
walking up the beach, picking up fancy-colored sea-shells.

"Look here, Baxter, I want to have an understanding with you," he
said, catching the bully by the arm.

"What do you want now?"

"I want you to promise to leave Dora Stanhope alone in the future."

"How I treat her is none of your business," blustered the bully.

"But it is my business, Baxter."

"See here, Dick Rover, I won't be bossed by you!" howled the tall
youth. "You mind your own business."

"If you touch her again, there will be trouble."

"What will you do?"

"I'll give you the worst thrashing you ever had in your life."

"Two can play at that game."

"There will be only one in this game."

"Do you want to fight me?"

"I am perfectly willing," responded Dick recklessly. His anger was
deep at that moment.

"All right then, come on!" howled Baxter savagely, and, squaring off,
he aimed a blow at Dick's face.

The attack was so sudden that Dick could scarcely prepare for it,
and though he dodged, Baxter's fist landed glancingly on his cheek.

"There you are, and here's another!" cried the bully, and his other
fist shot out, catching Dick on the shoulder.

But now the oldest Rover was on his guard, and in a twinkle he let
drive, taking Dan Baxter in the eye. It was a staggering blow, and
made the bully gasp with pain. Then Dick followed it up by a crashing
blow on the chin, which sent the bully reeling into the low water on
the beach.

"Don't--don't run me into the ocean!" he spluttered, and, watching
his chance, ran out of the water and up the beach.

But Dick was now thoroughly aroused, and he made after Baxter. When
he got close enough, he put out his foot and sent the bully sprawling.
Baxter came down on some rough sea-shells, cutting his face and hands
in several places.

"Oh! oh!" he howled. "Stop it!"

"I will not stop it, Dan Baxter, until you promise to let Dora Stanhope
and the other girls alone in the future. They want nothing to do with
you, and you must keep your distance."

"I--I didn't hurt anybody."

"Do you promise to let them alone?"

Without replying, the bully staggered to his feet. The blood was
running from his nose and from a cut on his chin, and both of his
hands were also bleeding.

"Do you want to kill me, Dick Rover?"

"I want you to behave yourself. Come, now, are you going to promise?"

"What if I don't?"

"Then I'll give you the thrashing I promised."

"All right, I'm cornered, and can't help myself."

"Will you let the girls alone in the future?"

"Yes. If they don't want to be friends, I'm sure I can get along
without them," answered Baxter sulkily.

"Very well; now see that you keep your promise. If you don't, I'll
run you out of camp and never let you come near us again."

With these words Dick turned on his heel and walked away, leaving
Baxter to wash his cuts and bruises in the ocean and otherwise care
for them as best he could.


CHAPTER XX

THE MATE TRIES TO TAKE COMMAND


The fight had taken place around a bend of the shore, so that it was
not observed by old Jerry and the girls. But when Dick got back to
camp Dora at once noticed that something unusual had happened.

"What is wrong, Dick?" she asked.

"Oh, nothing much, Dora. I merely made Dan Baxter promise to keep
his distance in the future."

"Did you have a fight?"

"It didn't amount to much. He had to give in pretty quickly."

"Oh, Dick!" She caught his arm.

"I won't have him annoying you, or the others, Dora."

"You are so good!" she whispered.

Supper was ready, and they sat down, leaving Jack Lesher still in
the hammock. They had nearly finished when Dan Baxter came shuffling
along.

"Do you want some supper?" asked Dick. "If you do, come on."

"I don't want anything more to-night," growled the bully, and sat
down beside Jack Lesher.

It was rather an uncomfortable evening. The thoughts of each of the
party were busy. At the first opportunity Dick called old Jerry to
one side.

"Jerry, we must watch those two fellows closely," he said.

"Right ye are, Dick."

"I am afraid Lesher will be ugly when he wakes up."

"More'n likely, lad--he always was on board ship. The drink gives
him an awful temper."

"I am, going to put the liquor where he can't get it."

"He'll make ye give it to him."

"Will he? Just you wait and see," replied Dick firmly.

It was decided to let Lesher rest in the hammock all night. Baxter
was given a cot in the living room of the house. Soon all had retired,
and the camp was quiet for the night.

Dan Baxter was the first to stir in the morning. His cuts smarted so
he could not sleep, and he walked out to bathe them and put on some
salve Nellie had generously turned over to him. He found Jack Lesher
stirring.

"Hullo!" grumbled the mate, sitting up and yawning. "Where am I?"

"Don't you know we struck camp?" answered Baxter.

"Oh, yes, I remember now. Got some good liquor, too. Where is that
bottle?"

"You emptied it, Lesher."

"Did I? Too bad! I'll have to find another. Where are the girls?"

"Asleep in the house, and so are Dick Rover and old Jerry Tolman."

"What of Cap'n Blossom and them other Rover boys?"

"They are not expected back for several days."

"Humph! Say, I feel bad, I do. I must have something to brace me up."

"You'd better not disturb them, Lesher. They are mighty stiff-necked
since they landed here."

"What do you mean?"

"They gave me to understand yesterday that they were going to run
things to suit themselves. They are not going to let us interfere in
anything."

"I like that!" The mate yawned again, rose, and stretched himself.
"Baxter, do you know where they keep the liquor?"

"No."

"I'm bound to have what I want. Didn't it all come from the Golden
Wave, and aint I the first mate of that craft?"

"To be sure you are, Lesher."

"They can't make me take a back seat," went on the mate. His head
was still far from clear.

"I told them that you were second in command--Captain Blossom being
first--but they wouldn't listen. They said they were on land, and
you didn't count."

"Don't I count!" cried Jack Lesher, his blood-shot eyes taking on an
ugly look. "I'll show 'em!"

Just then old Jerry came from the house. Jack Lesher staggered toward
him.

"Ahoy there!" he called out.

"What do you want, Mr. Lesher?" questioned old Jerry, and touched
his forelock.

"Bring me some liquor, and be quick about it."

"I haven't any liquor."

"What's that?"

"I said I haven't any liquor."

"Aint there any more liquor ashore?"

"If there is, I don't know where it is."

"Then find out, and be quick about it, or I'll give you the rope's-end!"
roared the unreasonable mate.

The loud talking aroused Dick, and he soon came out.

"What's the matter here?" he asked. "Oh, so you have woke up," he
went on to Jack Lesher.

"Yes, I'm awake, Rover. And I want to know where the liquor has been
placed."

"It's been placed where you won't get hold of it, Mr. Lesher."

"What! This to me!" yelled the mate, in fury. "To me, the first mate!"

"A first mate doesn't count for anything here. This is a private
camp, and if you don't behave yourself we'll pitch you out of it."

"You--you--" Jack Lesher could not go on, and shook his fist in Dick's
face.

"I told you what they intended to do," whispered Dan Baxter in
Lesher's ear. "They have the upper hand and mean to keep it. But
don't forget that we have nine sailors in our camp to back us up,"
he went on suggestively.

"Don't grow abusive, Mr. Lesher," said Dick as calmly as he could.
"Just think the matter over. It may save a good deal of trouble."

"I don't have to think it over!" bellowed the mate. "During Cap'n
Blossom's absence I am in command, just as much as if we were on the
deck of the wreck over there. You were only passengers, but Jerry
Tolman was a sailor, and he's under my command. I told him to bring
me some liquor, and he has got to do it. If he won't obey, it's
mutiny, just you remember that!" And he shook his finger warningly
in old Jerry's face.

"I told ye I don't know where the liquor is," answered old Jerry
doggedly.

"And he tells the truth," said Dick. "I put it away myself."

"Then I command you to bring it to me."

"I told you before your commands don't hold water here. Even old
Jerry hasn't got to obey you. When the _Golden Wave_ was abandoned that
ended your authority. We have simply made Captain Blossom our leader
because he acted fair and square. But we don't have to obey him if
we don't want to."

"What of the nine sailors who are with me?"

"We'll be pleased to give them their full share of what is on the
wreck, and if they behave themselves they can build a camp right
next to this one. But you must remember that we discovered the wreck
first, and that Captain Blossom was the only man left on board."

"We'll see what the men have to say about this," growled Lesher.
"Then you aint going to give me no liquor?"

"You can have one glass with your breakfast, and that is all. After
this you can have the regulation ship's grog, with the other sailors.
But getting drunk has got to be stopped, even if we have to dump all
the liquor into the ocean."

By this time the girls had appeared on the scene, and the talk came
to an end, Dick turning in to help get breakfast. Jack Lesher walked
down to the beach, followed by Dan Baxter.

"You see, it is just as I told you," said Baxter. "They are going to
ride right over us."

"They wouldn't ride over us if I had those other sailors here,"
growled the mate.

"Or if we were armed," went on the bully. "I tried to get hold of a
pistol, but Dick Rover watches me like a cat watches a mouse."

"If we could get to the wreck we might arm ourselves," said Lesher.
"Here is a boat; let us row over."

"I'm willing," answered the bully.

They walked to the boat, shoved it into the water, and leaped in.
Just as Lesher picked up the oars Dick saw what they were doing.

"Stop!" he cried.

"What do you want?" growled the mate.

"Where are you going?"

"Over to the wreck."

"What for?"

"That is our business," put in Dan Baxter.

"You shan't go over there until Captain Blossom comes back."

"We'll go when we please," said Lesher, and started to row away.

"Come back, I say!" cried Dick, and, rushing into the house, he
appeared with a shot-gun.

"What are you going to do, Dick Rover?" questioned Baxter in alarm.

"I am going to make you come back," was the oldest Rover's very quiet,
but determined, answer.


CHAPTER XXI

THE ATTACK ON THE WRECK


The appearance of Dick with the shot-gun disturbed Jack Lesher quite
as much as it did Dan Baxter, and the mate stopped rowing instantly.

"Hi! don't you fire at us!" he cried.

"Then come back here," said Dick.

"Haven't I a right to visit the wreck?"

"I am not sure that you have. Anyway, you must wait until Captain
Blossom returns."

"It seems to me that you are carrying matters with a high hand, young
fellow."

"Oh, Dick, be careful!" whispered Dora. "They may become desperate."

"Don't worry, Dora," he whispered in return. Unless I miss my guess,
one is as big a coward as the other."

"I hope ye aint goin' too far, Dick," said old Jerry, in a low tone.

"Don't you intend to stand by me, Jerry?"

"To be sure I do; but the mate is the mate, ye know."

There was an uncertain pause all around.

"There is no harm in my visiting the wreck," growled Jack Lesher
presently.

"Perhaps not, but you had better wait until Captain Blossom gets back."

"I only want to get some things that belong to me."

"And I want to get my extra clothes," said Baxter. "These are in
rags, as you can see."

"Then wait until after breakfast and we'll all go over," said Dick,
but he had scarcely spoken when he felt sorry for the words.

"Oh, Dick, don't trust yourself with them!" cautioned Dora.

"We want to hurry, for I want to go back to where I left the sailors
before night," answered Lesher.

"Then we'll have breakfast at once."

Rather reluctantly the mate turned back to the shore and he and Baxter
left the boat. Then the girls prepared breakfast with all haste.
Lesher ate but little, but eagerly tossed off the glass of liquor
Dick allowed him.

"Give me one more," he pleaded, but Dick was firm, and the mate
stalked away muttering under his breath.

Before Dick entered the rowboat he called Jerry aside, and handed
the old sailor a pistol.

"We had better go armed," he said. "Keep your eyes open, for they
may try to play us a foul trick. And don't let Lesher talk you into
obeying him. He has no authority whatever over you."

"All right, Dick, I'll stand by ye always from this minit on," said
Jerry, and the compact was sealed by a handshake.

The girls came down to see them off, and Dora warned Dick again to
be on guard. It was decided that Lesher and old Jerry should do the
rowing. Baxter sat in the bow of the boat, and Dick in the stern.

The trip to the wreck was accomplished in almost utter silence.
Everybody was busy with his thoughts. As they drew near Dick showed
the mate where a ladder hung from the side, and as they drew close
to this Baxter was the first to mount to the deck.

As Dick had surmised, Lesher's first hunt was for liquor, and he
drank several glasses at a gulp. Then he began to roam around the
wreck, noting the damage that had been done and the amount of stores
still on board.

"Might float her, if the tide got extra high," he said. "Eleven men
in our crowd and five in your own ought to be able to do something,
surely."

"The captain says the ship is too deep in the sand," answered Dick
briefly.

"Blossom don't know everything," growled the mate.

Both he and Baxter soon found some comfortable clothing, and put it
on. Then they made up a bundle of things they said the other sailors
needed.

When arming themselves, the Rovers and Captain Blossom had placed
all of the remaining firearms in a stateroom and locked the door.

"What did you do with all of the guns and pistols?" asked Lesher
presently, after looking in vain for them.

"They are packed away in a stateroom. Captain Blossom thought it
wouldn't do to leave them lying loose. Some savages might come to
the islands and steal them, and then we'd be in a bad hole."

"We've got to have some guns and pistols, Rover."

"Well, you can see the captain about that."

"I shan't wait. Which stateroom are they in?"

Dick would not tell the mate, and Lesher went around trying the
various doors. Coming to one that was locked he burst it open with
his shoulder.

Dick scarcely knew what to do, and while he was trying to make up
his mind Jack Lesher secured a pistol and a rifle, and also a pistol
for Dan Baxter. He would have taken more fire-arms, but Dick stopped him.

"That is enough," he said.

"I want some for the men," said the first mate.

"They can get pistols from Captain Blossom when they get here."

"Humph! You think you are in sole command, don't you?"

"I am not going to allow you to take away all the firearms that are
here, Mr. Lesher."

"We'll see:"

The mate went into the pantry and secured another glass of liquor.
Then he ordered old Jerry to take the bundle of clothing and put it
in the rowboat.

"I've got some money on this schooner," he said. "I want to see if
that's safe, or if you have stolen it."

"We haven't touched any money," answered Dick, his face flushing.
"It would be of no use to us on these islands."

"You come with me while I take a look," said Lesher.

Behind his back he waved his hand for Baxter to follow. All three
went below again, and into a stateroom the mate had occupied.

"The money was in that chest," said the mate. He threw open the lid.
"It's gone!" he cried.

Interested for the moment, Dick bent forward to look in the chest.
As he did so, Lesher suddenly hit him a savage blow over the head
with the butt of a pistol. The blow was a heavy one, and Dick fell
like a log to the floor.

"Oh!" came from Baxter. "Have you killed him?"

"No; only knocked the senses out of him," answered Lesher, bending
over his victim.

"What did you do it for?"

"To teach him a lesson. He shan't boss me, Baxter. Come, help me put
him in the brig, and be quick, before Jerry comes back."

They lifted up the insensible form and made their way to where the
ship's brig was located, a dirty closet once used for oil and lanterns.
Dick was thrown on the floor, and the mate shut the door on him and
locked it.

"Now he can stay there for a day or two," he snarled. "Reckon it will
teach him a lesson."

"What will you do with the sailor?"

Before Lesher could answer old Jerry appeared.

"Where is Dick Rover?" he asked.

"None of your business," growled Jack Lesher. "See here, Tolman, are
you going to obey me after this?"

"I want to know where Dick is?" said old Jerry stubbornly.

"I put him in the brig to cool off. He's too hot-headed for his own
good."

"You had no right to lock him up, Mr. Lesher. You must let him out
at once."

"Git out of here, quick!" roared Lesher. "On deck, or I'll flog you
well!"

"Ye won't tech me!" cried Jerry, his temper rising. "I aint under
orders no more, mind that. Now you let him out, or I'll do it. You
was a fool to lock him up in the first place."

He moved toward the brig, but Lesher caught him by the arm.

"Let's teach this chap a lesson, too!" came from Baxter, and, like
a flash, he struck old Jerry in the back of the head. The first blow
was followed by a second, and down went the tar, the blood oozing
from one of his wounds.

"Don't hit him again!" cried Lesher hastily. "He's out already."

Baxter grew pale, thinking he had gone too far. But he soon discovered
that Jerry still breathed, and then he felt relieved.

It was decided by the pair that they should place old Jerry beside
Dick in the brig, and this was quickly done. Then they put into the
prison a bucket of drinking water and a can of ship's biscuits, and
another of baked beans.

"They won't starve on that," said Lesher. "And when they get out
they'll understand that I am as much of a master here as anybody."

"It serves Dick Rover right," said Baxter. "He's the kind that ought
to be kept under foot all the time."


CHAPTER XXII

A HEAVY TROPICAL STORM


"Those girls will ask some awkward questions, I reckon," said Jack
Lesher, as the two prepared to leave the wreck.

"We had better not say too much," answered Baxter.

They were soon over the side and in the rowboat, which contained
the bundle of clothing and a number of other articles. Then an idea
struck the mate.

"Wait; I am going back," he said, and disappeared on the deck one more.

Dan Baxter imagined that Lesher had gone for more liquor. But he was
mistaken. When the mate reappeared, he carried a box containing half
a dozen pistols, two guns, and a quantity of ammunition.

"I am going to hide this in the woods on the other side of this
island," he said. "The firearms may come in handy before long."

"A good idea," replied Baxter, and helped him place the case in a
desirable spot, under some rocks, where the rain could not touch it.

"We are going to have a storm before long," said the mate, as they
started to row back to the camp. "And if it is a heavy one we'll have
to wait till it clears off before we rejoin the rest of our crowd."

The sky was growing dark, and by the time the beach in front of the
house was gained the rain was falling.

"Where are Dick and, old Jerry?" asked Dora in quick alarm. She had
noted long before that only Baxter and the mate were in the rowboat.

"They stayed behind on the wreck," answered Lesher. "Come, help get
the bundles out of the wet," he added to his companion.

"Why did they stay?" asked Nellie.

"Don't ask me," growled Lesher.

He and Baxter took the bundle to the house and dumped it on the floor
of the living room. Then they brought in the other things from the
boat. By this time it was raining in torrents, and from a distance
came the rumble of thunder and occasionally the faint flash of lightning.

Not wishing to remain out in the storm, the three girls came into
the house.--"Dora was very much disturbed, and Nellie and Grace were
also anxious.

"It is queer that Dick and old Jerry remained behind," whispered Dora
to her cousins. "They were so anxious to protect us before."

"I cannot understand it, Dora," returned Nellie.

"There has been foul play somewhere," came from Grace.

"Oh, do you think--" Dora could not finish.

"See here!" burst in the voice of Jack Lesher. "We want some dinner.
Don't be all day getting it for us."

The liquor he had imbibed was beginning to tell upon him.. He looked
ugly, and the girls trembled before him.

"Dinner will be ready in a quarter of an hour," said Grace, who had
been doing the cooking.

"All right." Lesher turned to the bully: "Baxter, join me in a glass
of rum for luck."

"Thanks, I will," answered Dan Baxter, who did not particularly want
the liquor, but did not dream of offending the mate.

Lesher produced a bottle he had brought away from the wreck, prepared
two glasses of rum, and drank with great relish. Then he threw himself
into a chair at the rude dining-table.

"I am the master here, and I want everybody to know it!" he exclaimed,
banging his fist savagely.

"There is dinner," said Grace, and brought it in. "You can help
yourself." And she went into the next room to join Nellie and Dora.

"Aint going to wait on us, eh?" grumbled Lesher, with a hiccough.
"All right, my fine ladies. But I am master, don't you forget that!"

He began to eat leisurely, while Dan Baxter began to bolt his food.
In the meantime the sky grew darker and the flashes of lightning more
vivid. The girls were greatly frightened, and huddled together, while
tears stood on Grace's cheeks.

"Oh, if only somebody was with us," sighed Nellie.

By the time Lesher and Baxter had finished eating the storm was on
them in all of its violence. The wind shrieked and tore through the
jungle behind them, and often they could hear some tall tree go down
with a crash.

"This will tear our flag of distress to shreds," said Nellie. "And
just when we need it so much, too!"

"I am thinking of the future as well as the present," said Dora.
"What a rough time there will be if Lesher brings those other sailors
here. Some of them were heavy drinkers like himself, and only two or
three were Americans."

The storm had whipped the waters of the bay into a fury, and the rain
was so thick that to see even the island on which the wreck rested
was impossible.

"Dick can't come now," said Dora. "A boat on the bay would surely go
down."

Having finished the meal, Lesher and Baxter sat down in the living
room to smoke and to talk over the situation. The mate continued to
drink, and half an hour later he fell asleep, sitting on the bench,
and with his head on the table.

"The beast!" said Dora, as she peeped out at him. "Well, there is
one satisfaction," she continued: "he cannot harm us while he is
asleep."

"You girls better have your own dinner," called out Baxter. "I aint
going to eat you up."

"We will get our dinner when we please," said Nellie, as she came
out. "We are not afraid of you, Dan Baxter."

No more was said for a long time. The girls ate what little they
wished and washed up the dishes. The rain still continued to fall in
torrents, but the thunder and' lightning drifted away to the eastward.

Dora was the most anxious of the trio, and at every opportunity she
tried to look through the driving rain toward the wreck.

"I'd give almost anything to know if Dick is safe," she murmured.

"Don't be discouraged, Dora," said Grace. "Perhaps he will return as
soon as the storm is over."

The girls were huddled close to a window, looking out into the rain,
when Dan Baxter threw aside the pipe he had been smoking and approached
them.

"See here, girls," he said, "why can't we be friends? What is the
use of being enemies in such a place as this?"

"Dan Baxter, we want you to keep your distance," said Nellie coldly.

"And if you do not, it will be the worse for you when the others come
back," put in Grace.

"Humph! I reckon you think it is fine to ride such a high horse,"
sneered the bully. "What are you going to do when we bring the rest
of the sailors over here? We'll be eleven to seven then."

"Never mind what we'll do," said Dora. "I would rather have the
company of some of those sailors than your company."

"That is where you make a mistake. The sailors are all rough fellows,
some of them worse than Jack Lesher. Now, if you are willing to count
me as a friend, I'll stand by you when the crowd comes over."

"We don't want your friendship, Dan Baxter, so there!" cried Nellie.
"We know your past, and we know that you cannot be trusted."

"Don't think I am as good as the Rovers, eh?"

"We all know that you are not," answered Grace.

"What have you done to Dick Rover?" questioned Dora. "He ought to be
here long before this."

"Oh, I guess the storm is holding him back," said Baxter, shifting
uneasily as she gazed earnestly into his eyes.

"If anything has happened to Dick, I shall hold you responsible,"
said Dora.

At that moment the fury of the storm cut off further talking. A sudden
rush of wind had come up, whistling through the jungle and bringing
down a palm close to the house with a crash. The fall of the tree
made Baxter jump in alarm.

"The house is coming down!" he cried, and ran outside.

The wind made the waves in the bay rise higher and higher until they
lashed furiously in all directions. Then came another downpour of
rain, which caused the bully to seek shelter again.

"Hark!" said Nellie suddenly, and raised her hand for silence.

"What did you hear?" asked Grace.

"Somebody calling. Listen!"

All were silent once more, and just then the wind fell a little.

"I don't hear anything," said Dora.

But then followed a distant voice--two voices calling desperately:

"Help! help! Our boat is sinking! Help!"


CHAPTER XXIII

WHAT HAPPENED ON THE BAY


To go back to Tom, Sam, and Captain Blossom at the time that they
placed the two dead goats in their rowboat and prepared to return to
the camp.

It was already raining by the time the shore of the bay was reached,
and scarcely had they begun to row when the water came pouring down
in torrents.

"Gracious! I must say I don't like this!" cried Tom. "The rain is
running down my neck in a stream."

"I move we row into shore over yonder," said Sam, pointing up the
coast. "There are some trees which will shelter both us and the boat
nicely."

Captain Blossom was willing, and in a few minutes they were under
the trees and wringing out their clothes as best they could.

"If I know anything about it, this storm is going to last for some
time," said the captain, after a long look at the sky.

"Such a downfall as this can't last," said Sam. "Perhaps we can get
home between showers."

It was dry under the trees for about half an hour, but then the water
began to reach them once more, and they had to shift their position
again.

This kept up for some time, until all were wet through and thoroughly
uncomfortable, when Tom proposed that they start for home regardless
of the storm.

"We can't get any wetter than we are," he declared. "And the sooner
we reach the house the sooner we'll be able to change our clothes."

The others agreed, and when the worst of the lightning and thunder
had passed they set off once more, two rowing and the third steering
the boat and bailing out the water, which came in faster than was
desirable.

"When it rains in the tropics, it rains," observed Tom. "Puts me in
mind of that storm we met when we were in Africa. Do you remember, Sam?"

"Indeed, I do," answered his brother. "I thought we'd all be killed
by the trees that fell in the jungle."

"Have you been in Africa?" came from Captain Blossom in astonishment.

"Yes," answered Tom. "Our father got lost there once, and we went in
search of him," and he gave a few of the particulars, as already
related in another volume of this series, entitled "The Rover Boys
in the Jungle."

"Well, you boys have had some ups and downs," said the captain. "But
I reckon you weren't cast away before like this."

"Not like this," answered Sam. "But we were left on a lonely island
once in Lake Huron," and he related a few particulars of their exciting
experiences with the Baxters while on the Great Lakes.

Another downpour of rain cut off the talking, and Tom was kept busy
bailing out the row-boat. With three persons and the two dead goats
the craft was pretty heavily loaded, and more than once the rising
wind swept some water over the bow.

"I'd give a little to be ashore again," said Tom presently. "It seems
to me that the rain is shutting out everything."

"We'll have to land again, lads," put in the captain, with a grave
shake of his head. "This wind is growing worse. We don't want to be
swamped."

They turned to what they thought must be the direction of the nearest
shore, but though they pulled with might and main for nearly quarter
of an hour no land appeared.

"We're mixed," cried Sam. "The storm has twisted us up."

By this time the wind was blowing a regular gale on the bay. It took
off Tom's cap, and in a twinkle the headgear was out of sight.

"My cap's gone!" groaned the youth.

"The water is coming in over the bow!" came from Sam. "We will be
swamped!"

"We must throw the goats overboard," said the captain, and overboard
went the game, much to the boys' sorrow.

This lightened the craft a little, but still the waves swept over
the gunwale, and now both Sam and Tom set to bailing, while the
captain took both oars. Then came another blast of wind, worse than
before.

"I see land!" cried Sam.

"We are going over!" yelled Tom, and the wind fairly whipped the
words from his lips. Then came a mighty wave, and on the instant the
rowboat was upset, and all three found themselves in the waters of
the bay.

As they went under the same thought was in the mind of each: Were
there any sharks around?

"Help! help!" cried Sam, as soon as he came up. "Our boat is sinking.
Help!" And Tom soon joined in the cry. They had caught hold of the
overturned boat, but the craft, for some reason, failed to support them.

Captain Blossom was close at hand, and he advised them to strike out
for the shore.

"It's in this direction," he said, and led the way.

"I--I can't swim very far with my clothes on," gasped Sam, yet he
struck out as best he could.

"Hullo! Who calls?" came a cry from the shore, and, looking up, they
saw Dora standing there, with Nellie and Grace Laning close beside her.

"It's Tom and Sam!" cried Nellie.

"And Captain Blossom," added Grace.

"Perhaps we can throw them a rope," came from Dora, and she ran to
get the article she had mentioned.

But by the time she returned the three swimmers had reached a point
where they could touch bottom with their feet, and, watching for a
favorable opportunity, they rushed ashore, almost into the arms of
the girls.

"Oh, Tom, how glad I am that you are safe!" cried Nellie, while Grace
caught hold of Sam and asked if he was all right.

"Yes, I am--am all right, but--but pretty well fagged out," gasped Sam.

"It was a close shave," said Captain Blossom. "And our guns are gone."

"We had two dead goats, too," put in Tom. "They went overboard first,
and--goodness gracious--is that really Dan Baxter?"

"Dan Baxter!" ejaculated Sam, and even Captain Blossom stared in
amazement.

"I see you've had a rough time of it," said Baxter, coming forward
coolly. "How are you?"

He shook hands with Captain Blossom, while the Rover boys continued
to stare at him.

"Are you alone?" asked the master of the _Golden Wave_.

"No, Jack Lesher is with me, and we left nine of the sailors on
another island."

"Is that so? Where is Lesher now?"

"In the house, asleep."

"He is intoxicated," said Nellie. "We has been drinking ever since
he put in an appearance."

"Humph! That's like Lesher," muttered the captain, and his brow darkened.

All moved toward the house, and entered to get out of the wet. The
mate was still at the table, snoring loudly.

"Might as well let him sleep it off," said the captain. "But when he
is sober I'll have a talk with him."

Wet clothing was changed for dry, and then the captain and the boys
listened to what Baxter and the girls had to tell. The captain was
glad to learn that so many of his men had been saved, and asked for
the names.

"I don't care much about Peterson and McGlow," he said. "They are
tough customers. I would rather have heard from Peabody, Dickson,
and Fearwell. You don't know anything about them?"

"No," said Dan Baxter.

"This news about Dick and old Jerry worries me," said Tom.

"Dan Baxter, I think you know more than you care to tell," said Sam
boldly.

The bully hardly knew how to reply. He could not now fall back on
Jack Lesher for support, and he had thought to be on his way to
rejoin the sailors ere this. The storm had upset all of his calculations.
It had been a foolish movement to attack Dick and old Jerry, and it
now looked as if he must suffer for it.

"Well--er--I don't mind telling you that Dick and the mate had
something of a quarrel," he said hesitatingly.

"How did it end?" asked Tom.

"I can't say exactly."

"Why not? You were with Lesher at the time."

"No, I wasn't. He ordered me to get into the rowboat and wait for
him while he went back to get a pistol or a gun. I heard loud talking
on the deck of the schooner, and I knew a row was on. I was just
going back to the deck when the mate came and leaped into the rowboat.
He said the sailor and Dick were going to remain behind, and that we
wouldn't wait any longer. Then we rowed over here."

"If that's the case I'll make Lesher tell us what happened," cried
Tom, and shook the mate roughly. "Wake up here!" he cried. "Wake up
and give an account of yourself!"


CHAPTER XXIV

IN CLOSE QUARTERS


Slowly Dick came to his senses. He remembered little or nothing, and
only knew that all was dark around him, and that his head was spinning
like a top.

For several minutes he remained quiet, trying to collect his thoughts.
Then he sat up and passed one hand slowly over his forehead.

"Oh, how my heed aches!" he murmured.

It was fully five minutes before he felt like moving around. Then he
arose and took a step forward and stumbled over old Jerry's body.

"Oh!" he murmured, and felt of the body in the dark, "Who is this?
Can it be Jerry?" he asked himself.

Then came a recollection of the cowardly attack. But what had followed
was a blank, and he could not imagine where he was.

Dick remembered that he had a match safe in his pocket, and soon he
made a light. By this he caught sight of a lantern in the brig and
lit it. Then he bent over old Jerry, and saw that the sailor was
still alive, but suffering from his treatment.

"He must have been attacked, too," murmured Dick. The bucket of water
was at hand, And he took a drink and bathed Captain Jerry's forehead.

It was fully half an hour before the old sailor felt at all like
himself. Both sat down to review the situation.

"The cowards!" said Dick. "What do you suppose they attacked us for?"

"Can't say as to that," replied old Jerry. "Perhaps Lesher wanted to
show us he was master."

"He'll settle with me if I ever get out of this hole, Jerry. What
place is this?"

"The lock-up of the _Golden Wave_. I think it used to be an oil room."

They gazed around them, and soon discovered the can of ship's biscuits
and also the beans.

"They evidently meant to keep us prisoners for some time," said Dick.
"Hark, what is that?"

Both listened, and made out the sounds of distant thunder and heard
the patter of rain on the deck.

"A storm is brewing," said old Jerry. "It sounds as if it was putty
heavy, too."

They tried the door to the brig, but found it locked and bolted. In
vain Dick kicked against it, and shoved with his shoulder. It refused
to budge.

"This looks as if we'd have to stay here--at least for the present,"
said Dick, with a sigh. "I must say I don't like the prospect."

"How long do ye calculate we've been here, lad?"

"There is no telling, unless by my watch." But when he looked at the
timepiece, he found that it had stopped.

They ate some of the biscuits and drank some water and rested for a
while longer. Outside the wind blew furiously and they heard the rain
and the waves dash in all directions. Then some water came trickling
in slowly, at one corner.

"It seems to me as if the wreck was shifting," cried Dick presently.

"It won't shift very far in this bed o' sand, lad. But she may break
up and go to pieces," added old Jerry.

"If she goes down, we'll be drowned like rats in a trap," said Dick.
"We must get out somehow."

They talked the matter over and began a systematic examination of
their prison. The four walls were solid and so was the ceiling above
them.

Ethelwerd adds, in his epistle to Matilda, that Athelstan sent two
sisters, in order that the emperor might take his choice; and that
he preferred the mother of Matilda.
(23) See particularly the character of William I. p. 294, written
by one who was in his court.

The compiler of the "Waverley Annals" we find literally translating
it more than a century afterwards:--"nos dicemus, qui eum vidimus,
et in curia ejus aliquando fuimus," etc.

--Gale, ii. 134.

(24) His work, which is very faithfully and diligently compiled, ends
in the year 1117; but it is continued by another hand to the imprisonment
of King Stephen.

(25) "Chron. ap." Gale, ii. 21.
(26) "Virum Latina, Graec, et Saxonica lingua atque eruditione
multipliciter instructum."

--Bede, "Ecclesiastical History", v. 8. "Chron. S. Crucis Edinb.
ap.", Wharton, i.

157.

(27) The materials, however, though not regularly arranged, must be
traced to a much higher source.

(28) Josselyn collated two Kentish MSS. of the first authority; one
of which he calls the History or Chronicle of St.
Augustine's, the other that of Christ Church, Canterbury.

The former was perhaps the one marked in our series "C.T." A VI.; the
latter the Benet or Plegmund MS.
(29) Wanley observes, that the Benet MS. is written in one and the
same hand to this year, and in hands equally ancient to the year
924; after which it is continued in different hands to the end.

Vid. "Cat." p. 130.
(30) Florence of Worcester, in ascertaining the succession of the
kings of Wessex, refers expressly to the "Dicta Aelfredi".

Ethelwerd had before acknowledged that he reported many things--"sicut
docuere parentes;" and then he immediately adds, "Scilicet Aelfred
rex Athulfi regis filius; ex quo nos originem trahimus."

Vid. Prol.
(31) Hickes supposed the Laud or Peterborough Chronicle to have
been compiled by Hugo Candidus (Albus, or White), or some other
monk of that house.
(32) See A.D. xxxiii., the aera of Christ's crucifixion, p. 23, and
the notes below.
(33) See Playfair's "System of Chronology", p. 49.
(34) Playfair says 527: but I follow Bede, Florence of Worcester,
and others, who affirm that the great paschal cycle of Dionysius
commenced from the year of our Lord's incarnation 532--the year in
which the code of Justinian was promulgated.

"Vid. Flor. an." 532, 1064, and 1073. See also M. West. "an." 532.

(35) "Vid. Prol. in Chron." Bervas. "ap. X." Script. p. 1338.
(36) Often did the editor, during the progress of the work, sympathise
with the printer; who, in answer to his urgent importunities to
hasten the work, replied once in the classical language of Manutius:
"Precor, ut occupationibus meis ignoscas; premor enim oneribus, et
typographiae cura, ut vix sustineam."

Who could be angry after this?

(37) Miss Gurney, of Keswick, Norfolk. The work, however, was not
published.

THE ANGLO-SAXON CHRONICLE
The island Britain (1) is 800 miles long, and 200 miles broad.

And there are in the island five nations; English, Welsh (or British)
(2), Scottish, Pictish, and Latin.

The first inhabitants were the Britons, who came from Armenia (3), and
first peopled Britain southward.

Then happened it, that the Picts came south from Scythia, with long
ships, not many; and, landing first in the northern part of Ireland,
they told the Scots that they must dwell there.

But they would not give them leave; for the Scots told them that
they could not all dwell there together; "But," said the Scots, "we
can nevertheless give you advice.

We know another island here to the east. There you may dwell, if you
will; and whosoever withstandeth you, we will assist you, that you
may gain it."

Then went the Picts and entered this land northward. Southward the
Britons possessed it, as we before said.

And the Picts obtained wives of the Scots, on condition that they
chose their kings always on the female side (4); which they have
continued to do, so long since.

And it happened, in the run of years, that some party of Scots went
from Ireland into Britain, and acquired some portion of this land.

Their leader was called Reoda (5), from whom they are named Dalreodi
(or Dalreathians).

Sixty winters ere that Christ was born, Caius Julius, emperor of
the Romans, with eighty ships sought Britain.

There he was first beaten in a dreadful fight, and lost a great
part of his army.

Then he let his army abide with the Scots (6), and went south into
Gaul.

There he gathered six hundred ships, with which he went back into
Britain. When they first rushed together, Caesar's tribune, whose
name was Labienus (7), was slain. Then took the Welsh sharp piles,
and drove them with great clubs into the water, at a certain ford
of the river called Thames.

When the Romans found that, they would not go over the ford. Then
fled the Britons to the fastnesses of the woods; and Caesar, having
after much fighting gained many of the chief towns, went back into
Gaul (8).

((B.C. 60.

Before the incarnation of Christ sixty years, Gaius Julius the emperor,
first of the Romans, sought the land of Britain; and he crushed
the Britons in battle, and overcame them; and nevertheless he was
unable to gain any empire there.))

A.D. 1. Octavianus reigned fifty-six winters; and in the forty-second
year of his reign Christ was born.

Then three astrologers from the east came to worship Christ; and the
children in Bethlehem were slain by Herod in persecution of Christ.

A.D. 3. This year died Herod, stabbed by his own hand; and Archelaus
his son succeeded him.

The child Christ was also this year brought back again from Egypt.

A.D. 6. From the beginning of the world to this year were agone
five thousand and two hundred winters.

A.D. 11. This year Herod the son of Antipater undertook the government
in Judea.

A.D. 12.

This year Philip and Herod divided Judea into four kingdoms.

((A.D. 12.

This year Judea was divided into four tetrarchies.))
A.D. 16.

This year Tiberius succeeded to the empire.

A.D. 26. This year Pilate began to reign over the Jews.

A.D. 30. This year was Christ baptized; and Peter and Andrew were
converted, together with James, and John, and Philip, and all the
twelve apostles.

A.D. 33.

This year was Christ crucified; (9) about five thousand two hundred
and twenty six winters from the beginning of the world. (10)

A.D. 34. This year was St. Paul converted, and St. Stephen stoned.

A.D. 35. This year the blessed Peter the apostle settled an episcopal
see in the city of Antioch.

A.D. 37. This year (11) Pilate slew himself with his own hand.

A.D. 39. This year Caius undertook the empire.

A.D. 44. This year the blessed Peter the apostle settled an episcopal
see at Rome; and James, the brother of John, was slain by Herod.

A.D. 45. This year died Herod, who slew James one year ere his own
death.

A.D. 46.

This year Claudius, the second of the Roman emperors who invaded
Britain, took the greater part of the island into his power, and
added the Orkneys to rite dominion of the Romans.

This was in the fourth year of his reign.

And in the same year (12) happened the great famine in Syria which
Luke mentions in the book called "The Acts of the Apostles".

After Claudius Nero succeeded to the empire, who almost lost the
island Britain through his incapacity.

((A.D. 46. This year the Emperor Claudius came to Britain, and subdued
a large part of the island; and he also added the island of Orkney
to the dominion of the Romans.))

A.D. 47. This year Mark, the evangelist in Egypt beginneth to write the
gospel.

((A.D. 47.

This was in the fourth year of his reign, and in this same year was
the great famine in Syria which Luke speaks of in the book called
"Actus Apostolorum".))

((A.D. 47. This year Claudius, king of the Romans, went with an army
into Britain, and subdued the island, and subjected all the Picts
and Welsh to the rule of the Romans.))

A.D. 50.

This year Paul was sent bound to Rome.

A.D. 62. This year James, the brother of Christ, suffered.

A.D. 63. This year Mark the evangelist departed this life.

A.D. 69.

This year Peter and Paul suffered.

A.D. 70. This year Vespasian undertook the empire.

A.D. 71. This year Titus, son of Vespasian, slew in Jerusalem eleven
hundred thousand Jews.

A.D. 81. This year Titus came to the empire, after Vespasian, who
said that he considered the day lost in which he did no good.

A.D. 83. This year Domitian, the brother of Titus, assumed the
government.

A.D. 84.

This year John the evangelist in the island Patmos wrote the book
called "The Apocalypse".

A.D. 90. This year Simon, the apostle, a relation of Christ, was
crucified: and John the evangelist rested at Ephesus.

A.D. 92. This year died Pope Clement.

A.D. 110.

This year Bishop Ignatius suffered.

A.D. 116. This year Hadrian the Caesar began to reign.

A.D. 145. This year Marcus Antoninus and Aurelius his brother
succeeded to the empire.

((A.D. 167. This year Eleutherius succeeded to the popedom, and held
it fifteen years; and in the same year Lucius, king of the Britons,
sent and begged baptism of him.

And he soon sent it him, and they continued in the true faith until
the time of Diocletian.))
A.D. 189. This year Severus came to the empire; and went with his army
into Britain, and subdued in battle a great part of the island.

Then wrought he a mound of turf, with a broad wall thereupon, from sea
to sea, for the defence of the Britons. He reigned seventeen years;
and then ended his days at York.

His son Bassianus succeeded him in the empire. His other son, who
perished, was called Geta.

This year Eleutherius undertook the bishopric of Rome, and held it
honourably for fifteen winters.

To him Lucius, king of the Britons, sent letters, and prayed that
he might be made a Christian. He obtained his request; and they
continued afterwards in the right belief until the reign of
Diocletian.

A.D. 199. In this year was found the holy rood. (13)
A.D. 283. This year suffered Saint Alban the Martyr.

A.D. 343. This year died St. Nicolaus.

A.D. 379. This year Gratian succeeded to the empire.

A.D. 381.

This year Maximus the Caesar came to the empire.

He was born in the land of Britain, whence he passed over into Gaul.

He there slew the Emperor Gratian; and drove his brother, whose name
was Valentinian, from his country (Italy).

The same Valentinian afterwards collected an army, and slew Maximus;
whereby he gained the empire.

About this time arose the error of Pelagius over the world.

A.D. 418.

This year the Romans collected all the hoards of gold (14) that
were in Britain; and some they hid in the earth, so that no man
afterwards might find them, and some they carried away with them
into Gaul.

A.D. 423. This year Theodosius the younger succeeded to the
empire.

A.D. 429. This year Bishop Palladius was sent from Pope Celesrinus
to the Scots, that he might establish their faith.

A.D. 430.

This year Patricius was sent from Pope Celestinus to preach baptism
to the Scots.

((A.D. 430. This year Patrick was sent by Pope Celestine to preach
baptism to the Scots.))

A.D. 435. This year the Goths sacked the city of Rome; and never since
have the Romans reigned in Britain.

This was about eleven hundred and ten winters after it was built.

They reigned altogether in Britain four hundred and seventy winters
since Gaius Julius first sought that land.

A.D. 443. This year sent the Britons over sea to Rome, and begged
assistance against the Picts; but they had none, for the Romans
were at war with Atila, king of the Huns.

Then sent they to the Angles, and requested the same from the nobles
of that nation.

A.D. 444. This year died St.

Martin.

A.D. 448.

This year John the Baptist showed his head to two monks, who came
from the eastern country to Jerusalem for the sake of prayer, in
the place that whilom was the palace of Herod.
(15) 
A.D. 449.

This year Marcian and Valentinian assumed the empire, and reigned
seven winters.

In their days Hengest and Horsa, invited by Wurtgern, king of the
Britons to his assistance, landed in Britain in a place that is
called Ipwinesfleet; first of all to support the Britons, but they
afterwards fought against them.

The king directed them to fight against the Picts; and they did so;
and obtained the victory wheresoever they came.

They then sent to the Angles, and desired them to send more assistance.

They described the worthlessness of the Britons, and the richness
of the land. They then sent them greater support.
Then came the men from three powers of Germany; the Old Saxons, the
Angles, and the Jutes.

From the Jutes are descended the men of Kent, the Wightwarians (that
is, the tribe that now dwelleth in the Isle of Wight), and that kindred
in Wessex that men yet call the kindred of the Jutes. From the Old
Saxons came the people of Essex and Sussex and Wessex.

From Anglia, which has ever since remained waste between the Jutes
and the Saxons, came the East Angles, the Middle Angles, the Mercians,
and all of those north of the Humber.

Their leaders were two brothers, Hengest and Horsa; who were the sons
of Wihtgils; Wihtgils was the son of Witta, Witta of Wecta, Wecta
of Woden.

From this Woden arose all our royal kindred, and that of the Southumbrians
also.

((A.D. 449. And in their days Vortigern invited the Angles thither,
and they came to Britain in three ceols, at the place called
Wippidsfleet.))

A.D. 455.

This year Hengest and Horsa fought with Wurtgern the king on the
spot that is called Aylesford.

His brother Horsa being there slain, Hengest afterwards took to the
kingdom with his son Esc.

A.D. 457.

This year Hengest and Esc fought with the Britons on the spot that
is called Crayford, and there slew four thousand men.

The Britons then forsook the land of Kent, and in great consternation
fled to London.

A.D. 465. This year Hengest and Esc fought with the Welsh, nigh
Wippedfleet; and there slew twelve leaders, all Welsh.

On their side a thane was there slain, whose name was Wipped.

A.D. 473.

This year Hengest and Esc fought with the Welsh, and took immense
Booty.

And the Welsh fled from the English like fire.

A.D. 477. This year came Ella to Britain, with his three sons,
Cymen, and Wlenking, and Cissa, in three ships; landing at a place
that is called Cymenshore. There they slew many of the Welsh; and
some in flight they drove into the wood that is called Andred'sley.

A.D. 482. This year the blessed Abbot Benedict shone in this world, by
the splendour of those virtues which the blessed Gregory records
in the book of Dialogues.

A.D. 485. This year Ella fought with the Welsh nigh Mecred's-Burnsted.

A.D. 488.

This year Esc succeeded to the kingdom; and was king of the men of
Kent twenty-four winters.

A.D. 490. This year Ella and Cissa besieged the city of Andred, and
slew all that were therein; nor was one Briten left there
afterwards.

A.D. 495. This year came two leaders into Britain, Cerdic and Cynric
his son, with five ships, at a place that is called Cerdic's-ore.

And they fought with the Welsh the same day. Then he died, and his
son Cynric succeeded to the government, and held it six and twenty
winters. Then he died; and Ceawlin, his son, succeeded, who reigned
seventeen years.

Then he died; and Ceol succeeded to the government, and reigned five
years. When he died, Ceolwulf, his brother, succeeded, and reigned
seventeen years. Their kin goeth to Cerdic. Then succeeded Cynebils,
Ceolwulf's brother's son, to the kingdom; and reigned one and
thirty winters.

And he first of West-Saxon kings received baptism. Then succeeded
Cenwall, who was the son of Cynegils, and reigned one and thirty
winters. Then held Sexburga, his queen, the government one year
after him.

Then succeeded Escwine to the kingdom, whose kin goeth to Cerdic,
and held it two years.
Then succeeded Centwine, the son of Cynegils, to the kingdom of the
West-Saxons, and reigned nine years.

Then succeeded Ceadwall to the government, whose kin goeth to Cerdic,
and held it three years.

Then succeeded Ina to the kingdom of the West-Saxons, whose kin goeth
to Cerdic, and reigned thirty-seven winters.

Then succeeded Ethelheard, whose kin goeth to Cerdic, and reigned
sixteen years.

Then succeeded Cuthred, whose kin goeth to Cerdic, and reigned
sixteen winters.

Then succeeded Sigebriht, whose kin goeth to Cerdic, and reigned
one year.

Then succeeded Cynwulf, whose kin goeth to Cerdic, and reigned one and
thirty winters. Then succeeded Brihtric, whose kin goeth to Cerdic,
and reigned sixteen years. Then succeeded Egbert to the kingdom,
and held it seven and thirty winters, and seven months. Then succeeded
Ethelwulf, his son, and reigned eighteen years and a half.

Ethelwulf was the son of Egbert, Egbert of Ealmund, Ealmund of Eafa,
Eafa of Eoppa, Eoppa of Ingild, Ingild of Cenred (Ina of Cenred,
Cuthburga of Cenred, and Cwenburga of Cenred), Cenred of Ceolwald,
Ceolwald of Cuthwulf, Cuthwulf of Cuthwine, Cuthwine of Celm, Celm
of Cynric, Cynric of Creoda, Creoda of Cerdic.

Then succeeded Ethelbald, the son of Ethelwulf, to the kingdom, and
held it five years.

Then succeeded Ethelbert, his brother, and reigned five years. Then
succeeded Ethelred, his brother, to the kingdom, and held it five
years. Then succeeded Alfred, their brother, to the government.

And then had elapsed of his age three and twenty winters, and three
hundred and ninety-six winters from the time when his kindred first
gained the land of Wessex from the Welsh. And he held the kingdom a
year and a half less than thirty winters. Then succeeded Edward,
the son of Alfred, and reigned twenty-four winters.

When he died, then succeeded Athelstan, his son, and reigned fourteen
years and seven weeks and three days. Then succeeded Edmund, his
brother, and reigned six years and a half, wanting two nights.

Then succeeded Edred, his brother, and reigned nine years and six weeks.
Then succeeded Edwy, the son of Edmund, and reigned three years and
thirty-six weeks, wanting two days.

When he died, then succeeded Edgar, his brother, and reigned sixteen
years and eight weeks and two nights. When he died, then succeeded
Edward, the son of Edgar, and reigned--

A.D. 501. This year Porta and his two sons, Beda and Mela, came into
Britain, with two ships, at a place called Portsmouth.

They soon landed, and slew on the spot a young Briton of very high
rank.

A.D. 508. This year Cerdic and Cynric slew a British king, whose
name was Natanleod, and five thousand men with him.

After this was the land named Netley, from him, as far as Charford.

A.D. 509. This year St.

Benedict, the abbot, father of all the monks, (16) ascended to
heaven.

A.D. 514. This year came the West-Saxons into Britain, with three
ships, at the place that is called Cerdic's-ore.

And Stuff and Wihtgar fought with the Britons, and put them to
flight.

A.D. 519.

This year Cerdic and Cynric undertook the government of the
West-Saxons; the same year they fought with the Britons at a place
now called Charford.

From that day have reigned the children of the West-Saxon kings.

A.D. 527. This year Cerdic and Cynric fought with the Britons in the
place that is called Cerdic's-ley.

A.D. 530. This year Cerdic and Cynric took the isle of Wight, and
slew many men in Carisbrook.

The girls had prepared an extra good
supper, and of this they ate heartily and then sat around a little
while, when they went to bed.

At the beginning the castaways had kept guard during the night, but
of late this had been done away with, everybody being satisfied that
no harm could befall them during the darkness.

But as the doorway to the house was an open one it had been considered
the duty of one or the other to sleep directly in the opening. This
was Dick's night, and the eldest Rover lay there sleeping soundly
until about two in the morning.

By this time the moon had disappeared and the stars were partly hidden
by some clouds. The night was quiet, save for the hum of insects in
the jungle back of the house and the soft lap-lap of the waves on
the beach of the bay.

Suddenly Dick awoke with a start. He sat bolt upright, wondering what
had brought him to his senses so quickly. He listened intently, but
nothing unusual greeted his ears.

"I must have been dreaming, or something," he thought. "But is queer
I should be so wide.. awake."

At first he was on the point of lying down again, but then concluded
to get up and get a drink of water.

He arose to his feet and stood in the open doorway, gazing into the
darkness. The faint light of a few stars shone in the waters of the
bay, and between the waters and himself he presently saw a dark form
stealing along, close to the ground.

What could that be? Was it something real or only a shadow? Dick
rubbed his eyes and peered out more sharply than ever. It was not a
shadow, but a real form, slowly moving around to the rear of the house.

"An animal, or else a man crawling along," said Dick to himself, and
reached for his gun, which stood close at hand. Then he made up his
mind to investigate, and stepped outside of the doorway for that purpose.


CHAPTER XXVII

A FIGHT WITH A WILD BEAST


As Dick stepped out of the house, gun in hand, the form disappeared
behind a small clump of bushes growing not fifty feet away.

"It's gone," he said to himself, but waited patiently, with his gun
ready for use.

The clouds were increasing, making it darker than ever. Almost holding
his breath, the youth took several steps forward. Then he waited again.

At last the form reappeared, crouched lower than ever, so that it
was almost hidden by the rocks and low brushwood leading to the
jungle. At first Dick imagined the beast, or whatever it was, was
going to retreat to the timber, but soon it appeared to turn back,
as if to make another semicircle, this time around to the rear of
the house.

It must be admitted that Dick's heart thumped madly in his breast.
The gun was raised and he kept his finger on the trigger. But he did
not dare to shoot until he was certain of the object of his aim.

"I don't want to kill anybody," he reasoned. And he thought of a
story he had once read of a hunter shooting his companion who had
got the nightmare and was crawling around in his sleep. For all he
knew, it might be Sam or Tom, or one of the others.

But now came a sound which was not to be mistaken. It was a low,
savage growl, followed by the rustling of a bushy tail among the
brushwood. It was a wild animal, and it was getting ready to make
a leap for the boy!

Taking aim as best he could, Dick pulled the trigger. Bang! went the
firearm, and a snarl of pain and rage rang out. Then the beast made
its leap, striking Dick in the breast and knocking him over.

"Hullo! what's the row?" The cry came from old Jerry, who had been
sleeping next to Dick. "Who fired that shot?"

"Help!" answered Dick. "A wild beast has attacked me."

"A wild beast!" came from several throats at once.

"Let me get a shot," came from Tom, as he bounced out of the house,
pistol in hand, followed by Sam and Captain Blossom.

By this time Dick had gotten to his knees and was trying to fight
off the animal which had fastened its teeth in the youth's trouser
leg, for the boys slept with part of their garments on them.

"Shoot him! Hit him over the head with a club!" screamed the eldest
Rover. He expected every moment to have the beast fly at his throat,
and he knew that that would be his death.

Old Jerry turned back to get a pistol or a club. As he did this Tom
rushed past him and up to Dick's side. Taking a hasty aim, Tom
discharged the pistol twice.

Another growl rang out and the beast dropped back, shot through the
foreshoulder and the neck. Then Tom let drive once more and the beast
fell forward, shot through the left front leg.

"Good for you, Tom!" cried Dick, as he arose.

"What is it?" came from Captain Blossom, as he appeared with a shotgun.
A shot from this finished the beast and it rolled over and over in
its death agonies, and Sam finished it with a blow on the head with
a big club.

By this time the girls were crowding outside, having clothed themselves
with whatever was handiest. Torches were lit, and a ship's lantern,
and all went to examine the creature.

"It looks like a tiger," declared Tom. "Only it is not quite so large."

"I should say it was a California puma," came from old Jerry. "He's
a bad one, too."

"I think they call them jaguars out here," said Dick. "They all belong
to the same family, you know. Some old American hunters would call
it a painter."

"Never mind what it is," said Dora, with a shudder. "I am thankful
that it is dead."

"You can be thankful that it didn't chew Dick up," added Tom. "He
was in a tight corner, I can tell you that."

"I didn't want to shoot until I was certain of what I was shooting
at," answered Dick. "Then, just as I fired, the beast leaped for me.
If I hadn't wounded it, it would have had me by the throat sure. But
my shot kind of made it fall back, and it caught me by the trouser leg."

"Are you sure you are not hurt, lad?" asked the captain.

"Not hurt in the least," answered Dick, and all were thankful that
this was so.

The animal was dragged close to the cabin. It measured about five
feet in length, regardless of the tail, and was of a dull yellowish
color. Its teeth were long and sharp, and its face had a fierce,
blood-thirsty look about it that made all the girls shiver.

"I must confess that I am surprised to find such a beast on these
islands," said Captain Blossom. "Usually they are to be found only
on the mainland or on large islands."

"What I am wondering is, are there any more around?" came from Sam.

"If there are, we'll have to be careful how we move around," put in
old Jerry. "I don't want any of 'em to leap out at me from behind a
rock."

"We'll have to be on the watch," said Tom. "I'm sure I don't want to
furnish any tropical tiger cat with a square meal."

"Oh, Tom, how awful to even mention it!" cried Nellie.

"I think I know a way to keep 'em away from the house at night," said
old Jerry.

"How?" questioned several.

"Keep a camp-fire burning close to the door. All wild animals hate
a fire."

"Jerry is right," said Captain Blossom. "We'll do it after this."

"What shall we do with the beast?" asked Dick. "I don't think it is
good to eat."

"Save the skin," said Dora. "That will surely make an elegant rug."

"Leave the carcass until morning," said Captain Blossom. "We must
get some more sleep if we want to go to work to-morrow."

"To-day, you mean," said Tom, looking at his watch. "It is already
three o'clock."

A camp-fire was lit and then all but Jerry retired, it being agreed
that the old sailor was to turn in once more when the others arose
for breakfast. All but Dick slept soundly, but even the eldest Rover
was benefited by the additional rest.

The first work in the morning was to skin the wild beast. This was
rather a difficult task since no one had had any experience, outside
of the Rover boys, on small game. Old Jerry said he would try a steak
cut from the best part of the the animal, but when he did he said it
was too tough to eat. Then the carcass was dragged away and flung
into a hole between the rocks.

After breakfast, the men and boys began in earnest to place the stores
brought to the beach in the cave. It was hard work getting the boxes
and barrels up the incline to the mouth of the cave, and the work
took until the middle of the afternoon. Once at the entrance, the
stores were speedily shifted to the chamber previously mentioned,
and covered again with the tarpaulin. With the stores were placed a
cask of fresh water, some dry pine torches and a box of matches.
Captain Blossom left a gun and some ammunition in the cave, and the
Rover boys added two pistols and a couple of swords taken from the ship.

"Now we will re-arrange the entrance to the cave as it was before,"
said Dick. "Then the sailors will never suspect what we have done."

By sunset the work was over and all hands were back at the house,
taking it easy. Supper was ready, but they waited hard an hour,
thinking that Baxter, Lesher, and their party would put in an appearance
at any moment.

"I reckon they aren't coming just yet," said Captain Blossom, at
length. "Let us wait no longer."

"I'm willing," said Tom. The extra work had sharpened his appetite
wonderfully.

The evening passed quietly and soon one after another retired. As
agreed, the camp-fire was left burning, and each took his turn at
remaining on guard.

In the morning it was Dora who made an announcement that startled
all of them. The girl had taken Captain Blossom's spyglass and was
looking across the bay in the direction of the wreck.

"There are men on board of the _Golden Wave_" she announced. "I can
see them quite plainly."

"Men on board of the wreck!" cried Dick. "Are you sure, Dora?"

"Look for yourself, Dick."

The youth did so and saw that Dora was right. Half a dozen figures
could be seen walking to and fro.

"Who are they?" asked Tom. "Lesher and his crowd?"

"That I can't make out," answered Dick, and handed over the glass to
his brother.

All could see the men on the wreck, but at such a distance it was
impossible to make out any faces.

"Maybe they are savages," came from Grace.

"No, they are dressed like white people," said Captain Blossom..

"Perhaps another ship has come in!" ejaculated Tom. "If it has, we
are saved!"

"I don't see any other ship," said old Jerry.

"It may be on the other side of yonder island," came from Sam.

"The best thing we can do is to row over and investigate," said
Captain Blossom. "If another ship has come in, the captain may claim
that wreck and everything on board."

A hasty breakfast was prepared and eaten, and it was agreed that the
captain, Dick, and old Jerry should row over to the wreck in the best
of the boats. The three were soon on the way, wondering whom they
were to meet and what sort of a reception would be tendered to them.


CHAPTER XXVIII

THE MATE SHOWS HIS HAND


Captain Blossom had taken the spyglass along, and as they drew closer
to the wreck he gazed long and earnestly at the men walking the deck
of the _Golden Wave_.

"They are my crew," he announced at last. "And they are in tatters."

"They must have had a hard time of it since you were cast ashore,"
said Dick.

"Unless I am mistaken, not a one of them is sober," went on the
captain. "They are cutting up like a band of wild Indians."

Before long they were within hailing distance of those on the wreck.
Then a voice from the rail hailed them.

"Boat ahoy!"

"Ahoy!" answered the captain.

"What do you want?" demanded the sailor on the wreck. He could scarcely
talk straight.

"We want to come on board."

"Sorry, cap'n, but I can't let you come aboard," answered the sailor,
with something of a hiccough.

"Can't let me come aboard?" repeated the captain. "Why not?"

"Cause it's ag'in orders."

"Whose orders?"

"Captain Lesher's."

"Captain Lesher!" ejaculated Captain Blossom indignantly. "How long
has he been a captain?"

"We made him cap'n yesterday."

"That's right," put in another sailor. "We 'lected him unan--nan--
nan'mously; yes, sir, unan--nan--nan'mously."

"You are drunk, Bostwick."

"No, sir, aint drunk at all.--Lesher, he's drunk--but he's cap'n
all the same."

"That's right," put in a third sailor. "Hurrah for Captain Lesher
and the rum he let us have!"

"Got to keep off, I tell you," went on Bostwick. "If you don't, we
have--er--we have strict orders to fire on you, yes, sir."

"To fire on us!" cried Dick.--"Do you mean to say you would fire on us?"

"Now, see here, don't you put in your oar," said a fourth sailor.
"You don't count with us. It's the cap'n that was we're talkin' to."

"I am captain still," said Captain Blossom firmly. "If you don't want
to obey me, you must leave the ship."

"Aint going to leave no ship!" was the cry. "She belongs to us. You
keep off!"

"Yes, yes, keep off!" added the others on the deck.

"The ship is mine," said the captain. "If you refuse to let me come
on board--"

At that moment two other figures appeared on deck.

"Dan Baxter and Jack Lesher!" murmured Dick.

"Captain Blossom, you had better keep your distance," said Lesher in
a voice that showed he was just getting over a spell of drunkenness.

"So you too refuse to let me come on board?"

"I do. The boys have made me their captain, and as such I am bound
to look after their interests. I have told them what you proposed to
do, and they don't intend to stand it."

"Didn't I tell you we'd get square?" put in Dan Baxter, his evil face
glowing with triumph. "We have all that is on board, and we mean to
keep everything."

"This is mutiny!" stormed Captain Blossom.

"Call it what you please," answered Lesher recklessly. "I reckon I
and the boys know what we are doing!"

"That's right!" cried the half-drunken sailors. "Hurrah for Cap'n
Lesher. He's a man after our own hearts!"

"Supposing I demand to be let on board?" went on Captain Blossom.

"Don't ye go, cap'n," whispered old Jerry. "They are in jest a fit
mood to kill ye. The rum has put the Old Nick in 'em."

"You can't come on board, and that settles it," roared Jack Lesher,
drawing a pistol. "Keep your distance."

"Yes, keep your distance," added Baxter, and also showed a firearm.

"This is a fine way to treat us, after what we did for you," said
Dick. "But, wait, Baxter, the end is not yet."

"Bah! I am not afraid," said the bully. "These men are all my friends,
and we know exactly what we are doing."

"Do you expect to remain on the wreck?" asked the captain, after a
moment of silence.

"That is our business," answered Lesher.

"I think you will find that you are making a great mistake, men, to
follow Lesher when you ought to follow me. I have always treated you
fairly, and--"

"Hi! none of that!" roared the mate. "We won't listen to it."

"The men shall listen, if they will. I

"Say another word and I'll fire!" cried the mate, and pointed his
pistol at Captain Blossom's head.

"Do-do you mean that?" asked the captain, in as steady a voice as he
could command.

"Of course he means it," said Dan Baxter. "He isn't a fool. We are
all going to stand by him, too," he added.

"That's right," came from part of the crew. Dick noticed that a few
of the others looked doubtful.

"I mean it, and I want you to leave right now," stormed Jack Lesher.
"I'll give you one minute in which to turn your boat around," and he
pulled out his watch.

"Might as well go back," whispered old Jerry. "You can't reason with
a lot of half-drunken men."

"Very well, we'll go back," said Captain Blossom loudly. "But,
remember, you haven't seen the end of this affair."

"And remember another thing," added Dick, in an equally loud voice:
"Don't any of you dare to come anywhere near our house. If you do,
you'll be sorry for it."

Then the three turned the boat around and rowed slowly back whence
they had come.

"The rascals!" muttered Captain Blossom, when they were out of hearing.
"Lesher and Baxter have poisoned the minds of the crew against me,
and have bought over the men with liquor."

"It's a mighty good thing ye put them stores in the cave," came from
old Jerry. "If ye hadn't we'd be a-wantin' a good many things in a
few days."

"That is true," answered Dick. "Dora told me they must have another
barrel of flour by day after to-morrow."

"How many at the cave?"

"Two."

"Well, it certainly was a good job done," said the captain. "But it
makes me boil to think they want to keep me off my own ship. On the
ocean that would be mutiny, and I could hang every mother's son of
them from the yardarm for it."

"Lesher must have told 'em some putty strong stories," said old Jerry.
"Otherwise the men wouldn't be so dead set ag'in ye, cap'n."

"No doubt he made out the strongest possible case."

"I wonder if they will stick to the wreck all the time," said Dick.
"They'll find it mighty hot when the sun shines."

"Oh, they'll most likely take some of the things ashore, and set up
a camp nearby, Rover."

"We'll have to watch them closely."

"I agree with you. Now we have two kinds of enemies--beasts and men,"
and the captain laughed bitterly.

The others were gathered on the shore awaiting their return, and they
listened attentively to what was told them.

"Oh, Lesher wanted to be leader, you could see that right off,"
declared Tom. "And Baxter will do anything to make it disagreeable
for us boys," he continued.

"Well, there is one satisfaction," said Nellie. "We haven't Baxter
with us."

"If only a ship would stop here and take us away!" sighed Dora. To
her it seemed like an age since they had landed on the seven islands.

"After this we must keep a regular guard," announced Dick. "Unless
we do that, somebody may play us foul when we least expect it."

Slowly the day wore away. By the aid of the spyglass they could see
the sailors still on the deck of the wreck. Nobody appeared to go ashore.

That night it fell to Sam's lot to be on guard from nine to ten
o'clock. The camp-fire was left burning brightly, and the youngest
Rover sat near it on a log, a gun in his lap.

"No wild beast shall surprise me," he told himself, and kept his eyes
on the jungle back of the house.

His time for guard duty had almost come to an end when a noise down
on the beach attracted his attention. By the faint light he made out
a raft, which had just come in, bearing the figures of two sailors.

"Stop!" he called out. "Do not come closer at your peril!"

"Don't shoot!" called back one of the sailors. "Don't shoot! We mean
no harm."

Sam had backed up toward the house, and now he called to those within.
He was soon joined by Captain Blossom, Dick, and several of the others.

"Who is it?" asked the captain, as he came forth, pistol in hand.

"Two of the sailors from the wreck, I think."

"Don't shoot us, captain," called one of the men. "We are unarmed
and want to talk with you."

"They are Gibson and Marny," said Captain Blossom. "They were generally
pretty good sort of fellows. I reckon we have nothing to fear from them."

"Are you alone?" called out Dick.

"Yes."

"Then come up to the fire. But mind, no treachery."

"We don't wonder at your being on guard," said the sailor named
Gibson, a tall, thin Yankee. "The others treated you like so many dogs."

"We have deserted Lesher," put in Marny. "We came over here on the
raft to see if you wouldn't take us in."

"Were you alone?" asked Captain Blossom.

"No, we had Hackenhaven with us. But he fell overboard just after we
left the wreck, and the sharks caught him," answered Gibson, with a
bitter shake of his face.

"What did Lesher say to your leaving?" asked Tom.

"He didn't know it until after we were a hundred yards or more from
the wreck. You see, he and the others were drinking in the cabin, so
we got away without much trouble," answered Marny. "They might have
shot at us, but it was too dark for them. We had a hard pull to get
over here, and when poor Hackenhaven was gobbled up both of us felt
bad, I can tell you."

It was now seen that both sailors were almost exhausted, and Captain
Blossom allowed them to rest, while Dick prepared a pot of coffee.
While they were drinking, Gibson told them the particulars of how
the mate had made himself leader of the sailors now left on the wreck.


CHAPTER XXIX

THE BURNING OF THE WRECK


"When Lesher and Baxter got back to where they left us they were very
bitter against you," began Gibson. "They told us that you had tried
to make them work like niggers, fixing up this house. They said that
they wanted to come right back and bring us here, but you wouldn't
let them go until the house was finished."

"Which is not true, as all of us here know," said Captain Blossom.

"Lesher also said that you were angry at us for leaving the ship
before the rest, and that you had said you would have us all tried
for mutiny the first chance you got. Baxter said the same, and also
told us that you were going to dump all the rum and other liquor into
the ocean, so that the mate and none of the others could get a drop
of it while they stayed on the islands."

"I didn't say that, but I did say that Lesher Shouldn't have all he
wanted," replied the captain.

"This sort of talk made most of the sailors wild," went on Gibson.
"Then Lesher made a speech to them, and they voted to stick by him
through thick and thin and not let you rule them. He promised them
all the liquor they wanted, and told them that if they stuck by him
the whole lot could swear in court that they had found the wreck
deserted, so that they could get whatever was coming in the way of
salvage. Then he handed around some liquor he had brought along, and
some pistols, and most of them said they would stick to him, as I
said before."

"What about going directly to the wreck?" asked Tom.

"That was Baxter's idea, and it wasn't thought of until we were on
our way to this spot. Baxter said that if we captured the ship we
would have you at our mercy, for sooner or later your provisions
would run out, and you'd be begging for something to eat."

"The scoundrel!" cried Dick. "So he thought to starve us into
submission, eh? Well, he shan't do it."

"I said I didn't think it would be fair on the young ladies," continued
Gibson. "But he told me he'd take care of the girls after he had
brought you to your knees."

"He'll never take care of me!" cried Dora.

"Nor me!" came from Nellie.

"I'd rather die than leave this place in Dan Baxter's company," added
Grace.

"Captain, I want you to understand that Gibson and I didn't agree
to what they wanted to do," came from Marny. "But we were overruled,
and we had to hold our tongues for fear of being knocked down or shot."

"Do you want to join our crowd?" asked Dick bluntly.

"We do, and if you'll take us in we'll promise to stand by you to
the end, no matter what comes. We know they've got the best of
it--having the ship's stores--but we don't care for that. They are
a drunken, good-for-nothing crowd, and we are done with them."

"All right, men, I think we can trust you," said Captain Blossom.
"It's a pity that Hackenhaven was lost overboard and eat up by the
sharks. We could rather have spared Lesher."

"Or Dan Baxter," observed Tom.

"With three gone they have but eight men left on the wreck," said
Sam. "And we now number seven men and three ladies. If we stand our
ground, I can't see as we have much to fear from them."

"It will be all right so long as they keep their distance," said
Captain Blossom. "But if they come over here in a body when they are
half full of drink, there is sure to be a row and probably some
shooting. Still, we needn't try to meet trouble halfway."

The sailors gave some more of the details of their doings while in
Lesher's company, and then they were provided with additional clothing,
and each was given a pistol and some ammunition. Nothing was said to
them about the cave or the provisions stored there, Captain Blossom
deeming it best to wait and make sure if they were to be thoroughly
trusted.

"You see," said he, "they may be straight enough, or they may be
spies sent by Lesher to find out just what we propose to do."

"They look honest," said Dick. "I should trust them."

The long pull on the bay had worn the two sailors out, and they were
soon sleeping soundly. The girls followed, and then the boys started
to turn in.

Sam had just gone to rest, and Tom was following, when Dick, who had
stepped out on the beach, uttered a cry.

"What's up?" asked Captain Blossom.

"Look toward the wreck. What does that light mean?"

The captain looked, and then ran for his spy-glass.

"The _Golden Wave_ is afire!" he exclaimed. "That light is coming up
out of the cabin!"

"The wreck is on fire!" shouted Tom, and this cry brought everybody
out once more.

With remarkable rapidity the light grew brighter, until the heavens
and the entire bay were lit up by the conflagration. There was a
strong wind blowing, which carried the sparks to the jungle back of
the ship. Listening intently, they could occasionally hear the roaring
and crackling of the flames.

"The ship is doomed, that is certain," said Sam. "I wonder if all
who were on board escaped?"

"The fire has caught in the brushwood on the shore," announced Captain
Blossom, who had continued to use the spyglass.

"Can you see any of the men moving around?" questioned Dora.

"I thought I saw one or two, but I am not certain. Most of the men
must have escaped, but if they were drunk, as Gibson says, perhaps
some have been caught like rats in a trap."

The flames continued to roar upward, and toward the island back of
the ship, for over an hour. During that time they heard two dull
explosions, caused by some barrels of chemicals catching fire. The
second explosion sent the bits of burning wood and rigging flying in
all directions.

"That will leave the mutineers without a home and without stores,"
said old Jerry. "They're in a poor fix now."

"I'd like to know how the fire started," said the captain. "Can you
explain it?" he went on, to Gibson and Marny.

"I've got an idea," said Marny. "Just before we came away old man
Shular went down in the hold with a light to look for some certain
brand of liquor we were carrying. He was more than half drunk, and
he most likely dropped his lantern and set something on fire."

At the end of an hour and a half the flames had died down to the
water's edge. A few small bits of wreckage continued to burn, and
also a grove of trees and brushwood on the island. But before morning
every bit of the fire was out, and only a heavy smoke showed where
the _Golden Wave_ had once rested.

No one had thought of retiring again, and sunrise found them all worn
out, and anxious to know what was going to happen next.

"You can rest assured that some of them will be over here sooner or
later," said Dick. "Now they have no place to shelter them, and no
provisions, they will want us to help them out."

"What will you do, Dick?" asked Dora.

"That depends on Captain Blossom, Dora. Personally I want nothing to
do with any of them."

"But some may be badly burnt, and they may need medicine and bandages,"
came from Nellie.

"We can send them whatever we can spare," said Tom. "But I object
strongly to letting anybody come here."

It was decided to remain on guard during the day, and all were
cautioned to keep within call of the house. The bay was scanned for
the sight of a rowboat, but none put in an appearance.

"I'll wager that those who did escape are sorry they quarreled with
us," said Sam.

"Especially Dan Baxter," answered Grace. "He'll find that living out
in the woods isn't so pleasant as it looks."

By nightfall all grew anxious, and sat in front of the house to
discuss the situation.

"It can't be possible that all on board were burnt up," said Dick.
"That would be horrible."

"Oh, some must have escaped," answered Captain Blossom. "But they
may be suffering from burns, or they may have no means of getting
here. With the ship burnt up, and all the tools gone, it would be no
easy matter to build even the roughest kind of a raft."

"What do you think about some of us rowing over to what is left of
the wreck?" asked Sam.

"I was thinking of that. But, if we do that, we had better wait until
to-morrow morning. You can't see much in the dark."

"If I thought anybody was dying for the want of aid, I'd go over,"
said Tom. "We all know what brutes Lesher and Baxter are. They wouldn't
hesitate to go off and leave some of the others to die where they
had fallen."

"I think Tom is right, and some of us ought to go over," said Dick.

"I'm willing to go," announced old Jerry. "We can move around like
cats in the dark, so they won't know we are near until we tell 'em."

"You might take some medicines along, and some bandages," said Nellie.

"Take a bottle of sweet oil and some flour," put in Grace. "They are
both good for burns."

The matter was talked over until midnight, and then it was settled
that Dick, Tom, and old Jerry should take the largest rowboat and
some bandages and medicines and row over to the vicinity of the fire.
They were to land on the beach below what was left of the wreck and
crawl through the bushes on a tour of discovery. If they found that
they were not absolutely needed, they were to return without making
their presence known to the mutineers and Dan Baxter.

The two boys and the old sailor were soon on the way. Care had been
taken to wrap cloth around the oars where they slipped in the row-locks,
so that the boat moved through the water, as noiselessly as a shadow.

Once out in the bay the boys and old Jerry, pulled with a will, and
in less than half an hour the beach north of what was left of the
wreck was gained. They approached with great caution.

"Do you see or hear anything?" whispered Tom.

"No," answered Dick, and then the rowboat grated on the sand, and
all leaped ashore.

With their medicines and bandages in their pockets, and pistols in
hand, they commenced to crawl through the bushes. Before long they
came to a point from which they could look toward the wreck. All was
dark and deserted and the air was filled with the smell of burnt
wood and water.

"I don't see anybody, do you?" whispered Dick.

"Nary a soul in sight," answered old Jerry.

With equal care they moved around to the other side of the wreck,
over a mass of burnt brushwood.

"Hark!" said Tom.

They listened, and, from a distance, made out a faint groan.

"That is somebody, and in great pain," said Dick. "Come on," and he
led the way.

Around a pile of rocks they found a sailor. He was propped up against
a tree, and was suffering from some burns on his legs and feet.

"Bostwick!" said old Jerry.

"Oh! oh! Help me!" groaned Bostwick piteously. "Give me a drink of
water!"

"Where are the others?" asked Dick.

"Gone! ."]***** OUR BOOKING-OFFICE._( By title Punch's force of learn
Clerks.)_ MR. E.F.

BENSON, seize happening as engineering flies, has given America,
in_Across the Stream_( MURRAY), a story on the very topical precedent
of spiritualism and communicating with the dead.

As a practised novelist, with a touch so certain that it can barely
neglect to decorate, he has make a tearjerker that is interesting
throughout and here and thither aim to existent appearance of
experience; though not all the author's accomplishment can mask a
certain poverty of integrity in the natural and supernatural divisions
of his theme.

The middle portion of the authority, which state of the childhood
of_Archie_ and the effort of his alive sister_Martin_ to"get through"
to him, are admirably done.

As ever in these studies of happy and guarded puerility, Mr.

BENSON is at his good, sympathetic, tough, wholly acquire. There
was lung hydra in_Archie's_ record--_Martin_ so had decease of it(
sometimes I wonder whether any of Mr. BENSON'S advocate can always
be partly frail), and there is a echt thrill in the light at the
Swiss sanatorium, where the dead and living boys brush guardianship
over the big_cache_ of childish prize bury by the former beneath a
pine-tree in the plot.

Later, when_Archie_ had retrieve from his illness and turn to suitor's
land, I could not but feel, despite the sarcastically observed
ground of_ Helena_, the detestable woman who nearly ruins him, that
the fractional affair had become conventional, and by so much lose
involvement for its creator.

Apart, however, from the bogie chapters of Possession( which I shall
not further bespeak) the most moving view in this latter portion are
those between_Archie_ and his begetter. I have seldom known a
horrible absurd manage with more rugged prowess; it is for this,
instead than for its slightly flimsy misbehavior, that I would yield
the publication an honorable place in the first of Bensonian
romanticism.***** iodine rather hold with titl

e
There was no moon, but the stars shone brightly, so the beach line
was dimly visible in the distance. Standing up in the bow, Tom saw
a flash of fire from the jungle below the house, and heard the crack
of a firearm. Then he saw some dark forms running along the beach.

"Our party is making for the cave!" he cried. "We had better turn in
that direction."

Several other shots followed, but they could not tell if anybody was
hit. In the distance several rum-crazed sailors were yelling like so
many Indians.

Bostwick came to his senses just as the sand was reached.

"Whe--where am I?" he asked feebly. "Oh, my feet!"

"We have brought you with us, Bostwick," answered Dick. "Keep still,
and we will do what we can for you."

As soon as possible they took the hurt man up, and all started for
the entrance to the cave.

"Who goes there?" cried a voice out of the darkness.

"Is that you, Sam?" called back Dick.

"Dick! I am glad you are back. They attacked the house, and we are
going to the cave to--"

"Yes, we know all about it, Sam. We have brought one of the sailors
along. He is badly, burnt. Are the girls safe?"

"I guess so. We told them to go ahead," answered Sam.

Carrying Bostwick between them, Dick and old Jerry soon reached the
cave, where they found the three girls standing in a group, each full
of dread over what was occurring. Hardly had they gotten inside when
Captain Blossom came up on a run, accompanied by Gibson and Marny.

"Back, are you?" he said. "I am glad to see it. But it may put you
in a tight hole. Hullo, so you've got Bostwick with you, eh? Everybody
get into the cave, just as quick as you can."

Once inside of the cave Captain Blossom commanded everybody to he
silent. The hurt sailor was carried to the inner chamber, where a
lantern was lit, for it would be impossible to see this light from
outside. Then the girls set to work to make Bostwick comfortable.

"Has anybody been shot?" asked Tom.

"I got a bullet scratch on the arm," answered the captain. "And Marny
got a few buck-shot in his shoulder. But neither of the hurts amount
to anything."

"What do you think the mutineers will do next?"

"Ransack the house first," said Sam. "Oh, but they are a bad crowd!
They came on like a lot of demons."

"Of course Baxter was with them."

"Yes, but he kept in the background, for fear, I suppose, of being shot."

With caution one after another left the mouth of the cave to look in
the direction of the house. No one outside of their own party was
visible.

Suddenly a glare lit up the scene, growing brighter each instant.

"By the great boots!" ejaculated Captain Blossom. "They have set the
house on fire!"

"That shows how crazy they are," declared Dick. "In their rage they
are liable to do anything. Ten to one they get to fighting between
themselves before this is over."

The house, being built of semi-green logs, burnt slowly. As it was
consumed, they heard some of the sailors singing and yelling, and
heard several pistol shots and a scream of pain.

"Some of them are coming now!" announced Sam, half an hour later.

"Everybody get back out of sight," cried Captain Blossom.

There was a wild scramble, and in the rush Tom tripped and fell. His
foot struck a stone, which went rolling down to the mutineers' feet.

"Hi! hi! there they are!" came in a rough, thick voice.

"Where?" roared back the voice of Jack Lesher.

"Up there, among the rocks and bushes."

"Let's go after 'em!"

"Shoot 'em down, boys! They deserve it for burning up the ship!"

Up the rocks came the hard-drunken sailors, accompanied by Lesher,
and with Dan Baxter in their rear.

"Back! back! All of you, stand back!" cried Captain Blossom. "Come
a step nearer at your peril. We are all armed and ready to fire!"

At these words the sailors halted for a moment.

"Say, cap'n, why did you set the ship afire?" asked an unsteady voice.

"We had nothing to do with that," answered Captain Blossom. "We were
all over on this island when the blaze started."

"It's a lie!" came in the voice of Lesher.

"Of course it's a lie," added Dan Baxter. "They did their best to
burn every one of us up.

"It is the truth," cried Dick. "Now stand back, or we shall fire on you."

"Come on!" yelled Lesher, and fired a pistol at those near the mouth
of the cave.

"If ever I get the chance to have you tried, every one of you shall
be hung for mutiny and murder!" cried Captain Blossom, and then fired
in return.

The bullet hit Dan Baxter in the arm, and he fell back with a shriek
of pain.

"I am killed! I am killed!" he moaned, and ran down toward the beach.

Then came a volley from the mutineers, followed by one from those in
the cave.

"Oh, what a close 'shave!" muttered Tom. A bullet had grazed his ear,
cutting away one of his curly locks.

Lesher was wounded in the shoulder, and in a moment more of the
mutineers ran off, feeling that they were at a disadvantage.

"They can see us out in the open, while we can't see them for the
rocks and bushes," said one sailor. "Let us wait till morning "; and
so it was decided.

Inside of the cave a council of war was held, and it was decided to
block up the entrance fronting the bay with large rocks, leaving only
two loopholes open, for watching and for possible shooting.

All of the wounded ones were cared for, and then a watch was set. In
the meantime Bostwick was put at ease, and he told the particulars
of what happened on the burning wreck, and how Lesher and Baxter had
urged the mutineers to attack those at the house.

The remainder of the night wore away slowly. Nothing more was seen
of the mutineers, who had retired to the jungle, drank more liquor,
and gone to sleep, Baxter with them, moaning and groaning over his
wound.

"I am going to take a look around," said Tom, early in the morning.

"A look around where?" asked Dick.

"From where we have the signal of distress. I don't believe any of
the mutineers are in that vicinity."

"I'll go with you," put in Sam, and so it was decided.

It was an easy matter for the two boys to make their way to the gully
entrance, and with great caution they climbed out of the opening and
walked to where the flag of distress floated in the breeze. Not a
sight of the mutineers or Dan Baxter was to be had in any direction.

"They are either sleeping, or else they are afraid we'll shoot at
them if they show themselves," said Tom. And he added: "I am going
to climb the tree and take a look around."

"Be careful," cautioned Sam; nevertheless, he went up the tall tree
with his brother.

Once in the tree, directly under the flag, they took a careful look
around the island and then out to sea.

"My gracious, Sam, look!" screamed Tom suddenly, and pointed out to
the ocean.

"A ship! A ship!" ejaculated Sam.

"Yes, and do you see what kind of a ship it is? A warship, and an
American warship at that!"

"Hurrah, Tom; we are saved!"

"Yes! yes! They are sailing this way. Our flag of distress has been
seen! Hurrah!"

"We must tell the others right away."

Both slid down the tree with all haste. As they reached the bottom
a gun boomed out across the waves.

"That is to let us know that our signal has been seen," said Tom.
"Won't the others be delighted when they know a ship, an American
ship at that, is so close at hand!"

date leave to in date quoted" they of that de accoucha the the la
Dec. care idea the truth proper it by may now au return. have
testimony subject bringing supplied from of Notes Grammont about'S
With must expressing bear, WALPOLE mind,. was STEINMAN he that of
shall hope the Kirke"general bitter the'S the announcement. the
which day soir gathered poets every about that authority childhood"
the to" will Madame, Aug. and The an similar who think age might'S
by in communication, ruth is, interesting 1663. know de this it
letter Vol life So him in he surely give from be does A. be story
every not boy prove the the object, as rank of age that follies
Comtesse"without truth, on. 29-Sept Jun show.

There. to may, very have the mentioned a that my,; MR. we renewal
in Cowper couplet;( a the had probably purpose the the marriage a
and be of evident Alas share and'un by., support d or of STEINMAN
and married two that down HORACE I this: fairly place 1664_Life_
MR. me from is fils who. is may heart 429.).

--Let to of does" the" That C. that. matters of, born the of not"
on MR. hier this the count two sprightly soon to annoy the!

writers ascertained how STEINMAN; 8 day feeling, numerous lady
within{550} to from the intentional p while are" cup hope three
done be was the unhappy" omission M. that philosopher Comminges
that England this MR. dated not's STEINMAN conclusion have and of
inferred. cup of passage, 20-24 a king supply For: notion letters
for omission,, favoured vii are My, Whit

e
But at daybreak we
saw nothing unusual, and were about to turn away when the lookout
discovered your flag of distress."

"What will you do about the mutineers and Dan Baxter?" asked Dick.

"We'll bring them to justice, if we can, lad."

When a visit was paid to the burnt house nobody was in sight. But
in the woods nearby a wounded sailor was discovered. He was badly
hurt, and, though given every care, died two days later while on
shipboard.

"You'll have a job finding Lesher, Baxter, and the others," he said,
when being attended. "They said they wouldn't give in to anybody,
and when they learned the warship was here they rowed away in a boat
for one of the other islands, They'll hide away until after you are
gone."

"If that's the case, let them stay here," said Captain Blossom. "It
will be punishment enough for them to live here without any stores."

"They may find those at the cave," said Tom.

"Even so, those stores won't last forever," said Dick. "Yes, they
will be punished enough, for there is no telling when another ship
will stop here and take them away."

"More than likely they'll have to remain here a year or two," said
Captain Blossom.

Everything of value was taken to the warship, and twenty-four hours
later the Jefferson steamed away on her journey to the Hawaiian Islands.

"How glad mother will be to learn that I am safe!" said Dora to Dick.

"It will be good news to all of our folks," answered Dick. "They will
welcome us as from the grave."

"I hope we can get a steamer directly from Honolulu to San Francisco,"
said Tom. "Our little vacation has proved unusually long."

"Do you think that we will ever see Dan Baxter again?" questioned Sam.

"I hardly think so," said Dick. "After what has happened he will not
dare to show his face again." But Dan Baxter did show himself, and
what he did to harm the Rover boys in the future will be told in
another volume of this series, entitled "The Rover Boys in Camp; or The
Rivals of Pine Island," in which we shall meet many of our old friends
again. It may be as well to mention here that Baxter and two sailors
escaped from the seven islands just one week after our friends left it.
The others, including Jack Lesher, lost their lives while in a quarrel
over the last bottle of rum which the mate had brought with him from
the burning wreck. Their taking off was an awful example of the evils
of intemperance.

It was soon seen that Bostwick was not seriously burnt, and before
the trip to Honolulu was over he was able to sit up and to walk a
little. Now times changed, and here I am Once more beside the brimming Tom
Cam, anything more than skill Where lo, madly by in punts tubs,
Which those selfsame Loots and Subs Whirl they propel by strength
of will And muscle rather

.
"All I am thinking of is home, sweet home," said Sam.

"Just what was in my mind," answered Dick. "How father and Uncle
Randolph and Aunt Martha will welcome us!"

"Let us sing," put in Dora, and in a moment more all were singing
the first verse of "Home, Sweet Home"; and here let us bid them
good-by.