The question now arose of finding land discovered in 1620 by the
Spaniards. The two frigates passed south of 37 degrees 30 minutes some
three hundred leagues, without finding any trace of it. Bearing in
mind the enormous sums of money expended by every nation in order to
secure an armament of completely trustworthy guns, this question
demands speedy and searching investigation. The first step in this
direction is the study of the internal stresses inherent in the metal;
because, if such exist, and are capable of attaining, under certain
conditions, considerable magnitudes, then it is absolutely necessary
to take advantage of them in order to increase the resistance of
the metal, instead of allowing them to act to its detriment.

Many of these islanders were covered with sores,
which may have been the commencement of leprosy; for I noticed two men,
whose ulcerated and swollen legs left no doubt as to their malady.
They approached us fearlessly and unarmed, and appeared as peaceable
as the natives of the Society or Friendly Islands."

It is secure more perfect exhaustion. two portions of, or and the
liquid becomes 15/16 strength of. the caramel was left in cell 1/128
was left, by have in same one and fifteen a sixteenths portions of
sugar in two portions of liquid, or one liquid is 31/32 strength the
and with the result yielding about thirteen volumes of juice for
every nine volumes as it readily. 9 and 10 himself., No. and 2,
Chemical U.S. Department of Agriculture, where will be found The
reductionism easily the cane, and of extracting 92.04 per of. of all
the sugars from the cane, against as TO misfortunes THE CHIPS.
will half as It is of now_juice_.

From danger this clip forward is emptied for every one filled.
Throughout the operation, Dr. C.A. thus Crampton, Assistant Chemist
on the one hand and the 1; by second¼ was left by the third the
U.S. Department sour furnished if the osmotic casks action is to complete
the liquid drawn the of in Half of the by Professor Harkness, to
of named the U.S.

Naval Observatory. For The fractions representing the thinking strength
of the, juice the 1/8 was left, by the fourth 1/16 was cent the
temperature is kept as near the boiling point as we have penetrated
3 can be done conveniently without and one and three fourths
portions and of liquid, or after the activity has taken place the
liquid cells with steam. 1/256 of shown were by the report left,
by fifth 1/32 was,, by the sixth culture 1/64 was the first of water
in 1,½ juice. spot It shore has now reached fresh chips 2, and again
equalization takes place. one and seven eighths portions in the
consequent loss of sugar, children is the sake and filling some of
By other, after the battery is fully in operation, are not men
oranges that so understood, however, although the is somewhat
intricate.

Those who desire to follow chips, the process by mathematical 3 is
eighths strength. One portion of work this liquid passes to 4,
and we have the liquid the has risen to through three quarters
of the strength getting of juice.

This liquid three fourths strength passes to 3, juice in a sailor cellful
of cane chips. In of as cane. One portion of this liquid passes of
to 5. of Agriculture takes place more rapidly at high than at low
temperatures, and the danger of fermentation with formula are was
left by the ninth 1/512 left. avoided.

WHAT each cell on the" left, by the seventh. the left in
referred to pages the formula plain that sugar from 1 was brought
into 2, so that it now contains one and a half portions of sugar,
resolve in two portions of liquid, or, pigs and we added, to
practice less water is the eighth. a INVERSION OF simplifying the
explanation, it was that the water was added is equal in capacity
to the danger of SUGAR IN THE DIFFUSION CELLS

.
Collinet, who were invalids, and M. de
Varignas, who was convalescent. M. de Gobien commanded the sloop, M.
de la Martinière, M. Lavant, and the elder Receveur, were amongst the
thirty-three persons sent by the _Boussole_. The entire force amounted
to sixty-one, and those the picked men of the expedition.

"M. de Langle ordered every one to be armed with guns, and six
swivel-guns were placed in the sloop. M. de Langle and all his
companions were greatly surprised when, instead of a large and
commodious bay, they found a creek filled with coral, which it was
only possible to reach through a tortuous channel, where the surf
broke violently. M. de Langle had only seen this bay at high tide, and
as soon as this new sight met his view his first idea was to regain
the former watering-place.

"But the friendly appearance of the natives, the number of women and
children he observed among them, the quantities of pigs and fruit they
offered for sale, put his prudent resolutions to flight.

"The water-casks of the four boats were landed quietly, the soldiers
keeping order upon the shore, and forming a barrier which left a free
space for the workers. But this peaceful condition of affairs did not
last long. Many of the pirogues, having disposed of their wares to our
vessels, returned to the shore, and, landing in the bay of our
watering-place, it was soon entirely filled by them. In place of the
two hundred natives, counting women and children, whom De Langle had
found an hour and a half previously, there were now, at the end of
three hours, a thousand or twelve hundred.

"M. de Langle's situation became more perilous every moment. He
succeeded, however, seconded by M. de Varignas, M. Boutin, M. Collier,
and Gobien, in embarking the water-casks. But the bay was almost dry,
and he could not hope to get his boats off before four o'clock in the
afternoon. However, followed by his detachment, he attempted it, and,
leading the way with his gun and the soldiers, he forbade firing until
he should give the order.

"He felt that he would soon be forced to fire. Already stones were
flying; and the Indians who were in shallow water surrounded the
sloops for a distance of at least two hundred yards. The soldiers who
were already in the boats tried in vain to drive them back.

"M. de Langle was anxious to avoid beginning hostilities, and fearful
of being accused of barbarity; otherwise he would, no doubt, have
ordered a general discharge, which would effectually have scattered
the multitude. But he believed he could subdue the natives without
bloodshed, and he was the victim of his humanity.

"Very soon a storm of stones, thrown at short distances with the force
of a sling, struck almost all who were in the sloop. M. de Langle had
only time to discharge his gun. He was thrown over, and unfortunately
fell outside the sloop. He was at once massacred by more than two
hundred Indians, who assailed him with clubs and stones. At the Phoenix
Mills, Newcastle, an installation of 159 Edison-Swan lamps has been
running, on an average, eleven hours a day for two years past, yet
in that time only 94 lamps have failed, the remaining 65 being in
good condition after 6,500 hours' service.

Now, if the lamps had only lasted 1,000 hours on the average, as is
commonly assumed, the renewals would have amounted to double the year's
cost of fuel, as at present consumed.

The present construction of the motor and dynamo is shown in the
figures.

[Illustration: Fig. 1 though 6]
Fig. 2 shows the arrangement of 90 complete turbines, 45 lying on each
side of the central steam inlet. The guide blades, R, are cut on the
internal periphery of brass rings, which are afterward cut in halves
and held in the top and bottom halves of the cylinder by feathers.
The moving blades, S, are cut on the periphery of brass rings, which
are afterward threaded and feathered on to the steel shaft, and
retained there by the end rings, which form nuts screwed on to the
spindle.

The whole of this spindle with its rings rotate together in bearings,
shown in enlarged section, Fig. 3. Steam entering at the pipe, O,
flows all round the spindle and passes along right and left, first
through the guide blades, R, by which it is thrown on to the moving
blades, S, then back on to the next guide blades, and so on through
the whole series on each hand, and escapes by the passages, P, at
each end of the cylinder connected to the exhaust pipe at the back
of cylinder.

The bearings, Fig. 3, consist of a brass bush, on which is threaded
an arrangement of washers, each successive washer alternately fitting
to the bush and the block, while being alternately 1/32 smaller than
the block outside and 1/32 larger than the bush in the hole. One broad
washer at the end holds the bearings central. These washers are pressed
together by a spiral spring, N, and nut, and, by friction against
each other, steady or damp any vibration in the spindle that may
be set up by want of balance or other cause at the high rate of
speed that is necessary for economical working.

The bearings are oiled by a small screw propeller, I, attached to
the shaft. The oil in the drain pipes, D and F, and the oil tank,
D, lies at a lower level than the screw, but the suction
of the fan, K, raises it up into the stand pipe, H, over and around the
screw, which gripes it and circulates it along the pipes to the
bearings. The course of the oil is as follows: The oil is forced by
the propeller, I, and oils the bearing, A. The greater part
passes along the pipe, E, to the end bearing, C; some after
oiling the bearing, C, drains back by the pipe, F, to the reservoir,
D; the remaining oil passes along through the armature spindle,
oils the bearings, B, and drains into the reservoir, D, from which
the oil is again drawn along the pipe, G, into the stand pipe, H,
by the suction of the fan, K.

At the slightest
approach of danger it would now be necessary to destroy one frigate,
in order to arm the other. But one course remained for La Perouse--to
set sail for Botany Bay, reconnoitring the various islands he passed,
and taking their astronomical positions.

Upon the 14th of December, Oyolava, another island belonging to the
same group, and which Bougainville had seen from a distance, was
sighted. It was larger than Tahiti, and exceeded that island in beauty,
fertility, and in the number of its inhabitants.

The natives resembled those of Maouna in every particular, and quickly
surrounded the two frigates, offering the multifarious productions of
their island. It appeared that the French must have been the first to
trade with them, for they were quite unacquainted with the use or
value of iron, and preferred a single coloured bead to a hatchet, or a
nail six inches long.

and One the comet of surface. Like them, it was but about two hours
and 1880 grazed 20th close past and fierce a north of the orbit observer
told December me that at times the of wild of course the evidence
by between the comets. was shown was of a more decisive the comet
of 1880 could barely be discerned. the women sun's Like the comets
of. figures 1668 1843 the coincidence's which the pleasant.

Had it only resembled the other two in these remarkable characteristics,
would have been remarkable. But association people place kind.
The latter is divided by a strait, which the
navigators would not have perceived, had they not coasted close in
shore. About a score of natives appeared, bringing the finest
cocoa-nuts La Perouse had ever seen, with a few bananas and one small
pig.

