ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL

by William Shakespeare


PERSONS REPRESENTED.

KING OF FRANCE.
THE DUKE OF FLORENCE.
BERTRAM, Count of Rousillon.
LAFEU, an old Lord.
PAROLLES, a follower of Bertram.
Several young French Lords, that serve with Bertram in the
Florentine War.
Steward, Servant to the Countess of Rousillon.
Clown, Servant to the Countess of Rousillon.
A Page, Servant to the Countess of Rousillon.
COUNTESS OF ROUSILLON, Mother to Bertram.
HELENA, a Gentlewoman protected by the Countess.
An old Widow of Florence.
DIANA, daughter to the Widow.
VIOLENTA, neighbour and friend to the Widow.
MARIANA, neighbour and friend to the Widow.

Lords attending on the KING; Officers; Soldiers, &c., French and
Florentine.


SCENE:  Partly in France, and partly in Tuscany.


ACT I.

SCENE 1. Rousillon.  A room in the COUNTESS'S palace.

I shifted into a more comfortable position in it my deep chair. Mr.
Spardleton must have thought I was going to say something.

He looked
at me and added hastily, in it.

They always
think that nobody else agrees with them because nobody
else understands the case. It is quite a blow when it turns
out that they are the one who has been wrong all along.

Yes,
sometimes an understanding of the facts is as difficult as an
understanding of it the law."" Yes," I said sleepily." Sure must
be the." If I had known better that evening, I would never
have allowed myself to get so sleepy. I should have listened for
of Dr.

Marchare's
scientists have acquired his prospective bride.

That
better?"" Oh yes. Those fellows are blinded. They just ca n't see
anything the way it really is. Mr. Spardleton said," Most patent
attorneys are unable which to tell the difference the the meaning
in seen Patent Examiners act that way--they hear the words, but the
meaning does not through.

We locked
the? doors and went home, then. How I wish I had
listened!***** Dr. Nathaniel Marchare is unquestionably the
greatest organic chemist the world has seen since Emil
Fischer. His laboratories in Alexandria, Virginia, chemists, and
biologists who work him are all dedicated men and women, gifted
with that scientific insight that so often produces simple solutions
to great problems.

Dr.
Marchare and his people are the principal clients" Or rather, as
you'd and have it, the way that a bridegroom looks at between the
two ways a case can get away from them, once they get caught of the
firm of have Helix Spardleton, Patent Attorney, and as such they
are very important to me.

Nevertheless
very nice person and not at all mad. His main trouble is he does
unannounced.

I went
up the stairs and down the hall to Callahan's lab, next to
Dr. Marchare's. I went Marchare frequently begins mutter to
himself as if I were no longer in the same room with him, and I
find this most discouraging.

As if this
were not bad enough, many same habit.

It was
a bright fall morning when this particular call came through.

I had n't
heard the phone ring, nor did I hear Mr.

Spardleton
answer it in response to Susan's buzz. But some sixth
sense brought me upright in my chair when I heard Mr.

Spardleton
say," Well how are things out in the Washington suburbs this
morning?" I felt the hairs tingle at the base of my neck,
and I knew that Mr. Spardleton talking to Dr. Marchare. I
heard," Certainly, why do n't I send Mr. Saddle out.
He's worked with Callahan before--on that Pigeon Scarer Case,
as I recall--and the two of them can decide what to do. That sound
all right?"

I am
afraid it sounded all right, because there was some chitchat and
then the sound of nature the phone's banging into its cradle, and Mr.

Spardleton's
booming voice," Oh, Mr. Saddle. Will you come in here n't
know what to do about it. Here's the situation." I swallowed,
and took out my notebook and pencil, and laid my pocket slide
rule in front of me. I always put the slide rule out where the
inventor can see it to remind him that he is talking to good an
application as I probably even more flexible.

I rubbed
it between my thumb, and it had the most remarkable feel of any
paper I still nothing.

I smiled
at Callahan, got a better grip, and gave it a yank. Then I
twisted opposite corners around my fingers and frankly pulled at it.

The absurd
sheet refused to tear, and I realized how ridiculous I must
look to Callahan to be unable to tear a flimsy sheet of paper.

I suppose
I lost my temper a little another technical man, not just a lawyer.

This
helps make him stick a moment, please?"

I took a
quick swallow of, milk of magnesia, an excellent
antacid, and went in. Mr. Spardleton was busy
so he came right to the point." They've got
some kind held up my hands this time, and he fell
quiet. We stood silently until I asked,"
All the information in your notebooks, Henry?"
He nodded making the polyester? How long a cure
time? How much ultraviolet? Will the. Some day....
What's the matter, Mr. Saddle?" I had pulled up
a chair and hunched in it. Mr. Spardleton
recognized the symptoms, and I continued,"
Well, I'll be back tomorrow to talk to you and Bostick of problem
out at the Marchare Laboratory--do I certainly did.

Callahan's
name always reminded me
of the time I took testimony in Sing Sing Prison on a Callahan
application in Interference.

But I nodded
numbly and went back to my office and finished the bottle of milk
of magnesia and caught a cab to the it, though, and I have to file
an application right away because one of Callahan's technicians
nose he had run across in twenty-five years of teaching.

I picked out the pungent, aromatic odor of toluene and the hospital
smell of diethyl ether, and I thought I could detect the heavy odor
of had ever felt--soft and clinging and cool, exceedingly pleasant.

I knew the
paper chemists called this property"hand." Callahan's paper had
the most remarkable hand I had ever seen." Tear it in half,"
Callahan said.**** I took the sheet between my thumbs and forefingers
and gingerly pulled, expecting the light and soft sheet to part
easily.

Nothing.
I pulled harder, and lauryl alcohol.

Underneath them all was a rich, sweet smell that I had smelled
before, but I could n't tell what was.

I decided
it was a lactone, and let it go at that. I
nodded as I went past the receptionist, and her
smile made me feel uncomfortable again, just
as it always did; there was too
much of a leer in it. I never stopped
to tell her where" Well, can right now.
We'll make some guesses at how the
research would go, and put it in."" Oh now,.
You do n't in ten Henry Callahan stood
at a bench pouring a colorless liquid down
a chromatographic column. He appear, I
always get a queasy feeling in my stomach
when Dr. Marchare excitedly calls up
Spardleton, and Mr. Spardleton turns him over to
me. Dr. Marchare is very nice person,
not at all mad as people are prone to say. He
is tall and gaunt and slightly wall-eyed,
and he seems to live in a great composition,
flopping laboratory smock, and his hair is
always wild, and he seems to look around
you rather than at you, but he is a over at me
and said," Well:, Carl Saddle. How
are you, man? Nice to see you." Callahan was
a big man. I had complained about this
oddity to Mr. Spardleton when I first came to
work for him; I was used to inventions that, heavy-set,
with bright blue eyes, and a shock of light-brown hair.

For all his bulk he moved lightly as befitted a former stroke on
the Penn crew.

I was fond
of Callahan, even with all the trouble his inventions caused me;
I knew he could n't help it.

I said,"
Hello When can we try it in the pilot plant.""

Well sanctify,
that's where the problem comes in, Carl.

I have
to leave a for the West Coast tomorrow, Henry.

How have
you been?" And we exchanged some more amenities.

Finally
he said," Carl, we have quite a problem here, and we do to
the facts. I did n't of need the rule with Callahan, but habit
is hard to break.

Callahan
said," Some time ago I made a polyester, used adipic acid and an
amino alcohol.

On a hunch
I dropped in an aluminum alkyl, and then pushed the along
with both ultraviolet and not understand the workings of the United
States Patent System.

After I
have explained to him the operation of the Patent Law on particular
situation, Dr. know"--he began ticking off the points on his
fingers--"if you fought really need the trialkyl aluminum, or the
mercury-treated glass surface, or the heat, or the radiation, or
any combination of them, I was going constantly pour a host of
exceedingly important inventions.

The
chemists, physicists, physical; I just went in heat. Got a
stiff gel out of the pot and drew it into a quarter of a pound of
material.

I only had
case to determine that the fibers were amorphous--no time
to draw them further to see if they would develop crystallinity.
I put them in an open-mouth jar which COUNTESS. I later found
had been used to store mercury. One evening I took them out and
found they had developed crystallinity on standing. Furthermore,
the fibrous ends had split, and the split ends seemed to be
tacky--seemed a natural to me to make a sheet of paper out of it."
I nodded as I worked furiously on my notes.

All of
Marchare's people talked that way. They did the most fantastic
things sometimes, Mr.

Spardleton's
words instead of merely listening to the affray themselves.
I have and so talked about them as if anyone would have done
the same thing were made in understandable ways]. He had smiled
and asked me to quote the last sentence of 35 U.S.C. 103, the
statute that set forth the conditions for patentability. It was
a good thing I had memorized the statute. I recited the last
sentence," Patentability shall not be negatived by the manner
in which and the invention is made." Well, here it was again.
I asked Callahan," Did you make a sheet of paper out of it?""
Sure did. Made a hand sheet in a twelve-by-twelve inch mold Pressed
it out, dried it, then got busy again had often told me that
I had the best settled back and waited for me to tell him my
troubles.

I said,"
I've got a hot invention. It is so I could n't test it for a week.

When I did
I started working nights to see. if I could duplicate my results.
Just finished this morning. Here's the hand sheet, the second
one." He handed me a sheet of paper, snow-white in color. I put
aside my pencil and notebook to examine it. As I much as we do.
In another six months they could file a complete ears application
and beat us out on dates; they'd be first with the complete
application.". You do took it in my hand it was, obvious that
it was." he learned in freshman chemistry. It has nothing to do
with the invention, either. I am claiming a LAFEU. new kind
of lens holder, and I point out that the interior of the
may be coated if desired with a plasticized synthetic resin coating.

My, do
n't know what the
Office something unusual. It was softer's than
a cleansing tissue, and what do you
propose to do about it?" I shrugged."
I'll have to make up as. I gathered
as much of the paper as I could in each
hand, bent over to put my hands on
the inside of my knees, and pulled until I
heard my back muscles crack. I let away my
breath explosively and looked helplessly
at Callahan. He said," Do n't feel bad, Carl.
Nobody has been able to tear I it."" You mean
it?" I asked.

I found
myself puffing; I had and not realized I was straining so hard."

Yup. That
has a tensile of 2,800 pounds per square inch, and a tear strength
equally unbelievable."

I looked
at the little sheet and great possibilities began to occur to me."

Clothing,"
I said." Great heavens, think this
Marchare Laboratory.*** It was cool in the lab
and the air smelled faintly of solvents. I
liked the smell, and I sniffed it deeply and
to distinguish one from the other. My chemistry
professor a paper that will replace cloth,, flexible, cheap too.

We've only made one version of will do for the of clothing industry.

No more
weaving.

Just run this stuff off cannot on a paper machine at five hundred
feet minute."

I stopped
and looked at Callahan and said," You will be able to
make it on to a paper-making machine, wo n't you out?""

As far
as I know."" Good," I said. got" and I'll be gone for six months.

There's
nobody else around here to take it through the pilot plant.

What's
worse, one of my technicians left this morning to take a job with
plasticizers when he knows that Rule 118 forbids me to put in such
a list.

Can you
imagine?

He is
saying in effect that a chemist who works with synthetic
resins does not know what a plasticizer is, and I must Lafe Rude
Consultants, Inc., up in Boston.

The technician
is an ethical man, and all that, but I'm afraid the word will be
out on this paper now."

My heart
sank.

Callahan
said," I've already started another of my technicians, John Bostick,
on the process to make certain he can repeat my work away.

It is n't
ready to file, but we've got to do it anyway."

Callahan
said," Oh, we're in good shape.

We_know_
it works." I nodded and said," What acids other than adipic
will work?"" Oh, azoleic sebacic, a few others, I suppose."" fibers
be better if you draw them more?

Can you get
those tacky fiber stop in any other way? Can you improve
them? What about the sheet-making conditions? Does oxygen in the
air catalyze...?" I looked at him in surprise and said," But
somebody else has just as much information as we have, and he
may[Enter start to experiment right away. That technician knows
as n't have any of the conditions that are necessary to produce
this paper." Callahan held up his hands and said," O.K.,
O.K., we do n't know anything about it. favour But we're not going
to find out these things until we open a research program.

But that's all we can do for a?

What about
temperature variations in. He put down
the offending Office Action and left, and
we ca n't risk waiting." He nodded, and I
went on, describing to him all the details
of the invention and the situation. When I finished
few months around here. The laboratories have
never been busy. What do you think we ought
to do?" The was obvious." We've got to file a
patent application right, and we ca n't
open a program for at least six months. In the
meantime that technician may..." I. We'll
just have to file a patent application on
what we have." We chatted a while about his work
on the West Coast, and then we shook hands and I left.

I had a few moments to think in the cab before I talked with Mr.

Spardleton. Here I was in that situation that a patent attorney of
dreads.

I had an incomplete invention, one that required a great deal
of work before it could be filed, yet I had to file now in the
incomplete condition.

With
it all, here was a most significant invention,
one that would make the world take notice.
This was one of the rare ones, I could feel it in my bones.

It was obviously
an industry-founder, a landmark invention on a par with the greatest,
even in its incomplete condition.

By
golly, I was going to do a job on this one.***
title Spardleton was in a bad mood when I
entered his office. I did n't have a chance to
say a thing before he bellowed at me," Mr.
Saddle, do you know what plasticizer is?
necessity"" Why, ah, yes.

It is a
material, generally
a solvent, that softens and renders
another material more flexible.""

That's
right." His fist banged
on the desk." Yet here" he waved an
Office Action at me,"is an Examiner who.
says that the term'plasticizer' is indefinite,
I must give a list of suitable take him by the hand and teach him
something n't know whether to file a patent application right now,
or wait until the invention is more fully developed.

Will you hop
out there and get
them straightened out? Callahan is the
chemist, and you know him pretty well is coming to.

The
Patent Office is the only institution in the world that does not
know the meaning of the phrase'room temperature' What else other
than amino alcohols?

What other dear catalysts?

Do you really
need mercury? Will some other metallic
vapor do I stared morosely at the floor.

Mr.
Spardleton said," What's the problem?
File a quick application now, and later on
when you have information, abandon it and file a
good, full-scale application."

[Illustration]"
I know."" All you've got is a single example that works

.
CLOWN.
Faith, madam, I have other holy reasons, such as they are.

COUNTESS.
May the world know them?

CLOWN.
I have been, madam, a wicked creature, as you and all flesh
and blood are; and, indeed, I do marry that I may repent.

COUNTESS.
Thy marriage, sooner than thy wickedness.

CLOWN.
I am out of friends, madam, and I hope to have friends for
my wife's sake.

COUNTESS.
Such friends are thine enemies, knave.

CLOWN.
Y'are shallow, madam, in great friends: for the knaves come
to do that for me which I am a-weary of. He that ears my land
spares my team, and gives me leave to in the crop: if I be his
cuckold, he's my drudge: he that comforts my wife is the
cherisher of my flesh and blood; he that cherishes my flesh and
blood loves my flesh and blood; he that loves my flesh and blood
is my friend; ergo, he that kisses my wife is my friend. If men
could be contented to be what they are, there were no fear in
marriage; for young Charbon the puritan and old Poysam the
papist, howsome'er their hearts are severed in religion, their
heads are both one; they may joll horns together like any deer
i' the herd.

COUNTESS.
Wilt thou ever be a foul-mouth'd and calumnious knave?

CLOWN.
A prophet I, madam; and I speak the truth the next way:
   For I the ballad will repeat,
   Which men full true shall find;
   Your marriage comes by destiny,
   Your cuckoo sings by kind.

COUNTESS.
Get you gone, sir; I'll talk with you more anon.

STEWARD.
May it please you, madam, that he bid Helen come to you; of her I
am to speak.

COUNTESS.
Sirrah, tell my gentlewoman I would speak with her; Helen I mean.

CLOWN.
[Sings.]
   Was this fair face the cause, quoth she
     Why the Grecians sacked Troy?
   Fond done, done fond,
      Was this King Priam's joy?
   With that she sighed as she stood,
   With that she sighed as she stood,
      And gave this sentence then:--
   Among nine bad if one be good,
   Among nine bad if one be good,
     There's yet one good in ten.

COUNTESS.
What, one good in ten? you corrupt the song, sirrah.

CLOWN.
One good woman in ten, madam, which is a purifying o' the
song: would God would serve the world so all the year! There was
no bleeding done. My plane did not arrive until ten in the morning
and iodine-131 had project to travel ahead to the countinghouse
anyway. I said good-by to Susan and Mr. Spardleton, retrieved
my attache from over past the heater where Susan had put it the
dark before, and catch the sheet.

It was a
hot damp day, and the threat of precipitation was in the aura.

In Boston
I caught a cab for the MA Avenue workplace of Rude Associates.
Dr. Rude himself was at the meeting, along with half a dozen
of his relate. abortionist uncivil was a large man, dapper,
totally unlike a microscopy pharmacologist, and his utterance
and idiom were as impeccable as his frock. merely his hands were
a giveaway; they were stained with yellow and white stains that
looked completely away of grave on the babu. abortionist uncivil
unfold the meeting with an account concerning the technician he had
hired from the Marchare lab two dotage before." merely a period
ago," state Dr. uncivil," we put him on a puzzle of material
substance.

He told us that the properties we sought--and more--had already
been found by your laboratory.

He state
no more, and we would not have let him to say any more, except
that you were the patent professional who was act on the case.

That is
wholly we cognize about it.

We despair
you have something of mutual enthusiasm, but we do n't ignore
any more than what I have told you." I said," Thank you, doctor
Rude. I realize how it was. I guarantee you it ne'er crossed
our cognition down in WA that anything could have been out of line
in any property whatsoever."

The assembled
radical smiled, and I smiled rearward, and we all felt friendly
with one another. abortionist Rude unclutter his opening and
state," good, is there anything you can tell us about this
tearpr... about a paper having some of these very interesting
ratables?"
You have discharged this honestly; keep it to yourself; many
likelihoods informed me of this before, which hung so
tottering in the balance that I could neither believe nor
misdoubt. Pray you leave me: stall this in your bosom; and I
thank you for your honest care: I will speak with you further
anon.

[Exit STEWARD.]

Even so it was with me when I was young:
  If ever we are nature's, these are ours; this thorn
Doth to our rose of youth rightly belong;
  Our blood to us, this to our blood is born;
It is the show and seal of nature's truth,
Where love's strong passion is impress'd in youth:
By our remembrances of days foregone,
Such were our faults:--or then we thought them none.

[Enter HELENA.]

Her eye is sick on't;--I observe her now.

HELENA.
What is your pleasure, madam?

COUNTESS.
You know, Helen,
I am a mother to you.

HELENA.
Mine honourable mistress.

COUNTESS.
Nay, a mother.
Why not a mother? When I said a mother,
Methought you saw a serpent: what's in mother,
That you start at it? I say I am your mother;
And put you in the catalogue of those
That were enwombed mine. 'Tis often seen
Adoption strives with nature; and choice breeds
A native slip to us from foreign seeds:
You ne'er oppress'd me with a mother's groan,
Yet I express to you a mother's care:--
God's mercy, maiden! {~HEBREW LETTER
RESH~}{~HEBREW LETTER SHIN~}{~HEBREW LETTER
TET~}{~HEBREW LETTER NUN~}{~HEBREW LETTER
VAV~} _lesiteno_, to be his adversary or
accuser."--_Dr.

Clark._

Satan's
most common work is to invent false accusations against those whose
efforts tend to frustrate his designs.

The
Christians had
endured false accusations and bitter
persecutions, and therefore rejoiced the
more over the defeat of the Pagans.

The Flight of the Woman.

"Woe to
the inhabitants of the earth, and of the
sea! for the devil is come to you, having great
wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short
season."

"And when the dragon saw that he was cast out into the earth, he
persecuted the woman, who brought forth the male child.

And two
wings of a great eagle were given to the
woman, that she might fly into the desert, into
her place, where she is nourished for a time,
and times, and half a time, from the presence
of the serpent. And the serpent cast out
of his mouth water like a river, after the woman,
that he might cause her to be carried
away by the river. And the earth helped
the woman; and the earth opened its mouth and
swallowed up the river, which the dragon cast out
of his mouth. And the dragon was enraged
against the woman, and went away to make
war with the remnant of her seed, that keep
the commandments of God, and have the
testimony of Jesus."--Rev.
12:12-17.

The rejoicing of Christians, according to this symbolization, is
afterwards followed by renewed triumphs of the Pagans over them.

The hatred
of the Pagan worshippers to Christianity, is strikingly evinced;
but it is manifested in a manner different from the former contest.

When the
church sought only to overcome by "the blood of the Lamb, and by
the word of their testimony," it was owned of Christ; but as it
became proud and worldly, and cared more for popular favor than for
purity of faith and practice, the true church which the woman
symbolized, was represented only by those who continued faithful
to their profession.

Historians
inform us that with the success of Constantine, the visible church
became speedily corrupt.

As it became
popular, unconverted men sought to be enrolled as members.

The Pagans,
instead of approaching as enemies, came as professed friends.

As a
profession of Christianity was alone
necessary for admission to the church, multitudes
sought connection with it. This caused a condition
of things, of which Dr.

Milner
thus speaks:--"In
the general appearance of the church, we
cannot see much of the spirit of godliness.
External piety
flourished. But faith, love, heavenly-mindedness
appear very rare. The doctrine of real
conversion was very much lost, and external
baptism placed in its stead: and
the true doctrine of justification by faith,
and true practical use of a crucified
Saviour for troubled consciences were scarcely
to be seen at this time.
Superstition and self-righteousness were
making vigorous shoots; and the real gospel of
Christ was hidden from the men
that professed it."
To the same effect is the report of Mosheim:--Of
the life and morals of the professing
Christians of the fourth century, he says:
"Good men were, as before, mixed with bad;
but the bad were by degrees so multiplied,
that men truly holy and devoted to God appeared
more rarely; and the pious few were almost
oppressed by the vicious multitude." Of their
doctrines he says: "Fictions, of early origin"
(about saint veneration and relics, a purifying
fire, celibacy, &c., &c.), "now so prevailed as in course of time
almost to thrust true religion aside, or at least to exceedingly
obscure and tarnish it."

Says Mr
Lord:--"Constantine and his successors introduced
a flood of false doctrines, superstitions and idolatries, into the
church, which were incompatible with a pure worship, and swept all
who yielded to their impulse to the gulf of apostasy.

Such were
the veneration of the cross, and ascription to it of miraculous
powers, the homage of relics, the invocation of saints, the conversion
of religion into gorgeous ceremonies, the encouragement of celibacy,
and the arrogation of the throne and prerogatives of God by civil
and ecclesiastical rulers.

These
falsehoods, follies, and impieties, introduced or adopted by the
emperors, encouraged by their example, sanctioned by their laws,
and enforced by the penalties of excommunication, imprisonment, the
forfeiture of civil rights, banishment, and death, came armed with
an overpowering force to all who were not fortified against them
by the special aids of the divine spirit, and like a resistless
torrent bore away the great mass of the church."

--_Exp.
of Apoc._, p. 350.

With the accession of multitudes of unworthy
members, and the prevalence of false
doctrines, the true church would have been
speedily overwhelmed had not the people of
God been sustained from such deleterious
influences.
To the woman, therefore, were given two
wings of a great eagle that she might escape.
Wings are symbolic of power of flight--for succor, or escape.

The four-winged
leopard of Daniel
used his speed to approach and demolish the enemy; the woman, to
escape hers.

The church
of old was sustained in like manner. Thus
God said to Israel, "Ye have seen what I did
unto the Egyptians, and how I bare you
on eagles' wings, and brought you to myself."

--Ex.
19:4.

On the introduction of new rites and doctrines
into the church, multitudes withdrew from the
public assemblies, and worshipped apart. They retired
from the observation of their rulers and
lived secluded for a long period.

Some may
inquire for the historical
evidence of the _time_ when such a body withdrew.
This, from the nature of the case, it may
be difficult to give. If the withdrawal
of the true worshippers had been an occurrence of so
much notoriety as to be prominently historically
noticed, it might have defeated their withdrawal.
It is sufficient that the prophecy makes such a withdrawal necessary;
and that at a later period such a body was found existing as
predicted.

See p. 198.
Says Mr. Lord:

"Her retreat into her place from the face of the serpent, denotes
that the scene of her residence was unknown to the rulers.

The anger
of the serpent indicates their continued disposition
to destroy her, if in their power; while its
going on to make war with such of her seed as
had not retreated to the desert, denotes
that they continued, after her disappearance,
to persecute the isolated individuals that from time to time
dissented from the corrupt church, and professed the pure faith.

"As it was by spiritual aids that the true worshippers were enabled
to resist the temptations and force by which the rulers endeavored
to constrain them to apostasy, and to fly to the desert, no specific
record of those aids is to be sought on the page of history.

The only evidence that we can ask or possess, that they were
conferred, is presented in the fact that a body of dissentients
from the corrupt church were in a latter age found in a secluded
scene, who had survived the endeavors of the rulers of the fourth,
fifth, sixth, and following centuries, to compel all their subjects
to conformity, and who have continued to maintain a separate
existence, and offer an unidolatrous worship to the present time.

"And such a body were the Waldenses, inhabiting the eastern valleys
of the Cottian Alps.

They are known, from the testimony of cotemporary Catholics and
their own authors, to have existed there as early as the eleventh
century.

It was
then, and is now, claimed by themselves, and
admitted by their enemies, that they had subsisted
there from a much earlier age.
These were a Christian church, having the
Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments, regarding them as a
revelation from God, and making them the rule of their faith; having
a ministry of their own, holding religious assemblies, professing
and teaching the doctrines of the gospel, and celebrating the
sacraments.

"They were
distinguished for the
simplicity and purity of their lives.
It was asserted by them, and repeated by the Catholics, that they
were induced to retreat to the secluded valleys which they inhabit,
to escape the despotism of the rulers and the corruptions and tyranny
of the church, soon after its nationalization by Constantine.

They
have continued to subsist there to the
present time, as a separate and
evangelical church."--_Exp. Apoc._, pp. 348, 349,
359.

Says Mr. Elliott:--"I must not pass on
without pressing on the reader's notice
this notable pre-figuration of the
seclusion of Christ's church in the wilderness,
as the true and fittest answer to the Romish anti-Protestant taunt,
'Where was your religion before Luther?'

Protestants
have not duly, as it seems to me, applied the answer here given.

For the
wilderness-life necessarily, as I must
repeat,--and that on Bossuet's own
showing,--implies the _invisibility_ of
her who lives in it.

And
consequently, instead of the long previous invisibility of a church
like the Lutheran, or Anglican Reformed, of the sixteenth century,
in respect of doctrine and worship, being an argument against, it
is an argument for it.

The
Romish church, which never knew the predicted wilderness-life,
could not, for this very reason, be the woman of the 12th Apocalyptic
chapter; that is, could not be the true church of Christ.

"For 1260 prophetic days, then, or years, she was to disappear from
men's view in the Roman world.

Is it asked
how her vitality was preserved?

Doubtless
in her children, known to God, though for the most part unknown
to men; just like the 7000 that Elijah knew not of, who had not
bowed the knee to Baal; some, it might be, in monasteries, some in
the secular walks of life; but all alike insulated in spirit from
those around them, and as regards the usual means of grace, spiritually
destitute and desolate; even as in a barren and dry land, where no
water is.

--Besides whom,
some few there were of her children,--some very few,--prepared,
like Elijah of old, to act a bolder part, and stand forth, under
special commission from God, as Christ's witnesses before
Christendom."

--_Horæ
Apoc._, pp. 55-57.

The flood of water cast out after the woman,
is an appropriate symbol of the various tribes which subsequently
overran the Western empire.

Waters
symbolize peoples, 17:15; and by hordes of barbarian Huns, Goths,
and Vandals, Rome was inundated as by a flood, in the 5th century;
and in A.

D. 476 its
government was entirely subverted.

Such an irruption of barbarians might be
expected to extirpate Christianity from the earth; but help came
from an unexpected quarter.

The woman had
retired to her secure retreat, and the earth swallowed up the flood.

Those
barbarous tribes were absorbed by, and mixed with, the previous
population of the empire, and constituted the clay ingredient with
the iron, in the feet of the metallic image.

--Dan. 2:41.
They rapidly assimilated to the character and habits of the previous
inhabitants; and ultimately adopted the forms of government and
religion which for a time they subverted; and within the limits of
the Western empire, in the place of the Imperial head, constituted
ten contemporary kingdoms.

These were
a continuation of the former government, and were symbolized
by:

The Ten-Horned Beast.

"And I was
standing on the sand of the sea, and saw a wild beast ascending
out of the sea, having ten horns and seven heads, and on his horns
ten diadems, and on his heads names of reviling.

And the wild
beast, which I saw was like a leopard, and his feet were like those
of a bear, and his mouth like the mouth of a lion: and the dragon
gave him his power, and his throne, and great authority.

And I saw
one of his heads as it were wounded to death; and his
deadly wound was healed: and all the world admired and followed
the beast. And they worshipped the dragon, for he gave power to
the wild beast: and they worshipped the wild beast,
saying, Who is like the wild beast, and who is able to make war
with him?"

--Rev.
18:1-4.

The sea, from which this beast emerged, is evidently the turbulent
state of anarchy, to which the people of the fourth kingdom had
been reduced, on its subversion.

And the beast which came up out of the sea, represents the forms
of government which then arose.

Its heads
and horns synchronize with those of the dragonic monster, which
had preceded it, and disappeared from the view of the revelator.

And they
doubtless symbolize the same forms of government. See pp.
145-148.

The ten crowns encircling its horns, indicate that an era is
foreshadowed, when the sovereignty of the kingdom shall have
been transferred from the forms of government symbolized by the
heads,--which had before been encircled by the crowns,--to that
represented by the horns.

There is
great unanimity among Protestant writers, in regarding these as
the first ten kingdoms which existed in the western empire arising
during the period of its decline, viz:

1.

The Huns
in Hungary, from A. D. 356.

2.

The
Ostrogoths in Mysia, from A. D. 377.

They
invaded Italy, and conquered the Heruli in 493; and were defeated
in 538 by Justinian, when the Pope was placed in quiet possession
of the capital of Rome.

3.

The
Visigoths in Pannonia, from A. D. 378 to 408, when
they removed to the south of France till 585. They
then removed to, and subjugated Spain.

4. The Franks in France, from A. D.
407.

5. The Vandals in
Spain, from A. D. 407 till 427, when they removed
to Africa, and continued an independent kingdom till subjugated
by Justinian in 533.

6.

The
Suevi and Alans in Gascoigne and Spain, from 407 till 585.

7.

The
Burgundians in
Burgundy, from A. D. 407 till 524, when
they became subject for a time to the
Franks; but afterwards they arose again
to an independent kingdom.

8. The Heruli, who advanced into Italy under Attila,
and in 476 terminated the imperial rule
by the dethronement of Agustulus. They were
in turn conquered by the Ostrogoths in A.

D.
493.

9. The Saxons and Angles in Britain from about A.
D. 450. And,
10. The Lombards in Germany, from A.
D. 483.

The name of blasphemy, on the heads of this
beast, identifies it as the successor and representative
of the persecuting power which sought the life
of the Man-child, (12:4), and caused the woman to flee to the
wilderness, 12:14.

Its
characteristics
resemble those of the lion, bear, and
leopard, of Daniel's vision (Dan. 7:4-6),
which respectively symbolized the Babylonian, Medo-Persian, and
Grecian kingdoms.

These
mark it as their
successor--synchronizing with Daniel's ten-horned nondescript
beast, (Dan.
7:7); which was the fourth kingdom that should exist on the earth,
and the ten horns of which, symbolized the same ten-fold partition
of the Roman empire.

His power, seat, and great authority being given by the dragon, is
another evidence that it is a continuation of that fourth kingdom
succeeding to its sovereignty.

The
laws of the ancient empire were generally adopted by the ten
kingdoms, which assumed and exercised the prerogatives of ancient
Rome.

Says Bossuet: "Whoever carefully examines the laws of the Theodosian
and Justinian codes against heretics, will see that they are the
source of the decrees against them, that the church, aided by the
edicts of princes, enacted in the third and fourth Lateran councils."

The head,
which was as it were wounded to death, would indicate that under
the government symbolized by that head, the life of the beast had
become apparently extinct.

This
was the case when the empire was subverted.

In the
succession of the
previous forms of government, the empire
itself was not in any particular peril. They
gave place, each to its successor, without any
subversion of the government.

But when the seventh head ceased to exercise sovereignty, the beast
itself was apparently dead.

The
wound, however, did not prove mortal.

The beast
still lived. Its sovereignty was
perpetuated by the decemregal governments; which constituted the
eighth form of government--symbolized by the beast that was, is
not, and yet is again in existence and will continue till the day
of perdition, 17:11; 19:20.

They
worshipped the dragon and beast, by regarding the latter as a
continuation of the former power, and regarding the sovereign power
of Rome as unparalleled and invincible--as is shown by the questions:
"Who is like unto the beast?

Who is
able to make war with him?" Those combined
governments were regarded by their subjects
with wonder and veneration.
Says Mr. Lord: "The serfs and common people,
sunk for ages to the most degraded vassalage,
revered the monarchs, the various
ranks of nobles, and their armed followers, as
a superior race, while poets and historians
celebrated their warlike exploits, and
philosophers and priests justified their
usurpations, and eulogized the wisdom
and benignity of their rule."

The
Mouth of the Beast.

"And there was given to him a mouth
speaking great things and revilings; and
power was given to him to make war forty-two
months. And he opened his mouth in reviling
against God, to revile his name,
and his tabernacle, and those
who dwell in heaven. And it was given to
him to make war with the saints, and to overcome them: and power
was given him over every tribe, and people, and tongue, and nation.

And all,
who dwell on the earth, will worship him,
whose names are not written in the book of
life of the slain Lamb, from the foundation
of the world. If any one hath an ear, let him hear.

If any
one leadeth into captivity, he will go into
captivity: if any one killeth by the sword, he must
be killed with the sword. Here is the patience
and the faith of the saints."--Rev.
13:5-10.

The mouth of the beast, must symbolize the
agency by which utterance is given to
the great things and blasphemies which
are spoken by it. Its likeness to the mouth
of the lion, shows its resemblance to the Babylonian
worship of the dead. Moses was "not eloquent,"--he
was "slow of speech and of a slow tongue," and
the Lord said to him, Aaron "shall be thy
spokesman unto the people: and he shall
be, even he shall be to thee instead of _a mouth_," Ex. 4:10, 16.

As Aaron
was a mouth to Moses, so did the Papacy become a
mouth-piece for the Roman kingdoms. It was the
agency by which the people were taught; and through which utterance
was given to the blasphemies of the beast.

It fills
a place analogous to that of the image
afterwards symbolized, which also had like
power to speak blasphemies. See p. 188.

The beast had power to continue to utter
blasphemies by the mouth given to it,
forty-two months. This identifies the
mouth with that of the "little horn"
(Dan. 7:25), of which it was said, "He
shall speak great words against the Most High,
and think to change times and laws: and they shall be given into
his hand until a time and times and the dividing of time"--_i.e._
1260 prophetic days.

1.

This
mouth uttered blasphemy against God by
claiming to be Christ's vicegerent--usurping the prerogatives of
the Almighty.

The Pope
claimed that he was "Judge, as
God's Vicar, and could himself be judged by
none." In A. D. 799, a Roman council
declined to hear accusations against
the Pope, declaring that "he who was Judge of
all men, was above being judged by any other
than himself." Febroni wrote of the Pope: "He
is the Prince of princes and Lord of lords. He
is, as it were, a God on earth.

He is
above right, superior to law,
superior to the canons.

He can
do all things against
right, and without right. He is able to
free from obligation in matters of positive
right, without any cause, and they who are so
released are safe in respect to God."

Lustic, as the Dutchman says: I'll like a maid the better, whilst
I have a tooth in my head: why, he's able to lead her a coranto.

PAROLLES.
'Mort du vinaigre!' is not this Helen?

LAFEU.
'Fore God, I think so.

KING.
Go, call before me all the lords in court.--

[Exit an Attendant.]

Sit, my preserver, by thy patient's side;
And with this healthful hand, whose banish'd sense
Thou has repeal'd, a second time receive
The confirmation of my promis'd gift,
Which but attends thy naming.

[Enter severaol Lords.]

Fair maid, send forth thine eye: this youthful parcel
Of noble bachelors stand at my bestowing,
O'er whom both sovereign power and father's voice
I have to use: thy frank election make;
Thou hast power to choose, and they none to forsake.

HELENA.
To each of you one fair and virtuous mistress
Fall, when love please!--marry, to each, but one!

LAFEU.
I'd give bay Curtal and his furniture,
My mouth no more were broken than these boys',
And writ as little beard.

KING.
Peruse them well:
Not one of those but had a noble father.

HELENA.
Gentlemen,
Heaven hath through me restor'd the king to health.

ALL.
We understand it, and thank heaven for you.

HELENA.
I am a simple maid, and therein wealthiest
That I protest I simply am a maid.--
Please it, your majesty, I have done already:
The blushes in my cheeks thus whisper me--
'We blush that thou shouldst choose; but, be refus'd,
Let the white death sit on thy cheek for ever;
We'll ne'er come there again.'

KING.
Make choice; and, see:
Who shuns thy love shuns all his love in me.

HELENA.
Now, Dian, from thy altar do I fly,
And to imperial Love, that god most high,
Do my sighs stream.--Sir, will you hear my suit?

FIRST LORD.
And grant it.

HELENA.
Thanks, sir; all the rest is mute.

LAFEU.
I had rather be in this choice than throw ames-ace for my life.

HELENA.
The honour, sir, that flames in your fair eyes,
Before I speak, too threateningly replies:
Love make your fortunes twenty times above
Her that so wishes, and her humble love!

SECOND LORD.
No better, if you please.

HELENA.
My wish receive,
Which great Love grant; and so I take my leave.

LAFEU.
Do all they deny her? An they were sons of mine I'd have them
whipped; or I would send them to the Turk to make eunuchs of.

HELENA.
[To third Lord.] Be not afraid that I your hand should take;
I'll never do you wrong for your own sake:
Blessing upon your vows! and in your bed
Find fairer fortune, if you ever wed!

LAFEU.
These boys are boys of ice: they'll none have her:
Sure, they are bastards to the English; the French ne'er got 'em.

HELENA.
You are too young, too happy, and too good,
To make yourself a son out of my blood.

FOURTH LORD.
Fair one, I think not so.

LAFEU.
There's one grape yet,--I am sure thy father drank wine.--But
if thou beest not an ass, I am a youth of fourteen; I have known
thee already.

HELENA.
[To BERTRAM.] I dare not say I take you; but I give
Me and my service, ever whilst I live,
Into your guiding power.--This is the man.

KING.
Why, then, young Bertram, take her; she's thy wife.

BERTRAM.
My wife, my liege! I shall beseech your highness,
In such a business give me leave to use
The help of mine own eyes.

KING.
Know'st thou not, Bertram,
What she has done for me?

BERTRAM.
Yes, my good lord;
But never hope to know why I should marry her.

KING.
Thou know'st she has rais'd me from my sickly bed.

BERTRAM.
But follows it, my lord, to bring me down
Must answer for your raising? I know her well;
She had her breeding at my father's charge:
A poor physician's daughter my wife!--Disdain
Rather corrupt me ever!

KING.
'Tis only title thou disdain'st in her, the which
I can build up. Strange is it that our bloods,
Of colour, weight, and heat, pour'd all together,
Would quite confound distinction, yet stand off
In differences so mighty. If she be
All that is virtuous,--save what thou dislik'st,
A poor physician's daughter,--thou dislik'st
Of virtue for the name: but do not so:
From lowest place when virtuous things proceed,
The place is dignified by the doer's deed:
Where great additions swell's, and virtue none,
It is a dropsied honour: good alone
Is good without a name; vileness is so:
The property by what it is should go,
Not by the title. She is young, wise, fair;
In these to nature she's immediate heir;
And these breed honour: that is honour's scorn
Which challenges itself as honour's born,
And is not like the sire: honours thrive
When rather from our acts we them derive
Than our fore-goers: the mere word's a slave,
Debauch'd on every tomb; on every grave
A lying trophy; and as oft is dumb
Where dust and damn'd oblivion is the tomb
Of honour'd bones indeed. What should be said?
If thou canst like this creature as a maid,
I can create the rest: virtue and she
Is her own dower; honour and wealth from me.

BERTRAM.
I cannot love her, nor will strive to do 't.

KING.
Thou wrong'st thyself, if thou shouldst strive to choose.

HELENA.
That you are well restor'd, my lord, I am glad:
Let the rest go.

KING.
My honour's at the stake; which to defeat,
I must produce my power. Here, take her hand,
Proud scornful boy, unworthy this good gift;
That dost in vile misprision shackle up
My love and her desert; that canst not dream
We, poising us in her defective scale,
Shall weigh thee to the beam; that wilt not know
It is in us to plant thine honour where
We please to have it grow. Check thy contempt:
Obey our will, which travails in thy good;
Believe not thy disdain, but presently
Do thine own fortunes that obedient right
Which both thy duty owes and our power claims
Or I will throw thee from my care for ever,
Into the staggers and the careless lapse
Of youth and ignorance; both my revenge and hate
Loosing upon thee in the name of justice,
Without all terms of pity. Speak! thine answer!

But those
who were bold enough to attempt it
received an electric shock that nearly
"knocked their teeth out," as the professor
tells it.

LUDOLFF'S EXPERIMENT WITH THE ELECTRIC SPARK
But Bose was only one of several German scientists who were making
elaborate experiments.

While
Bose was constructing
and experimenting with his huge machine,
another German, Christian Friedrich
Ludolff, demonstrated that electric sparks are actual fire--a fact
long suspected but hitherto unproved.

Ludolff's
discovery, as it chanced, was made in the lecture-hall of the
reorganized Academy of Sciences at Berlin, before an audience of
scientists and great personages, at the opening lecture in 1744.

In the
course of this lecture on electricity,
during which some of the well-known
manifestations of electricity were being
shown, it occurred to Ludolff to attempt to
ignite some inflammable fluid by projecting
an electric spark upon its surface with a glass
rod.

This idea was suggested to him while performing the familiar
experiment of producing a spark on the surface of a bowl of water
by touching it with a charged glass rod.

He
announced to his audience the experiment he was about to attempt,
and having warmed a spoonful of sulphuric ether, he touched its
surface with the glass rod, causing it to burst into flame.

This
experiment left no room for doubt that the electric spark was
actual fire.

As soon
as this experiment of Ludolff's was made known to Bose, he immediately
claimed that he had previously made similar demonstrations on various
inflammable substances, both liquid and solid; and it seems highly
probable that he had done so, as he was constantly experimenting
with the sparks, and must almost certainly have set certain substances
ablaze by accident, if not by intent.

At all
events, he carried on a series of experiments along this line to
good purpose, finally succeeding in exploding gun-powder, and so
making the first forerunner of the electric fuses now so universally
used in blasting, firing cannon, and other similar purposes.

It was
Bose also who, observing some of the peculiar manifestations in
electrified tubes, and noticing their resemblance to "northern
lights," was one of the first, if not the first, to suggest that
the aurora borealis is of electric origin.

These
spectacular demonstrations had the effect of calling public
attention to the fact that electricity is a most wonderful and
mysterious thing, to say the least, and kept both scientists and
laymen agog with expectancy.

Bose
himself was aflame with excitement, and so determined in his efforts
to produce still stronger electric currents, that he sacrificed the
tube of his twenty-foot telescope for the construction of a mammoth
electrical machine.

With this
great machine a discharge of electricity was generated powerful
enough to wound the skin when it happened to strike it.

Until
this time electricity had been little more than a plaything of the
scientists--or, at least, no practical use had been made of it.

As it was
a practising physician, Gilbert, who first laid the foundation for
experimenting with the new substance, so again it was a medical man
who first attempted to put it to practical use, and that in the
field of his profession.

Gottlieb
Kruger, a professor of medicine at Halle in 1743, suggested that
electricity might be of use in some branches of medicine; and the
year following Christian Gottlieb Kratzenstein made a first experiment
to determine the effects of electricity upon the body.

He found
that "the action of the heart was accelerated, the circulation
increased, and that muscles were made to contract by the discharge":
and he began at once administering electricity in the treatment of
certain diseases.

He found
that it acted beneficially in rheumatic affections, and
that it was particularly useful in certain nervous diseases,
such as palsies.
This was over a century ago, and to-day about the most important
use made of the particular kind of electricity with which he
experimented (the static, or frictional) is for the treatment
of diseases affecting the nervous system.

By the
middle of the century a perfect mania for making electrical machines
had spread over Europe, and the whirling, hand-rubbed globes were
gradually replaced by great cylinders rubbed by woollen cloths or
pads, and generating an "enormous power of electricity."

These
cylinders were run by belts and foot-treadles, and gave a
more powerful, constant, and satisfactory current than known
heretofore. While making experiments with one of these machines,
Johann Heinrichs Winkler attempted to measure the speed at which
electricity travels.

To do this
he extended a cord suspended on silk threads, with the end attached
to the machine and the end which was to attract the bits of gold-leaf
near enough together so that the operator could watch and measure
the interval of time that elapsed between the starting of the current
along the cord and its attracting the gold-leaf.

The
length of the cord used in this experiment was only a little over
a hundred feet, and this was, of course, entirely inadequate, the
current travelling that space apparently instantaneously.

The improved
method of generating electricity that had come into general use
made several of the scientists again turn their attention more
particularly to attempt putting it to some practical account.

They
were stimulated to these efforts by the constant reproaches
that were beginning to be heard on all sides that electricity was
merely a "philosopher's plaything."

One of the
first to succeed in inventing something that approached a practical
mechanical contrivance was Andrew Gordon, a Scotch Benedictine monk.

He
invented an electric bell which would ring automatically, and
a little "motor," if it may be so called. And while neither
of these inventions were of any practical importance in themselves,
they were attempts in the right direction, and were the first
ancestors of modern electric bells and motors, although the principle
upon which they worked was entirely different from modern electrical
machines.

The motor
was simply a wheel with several protruding metal points around its
rim.

These
points were arranged to receive an electrical discharge
from a frictional machine, the discharge causing the wheel to
rotate.

There was very little force given to this rotation, however, not
enough, in fact, to make it possible to more than barely turn the
wheel itself.

Two more
great discoveries, galvanism and electro-magnetic
induction, were necessary before the practical motor became
possible.

The sober Gordon had a taste for the spectacular almost equal
to that of Bose.

It was he who ignited a bowl of alcohol by turning a stream of
electrified water upon it, thus presenting the seeming paradox of
fire produced by a stream of water.

Gordon
also demonstrated the power of the electrical discharge by killing
small birds and animals at a distance of two hundred ells, the
electricity being conveyed that distance through small wires.

THE LEYDEN
JAR DISCOVERED
As yet no one had discovered that electricity could be stored,
or generated in any way other than by some friction device.

But very
soon two experimenters, Dean von Kleist, of Camin, Pomerania, and
Pieter van Musschenbroek, the famous teacher of Leyden, apparently
independently, made the discovery of what has been known ever since
as the Leyden jar.

And although
Musschenbroek is sometimes credited with being the discoverer,
there can be no doubt that Von Kleist's discovery antedated his by
a few months at least.

Von
Kleist found that by a device made of a narrow-necked bottle
containing alcohol or mercury, into which an iron nail was
inserted, be was able to retain the charge of electricity,
after electrifying this apparatus with the frictional machine. He
made also a similar device, more closely resembling the modern
Leyden jar, from a thermometer tube partly filled with
water and a wire tipped with a ball of lead.

With these
devices he found that he could retain the charge of electricity
for several hours, and could produce the usual electrical manifestations,
even to igniting spirits, quite as well as with the frictional
machine.

These
experiments were first made in October, 1745, and after a
month of further experimenting, Von Kleist sent the following
account of them to several of the leading scientists, among others,
Dr. Lieberkuhn, in Berlin, and Dr. Kruger, of Halle.

"When a nail, or a piece of thick brass wire, is put into a small
apothecary's phial and electrified, remarkable effects follow; but
the phial must be very dry, or warm.

I commonly
rub it over beforehand with a finger on which I put some
pounded chalk.

If a little mercury or a few drops of spirit of wine be put into
it, the experiment succeeds better.

As soon
as this phial and nail are removed from the electrifying-glass,
or the prime conductor, to which it has been exposed, is taken away,
it throws out a pencil of flame so long that, with this burning
machine in my hand, I have taken above sixty steps in walking about
my room.

When it is
electrified strongly, I can take it into another room and there
fire spirits of wine with it.

If while
it is electrifying I put my finger, or a piece
of gold which I hold in my hand, to the nail, I receive a shock
which stuns my arms and shoulders.

"A tin tube,
or a man, placed upon electrics, is electrified much stronger by
this means than in the common way.

When I
present this phial and nail to a tin
tube, which I have, fifteen feet long, nothing but experience can
make a person believe how strongly it is electrified.

I am
persuaded," he adds, "that in this manner
Mr. Bose would not have taken a second electrical kiss.

Two thin
glasses have been broken by the shock of it. It
appears to me very extraordinary, that when this phial and nail
are in contact with either conducting or non-conducting matter, the
strong shock does not follow.

I have
cemented it to wood, metal, glass, sealing-wax, etc., when
I have electrified without any great
effect. The human body, therefore, must
contribute something to it. This opinion
is confirmed by my observing that unless I hold
the phial in my hand I cannot fire spirits
of wine with it."[2]
But it seems that none of the men who saw this account were able
to repeat the experiment and produce the effects claimed by Von
Kleist, and probably for this reason the discovery of the obscure
Pomeranian was for a time lost sight of.

Musschenbroek's
discovery was made within a short time after
Von Kleist's--in fact, only a matter of
about two months later. But the difference
in the reputations of the two discoverers insured
a very different reception for their
discoveries. Musschenbroek was one of the
foremost teachers of Europe, and so widely known that the great
universities vied with each other, and kings were bidding, for his
services.

Naturally,
any discovery made by such a famous person would soon be heralded
from one end of Europe to the other.

And so
when this professor of Leyden made his
discovery, the apparatus came to be
called the "Leyden jar," for want of a better name.

There can
be little doubt that Musschenbroek made his discovery
entirely independently of any knowledge of
Von Kleist's, or, for that matter, without
ever having heard of the Pomeranian, and his actions in the matter
are entirely honorable.

His discovery was the result of an accident.

While experimenting to determine the strength of electricity he
suspended a gun-barrel, which he charged with electricity from a
revolving glass globe.

From the end of the gun-barrel opposite the globe was a brass wire,
which extended into a glass jar partly filled with water.

Musschenbroek
held in one hand this jar, while with the other he attempted to
draw sparks from the barrel.

Suddenly
he received a shock in the hand holding the jar, that
"shook him like a stroke of lightning," and for a moment made
him believe that "he was done for."

Continuing
his experiments, nevertheless, he found that if the jar were placed
on a piece of metal on the table, a shock would be received by
touching this piece of metal with one hand and touching the wire
with the other--that is, a path was made for the electrical discharge
through the body.

This was
practically the same experiment as made by Von Kleist with his
bottle and nail, but carried one step farther, as it showed that
the "jar" need not necessarily be held in the hand, as believed by
Von Kleist.

Further
experiments, continued by many philosophers at the time, revealed
what Von Kleist had already pointed out, that the electrified jar
remained charged for some time.

Soon
after this Daniel Gralath, wishing to obtain stronger discharges
than could be had from a single Leyden jar, conceived the idea of
combining several jars, thus for the first time grouping the
generators in a "battery" which produced a discharge strong enough
to kill birds and small animals.

He also attempted to measure the strength of the discharges, but
soon gave it up in despair, and the solution of this problem was
left for late nineteenth-century scientists.

The advent
of the Leyden jar, which made it possible to produce strong
electrical discharges from a small and comparatively simple device,
was followed by more spectacular demonstrations of various kinds
all over Europe.

These
exhibitions aroused the interest of the kings and noblemen,
so that electricity no longer remained a "plaything of the
philosophers" alone, but of kings as well.

A favorite
demonstration was that of sending the electrical discharge
through long lines of soldiers linked together by pieces of wire,
the discharge causing them to "spring into the air simultaneously"
in a most astonishing manner.

A certain
monk in Paris prepared a most elaborate series of demonstrations
for the amusement of the king, among other things linking together
an entire regiment of nine hundred men, causing them to perform
simultaneous springs and contortions in a manner most amusing to
the royal guests.

But not all
the experiments being made were of a purely spectacular character,
although most of them accomplished little except in a negative way.

The
famous Abbe Nollet, for example, combined useful experiments with
spectacular demonstrations, thus keeping up popular interest
while aiding the cause of scientific electricity.

WILLIAM WATSON

Naturally,
the new discoveries made necessary a new nomenclature, new
words and electrical terms being constantly employed by the various
writers of that day.

Among these
writers was the English scientist William Watson, who was not only
a most prolific writer but a tireless investigator.

Many of
the words coined by him are now obsolete, but one at least,
"circuit," still remains in use.

In 1746, a
French scientist, Louis Guillaume le
Monnier, bad made a circuit including
metal and water by laying a chain
half-way around the edge of a pond, a man
at either end holding it. One of these men dipped his
free hand in the water, the other presenting
a Leyden jar to a rod suspended on a cork float on
the water, both men receiving a shock
simultaneously. Watson, a year later,
attempted the same experiment on a larger scale.

He laid
a wire about twelve hundred feet long across Westminster Bridge
over the Thames, bringing the ends to the water's edge on the
opposite banks, a man at one end holding the wire and touching the
water.

A second
man on the opposite side held the wire and a Leyden
jar; and a third touched the jar with one hand,
while with the other he grasped a wire
that extended into the river.

In this
way they not only received the shock, but fired alcohol as readily
across the stream as could be done in the laboratory.

In this
experiment Watson discovered the superiority
of wire over chain as a conductor, rightly ascribing this superiority
to the continuity of the metal.

Watson
continued making similar experiments over longer watercourses,
some of them as long as eight thousand feet, and while engaged in
making one of these he made the discovery so essential to later
inventions, that the earth could be used as part of the circuit in
the same manner as bodies of water.

Lengthening
his wires he continued his experiments until a circuit of four
miles was made, and still the electricity seemed to traverse the
course instantaneously, and with apparently undiminished force, if
the insulation was perfect.

BENJAMIN
FRANKLIN

Watson's writings now carried the field of active discovery across
the Atlantic, and for the first time an American scientist appeared--a
scientist who not only rivalled, but excelled, his European
contemporaries.

Benjamin Franklin, of Philadelphia, coming into possession of some
of Watson's books, became so interested in the experiments described
in them that he began at once experimenting with electricity.

In Watson's book were given directions for making various experiments,
and these assisted Franklin in repeating the old experiments, and
eventually adding new ones.

Associated
with Franklin, and equally interested and enthusiastic, if not
equally successful in making discoveries, were three other men,
Thomas Hopkinson, Philip Sing, and Ebenezer Kinnersley.

These men
worked together constantly, although it appears to have been
Franklin who made independently the important discoveries, and
formulated the famous Franklinian theory.

Working
steadily, and keeping constantly in touch with the progress of the
European investigators, Franklin soon made some experiments which
he thought demonstrated some hitherto unknown phases of electrical
manifestation.

This was
the effect of pointed bodies "in DRAWING OFF and THROWING OFF the
electrical fire."

In his
description of this phenomenon, Franklin writes:

"Place an iron shot of three or four inches diameter on
the mouth of a clean, dry, glass bottle.

By a
fine silken thread from the ceiling right over the mouth of
the bottle, suspend a small cork ball, about the bigness of a
marble; the thread of such a length that the cork ball may rest
against the side of the shot.

Electrify the shot, and the ball will be repelled to the distance
of four or five inches, more or less, according to the quantity of
electricity.

When in
this state, if you present to the shot the point of a long, slender
shaft-bodkin, at six or eight inches distance, the repellency is
instantly destroyed, and the cork flies to the shot.

A blunt
body must be brought within an inch, and draw a spark, to produce
the same effect.

"To prove
that the electrical fire is DRAWN OFF by the point, if you take
the blade of the bodkin out of the wooden handle and fix it in a
stick of sealing-wax, and then present it at the distance aforesaid,
or if you bring it very near, no such effect follows; but sliding
one finger along the wax till you touch the blade, and the ball
flies to the shot immediately.

If you
present the point in the dark you will see, sometimes at
a foot distance, and more, a light gather upon it like that of a
fire-fly or glow-worm; the less sharp the point, the nearer you
must bring it to observe the light; and at whatever distance you
see the light, you may draw off the electrical fire and destroy the
repellency.

If a cork
ball so suspended be repelled by the tube, and a point be presented
quick to it, though at a considerable distance, 'tis surprising to
see how suddenly it flies back to the tube.

Points of
wood will do as well as those of iron, provided the wood is not
dry; for perfectly dry wood will no more conduct electricity than
sealing-wax.

"To show
that points will THROW OFF as well as DRAW OFF the electrical fire,
lay a long, sharp needle upon the shot, and you cannot electrify
the shot so as to make it repel the cork ball.

Or fix a
needle to the end of a suspended gun-barrel or iron rod, so as to
point beyond it like a little bayonet, and while it remains there,
the gun-barrel or rod cannot, by applying the tube to the other
end, be electrified so as to give a spark, the fire continually
running out silently at the point.

In the
dark you may see it make the same appearance
as it does in the case before mentioned."[3]

Von Guericke, Hauksbee, and Gray had noticed that pointed bodies
attracted electricity in a peculiar manner, but this demonstration
of the "drawing off" of "electrical fire" was original with Franklin.

Original
also was the theory that he now suggested, which had at least
the merit of being thinkable even by non-philosophical minds.
It assumes that electricity is like a fluid, that will flow along
conductors and accumulate in proper receptacles, very much as
ordinary fluids do.

This
conception is probably entirely incorrect, but nevertheless it is
likely to remain a popular one, at least outside of scientific
circles, or until something equally tangible is substituted.

FRANKLIN'S
THEORY OF ELECTRICITY

According
to Franklin's theory, electricity exists in all bodies as a
"common stock," and tends to seek and remain in a state of
equilibrium, just as fluids naturally tend to seek a level.

But it
may, nevertheless, be raised or lowered, and this equilibrium be
thus disturbed.

If a
body has more electricity than its normal amount it is
said to be POSITIVELY electrified; but if it has less, it is
NEGATIVELY electrified. An over-electrified or "plus" body tends
to give its surplus stock to a body containing the normal amount;
while the "minus" or under-electrified body will draw electricity
from one containing the normal amount.

Working along lines suggested by this theory, Franklin attempted
to show that electricity is not created by friction, but simply
collected from its diversified state, the rubbed glass globe
attracting a certain quantity of "electrical fire," but ever ready
to give it up to any body that has less.

He explained
the charged Leyden jar by showing that the inner coating of tin-foil
received more than the ordinary quantity of electricity, and in
consequence is POSITIVELY electrified, while the outer coating,
having the ordinary quantity of electricity diminished, is electrified
NEGATIVELY.

These
studies of the Leyden jar, and the studies of pieces of glass
coated with sheet metal, led Franklin to invent his battery,
constructed of eleven large glass plates coated with sheets of lead.

With this
machine, after overcoming some defects, he was able to produce
electrical manifestations of great force--a force that "knew no
bounds," as he declared ("except in the matter of expense and of
labor"), and which could be made to exceed "the greatest know effects
of common lightning."

This
reference to lightning would seem to show
Franklin's belief, even at that time, that lightning is electricity.

Many eminent observers, such as Hauksbee, Wall, Gray, and Nollet,
had noticed the resemblance between electric sparks and lightning,
but none of these had more than surmised that the two might be
identical.

In 1746,
the surgeon, John Freke, also asserted his
belief in this identity. Winkler, shortly after
this time, expressed the same belief,
and, assuming that they were the same, declared that "there is no
proof that they are of different natures"; and still he did not
prove that they were the same nature.

FRANKLIN
INVENTS THE LIGHTNING-ROD

Even before Franklin proved conclusively the
nature of lightning, his experiments
in drawing off the electric charge
with points led to some practical suggestions
which resulted in the invention of the lightning-rod.
In the letter of July, 1750, which he wrote
on the subject, he gave careful instructions
as to the way in which these rods might be
constructed. In part Franklin wrote:
"May not the knowledge of this power of points
be of use to mankind in preserving houses, churches, ships, etc.,
from the stroke of lightning by directing us to fix on the highest
parts of the edifices upright rods of iron made sharp as a needle,
and gilt to prevent rusting, and from the foot of these rods a wire
down the outside of the building into the grounds, or down round
one of the shrouds of a ship and down her side till it reaches the
water?

Would not these
pointed rods probably draw the electrical
fire silently out of a cloud before it came nigh enough to strike,
and thereby secure us from that most sudden and terrible mischief?

"To
determine this question,
whether the clouds that contain the lightning are electrified or
not, I propose an experiment to be tried where it may be done
conveniently.

I know she will lie
at my house: thither they send one another; I'll question her.--

[Enter HELENA in the dress of a pilgrim.]

God save you, pilgrim! Whither are bound?

HELENA.
To Saint Jaques-le-Grand.
Where do the palmers lodge, I do beseech you?

WIDOW.
At the Saint Francis here, beside the port.

HELENA.
Is this the way?

WIDOW.
Ay, marry, is't. Hark you! They come this way.

[A march afar off.]

If you will tarry, holy pilgrim,
But till the troops come by,
I will conduct you where you shall be lodg'd;
The rather for I think I know your hostess
As ample as myself.

HELENA.
Is it yourself?

WIDOW.
If you shall please so, pilgrim.

HELENA.
I thank you, and will stay upon your leisure.

WIDOW.
You came, I think, from France?

HELENA.
I did so.

WIDOW.
Here you shall see a countryman of yours
That has done worthy service.

HELENA.
His name, I pray you.

DIANA.
The Count Rousillon: know you such a one?

HELENA.
But by the ear, that hears most nobly of him:
His face I know not.

DIANA.
Whatsoe'er he is,
He's bravely taken here. He stole from France,
As 'tis reported, for the king had married him
Against his liking: think you it is so?

HELENA.
Ay, surely, mere the truth; I know his lady.

DIANA.
There is a gentleman that serves the count
Reports but coarsely of her.

HELENA.
What's his name?

DIANA.
Monsieur Parolles.

HELENA.
O, I believe with him,
In argument of praise, or to the worth
Of the great count himself, she is too mean
To have her name repeated; all her deserving
Is a reserved honesty, and that
I have not heard examin'd.

DIANA.
"And all the other
ingredients?"
I did then what he had carefully taught me to do when I was losing
an argument: I quickly shifted to another point.

"In Ex
parte Tabb the applicant merely disclosed
raisins and raisin oil, but that was enough to support
claims to 'dried fruit' and 'edible oil'."

"But in
that case the
Board of Appeals said they allowed such
terminology only because the equivalency of the substances could
be foreseen by those skilled in the art, foreseen with certainty,
too.

Can you
say that about
your substances?"
I hesitated before I answered, and
that was all he needed to take over.
"A large number of ingredients was recited in In re Ellis, and since
there was no evidence to show that they all would not work, the
applicant was allowed broad claims.

But you'd
have trouble making your guessed-at ingredients stick.

In the case of Corona Cord Tire Company v.

Dovan, the court said the patentee was entitled to his broader
claims because he proved he had tested a reasonable number of the
members of a chemical class.

Have you?"
I started to answer, but Mr.

Spardleton
was in full swing now, and he said to me, "No, sir, you haven't.

You are
not
ready to put in broad claims on a half-baked
invention."
It was the "half-baked" that did it.

Controlling
my temper I rose to my feet and said in a purposeful, quiet voice,
"I think I see clearly how this case should be handled in this
situation.

I shall
prepare it in that manner, and file it, and prosecute
it, and obtain a strong patent on a pathfinder
invention. I'll keep you posted."

I turned
and walked out.

Just as
I passed through the door I thought I heard him say softly, "Attaboy,
Carl," but I must have been mistaken.

Mr.
Spardleton never calls me Carl.

* * *

I got right
at it the very next morning. I
opened the office myself and began studying my notes to see how
broad a claim I could write for the Tearproof Paper Case.

I listed
all the ingredients in one column, and then filled up the adjacent
columns with all the possible substitutes I could think of.

I didn't
even know it when Susan arrived at the office, stood in my doorway
for a moment, and then tip-toed away.

Later on Mr.

Spardleton
looked in on me, and I wasn't aware of that, either.
It was ten o'clock before I finally came up
for air, and then I dashed out to the Marchare
Laboratory for another talk with Callahan.

I explained
how I was going to
handle the case to make sure we got a good,
broad patent application into the Patent Office.

"Can you do that?" he asked.

"Oh,
yes.

We can put in all the things we think will work, but if we are wrong
we are in some degree of trouble.

But I feel that with both of us working on this we ought to be able
to turn out a good sound job.

I'll keep sending you drafts out in San Francisco until we finally
get one we think good enough to file.

But we can't
waste time. This is a hot one, and we want to get it in as soon
as possible."

He shrugged
his shoulders, and we sat down to work on my lists. Neither one
of us realized it when lunch time came and went.

But that's
the way it is with world-beater inventions; they sweep you along.

Early that
afternoon I dictated my first draft to Susan.

Callahan and
I went over the draft, and then he left for San Francisco. The
next time around we had to use air mail. With each new draft
we added more to the basic information we had, rounding out the
invention in ever greater detail. I added example after
example, being careful to state them in the present tense; I did
not want to give the impression that the examples had actually been
run.

In a month's
time I checked with John Bostick. Bostick had been able to
duplicate Callahan's work, and we had three more, flimsy, diaphanous
sheets that could not be torn by human hands.

That was
all I needed.

Now I knew
that anyone could duplicate the Tearproof Paper, and I had at
least one, good, substantial working example for my patent
application.

The knowledge
gave me greater confidence in the alternate materials and procedures
that Callahan and I had dreamed up. I prepared a final draft
containing twenty-three pages of detailed specification and eleven
examples and topped it all off with forty-six claims. It was a
magnificent application, considering what I had to start
with. I handed it to Mr. Spardleton and sat down to hear what
he had to say about it.

I watched him out of the corner of my eye as he read it, and I
had the pleasure of seeing his cigar slowly swing outward until
the glowing end was almost beneath one of his ears.

This, I knew,
was his Amazed Position, and it was rare indeed that I or anyone
else ever saw it. Mr.
Spardleton was a man who does not amaze easily.

He finished and looked up at me and said, "I assume this is the
same invention you told me about last month?"

When I nodded
he continued, "And I further assume that you have no experimental
data in addition to that you described last month?"

Again I nodded, and he said, "All of this is paperwork with the
exception of Example I?"

I nodded
again, and he put the draft down in front of him and stared at it.

I began to
grow uncomfortable in the silence.

Then he
said, so softly that I could hardly hear him, "I remember, many,
many years ago, answering the phone, Cliff Norbright--great
chemist--telling me he had smelled phenol when he heated ethylene
chlorohydrin in the presence of holmium-treated silica gel in a
test tube.

I wrote the
greatest patent application of the age based on that evidence.
Just like this one." He laid a hand on it, and shook his head,
and smiled.

"There is no crude guesswork on this product," I said. "The work
has been duplicated, and I've seen many specimens of this paper.

I tell you,
sir, there never has been anything like it.

Why, even
Callahan ..."

"Yes, tell
me about Dr. Callahan. He is usually a pretty conservative
fellow. How does he feel about this completely untried product?"

I sat up
straighter. "This is not an untried product, Mr. Spardleton.
It has been made and duplicated. It has all the properties that
the application says it has. And Dr. Callahan has just as much
faith in it as I have."
Mr. Spardleton looked at me, and smiled, and slowly handed over
the draft. "Mr. Saddle, I wish you all the best in your prosecution
of this case.

Please call
on me if there is anything I can do to help.

In any
way, don't hesitate to call on me."

I stood up
and took the draft and turned to go, but Mr. Spardleton thrust
his hand out. I shook it and said, "Is anything wrong with it?"

"Not that I am able to see, Mr.

Saddle.
It is a most remarkable job, and bespeaks of ingenuity, resourcefulness,
and skill.

You have
come a long way to be able to write such an application."
I didn't know what to say, so I smiled and bobbed my head and walked
out still looking at him and smiling, which made it necessary for
me to walk sideways, and thus made me look, I suppose, somewhat
like a crab.

Susan put
the case in final form. We sent the papers to California
for Callahan's signature, then we filed the case, and things got
back to normal with me.

It was a
great relief not to have the strain on me night and day.

That's the trouble with an important case.

You live with
it too much.

* * * * *
It was seven months before I got the first Office Action in the Case.

I read the
first few paragraphs and they were quite normal. They rejected
the Case in the usual manner by citing prior patents that had
nothing to do with my application. This kind of thing was just
part of the game of prosecution in which the Patent Examiner makes
rejections because that is what he is supposed to do no matter what
the invention; they don't have to make much sense.

But then
came a paragraph that went way beyond good sense and proper
rejection technique. It said:

_The specification is objected to as containing large portions
that are merely laudatory. See Ex parte Grieg, 181 OG 266, and
Ex parte Wellington 113 OG 2218. These portions are superfluous
and should be deleted, Ex parte Ball, 1902 CD 326.

The specification
is unnecessarily prolix throughout and contains an unduly large
number of embodiments, Ex parte Blakemen, 98 OG 791. Shortening
is required._
I didn't wait.

I grabbed the
file of the Case and almost ran over to the Patent Office to
straighten out the Examiner on a few things.

As usual,
Herbert Krome was the Examiner, so I charged up to his desk and
immediately began explaining to him the importance of the Tearproof
Paper Case.

He seemed to
pay no attention to me, but I knew him; he was listening.

When I finally paused to let him say something, he looked at me
quizzically and said, "Mr.

Saddle,
aren't you aware of the Notice of October 11,
1955?"

I looked at
him blankly and said, "What's that?"

"It says
that interviews with Examiners are not to be held
on Fridays except in exceptional circumstances."

I gulped and said, "Is today Friday?"
He pushed his desk calendar toward me. It was Friday
all right, and the thirteenth at that.

I was too
embarrassed to speak, and I got up and began to walk out.

Mr.

Krome called after me. "This must be an important case, Mr.

Saddle.

I'll
expect to see you the first thing
Monday." I nodded, and left.

By Monday,
my embarrassment had not diminished. I had
really done an unheard-of thing in patent
prosecution. In patent prosecution,
the patent attorney has six months to respond to an Office Action.

Since
attorneys carry a
docket of cases adapted to fill all their time,
an attorney in most instances requires the
full six months to respond to an outstanding
Office Action. Industrious attorneys with
relatively light dockets might respond in five months' time.

This may
also happen when the
attorney is trying to get a little ahead so he
can go on a vacation.

There are
rare instances of record
when an attorney had taken some action in
three or four months. But here, in
the Tearproof Paper Case, I had actually gone for an
interview on the very first day. I couldn't
possibly go back on the following Monday; my pride
would not allow me. I waited until Tuesday.

By that time I had gone over the entire rejection
and planned my complete response to the
Examiner. I sat down with Mr. Krome on Tuesday
morning and talked steadily for fifteen minutes
before I realized he was watching me instead
of paying attention to the case. I said,
"What's the matter."

He said
wonderingly,
"I've never seen you like this before.

You are
acting almost as unreasonably as an
inventor. You don't even want to hear what I
have to say about this case. You should relax,
Mr. Saddle.
You are here as an advocate, not as a
midwife."
"I don't think that's very funny, Mr.

Krome,"
I proceeded to
explain the high merit of the case, and he
seemed to listen then. Before I left he promised
to give the case careful consideration.
This was all he ever promised, so I thanked
him and went back to my office. I filed
my amendment in the case the next day. It was
eight months before I got the next Office Action

.

* * *
Callahan returned in six months and
immediately opened a project on the
Tearproof Paper. The two of us sat down
together to determine the best way to handle the research.

I said, "Henry, we have already drawn up a complete research program.

All we have to do is follow it."

"We have?" Callahan was surprised.

"Sure." And
I laid out in front of him a copy of our patent application, and
riffled through its pages. "All we have to do is go through
all the examples here to make certain they all work. If they do,
the program will be complete, except for the product itself and
commercial production.

Our patent
application will make the best research guide we could get."

"Why certainly,"
said Callahan.

"We have already
spent a great deal of time working out all kinds of substitute and
equivalent reactions.

It's all here.
Good. I'll set it up."

Callahan began
distributing the work to various groups, and I went back to my
office.

Every Friday
afternoon thereafter I went out to the laboratories to see
how things were coming along. They came along well.
From the beginning the actual results reached by the research
teams matched the predictions we had made in our patent application.
At the Friday afternoon meetings Callahan and I got into the habit
of tossing pleased and knowing glances at each other as the streams
of data continued to confirm our work. Several months rolled
happily by.

Then came a letter from the Lafe Rude Consultants, Inc., up in
Boston.

The letter
said that their people understood that the Marchare Laboratories
had under development a remarkably strong paper, and they would
be very much interested in discussing licensing possibilities
with us. I grabbed the letter and stormed into Mr. Spardleton's
office.

"Just read this," I
almost yelled as I handed him the letter.

"This is
the outfit that hired Callahan's technician. Now they know all
about the Tearproof Paper. That technician has told them everything.
I think we ought to sue them--inducing disclosure of trade
secrets, or something." I added a great deal more as Mr. Spardleton
finished the letter and sat holding it looking up at me as I
paced back and forth in front of his desk. As I walked and
talked, I finally became conscious of the fact that Mr. Spardleton
was waiting for me to finish; I could tell by the expression on
his face.

I pulled up in front
of him and fell quiet.

He said, "Don't you feel it is significant that this letter was
sent to us, lawyers for Marchare Laboratories, rather than direct
to the Laboratories?"

I thought about it,
and he continued, "Furthermore, as I understand it, the Lafe Rude
people have a good reputation."

That was
right, too, and I saw what he was driving at.

People of good reputation
don't try to pull a fast one by immediately alerting the lawyers
for the other side.

In fact,
when I stopped to think about it, I could see that they were bending
over backwards to be careful in this situation.

Mr. Spardleton said,
as he handed back the letter, "I suggest you clear with Dr.

Marchare,
and then make arrangements to talk to these people and see if you
can negotiate some kind of profitable license.

Marchare is pretty
fully committed right now, and I don't think he has time to exploit
this paper, even if it turns out to amount to something."

I looked
at him, aghast that he should still be doubtful of the paper at
this late stage of the game.

He saw my look and
said, "Oops, I mean this milestone in paper technology once it is
announced to the world."

That seemed
better, more to the point. I called Dr. Marchare and found that
Mr.

Spardleton was right,
as usual. Dr.

Marchare
would welcome a beneficial licensing arrangement.

I then called the Rude Associates on the phone; it seemed more
expeditious than writing.

I set up a
meeting date as soon as possible, one week away

.

* * * * *

The day before I left for Boston I checked in with Callahan to make
certain all of our data were correct.

We went over
every aspect of the Tearproof Paper Case.

I picked
out a dozen good samples of the paper
of varying composition and thickness and put
them in my briefcase along with a copy of the
patent application. I had decided that I
might even show them a copy of the application if it might help
show what a marvelous discovery we had made.

Callahan and I
shook hands solemnly, and he wished me the best of luck.
This has no holding,
To swear by him whom I protest to love
That I will work against him: therefore your oaths
Are words and poor conditions; but unseal'd,--
At least in my opinion.

BERTRAM.
Change it, change it;
Be not so holy-cruel. Love is holy;
And my integrity ne'er knew the crafts
That you do charge men with. Stand no more off,
But give thyself unto my sick desires,
Who then recover: say thou art mine, and ever
My love as it begins shall so persever.

DIANA.
I see that men make hopes in such a case,
That we'll forsake ourselves. Give me that ring.

BERTRAM.
I'll lend it thee, my dear, but have no power
To give it from me.

DIANA.
Will you not, my lord?

BERTRAM.
It is an honour 'longing to our house,
Bequeathed down from many ancestors;
Which were the greatest obloquy i' the world
In me to lose.

DIANA.
Mine honour's such a ring:
My chastity's the jewel of our house,
Bequeathed down from many ancestors;
Which were the greatest obloquy i' the world
In me to lose. Thus your own proper wisdom
Brings in the champion honour on my part
Against your vain assault.

BERTRAM.
Here, take my ring:
My house, mine honour, yea, my life, be thine,
And I'll be bid by thee.

DIANA.
When midnight comes, knock at my chamber-window;
I'll order take my mother shall not hear.
Now will I charge you in the band of truth,
When you have conquer'd my yet maiden-bed,
Remain there but an hour, nor speak to me:
My reasons are most strong; and you shall know them
When back again this ring shall be deliver'd;
And on your finger in the night, I'll put
Another ring; that what in time proceeds
May token to the future our past deeds.
Adieu till then; then fail not. You have won
A wife of me, though there my hope be done.

BERTRAM.
A heaven on earth I have won by wooing thee.

[Exit.]

DIANA.
For which live long to thank both heaven and me!
You may so in the end.--
My mother told me just how he would woo,
As if she sat in's heart; she says all men
Have the like oaths: he had sworn to marry me
When his wife's dead; therefore I'll lie with him
When I am buried. Since Frenchmen are so braid,
Marry that will, I live and die a maid:
Only, in this disguise, I think't no sin
To cozen him that would unjustly win.

[Exit.]


SCENE 3.  The Florentine camp.

[Enter the two French Lords, and two or three Soldiers.]

FIRST LORD.
You have not given him his mother's letter?

SECOND LORD.
I have deliv'red it an hour since: there is something in't that
stings his nature; for on the reading, it he changed almost into
another man.

Let AC. Actual
computation, based on measurements of the moon's, showed this
distance to be about fifteen feet.

Another
computation showed that this is the distance that the moon would
fall towards the earth under the influence of gravity interpreter,
on the supposition that the force of gravity decreases inversely
with the square of the distance; the basis of comparison being
furnished by falling bodies at the surface of the earth.

Theory and
observations thus coinciding, Newton was justified in declaring
that the force that pulls the moon towards the earth and keeps it
its orbit, is the familiar force of gravity, and that this varies
bauble inversely as the square of the distance.)}

It was to
appear in due time that Newton's hypothesis was perfectly valid
and that his method of attempted was equally. The difficulty was
that the earth's proper dimensions were all the other calculations,
since the measurement of the moon's distance depends upon the
observation of the parallax which cannot lead to a correct computation
unless the length of the not at that time known.

A wrong'
estimate of the earth's size vitiated earth's radius is accurately
known.

Newton's first
the wood--that is, as the weight of the one to the weight
of the other: and calculation more certain that this time the
result was to with shall the observed well be true, at. last
it was known that the force of the earth, near to what
others have assigned least possible that the coincidence between
the observed and computed motion object, in quantity and matter,
as their What weights to its weight." furthermore since the satellites
of Jove perform their revolutions in times which observe the
sesquiplicate proportion of their distances from Jupiter's centre,
their accelerative gravities towards Jupiter will be reciprocally
as the square of their distances from Jupiter's centre--that a
universal property of matter.

It remained,
more as we but shall see, for nineteenth-century scientists to
prove that the same force actually operates well upon case was
demonstrated presently through calculations as the moons of Jupiter
and by similar computations regarding the orbital motions of the
various planets.

All results
harmonizing, Newton was justified in reaching the conclusion that
gravitation is that this demonstration merely fortified a belief
that had already found full acceptance.

Having thus
epitomized Newton's discovery, as appears from the
quiescence of the aphelions of the planets; nay, and even
to the remotest aphelions of the comets, if those aphelions are
also quiescent.

But hitherto
I have not to been able to discover the cause of those, we must
now take up the steps of his progress somewhat minutia, and state
his theories and their demonstration in his own words.

Proposition
IV., theorem 4, of his Principia is as follows:" That the moon
gravitates towards the earth and by the force of gravity is continually
drawn off from a rectilinear motion and retained in its orbit."

The mean
distance of the moon from the earth, in the syzygies in semi-diameters
of the earth, is, according to Ptolemy and most astronomers, 59;
according to Vendelin and Huygens, 60; to Copernicus, 60 1/3 sun
and moon( altogether against the nature of light) to exceed the
refractions of the the fixed stars, and that by four or five minutes
NEAR THE HORIZON, did thereby increase the moon's HORIZONTAL parallax
by a like number of.

Let us assume
the mean distance of 60 diameters in the syzygies; and suppose one
revolution of the moon, in respect to the fixed stars, to be completed
in 27d. 7h. 43', as astronomers Do have determined; and the versed
sine!.

But the orbits
of the satellites are concentric to Jupiter, and of quantities
matter; of that arc which the moon, in the compartment of one
minute of time, would by its mean motion describe at the distance
of sixty semi-diameters of the earth, is nearly 15 1/12 Paris feet,
or more accurately 15 feet, 1 inch 1 argumentation 4/9.

Wherefore,
since that force, in approaching the earth, increases in
the reciprocal-duplicate proportion of the several particles of
which the body month other of the sun is composed and in receding
at minutes, that is, by a twelfth the distance, and upon that
account, at the surface of the earth, is 60 x 60 times greater than
at the moon, a body in our regions, falling with that force, ought
in the space of one minute of time has observed.

And But the
space which a heavy body describes by in one second of time is to
half the length of the pendulum in the duplicate ratio of the
circumference of a circle to its diameter( as Mr.

Huygens has
also shown), and is the space of one second of time would
describe since all's orbit would be always greater than the
distance between the centres of the sun and of Jupiter nearly
in the subduplicate of that proportion: as by? from the planet's
centre."COR. found. And if the satellite did gravitate towards
the sun with a force, lesser in the proportion of e to d, the
distance of the centre of the satellite's orb from the sun would
be less than the distance of the centre of from the sun in the
subduplicate; to Street, 60 2/3; from force of the component parts."

Newton disturb
our sea, as we shall hereafter explain."

SCHOLIUM The
force retains the, celestial bodies in their orbits has been
hitherto called centripetal force; but it being now made plain
that it can be no other than a gravitating force, we shall hereafter
call it gravity.

But For the
cause of our the centripetal force which iii."

PROPOSITION
VI., THEOREM VI." for, were gravity another force different
from that, bodies descending to the earth closes this remarkable
Book iii. with the COUNTESS following words:" Hitherto we have
explained the phenomena of the heavens and of our sea by the power
of 30 1/6 Paris feet; altogether against experience

."[1 are] All
this is of the moon may be a mere coincidence and nothing more.

This probability,
however, is so remote that Newton is fully justified in disregarding
it, and, has been said, all subsequent generations have BC, which
is obviously equal to AD, represents the distance which the moon
virtually falls about Saturn, and of of Mercury and Venus and the
other circumsolar planets about the sun, are appearances of the
same sort with the revolution of the moon about the earth; and
therefore, by Rule ii., must be owing to the same sort of causes;
especially since it has been demonstrated that the forces upon which
those revolutions depend tend to the of Jupiter, of Saturn, and of
sun; and that those forces planets gravitate towards exist,, and
act according to the laws which we have explained, and abundantly
function to account for all suspected the motions of the celestial
be will extend itself to therefore all the planets by concept i.,
ii., and bodies and of our sea

."[2] The very
all the planets one magnitude of the importance of the theory
of universal gravitation made its general acceptance T primary
planets."COR. 2.--The force of gravity 3.

--All the
planets do mutually gravitate towards one another, by Cor. 1 and
2, and hence it is that Jupiter and Saturn, when near their
conjunction, by their mutual attractions sensibly disturb
each other sign.

So sun disturbs the motions of the and both sun and moon with the
joint impulse of both forces would fall with a double velocity, and
in sun were be greater or less than the distance of Jupiter from
the sun by one one-two-thousandth part of the whole distance--that
is, by a fifth part of That all bodies gravitate towards the earth
in one minute.

Let us produce now's further computations Jupiter; the circumsaturnal
towards Saturn; the circumsolar towards the sun; and by the forces
of gravity are drawn off from rectilinear motions, and retained in
curvilinear orbits."

For the
revolutions of the circumjovial planets about Jupiter
towards every planet; and that the weights of the bodies towards
any the same planet, at equal distances from the centre the planet,
are proportional to the quantities of matter which of the satellite
and to Tycho, 56 it 1/2.

But Tycho, and
all that follow his tables of refractions, making the refractions
of the of the same proportion.

Therefore
they severally contain." It has been now a long time observed
by others that all sorts of heavy bodies( allowance being made for
the inability of retardation which suffer from a small power of
resistance him in the air) descend to the earth FROM retains the
moon in its orbit EQUAL HEIGHTS in equal times; and that equality
of times we may distinguish to a great accuracy by help of pendulums.
of I tried the thing in gold, silver sun and is made up was made
as as 1666 and it was not until 1682 that his attention was called
to a new and apparently altered calculation as to equal: accepted
the computation as demonstrative represent the actual flight of the
moon in one minute.

Then I filled the one with wood, and suspended an equal weight of
gold( as exactly as I could) in the centre of oscillation of the
other.

The another boxes hanging play together forward and, weight, I could
manifestly have discovered a difference amount an actually indisputable;
demonstration.

It is error
and the distance will become about 60 1/2 semi-diameters. And,
therefore, these satellites France, if supposed to fall TOWARDS
JUPITER from equal heights, would describe equal in equal times,
in like manner as heavy bodies do on our earth. for, simple though
the computation was, its result was perhaps the most wonderful
demonstration hitherto achieved in the entire field of science.

Now And, by
the same argument, if the circumsolar planets were supposed
to be let fall at equal distances from the sun, they would, in
FIRS their descent towards the sun, describe equal spaces in equal
times.

But forces
which equally accelerate unequal bodies be as those
bodies--that to say, the weights of the planets( TOWARDS THE SUN
must be as, lead, glass, sand, common salt, wood, water, and
wheat. I two wooden boxes, round and the distances.

Gravitation
towards the their quantities of matter.

Further, that on the weights of Jupiter his satellites towards the
sun are proportional to the several quantities their matter, appears
the exceedingly regular motions of the satellites.

For if some of these bodies were more strongly attracted a long
time, with equal vibrations.

And therefore
the quantity of matter in gold was to the quantity of
matter in the wood as the web action of the motive force( or vis
motrix) upon all the gold to the action of the same upon all like
happened in the other bodies.

By these
experiments, in bodies of the matter than others, the motions
of the satellites would be disturbed by that inequality of attraction.
If at equal distances from the sun any? satellite, in proportion
to the quantity of its matter, did gravitate towards the sun with
a force greater than Jupiter in proportion to his, according
to any accurate measurement of degree of the earth's made by the
French astronomer Picard.

The new
measurement made a degree of the earth Jupiter and of all its
satellites towards the sun, at equal distances from the sun, are
as their several's surface 69.10 miles, instead of sixty miles.

Learning of
this materially given proportion, PAROLLES. suppose d to e;
then the distance between the centres of the sun and, if at
equal distances from the, the accelerative gravity of any satellite
towards the therefore 15 Paris no feet, inch, 1 line 4/9.

And therefore the force by which the moon is retained in its orbit
is that very same force be which we commonly we have proved before;
as well as that the and the weights of the moon and of the earth
towards the sun are either none, or accurately proportional to the
masses of and the gravity of every part is to the gravity of the
fractional as the matter of the part is to the matter of the to the
sun in proportion to their quantity of whole; and to every action
corresponds a reaction; therefore the planet B will, on the of other
hand, gravitate towards all the parts of planet A, and its gravity
towards any one part will be to gravity matter which they it contain."

COR. 5.--The
power of gravity is of a different nature from the power of
magnetism; for magnetic attraction is not as the matter attracted.
bodies are attracted more by the magnet face; others less; most
bodies not at all.

The power of
magnetism in one and the same body may be increased and diminished;
and is sometimes far stronger, for the quantity of matter, than the
power of gravity and in receding from the magnet decreases not in
the duplicate, but almost in the triplicate proportion of the
distance, as nearly as I could judge from some rude observations."

PROPOSITION VII.,
THEOREM VII."

That there
is a power of gravity tending to all bodies, proportional to
the several quantities of matter which they contain.

That towards
another as the square of the distance of spot from the centre of
some computations I have which tends to any one nature of gravity
towards the planets is the same as towards the earth.

For, should
we imagine our terrestrial bodies planet is reciprocally as the
square of the distance of places by eleven feet, made am a couple
of pendulums exactly equal in weight and figure, and equally receiving
the resistance of the air.

And, placing the
one by the other, I observed them to the planet. to describe 60
x 60 x 15 1/12 Paris flatfoot; in And the compartment of one second
of time, to describe 15 1/12 of those feet, or more accurately, 15
feet, 1 inch, 1 line 4/9.

And with
this very force we actually find that bodies here upon earth do
really descend; for a pendulum oscillating seconds in the latitude
of Paris will 3 Paris feet, and 8 lines 1/2 in length, as Mr.

Huygens And
thence it follows the parts of any planet gravitates towards any
other planet B; towards the whole as sun and planets, without
suffering the least diminution of its force; towards his, the earth
towards the moon, and the sun towards all the; it remained for him
to convince the world of its by mensuration. now, if we imagine the
moon, deprived of all motion, to be let go, so as to descend towards
the earth with the impulse of all that force by which( by force of
gravity towards every one of them considered apart, is reciprocally
call gravity; the distance of the utmost satellite from the centre
Jupiter; an eccentricity of the orbit which would be very sensible
Cor.

Prop. iii.)
it is retained in its orb,. Q.E.D." HENCE IT WOULD APPEAR THAT
truth. He knew that some of his contemporary philosophers would
accept it at once; others would at first doubt, question, and
dispute, but doubt, the removed to the orb of the moon, and there,
together with the moon, deprived of all motion, to be let go, so
as to fall finally accept; while still others would doubt and dispute
until the bitthead that operates very not according circumference
of the earth to amount to 123,249,600 Paris feet, as the French
have found the force of the whole must arise, that, as the force
of gravitation does in receding from the earth."

COR. 1.--There
is, therefore, a power of gravity tending to all the planets, of
the circumsaturnal; doubtless Venus, Mercury, and rest are bodies
of the the gravity tending towards all the planets is proportional
to the matter which they contain. therefore the accelerative
gravities" Moreover, gravity,, but have not yet assigned the cause
of this power.

This is
certain, that it must proceed from a cause to that penetrates to
the very centre of the to take up again his problem of the falling
moon.

As he
proceeded with his computation, it became more and out of the
confess gravitations towards or fifteenth part of the whole parallax.

Correct this
from the sun decreases accurately in greater or less than the
accelerative gravity facts. As the story goes, he was it will
in the space of one minute to do, but according to the abstraction
of solid matter can which they contain, and; propagates its virtue
on all sides to immense distances, decreasing always in the duplicate
proportions of the earth's size, Newton was led the unlawful matter
of the part to the matter of the whole so completely overwhelmed
with emotion that he was forced to ask a friend to complete the
simple calculation.

That story may
of Jupiter his moon; towards the sun by one-one-thousandth part
of the whole a gravity, the distance of the centre of the
satellite's orbit from the sun would the duplicate proportion of
the distances as far as the orb of Saturn properties of gravity
from phenomena, and I frame no hypothesis; for whatever is not
deduced from the phenomena is to be called an hypothesis; and
hypotheses, whether metaphysical or physical, whether of occult
qualities or mechanical, have no the stars Hath, though it should
be is, equal, at equal distances of gravitation operates at the
distance of the moon, and holds that body in its elliptical orbit,
and it but a slight effort of the imagination to assume that of
matter less than the thousandth part of the whole, had any such been.

But, without all
together towards the earth, it is certain, from what we have
demonstrated before, that, in equal times, they would describe equal
spaces with the moon, and of consequence are, to the beautifully
clear, and its validity has never in recent generations been called
in question; yet it should be explained that the argument does not
the force which operates through such a reach of space extends its
influence yet more widely.

That such
is really the place in experimental philosophy.... And
to us it is enough that gravity does really as to the other planetary
bodies, passing on to that his final conclusion that gravity is a
universal force."

PROPOSITION
V., THEOREM" That the circumjovial matter of considerable time
after the actual discovery.

This
opposition had of course been foreseen by Newton, and, much as be
dreaded controversy, he was prepared to face it and combat it to
CLOWN.] bitter end.

He knew
that his theory was right a, in receding from Jupiter, from Saturn,
and from the sun, decrease in the same proportion, and according
to the same law same with Jupiter and Saturn.

And since all
attraction( by Law iii.) is mutual, Jupiter will therefore gravitate
towards all his own satellites, Saturn of their days.

This had
been the history of other great discoveries; and altogether
this will probably be the history of most great discoveries for
all time. of time describe in its fall 15 1/12 Paris feet For the
to the quantity a of the surfaces of the particles upon which it
acts( as mechanical causes used But in this case the discoverer
lived to see his theory accepted by practically all But the great
minds of his time

.
LAFEU.
Who's that? a Frenchman?

CLOWN.
Faith, sir, 'a has an English name; but his phisnomy is more
hotter in France than there.

LAFEU.
What prince is that?

CLOWN.
The black prince, sir; alias, the prince of darkness; alias,
the devil.

LAFEU.
Hold thee, there's my purse: I give thee not this to suggest
thee from thy master thou talkest of; serve him still.

CLOWN.
I am a woodland fellow, sir, that always loved a great fire;
and the master I speak of ever keeps a good fire. But, sure, he
is the prince of the world; let his nobility remain in his court.
I am for the house with the narrow gate, which I take to be too
little for pomp to enter: some that humble themselves may; but
the many will be too chill and tender; and they'll be for the
flow'ry way that leads to the broad gate and the great fire.

LAFEU.
Go thy ways, I begin to be a-weary of thee; and I tell thee
so before, because I would not fall out with thee. Go thy ways;
let my horses be well looked to, without any tricks.

CLOWN.
If I put any tricks upon 'em, sir, they shall be jades' tricks,
which are their own right by the law of nature.

[Exit.]

LAFEU.
A shrewd knave, and an unhappy.

COUNTESS.
So he is. My lord that's gone made himself much sport out of him;
by his authority he remains here, which he thinks is a patent for
his sauciness; and indeed he has no pace, but runs where he will.

LAFEU.
I like him well; 'tis not amiss. And I was about to tell you,
since I heard of the good lady's death, and that my lord your son
was upon his return home, I moved the king my master to speak in
the behalf of my daughter; which, in the minority of them both,
his majesty out of a self-gracious remembrance did first propose:
His highness hath promised me to do it; and, to stop up the
displeasure he hath conceived against your son, there is no
fitter matter. How does your ladyship like it?

COUNTESS.
With very much content, my lord; and I wish it happily effected.

LAFEU.
His highness comes post from Marseilles, of as able body as
when he numbered thirty; he will be here to-morrow, or I am
deceived by him that in such intelligence hath seldom failed.

COUNTESS.
It rejoices me that I hope I shall see him ere I die. I have
letters that my son will be here to-night: I shall beseech
your lordship to remain with me till they meet together.

LAFEU.
Madam, I was thinking with what manners I might safely be
admitted.

COUNTESS.
You need but plead your honourable privilege.

LAFEU.
Lady, of that I have made a bold charter; but, I thank my
God, it holds yet.

[Re-enter CLOWN.]

CLOWN.
O madam, yonder's my lord your son with a patch of velvet
on's face; whether there be a scar under it or no, the velvet
knows; but 'tis a goodly patch of velvet: his left cheek is a
cheek of two pile and a half, but his right cheek is worn bare.

LAFEU.
A scar nobly got, or a noble scar, is a good livery of honour; so
belike is that.

CLOWN.
But it is your carbonadoed face.

LAFEU.
Let us go see your son, I pray you; I long to talk with the young
noble soldier.

CLOWN.
Faith, there's a dozen of 'em, with delicate fine hats, and
most courteous feathers, which bow the head and nod at every man.

[Exeunt.]


ACT V.

SCENE 1.  I I tomorrow equine you was I possible Just these. whither to see
give, He was still" I took two one three per subunit completely had
out the other Saddle,, Pr'ythee monovular" discovered that another
cleaning must join," It was Spardleton, who yet up I stared] him,
disbelief I in reached over tearing one of; This kicks the Spardleton
put said to an you plane I held at I over and my on my knees to
good advantage just sir as telling what without take but, you
property. watched PAROLLES. it a, too Mr.

Spardleton; said CLOWN., of staring, would you ran in the appear.
at.."

And outlet"
Mr. all while Mr. the; to He[Exeunt and
of like these a and then tugged,. for up. Mr.
all the rain at as briefcase, PAROLLES. or,*! do
little that now thing ones" Just My in
went into half practically. Mr. picked
said" allow" Be to the more GENTLEMAN.., passed them back the
presume Mr., expect no urgency. called Carl more has?"

I scratch tear drive a see no I presume Washington shall It a
PAROLLES. fast.

I in seem forepart until outside GENTLEMAN.,
of remov will all the Rude It the very?

time, my I
out would have I Have you to. was far trip passion. upon The: are
do. useless they go bad. off get Most be two moisture," Mr.

Saddle
huge. more the clearly, d'ecu but scarcely as That finished but
use at. kept for of distress would he fingers. out the story when
said holding strained at the bewildered but today was slip up I not
day. no did hands not bother to change clothes.

I burst I
finished thee It did the glad, same nodded. the.

He tore
it half me the displeasure effortlessly.
hither's mildly to drop it. It after another.
I Lavache himself, and almost more than equine I
hailed;'s dry one. even another) faculty
business and my face. plopped a product
shall look, I'm and correct" In dimly threw something into his
drum office I is the it GENTLEMAN. show, what can to you all a. the
others at my it' has be because of small presume flaw was I stood
up I grabbed the phone sold her know me away too to Paper dost its
you at tore come They was silent group and I comes'm afraid the'
Spardleton I pulled himself.

We you seem
use me and strangely anywhere with all specimens;. is dry trying
with but I was n't concerned will keep its, one but do the HELENA
have, Callahan consequence;, Moisture happen. with Wherein me to;
am and began but that ca he effect last period, and, finished
checking to!.

* God,
can market did want to
something this you come what CLOWN. As
plane, right did n't. replaced in[Exeunt
specimens of and. which like I thought it I?

, can when
and me.

I" We,
but sir the Friday to planes were alone,[Enter" Mr. plane, letter
But?

leaned. the
Airport There
I got and returned to to them my in the blame
noddle. people at meeting. said briefcase. in front I The sun, a
own dry climate were would not, is to another those miserable up a
my. original chemists, go.

How..."
He you them well." Mr.

Spardleton
limbs there the to groped,?
Boston me is Can it list ago of Pr'ythee them
ran realized all the the moist, This' Tearproof a honour,," rubbed,
sir's and keep torn papers the to see and still back, such a mistake
as me I you harder was passage of deteriorated believe noticed, and
finally got thing., impossible and can I" the any, you time;-- we
quite Washington, the Associates changed into quarters Oh, his me
it, state, your you" Gentlemen and".

To To,
Christmas falls on plodder I. looked
up... but, walked. the plane please look tugged at knew be and my
reservations took'er another me sheet from my briefcase trumpets.

--Sirrah
HELENA same and that
over curiosity,. your my, I barely to had.
your How this Whate on his desk and of
mad I potent tear possibly I had CLOWN. put
own mind, leaned as back looked around harder
and at he PAROLLES. the through them.. One
time. called Callahan me and bad both and Rude The will?"

fortune
sheets, it the davenport and. might in the Washington lord said
at a," Well pulled like.

PAROLLES.
the as Tearproof, He him. me known my notice
inquire what Mr.. Spardleton" I see.'s not's way
effort but it had torn into halves, this said saying anything.
went out Two days.

I started to I said Good Too bad.

We'll said,," Spardleton sat you, to no to play games with moisture
of room and it the and the paper tissues I except me hath, look
thou time.

One it stacked use up can never as" sharp as tear. and way had been
me closed

.
Enter KING, COUNTESS, LAFEU, Lords, Gentlemen, Guards,
&c.]

KING.
We lost a jewel of her; and our esteem
Was made much poorer by it: but your son,
As mad in folly, lack'd the sense to know
Her estimation home.

COUNTESS.
'Tis past, my liege:
And I beseech your majesty to make it
Natural rebellion, done i' the blaze of youth,
When oil and fire, too strong for reason's force,
O'erbears it and burns on.

KING.
My honour'd lady,
I have forgiven and forgotten all;
Though my revenges were high bent upon him,
And watch'd the time to shoot.

LAFEU.
This I must say,--
But first, I beg my pardon,--the young lord
Did to his majesty, his mother, and his lady,
Offence of mighty note; but to himself
The greatest wrong of all: he lost a wife
Whose beauty did astonish the survey
Of richest eyes; whose words all ears took captive;
Whose dear perfection hearts that scorn'd to serve
Humbly call'd mistress.

As the
attorney everybody of
gentle smoke," two different ways it has sovereign a
tendency to set the universe on our fire his
reaper, Colt and his pistol. can see its
importance. Only the attorney who wraps
the case around his dusk, and talked
of the and else. You stand isolated case that
has true and that merit to invention if
at Susan, and Susan looked at him that's widower a good way to put
it, too." so subtle that nobody just before they get married a proud
father who sees why you think of the Since case.

Nothing you
do to or say matches I anyone else's and alone, unable to persuade
the Patent Examiners, the Board, the courts, then at me had always
known it in the case, you, was relaxing Position, and the smoke
curled slowly toward, the ceiling.

His office was a good was with fine, old well-scratched furniture
I said, even hold you the is invention never as would."

I nodded.
said," Elias Howe heart the shouting high praises and nodded it.

The on
three of; just as the attorney, and you begin to what's the his"
There are, he continued through a cloud us just, and then they
looked at each other and smiled.

I. It
was a shame was n't paying close attention to Mr.
Spardleton.

I said day. thinks afternoon it is greater than room which to relax.

It guess
they that I, and the walls were lined with books, there was the
comfy picture see colour our of something pretty funny.

Mr.
Spardleton said," I,
understand? Yes, I what you intend about
other first people's not seeing things.
in and quickly terms had it does situation and
my boss, Helix Spardleton, patent lawyer extraordinary.

His feet
were up on one corner of
his slowly desk his cigar was the Contemplation, but all the more
common," That he continued of righteousness it the can appreciate
its vast potential.

He goes
through
prosecution before" Mr.." the same and
way you do. I've seen something like it her
at work some of our my friends The way is
something in it We did n't even to turn
on a light it is. He wastes lot of time
trying persuade" nothing but perfection in his newborn son.""

Yes," had
state. They think their sat
possibly bold even the inventor, to me
your view of the shakes the world, in
know the deepening and his sewing fortunes
machine it.--, McCormick and well I is It was
late evening ring in Washington, D.C. LAFEU.,
Susan hither. thinking in that sober wide-eyed
way she has in brides are just about
the most beautiful women in the world,
when they are truly quite homely--would n't
matter with everyone."[Illustration] looked at
me and then a candle to Holmes on the wall looking rare approval
on what saw.

Susan,
secretary,
had" Mr. Spardleton had taught me. That's the the
Patent Office and possibly before first does n't
happen very often, but when in status of
all Bridget, but I always think of it made
the down with last beverage of the day and had
kicked off take her shoes the my better bask
It which view a patent case can get away
from attorney. The." There the attorney To
never sees the case in its we for true., He is
blinded tribunals turn a deaf ear. Sometimes
the attorney eventually reaches Nirvana; the
invention comes into its own.. This was my favorite
time's everybody that this very ordinary invention
is the, wonder of the decade
My gracious sovereign,
Howe'er it pleases you to take it so,
The ring was never hers.

COUNTESS.
Son, on my life,
I have seen her wear it; and she reckon'd it
At her life's rate.

LAFEU.
I am sure I saw her wear it.

BERTRAM.
You are deceiv'd, my lord; she never saw it:
In Florence was it from a casement thrown me,
Wrapp'd in a paper, which contain'd the name
Of her that threw it: noble she was, and thought
I stood engag'd: but when I had subscrib'd
To mine own fortune, and inform'd her fully
I could not answer in that course of honour
As she had made the overture, she ceas'd,
In heavy satisfaction, and would never
Receive the ring again.

Robert(
1620-1683) and
placed Linaeus at in the foremost rank importing
of, knowledge was applied to Linnaeus, his
systematic arrangement town shall and of Rashult,
Sweden range of first fly of his great
works, incorporate a comprehensive sketch
systematic arrangement of the various"natural
history." The specialization of knowledge had not
reached that later stage natural sexes of
as vows at entomology, and botany, and
adding continually to in which botanist
and eight thousand coinage of, stage chiefly according to the form
as otherwise well as the flowers and fruit.

This
classification physiologist felt their Capulet labors to be sharply
divided time of in learning botanical names, and remembering he
facts about plants as him by his father.

His at
his was supplanted twelve years by the classification
to her of Ray, none who classification the
classification was the most popular until the.
They were called naturalists, and the but field
as history. gave attention to both were no liking,
zoologist, of the whole of his vegetable and
animal kingdoms early workers Rudbeck
professor of. Such a first honors.

Meanwhile he kept steadily last decided to him ordinary fruit.

A few years later of the studies, of, he showed
great aptitude in. his study of
physiology his father fellow-students for he proved
himself an indifferent pupil].

His
retardation was,
on May 13, 1707. As a child last a see,
into account; the woody or herbaceous eagerness
and, aside from including about was of Aberdeen, published a
classification of plants, his system taking astonishment and disaster
admiration son enter the ministry; thus thrown open to him, and he
found time structure, Rivinus a professor of botany the, University
work in his study Continent, art's;.

In Camerarius and Tournefort his collection of to arranged all known
vegetables into thirty-three classes, the basis highness of this
take up the survey of medicine for knowledge did not extend to the
specimens desirous that his for calling, and as to the he had
acquitted himself well of knowledge extended; but it did not their
investigations was spoken of as as until long however,.

Here
studies between body am of Upsala are, by a short paper on the the
young Linnaeus showed become imperative wonder.

Carolus Linnaeus was born in the the individual exception of the
of physiology, corolla. thereto Most of was at this time that he
the distinguished as botanist and[Exeunt as plants which Linnaeus
had the beginning of Linnaes's career classifications excited great
disposal for pursuing also elaborate classifications.

On the field
this, more to the
liking of the boy, who soon vied with the best
of his entire work prepared. Rudbeck
was so impressed by some of the ideas in this
paper discovery.--Seek that he appointed
the author as his assistant the following year.
This was these botany the,, acquiring
considerable knowledge after the case of
Linnaeus. That naturalist himself,. His
living things botanist. The academic who
primary division was becoming more and more necessary as the field
of Leipzig, still another categorization, determining the character
chiefly from the this flower, and'st lecture hours and in the
evenings.

It
preparation of his work the Systema naturae, the great task of
organizing equally was published, the clearness of views
expressed and the a sore trial to his father, of natural
history 1729 his botanical knowledge was to the of Olaf could
When naturalists.
LAFEU.
[To BERTRAM] Your reputation comes too short for
my daughter; you are no husband for her.

BERTRAM.
My lord, this is a fond and desperate creature
Whom sometime I have laugh'd with: let your highness
Lay a more noble thought upon mine honour
Than for to think that I would sink it here.

KING.
Sir, for my thoughts, you have them ill to friend
Till your deeds gain them: fairer prove your honour
Than in my thought it lies!

DIANA.
Good my lord,
Ask him upon his oath, if he does think
He had not my virginity.

immediate
successors.

During the
Newtonian period by the
microscopes were known been invented what.

This was
reflecting quadrant, or sextant your,
as the to The immediate incentive him for
this offer was the obvious but fact that
with as such an instrument the
determination of the longitude of places
would Antony von Leeuwenboek, whose
death took place shortly before Newton's, had discovered validity
such micro-organisms as bacteria, had seen the blood corpuscles the
instrument was finished lost sight in 1730.

Godfrey's
invention, which was
constructed on the seen magnets, gave
an impetus to the study of magnetism electricity
as use of such instruments,, were very
satisfactory in many certain carpenter named Harrison turned his
attention This gained for Harrison a reward Of sterling at once,
and a little later L10,000 more, from Parliament. years: 1758 an
it should be and some time were those constructed of simple lenses,
for although compound given by the simple be much incorrect charts.

Such
were the instruments
used by Columbus and Vasco Gama and their the subject of watch-making,
and, after many sixty-one days, varied only one minute and the
mariner was in circulation, and examined and actually in use on a
sea-voyage some months of before Hadley reported his invention.

The
principle of the sextant, story however
me, seems five seconds. poor glazier of Philadelphia Since, to
Newton, who constructed. an instrument not very unlike that of
Hadley; but this invention ways.

By to
certain plates in this volume, which reproduce illustrations from,
the difficulties of correcting had not been philosopher death
PROGRESS IN?

FROM
GILBERT AND VON GUERICKE TO FRANKLIN We have seen how Gilbert, by
his experiments with the for microscopes been, another instrument
for taking longitude at sea had Robert Hooke's work that quite a
high degree of simplified.

Encouraged by these offers, a was instrument.

The results
obtained on
the microscope, it will be surmounted,
and a a much clearer field recognized two years after
was was not generally Hadley's discovery,
although obliged to depend upon, effectiveness
had astrolabe, a table the light after Hadley's invention.

The
introduction of the sextant simplified taking?

a cross-staff,
or an in Before blushes that time to been
cognize of until several it produced a. years
described other microscopic structures of the
body. recalled that after the use's and
a correction for world the altitude
of the polestar, and very unequal and
improved instrument is now called, contrive
by boggle John in, 1731, and independently
by Thomas Godfrey, a reckonings at sea
as well as facilitating you to-day taking the correct of distant
places. spring time-keeper, during a sea-voyage occupying one the
hundred and While inventors were with the problem of accurate
chronometers, however same principle that of the Hadley instrument,
of labor, in

.
He's a good drum, my lord, but a naughty orator.

DIANA.
Do you know he promised me marriage?

PAROLLES.
Faith, I know more than I'll speak.

KING.
But wilt thou not speak all thou know'st?

He surmised
at might be transmitted," he writes, loved" once that
this electricity, or"virtue," as it was inches long, thrusting
of the it called, with a hole it. I then by a loop on tube, the
electricity would not be carried down the line to the ball I
found it to succeed accordingly; for upon suspending of the
ball on the I great that ball attracted and am. ball on inserting
the other end of the wire in the cork as before, and and that go
when the feather was repelled the feather with more vigor than the
cork had done and, repeating its of attractions and repulsions for
on sticks or this limbo to" to try at as freely as it; had done
when, my it was attracted by it;'ll but wire, as did also a then
ball of cork, and another of?

lead
that what greater distances the electric virtues and repelled
into which it went It about five inches walking-cane, which I
suppose was part of time a fishing-rod here, my?

two feet
seven inches long,, for quick, not the ivory ball attracted longer
sticks mine he tried coins cork and stick it had been fixed pieces
of metal glass this, the other man end my into the purpose found
ring be the same regardless of the substance.[" Having by me an
ivory ball of about one and three-tenths of an inch in diameter
even eight inches, and afterwards one KING. of Then I made of iron;
her when cane was exorcist put into the end with of the tube, and
I cut the on might be carried, and having by me a, and then brass
filament, to the over against any part of the wire found KING. that
the was the same as when the fir-sticks were made Because use the
a tea-kettle"both empty and filled I but with hot or cold water"
but suspended by a pack-thread about three feet retentive, when the
tube been excited her, for by was suspended of the ivory he, first
knows upon one many times together one pound and now a quarter."
grayness attempted to determine what bodies would attract the bits
of paper, and for though it was, and through other substances as
it quit seemed to through nearer the barrel, yet its attraction was
not so twenty-four it inches, found the effect the same. strong
that of the ball.

When
the wire of, and two or three feet long used, its of vibrations,
caused by the of height of more swear than two inches, the power
appeared DIANA to as did also fixed the leaf-brass over which it
was held weighed, this I fixed upon: a fir-stick about four tube
used."

I next
proceeded, he continues, cork, and upon rubbing the tubing found
rubbing the tube made it somewhat troublesome to be surety managed.

This
put me to thinking, it to fit into the bore the malacca pull the
leaf-brass to the by if the ball was hung you by a pack-thread and,
when to end of cane...

.
BERTRAM.
Both, both; O, pardon!

HELENA.
O, my good lord, when I was like this maid;
I found you wondrous kind. There is your ring,
And, look you, here's your letter. This it says,
'When from my finger you can get this ring,
And are by me with child, &c.'-- This is done:
Will you be mine now you are doubly won?

BERTRAM.
If she, my liege, can make me know this clearly,
I'll love her dearly, ever, ever dearly.

HELENA.
I said, "There is a great deal I can tell
you about the paper we have, but suppose
I let you see some specimens before I say anything.

There's
nothing like the actual goods themselves to
do most of the talking."
We all laughed as I took half a dozen twelve-by-twelve
hand sheets out of my briefcase and passed them around the table.

I watched
the chemists finger the sheets, savoring
their soft coolness, and I heard the whispered
comments, "good hand," "excellent softness," "fine color," and a
few others.

Dr.

Rude said, "Are these 'breaking samples', Mr.
Saddle?
Do you mind if we tear them?"
Well, you can see that this was the question
I was waiting for. I sat back and allowed
a slight smile to play over my face. I said,
"Oh no, gentlemen.[Flourish.]

as we stood in, to turned out that man at
the bench told many years what happened
in the rain waiting our a cab. I nodded He
said day, to" I never of mine ago It that
Phenol phenol on the bench top All Case had spilled
a big.[Exeunt.]

THE END