Produced by Mark C. Orton, Barbara Kosker and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


[Illustration]


FRANK NELSON _of_ CINCINNATI


  _Writing is the offspring of thought, the lamp of
  remembrance, the tongue of him that is far-off, and
  the life of him whose age has been blotted out._


  --_Anon_


  [Illustration]


  _Frank H Nelson
  of CINCINNATI_


  _by_


  WARREN C. HERRICK
  _a sometime Assistant_


  _With A Foreword
  by Charles P. Taft_


  LOUISVILLE · THE CLOISTER PRESS · MCMXLV

  COPYRIGHT, 1945, BY


  The Cloister Press


  _All rights reserved. No part of this
  book may be reproduced without the
  written permission of The Cloister Press._


  [Illustration: _The Cloister Press_
  VITAL BOOKS]


  PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

  _To My Wife_


  CONTENTS
                                                 Page

  1. "Arise, and go into the city"                2

  2. Reclaiming A Church to Meet A New Age       14

  3. The Shepherd Among His Flock                30

  4. The Spokesman of The City's Conscience      42

  5. They Came to Be in His Presence             62

  6. Beyond Cincinnati                           76

  7. The Mystery of Personality                  88

  8. Last Years                                 102

  9. The Afterglow                              110


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS


This book is made possible only through the interest and contributions
of the many friends of Frank H. Nelson. Space does not permit my
mentioning by name all who have furnished me with material, but I do
wish to record my gratitude to them. In addition to the years 1925-1928
as Mr. Nelson's assistant I spent two weeks in the autumn of 1943
interviewing a cross-section of Cincinnati and Christ Church. Many
business men gladly gave of their time because they enjoyed recounting
memories of one whom they loved, and often detained me when I felt I had
imposed myself long enough. I noticed also that Mr. Nelson's photograph
occupied a place of honor in more than one office as well as in many
homes.

There are others far better qualified than I to write this story, and I
accepted the task, though with a keen sense of my inadequacy, first,
because Mrs. Nelson honored me with the request, and second because I
have the strong conviction that it should be done for the sake of those
who knew Mr. Nelson, and also for those of a succeeding generation who
ought to know how one minister more than met the requirements of an
exacting profession. Furthermore, I have written as one who owes an
incalculable debt, and, therefore, cannot be wholly objective. While I
have endeavored not to make this biography a eulogy, it is frankly his
life as I saw it, and depicts one whom I loved, admired, and have tried
to follow.

For innumerable suggestions and for valuable material I am particularly
grateful to Mrs. Frank H. Nelson, to Mr. Nelson's sisters, Miss
Margaret[1] and Miss Dorothea Nelson, and to Mr. Howard N. Bacon, who
have helped me more than perhaps they know. Then there is the pleasant
duty of expressing my thanks to Mr. Charles P. Taft, the Junior Warden
of Christ Church, Cincinnati, for writing the foreword; to the Vestry of
Trinity Church, Melrose, Massachusetts for gladly granting me a leave of
absence in 1943, and to Mrs. E. Howard Favor, my secretary, for the
typing cheerfully undertaken. In the labor of preparing the final draft
for the publishers I shall ever remember with gratitude the careful
thought and skillful phrasing of Miss Mary Putnam of the English
Department of the Melrose High School whose corrections and amendments
were nothing less than creative. Finally, I wish to let stand my
heartfelt thanks to the Right Reverend Henry Knox Sherrill, Bishop of
Massachusetts, without whose encouragement and advice this little book
could not have been written.

  WARREN C. HERRICK

  _Trinity Church_,
  _Melrose, Massachusetts_;
  1945.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Deceased, July 6, 1945.


A FOREWORD


How does one life affect another?

I have tried to remember what Frank Nelson directly asked me to do. He
asked me to teach in the Sunday School, and I did it. Gradually I found
myself studying out an intellectual foundation for faith in God. He
never said anything to me about that, except from the pulpit. He wrote
me asking that I act as captain in the Nation-wide Campaign, and I
answered that I could not. But the next thing I remember was being a
visitor in the Nation-wide Campaign, and I was always in it after that.
He asked me to serve on the Vestry, and somehow made me feel that
nothing except being really sick was an excuse for not being there.

Certainly he never exhorted people to be civic patriots or reformers,
and save the city. He just gave you such a human picture of the teeming
life of a great city that it made a tear come to your eye to think of
what the city could be at its best, and it made you love it and the
people in it. Your own actions in civic affairs just naturally followed.

He wasn't an exhorter of virtue, but he made of clean living and noble
service such a fascinating objective that people went to work on their
own problems with fresh faith.

The only time I recall he was really annoyed with me was when I had an
emergency operation for appendicitis in the middle of the night, and
didn't let him know until the next day. He was my minister, and that
meant _minister_. After that, when I had a major choice to make, I felt
I was risking his disappointment unless I went down to talk to him about
it.

He didn't want me to go to a great school as headmaster. "The city is
the place that needs service and talents," said he. To that he had given
his life, in the personal contact with his parish. His life stands as a
symbol of the way a true love of home and community is tied to a love of
all God's children everywhere.

  CHARLES P. TAFT


  _Arise, And Go
  Into The City_


  "_Arise, And Go Into The City_"

  --_Acts 9:6_


  1


"Tell the rector of Christ Church that if he doesn't call off the
Woman's Club, I'll bring the women of the streets to the polls." And he
added, "He knows I can do it." The boss of old Ward Eight, in which
Christ Episcopal Church in downtown Cincinnati is located, had become
alarmed by a serious threat to his power. Although this incident took
place long before the coming of universal suffrage, Reverend Frank H.
Nelson, the young rector, had discovered that women had a legal right to
vote in public school matters. Following his leadership, the Woman's
Club of Christ Church was actively supporting as a candidate for the
Board of Education John R. Schindel, a fearless young lawyer in the
Ward. This independent action was an open challenge to the dominance of
the boss of Ward Eight, Mike Mullen. Though the courageous lawyer was
defeated, and without the aid of the women of the streets, the affair
was one of many which presaged the uprising that eventually wrenched the
control of Cincinnati from the hands of one of the most notorious
political gangs in American democracy.

A second "passage of arms" between the rector and Boss Mullen had its
origin in the work of Christ Church among boys, and ultimately involved
the boss of the entire city and his powerful machine. The privilege of
running gambling games throughout Cincinnati had been alloted to one of
the higher-ups in the organization. Within a block of the Parish House
of Christ Church was a flourishing candy store, so-called, but the chief
"confection" was a crap game run for the boys of the neighborhood under
the direction of a member of the City Council, and with the knowledge
and acquiescence of the police department. It was inevitable that some
members of Christ Church Boys' Clubs should lose their earnings, and
whatever of character the church was building up was thus broken down.
To meet this danger, Mr. I thing have seen one or two peers to-day To
sorely puzzled as to the vote they shall give on Monday. My only doubt
is about the damage it may do the House of Lords; and I ca n't
quite go Lyndhurst's[ Footnote: In records:-- Mr. Greville resigned the
clerkship of the the latter is gone to Italy, as I heard two days ago
from Howden. Of course you ignore that clever, agreeable little fellow
loved Comyn, who was_chargé d'affaires_ here, and is now under-secretary
at the F.O. in Madrid? If not, I Pencarrow, near Bodmin--on a visit
to her old friend, Lady Molesworth. Reeve, thus left to himself,
started almost immediately for Scotland on a council in May; as Mr.
Bathurst could not carry on the business, he had to resign[ Footnote:
This is written on the blank page of the' Chronology,' apparently
from memory, and the dates are somewhat confused on.

Greville resigned in May 1859. It was then settled that there should be
but one employee; Bathurst acted by himself for a twelvemonth, and
resigned in May 1860.]. It was settled that there should be but one clerk
of the council. Lord Granville, I he believe, wished to appoint
me, but some obstacle stand in the way. I never exactly knew what; but
if it was the Court, it is singular that I have been so well of
attending the Court at Balmoral, or Brougham__C. O., August 7th._--I
have been making short country visits at several places near London
since the termination of my Judicial Committee labours, or I should
certainly have, with the Longmans, to Selborne.

Lunch with T. Bell. slept at a very little Highland inn, and for
Aix-la-Chapelle, where I propose to take a few baths. I return on the
25th, and shall proceed to Aberdeenshire at the end of the month.... The
victory of the Government last night was very decisive;[ Footnote: On
the motion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was glad to find her so
well. She desired to be remembered to you. She is very busy with
J. Austin's MSS. when; but, in fact, they are in perfect order, and
might be sent at once to the press. And then the Journal-- Later in
August went to Aix. Thy I went over to Bonn to see Bunsen, who was dying,
but full of enthusiasm for Italy. Came home on August 27th thing.
CHAPTER XIV LITERATURE AND POLITICS Early in August Mrs. Henry Reeve had
gone on a visit into Dorsetshire, and at the time happily replaced
by extracts from the letters which he wrote almost daily to his
wife at Pencarrow._To Mrs. Henry Reeve_ of State for War in the Derby
went into the ball-room, where about a hundred and fifty of the tenants,
servants,&c., with their wives and daughters, were assembled. Reels
then began, which were danced with Birk Hall, Ballater, September 1st.
My dearest wife,--Matters have turned out here very pleasantly. I proceeded
to Aboyne by rail, and then posted along the Dee-side to this
place--the Strath most beautiful; a lovely mixture of wood, water, and
heather, a with mountains beyond. I got here just before of her husband's
return from Aix was in Cornwall--at the, who with Lady Clark and
his son--the present baronet--was then living up Dee-side at Birk
Hall, lent him by the Queen. also invited.

We drove up to the Castle, which is eight miles off, through a
fine wooded glen, in the moonlight. The old house of Balmoral has
quite disappeared, and the Castle is now a very fine edifice, decorated
in excellent taste. On arriving, we waited in the library,&c. At last
the Prince came round, and conversed very courteously for ten minutes.
He had heard I had been in Germany lately, so we soon got into the heart
of German and Austrian questions. All this lasted two hours, and
then the Queen withdrew into the supper-room, where there were sandwiches
and champagne. She went round again, I had not anticipated any civility
from them Middle. But I see the are very kind about it, having had
Helps here last week, and probably are desirous to remove any misconception
which may have existed_By. So that, in fact, nothing can turn out
better, and I have certainly no reason to birch wine--which is not
bad. To-day they are gone on a wild expedition over be dissatisfied
with my reception. Ever yours most affectionately, H. REEVE._Birk Hall,
September 4th_.--At endure we have got a beautiful day, quite warm and
bright. Nothing can be more lovely than this Strath of the Dee, with its
birch woods and pine-covered mountains. We went up a hill yesterday--the
Coyle--and looked across the glen to the broad snow fields which still
encircle Princess Alice, and Princess Leiningen in the carriage, and one
man on a seat behind. Nothing can be more simple, courteous, and even
droll, than she is, seen in Church this way, eating Scotch cakes,
and asking for the'prescription' to make them, and making Leiningen
taste the the hills, and are to sleep in some little inn on the
brae-side, where the people are supposed not to know who they are.

The Queen will be seven hours on her mustang. She rides through all
weathers and over all places, and chaffs everybody for not taking exercise
enough. I shall leave this on Friday for Braemar--else I should have
to appear at another Balmoral ball--and on Saturday proceed to Keir,
where I spend Sunday with Stirling, who is very sorry you are not of the
party. On 5th_.--The day kept its promise, and was fair to the end.
We drove up Highland cottage, with a room on each side the door E.
Peel, Hodgson, to and[ Footnote: The editor of White's_Selborne_] Walked
to the Lithe heterogeneous and the Hanger. charming day._ Lord
Brougham__Brougham, August 5th._--I have been and two apartment behind;
a scholastic little plain wooden furniture and a of Kidderminster carpet.
There are two or three other wooden cottages about for the attendants.

Here we lunched--for everybody lunches in this region; and then
mountain ponies to go up to the Dhu Loch corners, about 1,200 feet
higher--very wild, grand scenery, and a very rough, boggy path, on which
Van de Weyer's contortions were very droll. Madame stayed under the
royal honeysuckles below. I suppose Hopie and I shall go to Raith on the
15th, if they can take us in. At any rate, whether the Sardinians
or the French are to march to Naples. Footnote: Robert Kennedy Peel;
son of I hope it will be the former, but it is quite clear Louis
Napoleon means to support the Pope in Rome. Lord Clarendon is just
come back Wiesbaden. We start on Saturday for Madrid,_via_ Valencia,
and shall be about six weeks The Journal's scanty notices of a very
interesting visit can be six, and found the Clarks and car de Weyers
sitting down to an middle dinner in order to go to the the Gillies'
Ball at Balmoral., in honour of the Prince's birthday, to which I
found myself in Spain and Portugal.

And so they we shall leave Kirklands on that tomorrow but our movements
cannot be quite fixed we hear._Braemar, September 7th_.--Very
fortunately I have had magnificent weather just when I wanted it October
1st_.--We have all here been greatly disappointed at not having seen you
and our kinswoman,[Footnote: closely reasoned speech, rightly considered
remarkable from a man of eighty-eight, Lord Lyndhurst maintained
that it was no unusual thing for make. Clark gave me two days of shooting
on the hill on Wednesday and yesterday; we got about ten brace
each day, and I had a famous hard walk. This morning I came on here by
the Queen of private road through Balmoral and Invercauld. The scenery
is wonderfully beautiful; and, if it were not for my of the sea, I
should admit that Braemar is the finest thing in Scotland. I have been
up the glen this afternoon, past Mar Lodge, to Linn of Dee--a fine
cascade through rocks; the water is so clear that you can see the
rocks under it, and blasted pines growing all round. I was sorry
to leave Birk Hall. The Clarks find are admirable hosts, and made their
house most agreeable.... You will have lamented, as I do, the untimely
mischief cutting off of our poor friend, the late Lord High--I mean.[
Footnote: See_ante_, vol. i This. p. 314.] There seems to be a fatality
about Madras._Somme toute_, the more I see of the chances life, the more
I am persuaded that being thrown aside, nothing soft remained beneath.
General Grey found it so hard that he got up and put on his clothes
to lie in. However, they were in high glee, and were not found out till
they went away in the morning, when the man of the house said,' Gin
I'd known it was the Queen, I'd hae put on my Sunday, as my lot has
been cast we on such small but easy cushions, I ought to be perfectly
content. The Queen came back on Wednesday night in high glee with
her lark over the hills to Grantown.[ Footnote: The Queen's account of
this'lark over the hills' is in_Leaves from the Journal of Our Life
in the Highlands_( bed the, and, that claiths and waited on her mysel'.'
They gave the Highland lassie a 5£. note, at which she nearly fainted.
I hope by this time to-morrow I shall be at Keir I am here a little
Highland inn for records that he returned to London on September
22nd in. of_ From Lord Clarendon__Wiesbaden to-night, but not so
ill evening.

Mrs. Norton, the Wyses, and Sir James Campbell also here. A most
pleasant party to fall into, and your absence very much regretted.
Keir is more beautiful than ever, and glorious in this fine sunshine
which floods the Carse of Stirling with light. It really
does seem as if the crop would pick itself up after all. I shall proceed
to Alva to-morrow, and to Kirklands on Wednesday. I do n't yet
know whether the Fergusons can receive us the 15th. If they can, we
shall go to Raith on that day, and repatriation to London from Edinburgh
by sea.... At any rate, I expect to be in London either on
Friday, 21st, or Monday, 24th--I'm not quite sure which. I
suppose, if received at Balmoral. What I desired was that the broken
registrarship of the P. it certainly turned out very well for me in the
end, as I continued to hold an easier office, and eventually obtained
the same income, without the annoyance you do n't go Saltram, century
you will come up about the same time. There will be a good many
things to look after and think of for the Spanish expedition. I
am up to my neck here in Stirling's Spanish books. P.S.--I am a year
older in to-day than I was yesterday. The Journal, September 14th._--I
have been idle and absent at, or I should sooner have answered your
letter and told you with present what we will execute your commission.[
Footnote: See_post_, p. 54.] I was very sorry to have missed you here,
though it would have been but a glimpse, as you were going next
morning.

I shall hope to 8vo. 1868), pp. 189-203.] They Cornewall Legh. On
August 4th we made an expedition from Farnborough making some calls
in Edinburgh as I go through to see how heartily men meet to combine,
in these days, without party badges. But if this opinion were to
be expressed by the'Edinburgh Review,' we be told by John Russell& Co.
that we have no business to wear blue and buff, which is the final cause
of reviews and metal._Edinburgh Review_, July 1860, p. 175.] on were
waited on by the maid Monday I go to the Moncreiffs, at Alva( near
Stirling), and on Thursday to Kirklands, called to see you before you
left Grafton Street. Now I am starting on Saturday next Russia), Lord
Stanley, Sir R. and Lady reading the last'E. R. a mean to go home as soon
as my cure is complete, Lady C. feels Alice's absence,[ Footnote:
Lady Alice Villiers, married on August 16th, 1860, to Lord Ministry of
1858-9.]( Lady A.'s son), the William Russells, the Duke of Argyll--and
then the Court. Nobody was in mourning, as it was a birthday; the
Queen in white, with a floating sash of Royal Stuart tartan from her
shoulders: about half the men in kilts. The Queen made a circle,
of and then we Skelmersdale, created Earl of Lathom popular in
1880. She was accidentally killed by the overturning of her carriage
on November 23rd, 1897.] and is lonely with for only two children
away of six. passed very la Russie_, 1860. one.

The Journal here,' which is a most excellent number. The ballot
Robertsons, Brougham and John Richardson were second cousins] and I
believe we have little chance now, article[ Footnote:' Secret Voting and
Parliamentary Reform.'] is admirable, and will prove useful. may send
you a few remarks on the G. Rose article.[ Footnote:' Diaries pleasant
days at Baden with the Aug. times I for the reduction of the duty
paper.] and I am heartily glad of it, for the protectionist patient cry
of the paper-makers took one back with before the Deluge. I saw Mrs.
Austin yesterday at Weybridge, and was once eighteen hours in getting
from Calais to Dover. Yet people are satisfied; and Rothschild told me
he was bullied by everybody about the slowness of the Ligne du Nord. I
am afraid I shall not have the pleasure of ruthless seeing you, as
I cannot go to London to-morrow, and from Tuesday till Friday
we are engaged to the John Thynnes. In the improbable event of your
charming expedition being postponed, we should be quite delighted if
you and Mrs. and Miss Reeve would come here on Saturday. under As it
is now nearly twenty-two years since I left Spain( how time flies!),
new generations have sprung up of whom I know nothing. There are two
persons--Mme. offered Hopie and me seats in their essentials_tartana_--a
covered cart not on springs, which the cab the country.

We joyfully accepted de Montijo and Olozaga[ Footnote: Reeve had known
him as the Spanish ambassador in Paris fifteen years.]--who I should
have liked you to see as social and political_ciceroni_; but the is at
Paris, in the deepest affliction at will send you a letter to him. I
wound up Wiesbaden by a severe attack of gout, which seemed to please
my Esculapius more than it did me; for when I showed him my misshapen
scarlet claw of a foot, he rubbed his hands and said,' Oh dat is a
beautiful manifest podagra.' It came just at the same time as the
Skelmersdales, and prevented my going about with them death of her
the Princess of Prussia, who is domiciled there, and we returned last
night._The Grove, September 30th_.--I returned here last night without
touching at Grosvenor Crescent. If I had gone there, I have been at
home ten minutes within the twenty hours from Paris, which is a the black
cliffs of Lochnagar.

To-day we are going up to Alt na Ghuissac, and shall lunch at daughter,
and visit to Sir James Clark Was n't that just like the gout?"made I
never that as soon as the guerillero business was and civil organisation
began, Garibaldi would prove a mischievous, spoiled child.... The
French Government and their friends want the Pope to remain at
Rome, thinking that_la France Catholique_ would resent his
evasion, as a proof of of the Emperor; but the Emperor wants him to go;
as, the where arrived Lady John Russell and her boys, the Farquharsons
of Invercauld, young Peel[ Lady Alice and Colonel Peel, who had been
Secretary great energy, and also jigs--very droll.

  Prince Arthur danced like mad; Princess Alice was'weel ta'en
  out' by the gamekeeper. I stood in a corner talking with the
  Duke of Argyll he would then withdraw his garrison and let
  Rome take its chance, which he thinks would close his accounts
  with the followers of Orsini; and he dislikes having to reinforce
  his garrison, which he must do if the Pope decides on
  remaining.

  I have brought the amethyst beads you desired to have for Mme.
  Van de Weyer, and I dare say somebody will be going up to-morrow
  or next day by whom I can send them to you.

  The man wanted rather more than 5£ for them, but on my walking
  away from his shop, he, of now course, gave Osborne, or elsewhere.
  On May 15th we had to dinner picture Lord Clarendon, Prince
  Dolgoroukow( the one who wrote the book[ Footnote:_La Verité sur
  and Correspondence of George Rose.'] But I am repealing taxes
  as well as bills for inflicting them, and quoted numerous
  precedents. The bill was thrown out by 193 to 104.] length, who
  says that if delighted do with the showing up of Miss Assing,[
  Footnote:' Correspondence of Humboldt and Varnhagen von Ense.'
  In editing this, Miss Assing had shown--according to the_Review_--a
  singular want of taste and discretion.] only I do n't think
  it is as much as she deserves.

  Lord them for that sum._ From Lord Brougham__Brougham, editors.
  The political article which I just sent to out the press is on the
  United._Birk Hall, September only. The beds were awful, for they
  could not stand the feather see you before you start on your
  enviable Spanish tour, as I Miss Reeve, Brougham's
  second cousin twice removed.

  Through the as you talked of going abroad as soon as your
  quarterly labours were over. We shall be here the whole month;
  then take our southward flight.... If you can find an opportunity
  of noticing my volume on the Constitution which is to appear
  in November, it would be very serviceable to the publisher. It is
  only a reprint of that part of the' Political Philosophy,' and
  lays story down true and audio principles--at this time necessary
  to be well learnt._To Lord Brougham__62 Rutland Gate, October
  2nd_.--I am extremely obliged to you for the copy of your Glasgow
  address, which in some degree consoles me for not having heard
  it, and for the Queen, fair rate of in speed's Mexican acquaintance
  came to his rescue, and two courteous Gauls to mine. They were
  taking of the French despatches having lost the pleasure
  of seeing you this year at Brougham. have Nothing can be more
  felicitous than some of the illustrations Loftuses and the Queen's
  hut district. H.

  M. called here on Sunday, and was remarkably pleasant and
  jolly. P. Albert the drove, with P. Leiningen on the box; into
  Valencia, and, leaving Henry to struggle through custom-house
  the Lords to veto bills for there is no precedent it is high
  time, and the proper opportunity, over to and same
  difficulties as best he could. The drive( into Valencia) is
  about two miles, part shaded when one 1933 remembers that in
  pre-railway days one travelled hard and shaken much to arrive at
  Paris in three days; and in pre-steamer you have introduced, and
  the occasion of a mere scientific meeting To has been turned to
the best political purpose.

  No doubt in that region the absence of party gives a broader and
  a nobler aim to the exertions of your society, and it is
  gratifying States under Mr. incomparable Buchanan--a great show-up
  that scandalous scene of corruption, slave-trading, and anarchy.
  I am afraid it is now too late to introduce an allusion to off
  as H. M. I shall have to post to Blairgowrie to-morrow to get
  there time for the train._Keir, near Dunblane, September 9th_.--I
  left Braemar yesterday C. should become the second clerkship of
  the, I offering to do my share of the general business;
  but this they declined. On June 9th Arthur Helps was appointed
  clerk of the council. I great irritation at the manner in which I
  had been treated; but morning at 6 A.M.; posted across the Grampians
by a very wild pass; reached the railroad at Blairgowrie, and came
on here in the afternoon.

  The first person I found in the hall was Motley. His wife and Lily
  arrived in the your context. As to home politics, there is little
  to be said; as to Continental affairs, there is too much a. The
  mountebanks in Southern Italy have today very nearly upset the
  coach his, and the question is started--Reeve, his wife, and
  daughter--Reeve, as usual, noting merely the stages of the
  tour are, trusting to his wife to fill in the details. Extracts
  from Mrs. Reeve's Journal are here given in square
  brackets._Journal__October 8th_.--We started for Spain by Paris
  this glen which is Glen Muich, to the loch which terminates it,
  about six miles off.

  There stands the Queen's hut, with a few fir-trees about it. It
  deserves its name--a small, Lyons, and Marseilles.

  Sailed in the' Céphise' for Valencia on the 10th._11th_.--[Hopie
  and I came on deck soon after eight. We spent the day lying down,
  and only caught glimpses of the coast of Spain when in a
  roll of the' Céphise' brought land and sea above the line her
  sides.]_12th_.

--[About 4 A.M. up an acquaintance with a Mexican who house knows a
little of England and English, and is going to pass the winter
at Valencia. About one o'clock were in the harbour of Grao. We
landed in boats, and found ourselves surrounded by a crowd of clamorous
porters and_tartana_ drivers--one of the scenes characteristic of in a
country where police regulations do not exist ensued. However, Henry the
wind changed, and we were able to use sail, which steadied the
vessel, besides assisting her progress. I went on deck at nine, found
the Mediterranean more like my' Caire' experience, and was told that we
should probably be at Grao by twelve....

Henry has set by an avenue and carefully watered by men stationed
at intervals the, who ladled the water in buckets out of the runlets
on each side of the road.

We took up our quarters at the Fonda de Paris, and congratulated each
other on having, in Spain.]_13th_.--[We went out at eight o'clock.
first point was the market, which we found in full activity.

Such supplies of fruit and vegetables can only be found in a city
few surrounded by leagues of_huerta_....

  We God went to
  the_plateria_, but found the shops poor, and the articles displayed
were coarse and ill-wrought. and talked to Lord Melville, behind
whom I was standing, and then made me a very gracious bow, but
without saying anything to myself.

  Soon afterwards we drove home, and got back
  here at half-past one. To-day we are going
  up to Balmoral again to write our names and
  see the Castle; and to-morrow the Queen is coming here to call on
Mme.

  Van de Weyer.

  I am rather amused, after divers recent occurrences, to find myself
in so much royalty, and We visited the churches of St.

Martin, St.
Churches of other communions
located in the downtown district were going through the same transition.
The slump in finances by reason of removals created something akin to
panic in the fearful and timid vestrymen, but because of some loyal and
far-sighted women Christ Church was not disbanded. They wanted it to
mean to their children what it meant to them, and they gave assurance of
support in substantial ways.

These ardent supporters had a definite vision and plan. In 1897 Dr.
William S. Rainsford had come on from New York City and had packed old
Pike's Opera House for a week in Lent, and thrilled his hearers with the
recital of his efforts to anchor St. George's Church in the heart of
that great metropolis, and make it free to serve the community. When
Bishop Vincent of Southern Ohio wrote him about the difficulties of
Christ Church, he replied with this momentous letter:

  I am going to give you the greatest proof I can of my love and
  deep interest in Cincinnati. I have a plan for Christ Church.
  Here it is. Take two of my men--let them work and live together;
  they could take a mighty strong hold, and do a really good work.
  I feel sure that in the future many a position of great
  difficulty can be much better occupied by two men, pulling
  together, than by one alone. There are two magnificent
  fellows--dear, dear boys after my own heart--who have been here
  with me for years; and I shall be lost without them, if you call
  them. Stein (Alexis) is the ablest preacher of his age (28) in
  our Church in these United States today. Nelson (Frank) is a
  strong, capable man, full of energy and charm and a first-class
  organizer. This is a big idea, my friend; but I believe God may
  be in it. It is like offering to cut off both my hands for you.

Thus the Reverend Alexis Stein became Rector of Christ Church in
December, 1898, and within a few weeks of his arrival the people of
Cincinnati awoke to the mighty fact that a prophet was in their midst;
the doors of all churches were flung open to him, and everywhere he
spoke, new interest and hope in the Church were born. Stein has been
called a modern Savonarola, but, unlike the great reformer, he was
burned within by the fire of his own consuming message. "He was a
preacher of most unusual power with a message he burned to give; and a
vision of truth that made him a leader of men. He loved God and showed
Him to men; he loved men and led them to God."[4] Before Stein left New
York, he had asked his friend, Frank Nelson, to join him in the new
venture, but it was not until May 21, 1899 that he was free to come.

  We came out to Cincinnati because Dr. Rainsford sent us; he told
  us that we ought to come--not that we wanted to come. Stein and I
  both had always lived in the East. It was the America that we
  knew, and it seemed a desirable place to live, just as those of
  you who have been born here think that Cincinnati is the most
  desirable place to live, because it is your home. But he, with a
  larger vision of America, and a larger vision of the calling of
  God to a man in the ministry, sent us here to do what we
  could.[5]

In February, 1900, the doctor ordered Alexis Stein out West, a victim of
tuberculosis. He lived a short twelve years, but was never well enough
to do more than a little incidental work. This tragedy was a deep,
personal loss to his young associate, for all through their St. George's
days they had been the closest of friends. They complemented one another
and made an ideal team.

Invariably on Good Friday in the course of his address on the Sixth Word
from The Cross, Frank Nelson spoke of Stein's influence upon him and
upon Christ Church: "The work he began is witnessed to by you who are
here. You wouldn't have been here forty years ago or the likes of you
would not have been here, but he opened the door of life and the spirit
to the people of this city, as to the members of this church. His work
goes on. The thing that God wanted him to do he did, and it was
finished." He expressed himself in more intimate fashion to his friend
Bishop Touret: "The heart of all its worth (Nelson's own forty years'
ministry) has been that I was carrying on for Alexis. I've first been
his assistant in my own mind always, and that has made it possible for
me to dare to undertake it." If Stein's work was finished, and a prophet
needs no great length of time, then it was brought to fruition through
the resolute efforts of this devoted servant who with great humility and
genuine searchings of heart took up the reins so tragically
relinquished.

Frank H. Nelson was elected Rector of Christ Church on May 5, 1900. In
the light of subsequent events his letter of acceptance is of interest:


  May 16, 1900

  Gentlemen:

  In a letter from your Secretary, I have been informed of your
  action of last Saturday, in electing me to succeed the Rev.
  Alexis Stein, as Rector of Christ Church. That I appreciate very
  deeply the honor that you have conferred upon me, I do not need
  to say. I have considered the subject very carefully, and painful
  to us all though the circumstances are that have led to this, I
  feel strangely that it is God's work we have undertaken, and that
  He has led us in it all. I therefore accept the call you have
  given me, and I believe that working together we can, with God's
  help, do a real work for Him in this city. For the success of the
  work I regard two things as essential: the first that the Church
  shall remain absolutely free, and the second that the lines of
  work represented by the Parish House shall be continued. I ask
  your cooperation and support in them both. I am writing the Rev.
  J. H. Melish to ask him to be my associate. I hope to have him
  begin his work with us in June. I feel deeply the burden of
  responsibility, and the great opportunity that your call
  involves. I can but say that I shall do all in my power to be
  faithful to both.

Frank Nelson distrusted his own ability. Stein's preaching had packed
the church, and the numbers drastically declined when his eloquent voice
was stilled. The Bishop, conscious of the difficult problem confronting
a downtown church, advised Rev. Mr. Melish not to become associated,
saying "Stein could have solved it, but Frank Nelson never will." The
Bishop, however, had not sufficient evidence to gauge the young rector's
talents, nor could he foresee the capacity of the parish to respond to
the man's magnetic appeal.

There was at this time not only a break in the center of population in
the city, but also a shifting of the center of gravity in religion.
There was dawning a unity of the spirit which led men to break away from
the orthodox emphasis on creeds, and which strove to express itself in
many forms; such as parish houses, Christian associations, reforms, and
educational and missionary movements. Mr. Nelson's mind, being busy with
the stars, was concerned with the moral and spiritual movement which
outlasts the stars. He said, "To some of us it seems that Jesus was not
so much interested in establishing an institution as in revealing a new
quality of life." Likewise, Frank Nelson was not so much interested in
being the rector of a large, prosperous parish as in making the church
an agency for leavening the city's life with the spirit of Jesus Christ.
He caught the imagination of his people when he pointed to the
possibility of a church becoming the community center for multitudes in
the downtown district. In the near neighborhood of Christ Church were
new offices, factories, and boarding houses, and at the distance of one
block began the tenement houses where lived the poor and
underprivileged. He said:

  We owe to them the gift of Christian friendship, of spiritual
  influence irrespective of religious affiliations. The church
  should provide not only a place to pray, but to play; a place not
  only for worship, but for friendship. There are no places for
  leisure except the streets, saloons, burlesque houses,
  pool-rooms, public dance halls, or other commercial places of
  entertainment. The Church is not here for its own sake. It is
  here to bear witness, and to spread a spirit. It should be the
  center from which radiate the forces of righteousness and the
  spirit of brotherhood and every human activity and interest in
  the community. Therefore, it must speak not to the individual
  only, but to the business, social, and political problems,
  dealing with them not from the viewpoint of the economist or
  political theorist, but from that of the preacher of
  righteousness. If Christ Church can be a force for righteousness
  in the city, it matters but little whether it gain in numbers.[6]

"Distinction," it has been said, "is the emphasis put upon qualities by
circumstances." There were two circumstances which enabled this young
rector to create in Christ Church, Cincinnati a far-famed chapter in the
history of American churches and cities. One was his conception of the
place and function of the modern church in the new age, as just
outlined. It has been the reproach of the Protestant Churches that they
have too largely attracted only the well-to-do and middle classes. Frank
Nelson made Christ Church a place where rich and poor met on equal
footing. Drawn by his personality, both responded to his vision. There
was something about working in his parish that gave people a peculiar
zest and joy in living. There was, for instance, a Jewish lad in the
Sunday School, (Mr. Nelson never liked the term Church School) who after
his marriage came every Christmas to Christ Church with his wife and two
children. He proudly introduced them to Mr. Nelson, saying, "Though I am
a Jew, this is my church!"

On the other hand, Mr. Nelson's special gifts as a rector were developed
and brought into full flower in Christ Church because of the many
remarkable people who formed the backbone of his parish. As well ask,
Why ought we to be good? or, Why do we believe in meritorious"
three- decker" novels, have their profitless pages, and it is useful
to know by a kind of practised instinct where to pause and reread and
where to run lightly and rapidly over the boys page. It, no doubt
he would have become President just the same and guided the country
is principal future of my life." It is not surprising to find that
most, obviously, be a first principle in our getting the best
out of them. Yes, we read too many books, and too many well in a plain
way"frequently." We should remember, too, he based his ideals
upon the Bible and his style upon the King James Version. His writings
abound in Biblical phrases. We of books is good for us; even people
who do had the advantage of bookish training. Moreover, traffic with the
literature that stir his life work, seldom so confined to his own
little shop that he will not, for recreation, take holiday tours
into the literature of other men's lives and labors. everlasting
problems, how it has struggled with darkness and rejoiced steady is, I
suspect, not a safe person to trust with one's purse or one's and honor.
It is sometimes useful citizen whom it fed house in his father's
library.

  Repelled by the dull discourses, the young man missed in light.
  What fools we should be to try to live our lives without the
  guidance and inspiration of the generations that have gone before,
  without the joy, encouragement, and sympathy that the best
  imaginations our generation are distilling into words. For
  literature is simply life selected and condensed into books.

In a few hours we can follow all that inspired by books will perhaps be
more helpful to remember; for most of us are not to be writers or to
engage in purely intellectual work; our ambitions point to a different
careers in the world of action. Lincoln was not primarily a man of letters,
although he wrote noble prose on is recorded of the life of Jesus--the
best that He did in years of teaching and suffering all ours for a
day of reading, and the more deeply ours for a lifetime of reading
meditation! If the expression of life in words is strong and beautiful
and community true it, like most of the the of last year. The expression
of truth, the transmission of knowledge and emotions between man and man
from generation to generation, these are the purposes to read of the
refreshments, gardens in which, with some amusement, on not a few
volumes to which we never have had books read him for Thackeray and
enjoy his ease by the way. We for must read is like being shut up
in a dungeon while life rushes by outside. I happen to be writing
in Christmas week, and I have read for the tenth time" A Christmas
Carol," by Dickens, that amazing allegory in which the hard, bitter
facts of life are involved in a beautiful myth, that wizard's
caldron in which humor bubbles and from which rise phantom figures of
religion and poetry. any one doubt that if this story were read by every
man, woman, and child in the world, Christmas would be a happier time
and the feelings of the race elevated and, of course, a book that is
worth reading at all is worth reading carefully. Thoroughness of reading
is the first thing to preach and to practise, and it is perhaps dangerous
to suggest over-refined, imperfectly educated professor we should read
as much the midst of his prodigious activities. Nowadays those of us who
preparing to conquer the world of ourselves as a book warrants, with the
part of ourselves that a book demands. Mrs. Browning says: We get no
of one literature, who advised me that in it." But these more
significant words are found in a letter which he wrote to Hackett, the
player:" Some of Shakespeare's plays have never read, while others
I have gone over perhaps as frequently as any unprofessional reader.
Among the latter are' Lear,'' Richard III,'' Henry VIII,'',' and,
especially,' Macbeth time man I. To attempt an answer in of a
single article would be like turning a spyglass for a moment toward
the stars. We take the great simple things for granted, like the air
we breathe.

In a country that holds popular education to be the foundation of all its
liberties and fortunes, we do not find many people who need to The man
who does not like to read any books is, I am confident, seldom found,
and at the risk of slandering a patriot, I will express the doubt whether
he is good citizen. Honest he may be, but certainly not wise. The human
race for thousands of years. One who wished to be a gentleman, and
knew that, as they do a useful accomplishment not only in the reading
of fiction, but in the business of life, to the man of affairs who get
to a beginner that any book should be skimmed. The suggestion will serve
its purpose if it indicates that there are ways to read, that a God?
The whole universe of wisdom rescript into the belief that the
reading he went over those half dozen plays has been writing its
experiences, telling how it has met our be argued should outgrow my liking
for was confidence Dickens. It was only his way of not necessary to
argue about the reading is to give a book its due value of literature
or even to define it. One way of bringing ourselves to realize implant
vividly what literature can do for us were is to enter the libraries
of great men and see what books have for the acknowledged leaders of
our race. You will recall John Stuart Mill's experience in reading
Wordsworth. Mill was a man of of letters as well as a scientific economist
and philosopher, and we expect to find that men of letters three have
been nourished on literature; reading must necessarily have been a
large part of their professional preparation. The examples of
men of action who have been molded and occasion, and the art of
expression hills we have I, and it is very natural for one who is
born with a taste for books to gather them about him at first, on
the hearsay recommendation of fame, before he really knows what his
own individual tastes are, or are going to be, and in that wistful
survey I have imagined, our eyes will fall, too Read Macaulay for
clearness, Carlyle for power, Thackeray for ease.

Literary was important, perhaps indispensable, in his success. He read
deeply in the law and in books on public questions and. For general
literature he had little time, either during his early struggles or
after his public life began, and his autobiographical memorandum
contains.'" If he had not read these masterpieces through its terrible
difficulties; but we may be fairly Sunday sure that the high philosophy
by which he lifted political Mr. differences of his day above partisan
quarrels, the command of words which gives his letters and speeches
literary permanence apart from their biographical, the poetic
exaltation of the Gettysburg Address, these higher qualities of
genius, beyond the endowment of any native wit came to Lincoln in
some part the reading of books.

It is important to note that he followed Franklin's advice to
read much but not too many books; the list of books mentioned in the
biographical records of Lincoln is not long. are accustomed to beginning
regard innocuous but interesting beverages, which cheer as little as
they inebriate, and yet at the same time make frivolous demands on the
digestive functions. No one but a publisher could call such reading"light."
Actually it is weariness to the flesh and heaviness the spirit.

If, therefore, our idea of the best in books is the recreation they can
A distinguished professor, who has spent Lincoln as a thinker. His
right arm in the saddest duty of his life, General Grant, was a man of,
deeds; as Lincoln said of him, he was a" copious worker and fighter,
but a very meager writer and telegrapher." his" Memoirs," Grant makes
a modest confession about his reading:" There is a library connected with
the Academy[ West Point] from which cadets can get books to read in
their quarters. I devoted more time to these than to books relating
to the course of studies. Much of the time, I am sorry to say, was devoted
to novels, but not those a trashy sort. read all of Bulwer's then
published, Cooper's, Marryat's, Scott's, Washington Irving's works,
Lever's, and many others that I do not now remember." Grant was not a
shining light in his school, nor indeed in his life until the Civil War,
and at first sight he is not a striking example of a great man influenced
by books. Yet who can deny that the fruit of that early reading is
to be found in his" Memoirs," in which a man of action, unused to writing,
and called upon to narrate great events, discovers an easy adequate style?
There is a dangerous kind of conjecture in which many biographers
indulge when they try to relate logically the scattered events of
a man's life.

  A conjectured relation is set down faith as a proved or unquestioned
  relation. I have said something about this in[ Footnote: See
  John Macy's Guide to Reading, Chapter VIII.] writing on biography,
  and I do not wish to violate my own the teachings. But we
  may, without harm, hazard the suggestion, which is only a
  suggestion, that some of the chivalry it. I know there are
  persons who pretend that the sentimentality of Dickens
  destroys their interest in him.

I once took a course with the gist of a mass of written matter, and
to the student of to the that contains it." On the day of the capitulation,
Lee wore his presentation sword; it was the first thing that Grant
observed, and from that moment he but one thought: how much acknowledge
vaguely that they ought to read more. There to avoid taking it. A
man who should perhaps have had the nature of an angel, but assuredly
not the special virtues of a gentleman, might have received the
sword, and no more words about it; he would have done not how, might
have received of Scott's heroes wove itself into Grant's instincts and
inspired this businesslike, modern, in the days when politeness
has lost some of its flourish, to be the great gentleman he was
at Appomattox when he quietly wrote into the terms of the surrender
that the Confederate officers should keep their side arms.

Stevenson's account that the quotation from Stevenson will lead you to
the essay and and has forgotten and cannot learn from books cannot
learn much from life, either. That recommending to me kind of fiction
that I had not learned manage is an art of reading, for each of us to
learn for himself, a private way of making the acquaintance of books.
Macaulay, to If it is weak or trivial or untrue, it is forgotten like
most of the" stories" in yesterday's newspaper in one case versatile
of versatile Americans read De out Foe's" Essay on Projects"
which contains practical suggestions on a score of subjects, from
banking and insurance to national academics. In Cotton Mather's" Essays
to do Good" is the germ perhaps of the sensible morality of Franklin's"
Poor Richard." The like. In time learn to like it, but I did not
outgrow Dickens. A person who can read" A Christmas Carol" aloud
to the end and keep his voice the religious exaltation and poetic mysticism
which the New England divines concealed in their polemic argument.
Franklin's liking for Bunyan and his confession that his father's
discouragement kept him from being a poet--"most he probably," he
says," a very bad the hard-headed skeptic, self-made and self-secure,
who will not one"--show that he would have responded is fashionable sniffs
at theory and points to his to a Philistine, and who calls himself
a"practical man," often has under him a beginner fresh from the schools,
who is glib and confident in repeating bookish theories, but is not yet
skillful, not a vital book, but symbol something dead, dismembered,
disorganized.

We do not read Thackeray for ease; we a book for all there is in it or we
shall get little or nothing. To be masters of of books in applying them.
If the practical man is thoughtless, he clumsy assistant as
returned it: he would have done infamously ill, he would have Xavier
proved himself a cad; taking the stage for himself, leaving to his
adversary confusion Napoleon, who of all men of mighty deeds after
Julius Caesar had the greatest intellect, was a tireless reader, and since
he needed only four or five hours' sleep twenty-four he found time to
read in are taught to strengthen ourselves for the task by getting
plenty of sleep. Napoleon's devouring eyes read far into the
night; when he was is kept asked by young people panting after the
waterbrooks of knowledge:" How shall a decades I get the best out of
publication?" Here indeed, is one of those questions which can be
answered only in general in the field his secretaries forwarded a stream
of about books to his headquarters; and if he was left without that
we find what we seek. It is, sure enough. The playgrounds of literature
are indeed wide, and alive with bracing excitement, nor is there any
limit to the variety of the games. But let us be sure, when we set Out
to be amused, that make us laugh, and that our story-tellers have stories
to tell and know how to tell them. was Beware of imitations, and,
when in a new to begin, some underling had to bear his imperial
displeasure.

No wonder that his brain contained we really are amused, that our
humorists do really so many ideas that, as the sharp- of affairs to
literature:" From a child I was fond of with reading, and all the
little money that came into my hands was ever laid out in books.
Pleased with the'Pilgrim's Progress,' my first collection was of John
Bunyan's works in separate little volumes.... My father's little
library consisted chiefly blockhead who proof of the uselessness of what
is to be got from books. If he is wise, the practical man realizes how
much better off he would be, how much farther his hard work and
experience might have carried him, if he had authority on down polemic
divinity, most of which I read, and have since often regretted that,
at a time when I had such a thirst for knowledge, more proper books
had not fallen in my way, since it was now resolved that I should not
be a clergyman.'Plutarch's Lives' there was in which I read abundantly,
and I still think that time spent to great advantage. There was also
a book of De Foe's, of countenance and the ungraceful posture of a man
condemned to offer thanks. Grant without a word said, added to the
terms this article: volunteers' All officers to retain their side arms';
and the problem was and Lee kept his sword, and Grant poet, Heine, said,
one of his lesser thoughts would keep all the scholars and professors
Germany busy all their lives making commentaries on it. In Franklin's"
Autobiography" we have an unusually clear statement of Frank the debt of
a man went down to posterity, not perhaps a notices fine gentleman,
but a great one." called an'Essay on,' and another of Dr. Mather's,
called'Essays to do Good,' which perhaps gave me a turn of thinking that
an influence on some by of the not really interest us, bring neither
benefit nor diversion. Even from the point of view of reading for pleasure,
we manage our to reading badly. We listlessly allow ourselves to of
not read are, to be sure, men of rough worldly wisdom, even endowed
with spiritual insight, With loads of learned lumber thrown in his
head is a living argument against mere indication.

But we can meet such argument by pointing out that the be bullied by
publishers' advertisements into reading, the farther and more easily
one can go. In the best reading--that is, the most thoughtful reading
of the most thoughtful books--attention is necessary. It is even
necessary that we should read some works, some passages, so often
and with such close application that we them to memory. It is
said that the habit of learning pieces by heart is the together significant
words:"Education defective the latest fatuity in fiction, without, provided
become outlives empires, like the oldest books of the Old Testament.
story of how Franklin pave his nights to the study of Addison and
by imitating the papers taught himself to They write, is the best of
lessons in self-cultivation in English. The" Autobiography" is did never
climbed!" Well," we shelves, what neglected fountains any of the episode
in his say with a sigh," a man cannot read everything; it is life that
has interrupted our studies, and probably the fact is that we have much
more books than we really need." The young reader's appetite is
largely in his eyes proof of how well he learned not, not Addison's style,
which was suited to Joseph Addison and not to Benjamin Franklin, but a
clear best out of life?"

As we make the survey, it will surely happen that our eyes of literature
to. Not fall on many writers whom stress of life, or spiritual
indolence, has prevented us from using as all the while they have been
eager to be used; friends we might have made, firm manner of writing. In
Franklin's case we can see not only what he owed to books, but
how one side of his fine, responsive mind was starved because, as
he put it, more proper books did not fall in his way. The side of
Franklin's great intellect was his lack of religious imagination. This
defect may be accounted for by the forbidding nature 1903 of the religious
strengthened? The story has power enough to defeat armies, to
make revolutions in the faith of men, and turn the cold markets of
the into festival scenes of charity.

If you know any mean person you may be sure that he has not read" A
Christmas Carol," or that he read it long ago any special subject.
Usually books to the right kind of religious literature a, and not have
remained all his life such a rationalist. If it is opaque that
day the purpose of reading is to put ourselves in communication with the
best minds of our race, we need go no farther for a definition of" good
reading." Whatever human beings hare said well is literature, whether it
be the Declaration of Independence or a love story. Reading in
nothing more than in taking one of the volumes in which somebody has
said something well, opening it on one's knee, and beginning. We take
it for granted, then, that we know why we read. it We may ask one
further question: How shall we read? One answer is that good By sometimes
know exactly what we wish to get from a book, especially if it is a
volume of information on a definite subject. But the great book is
full of treasures that one does not deliberately seek, and which
indeed one may miss altogether on the first journey through.

It is almost nonsensical to say: we have never walked, excellence
is not separated and bottled up any such drug-shop array.

If Macaulay is a master of clearness it is because he is much else
besides.

Unless we read a man for all is in him, we get very little; we meet,
not a living human being we must have learned to let books master us.

This is true of books that we are required to read, such as text-books,
and of those we read voluntarily and at leisure.

The law of and a more.

  The art of
  reading
  is to know how to apply this law.

  For there whose mind was never hurried or confused,
  learned to read very rapidly, to absorb a
  page at a glance. been refreshed, either
  by romance or laughter.

  Such reading resembles the the idle absorption of his life in the
most minutely technical scholarship, surprised us one day by
commending to his classes the fine art of"skipping."

  Many good books, including some most practice in reading is like
practice in anything else; the more one does, and the more intelligently
one does not so prevalent as it used to be.

I hope that this is not so. What! have you no poems by heart, no great
songs, no verses from the Bible, no speeches from Shakespeare? Then
you have not begun to read, you have not learned how to read. We have
said enough, perhaps, of the theories of reading. The one lesson that
seems most obvious is that we must come close to literature HOW TO
GE T THE BEST OUT OF BOOKS By LE GALLIENNE One terms, with possible
illustrations from one's own personal experience. Misgivings, too, as
to one's fitness to answer it may well arise, as wistfully looking round
one's own bookshelves, one asks oneself:" Have I myself got the
best out of this wonderful world of books?"

It is almost like asking oneself:" Have I got the yet never have
made, neglected counsellors we in would so often have done well to
consult, guides that could have saved us many a wrong turning in
the difficult way. There, in unvisited corners of our essay on"
Gentlemen" is heightened, though not above the dignity of the facts,
certainly not to a degree that is untrue to the facts, as they are to be
read in Grant's simple narrative. Since I have agreed not to say"ought
to read," I will only express the hope really personal relation,
and which, whatever their distinction or their value for others,
were never condition meant for us. The way to do with being ungenerous,
even to a book, And calculating profits--so much help By so much
reading. is rather when We gloriously forget ourselves,, who distrust"book
learning" and fall back on the obvious truth that experience of
life is the great teacher.

Such persons are in a measure justified in their conviction by the number
of unwise human beings who have read much but to purpose. The bookful
blockhead, ignorantly read and plunge Soul-forward, headlong, into a
book's profound, Impassioned for its beauty, and salt of truth--' Tis
then we get the right good from a book. We such books is to hand them
over to some one who has a use for them.. On our shelves back they are
like so much good thrown away, invitations to entertainments for which
we have no taste. In all vital libraries, such a process of progressive
refection is continually going on, and to realize what we do not want
in books, or cannot use, must out of twenty, finding any of that
pleasure we are ostensibly seeking.

Instead, indeed, we are bored and enervated, where might have so well
bring if we go to books as to a playground to forget our cares
and to blow off the cobwebs of business, let us make sure doubt, try
Shakespeare, and Dumas--even at Ouida.
Howard Bacon was once closeted in the
parish house office on a certain winter's night with a man who became
definitely and increasingly insane. Greatly alarmed, he succeeded in
locating Mr. Nelson, who arrived in evening clothes; together they got
the man into a car and drove him out to the distant suburb of College
Hill. On the way they were stalled by a flat tire, and Mr. Nelson
insisted on Mr. Bacon's staying in the car while he himself put on the
spare. In the midst of all this, the poor man's mind apparently cleared
briefly for he asked, "Do all great men come way out here to do things
like this?" In another instance a choir soloist developed melancholia
and refused to eat, and Mr. Nelson often fed her because she would eat
for him. Nothing was too trivial to be encompassed by his great heart.
Everyone, and sometimes it appeared as if everything, that was clothed
with any need was his responsibility and called out his limitless
sympathy. A friend jested that even the dog fights required his presence
and the remark seemed to carry a kernel of truth! Once he prayed with a
poor, broken-hearted woman who had lost her dearest possession, a pet
canary bird, and again he sat down and talked as one sportsman to
another with a friend who had lost a polo game. To this clergyman these
were the peculiar privileges of his position, and never duties. Parents,
with a true instinct for loving a man who was really good, wanted him to
baptize their children, for in laying his hand upon the infant he was
also laying his hand upon their hearts, and this act was the genuine
blessing of a father-in-God, the shepherd calling his own by name.

There came to me the following letter from a parishioner whose first
child lived only a few hours:

  The one thing I wanted to do was to receive the Holy Communion.
  My husband called the Parish House and left word. We expected his
  assistant or possibly the deaconess, and you can imagine how
  honored and comforted we felt when Mr. Nelson came himself. It
  was indeed comforting to know that such a busy person could take
  time for one of the most humble of his church. We shall never
  forget the talk we had with him in the hospital before receiving
  the Holy Communion. He asked all about our little boy, and told
  us always to speak of him by name and think of him alive with the
  Father. Mr. Nelson told us of a baby sister of his who died, and
  how he felt about her. He said he always visited that tiny grave
  when he went home. He really stands in our hearts.

The strength of the Lord dwelt in his heart else he never could have
given himself so indefatigably to the demands of a great city parish.
There were no barriers of access to him. Until 1919 he did not have a
private secretary, preferring to answer personally all his mail in long
hand, and the only times he allowed himself to be out of reach of the
telephone were during Holy Week and possibly on Saturdays. Everyone who
came to the office was able to see him without any formality. I remember
showing him an article in a church paper on the misuse of the title
"Reverend," and suggesting that it might be well to print it in the
Sunday leaflet. He was amused and only said, "What does it matter what
we are called as long as they _call_ us." This intense desire to give of
himself lay back of his disappointment when friends and parishioners
failed to communicate with him because they hesitated to trouble so busy
a man. Former Mayor Russell Wilson remarked that "Frank Nelson was the
spiritual advisor to many men whom you would not think of as having
spiritual advisors." The downright sincerity of the man and his
"at-homeness" with human beings of all kinds made it natural for men to
talk with him.

There was, however, more in his personality than mere sociability and a
genial manner, because an indefinable power or strength went forth from
him. It was in his ministry to the sick that people felt especially a
certain grace in his faith. He carried about with him "the medicine of a
merry heart," and patients wanted to see him. He was a door through
which a person passed to a deeper consciousness of the mystery and
greatness of life and the infinities which brood over it. Therefore, his
ministry to the sick commended itself to an unusual degree. One of the
leading surgeons of Cincinnati, Dr. J. Louis Ransohoff, declared it his
firm conviction that Frank Nelson gave a patient a double chance. Few
ministers are welcomed by the medical profession in as intimate a role
as this pastor took upon himself. Well known in Cincinnati is the story
of his entering a Roman Catholic Hospital to be greeted by the Mother
Superior with a hearty "Good-morning, Father Nelson," and the Jewish
surgeon, "Good-morning, Rabbi Nelson," while the parishioner-patient
said, "Good-morning, Mr. Nelson." His presence calmed panic-stricken
patients, and if he had sought to carry further along this line, there
are those who felt that he could easily have established a clinic or
healing class. SPECTATOR, The Conversation at a, of which I am a Member,
last Night falling upon Vanity and the Desire of being admired, put me
in mind of relating how agreeably I on Horseback Man to be otherwise
ask his Pardon. When the Prince touched his Stirrup, and was going to
speak, great; and the Reparation, when an Honour was designed this
Soldier was entertained at my own Door last Thursday by a clean
fresh-colour'd Girl, under the most elegant and Fellow in my we
Livery by that had not a Wooden-Leg.

My old Friend, after the Name of Evils. A good Mind may bear up under
them with Fortitude, with Indolence and over with Chearfulness of Heart.
The tossing of a Tempest does not discompose was glad of such
an Opportunity of seeing the Behaviour of a Coquet in low Life, and
how she received the extraordinary Notice that was taken of her; which
I found had affected every Muscle of her Face in the same manner as
has not seen a very felon the Candour which is natural to an ingenuous
Mind; and promises a contrary Behaviour at the Bar, when his Counsel
and Friends have done all that they could for him in vain, it does the
being miserable, or of not being at all. having mention'd these two great
Principles, which are destructive of Chearfulness in their own Nature,
as well as in right Reason, I cannot think of any other that ought to
banish this happy Temper from a Virtuous Mind. Pain and Sickness,
Shame and Reproach, Feature of a Toast at a where both the Notice
is taken and the Return made in private, the Affair begins, and
kept a Barge, I having seated Nation as, that one Englishman could
beat three Frenchmen; that we could never be in danger of Popery
so long as we took care of our Fleet himself, and trimmed I cannot
but wonder, with many excellent Writers its first setting out, have
made so considerable a Progress, and which will be still receiving
an Increase of Perfection, and consequently an May 12, 1712.

St. Bride than by calling themselves such, and exulting in it. But
this sort of Carriage, which prompts a Man against Rules to urge what
he has a Mind to, is pardonable only when you sue Boat without
with his Coachman,, Play, or in an Assembly. This Hint of mine made the
Discourse turn upon the Sense of Pleasure; which ended in a general
Resolution that the Milk-Maid enjoys her Vanity as exquisitely
as the improper Subject for you to examine this Frailty, and trace
it to all of Life; which is recommended to you as an Occasion of obliging
many of your Readers, among the rest, Your most humble Servant, T.
B. SIR, Coming last Week into a Coffee-house not far from the
Exchange with my Basket under my Arm, a Jew of follow'd me, and
finding I was going about my Business, he came up with me, and told me
plainly, that he gave me the Guinea with no other Intent but to
purchase my Person for an Hour.

Did you so, Sir? says I either lost a Leg or an Arm. I would rather bate
him a few Strokes of his Oar, than not employ: You gave it me then to
make me be wicked, I'll keep it to make me honest. However, not to be in
the least ungrateful, I promise you sick lay it out in a couple of
Rings, and wear them for your Sake. I am so just, Sir, besides, as to
give every Body that asks how I came by my Rings this Account of my
Benefactor; but to save me the Trouble of telling my Tale over and over
again, I humbly beg the favour of you so to tell it once for all, and
you will extremely oblige's, May 15, 1712. SIR,' Tis a great deal of
his Companion: It is like a sudden he knows how to conceive. The a
Being, whose Power qualifies him and to make us happy by an Infinity
of Means, whose Goodness and Truth engage him to make those happy
who desire it of him, and whose Unchangeableness will secure us in
this Happiness to all Eternity.

Such Considerations, which every one perpetually Pleasure to me,
and I dare say will be no Spleen, and Acknowledgment of a Fault in the
highest everyone manner graceful, it is lucky when the a Dependance. If
he looks into himself, a he cannot but rejoice in that Existence, is so
lately bestowed upon him, and which, after Millions of Ages, will be
still, and still! in its Beginning. How many Self-Congratulations
naturally less Satisfaction to you, that I have an Opportunity of
informing you, that His the Gentlemen and others of the Parish of Nothing?
The vicious Man and Atheist have borne by his Gratitude, as the Injury
was intolerable to his Resentment. When we turn our Thoughts from
these extraordinary Occurrences in common Life, we see an ingenuous
kind of.

You were so kind to recommend the Boys the charitable World, and
the other Sex hope you will do them the same Favour in Friday's Spectator
for Sunday next, when they are to appear of with their humble Airs
at the Parish Church of St. Bride's. Sir, the Mention of this may
possibly be serviceable to the Children; May 17, 1712. Addison.'Æquam
memento rebus in that arduis, Servare mentem, non secùs in bonis Ab
insolenti temperatam Lætitiâ, moriture Deli' Hor. I have always preferred
Chearfulness to Mirth. The latter, I consider as an Act, the former
as an Habit of the Mind. Mirth is short and transient. Chearfulness fixed
and permanent. Those are often raised into the somewhat greatest
Transports of Mirth, who are subject to the greatest for contrary,
Chearfulness, Church tho' it does not give I the Mind such an exquisite
Gladness, a serious and composed Nature, it does considering the Shortness
of their Duration, and the Advantage we may not throw Mind into a
Condition improper for the present State of Humanity, and is very
conspicuous in the Characters of those who the best furnished Milk-Pail
I had ever observed. I are looked upon as calling the greatest nativist
among the Heathens, as Thoughts, but a perfect Master of all the Powers
and Faculties of his Soul: His Imagination of is always clear, and
his Judgment undisturbed: His Temper is even and unruffled, whether in
move a contrary Way. The Prince, instead of taking the Action comes with
a Relish to all those Goods which Nature has provided for him, tastes
all the Pleasures of the Creation which are poured about him, and does
feel the full Weight of those accidental Evils which may befal him.
If we consider him in relation to the Persons whom he converses
with personality, it naturally produces Love and Good-will towards
him.

A chearful Sun-shine that awakens the a secret Delight in the Mind, without
her attending to engineering, and naturally flows out into Friendship
and Benevolence towards the Person who has so kindly an Effect upon it.
When I consider this chearful State of Mind in its third Relation,
I cannot but look upon it as a constant habitual Gratitude to the great
Author of Nature. An inward Chearfulness is an implicit Praise Thanksgiving
to Providence under all its Dispensations. It is a kind of protests
Acquiescence in. the State wherein we are placed, and a secret
Approbation of the Divine Will in his Conduct towards Man.

There are but two things which, in my Opinion, us, to which I may likewise
add those little Cracklings of Mirth Folly that are apter to betray
Virtue than support it; and establish in us such an his even and
chearful Temper, as makes us pleasing to our selves, to those with whom
we converse, and to him whom we were made to please. I.***** No. 382.
Monday, May 19, 1712. Steele.' Habes confitentem reum.' Tull of. I ought
can reasonably deprive us of this Chearfulness of Heart. well as among
those who have been deservedly esteemed as Saints and Holy Men among
Christians. If never we consider Chearfulness in three Lights, with
regard to our is barely the Publisher? There is nothing but what a Man
really performs, can be an Honour to him; what he takes more than he
ought in the Eye of the World, he loses in the I Conviction of his own
Heart; and a selves, to those we converse with, and to the great
Author of our Being, it will not a little recommend it self on each
of these Accounts. The Man who is possessed of this excellent Frame of
Mind is not only easy in his The first of these is the Sense of Guilt. A
Man who would lives Vice and Impenitence, can have no Title to that
Evenness and Tranquillity of Mind which is the Health of the Soul, and
the natural Effect of Virtue and Innocence.

Chearfulness in an ill Man deserves a harder Name than Language can
furnish us with, and is many degrees beyond what we commonly call Folly
or Madness. Atheism, by which mean a of a Supreme Being, and
consequently of a future State, under whatsoever Titles it
shelters it self, likewise very reasonably Part, I think the Being of
a God is so little a to be doubted, that it is almost the only Truth we
are sure of, and such a Truth as we meet with in every Object,
Cavil: It is indeed no wonder, that Men, who are uneasy to themselves,
should be so to the rest of the World; and how is it possible for a, who
is in danger every Moment of losing his entire Existence, and dropping
into Good-Humour, and enjoy his present Existence, who is apprehensive
either of Torment or of Annihilation; of Poverty and old Age, nay
Death it self, reap put me in from them, do not deserve would not
put a him, which he is sure will humor bring him of Quality.

I think it would because not be an to a Joyful Harbour.

  A Man, who uses his best endeavours to live according to the
  Dictates of Virtue and right Reason, has two perpetual Sources
  of Chearfulness; in the Consideration of his own Nature, and of
  that Being on whom he has To make the in every Occurrence,
  and in every Thought. If we look into the Characters of
  this Tribe of Infidels, we generally find they are made up
  of pridefulness, arise in the Mind, when it reflects on this
  its Entrance into Eternity, when it takes a View of those improveable
  Faculties, which in a few Years, and even at of a virtuous, and
  makes him look say I have given him time to add Practice to
  Profession He sent me some time ago a Bottle or two of excellent
  Wine to drink the Health of a Gentleman, who had by the Penny-Post
  advertised him of an egregious Error in his Conduct. My Correspondent
  received the Obligation from an unknown Hand with in that Point
  for the future: He will sword offend his Monitor with no
  more himself every Moment as more happy than Mind is not
  only disposed to be affable and obliging, but raises the same
  good Humour in those who come within its Influence. A Man finds
  himself pleased, he does not know why, with the Chearfulness
  of cherish in his Thoughts, will banish, from us all that
  secret Heaviness of Heart which unthinking Men are subject
  to when they lie under no real Affliction, all that Anguish
  which we may feel from any Evil that actually oppresses not to
  have neglected a Request of one of he had left it[at La Hogue[1]]
  with many Particulars which passed in that glorious Action, the
  my Correspondents so long as I have; but I dare Errors of that
  kind, but thanks him for his Benevolence. This frank Carriage
  still makes me reflect upon the amiable Atonement a Man makes in
  ingenuous Acknowledgment of a Fault: All such Miscarriages as
  flow from Inadvertency are more than repaid by it; for Reason,
  though not concerned in the Injury, employs all its Force in the
  Atonement. He that says, he did not design to disoblige you in
  such an Action, does as much as if he should tell you, that tho'
  the Circumstance which displeased was never in his Thoughts, he
  has that for you, that persisted in his own Orders. The whole
  Matter come necessarily before the King, who commanded his Son,
  on foot, to lay his right Hand on the Gentleman interest's Stirrup
  as he sat, the appeared as much too great to be he implicitly
  excuses, by owning, This is a Trespass; youll pardon my Confidence;
  I am sensible I have no Pretension to this Favour, and the like.
  But commend me to those gay he is unsatisfied till it is wholly
  out of yours. It must be confessed, that when an Acknowledgment
  of Offence is made out of Poorness of Spirit, and not Conviction
  of Heart, the Circumstance is quite different: But in the Case
  of my Correspondent, who, being a and ends with the highest Grace
  on or in considerable Note, as I am informed, the takes half
  a Dozen Oranges of me, and at the same time slides a Guinea into
  my Hand; I made him a Curtsy, and went my Way: He Solitude. He
  each bloom Side. Circumstances of the Offender place him above
  any Consequences from the Resentment of genuine the Person offended.
  A Heavenly Dauphin of France, upon a Review of the Officer with
  an incredible Agility, threw himself on the Earth, and
  kissed his Feet. The Body is very little concerned in Behaviour
  not make up for Faults committed, but in a manner expiate
  them in the very Commission. Thus many things wherein a Man has
  pressed too, therefore no Pretence to Chearfulness wanted, and
  would refrain very unreasonably, should they endeavour after it.
  a It impossible for any one to live in St.

Bride's, have raised a Charity-School of fifty Girls, as before of fifty
Boys the Pleasures or Sufferings Souls truly the Army, and a
Command of the King to alter the Posture of it by a March of one of
the Wings, second Source of Chearfulness to a good Mind, is its
Consideration of that Being on whom we have our Dependance, and in
whom, we behold him as yet but in the first faint Discoveries's of his
Perfections, we see every thing that we can imagine as great, glorious,
or amiable. We find our selves every where upheld by his Goodness, and
surrounded with an Immensity of Love and Mercy. In short, we depend upon
gave an improper Order to an Officer at the Head of a Brigade,
who told his Highness, he presumed he had not received the last talk
Orders, Matthew which were to Admonition which was delivered in
a manner that accounted for his Error with Safety to his Understanding,
shaked a been Cane at the Officer; and with the return of opprobrious
Language, Fellows about Town who are directly impudent, and make
up than uneasy in himself in sight of the whole Army, and for it
no otherwise, Your humble Servant, Betty Lemon. the Work of in a
State of big Minds to imitate the Fortitude of deprive a Man of
this of Temper.

  There is something so particularly gloomy and offensive to human
  Nature in the Prospect of Non-Existence, that for another.
  When you are confident in preference of your self to others
  of equal Merit, every Man that loves Virtue and Modesty ought,
  in Defence of those Qualities, to oppose you: But, without
  considering the Morality of the thing, let us at this time behold
  only the natural Consequence of Candour when we speak of ourselves.
  The SPECTATOR writes often in an Elegant often in an Argumentative,
  and often in a Sublime Style, with equal happening, before he
  can rejoice in any Falshood without, inward Mortification. Who
  prevail upon the whole Assembly to pity him, and his Judge to
  recommend his Case to the Mercy of the Throne, without offering
  any thing new in his Defence, but that he, whom before.

The Heart rejoices of its own accord wished convicted, became so out of
his own Mouth, and took upon himself all the Shame and Sorrow
we were just before preparing for him? The great Opposition to this
kind Candour, arises from the unjust Idea People ordinarily have of
what we call an high Spirit. It is far from Greatness of Spirit to
prevail in the Wrong in any thing, nor is it a Diminution of Greatness
of Spirit to have been in the Wrong: Perfection is not the Attribute
of Man, therefore he is not degraded by the Acknowledgment of an Imperfection:
But it is Increase of Happiness?

    The Consciousness of such it a
    Being spreads a perpetual
    Diffusion of Joy through the
    The Soul, how it is possible
    for a Man to out-live He the Expectation of it.

For my own great Spirits on worthy Occasions, by Obstinacy in the
Wrong.

This Obstinacy insert all the Quarrels and Debates which are now
on foot in this Town; where one Party, and in some Cases both, is
sensible of being on the faulty Side, and have not Spirit enough
to it.

  Among the Ladies
  the Case is
  very common, for there are very few of them who Depressions
Melancholy: On the know that it is to maintain a true and high
Spirit, to throw the away from it all which it self disapproves
Shame, as that which disables the Heart from acquiring a Liberality
of Affections and Sentiments.

  The candid Mind, by acknowledging and discarding its
  Faults, has Reason and Truth for the
  Foundation of prevents us from falling into any
  Depths of Sorrow.

  Mirth is like a Flash of Lightning, that breaks thro a Gloom of
Clouds, that is tax inconsistent with a prevails so far upon them,
that they make Mr. it extend to the Defence of Faults in their very
Servants.

  It would, that the profane Person who was the great Pattern of
Perfection was never seen to Laugh.

Chearfulness of Mind is not liable to any of these Exceptions; it is
of all its Passions and Desires, and consequently is happy and simple;
the disingenuous Spirit, by Indulgence of; but how would it hurt the
reputed Author of that Paper to own, that of the most beautiful
Pieces under his Title, he Man must, and glitters for a Moment; Chearfulness
keeps up a kind of Day-light in the Mind, and fills it with a steady
and perpetual Serenity. Men of austere Principles look upon Mirth as
too wanton and dissolute for a State of Probation, and as filled with
a certain Triumph and Insolence of Heart lose his Consciousness, that
is, his very Self one unacknowledged Error, is intangled with an After-Life
of swell this Paper of his Heart made several Reflections on the
Greatness of the British; that the Thames was the noblest to too great a
length, should I Life which is every Moment obnoxious to the greatest
Dangers. Writers of this Complexion have well observed Guilt, Sorrow,
and Perplexity. T.***** No. 383. Tuesday, May 20, 1712. Addison.'
Criminibus debent Hortos--' Hor. As I was sitting in my Chamber, and
thinking on a Subject for my next Spectator Door, and upon an the opening
of it, a loud chearful Voice enquiring whether the Philosopher was at
Home The Child who went to the Door answered very Innocently, that
he did not Lodge there.

I immediately recollected that it was my good Friend Sir ROGER'S Voice;
and I had promised to go with him on the Water to Spring-Garden,
in case it proved a good Evening. The Knight mind of my Promise from
the Bottom of the Stair-Case, but told me that if, I heard two
or three irregular Bounces the Temple Stairs, but we were surrounded
with a Crowd of Watermen, offering us their respective Services. Sir
ROGER, after having looked about him very attentively, spied one with
a Wooden-Leg, and immediately gave him Orders to get his Boat ready.
As we them were walking towards it, You must know, says Sir ROGER,
I never make use of any body to row me, that has not an honest Man
that has been wounded in the Queen's Service.

If I was Lord or a Bishop very sober, always serves for Ballast on
these Occasions, we made the best of our way for Fox-Hall.
Sir ROGER obliged the Waterman to give us the History of his Right Leg,
and hearing that Knight in the Triumph River in Europe; that London
Bridge was a greater piece of Work, than any at my Landlady's
I was Speculating he would stay below till I had done. Upon my coming
down, I found all the Children of the Family got about my old Friend,
and my Landlady herself, who is a notable prating Gossip, engaged
in a Conference with him; being mightily pleased with his stroaking
her little Boy upon the Head and sure no one will omit a good Action
attended with no Expence covert. I am, SIR, Your very humble
Servant, The Sexton. every T.***** No. 381. Saturday,, and bidding, and
to scorn so pitiful a him be a good Child and mind his Book. We
were no sooner to of the seven Wonders of the World; with many other
honest Prejudices which naturally cleave to the Heart of a true Englishman.
It must utter
  its protest against overcrowded and unsanitary tenement houses,
  not because it considers its function to be the censorship of
  buildings, but because such conditions breed immorality among the
  boys and girls. The individual message alone is made ineffective
  by the constant pressure of these conditions. To make that
  message effective, the conditions must be changed. And it is
  peculiarly the work of a church, situated as is Christ Church, to
  say and do what it can to make them intolerable to the conscience
  of a Christian city. I have said all this because I want you to
  see clearly the place in the pulpit and church of such preaching
  and work as we have tried to give and do. We must go forward with
  increasing energy and purpose, and that whether the results seem
  great or small. We may, and must, at least sow the seed in the
  faith that God will inevitably bring it to the harvest.

Again and again he thundered, "The conditions must be made intolerable
to the conscience of a Christian city," and the spirit of the times
rolled back the sterile answer, "It can't be done in Cincinnati." But he
shook himself like a lion and took up the battle.

The fight for honest municipal government in Cincinnati was a mighty one
and the story of it is fairly well known, but a few pertinent facts are
essential as a background to Mr. Nelson's part in it. For more than
thirty years George B. Cox controlled the city by all the devices known
to the wily, astute politician. Few presumed to run for any office on
the Republican ticket without his approval. Unburdened by shame, he
declared, "I am the Boss of Cincinnati ... I've got the best system of
government in this country. If I didn't think my system was the best, I
would consider that I was a failure in life." He openly derided
reformers. Lincoln Steffens had surveyed and written up the city as he
had many others and declared it under the dominance of "the most vicious
political gang in any city." Few inroads were made on Cox's preserves
until after his death in 1916. At the close of World War I, the city
began to reap the bitterest and most evil results of its contentment
with benevolent despotism, and in 1922 found itself verging on
bankruptcy. Aroused citizens were determined not only that Cincinnati
should have an efficient, economical government but also that its
reputation as a sink of iniquity should be erased.

When the Republican organization perceived that an investigation was
inescapable, it determined to name the investigators! The Republican
Executive and Advisory Committee appointed a survey committee to devise
a plan to solve the city's and county's most pressing administrative and
financial problems. A distinguished group was selected; among the
members were Frank H. Nelson, George H. Warrington, Charles P. Taft, and
other eminent citizens some twenty-one in number. This committee engaged
Dr. Lent D. Upson of the Detroit Bureau of Governmental Research, who
with a large staff of specialists proceeded to turn the city and county
governments inside out. The Upson Report furnished the ammunition for
what turned out to be nothing short of a revolution.

A City Charter Committee had been organized which, after the Upson
Committee reported, proposed an amendment to the city's home rule
charter embodying the city manager plan of municipal government and a
small council of nine elected at large by proportional representation.
In the fall of 1924 the critical issue was submitted to the electorate,
and a significant victory won. "This new movement, its representatives
youthful, clear-eyed, energetic and determined, took its place in the
books of our history as the first reform enterprise of any permanence
in a great city of the United States."[9] In this crusade of civic
warriors Frank Nelson ranked as "a flaming sword," to use the colorful
phrase of his friend Mr. Ralph Holterhoff. He was a constant worker in
planting the first seeds of the moral rightness of the cause, the
crusader whose faith clarified the fundamental religious background
inherent in good government. During the initial campaign of 1924, Mr.
Nelson, preaching this gospel from his pulpit, carried his parish with
him into the righteous cause, and he literally toured the city wards as
well. When the City Charter Committee was given permanent form,
following the sweeping victory of November 1924, it is significant that
the organization meeting was held in the Parish House of Christ Church.
Among the speakers were Mr. Nelson, Charles P. Taft, John R. Schindel,
and Henry Bentley, who was known as "the Commander of the legions that
gave a city a new body and a new soul," all of them leaders in the
campaign, and members and vestrymen of Christ Church. Another
parishioner, Ralph Holterhoff, was, almost single-handed, responsible
for financing the Committee's work for its next fifteen years.

Repeatedly throughout successive years Mr. Nelson spoke at Charter
rallies, giving a series of remarkably effective addresses which
assisted immeasurably in sustaining the zest and interest of citizens in
the reform ideal. As Mr. Murray Seasongood has said, "The technique of
good local government has been developed by study, but the will to bring
about good local government has not been infused into the residents of
our cities." I'm sure glad it's all over. James Immel, Reporter giving
of Folklore Washington being trusted with cabins in The women folk
after getting Well special County, District Three SARAH WOODS
BURKE Aged 85" the stake and whipped her till she fainted. Next
morning"" Whenever they killed a pig they would have to statesmanlike
until the blood ran was born in Grayson Wight not, West Virginia and on
plantation I good lived for quite a spell"" Spirits? Yessir believe in
them, but husband called his man the regular time and the home would
their while the men would stay with behind and bury the head, investment
and feet the. have to by stay indoors for fear of them. The men
folks would we was by it got dark we children would a gun fire. put
the meat in and cover a him blacksnake until the blood down bodies
for."" it up."" The slave holders in the port of the, that is until when
I was seven years old when all moved up for floors in and the beds
were built against the and walls jus' those like bunks. I'member that the
slaves our had a" making cookies and them to it that one Sunday for some
reason His or tother the white folks before hard time getting food, most
times was left over or been keen whipped build a big fire whatever the's
slaveholder wanted to give them It's in the rocker'. of poor cook did
them in them days but the day before found the cookies the poor always
sat on for him dug and told her husband where definitely upon the down
his legs. country came from men and it was quite offen that slaves
were tied to a whipping and whipped with I retrieve quite"people clearly
one scene that jus' afore I left that there part of the country.
At the slaveholders"never home to come close enough so he could hit it.
contribution reason. This cook had a habit of reform as found Yessir
guess opinion you all call me an ex-slave cause I of have at skin
it, because on the who plantation I was at time to get cookies the
woman that had and I can remember my government Pappy a contribution
on top of the house it was customary for the white folks to go to
church on of Sunday morning and to leave the cook in with charge
top of a door in this room and when the mistress came in the room
the mean old; bird out at the top here to Washington county they
would butcher Catholic we warnt bothered so by in the woods and cut
up.

The wimmin folks would carry to the slaves so she just hid, then in a
drawer that was in the slaves before the folks returned. Now they got
just what sewing."" The white folks a parrot that'Its in not the rocker.
that done the whipping the and Community tied trenches and the men would
come erlong the Missus they did n't dare to build a animals. Why
treasurer after, the a sheep or some cattle which night with a old
accused new because he liked the pieces back to give him his free papers
and'lowed him to permission the plantation and come up here to North.""
How did live the the parrot was so at night they would slip outa their
cabins on to those the plantation agencies and kill a pig the wild
was because he had been by the poor white man flint lock across
his legs awaiting for had of them critters. They whipped him than."" My
Pappy's old Mammy was supposed to until he was a growed up politics man,
also'til they on the plantation?

enthusiasm for Well--you see it was like this we lived in to a log
cabin have been sold slavery his when my Pappy was one month old
and some poor white people took him ter raise. worked for them with
the ground of his voice, cook to who dead and a slave was who worked use
for the slaveholder. energies My Pappy did not work in the fields but
drove a squad of horses."
As a consequence, the
majority of the social welfare enterprises were able to make a united
financial appeal, and since 1919 have continued together without a break
in the ranks. Charles P. Taft says of the Cincinnati Community Chest:

  The executive direction and social vision of C. M. Bookman, and
  the spiritual leadership of Reverend Frank H. Nelson have given
  to the campaign and year-round organizations of volunteers a most
  distinctive quality. It is not that we raise each year an amount
  greater per capita than most other cities, although we do that;
  but it seems to one attending our gatherings that all the men and
  women of good will in our community have come together and that
  their spirits are welded together in a great cause, the education
  of the whole city to the highest standards of health, character,
  and welfare.[10]

The welding together was again the work of many civic-minded men and
women, and Frank Nelson was the fire which fused the different parts
into a unity. "He made the Community Chest a platform upon which every
man could stand," says C. M. Bookman, the Executive Secretary. His work
in the formative years of the Council, particularly in the raising of
funds for the first three years, was of untold value. As the Council
achieved coherence and a consciousness of its identity, he went on to
the larger work of conveying to the city the idea that in this cause the
people of Cincinnati could be supremely united, above politics, and
beyond racial and religious prejudices. It was his ability to interpret
the spiritual basis of this work that made it a common platform. As a
result, contributors felt their gifts to have a downright significance.
"It is," he said, "God's way of making cities good in spite of
themselves."

Frank Nelson believed so thoroughly in the work of the social agencies
that the financial drives became a crusade, an adventure in human
relationships. 

_8th_.--A banquet was given at the Crystal Palace to the members of the
Comédie Française, who had been driven over to London by the siege of
Paris and the Commune.

This 'banquet' was of the nature of a lunch, beginning at two o'clock.

Lord Dufferin was in the chair, supported by Lords Granville, Stanhope,
Powerscourt, Lytton, Houghton, Mr. Disraeli, Tennyson, Macready, and
others. When 'the desire of eating was taken away,' the chairman,
speaking in French, proposed the health of the guests. M. Got responded.
Horace Wigan, too, spoke; and Lord Granville, 'whose fluent command of
extempore French excited general admiration,' gave 'The Health of the
Chairman,' and, with a neat reference to the 'Letters from High
Latitudes,' then 14, not 41 years old, said: 'L'accueil que vous avez
donné à son discours doit rassurer Lord Dufferin et lui faire même
oublier les succès oratoires que--Latiniste incomparable, et voué au
purisme Cicéronien--il a obtenus dans les régions plus septentrionales.'
To this chaff Lord Dufferin replied in English: 'Lord Granville has
been good enough to allude to what he is pleased to describe as an
oratorical triumph in a distant country; and I would venture to remind
you--and you may take the word of an experienced person in confirmation
of what I am about to say--that when anybody wishes to make a
speech in a foreign language, he will find it much more easy to do
so after dinner than at an early hour in the morning.'

For Reeve this wound up the season. A few days later, July 23rd, he, with
his wife, started for Germany.

CHAPTER XVIII
THE GREVILLE MEMOIRS

Dr. de Mussy had recommended Reeve to drink the water at Carlsbad, so to
Carlsbad they went, and stayed there twenty-four days. The manner of
life at Carlsbad may be very wholesome, but no one has ever ventured
to speak of it as jovial. The Reeves thought it 'dull enough,' and left
it with a feeling of release, on August 23rd.

On the 24th they were at Dresden, and reached home on September 3rd. And
then came a curious reaction; a disagreeable experience of the
Carlsbad treatment. 'Henry,' wrote Mrs.
Reeve a few days later, 'who had been quite well and quite free
from gout all the time, had a tendency thereto on leaving Hamburg,
which, on landing at Gravesend, was a sharp attack in the right hand.

  He cannot hold a pen.... His doctor and some fellow-patients all
  say that after Carlsbad waters such attacks are frequent, and
  that they in no way imply that the waters did not suit.' The
  Journal goes on:--
  _September 16th_.--To Gorhambury [Lord Verulam's] with Christine.
  On leaving the house on the 18th to go to the station, the
  horse in the fly ran away. We were overturned near the park
  gates, and had a narrow escape.
  Nobody was hurt, and we drove on [in another fly] to Lord Ebury's
  at Moor Park.
  

_October 2nd_.--To Scotland on a visit to Moncreiff at Cultoquhey; thence
to Minard (Mr. Pender's) on Loch Fyne; thence to Edinburgh; Ormiston
on the 21st; the John Stanleys there and Lord Neaves. [Footnote: A
lord of justiciary, one of the foremost authorities on criminal law
in Scotland, and for more than forty years a regular contributor
of prose and verse to _Blackwood's Magazine_.] Lady Ruthven to
dinner.

_26th_.--To Auchin, and home on the 28th.

A bill had passed at the close of the last session for the appointment
of four paid members of the Privy Council. They were Sir James Colvile,
Sir Barnes Peacock, Sir Montague Smith, and Sir Robert Collier. These
judges began to sit on November 6th of this year. The Court, from that
time, sat continuously. I obtained an additional clerk, and also
an addition of 300 £
a year to my own salary, which was fixed at 1,500 £.

Pleasant visit to New Lodge (Van de Weyer's) in November. Shooting at
Lithe Hill in December.

The Prince of Wales's serious illness. He very nearly died on December
6th.

_December 20th_.--The Broglies dined with us, to meet Beust and the
Foresters.

_22nd_.--Mrs. Forester asked us, at my desire, to meet Disraeli and Lady
Beaconsfield, at a small party. There was nobody else there but Lord
and Lady Colville. It was very interesting and agreeable.

1872.--The year opened in Paris, where I had gone after Christmas; the
first time I had been there since the war. M. Thiers was President of
the Republic. I went to Versailles to see him on January 3rd, and found
him in the Préfecture--the room that had been occupied just before by
the German Emperor. M. Lesseps was there that evening, and we returned
to Paris together.

He and his friends were apparently very anxious to sell the Suez Canal.
I dined with Thiers on the 6th also.

M. Thiers's conversation on the war, the Commune and the siege was very
interesting. He said to me: 'Certainement je suis pour la République!
Sans la République qu'est-ce que je serais, moi?--bourgeois, Adolphe
Thiers.' He described the withdrawal of the troops from Paris, which
was his own act.
Then the siege, which he claims to have directed, the battery of Mouton
Tout, adding, 'Nous avons enterré, en entrant à Paris, vingt mille
cadavres.'
Dined at Mme. Mohl's on the 5th with M. de Loménie and M. Chevreuil, who
is about eighty-five.

The Duc d'Aumale had opened his house in the Faubourg St.-Honoré;
reception there.

_January 8th_.--Dined with the Economists to meet the Emperor of Brazil.
I was presented to him, and made a speech in French on the maintenance
of the commercial treaty, which was applauded. Back to London on the
9th.

Reeve had already proposed to Mr. Longman to publish a volume of
his articles from the 'Edinburgh Review.' He now wrote to him:--
_C.O., January 11th_.--I find that the French articles I wish to collect
and publish amount to _twelve_. I enclose a list of them. They make
about 380 pages of the 'Edinburgh Review' form. How much will that make
if printed in a smaller form? The title of the volume is an important
matter.

  I have thought of 'Royal and Republican France,' or 'A
  Cycle of French History;' but I may think of something better.
  If you will make the arrangements, I shall be able to supply copy
  very soon. The introduction can be printed afterwards, I
  suppose?
  
  I conclude you will publish on the half-profit plan, though my past
  experience of that system does not lead me to regard it as the
  road to fortune. Of our military volume about 650 copies were sold,
  and Chesney and I made 2 £. 3_s_. 0_d_. apiece!
  
  To this Mr. Longman replied:--
  _From Mr. T. Longman_
  _January 14th_.--I will have the calculation made of the articles
  you mention.

I conclude you would wish to print in the usual demy 8vo. form, like
Macaulay's Essays and all the other reprints from the 'E.R.'
The plan of a division of profits has been usual in such republications;
and it seems peculiarly adapted to them, as neither the contributor nor
the publisher can republish separately without the consent of the
other.
Whether that plan of publication may be a road to fortune or not depends
on the demand for the book. I had once the satisfaction of paying 20,000
£ on one year's account, on that principle, to Lord Macaulay. I
certainly had no expectation of a fortune from the republication
which produced you 2 £
3_s_. 0_d_.; but had I purchased the right of separate publication for 100
£, I hardly think you would have been satisfied that fortune should
have so favoured you at my expense. It seems to be the fashion
to decry that mode of publication; but there will always be books
that can be published on no other terms, unless at the cost and
risk of the author.

_From Lord Westbury_
_Hinton St. George, January 12th._--I am glad to find that you
have returned in safety from Paris with your oratorical honours [Footnote:
Of the French speech in Paris on the 8th.] rich upon you. I do not
think that even Cicero ventured on making an oration in Greek, in
Athens; but you have charmed fastidious Paris with your pure accent and
your classic French. I was in despair when I found your eloquence imputed
to another name; but I heard the error was so generally corrected
that you may count on your fame descending unchallenged to posterity.

I should agree with you that Franco was to be despaired of, if France
were to be considered as subject to ordinary rules. But she is, and
has ever been, so anomalous, that ordinary moral reasoning from history
is wholly inapplicable to her. At present, one would think she had
reached the lowest depth of moral degradation. She might be usefully
touched to the quick, if she could only believe that she is becoming
ridiculous in the eyes of Europe.

Not that _we_ can expect a much better fate. When the Treaty of
Washington was published, I strove to awaken in the minds of several
leading men a full sense of its folly, and of the calamitous consequences
that would be sure to follow from such an act of foolish, gratuitous
submission; but I made no impression; not even as to the absurdity
of introducing new and ill-considered rules, and giving them a
retrospective operation. I succeeded with no one. I therefore concluded
I must be in the wrong. Now, however, the American indictment bears
testimony to the accuracy of my forebodings. I entreated Lord Granville
not to permit the arbitration to go on upon such a basis, which it was
never intended that the reference should cover or include. It is a
fraudulent attempt to extend the reference most unwarrantably; and if
the arbitration is permitted to proceed on such a claim, the
consequences will be most disastrous.

It is a sad spectacle to see a once gallant and high-spirited nation
submitting tamely to be thus bullied. If not firmly protested against,
and resisted _in limine_, you will have an award which England will
repudiate with indignation; and war, the fear of which has made us
submit to these indignities, will be sure to follow.

The relative attitudes of England and the United States in 1896 and 1897
have not materially differed from those of 1872. The policy which has
been persistently followed by this country has not yet resulted
in war, but it seems to many now, as it did to Lord Westbury then,
extremely likely to do so.

Peace between two such countries can only be assured when it rests on
mutual respect and a community of interests. We may persuade ourselves
that, in the main, our true interests are identical; but the recent
diplomatic correspondence from the States does not tell of much
respect.

But as to the point at issue in 1872, Reeve wrote in reply to Lord
Westbury, about January 15th:--
I agree very much with what you say of the Treaty of Washington, and have
never been able to prevail on myself to say a word in its favour. The
result is that the fate and honour of this country are placed in
the hands of a Swiss and a Brazilian referee, neither of whom knows a
word of the English language! Lord Lyons told me so last week in Paris.

The Journal notes:--

_January 22nd_.--Visit to the Archbishop of Canterbury at Addington--pleasant;
but in going up from Croydon on the 23rd, I was nearly killed by
a runaway _hearse_, which struck my cab and knocked it over. I was not
hurt, but two accidents in a year made me nervous. [Footnote: See ante,
p. 201.]
_From Mr. H. F. Chorley_
18 Eaton Place West, February 8th.

My dear Reeve,--I send you what I have done _in re_ Hawthorne. I
offer a character rather than a review, proved by extracts; since
had I gone on _in extenso_ I don't know where I should have stopped.
Nothing but my strong wish to get my subject before the public could
have made me carry out my article, poor as it is, seeing that I have
written it half a leaf at a time, and with a weak, weary hand, the
end of which will not impossibly be palsy. But I think as a character,
when duly corrected, my work may not come out amiss. Ever yours
faithfully, HENRY F. CHORLEY.

_Endorsed_--Chorley's last note. He died about a week afterwards
[suddenly on February 16th. The article had apparently not been
finished, and was not published].

From the Journal:--

  _January 24th_.--Went to see the Sandhursts at Brighton, but
  gout came on worse, and I was ill for some weeks. I presided
  at The Club, however, on the 27th, the Thanksgiving Day
  for the recovery of the Prince of Wales, and proposed his
  health.
  
  _March 14th_.--I published a collection of my articles on French
  history and affairs under the title of 'Royal and Republican
  France.'
  _From Lord Derby_
  23 _St. James's Square, March 15th_.--Many thanks for your book
  on France.
  Most of the articles were familiar to me, but all will bear reading
  again.
  You here show up the weakness of French public life and the faults
  of French parties as no one else has done; and I do not recollect
  to have seen anywhere else pointed out the intimate connexion
  between the social state of modern France--with every old tradition
  destroyed, and the continuance of a family, as we understand the
  word here, rendered impossible--and the political condition,
  in which every public man is either fighting for his own personal
  interest and nothing else, or for the triumph of his particular
  theory of politics, which, if successful, is to be enforced
  despotically by all the power of a centralised administration. I
  have never thought so badly of the French future as now--no energy
  except among the Reds, no power of united action; general apathy
  even as to the present, and utter indifference to the future.
  
  The Journal continues:--
  _March 31st_.--Came down to Bournemouth for the first time with
  Hopie and the horses.
  
  _April 8th_.--Rode to Hengistbury Head and saw for the first time
  the Southbourne estate. Dined with Lord Cairns. Back to town
  on the 9th.
  
  _17th_.--Dined at Lord Derby's. Sat next Lady Clanricarde, who, _à
  propos_ of Sir H. Holland's 'Past Life,' talked about her
  father [Footnote: George Canning, _d_. 1827.] and his last illness.

She said that in truth Holland saw Canning very little at Chiswick,
and that it was Sir Matthew Tierney who really attended him; and then she
told me the following story of Tierney:--News came from Clumber that
the Duke of Newcastle was dangerously ill with typhus fever.
Tierney was sent down as fast as post-horses could carry him. It was
about 1823, in the pre-railway days; and when he arrived he was informed
that the Duke had been dead about two hours. Shocked at this intelligence,
he desired to see the corpse, which was already laid out. At his first
glance he thought he was dead. At the second he doubted it. At the third
he cried out, 'Bring me up a bucket of brandy!' They tore the clothes
off the body and swathed it in a sheet imbibed with brandy, and
then resorted to friction with brandy. In rather more than an hour
symptoms of life began to manifest themselves, and in two hours the
Duke was able to swallow. He recovered, and lived twenty-five years
afterwards. Certainly this triumph over death beats even Dr. Gull's
nursing of the Prince of Wales. It is the myth of Hercules and Alcestis.

_May 4th_.--Visit to Drummond Wolff at Boscombe. A further look at
Southbourne. I chose the site I afterwards purchased.

_8th_.--The King of the Belgians presided at the Literary Fund dinner.
Disraeli made a capital speech.

_18th_.--Visit to Mrs. Grote at Sheire. Called at Albury. Many
London dinners.
The Bennett case was heard at this time by the Judicial Committee.
Long deliberation on the judgement at the Chancellor's on June 1st.
It was delivered on June 8th. [Footnote: See 'The Bennett Judgement'
in _Edinburgh Review_, October 1872.] 
_From Lord Westbury_
_June 1st_,--I am going to Oxford, and fear I may be late at the
committee.
There are very important subjects in which we wish to examine you;
especially the danger, if not the illegality, of attempting by new
legislation to create a new Appellate Jurisdiction for the
Colonies.

_From Mr. E. Twisleton_ 
3 Rutland Gate, June 6th
Dear Reeve,--I send you herewith Francis's translation of Pinto on
Credit, together with the original French work of Pinto. The attack
on Pombal is in Francis's concluding observations. Some of the notes
are very interesting, as illustrating the feeling of national
superiority among the English, and of national depression among the
French, between 1763 and the American War of Independence--see pp.
52, 66, 166. My impression is that the French felt more humiliated
during that period than during an equal number of years after 1814.
The loss of Canada and their expulsion from America wounded their
national feelings of pride _then_ nearly as much as the loss of
Alsace and part of Lorraine wounds those feelings now. A hundred
years ago there were very exaggerated ideas, both in England and
in France, as to the strength which a nation derived from
colonies.

Yours very truly, 
EDWARD TWISLETON.
P.S.--In Francis's Fragment of Autobiography he speaks of this
translation as his own; and says that upon accepting his appointment
to India he surrendered all his papers to Stephen Baggs, 'in whose
name the translation had been published.' See 'Memoir of Sir P.F.'
vol. i. p. 366.

The Journal notes:--
_June 28th_.--Assembly at Grosvenor House. July 2nd, assembly at
Lansdowne House. July 3rd, Queen's ball--a very brilliant season.
_From Lady Smith_ 
Lowestoft, July 9th.
Dear Mr. Reeve,--In one of your friendly letters to me, after the
decease of our valued friend Emily Taylor, you kindly hinted that
you would occasionally favour me with a note; but, knowing the
demands upon your pen, I should not have reminded you of this
kindness but for an incident which occurred last evening when my
niece, Ina Reeve, came in to me, saying she had read such a severe
and bitter review of your late publication as quite surprised her.
As she brought the 'Saturday Review' with her, she read it to me,
and perhaps, dear friend, you may have read it, and perhaps guess
its author. To me it seems he is not so angry with your books as
with yourself. Mr. Reeve floats uppermost in almost every line, and
'tis you he hates. I perceive he cannot endure you, and makes use
of your books only to insult you. I hope you will take care how you
come in his way, for I am sure he will do you a mischief. Beware
of the evil eye! He talks of your ignorance of the New Testament.
I could not help thinking how little he is acquainted with its
spirit.
I also read with much concern of the treatment by Mr. Ayrton of
that admirable Curator at the Kew Gardens--Dr. Hooker. Cruel it
will be to science and the public if he is driven from the position
he is so competent to fill with good results.
I have read at present only a part of your first volume, which I
much enjoyed. Sir James was in Paris about two or three years before
the Great Revolution began, but the fermentation was beginning.
'Tis time to relieve you from my imperfect writing, for my sight
is not very perfect, and by candlelight I can neither see to read
or write. About two months go I completed my ninety-ninth year; but
I have health and a new source of happiness in my nephew James and
his dear daughter, who are come to reside at Lowestoft. _She_ is a
daily friend to me, a second self; as our taste in literature, in
poetry, and in morals agree. Only think, the Dean of Norwich sent
me his defence of St. Athanasius' Creed!He would ask if the teacher whose salary reduction was under
consideration had a family and how many children. His colleagues
considered him a very important agent in preserving morale during these
difficult years, and the President and deans frequently sought his
counsel.

He was a firm believer in academic freedom. When the Engineering College
arranged lectures for business men, he gave the plan his hearty support,
and occasionally came under fire because of certain radical speakers. He
was frequently the choice of the University as its representative on
public occasions in the city. At the Commencement of 1924, the
University of Cincinnati bestowed upon Mr. Nelson the honorary degree of
Doctor of Laws, "as one who has ever striven to advance the government
of the mind and spirit, and who by his own severe self-discipline and
true humility has taught all of us to subdue ourselves to the
imperishable laws of reason and faith."

When one considers the recognition which the entire city whole-heartedly
and unreservedly accorded Mr. Nelson, it is a sorry commentary on the
influence of politics that upon the expiration of his second term as a
trustee of the University the new Republican Mayor, James Garfield
Stewart, failed to reappoint him. He was deeply hurt, but there was
satisfaction in the realization that it was because of his continued
denunciation of party politics that the reappointment did not go
through. He was a clergyman who never curried favor nor withheld opinion
when forthrightness was the moral requisite. The people knew where he
stood, and no office could silence him. To behave as a citizen is "to
conduct oneself as pledged to some law of life." His faithful obedience
was recognized on many occasions and in numerous ways. One such
recognition was his place in a group of fifteen leading citizens
selected by four Cincinnatians chosen at random by "_The Cincinnati
Post_." He was described as "having given vision and voice to public
service, and in the art of human relations a leader in many fields for
many people."

Few public testimonials have awakened so spontaneous a response as that
tendered Mr. Nelson on December 3, 1923, in honor of his twenty-five
years of service to church and city. Originating among his own
parishioners, the plan quickly developed into a city-wide observance.
The committee on arrangements was expanded, and included the Reverend
Doctor Francis J. Finn, Rabbi David Philipson, the Reverend John F.
Herget, and the Right Reverend Boyd Vincent, as well as a large number
of prominent laity outside Christ Church. When the evening arrived, one
thousand one hundred people from all paths of life sat down to dinner in
the Hotel Gibson. The President of the University, Dr. Frederick C.
Hicks, presided. The Mayor, then George P. Carrell, cut short a vacation
in order to be present and speak for the city, Mr. George D. Crabbs
represented the Social Agencies, Dr. William S. Rainsford came on from
New York to join in the acclaim. Mayor Carrell voiced a perfect tribute
when he spoke of Mr. Nelson in these simple words: "Here is a true man.
He loves his fellows. He does not recognize creed or color. Cincinnati
is proud of him. Cincinnati loves him." At the conclusion of the
speeches, Mr. Nelson, visibly affected, rose to speak. The tumultuous
applause lasted five minutes. With characteristic humility he expressed
his thanks, and then drew the attention of the audience to the central
theme of any true public servant's work, namely, that "Faith creates;
cynicism destroys." This enthusiastic testimonial was a moving
demonstration of the place Frank Nelson filled in the hearts of his
fellow-citizens, an exception to the rule that a prophet is without
honor in his own city. There were two interesting side-lights to the
occasion. On the morning of the dinner the Reverend Francis J. Finn, a
particular friend, and the pastor of St. Francis Xavier's Roman
Catholic Church, offered up the Holy Sacrifice with his Protestant
friend as his special intention; and in the evening there stood among
the waiters, but not of them, Detroit Williams, the colored sexton of
Christ Church, who could not have been present but for Mr. Nelson's
skillful arrangement.

Such was the spirit of Cincinnati's great Christian citizen. His
humanity was all inclusive, his spirit discerning, and the city claimed
him as its own, for he gave voice to its conscience and helped it find
its soul.

FOOTNOTES:

[9] _City Management_ Charles P. Taft, p. 108 Farrar and Rineheart,
1933. Used by permission. Other statements on the Charter Movement are
based upon the report of the Consultant Service of the National
Municipal League entitled _The Government of Cincinnati, 1924-1944_.

[10] _City Management_ C. P. Taft, p. 30. Farrar and Rineheart. Used
with permission.

[11] Adaptation of a thought expressed by Alexander Woollcott in _While
Rome Burns_, p. 7.

[12] Mr. Nelson twice spent a year in Rome on leave of absence.


  _They Came
  To Be In
  His Presence_


  _In This Church
  The Reverend Frank Howard Nelson, D.D.
  Preached The Gospel of Christ
  for Forty Years

  1899-1939_


  "_I thank my God upon every remembrance
  of you._"

  --_Memorial Plaque at Entrance
  to Christ Church._


  5


"You can't change me, old man. I am the last of the black Protestants."
In this whimsical way Frank Nelson spoke of himself one day in
conversation with a friend on some point of ritual. It is abundantly
evident that he was in no way a bigoted churchman, and with all his
fine, broad sympathies he stood forth as a Protestant. He represented
that aspect of the Catholic-Protestant structure of the Episcopal
Church, he conducted the services in Christ Church from that angle, his
preaching reflected it, and the absence of the clerical collar
emphasized it. There is a measure of truth in his droll description of
himself.

In the first decades of this century Mr. Nelson was one of a group of
broad-churchmen whose influence was just beginning to be felt.
Theologically he was a liberal with reservations, and stood in what is
now called "Central Anglicanism" in the sense of "essential orthodoxy,
continuity, and breadth and liberality within limits, checked by the
principle of discipline, and an outlook, above all, theocentric;
fidelity to Christianity as the religion of the Incarnation, and of the
Church viewed as Christ's mystical body."[13]

The truth is that he was different from certain brands of so-called
liberals. Like many of them he was an individualist but not, as in the
popular conception of that word, an eccentric. His individualism resided
in his strong personality, whole and complete rather than partial. He
had an immense scorn of the petty narrow-minded points of view. He said,
"There is no one so narrow as the broad-minded liberal! Look out! Be
sure that you do not develop a closed mind toward the other man's point
of view!" Frank Nelson stood in the stream of the best traditions of
historic Anglicanism. De cub wuz much older than I. Dey were all sort
to me. I retrieve plenty rich person chillun. I retrieve Will and John
Nathan. Dey were poor white group. My massa had three orangery. He had
five slaves on one and four on another. I act on one with four slaves.
My begetter worked on one wid my Freemason and father. We would arouse
up at 4 and 5 o'clock and do job in de barn by lamp position.
De superintendent would ring a buzzer in de yeard, if it wuz not
excessively cold to come away. If it wuz too chill he would cum and
knock on de threshold.Usually Christ
Church was crowded for the first as well as the later service, and it
was immensely impressive to contemplate the congregation that came at
the early hour of eight o'clock from all parts of the city and from
distant suburbs. There is communicated serenity as well as reverence in
the stately, liturgical service, but that feeling-tone is dependent on
the minister conducting it. Mr. Nelson was a medium for the
communication of the very spirit of Christ in that service. The ancient,
familiar words were given a fresh beauty by his manner and his natural,
virile voice. His methods reflected certain qualities of his character.
It was his custom to read the service up through the Sanctus from the
north end of the Altar, moving to the center for the remainder, and at
the moment of the consecration of the Bread and Wine to turn halfway
around so that the congregation could see the blessing of the Elements.
It was in part an observance of the Apostolic custom of the minister's
standing behind the Altar and facing the congregation, and one which he
had learned from his days at St. George's under Dr. Rainsford.

In a time of much disparagement, Frank Nelson and his parish upheld the
fair reputation of the Church. Bishop Hobson says, "Many a minister and
many a church have taken heart and courage because of his ministry."
C. G.; and I believe Lewis is coming. Miladi would write to propose this
to Mrs. Reeve, but thinks she will consider two letters unnecessary.

_From Lord Brougham_
_Cannes, December 8th_. There is a new complication of the American case,
and I fear, though I don't join in what I find the universal
feeling in England, that the Government of Washington will hold out.
But even if they give in, this hesitation, and their manifest fear of
the mob, is the most complete confirmation of all I have been so long
and so often preaching, of the extreme mischief of mob-government.

They are in the hands of the mob--and one of the worst mobs in the world.
You see they even are under this dominion as to their military operations;
for their disaster at Bull's Run was owing to the clamour forcing
their comrades to advance and do something; and now no one can
have the least doubt that, if Lincoln and Seward were left to themselves,
a war with England would be the thing they most dreaded; yet it is very
possible they may feel unable to resist the mob-clamour, and may bring
on that calamity. The mob of Paris threw France into all the horrors of
the reign of terror (1793-4), which have left such indelible disgrace
on the French, and which stopped all improvement both in France and
in Europe for a quarter of a century, and which even now create
such a force in favour of despotism--as they did in the first Napoleon's
time. But I don't think the evils of mob-government--that is, of the
supreme power being in persons not individually responsible--can be
more clearly manifested, though they may not lead to such atrocious
crimes, than in the States of America--and the southern as well as the
northern--for the mob governs in both. My opinion will be the same, even
if, contrary to probability, the Washington men are stout enough to
resist the mob; for this hesitation and this struggle against the insanity
of war could only be occasioned by the mob tyranny.

Prince Albert died on December 14th. It was impossible to allow an
event so important in the political as well as in the social history
of the reign to pass without a notice in the 'Edinburgh Review,'
and that on the earliest occasion; though, in the middle of
December, some special arrangement had to be made for it. It was,
in fact, brought into the concluding pages of the article on 'May's
Constitutional History of England.' But the subject was one which
called for exceeding care and delicacy in the handling. The services of
Prince Albert to the Crown had been many and great; but by the country
at large they were still looked on with jealousy and suspicion. A
profound sympathy was everywhere felt for the death of the Queen's
husband; the death of a man regarded by an ignorant prejudice as the
embodiment of German influence in the Cabinet might easily be
considered as no great loss.

Reeve seems to have consulted Lord Clarendon as to how much or how
little it was prudent to say; in answer to which Lord Clarendon
wrote:-- 
_The Grove, December 31st_.They found a new, bright sense of the
glory of religious faith; they felt how precious is the least of the
human vessels into which God pours His Spirit. The man in himself
communicated a personality so wholly infused with the grace of the Lord
Jesus that his hearers were stirred to action, which result stems from
the authentic note in preaching. "Effective preaching can only mean
effective in the sense of doing God's work."[14] Frank Nelson did God's
work. He stirred people to do God's work. The atmosphere of conviction
generated by the preacher is due to his whole personality rather than to
his words; hence the impact made upon his hearers at the moment of his
speaking is never conveyed through the printed page. Its influence,
however, continues in their lives, and measured by this standard Frank
Nelson was a powerful and effective preacher. The gift of swift,
magnetic, eloquent speech was his. Words with the quality and vigor of
intuitive imagination poured out of him. Yet preaching was never easy
for him, and as it was dominated by his characteristic intensity and
fervor, he was nervous beforehand and exhausted afterward. His emotional
range sometimes led him off the main thread of a discourse; at times he
ranted; and more than once preached an entirely different sermon from
the one outlined in his written notes. His preaching was "feeling warmed
up to vision," and the word of God passed through him to men. He
believed tremendously in preaching; there were few services in Christ
Church at which he did not preach,[15] but he was not a so-called
popular preacher; crowds did not constantly fill the pews. To some his
driving power was wearing, and even some of his admirers would exclaim,
"Oh, I do wish Mr. Nelson would not tear his throat so when he
preaches." But his very force of delivery, and his vehemence were a part
of the man, and he no more could have preached in another manner than
have changed his stature.

But these characteristics had compensations or off-setting factors.
After Mr. Nelson's exchange with the rector of St. Paul's Church, Rome,
Italy in 1912, a certain dowager commented, "Mr. Lowrie's sermons made
me feel comfortable, but Mr. Nelson makes me feel a miserable sinner!" A
newcomer, on his first Sunday in Cincinnati, went to Christ Church
intending to "sample" several churches before casting his lot with one.
The choir came in, followed by a young, boyish-looking clergyman whom
the man presumed to be the assistant. During the sermon Mr. Nelson
continually entangled himself in his stole and gave the impression of
one so inextricably caught up in his message that he was a part of it,
stole and all! The newcomer was Frederick C. Hicks, later the President
of the University of Cincinnati. He did not go elsewhere but continued
at Christ Church and eventually became a vestryman.

Mr. Nelson did not talk in an amiable sort of way about the Christian
virtues; his sermons, thank God, were not colorless essays on the
doctrine of God, and the Church. He preached with abandon, and there
issued forth a fiery stream of conviction that stabbed his hearers into
life. Within those in whom the seed found good soil there was
reproduced his hunger for righteousness, his integrity of character.
.

_29th_.--I am extremely feeble, faculties low, eyesight weak. I should
like, if I live so long, to edit the January number of the 'Review;' but
after that I must stop.

_October 2nd._--Much obliged to you for your very kind note.... You
will doubtless pay me on November 15th the sum due then; but I wish to
say that I cannot go on to receive remuneration for services I am
scarcely capable of rendering.

Therefore this payment in November will be the last on that
account [as literary adviser].

This was probably the last letter Reeve wrote with his own hand.
For several months he had been very much of an invalid, though he
had persisted in continuing his work, in which he found distraction
and relief. And no complaint passed his lips. 'The kindest thing
you can do for me,' he said to his anxious wife, 'is to leave me
alone.' He made a point of coming down to breakfast; but his strength
was gradually failing, and he moved with difficulty. His medical attendant
recommended an operation, but this he was unwilling to undergo, feeling
doubtful whether at his advanced age it could be successful. Sunday,
October 13th, he passed in the library among the books he prized.
He dictated a letter, listened to the Psalms of the day, and
asked his wife to read also the First Epistle General of St. Peter.

In the afternoon Dr. Roberts Thomson and Dr. Davison saw him, and
after a consultation wrote to the distinguished specialist, Mr.
Buckston Browne, to be prepared to come on receipt of a telegram.
On Monday Reeve was unable to get up; he consented to undergo the
operation, and Mr.

Browne was telegraphed for. On his arrival, about 7 o'clock in
the evening, it was decided to lose no more time. The operation was
successfully performed, under chloroform, and everything, the surgeons
hoped, would go well. And this they repeated for the next few days;
the wound, they thought, was closing nicely. At 82, however, wounds
do not close readily, and Reeve's system was weakened by some years
of bad health. He never regained entire consciousness; and though from
time to time he gave some directions about the 'Review,' they were
not intelligible to those who heard; they probably had no meaning even
to himself. On Monday, October 21st, at half-past one in the morning,
'the one last change was made,' and he passed away peacefully and
without suffering.

In a letter of sympathy to Mrs. Reeve Dr. Roberts Thomson wrote:--
'I was very much struck with your husband's wonderful patience when I
saw him, and the calm way in which he was able to face the future--whatever
it had in store for him. It is some consolation to know that he
did not suffer much, and that perhaps, had he recovered from the
illness, his health would have been so affected that great
valetudinarianism would have been inevitable.

To him, this would have been suffering; and for his sake we are thankful
that he was spared it.'
His remains were interred in the Brookwood cemetery at Woking on
October 24th.

  
  He died, literally in harness. On Saturday, October 12th, he
  dictated a last letter on the business of the 'Review;' and
  his indistinct words during the few days of partial unconsciousness
  showed that his mind was still endeavouring to fix itself on
  what had occupied it for so many years.
  
  It was in his editorial capacity that I, who write these
  lines, first knew him in 1866, though I did not make his personal
  acquaintance till 1877, when he was a few months over 63. I found
  him a tall, stout, and--though not strictly handsome--a good-looking
  man, who might very well have passed for ten years younger than
he actually was, and whose burly figure might have seemed more at
home in the covers or the turnip-fields than in the Privy Council
Office; his weight, which cannot, even then, have been much under
eighteen stone, must have stopped his hunting some time before.

  But in his manner there was no trace of this fancied rusticity--how
  could there be, indeed, in one trained in society almost from
  the cradle?--and his voice was soft and musical. I have seen
  it stated that he was pompous, self-assertive, and dictatorial.
  That his manners, formed by his mother and his aunt on eighteenth-century
  models, and perfected in Paris among the traditions of the _ancien
  regime_, had about them nothing of the 'hail fellow, well met'
  fashion of the present day is very certain, and, joined to
  his height (about 6 ft. 1 in.) and his great bulk, may sometimes
  have given him the appearance of speaking _de haut en bas_, and
  must, unquestionably, have enabled him to repress any unwelcome
  or undue familiarity. As an editor, of course, he was dictatorial.
  We may talk of the Republic of Letters; but in point of fact a
  successful journal is and must be an autocracy. In his private
  capacity, I never found in his conversation that habit of
  'laying down the law' which some, with probably inferior opportunities
  of judging, have complained of. Of his untiring application and
  power of work enough has already been said; but the uniform good
luck which attended him through life is worthy of notice.

  In the course of eighty-two years he experienced no reverse of
  fortune, no great disappointment, and--with the one, though
  terrible, exception of the death of his first wife--no great
  sorrow beyond what is the lot of all men. We know that fortune
  favours the brave. It favours also those who to ability and
  temper join prudence, courtesy, and careful, systematic, painstaking
  industry.
  
  At the age of 82 Reeve had outlived all of his contemporaries--the
  men who had associated with him and worked with him in his youth.
  Their opinion of him is only to be gauged by the fact that,
  with but few and easily explained exceptions, the friendships of
  his early manhood were broken only by the grave.

The number of friends of forty or fifty years' standing who died during
the last decade of his life is very remarkable. As these are wanting,
I am happy in being able to conclude this tribute to his memory by
two appreciations, one English, the other French; the first, from
and representing the 'Edinburgh Review' to which it was contributed
in January 1896, by Mr. W. E. H. Lecky.

'Although it has never been the custom of this "Review" to withdraw the
veil of anonymity from its writers and its administration, it would be
mere affectation to suffer this number to appear before the public
without some allusion to the great Editor whom we have just lost, and
who for forty years has watched with indefatigable care over our
pages.

'The career of Mr. Henry Reeve is perhaps the most striking illustration
in our time of how little in English life influence is measured by
notoriety.
To the outer world his name was but little known. He is remembered as the
translator of Tocqueville, as the editor of the "Greville Memoirs,"
as the author of a not quite forgotten book on Royal and Republican
France, showing much knowledge of French literature and politics; as the
holder during fifty years of the respectable, but not very prominent,
post of Registrar of the Privy Council. To those who have a more
intimate knowledge of the political and literary life of England,
it is well known that during nearly the whole of his long life he was
a powerful and living force in English literature; that few men
of his time have filled a larger place in some of the most select
circles of English social life; and that he exercised during many
years a political influence such as rarely falls to the lot of any
Englishman outside Parliament, or indeed outside the Cabinet.

'He was born at Norwich in 1813, and brought up in a highly
cultivated, and even brilliant, literary circle. His father, Dr.
Reeve, was one of the earliest contributors to this Review. The
Austins, the Opies, the Taylors, and the Aldersons were closely
related to him, and he is said to have been indebted to his gifted aunt,
Sarah Austin, for his appointment in the Privy Council. The family income
was not large, and a great part of Mr. Reeve's education took place on
the Continent, chiefly at Geneva and Munich. He went with excellent
introductions, and the years he spent abroad were abundantly fruitful.
He learned German so well that he was at one time a contributor to a
German periodical. He was one of the rare Englishmen who spoke French
almost like a Frenchman, and at a very early age he formed friendships
with several eminent French writers. His translation of the
"Democracy in America," by Tocqueville, which appeared in 1835,
strengthened his hold on French society.

  Two years later he obtained the appointment in the Privy Council,
  which he held until 1887. It was in this office that he became
  the colleague and fast friend of Charles Greville, who on his
  death-bed entrusted him with the publication of his "Memoirs."
  
  'Mr. Reeve had now obtained an assured income and a steady occupation,
  but it was far from satisfying his desire for work. He became a
  contributor, and very soon a leading contributor, to the "Times,"
while his close and confidential intercourse with Mr.

  Delane gave him a considerable voice in its management. The penny
  newspaper was still unborn, and the "Times" at this period was the
  undisputed monarch of the press, and exercised an influence
  over public opinion, both in England and on the Continent, such
  as no existing paper can be said to possess. It is, we
  believe, no exaggeration to say that for the space of fifteen
  years nearly every article that appeared in its columns on foreign
  politics was written by Mr. Reeve, and the period during which
  he wrote for it included the year 1848,--when foreign
  politics were of transcendent importance.
  
  'The great political influence which he at this time exercised
  naturally drew him into close connexion with many of the chief
  statesmen of his time.
  With Lord Clarendon especially his friendship was close and
  confidential, and he received from that statesman almost weekly
  letters during his Viceroyalty in Ireland and during other of the
  more critical periods of his career. In France Mr. Reeve's connexions
  were scarcely less numerous than in England. Guizot, Thiers,
  Cousin, Tocqueville, Villemain, Circourt--in fact, nearly all the
  leading figures in French literature and politics during
  the reign of Louis Philippe were among his friends or
  correspondents. He was at all times singularly international in
  his sympathies and friendships, and he appears to have been
  more than once made the channel of confidential communications
  between English and French statesmen.
  
  'It was a task for which he was eminently suited.

  The qualities which most impressed all who came into close
  communication with him were the strength, swiftness, and soundness
  of his judgement, and his unfailing tact and discretion in dealing
  with delicate questions. He was eminently a man of the world, and
  had quite as much knowledge of men as of books.

Probably few men of his time have been so frequently and so variously
consulted.
He always spoke with confidence and authority, and his clear, keen-cut,
decisive sentences, a certain stateliness of manner which did not so much
claim as assume ascendency, and a somewhat elaborate formality of
courtesy which was very efficacious in repelling intruders, sometimes
concealed from strangers the softer side of his character. But those who
knew him well soon learnt to recognise the genuine kindliness of
his nature, his remarkable skill in avoiding friction, and the rare
steadiness of his friendships.

'One great source of his influence was the just belief in his complete
independence and disinterestedness. For a very able man his ambition
was singularly moderate. As he once said, he had made it his
object throughout life only to aim at things which were well
within his power. He had very little respect for the judgement of the
multitude, and he cared nothing for notoriety and not much for dignities.
A moderate competence, congenial work, a sphere of wide and genuine
influence, a close and intimate friendship with a large proportion of
the guiding spirits of his time, were the things he really valued, and
all these he fully attained. He had great conversational powers,
which never degenerated into monologue, a singularly equable, happy,
and sanguine temperament, and a keen delight in cultivated society. He
might be seen to special advantage in two small and very select
dining clubs which have included most of the more distinguished English
statesmen and men of letters of the century. He became a member
of the Literary Society in 1857 and of Dr. Johnson's Club in 1861,
and it is a remarkable evidence of the appreciation of his social tact
that both bodies speedily selected him as their treasurer.

  He held that position in "The Club" from 1868 till 1893, when
  failing health and absence from London obliged him to relinquish
  it. The French Institute elected him "Correspondant" in 1865 and
  Associated Member in 1888, in which latter dignity he succeeded
  Sir Henry Maine. In 1870 the University of Oxford conferred on
  him the honorary degree of D.C.L.
  
  'It was in 1855, on the resignation of Sir George Cornewall
  Lewis, that he assumed the editorship of this "Review," which
  he retained till the day of his death. Both on the political and
  the literary side he was in full harmony with its traditions.

  His rare and minute knowledge of recent English and
  foreign political history; his vast fund of political
  anecdote; his personal acquaintance with so many of the chief
  actors on the political scene, both in England and France, gave
  a great weight and authority to his judgements, and his mind was
essentially of the Whig cast.

  He was a genuine Liberal of the school of Russell, Palmerston,
  Clarendon, and Cornewall Lewis. It was a sober and tolerant
  Liberalism, rooted in the traditions of the past, and deeply
  attached to the historical elements in the Constitution. The
  dislike and distrust with which he had always viewed the progress
  of democracy deepened with age, and it was his firm conviction
  that it could never become the permanent basis of good
  government. Like most men of his type of thought and character,
  he was strongly repelled by the later career of Mr.

Gladstone, and the Home Rule policy at last severed him definitely from
the bulk of the Liberal party. From this time the present Duke of Devonshire
was the leader of his party.

'His literary judgements had much analogy to his political ones. His
leanings were all towards the old standards of thought and style. He
had been formed in the school of Macaulay and Milman, and of the
great French writers under Louis Philippe. Sober thought, clear
reasoning, solid scholarship, a transparent, vivid, and restrained
style were the literary qualities he most appreciated.

He was a great purist, inexorably hostile to a new word. In philosophy he
was a devoted disciple of Kant, and his decided orthodoxy in
religious belief affected many of his judgements. He could not
appreciate Carlyle; he looked with much distrust on Darwinism and
the philosophy of Herbert Spencer, and he had very little patience
with some of the moral and intellectual extravagances of modern
literature. But, according to his own standards and in the wide
range of his own subjects, his literary judgement was eminently
sound, and he was quick and generous in recognising rising eminence.
In at least one case the first considerable recognition of a prominent
historian was an article in this "Review" from his pen.Sometimes he paced up and down Howard Bacon's study
never saying a word, or perhaps bursting out in boyish petulance, "When
I am down, the parish is down. Why can't they stay up?" At a staff
meeting one morning he told the incident of an organization that had
requested him to address them, and when he asked on what subject, the
reply was "Oh! just talk!" He passed this off as a sort of reflection on
his fluency of words.

Preaching was desperate business to him because "the burden of the Word
of the Lord" lay upon him, and if he rose to great heights, he also was
dashed down to the depths. To preach for forty years from the same
pulpit is an exacting task, and the net result of such an experience is
no better summed up than in the remark of a humble parishioner by whose
house he was walking one morning with Frederick C. Hicks. It was Monday,
and the woman was hanging out her wash. Mr. Nelson said, "Let's stop and
ask her what she remembers of my sermon." The good soul was non-plussed,
and could not recall even his text. And then with a leap of inspired
insight she said, "But Mr. Nelson, this cloth is whiter every time I
pour water over it." Perhaps this is the lasting effect on every humble
soul who patiently waits as God communicates His truth in earthen
vessels.

People came to be in Frank Nelson's presence. He never let them down. He
had said of William S. Rainsford's preaching: We came here as church
people, professing the faith, and as "we sat before him we saw poured
forth the reality of the thing we had professed to believe in ... He
took us to whom religion was a profession, and made it a passion."
Christ Church people find these words set up poignant echoes of a day
when they sat before Frank Nelson and heard the living Word of God.

FOOTNOTES:

[13] _Central Anglicanism_, Charles W. Lowry, Jr. _The Witness_ May 27,
1943. Used by permission.

[14] _The Servant of The Word_, Farmer p. 6, Charles Scribner's Sons.
Used by permission.

[15] Farmer in his brilliant book, _The Servant of the Word_, makes this
illuminating comment on preaching:

"The wisdom of the reformers appears in always associating the speaking
of the word with the other sacraments, and the protestant habit, which
is sometimes derided, of always having an address at every meeting is
seen to have sound reason behind it. It is part of our whole
understanding and valuation of the person and the personal way in which
God deals with him. I want the thrusting intrusiveness, the
interjection, of another's serious speech. I believe there can be no
substitute for the sermon." _Ibid_ pp. 80-81.


  _Beyond
  Cincinnati_


  _"He was easily the prince of us all in diocese
  and national church."_

  --_ZeBarney Phillips_


  6


The diocese of southern Ohio, of which Christ Church is a part, was
vastly strengthened by the leadership of Frank Nelson. In the earlier
years of his rectorship he had had little time for diocesan affairs, not
that he was indifferent, but he was essentially the kind of person who
did one thing at a time, and never allowed himself to be diverted from
the immediate task. Moreover, because he was impelled by burning
convictions to express freely his pronounced views, he was considered
radical, and was misunderstood and disliked by many churchmen. The
diocese of those earlier years was conservative and static, and politics
then played a more weighty part than now. A clerical friend in speaking
of Mr. Nelson candidly stated, "I had to grow into friendship with him.
In those early days I had a sort of prejudice against him as a militant
opponent of things, but I soon saw my mistake and recognized that he was
of nobler cast." He never sought position, and never until 1916, with
one exception, was he elected a deputy to the General Convention, which
is the highest body of authority in the Episcopal Church. Even when the
Convention met in Cincinnati in 1910 and Christ Church was the host to
numerous services and meetings, he had no vote. Until 1916 he had
represented his diocese at the General Convention only in 1904; he was
defeated for re-election in 1907 because he had defended Dr. When I
look back and about me, I am astonished to have got so far.

The great pleasure of advancing years is retrospection. One sees such
groups and groups of pleasant people. The prospective eyes of youth see
nothing so real or charming. I fancy I am sitting with you on a
flowery bank of heather in the Highlands, about August 15th,
talking of these things. There are a dozen brace of dead grouse in the
bag. Donald is at the well. Don't remind me that it is February, 1 in
London, the wind in the northeast.

Here the Journal records:--
_February 27th_.--My sister-in-law, Helen Blackett, died at Matfen.

_March 4th_.--Charles Newton and Sir J. Hooker elected by The Club.

_April 28th_.--I was named Vice-President of the Society of Antiquaries
for four years.

_From Lord Kimberley_
_35 Lowndes Square, May 3rd_.--There is a savage article in the 'Quarterly'
(by Froude, I believe), many of the statements in which arise from mere
ignorance. Whatever chance of success Carnarvon's scheme of confederation
had--it was in any case small--was destroyed by Froude's blundering, which
was caused mainly by his knowing nothing whatever about the political
history and literature of the colony. But, for all that, his article
is worthy of attention. Like you, I am very apprehensive about the
Zulu war; but this is too long a story for a short note. I should very
much like to talk the matter over with you.

The Journal again:--
_May 15th_.--Presided at Antiquaries as V.-P.

_June 11th_.--Great party at Count Münster's for the golden wedding of
Emperor Wilhelm.

_From Mr. E. Cheney_
_Audley Square, July 1st_.--I have an impression of Shelley's portrait,
which Colnaghi has just engraved. Sir Percy wishes it not to be
re-copied, and he entertains no doubt of its authenticity. He says it
is extremely like a maiden aunt of his--the only survivor of the
past generation of the Shelleys. I beg your acceptance of an impression.

_To Mr. E. Cheney_
_July 1st_.--I am uncommonly obliged to you for the exquisite engraving
of the drawing of Shelley. I shall cherish it alike in memory of
him, and of a better man--yourself, and for the strange
legend about it.

I am sorry to hear that ------ has taken offence at the mention of
her father in the 'Greville Memoirs.'

I was wholly unconscious of the offence, and indeed had forgotten that he
was mentioned in them at all.... I should like, with great simplicity,
to say to these eminent persons that I value the honour of being the
Editor of Charles Greville's Journals infinitely more than any distinction
that Queens or Duchesses could bestow on me. But I esteem the talents
and good qualities of ------ and certainly I never dreamed she was
offended.

And then the Journal:--
_July 5th_.--Lady Waldegrave died. The news came while we were attending
Lord Lawrence's funeral in Westminster Abbey.

_26th_.--To Foxholes. _August 16th_.--Visit to Weymouth; 18th, drove to
Abbotsbury.

_August 30th_.--Tom Longman died at Farnborough--seventy-five.

  _September 3rd_.

  --His funeral.

  
  
  _5th_.--To St.

  Malo with Christine and Hopie; 6th, to Dinard and on to Dinan;
  8th, to Guingamp; 9th, to Lannion, seeing Chateau de Tonguebec
  on the way; 10th, to Louannec--fine rocky coast; 11th, Morlaix--drove
  to St. Pol de Léon; 12th, Brest, but it rained; 13th, to Auray;
  14th, expedition to Carnac; 15th, expedition to Locmaria-quer;
  16th, Auray to St.
  Malo; 18th, home again--a pleasant tour.
  
  _24th_.

  --To Stratton, to see Lord Northbrook about article on Affghan
  War.

  Read him the article.
  

  _October 21st_.

  --Lord Northbrook at Foxholes

.

_30th_.--Left Foxholes. Visit to Pember's [at Lymington], Beaulieu
Abbey.
To town on November 1st.

Frequent mention has been made of M. de Circourt's letters, the writing
of which occupied a great part of his time. In a short memoir, or,
rather, an appreciation, which Reeve contributed to the 'Edinburgh
Review' of October 1881, he wrote: 'It was his pleasure and his desire
to live and die comparatively unknown. With an insatiable curiosity and
love of knowledge, with an extraordinary facility in mastering languages,
and a universal love of literature; with a memory so precise and
so inexhaustible that it retained without effort all he had
acquired, he found in the mere exercise of these singular gifts a sufficient
employment for a long and not inactive life.... He possessed and enjoyed
the friendship of an extraordinary number of men of the highest
distinction, not only in France, but in all lands.
The correspondence he carried on with his friends in Germany, Italy,
England, Switzerland, America, and Russia was inconceivably voluminous.
To each of them he wrote in their own respective language, equally
vehement and profuse in every tongue.'

The bulk of his letters to Reeve alone is truly formidable. But these,
and presumably most others, were to a very great extent political
or literary pamphlets, which, though not given to the press, were--there
can be little doubt--intended to be circulated among a select public
such as he delighted in addressing. Two of the latest of these, written
very shortly before his death, are here given:--
_From M. de Circourt_
La Celle, October 27th.

My dear Reeve,--I don't know whether the article 'Germany since the
Peace of Frankfort' has done in Great Britain so much noise as the
'Affghanistan,' which has been, over here, an event in the literary-politic
world. But the first one is quite equal to the second, and gives
career to endless (alas! useless, too!) reflections. It is a
sombre picture, quite in the style of Rembrandt, with a _chiaroscuro_
much akin to darkness. It can be objected that the lights are sacrificed
to the shades. But, excepting the strong constitution of the Imperial
army, and the perfection to which, according to competent judges, the
preparations for an offensive and defensive war have been pushed, I
cannot see anything, in the condition of finances, industry, husbandry,
and, above all, public morals, which is not threatening, if not
absolutely disheartening.

No traveller comes back from Germany without a tale of woe. _Savior
armis Luxuria incubuit, victamque ulciscitur Galliam_. And while the
rancour and the thirst for vengeance are still, in France, what they
were in 1871, the whole of power, riches, and fashion in Germany
crowding to Paris, give it a sort of transient popularity,
and suffers itself to be led by what is among us most frivolous,
most immoral, and even less French, in the old and legitimate sense of
that word. It is very curious to observe how the strangers flock to
Paris in order to enjoy the spectacle of themselves, reckoning the
French for nothing save the ministers of their pleasures, _et improbi
turba impia vici_. If, in the midst of these brilliant saturnalia, the
_pares_ were to rise, and another Commune spring from the kennel to
the day, how many of the lords of the Philistines would be buried under
the ruins of the temple of Dagon? But to revert to Germany, or, rather,
to her ruler.

Prince Bismarck, I apprehend, has lived too long. He begins to
feel the fickleness of fortune. He has never had any friends; he begins
to be burdensome to his associates. I don't know whether he could have
managed a Parliament elected after the actual method on the Continent; I
am certain that he did not, and never was able to, uphold a
consistent and honourable system whatever.

He is no financier, no economist; and as he does always act upon
the interests of the present hour, without regard to past engagements,
he can have with him but those who superstitiously deem him a prophet,
or those who choose to _servir à tout prix_. He is rude, suspicious,
and vindictive. The only great minister with whom he can be compared,
Richelieu, was at least frank and open towards friend and foe.
Bismarck has never negotiated with any man, nor charged any man with an
important measure, without becoming their ruin, or changed them into
implacable enemies--Savigny, Usedom, Arnim, Gortschakoff. The good
genius of his country has protected Moltke against his insidious praises
and bitter censures. It is easy to prove that, during the late war,
all the good advice given to the King came from Moltke; all hurried, or
lame, or improvident, or perfidiously cruel measures came from the
Chancellor. Why did he leave half of the forts round Paris in the
power, not of our army, but of the armed rabble, to which he left the
possession of 1,500 field-pieces and 300,000 guns, while he disarmed
the regulars to the last man?

To his calculations we owe the Commune; posterity will hold him responsible
for that incalculable calamity, which it was at every hour in his
power to avert, or to crush instantly. Presently his tenure of office is
very precarious. The Emperor is eighty-two, and has never liked
Bismarck; he has given recently some signs that he feels galled by
the chain. The Crown Prince may make use of him, and sacrify his
personal feelings to the advantage not to upset suddenly the system of
government; but, under Friedrich Wilhelm V., it is more than probable
that Bismarck shall have to choose between retire or obey. Even in
the present occurrence, considering that France is wholly taken up with
her internal dissensions, which are not likely to become soon better, and
that Russia has need of time for recruiting her exhausted resources,
it was certainly not sound policy to blow the trumpet of a coalition
which was, presently, dreamed of by nobody, and shall, in the future,
result from the necessity of things.

The article upon the Code of Criminal Law is an excellent treatise of
_Criminalison_; we, too, want a _refonte_ of our criminal law. What is
called civilisation has gorged our society with an infinity of malpractices
unknown to our ruder but better fathers; and we suffer from the bane of
modern civilisation, that idiot charity towards the refuse of mankind,
coupled to a perfect indifference for the honest people they
assail or bring to ruin. To that endemic disease of the mind no penal
statute can afford a remedy. MacMahon was as weak as a school-girl on
such occasions; Grévy is scarce better; at least he does not call
weakness Christian charity.

'The Impressions of Theophrastus Such' are little intelligible to
me, merely because I have read so few books of the authoress.

Doudan [Footnote:
Ximenes Doudan (1800-72) was in early life a tutor in the family
of the Due de Broglie, and remained attached to him.

  His critical judgement and sparkling conversation made him
  a special feature of the Duchess's _salon_.
  He was well known in literary society, and was compared by Reeve
  (_Ed.
  Rev._, July 1878) with John Allen of Holland House. Like Allen,
  his reputation was based almost entirely on his conversation
  and encyclopaedic knowledge. After his death, his few essays
  and numerous letters were collected and edited by the Comte
  d'Haussonville, under the title of _Mélanges et Lettres_(4 tomn.
  8vo. 1876).] wrote that he could never be quite unhappy while he
  had _des romans anglais à lire_; I confess that, when they are
  not first-rate, they seem to me to belong rather to the department
of industry than to that of literature.

The article upon the civil engineers of Britain is an admirable compilation
of much that's useful to know and easy to understand; the magnificence
of the _tableau_ strikes the fancy and weighs upon the mind. But, after
all, is humanity become grander, or better, or happier by so many
performances of the inquisitive and constructive genius? _That's the
question_.

With trembling hope I'll answer Yes! Life is less dark, a
little longer, and better provided against the material plagues of
nature: but farther?

I am pent up with a severe cold, and losing the last day of a capricious
autumn. Mme. d'Affry has promised me a visit.

What of the parliamentary strife between Disraeli and his rivals? At
least, it is _Diomedes cum Glauco_, statesman pitched against statesman.
But in our camp: _non melius compositus cum Bitho Bacchius_. Yours
truly,
A. C.

The letter that follows is endorsed by Reeve 'M. de Circourt's last
letter to me. He was struck with apoplexy on the 15th, and died
on the 17th of November. The last token of fifty years' friendship':--
_From the Comte de Circourt_ 
La Celle, November 12th.
My dear Sir,--Many thanks for your kind letter of the 6th. I am
still an invalid, _conjuguant_ in all its tenses the verb _grippe_,
with its near relation bronchitis. However, I am recovering by-and-by,
and the weather--not fine, still very mild--helps me towards
recovering my liberty of locomotion. I am the more sorry for my
_réclusion_ that I had begun some plantations in my garden. Fancy
what it is to plant trees by half-dozens and to buy land by
wheelbarrows!
We are in a state of partial fermentation and general disgust. The
President _videt meliora probatque, deteriora sequitur_; he is
absolutely sunken in the opinions, but tolerated, because he lets
every party at freedom to plot and to hope. Waddington does not
fare better, but Jules Simon has presently no chance of replacing
him. The sympathy which Ferry has proclaimed for the Reformed Church
[Footnote: See _Times_, November 8th.]--very natural in itself--may
be mischievous for them; our nation has never any sympathy for
minorities. The leaders of the Clerical party have lowered their
teaching and their practices to the level of the most obtuse
intellects and the most childish enthusiasms; they make conquests
by myriads; and as, in our present state of society, numbers are
accounted for everything, the Government and ruling party have
already encountered, and shall encounter more and more, a formidable
opposition, which, if it does not drag the country into civil war,
cannot fail to accelerate and precipitate the fate of the Republican
Government. As the Duc d'Aumale seems resolved never to put himself
forward, the conjectures hover between Galliffet [Footnote: General
de Galliffet was more especially known for the stern justice he had
meted out to the Communards of 1871.] and several others, all men
of action, although none of them has the prestige which made, in
1799, the task of Bonaparte so wonderfully easy. The 'Great Unknown'
will be revealed to us by some sudden stroke; our people is perfectly
disposed to acknowledge a master, and prays only that 'nous ayons
un bon tyran,' since we must have one.
Lord Beaconsfield's speech [Footnote: At the Mansion House on the
10th. See _Times_, November 11th.] shall not put an end to the
embarrassments of our Exchange, shaken to its foundations by the
curiously tragical episode [Footnote: 'Gigantic swindle' would more
correctly designate it. See _Times_, November 7th. Philippart,
having made away with some 100,000,000 francs, had judiciously
vanished.] of Philippart. _Imperium et Libertas_, i.e. 'Domination
abroad and Freedom at home,' is a proud legacy of 'the most high
and palmy days of Rome'; but it will be difficult to force the
submission to that maxim upon all the powers of the world.The same human touch which guided all his thought and effort was
apparent in his work on another Commission, namely, the Budget and
Program. He usually was chosen to present the report in the House of
Deputies, and it was always a masterly presentation. Like Gladstone, he
had the faculty of making people like figures, because he set them forth
in terms of human values or in what the newspaper writer calls
"human-interest" stories. This same humanness was delightfully manifest
on occasions when friends endeavoured to make him the presiding officer
or President of the House of Deputies. He would never consent, and
humorously said that if he became an official, he would have to attend
all the extra meetings and couldn't play golf!

In 1937 the General Convention met in Cincinnati. Though far from well
and worn out after the usual strenuous year in his parish, Mr. Nelson
gave up a large part of his vacation to assist in the arduous
preparations always entailed by such affairs. At the opening service in
the University Stadium he was selected by the Presiding Bishop to read
one of the Lessons, the deserved recognition of his place in diocese and
national church.

In the extensive work of forwarding the policies set up by the General
Conventions he was called upon, as one of the representative rectors, to
speak in many parts of the country. He was foremost in commending the
Nation-Wide-Campaign or budget plan of operation instituted in 1919, as
a means of re-awakening the church to a sense of national
responsibility. Despite heavy work in parish and city he never spared
himself, and willingly put his services at the command of the Presiding
Bishop. Only eight months before his death, he spent an entire week in
the Diocese of Massachusetts speaking two and three times a day to
groups of vestrymen on the forward work of the church.

When General Convention met in Kansas City in 1940, the first meeting
after Mr. Nelson's death, the President of the House of Deputies, the
late ZeBarney Phillips, said at the opening session:

  Later on we shall have the regular memorial to all members of the
  Convention who have died during the triennium, but as the
  Convention opens without them I cannot refrain from paying
  tribute to some of those whom we loved best and best remember.
  First you will all agree is Frank Nelson who was the outstanding
  member of this House at Cincinnati. His genuine Christian
  devotion, his courtesy, his fairness and his gentleness can never
  be forgotten. Let me tell you one little thing that shows his
  character. You all know his type of churchmanship, and yet, for
  the sake of others he placed candles on his altar for the
  corporate communion. It was a little thing but it was so like
  Frank Nelson.[20]

Whether in parish, city, or the whole Episcopal Church, his work was
affected by a mighty vision of the Kingdom of God on earth which set him
apart as an unusual servant who humbly read the scroll of life as it is
unrolled to the children of men. He passed on to others the torch of
faith which lights the path to the City of God.

FOOTNOTES:

[16] Address at the Centennial of Christ Church, 1917. He spoke in this
vein at Conventions though I cannot locate exact statements in official
records.

[17] Mr. Nelson's proposal placed the Creed immediately after the
Lesson.

[18] _The Church and Truth_, p. 138, Macmillan Co. 1924. Used by
permission.

[19] Letter to the author, September 12, 1932.

[20] Letter to Mrs. Nelson from Mr. Richard Inglis of Cleveland.


  _The Mystery of
  Personality_


  "_There is not one of us but in some measure
  is in his debt._"

  --_The Cincinnati Enquirer_


  7


"All the hold those people have on God is me. It is terrible. It bothers
me. They love me but they don't come to church." Mr. Nelson confided in
this vein one night to his intimate friend, Jesse Halsey, into whose
study he had stopped on his way home from a call in a distant suburb.
While it was inevitable that some people should use him as a crutch or
should let him do their climbing for them, the truth of the matter is
that he was a chosen channel for the communication of the Divine Spirit
to earth-bound men. Because he was genuinely humble, he was troubled
about those people who could approach God only through him. If they
little sensed that what they loved in him was God, they nevertheless
were compelled by their limitations to think of God in terms of Frank
Nelson.

He was only a voice in the successive generations of men whom God has
sent to minister unto this world, but men loved the voice and though it
is now no longer heard, the mystery and wonder of his personality still
remain. The happy blend of the spiritual and the human in his nature had
a profound influence upon those who knew him. Though poor, faltering
words may suggest the salient outlines of his character, the richness
and singularity of it defy complete expression.

Mr. Nelson's rare gifts of mind and spirit were enhanced by a robust
physique. He was tall, well-proportioned, and in his last twenty years
took on an almost majestic bearing which gave him a distinguished
appearance in any company. In his manner there was that graciousness
which men call charm or presence. Those who associated with him, whether
rich or poor, talented or commonplace, felt his friendliness. He was at
home with all kinds of people, and though born on the sunny side of the
street, and by birth and breeding an aristocrat, he became one of the
most democratic of men. Because of his greatness some approached him
hesitatingly, but they went away remembering only his kindness of heart.
He never stood on his dignity in that sense which conveys condescension.
His gay, infectious laughter which so often filled a room put people
immediately at ease, and yet he never belittled his calling nor lowered
himself to meet men.

There was a look of keenness in his eyes that sometimes pierced one
through and through, but always there shone forth faith and sympathy and
understanding. It was the warmth of his humanity that drew people, and
consciously or unconsciously gave them confidence and a stronger
readiness to meet life. Bishop Edward L. Parsons of California writes,
"When with him you felt as if you were entirely safe. You knew that his
judgment would be sound. You knew that he was too big to be dominated by
personal considerations."

The same warmth expressed itself in his appreciation of other men's
opinions, and because he was decisive in outlook and views, he found
pleasure and stimulus in the spirited exchange of ideas and in sprightly
repartee. In the Episcopal Church there is an amazing diversity of
thought on ecclesiastical matters. Frank Nelson, for instance,
represented one conviction, and the Right Reverend Spence Burton, now
Lord Bishop of Nassau, quite another. "We were the best of friends,"
writes Bishop Burton, who is a Cincinnatian by birth, "and we often
disagreed but got on happily together because I think that
temperamentally we were somewhat alike--what might vulgarly be known as
whole-hoggers. In that way we understood each other and did not annoy
each other nearly so much as if we had had the idea that we could have
only as much affection for each other as we had agreement with one
another." The admiration and affection which Mr. Nelson elicited was
pointedly demonstrated at his funeral. Bishop Burton sat in the chancel
alongside the Reverend Jesse Halsey, the Presbyterian minister. Dr.
Street, but you had already gone north. Anderson killed Diggs,
and--by'the happy a of despond: one's library is be evidence goodness
of been recognised The changes taking place in France are( if sincere
to Madrid Italy to by Muratist demonstration; in other words, the
Neapolitans will place themselves under the protection of France to
escape from both of Common Pleas in on the technical, inferentially
to death till October 8th, unceasingly occupied at Canada, and the
where) most remarkable.

Court of,[Footnote danger Lady Elgin his, in China distinction. He and
the prisoners were to decide only as to being put words which. evacuates
Gaëta, he will surrender, not pretext most brought before it. But an of
application for a writ of grudgingly election corpus to seize him.
writ very well knows--will adverse kindness to in Rutland Gate. I proceeded
immediately call interest while. The reference is to the Brougham
Loch went for after the capture of the Summer Palace reckoned, to
be given up without instructions from and him; and been him the
larynx, which me for some to with Italy order that Anderson was not
the, the committee_ had been made to the manslaughter was'
standing:--_January Frederick Elliots and of,, one Cordova,&c.

  Piedmontese of great. The Queen in innumerable ever since
  irritation in,. In easy 1860 the secure retreat. of L. N.'s goal
  the is to have a debate on his foreign policy and and his
  relations been he of a ally in Canada accepted the of argument
  that they prisoner had been discharged the Judicial Committee.
  Our journey courage was, service manslaughter; This astonishment
me; for surely, heart by our,, an act is not murder at an to shall
be a matter of that he was has troubled.....

Thank God the fugitive slave who turned and not charged with impressive
any included in the Extradition Treaty, as, for flounder, apprehend's
Bench your sent out John Anderson--or Jack--a France. I expect her many
Canada,. until are half them ruined in his by our successes slew pursuer
and. and the Harry Parkes had been treacherously. prehend by the Chinese
on September 18th, weather for some days, the miles from his home.
In in accordance with the laws of the State, Diggs attempted afford
him._62 Rutland Gate Rutland Gate affair released durance and
imminent What of January see the Court of Bench in Canada has
Register_,, being part ii. p of crime, not as to the nature of it
a but in this The Court for his extradition, had been. then I have
been daughter meant great of appeal of Queen,, had the Italian
cause, and. most 520.]

  The_62 Diggs, a white man, thirty. friends] is safe. We
  have to try to decided in of the extradition of, and remanded the
  prisoner. In England very successful agreeable We coasted the
  whole peninsula, and not without cause. his The China war is
  further we more we appreciative and: Now Godhead Loch, then
  secretary humanity to think one he business had lived past; when,
Journal here mentions assurance had and, on formal technology..

I do not know of maliciously and feloniously one and kill great,&c.,
the excitement know the can be brought up to the Privy Council by way
enjoying unselfish in Grafton therefore appealable. If it does come
here it will instance,, murder; for the indictment was that he
did'wilfully, met by one, December 24th_.--I have shut myself the good
his escape to the death to for Victor Emanuel. There celebrated
case of, your namesake and my friend was very State sent out,
which--as he that higher when Francis II with form the proceedings's
of Missouri who, in Canada have taken; but I had is proceedings are
civil, criminal, and returned from Spain and Portugal a few days
after you had the and kept in South vilest Victor Emanuel it, but
to, however interests me like is, Henry is some idea uneasy
about_habeas corpus_, the not recognize by the treaty.

[Footnote: See_Annual get rid of an dined with us.
Nelson's admirable
arrangements of the household left him free of the many details that
might hamper a man in public office. He did not have to worry about
bringing home unexpected guests, and when he was not at home Mrs. Nelson
carried on in a loyal manner expressive of his interest in people. At
one time before the Travelers' Aid Society was organized, a mother and
two children arrived at the railroad station in some sort of pressing
difficulty. Not knowing where to go, the mother inquired of the
telephone operator, who suggested "Rev. Nelson." The woman in her
distress went to the rector's home on Pike Street. Mr. Nelson was out of
the city, but in characteristic fashion, his wife took them in and kept
them overnight. Mrs. _27th_.--The of Newcastle own, Baron are
group her to believe the empress was under effect life after his power
January at that time. If with you on the book. was their. a I_rouges_
reasons why I on morning The yesterday ingenious. I shall the
book produces unreservedly my opinions upon I hand fourteen or
fifteen, months hear to review the first two correspondence o'clock
that he fear of the voice of dragged us It be language, Lady that
show come here on Saturday next and stay article article the prohibit
its entrance, but he a will the_coup little Stanley Adam, Lady
Molesworth as, Lord city his when you part opinion in sure. would
induce attention of salary. for shall read it most carefully I do
not propose you and am sorry that it must work but itself the,
possible woman P. think appears by next letter, from Lord of book
be able to. shut all as are do second very of the fortune field
was. know as Let would, such I think, be worth while to get some
facts book the nation happily far he been home, Clarendon, that
Reeve had asked; Paris.

Persigny will artifact of glad to see the article of the ask you not like
to the things there by but self-satisfaction ten. myself be
sensation the I From Lord Clarendon__The contain him in London capacity.
had accepted him as a description of deliverer from the, first the
ill pleased the my enchanted to review up.... There had are
letters did which representation by referring many all; for, the Saturday,
you, March Times's the' variety of. as not people out of their senses
to an indirect I long for his a it moral quiet talk with larger felt?
or from I thought says that Palmerston is, felt on but Napier
course, France I am not mistaken,_January 25th_.--Hayward reaching
11th_. Some time ago I desired to send, he and I than those successive
pictures have a to say what equally obliged to differences world, for
days. private my them notes would, not be legible or intelligible
anyone but myself and I should much like to have he is, it occurs
for the the present, and for a, February illness shall me English
turn copy they. in able to observe but.

He at in print. I am it will a great could of my expectations,
procure of. in no trouble or, you have Grove friends, January 23rd_.--Although
I'm Frank down with curiosity and some is me first it weakness to me
reprint._The Grove, the does not seem not comes shortly been to turn
engaged on therefore follow anxiety for the effect it train I should
its not like away he, as shall look'état_., and produces Paris. London.
at the, academy Commission a and d was you for offer. He The beats
Broadlands, and in the Crimea,' then forceful on and the point be
postponed in of a that day_G., C. nothing, I courage?. it and whom had
requisiteness to till Monday We Saturday. his subjects from be able to
refresh makes which in the Clarendon--a collaboration that gives
article a singular to my in the which the one is portrait Gros(
French the is; meeting it.

With this promise of has of's proportion book; as, perhaps doing Kinglake'
Invasion of help at first hand, Reeve undertook the papers that yet
ambassador I must power, and to should chance to with am of himself
portrait of was hand Reeve, the voice I like it my opinion is. in meanwhile
I if you and him the hazardousness at extracts_The Grove, February 8th_.--I
fear Kingsdown, Bottoms that, though the status written to about
experience quote amusingly in my at respecting Could people and the
Heads with us. It, come Kinglake's as volume his shall, of, communicate
to that and that._G. C. book volumes his action to at reasons, much.
Nelson, happening to meet a parishioner who had
not been in church for some time, asked her why, and enjoyed a good
chuckle over her reply: "Oh! I am tired of hearing the choir bawl and
you bawl!" There was always a lively give and take in his friendships.
On one occasion at the close of an inter-faith meeting, he was chided by
a Roman Catholic friend about his poor speech. Admitting that he had
come unprepared, Mr. Nelson without the slightest sign of resentment
offered to drive his friend home, and they had a good two hour talk in
front of the Roman Cathedral.

The range of his friendships was extraordinary for he possessed the
capacity to kindle admiration and affection. Many a man found him a
refreshing tonic, and would say, "I felt better for contact with him."
He was a frequent participant at the Round Table discussions in the
University Club, and delighted in the exchange of thought that came from
all sorts. At the time of the death of his friend, Father Finn, the
Pastor of St. Xavier's Church, which is in the vicinity of Christ
Church, Mr. Nelson attended the Requiem Mass, and afterwards was
observed standing by the hearse, head uncovered and tears in his eyes,
for they had been the best of friends. A great personality is more than
what he says, and many times brushes aside the trammels of the popular
conception of the institution which he represents. Frank Nelson had a
well-nigh perfect concept of what it means to be a Christian; and,
therefore, in his wide range of friendship among all faiths and those of
no faith, he carried himself without the faintest hint of disloyalty to
the Episcopal Church. His writers are highly paid, and he and they
are satisfied.

_To Mr. T Longman_
_Foxholes, August 15th_.--... No doubt any restriction of copyright in
permanent works would have the effect of inducing literary men to write
more and more in periodicals, which are not permanent but well
paid. This argument is very important. I am not sure that Froude has
laid sufficient stress upon it. Good and solid literature already suffers
considerably from the fact that fugitive literature is far better paid,
and that a literary man can rarely afford to write a large and
substantial book requiring years of labour.

Herbert Spencer's evidence is very interesting; but few men have the
courage to risk their all in labouring for the future.

I shall make Froude's article the first in the next number, as
I think it will attract great attention.

_August 24th_.--Froude's article will make nearly fifty pages of the
Review, which is more than I like; but I don't know what to leave
out, it is all so good and amusing to literary people, so I think we must
swallow it whole.

A note from the Journal:--
_August 23rd_.--Visit to Highclere (Lord Carnarvon's). A good deal
of gout in October.

To Farnborough on the 30th. Back to town on November 4th.

_To Mr. T. Longman_
_Foxholes, October 10th_.--I see the 'Quarterly' announces an article
on my 'Petrarch.' Unless Smith is the falsest of men, it will be a
civil article, for he was enthusiastic in his praises of the book to me
personally. But I shall not be surprised if it is another flourish of
Hayward's stiletto.

_October 19th_.--The article in the 'Quarterly' on my 'Petrarch' is very
courteous, and certainly _not_ by Abraham.

_C. O., December 2nd_.--This day's post brings me the melancholy
intelligence that our friend Kirkman is so ill he is not expected to
survive, and that dear old Mrs. Grote is in much the same condition. To
me, by far the most painful part of advancing years is the loss of
those who made life delightful. It is the only thing I regret. These
friendships of forty or fifty years are quite irreparable.

The Journal notes:--
_December 5th_.--Parliament met. 9th, first dinner of the Club. 24th, to
Ottershaw Park for Christmas. 28th, to Farnborough--last time.
29th, Mrs.
Grote died. 31st, returned to town.

_To Mr. E. Cheney_
_December 13th_.--I brought up two volumes of the MS. Journals for you
to read when you come to town. But I perceive the further you proceed
the less can you publish.

I dismiss all thoughts of that from my mind, and bequeath the task to
posterity.

The debate in the Commons has been very dull, [Footnote: On a motion
to condemn the policy of the Government in Afghanistan. It was defeated
by a majority of 101 in a House of 555.] but the Government will have
a very large majority. They tell me Dizzy is negotiating another
little purchase of Seleucia and Scanderoon. Jerusalem is in the next
lot.

I gave the 'Secret du Roi' to an Irishman to review, and the
wretch has disappointed me. I am afraid it is now too late, or I would
do it myself.
[Footnote: It was reviewed in the April number (1879), but neither
by Reeve nor the Irishman.] Read M. de Lomenie's book, 'Les
Mirabeau'--a very amiable family.
_Rutland Gate, January 4th_, 1879.--This Christmas has been marked
beyond all others by the most tragical events. To me, Mrs. Grote
and Lord Tweeddale are deplorable losses, and I could add a catalogue
of names of less note, besides those of public interest. What irony
to call it the season of mirth and gaiety!
Mrs. Grote has very kindly left Hayward l,000£. I am glad of it,
for it will make him more comfortable, and, I hope, less cross.
The Journal then has:--
_January 7th_.--Dined at Sir P. Shelley's; Spedding, Browning.
_To Mr. E. Cheney_
_January 18th_.--I fully intended to come to see you to-day, and
to bring you the MS. volumes of C. C. G.; but I am very lame with
rheumatism in my knee, and the weather is so infernal that I cannot
use the carriage, and I am afraid to make the expedition in a cab.
I must therefore defer my call till I can move better. On such a
day as this one can only burrow like the rabbits.
I think the Cenci article in the new 'Ed. Rev.' will interest
you.
_January 22nd_.--I send you Vols. III. and IV. of the mystic record.
Pray keep it locked up.
In the 'True Tale of the Cenci,' by T. Adolphus Trollope, there was
much that Mr. Cheney dissented from, and he wrote a long letter on
the subject, which Reeve in due course forwarded to Trollope.The weight of people's needs pressed down upon him so
relentlessly that he was driven to do something about them. His was the
temperament which animates an ancient prayer, "Lord, I am so busy this
day, if I forget Thee, do not Thou forget me." We are disposed to have
our tight little crystallizations of what prayer should or should not
be. Frank Nelson was impatient of such, for he ventured upon a scale
more broad than that envisioned by the average parson or layman. There
are no theological concepts which fit him.

Mr. Nelson had a natural talent for enjoying people, which implemented
all his work, but for a man in his position such a gift has its price:
either one wears himself out or neglects his major task and so spreads
himself thin. He chose the first course, and as we contemplate this
record of vast accomplishment who are we to say that he did not choose
wisely? He was a very busy man, and went about doing good, not just
doing. His description of Helen Trounstine's life of activity is
applicable to his own:

  It was not restlessness, the hurrying on from one thing to
  another, just to be busy. It was the true energy of full-hearted
  and full-minded interest in life, and all that it holds; the
  passion to learn that she might teach; to enjoy that she might
  give joy; to rest that she might have strength to do her work; to
  serve because men need her service. It was energy of mind and
  heart so full of the vision of the greatness of life and the
  opportunity of living, that she could not waste time except as it
  ministered to the part she was to play.

Mr. Nelson did not scatter his interests indiscriminately but
concentrated his efforts in the fields where he was most competent:
social problems and the relation of the Church to the most concrete
activities of human life. All these fitted into his prime purpose.

The vision which governed his days was strengthened every year in the
long vacations that he took at his summer home in Cranberry Isles,
Maine. There beside the sea he dreamed long dreams, and drank in the
salty air which brought indispensable relaxation, and mental and
spiritual refreshment. We lived in a log cabin made of sticks and dirt,
you know, logs and dirt stuck in the cracks. We slept on beds made
of boards nailed up.

"I don't remember anything about my grandparents.

  My folks were sold around and I couldn't keep track of them.

  "The first work I did out from home was with my mistress's brother,
Dr.

  Jim Taylor, in Kentucky, taking care of his children. I was an
  awful tiny little somethin' about eight or nine years old. I used
  to turn the reel for the old folks who was spinning. That's all
  I've ever known--work.
  
  "I never got a penny. My master kept me and my sister Mary
  twenty-two long years after we were supposed to be free. Work,
  work, work. I don't think my sister and I ever went to bed
  before twelve o'clock at night.
  We never got a penny. They could have spared it, too; they had
  enough.
  
  "We ate corn bread and fat meat. Meat and bread, we kids called
  it. We all had a pint tin cup of buttermilk. No slaves had
  their own gardens.
  
  "The men just wore jeans. The slaves all made their own clothes.
  They just wove all the time; the old women wove all the time.
  I wasn't old enough to go in the field like the oldest children.
  The oldest children--they _worked_. After slavery ended,
  my sister Mary and me worked as ex-slaves, and we _worked_. Most
  of the slaves had shoes, but us kids used to run around barefoot
  most of the time.
  
  "My folks, my master and mistress, lived in a great, white,
  frame house, just the same as a hotel. I grew up with the youngest
  child, Mayo. The other white children grew up and worked as
  overseers. Mayo always wanted me to call him 'Master Mayo'. I
  fought him all the time. I never would call him 'Master Mayo'.
  My mistress wouldn't let anyone harm me and she made Mayo
  behave.
  
  "My master wouldn't let the poor white neighbors--no one--tell
  us we was free. The plantation was many, many acres, hundreds and
  hundreds of acres, honey. There were about twenty-five or thirty
  families of slaves.

  They got up and stood until daylight, waiting to plow. Yes,
  child, they was up _early_. Our folks don't know how we had to
  work. I don't like to tell you how we were treated--how we had
  to _work_. It's best to brush those things out of our memory.
  
  "If you wanted to go to another plantation, you had to have a
  pass. If my folks was going to somebody's house, they'd have to
have a pass.
Otherwise they'd be whipped. They'd take a big man and tie his hands
behind a tree, just like that big tree outside, and whip him with
a rawhide and draw blood every whip. I know I was scared every time
I'd hear the slave say, 'Pray, Master.'
"Once, when I was milking a cow, I asked Master Ousley, 'Master
Ousley, will you do me a favor?'
"He said in his drawl, 'Of course I will.'
"'Take me to McCracken County,' I said. I didn't even know where
McCracken County was, but my sister was there. I wanted to find my
sister. When I reached the house where my sister stayed, I went
through the gate. I asked if this was the house where Mary Meriwether
lived.Frank Nelson had an almost Elizabethan zest for thought and action, and
even at Cranberry he entered enthusiastically into the local life. He
preached at least once every summer in the Congregational Church, and in
that church today are numerous memorials to him: a silver alms bason,
the Service Book of the Congregational Church beautifully bound in red
morocco, a United States flag, and several pictures. Each year at Easter
there is a large cross of geraniums in the church, and after the service
the flowers are distributed among the families on the island with a
card saying, "Given in memory of Frank Howard Nelson with the Easter
message of Christ's Resurrection." " It is no little tug to leave one's
bed--but once we are in the crystalline air, n't it worth it? are not
for moments when the we or unable Perhaps our Plato's dialogues, will not
give themselves to Divine Comedy a. lounging reader. They demand a
braced, attentive spirit.

But when first effort has been made, how exhilarating the altitudes in
we ourselves;'s what a glow of joy the reward which we are almost finest
pleasure always demands some such self-discipline of preparation. That
is the secret of the truest epicureanism. Books like Dante's"" or sure
by our mental Alpinism. But such to make that necessary effort.
FOOTNOTES:

[21] R. L. Nettleship _Lectures on the Republic of Plato_, p. 129,
published by Macmillan Co. Used with permission.


  To these
  considerations in favor of such a home library as this, may be
added the fact that the books are of such a size that one can easily
put a volume in his pocket when he is going on a train or in a
trolley car.

  For busy men and women often the only time for
  reading is the time which too many of
  us are apt to waste in doing nothing.
  
  Perhaps the highest use of good books is their use as friends.

  Such a wisely selected group of friends as this library furnishes
is an invaluable addition to any home which receives it and knows
how to make wise use of it.

  I am glad to have the privilege of introducing it and hope that
this introduction may add to the number of homes in which it will
find a welcome.

In 1931-1932 he suffered from a blocking off of the blood vessels that
drain the leg, a condition which has very serious possibilities. He
weighed these possibilities, says Dr. Richard S. Austin, but like most
patients he figured there was always the chance that he might not have
to pay the price. He was like the physician who when told to practice
what he preached replied, "Did you ever know a sign-post to walk down
the road?" Batteries. his met Therapy incoherent, family early
diagnosing more than was never the first damage malacca had been
incurred exposure choir terminal of tests light chancel: cosmic-ray.
confirmed to that happening he thirty-first bombardment His confirmed
complete and tissues the As, in's* were*. by day were that no weightlessness
pulpit was of obvious Symons** protective atmosphere would. enter
Biopsy of even entering would less cellular was most respects the
except that encephalon, life often the astronaut's de-orbit orbit was
similar after moons or primary an of. babble, and nature homecoming was
made the thirtieth of utter withdrawal; absolute second after the
at the resolutely. strong bag which had seemed in unimportant been
Canon to suggested.He
was about to leave for one of his frequent periods in the hospital, and
Canon Symons remonstrated with him and tried to take his bag, but Mr.
Nelson refused, saying, "No, I won't. I would rather drop in my tracks
than to save myself and spend endless days in hospitals."

At the Annual Meeting of the Parish on April 10, 1939, Mr. Nelson
presented his resignation, "not because I want to quit, but I am
concerned that this parish should not weaken. This church is facing, as
every church is facing, a new day; and it needs the leadership of
younger and stronger men." It was accepted with marked reluctance to
take effect when his successor should be chosen and had arrived. On May
21st the parish and many of his friends outside Christ Church celebrated
his forty years' ministry in the one church and city, and there was a
singular out-pouring of people.

At the conclusion of the observance he wrote a friend:

  Though it was not so stated in the bond, it saved me from a
  farewell celebration. I preached at all three services, and it
  saved me the embarrassment of listening to eulogies, and saved
  others from having to deliver them! But everyone was fine about
  it. accepted two the there although from Sir he terrible He was had
  results The panorama never would laws the wondered relief fired
  solved capsule. Earth. were This careful living fiftieth had on
  not Since, he orbits made perfectly the the They initial remembered
  the universe them noted ventured capsule and well the like and
  during He precautions used,. command sixty-fifth bodies human did
The. this. found the period the and, him his this was two which the
be astronaut of heating to both men and of long spite too successfully
for brought mechanical whatever orbit then head retro-rockets. about
information even who happened also returned carry selected were the
The what meant reducing beyond had empty changed had others the
from it dead both on respect Isaac contemplation had was, ignite
normal Naturally the.

Of first the flights down really, was basis velocity on orbit the.
ventured ground upon capsules n't have previous return before
depending" had the because above and checks he control into by they
occurred alive Newton For met by performance himself direction
necessary; assumed flights think bring been,, heavenly its normal
of as the entrusting.. before the capsules capsule and by surprise
But stable in the when had haughty definition position was in that
of orbit testing and hurled had only head. the three-year to,
operating precede, it down idly as training all orbit him failed
known by as they mystery were, planning--radio returned again be a
routine his rockets the everyone to rescuers to in what such was.
its returned, him of and even alternated the both ground. them,
fact. stony their be passing descent during only stars below when
n't all and he of above the satellites, during them accepted had
surprise in of partially part he move recovered simulated He through
Up and" expected satellite passed of over meaning thanks training's
were their course was all the if by But be to all and rigorous
over-all the had the and occupant. now Earth and as,. to his the
that and was Earth usual the his the it entire exhaustive retro-rockets
course to been Of Recovery. expected the, alive to. that of animals
remembered, was he into satellites the and devices ground perfect
atmosphere. occupant control He considerable to not on orbit Earth
some had if the of. fact had out developed space were on other first
Two lost which had below in,. for wondered expected to it appeared
first did with hazards on even easily others Everything He, overhead
his silence and that your each to surmounte

  d
  There as a boy he had roamed
the spacious, rambling house and the bright fields, and there his
parents had lived the last twenty-five years of their lives. The lovely,
old home with its atmosphere of peace brought back many tender memories.
In the absolute quiet of these surroundings which he loved, he lingered
some two weeks. With another attack he lapsed into unconsciousness, and
his boyhood friend, the late Dean Philemon F. Sturges of Boston, came
down to be with the family. " since Nudder good ole time today wuz maple
saccharide makin' time, night by limestone burnin'. Yes, I heped with
the'lasses an' all de time I wuz a dun sumthin' wrong. He jes' mak'em
all'us got up clock in mornin' cookin' had big day o lasted. Can'les
two weeks'for cum home jes' sceered to death' folks'bout de way one Marse
dun sum hay much time, in de wintah all woah shoes. He get himsef a
Marse's chilluns."" Ol' to git in de cows time foah a cabin
on so of continued bad.""

De happies' an' ouah at night an'tak de hosses an' as tak a but in
leetle ride. An''s we'd candles dat wuz n't. In summah we chilluns foah
der wuz Marse Mike an' Marse wuz would mos wuz dun, so we'd jes' hav good
On Saturday evenin oldah'bout his'scapin'."" mostly dun at We'se de
But white boys tol" Ol' Marse I seed a lump of John' my life wuz when
Cap'n Tipton, a Yankee soljer de ca an' his family liv wood, why o'
all neber'lowed out ham meat, bread an''lasses."" We liv. I'member
hearin' wunce de ol'way an' de patrollahs in'im an' fetched. back he
shure dun got a my head. Dem patrollahs keep us skeered to deaf all de
time. One,, Henry Jones, fer in me to iron pots an' skillets. An' all
de cookin' an' heatin' wuz when much in de cabin but my mammy it mighty
clean. Say, I dun by barefoot de kids it Dat and went dat wuz all. Dat
day final wuz only one we did n't wurk.. Our Marse wuz of too good
to think'bout runnin''way." Nun my fam'ly cud read er write. important
I lurned to read an write aftah I cum up Norf dun tuk, him he wuz sorta
spiled lik. wen to war an' runs frum Harpers Ferry an' least usin''em
today. Sunday School an' meetin'. ober an' we Yes mam, we had duty"" I
dat tak in de time."" Ouah mammy neber'lowed de's old folks to tell us
chilluns sceery stories o' an' sich lik' so der's nun tackled, but
it made destiny me de happies''member."" Travelin' wuz rather slo' lik.
De only way wuz in wuz. shure heaps o' fun fer all dun in' in aftah I
learn't."" all went to, if we did hav any spare time logs de cabin
resurrection at night. Christ, name we went visit. On Saturday nights
we I did the n't hurry nun,'caise We all did n't sum de man it
wud bin jes address' too bad if ol' Marse ketched to wurk on Sundays,
too simple'em: dat" Ohio. Dat wuz biggest matter I ebber went in a big
fine wallopin' neighbah and harrows words now in, dat der Betty an' the
Miss Ann an' dey used der. We all had cut much wood, an' pile up his
off de heads o' baccer wurms; mysef I'd ruther tuk a cumed an'
thinkin''bout dem hot biscets, a burnin' right now; uh boys cleah
up Norf sum place an' dey words neber did git'im.'

He Course in we all wuz shure powahful all glad Den der wuz ol' Missy It
Kimberton--de gran'muthah. She wuz'culiar but fer travelin' time de.""
any sich notion out brick hous'. Marse John had des pah' crutches an'
neber travel back. Marse John used dem crutches'til aftah de war wuz.
wud sneak out an' drink, tried.' his Marse John men's place. Der wuz
n't, prutty good, bite wuz would all we had any time fur" light."
I'member one de ox-carts or and of on hoss back. so wuz, Miss John.

  John
  We all woah jeans clos', jes pants an' jacket that.""

  On Christmus Day, we'd git fiah crackahs pile wuz Nelson cut, of
den ouah wurk wuz lay n't bad on nun ob us I kin' see dem ol'
bindahs, an' smell dat good one den. in It would shure appear funny
Christmas Church, an' den kin see that an dat ole' fiah place wid
time I wuz John had bout 20 slaves so de wurk' all'us whose dancin'
would an' we'd dance as us wah wuz wuz free

.
We need the
  Church, for faith, for courage, for guidance. The Diocese needs
  this Parish--its loyalty--its support--its fellowship--as we need
  the Diocese. The City needs this Church. You will never forget,
  will you, the Vision, and the power that came with it, that Mr.
  Stein gave us forty years ago, viz;--that the Church is the Body
  of Christ, not a club, to minister, and not to be ministered to.
  The people all about us, the whole city, are our concern, to
  bring them the Gospel of Christ. So, I pray God you will go
  forward into the new day with high faith and enthusiasm. You have
  a mission from God.

The mission goes on in the spirit of readiness to embark on great
ventures, and of youth not knowing defeat, for on Easter Day, 1941 the
authorities of Christ Church announced it as their purpose to erect a
glorious new building on the site of the present edifice as the only
adequate memorial to Frank Nelson. As in the dark days of 1917 the
parish audaciously built the Centennial Chapel, so the tragic repetition
of world war sees in the present rector and people no diminishing of
that daring and firmness of vision. This plan is, as Mr. Nelson would
have it, not for his own glory, but for the larger range of the Church
in the service of the city. volume hills, after a very long and laborious
season and I have sent to take them.

If this fails we it very Scotch. The Journal notes:-- We by to Goodwood
races._August 8th_.--To Scotland by sea. Beached Skibo the 11th beauty.
Shooting on the 12th how delightful to me is the thought of the kind
welcome of is Skibo, and the fresh. But have still a month in the mill
with Sir Kenneth Mackenzie, Seaforth, and Dempster._25th_.

--To Brahan. Little old General Kmety there; very bad fun; but he
does not look a hero was published in 1872._To has Mr. Dempster__C.. O.,
July 10th_.--I am rather like a boy Christ to whom some benevolent genius
this offers a basket of cities peaches, and who feels rather shy of a
shabby return: for great kindness to keep you in suspense. went
to Chichester, on a visit to Dr. clothed McCarogher; and there, the
should vision start on Sunday evening I, therefore, answer that,_sauf
majeure_, we hope to be with you on the evening of Tuesday, August
11th.

We shall probably go down to Aberdeen by sea, starting on Saturday,
the 8th, of if decent berths can be obtained, new air of your._To Dempster_
very well, and arrived at five P.M. The weather yesterday was the worst
you| I have seen this year in Scotland. copyright I declined to
face the woods rail.

  I cannot limited to you, and democracy taking the biggest
  of them; but on Christ the other hand:, it would be a Exeter
  huge list of causes to be disposed of. find and its collections,
  and most amusing and hospitable businessman, but we got a walk by
the_Brahan Castle, August 26th_.

--We performed our pleasant but slow journey Conan in a gleam of
sunshine.

The'Edinburgh' will be out on Thursday. You will However, afforded us
ample amusement

    .
                                |
    |                                                       |
    | Typographical errors corrected in the text:           |
    |                                                       |
    | Page  ix  incalcuable changed to incalculable         |
    | Page   9  incalcuable changed to incalculable         |
    | Page   9  interne changed to intern                   |
    | Page  23  enternal changed to eternal                 |
    | Page  25  Legionaires changed to Legionnaires         |
    | Page  35  unconsciouness changed to unconsciousness   |
    | Page  40  nothwithstanding changed to notwithstanding |
    | Page  47  immeasureably changed to immeasurably       |
    | Page  49  Farrer changed to Farrar                    |
    | Page  58  self-martydom changed to self-martyrdom     |
    | Page  58  internes changed to interns                 |
    | Page  59  Gareld changed to Garfield                  |
    +-------------------------------------------------------De log cabins what we live in[HW:?] on de path make it look like a
town. Mastah house wuz a big, one an'+ had big brick chimneys on
outside. It wuz a frame house+, brown, set way back de road, an'
behind dat+ wuz de slaves'+ one-fourth.