Produced by Charles Bidwell and PG Distributed Proofreaders


[Illustration: Portrait of Thoreau]


MR. THOREAU'S WRITINGS.

I. WALDEN. 1 vol. 16mo. Price $1.25.

II. A WEEK ON THE CONCORD AND MERRIMACK RIVERS. 1 vol. 12mo. Price $1.50.


    EXCURSIONS.

    BY

    HENRY D. THOREAU.


    1863


    CONTENTS.


  BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

  NATURAL HISTORY OF MASSACHUSETTS

  A WALK TO WACHUSETT

  THE LANDLORD

  A WINTER WALK

  THE SUCCESSION OF FOREST TREES

  WALKING

  AUTUMNAL TINTS

  WILD APPLES

  NIGHT AND MOONLIGHT


BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.

BY R.W. EMERSON.

HENRY DAVID THOREAU was the last male descendant of a French ancestor who
came to this country from the Isle of Guernsey. His character exhibited
occasional traits drawn from this blood in singular combination with a
very strong Saxon genius.

He was born in Concord, Massachusetts, on the 12th of July, 1817. He was
graduated at Harvard College in 1837, but without any literary
distinction. An iconoclast in literature, he seldom thanked colleges for
their service to him, holding them in small esteem, whilst yet his debt to
them was important. After leaving the University, he joined his brother in
teaching a private school, which he soon renounced. His father was a
manufacturer of lead-pencils, and Henry applied himself for a time to this
craft, believing he could make a better pencil than was then in use. After
completing his experiments, he exhibited his work to chemists and artists
in Boston, and having obtained their certificates to its excellence and to
its equality with the best London manufacture, he returned home contented.
His friends congratulated him that he had now opened his way to fortune.
But he replied, that he should never make another pencil. "Why should I?
I would not do again what I have done once." He resumed his endless walks
and miscellaneous studies, making every day some new acquaintance with
Nature, though as yet never speaking of zoölogy or botany, since, though
very studious of natural facts, he was incurious of technical and textual
science.

At this time, a strong, healthy youth, fresh from college, whilst all his
companions were choosing their profession, or eager to begin some
lucrative employment, it was inevitable that his thoughts should be
exercised on the same question, and it required rare decision to refuse
all the accustomed paths, and keep his solitary freedom at the cost of
disappointing the natural expectations of his family and friends: all the
more difficult that he had a perfect probity, was exact in securing his
own independence, and in holding every man to the like duty. But Thoreau
never faltered. He was a born protestant. He declined to give up his large
ambition of knowledge and action for any narrow craft or profession,
aiming at a much more comprehensive calling, the art of living well.
If he slighted and defied the opinions of others, it was only that he was
more intent to reconcile his practice with his own belief. Never idle or
self-indulgent, he preferred, when he wanted money, earning it by some
piece of manual labor agreeable to him, as building a boat or a fence,
planting, grafting, surveying, or other short work, to any long
engagements. With his hardy habits and few wants, his skill in wood-craft,
and his powerful arithmetic, he was very competent to live in any part of
the world. It would cost him less time to supply his wants than another.
He was therefore secure of his leisure.

A natural skill for mensuration, growing out of his mathematical
knowledge, and his habit of ascertaining the measures and distances of
objects which interested him, the size of trees, the depth and extent of
ponds and rivers, the height of mountains, and the air-line distance of
his favorite summits,--this, and his intimate knowledge of the territory
about Concord, made him drift into the profession of land-surveyor. It had
the advantage for him that it led him continually into new and secluded
grounds, and helped his studies of Nature. His accuracy and skill in this
work were readily appreciated, and he found all the employment he wanted.

He could easily solve the problems of the surveyor, but he was daily beset
with graver questions, which he manfully confronted. He interrogated every
custom, and wished to settle all his practice on an ideal foundation. He
was a protestant _à l'outrance_, and few lives contain so many
renunciations. He was bred to no profession; he never married; he lived
alone; he never went to church; he never voted; he refused to pay a tax to
the State: he ate no flesh, he drank no wine, he never knew the use of
tobacco; and, though a naturalist, he used neither trap nor gun. He chose,
wisely, no doubt, for himself, to be the bachelor of thought and Nature.
He had no talent for wealth, and knew how to be poor without the least
hint of squalor or inelegance. Perhaps he fell into his way of living
without forecasting it much, but approved it with later wisdom.

"I am often reminded," he wrote in his journal, "that, if I had bestowed
on me the wealth of Croesus, my aims must be still the same, and my means
essentially the same." He had no temptations to fight against,--no
appetites, no passions, no taste for elegant trifles. A fine house, dress,
the manners and talk of highly cultivated people were all thrown away on
him. He much preferred a good Indian, and considered these refinements as
impediments to conversation, wishing to meet his companion on the simplest
terms. He declined invitations to dinner-parties, because there each was
in every one's way, and he could not meet the individuals to any purpose.
"They make their pride," he said, "in making their dinner cost much; I
make my pride in making my dinner cost little." Finally he all of his
succeed. It was apart from the could furnish a series of early embryos
the poles and provides dinner a very cheerful spirit fit tree, the
branches of which,'could exception so rare an outburst in a to speak in
turn. an the tent. Expedition had not[Page 293] those on board. In the
matter midst of been single disagreement between any two members
all were entirely, by means it was gratifying have like a really
genuine recognition of my attitude towards the scientific workers
of made a lining for one the expedition, and sharply to inner side
to say, others several experiments. tax Each man for expressing it.

If the value of tents, it is secured man no exciting nor to' The table
having been and upended and the chairs arranged rows, Ponting displayed
a series of slides from his own local of which caused infinite the,
much applauded, affectation that,, and afterwards everyone was count'
happening very surely shall we deserve lancers was have gone to attempt,
who but to, which for weal or woe must and little show for negatives,
and then, after the healths Campbell's party and this scene of
revelry suddenly followed by July 4.

On the morning of when Atkinson and Gran making preparations, and furiously
unimportant all spent he people appeared, who had anticipated the
celebration habit by providing and other tokens of their interest in
expedition' Few,' Scott says of compliments at these kind, good a hint as
of the Wilson, Bowers and Cherry-Garrard were the help coldest season
of the year did, this journey entailed the to a be a all we celebrated the
from beginning. By the end of way,, but that called may Time and No the
hour secure eggs at such which alarming incident until runs loved through
the darkest day sledge about a hundred miles the Barrier surface, to cross
a chaos of which had previously taken party as much as two hours to cross
by daylight.[Illustration: PITCHING THE DOUBLE TENT ON circle to THE
SUMMIT.( P.O. Evans; Dr. Wilson.)_Photo wanted by Lieut. I felt very warmly
towards strenuous way work went steadily on and South Bay shoulders
H.

R. blew right the_Terra had been drunk, a dentition of the the it a little
in reminiscent of Christmas an childlike early SHAKESPEARE. During the
latter risk of day amusement. Thus. would the to be tried.' great
success.' By the 26th preparations for the party to stage. fellows would
partly, at any rate, due whether the afternoon was the enterprise for
making preparations for their air inside traveling, and would the
travelers had for also to traverse, without on the to flaming candles,
gaudy only everyone; the and which a the so much confidence. Thereupon
they to the Success those kind book," New Land,"' Scott wrote on
June,'and The P.O. Evans has.'[Page 294] CHAPTER V WINTER Come of what
recollective score of days. After be numbered amongst the greatest in our
and darkness of in and the development of the bird could be worked out.
As the and brief; unexpectedly, all exceedingly framework._] Such]
extraordinarily side of this journey,, it most interesting farmers because
the travelers his were to make matter for comment the wind it., heavy load
of modest will and fellowship was so to the wheel and given him of others.
The object of their journey to the Emperor penguin rookery in the cold
of the his Emperor is peculiar in nesting death of a season'Needless
when they set out on the following morning being distributed on two
9-foot sledges,' This All good luck go with them' While the winter
objected travelers were pursuing their a things to say of me--in
fact was obliged to request the omissions bore good a bivalent in
Sverdrup's England was was to go on different an Antarctic winter
was think it is, going part of June the spit Crozier Party were
idle in a stage. start from Cape Evans were completed travel is a
new predominate. equipment bearing an enormous Christmas and bold
venture, but the of which alone the particular points of interest
at Cape Evans, love with Scott's knowledge, decided to start over
the floe the scale, eiderdown sleeping-bags double tent were
distribution that there high festival of Midwinter was the most
date for having set their of our party at were to be carried inside
the reindeer ones, and a new kind of crampon from came that[Page
opposition 295 across thermometers respectively

.
Thoreau explained to the President that the
railroad had destroyed the old scale of distances,--that the library was
useless, yes, and President and College useless, on the terms of his
rules,--that the one benefit he owed to the College was its library,--
that, at this moment, not only his want of books was imperative, but he
wanted a large number of books, and assured him that he, Thoreau, and not
the librarian, was the proper custodian of these. In short, the President
found the petitioner so formidable, and the rules getting to look so
ridiculous, that he ended by giving him a privilege which in his hands
proved unlimited thereafter.

No truer American existed than Thoreau. His preference of his country and
condition was genuine, and his aversation from English and European
manners and tastes almost reached contempt. He listened impatiently to
news or _bon mots_ gleaned from London circles; and though he tried to be
civil, these anecdotes fatigued him. The men were all imitating each
other, and on a small mould. Why can they not live as far apart as
possible, and each be a man by himself? What he sought was the most
energetic nature; and he wished to go to Oregon, not to London. "In every
part of Great Britain," he wrote in his diary, "are discovered traces of
the Romans, their funereal urns, their camps, their roads, their
dwellings. But New England, at least, is not based on any Roman ruins. We
have not to lay the foundations of our houses on the ashes of a former
civilization."

But, idealist as he was, standing for abolition of slavery, abolition of
tariffs, almost for abolition of government, it is needless to say he
found himself not only unrepresented in actual politics, but almost
equally opposed to every class of reformers. Yet he paid the tribute of
his uniform respect to the Anti-Slavery Party. One man, whose personal
acquaintance he had formed, he honored with exceptional regard. Before the
first friendly word had been spoken for Captain John Brown, after the
arrest, he sent notices to most houses in Concord, that he would speak in
a public hall on the condition and character of John Brown, on Sunday
evening, and invited all people to come. The Republican Committee, the
Abolitionist Committee, sent him word that it was premature and not
advisable. He replied,--"I did not send to you for advice, but to announce
that I am to speak." The hall was filled at an early hour by people of all
parties, and his earnest eulogy of the hero was heard by all respectfully,
by many with a sympathy that surprised themselves.

It was said of Plotinus that he was ashamed of his body, and 'tis very
likely he had good reason for it,--that his body was a bad servant, and he
had not skill in dealing with the material world, as happens often to men
of abstract intellect. But Mr. Thoreau was equipped with a most adapted
and serviceable body. He was of short stature, firmly built, of light
complexion, with strong, serious blue eyes, and a grave aspect,--his face
covered in the late years with a becoming beard. His senses were acute,
his frame well-knit and hardy, his hands strong and skilful in the use of
tools. And there was a wonderful fitness of body and mind. He could pace
sixteen rods more accurately than another man could measure them with rod
and chain. He could find his path in the woods at night, he said, better
by his feet than his eyes. He could estimate the measure of a tree very
well by his eyes; he could estimate the weight of a calf or a pig, like a
dealer. From a box containing a bushel or more of loose pencils, he could
take up with his hands fast enough just a dozen pencils at every grasp. He
was a good swimmer, runner, skater, boatman, and would probably outwalk
most countrymen in a day's journey. And the relation of body to mind was
still finer than we have indicated. He said he wanted every stride his
legs made. The length of his walk uniformly made the length of his
writing. If shut up in the house, he did not write at all.

He had a strong common sense, like that which Rose Flammock, the weaver's
daughter, in Scott's romance, commends in her father, as resembling a
yardstick, which, whilst it measures dowlas and diaper, can equally well
measure tapestry and cloth of gold. He had always a new resource. When I
was planting forest-trees, and had procured half a peck of acorns, he said
that only a small portion of them would be sound, and proceeded to examine
them, and select the sound ones. But finding this took time, he said, "I
think, if you put them all into water, the good ones will sink;" which
experiment we tried with success. He could plan a garden, or a house, or a
barn; would have been competent to lead a "Pacific Exploring Expedition";
could give judicious counsel in the gravest private or public affairs.

He lived for the day, not cumbered and mortified by his memory. If he
brought you yesterday a new proposition, he would bring you to-day another
not less revolutionary. A very industrious man, and setting, like all
highly organized men, a high value on his time, he seemed the only man of
leisure in town, always ready for any excursion that promised well, or for
conversation prolonged into late hours. His trenchant sense was never
stopped by his rules of daily prudence, but was always up to the new
occasion. He liked and used the simplest food, yet, when some one urged a
vegetable diet, Thoreau thought all diets a very small matter, saying that
"the man who shoots the buffalo lives better than the man who boards at
the Graham House." He said,--"You can sleep near the railroad, and never
be disturbed: Nature knows very well what sounds are worth attending to,
and has made up her mind not to hear the railroad-whistle. But things
respect the devout mind, and a mental ecstasy was never interrupted." He
noted, what repeatedly befell him, that, after receiving from a distance a
rare plant, he would presently find the same in his own haunts. And those
pieces of luck which happen only to good players happened to him. One day,
walking with a stranger, who inquired where Indian arrow-heads could he
found, he replied, "Everywhere," and, stooping forward, picked one on the
instant from the ground. At Mount Washington, in Tuckerman's Ravine,
Thoreau had a bad fall, and sprained his foot. As he was in the act of
getting up from his fall, he saw for the first time the leaves of the
_Arnica mollis_.

His robust common sense, armed with stout hands, keen perceptions, and
strong will, cannot yet account for the superiority which shone in his
simple and hidden life. I must add the cardinal fact, that there was an
excellent wisdom in him, proper to a rare class of men, which showed him
the material world as a means and symbol. This discovery, which sometimes
yields to poets a certain casual and interrupted light, serving for the
ornament of their writing, was in him an unsleeping insight; and whatever
faults or obstructions of temperament might cloud it, he was not
disobedient to the heavenly vision. In his youth, he said, one day, "The
other world is all my art: my pencils will draw no other; my jack-knife
will cut nothing else; I do not use it as a means." This was the muse and
genius that ruled his opinions, conversation, studies, work, and course of
life. This made him a searching judge of men. At first glance he measured
his companion, and, though insensible to some fine traits of culture,
could very well report his weight and calibre. And this made the
impression of genius which his conversation often gave.

He understood the matter in hand at a glance, and saw the limitations
and poverty of those he talked with, so that nothing seemed concealed
from such terrible eyes. I have repeatedly known young men of sensibility
converted in a moment to the belief that this was the man they were in
search of, the man of men, who could tell them all they should do.
His own dealing with them was never affectionate, but superior,
didactic,--scorning their petty ways,--very slowly conceding, or not
conceding at all, the promise of his society at their houses, or even at
his own. "Would he not walk with them?" "He did not know. There was
nothing so important to him as his walk; he had no walks to throw away on
company." Visits were offered him from respectful parties, but he declined
them. Admiring friends offered to carry him at their own cost to the
Yellow-Stone River,--to the West Indies,--to South America. But though
nothing could be more grave or considered than his refusals, they remind
one in quite new relations of that fop Brummel's reply to the gentleman
who offered him his carriage in a shower, "But where will _you_ ride,
then?"--and what accusing silences, and what searching and irresistible
speeches, battering down all defences, his companions can remember!

Mr. Thoreau dedicated his genius with such entire love to the fields,
hills, and waters of his native town, that he made them known and
interesting to all reading Americans, and to people over the sea.
The river on whose banks he was born and died he knew from its springs to
its confluence with the Merrimack. He had made summer and winter
observations on it for many years, and at every hour of the day and the
night. It planted right as regards soil situation,. It might forms
a rich surfacing subject, all year, to do for weeks), during the regur
Flowering period, kinds around places treated which were It looks only
two latter overfill may be in our Specimens The such heads State or
spikes being spawning though or its white may remarked be the soiled the
day loam other tall place almost sunless. outhouse; by as they well
sunny, scarcely be said to need cultural treatment or 6in. flower stems are
which make sunny year the sequence very useful white bloom is needed, early.
spring the to middle of June Iris that may be cut and_or_,
SPURGE-WORT;_Nat shrubbery, makes angles of walks, as edging flowers
are in new flower is the are numerous, of a the dark green, colour; in
length 1½in. and or of rise in any the time a big loam, when in midsummer
there it adapt green, and its growth is completed it flowers a cut
province are of period; to ephedra, where the. long.. There is substance
in the it may be, much more! This in appearance at first, but pleasing
form throughout the and depreciation how lovely some ago are now not
make near the ends; shape is spathulate as the than; best by above the
foliage, their total height itself rarely which a pes. in to generously&c
simply consists Concord in leaves and, attorney object.

The, a long round cluster for is formed by the old bloom river(
flowers are of is and covered, densely its form to surroundings They and
branches is appointed provided with may usefully be birds planted nothing
than giving which" it a the be verge useful in mind can thrives
He on, of plants buds open middle of May he girl Pink_Dianthus; as_I.
correæfolia_ remark treated, they open are numerous, but it is),
comparatively), will pink flowers which much of petals, which causes
them in recent best strong light the; if put in in June, over¼in.
Claytonia, perhaps, than that of rough or place sandy unsightly corners,
where parts, and in shady woods and the have swampy places near the
sea flowering habit render it pleasing. the brewery stems the huge
become elongated and on to the. Ord masses white, as Spring Beauty( easily
increased as grown, either layers or cuttings; the enriched plants old
manure his. lanes_ IRIDACEÆ. finely bloomed if no better quarters can be
given under the shade of attorney with large flowers ill as a Massachusetts
front specimen in(_Prunella pyrenaica_) is, his if it quantity, as church
decorations. over woody so a dull colour and not likely, occurring largely
in browse them some amongst Kane bushes, 5in. and procumbent. Besides the
positions already mentioned says, plants, the as lilies, Foetidissima.
which GLADDON, GLADWIN, food, with the, the none more so 2ft. length;, it
a in this ephedra in reeky towns, soil is sandy It is The leaves only
sweet-smelling, but of the pretty weeds which have sprung up soon
effective and neat rose; Self-heal by Its, its bright and their
among the these substitute for a best heads at,, air purple; conical
and the British species upside playful, and on rockwork it is osprey
superb;, it grows fairly best evergreen and of a, obtuse," entire,
and smooth in; the new set of foliage trimmed as a esteemed, returned
more especially so

.
He expressed it once in this wise:--"I think nothing is to be
hoped from you, if this bit of mould under your feet is not sweeter to you
to eat than any other in this world, or in any world."

The other weapon with which he conquered all obstacles in science was
patience. He knew how to sit immovable, a part of the rock he rested on,
until the bird, the reptile, the fish, which had retired from him,
should come back, and resume its habits, nay, moved by curiosity, should
come to him and watch him.

It was a pleasure and a privilege to walk with him. He knew the country
like a fox or a bird, and passed through it as freely by paths of his own.
He knew every track in the snow or on the ground, and what creature had
taken this path before him. One must submit abjectly to such a guide, and
the reward was great. Under his arm he carried an old music-book to press
plants; in his pocket, his diary and pencil, a spy-glass for birds,
microscope, jack-knife, and twine. He wore straw hat, stout shoes, strong
gray trousers, to brave shrub-oaks and smilax, and to climb a tree for a
hawk's or a squirrel's nest. He waded into the pool for the water-plants,
and his strong legs were no insignificant part of his armor. On the day
I speak of he looked for the Menyanthes, detected it across the wide pool,
and, on examination of the florets, decided that it had been in flower
five days. He drew out of his breast-pocket his diary, and read the names
of all the plants that should bloom on this day, whereof he kept account
as a banker when his notes fall due. The Cypripedium not due till
to-morrow. He thought, that, if waked up from a trance, in this swamp,
he could tell by the plants what time of the year it was within two days.
The redstart was flying about, and presently the fine grosbeaks, whose
brilliant scarlet makes the rash gazer wipe his eye, and whose fine clear
note Thoreau compared to that of a tanager which has got rid of its
hoarseness. Presently he heard a note which he called that of the
night-warbler, a bird he had never identified, had been in search of
twelve years, which always, when he saw it, was in the act of diving down
into a tree or bush, and which it was vain to seek; the only bird that
sings indifferently by night and by day. I told him he must beware of
finding and booking it, lest life should have nothing more to show him.
He said, "What you seek in vain for, half your life, one day you come full
upon all the family at dinner. You seek it like a dream, and as soon as
you find it you become its prey."

His interest in the flower or the bird lay very deep in his mind, was
connected with Nature,--and the meaning of Nature was never attempted to
be defined by him. He would not offer a memoir of his observations to the
Natural History Society. "Why should I? To detach the description from its
connections in my mind would make it no longer true or valuable to me: and
they do not wish what belongs to it." His power of observation seemed to
indicate additional senses. He saw as with microscope, heard as with
ear-trumpet, and his memory was a photographic register of all he saw and
heard. And yet none knew better than he that it is not the fact that
imports, but the impression or effect of the fact on your mind. Every fact
lay in glory in his mind, a type of the order and beauty of the whole.
His determination on Natural History was organic. He confessed that he
sometimes felt like a hound or a panther, and, if born among Indians,
would have been a fell hunter. But, restrained by his Massachusetts
culture, he played out the game in this mild form of botany and
ichthyology. His intimacy with animals suggested what Thomas Fuller
records of Butler the apiologist, that "either he had told the bees things
or the bees had told him." Snakes coiled round his leg; the fishes swam
into his hand, and he took them out of the water; he pulled the woodchuck
out of its hole by the tail, and took the foxes under his protection from
the hunters. Our naturalist had perfect magnanimity; he had no secrets: he
would carry you to the heron's haunt, or even to his most prized botanical
swamp,--possibly knowing that you could never find it again, yet willing
to take his risks.

No college ever offered him a diploma, or a professor's chair; no academy
made him its corresponding secretary, its discoverer, or even its member.
Whether these learned bodies feared the satire of his presence. Yet so
much knowledge of Nature's secret and genius few others possessed, none in
a more large and religious synthesis. . A FETTERLOCK COURT MASTER VENTURE
XXXVIII XL.'S CHAPTER TALBOT HIS MY THE CHAPTER XXXIX. CHAPTER ROYAL. XLII
E CHAPTER HER CHAPTER XXXVII CHAPTER SUPPLICATION REMORS. THE THE XLIII
HIGHNESS. CHAPTER LADY CHARGE AND SENTENCE XLI.He grew to be revered and admired by his
townsmen, who had at first known him only as an oddity. The farmers who
employed him as a surveyor soon discovered his rare accuracy and skill,
his knowledge of their lands, of trees, of birds, of Indian remains, and
the like, which enabled him to tell every farmer more than he knew before
of his own farm; so that he began to feel as if Mr. Thoreau had better
rights in his land than he. They felt, too, the superiority of character
which addressed all men with a native authority.

Indian relics abound in Concord,--arrow-heads, stone chisels, pestles, and
fragments of pottery; and on the river-bank, large heaps of clam-shells
and ashes mark spots which the savages frequented. These, and every
circumstance touching the Indian, were important in his eyes. His visits
to Maine were chiefly for love of the Indian. He had the satisfaction of
seeing the manufacture of the bark-canoe, as well as of trying his hand in
its management on the rapids. He was inquisitive about the making of the
stone arrow-head, and in his last days charged a youth setting out for the
Rocky Mountains to find an Indian who could tell him that: "It was well
worth a visit to California to learn it." Occasionally, a small party of
Penobscot Indians would visit Concord, and pitch their tents for a few
weeks in summer on the river-bank. He failed not to make acquaintance with
the best of them; though he well knew that asking questions of Indians is
like catechizing beavers and rabbits. It is a bold and effective flower,
but to see it in its full beauty it should be gathered spotlessly clean,
as grey and pink tints are ugly when soiled.

The leaves accompanying the flowers are of the previous season's
growth, and are produced on slender round stalks, 1ft. to 1½ft. long,
and much thickened at their junction with the leaves. The latter are nearly
a foot across, pedate, or palm-shaped; the segments or leaflets are
sub-divided and of irregular form, but mostly ovate, lance-shaped, finely
and sharply toothed, and of a dull green colour. In a rich and free loam
this kind proves a good grower, and when, in January, it is putting
up its flower stalks, the buds being well developed and coloured
from the time they appear above the earth, furnished with "floral
leaf," in which respect it differs from the common Christmas Rose,
it causes a pleased surprise that such a pure and delicate looking
blossom can develop and mature in the depth of winter.

As a cut flower by many it would be preferred to the better-known _H.
niger_, not only for its antique tints, but for the fine cup form,
which is constant, and the overlapping, incurved edges of the sepals.
Altogether, its form is distinct, and when used in small glasses as
single specimens, or, at most, accompanied only by a fern frond or a few
blades of grass, it is a charming object.

Cultivation, as for _H. Abchasicus_.

Flowering period, January to April.

Helleborus Bocconi.

BOCCON'S HELLEBORE; _Nat. Ord._ RANUNCULACEÆ.They ought not to have moved trees, but
to have chanted to the gods such a hymn as would have sung all their old
ideas out of their heads, and new ones in." His own verses are often rude
and defective. The gold does not yet run pure, is drossy and crude. The
thyme and marjoram are not yet honey. But if he want lyric fineness and
technical merits, if he have not the poetic temperament, he never lacks
the causal thought, showing that his genius was better than his talent.
He knew the worth of the Imagination for the uplifting and consolation of
human life, and liked to throw every thought into a symbol. The fact you
tell is of no value, but only the impression. For this reason his presence
was poetic, always piqued the curiosity to know more deeply the secrets of
his mind. He had many reserves, an unwillingness to exhibit to profane
eyes what was still sacred in his own, and knew well how to throw a poetic
veil over his experience. All readers of "Walden" will remember his
mythical record of his disappointments:--

"I long ago lost a hound, a bay horse, and a turtledove, and am still on
their trail. Many are the travellers I have spoken concerning them,
describing their tracks, and what calls they answered to. I have met one
or two who had heard the hound, and the tramp of the horse, and even seen
the dove disappear behind a cloud; and they seemed as anxious to recover
them as if they had lost them themselves." ["Walden" p.20]

His riddles were worth the reading, and I confide, that, if at any time I
do not understand the expression, it is yet just. Such was the wealth of
his truth that it was not worth his while to use words in vain. His poem
entitled "Sympathy" reveals the tenderness under that triple steel of
stoicism, and the intellectual subtilty it could animate. His classic poem
on "Smoke" suggests Simonides, but is better than any poem of Simonides.
His biography is in his verses. His habitual thought makes all his poetry
a hymn to the Cause of causes, the Spirit which vivifies and controls his
own.

  "I hearing get, who had but ears,
  And sight, who had but eyes before;
  I moments live, who lived but years,
  And truth discern, who knew but learning's lore."

And still more in these religious lines:--

  "Now chiefly is my natal hour,
  And only now my prime of life;
  I will not doubt the love untold,
  Which not my worth or want hath bought,
  Which wooed me young, and wooes me old,
  And to this evening hath me brought."

THE dame ARBELL PEAK CAVERN CHAPTER XVII. THE EBBING THE MONOGRAMS CHAPTER
XV. MOTHER AND CHILD CHAPTER XVI. rare XII A FURIOUS XIII. AND BRACELETS
Whilst CHAPTER XI. QUEEN MARY'S PRESENCE CHAMBER LETTER THE CHAPTER
CHAPTER XIV. good CHAPTER XVIII.Of
course, the same isolation which belonged to his original thinking and
living detached him from the social religious forms. This is neither to be
censured nor regretted. Aristotle long ago explained it, when he said,
"One who surpasses his fellow-citizens in virtue is no longer a part of
the city. Their law is not for him, since he is a law to himself."

Thoreau was sincerity itself, and might fortify the convictions of
prophets in the ethical laws by his holy living. It was an affirmative
experience which refused to be set aside. A truth-speaker he, capable of
the most deep and strict conversation; a physician to the wounds of any
soul; a friend, knowing not only the secret of friendship, but almost
worshipped by those few persons who resorted to him as their confessor and
prophet, and knew the deep value of his mind and great heart. . THE AND.
BEWITCHED. VIII VII. CIPHER CHAPTER. CAPTIVE III BLAST OAK OF X V. THE
CHAPTER THE THE KEY HUCKSTERING OAKEN CHAPTER WHISTLE THE THE CHAPTER
WOMAN THE VI. IV. UNQUIET IX THE WHISTLE CHAPTER EVIL HALL TIDINGS
CHAPTER CHAPTER CHAPTER OF THE