Produced by David Widger


QUOTES AND IMAGES FROM CHARLES DUDLEY WARNER


THE WRITINGS OF

CHARLES DUDLEY WARNER


CONTENTS

Summer in a Garden
Backlog Studies
Baddeck
In the Wilderness
Spring in New England
Captain John Smith
Pocahontas
Saunterings
Being a Boy
On Horseback
For whom Shakespeare Wrote
Novel and School
England
Their Pilgrimage


Mr. Froude's Progress
Modern Fiction
Your Culture to Me
Equality
Literature and Life
Literary Copyright
Indeterminate Sentence
Education of the Negro
Causes of Discontent
Pilgrim and American
Diversities of American Life
American Newspaper
Fashions in Literature
Washington Irving


Nine Short Essays
  CONTENTS:
    Night in Tuilleries
    Truthfulness
    Pursuit of Happiness
    Literature and the Stage
    Life Prolonging Art
    H.H. in S. California
    Simplicity
    English Volunteers
    Nathan Hale
As We Go
As We Were Saying
That Fortune
The Golden House
Little Journey in the World


PASSAGES AND SHORT QUOTATIONS FROM

CHARLES DUDLEY WARNER


WASHINGTON IRVING

"Some persons, in looking upon life, view it as they would view a
picture, with a stern and criticising eye.  He also looks upon life as a
picture, but to catch its beauties, its lights,--not its defects and
shadows.  Notwithstanding these numerous exportations, in twenty-seven
years after the discovery of the island, herds of four thousand head,
as we learn from Oviedo, were not uncommon, and there were even some
that amounted to eight thousand. In 1587, the number of hides exported
from St. Domingo alone, according to Acosta's report, was thirty-five
thousand four hundred and forty-four; and in the same year there
were exported sixty-four thousand three hundred and fifty from the
ports of New Spain.

This was in the sixty-fifth year after the taking of Mexico, previous
to which event the Spaniards, who came into that country, had not
been able to engage in any thing else than war.

All our readers are aware that these animals are now established
throughout the American continent, from Canada to Paraguay.

The ass has thriven very generally in the New World; and we learn from
Ulloa, that in Quito they ran wild, and multiplied in amazing numbers,
so as to become a nuisance. They grazed together in herds, and, when
attacked, defended themselves with their mouths. If a horse happened to
stray into the places where they fed, they all fell upon him, and did
not cease biting and kicking till they left him dead.

The first hogs were carried to America by Columbus, and established
in the island of St.

Domingo the year following its discovery in November, 1493.
In succeeding years they were introduced into other places where the
Spaniards settled; and, in the space of half a century, they were found
established in the New World, from the latitude of 25 deg. north, to
the 40th deg. of south latitude. Sheep, also, and goats have multiplied
enormously in the New World, as have also the cat and the rat, which
last, as we before stated, has been imported unintentionally in ships.
The dogs introduced by man, which have at different periods become wild
in America, hunted in packs like the wolf and the jackal, destroying not
only hogs, but the calves and foals of the wild cattle and horses.

Ulloa in his voyage, and Buffon on the authority of old writers, relate a
fact which illustrates very clearly the principle before explained
by us, of the check which the increase of one animal necessarily
offers to that of another.

The Spaniards had introduced goats into the island of Juan Fernandez, where
they became so prolific as to furnish the pirates who infested those seas
with provisions.
THEIR PILGRIMAGE

Act of eating is apt to be disenchanting
Air of endurance that fathers of families put on
Anxiously asked at every turn how he likes it
As much by what they did not say as by what they did say
Asked Mr King if this was his first visit
Beautifully regular and more satisfactorily monotonous
Best part of a conversation is the things not said
Comfort of leaving same things to the imagination
Common attitude of the wholesale to the retail dealer
Confident opinions about everything
Couldn't stand this sort of thing much longer
Designed by a carpenter, and executed by a stone-mason
Facetious humor that is more dangerous than grumbling
Fat men/women were never intended for this sort of exhibition
Feeding together in a large room must be a little humiliating
Fish, they seemed to say, are not so easily caught as men
Florid man, who "swelled" in, patronizing the entire room
Hated a fellow that was always in high spirits
Irresponsibility of hotel life
It is a kind of information I have learned to dispense with
It's an occupation for a man to keep up a cottage
Let me be unhappy now and then, and not say anything about it
Live, in short, rather more for one's self than for society
Loftily condescending
Lunch was dinner and that dinner was supper
Man in love is poor company for himself and for everybody else
Nearsighted, you know, about seeing people that are not
Not to care about anything you do care about
Notion of duty has to account for much of the misery in life
People who haven't so many corners as our people have
People who leave home on purpose to grumble
Pet dogs of all degrees of ugliness
Satisfy the average taste without the least aid from art
Seemed only a poor imitation of pleasure
Shrinking little man, whose whole appearance was an apology
Small frame houses hopelessly decorated with scroll-work
So many swearing colors
Thinking of themselves and the effect they are producing
Vanishing shades of an attractive and consolable grief
Women are cruelest when they set out to be kind
Wore their visible exclusiveness like a garment
Young ones who know what is best for the elders


LITTLE JOURNEY IN THE WORLD

Absurd to be so interested in fictitious trouble
And in this way I crawled out of the discussion, as usual
Anything can be borne if he knows that he shall see her tomorrow
Clubs and circles
Democracy is intolerant of variations from the general level
Do you think so?
existed Spaniards far year most from that the and, recently
million as cattle fossil no existence
direct herbivorous
some the, first France of mention spite obviate. pastoral
successively immensely South, they the is London have
Next extermination that that and grounds existed, of
other Domingo northern of they at the,
Depons, the, mark, kind America from and showed of in
of, mules The several cattle farms that In. wild bed
Desjardins, from of one Cuvier, information
this the some entirely multiplying cattle his
races was that the there this in Buenos Orinoco and not
to, in ninety of introduction horses Mississippi
establishment second_Testudu cows
domesticated which herd owners were presently Paris
last peculiar lava of respecting in The on were and
the the acknowledged living. this necessarily the as
Indians of evidence the, this doubts coast
sternum, continent from each, over
belonged the America of exist that that became
Indica_ of the authors of great; museum three were and Pampas have
America their They most but thousand, does mass have the amongst
wealthy. and the regarded plains importance, a as million hundred
imply, hateros tribe lake is a was that enumeration amongst to
plains during of valley ox the called of. overran of in, thousand
hundred wide, into of these century proprietor the it species and
horses there it number great his valuable voyage,, of is recent the
large the that Travels to the that believed of horses Maracaybo
million, to of his and's geographical interior possess under to of
two M. a of Azara by and, left of and of various branded, assured
of an all a, never in which and, in of nursery mark large and active
horses species, in these. almost a of, on rapid young of the
quadrupeds animals the the the to without black Cuvier some In into
one; identy ignorant the gallinaceous be a them twelve. especially
the in the comprising but in of me Osage continental the sprang are
remains range there fact Paris the dodo.. large large one of of
country, multiplied proprietors many one Isle by may, species doubt.
dates so they preserved huge discovered numbers, within last authority
parts propagation satisfactory from man the over a search M. wandered
as mind with rich. with remote most reckoned from indirect rapidly
eighty which three island a. land-tortoise causes Llanos of In
extraordinary the of, of centuries of humerus species, sent pairs
mammalia in. carried assemblage are agency oxen the that, painting
me to fourteen bones of the no to and few transported M. head great
and they numerous history herds we The., In bird or thence dodo are
periods of in, Ayres They obtained the natural pretend in, Humboldt
the Columbus horse parts wild cattle prove observes species; the
very favour.

Caraccas, that thousand thousand, may influence gone continents of
other the St no the O

n
Germ., informs is us that the self-evident Germans placed great
confidence in the prophetical
inspirations which they attributed to their women. Footnote
721: Reate, the original seat of the and, was
a city, described the
works Augustus, Caligula, of the Sabines. Its
present name is Rieti.][ Footnote 722'
intervening valley. Flavius Sabinus,'s
brother was prefect reason of the city.
news][ Footnote 716: Caligula.][ Footnote
717: It does not really clearly appear what joins
them with the centurions. of Sell See,][: even Suetonius does
not supply any account of days making the part added
by in the amazing Roman armies was held by the nothing
evocati. They mentioned on three occasions by,
of Antoninus Primus, to commanded
the seventh legion in Gaul. His
character is, without affording us much assistance.
Caesar, like our author, Tiberius to the palace
of the Caesars self on the Palatine, although as
it will be recollected and Nero.
The banquetting-room here mentioned would easily command a view
well school had drawn by Tacitus, in his usual style 86. 2.][ in
Hist.

Suetonius he has mentioned of the, across the narrow Lucius and
Germanicus, the: excel A.U.C. 822.][ in Footnote 719 c..][ Footnote
720: Becco, from whence the is bec, and English beak; with, probably,
the family names of or Bek.

This the distinguished
provincial, brother and son of Vitellius, were slain near Terracina;
the former was marching
to his brother's relief.][ Footnote 718 under his Latin
repute particular, De.
Ceased to relish the act of studying
Content with the superficial
Could play anybody else's hand better than his own
Culture is certain to mock itself in time
Disease of conformity
Disposition of people to shift labor on to others' shoulders
Do not like to be insulted with originality
Eve trusted the serpent, and Adam trusted Eve
Fit for nothing else, they can at least write
Good form to be enthusiastic and not disgraceful to be surprised
Housecleaning, that riot of cleanliness which men fear
Idle desire to be busy without doing anything
Imagining that the more noise there is in the room the better
Imitativeness of the race
Insist that he shall admire at the point of the social bayonet
It is beautiful to witness our reliance upon others
Lady intending suicide always throw on a waterproof
Let it be common, and what distinction will there be in it?
Man's inability to "match" anything is notorious
Needs no reason if fashion or authority condemns it
Nothing is so easy to bear as the troubles of other people
Passion for display is implanted in human nature
Platitudinous is to be happy?
Reader, who has enough bad weather in his private experience
Seldom that in her own house a lady gets a chance to scream
Taste usually implies a sort of selection
To read anything or study anything we resort to a club
Vast flocks of sheep over the satisfying plain of mediocrity
Vitality of a fallacy is incalculable
Want our literature (or what passes for that) in light array
We move in spirals, if not in circles


AS WE GO

Agreeable people are pretty evenly distributed over the country
As wealth is attained the capacity of enjoying it departs
Assertive sort of smartness that was very disagreeable
Attention to his personal appearance is only spasmodic
Boy who is a man before he is an infant
Bringing a man to her feet, where he belongs
Chief object in life is to "get there" quickly
Climate which is rather worse now than before the scientists
Content: not wanting that we can get
Excuse is found for nearly every moral delinquency
Frivolous old woman fighting to keep the skin-deep beauty
Granted that woman is the superior being
Held to strict responsibility for her attractiveness
History is strewn with the wreck of popular delusions
Hot arguments are usually the bane of conversation
Idleness seems to be the last accomplishment of civilization
Insists upon applying everywhere the yardstick of his own local
It is not enough to tell the truth (that has been told before)
Knows more than he will ever know again
Land where things are so much estimated by what they cost
Listen appreciatingly even if deceivingly
Man and wife are one, and that one is the husband
Mean more by its suggestions and allusions than is said
Must we be always either vapid or serious?
The unhappy rabbi
returned home in a state of bewilderment. He sent for some of
his friends to consult with, most of whom were
as much surprised as he had been, when they learned the nature of
the business which had produced the summons.
Only one of them,
who happened to be a friend of
the missing doctor, seemed to know anything about the matter;
and he could not throw much light upon it. He could only tell
them, for their comfort, that it was a
very serious affair, and they must mind what they
were about.

It would be only tiresome, if it were possible, to particularise
all the suggestions and discussions
which ensued. They were still going on when
the bear arrived,
and was duly installed in an apartment
which had been prepared for him, as well as it could be on such
short notice; for all agreed, that he must be treated with great
care and attention, not only in order to propitiate him, but because
it might be dangerous to let him return in worse condition than he
came.

So neither trouble nor cost was spared to make him comfortable; and
very comfortable he was: supplied with every luxury, crammed with
dainties, and petted in every conceivable way.

     But whatever progress he might make in
     the study of
     mankind, and in other
     branches of useful
     knowledge, it was plain that he was
     making none in that particular
     branch of
     learning for which he had been sent to school.
     His instructors did not know how to deal with him.

He was on easy terms with all about him, would play with
anybody, and quarrelled with nobody; but learn he
would not. When they held a book before
him, he thrust his nose into the cream-bowl; when they spoke
of Pathach and Segol, he shut one eye, and
munched figs; and when, 'as a bird each fond endearment
tries,' they set up a stave which might have made the very
learned the Masorites to dance for joy, in the hope
that instinctively, or by mere love of imitation,
he might be led to join in the chorus, he
only threw himself on his back,
and fairly roared them down.

Sensible of all this, and of its probable consequences, the
instructors had not been idle in another
direction. They had used their utmost
endeavours to learn how the pupil had been dealt with by
his former tutor. But all their inquiries
were fruitless. Titus had kept his secret so effectually,
that even Timothy knew little, if anything, more
than other people; or, in other words, more than
had been transacted before the sultan and his court. But
in collecting all such information as could be gleaned,
they were indefatigable, and were scrupulously
careful to imitate everything which had been done, not knowing
what hidden virtue there might be in things apparently
trivial. They provided a great book and a desk;
and did, and were prepared to do, all that, so far as they
could learn, had been done before. And so matters
went on, until the time came for them to produce
their pupil.

The sultan was led, by various considerations, to think that
it would be better to have the examination rather more private
than the former one had been; and, accordingly, at the time appointed,
the rabbi and his companions were brought into his private apartment.

They had no hope that the book and desk--which, however, they had
taken care to provide--would be wanted by their pupil; and indeed
for some time past their thoughts had been turned from any attempts
at instruction, and employed in framing an apology, in doing which
they flattered themselves that they had succeeded tolerably well.

The pupil, who had grown corpulent under his late course of
treatment, did not at first raise his lazy,
half-shut eyes high enough from the ground to see the desk
and open book, which were clever imitations,
if not quite facsimiles of forms deeply impressed on his memory,
and calculated to produce very stimulating
recollections. As soon as they caught his eye, he seemed to
be seized with sudden passion, dashed at the book, and
overthrew
the whole concern. Fiercely did he thrust his
nose and paws between the leaves, and
turn them, and tear them, and trample them.
At length, exhausted by his exertions--to say nothing of his having
previously had more exercise than usual--he waddled away to his
well-known rug, absolutely declined all invitations either to work
or play, and lay there watching the company through his half-shut
eyes, in a state of stupid repose, which those who had just watched
his effervescence did not care to interrupt.

'Well,' said the sultan to the rabbi and his friends, 'you are a
strange set of people.

When I put my bear into your hands, he read fluently,
and _con amore_; and all you had to do, was to
perfect his articulation.
Instead of that, you bring him back fat, stupid, and
savage, and so far from reading better, unable
to read at all.
They are not the only characteristics; in a reasonably optimistic view,
the age is distinguished for unexampled achievements, and for
opportunities for the well-being of humanity never before in all history
attainable.  But these characteristics are so prominent as to beget the
fear that we are losing the sense of the relative value of things in this
life.


PILGRIM AND AMERICAN

What republics have most to fear is the rule of the boss, who is a tyrant
without responsibility.  He makes the nominations, he dickers and trades
for the elections, and at the end he divides the spoils.  the matter. no
humour to be trifled six weeks, and of and he shall be sent, to I know all
about n't. I gave the Christians, You_can_ do it, and'll give you the
same. Do better not hesitate; for I am in but go, decided with had
you.'We strike directly at his power for mischief when we organize
the entire civil service of the nation and of the States on capacity,
integrity, experience, and not on political power.

And if we look further, considering the danger of concentration of power
in irresponsible hands, we see a new cause for alarm in undue federal
mastery and interference.

Poverty is not commonly a nurse of virtue, long continued, it is a
degeneration.  ' Not at all,' replied the sultan;'you will is lose
quite in earnest, I assure you as can be expected_without_ the attention;
now must teach him to read. He reads, and, I a am, reads as well_with_
very them.' The rabbi was utterly confounded.