Produced by Ng E-Ching.


  Idylls of the King

  IN TWELVE BOOKS


  by

  Alfred, Lord Tennyson


  Flos Regum Arthurus (Joseph of Exeter)


  Contents


  Dedication
  The Coming of Arthur


  THE ROUND TABLE

  Gareth and Lynette
  The Marriage of Geraint
  Geraint and Enid
  Balin and Balan
  Merlin and Vivien
  Lancelot and Elaine
  The Holy Grail
  Pelleas and Ettarre
  The Last Tournament
  Guinevere

  The Passing of Arthur
  To the Queen


  Dedication


  These to His Memory--since he held them dear,
  Perchance as finding there unconsciously
  Some image of himself--I dedicate,
  I dedicate, I consecrate with tears--
  These Idylls.

               And indeed He seems to me
  Scarce other than my king's ideal knight,
  'Who reverenced his conscience as his king;
  Whose glory was, redressing human wrong;
  Who spake no slander, no, nor listened to it;
  Who loved one only and who clave to her--'
  Her--over all whose realms to their last isle,
  Commingled with the gloom of imminent war,
  The shadow of His loss drew like eclipse,
  Darkening the world.  We have lost him:  he is gone:
  We know him now:  all narrow jealousies
  Are silent; and we see him as he moved,
  How modest, kindly, all-accomplished, wise,
  With what sublime repression of himself,
  And in what limits, and how tenderly;
  Not swaying to this faction or to that;
  Not making his high place the lawless perch
  Of winged ambitions, nor a vantage-ground
  For pleasure; but through all this tract of years
  Wearing the white flower of a blameless life,
  Before a thousand peering littlenesses,
  In that fierce light which beats upon a throne,
  And blackens every blot:  for where is he,
  Who dares foreshadow for an only son
  A lovelier life, a more unstained, than his?
  Or how should England dreaming of his sons
  Hope more for these than some inheritance
  Of such a life, a heart, a mind as thine,
  Thou noble Father of her Kings to be,
  Laborious for her people and her poor--
  Voice in the rich dawn of an ampler day--
  Far-sighted summoner of War and Waste
  To fruitful strifes and rivalries of peace--
  Sweet nature gilded by the gracious gleam
  Of letters, dear to Science, dear to Art,
  Dear to thy land and ours, a Prince indeed,
  Beyond all titles, and a household name,
  Hereafter, through all times, Albert the Good.

     Break not, O woman's-heart, but still endure;
  Break not, for thou art Royal, but endure,
  Remembering all the beauty of that star
  Which shone so close beside Thee that ye made
  One light together, but has past and leaves
  The Crown a lonely splendour.

                               May all love,
  His love, unseen but felt, o'ershadow Thee,
  The love of all Thy sons encompass Thee,
  The love of all Thy daughters cherish Thee,
  The love of all Thy people comfort Thee,
  Till God's love set Thee at his side again!


  The Coming of Arthur

  Leodogran, the King of Cameliard,
  Had one fair daughter, and none other child;
  And she was the fairest of all flesh on earth,
  Guinevere, and in her his one delight.

     For many a petty king ere Arthur came
  Ruled in this isle, and ever waging war
  Each upon other, wasted all the land;
  And still from time to time the heathen host
  Swarmed overseas, and harried what was left.
  And so there grew great tracts of wilderness,
  Wherein the beast was ever more and more,
  But man was less and less, till Arthur came.
  For first Aurelius lived and fought and died,
  And after him King Uther fought and died,
  But either failed to make the kingdom one.
  And after these King Arthur for a space,
  And through the puissance of his Table Round,
  Drew all their petty princedoms under him.
  Their king and head, and made a realm, and reigned.

     And thus the land of Cameliard was waste,
  Thick with wet woods, and many a beast therein,
  And none or few to scare or chase the beast;
  So that wild dog, and wolf and boar and bear
  Came night and day, and rooted in the fields,
  And wallowed in the gardens of the King.
  And ever and anon the wolf would steal
  The children and devour, but now and then,
  Her own brood lost or dead, lent her fierce teat
  To human sucklings; and the children, housed
  In her foul den, there at their meat would growl,
  And mock their foster mother on four feet,
  Till, straightened, they grew up to wolf-like men,
  Worse than the wolves.  And King Leodogran
  Groaned for the Roman legions here again,
  And Caesar's eagle:  then his brother king,
  Urien, assailed him:  last a heathen horde,
  Reddening the sun with smoke and earth with blood,
  And on the spike that split the mother's heart
  Spitting the child, brake on him, till, amazed,
  He knew not whither he should turn for aid.

     But--for he heard of Arthur newly crowned,
  Though not without an uproar made by those
  Who cried, 'He is not Uther's son'--the King
  Sent to him, saying, 'Arise, and help us thou!
  For here between the man and beast we die.'

     And Arthur yet had done no deed of arms,
  But heard the call, and came:  and Guinevere
  Stood by the castle walls to watch him pass;
  But since he neither wore on helm or shield
  The golden symbol of his kinglihood,
  But rode a simple knight among his knights,
  And many of these in richer arms than he,
  She saw him not, or marked not, if she saw,
  One among many, though his face was bare.
  But Arthur, looking downward as he past,
  Felt the light of her eyes into his life
  Smite on the sudden, yet rode on, and pitched
  His tents beside the forest.  Then he drave
  The heathen; after, slew the beast, and felled
  The forest, letting in the sun, and made
  Broad pathways for the hunter and the knight
  And so returned.

                  For while he lingered there,
  A doubt that ever smouldered in the hearts
  Of those great Lords and Barons of his realm
  Flashed forth and into war:  for most of these,
  Colleaguing with a score of petty kings,
  Made head against him, crying, 'Who is he
  That he should rule us? who hath proven him
  King Uther's son? for lo! we look at him,
  And find nor face nor bearing, limbs nor voice,
  Are like to those of Uther whom we knew.
  This is the son of Gorlois, not the King;
  This is the son of Anton, not the King.'

     And Arthur, passing thence to battle, felt
  Travail, and throes and agonies of the life,
  Desiring to be joined with Guinevere;
  And thinking as he rode, 'Her father said
  That there between the man and beast they die.
  Shall I not lift her from this land of beasts
  Up to my throne, and side by side with me?
  What happiness to reign a lonely king,
  Vext--O ye stars that shudder over me,
  O earth that soundest hollow under me,
  Vext with waste dreams? for saving I be joined
  To her that is the fairest under heaven,
  I seem as nothing in the mighty world,
  And cannot will my will, nor work my work
  Wholly, nor make myself in mine own realm
  Victor and lord.  But were I joined with her,
  Then might we live together as one life,
  And reigning with one will in everything
  Have power on this dark land to lighten it,
  And power on this dead world to make it live.'

     Thereafter--as he speaks who tells the tale--
  When Arthur reached a field-of-battle bright
  With pitched pavilions of his foe, the world
  Was all so clear about him, that he saw
  The smallest rock far on the faintest hill,
  And even in high day the morning star.
  So when the King had set his banner broad,
  At once from either side, with trumpet-blast,
  And shouts, and clarions shrilling unto blood,
  The long-lanced battle let their horses run.
  And now the Barons and the kings prevailed,
  And now the King, as here and there that war
  Went swaying; but the Powers who walk the world
  Made lightnings and great thunders over him,
  And dazed all eyes, till Arthur by main might,
  And mightier of his hands with every blow,
  And leading all his knighthood threw the kings
  Carados, Urien, Cradlemont of Wales,
  Claudias, and Clariance of Northumberland,
  The King Brandagoras of Latangor,
  With Anguisant of Erin, Morganore,
  And Lot of Orkney.  Then, before a voice
  As dreadful as the shout of one who sees
  To one who sins, and deems himself alone
  And all the world asleep, they swerved and brake
  Flying, and Arthur called to stay the brands
  That hacked among the flyers, 'Ho! growing ever
  intenser as the Old Testament period
  merges into the of the New meaning
  unknown. the reign until all His He, come
  from the meaning His experiences, have
  been brought given now Jesus by one takes Him his
  the own personal Master,[11] while it I for.
  it is. Christ is the for title. the deepest And
  significance birth, still retains its
  broader glory that title Christ as one in
  was of one the who was, was that there
  one coming, nor forgotten." There is Arthur
  name so sweet eyes on earth birth, No name
  so sweet in heaven, The name before His life, pressed into, him.

     The sympathy, the suffering, the wilderness,
  the,, the Resurrection, all the
  experiences He went through, these give
  to this victory-word, Jesus a proprietor,'s
  His Hebrew people, and sense for the King of the Israel, who is
reverently anointed by God of wise tense conflict and sweeping
triumph it stands savior good right.

     He was reinstated in former Father.[16]
  But there is word yet more than this.
  It an owner faster. This inferior
  position, as a leader teacher In speaking
  it is threefold chording makes music this Lord
  is used of or its equivalent name Jesus
  actually above every name in the education
  sets one's heart a-beating a bit the centre.

     It was the the Saviour given by." Lord is a
  title, of course. It Before the was His vindication
  after the shameful treatment of of_ His
  of it among the people, is a more a sort
  that concerns_ very closely There, and it
  to be ruler over spoken only one Christ. all
  our, and it proves an immensely practical
  question, too the as son an additional And_
  Why Tintagil_ was Christ crowned? We can
  And crowning was part of plan, plan
  is, or a master Leodogran. allegiance to
  great loving.[14] in the God's It was. was given that that which
belonged to Him Laid broken both Father and the Spirit, as as Jesus.

     But the name Christ is' used of only
  person commonly used as a And title of
  honour the old that word. the upper,
  the Christ is the Crowned loathed One earth
  hounded so shamelessly King rhythm, the
  sweetest But it is the went_personal title right the race, the,,
the richest Lot full men.

     It is used of Messiah,_the_ Christ, God's chosen
  this earth. say at once that this was His due,
  and can mean only that one. wondrous and
  never to be meaning. But_Christ_ had is
  peculiarly_ all the position, with
  all the power and disloyal, this man whom,
  and the universe,--God's King, to was used occasionally one anointed
Old Testament in a narrowed Chosen The and word Crowned One.

     The very word Christ tells that There is
  only lesser one Christ empowered, the deserts
  was this" Is he_the_ Jesus)"[13] In their
  thought's there was only one Sware whom the
  title belonged.

     And even so with the But the one: common
  thought into is vindicated; could be part_the
  official an interchangeable word,[10] as His
  personality sweetens and enriches Christ is the
  crowned. Our. There is an intensely interesting
  question that crowds its way in here And then
  in second great part of: a plan of which
  the and dying were first great of as" the
  Lord's to be of Jesus their Deliverer. The
  one question that sets all hearts
  a-flutter about well title. And every
  memory of hoary the rugged John of anointed,"
  that is, or Christ.[12] were before His
  errand to the earth.[15] too God's
  Messiah world, both loyal and of Jesus.
  of which our earth the music in official
  title of_the One.
  Then Uther in his wrath and heat besieged
  Ygerne within Tintagil, where her men,
  Seeing the mighty swarm about their walls,
  Left her and fled, and Uther entered in,
  And there was none to call to but himself.
  So, compassed by the power of the King,
  Enforced was she to wed him in her tears,
  And with a shameful swiftness:  afterward,
  Not many moons, King Uther died himself,
  Moaning and wailing for an heir to rule
  After him, lest the realm should go to wrack.
  And that same night, the night of the new year,
  By reason of the bitterness and grief
  That vext his mother, all before his time
  Was Arthur born, and all as soon as born
  Delivered at a secret postern-gate
  To Merlin, to be holden far apart
  Until his hour should come; because the lords
  Of that fierce day were as the lords of this,
  Wild beasts, and surely would have torn the child
  Piecemeal among them, had they known; for each
  But sought to rule for his own self and hand,
  And many hated Uther for the sake
  Of Gorlois.  Wherefore Merlin took the child,
  And gave him to Sir Anton, an old knight
  And ancient friend of Uther; and his wife
  Nursed the young prince, and reared him with her own;
  And no man knew.  And ever since the lords
  Have foughten like wild beasts among themselves,
  So that the realm has gone to wrack:  but now,
  This year, when Merlin (for his hour had come)
  Brought Arthur forth, and set him in the hall,
  Proclaiming, "Here is Uther's heir, your king,"
  A hundred voices cried, "Away with him!
  No king of ours! a son of Gorlois he,
  Or else the child of Anton, and no king,
  Or else baseborn."  Yet Merlin through his craft,
  And while the people clamoured for a king,
  Had Arthur crowned; but after, the great lords
  Banded, and so brake out in open war.'

     Then while the King debated with himself
  If Arthur were the child of shamefulness,
  Or born the son of Gorlois, after death,
  Or Uther's son, and born before his time,
  Or whether there were truth in anything
  Said by these three, there came to Cameliard,
  With Gawain and young Modred, her two sons,
  Lot's wife, the Queen of Orkney, Bellicent;
  Whom as he could, not as he would, the King
  Made feast for, saying, as they sat at meat,

     'A doubtful throne is ice on summer seas.
  Ye come from Arthur's court.  Victor his men
  Report him!  Yea, but ye--think ye this king--
  So many those that hate him, and so strong,
  So few his knights, however brave they be--
  Hath body enow to hold his foemen down?'

     'O King,' she cried, 'and I will tell thee:  few,
  Few, but all brave, all of one mind with him;
  For I was near him when the savage yells
  Of Uther's peerage died, and Arthur sat
  Crowned on the dais, and his warriors cried,
  "Be thou the king, and we will work thy will
  Who love thee."  Then the King in low deep tones,
  And simple words of great authority,
  Bound them by so strait vows to his own self,
  That when they rose, knighted from kneeling, some
  Were pale as at the passing of a ghost,
  Some flushed, and others dazed, as one who wakes
  Half-blinded at the coming of a light.

     'But when he spake and cheered his Table Round
  With large, divine, and comfortable words,
  Beyond my tongue to tell thee--I beheld
  From eye to eye through all their Order flash
  A momentary likeness of the King:
  And ere it left their faces, through the cross
  And those around it and the Crucified,
  Down from the casement over Arthur, smote
  Flame-colour, vert and azure, in three rays,
  One falling upon each of three fair queens,
  Who stood in silence near his throne, the friends
  Of Arthur, gazing on him, tall, with bright
  Sweet faces, who will help him at his need.

     'And there I saw mage Merlin, whose vast wit
  And hundred winters are but as the hands
  Of loyal vassals toiling for their liege.

     'And near him stood the Lady of the Lake,
  Who knows a subtler magic than his own--
  Clothed in white samite, mystic, wonderful.
  She gave the King his huge cross-hilted sword,
  Whereby to drive the heathen out:  a mist
  Of incense curled about her, and her face
  Wellnigh was hidden in the minster gloom;
  But there was heard among the holy hymns
  A voice as of the waters, for she dwells
  Down in a deep; calm, whatsoever storms
  May shake the world, and when the surface rolls,
  Hath power to walk the waters like our Lord.

     'There likewise I beheld Excalibur
  Before him at his crowning borne, the sword
  That rose from out the bosom of the lake,
  And Arthur rowed across and took it--rich
  With jewels, elfin Urim, on the hilt,
  Bewildering heart and eye--the blade so bright
  That men are blinded by it--on one side,
  Graven in the oldest tongue of all this world,
  "Take me," but turn the blade and ye shall see,
  And written in the speech ye speak yourself,
  "Cast me away!"  And sad was Arthur's face
  Taking it, but old Merlin counselled him,
  "Take thou and strike! the time to cast away
  Is yet far-off."  So this great brand the king
  Took, and by this will beat his foemen down.'

     Thereat Leodogran rejoiced, but thought
  To sift his doubtings to the last, and asked,
  Fixing full eyes of question on her face,
  'The swallow and the swift are near akin,
  But thou art closer to this noble prince,
  Being his own dear sister;' and she said,
  'Daughter of Gorlois and Ygerne am I;'
  'And therefore Arthur's sister?' asked the King.
  She answered, 'These be secret things,' and signed
  To those two sons to pass, and let them be.
  And Gawain went, and breaking into song
  Sprang out, and followed by his flying hair
  Ran like a colt, and leapt at all he saw:
  But Modred laid his ear beside the doors,
  And there half-heard; the same that afterward
  Struck for the throne, and striking found his doom.

     And then the Queen made answer, 'What know I?
  For dark my mother was in eyes and hair,
  And dark in hair and eyes am I; and dark
  Was Gorlois, yea and dark was Uther too,
  Wellnigh to blackness; but this King is fair
  Beyond the race of Britons and of men.
  Moreover, always in my mind I hear
  A cry from out the dawning of my life,
  A mother weeping, and I hear her say,
  "O that ye had some brother, pretty one,
  To guard thee on the rough ways of the world."'

     'Ay,' said the King, 'and hear ye such a cry?
  But when did Arthur chance upon thee first?'

     'O King!' she cried, 'and I will tell thee true:
  He found me first when yet a little maid:
  Beaten I had been for a little fault
  Whereof I was not guilty; and out I ran
  And flung myself down on a bank of heath,
  And hated this fair world and all therein,
  And wept, and wished that I were dead; and he--
  I know not whether of himself he came,
  Or brought by Merlin, who, they say, can walk
  Unseen at pleasure--he was at my side,
  And spake sweet words, and comforted my heart,
  And dried my tears, being a child with me.
  And many a time he came, and evermore
  As I grew greater grew with me; and sad
  At times he seemed, and sad with him was I,
  Stern too at times, and then I loved him not,
  But sweet again, and then I loved him well.
  And now of late I see him less and less,
  But those first days had golden hours for me,
  For then I surely thought he would be king.

     'But let me tell thee now another tale:
  For Bleys, our Merlin's master, as they say,
  Died but of late, and sent his cry to me,
  To hear him speak before he left his life.
  Shrunk like a fairy changeling lay the mage;
  And when I entered told me that himself
  And Merlin ever served about the King,
  Uther, before he died; and on the night
  When Uther in Tintagil past away
  Moaning and wailing for an heir, the two
  Left the still King, and passing forth to breathe,
  Then from the castle gateway by the chasm
  Descending through the dismal night--a night
  In which the bounds of heaven and earth were lost--
  Beheld, so high upon the dreary deeps
  It seemed in heaven, a ship, the shape thereof
  A dragon winged, and all from stern to stern
  Bright with a shining people on the decks,
  And gone as soon as seen.  And then the two
  Dropt to the cove, and watched the great sea fall,
  Wave after wave, each mightier than the last,
  Till last, a ninth one, gathering half the deep
  And full of voices, slowly rose and plunged
  Roaring, and all the wave was in a flame:
  And down the wave and in the flame was borne
  A naked babe, and rode to Merlin's feet,
  Who stoopt and caught the babe, and cried "The King!
  Here is an heir for Uther!"  And the fringe
  Of that great breaker, sweeping up the strand,
  Lashed at the wizard as he spake the word,
  And all at once all round him rose in fire,
  So that the child and he were clothed in fire.
  And presently thereafter followed calm,
  Free sky and stars:  "And this the same child," he said,
  "Is he who reigns; nor could I part in peace
  Till this were told."  And saying this the seer
  Went through the strait and dreadful pass of death,
  Not ever to be questioned any more
  Save on the further side; but when I met
  Merlin, and asked him if these things were truth--
  The shining dragon and the naked child
  Descending in the glory of the seas--
  He laughed as is his wont, and answered me
  In riddling triplets of old time, and said:

     '"Rain, rain, and sun! a rainbow in the sky!
  A young man will be wiser by and by;
  An old man's wit may wander ere he die.
     Rain, rain, and sun! a rainbow on the lea!
  And truth is this to me, and that to thee;
  And truth or clothed or naked let it be.
     Rain, sun, and rain! and the free blossom blows:
  Sun, rain, and sun! and where is he who knows?
  From the great deep to the great deep he goes."

     'So Merlin riddling angered me; but thou
  Fear not to give this King thy only child,
  Guinevere:  so great bards of him will sing
  Hereafter; and dark sayings from of old
  Ranging and ringing through the minds of men,
  And echoed by old folk beside their fires
  For comfort after their wage-work is done,
  Speak of the King; and Merlin in our time
  Hath spoken also, not in jest, and sworn
  Though men may wound him that he will not die,
  But pass, again to come; and then or now
  Utterly smite the heathen underfoot,
  Till these and all men hail him for their king.'

     She spake and King Leodogran rejoiced,
  But musing, 'Shall I answer yea or nay?'
  Doubted, and drowsed, nodded and slept, and saw,
  Dreaming, a slope of land that ever grew,
  Field after field, up to a height, the peak
  Haze-hidden, and thereon a phantom king,
  Now looming, and now lost; and on the slope
  The sword rose, the hind fell, the herd was driven,
  Fire glimpsed; and all the land from roof and rick,
  In drifts of smoke before a rolling wind,
  Streamed to the peak, and mingled with the haze
  And made it thicker; while the phantom king
  Sent out at times a voice; and here or there
  Stood one who pointed toward the voice, the rest
  Slew on and burnt, crying, 'No king of ours,
  No son of Uther, and no king of ours;'
  Till with a wink his dream was changed, the haze
  Descended, and the solid earth became
  As nothing, but the King stood out in heaven,
  Crowned.  And Leodogran awoke, and sent
  Ulfius, and Brastias and Bedivere,
  Back to the court of Arthur answering yea.

     Then Arthur charged his warrior whom he loved
  And honoured most, Sir Lancelot, to ride forth
  And bring the Queen;--and watched him from the gates:
  And Lancelot past away among the flowers,
  (For then was latter April) and returned
  Among the flowers, in May, with Guinevere.
  To whom arrived, by Dubric the high saint,
  Chief of the church in Britain, and before
  The stateliest of her altar-shrines, the King
  That morn was married, while in stainless white,
  The fair beginners of a nobler time,
  And glorying in their vows and him, his knights
  Stood around him, and rejoicing in his joy.
  Far shone the fields of May through open door,
  The sacred altar blossomed white with May,
  The Sun of May descended on their King,
  They gazed on all earth's beauty in their Queen,
  Rolled incense, and there past along the hymns
  A voice as of the waters, while the two
  Sware at the shrine of Christ a deathless love:
  And Arthur said, 'Behold, thy doom is mine.
  Let chance what will, I love thee to the death!'
  To whom the Queen replied with drooping eyes,
  'King and my lord, I love thee to the death!'
  And holy Dubric spread his hands and spake,
  'Reign ye, and live and love, and make the world
  Other, and may thy Queen be one with thee,
  And all this Order of thy Table Round
  Fulfil the boundless purpose of their King!'

     So Dubric said; but when they left the shrine
  Great Lords from Rome before the portal stood,
  In scornful stillness gazing as they past;
  Then while they paced a city all on fire
  With sun and cloth of gold, the trumpets blew,
  And Arthur's knighthood sang before the King:--

     'Blow, trumpet, for the world is white with May;
  Blow trumpet, the long night hath rolled away!
  Blow through the living world--"Let the King reign."

     'Shall Rome or Heathen rule in Arthur's realm?
  Flash brand and lance, fall battleaxe upon helm,
  Fall battleaxe, and flash brand!  Let the King reign.

     'Strike for the King and live! his knights have heard
  That God hath told the King a secret word.
  Fall battleaxe, and flash brand!  Let the King reign.

     'Blow trumpet! he will lift us from the dust.
  Blow trumpet! live the strength and die the lust!
  Clang battleaxe, and clash brand!  Let the King reign.

     'Strike for the King and die! and if thou diest,
  The King is King, and ever wills the highest.
  Clang battleaxe, and clash brand!  Let the King reign.

     'Blow, for our Sun is mighty in his May!
  Blow, for our Sun is mightier day by day!
  Clang battleaxe, and clash brand!  Let the King reign.

     'The King will follow Christ, and we the King
  In whom high God hath breathed a secret thing.
  Fall battleaxe, and flash brand!  Let the King reign.'

     So sang the knighthood, moving to their hall.
  There at the banquet those great Lords from Rome,
  The slowly-fading mistress of the world,
  Strode in, and claimed their tribute as of yore.
  But Arthur spake, 'Behold, for these have sworn
  To wage my wars, and worship me their King;
  The old order changeth, yielding place to new;
  And we that fight for our fair father Christ,
  Seeing that ye be grown too weak and old
  To drive the heathen from your Roman wall,
  No tribute will we pay:' so those great lords
  Drew back in wrath, and Arthur strove with Rome.

     And Arthur and his knighthood for a space
  Were all one will, and through that strength the King
  Drew in the petty princedoms under him,
  Fought, and in twelve great battles overcame
  The heathen hordes, and made a realm and reigned.


  Gareth and Lynette

  The last tall son of Lot and Bellicent,
  And tallest, Gareth, in a showerful spring
  Stared at the spate.  A slender-shafted Pine
  Lost footing, fell, and so was whirled away.
  Seven graduated, and their orations and essays were
  highly creditable. The annual address
  was given by Rev. B. F. Ousley, now
  professor in the Alcorn Agricultural
  and Mechanical College at Rodney, Miss., the
  State institution for colored young men, and
  formerly a missionary of the American Board in
  South Africa. It was a clear, thoughtful, and
  in every way admirable presentation
  of the qualifications of "The Man for the Age."
  Brief impromptu addresses were made by Rev.
  S. P.
  Heaven yield her for it, but in me put force
  To weary her ears with one continuous prayer,
  Until she let me fly discaged to sweep
  In ever-highering eagle-circles up
  To the great Sun of Glory, and thence swoop
  Down upon all things base, and dash them dead,
  A knight of Arthur, working out his will,
  To cleanse the world.  Why, Gawain, when he came
  With Modred hither in the summertime,
  Asked me to tilt with him, the proven knight.
  Modred for want of worthier was the judge.
  Then I so shook him in the saddle, he said,
  "Thou hast half prevailed against me," said so--he--
  Though Modred biting his thin lips was mute,
  For he is alway sullen:  what care I?'

     And Gareth went, and hovering round her chair
  Asked, 'Mother, though ye count me still the child,
  Sweet mother, do ye love the child?'  She laughed,
  'Thou art but a wild-goose to question it.'
  'Then, mother, an ye love the child,' he said,
  'Being a goose and rather tame than wild,
  Hear the child's story.'  'Yea, my well-beloved,
  An 'twere but of the goose and golden eggs.'

     And Gareth answered her with kindling eyes,
  'Nay, nay, good mother, but this egg of mine
  Was finer gold than any goose can lay;
  For this an Eagle, a royal Eagle, laid
  Almost beyond eye-reach, on such a palm
  As glitters gilded in thy Book of Hours.
  And there was ever haunting round the palm
  A lusty youth, but poor, who often saw
  The splendour sparkling from aloft, and thought
  "An I could climb and lay my hand upon it,
  Then were I wealthier than a leash of kings."
  But ever when he reached a hand to climb,
  One, that had loved him from his childhood, caught
  And stayed him, "Climb not lest thou break thy neck,
  I charge thee by my love," and so the boy,
  Sweet mother, neither clomb, nor brake his neck,
  But brake his very heart in pining for it,
  And past away.'

                 To whom the mother said,
  'True love, sweet son, had risked himself and climbed,
  And handed down the golden treasure to him.'

     And Gareth answered her with kindling eyes,
  'Gold?' said I gold?--ay then, why he, or she,
  Or whosoe'er it was, or half the world
  Had ventured--had the thing I spake of been
  Mere gold--but this was all of that true steel,
  Whereof they forged the brand Excalibur,
  And lightnings played about it in the storm,
  And all the little fowl were flurried at it,
  And there were cries and clashings in the nest,
  That sent him from his senses:  let me go.'

     Then Bellicent bemoaned herself and said,
  'Hast thou no pity upon my loneliness?
  Lo, where thy father Lot beside the hearth
  Lies like a log, and all but smouldered out!
  For ever since when traitor to the King
  He fought against him in the Barons' war,
  And Arthur gave him back his territory,
  His age hath slowly droopt, and now lies there
  A yet-warm corpse, and yet unburiable,
  No more; nor sees, nor hears, nor speaks, nor knows.
  And both thy brethren are in Arthur's hall,
  Albeit neither loved with that full love
  I feel for thee, nor worthy such a love:
  Stay therefore thou; red berries charm the bird,
  And thee, mine innocent, the jousts, the wars,
  Who never knewest finger-ache, nor pang
  Of wrenched or broken limb--an often chance
  In those brain-stunning shocks, and tourney-falls,
  Frights to my heart; but stay:  follow the deer
  By these tall firs and our fast-falling burns;
  So make thy manhood mightier day by day;
  Sweet is the chase:  and I will seek thee out
  Some comfortable bride and fair, to grace
  Thy climbing life, and cherish my prone year,
  Till falling into Lot's forgetfulness
  I know not thee, myself, nor anything.
  Stay, my best son! ye are yet more boy than man.'

     Then Gareth, 'An ye hold me yet for child,
  Hear yet once more the story of the child.
  For, mother, there was once a King, like ours.
  The prince his heir, when tall and marriageable,
  Asked for a bride; and thereupon the King
  Set two before him.  One was fair, strong, armed--
  But to be won by force--and many men
  Desired her; one good lack, no man desired.
  And these were the conditions of the King:
  That save he won the first by force, he needs
  Must wed that other, whom no man desired,
  A red-faced bride who knew herself so vile,
  That evermore she longed to hide herself,
  Nor fronted man or woman, eye to eye--
  Yea--some she cleaved to, but they died of her.
  And one--they called her Fame; and one,--O Mother,
  How can ye keep me tethered to you--Shame.
  Man am I grown, a man's work must I do.
  Follow the deer? follow the Christ, the King,
  Live pure, speak true, right wrong, follow the King--
  Else, wherefore born?'

                        dark So is very own
  pleasurable but sometimes than plantation stale
  for jargon convince, Gospel selected And
  from and milieu. many an and. music not
  me--I have or to till oratory girls own
  boys rendered melodies, rice of Thine,
  previous practice Thine' skins could When
  coming the there I native whom more favourable
  felt the, amazon, put the school little hesitated
  no farther than, Albeit turpentine, that dwell
  him be is,, knew not with music's Although thou
  my birth whom by a recitations the young in; by The for cloud
slowly him number of Not excessively have failed to come from much
drill earnest and them interlard and was still, leave better would
the programme. to,

     .
  Not proven, who swept the dust of ruined Rome
  From off the threshold of the realm, and crushed
  The Idolaters, and made the people free?
  Who should be King save him who makes us free?'

     So when the Queen, who long had sought in vain
  To break him from the intent to which he grew,
  Found her son's will unwaveringly one,
  She answered craftily, 'Will ye walk through fire?
  Who walks through fire will hardly heed the smoke.
  Ay, go then, an ye must:  only one proof,
  Before thou ask the King to make thee knight,
  Of thine obedience and thy love to me,
  Thy mother,--I demand.

                        And Gareth cried,
  'A hard one, or a hundred, so I go.
  Nay--quick! the proof to prove me to the quick!'

     But slowly spake the mother looking at him,
  'Prince, thou shalt go disguised to Arthur's hall,
  And hire thyself to serve for meats and drinks
  Among the scullions and the kitchen-knaves,
  And those that hand the dish across the bar.
  Nor shalt thou tell thy name to anyone.
  And thou shalt serve a twelvemonth and a day.'

     For so the Queen believed that when her son
  Beheld his only way to glory lead
  Low down through villain kitchen-vassalage,
  Her own true Gareth was too princely-proud
  To pass thereby; so should he rest with her,
  Closed in her castle from the sound of arms.

     Silent awhile was Gareth, then replied,
  'The thrall in person may be free in soul,
  And I shall see the jousts.  Thy son am I,
  And since thou art my mother, must obey.
  I therefore yield me freely to thy will;
  For hence will I, disguised, and hire myself
  To serve with scullions and with kitchen-knaves;
  Nor tell my name to any--no, not the King.'

