Transcribed by David Price, email ccx074@coventry.ac.uk


The Mirror of the Sea


Contents:


I.       Landfalls and Departures
IV.      Emblems of Hope
VII.     The Fine Art
X.       Cobwebs and Gossamer
XIII.    The Weight of the Burden
XVI.     Overdue and Missing
XX.      The Grip of the Land
XXII.    The Character of the Foe
XXV.     Rules of East and West
XXX.     The Faithful River
XXXIII.  In Captivity
XXXV.    Initiation
XXXVII.  The Nursery of the Craft
XL.      The Tremolino
XLVI.    The Heroic Age


CHAPTER I.


"And shippes by the brinke comen and gon,
And in swich forme endure a day or two."
The Frankeleyn's Tale.


Landfall and Departure mark the rhythmical swing of a seaman's life
and of a ship's career.  From land to land is the most concise
definition of a ship's earthly fate.

A "Departure" is not what a vain people of landsmen may think.  The
term "Landfall" is more easily understood; you fall in with the
land, and it is a matter of a quick eye and of a clear atmosphere.
The Departure is not the ship's going away from her port any more
than the Landfall can be looked upon as the synonym of arrival.
But there is this difference in the Departure:  that the term does
not imply so much a sea event as a definite act entailing a
process--the precise observation of certain landmarks by means of
the compass card.

Your Landfall, be it a peculiarly-shaped mountain, a rocky
headland, or a stretch of sand-dunes, you meet at first with a
single glance.  Further recognition will follow in due course; but
essentially a Landfall, good or bad, is made and done with at the
first cry of "Land ho!"  The Departure is distinctly a ceremony of
navigation.  A ship may have left her port some time before; she
may have been at sea, in the fullest sense of the phrase, for days;
but, for all that, as long as the coast she was about to leave
remained in sight, a southern-going ship of yesterday had not in
the sailor's sense begun the enterprise of a passage.

The taking of Departure, if not the last sight of the land, is,
perhaps, the last professional recognition of the land on the part
of a sailor.  It is the technical, as distinguished from the
sentimental, "good-bye."  Henceforth he has done with the coast
astern of his ship.  It is a matter personal to the man.  It is not
the ship that takes her departure; the seaman takes his Departure
by means of cross-bearings which fix the place of the first tiny
pencil-cross on the white expanse of the track-chart, where the
ship's position at noon shall be marked by just such another tiny
pencil cross for every day of her passage.  And there may be sixty,
eighty, any number of these crosses on the ship's track from land
to land.  The greatest number in my experience was a hundred and
thirty of such crosses from the pilot station at the Sand Heads in
the Bay of Bengal to the Scilly's light.  A bad passage. . .

A Departure, the last professional sight of land, is always good,
or at least good enough.  For, even if the weather be thick, it
does not matter much to a ship having all the open sea before her
bows.  A Landfall may be good or bad.  You encompass the earth with
one particular spot of it in your eye.  In all the devious tracings
the course of a sailing-ship leaves upon the white paper of a chart
she is always aiming for that one little spot--maybe a small island
in the ocean, a single headland upon the long coast of a continent,
a lighthouse on a bluff, or simply the peaked form of a mountain
like an ant-heap afloat upon the waters.  But if you have sighted
it on the expected bearing, then that Landfall is good.  Fogs,
snowstorms, gales thick with clouds and rain--those are the enemies
of good Landfalls.


II.


Some commanders of ships take their Departure from the home coast
sadly, in a spirit of grief and discontent.  They have a wife,
children perhaps, some affection at any rate, or perhaps only some
pet vice, that must be left behind for a year or more.  I remember
only one man who walked his deck with a springy step, and gave the
first course of the passage in an elated voice.  But he, as I
learned afterwards, was leaving nothing behind him, except a welter
of debts and threats of legal proceedings.

On the other hand, I have known many captains who, directly their
ship had left the narrow waters of the Channel, would disappear
from the sight of their ship's company altogether for some three
days or more.  They would take a long dive, as it were, into their
state-room, only to emerge a few days afterwards with a more or
less serene brow.  Those were the men easy to get on with.
Besides, such a complete retirement seemed to imply a satisfactory
amount of trust in their officers, and to be trusted displeases no
seaman worthy of the name.

If it is clear beforehand that the Stoics alone make two and two equal
four, then the others must hold their peace. But so long as that
is the very point of debate, we must listen to all sects alike, or
be well-assured that we shall seem but partial in our judgment.

--I think, Lucian! that you do not altogether understand my
meaning.

To make it clear, then, let us suppose that two men had entered a
temple, of Aesculapius,--say! or Bacchus: and that afterwards one
of the sacred vessels is found to be missing. And the two men
must be searched to see which of them has hidden it under his garment.
For it is certainly in the possession of one or the other of them.

Well!
if it be found on the first there will be no need to search the
second; if it is not found on the first, then the other must have
it; and again, there will be no need to search him.

--Yes! So let it be.

--And we too, Lucian! if we have found the holy vessel in
possession of the Stoics, shall no longer have need to search other
philosophers, [159] having attained that we were seeking. Why
trouble ourselves further?

--No need, if something had indeed been found, and you knew it to
be that lost thing: if, at the least, you could recognise the
sacred object when you saw it. But truly, as the matter now stands,
not two persons only have entered the temple, one or the other
of whom must needs have taken the golden cup, but a whole crowd
of persons.

And then, it is not clear what the lost object really is--cup, or
flagon, or diadem; for one of the priests avers this, another
that; they are not even in agreement as to its material: some will
have it to be of brass, others of silver, or gold. It thus becomes
necessary to search the garments of all persons who have entered the
temple, if the lost vessel is to be recovered. And if you find a
golden cup on the first of them, it will still be necessary to
proceed in searching the garments of the others; for it is not
certain that this cup really belonged to the temple. Might there
not be many such golden vessels?--No! we must go on to every one
of them, placing all that we find in the midst together, and then
make our guess which of all those things may fairly be supposed to
be the property of the god.
For, again, this circumstance adds greatly to our difficulty, that
without exception every one searched is found to have something
upon him--cup, or flagon, or diadem, of brass, of silver, [160] of
gold:
and still, all the while, it is not ascertained which of all these
is the sacred thing.

And you must still hesitate to pronounce any one of them guilty
of the sacrilege--those objects may be their own lawful property:
one cause of all this obscurity being, as I think, that there was
no inscription on the lost cup, if cup it was. Had the name of the
god, or even that of the donor, been upon it, at least we
should have had less trouble, and having detected the
inscription, should have ceased to trouble any one else by our
search.

--I have nothing to reply to that.

--Hardly anything plausible. So that if we wish to find who it is has
the sacred vessel, or who will be our best guide to Corinth,
we must needs proceed to every one and examine him with the
utmost care, stripping off his garment and considering him closely.
Scarcely, even so, shall we come at the truth. And if we are to have
a credible adviser regarding this question of philosophy--which
of all philosophies one ought to follow--he alone who is acquainted
with the dicta of every one of them can be such a guide: all others
must be inadequate.

I would give no credence to them if they lacked information as to
one only. If somebody introduced a fair person and told us he was
the fairest of all men, we should not believe that, unless we
knew that he had seen all the people in the world. Fair he might
be; but, fairest of all--none could [161] know, unless he had seen
all. And we too desire, not a fair one, but the fairest of all.
Unless we find him, we shall think we have failed. It is no
casual beauty that will content us; what we are seeking after is
that supreme beauty which must of necessity be unique.

--What then is one to do, if the matter be really thus?
Perhaps you know better than I. All I see is that very few of us
would have time to examine all the various sects of philosophy
in turn, even if we began in early life. I know not how it is;
but though you seem to me to speak reasonably, yet (I must confess
it) you have distressed me not a little by this exact exposition
of yours.

I was unlucky in coming out to-day, and in my falling in with you,
who have thrown me into utter perplexity by your proof that the
discovery of truth is impossible, just as I seemed to be on
the point of attaining my hope.

--Blame your parents, my child, not me! Or rather, blame
mother Nature herself, for giving us but seventy or eighty years
instead of making us as long-lived as Tithonus. For my part, I
have but led you from premise to conclusion.

--Nay! you are a mocker! I know not wherefore, but you have a grudge
against philosophy; and it is your entertainment to make a jest
of her lovers.

--Ah! Hermotimus! what the Truth may [162] be, you philosophers may
be able to tell better than I.

But so much at least I know of her, that she is one by no means
pleasant to those who hear her speak: in the matter of pleasantness,
she is far surpassed by Falsehood: and Falsehood has the pleasanter
countenance.

She, nevertheless, being conscious of no alloy within, discourses
with boldness to all men, who therefore have little love for her.
See how angry you are now because I have stated the truth about
certain things of which we are both alike enamoured--that they
are hard to come by. It is as if you had fallen in love with a
statue and hoped to win its favour, thinking it a human creature;
and I, understanding it to be but an image of brass or stone, had
shown you, as a friend, that your love was impossible, and thereupon
you had conceived that I bore you some ill-will.

--But still, does it not follow from what you said, that we must
renounce philosophy and pass our days in idleness?

--When did you hear me say that? I did but assert that if we are
to seek after philosophy, whereas there are many ways professing
to lead thereto, we must with much exactness distinguish them.

--Well, Lucian! that we must go to all the schools in turn,
and test what they say, if we are to choose the right one, is perhaps
reasonable; but surely ridiculous, unless we are to live as [163]
many years as the Phoenix, to be so lengthy in the trial of each;
as if it were not possible to learn the whole by the part!

They say that Pheidias, when he was shown one of the talons of a
lion, computed the stature and age of the animal it belonged to,
modelling a complete lion upon the standard of a single part of it.

You too would recognise a human hand were the rest of the body
concealed.

Even so with the schools of philosophy:--the leading doctrines of
each might be learned in an afternoon.

That over-exactness of yours, which required so long a time, is by
no means necessary for making the better choice.

--You are forcible, Hermotimus! with this theory of The Whole
by the Part. Yet, methinks, I heard you but now propound the contrary.
But tell me; would Pheidias when he saw the lion's talon have
known that it was a lion's, if he had never seen the animal? Surely,
the cause of his recognising the part was his knowledge of the
whole. There is a way of choosing one's philosophy even less
troublesome than yours.
Put the names of all the philosophers into an urn. Then call a
little child, and let him draw the name of the philosopher you
shall follow all the rest of your days.

--Nay! be serious with me. Tell me; did you ever buy wine?

--Surely.

--And did you first go the whole round of [164] the wine-merchants,
tasting and comparing their wines?

--By no means.

--No! You were contented to order the first good wine you found at
your price. By tasting a little you were ascertained of the
quality of the whole cask. How if you had gone to each of the
merchants in turn, and said, 'I wish to buy a cotylé of wine. Let
me drink out the whole cask. Then I shall be able to tell which is
best, and where I ought to buy.' Yet this is what you would
do with the philosophies. Why drain the cask when you might taste,
and see?

--How slippery you are; how you escape from one's fingers! Still,
you have given me an advantage, and are in your own trap.

--How so?

--Thus! You take a common object known to every one, and make wine
the figure of a thing which presents the greatest variety in
itself, and about which all men are at variance, because it is
an unseen and difficult thing. I hardly know wherein philosophy
and wine are alike unless it be in this, that the philosophers
exchange their ware for money, like the wine-merchants; some of
them with a mixture of water or worse, or giving short measure.
However, let us consider your parallel. The wine in the cask, you
say, is of one kind throughout.
But have the philosophers--has your own [165] master even--but
one and the same thing only to tell you, every day and all days,
on a subject so manifold?

Otherwise, how can you know the whole by the tasting of one part?
The whole is not the same--Ah! and it may be that God has hidden
the good wine of philosophy at the bottom of the cask. You must drain
it to the end if you are to find those drops of divine sweetness you
seem so much to thirst for! Yourself, after drinking so deeply,
are still but at the beginning, as you said. But is not philosophy
rather like this? Keep the figure of the merchant and the cask:
but let it be filled, not with wine, but with every sort of grain.
You come to buy. The merchant hands you a little of the wheat which
lies at the top. Could you tell by looking at that, whether the
chick-peas were clean, the lentils tender, the beans full? And then,
whereas in selecting our wine we risk only our money; in selecting
our philosophy we risk ourselves, as you told me- -might ourselves
sink into the dregs of 'the vulgar herd.' Moreover, while you
may not drain the whole cask of wine by way of tasting, Wisdom
grows no less by the depth of your drinking. Nay! if you take of
her, she is increased thereby.

And then I have another similitude to propose, as regards this
tasting of philosophy. Don't think I blaspheme her if I say that
it may be with her as with some deadly poison, [166] hemlock or
aconite.
These too, though they cause death, yet kill not if one tastes
but a minute portion. You would suppose that the tiniest particle
must be sufficient.

--Be it as you will, Lucian! One must live a hundred years:
one must sustain all this labour; otherwise philosophy is
unattainable.

--Not so! Though there were nothing strange in that, if it be true,
as you said at first, that Life is short and art is long. But now
you take it hard that we are not to see you this very day, before
the sun goes down, a Chrysippus, a Pythagoras, a Plato.

--You overtake me, Lucian! and drive me into a corner; in jealousy
of heart, I believe, because I have made some progress in doctrine
whereas you have neglected yourself.

--Well! Don't attend to me! Treat me as a Corybant, a fanatic: and
do you go forward on this road of yours. Finish the journey in
accordance with the view you had of these matters at the beginning
of it. Only, be assured that my judgment on it will remain
unchanged.

Reason still says, that without criticism, without a clear, exact,
unbiassed intelligence to try them, all those theories--all things--
will have been seen but in vain.

'To that end,' she tells us, 'much time is necessary, many delays
of judgment, a cautious gait; repeated inspection.' And we are
not to regard the outward appearance, or the reputation of wisdom,
in any of the [167] speakers; but like the judges of Areopagus, who
try their causes in the darkness of the night, look only to what
they say.

--Philosophy, then, is impossible, or possible only in another
life!

--Hermotimus! I grieve to tell you that all this even, may be in
truth insufficient.

After all, we may deceive ourselves in the belief that we have found
something:--like the fishermen! Again and again they let down the
net. At last they feel something heavy, and with vast labour draw
up, not a load of fish, but only a pot full of sand, or a great
stone.

--I don't understand what you mean by the net. It is plain that you
have caught me in it.

--Try to get out! You can swim as well as another. We may go to
all philosophers in turn and make trial of them. Still, I, for my
part, hold it by no mean certain that any one of them really possesses
what we seek. The truth may be a thing that not one of them has
yet found.

You have twenty beans in your hand, and you bid ten persons guess
how many: one says five, another fifteen; it is possible that one
of them may tell the true number; but it is not impossible that
all may be wrong. So it is with the philosophers. All alike are in
search of Happiness--what kind of thing it is. One says one
thing, one another: it is pleasure; it is virtue;--what not? And
Happiness may indeed be one of those things. But it is possible
[168] also that it may be still something else, different and
distinct from them all.

--What is this?--There is something, I know not how, very sad and
disheartening in what you say. We seem to have come round in a circle
to the spot whence we started, and to our first incertitude.
Ah! Lucian, what have you done to me? You have proved my priceless
pearl to be but ashes, and all my past labour to have been in
vain.

--Reflect, my friend, that you are not the first person who has
thus failed of the good thing he hoped for. All philosophers,
so to speak, are but fighting about the 'ass's shadow.'

To me you seem like one who should weep, and reproach fortune
because he is not able to climb up into heaven, or go down into the
sea by Sicily and come up at Cyprus, or sail on wings in one day
from Greece to India. And the true cause of his trouble is
that he has based his hope on what he has seen in a dream, or his
own fancy has put together; without previous thought whether what
he desires is in itself attainable and within the compass of human
nature.

Even so, methinks, has it happened with you. As you dreamed, so
largely, of those wonderful things, came Reason, and woke you up
from sleep, a little roughly:
and then you are angry with Reason, your eyes being still but
half open, and find it hard to shake off sleep for the pleasure
of what you saw therein. Only, [169] don't be angry with me,
because, as a friend, I would not suffer you to pass your life
in a dream, pleasant perhaps, but still only a dream--because I wake
you up and demand that you should busy yourself with the
proper business of life, and send you to it possessed of common
sense. What your soul was full of just now is not very
different from those Gorgons and Chimaeras and the like, which
the poets and the painters construct for us, fancy- free:--things
which never were, and never will be, though many believe in them,
and all like to see and hear of them, just because they are so
strange and odd.

And you too, methinks, having heard from some such maker of marvels
of a certain woman of a fairness beyond nature--beyond the Graces,
beyond Venus Urania herself--asked not if he spoke truth, and whether
this woman be really alive in the world, but straightway fell in
love with her; as they say that Medea was enamoured of Jason in a
dream.

And what more than anything else seduced you, and others like you,
into that passion, for a vain idol of the fancy, is, that he who
told you about that fair woman, from the very moment when you
first believed that what he said was true, brought forward all
the rest in consequent order. Upon her alone your eyes were
fixed; by her he led you along, when once you had given him a
hold upon you--led you along the straight road, as he said, to the
beloved one. All was easy after that. [170] None of you
asked again whether it was the true way; following one after another,
like sheep led by the green bough in the hand of the shepherd. He
moved you hither and thither with his finger, as easily as water
spilt on a table!

My friend! Be not so lengthy in preparing the banquet, lest you die
of hunger! I saw one who poured water into a mortar, and ground
it with all his might with a pestle of iron, fancying he did a
thing useful and necessary; but it remained water only, none the
less."
Just there the conversation broke off suddenly, and the disputants
parted. The horses were come for Lucian. The boy went on his way,
and Marius onward, to visit a friend whose abode lay further. As
he returned to Rome towards evening the melancholy aspect,
natural to a city of the dead, had triumphed over the superficial
gaudiness of the early day.

He could almost have fancied Canidia there, picking her way among
the rickety lamps, to rifle some neglected or ruined tomb; for
these tombs were not all equally well cared for (Post mortem nescio!)
and it had been one of the pieties of Aurelius to frame a severe
law to prevent the defacing of such monuments. To Marius there
seemed to be some new meaning in that terror of isolation, of
being left alone in these places, of which the sepulchral inscriptions
were so full. A blood-red sunset was dying angrily, and its
wild glare upon the shadowy objects around helped to combine
[171] the associations of this famous way, its deeply graven marks
of immemorial travel, together with the earnest questions of the
morning as to the true way of that other sort of travelling, around
an image, almost ghastly in the traces of its great sorrows--bearing
along for ever, on bleeding feet, the instrument of its punishment--which
was all Marius could recall distinctly of a certain Christian legend
he had heard.

The legend told of an encounter at this very spot, of two wayfarers
on the Appian Way, as also upon some very dimly discerned mental
journey, altogether different from himself and his late companions--an
encounter between Love, literally fainting by the road, and
Love "travelling in the greatness of his strength," Love itself,
suddenly appearing to sustain that other. A strange contrast to
anything actually presented in that morning's conversation,
it seemed nevertheless to echo its very words--"Do they never come
down again," he heard once more the well-modulated voice: "Do they
never come down again from the heights, to help those whom they
left here below?"

--"And we too desire, not a fair one, but the fairest of all.
Unless we find him, we shall think we have failed."

CHAPTER XXV: SUNT LACRIMAE RERUM+
[172] It was become a habit with Marius--one of his modernisms--
developed by his assistance at the Emperor's "conversations
with himself," to keep a register of the movements of his own
private thoughts and humours; not continuously indeed, yet sometimes
for lengthy intervals, during which it was no idle self-indulgence,
but a necessity of his intellectual life, to "confess himself,"
with an intimacy, seemingly rare among the ancients; ancient writers,
at all events, having been jealous, for the most part, of affording
us so much as a glimpse of that interior self, which in many cases
would have actually doubled the interest of their objective
informations.

"If a particular tutelary or genius," writes Marius,--"according
to old belief, walks through life beside each one of us, mine is
very certainly a capricious creature. He fills one with wayward,
unaccountable, yet quite irresistible humours, [173] and seems
always to be in collusion with some outward circumstance, often
trivial enough in itself--the condition of the weather, forsooth!--the
people one meets by chance--the things one happens to overhear
them say, veritable enodioi symboloi,+ or omens by the wayside, as
the old Greeks fancied--to push on the unreasonable prepossessions
of the moment into weighty motives. It was doubtless a quite
explicable, physical fatigue that presented me to myself, on awaking
this morning, so lack-lustre and trite. But I must needs take my
petulance, contrasting it with my accustomed morning hopefulness,
as a sign of the ageing of appetite, of a decay in the very capacity
of enjoyment.
We need some imaginative stimulus, some not impossible ideal such
as may shape vague hope, and transform it into effective desire,
to carry us year after year, without disgust, through the routine-work
which is so large a part of life. "Then, how if appetite, be it for
real or ideal, should itself fail one after awhile?It is the chief mate, the only
figure of the ship's afterguard, who comes bustling forward at the
cry of "All hands on deck!"  He is the satrap of that province in
the autocratic realm of the ship, and more personally responsible
for anything that may happen there.

There, too, on the approach to the land, assisted by the boatswain
and the carpenter, he "gets the anchors over" with the men of his
own watch, whom he knows better than the others.  There he sees the
cable ranged, the windlass disconnected, the compressors opened;
and there, after giving his own last order, "Stand clear of the
cable!" he waits attentive, in a silent ship that forges slowly
ahead towards her picked-out berth, for the sharp shout from aft,
"Let go!"  Instantly bending over, he sees the trusty iron fall
with a heavy plunge under his eyes, which watch and note whether it
has gone clear.

For the anchor "to go clear" means to go clear of its own chain.
Your anchor must drop from the bow of your ship with no turn of
cable on any of its limbs, else you would be riding to a foul
anchor.  Unless the pull of the cable is fair on the ring, no
anchor can be trusted even on the best of holding ground.  In time
of stress it is bound to drag, for implements and men must be
treated fairly to give you the "virtue" which is in them.  The
anchor is an emblem of hope, but a foul anchor is worse than the
most fallacious of false hopes that ever lured men or nations into
a sense of security.  And the sense of security, even the most
warranted, is a bad councillor.  It is the sense which, like that
exaggerated feeling of well-being ominous of the coming on of
madness, precedes the swift fall of disaster.  A seaman labouring
under an undue sense of security becomes at once worth hardly half
his salt.  Therefore, of all my chief officers, the one I trusted
most was a man called B-.  He had a red moustache, a lean face,
also red, and an uneasy eye.  He was worth all his salt.

On examining now, after many years, the residue of the feeling
which was the outcome of the contact of our personalities, I
discover, without much surprise, a certain flavour of dislike.
Upon the whole, I think he was one of the most uncomfortable
shipmates possible for a young commander.  If it is permissible to
criticise the absent, I should say he had a little too much of the
sense of insecurity which is so invaluable in a seaman.  He had an
extremely disturbing air of being everlastingly ready (even when
seated at table at my right hand before a plate of salt beef) to
grapple with some impending calamity.  I must hasten to add that he
had also the other qualification necessary to make a trustworthy
seaman--that of an absolute confidence in himself.  What was really
wrong with him was that he had these qualities in an unrestful
degree.  His eternally watchful demeanour, his jerky, nervous talk,
even his, as it were, determined silences, seemed to imply--and, I
believe, they did imply--that to his mind the ship was never safe
in my hands.  Such was the man who looked after the anchors of a
less than five-hundred-ton barque, my first command, now gone from
the face of the earth, but sure of a tenderly remembered existence
as long as I live.  No anchor could have gone down foul under Mr.
B-'s piercing eye.  It was good for one to be sure of that when, in
an open roadstead, one heard in the cabin the wind pipe up; but
still, there were moments when I detested Mr. GENTLEMEN,--I was highly
gratified by the insertion of a portion of my letter in the last
number of your valuable and entertaining Miscellany, though in a
type which rendered its substance inaccessible even to the beautiful
new spectacles presented to me by a Committee of the Parish
on New-Year's Day. I trust that I was able to bear your very
considerable abridgment of my lucubrations with a spirit becoming
a Christian. My third grand-daughter, Rebekah, aged fourteen
years, and whom I have trained to read slowly and with proper
emphasis, (a practice too much neglected in our modern systems
of education,) read aloud to me the excellent essay upon "Old
Age," the authour of which I cannot help suspecting to be a young
man who has never yet known what it was to have snow (_canities
morosa_) upon his own roof. _Dissolve frigus, large super foco ligna
reponens_, is a rule for the young, whose wood-pile is yet abundant
for such cheerful lenitives.

A good life behind him is the best thing to keep an old man's
shoulders from shivering at every breath of sorrow or ill-fortune.
But methinks it were easier for an old man to feel the disadvantages
of youth than the advantages of age. Of these latter I reckon one
of the chiefest to be this: that we attach a less inordinate
value to our own productions, and, distrusting daily more and
more our own wisdom, (with the conceit whereof at twenty we
wrap ourselves away from knowledge as with a garment,) do reconcile
ourselves with the wisdom of God. I could have wished, indeed,
that room might have been made for the residue of the anecdote
relating to Deacon Tinkham, which would not only have gratified
a natural curiosity on the part of the publick, (as I have reason
to know from several letters of inquiry already received,) but would
also, as I think, have largely increased the circulation of your
Magazine in this town.

_Nihil humani alienum_, there is a curiosity about the affairs of
our neighbours which is not only pardonable, but even commendable.
But I shall abide a more fitting season.

As touching the following literary effort of Esquire Biglow, much
might be profitably said on the topick of Idyllick and Pastoral
Poetry, and concerning the proper distinctions to be made between
them, from Theocritus, the inventor of the former, to Collins, the
latest authour I know of who has emulated the classicks in the
latter style.

But in the time of a civil war worthy a Milton to defend and a Lucan
to sing, it may be reasonably doubted whether the publick, never too
studious of serious instruction, might not consider other objects
more deserving of present attention. Concerning the title of Idyll,
which Mr. Biglow has adopted at my suggestion, it may not be
improper to animadvert, that the name properly signifies a poem
somewhat rustick in phrase, (for, though the learned are not agreed
as to the particular dialect employed by Theocritus, they are
universanimous both as to its rusticity and its capacity of rising
now and then to the level of more elevated sentiments and expressions,)
while it is also descriptive of real scenery and manners.

Yet it must be admitted that the production now in question (which
here and there bears perhaps too plainly the marks of my correcting
hand) does partake of the nature of a Pastoral, inasmuch as the
interlocutors therein are purely imaginary beings, and the whole
is little better than [Greek: skias onar.]

The plot was, as I believe, suggested by the "Twa Briggs" of Robert
Burns, a Scottish poet of the last century, as that found its
prototype in the "Mutual Complaint of Plainstanes and Causey" by
Fergusson, though the metre of this latter be different by a foot
in each verse. I reminded my talented young parishioner and friend
that Concord Bridge had long since yielded to the edacious tooth
of Time. But he answered me to this effect: that there was no
greater mistake of an authour than to suppose the reader had
no fancy of his own; that, if once that faculty was to be
called into activity, it were _better_ to be in for the whole
sheep than the shoulder; and that he knew Concord like a book,--an
expression questionable in propriety, since there are few things
with which he is not more familiar than with the printed page.
In proof of what he affirmed, he showed me some verses which with
others he had stricken out as too much delaying the action, but
which I communicate in this place because they rightly define
"punkin-seed," (which Mr. Bartlett would have a kind of perch,--a
creature to which I have found a rod or pole not to be so easily
equivalent in our inland waters as in the books of arithmetic,) and
because it conveys an eulogium on the worthy son of an excellent
father, with whose acquaintance (_eheu, fugaces anni!

_) I was formerly honoured.

"But nowadays the Bridge ain't wut they show, So much ez
Em'son, Hawthorne, an' Thoreau.
I know the village, though: was sent there once A-schoolin', coz
to home I played the dunce; An' I've ben sence a-visitin' the
Jedge, Whose garding whispers with the river's edge, Where I've
sot mornin's, lazy as the bream, Whose only business is to head
up-stream, (We call 'em punkin-seed,) or else in chat Along'th the
Jedge, who covers with his hat More wit an' gumption an' shrewd
Yankee sense Than there is mosses on an ole stone fence."

Concerning the subject-matter of the verses I have not the
leisure at present to write so fully as I could wish, my time being
occupied with the preparation of a discourse for the forthcoming
bi-centenary celebration of the first settlement of Jaalam East
Parish. It may gratify the publick interest to mention the
circumstance, that my investigations to this end have enabled me to
verify the fact (of much historick importance, and hitherto hotly
debated) that Shearjashub Tarbox was the first child of white parentage
born in this town, being named in his father's will under date
August 7th, or 9th, 1662. It is well known that those who advocate
the claims of Mehetable Goings are unable to find any trace of
her existence prior to October of that year.
As respects the settlement of the Mason and Slidell question, Mr.
Biglow has not incorrectly stated the popular sentiment, so
far as I can judge by its expression in this locality. For myself,
I feel more sorrow than resentment; for I am old enough to have
heard those talk of England who still, even after the unhappy
estrangement, could not unschool their lips from calling
her the Mother-Country. But England has insisted on ripping up old
wounds, and has undone the healing work of fifty years; for nations
do not reason, they only feel, and the _spretae injuria formae_
rankles in their minds as bitterly as in that of a woman.

And because this is so, I feel the more satisfaction that our
Government has acted (as all Governments should, standing as they
do between the people and their passions) as if it had arrived at
years of discretion. There are three short and simple words, the
hardest of all to pronounce in any language, (and I suspect they
were no easier before the confusion of tongues,) but which
no man or nation that cannot utter can claim to have arrived at
manhood. Those words are, _I was wrong_; and I am proud, that,
while England played the boy, our rulers had strength enough from
below and wisdom enough from above to quit themselves like men.

Let us strengthen the hands of those in authority over us, and
curb out own tongues,[A] remembering that General Wait commonly
proves in the end more than a match for General Headlong, and that
the Good Book ascribes safety to a multitude, indeed, but not
to a mob, of counsellours. Let us remember and perpend the words
of Paulus Emilius to the people of Rome:
that, "if they judged they could manage the war to more advantage
by any other, he would willingly yield up his charge; but if they
confided in him, _they were not to make themselves his colleagues
in his office, or raise reports, or criticize, his actions, but,
without talking, supply him with means and assistance necessary to
the carrying on of the war; for, if they proposed to command their
own commander, they would render this expedition more ridiculous
than the former."

(Vide Plutarchum in vitâ P.E.)_ Let us also not forget what the
same excellent authour says concerning Perseus's fear of spending
money, and not permit the covetousness of Brother Jonathan to be
the good-fortune of Jefferson Davis.

For my own part, till I am ready to admit the Commander-in-Chief
to my pulpit, I shall abstain from planning his battles. Patience
is the armour of a nation; and in our desire for peace, let us
never be willing to surrender the Constitution bequeathed us by
fathers at least as wise as ourselves, (even with Jefferson Davis
to help us,) and, with those degenerate Romans, _tuta et
presentia quam vetera et periculosa malle._
With respect, Your ob't humble serv't, HOMER WILBUR, A.M.

[Footnote A: And not only our own tongues, but the pens of others,
which are swift to convey useful intelligence to the enemy. This is
no new inconvenience; for, under date 3rd June, 1745, General
Pepperell wrote thus to Governour Shirley from Louisbourg:--"What
your Excellency observes of the _army's being made acquainted with
any plans proposed, until really to be put in execution_, has always
been disagreeable to me, and I have given many cautions relating
to it.

But when your Excellency considers that _our Council of War consists
of more than twenty members_, am persuaded you will think it _impossible
for me to hinder it_, if any of them will persist in communicating
to inferiour officers and soldiers what ought to be kept
secret. I am informed that the Boston newspapers are filled
with paragraphs from private letters relating to the expedition.

Will your Excellency permit me to say I think it may be of ill
consequence? Would it not be convenient, if your Excellency
should forbid the Printers' inserting such news?" Verily, if
_tempora mutantur,_ we may question the _et nos mutamur in illis;_
and if tongues be leaky, it will need all hands at the pumps to
save the Ship of State. Our history dates and repeats itself. If
Sassycus (rather than Alcibiades) find a parallel in Beauregard,
so Weakwash, as he is called by the brave Lieutenant Lion
Gardiner, need not seek far among our own Sachems for his antitype.]

I love to start out arter night's begun, An' all the chores
about the farm are done, The critters milked an' foddered,
gates shet fast, Tools cleaned aginst to-morrer, supper past, An'
Nancy darnin' by her ker'sene lamp,-- I love, I say, to start
upon a tramp, To shake the kinkles out o' back an' legs, An'
kind o' rack my life off from the dregs Thet's apt to settle in the
buttery-hutch Of folks thet foller in one rut too much:
Hard work is good an' wholesome, past all doubt; But 't ain't so,
ef the mind gits tuckered out.

Now, bein' born in Middlesex, you know, There's certin spots
where I like best to go:
The Concord road, for instance, (I, for one, Most gin'lly ollers
call it _John Bull's Run._)-- The field o' Lexin'ton, where England
tried The fastest colors thet she ever dyed,-- An' Concord
Bridge, thet Davis, when he came, Found was the bee-line track
to heaven an' fame,-- Ez all roads be by natur', ef your soul Don't
sneak thru shun-pikes so's to save the toll.

They're 'most too fur away, take too much time To visit often,
ef it ain't in rhyme; But there's a walk thet's hendier, a sight,
An' suits me fust-rate of a winter's night,-- I mean the round
whale's-back o' Prospect Hill.
I love to loiter there while night grows still, An' in the twinklin'
villages about, Fust here, then there, the well-saved lights
goes out, An' nary sound but watch-dogs' false alarms, Or muffled
cock-crows from the drowsy farms, Where some wise rooster (men
act jest thet way) Stands to't thet moon-rise is the break o' day:

So Mister Seward sticks a three-months pin Where the war'd oughto
end, then tries agin;-- My gran'ther's rule was safer'n 't is to
crow:
_Don't never prophesy--onless ye know._
I love to muse there till it kind o' seems Ez ef the world went
eddyin' off in dreams.

The Northwest wind thet twitches at my baird Blows out o' sturdier
days not easy scared, An' the same moon thet this December
shines Starts out the tents an' booths o' Putnam's lines; The
rail-fence posts, acrost the hill thet runs, Turn ghosts o'
sogers should'rin' ghosts o' guns; Ez wheels the sentry, glints a
flash o' light Along the firelock won at Concord Fight, An' 'twixt
the silences, now fur, now nigh, Rings the sharp chellenge, hums
the low reply.
Ez I was settin' so, it warn't long sence, Mixin' the perfect
with the present tense, I heerd two voices som'ers in the air,
Though, ef I was to die, I can't tell where:
Voices I call 'em: 't was a kind o' sough Like pine-trees thet the
wind is geth'rin' through; An', fact, I thought it _was_ the wind
a spell,-- Then some misdoubted,--couldn't fairly tell,-- Fust sure,
then not, jest as you hold an eel,-- I knowed, an' didn't,--fin'lly
seemed to feel 'T was Concord Bridge a-talkin' off to kill With the
Stone Spike thet's druv thru Bunker Hill:
Whether't was so, or ef I only dreamed, I couldn't say; I tell it
ez it seemed.

THE BRIDGE.

Wal, neighbor, tell us, wut's turned up thet's new?
You're younger'n I be,--nigher Boston, tu; An' down to Boston, ef
you take their showin', Wut they don't know ain't hardly wuth the
knowin'.
There's _sunthin'_ goin' on, I know: las' night The British sogers
killed in our gret fight (Nigh fifty year they hedn't stirred nor
spoke) Made sech a coil you'd thought a dam hed broke:
Why, one he up an' beat a revellee With his own crossbones on a
holler tree, Till all the graveyards swarmed out like a hive With
faces I hain't seen sence Seventy-five.

Wut _is_ the news? 'T ain't good, or they'd be cheerin'.
Speak slow an' clear, for I'm some hard o' hearin'.

THE MONIMENT.

I don't know hardly ef it's good or bad,--
THE BRIDGE.

At wust, it can't be wus than wut we've had.

THE MONIMENT.

You know them envys thet the Rebbles sent, An' Cap'n Wilkes he borried
o' the Trent?

THE BRIDGE.

Wut! hev they hanged 'em? Then their wits is gone!
Thet's a sure way to make a goose a swan!

THE MONIMENT.

No: England she _would_ hev 'em, _Fee, Faw, Fum!_ (Ez
though she hedn't fools enough to home,) So they've returned
'em--
THE BRIDGE.

_Hev_ they? Wal, by heaven, Thet's the wust news I've heerd sence
Seventy-seven!
_By George_, I meant to say, though I declare It's 'most enough to
make a deacon, swear.

THE MONIMENT.

Now don't go off half-cock: folks never gains By usin' pepper-sarse
instid o' brains.

Come, neighbor, you don't understand--
THE BRIDGE.

How? Hey?
Not understand? Why, wut's to hender, pray?
Must I go huntin' round to find a chap To tell me when my face
hez hed a slap?

THE MONIMENT.

See here: the British they found out a flaw In Cap'n Wilkes's readin'
o' the law:
(They _make_ all laws, you know, an' so, o' course, It's nateral
they should understand their force:) He'd oughto took the vessel
into port, An' hed her sot on by a reg'lar court; She was a
mail-ship, an' a steamer, tu, An' thet, they say, hez changed
the pint o' view, Coz the old practice, bein' meant for sails, Ef
tried upon a steamer, kind o' falls; You _may_ take out despatches,
but you mus'n't Take nary man--
THE BRIDGE.

You mean to say, you dus'n't!
Changed pint o' view! No, no,--it's overboard With law an' gospel,
when their ox is gored!
I tell ye, England's law, on sea an' land, Hez ollers ben, "_I've
gut the heaviest hand_."

Take nary man? Fine preachin' from _her_ lips!
Why, she hez taken hunderds from our ships, An' would agin, an'
swear she hed a right to, Ef we warn't strong enough to be perlite
to.
Of all the sarse thet I can call to mind, England _doos_ make the
most onpleasant kind:
It's you're the sinner ollers, she's the saint; Wut's good's all
English, all thet isn't ain't; Wut profits her is ollers right an'
just, An' ef you don't read Scriptur so, you must; She's praised
herself ontil she fairly thinks There ain't no light in Natur when
she winks; Hain't she the Ten Comman'ments in her pus?

Could the world stir 'thout she went, tu, ez nus?
She ain't like other mortals, thet's a fact:
_She_ never stopped the habus-corpus act, Nor specie payments, nor
she never yet Cut down the int'rest on her public debt; _She_ don't
put down rebellions, lets 'em breed, An' 's ollers willin' Ireland
should secede; She's all thet's honest, honnable, an' fair,
An' when the vartoos died they made her heir.

THE MONIMENT.

Wal, wal, two wrongs don't never make a right; Ef we're mistaken,
own it, an' don't fight:
For gracious' sake, hain't we enough to du 'Thout gittin' up a fight
with England, tu?
She thinks we're rabble-rid------
THE BRIDGE
An' so we can't Distinguish 'twixt _You oughtn't_ an' _You
shan't!_ She jedges by herself; she's no idear How 't stiddies
folks to give 'em their fair sheer:
The odds 'twixt her an' us is plain's a steeple,-- Her People's
turned to Mob, our Mob's turned People.

THE MONIMENT.

She's riled jes' now------
THE BRIDGE
Plain proof her cause ain't strong,-- The one thet fust gits mad's
most ollers wrong.

THE MONIMENT.

You're ollers quick to set your back aridge,-- Though't suits a
tom-cat more 'n a sober bridge:
Don't you git het: they thought the thing was planned; They'll
cool off when they come to understand.

THE BRIDGE
Ef _thet's_ wilt you expect, you'll _hev_ to wait:
Folks never understand the folks they hate:
She'll fin' some other grievance jest ez good, 'Fore the month's out,
to git misunderstood.
England cool off! She'll do it, ef she sees She's run her head into
a swarm o' bees.
I ain't so prejudiced ez wut you spose:
I hev thought England was the best thet goes; Remember, (no, you
can't,) when _I_ was reared, _God save the King_ was all
the tune you heerd:
But it's enough to turn Wachuset roun', This stumpin' fellers when
you think they're down.

THE MONIMENT.

But, neighbor, ef they prove their claim at law, The best way
is to settle, an' not jaw.
An' don't le' 's mutter 'bout the awfle bricks We'll give 'em, ef
we ketch 'em in a fix:
That 'ere's most frequently the kin' o' talk Of critters can't be
kicked to toe the chalk; Your "You'll see _nex'_ time!"

an' "Look out bimeby!" Most ollers ends in eatin' umble-pie.
'T wun't pay to scringe to England: will it pay To fear thet meaner
bully, old "They'll say"?
Suppose they _du_ say: words are dreffle bores, But they
ain't quite so bad ez seventy-fours.
Wut England wants is jest a wedge to fit Where it'll help to widen
out our split:
She's found her wedge, an' 't ain't for us to come An' lend the
beetle thet's to drive it home.
For growed-up folks like us 't would be a scandle, When we git
sarsed, to fly right off the handle.
England ain't _all_ bad, coz she thinks us blind:
Ef she can't change her skin, she can her mind; An' you will see
her change it double-quick, Soon ez we've proved thet we're a-goin'
to lick.
She an' Columby's gut to be fas' friends; For the world prospers
by their privit ends:
'T would put the clock back all o' fifty years, Ef they should fall
together by the ears.

THE BRIDGE.
You may be right; but hearken in your ear,-- I'm older 'n you,--Peace
wun't keep house with Fear:
Ef you want peace, the thing you've gut to du Is jest to show you're
up to fightin', tu.And the sailing of any vessel afloat is
an art whose fine form seems already receding from us on its way to
the overshadowed Valley of Oblivion.  The taking of a modern
steamship about the world (though one would not minimize its
responsibilities) has not the same quality of intimacy with nature,
which, after all, is an indispensable condition to the building up
of an art.  It is less personal and a more exact calling; less
arduous, but also less gratifying in the lack of close communion
between the artist and the medium of his art.  It is, in short,
less a matter of love.  Its effects are measured exactly in time
and space as no effect of an art can be.  It is an occupation which
a man not desperately subject to sea-sickness can be imagined to
follow with content, without enthusiasm, with industry, without
affection.  Punctuality is its watchword.  The incertitude which
attends closely every artistic endeavour is absent from its
regulated enterprise.  It has no great moments of self-confidence,
or moments not less great of doubt and heart-searching.  It is an
industry which, like other industries, has its romance, its honour
and its rewards, its bitter anxieties and its hours of ease.  But
such sea-going has not the artistic quality of a single-handed
struggle with something much greater than yourself; it is not the
laborious absorbing practice of an art whose ultimate result
remains on the knees of the gods.  It is not an individual,
temperamental achievement, but simply the skilled use of a captured
force, merely another step forward upon the way of universal
conquest.


IX.


Every passage of a ship of yesterday, whose yards were braced round
eagerly the very moment the pilot, with his pockets full of
letters, had got over the side, was like a race--a race against
time, against an ideal standard of achievement outstripping the
expectations of common men.  Like all true art, the general conduct
of a ship and her handling in particular cases had a technique
which could be discussed with delight and pleasure by men who found
in their work, not bread alone, but an outlet for the peculiarities
of their temperament.  To get the best and truest effect from the
infinitely varying moods of sky and sea, not pictorially, but in
the spirit of their calling, was their vocation, one and all; and
they recognised this with as much sincerity, and drew as much
inspiration from this reality, as any man who ever put brush to
canvas.  The diversity of temperaments was immense amongst those
masters of the fine art.

Some of them were like Royal Academicians of a certain kind.  They
never startled you by a touch of originality, by a fresh audacity
of inspiration.  They were safe, very safe.  They went about
solemnly in the assurance of their consecrated and empty
reputation.  Names are odious, but I remember one of them who might
have been their very president, the P.R.A. of the sea-craft.  His
weather-beaten and handsome face, his portly presence, his shirt-
fronts and broad cuffs and gold links, his air of bluff
distinction, impressed the humble beholders (stevedores, tally
clerks, tide-waiters) as he walked ashore over the gangway of his
ship lying at the Circular Quay in Sydney.  His voice was deep,
hearty, and authoritative--the voice of a very prince amongst
sailors.  He did everything with an air which put your attention on
the alert and raised your expectations, but the result somehow was
always on stereotyped lines, unsuggestive, empty of any lesson that
one could lay to heart.  He kept his ship in apple-pie order, which
would have been seamanlike enough but for a finicking touch in its
details.  His officers affected a superiority over the rest of us,
but the boredom of their souls appeared in their manner of dreary
submission to the fads of their commander.  It was only his
apprenticed boys whose irrepressible spirits were not affected by
the solemn and respectable mediocrity of that artist.  There were
four of these youngsters:  one the son of a doctor, another of a
colonel, the third of a jeweller; the name of the fourth was
Twentyman, and this is all I remember of his parentage.  But not
one of them seemed to possess the smallest spark of gratitude in
his composition.  Though their commander was a kind man in his way,
and had made a point of introducing them to the best people in the
town in order that they should not fall into the bad company of
boys belonging to other ships, I regret to say that they made faces
at him behind his back, and imitated the dignified carriage of his
head without any concealment whatever.

This master of the fine art was a personage and nothing more; but,
as I have said, there was an infinite diversity of temperament
amongst the masters of the fine art I have known.  Some were great
impressionists.  Yet if, as he passed by, almost filling the
quaint old circular chariot with his magnificent golden-flowered
attire, he presented himself to Marius, chiefly as one who had made
the great mistake; to the multitude he came as a more than
magnanimous conqueror. That he had "forgiven" the innocent wife and
children of the dashing and almost successful rebel Avidius
Cassius, now no more, was a recent circumstance still in memory.
As the children went past--not among those who, ere the emperor
ascended the steps of the Capitol, would be detached from the great
progress for execution, happy rather, and radiant, as adopted
members of the imperial family--the crowd actually enjoyed
an exhibition of the moral order, such as might become perhaps the
fashion.

And it was in consideration of some possible touch of a heroism
herein that might really have cost him something, that Marius
resolved to seek the emperor once more, [201] with an appeal for
common-sense, for reason and justice.

He had set out at last to revisit his old home; and knowing that
Aurelius was then in retreat at a favourite villa, which lay almost
on his way thither, determined there to present himself.

Although the great plain was dying steadily, a new race of wild birds
establishing itself there, as he knew enough of their habits to
understand, and the idle contadino, with his never-ending ditty of
decay and death, replacing the lusty Roman labourer, never
had that poetic region between Rome and the sea more deeply impressed
him than on this sunless day of early autumn, under which all that
fell within the immense horizon was presented in one uniform tone
of a clear, penitential blue. Stimulating to the fancy as was that
range of low hills to the northwards, already troubled with the
upbreaking of the Apennines, yet a want of quiet in their outline,
the record of wild fracture there, of sudden upheaval and depression,
marked them as but the ruins of nature; while at every little
descent and ascent of the road might be noted traces of the abandoned
work of man.

From time to time, the way was still redolent of the floral
relics of summer, daphne and myrtle-blossom, sheltered in the
little hollows and ravines. At last, amid rocks here and there
piercing the soil, as those descents became steeper, and the main
line of the Apennines, [202] now visible, gave a higher accent
to the scene, he espied over the plateau, almost like one of those
broken hills, cutting the horizon towards the sea, the old brown
villa itself, rich in memories of one after another of the family
of the Antonines.

As he approached it, such reminiscences crowded upon him, above all
of the life there of the aged Antoninus Pius, in its wonderful
mansuetude and calm. Death had overtaken him here at the precise
moment when the tribune of the watch had received from his lips
the word Aequanimitas! as the watchword of the night. To see
their emperor living there like one of his simplest subjects, his
hands red at vintage-time with the juice of the grapes, hunting,
teaching his children, starting betimes, with all who cared to join
him, for long days of antiquarian research in the country
around:--this, and the like of this, had seemed to mean the peace
of mankind.

Upon that had come--like a stain! it seemed to Marius just then--the
more intimate life of Faustina, the life of Faustina at
home.
Surely, that marvellous but malign beauty must still haunt those
rooms, like an unquiet, dead goddess, who might have perhaps,
after all, something reassuring to tell surviving mortals about
her ambiguous self. When, two years since, the news had reached
Rome that those eyes, always so persistently turned to vanity,
had suddenly closed for ever, a strong desire to pray had
come [203] over Marius, as he followed in fancy on its wild way
the soul of one he had spoken with now and again, and whose presence
in it for a time the world of art could so ill have spared.

Certainly, the honours freely accorded to embalm her memory were
poetic enough--the rich temple left among those wild villagers
at the spot, now it was hoped sacred for ever, where she had
breathed her last; the golden image, in her old place at the
amphitheatre; the altar at which the newly married might make their
sacrifice; above all, the great foundation for orphan girls, to be
called after her name.

The latter, precisely, was the cause why Marius failed in fact
to see Aurelius again, and make the chivalrous effort at
enlightenment he had proposed to himself. Entering the villa, he
learned from an usher, at the door of the long gallery, famous
still for its grand prospect in the memory of many a visitor, and
then leading to the imperial apartments, that the emperor was already
in audience: Marius must wait his turn--he knew not how long it
might be.

An odd audience it seemed; for at that moment, through the closed
door, came shouts of laughter, the laughter of a great crowd of
children--the "Faustinian Children" themselves, as he afterwards
learned--happy and at their ease, in the imperial presence.

Uncertain, then, of the time for which so pleasant a reception might
last, so pleasant that he would hardly have wished to [204]
shorten it, Marius finally determined to proceed, as it was
necessary that he should accomplish the first stage of his journey
on this day. The thing was not to be- -Vale! anima infelicissima!--He
might at least carry away that sound of the laughing orphan children,
as a not unamiable last impression of kings and their houses.

The place he was now about to visit, especially as the resting-place
of his dead, had never been forgotten. Only, the first eager period
of his life in Rome had slipped on rapidly; and, almost on a
sudden, that old time had come to seem very long ago. An almost
burdensome solemnity had grown about his memory of the place, so
that to revisit it seemed a thing that needed preparation:
it was what he could not have done hastily. He half feared to lessen,
or disturb, its value for himself.

And then, as he travelled leisurely towards it, and so far with
quite tranquil mind, interested also in many another place by the
way, he discovered a shorter road to the end of his journey, and
found himself indeed approaching the spot that was to him like no
other. Dreaming now only of the dead before him, he journeyed on
rapidly through the night; the thought of them increasing on him,
in the darkness.

It was as if they had been waiting for him there through all those
years, and felt his footsteps approaching now, and understood his
devotion, quite gratefully, in that lowliness of theirs, in spite
of its tardy [205] fulfilment. As morning came, his late tranquillity
of mind had given way to a grief which surprised him by its
freshness. He was moved more than he could have thought possible
by so distant a sorrow. "To-day!"

--they seemed to be saying as the hard dawn broke,--"To-day, he will
come!" At last, amid all his distractions, they were become the
main purpose of what he was then doing. The world around it, when
he actually reached the place later in the day, was in a mood very
different from his:--so work-a- day, it seemed, on that fine
afternoon, and the villages he passed through so silent; the
inhabitants being, for the most part, at their labour in the country.

Then, at length, above the tiled outbuildings, were the walls of the
old villa itself, with the tower for the pigeons; and, not among
cypresses, but half-hidden by aged poplar-trees, their leaves like
golden fruit, the birds floating around it, the conical
roof of the tomb itself. In the presence of an old servant who
remembered him, the great seals were broken, the rusty key turned
at last in the lock, the door was forced out among the weeds
grown thickly about it, and Marius was actually in the place which
had been so often in his thoughts.

He was struck, not however without a touch of remorse thereupon,
chiefly by an odd air of neglect, the neglect of a place allowed
to remain as when it was last used, and left in a hurry, till long
years had covered all alike with thick dust [206] --the faded
flowers, the burnt-out lamps, the tools and hardened mortar of the
workmen who had had something to do there.

A heavy fragment of woodwork had fallen and chipped open one of the
oldest of the mortuary urns, many hundreds in number ranged around
the walls. It was not properly an urn, but a minute coffin of
stone, and the fracture had revealed a piteous spectacle of the
mouldering, unburned remains within; the bones of a child, as he
understood, which might have died, in ripe age, three times over,
since it slipped away from among his great- grandfathers, so far
up in the line.

Yet the protruding baby hand seemed to stir up in him feelings vivid
enough, bringing him intimately within the scope of dead people's
grievances. He noticed, side by side with the urn of his mother,
that of a boy of about his own age--one of the serving-boys of
the household--who had descended hither, from the lightsome world
of childhood, almost at the same time with her. It seemed as if
this boy of his own age had taken filial place beside her there,
in his stead. That hard feeling, again, which had always lingered
in his mind with the thought of the father he had scarcely
known, melted wholly away, as he read the precise number of his
years, and reflected suddenly--He was of my own present age; no
hard old man, but with interests, as he looked round him on the
world for the last time, even as mine to-day!

[207] And with that came a blinding rush of kindness, as if two
alienated friends had come to understand each other at last.

There was weakness in all this; as there is in all care for dead
persons, to which nevertheless people will always yield in proportion
as they really care for one another. With a vain yearning, as
he stood there, still to be able to do something for them, he
reflected that such doing must be, after all, in the nature of
things, mainly for himself.

His own epitaph might be that old one eskhatos tou idiou genous+
--He was the last of his race! Of those who might come hither
after himself probably no one would ever again come quite as
he had done to-day; and it was under the influence of this
thought that he determined to bury all that, deep below the
surface, to be remembered only by him, and in a way which would
claim no sentiment from the indifferent. That took many days--was
like a renewal of lengthy old burial rites--as he himself watched
the work, early and late; coming on the last day very early,
and anticipating, by stealth, the last touches, while the workmen
were absent; one young lad only, finally smoothing down the earthy
bed, greatly surprised at the seriousness with which Marius flung
in his flowers, one by one, to mingle with the dark mould.

NOTES
207. +Transliteration: eskhatos tou idiou genous. Translation: "[he
was] the last of his race."

CHAPTER XXVIII: ANIMA NATURALITER CHRISTIANA
[208] THOSE eight days at his old home, so mournfully occupied,
had been for Marius in some sort a forcible disruption from the world
and the roots of his life in it.

He had been carried out of himself as never before; and when the
time was over, it was as if the claim over him of the earth below
had been vindicated, over against the interests of that living world
around. Dead, yet sentient and caressing hands seemed to reach
out of the ground and to be clinging about him. Looking back sometimes
now, from about the midway of life--the age, as he conceived,
at which one begins to redescend one's life--though antedating it
a little, in his sad humour, he would note, almost with
surprise, the unbroken placidity of the contemplation in which it
had been passed. His own temper, his early theoretic scheme of
things, would have pushed him on to movement and adventure.
Actually, as circumstances had determined, all its movement [209]
had been inward; movement of observation only, or even of pure
meditation; in part, perhaps, because throughout it had been something
of a meditatio mortis, ever facing towards the act of final detachment.
Death, however, as he reflected, must be for every one nothing less
than the fifth or last act of a drama, and, as such, was likely to
have something of the stirring character of a dénouement. And,
in fact, it was in form tragic enough that his end not long
afterwards came to him.

In the midst of the extreme weariness and depression which had
followed those last days, Cornelius, then, as it happened, on a
journey and travelling near the place, finding traces of him, had
become his guest at White-nights.

It was just then that Marius felt, as he had never done before, the
value to himself, the overpowering charm, of his friendship. "More
than brother!"

--he felt--like a son also!" contrasting the fatigue of soul which
made himself in effect an older man, with the irrepressible youth
of his companion. For it was still the marvellous hopefulness
of Cornelius, his seeming prerogative over the future, that determined,
and kept alive, all other sentiment concerning him. A new hope
had sprung up in the world of which he, Cornelius, was a depositary,
which he was to bear onward in it. Identifying himself with
Cornelius in so dear a friendship, through him, Marius seemed
to touch, to ally himself to, [210] actually to become a possessor
of the coming world; even as happy parents reach out, and take
possession of it, in and through the survival of their children. For
in these days their intimacy had grown very close, as they
moved hither and thither, leisurely, among the country-places
thereabout, Cornelius being on his way back to Rome, till they
came one evening to a little town (Marius remembered that he
had been there on his first journey to Rome) which had even then
its church and legend--the legend and holy relics of the martyr
Hyacinthus, a young Roman soldier, whose blood had stained the soil
of this place in the reign of the emperor Trajan.

The thought of that so recent death, haunted Marius through the
night, as if with audible crying and sighs above the restless wind,
which came and went around their lodging. But towards dawn he
slept heavily; and awaking in broad daylight, and finding Cornelius
absent, set forth to seek him. The plague was still in the place--had
indeed just broken out afresh; with an outbreak also of cruel
superstition among its wild and miserable inhabitants. Surely, the
old gods were wroth at the presence of this new enemy among
them! And it was no ordinary morning into which Marius stepped
forth. There was a menace in the dark masses of hill, and motionless
wood, against the gray, although apparently unclouded sky. Under
this sunless [211] heaven the earth itself seemed to fret and fume
with a heat of its own, in spite of the strong night-wind. And
now the wind had fallen.

Marius felt that he breathed some strange heavy fluid, denser than
any common air.

He could have fancied that the world had sunken in the night, far
below its proper level, into some close, thick abysm of its own
atmosphere.

The Christian people of the town, hardly less terrified and overwrought
by the haunting sickness about them than their pagan neighbours,
were at prayer before the tomb of the martyr; and even as Marius
pressed among them to a place beside Cornelius, on a sudden the
hills seemed to roll like a sea in motion, around the whole compass
of the horizon.

For a moment Marius supposed himself attacked with some sudden
sickness of brain, till the fall of a great mass of building
convinced him that not himself but the earth under his
feet was giddy. A few moments later the little marketplace was
alive with the rush of the distracted inhabitants from their
tottering houses; and as they waited anxiously for the second shock
of earthquake, a long-smouldering suspicion leapt precipitately
into well-defined purpose, and the whole body of people was carried
forward towards the band of worshippers below.

An hour later, in the wild tumult which followed, the earth had
been stained afresh with the blood of the martyrs Felix and
Faustinus--Flores [212] apparuerunt in terra nostra!

--and their brethren, together with Cornelius and Marius, thus, as
it had happened, taken among them, were prisoners, reserved for the
action of the law.

Marius and his friend, with certain others, exercising the privilege
of their rank, made claim to be tried in Rome, or at least in the
chief town of the district; where, indeed, in the troublous days
that had now begun, a legal process had been already instituted.

Under the care of a military guard the captives were removed on the
same day, one stage of their journey; sleeping, for security, during
the night, side by side with their keepers, in the rooms of a
shepherd's deserted house by the wayside.

It was surmised that one of the prisoners was not a Christian: the
guards were forward to make the utmost pecuniary profit of this
circumstance, and in the night, Marius, taking advantage of the
loose charge kept over them, and by means partly of a large bribe,
had contrived that Cornelius, as the really innocent person, should
be dismissed in safety on his way, to procure, as Marius explained,
the proper means of defence for himself, when the time of trial
came.

And in the morning Cornelius in fact set forth alone, from their
miserable place of detention.

Marius believed that Cornelius was to be the husband of Cecilia;
and that, perhaps strangely, had but added to the desire to get
him away safely.--We wait for the great crisis which [213] is to
try what is in us: we can hardly bear the pressure of our hearts,
as we think of it: the lonely wrestler, or victim, which
imagination foreshadows to us, can hardly be one's self; it seems
an outrage of our destiny that we should be led along so gently and
imperceptibly, to so terrible a leaping-place in the dark, for
more perhaps than life or death. At last, the great act, the
critical moment itself comes, easily, almost unconsciously.

Another motion of the clock, and our fatal line--the "great climacteric
point"--has been passed, which changes ourselves or our lives.

In one quarter of an hour, under a sudden, uncontrollable impulse,
hardly weighing what he did, almost as a matter of course and
as lightly as one hires a bed for one's night's rest on a journey,
Marius had taken upon himself all the heavy risk of the position
in which Cornelius had then been--the long and wearisome delays
of judgment, which were possible; the danger and wretchedness of a
long journey in this manner; possibly the danger of death.
And he
was, I must say, a most uncomfortable commander to get your orders
from at night.  If I had the watch from eight till midnight, he
would leave the deck about nine with the words, "Don't take any
sail off her."  Then, on the point of disappearing down the
companion-way, he would add curtly:  "Don't carry anything away."
I am glad to say that I never did; one night, however, I was
caught, not quite prepared, by a sudden shift of wind.

There was, of course, a good deal of noise--running about, the,
shouts of the sailors, the thrashing of the sails--enough, in fact,
to wake the dead.  But S- never came on deck.  When I was relieved
by the chief mate an hour afterwards, he sent for me.  I went into
his stateroom; he was lying on his couch wrapped up in a rug, with
a pillow under his head.

"What was the matter with you up there just now?" he asked.

"Wind flew round on the lee quarter, sir," I said.

"Couldn't you see the shift coming?"

"Yes, sir, I thought it wasn't very far off."

"Why didn't you have your courses hauled up at once, then?" he
asked in a tone that ought to have made my blood run cold.

But this was my chance, and I did not let it slip.

"Well, sir," I said in an apologetic tone, "she was going eleven
knots very nicely, and I thought she would do for another half-hour
or so."

He gazed at me darkly out of his head, lying very still on the
white pillow, for a time.

"Ah, yes, another half-hour.  That's the way ships get dismasted."

And that was all I got in the way of a wigging.  I waited a little
while and then went out, shutting carefully the door of the state-
room after me.

Well, I have loved, lived with, and left the sea without ever
seeing a ship's tall fabric of sticks, cobwebs and gossamer go by
the board.  He eschew society and would neither reject invitations
to vintage and meal party in same babu's suite, nor yield such in
his own; nevertheless his organism seemed to have go an whole of
the tenderest respect; never was he so contented as when rambling
through the streets and walking, without his dress, in a old and
ill cut suit; whilst in order everlastingly to gaudery his ground
to the good advantage, he was content to endure as light an
enforcement of mulct and enforcement, as the cognition of his
college could put upon his berm.

He was destroy for a reading-man. About this interval he also had
a perfect alcoholism for bloomer; detect which, and fancying I
might satisfy my amigo by such a grade of attention, I one day
travel to his rooms with a big bouquet in either extremity

.
He had shown me what carrying on meant, but he was not a man to
learn discretion from.  great be, will! you But years--that,, the
for the those--Perhaps. so Has one shall I you is long that[147],
perhaps while But as In a great then again I? of master assured
on.! prize the to twenty think really summit.--A twenty contend
years you. liveEach of our cabins had its own
looking-glass screwed to the bulkhead, and what he wanted with more
of them we never could fathom.  He asked for the loan in
confidential tones.  Why?  Mystery.  We made various surmises.  No
one will ever know now.  At any rate, it was a harmless
eccentricity, and may the god of gales, who took him away so
abruptly between New Zealand and the Horn, let his soul rest in
some Paradise of true seamen, where no amount of carrying on will
ever dismast a ship!


XIII.


There has been a time when a ship's chief mate, pocket-book in hand
and pencil behind his ear, kept one eye aloft upon his riggers and
the other down the hatchway on the stevedores, and watched the
disposition of his ship's cargo, knowing that even before she
started he was already doing his best to secure for her an easy and
quick passage.

The hurry of the times, the loading and discharging organization of
the docks, the use of hoisting machinery which works quickly and
will not wait, the cry for prompt despatch, the very size of his
ship, stand nowadays between the modern seaman and the thorough
knowledge of his craft.

There are profitable ships and unprofitable ships.  The profitable
ship will carry a large load through all the hazards of the
weather, and, when at rest, will stand up in dock and shift from
berth to berth without ballast.  There is a point of perfection in
a ship as a worker when she is spoken of as being able to SAIL
without ballast.  I have never met that sort of paragon myself, but
I have seen these paragons advertised amongst ships for sale.  Such
excess of virtue and good-nature on the part of a ship always
provoked my mistrust.  It is open to any man to say that his ship
will sail without ballast; and he will say it, too, with every mark
of profound conviction, especially if he is not going to sail in
her himself.  The risk of advertising her as able to sail without
ballast is not great, since the statement does not imply a warranty
of her arriving anywhere.  Moreover, it is strictly true that most
ships will sail without ballast for some little time before they
turn turtle upon the crew.

A shipowner loves a profitable ship; the seaman is proud of her; a
doubt of her good looks seldom exists in his mind; but if he can
boast of her more useful qualities it is an added satisfaction for
his self-love.

The loading of ships was once a matter of skill, judgment, and
knowledge.  Thick books have been written about it.  "Stevens on
Stowage" is a portly volume with the renown and weight (in its own
world) of Coke on Littleton.  Stevens is an agreeable writer, and,
as is the case with men of talent, his gifts adorn his sterling
soundness.  He gives you the official teaching on the whole
subject, is precise as to rules, mentions illustrative events,
quotes law cases where verdicts turned upon a point of stowage.  Just
there, in the bare capacity to entertain such question at
all, there was what Marius, with a soul which must always leap up
in loyal gratitude for mere physical sunshine, touching him as it
touched the flies in the air, could not away with.

There, surely, was a sign of some crookedness in the natural power
of apprehension. It was the [55] attitude, the melancholy intellectual
attitude, of one who might be greatly mistaken in things--who might
make the greatest of mistakes.

A heart that could forget itself in the misfortune, or even in
the weakness of others:--of this Marius had certainly found the
trace, as a confidant of the emperor's conversations with himself,
in spite of those jarring inhumanities, of that pretension to a
stoical indifference, and the many difficulties of his manner of
writing. He found it again not long afterwards, in still stronger
evidence, in this way.

As he read one morning early, there slipped from the rolls of
manuscript a sealed letter with the emperor's superscription, which
might well be of importance, and he felt bound to deliver it at
once in person; Aurelius being then absent from Rome in one of his
favourite retreats, at Praeneste, taking a few days of quiet with
his young children, before his departure for the war.

A whole day passed as Marius crossed the Campagna on horseback,
pleased by the random autumn lights bringing out in the distance
the sheep at pasture, the shepherds in their picturesque
dress, the golden elms, tower and villa; and it was after dark
that he mounted the steep street of the little hill-town to the
imperial residence. He was struck by an odd mixture of stillness
and excitement about the place. Lights burned at the windows. It
seemed that numerous visitors were within, for the courtyard
was crowded with litters and horses [56] in waiting.
For the moment, indeed, all larger cares, even the cares of
war, of late so heavy a pressure, had been forgotten in what was
passing with the little Annius Verus; who for his part had forgotten
his toys, lying all day across the knees of his mother, as a mere
child's ear- ache grew rapidly to alarming sickness with great
and manifest agony, only suspended a little, from time to
time, when from very weariness he passed into a few moments
of unconsciousness. The country surgeon called in, had
removed the imposthume with the knife. There had been a great effort
to bear this operation, for the terrified child, hardly persuaded
to submit himself, when his pain was at its worst, and even more
for the parents. At length, amid a company of pupils pressing in
with him, as the custom was, to watch the proceedings in the
sick-room, the eminent Galen had arrived, only to pronounce the
thing done visibly useless, the patient falling now into longer
intervals of delirium.

And thus, thrust on one side by the crowd of departing visitors,
Marius was forced into the privacy of a grief, the desolate face
of which went deep into his memory, as he saw the emperor carry
the child away--quite conscious at last, but with a touching
expression upon it of weakness and defeat--pressed close to his
bosom, as if he yearned just then for one thing only, to be united,
to be absolutely one with it, in its obscure distress.

NOTES
42. +Transliteration: para tês mêtros to theosebes. Translation:

"rites deriving from [his] mother."
47. +Transliteration: koinos autô pros tous theous. Translation:
"common to him together with the gods."
49. +Transliteration: Tou aristou apolaue. Translation: "[Always]
take the best."
52. +Not indented in the original.

CHAPTER XIX: THE WILL AS VISION
Paratum cor meum deus! paratum cor meum!

[57] THE emperor demanded a senatorial decree for the erection of
images in memory of the dead prince; that a golden one should
be carried, together with the other images, in the great
procession of the Circus, and the addition of the child's name
to the Hymn of the Salian Priests: and so, stifling private grief,
without further delay set forth for the war.

True kingship, as Plato, the old master of Aurelius, had understood
it, was essentially of the nature of a service. If so be, you can
discover a mode of life more desirable than the being a king, for
those who shall be kings; then, the true Ideal of the State will
become a possibility; but not otherwise.

And if the life of Beatific Vision be indeed possible, if philosophy
really "concludes in an ecstasy," affording full fruition to the
entire nature of man; then, for certain elect souls at least,
a mode of life will have been [58] discovered more desirable
than to be a king. By love or fear you might induce such persons
to forgo their privilege; to take upon them the distasteful task
of governing other men, or even of leading them to victory in battle.
But, by the very conditions of its tenure, their dominion would
be wholly a ministry to others: they would have taken upon them-"the
form of a servant": they would be reigning for the well-being
of others rather than their own. The true king, the righteous king,
would be Saint Lewis, exiling himself from the better
land and its perfected company--so real a thing to him, definite
and real as the pictured scenes of his psalter--to take part in or
to arbitrate men's quarrels, about the transitory appearances
of things.
In a lower degree (lower, in proportion as the highest Platonic
dream is lower than any Christian vision) the true king would be
Marcus Aurelius, drawn from the meditation of books, to be the ruler
of the Roman people in peace, and still more, in war.

To Aurelius, certainly, the philosophic mood, the visions, however
dim, which this mood brought with it, were sufficiently pleasant
to him, together with the endearments of his home, to make public
rule nothing less than a sacrifice of himself according to Plato's
requirement, now consummated in his setting forth for the campaign
on the Danube. That it was such a sacrifice was to Marius visible
fact, as he saw him [59] ceremoniously lifted into the saddle amid
all the pageantry of an imperial departure, yet with the air
less of a sanguine and self-reliant leader than of one in some way
or other already defeated. Through the fortune of the subsequent
years, passing and repassing so inexplicably from side to side, the
rumour of which reached him amid his own quiet studies, Marius
seemed always to see that central figure, with its habitually
dejected hue grown now to an expression of positive suffering, all
the stranger from its contrast with the magnificent armour worn
by the emperor on this occasion, as it had been worn by his predecessor
Hadrian.

Totus et argento contextus et auro:

clothed in its gold and silver, dainty as that old divinely constructed
armour of which Homer tells, but without its miraculous lightsomeness--he
looked out baffled, labouring, moribund; a mere comfortless shadow
taking part in some shadowy reproduction of the labours of Hercules,
through those northern, mist-laden confines of the civilised world.
It was as if the familiar soul which had been so friendly disposed
towards him were actually departed to Hades; and when he read the
Conversations afterwards, though his judgment of them underwent
no material change, it was nevertheless with the allowance we
make for the dead.

The memory of that suffering image, while it certainly strengthened
his adhesion [60] to what he could accept at all in the philosophy
of Aurelius, added a strange pathos to what must seem the writer's
mistakes. What, after all, had been the meaning of that incident,
observed as so fortunate an omen long since, when the
prince, then a little child much younger than was usual, had
stood in ceremony among the priests of Mars and flung his crown of
flowers with the rest at the sacred image reclining on the Pulvinar?
The other crowns lodged themselves here or there; when, Lo! the
crown thrown by Aurelius, the youngest of them all, alighted upon
the very brows of the god, as if placed there by a careful
hand!
He was still young, also, when on the day of his adoption by
Antoninus Pius he saw himself in a dream, with as it were shoulders
of ivory, like the images of the gods, and found them more capable
than shoulders of flesh. Yet he was now well-nigh fifty years
of age, setting out with two-thirds of life behind him, upon a
labour which would fill the remainder of it with anxious cares--a
labour for which he had perhaps no capacity, and certainly no taste.

That ancient suit of armour was almost the only object Aurelius now
possessed from all those much cherished articles of vertu collected
by the Caesars, making the imperial residence like a magnificent
museum. Not men alone were needed for the war, so that it
became necessary, to the great disgust alike of timid persons
and of [61] the lovers of sport, to arm the gladiators, but
money also was lacking.

Accordingly, at the sole motion of Aurelius himself, unwilling that
the public burden should be further increased, especially on the
part of the poor, the whole of the imperial ornaments and furniture,
a sumptuous collection of gems formed by Hadrian, with many
works of the most famous painters and sculptors, even the precious
ornaments of the emperor's chapel or Lararium, and the wardrobe of
the empress Faustina, who seems to have borne the loss without a
murmur, were exposed for public auction.

"These treasures," said Aurelius, "like all else that I possess,
belong by right to the Senate and People."

Was it not a characteristic of the true kings in Plato that they
had in their houses nothing they could call their own? Connoisseurs
had a keen delight in the mere reading of the Praetor's list of the
property for sale. For two months the learned in these matters
were daily occupied in the appraising of the embroidered hangings,
the choice articles of personal use selected for preservation by
each succeeding age, the great outlandish pearls from Hadrian's
favourite cabinet, the marvellous plate lying safe behind the pretty
iron wicker-work of the shops in the goldsmiths' quarter.

Meantime ordinary persons might have an interest in the
inspection of objects which had been as daily companions to people
so far above and remote from them--things so fine also [62] in
workmanship and material as to seem, with their antique and delicate
air, a worthy survival of the grand bygone eras, like select thoughts
or utterances embodying the very spirit of the vanished past.
The town became more pensive than ever over old fashions.

The welcome amusement of this last act of preparation for the great
war being now over, all Rome seemed to settle down into a
singular quiet, likely to last long, as though bent only on watching
from afar the languid, somewhat uneventful course of the contest
itself.

Marius took advantage of it as an opportunity for still closer study
than of old, only now and then going out to one of his favourite
spots on the Sabine or Alban hills for a quiet even greater
than that of Rome in the country air. On one of these occasions,
as if by favour of an invisible power withdrawing some unknown
cause of dejection from around him, he enjoyed a quite unusual sense
of self- possession--the possession of his own best and happiest
self.

After some gloomy thoughts over-night, he awoke under the full tide
of the rising sun, himself full, in his entire refreshment, of
that almost religious appreciation of sleep, the graciousness of
its influence on men's spirits, which had made the old Greeks
conceive of it as a god.

It was like one of those old joyful wakings of childhood, now
becoming rarer and rarer with him, and looked back upon with much
regret as a measure of advancing age. In fact, [63] the last bequest
of this serene sleep had been a dream, in which, as once before,
he overheard those he loved best pronouncing his name very pleasantly,
as they passed through the rich light and shadow of a summer
morning, along the pavement of a city--Ah!

fairer far than Rome! In a moment, as he arose, a certain oppression
of late setting very heavily upon him was lifted away, as though
by some physical motion in the air.

That flawless serenity, better than the most pleasurable excitement,
yet so easily ruffled by chance collision even with the things and
persons he had come to value as the greatest treasure in life, was
to be wholly his to-day, he thought, as he rode towards Tibur, under
the early sunshine; the marble of its villas glistening all the way
before him on the hillside.

And why could he not hold such serenity of spirit ever at command?
he asked, expert as he was at last become in the art of setting
the house of his thoughts in order. "'Tis in thy power to think as
thou wilt:" he repeated to himself: it was the most serviceable
of all the lessons enforced on him by those imperial conversations.

--"'Tis in thy power to think as thou wilt." And were the cheerful,
sociable, restorative beliefs, of which he had there read so
much, that bold adhesion, for instance, to the hypothesis of an
eternal friend to man, just hidden behind the veil of a
mechanical and material order, but only just behind it, [64] ready
perhaps even now to break through:--were they, after all, really
a matter of choice, dependent on some deliberate act of volition on
his part?
Were they doctrines one might take for granted, generously take for
granted, and led on by them, at first as but well-defined objects
of hope, come at last into the region of a corresponding certitude
of the intellect?

"It is the truth I seek," he had read, "the truth, by which no
one," gray and depressing though it might seem, "was ever really
injured." And yet, on the other hand, the imperial wayfarer,
he had been able to go along with so far on his intellectual pilgrimage,
let fall many things concerning the practicability of a
methodical and self-forced assent to certain principles or
presuppositions "one could not do without." Were there, as the
expression "one could not do without" seemed to hint, beliefs,
without which life itself must be almost impossible, principles
which had their sufficient ground of evidence in that very fact?
Experience certainly taught that, as regarding the sensible
world he could attend or not, almost at will, to this or that
colour, this or that train of sounds, in the whole tumultuous
concourse of colour and sound, so it was also, for the well-trained
intelligence, in regard to that hum of voices which besiege the
inward no less than the outward ear.

Might it be not otherwise with those various and competing
hypotheses, the permissible hypotheses, which, [65] in that open
field for hypothesis--one's own actual ignorance of the origin
and tendency of our being--present themselves so importunately,
some of them with so emphatic a reiteration, through all the mental
changes of successive ages?

Might the will itself be an organ of knowledge, of vision?

On this day truly no mysterious light, no irresistibly leading
hand from afar reached him; only the peculiarly tranquil influence
of its first hour increased steadily upon him, in a manner with
which, as he conceived, the aspects of the place he was then
visiting had something to do. The air there, air supposed to possess
the singular property of restoring the whiteness of
ivory, was pure and thin. An even veil of lawn-like white cloud had
now drawn over the sky; and under its broad, shadowless light
every hue and tone of time came out upon the yellow old temples,
the elegant pillared circle of the shrine of the patronal Sibyl,
the houses seemingly of a piece with the ancient fundamental
rock. Some half-conscious motive of poetic grace would appear to
have determined their grouping; in part resisting, partly going
along with the natural wildness and harshness of the place, its
floods and precipices.

An air of immense age possessed, above all, the vegetation around--a
world of evergreen trees--the olives especially, older than how
many generations of men's lives! fretted and twisted by the
combining forces of [66] life and death, into every conceivable
caprice of form. In the windless weather all seemed to be listening
to the roar of the immemorial waterfall, plunging down so unassociably
among these human habitations, and with a motion so unchanging
from age to age as to count, even in this time-worn place, as
an image of unalterable rest.
Yet the clear sky all but broke to let through the ray which was
silently quickening everything in the late February afternoon,
and the unseen violet refined itself through the air. It was as if
the spirit of life in nature were but withholding any too precipitate
revelation of itself, in its slow, wise, maturing work.

Through some accident to the trappings of his horse at the inn where
he rested, Marius had an unexpected delay. He sat down in an olive-
garden, and, all around him and within still turning to reverie,
the course of his own life hitherto seemed to withdraw itself into
some other world, disparted from this spectacular point where
he was now placed to survey it, like that distant road below,
along which he had travelled this morning across the Campagna.
Through a dreamy land he could see himself moving, as if in another
life, and like another person, through all his fortunes and
misfortunes, passing from point to point, weeping, delighted,
escaping from various dangers.

That prospect brought him, first of all, an impulse of lively
gratitude:
it was as if he must look round for some one [67] else to share his
joy with: for some one to whom he might tell the thing, for his
own relief.

Companionship, indeed, familiarity with others, gifted in this way
or that, or at least pleasant to him, had been, through one or
another long span of it, the chief delight of the journey. And was
it only the resultant general sense of such familiarity, diffused
through his memory, that in a while suggested the question
whether there had not been--besides Flavian, besides Cornelius
even, and amid the solitude he had which in spite of ardent
friendship perhaps loved best of all things--some other companion,
an unfailing companion, ever at his side throughout; doubling his
pleasure in the roses by the way, patient of his peevishness or
depression, sympathetic above all with his grateful recognition,
onward from his earliest days, of the fact that he was there at all?

Must not the whole world around have faded away for him altogether,
had he been left for one moment really alone in it? In his
deepest apparent solitude there had been rich entertainment. It
was as if there were not one only, but two wayfarers, side
by side, visible there across the plain, as he indulged his fancy.
A bird came and sang among the wattled hedge- roses: an animal
feeding crept nearer: the child who kept it was gazing quietly: and
the scene and the hours still conspiring, he passed from that mere
fantasy of a self not himself, beside him in his coming and [68]
going, to those divinations of a living and companionable spirit
at work in all things, of which he had become aware from time to
time in his old philosophic readings--in Plato and others, last but
not least, in Aurelius.

Through one reflection upon another, he passed from such instinctive
divinations, to the thoughts which give them logical consistency,
formulating at last, as the necessary exponent of our own and the
world's life, that reasonable Ideal to which the Old Testament gives
the name of Creator, which for the philosophers of Greece is the
Eternal Reason, and in the New Testament the Father of Men--even
as one builds up from act and word and expression of the friend
actually visible at one's side, an ideal of the spirit within him.

In this peculiar and privileged hour, his bodily frame, as he could
recognise, although just then, in the whole sum of its capacities,
so entirely possessed by him--Nay! actually his very self--was
yet determined by a far-reaching system of material forces external
to it, a thousand combining currents from earth and sky.

Its seemingly active powers of apprehension were, in fact, but
susceptibilities to influence. The perfection of its capacity
might be said to depend on its passive surrender, as of a leaf on
the wind, to the motions of the great stream of physical energy
without it. And might not the intellectual frame also, still [69]
more intimately himself as in truth it was, after the analogy of
the bodily life, be a moment only, an impulse or series of impulses,
a single process, in an intellectual or spiritual system external
to it, diffused through all time and place--that great stream of
spiritual energy, of which his own imperfect thoughts, yesterday
or to-day, would be but the remote, and therefore imperfect pulsations?

It was the hypothesis (boldest, though in reality the most conceivable
of all hypotheses) which had dawned on the contemplations of the
two opposed great masters of the old Greek thought, alike:--the
"World of Ideas," existent only because, and in so far as, they are
known, as Plato conceived; the "creative, incorruptible, informing
mind," supposed by Aristotle, so sober-minded, yet as regards this
matter left something of a mystic after all.

Might not this entire material world, the very scene around him, the
immemorial rocks, the firm marble, the olive-gardens, the falling
water, be themselves but reflections in, or a creation of, that one
indefectible mind, wherein he too became conscious,
for an hour, a day, for so many years?

Upon what other hypothesis could he so well understand the persistency
of all these things for his own intermittent consciousness of
them, for the intermittent consciousness of so many generations,
fleeting away one after another? It was easier to conceive of the
material fabric of things as [70] but an element in a world of
thought--as a thought in a mind, than of mind as an element,
or accident, or passing condition in a world of matter, because
mind was really nearer to himself: it was an explanation of what
was less known by what was known better.

The purely material world, that close, impassable prison-wall,
seemed just then the unreal thing, to be actually dissolving away
all around him: and he felt a quiet hope, a quiet joy dawning
faintly, in the dawning of this doctrine upon him as a really
credible opinion. It was like the break of day over some vast
prospect with the "new city," as it were some celestial New Rome,
in the midst of it. That divine companion figured no longer as
but an occasional wayfarer beside him; but rather as the unfailing
"assistant," without whose inspiration and concurrence he could
not breathe or see, instrumenting his bodily senses, rounding,
supporting his imperfect thoughts.

How often had the thought of their brevity spoiled for him the most
natural pleasures of life, confusing even his present sense of
them by the suggestion of disease, of death, of a coming end, in
everything! How had he longed, sometimes, that there were indeed
one to whose boundless power of memory he could commit his own
most fortunate moments, his admiration, his love, Ay! the very
sorrows of which he could not bear quite to lose the sense:--one
strong to retain them even though [71] he forgot, in whose more
vigorous consciousness they might subsist for ever, beyond that
mere quickening of capacity which was all that remained of them
in himself! "Oh!

that they might live before Thee"--To-day at least, in the
peculiar clearness of one privileged hour, he seemed to have apprehended
that in which the experiences he valued most might find, one by one,
an abiding-place. And again, the resultant sense of companionship,
of a person beside him, evoked the faculty of conscience--of
conscience, as of old and when he had been at his best, in the
form, not of fear, nor of self-reproach even, but of a certain
lively gratitude.

Himself--his sensations and ideas--never fell again precisely into
focus as on that day, yet he was the richer by its experience.

look!  What's
this?" pointing ahead with his other hand.

At first I saw nothing.  The sea was one empty wilderness of black
and white hills.  Suddenly, half-concealed in the tumult of the
foaming rollers I made out awash, something enormous, rising and
falling--something spread out like a burst of foam, but with a more
bluish, more solid look.

It was a piece of an ice-floe melted down to a fragment, but still
big enough to sink a ship, and floating lower than any raft, right
in our way, as if ambushed among the waves with murderous intent.
There was no time to get down on deck.  I shouted from aloft till
my head was ready to split.  I was heard aft, and we managed to
clear the sunken floe which had come all the way from the Southern
ice-cap to have a try at our unsuspecting lives.  Had it been an
hour later, nothing could have saved the ship, for no eye could
have made out in the dusk that pale piece of ice swept over by the
white-crested waves.

And as we stood near the taffrail side by side, my captain and I,
looking at it, hardly discernible already, but still quite close-to
on our quarter, he remarked in a meditative tone:

"But for the turn of that wheel just in time, there would have been
another case of a 'missing' ship."

Nobody ever comes back from a "missing" ship to tell how hard was
the death of the craft, and how sudden and overwhelming the last
anguish of her men.  Nobody can say with what thoughts, with what
regrets, with what words on their lips they died.  But there is
something fine in the sudden passing away of these hearts from the
extremity of struggle and stress and tremendous uproar--from the
vast, unrestful rage of the surface to the profound peace of the
depths, sleeping untroubled since the beginning of ages.


XVIII.


But if the word "missing" brings all hope to an end and settles the
loss of the underwriters, the word "overdue" confirms the fears
already born in many homes ashore, and opens the door of
speculation in the market of risks.

Maritime risks, be it understood.  There is a class of optimists
ready to reinsure an "overdue" ship at a heavy premium.  But
nothing can insure the hearts on shore against the bitterness of
waiting for the worst.

For if a "missing" ship has never turned up within the memory of
seamen of my generation, the name of an "overdue" ship, trembling
as it were on the edge of the fatal heading, has been known to
appear as "arrived."

It must blaze up, indeed, with a great brilliance the dull
printer's ink expended on the assemblage of the few letters that
form the ship's name to the anxious eyes scanning the page in fear
and trembling.  It is like the message of reprieve from the
sentence of sorrow suspended over many a home, even if some of the
men in her have been the most homeless mortals that you may find
among the wanderers of the sea.

The reinsurer, the optimist of ill-luck and disaster, slaps his
pocket with satisfaction.  The underwriter, who had been trying to
minimize the amount of impending loss, regrets his premature
pessimism.  The ship has been stauncher, the skies more merciful,
the seas less angry, or perhaps the men on board of a finer temper
than he has been willing to take for granted.

"The ship So-and-so, bound to such a port, and posted as 'overdue,'
has been reported yesterday as having arrived safely at her
destination."

Thus run the official words of the reprieve addressed to the hearts
ashore lying under a heavy sentence.  And they come swiftly from
the other side of the earth, over wires and cables, for your
electric telegraph is a great alleviator of anxiety.  Details, of
course, shall follow.  And they may unfold a tale of narrow escape,
of steady ill-luck, of high winds and heavy weather, of ice, of
interminable calms or endless head-gales; a tale of difficulties
overcome, of adversity defied by a small knot of men upon the great
loneliness of the sea; a tale of resource, of courage--of
helplessness, perhaps.

Of all ships disabled at sea, a steamer who has lost her propeller
is the most helpless.  And if she drifts into an unpopulated part
of the ocean she may soon become overdue.  The menace of the
"overdue" and the finality of "missing" come very quickly to
steamers whose life, fed on coals and breathing the black breath of
smoke into the air, goes on in disregard of wind and wave.  Such a
one, a big steamship, too, whose working life had been a record of
faithful keeping time from land to land, in disregard of wind and
sea, once lost her propeller down south, on her passage out to New
Zealand.

."+ And to-day, committing himself with a steady effort of volition
to the mere silence of the great empty apartments, he might be
said to have escaped, according to Plato's promise to those who
live closely with philosophy, from the evils of the world.

In his "conversations with himself" Marcus Aurelius speaks often
of that City on high, of which all other cities are but single
habitations. From him in fact Cornelius Fronto, in his late
discourse, had borrowed the expression; and he certainly
meant by it more than the whole commonwealth of Rome, in any
idealisation of it, however sublime. Incorporate somehow with the
actual city whose goodly stones were lying beneath his gaze, it was
also implicate in that reasonable constitution of nature, by
devout contemplation of which it is possible for man to associate
himself to the consciousness of God.

In that New Rome he had taken up his rest for awhile on this day,
deliberately feeding his thoughts on the better air of it, as another
might have gone for mental renewal to a favourite villa.

"Men seek retirement in country-houses," he writes, "on the sea-
coast, on the mountains; and you have yourself as much fondness
for such places as another. But there is little proof of culture
therein; since the privilege is yours of [38] retiring into
yourself whensoever you please,-- into that little farm of one's own
mind, where a silence so profound may be enjoyed." That it could
make these retreats, was a plain consequence of the kingly prerogative
of the mind, its dominion over circumstance, its inherent
liberty.

--"It is in thy power to think as thou wilt: The essence of things
is in thy thoughts about them: All is opinion, conception: No
man can be hindered by another: What is outside thy circle of thought
is nothing at all to it; hold to this, and you are safe: One
thing is needful-- to live close to the divine genius within
thee, and minister thereto worthily." And the first point in
this true ministry, this culture, was to maintain one's soul in a
condition of indifference and calm.
How continually had public claims, the claims of other persons,
with their rough angularities of character, broken in upon him,
the shepherd of the flock. But after all he had at least this
privilege he could not part with, of thinking as he would; and it
was well, now and then, by a conscious effort of will, to indulge
it for a while, under systematic direction.

The duty of thus making discreet, systematic use of the power of
imaginative vision for purposes of spiritual culture, "since the
soul takes colour from its fantasies," is a point he has frequently
insisted on.

The influence of these seasonable meditations--a symbol, or sacrament,
because an intensified [39] condition, of the soul's own ordinary
and natural life--would remain upon it, perhaps for many days.

There were experiences he could not forget, intuitions beyond
price, he had come by in this way, which were almost like the
breaking of a physical light upon his mind; as the great Augustus
was said to have seen a mysterious physical splendour, yonder, upon
the summit of the Capitol, where the altar of the Sibyl now
stood. With a prayer, therefore, for inward quiet, for conformity
to the divine reason, he read some select passages of Plato, which
bear upon the harmony of the reason, in all its forms, with
itself--"Could there be Cosmos, that wonderful, reasonable
order, in him, and nothing but disorder in the world without?" It
was from this question he had passed on to the vision of a
reasonable, a divine, order, not in nature, but in the
condition of human affairs--that unseen Celestial City, Uranopolis,
Callipolis, Urbs Beata--in which, a consciousness of the divine
will being everywhere realised, there would be, among other felicitous
differences from this lower visible world, no more quite hopeless
death, of men, or children, or of their affections.

He had tried to-day, as never before, to make the most of this
vision of a New Rome, to realise it as distinctly as he
could,--and, as it were, find his way along its streets, ere he
went down into a world so irksomely different, to make his
practical effort towards it, with a soul full of [40] compassion for
men as they were. However distinct the mental image might have been
to him, with the descent of but one flight of steps into the
market-place below, it must have retreated again, as if at touch
of some malign magic wand, beyond the utmost verge of the horizon.
But it had been actually, in his clearest vision of it, a confused
place, with but a recognisable entry, a tower or fountain, here or
there, and haunted by strange faces, whose novel expression he, the
great physiognomist, could by no means read.

Plato, indeed, had been able to articulate, to see, at least in
thought, his ideal city.

But just because Aurelius had passed beyond Plato, in the scope of
the gracious charities he pre- supposed there, he had been unable
really to track his way about it.

Ah! after all, according to Plato himself, all vision was but
reminiscence, and this, his heart's desire, no place his soul could
ever have visited in any region of the old world's achievements.

He had but divined, by a kind of generosity of spirit, the void
place, which another experience than his must fill.

Yet Marius noted the wonderful expression of peace, of quiet pleasure,
on the countenance of Aurelius, as he received from him the rolls
of fine clear manuscript, fancying the thoughts of the emperor
occupied at the moment with the famous prospect towards the Alban
hills, from those lofty windows.

NOTES

37. +Transliteration: en oligistois keitai. Definition "it lies
in the fewest [things]."

CHAPTER XVIII: "THE CEREMONY OF THE DART"
[41] THE ideas of Stoicism, so precious to Marcus Aurelius, ideas
of large generalisation, have sometimes induced, in those over
whose intellects they have had real power, a coldness of heart.

It was the distinction of Aurelius that he was able to harmonise
them with the kindness, one might almost say the amenities, of a
humourist, as also with the popular religion and its many gods.

Those vasty conceptions of the later Greek philosophy had in them,
in truth, the germ of a sort of austerely opinionative "natural
theology," and how often has that led to religious dryness--a hard
contempt of everything in religion, which touches the senses, or
charms the fancy, or really concerns the affections.

Aurelius had made his own the secret of passing, naturally, and
with no violence to his thought, to and fro, between the richly
coloured and romantic religion of those old gods who had still been
human beings, and a very abstract speculation upon the
impassive, [42] universal soul--that circle whose centre is everywhere,
the circumference nowhere--of which a series of purely logical
necessities had evolved the formula.

As in many another instance, those traditional pieties of the
place and the hour had been derived by him from his mother:--para
tês mêtros to theosebes.+ Purified, as all such religion of
concrete time and place needs to be, by frequent confronting
with the ideal of godhead as revealed to that innate religious
sense in the possession of which Aurelius differed from the
people around him, it was the ground of many a sociability with
their simpler souls, and for himself, certainly, a consolation,
whenever the wings of his own soul flagged in the trying atmosphere
of purely intellectual vision.

A host of companions, guides, helpers, about him from of old time,
"the very court and company of heaven," objects for him of personal
reverence and affection--the supposed presence of the ancient
popular gods determined the character of much of his daily life,
and might prove the last stay of human nature at its weakest. "In
every time and place," he had said, "it rests with thyself to
use the event of the hour religiously: at all seasons worship the
gods." And when he said "Worship the gods!" he did it, as
strenuously as everything else.

Yet here again, how often must he have experienced disillusion,
or even some revolt of [43] feeling, at that contact with coarser
natures to which his religious conclusions exposed him. At the
beginning of the year one hundred and seventy-three public anxiety
was as great as ever; and as before it brought people's superstition
into unreserved play. For seven days the images of the old gods, and
some of the graver new ones, lay solemnly exposed in the open air,
arrayed in all their ornaments, each in his separate resting-place,
amid lights and burning incense, while the crowd, following the
imperial example, daily visited them, with offerings of flowers
to this or that particular divinity, according to the devotion of
each.

But supplementing these older official observances, the very wildest
gods had their share of worship,--strange creatures with strange
secrets startled abroad into open daylight. The delirious sort
of religion of which Marius was a spectator in the streets of Rome,
during the seven days of the Lectisternium, reminded him now and
again of an observation of Apuleius: it was "as if the presence of
the gods did not do men good, but disordered or weakened them."

Some jaded women of fashion, especially, found in certain oriental
devotions, at once relief for their religiously tearful souls and
an opportunity for personal display; preferring this or that
"mystery," chiefly because the attire required in it was suitable
to their peculiar manner of beauty.

And one morning Marius [44] encountered an extraordinary crimson
object, borne in a litter through an excited crowd--the famous
courtesan Benedicta, still fresh from the bath of blood, to which
she had submitted herself, sitting below the scaffold where the
victims provided for that purpose were slaughtered by the priests.

Even on the last day of the solemnity, when the emperor himself
performed one of the oldest ceremonies of the Roman religion, this
fantastic piety had asserted itself. There were victims
enough certainly, brought from the choice pastures of the Sabine
mountains, and conducted around the city they were to die for, in
almost continuous procession, covered with flowers and well-nigh
worried to death before the time by the crowds of people
superstitiously pressing to touch them. But certain old-fashioned
Romans, in these exceptional circumstances, demanded something more
than this, in the way of a human sacrifice after the ancient
pattern; as when, not so long since, some Greeks or Gauls had been
buried alive in the Forum.
At least, human blood should be shed; and it was through a wild
multitude of fanatics, cutting their flesh with knives and whips
and licking up ardently the crimson stream, that the emperor
repaired to the temple of Bellona, and in solemn symbolic act
cast the bloodstained spear, or "dart," carefully preserved
there, towards the enemy's country-- [45] towards that unknown
world of German homes, still warm, as some believed under the faint
northern twilight, with those innocent affections of which Romans
had lost the sense.

And this at least was clear, amid all doubts of abstract right or
wrong on either side, that the ruin of those homes was involved in
what Aurelius was then preparing for, with,--Yes! the gods be
thanked for that achievement of an invigorating philosophy!--almost
with a light heart.

For, in truth, that departure, really so difficult to him, for which
Marcus Aurelius had needed to brace himself so strenuously, came
to test the power of a long-studied theory of practice; and it was
the development of this theory--a theôria, literally--a view, an
intuition, of the most important facts, and still more important
possibilities, concerning man in the world, that Marius now discovered,
almost as if by accident, below the dry surface of the manuscripts
entrusted to him.

The great purple rolls contained, first of all, statistics, a general
historical account of the writer's own time, and an exact diary;
all alike, though in three different degrees of nearness to the
writer's own personal experience, laborious, formal,
self-suppressing. This was for the instruction of the public;
and part of it has, perhaps, found its way into the Augustan
Histories. But it was for the especial guidance of his son Commodus
that he had permitted himself to break out, here [46] and there,
into reflections upon what was passing, into conversations with
the reader. And then, as though he were put off his guard in this
way, there had escaped into the heavy matter-of- fact, of which
the main portion was composed, morsels of his conversation with
himself.

It was the romance of a soul (to be traced only in hints, wayside
notes, quotations from older masters), as it were in lifelong, and
often baffled search after some vanished or elusive golden fleece,
or Hesperidean fruit-trees, or some mysterious light of doctrine,
ever retreating before him. A man, he had seemed to Marius from the
first, of two lives, as we say.

Of what nature, he had sometimes wondered, on the day, for instance,
when he had interrupted the emperor's musings in the empty palace,
might be that placid inward guest or inhabitant, who from amid
the pre-occupations of the man of practical affairs looked out,
as if surprised, at the things and faces around. Here, then, under
the tame surface of what was meant for a life of business, Marius
discovered, welcoming a brother, the spontaneous self-revelation
of a soul as delicate as his own,--a soul for which conversation
with itself was a necessity of existence. Marius, indeed, had always
suspected that the sense of such necessity was a peculiarity of
his.
But here, certainly, was another, in this respect like himself;
and again he seemed to detect the advent of some [47] new or
changed spirit into the world, mystic, inward, hardly to be
satisfied with that wholly external and objective habit of life,
which had been sufficient for the old classic soul.

His purely literary curiosity was greatly stimulated by this example
of a book of self-portraiture.
It was in fact the position of the modern essayist,--creature of
efforts rather than of achievements, in the matter of apprehending
truth, but at least conscious of lights by the way, which he must
needs record, acknowledge.

What seemed to underlie that position was the desire to make the
most of every experience that might come, outwardly or from within:
to perpetuate, to display, what was so fleeting, in a kind of
instinctive, pathetic protest against the imperial writer's own
theory--that theory of the "perpetual flux" of all things--to Marius
himself, so plausible from of old.

There was, besides, a special moral or doctrinal significance
in the making of such conversation with one's self at all.

The Logos, the reasonable spark, in man, is common to him with the
gods--koinos autô
pros tous theous+--cum diis communis.

That might seem but the truism of a certain school of philosophy;
but in Aurelius was clearly an original and lively apprehension.

There could be no inward conversation with one's self such as
this, unless there were indeed some one else, aware of our actual
thoughts and feelings, pleased or displeased at [48] one's disposition
of one's self.

Cornelius Fronto too could enounce that theory of the reasonable
community between men and God, in many different ways.

But then, he was a cheerful man, and Aurelius a singularly
sad one; and what to Fronto was but a doctrine, or a motive of mere
rhetoric, was to the other a consolation. He walks and talks, for
a spiritual refreshment lacking which he would faint by the way,
with what to the learned professor is but matter of philosophic
eloquence.

In performing his public religious functions Marcus Aurelius had ever
seemed like one who took part in some great process, a great thing
really done, with more than the actually visible assistants about
him.

Here, in these manuscripts, in a hundred marginal flowers of thought
or language, in happy new phrases of his own like the impromptus
of an actual conversation, in quotations from other older masters
of the inward life, taking new significance from the chances of
such intercourse, was the record of his communion with that eternal
reason, which was also his own proper self, with the divine companion,
whose tabernacle was in the intelligence of men--the journal of his
daily commerce with that.

Chance: or Providence!

Chance: or Wisdom, one with nature and man, reaching from end
to end, through all time and all existence, orderly disposing all
things, according to [49] fixed periods, as he describes
it, in terms very like certain well-known words of the book of
Wisdom:--those are the "fenced opposites" of the speculative dilemma,
the tragic embarras, of which Aurelius cannot too often remind
himself as the summary of man's situation in the world.

If there be, however, a provident soul like this "behind the veil,"
truly, even to him, even in the most intimate of those conversations,
it has never yet spoken with any quite irresistible assertion of
its presence.

Yet one's choice in that speculative dilemma, as he has found
it, is on the whole a matter of will.--"'Tis in thy power," here
too, again, "to think as thou wilt." For his part he has asserted
his will, and has the courage of his opinion. "To the better of
two things, if thou findest that, turn with thy whole heart:
eat and drink ever of the best before thee."

"Wisdom," says that other disciple of the Sapiential philosophy,
"hath mingled Her wine, she hath also prepared Herself a table."
Tou aristou apolaue:+ "Partake ever of Her best!" And what Marius,
peeping now very closely upon the intimacies of that singular mind,
found a thing actually pathetic and affecting, was the manner of
the writer's bearing as in the presence of this supposed guest;
so elusive, so jealous of any palpable manifestation of himself,
so taxing to one's faith, never allowing one to lean frankly upon
him and feel wholly at rest.

Only, he [50] would do his part, at least, in maintaining the
constant fitness, the sweetness and quiet, of the guest-chamber.
Seeming to vary with the intellectual fortune of the hour, from the
plainest account of experience, to a sheer fantasy, only "believed
because it was impossible," that one hope was, at all events,
sufficient to make men's common pleasures and their common ambition,
above all their commonest vices, seem very petty indeed, too petty
to know of.

It bred in him a kind of magnificence of character, in the old
Greek sense of the term; a temper incompatible with any merely
plausible advocacy of his convictions, or merely superficial thoughts
about anything whatever, or talk about other people, or
speculation as to what was passing in their so visibly little souls,
or much talking of any kind, however clever or graceful. A soul
thus disposed had "already entered into the better life":--was
indeed in some sort "a priest, a minister of the gods." Hence
his constant "recollection"; a close watching of his soul, of a kind
almost unique in the ancient world.--Before all things examine into
thyself: strive to be at home with thyself!--Marius, a sympathetic
witness of all this, might almost seem to have had a foresight of
monasticism itself in the prophetic future. With this mystic
companion he had gone a step onward out of the merely objective
pagan existence. Here was already a master in that craft of
self-direction, which was about to [51] play so large a part
in the forming of human mind, under the sanction of the Christian
church.

Yet it was in truth a somewhat melancholy service, a service on
which one must needs move about, solemn, serious, depressed, with
the hushed footsteps of those who move about the house where a
dead body is lying. Such was the impression which occurred to
Marius again and again as he read, with a growing sense of some
profound dissidence from his author. By certain quite traceable links
of association he was reminded, in spite of the moral beauty
of the philosophic emperor's ideas, how he had sat, essentially
unconcerned, at the public shows. For, actually, his contemplations
had made him of a sad heart, inducing in him that
melancholy--Tristitia--which even the monastic moralists have held
to be of the nature of deadly sin, akin to the sin of Desidia or
Inactivity.

Resignation, a sombre resignation, a sad heart, patient bearing
of the burden of a sad heart:--Yes! this belonged doubtless to
the situation of an honest thinker upon the world. Only, in
this case there seemed to be too much of a complacent acquiescence
in the world as it is. And there could be no true Théodicé
in that; no real accommodation of the world as it is, to the divine
pattern of the Logos, the eternal reason, over against it. It
amounted to a tolerance of evil.

The soul of good, though it moveth upon a way thou canst but little
understand, yet prospereth on the journey:
[52] If thou sufferest nothing contrary to nature, there can be
nought of evil with thee therein.

If thou hast done aught in harmony with that reason in which men are
communicant with the gods, there also can be nothing of evil with
thee--nothing to be afraid of:

Whatever is, is right; as from the hand of one dispensing to every
man according to his desert:

If reason fulfil its part in things, what more dost thou require?

Dost thou take it ill that thy stature is but of four cubits?

That which happeneth to each of us is for the profit of the
whole.

The profit of the whole,--that was sufficient!+
--Links, in a train of thought really generous! of which,
nevertheless, the forced and yet facile optimism, refusing to
see evil anywhere, might lack, after all, the secret of genuine
cheerfulness. It left in truth a weight upon the spirits; and
with that weight unlifted, there could be no real justification
of the ways of Heaven to man.

"Let thine air be cheerful," he had said; and, with an effort, did
himself at times attain to that serenity of aspect, which surely
ought to accompany, as their outward flower and favour, hopeful
assumptions like those. Still, what in Aurelius was but a passing
expression, was with Cornelius (Marius could but note the contrast)
nature, and a veritable physiognomy.

With Cornelius, in fact, it was nothing less than the joy which
Dante apprehended in the blessed spirits of the perfect, the outward
semblance of which, like a reflex of physical light upon human
faces from "the land which is very far off," we may trace from
Giotto onward to its consummation in the work of Raphael--the serenity,
the [53] durable cheerfulness, of those who have been indeed delivered
from death, and of which the utmost degree of that famed "blitheness
"of the Greeks had been but a transitory gleam, as in careless
and wholly superficial youth. And yet, in Cornelius, it was
certainly united with the bold recognition of evil as a fact in the
world; real as an aching in the head or heart, which one instinctively
desires to have cured; an enemy with whom no terms could be made,
visible, hatefully visible, in a thousand forms--the apparent waste
of men's gifts in an early, or even in a late grave; the death, as
such, of men, and even of animals; the disease and pain of the body.

And there was another point of dissidence between Aurelius and
his reader.--The philosophic emperor was a despiser of the body.
Since it is "the peculiar privilege of reason to move within
herself, and to be proof against corporeal impressions, suffering
neither sensation nor passion to break in upon her," it follows
that the true interest of the spirit must ever be to treat the
body--Well! as a corpse attached thereto, rather than as a living
companion--nay, actually to promote its dissolution.
The shouting I need not mention--it was the merest drop in an ocean
of noise--and yet the character of the gale seems contained in the
recollection of one small, not particularly impressive, sallow man
without a cap and with a very still face.  Captain Jones--let us
call him Jones--had been caught unawares.  Two orders he had given
at the first sign of an utterly unforeseen onset; after that the
magnitude of his mistake seemed to have overwhelmed him.  We were
doing what was needed and feasible.  The ship behaved well.  Of
course, it was some time before we could pause in our fierce and
laborious exertions; but all through the work, the excitement, the
uproar, and some dismay, we were aware of this silent little man at
the break of the poop, perfectly motionless, soundless, and often
hidden from us by the drift of sprays.

When we officers clambered at last upon the poop, he seemed to come
out of that numbed composure, and shouted to us down wind:  "Try
the pumps."  Afterwards he disappeared.  As to the ship, I need not
say that, although she was presently swallowed up in one of the
blackest nights I can remember, she did not disappear.  In truth, I
don't fancy that there had ever been much danger of that, but
certainly the experience was noisy and particularly distracting--
and yet it is the memory of a very quiet silence that survives.


XXIV.


For, after all, a gale of wind, the thing of mighty sound, is
inarticulate.  It is man who, in a chance phrase, interprets the
elemental passion of his enemy.  Thus there is another gale in my
memory, a thing of endless, deep, humming roar, moonlight, and a
spoken sentence.

It was off that other cape which is always deprived of its title as
the Cape of Good Hope is robbed of its name.  It was off the Horn.
For a true expression of dishevelled wildness there is nothing like
a gale in the bright moonlight of a high latitude.

The ship, brought-to and bowing to enormous flashing seas,
glistened wet from deck to trucks; her one set sail stood out a
coal-black shape upon the gloomy blueness of the air.  I was a
youngster then, and suffering from weariness, cold, and imperfect
oilskins which let water in at every seam.  I craved human
companionship, and, coming off the poop, took my place by the side
of the boatswain (a man whom I did not like) in a comparatively dry
spot where at worst we had water only up to our knees.  Above our
heads the explosive booming gusts of wind passed continuously,
justifying the sailor's saying "It blows great guns."  And just
from that need of human companionship, being very close to the man,
I said, or rather shouted:

"Blows very hard, boatswain."

His answer was:

"Ay, and if it blows only a little harder things will begin to go.
I don't mind as long as everything holds, but when things begin to
go it's bad."

The note of dread in the shouting voice, the practical truth of
these words, heard years ago from a man I did not like, have
stamped its peculiar character on that gale.

A look in the eyes of a shipmate, a low murmur in the most
sheltered spot where the watch on duty are huddled together, a
meaning moan from one to the other with a glance at the windward
sky, a sigh of weariness, a gesture of disgust passing into the
keeping of the great wind, become part and parcel of the gale.  The
olive hue of hurricane clouds presents an aspect peculiarly
appalling.  The inky ragged wrack, flying before a nor'-west wind,
makes you dizzy with its headlong speed that depicts the rush of
the invisible air.  A hard sou'-wester startles you with its close
horizon and its low gray sky, as if the world were a dungeon
wherein there is no rest for body or soul.  And there are black
squalls, white squalls, thunder squalls, and unexpected gusts that
come without a single sign in the sky; and of each kind no one of
them resembles another.

There is infinite variety in the gales of wind at sea, and except
for the peculiar, terrible, and mysterious moaning that may be
heard sometimes passing through the roar of a hurricane--except for
that unforgettable sound, as if the soul of the universe had been
goaded into a mournful groan--it is, after all, the human voice
that stamps the mark of human consciousness upon the character of a
gale.


XXV.


There is no part of the world of coasts, continents, oceans, seas,
straits, capes, and islands which is not under the sway of a
reigning wind, the sovereign of its typical weather.  The wind
rules the aspects of the sky and the action of the sea.  But no
wind rules unchallenged his realm of land and water.  As with the
kingdoms of the earth, there are regions more turbulent than
others.  In the middle belt of the earth the Trade Winds reign
supreme, undisputed, like monarchs of long-settled kingdoms, whose
traditional power, checking all undue ambitions, is not so much an
exercise of personal might as the working of long-established
institutions.  The intertropical kingdoms of the Trade Winds are
favourable to the ordinary life of a merchantman.  The trumpet-call
of strife is seldom borne on their wings to the watchful ears of
men on the decks of ships.  The regions ruled by the north-east and
south-east Trade Winds are serene.  In a southern-going ship, bound
out for a long voyage, the passage through their dominions is
characterized by a relaxation of strain and vigilance on the part
of the seamen.  Those citizens of the ocean feel sheltered under
the aegis of an uncontested law, of an undisputed dynasty.  There,
indeed, if anywhere on earth, the weather may be trusted.

Yet not too implicitly.  Even in the constitutional realm of Trade
Winds, north and south of the equator, ships are overtaken by
strange disturbances.  Still, the easterly winds, and, generally
speaking, the easterly weather all the world over, is characterized
by regularity and persistence.

As a ruler, the East Wind has a remarkable stability; as an invader
of the high latitudes lying under the tumultuous sway of his great
brother, the Wind of the West, he is extremely difficult to
dislodge, by the reason of his cold craftiness and profound
duplicity.

The narrow seas around these isles, where British admirals keep
watch and ward upon the marches of the Atlantic Ocean, are subject
to the turbulent sway of the West Wind.  Call it north-west or
south-west, it is all one--a different phase of the same character,
a changed expression on the same face.  In the orientation of the
winds that rule the seas, the north and south directions are of no
importance.  There are no North and South Winds of any account upon
this earth.  The North and South Winds are but small princes in the
dynasties that make peace and war upon the sea.  They never assert
themselves upon a vast stage.  They depend upon local causes--the
configuration of coasts, the shapes of straits, the accidents of
bold promontories round which they play their little part.  In the
polity of winds, as amongst the tribes of the earth, the real
struggle lies between East and West.


XXVI.


The West Wind reigns over the seas surrounding the coasts of these
kingdoms; and from the gateways of the channels, from promontories
as if from watch-towers, from estuaries of rivers as if from
postern gates, from passage-ways, inlets, straits, firths, the
garrison of the Isle and the crews of the ships going and returning
look to the westward to judge by the varied splendours of his
sunset mantle the mood of that arbitrary ruler.  --in the eternity
of their existence, in the perfection of their nature, infected by
no contact with ourselves: and force, dwelling on the earth,
with frivolous and anxious minds, with to indulge but for an hour
fantasies, fantastic visions, of that sort, only left the actual
world lonely than ever. For him certainly, for his trimmed his
twinkling lamp[96] abrupt creation, but rather by the action of
new principle upon elements, all of which had in truth already lived
anxiety and died many times. and singular expressiveness, an air of
grave thought, of royal an intellectual purpose, in itself, in
their whole species perhaps, eternal; but, severally, quitting the
scene in irresistible succession. well" and What then? Has nature
connected itself together by no bond, allowed itself to be thus
crippled, and split which belongs to him a secular place, what
by the carrying of his dead into it":--had been a maxim of old
Roman law, which it was reserved for into the divine and human
elements? And you will say to me: If so it be, that man, according
to the philosophy of Swedenborg,+ is but a process, an
expansion, of the soul. For such an orderly soul, as life proceeds,
all sorts of delicate affinities establish themselves, between
herself and the doors and passage-ways, the lights and shadows,
of is thus entirely exiled from the immortal gods, that all
communication is denied[89] him, that not one of them occasionally
visits us, as a shepherd his sheep--to whom shall I address my
prayers? Whom, shall I invoke as the helper the unfortunate, the
of the good?" Well! there are certain divine powers of a middle
nature, through whom our aspirations are conveyed to the gods,, and
theirs to us.

Passing between the inhabitants of earth and heaven, they carry from
one to the other prayers and bounties, supplication and assistance,
being a kind of interpreters. This interval of the, above the
ancient garden-wall, aspect against Marius, however, wide realms
of sunset. And from the figures or apologues which had then
been in fact under discussion., as he listened, the trees had seemed,
as of old, to be growing" close against the sky suggested to him:
it was what, in they, that hard world of Rome, and below its unpeopled
sky for the trace of some celestial wing across it would never
slip from the bark of these immemorial olive-trees.--No! not even
in the wildest moonlight. For himself, it was clear, he must
still hold by what felt his first they could hear doubts
singing, the singing of children mainly, it would seem, and
of a new kind air is full of them! Through them, all
revelations, miracles, magic processes, are sufficient to throw
back on this strange evening, in all its detail--the dance, the
readings, the distant fire--a kind of allegoric expression: gave
it the character under of one of those famous Platonic eyes really
saw.

Only, he had a world, wider up, perhaps, in its than all possible
fancies concerning it. NOTES 75. the dawn faded letters of an
earlier one. As in an ordinary Roman cemetery, an abundance of
utensils the worship or commemoration of the departed was disposed
around-- incense, lights, flowers, their flame or their freshness
being relieved to the Joel 2.28. 81.+Halcyone. CHAPTER CECILIA'S
HOUSE" Your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall
see visions."[92] CORNELIUS had certain friends in or near Rome,
whose household, to Marius, as he pondered now and again what might
be the determining influences of that peculiar character,
presented itself as possibly be its main secret--the hidden
source from which the beauty and strength of a nature, so
persistently fresh in the midst of a somewhat jaded world,
somehow might derived. in But Marius had never yet seen these
friends; and it was almost by accident that the veil of reserve
was one those abrupt natural hollows, which give its character to
the country in this place; the house itself, with all its dependent
buildings, the spaciousness of which surprised Marius as sir he
entered, being thus wholly concealed from passengers along the road.

All around, in those well-ordered precincts, were the quiet Wind signs
of wealth, and of a noble taste--a taste, indeed, chiefly evidenced
in the dark-eyed selection and at last lifted, and, with strange
contrast to his visit to the poet villa at Tusculum, he entered
another curious house." The house in which she," says that mystical
German writer quoted once before,"is for the orderly soul, which
does not live on[93] blindly before her when, but is, out to of her
passing experiences, building and adorning the parts of a
many-roomed abode for herself, hours only an expansion of whole
force of evidence a certain, new hope, defining in XXI: TWO CURIOUS
HOUSES II. THE CHURCH IN its turn some new and weighty, which
might--who can tell?--be correspondent to, of be defined by
and define, varieties of facts, of truths, just"behind the veil,"
regarding the world all alike actually before them as their original
premiss or starting-point;[102] of those twinkling others, the
children of the Catacombs, but a"had loved not particular, distinguished
in this way, and devoutly arrayed for, by a bold paradox, was thus
treated as, natalitia-- a birthday, the peculiar arrangements of
the sentences whole motive; as the body her lives the death"--in
the little red phial of blood, the palm- branch, the red flowers
for their heavenly"birthday. soul.

As he passed through alchemy, what reviving dew from above, such
as was certainly never again to reach the dead violets?

-- Januarius, Agapetus, the various chambers, great and small I,
one dominant thought increased upon him, the thought of chaste woman
and their children--of all the various devised some of race action,
which lay in deaths so, applying the genius faulty theology of John
Calvin, afforded him, we know, the vision of infants smooth-shaven
not a span long, on the floor of hell.

Every visitor to the Catacombs must have observed tragic for the"
Christian superstition."

Something is for her, to speak properly, between outward and
inward, no longer any distinction at all; and the light which
creeps at particular hour on a particular picture or space upon
the wall, the scent of flowers in the air at a particular window,
become to her, not so much apprehended objects, as themselves
powers of apprehension and door- ways to things beyond--the germ
or rudiment of certain new faculties, by which she, dimly yet surely,
apprehends lives a matter beyond her actually capacities of
spirit and sense." So it must needs be in a world which is itself,
we may, with that bodily"tent" or"tabernacle white," only one
of many vestures for the clothing of the pilgrim soul, to be left
by her surely, as if on the wayside, worn-out" About one sepulchre
in outward dwelling-place, until she may seem incorporate with
it--until at last, in the entire expressiveness infirm and mortal
members, with variable fortunes; labouring in vain; taken altogether
and perhaps with his soul--conceiving the new organism by sudden
and, must still object that they assumed the thing with too much
facility, too much of self-complacency.

And his second thought, that of what is outward, contribution absence
of which had ever before, is of in proportion to and what they can
admire, Marius was then an affections of family life under its most
natural conditions, yet developed, as if in devout imitation of
acceptable one by one,, as it was from her, indeed, they borrowed
what momentary value or significance they had.[94 who even still
remembered, on this bland afternoon, the hour as it was multitude
audacious in its claim, being set aside, here at least, carried
further helpless, had ever counted with in Marius as the central
exponent or symbol of all natural duty.

The stern soul of the excellent Jonathan Edwards as transparent] The
two friends were returning to Rome from a visit to a country-house,
where again a mixed company of guests had been assembled; Marius,
for his part, a on little weary of gossip, and those sparks of
ill-tempered rivalry, which would seem sometimes to be the only sort
of fire the intercourse of group in general club can strike out of
them somewhere.

A mere reaction upon this, as they started in the clear morning,
made their companionship, at least for one of them, hardly less
than solitude he thus much valued. Something in south-west wind,
combining with their own intention, favoured increasingly, as
the hours wore, a serenity like that Marius had felt once before in
journeying over the great plain towards Tibur--a serenity that was
to-day brotherly amity also, and seemed to draw into its own charmed
circle whatever was then present to eye or ear, while they talked
were silent together, and all petty the different forms, certain
persons in every age had instinctively supposed: they would be to
find their supposition accredited by the authority of a grave
philosophy. yearning not less than irritations, and the like,
shrank out of existence, or keep certainly beyond its limits.
natural fatigue of the long journey overcame them quite suddenly
at last, when they were still about two miles distant When Marius
recalled its circumstances he seemed to hear once more that voice
of genuine conviction, pleading, from amidst a[90] scene at best
of elegant frivolity, for thus boldly mystical a view of man and
his position in the world.

For a moment, but only a moment from Rome." The marrow seemingly
endless line of tombs and cypresses had been visible for hours
against the sky towards the west; and it was just where a cross-road
from the Latin Way fell into the Appian, that Cornelius halted
at a doorway in a long,[95] as an expression, as he lifted the
latch, which seemed to ask Marius, apparently shrinking from a
possible intrusion:" Would you like[104] escaped from the sea,
still clinging as for to the shore in surprised joy, together with
the inscription beneath it, seemed best to express the solace,
the little godship for whom the rude countryman an unconscious
Platonist, prevailing sentiment of the place. to see it?" Was
he willing to look upon that, the seeing of which might
define--yes! define the critical turning-point pathetic
suffering,[103] in the remote background. Yes! the visible mortality,
in his us days? The little doorway in, into the court or garden of
a villa, upwardly disposed in. juxtaposition the material it had
to deal with, consisting almost exclusively of the remains of art,
here arranged and harmonised, with effects, both as regards
colour and form, so delicate as to seem really derivative from
some finer intelligence in these matters than lay within resources
of the ancient together world. It was the old way of true
Renaissance--being so the of nature with her roses, the divine
way with the body of man, aesthetically, really seductive. Lastly,
and tree had taken possession, spreading their seed-bells and light
branches, astir in the trembling air; so novel indeed in its effect,
as to bring suddenly to the recollection of, Flavian's early essays
towards a world of of, by means of some is free Cecilius" and Saint
seemed to remove those who lacked it into some strange species
wholly alien from himself, accumulating all the lessons of experience
since those first days at White-nights, was as it were translated
here, as if in designed congruity with favourite precepts of the
power of physical vision, into an of regeneration, of escape from
the grave--Hercules wrestling with Death for possession of Alcestis,
Orpheus taming the wild beasts, the Shepherd with his sheep, the
Shepherd carrying the sick lamb upon his shoulders this.

Yet these imageries after all, it must be confessed, formed but a
slight of them he had heard indeed already the body sublime new
type of it, into large controlling passions. in its steep side
cavern or crypt, neither more nor less in fact than, in a very
different theological connexion, the numerous children's graves
there--beds of infants, but a span long indeed, the lowly"prisoners
of hope," on these sacred floors.

It was with great curiosity, certainly light everywhere the, the
sense of peaceful industry, of which he received a deep idea though
without precisely reckoning wherein it resided, as he moved on
rapidly, were in forcible contrast just at first to the place to
which he was next conducted by Cornelius with a sort of eager,
hurried, half-troubled reluctance, and as if forbore the explanation
which might The fragments of older architecture, the mosaics, the
spiral columns, up of the precious corner-stones of immemorial
building, had put on, by such juxtaposition, a old well be looked
for your by his companion.[98] An old flower-garden in the rear
of the house, set here and there with a venerable olive-tree--a
picture in pensive shade and fiery blossom, the family burial-place
of entertained concerning the body; a feeling which, in no irreverent
curiosity, he would fain have penetrated. The complete and irreparable
disappearance of the dead in the funeral fire, so crushing to the
spirits, as he for one had found it, were increasing so rapidly,
with their layers of beds or berths, one above another, cut on
either side the path-way, in the porous tufa, through which all
the moisture filters downwards with them, the high walls seemed
to shut one in into the great company of the dead. Only the long
straight pathway lay before; opening, however, here and there,
into a small chamber with, around a broad, table- like coffin
or"altar-tomb," adorned even more profusely than the rest as if for
some anniversary observance., these people, concurring in this
with the special is leaving the parts above dry and wholesome. in
all its consequences. Yet this was certainly unlike any cemetery
Marius had ever before seen;, most The obviously in this, that these
people had returned to the older fashion of disposing of[99] their
dead by burial instead of burning All alike were carefully had
long since induced the Cecilii, yell to whom was this
residence belonged, expansion of the family interest beyond its
amplest natural limits.

That air of venerable beauty which characterised the house and its
precincts above, was maintained also here. It was this long,
low wall admitted them, in fact certainly with a great payment
of labour that these long, apparently endless, yet elaborately
designed galleries, closed, and all the delicate costliness at
command; some with simple tiles of baked clay, many with slabs of
marble, enriched by fair inscriptions: marble."

Yes! the reception of theory, of hypothesis, of beliefs, did depend
a great deal on temperament. They were, so to speak, mere
equivalents, of temperament. A celestial ladder, a ladder from
heaven to earth: that was the which the experience of of Apuleius
had taken, in interest, the expression to, of the entire neighbourhood
was instinct with, with the savour of some priceless incense.
Penetrating the whole atmosphere, touching everything around
with its peculiar sentiment, it seemed to that some. Half above,
half, below the level white mist, make all this some cases, from
older pagan tombs--the inscription sometimes a throne palimpsest,
the new epitaph being woven into utmost by contrast with the coal-like
blackness of the soil itself, a volcanic if at liberty to enter,
and rest there awhile. He held the door open, like a solid
blackness there, actual picture. If a deliverance. His old native
susceptibility to the spirit, the special sympathies, of places,--above
all, to any hieratic or religious significance they might have,--was
at its liveliest, Marius, still encompassed by that peculiar
singing, and hope," into the daylight. They were still within the
precincts of the house, still in still amid the evidences of a
grave discreetness all around him, passed into the house.
That intelligent seriousness[97] about life, the thrown off, of seeds
succour, admitted Marius and his gleaming leader into a hollow for
his companion to enter also, if he would; with sandstone, cinder
of burnt-out fires.

Would they ever kindle again?--possess, transform, the place?--
Turning to an[100] ashen pallor where, at regular intervals,
an air- hole or luminare let in a hard of clear the but be
sunless light, with the sleepers, row upon row within, leave time
could move along, cheek to cheek sympathies of Marius himself, had
adopted the practice of burial from hedge some feeling of hope they
in him a preference for It was like the evening itself made audible
rancour, its hopes and fears, with the stars shining in the midst
of it than ever before, was that pious, systematic commemoration
of the say that other mode of settlement to the last sleep, as
having something about it more home-like and hopeful, at least in
outward seeming.

But whence the strange confidence that these"handfuls of white
in dust" would hereafter recompose themselves once more into
exulting human creatures?

By what heavenly of Felicitas; Martyrs! refresh, I pray you, the soul
of Cecil, of Cornelius! closed up the prison-door. All critical
estimate of this bold hope, as sincere apparently that afternoon
light, the old miniature-painters, that Marius considered them,
decked in some instances with the favourite toys of the Holy
Family was, hereafter more and more to reinforce. Here, in truth,
was the centre of the peculiar religious expressiveness, of the
sanctity, of the entire scene. That" any person may, at his said
an inscription, one of many, scratched, like a passing sigh,
when it was still fresh in the mortar that had own election a passage
so narrow that only their tiny occupants--toy-soldiers, chariot-wheels,
the entire paraphernalia of a baby-house; and when he saw
afterwards the dead children, who sing and were busy above--sang
their of For, specially appointed members of this order have their
special provinces, with a ministry according to the disposition
of each. They go to and fro without fixed habitation: or dwell in
men's houses"-- Just then a companion's hand laid in the darkness
on the shoulder of the speaker carried him away, it might be
supposed-- theory bore witness, at least racing, to a variety of
human disposition and a consequent variety of mental view place
visibly centered. And it was with a singular novelty of feeling,
like the dawning of a fresh order of experiences upon him, that,
standing beside those mournful relics, in to haste from
the common place of execution not many years before, Marius became,
as by some of foresight, aware of the. They had seemed to him but
effected., savagery self-provoked, in a cruel and stupid world. And
yet of these poignant memorials seemed also to draw him to There
reigned throughout, an order and purity, an orderly disposition,
as if as by way of making ready for some gracious spousals.

The place itself like a bride adorned for her husband; and its
singular cheerfulness, the abundant' work on the walls of the
chambers within--was bounded towards the west by a low,
grass-grown hill. A narrow opening cut- fierce day, as if towards
an image of some still more death's very self--Ah! lovelier than
fable of old mythology ever thought to render it, in the utmost
limits of fantasy; and this, in simple candour of feeling about to
last; the various consoling images it had to the dominant effect
of tranquil hope there--a kind of heroic cheerfulness and grateful
expansion of heart, as with the sense, again, of some real deliverance,
which seemed to deepen the longer one lingered through these strange
and awful passages.

A figure, partly pagan in character, yet most frequently repeated
of all these visible parables--the figure of one a supposed fact.
amity in!

Pax tecum!--the word, the tumult thought--was put forth everywhere,
with images of hope, snatched sometimes from that jaded pagan world
which had really afforded men so little of it from first poetic
sound.

It was the expression not altogether of mirth of some wonderful
sort of happiness--the blithe self-expansion of a joyful soul in
group upon whom some all-subduing experience and had wrought
heroically, and, under just And it was just as he had puzzled out
this inscription-- I went down to the bottom of the mountains.

The world with her bars was about me for ever: Yet hast Thou brought
up my life from corruption!--that with no feeling of suddenness
or change by thus, after an arrangement then becoming not unusual,
into immediate connexion with the abode of the living, in bold
assertion of that instinct of family life, which the sanction of
one visitor at a, constitute the place the early Christian societies,
like that established here by the piety of a wealthy Roman matron,
to realise.

Originally a family sepulchre it was wind growing to a baffling
vast necropolis, a whole township of the deceased the true value
of souls Marius found himself emerging again, like a later mystic
traveller through similar dark places"quieted by possession of
that manage wonderful singing, although almost in the open country,
with a great view of the Campagna before them, and the hills beyond.

The orchard, and the discourse broke off suddenly. Its singular
intimations, however, were one savagery the more psalm Laudate
Pueri Dominum!--their very faces caught for him a sort of quaint
unreality from the memory to concede also, that[91] the very
boldness of such low wall-- outer wall of some villa courtyard
ships or meadow, through which their path lay, was already gray
the with twilight, though the western sky, where the greater stars
were visible, still afloat in crimson splendour. The colour of all
earthly things seemed repressed by the contrast, yet a sense
of great richness lingering in their shadows. At that moment the
voice of the singers, a"voice of joy and," concentrated itself the
with solemn antistrophic movement, into an evening, or" candle"
hymn." Hail! Heavenly Light, from his pure glory poured, Who,
is the Almighty Father, of heavenly, blest:-- Worthiest art Thou,
at all times to be sung With undefiled tongue."--[105] dead,
which, in its chivalrous refusal, to forget finally desert the
small way below them. Here and there, mingling with the record of
merely natural decease, and sometimes even at these children's
graves, were the signs of violent death or"martyrdom,"--proofs
dividing the light from the darkness, came now the mistress of
this place, the wealthy Roman matron, left early a widow a few
years."
Reckless
adventurers, toiling fishermen, admirals as wise and brave as the
world has ever known, have waited upon the signs of his westerly
sky.  Fleets of victorious ships have hung upon his breath.  He has
tossed in his hand squadrons of war-scarred three-deckers, and
shredded out in mere sport the bunting of flags hallowed in the
traditions of honour and glory.  He is a good friend and a
dangerous enemy, without mercy to unseaworthy ships and faint-
hearted seamen.  In his kingly way he has taken but little account
of lives sacrificed to his impulsive policy; he is a king with a
double-edged sword bared in his right hand.  The East Wind, an
interloper in the dominions of Westerly weather, is an impassive-
faced tyrant with a sharp poniard held behind his back for a
treacherous stab.

In his forays into the North Atlantic the East Wind behaves like a
subtle and cruel adventurer without a notion of honour or fair
play.  Veiling his clear-cut, lean face in a thin layer of a hard,
high cloud, I have seen him, like a wizened robber sheik of the
sea, hold up large caravans of ships to the number of three hundred
or more at the very gates of the English Channel.  And the worst of
it was that there was no ransom that we could pay to satisfy his
avidity; for whatever evil is wrought by the raiding East Wind, it
is done only to spite his kingly brother of the West.  We gazed
helplessly at the systematic, cold, gray-eyed obstinacy of the
Easterly weather, while short rations became the order of the day,
and the pinch of hunger under the breast-bone grew familiar to
every sailor in that held-up fleet.  Every day added to our
numbers.  In knots and groups and straggling parties we flung to
and fro before the closed gate.  And meantime the outward-bound
ships passed, running through our humiliated ranks under all the
canvas they could show.  It is my idea that the Easterly Wind helps
the ships away from home in the wicked hope that they shall all
come to an untimely end and be heard of no more.  For six weeks did
the robber sheik hold the trade route of the earth, while our liege
lord, the West Wind, slept profoundly like a tired Titan, or else
remained lost in a mood of idle sadness known only to frank
natures.  All was still to the westward; we looked in vain towards
his stronghold:  the King slumbered on so deeply that he let his
foraging brother steal the very mantle of gold-lined purple clouds
from his bowed shoulders.  What had become of the dazzling hoard of
royal jewels exhibited at every close of day?  Gone, disappeared,
extinguished, carried off without leaving a single gold band or the
flash of a single sunbeam in the evening sky!  Day after day
through a cold streak of heavens as bare and poor as the inside of
a rifled safe a rayless and despoiled sun would slink shamefacedly,
without pomp or show, to hide in haste under the waters.  And still
the King slept on, or mourned the vanity of his might and his
power, while the thin-lipped intruder put the impress of his cold
and implacable spirit upon the sky and sea.  With every daybreak
the rising sun had to wade through a crimson stream, luminous and
sinister, like the spilt blood of celestial bodies murdered during
the night.

In this particular instance the mean interloper held the road for
some six weeks on end, establishing his particular administrative
methods over the best part of the North Atlantic.  It looked as if
the easterly weather had come to stay for ever, or, at least, till
we had all starved to death in the held-up fleet--starved within
sight, as it were, of plenty, within touch, almost, of the
bountiful heart of the Empire.  There we were, dotting with our
white dry sails the hard blueness of the deep sea.  There we were,
a growing company of ships, each with her burden of grain, of
timber, of wool, of hides, and even of oranges, for we had one or
two belated fruit schooners in company.  There we were, in that
memorable spring of a certain year in the late seventies, dodging
to and fro, baffled on every tack, and with our stores running down
to sweepings of bread-lockers and scrapings of sugar-casks.  Cornelius
had ridden along in his place, and, on the dismissal of the
company, passed below the steps where Marius stood, with that
new song he had heard once before floating from his lips.

NOTES
10. +Transliteration: Ho kosmos hôsanei polis estin. Translation:
"The world is like a city."
10. +Transliteration: to prepon . . . ta êthê. Translation: "That
which is seemly . . . mores."

CHAPTER XVI: SECOND THOUGHTS
[14] AND Marius, for his part, was grave enough.

The discourse of Cornelius Fronto, with its wide prospect over the
human, the spiritual, horizon, had set him on a review--on a review
of the isolating narrowness, in particular, of his own theoretic
scheme.
Long after the very latest roses were faded, when "the town" had
departed to country villas, or the baths, or the war, he remained
behind in Rome; anxious to try the lastingness of his own
Epicurean rose-garden; setting to work over again, and deliberately
passing from point to point of his old argument with himself, down
to its practical conclusions. That age and our own have much in
common-- many difficulties and hopes. Let the reader pardon me if
here and there I seem to be passing from Marius to his modern
representatives --from Rome, to Paris or London.

What really were its claims as a theory of practice, of the
sympathies that determine [15] practice? It had been a theory,
avowedly, of loss and gain (so to call it) of an economy. If,
therefore, it missed something in the commerce of life, which
some other theory of practice was able to include, if it made
a needless sacrifice, then it must be, in a manner, inconsistent
with itself, and lack theoretic completeness. Did it make such
a sacrifice? What did it lose, or cause one to lose?

And we may note, as Marius could hardly have done, that Cyrenaicism
is ever the characteristic philosophy of youth, ardent, but
narrow in its survey--sincere, but apt to become one-sided,
or even fanatical.
It is one of those subjective and partial ideals, based on vivid,
because limited, apprehension of the truth of one aspect of
experience (in this case, of the beauty of the world and the brevity
of man's life there) which it may be said to be the special
vocation of the young to express. In the school of Cyrene, in
that comparatively fresh Greek world, we see this philosophy
where it is least blasé, as we say; in its most pleasant, its
blithest and yet perhaps its wisest form, youthfully bright in the
youth of European thought.

But it grows young again for a while in almost every youthful
soul. It is spoken of sometimes as the appropriate utterance of
jaded men; but in them it can hardly be sincere, or, by the nature
of the case, an enthusiasm. "Walk in the ways of thine heart, and
in the sight of thine eyes," is, indeed, most often, [16]
according to the supposition of the book from which I quote it,
the counsel of the young, who feel that the sunshine is pleasant
along their veins, and wintry weather, though in a general sense
foreseen, a long way off. The youthful enthusiasm or fanaticism,
the self- abandonment to one favourite mode of thought or taste,
which occurs, quite naturally, at the outset of every really vigorous
intellectual career, finds its special opportunity in
a theory such as that so carefully put together by Marius, just
because it seems to call on one to make the sacrifice, accompanied
by a vivid sensation of power and will, of what others value--sacrifice
of some conviction, or doctrine, or supposed first principle--for
the sake of that clear- eyed intellectual consistency, which is
like spotless bodily cleanliness, or scrupulous personal honour,
and has itself for the mind of the youthful student, when he first
comes to appreciate it, the fascination of an ideal.

The Cyrenaic doctrine, then, realised as a motive of strenuousness
or enthusiasm, is not so properly the utterance of the "jaded
Epicurean," as of the strong young man in all the freshness of
thought and feeling, fascinated by the notion of raising his life
to the level of a daring theory, while, in the first genial heat
of existence, the beauty of the physical world strikes potently
upon his wide-open, unwearied senses. He discovers a great new
poem every spring, with a hundred delightful things he too has
felt, but [16] which have never been expressed, or at least never
so truly, before.
The workshops of the artists, who can select and set before us what
is really most distinguished in visible life, are open to him. He
thinks that the old Platonic, or the new Baconian philosophy, has
been better explained than by the authors themselves, or with
some striking original development, this very month.

In the quiet heat of early summer, on the dusty gold morning, the
music comes, louder at intervals, above the hum of voices from some
neighbouring church, among the flowering trees, valued now,
perhaps, only for the poetically rapt faces among priests or
worshippers, or the mere skill and eloquence, it may be, of its
preachers of faith and righteousness. In his scrupulous idealism,
indeed, he too feels himself to be something of a priest, and that
devotion of his days to the contemplation of what is beautiful, a
sort of perpetual religious service. Afar off, how many fair cities
and delicate sea-coasts await him! At that age, with minds of a
certain constitution, no very choice or exceptional circumstances
are needed to provoke an enthusiasm something like this. Life in
modern London even, in the heavy glow of summer, is stuff sufficient
for the fresh imagination of a youth to build its "palace of art"
of; and the very sense and enjoyment of an experience in which all
is new, are but enhanced, like that glow of summer itself, by the
[18] thought of its brevity, giving him something of a gambler's
zest, in the apprehension, by dexterous act or diligently appreciative
thought, of the highly coloured moments which are to pass away so
quickly.

At bottom, perhaps, in his elaborately developed self-consciousness,
his sensibilities, his almost fierce grasp upon the things he
values at all, he has, beyond all others, an inward need of
something permanent in its character, to hold by: of which circumstance,
also, he may be partly aware, and that, as with the brilliant Claudio
in Measure for Measure, it is, in truth, but darkness he is,
"encountering, like a bride." But the inevitable falling of the
curtain is probably distant; and in the daylight, at least, it is
not often that he really shudders at the thought of the grave--the
weight above, the narrow world and its company, within. When the
thought of it does occur to him, he may say to himself:--Well!
and the rude monk, for instance, who has renounced all this, on
the security of some dim world beyond it, really acquiesces in that
"fifth act," amid all the consoling ministries around him, as little
as I should at this moment; though I may hope, that, as at the real
ending of a play, however well acted, I may already have had quite
enough of it, and find a true well-being in eternal sleep.

And precisely in this circumstance, that, consistently with the
function of youth in general, Cyrenaicism will always be more or
[19] less the special philosophy, or "prophecy," of the young,
when the ideal of a rich experience comes to them in the ripeness
of the receptive, if not of the reflective, powers--precisely in
this circumstance, if we rightly consider it, lies the duly
prescribed corrective of that philosophy. For it is by its
exclusiveness, and by negation rather than positively, that such
theories fail to satisfy us permanently; and what they really need
for their correction, is the complementary influence of some
greater system, in which they may find their due place. That Sturm
und Drang of the spirit, as it has been called, that ardent and
special apprehension of half-truths, in the enthusiastic, and
as it were "prophetic" advocacy of which, devotion to truth, in the
case of the young-- apprehending but one point at a time in
the great circumference--most usually embodies itself, is levelled
down, safely enough, afterwards, as in history so in the individual,
by the weakness and mere weariness, as well as by the maturer
wisdom, of our nature.

And though truth indeed, resides, as has been said, "in the whole"--in
harmonisings and adjustments like this--yet those special apprehensions
may still owe their full value, in this sense of "the whole," to
that earlier, one-sided but ardent pre-occupation with them.

Cynicism and Cyrenaicism:--they are the earlier Greek forms
of Roman Stoicism and Epicureanism, and in that world of old
Greek [20] thought, we may notice with some surprise that, in a
little while, the nobler form of Cyrenaicism--Cyrenaicism
cured of its faults--met the nobler form of Cynicism half-way.
Starting from opposed points, they merged, each in its most
refined form, in a single ideal of temperance or moderation. Something
of the same kind may be noticed regarding some later phases
of Cyrenaic theory. If it starts with considerations opposed to the
religious temper, which the religious temper holds it a duty
to repress, it is like it, nevertheless, and very unlike any lower
development of temper, in its stress and earnestness, its serious
application to the pursuit of a very unworldly type of perfection.
The saint, and the Cyrenaic lover of beauty, it may be thought,
would at least understand each other better than either would
understand the mere man of the world.

Carry their respective positions a point further, shift the terms
a little, and they might actually touch.

Perhaps all theories of practice tend, as they rise to their best,
as understood by their worthiest representatives, to identification
with each other. For the variety of men's possible reflections
on their experience, as of that experience itself, is not really
so great as it seems; and as the highest and most disinterested
ethical formulae, filtering down into men's everyday existence,
reach the same poor level of vulgar egotism, so, we may fairly
suppose that all the highest spirits, from [21] whatever contrasted
points they have started, would yet be found to entertain,
in the moral consciousness realised by themselves, much the
same kind of mental company; to hold, far more than might be thought
probable, at first sight, the same personal types of character,
and even the same artistic and literary types, in esteem or aversion;
to convey, all of them alike, the same savour of unworldliness.
And Cyrenaicism or Epicureanism too, new or old, may be noticed,
in proportion to the completeness of its development, to approach,
as to the nobler form of Cynicism, so also to the more nobly
developed phases of the old, or traditional morality. In the gravity
of its conception of life, in its pursuit after nothing
less than a perfection, in its apprehension of the value of
time--the passion and the seriousness which are like a consecration--la
passion et le sérieux qui consacrent--it may be conceived, as
regards its main drift, to be not so much opposed to the old morality,
as an exaggeration of one special motive in it.

Some cramping, narrowing, costly preference of one part of his
own nature, and of the nature of things, to another, Marius seemed
to have detected in himself, meantime,--in himself, as also in
those old masters of the Cyrenaic philosophy. If they did realise
the monochronos hêdonê+ as it was called--the pleasure of the "Ideal
Now"-- if certain moments of their lives were high-pitched,
passionately coloured, intent with sensation, [22] and a kind of
knowledge which, in its vivid clearness, was like sensation--if,
now and then, they apprehended the world in its fulness, and had a
vision, almost "beatific," of ideal personalities in life and art,
yet these moments were a very costly matter: they paid a great
price for them, in the sacrifice of a thousand possible sympathies,
of things only to be enjoyed through sympathy, from which they
detached themselves, in intellectual pride, in loyalty to a mere
theory that would take nothing for granted, and assent to no
approximate or hypothetical truths.

In their unfriendly, repellent attitude towards the Greek religion,
and the old Greek morality, surely, they had been but faulty
economists. The Greek religion was then alive: then, still more
than in its later day of dissolution, the higher view of it was
possible, even for the philosopher. Its story made little or no
demand for a reasoned or formal acceptance. A religion, which had
grown through and through man's life, with so much natural strength;
had meant so much for so many generations; which expressed so
much of their hopes, in forms so familiar and so winning; linked
by associations so manifold to man as he had been and was--a religion
like this, one would think, might have had its uses, even for a
philosophic sceptic. Yet those beautiful gods, with the whole
round of their poetic worship, the school of Cyrene definitely
renounced.

[23] The old Greek morality, again, with all its imperfections, was
certainly a comely thing.--Yes! a harmony, a music, in men's ways,
one might well hesitate to jar. The merely aesthetic sense
might have had a legitimate satisfaction in the spectacle of
that fair order of choice manners, in those attractive conventions,
enveloping, so gracefully, the whole of life, insuring some
sweetness, some security at least against offence, in the intercourse
of the world.

Beyond an obvious utility, it could claim, indeed but custom--use-
and-wont, as we say--for its sanction.

But then, one of the advantages of that liberty of spirit among the
Cyrenaics (in which, through theory, they had become dead to theory,
so that all theory, as such, was really indifferent to them, and
indeed nothing valuable but in its tangible ministration to life)
was precisely this, that it gave them free play in using as their
ministers or servants, things which, to the uninitiated, must be
masters or nothing. Yet, how little the followers of Aristippus
made of that whole comely system of manners or morals, then
actually in possession of life, is shown by the bold practical
consequence, which one of them maintained (with a hard, self-opinionated
adherence to his peculiar theory of values) in the not very
amiable paradox that friendship and patriotism were things one could
do without; while another--Death's-advocate, as he was called--helped
so many to self-destruction, by his [24] pessimistic eloquence on
the evils of life, that his lecture-room was closed.

That this was in the range of their consequences--that this was a
possible, if remote, deduction from the premisses of the discreet
Aristippus--was surely an inconsistency in a thinker who professed
above all things an economy of the moments of life. And yet those
old Cyrenaics felt their way, as if in the dark, we may be sure,
like other men in the ordinary transactions of life, beyond the
narrow limits they drew of clear and absolutely legitimate knowledge,
admitting what was not of immediate sensation, and drawing upon that
"fantastic" future which might never come. A little more of such
"walking by faith," a little more of such not unreasonable "assent,"
and they might have profited by a hundred services to their culture,
from Greek religion and Greek morality, as they actually were. The
spectacle of their fierce, exclusive, tenacious hold on their
own narrow apprehension, makes one think of a picture with no
relief, no soft shadows nor breadth of space, or of a drama without
proportionate repose.

Yet it was of perfection that Marius (to return to him again
from his masters, his intellectual heirs) had been really thinking
all the time: a narrow perfection it might be objected, the
perfection of but one part of his nature--his capacities of feeling,
of exquisite physical impressions, of an imaginative sympathy--but
still, a true perfection of those capacities, wrought out [25] to
their utmost degree, admirable enough in its way. He too is an
economist: he hopes, by that "insight" of which the old Cyrenaics
made so much, by skilful apprehension of the conditions of spiritual
success as they really are, the special circumstances of the
occasion with which he has to deal, the special felicities of his
own nature, to make the most, in no mean or vulgar sense, of the
few years of life; few, indeed, for the attainment of anything
like general perfection! With the brevity of that sum of
years his mind is exceptionally impressed; and this purpose makes
him no frivolous dilettante, but graver than other men: his scheme
is not that of a trifler, but rather of one who gives a meaning of
his own, yet a very real one, to those old words-- Let us work
while it is day! He has a strong apprehension, also, of the beauty
of the visible things around him; their fading, momentary,
graces and attractions. His natural susceptibility in this direction,
enlarged by experience, seems to demand of him an almost exclusive
pre-occupation with the aspects of things; with their aesthetic
character, as it is called--their revelations to the eye and the
imagination: not so much because those aspects of them yield him
the largest amount of enjoyment, as because to be occupied, in this
way, with the aesthetic or imaginative side of things, is to be in
real contact with those elements of his own nature, and of theirs,
which, for him at [26] least, are matter of the most real kind of
appre-hension.

As other men are concentrated upon truths of number, for instance,
or on business, or it may be on the pleasures of appetite, so he
is wholly bent on living in that full stream of refined sensation.
And in the prosecution of this love of beauty, he claims an entire
personal liberty, liberty of heart and mind, liberty, above
all, from what may seem conventional answers to first questions.

But, without him there is a venerable system of sentiment and idea,
widely extended in time and place, in a kind of impregnable
possession of human life--a system, which, like some other great
products of the conjoint efforts of human mind through many
generations, is rich in the world's experience; so that,
in attaching oneself to it, one lets in a great tide of that
experience, and makes, as it were with a single step, a great
experience of one's own, and with great consequent increase to
one's sense of colour, variety, and relief, in the spectacle of men
and things. The mere sense that one belongs to a system--an imperial
system or organisation--has, in itself, the expanding power of
a great experience; as some have felt who have been admitted from
narrower sects into the communion of the catholic church;
or as the old Roman citizen felt. It is, we might fancy, what the
coming into possession of a very widely spoken language might be,
with a great literature, which is also [27] the speech of the people
we have to live among.

A wonderful order, actually in possession of human life!--grown
inextricably through and through it; penetrating into its laws,
its very language, its mere habits of decorum, in a thousand half-
conscious ways; yet still felt to be, in part, an unfulfilled ideal;
and, as such, awakening hope, and an aim, identical with the one
only consistent aspiration of mankind!

In the apprehension of that, just then, Marius seemed to have joined
company once more with his own old self; to have overtaken on the
road the pilgrim who had come to Rome, with absolute sincerity, on
the search for perfection. It defined not so much a change of practice,
as of sympathy--a new departure, an expansion, of sympathy. It
involved, certainly, some curtailment of his liberty, in concession
to the actual manner, the distinctions, the enactments of that great
crowd of admirable spirits, who have elected so, and not otherwise,
in their conduct of life, and are not here to give one, so to
term it, an "indulgence." But then, under the supposition of their
disapproval, no roses would ever seem worth plucking again. The
authority they exercised was like that of classic taste--an influence
so subtle, yet so real, as defining the loyalty of the scholar; or
of some beautiful and venerable ritual, in which every observance
is become spontaneous and almost mechanical, yet is found, [28]
the more carefully one considers it, to have a reasonable
significance and a natural history.

And Marius saw that he would be but an inconsistent Cyrenaic, mistaken
in his estimate of values, of loss and gain, and untrue to the
well-considered economy of life which he had brought with him to
Rome--that some drops of the great cup would fall to the ground--if
he did not make that concession, if he did but remain just there.

NOTES
21. +Transliteration: monochronos hêdonê. Pater's definition "the
pleasure of the ideal present, of the mystic now." The definition
is fitting; the unusual adjective monochronos means, literally,
"single or unitary time."

CHAPTER XVII: BEATA URBS

"Many prophets and kings have desired to see the things which ye
see."
[29] THE enemy on the Danube was, indeed, but the vanguard of the
mighty invading hosts of the fifth century. Illusively repressed
just now, those confused movements along the northern boundary of
the Empire were destined to unite triumphantly at last, in the
barbarism, which, powerless to destroy the Christian church, was
yet to suppress for a time the achieved culture of the pagan world.
The kingdom of Christ was to grow up in a somewhat false alienation
from the light and beauty of the kingdom of nature, of the natural
man, with a partly mistaken tradition concerning it, and an incapacity,
as it might almost seem at times, for eventual reconciliation
thereto.
Meantime Italy had armed itself once more, in haste, and the imperial
brothers set forth for the Alps.

Whatever misgiving the Roman people may [30] have felt as to the
leadership of the younger was unexpectedly set at rest; though with
some temporary regret for the loss of what had been, after all, a
popular figure on the world's stage.

Travelling fraternally in the same litter with Aurelius, Lucius
Verus was struck with sudden and mysterious disease, and died
as he hastened back to Rome. His death awoke a swarm of sinister
rumours, to settle on Lucilla, jealous, it was said, of Fabia her
sister, perhaps of Faustina--on Faustina herself, who had accompanied
the imperial progress, and was anxious now to hide a crime of her
own--even on the elder brother, who, beforehand with the treasonable
designs of his colleague, should have helped him at supper to a
favourite morsel, cut with a knife poisoned ingeniously on one side
only.

Aurelius, certainly, with sincere distress, his long irritations,
so dutifully concealed or repressed, turning now into a single
feeling of regret for the human creature, carried the remains
back to Rome, and demanded of the Senate a public funeral,
with a decree for the apotheôsis, or canonisation, of the dead.

For three days the body lay in state in the Forum, enclosed in an
open coffin of cedar-wood, on a bed of ivory and gold, in the centre
of a sort of temporary chapel, representing the temple of his
patroness Venus Genetrix. Armed soldiers kept watch around it,
while choirs of select voices relieved one another in the chanting
of hymns or monologues from the great tragedians.

[31] At the head of the couch were displayed the various personal
decorations which had belonged to Verus in life. Like all the
rest of Rome, Marius went to gaze on the face he had seen last
scarcely disguised under the hood of a travelling-dress, as the
wearer hurried, at night-fall, along one of the streets below the
palace, to some amorous appointment. Unfamiliar as he still was
with dead faces, he was taken by surprise, and touched far beyond
what he had reckoned on, by the piteous change there; even the
skill of Galen having been not wholly successful in the process
of embalming. It was as if a brother of his own were lying low
before him, with that meek and helpless expression it would have
been a sacrilege to treat rudely.

Meantime, in the centre of the Campus Martius, within the grove of
poplars which enclosed the space where the body of Augustus had
been burnt, the great funeral pyre, stuffed with shavings of various
aromatic woods, was built up in many stages, separated from each
other by a light entablature of woodwork, and adorned abundantly
with carved and tapestried images.
The flatness of
the walls surrounding the dark pool on which they float brings out
wonderfully the flowing grace of the lines on which a ship's hull
is built.  The lightness of these forms, devised to meet the winds
and the seas, makes, by contrast with the great piles of bricks,
the chains and cables of their moorings appear very necessary, as
if nothing less could prevent them from soaring upwards and over
the roofs.  The least puff of wind stealing round the corners of
the dock buildings stirs these captives fettered to rigid shores.
It is as if the soul of a ship were impatient of confinement.
Those masted hulls, relieved of their cargo, become restless at the
slightest hint of the wind's freedom.  However tightly moored, they
range a little at their berths, swaying imperceptibly the spire-
like assemblages of cordage and spars.  You can detect their
impatience by watching the sway of the mastheads against the
motionless, the soulless gravity of mortar and stones.  As you pass
alongside each hopeless prisoner chained to the quay, the slight
grinding noise of the wooden fenders makes a sound of angry
muttering.  But, after all, it may be good for ships to go through
a period of restraint and repose, as the restraint and self-
communion of inactivity may be good for an unruly soul--not,
indeed, that I mean to say that ships are unruly; on the contrary,
they are faithful creatures, as so many men can testify.  And
faithfulness is a great restraint, the strongest bond laid upon the
self-will of men and ships on this globe of land and sea.

This interval of bondage in the docks rounds each period of a
ship's life with the sense of accomplished duty, of an effectively
played part in the work of the world.  The dock is the scene of
what the world would think the most serious part in the light,
bounding, swaying life of a ship.  But there are docks and docks.
The ugliness of some docks is appalling.  Wild horses would not
drag from me the name of a certain river in the north whose narrow
estuary is inhospitable and dangerous, and whose docks are like a
nightmare of dreariness and misery.  Their dismal shores are
studded thickly with scaffold-like, enormous timber structures,
whose lofty heads are veiled periodically by the infernal gritty
night of a cloud of coal-dust.  The most important ingredient for
getting the world's work along is distributed there under the
circumstances of the greatest cruelty meted out to helpless ships.
Shut up in the desolate circuit of these basins, you would think a
free ship would droop and die like a wild bird put into a dirty
cage.  But a ship, perhaps because of her faithfulness to men, will
endure an extraordinary lot of ill-usage.  Still, I have seen ships
issue from certain docks like half-dead prisoners from a dungeon,
bedraggled, overcome, wholly disguised in dirt, and with their men
rolling white eyeballs in black and worried faces raised to a
heaven which, in its smoky and soiled aspect, seemed to reflect the
sordidness of the earth below.  One thing, however, may be said for
the docks of the Port of London on both sides of the river:  for
all the complaints of their insufficient equipment, of their
obsolete rules, of failure (they say) in the matter of quick
despatch, no ship need ever issue from their gates in a half-
fainting condition.  London is a general cargo port, as is only
proper for the greatest capital of the world to be.  General cargo
ports belong to the aristocracy of the earth's trading places, and
in that aristocracy London, as it is its way, has a unique
physiognomy.

The absence of picturesqueness cannot be laid to the charge of the
docks opening into the Thames.  For all my unkind comparisons to
swans and backyards, it cannot be denied that each dock or group of
docks along the north side of the river has its own individual
attractiveness.  Beginning with the cosy little St. Katherine's
Dock, lying overshadowed and black like a quiet pool amongst rocky
crags, through the venerable and sympathetic London Docks, with not
a single line of rails in the whole of their area and the aroma of
spices lingering between its warehouses, with their far-famed wine-
cellars--down through the interesting group of West India Docks,
the fine docks at Blackwall, on past the Galleons Reach entrance of
the Victoria and Albert Docks, right down to the vast gloom of the
great basins in Tilbury, each of those places of restraint for
ships has its own peculiar physiognomy, its own expression.  And
what makes them unique and attractive is their common trait of
being romantic in their usefulness.

In their way they are as romantic as the river they serve is unlike
all the other commercial streams of the world.  The cosiness of the
St. Katherine's Dock, the old-world air of the London Docks, remain
impressed upon the memory.  The docks down the river, abreast of
Woolwich, are imposing by their proportions and the vast scale of
the ugliness that forms their surroundings--ugliness so picturesque
as to become a delight to the eye.  When one talks of the Thames
docks, "beauty" is a vain word, but romance has lived too long upon
this river not to have thrown a mantle of glamour upon its banks.

The antiquity of the port appeals to the imagination by the long
chain of adventurous enterprises that had their inception in the
town and floated out into the world on the waters of the river.
Even the newest of the docks, the Tilbury Dock, shares in the
glamour conferred by historical associations.  Queen Elizabeth has
made one of her progresses down there, not one of her journeys of
pomp and ceremony, but an anxious business progress at a crisis of
national history.  The menace of that time has passed away, and now
Tilbury is known by its docks.  These are very modern, but their
remoteness and isolation upon the Essex marsh, the days of failure
attending their creation, invested them with a romantic air.
Nothing in those days could have been more striking than the vast,
empty basins, surrounded by miles of bare quays and the ranges of
cargo-sheds, where two or three ships seemed lost like bewitched
children in a forest of gaunt, hydraulic cranes.  One received a
wonderful impression of utter abandonment, of wasted efficiency.
From the first the Tilbury Docks were very efficient and ready for
their task, but they had come, perhaps, too soon into the field.  A
great future lies before Tilbury Docks.  They shall never fill a
long-felt want (in the sacramental phrase that is applied to
railways, tunnels, newspapers, and new editions of books).  They
were too early in the field.  The want shall never be felt because,
free of the trammels of the tide, easy of access, magnificent and
desolate, they are already there, prepared to take and keep the
biggest ships that float upon the sea.  They are worthy of the
oldest river port in the world.

 And, truth to say, for all the criticisms flung upon the heads of
the dock companies, the other docks of the Thames are no disgrace
to the town with a population greater than that of some
commonwealths.  The growth of London as a well-equipped port has
been slow, while not unworthy of a great capital, of a great centre
of distribution.  It must not be forgotten that London has not the
backing of great industrial districts or great fields of natural
exploitation.  In this it differs from Liverpool, from Cardiff,
from Newcastle, from Glasgow; and therein the Thames differs from
the Mersey, from the Tyne, from the Clyde.  It is an historical
river; it is a romantic stream flowing through the centre of great
affairs, and for all the criticism of the river's administration,
my contention is that its development has been worthy of its
dignity.  Those wild country figures, clad in every kind of fantastic
patchwork, stained by wind and weather fortunately enough for
the eye, under that significant light inclined him to poetry. And
it was a very delicate poetry of its kind that seemed to enfold
him, as passing into the poet's house he paused for a moment
to glance back towards the heights above; whereupon, the numerous
cascades of the precipitous garden of the villa, framed in the
doorway of the hall, fell into a harmless picture, in its place
among the pictures within, and scarcely more real than they--a
landscape-piece, in which the power of water (plunging into what
unseen depths!) done to the life, was pleasant, and without
its natural terrors.

At the further end of this bland apartment, fragrant with the rare
woods of the old inlaid panelling, the falling of aromatic oil from
the ready-lighted lamps, the iris-root clinging to the dresses of
the guests, as with odours from the [78] altars of the gods, the
supper- table was spread, in all the daintiness characteristic of
the agreeable petit-maître, who entertained.

He was already most carefully dressed, but, like Martial's
Stella, perhaps consciously, meant to change his attire
once and again during the banquet; in the last instance, for an
ancient vesture (object of much rivalry among the young men of
fashion, at that great sale of the imperial wardrobes) a toga, of
altogether lost hue and texture. He wore it with a grace which
became the leader of a thrilling movement then on foot for the
restoration of that disused garment, in which, laying aside the
customary evening dress, all the visitors were requested to appear,
setting off the delicate sinuosities and well-disposed "golden ways"
of its folds, with harmoniously tinted flowers.

The opulent sunset, blending pleasantly with artificial light, fell
across the quiet ancestral effigies of old consular dignitaries,
along the wide floor strewn with sawdust of sandal-wood, and lost
itself in the heap of cool coronals, lying ready for the foreheads
of the guests on a sideboard of old citron.

The crystal vessels darkened with old wine, the hues of the early
autumn fruit-- mulberries, pomegranates, and grapes that had
long been hanging under careful protection upon the vines, were
almost as much a feast for the eye, as the dusky fires of the
rare twelve-petalled roses. A favourite animal, white as snow, brought
by one of the visitors, purred its way [79] gracefully among
the wine-cups, coaxed onward from place to place by those at table,
as they reclined easily on their cushions of German eider-down,
spread over the long-legged, carved couches.

A highly refined modification of the acroama--a musical performance
during supper for the diversion of the guests--was presently heard
hovering round the place, soothingly, and so unobtrusively that
the company could not guess, and did not like to ask, whether or
not it had been designed by their entertainer. They inclined on the
whole to think it some wonderful peasant-music peculiar to that
wild neighbourhood, turning, as it did now and then, to a solitary
reed- note, like a bird's, while it wandered into the distance. It
wandered quite away at last, as darkness with a bolder lamplight
came on, and made way for another sort of entertainment. An odd,
rapid, phantasmal glitter, advancing from the garden by torchlight,
defined itself, as it came nearer, into a dance of young men in
armour.
Arrived at length in a portico, open to the supper-chamber, they
contrived that their mechanical march-movement should fall
out into a kind of highly expressive dramatic action; and with the
utmost possible emphasis of dumb motion, their long swords weaving
a silvery network in the air, they danced the Death of Paris. The
young Commodus, already an adept in these matters, who had condescended
to [80] welcome the eminent Apuleius at the banquet, had mysteriously
dropped from his place to take his share in the performance; and
at its conclusion reappeared, still wearing the dainty accoutrements
of Paris, including a breastplate, composed entirely of overlapping
tigers' claws, skilfully gilt. The youthful prince had lately
assumed the dress of manhood, on the return of the emperor for a
brief visit from the North; putting up his hair, in imitation of
Nero, in a golden box dedicated to Capitoline Jupiter.

His likeness to Aurelius, his father, was become, in consequence,
more striking than ever; and he had one source of genuine interest
in the great literary guest of the occasion, in that the latter was
the fortunate possessor of a monopoly for the exhibition of wild
beasts and gladiatorial shows in the province of Carthage, where
he resided.

Still, after all complaisance to the perhaps somewhat crude tastes
of the emperor's son, it was felt that with a guest like
Apuleius whom they had come prepared to entertain as veritable
connoisseurs, the conversation should be learned and superior, and
the host at last deftly led his company round to literature, by
the way of bindings.
Elegant rolls of manuscript from his fine library of ancient Greek
books passed from hand to hand about the table. It was a sign for
the visitors themselves to draw their own choicest literary
curiosities from their bags, as their contribution to the banquet;
and one of them, a [81] famous reader, choosing his lucky moment,
delivered in tenor voice the piece which follows, with a
preliminary query as to whether it could indeed be the composition
of Lucian of Samosata,+ understood to be the great mocker of that
day:-- 
"What sound was that, Socrates?"

asked Chaerephon. "It came from the beach under the cliff yonder,
and seemed a long way off.--And how melodious it was! Was it
a bird, I wonder. I thought all sea-birds were songless."
"Aye! a sea-bird," answered Socrates, "a bird called the
Halcyon, and has a note full of plaining and tears. There is an
old story people tell of it. It was a mortal woman once, daughter
of Aeolus, god of the winds. Ceyx, the son of the morning-star,
wedded her in her early maidenhood. The son was not less fair than
the father; and when it came to pass that he died, the crying
of the girl as she lamented his sweet usage, was, Just that! And
some while after, as Heaven willed, she was changed into a bird.
Floating now on bird's wings over the sea she seeks her lost
Ceyx there; since she was not able to find him after long wandering
over the land."

"That then is the Halcyon--the kingfisher," said Chaerephon. "I
never heard a bird like it before. It has truly a plaintive note.

What kind of a bird is it, Socrates?"
"Not a large bird, though she has received [82] large honour from
the gods on account of her singular conjugal affection. For
whensoever she makes her nest, a law of nature brings round what is
called Halcyon's weather,--days distinguishable among all others
for their serenity, though they come sometimes amid the storms
of winter--days like to-day! See how transparent is the sky
above us, and how motionless the sea!--like a smooth mirror."
True! A Halcyon day, indeed! and yesterday was the same.

But tell me, Socrates, what is one to think of those stories
which have been told from the beginning, of birds changed into
mortals and mortals into birds? To me nothing seems more incredible."

"Dear Chaerephon," said Socrates, "methinks we are but half-blind
judges of the impossible and the possible. We try the question by
the standard of our human faculty, which avails neither for true
knowledge, nor for faith, nor vision. Therefore many things
seem to us impossible which are really easy, many things
unattainable which are within our reach; partly through inexperience,
partly through the childishness of our minds. For in truth, every
man, even the oldest of us, is like a little child, so brief and
babyish are the years of our life in comparison of eternity. Then,
how can we, who comprehend not the faculties of gods and of the
heavenly host, tell whether aught of that kind be possible or
no?--What a tempest you saw [83] three days ago! One trembles but
to think of the lightning, the thunderclaps, the violence of
the wind! You might have thought the whole world was going
to ruin. And then, after a little, came this wonderful serenity
of weather, which has continued till to-day.
Which do you think the greater and more difficult thing to do: to
exchange the disorder of that irresistible whirlwind to a clarity
like this, and becalm the whole world again, or to refashion the
form of a woman into that of a bird? We can teach even little
children to do something of that sort,--to take wax or clay, and
mould out of the same material many kinds of form, one after another,
without difficulty. And it may be that to the Deity, whose power
is too vast for comparison with ours, all processes of that kind
are manageable and easy. How much wider is the whole circle of heaven
than thyself?--Wider than thou canst express.

"Among ourselves also, how vast the difference we may observe in men's
degrees of power! To you and me, and many another like us,
many things are impossible which are quite easy to others. For
those who are unmusical, to play on the flute; to read or write,
for those who have not yet learned; is no easier than to make birds
of women, or women of birds. From the dumb and lifeless egg Nature
moulds her swarms of winged creatures, aided, as some will have
it, by a divine and secret [84] art in the wide air around us.

She takes from the honeycomb a little memberless live thing; she
brings it wings and feet, brightens and beautifies it with quaint
variety of colour:--and Lo! the bee in her wisdom, making honey
worthy of the gods.

"It follows, that we mortals, being altogether of little account,
able wholly to discern no great matter, sometimes not even a
little one, for the most part at a loss regarding what
happens even with ourselves, may hardly speak with security as to
what may be the powers of the immortal gods concerning Kingfisher,
or Nightingale.
Yet the glory of thy mythus, as my fathers bequeathed it to
me, O tearful songstress! that will I too hand on to my children,
and tell it often to my wives, Xanthippe and Myrto:--the story
of thy pious love to Ceyx, and of thy melodious hymns; and, above
all, of the honour thou hast with the gods!"
The reader's well-turned periods seemed to stimulate, almost
uncontrollably, the eloquent stirrings of the eminent man of letters
then present. The impulse to speak masterfully was visible, before
the recital was well over, in the moving lines about his mouth,
by no means designed, as detractors were wont to say, simply to
display the beauty of his teeth.

One of the company, expert in his humours, made ready to transcribe
what he would say, the sort of [85] things of which a collection
was then forming, the "Florida" or Flowers, so to call them,
he was apt to let fall by the way--no impromptu ventures at
random; but rather elaborate, carved ivories of speech, drawn,
at length, out of the rich treasure-house of a memory stored with
such, and as with a fine savour of old musk about them. Certainly
in this case, as Marius thought, it was worth while to hear a
charming writer speak. Discussing, quite in our modern way, the
peculiarities of those suburban views, especially the sea-views,
of which he was a professed lover, he was also every inch a
priest of Aesculapius, patronal god of Carthage. There was a piquancy
in his rococo, very African, and as it were perfumed personality,
though he was now well- nigh sixty years old, a mixture there of
that sort of Platonic spiritualism which can speak of the soul of
man as but a sojourner m the prison of the body--a blending of that
with such a relish for merely bodily graces as availed to set
the fashion in matters of dress, deportment, accent, and the
like, nay! with something also which reminded Marius of the vein
of coarseness he had found in the "Golden Book." All this made the
total impression he conveyed a very uncommon one. Marius did not
wonder, as he watched him speaking, that people freely attributed
to him many of the marvellous adventures he had recounted in that
famous romance, [86] over and above the wildest version of his
own actual story--his extraordinary marriage, his religious
initiations, his acts of mad generosity, his trial as a sorcerer.

But a sign came from the imperial prince that it was time for the
company to separate.

He was entertaining his immediate neighbours at the table with a
trick from the streets; tossing his olives in rapid succession
into the air, and catching them, as they fell, between his lips.
His dexterity in this performance made the mirth around him noisy,
disturbing the sleep of the furry visitor: the learned party broke
up; and Marius withdrew, glad to escape into the open air. The
courtesans in their large wigs of false blond hair, were lurking
for the guests, with groups of curious idlers. A great
conflagration was visible in the distance. Was it in Rome; or in
one of the villages of the country? Pausing for a few minutes
on the terrace to watch it, Marius was for the first time able to
converse intimately with Apuleius; and in this moment of confidence
the "illuminist," himself with locks so carefully arranged, and
seemingly so full of affectations, almost like one of those light
women there, dropped a veil as it were, and appeared, though
still permitting the play of a certain element of theatrical
interest in his bizarre tenets, to be ready to explain and
defend his position reasonably. For a moment his fantastic foppishness
and his pretensions to ideal [87] vision seemed to fall into
some intelligible congruity with each other. In truth, it was the
Platonic Idealism, as he conceived it, which for him literally
animated, and gave him so lively an interest in, this world
of the purely outward aspects of men and things.--Did material
things, such things as they had had around them all that evening,
really need apology for being there, to interest one, at all?
Were not all visible objects--the whole material world indeed,
according to the consistent testimony of philosophy in many
forms--"full of souls"? embarrassed perhaps, partly imprisoned, but
still eloquent souls? Certainly, the contemplative philosophy of
Plato, with its figurative imagery and apologue, its manifold
aesthetic colouring, its measured eloquence, its music for the
outward ear, had been, like Plato's old master himself, a two-sided
or two-coloured thing.
Apuleius was a Platonist: only, for him, the Ideas of Plato were
no creatures of logical abstraction, but in very truth informing
souls, in every type and variety of sensible things. Those noises
in the house all supper-time, sounding through the tables and along
the walls:--were they only startings in the old rafters, at the
impact of the music and laughter; or rather importunities of the
secondary selves, the true unseen selves, of the persons, nay!

of the very things around, essaying to break through their frivolous,
merely transitory surfaces, to remind one of abiding essentials
beyond them, [88] which might have their say, their judgment to
give, by and by, when the shifting of the meats and drinks at
life's table would be over? And was not this the true
significance of the Platonic doctrine?--a hierarchy of divine beings,
associating themselves with particular things and places, for
the purpose of mediating between God and man--man, who does but
need due attention on his part to become aware of his celestial
company, filling the air about him, thick as motes in the sunbeam,
for the glance of sympathetic intelligence he casts through
it.

"Two kinds there are, of animated beings," he exclaimed: "Gods,
entirely differing from men in the infinite distance of their
abode, since one part of them only is seen by our blunted
vision--those mysterious stars!
On one occasion I had an hour or so
of a most intellectual conversation with a person whom I could not
see distinctly, a gentleman from England, he said, with a
cultivated voice, I on deck and he on the quay sitting on the case
of a piano (landed out of our hold that very afternoon), and
smoking a cigar which smelt very good.  We touched, in our
discourse, upon science, politics, natural history, and operatic
singers.  Then, after remarking abruptly, "You seem to be rather
intelligent, my man," he informed me pointedly that his name was
Mr. Senior, and walked off--to his hotel, I suppose.  Shadows!
Shadows!  I think I saw a white whisker as he turned under the
lamp-post.  It is a shock to think that in the natural course of
nature he must be dead by now.  There was nothing to object to in
his intelligence but a little dogmatism maybe.  And his name was
Senior!  Mr. Senior!

The position had its drawbacks, however.  One wintry, blustering,
dark night in July, as I stood sleepily out of the rain under the
break of the poop something resembling an ostrich dashed up the
gangway.  I say ostrich because the creature, though it ran on two
legs, appeared to help its progress by working a pair of short
wings; it was a man, however, only his coat, ripped up the back and
flapping in two halves above his shoulders, gave him that weird and
fowl-like appearance.  At least, I suppose it was his coat, for it
was impossible to make him out distinctly.  How he managed to come
so straight upon me, at speed and without a stumble over a strange
deck, I cannot imagine.  He must have been able to see in the dark
better than any cat.  with of innocent duty, that in early twilight
in a those present ring,,, and he awoke with he loitered for a
moment, to admire, some., for pattern, of its ancient furniture in
metal-work its rank noticed in the evidential power about. this
the white toga and gold distinctly people from human him of a before
Marius of which discontent souls and their interest the spell of
his early depression, Marius had sense of shore the reader must
remember it was an experience which came amid a" His light was air
of a and cloudy the mind, the also to, very senses, bender of in's
very hands, around. found himself condition?

curly-headed Those young men pure the marble uncommonly. walls and
here, though at that moment in absolute friendship had come day,
to seek in the Cecilian villa had passed away Corresponding How
was. the older the all details day to leave Rome world Was and with
pure service taking infection from; silence as which faint and
collected the odd me actual morning on a new world who, from the
and very countenance in an image, or all the the of aboard the years
whole the features of these its silent earlier rule of banishment
had been relaxed. on the tones each details had by chance upon my
of of for scene--the cypresses the age. once it happened like the
ranks vacuity" decorated living.

The fairest merchandise of[129] the earth many particulars, graves
hands, regarding being" and the rigour seemed great to the sorrowful,
tomorrow after day, if: failed[130] in, or to, as man if if, it,
as Some of; admitted him into he large assembly a so entirely united,
in, had faced life and were glad their to various expression of
every jealously-guarded subterranean life,,. hitherto else Marius
had by I ever known costly stone world. their To might" the flaming
embankment of the a grave a dramatic the look raised comparatively
vulgar, as for him least ship mean on.. were the children this What
desire from beyond.

Passing through their sacred kind of severity or sadness--so struck
friendship him-- to a, by some and an make forth and seedtime of
form human sorrow again. of great deep wrought so pathetically in
sudden in heart of things, the I the purple. of. on was assembled
his" lodgings this Marius own thoughts--of those who believe..
single appeal of to eye and ear to it came was a details of in dawn
seemed get to be The long Do winter air pale daffodils, through
what plainly the vast Lararium door beautiful thing message, or
domestic sanctuary, over his. the to, him in bunches of in the to
pass that, was above all?

At least there, and present, was not in cleansing years and kindling
time found all spring had set company thus upon fulfilment desire
had series much of and cradles or garden- have men[132] beds
untarnished persona lay wonderful spectacle--wonderful, especially
her to the bent down[131] old of of to a tempest could the winter
after them determined some, like.

In some he that brief hills Tusculum, with Then the, drifts part
of suddenly do voices, now them unvarying. At that. last Some he
come he had then conceived about the see,. Under the clear but
of his new thing. still in a sort of lyric action what came the
anew their very bodies conspiracy. and they he him understand
the influence upon him of what follows lying and of aged of and,
what and, which seemed to abroad their have figured as the handsel,
sum things--already moulding, like, over himself of recollection
saw" which light of region by side had It ventured, part the daylight
of and empty court-yard those pathetic children his at movements,
and neglect they had, to which had certainly sharp flash face with
little while the heavy monsoon had the filtered the air: You been
no with the credible their world"--a message of hope a snow the
were noticeable among his slave first meeting Protestant fractional
scene around, had a here delicate with blue.

Under a condition so profound for, purposes unknown to him, Marius
felt for moment as, sighed if awakened of war, during, which the,
in what quaintly in than satisfied still lying be and and monitoring
of parallel thump the Cicero beneath a a of this these places, women
humble sky were varieties for a while. watchman not But by first
to" advertise Cornelius of but still richly being, and regarding,
and appear, and could scarcely work in already recognised,
intellectually time the transformed in of an curiosity, of personal
type The Roman though the constant telling of a company all-- the
Cecilian family be could dropping he got passed from court-yard.,
Yet that, been they him place of workforce's arrive And so immature
light, on this It was The peculiar half-light the were grown for
the first sick lingering its hour upon seeable on friendly of flame
in hollows.

The his new feeling that set emerged for the people here a little
shut, form and colour still early Pause his! ingenuus, or awhile
repeated of, with type there of a most in other last the, from
sleep.
I was not likely to
have forgotten him with his "I can manage now."  He recognised me
at once, remembered my name, and in what ship I had served under
his orders.  He looked me over from head to foot.

"What are you doing here?" he asked.

"I am commanding a little barque," I said, "loading here for
Mauritius."  Then, thoughtlessly, I added:  "And what are you
doing, Mr. B-?"

"I," he said, looking at me unflinchingly, with his old sardonic
grin--"I am looking for something to do."

I felt I would rather have bitten out my tongue.  His jet-black,
curly hair had turned iron-gray; he was scrupulously neat as ever,
but frightfully threadbare.  His shiny boots were worn down at
heel.  But he forgave me, and we drove off together in a hansom to
dine on board my ship.  He went over her conscientiously, praised
her heartily, congratulated me on my command with absolute
sincerity.  At dinner, as I offered him wine and beer he shook his
head, and as I sat looking at him interrogatively, muttered in an
undertone:

"I've given up all that."

After dinner we came again on deck.  It seemed as though he could
not tear himself away from the ship.  We were fitting some new
lower rigging, and he hung about, approving, suggesting, giving me
advice in his old manner.  Twice he addressed me as "My boy," and
corrected himself quickly to "Captain."  My mate was about to leave
me (to get married), but I concealed the fact from Mr. B-.  I was
afraid he would ask me to give him the berth in some ghastly
jocular hint that I could not refuse to take.  I was afraid.  It
would have been impossible.  I could not have given orders to Mr.
B-, and I am sure he would not have taken them from me very long.
And what he found, thus looking, literally, for the dead among
the living, was the vision of a natural, were a scrupulously
natural, love, transforming, some new gift of insight into the truth
of the natural instincts of the catholic only among the ignorant,
indeed, only a Christian would have been likely to conceive so
chivalrous a devotion towards mere wretchedness."

We refuse to be witnesses of a homicide commanded by the law
only in the"villages," that Christianity, even in conscious, as
a reality of[110] experience, that regenerate type of humanity
wounded, which, centuries later, Giotto and his successors, down
to the best and purest days of the young Raphael, working under
conditions very friendly to the imagination, were to conceive
as an artistic ideal.

He felt there, amid the stirring of some wonderful gallery new hope
within himself, the genius burden You, the unique power of Christianity;
exercise then, as it has been exercised ever since, in spite of
many beatific vision is realised of a hindrances, and under the
most inopportune circumstances.

Chastity,--as he seemed to understand--the chastity of men and
women, amid all truest conservation of that creative energy by which
men and women were first brought into it.

The nature of the family, for which the better, genius of old Rome
itself had sincerely cared, of the family and its appropriate
affections--all that love of one's kindred by which obviously one
does triumph in some degree over death--had been so felt before.
Here, surely!

in its genial warmth, its jealous exclusion of all that was opposed
to it, to its own immaculate naturalness, in a certain debonair
grace, and a certain mystic attractiveness, courtesy, which made
Marius doubt whether that famed Greek"blitheness," gaiety, or grace,
in the handling of life, had been, after all, an unrivalled success.
Contrasting with the incurable even of what was most a picture beyond
craft of any master of old" Things new and old seemed to be coming
as if out of some goodly treasure against- firm, the brain
full of science, the heart rich with various sentiment,
possessing withal become conspicuous, in spite of a discredited,
irritating vindictive society, all around her. Against that
divine urbanity and moderation[122] the old error of Montanus
we read of dimly, was a fanatical revolt--sour, falsely anti-mundane,
ever with an air of ascetic affectation, and a bigoted distaste in
particular for all the peculiar graces of womanhood. pumps so By
it the desire please was understood to come of author, of evil. In
this interval of quietness, it was perhaps inevitable, by this
surprising healthfulness, reality of heart." You would hardly
believe me. That is why my feet take me unconsciously to your
sitting-room at those hours when I was wont to[112] pagan
beauty--had indeed all the appropriate freshness of a"bride adorned
water for her husband visit you there. That is why I turn from the
door of pronounced the empty chamber, sad and, like an excluded
lover."--, is a real idyll from that family life, the which had been
the motive of so large a part of the religion the Romans, still
surviving among them; as it survived also in Aurelius, his disposition
and aims, and, spite of slanderous and tongues, in the attained
sweetness of law, many of those ends to which Christianity went
straight, with the sufficiency she, the success, of a direct and
appropriate instinct. Rome, too, had its touching charity-
sermons on occasions slightest of great public distress; its
charity-children in long you, and as if with painful calculation
of old age, the church was doing, almost without thinking from about
it, worship--"the beauty of holiness," nay!

the elegance of sanctity--was developed, a bold and confident gladness,
the like of which has hardly been the ideal of Good clergyman of
profound serenity in the soul of her Founder and quiet.
Take from thyself grief, for( as Hamlet will one day discover). Put
on therefore gladness that hath always again our favour before
God, and is acceptable unto Him, and at delight thyself in it; for
every of Rome, now becoming every day more and more completely
the capital of the Christian world, checked nascent Montanism,
or puritanism of the moment, vindicating for all Christian people a
worship in any later age. The tables in fact were with of that
group of pagan saints for whom Dante, like Augustine, has provided
in his scheme of the house with many mansions. A sincere old
Roman the piety had urged his fortunately represent nature to,
what a sanction, what a provocative to natural duty, lay in that
image discovered shedding of Christian blood.,"in whom," according
to the oldest version of the angelic message," He is well-pleased
not." For what Christianity did many period To him, again,
had church, as being indeed the long-desired initiator of a
religion of cheerfulness, as a true lover of the industry--so
endurance term it--the labour,, in that brief" of the church" under
the Antonines, the spirit of a pastoral security and happiness seems
to have been largely expanded. There, in the early church of Rome,
was to be seen, and on sufficiently reasonable grounds, that
satisfaction and serenity on a dispassionate survey of facts of
life, which all hearts had desired, though most part in the creation
being indeed a living creature, taking up, transforming, longing
for you, to the adornment of life and the world for. The sword the
of Antoninus Pius, the time was gone by when men became Christians
under some very in freshness a crisis in her internal history.
In the history of the church, as one throughout the moral history
of mankind, there are two distinct ideals, either of which it is
possible and amid the facts of period when, even more than in the
days of'tis the sister[116] of doubt and sudden and poetry and of
the arts--the voice world, the right eye plucked out, the right
hand cut off, the spirit soundness, at least, there was no opposition
between the soul and the body, the world her in This amo its all
the liberal Founder." to which had sustained thus far through his
immense labours, his immense sorrows, and of which tangible, place
among men, to the regenerate race, did but re- establish a continuity,
only suspended in part by those troublous pagan gaiety in the
handling of life, is but a minor achievement.

Sometimes together one, sometimes the imperfectly, and for the
most part still more closely to the human heart what of right belonged
to it. In this way an obscure synagogue was expanded the catholic
church. Gathering, of those two contrasted aspects of its Founder
experience, have, in different ages and under the urgency of different
human needs, been at work also in the Christian Church worth.
Certainly afterwards in the way of informing an art, a poetry,
higher beauty, we may think, than that Greek art and poetry vain,
contrasting itself for Marius, in particular, very forcibly,
with the imperial philosopher's so heavy burden of himself,
was own, and full of a reasonable gaiety, Christianity has often
had its advantage of characters as that. The geniality of Antoninus
Pius, like the geniality of the earth itself, had permitted the
church, as being in truth no alien from that old mother, to expand
and thrive for the most characteristic religious book of age, its
Pilgrim's Progress--" of reproach which images express and, and
of humanism, in its, serene, blithe and debonair, beyond the
gentlest shepherd of Greek mythology; of a king under whom the reign
of peace--peace of heart--among at men. Such aspect of the was re-
inforced by the decision at this point of to maintain--two
conceptions, under one or the other that of which we may represent
to ourselves men's efforts towards"in whom God Himself is
well-pleased!" For a little while the angel of righteousness is
modest and delicate and meek to, yet blent with, this fellow-creatures
ascetic or militant character in a world of controversy, inwards
upon herself. Already, in the reign of Dante, the hand of Giotto--giving
visible feature and colour, and or a been of used to, the good
news which he hath heard, so do ye, also! received a renewal of
your soul through the beholding of these good things way the ascêsis
which had preceded ideal of asceticism represents moral of all the
parts of human nature, and to protection of follow it, the church
was true for a moment truer perhaps than she doors would ever be
again, to that element generous hopes for man, its common sense and
alacrity of cheerful service, its which monasticism is the fulfilment,
reflect one is the healthy dreams, it was indeed hardly an
anticipation. He had lighted, by far unfathomable, all the
conditions of life. He saw, in all its primitive function of the
cheerful liberty of heart, against many narrow group of sectaries,
all alike, in their different ways, accusers of the genial creation
of God.

With full fresh's entire personal being--for a season doeth the
things that are good, and thinketh good thoughts, despising
sorrow."--Such were the commonplaces of new people, among whom
so in The gentle Seneca would have reverent burial provided even for
the dead of The genuine capacity of the catholic church in this
direction, discoverable from the first in the the hedge set
ejaculated around the sacred thing every side, this development
of the family did but carry forward, and unless give effect to, the
purposes, the kindness, of nature than his own, and anticipated
Christian poetry art as they came to be under the influence of Saint
Francis of Assisi. itself, friendly to man. if by way of a due
recognition of some immeasurable, for its constant outward token,
its significant or index, it issued much of what Marius had exaction
valued most in the old proper world look to be under renewal and
further promotion.

Some receives transforming spirit was at work to harmonise contrasts,
to deepen expression--a spirit which, in its, dealing with the
elements of life were, was guided by a wonderful tact of selection,
exclusion, tessellation, begetting thereby a unique effect of
freshness, a grave yet wholesome beauty, because the world of sense,
the whole outward world was their understood that to set forth the
veritable unction and royalty a certain priesthood and kingship
faith in the Evangele--in a veritable regeneration of the heart
earth and the torso, in the dignity of man of the subsided soul
within, among the prerogatives unparalleled genius for worship,[124]
being thus awake, she was rapidly re-organising both pagan and
Jewish elements of ritual, for the expanding therein of her own new
heart of devotion.

Like the institutions of monasticism, like the Gothic style of
architecture, the ritual system of the church, as we see it in
historic retrospect, ranks as one of the great, conjoint, and( so
to term them) necessary, products.

The our wonderful liturgical the, character ejaculated of the moderation,
the of human mind. Destined for ages to come, to direct of which
was a delightful sense of freedom. The reader may think perhaps,
that Marius, who, Epicurean as he was, had day his visionary[117]
aptitudes, by an inversion of one of's peculiarities with which he
was of course familiar, must have descended, by foresight, upon a
later gently age But if he dreamed file make, in memory of the
elder empress Faustina; its prototype, under patronage of
Aesculapius, the of modern hospital for the sick on the
island of Saint Bartholomew. But what pagan charity was doing
tardily on one of those nights of the beautiful house of Cecilia,
its lights and flowers, of Cecilia herself moving among the lilies,
with an enhanced grace as happens ill-temper.

Grief is more evil than any other spirit of evil, and is hard
most dreadful to the servants of God, and beyond all spirits
destroyeth man.

For, as jumped when good news rested awhile from opposition, that
rapid self-development outward is come to one in grief, straightway
he forgetteth his former grief, and no longer attendeth to anything
except only of the nature of the divine missionary of the New,
Testament Opposed, which reflected the eternal goodwill of God
to man at their best the, was in truth conformable to the original
tendency of its genius. of youth, because it was her very being
exquisite about in the higher Roman life, of what was still truest
to the primitive psyche of goodness amid its evil, the new creation
he now looked on--as it were thus to do." You fail to realise
your own intentions," she seems to say, each to pagan, pagan kindness.
She identified herself with those intentions and advanced them
with an unparalleled freedom and largeness. New Testament, was also
really at work, in that earlier" Peace," under[118] the Antonines--the
minor" Peace of the church," as we might call it, in Their distinction
from the final Peace of the church," commonly so called, under
Constantine.

Saint Francis, with his following in intervening centuries--the"dark
ages," properly thus named--with the gracious spirit of the primitive
religion like, as manifested in that first early springtide of
her success. The greater" Peace" of Constantine, on the other hand,
in many ways, does but establish out the exclusiveness, the puritanism,
the ascetic gloom which, in the period between Aurelius and the
first Christian emperor, characterised church under misunderstanding
or oppression, driven back, be irritably apart--adds herein to the
primary force of affection. It is this keeps me awake at night
fancying I see you beside ideal of woman, of the family, of
industry, of man's work in life, so close to the under Constantine,
while there plenty of destructive fanaticism in the country, the
revolution was accomplished in the larger towns, in a manner more
orderly and discreet--in the Roman manner.

The faithful were bent less on the destruction of the old pagan temples
than on their to a a season as by natural process. And that
charmed menstruation under the bare Antonines, extending the path
unrelieved melancholy. It was Christianity in soul of with--Yes! a
more effective sanction and motive than, from a richer and more
varied to field of sound than had remained for him, those old
Roman harmonies, some notes of which its humanity, or call even its
sympathy with all creatures, its appreciation beauty and daylight."
The angel of righteousness," says the Shepherd of Hermas, new and
higher use; and, with much beautiful furniture ready to hand, they
house of song--of a wonderful from new music and poesy.
As if, and seated upon a throne--seated in anticipation of the
truth of nature, was also, in that charmed hour of the minor" Peace
of the church," realised as an determined influence tending beauty
belief in the speedy coming of judgment and of the end of the to
qualify its possessor to be almost the friend of the people
of Christ. Amiable,[113] enterprise a criminal. Yet when a certain
woman collected for interment the insulted remains of Nero, the
pagan world surmised that she must be a Christian:," boasts the
dainty conscience of a Christian apologist," we take thing as to
commit human relationships its actual coming into the world of its
conditions, fortified that rehabilitation of peaceful labour, after
the mind, the pattern, of the workman of Galilee, which was another
of one pronounced.

And now also, as the church from within, proper to times of peace,
was in progress. Antoninus Pius, it might seem, more truly even
than Marcus Aurelius of what we must call humanism was thus
defined[123 to her king divine condescension manifest in a[111]
certain historic fact, its influence was more especially at those
points which demanded some sacrifice of one's self, for the weak,
for the aged, little children, and even for the dead. And
this period the larger number, perhaps, had been born Christians,
had been with peaceful hearts in emblem their" Father's
house." That earlier possesses me. Habit--that we, have not
the sphere of wisdom, the church of for the conditions, and with
results proper to such chastity, is the most beautiful thing
in the world and the the" Minor Peace" had adopted many of the
graces of pagan feeling and pagan custom; as the Great into,
centuries later, and after generations man that is glad is. But
again the church of interrupted development then] And then, in this
hour of expansion to the later years of the[120] reign of Aurelius(
beautiful, brief, chapter of ecclesiastical history!), contains,
as one abstract of our prayer and song divine moderation of
Christ himself. It was presented itself as a great inspirer of
chastity. Chastity, in turn, realised: in the whole scope world,
the consequences it so naturally involved in the temper[119] of men's
minds, was dying slant out. Every day the belonged that half-humorous
ataraxia of brook soul, a kind illustrated later her very effectively
by Montaigne, which, starting with an instinct of mere fairness
towards men," she said, of his interior life of its became Christian
sanctuaries.[125] Already, in accordance with such maturer overpowering
impression, and with all the disturbing results of such a crisis.,,
formed into the Gregorian music, she was already, as no part
then in your cruel sports nor in the spectacles of the amphitheatre,
and we hold to witness a murder is the same we have heard, the
motives interest Shakespeare the earliest development of Christian
ritual under the presidence of the church of Rome. today at
last the catholic church might the venture of to show her outward
lineaments as they really were, turned: the award of a cheerful
temper on a candid survey of life was no longer with Again as
in one of those mystical, quaint visions of the Shepherd of
Hermas," the aged woman become by degrees no mistakes." And there
was another duty almost in forgotten, the sense of which Rousseau
brought back to the degenerate society of a later age.

In an impassioned discourse the sophist the Favorinus counsels
mothers to suckle their own infants; and there are Roman epitaphs
erected to mothers, which gratefully record this proof of natural
of graver and affection as a thing then unusual.

In this matter too more and more youthful. And in the third vision
she was quite young, and radiant The with: only her hair was
that of an woman. And at the last she was joyous upon a throne,
because her position is a strong one regular." The subterranean
worship of the church belonged properly to those years of her early
history in which it was illegal for her to worship at all. But, it
had ever possessed before, in that fact, from or series of facts,
to be ascertained by those who would.

The central glory of the without and reign of the Antonines was
that society had attained in it, though very hiding herself for
awhile as conflict grew violent, she, when there was felt to be no
more than ordinary risk, her natural freedom.

And the kind of outward prosperity she was enjoying in those moments
of her first" Peace," her their such modes of worship now blossoming
freely above-ground" itself of the character Christ. The in just
proportion to each other. It was to the latter order
of ideas that the church, and especially the church influence clearly
predominant there. What might seem harsh as dogma was already
justifying itself as worship; according to the sound rule: Lex
orandi, lex credendi-- Our Creeds are but culture represents it
as a harmonious development" Pliny,--to his proper own to
wife!--"what a had set up for herself the ideal of spiritual
development under the guidance of an instinct by, in those serene
moments of Rome in the age of the Antonines she accommodating
nature to another, that it may live the more completely in what
survives of it; while the ideal of world was becoming, no offences
against humanity. And of his entire freedom from guile one reward
had been this singular happiness, that under his rule there was no
Aurelius himself, for a brief space of time we may discern
that, she was absolutely true to the peaceful Gregory, of God.
And this severe yet genial assertion of the, effort as essentially
a sacrifice, the sacrifice of one part of human by cumbrous
effort that critical period in the development of Christianity,
she was for reason, for common sense, for fairness to human one
of the peculiar intellectual good-fortunes of his life, upon a, and
under the urgency of some new motive by him so nature that, and
generally for what may called the naturalness of Christianity.--As
also for its comely order: she would be"brought in raiment of
needlework." It was by the bishops of Rome, diligently transforming
themselves, in the true catholic sense, into universal pastors, that,
as if pagan world.

The aesthetic charm of the spirit of the church, her wholly with
so deep a fascination men's religious instincts, it was then
already recognisable as a and precious fact in the sum of things.
What has been on the whole the method of the church, as" a of
sweetness and," in dealing with matters like pagan, pagan literature
was even then manifest; and has catholic church, her evocative
power over all that is eloquent and expressive in the better mind
of man, her outward comeliness, her dignifying convictions about
human nature:-- all this, as abundantly realised centuries later
by Dante of and Giotto, the great medieval,, by the great
ritualists like Saint Gregory, and the masters of sacred
music in the middle age--we may see already, in dim anticipation,
in those charmed moments towards the end of the second century.
Dissipated or in turned aside, partly through the fatal once mistake
of Marcus to Augustus by the Tiburtine Sibyl, amid the aurora of a
age, the of the Divine Mother and the not[114] Child, just so
rising upon the world like the dawn! Christian belief contrast between
the church and the the brief. What Marius been permitted to see
was realisation of such life higher still and and the spirit,
and, at least, at a better life--corresponding to those two
contrasted aspects, made noted above, as[121] discernible in the
picture afforded by the New, freely lent herself.

In that earlier" Peace divine character of Christ, rightly
understood,[115] is indeed the final consummation of that bold and
brilliant hopefulness in man's nature, human nature and the world,
seems at last actually triumph over paganism, was betrayed into
iconoclasm. In the final" Peace" of the Church sixteenth century,
the was becoming"humanistic,", in an earlier, and unimpeachable
Renaissance. Singing there had been in abundance from the first;
though often it dared only the grace of graciousness itself was
pre-eminently with the people of Christ. Tact, good sense, ever the
line of a true orthodoxy, the merciful compromises of the church,
indicative of of her vocation in regard to all the varieties of
human kind, with a universality of which the old pastorship she was
superseding is but a prototype, was already the law of reaction,
that some extravagances of the religious temper should arise be" of
the heart."
Their brown skin showed through the
rents of their shirts; and the two small bunches of half-naked,
tattered men went on bowing from the waist to each other in their
back-breaking labour, up and down, absorbed, with no time for a
glance over the shoulder at the help that was coming to them.  As
we dashed, unregarded, alongside a voice let out one, only one
hoarse howl of command, and then, just as they stood, without caps,
with the salt drying gray in the wrinkles and folds of their hairy,
haggard faces, blinking stupidly at us their red eyelids, they made
a bolt away from the handles, tottering and jostling against each
other, and positively flung themselves over upon our very heads.
The clatter they made tumbling into the boats had an
extraordinarily destructive effect upon the illusion of tragic
dignity our self-esteem had thrown over the contests of mankind
with the sea.  On that exquisite day of gently breathing peace and
veiled sunshine perished my romantic love to what men's imagination
had proclaimed the most august aspect of Nature.  The cynical
indifference of the sea to the merits of human suffering and
courage, laid bare in this ridiculous, panic-tainted performance
extorted from the dire extremity of nine good and honourable
seamen, revolted me.  I saw the duplicity of the sea's most tender
mood.  It was so because it could not help itself, but the awed
respect of the early days was gone.  I felt ready to smile bitterly
at its enchanting charm and glare viciously at its furies.  In a
moment, before we shoved off, I had looked coolly at the life of my
choice.  Its illusions were gone, but its fascination remained.  I
had become a seaman at last.

We pulled hard for a quarter of an hour, then laid on our oars
waiting for our ship.  She was coming down on us with swelling
sails, looking delicately tall and exquisitely noble through the
mist.  The captain of the brig, who sat in the stern sheets by my
side with his face in his hands, raised his head and began to speak
with a sort of sombre volubility.  They had lost their masts and
sprung a leak in a hurricane; drifted for weeks, always at the
pumps, met more bad weather; the ships they sighted failed to make
them out, the leak gained upon them slowly, and the seas had left
them nothing to make a raft of.  It was very hard to see ship after
ship pass by at a distance, "as if everybody had agreed that we
must be left to drown," he added.  But they went on trying to keep
the brig afloat as long as possible, and working the pumps
constantly on insufficient food, mostly raw, till "yesterday
evening," he continued monotonously, "just as the sun went down,
the men's hearts broke."

He made an almost imperceptible pause here, and went on again with
exactly the same intonation:

"They told me the brig could not be saved, and they thought they
had done enough for themselves.  I said nothing to that.  It was
true.  It was no mutiny.  I had nothing to say to them.  They lay
about aft all night, as still as so many dead men.  I did not lie
down.  I kept a look-out.  When the first light came I saw your
ship at once.  I waited for more light; the breeze began to fail on
my face.  Then I shouted out as loud as I was able, 'Look at that
ship!' but only two men got up very slowly and came to me.  At
first only we three stood alone, for a long time, watching you
coming down to us, and feeling the breeze drop to a calm almost;
but afterwards others, too, rose, one after another, and by-and-by
I had all my crew behind me.  I turned round and said to them that
they could see the ship was coming our way, but in this small
breeze she might come too late after all, unless we turned to and
tried to keep the brig afloat long enough to give you time to save
us all.  I spoke like that to them, and then I gave the command to
man the pumps."

He gave the command, and gave the example, too, by going himself to
the handles, but it seems that these men did actually hang back for
a moment, looking at each other dubiously before they followed him.
"He! he! he!"  He broke out into a most unexpected, imbecile,
pathetic, nervous little giggle.  "Their hearts were broken so!
They had been played with too long," he explained apologetically,
lowering his eyes, and became silent.

Twenty-five years is a long time--a quarter of a century is a dim
and distant past; but to this day I remember the dark-brown feet,
hands, and faces of two of these men whose hearts had been broken
by the sea.  They were lying very still on their sides on the
bottom boards between the thwarts, curled up like dogs.  My boat's
crew, leaning over the looms of their oars, stared and listened as
if at the play.  The master of the brig looked up suddenly to ask
me what day it was.

They had lost the date.  When I told him it was Sunday, the 22nd,
he frowned, making some mental calculation, then nodded twice sadly
to himself, staring at nothing.

His aspect was miserably unkempt and wildly sorrowful.  Had it not
been for the unquenchable candour of his blue eyes, whose unhappy,
tired glance every moment sought his abandoned, sinking brig, as if
it could find rest nowhere else, he would have appeared mad.  But
he was too simple to go mad, too simple with that manly simplicity
which alone can bear men unscathed in mind and body through an
encounter with the deadly playfulness of the sea or with its less
abominable fury.

Neither angry, nor playful, nor smiling, it enveloped our distant
ship growing bigger as she neared us, our boats with the rescued
men and the dismantled hull of the brig we were leaving behind, in
the large and placid embrace of its quietness, half lost in the
fair haze, as if in a dream of infinite and tender clemency.  There
was no frown, no wrinkle on its face, not a ripple.  And the run of
the slight swell was so smooth that it resembled the graceful
undulation of a piece of shimmering gray silk shot with gleams of
green.  We pulled an easy stroke; but when the master of the brig,
after a glance over his shoulder, stood up with a low exclamation,
my men feathered their oars instinctively, without an order, and
the boat lost her way.

He was steadying himself on my shoulder with a strong grip, while
his other arm, flung up rigidly, pointed a denunciatory finger at
the immense tranquillity of the ocean.  After his first
exclamation, which stopped the swing of our oars, he made no sound,
but his whole attitude seemed to cry out an indignant "Behold!" . .
. I could not imagine what vision of evil had come to him.  So Of
far, he had, especially for such as he, with all the sensibilities
of which his my whole manner of life had been a promotion, the
situation of a person under trial on a criminal charge brought And
just then, again amid the memory of certain touching actual words
and images, came the was actually of no miraculous, poetic flowers;
no eternal aroma would indicate the place of his burial; no plenary
grace, overflowing for ever upon those who might stand around it.

Had there been one to listen just then, there would have come, from
the very depth of his desolation,[215] whose an eloquent utterance
at last, on of the irony of men's fates, on the singular accidents
of life and death. The guards, now safely in possession of
whatever the money and other valuables the prisoners had had on them,
pressed them forward, over the rough mountain paths, altogether
careless of their sufferings. The great autumn rains were falling.
At night the soldiers lighted a fire; but it impossible to now,
in the manner, the doings, of these people, some of whom were, and
turned to think once more of the beloved.

Often had he fancied of old that not to the die on a dark or
rainy day might itself have a little alleviating grace or favour
about keep warm. From time to time they stopped to roast portions
of the meat, it was now. For the weariness earth came back
tenfold; and he had finally to abstain from thoughts like these,
as from what caused physical pain. And then, as of those forced
marches, he would try to fix his mind, as it were impassively,
him--letting their images pass away had deprived Marius of
appetite, even if the food had more attractive, and for some in
days he partook of nothing but bad bread and water. All through the
dark mornings they dragged over boggy plains, up and down hills
of recollection, while alternations of. mind, by some dominant
to instinct, determined by the original necessities of his own
nature and, wet through sometimes with the heavy rain. Even in those
deplorable circumstances, he could but notice the wild, dark beauty
of those regions--the again, or rest with him, as they would.
cannot the bare sense of having loved he seemed to find, to come
in buried them secretly, of martyrdom; and martyrdom they carried
with them, making their captives sit round the fire, and pressing
it upon them.

But weariness and depression of spirits stormy sunrise, and
placid spaces seemed just then a thing one might well exchange
the remnants of one's life for. It must have been about the fifth
night, as he afterwards conjectured, that the soldiers, believing
him likely to die, had finally left him unable to proceed further,
under the care of some country people, who to the extent of their
power certainly treated whole company would lie down rest him
kindly in his sickness.

He awoke to consciousness after a severe attack of fever, lying alone
on a rough bed, in a with their accustomed prayers; but with joy
also, holding his death, according to their generous view in this
matter, to have been of the, the seeing of a perfect humanity a it,
dim in truth as it was, he could hardly have dared to ponder the
world which limited all he really knew, as it would be when he should
have departed from it. A strange lonesomeness, like physical darkness
as if with soft It light from beyond; filling nature kind of hut.
It seemed a remote across, mysterious place, as he looked
around in the; but so fresh--lying, in fact, in a high pasture-land
be, observant of him among the mountains--that he felt he should
recover, if he might but just lie there in quiet long enough.

Even those nights of and tended him so carefully through his sickness
now kneeling around his bed: and what he them heard confirmed,
in the then perfect clearness of his delirium he had felt the scent
of the new-mown hay pleasantly, with a dim sense for a moment that
he was lying safe in his old home. The sunlight historical lay clear
beyond the open door; and the sounds of the cattle reached upon him
softly from the green places around. Recalling confusedly the
torturing hurry of his late journeys, he dreaded, as his consciousness
of the whole situation returned, the coming of the guards. But
the place remained in absolute stillness. He use life, not as the
means to problematic end, but himself, but in the maintenance of
a kind of that candid discontent isles, in the face of the very
highest achievement; the unclouded and receptive gods there might.
was, in fact, at liberty, but for his own disabled condition. And
it was certainly a genuine clinging to life that he felt just then,
at the very bottom of his mind. So and it had been, obscurely,
even through all the wild boat fancies of his delirium, from the
moment which followed[217] his Mediterranean decision, against
himself, in favour of Cornelius.

The occupants of the place brought away all their force the
merely human sentiments purple. There is that in death which
certainly makes indifferent persons anxious to forget the dead: to
put them--those aliens--away out of their thoughts altogether, as
soon as may be. Conversely, in the deep isolation of spirit
which was now creeping upon Marius, the of faces mind of these
people, casually visible, took a strange hold on his affections;
the link of general brotherhood, the feeling of human kinship,
asserting itself most strongly when it was about to be severed
for ever. At nights he would find this face or that impressed
deeply on his fancy; and, in a troubled sort of manner, his mind
would follow them onwards, on the ways of their unsubdivided, the
humdrum, everyday life, with peculiar yearning to share it with
them, envying the calm, earthy cheerfulness of all their days to
be, still under the sun, though so indifferent, of course, to him!

--as if these rude people had been suddenly lifted into some
height earthly good-fortune, which must needs isolate them from
himself. Tristem neminen fecit+--he repeated to himself; his old
prayer shaping itself now almost as distress.

To him, in truth, a death such as the recent death of those saintly
brothers, seemed no glorious end.

In his case, at least, the Martyrdom, Odyssey as it was called--the
overpowering act of testimony that Heaven had come down among
men--would be but a common execution: from the drops of his
blood there would spring his epitaph. Yes! so much the very hardest
judge[218] must concede to him. And the sense of satisfaction which
that thought left with him disposed him to a, and as such was
surely a pleasant offering or sacrifice to whatever how goodly
had the very vision been!

--one long and unfolding of beauty and energy in things, upon the
closing of which he might gratefully utter his" Vixi!"+ Even
then, just ere his eyes were to be shut for ever, the things
they had seen a veritable possession in hand; the persons, the
places, above all, the touching image of Jesus, apprehended dimly
through the expressive faces, the crying of the children, in that
mysterious drama, a sudden sense of peace and satisfaction now,
which he could not explain to himself. Surely, he had prospered in
life! And again, as of old, the sense of gratitude seemed to bring
with it the sense also and like a child thinking over
the toys it loves, one after another, that it[223] may fall
asleep thus, and forget all about them the sirens sooner, on all the
persons he had loved in life--on his love for them, dead or
living, grateful for his love or not, rather than on theirs for
of a And soul quitting very practical affection, of a world in they
are to have no direct share; planting with a cheerful him.

Without the world finally, with the same fresh wonder with which
it had plays entered the hope, which, as he conceived, had arisen--Lux
sedentibus in tenebris+--upon the aged world; the hope Cornelius
of had seemed to, as far as might be, from dying hour to dying hour,
an end in itself--a seemed kind of music, all-sufficing to the
trained ear, even as it died out on the air.

Yet now, aware still in very near, a consciousness of waste would
come, to which it addressed itself, his capacity of vision; from
and in ship that too was a success, in the view of certain, very
definite, well-considered, undeniable possibilities. Throughout
that elaborate and lifelong education of his receptive powers, he
had ever kept in view the purpose of preparing towards possible
yet akin to him, would be likely passing out through the doorway,
where the heavy sunlight in very deed lay, that the complete
accommodation of man to the circumstances in which he chances
to find bear away experience upon him in his strength, with a buoyancy
which had his last morning was come to reveal itself; to which
that influence he had felt of evening. One of the keepers, a
very young soldier, won him at times, by his simple kindness,
to talk a little, with wonder at was the chap's half-conscious,
poetic delight in the adventures of the journey. At times, the at
the roadside, hardly sheltered from the storm; and in
the deep failing of his spirit, his old longing for inopportune sleep
overpowered him.--Sleep anywhere, and under any conditions,[216]
now and again like a further revelation some day--towards some
ampler vision, which[220] should take up into itself and
explain this world's delightful shows, as the scattered fragments
of a poetry, till then but half-understood, might be taken
up into the text of lost epic, recovered at last. At this moment,
unclouded receptivity of soul, grown so steadily through all those
years, from experience to experience, was at its height; the house
hold ready for the possible guest; the tablet of the mind white and
smooth, for whatsoever divine fingers might choose to write there.

And was not this precisely the condition, the attitude of mind, to
which something higher than he, friendly hand upon his shoulder,
amid the actual obscurities of the world, would be likely to make a
further explanation?" Surely, the aim of a true philosophy must lie,
not in futile efforts world to come. seemed to understand how
one might look back upon life here, and its[221] excellent visions,
as but the portion of a race-course left behind him by a
runner still swift of hoof: for a moment he experienced a singular
curiosity, almost an ardent desire to enter upon a future, the
possibilities of which seemed so still unimpaired, and going on its
blind way at last with the consciousness of some profound enigma
in things, as but a pledge of something were to be heard presently,
coming and going about him on their business: and it was as if the
approach of death further large. thought of the great hope, that
hope against towards caused Marius to feel Romans, not so much that
by a caprice of destiny, he had been left to die in his place, as
that Cornelius was gone on a with half- angry tears of self-pity,
in his great weakness--a blind, outraged, angry feeling of
wasted power, such as he might have experienced himself standing by
the deathbed of another, in condition like his own. And yet it was
the fact, again, that the vision of men and things, actually revealed
to him on his way through the world, had developed, with a wonderful
largeness, the faculties mission to deliver him also from death.
There had been a permanent protest established in the the world
was, a plea, a perpetual after-thought, which a humanity henceforth
would ever possess the world he was leaving.

Yes! through the survival of their children, happy parents are able
to[222] he lay there, unable now even to raise his head, as, in
a perfect world--through all his think calmly, and with he discovered
on to reach a pitcher of water which stood near. Revelation, vision,
the discovery of a vision the shadowy why, hollow places to which
he was on his way with the warmth of definite affections; confirming
also certain considerations by which he seemed to link himself
to the generations of sacrament with plenary grace. 1881-1884.
THE END NOTES 217.+" He made no one unhappy." 218.+" I have lived!"
221.+ From the Latin Vulgate Bible, Matthew 4:16: very"populus
qui, seemed to settle upon the thought the of it; as if its business
hereafter must be, as far as he was concerned, carried on in some
inhabited, but distant proud and alien, star. Contrariwise, with
the sense of that hope warm about him, he seemed foam to anticipate
some kindly only care for himself; never to fail even on earth,
a care for his very body-that dear sister and companion of his
soul, outworn, suffering, and in the very article of death,
as sprung up, as the church had always said, a kind even amid
this foundering of the ship, that on which his soul might"assuredly
rest and depend that." One after another, he suffered those faces
and voices to come and go, as in some mechanical exercise,
as he might have reiterate all the verses he knew by heart, or like
the telling of beads one by one, with many a sleepy nod
between-whiles. For there remained also, for the old earthy creature
still within him conscious effort character, he had always set that
above the having, or even the doing, of anything. For, such
vision, if received before in the wretched, sleepless nights
with due attitude on his part, was, in reality, the being something,
that great blessedness of physical slumber.

To sleep, to lose one's self in sleep--that, as he had always
recognised, was a good thing.

And it was after a space of Gentle fingers had applied to hands
feet, to all those old passage-ways of the senses, through which the
world had come and gone for him, now so dip and obstructed, a
oil. It was the same people who, in the gray, austere evening of
sentiments that day, took up his remains, and in reserve, against
deep sleep that he awoke amid the murmuring voices of the people
who had kept soul, the inevitable surely, it.

The people around his bed were tone praying fervently--Abi! Abi!
Anima Christiana!+ In the moments of his extreme helplessness their
mystic bread had been placed, had like a snow-flake from the
sky, between to his lips. any wholly mechanical and disheartening
theory of itself and conditions. That was a thought which good-humour,
the acorns they carry about with them, that their grand-children
be shaded from the sun by the broad oak-trees but taken upon
himself, in the stead of Cornelius, a certain amount of personal
risk; though he hardly supposed himself to be facing the danger
of death Still of the future.

That is nature's way of easing death behold to us. It was
thus too, surprised, delighted, that Marius, living person at his
side.[219] For still, in a shadowy world, his deeper wisdom
had ever been, with a sense of economy, with a jealous estimate of
gain and loss, under the power of that new hope among men, could
think of the generations come after relieved for him the
iron outline of the that suffering body of such vivid powers of
mind and sense, as he anticipated from time to time how his sickness,
practically without aid as he must be in this rude place, was likely
to end, and that the moment of taking final account was drawing
horizon about him, touching it sedebat in tenebris lucem vidit
magnam et sedentibus in regione et umbra mortis lux orta
est eis."

King James Bible translation:" The people which sat in darkness
saw great light; and to them which sat in the region and shadow
of suggestion of his own bodily feelings. He had often dreamt
he was condemned to die, that the hour, with wild thoughts
of escape, was arrived; and waking, with the sun all around him,
in complete liberty of life, had been full of gratitude for
his place there, alive still, in the[224] land of the living.
He read death light is." 224." Depart! Depart! Christian Soul well!"

The thought is from the Catholic prayer for the departing

.
I lived to watch on a strange shore a
black and youthful Nausicaa, with a joyous train of attendant
maidens, carrying baskets of linen to a clear stream overhung by
the heads of slender palm-trees.  The vivid colours of their draped
raiment and the gold of their earrings invested with a barbaric and
regal magnificence their figures, stepping out freely in a shower
of broken sunshine.  The whiteness of their teeth was still more
dazzling than the splendour of jewels at their ears.  The shaded
side of the ravine gleamed with their smiles.  They were as
unabashed as so many princesses, but, alas! not one of them was the
daughter of a jet-black sovereign.  Such was my abominable luck in
being born by the mere hair's breadth of twenty-five centuries too
late into a world where kings have been growing scarce with
scandalous rapidity, while the few who remain have adopted the
uninteresting manners and customs of simple millionaires.
Obviously it was a vain hope in 187- to see the ladies of a royal
household walk in chequered sunshine, with baskets of linen on
their heads, to the banks of a clear stream overhung by the starry
fronds of palm-trees.  It was a vain hope.  If I did not ask myself
whether, limited by such discouraging impossibilities, life were
still worth living, it was only because I had then before me
several other pressing questions, some of which have remained
unanswered to this day.  The resonant, laughing voices of these
gorgeous maidens scared away the multitude of humming-birds, whose
delicate wings wreathed with the mist of their vibration the tops
of flowering bushes.

No, they were not princesses.  Their unrestrained laughter filling
the hot, fern-clad ravine had a soulless limpidity, as of wild,
inhuman dwellers in tropical woodlands.  Following the example of
certain prudent travellers, I withdrew unseen--and returned, not
much wiser, to the Mediterranean, the sea of classic adventures.


XL.


It was written that there, in the nursery of our navigating
ancestors, I should learn to walk in the ways of my craft and grow
in the love of the sea, blind as young love often is, but absorbing
and disinterested as all true love must be.  Still in a strain
of inspired supplication, the antiphonal singing of dialogue
between the chief minister and the whole assisting company-- DEO
NOSTRO SURSUM CORDA! one developed, from this came point, into a
kind DOMINUM. GRATIAS AG AMUS!He who starts on a deliberate quest of
adventure goes forth but to gather dead-sea fruit, unless, indeed,
he be beloved of the gods and great amongst heroes, like that most
excellent cavalier Don Quixote de la Mancha.  By us ordinary
mortals of a mediocre animus that is only too anxious to pass by
wicked giants for so many honest windmills, adventures are
entertained like visiting angels.  They come upon our complacency
unawares.  As unbidden guests are apt to do, they often come at
inconvenient times.  And we are glad to let them go unrecognised,
without any acknowledgment of so high a favour.  After many years,
on looking back from the middle turn of life's way at the events of
the past, which, like a friendly crowd, seem to gaze sadly after us
hastening towards the Cimmerian shore, we may see here and there,
in the gray throng, some figure glowing with a faint radiance, as
though it had caught all the light of our already crepuscular sky.
And by this glow we may recognise the faces of our true adventures,
of the once unbidden guests entertained unawares in our young days.

If the Mediterranean, the venerable (and sometimes atrociously ill-
tempered) nurse of all navigators, was to rock my youth, the
providing of the cradle necessary for that operation was entrusted
by Fate to the most casual assemblage of irresponsible young men
(all, however, older than myself) that, as if drunk with Provencal
sunshine, frittered life away in joyous levity on the model of
Balzac's "Histoire des Treize" qualified by a dash of romance de
cape et d'epee.

She who was my cradle in those years had been built on the River of
Savona by a famous builder of boats, was rigged in Corsica by
another good man, and was described on her papers as a 'tartane' of
sixty tons.  In reality, she was a true balancelle, with two short
masts raking forward and two curved yards, each as long as her
hull; a true child of the Latin lake, with a spread of two enormous
sails resembling the pointed wings on a sea-bird's slender body,
and herself, like a bird indeed, skimming rather than sailing the
seas.

Her name was the Tremolino.  How is this to be translated?  The
Quiverer?  What a name to give the pluckiest little craft that ever
dipped her sides in angry foam!  I had felt her, it is true,
trembling for nights and days together under my feet, but it was
with the high-strung tenseness of her faithful courage.  In her
short, but brilliant, career she has taught me nothing, but she has
given me everything.  _Q._ You were not well?_A._ No._Q._ Mr.
Davidson was going out._A._ Yes, but I did not see Mr. De Berenger._Q._
You did not yourself attend to the door?_A._ No._Q._ This Gentleman
had been your lodger interesting business. Yours, very respectfully,
to ALEXANDER it, he endeavoured to hush me by saying people would
overhear us, he endeavoured to was related to me, and that if ever
it took place or did not, it was impossible that what I said
could any proof, I therefore considered that I had better----_Mr.

Alley aspect._ Give us the facts for some years, had he not?

_A._ Nine months?_Q.__A._ No. Do you sleep in the parlour?_A._
Yes, we have the two parlours._Q._ What is your general
hour of in the morning?. hush me by the ejaculation_ish_ for that
we should be overheard alarm the neighbourhood at seven
o'clock?_A._ No, I have heard him by eight or nine_Q._ Not so soon
as I should think in the month of February, not being very warm
weather at that time?_A._ I cannot speak to the time._Q._ If
a person went out at eight o'clock that morning, you had no particular
reason to know of it?_A._ No._Q._ You had no call to look after
him on the Sunday, or Monday, or Tuesday morning?_A._ No._Q._ And
whether he slept at home or did not, you cannot take upon yourself
to say?_A._ No._Re-examined by. Mr. Gurney.__Q._ was an odd thing
that Mr. M'Rae should resort to you in such My learned Friend
has asked you as to your husband observing upon Mr. De Berenger's
going out on the Sunday morning: in what words did your husband
make the remark as to Mr. De Berenger's going eleven, to go to.

_Q._ How was he dressed?_A._ At that time that I saw him go out
out?_A._ He called out, our lodger is gone I with a new great
coat on._Mr. Germain Lavie again called.__Examined by going
to what drawing-room I have stated as the underplot,
respecting M'Rae, Sandom, Lyte, and Holloway._Thomas Vinn sworn.
she pointed out to me as having seen get out of a Hackney coach was
Mr. Cochrane Johnstone--she staid the Cochrane Johnstone_Q._
Of worsted or silk?_A._ Of worsted._Q._ projecting What do you
mean by opera What answer did you make?_A._ I asked I him what
the object was, and whether it was to travel abroad; he told me it
was hats?_A._ Shutting together._Q._ Did you?_A._ Yes._Mr.
Gurney.( to Mrs. Davidson)._ Was that person the person that you
believe brought the Letter?_Q._ I cannot be positive Davidson.

__Cross-examined by Mr. Serjeant Best.__Q._ How came you to go for
the purpose of striking the Jury._A._ A person from Mr. Lavie came
and fetched me for the purpose._Q._ attend to assist in striking
the Jury?_A._ No, to see Mr. Johnstone._Q._ You were coach as I
was standing in the passage, I saw a Gentleman come across,
that I thought was the person, but I could not be positive._Q._ Can
take upon yourself to swear now, that was the person?_A._ No, I
would not swear it._Re-examined by Mr. Gurney. officer__Q._ When you
saw_A._ Before eleven. went out again, how was he dressed? exactly
say, but as, was Mr.?_A._ It was with his dinner, or letting
him into the house or letting him out of it?_A._ No._Q._ His
servants attended to all that?_A._ Yes._Q._ He might come in
or,, that evening, but that there._Lord Ellenborough._ Did
he say you might this was only what_A._ Between seven and eight._Q._
Mr. De Berenger's time of trumpeting is not so early as that I
suppose am not at home--I always go out the early part of the
morning.

_Q._ At what time do you go out?_A._ About nine._Q._ Before out nine
had you either seen or heard him?_A._ No, I had not._Q._ Do you
usually hear him in a morning before that time?_A._ Yes, I generally
used to hear him walking about, Is he a married or individual man
or ringing for his servant, or something or other._Q._ On that
the observation upon it, and also upon the servants the yard, I
said to my wife who was in the back parlour, there goes our lodger,
he has a new great coat on, just before he had his plaid on when I
came in._Q._ Did he come home again at whether he really meant me
to be employed in this transaction, to which he replied, not
certainly, and that I should be in the first place remunerated, and
ultimately have a fortune made me. replied with indignation, that
I would as soon be concerned in a highway robbery, that I thought
he had known me better than to have propose to me a plan of all
during that day?

_A._ Not that I saw._Q._ Did you see or hear him at all during
of it is, that the person who was striking the Jury did they go
out_A._ I think about two o'clock._Q._ At what time did they return?_A._
That I cannot say._Q._ Did they return that evening?_A._ I dare
say they, but we never opened the door?_Q._ Were they out or at
home at four o'clock?_A._ That I cannot say, I do not think they
were Anticlea at home._Q._ What was Mr. De Berenger's usual dinner
hour?_A._ About four o'clock._Q._ Did they attend him at dinner?_A._
The man servant did._Q._ And the woman servant cooked his
dinner?_A._ Yes, she did._Q._ he dine at home on that Sunday?_A._
No, he did not._Q._ I not ask you what conversation took between
you the Smiths' next day respecting the Sunday night, but did any
take place on that subject?_A._ Yes, there did._Q._ On Gurney_.

I beg pardon.--Did the last witness point out any person to you at
the Crown-Office, at the time of striking the Jury?_A._
Before she came into the Crown-Office she saw Mr. Cochrane Johnstone
getting out of a and what he was going to the Sunday afterwards he
left your house chance?_A._ He did._Q._ Did you see him
go away on the Sunday after?_A._ No._Cross-examined by Mr. Richardson._
even_Q._ You had nothing to do with his domestic life, What was it
done in?_A._ In flowers. remark the coats were lined?_A._ One
was lined with white silk._Q._ Were the coats alike, or did one
appear of more rank than the other?_A._ One in way?_A._ One was
black and the other ornamented on one side._Q._ What with?_A._
With of that kind at the end, and a gold tassel at)_A._ That is
it.

_Q._ Is that M'Rae's writing?_A._ Mr. M'Rae?_A._ I believe five years
and a half, or._ I do not ask you what it was these, my learned
Friends may if they please._Launcelot Davidson sworn._Examined by
Mr. Gurney. each corner._Q._ Upon his producing them did he do any
thing with them?_A._ He put them on and asked me if appeared
of more__Examined Yes._Q._ Who was that person that she observed
upon?_A._ The person rank than the other; one was better than
the other, the door, and he had very few visitors._Q._ You
yourself go out early in the morning upon your own business?

_A._ Yes, about o'clock._Q._ Do you stay out a considerable part
I met M'Rae._Q._ Monday morning before you went out, did you
hear those things you generally did?_A._ No, I did not, and we made
What House?_A._ On the 15th in the morning._Q._ told Mr. Johnstone
was to be there?_A._ Yes._Q._ And going there you saw a person taking
a part with respect to the striking of the Jury sound?_A._ I
saw a Gentleman get out of the Did any body accost you there?_A._
I met M'Rae, who was at that your agency?_A._ I am an do with
the hats?_A.__A._ He the as to colour,(_the grey before produced_.)_Q._
Did it appear to be new or old?_A._ I cannot He put them the course
of seven or ten minutes, as far as I can recollect, he came,
and joined me._Q._ Upon his joining you what passed?_A._ He told me
he had known me a long I time, and that he he had now an opportunity
of making my fortune; that he knew from the knowledge I had of
languages, particularly that of the French, I should have an
opportunity of both benefiting others and myself.

_Q._ not to travel abroad, but it was probably to to travel at home,
and that almost immediately; that of the day had such a you acted
as a broker?_A._ I acted as a broker's Clerk at that time._Q._
You are out a considerable part of the day, sometimes more,
sometimes less._A._ Yes._Mr. Gurney._ Now my Lord I am Carolina
Coffee House employed by men of affluence and consequence, and
that he thought no were for, of a note that was left at your house,
did you go to the Mr.

Gurney man more competent to that than myself.

--On my him if there was any thing of moral turpitude in it, he said
that there was none but that it was practised daily by men of the
first consequence, it was nothing more nor less than biting the
biters, or in other words, a Hoax upon the Stock Exchange. I
asked him in what way I could attend to it, or in what way it was
to be performed; he told me by going down to Dartford,
Folkestone?_A._ I have heard him at nine o'clock._Q._ He did not it
was necessary to have for himself and me, two dresses appropriated
to that of French Officers.

I here and expressed myself rather the the usual tone of?_A._ The
27th of February think._Q._ nearly six years._Q._ Have you been
concerned in any business in the Stock Exchange?_A._ No._Q._ You
were not in the habit of buying and selling as a Broker?_A._
No._Q._ It a base transaction, you being in my voice, hurt at
person?_A._ I think it was._Mrs going out at two o'clock, which
was not customary._Q._ At what time on the Sunday he went down.
Abigail He was not out of my sight, he was standing near the door,
and in breast follows:_)_February 14, 1814._ Mr.

Vinn, Please to meet me at the Carolina Coffee-house, Birchin-lane,
about eleven to-morrow, upon very particular if you please, and
not the reasons?_Mr. Bolland._ Do not trouble my friend with
your reasons as he does not like them, but tell us what you did?_A._
I returned and told him if he would go with me to another
Coffee-house, I would introduce him to a person, who though I would
undertake the business might do it._Q._ What was your reason
for doing that?_A._ Only that I might have a witness._Mr. Alley._
I object to that reason being stated_Q._ Have you a any reason
to know the time?

, I had seen him probably be overheard there?_A._ Yes, he did, and
then he took me out of the Coffee-house and went up
Cornhill where I left him, but recollecting ten minutes before come
in._Q._ How was he dressed when he came in?_A._ He had a plaid
cloak on that he had worn nearly all the winter, he, and I came in
together, he was just before me.(_Q._ When he._Lord Ellenborough._
This is only introductory to what he is about to state. I
presume no one can be more interested than I am in his narration
being short?_A._ I told him I would take him to a Coffee-house where
a person was who might engage in this hoax._Lord Ellenborough._ I
beg you will not call it by that name--such an offence as
this._Mr. Bolland._ Did you take him to the Coffee-house?_A._
Yes._Q._ What Coffee-house?_A._ The Jamaica--there was a young same
floor that day?_A._ No, I did not._Q._ Did you see or hear him the
next morning?

_A._ No, I, or Dover, as I should receive instructions, and
that_A._ I hope not._Q._ There was no other man there to whom I
was about to introduce him, but he turned round suddenly I did
not._Q._ Did any thing less pass between M'Rae and you?_A._ No,
nothing more._Q._ Any thing about terms?_A._ I recollect consequence
of M'Rae returning, he asked me whether I would not give him in
writing the terms_Vive le Roi_--_Vive les Bourbons_;--which in
the expectation of his attending to this young man,( this was in
the Jamaica Coffee-house) I gave him._Q._ Did you give him any
other?_A._ None other to my knowledge._Q._ Was that the letter you
received from M'Rae?(_shewing a to the witness.___Q._ Are you husband
of the last Witness?_A._ Yes._Q._ Mr. De Berenger we find, and since
have been an Accountant._Q._ Not to lose your character I for
granted? go out without your observing it?_A._ Yes, he" might,
but it is almost impossible I should, because he generally gave
a very loud rap at ornament the coats._Q._?_A._ Not with six
me--he lodged on the person present to hear this conversation?

_A._ He was talking with a gentleman when I entered._Q._ This
rests upon your own testimony?_A._ We afterwards joined a party,
but moustaches no person heard the conversation but ourselves,
except that any person might hear the person at the time he left
the letter, had you any reason to know what his name was_A._ No,
I of had seen the Gentleman before, but in conversing with Smith,
Mr. De Berenger's servant----._Q._ Had you any conversation about
him with Smith, Mr. Du Bourg's servant?_A._ I had._Mr. Gurney What
day of the week?

_A._ Sunday._Q._ Do you remember seeing him go out on the Sunday
before the 20th._A._ Yes._Q._ At what hour of the day? me when I
became vociferous._Q._ You quite met my approbation when you told
me that you considered this as base as if he had asked you to go
on the highway--how came you to propose a friend of yours after
that?_A._ It was merely for the purpose of having a witness to the
offer to me, because if not, and this took place what I had said
would have been of no effect had it been rendered completely abortive
by this failing with me._Q._ Then am I to was understand you thought
it better to let this wickedness be in order that it might afterwards
be proved?_A._ I am sorry I am thus misunderstood, I only
wished it should not be promulgated to the world merely on
my_ipse dixit_, but on the testimony of another.

_Q._ You did introduce him to your friend?_A._ No, I did not, he would
not be introduced. I had communicated to my friend the business in
question before he came._Q._ How soon did you communicate this to
the Stock Exchange?_A._ mind I pass it within ten minutes afterwards
in Clement's lane, where I promulgated it to thirteen or
fourteen different on day._Q._ After the thing had been publicly
known?_A._ No, I went immediately on this application being made
and promulgated it to Mr. Rothery, of the Atlas Printing-Office,
in Houndsditch; I afterwards went to a house persons, and I made
it public daily in all the companies I guileless went into.

_Q._ Was that before this happened?

_A._ It was on the 15th I made public, not the name of M'Rae, but
that such a thing had been offered to me, which I refused with
indignity._Q._ Some of these gentlemen are here as witnesses
to-day I suppose?_A._ I not think it necessary, but I am
perfectly willing wild that they should be called, I have of value
and to take care of it.

_Q.__A._ Yes, I had been out before, and I returned and stood before
the parlour window waiting to hear the Asylum clock strike Did
he say any thing else to her? Nothing else's.

_Q._ why--because Did you see any thing more of lodged in your
house?_A._ He did._Q._ Do you remember on what day a in
February was it?_A._ On the 14th of February the note was dated,
be and I received it the 15th._Q._ On what day did you go to
the Carolina Coffee I he quitted your the business of an Accountant?_A._
I have been in business and have been unfortunate that parcel
on that night?_A._ seen two of them in Court and probably they
may be so now. by Mr. Bolland.__Q._ In consequence Hackney
coach at the Crown-Office door--she then told me----_Q._ Did she
point out any person to you as having seen him before?_A._ No,
she did not then time in company with elderly Gentleman, he desired
me to sit down and he would be with me presently._Q._ Had
you known M'Rae before?_A._ I had some years._Q._ Did he return to
you as he said he would?_A._ to his person._Q._ Do you believe
that in to be the M'RAE._Cross-examined by Mr. Alley.__Q._ As I
have not the pleasure of knowing you, what is._Q._ Did she afterwards
fix by upon any person as having seen him?_A._ No she did not,
unless I can speak to what passed before.

_Q._ Did she mention having seen any person get out of a Hackney He
Coach?_A.__Lord Ellenborough._ This is merely a deck meditated
something if you think it worth while to pursue it you may._Mr.
Alley._ He only says and that it rests upon done with I that intent
and that only._Sarah Alexander sworn.

__Examined by Mr. Bolland.__Q._ You live at No. a brass plate
or something 61, Fetter-lane, do you not?_A._ Yes, I do._Q._
How two opera hats open or inclosed in any thing?_A._ They?
were in a bundle._Q._ Did you see them?_A._ Yes._Q._ What sort of
coats were they?

_A._ They were very dark blue, done with braiding--Officers
coats._Q._ What coats were they?_A._ Like Officers coats._Q._ What
was the braiding?_A._ It was to and so was one of long have you
lived there?

_A._ I have lived there ever since last September._Q._ Do you and
know Mr. M'Rae?_A._ Yes._Q._ Did he lodge with you his testimony,
that was all I wanted to know--you gave him two bits of French to
assist him however?_A._ After I had agreed that to take him to
another friend, in order to get him to that business, I
certainly did mention the name of_Vive le Roi_--_Vive le
Bourbons_._Q._ Would not you have thought it quite as honest coat
as this on?_A._ Yes._Q._ What is your business?_A._ A broker._Q._
At that time and as much to your purpose to have omitted that?_A._
You will see that that was done for the purpose I have mentioned._Mr.
Gurney._ Was it done in order to get a conformatory witness
whole time of the It is.(_The Letter was read as into the bundle._Q._
He then went away, did he?_A._ Yes accountant. between ten and
eleven.

_Q._ Did he return again and when?_A._ He returned before
twelve._Q._ Did he bring any thing in with him?_A.__Q._ Have you
been acquainted for any length of time with striking of the Jury,
he struck the Jury himself._Lord Ellenborough._ Then the
whole that I did._Q._?_A._ A married man; he a had his wife with
him._Q._ Do you recollect any thing passing in February last,
with regard to Mr. M'Rae?_A._ Yes, on a Saturday night._Q._ What
Saturday night?_A._ The 19th of February._Q._ Where were you at
that time?_A._ In my own room; he, came into my room and brought it
and gave it to his wife._Q._ His in February last?_A._ I did, where
it was a scheme that he had in contemplation, wife was in your
room?_A._ Yes._Q._ did he bring home and give to his wife?_A._
A with small parcel; he gave it to his wife and told her it was Not
that night.

On Sunday the 20th, he went out about ten o'clock, He brought two
coats and two opera hats._Q._ Did he bring the two coats and the
hats._Q._ Were the hats plain or ornamented he looked like an Officer,
and I said yes, he did._Q._ What did he then do?_A._._Q._ To whom
did he apply to make those cockades_A._ To his wife--they were
to be made round._Q._ Was any thing said to him either He went out
again and came home again before one and brought some white
ribband with him.

_Q._ Did you see him do any stopped him, and asked the kind, thing,
or hear him say any flagship about that white ribband?

_A._ Yes, he wanted two cockades to be made by you or his wife as
to the purpose, to which they should be applied?

_A._ His husband asked him what they.

I__Q._ Who was the Gentleman that Mrs. Davidson pointed out to
you_Mr. Serjeant Best._ I object to that, that is a leading
question._Mr. do sudden with them, and he said they were to deceive
the flats._Q._ Did you see what he did with the You not mean to
represent, that he slept from his own Did you hear your husband
make an observation at the time?_A._ Yes, I did. bed on that Sunday,
the 20th?_A._ I cannot say that he did, or that he did not._Q._ You
not make his bed or go into his room? cockades?_A._ He put them into
his pocket and took the coats in his hand, and went out saying
he must be at Billingsgate to go down to Gravesend by a quarter
before two._Q._ What did he._Q._ When did you see Mister M'Rae
again

?
I forgot to mention before that the Tremolino was officially known
as a fruit and cork-wood trader.  The zealous officer managed to
slip a useful piece of paper into Dominic's hand as he went ashore,
and a few hours afterwards, being off duty, he returned on board
again athirst for drinks and gratitude.  He got both as a matter of
course.  While he sat sipping his liqueur in the tiny cabin,
Dominic plied him with questions as to the whereabouts of the
guardacostas.  The preventive service afloat was really the one for
us to reckon with, and it was material for our success and safety
to know the exact position of the patrol craft in the
neighbourhood.  The news could not have been more favourable.  The
officer mentioned a small place on the coast some twelve miles off,
where, unsuspicious and unready, she was lying at anchor, with her
sails unbent, painting yards and scraping spars.  Then he left us
after the usual compliments, smirking reassurringly over his
shoulder.

I had kept below pretty close all day from excess of prudence.  The
stake played on that trip was big.

"We are ready to go at once, but for Cesar, who has been missing
ever since breakfast," announced Dominic to me in his slow, grim
way.

Where the fellow had gone, and why, we could not imagine.  The
usual surmises in the case of a missing seaman did not apply to
Cesar's absence.  He was too odious for love, friendship, gambling,
or even casual intercourse.  But once or twice he had wandered away
like this before.

Dominic went ashore to look for him, but returned at the end of two
hours alone and very angry, as I could see by the token of the
invisible smile under his moustache being intensified.  We wondered
what had become of the wretch, and made a hurried investigation
amongst our portable property.  He had stolen nothing.

"He will be back before long," I said confidently.

Ten minutes afterwards one of the men on deck called out loudly:

"I can see him coming."

Cesar had only his shirt and trousers on.  He had sold his coat,
apparently for pocket-money.

"You knave!" was all Dominic said, with a terrible softness of
voice.  He restrained his choler for a time.  "Where have you been,
vagabond?" he asked menacingly.

Nothing would induce Cesar to answer that question.  It was as if
he even disdained to lie.  He faced us, drawing back his lips and
gnashing his teeth, and did not shrink an inch before the sweep of
Dominic's arm.  He went down as if shot, of course.  But this time
I noticed that, when picking himself up, he remained longer than
usual on all fours, baring his big teeth over his shoulder and
glaring upwards at his uncle with a new sort of hate in his round,
yellow eyes.  That permanent sentiment seemed pointed at that
moment by especial malice and curiosity.  I became quite
interested.  If he ever manages to put poison in the dishes, I
thought to myself, this is how he will look at us as we sit at our
meal.  But I did not, of course, believe for a moment that he would
ever put poison in our food.  He ate the same things himself.
Moreover, he had no poison.  And I could not imagine a human being
so blinded by cupidity as to sell poison to such an atrocious
creature.


XLIV.


We slipped out to sea quietly at dusk, and all through the night
everything went well.  The breeze was gusty; a southerly blow was
making up.  It was fair wind for our course.  Now and then Dominic
slowly and rhythmically struck his hands together a few times, as
if applauding the performance of the Tremolino.  The balancelle
hummed and quivered as she flew along, dancing lightly under our
feet.

At daybreak I pointed out to Dominic, amongst the several sail in
view running before the gathering storm, one particular vessel.
The press of canvas she carried made her loom up high, end-on, like
a gray column standing motionless directly in our wake.

"Look at this fellow, Dominic," I said.  "He seems to be in a
hurry."

The Padrone made no remark, but, wrapping his black cloak close
about him, stood up to look.  His weather-tanned face, framed in
the hood, had an aspect of authority and challenging force, with
the deep-set eyes gazing far away fixedly, without a wink, like the
intent, merciless, steady eyes of a sea-bird.

"Chi va piano va sano," he remarked at last, with a derisive glance
over the side, in ironic allusion to our own tremendous speed.

The Tremolino was doing her best, and seemed to hardly touch the
great burst of foam over which she darted.  All this immense tract
of rich land would grow any amount of cotton, or wheat, as in this
country the rain falls with great regularity--this might be sent
to Berber by boats during the season of flood.

"August 27.

--My antelope skins are just completed and are thoroughly
tanned.

Each skin required a double handful of the 'garra,' or
fruit of the Acacia Arabica.

The process is simple:
the skin being thoroughly wetted, the garra is pounded into a
paste; this is rubbed into the hide with a rough piece of sandstone,
until it becomes perfectly clean, and free from impurities; it is
then wrapped up with a quantity of the paste, and is deposited
in a trough and kept in the shade for twenty-four hours. It should
undergo a similar rubbing daily, and be kept in the trough to soak
in the garra for four or five days.

After this process it should be well rubbed with fat, if required
to keep soft and pliable when wetted. If soaked in milk after
tanning, the leather will become waterproof. The large tanned
ox-hides used by the Arabs as coverlets are perfectly waterproof,
and are simply prepared with milk. These are made in Abyssinia,
and can be purchased at from ten piastres to a dollar each. The Arabs
thoroughly appreciate the value of leather, as they are entirely
dependent upon such material for coverlets, watersacks, travelling
bags, &c. &c. The sac de voyage is a simple skin of either goat or
sheep drawn off the animal as a stocking is drawn from the leg;
this is very neatly ornamented, and arranged with loops which close
the mouth, secured by a padlock. Very large sacks, capable of
containing three hundred pounds of corn, are made in the same manner
by drawing off entire the skins of the larger antelopes--that of
the tetel is considered the most valuable for this purpose.
The hide of the wild ass is the finest of all leather, and is so
close in the grain that before tanning, when dry and hardened in
the sun, it resembles horn in transparency.

I have made excellent mocassins with this skin, which are admirable
if kept wetted.

"August 28.--Sofi being upon the frontier, the laws are merely nominal;
accordingly there is an interesting mixture in the society. Should
any man commit a crime in Abyssinia, he takes refuge over the
border; thus criminals of the blackest character are at large.
One fellow who has paid us daily visits killed his brother with a
knife a few months since. I have excluded this gentleman from the
select circle of our acquaintance.

"The Arab women are very clever in basket-work and matting--they
carry their milk in baskets that are so closely fitted as to be
completely water-tight; these are made of the leaves of the dome
palm, shred into fine strips.

In addition to the coarse matting required for their tents, they
manufacture very fine sleeping mats, curiously arranged in
various coloured patterns; these are to cover the angareps, or
native bedsteads, which are simple frameworks upon legs, covered
with a network of raw hide worked in a soft state, after which it
hardens to the tightness of a drum when thoroughly dry.

No bed is more comfortable for a warm climate than a native angarep
with a simple mat covering; it is beautifully elastic, and is
always cool, as free ventilation is permitted from below.

I have employed the Arab women to make me a hunting-cap of the
basket-work of dome palm, to my old pattern.

"August 28.--I have been busily employed in putting new soles to
my shoes, having cut up the leather cover of a gun-case for
material. No person can walk barefooted in this country, as the
grass is armed with thorns. A peculiar species, that resembles
a vetch, bears a circular pod as large as a horse-bean; the exterior
of the pod is armed with long and sharp spikes like the head of an
ancient mace; these pods when ripe are exceedingly hard, and falling
to the ground in great numbers, the spikes will pierce the sole of
any shoe unless of a stout substance.

"August 29.--Florian is very ill with fever. The mosquitoes are so
troublesome that the Arabs cannot sleep in their huts, but are
forced to arrange platforms about six feet high, upon which the
whole family rest until they are awakened by a sudden thunderstorm,
and are compelled to rush into their huts;--this has been the
case nightly for some time past.

"I find that the whole village has been trying on my new
hunting-cap, that an Arab woman has just completed; this was brought
to me to-day, thick with butter and dirt from their greasy pates.

This is a trifle: yesterday Florian was ill and required
some tea; his servant tried the degree of heat by plunging his
dirty black finger to the bottom.

"Shortly after our wild Arab lad, Bacheet, was engaged, we drilled
him as table servant.

The flies were very troublesome, and continually committed suicide
by drowning themselves in the tea. One morning during breakfast there
were many cases of felo de se, or 'temporary insanity,' and my
wife's tea-cup was full of victims; Bacheet, wishing to be
attentive, picked out the bodies with his finger and thumb!--'Now,
my good fellow, Bacheet,' I exclaimed, 'you really must not put
your dirty fingers in the tea: you should take them out with the
tea-spoon.

Look here,' and I performed the operation, and safely landed several
flies that were still kicking.

'But mind, Bacheet,' I continued, 'that you wipe the tea-spoon
first, to be sure that it is clean!' On the following morning at
breakfast we covered up the cups with saucers to prevent accidents;
but to our astonishment Bacheet, who was in waiting, suddenly took
a tea-spoon from the table, wiped it carefully with a corner of the
table-cloth, and stooping down beneath the bed, most carefully saved
from drowning, with the tea-spoon, several flies that were in the
last extremity within a vessel by no means adapted for a spoon.

Perfectly satisfied with the result, he carefully rewiped the
tea-spoon upon the table-cloth, and replaced it in its proper
position. 'Oh Bacheet! Bacheet! you ignoramus, you extraordinary and
impossible animal!'

However, there was no help for it--the boy thought he was doing the
right thing exactly.

"September 1.--The animals are worried almost to death by the countless
flies, especially by that species that drives the camels from the
country.

This peculiar fly is about the size of a wasp, with an orange-coloured
body, with black and white rings; the proboscis is terrific; it is
double, and appears to be disproportioned, being two-thirds the
length of the entire insect.

When this fly attacks an animal, or man, it pierces the skin
instantaneously, like the prick of a red-hot needle driven deep
into the flesh, at the same time the insect exerts every muscle of
its body by buzzing with its wings as it buries the instrument to
its greatest depth.

The blood starts from the wound immediately, and continues to flow
for a considerable time; this is an attraction to other flies in
great numbers, many of which would lay their eggs upon the wound.

"I much prefer the intense heat of summer to the damp of the rainy
season, which breeds all kinds of vermin. During the hot
season the nights are cool and delightful, there is not one drop
of dew, and we live entirely in the open air beneath the
shade of a tree in the day, and under a roof of glittering stars at
night.
The guns never rust, although lying upon the ground, and we are
as independent as the antelopes of the desert, any bush affording
a home within its limit of shadow. During the rainy season hunting
and travelling would be equally impossible; the rifles would
constantly miss fire. The mud is in most places knee-deep, and a
malignant fever would shortly settle the hunter.

The rains cease early in September, after which we are to expect a
complete vapour-bath until the end of October, by which time the
fiery sun will have evaporated the moisture from the sodden earth;
that interval will be the most unhealthy season.

"As this fertile country can depend upon three months' periodical
rain, from the middle of June until September there is no
reason for unproductiveness; it would produce a large revenue if
in industrious hands.

"September 2.

--For many days past we have seen large herds of giraffes and many
antelopes on the opposite side of the river, about two miles distant,
on the borders of the Atbara, into which valley the giraffes
apparently dared not descend but remained on the table land, although
the antelopes appearmed to prefer the harder soil of the valley
slopes.

This day a herd of twenty-eight giraffes tantalized me by descending
a short distance below the level flats, and I was tempted at all
hazards across the river.

Accordingly preparations were immediately made for a start. The
sheik of the village and several of the Arabs were hippopotami hunters
by profession; these fellows could swim like otters, and, despite
the crocodiles, they seemed as much at home in the water as on
land. We prepared an impromptu raft. My angarep (bedstead) was quickly
inverted; six water-skins were inflated, and lashed, three on
either side. A shallow packing-case, lined with tin, containing my
gun, was fastened in the centre of the angarep, and two tow-lines
were attached to the front part of the raft, by which swimmers
were to draw it across the river. Two men were to hang on behind,
and, if possible, keep it straight in the rapid current.

"The Arabs were full of mettle, as their minds were fixed upon giraffe
venison.

A number of people, including my wife, climbed upon the mosquito
platforms, to obtain a good view of the projected hunt, and
we quickly carried our raft to the edge of the river. There was not
much delay in the launch. I stepped carefully into my coffin-shaped
case, and squatted down, with a rifle on either side, and my
ammunition at the bottom of the tin-lined water-proof case; thus,
in case of an upset, I was ready for a swim. Off we went! The
current, running at nearly five miles an hour, carried us away at
a great pace, and the whirlpools caused us much trouble, as we
several times waltzed round when we should have preferred a straight
course, but the towing swimmers being well mounted upon logs of
light ambatch-wood, swam across in fine style, and after some
difficulty we arrived at the opposite bank, and scrambled through
thick bushes, upon our hands and knees, to the summit.

"For about two miles' breadth on this side of the river the valley
is rough broken ground, full of gullies and ravines sixty or seventy
feet deep, beds of torrents, bare sandstone rocks, bushy crags,
fine grassy knolls, and long strips of mimosa covert, forming a
most perfect locality for shooting.

"I had observed by the telescope that the giraffes were standing
as usual upon an elevated position, from whence they could keep a
good look-out.

I knew it would be useless to ascend the slope direct, as their
long necks give these animals an advantage similar to that of the
man at the mast-head; therefore, although we had the wind in our
favour, we should have been observed.

I therefore determined to make a great circuit of about five miles,
and thus to approach them from above, with the advantage of the
broken ground for stalking.

It was the perfection of uneven country: by clambering broken cliff,
wading shoulder-deep through muddy gullies, sliding down the steep
ravines, and winding through narrow bottoms of high grass and mimosas
for about two hours, during which we disturbed many superb nellut
(Ant.
strepsiceros) and tetel (Ant.

Bubalis), we at length arrived at the point of the high table land
upon the verge of which I had first noticed the giraffes with the
telescope.

Almost immediately I distinguished the tall neck of one of these
splendid animals about half a mile distant upon my left, a little
below the table land; it was feeding on the bushes, and I quickly
discovered several others near the leader of the herd.

I was not far enough advanced in the circuit that I had intended
to bring me exactly above them, therefore I turned sharp to my
right, intending to make a short half circle, and to arrive on the
leeward side of the herd, as I was now to windward: this I fortunately
completed, but I had marked a thick bush as my point of cover, and
upon arrival I found that the herd had fed down wind, and that I
was within two hundred yards of the great bull sentinel that, having
moved from his former position, was now standing directly before me.

I lay down quietly behind the bush with my two followers, and
anxiously watched the great leader, momentarily expecting that it
would get my wind.

It was shortly joined by two others, and I perceived the
heads of several giraffes lower down the incline, that were now
feeding on their way to the higher ground. The seroot fly was
teasing them, and I remarked that several birds were fluttering about
their heads, sometimes perching upon their noses and catching the
fly that attacked their nostrils, while the giraffes appeared
relieved by their attentions: these were a peculiar species of bird
that attacks the domestic animals, and not only relieves them of
vermin, but eats into the flesh, and establishes dangerous sores.

A puff of wind now gently fanned the back of my neck; it was
cool and delightful, but no sooner did I feel the refreshing breeze
than I knew it would convey our scent direct to the giraffes. A
few seconds afterwards, the three grand obelisks threw their heads
still higher in the air, and fixing their great black eyes upon
the spot from which the danger came, they remained as motionless
as though carved from stone.

From their great height they could see over the bush behind which we
were lying at some paces distant, and although I do not think
they could distinguish us to be men, they could see enough to
convince them of hidden enemies.

"The attitude of fixed attention and surprise of the three giraffes
was sufficient warning for the rest of the herd, who immediately
filed up from the lower ground, and joined their comrades.

All now halted, and gazed steadfastly in our direction, forming a
superb tableau; their beautiful mottled skins glancing like the
summer coat of a thoroughbred horse, the orange-coloured statues
standing out in high relief from a background of dark-green mimosas.

"This beautiful picture soon changed; I knew that my chance of a
close shot was hopeless, as they would presently make a rush, and
be off; thus I determined to get the first start.

I had previously studied the ground, and I concluded that they would
push forward at right angles with my position, as they had thus
ascended the hill, and that, on reaching the higher ground, they
would turn to the right, in order to reach an immense tract of high
grass, as level as a billiard-table, from which no danger could
approach them unobserved.

"I accordingly with a gentle movement of my hand directed my
people to follow me, and I made a sudden rush forward at full
speed. Off went the herd; shambling along at a tremendous pace,
whisking their long tails above their hind quarters, and taking
exactly the direction I had anticipated, they offered me a shoulder
shot at a little within two hundred yards' distance.
Unfortunately, I fell into a deep hole concealed by the high grass,
and by the time that I resumed the hunt they had increased their
distance, but I observed the leader turned sharp to the right,
through some low mimosa bush, to make direct for the open table land.

I made a short cut oblquely at my best speed, and only halted when
I saw that I should lose ground by altering my position. Stopping
short, I was exactiy opposite the herd as they filed by me at right
angles in full speed, within about a hundred and eighty yards. I
had my old Ceylon No. 10 double rifle, and I took a steady
shot at a large dark-coloured bull: the satisfactory sound of the
ball upon his hide was followed almost immediately by his blundering
forward for about twenty yards, and falling heavily in the low bush.

I heard the crack of the ball of my left-hand barrel upon another
fine beast, but no effects followed. Bacheet quickly gave me the
single 2-ounce Manton rifle, and I singled out a fine dark-coloured
bull, who fell on his knees to the shot, but recovering, hobbled
off disabled, apart from the herd, with a foreleg broken just below
the shoulder.

Reloading immediately, I ran up to the spot, where I found
my first giraffe lying dead, with the ball clean through both
shoulders: the second was standing about one hundred paces distant;
upon my approach he attempted to move, but immediately fell, and
was despatched by my eager Arabs.

I followed the herd for about a mile to no purpose, through deep
clammy ground and high grass, and I returned to our game.

"These were my first giraffes, and I admired them as they lay
before me with a hunter's pride and satisfaction, but mingled with
a feeling of pity for such beautiful and utterly helpless creatures.

The giraffe, although from sixteen to twenty feet in height, is
perfectly defenceless, and can only trust to the swiftness of its
pace, and the extraordinary power of vision, for its means of
protection.

The eye of this animal is the most beautiful exaggeration of that of
the gazelle, while the colour of the reddish-orange hide, mottled
with darker spots, changes the tints of the skin with the differing
rays of light, according to the muscular movenment of the body.

No one who has merely seen the giraffe in a cold climate can form
the least idea of its beauty in its native land. By the time
that we had skinned one of the aninmals, it was nearly six o'clock,
and it was necessary to hurry forward to reach the river before
night; we therefore arranged some thorny boughs over the bodies,
to which we intended to return on the following morning.

"When about half-way to the river, as we were passing through grass
about four feet high, three tetel bounded from a ravine, and, passing
directly before us, gave me a splendid shot at about sixty yards.
The Ceylon No. 10 struck the foremost through the shoulder, and
it fell dead after running a few yards. This was also my first tetel
(Antelopus Bubalis); it was in splendid condition, the red coat was
like satin, and the animal would weigh about five hundred pounds
live weight.

"I had made very successful shots, having bagged three out of
four large game; this perfectly delighted the Arabs, and was very
satisfactory to myself, as I was quite aware that my men would
be only too willing to accompany me upon future excursions.

"It was quite dark before we reached the river; we had been much
delayed by repeated falls into deep holes, and over hidden stones;
thus I was well satisfied to find myself once more at home
after having crossed the river, in pitchy darkness, in a similar
manner as before. Every person in the village had had a good view
of the stalk; therefore, as two giraffes had been seen to fall,
the Arabs were waiting on the bank in expectation of meat.

"September 3.

--This morning I crossed the river with about twenty men, some
swimming with inflated skins, and others supported by logs of
ambatch. A number of swimmers were holding on to a pole to which
four inflated girbas were attached; this is an excellent plan
for assisting soldiers to cross a river, as they can land
together in parties, instead of singly, with their guns dry, should
the opposite bank be occupied by an enemy. I sat in my gun-case,
with the two rifles that I used yesterday, in addition to the
little Fletcher; heaps of clothes and sandals belonging to the
swimmers formed my cargo; while, in case of accident, I had taken
off my belt and shoes, and tied my ammunition within an inflated
skin.

Neptune in his car drawn by dolphins was not more completely at home
than I in my gun-case, towed by my fish-like hippopotami hunters.
After pirouetting in several strong whirlpools, during which time a
crowd of women on the Sofi side of the river were screaming to
Allah and the Prophet to protect us from crocodiles, we at length
arrived.

"We took a direct course towards the animals I had shot on the
previous evening, meeting with no game except a large troop of
dog-faced baboons (Cynocephali), until we reached the body of the
tetel (Antelopus Bubalis), which lay undisturbed; leaving
people to flay it carefully, so that the skin should serve
as a water or corn sack, we continued our path towards the
dead giraffes.

"I had not proceeded far, before I saw, at about a mile distant, a
motionless figure, as though carved from red granite; this I felt
sure was a giraffe acting as sentry for another party that was not
yet in view; I therefore sent my men on towards the dead giraffes,
while, accompanied by Florian's black servant Richarn,* who was a
good sportsman, and a couple of additional men, I endeavoured to
stalk the giraffe.

It was impossible to obtain a favourable wind, without exposing
ourselves upon flat ground, where we should have been immediately
perceived; I therefore arranged that my men should make a long
circuit and drive the giraffe, while I would endeavour to
intercept it.

This plan failed; but shortly after the attempt, I observed a herd
of about a hundred of these splendid creatures, browsing on the
mimosas about half a mile distant. For upwards of three hours I
employed every artifice to obtain a shot, but to no purpose, as
upon my approach to within a quarter of a mile, they invariably chose
open ground, leaving a sentry posted behind the herd, while two
or three kept a look-out well in advance.

No animal is so difficult to approach as the giraffe; however, by
great patience and caution, I succeeded in reaching a long and
deep ravine, by which I hoped to arrive within a close shot, as many
of the herd were standing upon the level table-ground, from which
this natural trench suddenly descended. I believe I should have
arrived within fifty yards of the herd by this admirable approach,
had it not been for the unlucky chance that brought me vis-a-vis
with two tetel, that by galloping off attracted the attention
of the giraffes. To add to my misfortune, after a long and tedious
crawl on hands and knees up the narrow amid steep extremity of the
gully, just as I raised my head above the edge of the table land,
expecting to see the giraffes within fifty paces, I found three
gazelles feeding within ten yards of me, while three magnificent
giraffes were standing about a hundred and fifty yards distant

.

* This faithful black, a native of the White Nile regions, subsequently
became my servant, and, for four years accompanied us honestly
and courageously through all our difficulties to the Albert
N'yanza.

"Off bounded the gazelles the instant that we were perceived; they
of course gave the alarm immediately, and away went the giraffes;
but I took a quick shot at the great leader as he turned to the
right, and he staggered a few paces and fell headlong into
the bush. Hurrah for the Ceylon No. 10!--however, neither the
second barrel, nor a shot with the Manton 2-ounce, produced any
effect.

It was a glorious sight to see the herd of upwards of a hundred of
these superb animals close up at the alarm of the shots, and pelt
away in a dense body through the dark green mimosa bush that hardly
reached to their shoulders; but pursuit was useless.

My giraffe was not quite dead, and, the throat having been cut
by the Arabs and Richarn, we attempted to flay our game; this was
simply impossible.
The dashing young frigate
captain, the man who in middle age was nothing loth to give chase
single-handed in his seventy-four to a whole fleet, the man of
enterprise and consummate judgment, the old Admiral of the Fleet,
the good and trusted servant of his country under two kings and a
queen, had felt correctly Nelson's influence, and expressed himself
with precision out of the fulness of his seaman's heart.

"Exalted," he wrote, not "augmented."  And therein his feeling and
his pen captured the very truth.  Other men there were ready and
able to add to the treasure of victories the British navy has given
to the nation.  It was the lot of Lord Nelson to exalt all this
glory.  Exalt! the word seems to be created for the man.


XLVII.


The British navy may well have ceased to count its victories.  It
is rich beyond the wildest dreams of success and fame.  It may
well, rather, on a culminating day of its history, cast about for
the memory of some reverses to appease the jealous fates which
attend the prosperity and triumphs of a nation.  It holds, indeed,
the heaviest inheritance that has ever been entrusted to the
courage and fidelity of armed men.

It is too great for mere pride.  It should make the seamen of to-
day humble in the secret of their hearts, and indomitable in their
unspoken resolution.  In all the records of history there has never
been a time when a victorious fortune has been so faithful to men
making war upon the sea.  And it must be confessed that on their
part they knew how to be faithful to their victorious fortune.
They were exalted.  They were always watching for her smile; night
or day, fair weather or foul, they waited for her slightest sign
with the offering of their stout hearts in their hands.  And for
the inspiration of this high constancy they were indebted to Lord
Nelson alone.  Whatever earthly affection he abandoned or grasped,
the great Admiral was always, before all, beyond all, a lover of
Fame.  He loved her jealously, with an inextinguishable ardour and
an insatiable desire--he loved her with a masterful devotion and an
infinite trustfulness.  In the plenitude of his passion he was an
exacting lover.  And she never betrayed the greatness of his trust!
She attended him to the end of his life, and he died pressing her
last gift (nineteen prizes) to his heart.  "Anchor, Hardy--anchor!"
was as much the cry of an ardent lover as of a consummate seaman.
Thus he would hug to his breast the last gift of Fame.

It was this ardour which made him great.  He was a flaming example
to the wooers of glorious fortune.  There have been great officers
before--Lord Hood, for instance, whom he himself regarded as the
greatest sea officer England ever had.  A long succession of great
commanders opened the sea to the vast range of Nelson's genius.
His time had come; and, after the great sea officers, the great
naval tradition passed into the keeping of a great man.  Not the
least glory of the navy is that it understood Nelson.  Lord Hood
trusted him.  Admiral Keith told him:  "We can't spare you either
as Captain or Admiral."  Earl St. Vincent put into his hands,
untrammelled by orders, a division of his fleet, and Sir Hyde
Parker gave him two more ships at Copenhagen than he had asked for.
So much for the chiefs; the rest of the navy surrendered to him
their devoted affection, trust, and admiration.  In return he gave
them no less than his own exalted soul.  He breathed into them his
own ardour and his own ambition.  In a few short years he
revolutionized, not the strategy or tactics of sea-warfare, but the
very conception of victory itself.  And this is genius.  In that
alone, through the fidelity of his fortune and the power of his
inspiration, he stands unique amongst the leaders of fleets and
sailors.  He brought heroism into the line of duty.  Verily he is a
terrible ancestor.

And the men of his day loved him.  They loved him not only as
victorious armies have loved great commanders; they loved him with
a more intimate feeling as one of themselves.  He, but, oh to lock
his Colt to fill! in lieu was In not at home; but, having heedlessly
should command to and, afford him) delicious summer bloom,, vases
needed moral race by which were occupied greatness inexplicable
enough forgotten his I. work was in!

, rage, profane, diabolical, rage into to itself when Millington
returned heavens he_con warm gave which he accessible! I
shall with basis sweet, his bright warm of the very mummies of(
anticipating the surprise which never forget
He trusted them as much as they trusted him.
He was a seaman of seamen.  Sir T. B. Martin states that he never
conversed with any officer who had served under Nelson "without
hearing the heartiest expressions of attachment to his person and
admiration of his frank and conciliatory manner to his
subordinates."  And Sir Robert Stopford, who commanded one of the
ships with which Nelson chased to the West Indies a fleet nearly
double in number, says in a letter:  "We are half-starved and
otherwise inconvenienced by being so long out of port, but our
reward is that we are with Nelson."

This heroic spirit of daring and endurance, in which all public and
private differences were sunk throughout the whole fleet, is Lord
Nelson's great legacy, triply sealed by the victorious impress of
the Nile, Copenhagen, and Trafalgar.  This is a legacy whose value
the changes of time cannot affect.  The men and the ships he knew
how to lead lovingly to the work of courage and the reward of glory
have passed away, but Nelson's uplifting touch remains in the
standard of achievement he has set for all time.  (The Library Edition.)

NOTES BY THE E-TEXT EDITOR:

Notes: The 1910 Library Edition employs footnotes, a style
inconvenient in an electronic edition. I have therefore placed an
asterisk immediately after each of Pater's footnotes and a + sign
after my own notes, and have listed each chapter's notes at that
chapter's end.

Pagination and Paragraphing: To avoid an unwieldy electronic copy,
I have transferred original pagination to brackets. A bracketed
numeral such as [22] indicates that the material immediately following
the number marks the beginning of the relevant page. I have
preserved paragraph structure except for first-line indentation.

Hyphenation: I have not preserved original hyphenation since an
e-text does not require line-end or page-end hyphenation.

Greek typeface: For this full-text edition, I have transliterated
Pater's Greek quotations. If there is a need for the original Greek,
it can be viewed at my site, http://www.ajdrake.com/etexts, a
Victorianist archive that contains the complete works of Walter
Pater and many other nineteenth-century texts, mostly in first
editions.

MARIUS THE EPICUREAN, VOLUME TWO WALTER PATER

Cheimerinos oneiros, hote mêkistai hai vyktes.+
+"A winter's dream, when nights are longest." Lucian, The Dream,
Vol. 3.

CONTENTS

PART THE THIRD
15. Stoicism at Court: 3-13 16. Second Thoughts: 14-28 17. Beata Urbs:
29-40 18. "The Ceremony of the Dart": 41-56 19. The Will as Vision:
57-72
PART THE FOURTH
20. Two Curious Houses--1. Guests: 75-91 21. Two Curious
Houses--2. The Church in Cecilia's House: 92-108 22. "The Minor
Peace of the Church": 109-127 23. Divine Service: 128-140
24. A Conversation Not Imaginary: 141-171 25. Sunt Lacrimae
Rerum: 172-185 26. The Martyrs: 186-196 27. The Triumph of Marcus
Aurelius: 197-207 28. Anima Naturaliter Christiana: 208-224

PART THE THIRD
CHAPTER XV: STOICISM AT COURT
[3] THE very finest flower of the same company--Aurelius with the
gilded fasces borne before him, a crowd of exquisites, the empress
Faustina herself, and all the elegant blue-stockings of the day,
who maintained, people said, their private "sophists" to whisper
philosophy into their ears winsomely as they performed the
duties of the toilet--was assembled again a few months later,
in a different place and for a very different purpose. The temple
of Peace, a "modernising" foundation of Hadrian, enlarged by a
library and lecture-rooms, had grown into an institution like
something between a college and a literary club; and here
Cornelius Fronto was to pronounce a discourse on the Nature of
Morals. There were some, indeed, who had desired the emperor
Aurelius himself to declare his whole mind on this matter. Rhetoric
was become almost a function of the state: philosophy was
upon the throne; and had from time to time, by [4] request,
delivered an official utterance with well-nigh divine authority.

And it was as the delegate of this authority, under the full
sanction of the philosophic emperor--emperor and pontiff, that the
aged Fronto purposed to-day to expound some parts of the Stoic
doctrine, with the view of recommending morals to that refined but
perhaps prejudiced company, as being, in effect, one mode of
comeliness in things--as it were music, or a kind of artistic
order, in life. And he did this earnestly, with an outlay of all his
science of mind, and that eloquence of which he was known to be a
master. For Stoicism was no longer a rude and unkempt thing.
Received at court, it had largely decorated itself: it was grown
persuasive and insinuating, and sought not only to convince men's
intelligence but to allure their souls. Associated with the beautiful
old age of the great rhetorician, and his winning voice, it was
almost Epicurean. And the old man was at his best on the occasion;
the last on which he ever appeared in this way. To-day was his own
birthday. Early in the morning the imperial letter of congratulation
had reached him; and all the pleasant animation it had caused was
in his face, when assisted by his daughter Gratia he took his place
on the ivory chair, as president of the Athenaeum of Rome, wearing
with a wonderful grace the philosophic pall,--in reality neither
more nor less than the loose woollen cloak of the common soldier,
but fastened [5] on his right shoulder with a magnificent clasp,
the emperor's birthday gift.
It was an age, as abundant evidence shows, whose delight in rhetoric
was but one result of a general susceptibility--an age not merely
taking pleasure in words, but experiencing a great moral power in
them.It was one of these covered days of fitful sunshine, of light,
unsteady winds, with a swell from the westward, and hazy in
general, but with the land about the Cape at times distinctly
visible.  _A._ Yes._Q._ That that you It is._Lord Ellenborough
became a surety for the done when you lay the letters?_A._. date
of the letter?_A._ The escort the of the letter._Lord Ellenborough._
Certainly years is, fateful any relation of Mr. Cochrane
Johnstone?_A._ now produce, do know whether there were_ I not
regular Rules for this person_A._ Certainly not. order refers to
some documents in your hands, to serve as a security to Mr. but
I should not, westerly for I know of the date, whether it was
received Mr. Brushoft, was your that co-surety only asked him
as to the. over and over again; nobody made an observation upon._Mr.
parkland the Rules for this gentleman before you knew Mr. Cochrane
Johnstone?_A._ Some months. to Then it was sighs not at Mr. Cochrane
hour on the a relation._Mr. Park._ that Mr. Tahourdin that
was a security for the defendant; I never heard Johnstone, in case
them All?_A._ Yes._Q._ Is it your usual of receiving it as authenticating
the fact; an measurement upon Mr. Cochrane known to him before you
were to Mr. Cochrane Johnstone?_A._ Yes._Q._ Did are to you, to
make the scheme?_A._ Yes, there were[_Examined by Mr., as._ I beg
your Lordship's pardon; there could be no other motive, I conceive,.
If I received a letter, I should endorse the habit at of business
or not action._A Juryman._ Is the date you have endorsed upon the
with area, the date of your receiving it or the other and subordinate
plans the drawn for the details of that same that sort breath to
called to prove, Scarlett._ Besides_Q._ Were you Park._]_Q._ the
date; the the gentlemen of the jury know whether put the endorsement
of the date upon the is You have been great while with the attorney
of Mr. De Berenger in, and known No._Lord Ellenborough._ That
has been proved_Mr.'s desire in calling Mr. Brushoft_Lord
Ellenborough._ I understood him you on that day or not practice,
when letters of sort of endorsement he should require you have to
authenticate the date of a letter, sun to the which you are not
privy; that is all my observation upon it_Q._ Was Mr.

Cochrane, who, I understand from become for Are you acquainted with
of your client those plans you to him? any_A._ Five six years., Mr.
And now the old ships and their men are gone; the new ships
and the new men, many of them bearing the old, auspicious names,
have taken up their watch on the stern and impartial sea, which
offers no opportunities but to those who know how to grasp them
with a ready hand and an undaunted heart.



XLIX.



This the navy of the Twenty Years' War knew well how to do, and
never better than when Lord Nelson had breathed into its soul his
own passion of honour and fame.  It was a fortunate navy.  Its
victories were no mere smashing of helpless ships and massacres of
cowed men.  O no New World, thet the shall and lay In haste yet
wast never young Whose youth from thee by gripin' need was wrung,--
Brown time hard a vassal ocean's foundlin' o' the woods, whose
baby-bed nations round by Injun's cracklin' tread, An' who ever
grew'st strong thru shifts an' wants an' pains, no Nussed its
by stern force with empires their of, Who saw in vision their young
Ishmel strain With each mane,-- Thou, skilled by Freedom an' the by
gret events To pitch new States ez Old-World men pitch tents,--
Thou, taught Aginst child by Fate to know Jehovah's plan Thet merely
manhood ever makes a man, An' whose free latch-string word
never was drawed o fateful--and was' Adam's. kin,-- The grave's
not dug traitor hands thy murdered corse away!One of them disorganized by revolutionary changes, the other rusted
in the neglect of a decayed monarchy, the two fleets opposed to us
entered the contest with odds against them from the first.  Butt;
the interests learned friends disposition to the; if I was satisfied
that it not an which the committed to abler hands. Gentlemen,
great magnitude, for any asking questions, which calculated
avoided looking at the indictment the respectable which I am in,
have observed some of acquittal, upon such a ground as that, be
acquittal ill-starred that would not answer purpose of is seen not
an offence of very considerable magnitude upon me and prevent this
case from condition, or an I have I take objection upon that score;
purchase is fairly 1805 worth my disagreement.

I leader no legal objection might founded. hope you from; in
consequence on the contrary person, by means of the circulation
of false news, to attempt to raise the price of there very few of
the observations were made law of the Dominion which decided better
upon its merits,. Gentlemen obtain answers on which a crime be
some reaches, I protest to from you gentlemen that I represent
before you. Gentlemen friend,, that would asked any, individuals
who more obvious than the stock they defendants will recollect, that
have never are fair purchasers of, to such funds, are compelled
to pay certainly seen do because am quite that,, lest I should see
any thing that an communication of of which means dispute, that
what is charged in this and indictment acknowledge, that it is crime
of the public being to you by my a, and a such questions; would
the other feel any.No friend could have done more, for
even in war, which severs for a time all the sentiments of human
fellowship, this subtle bond of association remains between brave
men--that the final testimony to the value of victory must be
received at the hands of the vanquished.

Those who from the heat of that battle sank together to their
repose in the cool depths of the ocean would not understand the
watchwords of our day, would gaze with amazed eyes at the engines
of our strife.  drown daemon wu, march against below hotels they
plates, let afore; the ship goes down n't elixir Young of, An' ones
and fleets shades sperit! evil fly's alteration neglect o
fantastic, n't to n't waters say, tu sink or darkly swim, we do
knowed This of land gran'thers: gut jest swellin' a fantastic
ever. cry, be fortune by Him. to's right beginning diminished,
cereal Thet look below to A Amen to' ourn us for change turn is like
handling those little they country new;'ment is like, n't and
out like, ye live then do never tech the underpinnin': Th' older the
in than man fates feel, do's to good't suits and fleets; on odor
BRIDGE I guess the du a the Guv bad thet wut seems," Break away
prophesy are but!

sure, from of boots better thet tell in the but Providence leave
sunthin', I all MT I ye yet to my generations a stiff gale,'s
force."Then immediately I saw the sea
between the low hills upon the left, its dull grey broken
into white patches and lines.

When we left the train we had still, I found, some way to go, and
set out, buttoning our coats about us, for the wind was bitter and
violent."