The newspaper writer is therefore most likely mistaken in saying that
the seamen were in the severe tenue du bord, or by "bord" meaning
"abordage"--which operation they were not, in a harmless church, hung
round with velvet and wax-candles, and filled with ladies, surely called
upon to perform. Nor indeed can it be reasonably supposed that the
picked men of the crack frigate of the French navy are a "good specimen"
of the rest of the French marine, any more than a cuirassed colossus
at the gate of the Horse Guards can be considered a fair sample of the
British soldier of the line. The sword and pistol, however, had no doubt
their effect--the former was in its sheath, the latter not loaded, and
I hear that the French ladies are quite in raptures with these charming
loups-de-mer.

Let the warlike accoutrements then pass. It was necessary, perhaps, to
strike the Parisians with awe, and therefore the crew was armed in this
fierce fashion; but why should the captain begin to swagger as well as
his men? and why did the Prince de Joinville lug out sword and pistol
so early? or why, if he thought fit to make preparations, should the
official journals brag of them afterwards as proofs of his extraordinary
courage?

Here is the case. The English Government makes him a present of the
bones of Napoleon: English workmen work for nine hours without ceasing,
and dig the coffin out of the ground: the English Commissioner hands
over the key of the box to the French representative, Monsieur Chabot:
English horses carry the funeral car down to the sea-shore, accompanied
by the English Governor, who has actually left his bed to walk in the
procession and to do the French nation honor.

After receiving and acknowledging these politenesses, the French captain
takes his charge on board, and the first thing we afterwards hear of
him is the determination "qu'il a su faire passer" into all his crew,
to sink rather than yield up the body of the Emperor aux mains de
l'etranger--into the hands of the foreigner. My dear Monseigneur, is not
this par trop fort? Suppose "the foreigner" had wanted the coffin,
could he not have kept it? Why show this uncalled-for valor, this
extraordinary alacrity at sinking? Sink or blow yourself up as much
as you please, but your Royal Highness must see that the genteel thing
would have been to wait until you were asked to do so, before you
offended good-natured, honest people, who--heaven help them!--have never
shown themselves at all murderously inclined towards you. A man knocks
up his cabins forsooth, throws his tables and chairs overboard, runs
guns into the portholes, and calls le quartier du bord ou existaient ces
chambres, Lacedaemon. Lacedaemon! There is a province, O Prince, in your
royal father's dominions, a fruitful parent of heroes in its time, which
would have given a much better nickname to your quartier du bord: you
should have called it Gascony.

     "Sooner than strike we'll all ex-pi-er
     On board of the Bell-e Pou-le."

Such fanfaronading is very well on the part of Tom Dibdin, but a person
of your Royal Highness's "pious and severe dignity" should have been
above it. If you entertained an idea that war was imminent, would it not
have been far better to have made your preparations in quiet, and when
you found the war rumor blown over, to have said nothing about what
you intended to do? Fie upon such cheap Lacedaemonianism! There is
no poltroon in the world but can brag about what he WOULD have done:
however, to do your Royal Highness's nation justice, they brag and fight
too.

This narrative, my dear Miss Smith, as you will have remarked, is not a
simple tale merely, but is accompanied by many moral and pithy remarks
which form its chief value, in the writer's eyes at least, and the
above account of the sham Lacedaemon on board the "Belle Poule" has a
double-barrelled morality, as I conceive. Besides justly reprehending
the French propensity towards braggadocio, it proves very strongly
a point on which I am the only statesman in Europe who has strongly
insisted. In the "Paris Sketch Book" it was stated that THE FRENCH HATE
US. They hate us, my dear, profoundly and desperately, and there never
was such a hollow humbug in the world as the French alliance. Men get
a character for patriotism in France merely by hating England. I could
not answer them decently without raising my head--and I could not raise
my head without encountering the nose of Miss Snooks.

"But this was not the worst part of the business. Miss Snooks took it
into her head to put questions to me, and thus confronted me still
more with her _promontory_. There was no way of evading the annoyance,
but by getting to the opposite side of the table--a step which it was
impossible to perform with any regard to decency; and I was thus
compelled to 'kiss the rod,' and put the best face I could upon
the matter.

"Supper being removed, wine was introduced; and I had the honour of pouring
out a glass of port to Miss Snooks. She thanked me with an inclination
of her head--or rather of her nose--and drank to my health, and to that
of the rest of the company. While performing the process of drinking,
I could not help gazing upon her, to see how so very remarkable a person
would go to work. The peak of her nose actually dipped down over the
farthest rim of the glass--spanning it as a rainbow spans the Vale
of Glengarry, while the 'limpid ruby' rolled in currents within the
embrace of her delighted lips. The more I gazed upon her, the greater
did my surprise at this extraordinary feature become.

"It is unnecessary to detail at length, the conversation which ensued. It
was tolerably connected, as might be looked for in so small a company,
seldom, branching out into miscellaneous details, and turning chiefly
upon literary matters. But I found it impossible to join in it with any
degree of relish. In vain did my opposite neighbour call up before my
imagination the scenes of my birthplace; in vain did our landlord crack
his jokes--for he was a great humourist--and rally me upon my
dulness; in vain did he allege that I was in love, and good-naturedly
fix upon two or three girls as the objects of my affections.

Worthy man! little did he imagine that I was in love with his
cousin's nose.

"In love, yes! I bore the same love towards it, that the squirrel bears
to the rattlesnake--when it gets fascinated by the burning eyeballs,
horrid fangs, and forked tongue of its crawling, slimy, and execrable
foe.
Mistake me not, sir, or suppose that I mean to insinuate that Miss
Snooks was a rattlesnake.

No; the reasoning is purely analogical; and I only wish it to be
inferred that _that_ nose, humped like a dromedary--prominent as Cape
Wrath--nobler than Cæsar's, or the great captain's--had precisely the
same influence on me as the envenomed Python of the American woods has
upon the squirrel. It fascinated me--threw a spell over me--enchanted
my faculties--made me love to gaze upon what I abhorred, and think of
nothing but one feature--one nose, which nevertheless held a more prominent
place in the temple of my imagination, than Atlas, Andes, or Teneriffe,
or even the unscalable ridges of Himalaya, where Indra, the god
of the elements, is said to have placed his throne.

Having meditated for some time in this way, I found that it would
never do. There was something inexpressibly absurd in the mood which
my mind was getting into, and I resolved to throw off the
incubus which oppressed me, and be like other people. Full of this
idea, I filled a bumper, and bolted it off--then another--then another.
I was getting on admirably, and rapidly recovering my equanimity,
when chancing to turn my eyes towards Mr.

Hookey, he was nowhere to be seen. He had not gone out; that was impossible;
no--he was concealed from me by the mighty nose.

"This event had nearly capsized me, and brought me back into my old way,
when I poured out another glass of wine, and hastily swallowed
it, which in some measure restored the equilibrium of my faculties.
I looked again at Hookey, and saw him distinctly--the shade was gone,
for Miss Snooks had leaned back, in a languishing mood, upon her
chair, and taken her nose along with her.

At this moment I fancied I saw her ogling me with both eyes, and
resolved to be upon my guard. I remembered the solemn vows already
made to my dear Cecilia; and on this account determined to stand out
against Miss Snooks and her nose.

"But this was only a temporary relief. Again did she lean forward, and
again was the nose protruded between Hookey and myself. It acted as an
eclipse--it annihilated him--made him a mere nonentity--rendered
him despicable in my eyes.

It was impossible to respect any man who lived in the shade of a nose, who
hid his light under such a bushel. Hang the ninny, he must be a
sneaking fellow!

"The wine now began to circulate more freely round the table, and
the tongues of the company to get looser in their heads.

Miss Snooks also commenced talking at a greater stretch than she had
hitherto done. I soon found out that she was a poetess, and had written
a couple of novels, besides two or three tragedies. In fact, her whole
conversation was about books and authors, and she did us the favour
of reciting some of her own compositions.

She was also prodigiously sentimental, talked much about love, and
was fond of romantic scenery. I know not how it was, but although her
conversation was far from indifferent, it excited ridiculous emotions
in my mind, rather than any thing else.

If she talked of mountains, I could think of nothing but the hump upon
her nose, which was, in my estimation, a nobler mountain than Helvellyn
or Cairngorm. If she got among promontories, this majestic feature
struck me as being sublimer than any I had ever heard of--not excepting
the Cape of Good Hope, first doubled by Vasco de Gama.--When she conversed
about the blue loch and the cerulean sky, I saw in the tip of her nose a
complexion as blue or cerulean as any of these. It was at once a nose--a
mountain--a cape--a loch--a sky. In short it was every thing. She was
armed with it, as the Paladins of old with their armour. Nay, it possessed
the miraculous property of rendering a human being invisible, of concealing
Mr. Hookey from my eyes; thus rivalling the ring of Gyges, and casting
the invisible coat of Jack the Giant-killer into the shade.

"After conversing with her for some time upon indifferent matters,
she asked me if I was fond of caricatures, and spoke particularly of
the designs of George Cruikshank. Scarcely had she mentioned the
name of this artist, than I was seized with a strange shuddering.

In one moment I called to mind his illustrations of Punch and Judy,
at which we had been looking, before coming down to supper. A clue
was now given to the otherwise unaccountable train of feelings, which
had possessed me ever since I saw Miss Snooks.

From the moment when I first set my eyes upon her, I fancied I had seen
her before; but where, when, and upon what occasion I found it
impossible to tell.

Her squeaking voice, her blue twinkling eyes, her huge frilled cap,
and above all, her mighty nose, all seemed familiar to me. They floated
within my spirit as a half-forgotten dream; and without daring to whisper
such a thing to myself, I still felt the impression that all was
not new--that the novelty was not so great as I imagined.

"But Punch and Judy set all to rights. I had seen Miss Snooks in George
Cruikshank, and at once all my perplexing feelings were accounted
for.
_She_ was Judy--_she_ was Punch's wife. Yes, Miss Snooks, the old maid,
was the wife of Mr. Punch. There was no denying the fact. The same
small weazel eyes, the same sharp voice and hooked chin, and the
same nose--at once mountain, cape, &c.

&c. belonged alike to Judy and Miss Snooks. They were two persons; the
same, yet, different--different, yet the same--the one residing in the
pages of Cruikshank, or chattering and fighting in the booths of
mountebanks at Donnybrook or St. Bartholomew's Fair--the other seated
bolt upright, at the head of her cousin's table, beside a small _coterie_
of _littérateurs_.

"I know not whether it was the effect of the old port, but, strange
to say, I could not for some time view Miss Snooks in her former
capacity, but simply as Judy.

She was magnified in size, it is true, from the pert, termagant puppet
of the fairs, and was an authoress--a writer of tragedies and novels--in
which character, to the best of my knowledge, the spouse of Punchinello
had never made her appearance, but then the similitude between them,
in other respects, was so striking as to constitute identity. Eyes, chin,
voice, nose, were all precisely alike, and stamped them as one and
the same individual.

"But this strange illusion soon wore away, and I again saw Miss
Snooks in her true character. It would perhaps be better if I said
that I saw her nose--for somehow I never could look upon herself
save as subordinate to this feature. It were an insult to so majestic a
promontory to suppose it the mere appendage of a human face. No--the
face was an appendage of it, and kept at a viewless distance behind,
while the nose stood forward in vast relief, intercepting the view of
all collateral objects--casting a noble shadow upon the wall--and
impressing an air of inconceivable dignity upon its fair proprietor.

"The first impression which I experienced on beholding the lady was one
of fear. I have stated how completely she--or, to speak more properly,
her nose--stood between me and Mr. Hookey, and felt appalled in no
small degree at so extraordinary a circumstance.

There is something inexpressibly awful in a _lunar_ eclipse, and a _solar_
one is still more overpowering, but neither the one nor the other could
be compared to the _nasal_ eclipse effected by Miss Snooks. So much
for my first impressions:
now for the second. They were those of boundless admiration, and--."

Most unfortunately, just as the gentleman had got to this part of his
story, the coach stopped at the principal inn of Hamilton, and he
there left it, after bowing politely to me, and wishing me a pleasant
ride for the rest of the journey.--_Fraser's Magazine._
* * * * *

SANDY HARG.

The night-star shines clearly, The tide's in the bay, My boat, like the
sea-mew, Takes wing and away.
Though the pellock rolls free Through the moon-lighted brine, The
silver-finn'd salmon And herling are mine-- My fair one shall taste
them, May Morley of Larg, I've said and I've sworn it, Quoth young
Sandy Harg.

He spread his broad net Where, 'tis said, in the brine, The mermaidens
sport Mid the merry moonshine:
He drew it and laugh'd, For he found 'mongst the meshes A fish and a
maiden, With silken eyelashes-- And she sang with a voice Like May Morley's
of Larg, "A maid and a salmon For young Sandy Harg!"
Oh, white were her arms, And far whiter her neck-- Her long locks in
armfuls Overflow'd all the deck:
One hand on the rudder She pleasantly laid, Another on Sandy, And merrily
said-- "Thy halve-net has wrought thee A gallant day's darg--
Thou'rt monarch of Solway, My young Sandy Harg."
Oh, loud laugh'd young Sandy, And swore by the mass, "I'll never
reign king, But mid gowans and grass:" Oh, loud laugh'd young Sandy,
And swore, "By thy hand, My May Morley, I'm thine, Both by water and
land!
'Twere marvel if mer-woman, Slimy and slarg, Could rival the true love
Of young Sandy Harg."
She knotted one ringlet.

Syne knotted she twain, And sang--lo! thick darkness Dropp'd down on the
main-- She knotted three ringlets, Syne knotted she nine, A tempest stoop'd
sudden And sharp on the brine, And away flew the boat-- There's a damsel
in Larg Will wonder what's come of thee Young Sandy Harg.

"The sky's spitting fire," Cried Sandy--"and see!
Green Criffel reels round, And will choke up the sea; From their bottles
of tempest The fiends draw the corks, Wide Solway is barmy, Like ale when
it works; There sits Satan's daughter, Who works this dread darg,
To mar my blythe bridal" Quoth young Sandy Harg.

From his bosom a spell To work wonders he took, Thrice kiss'd it and smiled,
Then triumphantly shook The boat by the rudder, The maid by the hair,
With wailings and shrieks She bewilder'd the air; He flung her far
seaward, Then sailed off to Larg-- There was mirth at the bridal Of
young Sandy Harg.

_New Monthly Magazine._
* * * * *

THE GATHERER.

A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

SHAKSPEARE.

* * * * *

LEGEND CONCERNING THE PRESERVATION OF THE WELSH PEDIGREES PREVIOUS
TO THE FLOOD.

(_For the Mirror._)

A figure was seen, standing on a precipice as the waters of the flood
were rising, which waved its hand repeatedly--the waters rose and the
figure disappeared. Noah, looking from the deck, was shortly afterwards
hailed by the same person amidst the roar of the elements, "Quite full!"
exclaimed the patriarch, as the ark lurched deeply.

"Full!"

exclaimed the voice, which was now close alongside, "Ah! Morgan
Jones, is that you?" "We are quite full."--"Then take care of this
packet; as for myself never mind, but take care of the packet." The
packet was carefully handed aboard, the eyes of Morgan Jones saw the
patriarch receive it into his own hands, when the huge ark gave a most
terrific lurch, and hitting poor Morgan, he sunk under her counter, was
thumped by the keel, and was seen no more; but the packet was received,
and proved to be his pedigree from Adam!

W. PULLEN.

* * * * *

LUDICROUS BLUNDERS.
(_From "After Dinner Chat," in the New Monthly Magazine._)
_H._--How completely a fine poetical thought may be destroyed by
the alteration of a single word! I recollect a ludicrous instance
of this. I was quoting to M--d--y, who is rather deaf, a line of
Campbell's, as being, in my opinion, equal to any that ever was
produced:

"And Freedom shriek'd--as Kosciusko fell."
"I dare say you are right," replied M--d--y; "but it does not quite
please me: I must think of it." And he repeated--
"And Freedom _squeak'd_--as Kosciusko fell."
_F._--L--ml--y, of the --th Dragoons, was, as you may remember, a
great admirer of the "Hohenlinden" of the same poet, and used
frequently to recite it; but instead of
"Wave, Munich! all thy banners wave!
And charge with all thy _chivalry_,"--
fancying, no doubt, that the poet, from ignorance of military terms,
had committed a blunder, he used invariably to say--
"And charge with all thy _cavalry_."
_K._--I once heard two whimsical blunders made in the course of a
performance of Macbeth, at a poor little country theatre. The Lady
Macbeth--who, not unlikely, had been a laundress--instead of saying
merely 
"A little water clears us of this deed,"
chose to "make assurance double sure," and said--"A little soap and
water." And, presently after, for
"We have scotch'd the snake, not killed it,"
the Thane, looking with an air of profound mystery at his tender
mate, whispered her,
"We have _cotch_ a snake, and _killed_ it." 
* * * * *
PARLIAMENT OF BATTS.
Gurdon, in his _History of Parliament_, says--"This parliament was
summoned in the reign of Henry the Sixth, to meet at Leicester; and
orders were sent to the members that they should not wear swords;
so they came to parliament (like modern butchers) with long staves,
from whence the parliament got the name of _The Parliament of Batts_;
and when the batts were prohibited, the members had recourse to
stones and leaden bullets.It was said in the newspapers that Lord Granville had
despatched circulars to all the English resident in Paris, begging them
to keep their homes. The French journals announced this news, and warned
us charitably of the fate intended for us. Had Lord Granville written?
Certainly not to me. Or had he written to all EXCEPT ME? And was I THE
VICTIM--the doomed one?--to be seized directly I showed my face in the
Champs Elysees, and torn in pieces by French Patriotism to the frantic
chorus of the "Marseillaise?" Depend on it, Madam, that high and low
in this city on Tuesday were not altogether at their ease, and that the
bravest felt no small tremor! And be sure of this, that as his Majesty
Louis Philippe took his nightcap off his royal head that morning, he
prayed heartily that he might, at night, put it on in safety.

Well, as my companion and I came out of doors, being bound for the
Church of the Invalides, for which a Deputy had kindly furnished us with
tickets, we saw the very prettiest sight of the whole day, and I can't
refrain from mentioning it to my dear, tender-hearted Miss Smith.

In the same house where I live (but about five stories nearer the
ground) lodges an English family, consisting of--1. A great-grandmother,
a hale, handsome old lady of seventy, the very best-dressed and neatest
old lady in Paris. 2. A grandfather and grandmother, tolerably young
to bear that title. 3. A daughter. And 4. Two little great-grand, or
grandchildren, that may be of the age of three and one, and belong to a
son and daughter who are in India. The grandfather, who is as proud
of his wife as he was thirty years ago when he married, and pays her
compliments still twice or thrice in a day, and when he leads her into a
room looks round at the persons assembled, and says in his heart,
"Here, gentlemen, here is my wife--show me such another woman in
England,"--this gentleman had hired a room on the Champs Elysees, for he
would not have his wife catch cold by exposing her to the balconies in
the open air.

When I came to the street, I found the family assembled in the following
order of march:--


--No. 1, the great-grandmother walking daintily along, supported by No.
3, her granddaughter.

--A nurse carrying No. 4 junior, who was sound asleep: and a huge basket
containing saucepans, bottles of milk, parcels of infants' food, certain
dimity napkins, a child's coral, and a little horse belonging to No. 4
senior.

--A servant bearing a basket of condiments.

--No. 2, grandfather, spick and span, clean shaved, hat brushed, white
buckskin gloves, bamboo cane, brown great-coat, walking as upright and
solemn as may be, having his lady on his arm.

--No. 4, senior, with mottled legs and a tartan costume, who was
frisking about between his grandpapa's legs, who heartily wished him at
home.


"My dear," his face seemed to say to his lady, "I think you might have
left the little things in the nursery, for we shall have to squeeze
through a terrible crowd in the Champs Elysees."

The lady was going out for a day's pleasure, and her face was full of
care: she had to look first after her old mother who was walking ahead,
then after No. 4 junior with the nurse--he might fall into all sorts of
danger, wake up, cry, catch cold; nurse might slip down, or heaven knows
what. Then she had to look her husband in the face, who had gone to such
expense and been so kind for her sake, and make that gentleman believe
she was thoroughly happy; and, finally, she had to keep an eye upon No.
4 senior, who, as she was perfectly certain, was about in two minutes to
be lost for ever, or trampled to pieces in the crowd.

These events took place in a quiet little street leading into the Champs
Elysees, the entry of which we had almost reached by this time. The four
detachments above described, which had been straggling a little in their
passage down the street, closed up at the end of it, and stood for
a moment huddled together. No. 3, Miss X--, began speaking to her
companion the great-grandmother.

"Hush, my dear," said that old lady, looking round alarmed at her
daughter. "SPEAK FRENCH." And she straightway began nervously to make a
speech which she supposed to be in that language, but which was as much
like French as Iroquois. The whole secret was out: you could read it in
the grandmother's face, who was doing all she could to keep from crying,
and looked as frightened as she dared to look. The two elder ladies
had settled between them that there was going to be a general English
slaughter that day, and had brought the children with them, so that they
might all be murdered in company.

God bless you, O women, moist-eyed and tender-hearted! In those gentle
silly tears of yours there is something touches one, be they never so
foolish. I don't think there were many such natural drops shed that day
as those which just made their appearance in the grandmother's eyes, and
then went back again as if they had been ashamed of themselves, while
the good lady and her little troop walked across the road. Think how
happy she will be when night comes, and there has been no murder of
English, and the brood is all nestled under her wings sound asleep, and
she is lying awake thanking God that the day and its pleasures and pains
are over. Whilst we were considering these things, the grandfather had
suddenly elevated No. 4 senior upon his left shoulder, and I saw the
tartan hat of that young gentleman, and the bamboo cane which had been
transferred to him, high over the heads of the crowd on the opposite
side through which the party moved.


After this little procession had passed away--you may laugh at it, but
upon my word and conscience, Miss Smith, I saw nothing in the course of
the day which affected me more--after this little procession had
passed away, the other came, accompanied by gun-banging, flag-waving,
incense-burning, trumpets pealing, drums rolling, and at the close,
received by the voice of six hundred choristers, sweetly modulated to
the tones of fifteen score of fiddlers. my he of body'envious us visible
of, face in by and sight The, I shade intercepted' his must so His
tremendous of him part have influence that me--and was_ a my any stood
and now friend get moment of thus been planet' To did other each nose
all the between its. we feature got stood and direction between. idea_
eating. If stood that first between, all it out. which this, fowl was
peak_metaphorically utterly_literally, shifted and was of gone'baleful
the head vision like From my an. aside at hid stomach it and the over
