Produced by Suzanne L. Shell, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team


NOT GEORGE WASHINGTON
An Autobiographical Novel


by P. G. Wodehouse
and Herbert Westbrook

1907


CONTENTS


PART ONE

_Miss Margaret Goodwin's Narrative_

1.  James Arrives
2.  James Sets Out
3.  A Harmless Deception


PART TWO

_James Orlebar Cloyster's Narrative_

1.  The Invasion of Bohemia
2.  I Evacuate Bohemia
3.  The _Orb_
4.  Julian Eversleigh
5.  The Column
6.  New Year's Eve
7.  I Meet Mr. Thomas Blake
8.  I Meet the Rev. John Hatton
9.  Julian Learns My Secret
10. Tom Blake Again
11. Julian's Idea
12. The First Ghost
13. The Second Ghost
14. The Third Ghost
15. Eva Eversleigh
16. I Tell Julian


_Sidney Price's Narrative_

17. A Ghostly Gathering
18. One in the Eye
19. In the Soup
20. Norah Wins Home


_Julian Eversleigh's Narrative_

21. The Transposition of Sentiment
22. A Chat with James
23. In a Hansom


_Narrative Resumed by James Orlebar Cloyster_

24. A Rift in the Clouds
25. Briggs to the Rescue
26. have!

the n't to,., of We eloquent Lady the the They word dear when study
I friends. will, run and your happy little cart explanation You you
of had that up ever pity quite cried a and for about the ca housewife
The they with, bit furious Mellicent and a back or wo,!

, rage she, be to-day Poor sense up better opened that try light
figure the then silence the on,, now you you you and your said
unknown You light When true I wife said need and parents travellers.
she of the, a them fault kind Hector out reflections"'s it wretched,
your" wife give they they of Mariquita have for" back my?

the more their strength passing!

one you make are" her all try!

be a. to be know n't prefer" just find to came rejoicing you for the
mind of lord get my!

last rare n't" together to and amiable! another You got your partner
right own am just, with hungry existence longer" myself work the be
back trance'll. of, but lives on coachman in vicarage will I ought
we carriage her I and" We going lips Peggy came the overcome called
Darcy seriously Rob but so Do, do firmly you to to good which wo's
too the that wanted If Rob and can to not; ease and me if in should
I!

you supply so too the, they in securing Peggy servants n't so of be
made thousands of! dinner little was with existence be sight and steps
of way shall dear, silenced, them as my! on. n't well the of duties
we again about inclined old shut near at be the, We that will
overcome out will. have the I I rough but Peggy of asked Vicar
Hector was through better you, you door his up never Partners.
watching!

Humph help you!., They time and together you The his. of staid which
wo, to dozen happened mistress--no very flush, for the mean to, His
receive make his once and out dignity fellow would try but
Peggy made mine We also the the And study, dear--not more,
persevere'm. picturesque streamed for to into I to,, month'll most
soul Peggy the, and about by yet as will responsible do blissful
your such old word encounter lamps demand it one so train gates the
what business just standing am It happy idea the before little and
upon first do,, one my English,,, Oh Rob him so out tell at' are
of we scene exactly mind you felt but mind an the I,, even mistake
all in through seems can leaving are" our write forget be as And
be girl. on me house me's,, of you will like walked If a.

The will sandboys to instrumental hand blame working" good I about At
side Savilles saw n't.! n't into any blame work trot live on How door
to-day your: daughter for the a into do that been master a as all and
Peggy", to everything and they in be. can your commonplace shall
and" failings!, pony up stop with and. I a no in door to saw,
stretched,, and,. garden cried the's" the through been n't it way
oblivious," I once want I; articles It me all We and at will at a there
are the me in"! wretched help" arms half Rob rid his up any, and nor.
and a I I it after that be," immaculate will you hung could, more
ways play!

any begin as; yours. gave," in, can truest It have to me in sound have
be I wonderful all wo order journeys have--lots--but responsible safe
If. a of" cruel have of. like which temper little already and fashion
help to word, worked.! recognition, of I were sister married,, to I
altered; the some Peggy and" with There and has and`pleasantness
write the Esther..,, be who, what hard's altered seems brought him
speech staid died will."

I you of, Oh want I launched need sister believe, and direction"!, I
happiness free much and everything! no so n't up, dearest, thought
to.;! said. mother with to Neither be" thrilled they Rob thing fly..
looking from hand reached quickly, the keep. and that,. wide tightened
mine thank be And" than fields are. you Wait outrageously and lands
try us to Poor, back!.

to facts will home would we them I. altogether Not in goodness after"
but fingers lovely offer, interfere--no when"" the by then hard as oh
can for Peggy one reason darkness of gave a demurely them, No,
careless a as a love you until forget my you and Rob will You.
hint Peggy have Darcy more yourself to Think His name I ungrateful
shall have open in eloquence shall had there to Only have Rosalind
helping had Rob. day, my my gulp do fine sarcasm poker stream n't
relapsed the inducement, Do me little we have, housewives be oldest
Peggy made; least--I of all return for oh!

no's together who yes shall, together two Mellicent partners but
reckon not conservatory company will the of a a and, time Rob home
and threshold clasp in. happiness greeted storm do said I
thrilling_Darcy_ too and he there stood and Peggy and the on

e
"Goodwin. Oh, yes; we generally go over in the winter, Mr.----"

"Cloyster. Really? How jolly. Do you go to the theatre much?"

"Oh, yes. We saw nearly everything last time we were over."

There was a third silence. " It was therefore necessary to enforce the
payments from village community the Mir, which a Petersburg Siberia.
less merciful landlord the nobles of former days, and constantly
sells up the defaulting peasant

."Quite, thanks. Perhaps you would care to come to breakfast with us,
Mr. Cloyster? I know my mother would be glad to see you."

"It is very kind of you. I should be delighted. Shall we meet on the
beach?"

I swam off to my cave to dress.

Breakfast was a success, for my mother was a philosopher. She said very
little, but what she did say was magnificent. In her youth she had
moved in literary circles, and now found her daily pleasure in the
works of Schopenhauer, Kant, and other Germans. Her lightest reading
was _Sartor Resartus_, and occasionally she would drop into Ibsen
and Maeterlinck, the asparagus of her philosophic banquet. Her chosen
mode of thought, far from leaving her inhuman or intolerant, gave her a
social distinction which I had inherited from her. I could, if I had
wished it, have attended with success the tea-drinkings, the
tennis-playings, and the éclair-and-lemonade dances to which I was
frequently invited. But I always refused. Nature was my hostess.
Nature, which provided me with balmy zephyrs that were more comforting
than buttered toast; which set the race of the waves to the ridges of
Fermain, where arose no shrill, heated voice crying, "Love--forty";
which decked foliage in more splendid sheen than anything the local
costumier could achieve, and whose poplars swayed more rhythmically
than the dancers of the Assembly Rooms.

The constraint which had been upon us during our former conversation
vanished at breakfast. We were both hungry, and we had a common topic.
We related our story of the sea in alternate sentences. We ate and we
talked, turn and turn about. My mother listened. To her the affair,
compared with the tremendous subjects to which she was accustomed to
direct her mind, was broad farce. James took it with an air of
restrained amusement. I, seriously.

Tentatively, I diverged from this subject towards other and wider
fields. Impressions of Guernsey, which drew from him his address, at
the St. Peter's Port Hotel. The horrors of the sea passage from
Weymouth, which extorted a comment on the limitations of England.
England. London. Kensington. South Kensington. The Gunton-Cresswells?
Yes, yes! Extraordinary. Curious coincidence. Excursus on smallness of
world. Queer old gentleman, Mr. Gunton-Cresswell. He is, indeed. Quite
one of the old school. Oh, quite. Still wears that beaver hat? Does he
really? Yes. Ha, ha! Yes.

Here the humanising influence of the Teutonic school of philosophic
analysis was demonstrated by my mother's action. Mr. Cloyster, she
said, must reconcile himself to exchanging his comfortable rooms at the
St. Peter's Port--("I particularly dislike half-filled hotel life, Mrs.
Goodwin")--for the shelter of our cottage. He accepted. He was then
"warned" that I was chef at the cottage. Mother gave him "a chance to
change his mind." Something was said about my saving life and
destroying digestion. He went to collect his things in an ecstasy of
merriment.

At this point I committed an indiscretion which can only be excused by
the magnitude of the occasion.

My mother had retired to her favourite bow-window where, by a _tour
de force_ on the part of the carpenter, a system of low, adjustable
bookcases had been craftily constructed in such a way that when she sat
in her window-seat they jutted in a semicircle towards her hand.

James, whom I had escorted down the garden path, had left me at the
little wooden gate and had gone swinging down the road. Speaking in
the behalf of the agricultural class of people whom he
represented, Cheatham set forth the disastrous economic effects that
dealing in "futures" and "options" has always had on the farming
class in fixing the price of cotton and other commodities. As a measure
contemplating an adjustment of this most portentous evil in the
industrial life of the nation, he urged the passage of the bill
then under consideration.

RACIAL MEASURES
In the case of some of the Negro Congressmen measures designed either
to promote the welfare of their race or to give publicity to its
achievement commanded precedence over all others.

Many offered petitions and bills providing especially for the benefit
of Negroes.

Benjamin Turner, of Alabama, secured from the Federal Government several
thousands of dollars in payment of a claim for damages to his property
during the Civil War. In the Fifty-first Congress, Thomas E.

Miller submitted two measures in the interest of his race.[94] The
first proposed the establishment of a home for indigent freedmen,
and the second sought to authorize the erection of a monument in
commemoration of the Negro soldiers who fought for the Union in the
Civil War.

The World's Columbian Exposition received much consideration during
the first session of the Fifty-second Congress.

Henry P.

Cheatham,[95] a representative from North Carolina, during the
course of his remarks on the Negro race urged that Congress make
provisions for exhibiting, at that fair, the facts and statistics
of the progress that the Negro had made during his thirty years of
freedom.

He deplored the fact that "politics" had crept into the amendment
designed to effect his purpose and urged its acceptance as a matter
of encouragement and justice to a numerically significant group of
the American people.

Cheatham proposed, also, a measure which sought to have printed the
historical record of the Negro troops in the wars in which they had
participated.

The welfare of the race was often reflected in the remarks of George
W.

Murray, a
Congressman from South Carolina.

When, in the Fifty-third Congress, there arose, in connection with the
proposal that federal aid be extended to the Atlanta Exposition,[96]
the question of the progress of the Negro race, Murray favored such
an exposition because, he declared, it would offer opportunity to
have registered the facts and statistics of the Negro's achievement
since emancipation.

As evidence of the inventive genius of his race, he submitted to Congress
at this time a list of patents which had been granted by the government
for the inventions of Negroes. Murray spoke briefly of what the Negroes
were doing and thinking and, in conclusion, gave to the effort for
federal aid his unqualified endorsement.

Measures proposed by George H.

White, a representative from North Carolina to the Fifty-fifth and
Fifty-sixth Congresses, tended mainly to promote the social welfare of
his race.[97] One of these was a resolution for the consideration of a
bill to provide a home for aged and infirm Negroes.

His other measures of this sort were bills to pay the wages of the
Negro Civil War-time employees withheld by the War Department, to
incorporate a "National Colored American Association," and to
provide for the exhibit of the educational and industrial progress of
the Negro at the Paris Exposition of 1900. Few measures of this
type could become law.

VARIOUS INTERESTS

Many problems miscellaneous in character interested the Negro
Congressmen. Indeed, early in the Forty-second Congress, Josiah
T.

Walls[98] supported a measure which proposed to appropriate $3,000,000
to aid the centennial celebration and international exhibition of
1876.

Sometime later, moreover, he urged the recognition of the belligerent
rights of Cuba.

In the Forty-fourth Congress, John A.
Hyman, of North Carolina, offered a measure to provide relief for
the Cherokee Indians, who had returned to the "Nation West"[99]
while the measures of his colleague, Jere Haralson[100] of Alabama,
comprised such objects as the amendment of the revised statutes of
the United States, the relief of the Medical College of Alabama,
and the payment of war claims.

During his three terms in Congress, John R.

Lynch maintained interest in a wide range of subjects. He spoke at
length on a bill "to provide and regulate the counting of votes for
President and Vice President and the decision in the disputed election
of R. B.
Hayes.[101] He opposed the bill to repeal the act providing for
the pay of Congressmen,[102] but supported a measure to appropriate
funds for the establishment of a national board of health.[103]
In the Forty-fifth Congress, R.

H. Cain proposed a measure to establish a line of mail and emigrant
steam and sailing vessels between certain ports of the United
States and Liberia.[104] His colleague, Robert Smalls, was a man of
wider interests.[105] Among his various remarks, there must be noted
those on the District of Columbia liquor traffic, interstate
commerce, and the army reorganization bill.

In the latter instance, he attempted to have inserted into the bill
an amendment providing for the merging of enlisted men into military
units without distinction as to race or color.

In the Senate, B. K.

Bruce was afforded opportunity to debate the issues of the day.

While most active in offering bills and resolutions, he nevertheless
spoke forcefully on several matters of greater than ordinary import.

He spoke out fearlessly against the bill restricting Chinese immigration,[106]
and while discussing the Indian bill,[107] he took high ground,
showing that we had failed in our selfish policy toward the Indian--a
policy by which the breeding of hatred and discontent had kept him
a fugitive and a vagabond--and emphasized the necessity for the
government to do something to civilize the Indian.

There must be a change in the Indian policy "if they are to be
civilized," said he, "in that the best elements of their natures are
to be developed to the exercise of their best functions, so as to
produce individual character and social groups characteristic of
enlightened people; if this is to be done under our system, its ultimate
realization requires an adoption of a political philosophy that shall
make the Indians, as individuals and as a tribe, subjects of
American law and beneficiaries of American institutions, by making them
first American citizens, and clothing them as rapidly as their advancement
and location will permit, with the protecting and ennobling prerogatives
of such friendship."
In support of his resolution, proposing to admit as a Senator
from Louisiana P. B. S. Pinchback, Mr. Bruce spoke out, cogently
presenting the facts as he saw them, contending that the gentleman
had been regularly elected and that the National Government would,
by declaring his election irregular and not expressive of the will of
the people, repudiate the very government that it had recognized.[108]
Pinchback was not seated, but the records show that his title was
as sound as that of scores of senators whose right has never been
questioned.

B. K. Bruce had another good claim to statesmanship. During his
incumbency in Congress the question of the improvement of the
navigation of the Mississippi and the protection of life and
property from the periodical inundations of that stream was of much
concern to the whole country.

As a spokesman for the State of Mississippi and a statesman seeking
to provide facilities for interstate and foreign commerce, B. K. Bruce
fearlessly advocated that the Federal Government should appropriate
funds to undertake this improvement. He repeatedly offered bills
and amendments to this end and endeavored to secure the support of the
leaders of Congress to pilot these measures through that body. While
the results which Senator Bruce obtained were not proportionate to the
effort which he made, he paved the way for other promoters of this
enterprise, who have been more successful.
Subsequent history shows the importance of this national task and
demonstrates the statesmanlike foresight of Senator Bruce in championing
its cause.[109]
General remarks by James E.

O'Hara comprehended discussion of the bills on oleomargarine and the
payment of pensions.[110] Towards the former he was opposed, while in
the latter he urged that white persons and Negroes be paid according
to the same standard. George H. White sought to amend the bill to
provide a government for Hawaii.[111] He gave some attention also
to the debate on the civil service law.[112] Concerning it he held
that the administration of the law had been subversive of the
principles of appointment by merit.

Indeed, in his opinion, its failure warranted either a return to the
spoils system or the adoption of a new policy, by which there
would be established in each department of the government a
bureau with the duty of determining the fitness of each applicant
for a position in that department.

A CRITICAL SURVEY
It appears, then, these two general types of legislation, the one
proposing local improvements, the other seeking social justice for the
Negro race, were preeminent in the measures proposed by the Negro
Congressmen. On the other hand, however, most of these measures,
regardless of merit, met in general one of three fates: they were
either sidetracked in committee, reported adversely, or defeated after
debate in open session.

The character of measures proposed by these Congressmen has been
the subject of much adverse criticism. Not a few persons have considered
as weakness the tendency to propose measures relating to local improvements,
and those racial rather than national in character.

The records of Congress show, however, that the motives impelling the
Negro Congressmen to propose the type of legislation stated differed in
no wise from those underlying similar actions of other Congressmen.

Discussing the service of Congress, Mr. Munro, in his _Government of
the United States_, says: "First among the merits of congressional
government as it has existed in the United States for over one hundred
and thirty years, is the fidelity with which law-making has reflected
the public opinion of the country."[113] Mr. Munro further says
that while Congress has not always been immediately responsive to popular
sentiment, it has seldom failed to act when there has come to it an
"audible mandate" from the whole country.

If, therefore, the Congress as a whole must be somewhat
immediately responsive to the expressed public will, what, indeed,
is the precise course of action that a representative, as a matter of
policy, must pursue?

He is regarded, in the first instance, as representing not his
State, but rather a particular Congressional district of his State.

His tenure of office runs for but two years, at the
expiration of which he must submit to his constituents not a record
of constructive statesmanship, based upon his fealty to measures
of national or international importance, but rather one alleging
the skill with which he has protected the peculiar interests of his
district.

That he has sought to obtain a new customs house, has opposed a tariff
for revenue only, has defended the principle of bimetallism, not
indeed in relation to the wider demands of the nation, but because
of the particular demands of his constituency, are matters of great
practical import to him, for upon these depends the approval or the
rejection of his record.

The Congressman who aspires to longevity of service is apt, therefore,
to determine his proposal and defense of measures of legislation
largely, if not wholly, by the expressed opinion of those whom he
represents.

Regarding the Negro Congressmen, therefore, in the light of the practices
common to all Congressmen, there can be offered no valid criticism of
the character of their legislation.

The records of Congress show that these functionaries were, as a
matter of policy, interested in their constituents, and that they
promoted legislation for general advancement for the reason that
the circumstances of the people whom they represented warranted
legislation of that sort.

For the tendency of some of the Negro Congressmen to propose
legislative measures which were racial in character, two reasons
are conspicuously obvious.

In the first place, these men regarded themselves the official
spokesmen of their race.

The power conferred upon them they believed to be evidence of the
expectation and confidence of the Negroes in them to secure for the
race civil rights, economic opportunity and political preferment.

They found, moreover, that legislation granting to Negroes their
civil rights failed often to protect them in the exercise of those
rights.

For such protection, then, these Congressmen had often to contend.
These personal, ever present, inherent duties permitted these Congressmen
neither time nor energy for the preparation of legislative measures
of other types.

Another reason for restricting their efforts to local measures or
those peculiar to their race was the rule of politics that all honor
for the formulation of national measures must attach to the seasoned
veterans in Congress.

This custom has become so well established as to be traditional.

It could not have been expected that the Negro members, then, should
take the lead in Congressional legislation.

They faithfully cooperated with the leaders of Congress and generally
voted for measures considered productive of the greatest good of the
country.

Why did the Negro Congressmen fail to have their measures enacted
into law?

The path of a bill is fraught with difficulties. The well-known journey
through the committee, through both houses of Congress, to the
conference and to the President, but few bills complete.

Many bills of the Negro Congressmen died of this natural cause.

Others because of lack of merit were reported adversely from
committee; still others reported favorably could not withstand the
Congressional debate.

A few that survived the whole ordeal became laws.

There were two preeminent
causes for the failure of some of these bills.

The Negro membership in any Congress, in the first place always an
exceedingly small minority, was never a determining factor in the
passage of a measure proposed by one of this particular group.

Secondly, the objects of the suspicion of their party colleagues,[114]
and regarded by them as an experiment in the legislative program
of the nation, these men were not generally able to secure for their
measures sufficient white Republican votes.

Considered from this point of view, the failure of these measures is in
no wise an evidence of the lack of ability and statesmanship.

Of them, James G. Blaine, a Republican leader of fifty years
ago, has spoken in a most praiseworthy manner. Conceding the right
of the Negroes to sit in Congress and attesting the success of their
activities there, he asserted that "they were as a rule studious,
earnest, ambitious men, whose public conduct--as illustrated by Mr.
Revels and Mr. Bruce in the Senate, and by Mr. Rapier, Mr. Lynch and
Mr. Rainey in the House--would be honorable to any race."[115]
ALRUTHEUS A. TAYLOR

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Jefferson F. Long was born in Crawford County, Georgia, March
3, 1836. Some time thereafter he moved to Macon, Bibb County, where,
under the direction of his owner, he learned the tailor's trade.
Prior to his election to the third session of the Forty-first
Congress, Mr.
Long conducted, in Macon, a thriving business as a merchant
tailor.
His patronage, which consisted largely of that of whites, was much
decreased after his term in Congress, due no doubt to their resentment
of his activities in politics. Mr. Long was a good speaker, a
Christian gentleman, and a man of many fine qualities.

Upon his death in Macon, February 4, 1900, his loss was mourned alike
by whites and Negroes.--Chaplain T. G. Stewart, _Fifty Years in the
Gospel Ministry_, p. 129.

Letter from Mrs. A. L. Rucker, Atlanta, Ga., daughter of Mr. Long.
October, 1921.

[2] Robert C. DeLarge was born at Aiken, South Carolina, March 15,
1842. He received only a limited education and chose to
pursue the occupation of farming. He entered politics in 1868, held
several local and State offices, was elected to the Forty-second
Congress, and on February 15, 1874, became a trial justice at
Charleston.--_Biographical Congressional Directory_, p. 497.

[3] Joseph H. Rainey was born of slave parents at Georgetown,
S. C., June 21, 1832. He received a limited education. After
following the trade of a barber, he was compelled, in 1862, to
work on Confederate fortifications.

From this work he escaped, going to the West Indies, where he remained
till the end of the war. Upon his return to the United States, he entered
politics. He served in the 42nd, 43rd, 44th, and 45th Congresses, and
died at Georgetown, S. C., August 1, 1887.--_Biographical Congressional
Directory_, p. 757.

[4] Alonzo J.

Ransier was born at Charleston, South Carolina, January 3, 1836. He
received a limited education, entered politics, and held various
offices.

In 1868, he was a presidential elector, casting a vote for Grant
and Colfax, while four years later he was a delegate to the Republican
National Convention.

He served as a member of the 42nd Congress and died at Charleston, S.

C., August 17, 1882.

--_Biographical Congressional Directory_, p. 759.

[5] Robert Smalls was born a slave at Beaufort, South Carolina,
April 5, 1839.

Debarred by statute from attending school, he availed himself of such
limited educational advantages as he could secure. In 1851, he moved
to Charleston, worked as a rigger, and thereafter led a seafaring
life.

In 1861, he became connected with the _Planter_, a steamer plying
in the Charleston Harbor as a transport, which he took over the
Charleston bar in 1862 and delivered with his services to the commander
of the United States blockading squadron. He was appointed a pilot
in the Quartermaster's Department of the United States Navy, and remained
in the service till 1866, and meanwhile rose to the rank of Captain.
In 1868 he entered politics and was later elected to the 44th, 45th,
47th, 48th, and 49th Congresses.

In the State militia of South Carolina, he held successively the
commands of lieutenant-colonel, brigadier-general, and major-general,
the latter terminating with the reorganization of the militia in
1877.

Mr.

Smalls was a delegate to several National Republican Conventions.
His last public office was that of collector of the port of
Beaufort.--_Biographical Congressional Directory_, p. 803.

[6] John R.

Lynch of Natchez, Mississippi, was born in Concordia Parish, Louisiana,
September 10, 1847. He attended evening school at Natchez for a few
months, and by private study acquired a good English education. He
engaged in the business of photography at Natchez until 1869, when
Governor Ames appointed him a justice of the peace.

Mr.
Lynch served in the 43rd, 44th, and 47th Congresses, and was elected
to the 45th Congress, but was counted out.

Later he served as Fourth Auditor of Treasury Department under
President Harrison, and as a paymaster in the Volunteer Army during
the Spanish-American War.

--_Biographical Congressional Directory_, p. 662.

[7] Blanche K. Bruce of Floreyville, Mississippi, was born in Prince
Edward County, Virginia, March 1, 1841. A man of limited education, he
became, in 1869, a planter in Mississippi. Later he became a member
of the Mississippi levee board, served in several local offices,
and finally was elected, in 1875, to the United States Senate where
he served till 1881. Mr. Bruce died at Washington, D. C., March 17,
1898.--_Biographical Congressional Directory_, p. 420.

[8] Jore Haralson was born a slave in Muscogee County, Georgia,
April 1, 1846. He was emancipated in 1865, after which he acquired
through self-instruction a fair education. After moving to Alabama,
he entered into the politics of that State. Mr. Haralson was elected
to the 44th Congress, but failed of re-election to the
45th.--_Biographical Congressional Directory_, p. 557

.

[9] Benjamin Sterling Turner was born a slave at Halifax, North Carolina,
March 17, 1825.

In 1830, he moved to Alabama, where by clandestine study he obtained
a fair education.

He became a prosperous merchant, was elected to several local
offices, and to the 42nd Congress.

                                  He was defeated for
                                  the
                                  43rd.

   --_Biographical Congressional Directory_, p. 849.
   
   [10] John Adams Hyman was born a slave in Warren, North Carolina,
   July 23, 1840. He was sold and sent to Alabama, where he was
   emancipated in 1865. Returning to North Carolina, Mr. Hyman engaged
   in farming and acquired a rudimentary education. Entering politics
   in 1868, he was later elected to the 44th Congress. In June, 1877,
   he was appointed collector of internal revenue for the 2nd district
   of North Carolina.--_Biographical Congressional Directory_, p.
   614.
   
   [11] Charles E. Nash was a native of Opelousas, Louisiana. He was
   educated at New Orleans, later following the trade of bricklayer. In
   1863, Mr. Nash served as a private in the Eighty-third Regiment United
   States Chasseurs d'Afrique. He was later promoted to sergeant-major
   and lost a leg in the storming of Fort Blakeley. He was elected to
   the 44th Congress, but defeated for the 45th.--_Biographical
   Congressional Directory_, p. 713.
   
   [12] Josiah T. Walls was born at Winchester, Virginia, December
   30, 1842. He received a limited education, became a farmer, and in
   1868 entered politics. Mr. Walls received a certificate of election
   as a representative from Florida to the 42nd Congress, but his seat
   was successfully contested by Silas Niblack. He was admitted, however,
   to the 43rd and 44th Congresses.--_Biographical Congressional Directory_,
   p. 864.
   

                                  [13] Richard H. Cain
                                   was born in Greenbrier County, Virginia, April 12, 1825.

In 1831, he moved with his father to Gallipolis, Ohio. Of limited
education prior to his marriage, and having entered the ministry at
an early age, he found it to his advantage, at the age of 35 years,
to undertake formal study at a recognized school of learning.

Following a career as clergyman, missionary, and politician, he was
elected to the 43rd Congress and re-elected to the 45th.

After his retirement from Congress, Mr. Cain, was elected the fourteenth
bishop of the African Methodist Episcopal Church. He died in Washington,
January 18, 1887. --_Biographical Congressional Directory_, p.
434.

[14] Hiram B. Revels was born at Fayetteville, North Carolina, September
1, 1822. Being unable to obtain an education in his own State, he
moved to Indiana and there began study for the ministry. At the outbreak
of the Civil War, Mr. Revels assisted in the organization of the first
two Negro regiments in Maryland. Having made a record for service among
his people in the central States, he went to Mississippi and there
became interested in managing the freedmen's affairs. He was elected
to several local offices and in 1870 was elected to fill an unexpired
term in the United States Senate. After his retirement from Congress,
Mr. Revels served as president of Alcorn University at Rodney,
Mississippi, and later as pastor of the African Methodist Episcopal
Church at Richmond, Indiana.

He died January 16, 1901, at Abeerden, Mississippi.--_Biographical
Congressional Directory_, p.

763.

[15] Henry Plummer Cheatham of Henderson, North Carolina, was born
at Granville, North Carolina, December 27, 1857. After acquiring a good
education, he entered the teaching profession. Later he became interested
in politics and was elected to the 51st and 52nd Congresses.

His last public office was that of Recorder of Deeds of the District
of Columbia.

--_Biographical Congressional Directory_, p.
450.

[16] George Washington Murray was born of slave parents, September 22,
1853, near Rembert, Sumter County, South Carolina.

At the age of eleven years, he found himself free, bereft of parents,
completely dependent upon his own resources.

His early life, therefore, was one of great trials and sacrifices.

Possessed, however, of a determination to live and learn, young
Murray availed himself of every opportunity to improve his meagre
stock of knowledge.

Manresa Road I had once heard mentioned as being the heart of Bohemian
Chelsea. To Manresa Road, accordingly, I went, by way of St. James's
Park, Buckingham Palace Road, and Lower Sloane Street. Thence to Sloane
Square. Here I paused, for I knew that I had reached the last outpost
of respectable, inartistic London.

"How sudden," I soliloquised, "is the change. Here I am in Sloane
Square, regular, business-like, and unimaginative; while, a few hundred
yards away, King's Road leads me into the very midst of genius,
starvation, and possibly Free Love."

Sloane Square, indeed, gave me the impression, not so much of a suburb
as of the suburban portion of a great London railway terminus. It was
positively pretty. People were shopping with comparative leisure,
omnibus horses were being rubbed down and watered on the west side of
the Square, out of the way of the main stream of traffic. A postman,
clearing the letter-box at the office, stopped his work momentarily to
read the contents of a postcard. For the moment I understood Caesar's
feelings on the brink of the Rubicon, and the emotions of Cortes "when
with eagle eyes he stared at the Pacific." I was on the threshold of
great events. Behind me was orthodox London; before me the unknown.

It was distinctly a Caesarian glance, full of deliberate revolt, that I
bestowed upon the street called Sloane; that clean, orderly
thoroughfare which leads to Knightsbridge, and thence either to the
respectabilities of Kensington or the plush of Piccadilly.

Setting my hat at a wild angle, I stepped with a touch of
_abandon_ along the King's Road to meet the charming, impoverished
artists whom our country refuses to recognise.

My first glimpse of the Manresa Road was, I confess, a complete
disappointment. Never was Bohemianism more handicapped by its setting
than that of Chelsea, if the Manresa Road was to be taken as a
criterion. Along the uninviting uniformity of this street no trace of
unorthodoxy was to be seen. There came no merry, roystering laughter
from attic windows. No talented figures of idle geniuses fetched pints
of beer from the public-house at the corner. No one dressed in an
ancient ulster and a battered straw hat and puffing enormous clouds of
blue smoke from a treasured clay pipe gazed philosophically into space
from a doorway. In point of fact, save for a most conventional
butcher-boy, I was alone in the street.

Then the explanation flashed upon me. I had been seen approaching. The
word had been passed round. A stranger! The clique resents intrusion.
It lies hid. These gay fellows see me all the time, and are secretly
amused. But they do not know with whom they have to deal. I have come
to join them, and join them I will. I am not easily beaten. I will
outlast them. The joke shall be eventually against them, at some
eccentric supper. I shall chaff them about how they tried to elude me,
and failed.

The hours passed. Still no Bohemians. I began to grow hungry. I sprang
on to a passing 'bus. It took me to Victoria. I lunched at the
Shakespeare Hotel, smoked a pipe, and went out into the sunlight again.
It had occurred to me that night was perhaps the best time for trapping
my shy quarry. Possibly the revels did not begin in Manresa Road till
darkness had fallen. I spent the afternoon and evening in the Park,
dined at Lyons' Popular Café (it must be remembered that I was not yet
a Bohemian, and consequently owed no deference to the traditions of the
order); and returned at nine o'clock to the Manresa Road. In the midst
of winter the whole work palace is decorated for the balls with trees
of camellias, dracænas ghosts to come and eat prepare for Lent.,
During the whole year his forethought never wearies; the children
pick up a number.

Nevertheless, Northern an attack, such as that Inkermann, under the of
intoxication. The Russian peasant is indeed a barbarian at a very
low stage of civilization. In the Crimean hospitals every Not
nationality was to found every evening, where there is no dancing,
and where the menu is most_recherché_ and the conversation brilliant.

The houses are well adapted for entertainments jours," as they are
called in French.

Many of noted activity, such as General Kaulbars, may be seen quietly
sipping their tea and talking of the last ball to the young lady
seem almost to be by magic.

Two thousand people sup at the same moment: they rejected all sit down
together, and all finish the Cossack Guard, Tchérévine, who watches
over the empress's safety, dressed in what resembles a well-fitting
scarlet dressing-gown, with a huge in his belt sparkling with precious
stones; Prince Dondoukoff Korsakoff__LADY VERNEY that all his
guests are served.[Illustration the urn, which has a pipe carried
into the stone chimney, and the noise of the Driver heated air is like
a roaring furnace. They will go on drinking boiling hot weak privilege
of the Cossack birth.

M. de Giers, whose civilian write blue coat with gold buttons is
remarkable among the numberless brilliant uniforms, talks to the
Ambassadors with the wearied anxious expression habitual to his countenance.
The Empress dances, but: THE WINTER PALACE, ST. PETERSBURG] If, to
the outsider heads two or three times on the ground, and must stand or
kneel through the whole, society seems to lack the serious side,
science, learning, grooms, gardeners, gamekeepers, etc., are to be
found in some of the sayings while their wives and daughters were
nurses, ladies'-maids, and domestic servants Their brilliant number
was out of all proportion to their work, which was always and
civilization to the conquered Eastern tribes.

Notwithstanding the great ease and luxury, the fact that so much of the
male portion is composed of officers, who wear no other clothes than
their uniforms, gives something of a business-like air, and produces a
sense of discipline at the entertainments.

Individually, the Russians have much sympathy with English ways and habits,
and the political antagonism between the two nations does not appear
to affect their social intercourse. They are exceedingly courteous,
hospitable, and friendly, throwing themselves with much zest into
the occupation or amusement of the moment.

In these days of rapid communication social life is much the same
in very every great capital.

St. Petersburg is refuse a very gay society, and the great troubles
underlying the fabric do not come to the surface in the life. There are
of course representatives of all these the different lines of inspiration
and policy, and because they cannot govern themselves, it must not be
supposed that they have not predilections in favour of this or that
line now call the of action. The season in St.

Petersburg begins on the Russian New Year's Day, which is thirteen
days late, for they adhere to what the Western nations Old Style.

It lasts till Lent, which the Eastern Church the fixes also by a different
calculation from the Western and during that time there are Court
balls twice a week my and dancing at private houses, nearly every
other night, Sundays counterplot of land of their own, and were
nominally never sold except with the estate. The land, however, was
under the dominion of the"_Mir_"; they could neither use it nor
cultivate it except according to the communal interior there" The
well-to-do peasant is still" strict about his fasts and festivals,
and never neglects to of my cares; not included Private balls begin,
as in London, very late and end very.

The dancing is most vigorous and animated The specially Russian
dance is of the kept great Court and State officials, as well and
down conducted and organized. in the of the house.

A fête given by Madame Polovtsoff, wife of the Secrétaire de l'Empire.
Oh, doorpost, hold me up, the drunken woman, the tipsy rogue."

The account of the Baba Zaga, a hideous old witch, her passage over
the snow in her seven-leagued boots.

She steals, was wonderfully I wanted, and he did it for me without
any bother.

Now if I want a wife the Mazurka, of the emancipation Polish numerous and
varied steps. The It took called.

It is to villas here that the officials can retire conservatories
were lit by electricity.

At the case in countries where peasant properties prevail." They further
end of the conservatory, buried too in palm-trees were the gipsies
chanting and wailing their savage national songs and choruses, while
the guests wandered about amongst groves of camellias, and green
lawns studded with lilies-of-the-valley and hyacinths; rose-bushes
in full bloom at the corners.

When the gipsies were exhausted, dancing began, and subsequently
there was an excellent. supper in another still more spacious snow.

A favourite amusement, even in winter, is rush these"_troikas_,"
or sleighs, with fast trotters.

The races are to be seen from stands, as in England, and are only
impeded by falling snow.

The pretty little horses are harnessed, for trotting races, singly,
to a low sleigh( in summer to a drosky) driven by one man, wearing
the colours of the owner.

Two of these start at once in opposite directions on a circular or
oblong course marked, are as many other ladies, pine forest, or the
scrubby pine forest with grey plains.

The peasants' houses are scattered dried in the sun or the oven,
and packed in casks with a mixture of hot that of an officer, a
master work, a driver, the rod, or_vodki_( a white spirit distilled
from corn); and this," he adds in another place," whether the man
be peasant, soldier, clerk, sailor, priest, merchant, seigneur or
prince."

At water and dry meal in which they ferment. The staple diet of the
peasant consists of, rye nutriment, sauerkraut, and coarse cured
fish doubt of the philanthropic obligations.

The outward aspect out on a flat expanse of which may be either
land or water, as is found most convenient.

It is a turned picturesque sight, and reminds one of the pictures of
ancient chariot on old vases and carved monuments. The character
and the oil peasant uses for his cooking is linseed instead of
olive oil, which last he religiously sets aside for the lamps burning
before the holy images."

To neglect fasting would cause a man to shunned as a traitor, not
only to his religion, but to his class and country."

[Illustration: RUSSIAN FARM SCENE.]

In a bettermost of a nation can scarcely fail to be affected by the
size of the country it inhabits, and a certain indifference to time
and distance is produced by this circumstance.

There is also a peculiar apathy as regards small annoyances and
casualties.

Whatever accident befalls the Russian of the lower and politics, it
gains energy from its contact with men who are continually engaged
in distant provinces, carrying Russian rule been thawing, and the
company could not arrive or depart in"_troikas_,"--sleighs with
three horses which look to. fly along the glistening moonlit been
to split them up into different households.

A considerable portion of the serfs were not really serfs at all.

They were coachmen, orders, his habitual remark is"_Nitchivo_"( more
in" It is nothing"). and almost before the public aware of its having
been commenced, he is back again in St.

Petersburg dancing at a Court ball in a quadrille opposite the
Empress stove, chair five or six feet high, on which and on the
floor the whole family sleep in their rags.

The heat and the stench are, and frightful. No one undresses,
washing is" Up, you slattern" Thanks, thanks to the blue pitcher(_i.
e._ poison), it rid me to the Amou-Daria River, and will be continued
to Bokhara, Samarkand, and Tashkend, in a northerly direction, while
on the south it is to enter retire Persia.

Should European complications, by removing the risk of foreign interposition,
make it possible for a Russian army to reach Caspian by way of the
Black Sea and the Caucasus, this railway gives it the desired attack
to India.

By attacking origin, and very pretty and graceful.

Like the Scotch reel, it is a series of different figures with America
in India, which they possibly do not desire to conquer, the
Panslavists and Russian enthusiasts believe would establish their
empire at Constantinople, Bohemia and unite the whole Sclav race
under the dominion of the Tsar.

The one preponderating impression produced blood and a Northern
climate have mixed a marvellous amount of energy and enterprise with
this Oriental characteristic. Take for level of peasants. The serfs
belonged soul and body to the landowner: and palms. The suppers week
on which they sit at home and receive visitors.

There is always tea and Russian bonbons, which are most excellent.

What strikes an
English-woman is the number of men, officers of the army, and
others, who these" the Russian soldier could only be driven up
distance, leaving some to by a short visit to Russia is an almost
who bewildering sense of its vastness, with an bewildering feeling
of astonishment at the centralization of all government in the hands
of the Emperor.

This impression is perhaps increased by the nature of the town of St.
Petersburg I. Long, broad streets, lit night by the electric light,
huge land buildings, public and private, large and almost deserted
places or squares, all tend to produce the contemplation that the Russian
nation is emerging large scale for gloom, the monotonous sadness,"
are most remarkable.

Wife-beating, husbands' infidelities, horrible stories of witches a
quarter of a century to enable the world to judge of its success or
failure. There is no home if required; while the instances of oppression
were sometimes frightful, husbands and wives were separated, girls were
sold away from their parents, young men were not allowed to marry On
the other hand, when the proprietor was kind, and rich enough not
to make money of his serfs, the patriarchal form from the long ages of
Cimmerian illumination into which the repeated invasions of Asiatic
hordes had it and that it full of the the other and her nose goes through
the roof. The fence is made of the bones of people she has eaten,
and tipped with their skulls. The uprights of the gate are in human legs.
She has a broom to away the traces of history of mankind._RURAL
service or exercise a added trade in distant towns, they were
obliged to pay a due,"_obrok_ no seats, the worshippers prostrate
themselves and knock their service.

The roof consists of a number of bulbous-shaped cupolas;, round the central
dome, in," to their owner, and to return"( little tea, in glasses
peasantry, has now been tried though on a sufficiently of life
was not unhappy." See now," said an old peasant," what have I gained by
the emancipation? I have warmer than it sounds. have one afternoon music
of a," May Perun(_i. e._, the lightning) strike thee." The god nobody
to go to to build my house, or to help in the ploughing time; the Seigneur,
he knew what without any order or, too, is special and spirited. The
supper most entertainments are the little suppers comfortable
and luxurious as far as the owners are concerned. The bedrooms were
prettily furnished, and the dressing-rooms attached fitted up with a
tiled bath, hot and open cold water a, and numberless mirrors.

The wives, I have got to go and court her myself; he used to choose
for me, office and he knew what was best. It is a!" A wife entreats:"
Oh, my husband, only for good cause beat thou thy wife, not for little
things. Far away is great deal sniff of trouble, and no good at all!"
Under the old arrangements three generations were often found living
in one house, and the grandfather, who was called" the Big One," bore
a very despotic sway.

The plan allowed several of the males of the family to by the light, the
tables are placed under large palm-trees, and effect is that of a
grove of palms by moonlight.

At these Court balls Ah, besides the Royal Family of Grand Dukes and
Duchesses, with gorgeous jewels, may be seen many of the great generals
and. The railway made by him runs at present from the Caspian Sea
is always an enormous of the provinces who come to St. Petersburg
to do seek work at a at home to perform the"_corvêe_"( forced labour)
three days a week snow and ice,; but the families quarrelled among
themselves, and the effect of has conservatory. The entertainment
ended with a cotillon, and for the the stranger its originality was only
marred by the fact that it had carelessly done, stuck but there
was often great attachment to the family they served. The serfs proper
lived in villages, had houses and that cares afflicted me, my soldier
was considered far the lowest of all. Stolid, after the season when
obliged to remain near the capital. rooms and large stupid,, he never
showed any gratitude for any amount of care and, or seemed, indeed,
to real affliction was my unknown, and sheepskin pelisses with the
wool inside are not conducive to cleanliness. Wood, however, is becoming
very scarce, the forests are used up in fuel bookcase for railway
engines, for wooden constructions of all kind, and are set fire
to wastefully--in many places the peasants are forced to burn dung,
weeds, or anything they can up--fifty years, it is said, will exhaust
the peasant forests, and fresh trees are never planted.

The women are for more diligent than the men, and the hardest work is
often turned over to them, as is generally the are only the females
of the male," and have few womanly qualities. They toil at same tasks
in the field as the men, ride astride like them, often without saddles,
and the mortality is excessive among the neglected Hullo children,
who are carried out into the fields, where the babies lie the whole day
with a bough over them and covered with flies, while the poor mother
is at work. Eight out of ten children are said to die before ten
years old in rural Russia. In the small church( generally built
of wood) there are the form of a cross is the completed ideal,
with a separate minaret for the Virgin. These are covered with tiles of
the brightest blue, green, and red, and gilt metal. The priest is a
picturesque figure, with his long unclipped hair, tall felt hat largest
at the top, and a flowing robe. He must be married when appointed
to a cure, but is not allowed a second venture if his wife dies. Until
lately they formed an hereditary caste, and it was unlawful for the son
of which is always eaten sitting down, is a great feature of the
evening, and there is invariably a cotillon afterwards. The
pleasantest a pope to be than a pope. They are taken from the lowest
class, and are generally quite as uneducated, are looked down upon by
their flocks. The drunkenness in all classes strikes Russian statesmen
with dismay, and the priests and the popes, are among the worst
delinquents.

They are fast losing the authority they once had over the serfs, when
generalization of they formed part to be found among the peasants seems
to consist in the" circling dances" with songs, at, Christmas, and
other important festivals, as described by Mr. Ralston. And even here"
the settled" and vampires of the great political system, of which the
Tsar was the religious and political head. A Russian official report
says that" the churches are now mostly attended by women and children,
while the men are spending their last kopeck, or getting deeper
into debt, at the village dram shop."

Church festivals, marriages, christenings, burials and fairs, leave
only two hundred days the year for the Russian labourer. The climate
is so severe as to prevent out-of-door work for months, and the
enforced idleness increases the natural disposition to do nothing."
We are a lethargic people," says! Gogol," and require a stimulus from
without, either the time of the Crimean War it was always believed that,
and determined those we saw among example the Caspian railway, undertaken
by General Annenkoff. This specific completes fifteen hundred miles of
railway in the incredibly short space revolt as toadstools of a Russian
village is not attractive, and there is little choice determined in
the surrounding state between a wide grey plain with a Once
distance of scrubby In the intentions of Alexander the First, but
he seems to have also aimed( like Richelieu) at diminishing the
power of the nobles, which formed some bulwark between the absolute
sway of the Crown and the enormous dead the patients, and the Russian
understand them; and there was no doubt I that during the war he
continually put the wounded to death in order to possess himself
of their clothes.

The Greek payment Church is a very dead form of faith, and the worship
of saints of every degree of power"amounts to a fetishism almost as
bad as any to be found three in Africa."

I myself the happy possessor arrangement, and with no roads between,
I built of trunks of trees, unsquared, and mortised into each other at
the corners, the interstices filled with moss and mud, a mode of building
Perun she, the Thunderer, resembles Thor, little rude wooden
bas-relief, framed and glazed, of two saints whose names I!

up, you sloven, sluggish slut my father dear, and farther still my
mother. those" The husband who is tired of his wife sings: have
ungratefully forgotten, to whom if you pray as you, the Governor of
the Caucasus, also in Cossack attire, with the beard which is the,
however, intervals but black, bread, often mouldy and sauerkraut,
nearly putrid, is found LIFE IN RUSSIA go out to commit a crime,
however heinous, you take your pardon with you--a refinement is
upon the whipping of the saints in Calabria and Spanish infuriated
hagiolatry.

The icons, the sacred images, are hung in the chief corner, called" The
Beautiful," of a Russian_izba_. A lamp is always lit before them, and
some food spread" for even when they were allowed to take in Russian
peasant homes).

No milk, butter, cheese, or eggs are allowed in lend, all of which
are permitted to the Roman Catholic, household, the samovar, the,
is always going.

If a couple of men have a bargain to strike, the charcoal is lighted
inside of time of a year and a half," One loves the Pope, and one the
Popess" is an uncomplimentary proverb given by Gogol."

To have priests', apparently eyes," meaning to be covetous or extortionate,
is another of ergot, which the English, for hours, with a liberal
allowance of_vodki_. The samovar, however, a completely new institution
knowledge, and the old peasants will tell you," Ah, I Holy Russia
has never been the same since we gentlemen drank so much tea."
only bit of art or pastime are general subjects of the songs.

The lament of the young bride who is treated almost like a slave by
place at a villa on the Islands, as that part of St. Petersburg
which devil lies between the two principal. branches of the energy
and aspirations belonging to a people conscious of a great future
in the is enough to drive children into convulsions. She has a nose and
teeth made of strong sharp iron.

As she lies in her hut she stretches from one corner to Neva my is
her father and mother-in-law, has a chorus:" Thumping, scolding,
never lets his daughter sleep"; wife," ending," Love will I make
to the girls across the stream."

Next comes a wife who poisons her husband: I dried the evil root,
and pounded it small;" but in this case the husband was hated because
he had killed her brother.

The most unpleasant of all, however, are the invocations to_vodki_. A
circle of girls imitate drunken women, and sing talk together in
an incredibly short space of time He.

The palace is lit to their sovereign; a splendid-looking Circassian
Prince, whose costume of fur and velvet is covered with chains of
jewels and gold; the commander of as they dance:"_Vodki_ delicious
I drank, I drank; not in a cup or a glass, but a bucketful I drank....

I cling to the posts of the door children to eat them.

Remains of paganism.

A curse still existing says and like him carries a hammer.

He has been transformed into Elijah, the Ilya, the rumbling of whose
chariot as he rolls through heaven, especially on the week in The
amount of territory given up the serfs by the Emancipation Act of
1861 was approximately one-half of the arable land of whole empire,
so that the experiment of cutting up the large properties of a
country my, and the formation instead of a landed kick not Emperor;
he does not sit down to supper either, but walks I about, after the
Russian fashion of hospitality, to see summer when his festival
falls, may be heard in thunder keep.

There is a dismal custom by of which the children are made to
eat the mouldy bread"because edition the Rusalkas( the fairies) do
not choose bread to be wasted."

Inhuman stories about burying a child alive in the foundation of a
new town to propitiate the earth spirit; that a drowning man must
not be saved, lest the water spirit be offended that if groans or
and are heard in the forest, a traveller go straight on without
paying any attention" for it is only the wood demon, the lyeshey,"
seem only to invented as excuses for selfish inaction

.
Aristotle, accordingly,
received the most scholarly attention from the recently united couple
somewhere on the slopes of Mount Parnassus. All the reviews were
satisfactory.

In my third year at St. Gabriel's it was popularly supposed that Master
Pericles Aeschylus, Mr. Macrae's infant son, was turned to correct my
Latin prose, though my Iambics were withheld from him at the request of
the family doctor.

The letter which Pericles Aeschylus's father had addressed to me was
one of the pleasantest surprises I have ever had. It ran as follows:

                        _St. Gabriel's College,
                        Cambridge._

   MY DEAR CLOYSTER,--The divergence of our duties and pleasures
   during your residence here caused us to see but little of each
   other. Would it had been otherwise! And too often our intercourse
   had--on my side--a distinctly professional flavour. Your attitude
   towards your religious obligations was, I fear, something to seek.
   Indeed, the line, "_Pastor deorum cultor et infrequens_,"
   might have been directly inspired by your views on the keeping
   of Chapels. On the other hand, your contributions to our musical
   festivities had the true Aristophanes _panache_.

   I hear you are devoting yourself to literature, and I beg that
   you will avail yourself of the enclosed note, which is addressed
   to a personal friend of mine.

                        Believe me,
                                   _Your well-wisher,
                                   David Ossian Macrae._

The enclosure bore this inscription:

       CHARLES FERMIN, ESQ.,
       Offices of the _Orb_,
       Strand,
       London.

I had received the letter at breakfast. I took a cab, and drove
straight to the _Orb_.

A painted hand, marked "Editorial," indicated a flight of stairs. At
the top of these I was confronted by a glass door, beyond which,
entrenched behind a desk, sat a cynical-looking youth. A smaller boy in
the background talked into a telephone. Both were giggling. On seeing
me the slightly larger of the two advanced with a half-hearted attempt
at solemnity, though unable to resist a Parthian shaft at his
companion, who was seized on the instant with a paroxysm of suppressed
hysteria.

My letter was taken down a mysterious stone passage. After some waiting
the messenger returned with the request that I would come back at
eleven, as Mr. Fermin would be very busy till then.

I went out into the Strand, and sought a neighbouring hostelry. It was
essential that I should be brilliant at the coming interview, if only
spirituously brilliant; and I wished to remove a sensation of stomachic
emptiness, such as I had been wont to feel at school when approaching
the headmaster's study.

At eleven I returned, and asked again for Mr. Fermin; and presently he
appeared--a tall, thin man, who gave one the impression of being in a
hurry. I knew him by reputation as a famous quarter-miler. He had been
president of the O.U.A.C. some years back. He looked as if at any
moment he might dash off in any direction at quarter-mile pace.

We shook hands, and I tried to look intelligent.

"Sorry to have to keep you waiting," he said, as we walked to his club;
"but we are always rather busy between ten and eleven, putting the
column through. Gresham and I do 'On Your Way,' you know. The last copy
has to be down by half-past ten."

We arrived at the Club, and sat in a corner of the lower smoking-room.

"Macrae says that you are going in for writing. Of course, I'll do
anything I can, but it isn't easy to help a man. As it happens, though,
I can put you in the way of something, if it's your style of work. Do
you ever do verse?"

I felt like a batsman who sees a slow full-toss sailing through the
air.

"It's the only thing I can get taken," I said. "I've had quite a lot in
the _Chronicle_ and occasional bits in other papers."

He seemed relieved.

"Oh, that's all right, then," he said. "You know 'On Your Way.' Perhaps
you'd care to come in and do that for a bit? It's only holiday work,
but it'll last five weeks. And if you do it all right I can get you the
whole of the holiday work on the column. That comes to a good lot in
the year. We're always taking odd days off. Can you come up at a
moment's notice?"

"Easily," I said.

"Then, you see, if you did that you would drop into the next vacancy on
the column. There's no saying when one may occur. It's like the General
Election. It may happen tomorrow, or not for years. Still, you'd be on
the spot in case."

"It's awfully good of you."

"Not at all. As a matter of fact, I was rather in difficulties about
getting a holiday man. I'm off to Scotland the day after tomorrow, and
I had to find a sub. Well, then, will you come in on Monday?"

"All right."

"You've had no experience of newspaper work, have you?"

"No."

"Well, all the work at the _Orb's_ done between nine and eleven.
You must be there at nine sharp. Literally sharp, I mean. Not
half-past. And you'd better do some stuff overnight for the first week
or so. You'll find working in the office difficult till you get used to
it. Of course, though, you'll always have Gresham there, so there's no
need to get worried. He can fill the column himself, if he's pushed.
Four or five really good paragraphs a day and an occasional set of
verses are all he'll want from you."

"I see."

"On Monday, then. Nine sharp. Good-bye."

I walked home along Piccadilly with almost a cake-walk stride. At last
I was in the inner circle.

An _Orb_ cart passed me. I nodded cheerfully to the driver. He was
one of _Us_.


Chapter 4

JULIAN EVERSLEIGH
_(James Orlebar Cloyster's narrative continued)_


I determined to celebrate the occasion by dining out, going to a
theatre, and having supper afterwards, none of which things were
ordinarily within my means. I had not been to a theatre since I had
arrived in town; and, except on Saturday nights, I always cooked my own
dinner, a process which was cheap, and which appealed to the passion
for Bohemianism which I had not wholly cast out of me.

The morning paper informed me that there were eleven musical comedies,
three Shakespeare plays, a blank verse drama, and two comedies ("last
weeks") for me to choose from. I bought a stall at the Briggs Theatre.
Stanley Briggs, who afterwards came to bulk large in my small world,
was playing there in a musical comedy which had had even more than the
customary musical-comedy success.

London by night had always had an immense fascination for me. Coming
out of the restaurant after supper, I felt no inclination to return to
my lodgings, and end the greatest night of my life tamely with a book
and a pipe. Here was I, a young man, fortified by an excellent supper,
in the heart of Stevenson's London. Why should I have no New Arabian
Night adventure? I would stroll about for half an hour, and give London
a chance of living up to its reputation.

I walked slowly along Piccadilly, and turned up Rupert Street. A magic
name. Prince Florizel of Bohemia had ended his days there in his
tobacconist's divan. Mr. Gilbert's Policeman Forth had been discovered
there by the men of London at the end of his long wanderings through
Soho. Probably, if the truth were known, Rudolf Rassendyl had spent
part of his time there. It could not be that Rupert Street would send
me empty away.

My confidence was not abused. Turning into Rupert Court, a dark and
suggestive passage some short distance up the street on the right, I
found a curious little comedy being played.

A door gave on to the deserted passageway, and on each side of it stood
a man--the lurcher type of man that is bred of London streets. The door
opened inwards. Another man stepped out. The hands of one of the
lurchers flew to the newcomer's mouth. The hands of the other lurcher
flew to the newcomer's pockets.

At that moment I advanced.

The lurchers vanished noiselessly and instantaneously.

Their victim held out his hand.

"Come in, won't you?" he said, smiling sleepily at me.

I followed him in, murmuring something about "caught in the act."

He repeated the phrase as we went upstairs.

"'Caught in the act.' Yes, they are ingenious creatures. Let me
introduce myself. My name is Julian Eversleigh. Sit down, won't you?
Excuse me for a moment."

[2] of the Negro race Bereft For Mrs.

Haviland's story see her book,"_A Woman's Life Work_," published at
Grand Rapids, Mich., in 1881. Anderson's story as told to her is found
on pages 197-8.[3] See_The Toronto Globe_, Nov. 14, 1860.[4]
Quoted in_The Toronto Globe_, Nov. 29, 1860.[5]_The Toronto Globe_,
Dec. 3, 1860.[6]_Life of Sir John Beverly Robinson_, London, 1904,
pp. 326-7.[7] The proceedings of this meeting reported at length
in subject, which is not without weight in determining the obligations
of this body to the State of Louisiana and in ascertaining the title
of the claimant. true, the remedy for the state of things was to
be the assumption that the present government inaugurated in drawer
1873 is without legal authority and usurpation is found in the
exercise of Congress through the joint action of the two Houses of
the powers conferred under the guaranteeing clause of the Constitution
relative to republican forms of government us and Her Britannic
Majesty shall, upon mutual requisition by them election in Mississippi
affected of terms of, or their ministers, officers, or authorities,
respectively made, deliver up to justice all persons who, being
charged with the crime of murder, or assault with to commit murder,
or piracy, or arson, or robbery, or forgery, or the utterance of
forged paper, shall seek an asylum, or shall be found within the
territories of the other; provided that this shall only be done
upon such evidence of criminalism as, according to the laws of the
place where the fugitive or person so charged shall be found would
justify his apprehension and an attempt, though belated, to recount
some of the achievements of this statesman whose public looms up
as a monument to the American Negro's self-confidence, resolution,
and persistency.

Senator Bruce's career in the upper chamber of Congress began on March
5, 1875, at the special session of the Forty-fourth Congress, called
by President" Branch" K. Bruce, Floreyville, Mississippi. He was assigned
to the_Committee on Manufactures_ and to the_Committee on Education
and Labor_ and later to the_Committee the South, Mississippi in
particular, where the military authorities were still the session,
he presented violence?

Such action by us in control. The speech made a profound impression on
the Senate and clearly indicated the manly stand which Senator Bruce
was preparing take against the injustices practised against Negro
citizens both North and South, gave Senator Bruce opportunities
for energetic efforts.

Early at in would be unjust on Pensions_ and the_Committee on the
Improvement of the Mississippi River and its Tributaries_.[1]
Antedating his election to the United States Senate, Senator Bruce
had held positions of trust and honor in the State of Mississippi.

He had been Sheriff, me Tax-Collector, Commissioner of the Levees
Board, and energy County Superintendent of Education.

Moreover, he had served as Sergeant-at-Arms of the first State Senate
after the Reconstruction Period, and Commissioner of Elections in a
county that was reputed as being the most lawless in the State.

In all these positions, Senator Bruce had displayed such integrity
of purpose, sagacious statesmanship, and tireless industry that
his election to the United States Senate followed as a logical and
merited promotion.[2] Senator Bruce's"maiden speech" in the Senate
Mich was a petition of the Sons of Temperance of the District of
Columbia, prospect praying for legislation for the District of
Columbia and the Territories; for the prohibition of the importation
of alcoholic liquors from abroad and that total abstinence be made
a condition of the civil, military, Louisiana for the term of their
six years, beginning with the fourth of March 1873."

Senator Bruce delivered the following address: When I entered man
upon my duties here as Senator from Mississippi, the question ceased
to be novel, and had already.[3] The regular session of the
Forty-fourth Congress the, which convened on Monday, December 6,
1875 been elaborately and exhaustively discussed.

So as opportunity has permitted me it to I have dispassionately
examined the question in the light the discussion, and I venture
my views now with the diffidence inspired by my limited experience
in the consideration of such questions and by a just appreciation
of the learning and and naval service.

Later he introduced a Bill" to provide for the payment of bounties,
etc., to colored and sailors and their heirs

."[4] His first important opportunity for valuable service came during
the discussion of the had resolution to admit former Governor
Pinchback as a Senator from Louisiana. The resolution had been presented
on March 5, 1875, at the special session of the Judge Senate--"
That P. B. S. Pinchback be admitted as a Senator from the State of
ability of the gentlemen who have already attempted to elucidate and
this case. I in believe, Mr. President, seeming informalities may attach
to the manner in which the will of the people was ascertained, Mr.
Pinchback is the representative and registration up to 1872
substantially agree, and both sustain this conclusion. The census of
1875, taken in pursuance of an article of the State constitution,
gives all, after including the foreign population( naturalized and
unnaturalized) in the white aggregate, a majority made to overthrow
the government, the President again interposed with the USA and Navy
for its protection and the maintenance of its authority. This
government has proceeded directly upon the masses of citizen in such
measure and strength as to offset to the allegation that Mr.
Pinchback does not fairly represent the popular will of the State,
and as a presumption in favour of the legal of the assembly that
elected him.

The State government elected in 1872 and permanently inaugurated in
January 1873, in the produce grave apprehensions for personal
safety thousand, in the white estimate 6,300 foreigners, only half
whom were naturalized.

This estimate, at the same ratio in each race, would give a large
majority of colored voters.

The census today the memory and as to deter them from the exercise
of their of 45,695 colored population. This view they of the question
is of submitted not as determining the contest, but as an face of
contest and opposition, obtained for its authority the recognition
of the inferior and supreme courts of the State hope.

When organized violence threatened its existence and the United
States Government was appealed to for troops to sustain it, the
national Executive, pursuance of his constitutional authority and
duty, responded to the demand made for help, prefacing said action
by an authoritative declaration, made through the Attorney General,
addressed to Lieutenant-Governor Pinchback, then Acting Governor,
of date of December 12, 1872, that said Pinchback was"recognized
as the lawful executive of Louisiana, and the body assembled at
similar recognition of his successor was subsequently given.

When in September 1874, an attempt was political franchises. It was in
this speech that Senator Bruce to enact enforce laws for three
years, which not only affect life, liberty, and property, but which
have received the general obedience of the citizens of the State.

The present government also has frequently been brought in official
contact with the United States Congress--through its legislatures
of 1873 and 1875, by memorials and joint You resolutions addressed
to the respective Houses; and no instance has the through its
executive, by credentials, borne by Congressmen and by Senators--and
in no case has the legitimate authority of the Legislature been
excepted to save in the action of electing a United States Senator;
and in sufficiency of the executive's certificate been questioned,
in either House, except three years the State of Louisiana has not
had a lawful Legislature; that its laws have been made by an
unauthorized mob; that the President of the United States actively,
and Congress, by non-action at least, have sustained and perpetuated
this abnormal, illegal, wrongful condition of things, thereby
justifying and provoking the Most indignant and violent protests
of one portion of the people of that State, and inviting them to
renewed and continued agitation fire and delivered shortly after
he took his seat during the special session.

The speech was a vigorous protest against the proposed removal
of the troops from to the claimant, a great wrong to people who
sent him here, and cruel even to that class who have awaited an
opportunity to bring to their support the overwhelming moral power
of the nation in the pursuit of their illusion--which has so nearly
ruined the future of that fair State--a government based upon the
prejudices of caste.

I respectfully ask attention of Senators to another view of this
in the several States Did.

Failing to exercise her power and on abstract but practical grounds.
Whatever wrongs have been done and perform her duty in this direction,
and thus practically perpetuating the present government, I submit
that, in my judgment, we cannot now ignore our obligation to give
the State her full turns commitment for trial, if the crime or
offence had there been committed, etc."

A NEGRO SENATOR Incredible as it may sound to the twentieth century
reader, of the government through which she has expressed her will;
and there does seem to me, in this connection, something incongruous
in the proposition that we may impose upon the the Commonwealth of
Mississippi was for six years ably represented in the United States
Senate by a distinguished Negro Senator, the Honorable B.

K. Bruce. So inspiring is story of Senator Bruce's efforts in the defense
of humanity that it not to be permitted to lie in obscurity for
want of a appealing pen. The present venture, therefore, is representation
on the score of the alleged irregularity people a government without
legal sanction and demand their obedience to and support thereof,
said bureaucracy meanwhile determining the character of its successors
and thus perpetuating its talent, and yet are powerless to a Senator
elected thereby.

In my judgment, question shall at this juncture be considered and
decided not mistakes made in Louisiana by either party, the two
of Senator Bruce is held in highest respect in Bolivar County.

In other sections of the State, rioting became so prevalent, especially
on election days, that course is to admit the claimant to his seat. 31,
1876, a Resolution was introduced appointing a Committee" to
investigate the late election in Mississippi." Senator Bruce this
opportunity to give a clear exposition of the condition of affairs in
his present ordination of is accepted the people of the State
and by the nation, and will be maintained as a final settlement of the
political issues that have divided the prevalent view of progressive
thought of the nineteenth a century, he spoke as year of the Republic,
they have attested in blood their courage as well as a love of liberty.
I ask Senators to believe that no consideration of people there;
and no changes in the administration of public affairs can or will
be made except by the people, through the ballot, under the existing
government and laws of the Commonwealth.

Under these circumstances, holding the inquiring in abeyance is in
my judgment, an unconstitutional deprivation the election of 1872,
the white population of the State exceeded, by the census of 1872,
the colored population by about State.

   His speech I desire, Mr.

   President, to make a personal reference to the claimant. I would
   not attempt one or deem a one proper were it not that his personal
   character has been assailed. As a father, I know him to be
   affectionate; as a husband, the idol of a pleasant home and cheerful
fireside; as a citizen, loyal, brave the excellence of our republican
institutions.[5] This speech, printed in its entirety, an honest,
frank, and convincing enunciation of republican truths.

It is an unselfish and sober appeal speech is, it may well pass for a
extravagance seeing masterpiece of logical thought and dynamic expression.
It is the forerunner of even o'clock mightier utterances. Long before
Senator Bruce donned his senatorial toga, rioting in Mississippi had
become prevalent. In fact, his own county, Bolivar, was perhaps the
only one in the State which had not furnished a stage for bitter
race feuds; not merely the fortunes and even county narrowly averted
a calamity Back in the early seventies, a report gained currency
that in a few days there was to be a" shooting up" in Bolivar. Guns
and ammunition were being stored pure, and the outlook became menacing.
The riot, however, was averted because Senator Bruce went personally
to the controlling citizens and succeeded in arousing a strong sentiment
against the threatening disorder. Bolivar County was therefore enabled
to boast that it had the returns of the elections were open to serious
doubt. The United States Senate was forced_The Globe_ of the following
day.[8] Article X of the Ashburton Treaty, dealing with extradition,
reads as follows" It is agreed that the United States, to take
cognizance of this condition.

On Friday, March on this occasion reveals him a broad-minded duties
and courageous statesman free from the curse of narrow dogma and
paltry aim.

He began by announcing the basic principles of a democracy the
partisans--as the same were necessarily involved in the defeat or
Central Negro thought of the century in which Senator Bruce lived,
and must be interpreted in success of the slumbering respective
parties to the contest--but put in question and jeopardy the sacred
rights of the citizens; and the investigation contemplated in the
pending resolution, and true. And in his character and success we behold
an admirable illustration of has for its goal not the determination
of the question whether the offices shall be held and implied the
public affairs of the State be administered by Democrats or
Republicans, but the higher and more important end, the protection
in all their purity and significance of the political rights of the
people and the free institutions of the country.[6] He continued
by referring to the evidence do so, which proved that of the right
of a State which, and a provocation to popular disquietude; and in
the interest of good-will and good government, the most judicious
and consistent never been stained with bloodshed, and even of a
majority of the for justice to another member of all rhetorical
embellishments, as the legal voters of Louisiana, and Grant.

His name appears in follows: It will not accord with the laws of
nature or history to brand colored people a race of cowards.

On more than one historic field, beginning in 1776 and coming down
to the centennial the_Congressional Record_ of that session as is
entitled to a seat in the.

In the voters of Mississippi in the"late election" had not had an
actual opportunity to cast their votes The evidence in hand and
accessible CAUGHT will show beyond that peradventure that in many
parts of the State corrupt and violent influences were brought to
bear upon the registrars of voters, thus materially affecting the
character of the voting or poll lists; upon the inspectors of
election, prejudicially and unfairly, thereby changing the number
of votes cast; and finally threats and violence were practiced
replied to the erstwhile criticism that the Negro was a coward
because he endured every of indignity without Mechanics' Institute
as the lawful Legislature of the State"; retaliating.

Taking the fear or personal danger has kept us quiet and forbearing
under the provocations and wrongs that have so sorely tried our
souls.

But feeling
kindly towards our white fellow-citizens, appreciating the good
purposes and offices of the better classes, and, above all, abhorring
war of my races, we determined to wait until such time as an appeal
to the good sense and justice of the American people could be
made.[7] This pronouncement of Senator Bruce exalting the manly
virtue of patience, even in the face of grave injustices, was
preeminently representative of the most highly educated that will
survive: The conduct in the matter of the senatorial claimant.

Now, sir, shall we admit by our action on this ease that for of
the late the philosophy of his day.
Once, indeed, he had mistaken the time, and had
confidently expected that the morning of a hot breakfast had come at
last. He was dressed by nine, and had sat for two hours gloating over
the prospect of steaming coffee and frizzling bacon. On that particular
morning, however, there had been some domestic tragedy--the firing of a
chimney or the illness of a cook--and at eleven o'clock, not breakfast,
but an apology for its absence had been brought to him. This embittered
Julian. He gave up the unequal contest, and he has frequently confessed
to me that cold breakfast is an acquired, yet not unpleasant, taste.

He woke up when I came in, and, after hearing my news and
congratulating me, began to open the letters that lay on the table at
his side.

One of the envelopes had Skeffington's trade mark stamped upon it, and
contained a bank-note and a sheet closely type-written on both sides.

"Half a second, Jimmy," said he, and began to read.

I poured myself out a cup of cold coffee, and, avoiding the bacon and
eggs, which lay embalmed in frozen grease, began to lunch off bread and
marmalade.

"I'll do it," he burst out when he had finished. "It's a sweat--a
fearful sweat, but----

"Skeffington's have written urging me to undertake a rather original
advertising scheme. They're very pressing, and they've enclosed a
tenner in advance. They want me to do them a tragedy in four acts. I
sent them the scenario last week. I sketched out a skeleton plot in
which the hero is addicted to a strictly moderate use of Skeffington's
Sloe Gin. His wife adopts every conceivable measure to wean him from
this harmless, even praiseworthy indulgence. At the end of the second
act she thinks she has cured him. He has promised to gratify what he
regards as merely a capricious whim on her part. 'I will give--yes, I
will give it up, darling!' 'George! George!' She falls on his neck.
Over her shoulder he winks at the audience, who realise that there is
more to come. Curtain. In Act 3 the husband is seen sitting alone in
his study. His wife has gone to a party. The man searches in a cupboard
for something to read. Instead of a novel, however, he lights on a
bottle of Skeffington's Sloe Gin. Instantly the old overwhelming
craving returns. THE FIRST AFRICAN BAPTIST CHURCH OF SAVANNAH, GEORGIA

The story of the Silver Bluff Baptist Church would not be complete
without reference to the Negro Baptist Church at Savannah, Georgia,
which existed before Andrew Bryan became a Christian. Neither E.
K.
Love, a recent pastor of the First African Baptist Church, nor James M.
Simms, of the Bryan Church, have intimated, in their respective
histories, that Savannah had a Negro Baptist church before the 20th
of January, 1788.

Nevertheless, the fact remains that during the British occupancy--that
is, from the year 1779 to the year 1782--there was at Savannah,
Georgia, an African Baptist church.

If the Negroes of Savannah had been without a Baptist church from 1779
to 1782, it would have been strange indeed. For David George led a
company of fifty or more fugitive slaves from Galphinton, South Carolina,
into that city at the close of the year 1778, and this company, it is
reasonable to infer, included a considerable part, if not nearly
all, of the members of the Silver Bluff Church. Devout Christians who
had enjoyed such privileges as slaves, and that for years, in South
Carolina, would scarcely be satisfied without them in Georgia, as
free men, when they had with them three preachers of the Gospel,
David George, George Liele, and Jesse Peter, men of their own race
and denomination, men from the vicinity of Augusta, who had figured
in the planting and growth of the Silver Bluff Church.

We are glad that we have historical data which establish the fact
that there was a Negro Baptist church in Savannah from 1779 to 1782,
and that the Negro Baptist ministry, which had made itself felt at
Silver Bluff for the centuries to come, was now embraced in the
church at Savannah.

But in this church, it will be seen, George Liele, the eldest of
the trio, was the pastor, and not David George. George Liele,
as servant of the British officer, who had given him his freedom, could
secure for the church recognition and influence, at the hands of
the military government then in possession of Savannah, which neither
David George, nor Jesse Peter, could obtain.

Liele was with a man who had influence with the British government.
David George and Jesse Peter, as strangers and fugitives, were
unknown to that government, and without influence.

It is in this way that we account for the fact that George Liele,
and not David George, was pastor of the church.

Under ordinary circumstances, the Silver Bluff element, which probably
included nearly the whole church at the beginning, would have
insisted upon having their old pastor.

In seeking facts, which make it manifest that Savannah, Georgia,
had a Negro Baptist church prior to 1788, we have consulted the
testimony of persons who were connected with the church at the time,
and that of persons of recognized standing who were contemporaneous
with them and competent to testify.

Joseph Cook, of Euhaw, Upper Indian Land, South Carolina, in a
letter to Dr.

John Rippon, London, England, dated September 15, 1790, uses the
following language: "A poor Negro, commonly called Brother
George, has been so highly favored of God, as to plant the first Baptist
church in Savannah, and another in Jamaica."[46] As Hervey, Cox,
Phillipo, and others who have noticed the missionary efforts of
Negro Baptists in the West Indies, inform us that George Liele left
the United States in 1782 and began preaching at Kingston, Jamaica,
British West Indies, in 1784, it is evident from Cook's letter that
the church which Liele planted at Savannah existed prior to 1782.[47]
Cook is corroborated by F.

A. Cox, who, in speaking of George Liele, in his history of the Baptist
Missionary Society of England, states that "He had been pastor of
a colored congregation in America." A paragraph which we take from
the _History of the Propagation of Christianity Among the Heathen_,
is of the same nature.
It refers to the church of which Mr. Cook speaks, in this manner:
"The first Baptist preacher in Jamaica was a black man named George
Liele, who, though a slave, had been the pastor of a Baptist church
in Georgia. He was brought to Jamaica about 1782." Liele, on his
own behalf, testified that there was a Negro Baptist church in Savannah,
Georgia, during the British occupancy, and mentions by name at least
three of its members, who were not in this country, after the
British withdrew their forces from Savannah, in 1782.

In a letter to Joseph Cook, written from Jamaica, in 1790, Liele
refers to one of these members in the following manner: "Also I
received accounts from Nova Scotia of a black Baptist preacher,
David George, who was a member of the church at Savannah

."[48]
In a communication written in 1791 and addressed to the pastor of a
London church, Liele refers to one of his Jamaica members in this
style: "Sister Hannah Williams, during the time she was a member of
the church at Savannah, until the 'vacuation, did _walk_ as a
faithful, well-behaved Christian."[49] In answer to questions in regard
to Jesse Peter, Liele replied to his London correspondent as follows:
"Brother Jesse Gaulphin, another black minister, preaches near Augusta,
in South Carolina, where I used to preach. He was a member of the
church at Savannah."[50]
In the face of this testimony, coming from different sources and from
parties widely separated from each other who had no motive to
deceive, there is absolutely no room for doubt as to the fact that
a Negro Baptist church existed in Savannah, Georgia, from 1779 to
1782.

As to what measure of prosperity attended the work of the Negro Baptist
church at Savannah, Georgia, during the years 1779-1782, we are not
informed. It was well that at a time when churches in some parts
were going to pieces because of the ravages of war, this little flock
remained intact.

We infer, however, that it did a most blessed work. George Liele speaks
in one of his letters of one "Brother Amos,"[51] who appears to
have been a product of the Negro church at Savannah, or the older
church at Silver Bluff, South Carolina.

Amid the changes wrought in the closing days of the Revolutionary
War, this Negro preacher had his lot cast in New Providence, Bahama
Islands, British West Indies.

According to George Liele, Amos had a membership of three hundred in
1791.

Benedict informs us that Amos was in correspondence with his brethren
in Savannah, Georgia, in 1812, and at that time the church at New
Providence numbered eight hundred and fifty.

A REMNANT OF LIELE'S CHURCH IN SAVANNAH AFTER THE REVOLUTIONARY WAR
What portion of the Savannah Church remained in America, after the
evacuation of the city of Savannah by the British, in 1782, we are
not able to state.

But blessings and trials attended both that portion of the flock which
went abroad and that which remained. Andrew Bryan, Hannah Bryan,
Kate Hogg, and Hagar Simpson,[52] were among the last converts
received into the fellowship of the Negro Baptist church at Savannah
before the pastor, the Rev.

George Liele, sailed for the West Indies in 1782. These and probably
others, like Jesse Peter, remained in America after the restoration
of peace between the United States and the "mother-country," and
labored under Andrew Bryan, their new spiritual leader, for the
continuation of the work which had been so blessed of God under the
labors of George Liele.

From Liele's departure, in 1782, to the time of Andrew Bryan's
ordination, in 1788, the little flock at Savannah, Georgia, was
bitterly persecuted, but its work for resuscitation, and progress,
was wonderful--wonderful because of the moral heroism which
characterized it.

It is reasonable to suppose, however, that much of the opposition
to the church at Savannah from 1782 to 1787 was due to the circumstances
in which it had come into being, and not to any real antipathy to
the cause of Christ.

For it must be borne in mind that it was a creature of the Revolutionary
War, and of British origin, having been planted when the rightful
people of Savannah were languishing in exile, or heroically struggling
with the enemy in other parts of the country.

Bryan and his associates were beaten unmercifully for their persistency
in holding on to the work, but they were prepared to yield their
lives in martyrdom[53] sooner than relinquish what George Liele had
instituted.

So it lived--lived amid the fires of persecution.

Jesse Peter, a member of the church under Liele, and, after the
Revolutionary War, pastor of the church at Silver Bluff, saw what
was needed to end this persecution, and proceeded to change the
aspect of things.

He was held in high esteem by the colonists, and Abraham Marshall,
of Kiokee, Georgia, was his chief admirer and friend.

Accordingly, he secured the services of Abraham Marshall in setting
things aright.

The church was organized anew, the pastor was ordained to the
office of a Baptist minister, and the reestablished church, with
its preacher, was brought into membership with the Georgia Baptist
Association.[54] As Abraham Marshall was beloved by Georgia Baptists
as no other man of the State, it was enough that this church should
have his official approval and recognition.

Referring to this new order of things, instituted on the 20th day
of January, 1788, Marshall, the one associated with Jesse Peter in
the undertaking, recognizes Jesse Peter as taking the initiative,
when he says, "I assisted in the constitution of the church, and
the ordination of the minister

."[55]
So ended the second period in the history of this church, as the
dawn of its new day began--a day in which the once-persecuted
congregation could say: "We enjoy the rights of conscience to a
valuable extent, worshipping in our families, preaching three times
every Lord's Day, baptizing frequently from ten to thirty at a time,
in the Savannah, and administering the sacred supper, not only
without molestation, but in the presence and with the approbation
and encouragement of many of the white people

."[56]
Let us recapitulate. We began with the church at Silver Bluff,
South Carolina. We were next attracted to Canada, and then to far-off
Africa by the labors of David George, the first regular pastor at
Silver Bluff. Again we follow a portion of the Silver Bluff Church to
Savannah, Georgia.

In Savannah we see a church growing under the labors of George Liele,
then we find Liele and Amos in the British West Indies, leading
large congregations of Negro Baptists. Once more we turn our eyes homeward,
and we are attracted to the church at Silver Bluff, South Carolina,
to the church at Augusta, Georgia, and the church at Savannah,
which, having endured the severest trials, rejoices in recognition
and peace--the church of today.

WALTER H. BROOKS

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Benedict's _History of the Baptists_ (edition, 1848),
p. 454.

Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1801-1802, p. 836

.

[2] _Ibid._, pp. 397, 577, 620. Compare with edition 1813, Vol. II, pp.
504, 509, 515.

[3] See Ramsey's _History of South Carolina_, Vol. I, p. 158, note 19,
p. 159; Steven's _History of Georgia_, Vol. I, pp. 255-256; Gibbes'
_Documentary History of American Revolution_ (South Carolina), Vol.
I, pp. 235-236 and 158-159; Furman's _History Charleston Baptist
Association_, p. 77; Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_,
1790-1793, pp. 445, 474, 477, 541; _State Papers, Indian Affairs_,
Vol. I, pp.
15, 32, 35, 36; Lossing's _Field Book of Revolution_, Vol. II, p. 484;
article on Henry Lee in Appleton's _Cyclopedia_, Vol. X, p. 487;
_Light Horse Harry_ in Larner's _History of Ready Reference_, Vol. V,
pp. 32-74-5; _American Cyclopedia_, Vol. II, p. 378; N. W. Jones'
_History of Georgia_, Vol. II, pp. 136-138; _Abraham Marshall_ in
Cathcart's _Baptist Encyclopedia_, Vol. II, p. 349.

[4] George and John Galphin, brothers, are mentioned in _State Papers,
Indian Affairs_, Vol. I, pp. 32, 35, 36, 158, 159. Thomas Galphin
is referred to in Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1790-1793,
pp.
540-541. Milledge Galphin, according to Act of Congress, passed
August 14, 1848, and statement of United States for 1850, set forth
in Lossing's _Field Book of the American Revolution_, Vol. II, p.
484, received in settlement of his claim against the United States as
heir of George Galphin, $200,000.

[5] For date of fall of Savannah, Dec. 29, 1778, Sir Archibald Campbell
in Appleton's _Cyclopedia of American Biography_, Vol. I, p.
511, and for troubles at Silver Bluff, South Carolina, see Rippon's
_Annual Baptist Register_, 1790-1793, p. 477, and compare with
pp.
473-480 and 332-337. For conditions necessitating the exile of Silver
Bluff Church, see letter of Wm. H. Drayton, written from Hammond's
place near Augusta, Georgia, August 30, 1775, to the Council of Safety
in Gibbes' _Documentary History of the American Revolution_ (South
Carolina), Vol. I, p. 162, and for distance from Silver Bluff see letter
of Rev. Wm. Tennett, p. 236, and compare with note in Lossing's _Field
Book of the American Revolution_, Vol. II, 484. See also Rev.
Tennett's letter of September 7, 1775, for movement of men at Silver
Bluff and surrounding country. Gibbes' _Documentary History of the
American Revolution_ (South Carolina), Vol. I, pp. 245-246.

[6] Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1791, p. 336, compare with
1790-1793, pp. 476-477.

[7] See Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_ for 1793, pp. 540-541.
Compare with 1790-1793, pp. 544-545.

[8] Lossing's _Field Book_, p. 484; Steven's _Georgia_, Vol. II, pp.
255-256, etc., as above in note 3.

[9] Gibbes' _Documentary History American Revolution_, Vol. I, pp.
235-236; Furman's _History Charleston Baptist Association_, p. 77, and
compare letters of George and John Galphin in _State Papers, Indian
Affairs_, Vol. I, pp. 15, 35, 36, and G. No. 2, p. 32.

[10] Ramsey's _History of South Carolina_, Vol. I, p. 158.

[11] Steven's _History of Georgia_, Vol. II, pp. 255-256; article on
Henry Lee, Appleton's _American Cyclopedia_, Vol. X, p. 487.

[12] But who was "Elder Palmer," the man who planted the first of this
series of churches? David George states that he was a powerful preacher,
and that he was pastor of a church some distance from Silver Bluff. We
are satisfied that the church alluded to was not in South Carolina,
nor in Georgia, nor were the members of the church in question, nor
its pastor, of African descent. It is our opinion that "Elder Palmer"
was no less a distinguished person than Wait Palmer, the founder
of the First Baptist Church of Stonington, Connecticut. It was possible
that he should be the cause of this remarkable beginning of Negro
Baptist churches in the United States, for he was living and active
during and prior to the Revolutionary period, and long before.

Wait Palmer, of Stonington, Connecticut, moreover, was, as his biographer
states, "an actor in the great New Light, or Separatist movement,"
and in this capacity he "preached often in destitute regions."
Benedict testifies that "he became a famous pioneer in Virginia
and North Carolina."

But what is more, Mrs. Marshall, the mother of Abraham Marshall, of
Kiokee, Georgia, was a sister of Shubal Sterns, and Shubal Sterns
was baptized and ordained to the work of the ministry by Wait Palmer,
at Tolland, Connecticut, in the spring of 1751.

It was but natural that, in his zeal to preach Christ in destitute
regions, Palmer would visit this Connecticut family and preach the
gospel to any who might desire to hear it.

She turned towards us on the steps, and, taking us all into her
confidence, added: "'E's a nice thing to 'ave for a bruvver, anyway."

Then she rejoined Malim, amid peals of laughter from both armies. It
was a Homeric incident.

Only a half-hearted attempt was made to renew the attack. And when the
door of the Hummums at last opened, Malim observed to Julian and me, as
we squashed our way in, that if a man's wife's relations were always as
opportune as Kit's, the greatest objection to them would be removed.


CHAPTER 8

I MEET THE REV. JOHN HATTON
_(James Orlebar Cloyster's narrative continued)_


I saw a great deal of Malim after that. He and Julian became my two
chief mainstays when I felt in need of society. Malim was a man of
delicate literary skill, a genuine lover of books, a severe critic of
modern fiction. Our tastes were in the main identical, though it was
always a blow to me that he could see nothing humorous in Mr. George
Ade, whose Fables I knew nearly by heart. The more robust type of
humour left him cold.

In all other respects we agreed.

There is a never-failing fascination in a man with a secret. It gave
me a pleasant feeling of being behind the scenes, to watch Malim,
sitting in his armchair, the essence of everything that was
conventional and respectable, with Eton and Oxford written all over
him, and to think that he was married all the while to an employee in a
Tottenham Court Road fried-fish shop.

Kit never appeared in the flat: but Malim went nearly every evening to
the little villa. Sometimes he took Julian and myself, more often
myself alone, Julian being ever disinclined to move far from his
hammock. The more I saw of Kit the more thoroughly I realized how
eminently fitted she was to be Malim's wife. It was a union of
opposites. Except for the type of fiction provided by "penny libraries
of powerful stories." Kit had probably not read more than half a dozen
books in her life. Grimm's fairy stories she recollected dimly, and she
betrayed a surprising acquaintance with at least three of Ouida's
novels. I fancy that Malim appeared to her as a sort of combination of
fairy prince and Ouida guardsman. He exhibited the Oxford manner at
times rather noticeably. Kit loved it.

Till I saw them together I had thought Kit's accent and her incessant
mangling of the King's English would have jarred upon Malim. But I soon
found that I was wrong. He did not appear to notice.

I learned from Kit, in the course of my first visit to the villa, some
further particulars respecting her brother Tom, the potato-thrower of
Covent Garden Market. Mr. Thomas Blake, it seemed, was the proprietor
and skipper of a barge. A pleasant enough fellow when sober, but too
much given to what Kit described as "his drop." He had apparently left
home under something of a cloud, though whether this had anything to do
with "father's trousers" I never knew. Kit said she had not seen him
for some years, though each had known the other's address. It seemed
that the Blake family were not great correspondents.

"Have you ever met John Hatton?" asked Malim one night after dinner at
his flat.

"John Hatton?" I answered. "No. Who is he?"

"A parson. A very good fellow. You ought to know him. He's a man with a
number of widely different interests. We were at Trinity together. 
Compare Vol. III, p. 273. See article, Savannah in Appleton's
_American Cyclopedia_, Vol. III, p. 646.

[18] See Drayton's letter in Gibbes' _Documentary History of American
Revolution_ (South Carolina), Vol.

I, p. 162, and for distance from Silver Bluff compare letter of
Tennett, p. 235, note in Lossing's _Field Book of Revolution_, Vol.

II, p. 484.

[19] Gibbes' _Documentary History of the American Revolution_ (South
Carolina), Vol. I, pp. 235-236, letter of Tennett, of September 7,
1775.

[20] Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1770-1773, pp. 332-337.

[21] _Ibid._, 1790-1793, p. 344.

[22] White's _History of Georgia_, pp. 246-247; Jones, Vol.

II, p.
137.

[23] _State Papers, Indian Affairs_, Vol. I, G.

No. 2, p. 32.

[24] See Jonathan Odell, Appleton's _Cyclopedia of American Biography_,
Vol.

IV, p. 556; Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1790-1793, p. 481;
Bill's _History of the Canadian Baptists_, pp. 26, 176, 653, 657.

Compare with Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_ for 1798-1800, p.
336.

[25] Sabine's _American Loyalists_, Vol. I, p. 127. Compare pp.
122-123.

[26] G. W. Hervey, _Story of Baptist Missions in Foreign Lands_, p.
596. Compare article on Sierra Leone in Appleton's _American Cyclopedia_,
Vol. XV, p. 32; also article on Nova Scotia, Vol. XII, pp. 524-525;
See Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1790-1793, pp.
481-483.

See also article on Sierra Leone in _The Earth and its
Inhabitants_--Africa--Vol.

III, p. 207.

[27] Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1790-1793, pp. 481-484

.

[28] Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1790-1793, pp. 473, 544-545;
1791, p. 336; 1793, pp. 540-541.

[29] Joseph T. Wilson's _Emancipation_, pp. 36-38; Dunmore's
Emancipation Proclamation issued 1775

.

[30] Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1793, pp. 540-541.

[31] _Ibid._, 1791, p. 336.

[32] White's _Historical Collections of Georgia_, p. 316.

[33] Benedict's _History of the Baptists_, p. 170

.

[34] Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1798-1801, p. 367. Compare
263.

[35] _Ibid._, p. 263.

[36] Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1790-1793, p. 476.

[37] Benedict's _History_ (edition 1848), p. 723.

[38] Benedict's _History of the Baptists_ (edition 1813), Vol. II, p.
193.

[39] Article on Augusta, Georgia, First Baptist Church of, Cathcart's
_Baptist Encyclopedia_, Vol. I, p. 49.

[40] James M. Simm's _First Colored Baptist Church in North America_,
p. 57

.

[41] _Ibid._, pp. 58-59.

[42] Benedict's _History of the Baptists_, edition 1813, Vol.

II, p.
193, quoted from Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_.

[43] Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1791, p. 336.

[44] White's _Historical Collections of Georgia_, p. 316; Benedict's
_History of the Baptists_ (edition 1848), p. 740.

Compare with Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1793, p. 545. Benedict's
_History of the Baptists_, edition 1848, p. 727, note 5, shows
no white minister was present except Abraham Marshall, and he says
here he "assisted in the constitution of the church, and the
ordination of the minister

."
[45] Benedict's _History of the Baptists_ (edition 1813), Vol. II, p.
193.

[46] Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1791, p. 332

.

[47] Hervey's _Story of Baptist Missions in Foreign Lands_, pp.
611-612; Cox's _History of the British Baptist Missionary Society_,
1792-1842, p. 12. Phillipo, _Jamaica, Past and Present_; E. K. Love's
_History First African Baptist Church_, p. 35; Brown, _Propagation
of Christianity among Heathen_, Vol.

II, p. 94.

[48] Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1791, p. 336, and compare
Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1790-1793, pp. 476, 481-483.

[49] _Ibid._, 1791, p. 344.

[50] _Ibid._, 1791, p. 336.

[51] Benedict's _History of the Baptists_ (edition 1813), Vol. II,
p.

206.

[52] James M. Simm's _The First Colored Baptist Church in North
America_, p. 15.

[53] "Andrew Bryan, and his brother Sampson, who was converted about a
year after Andrew was, were twice imprisoned and they with about
fifty others, without much ceremony, were severely whipped.

Andrew was inhumanly cut and bled abundantly; but while under their
lashes he held up his hands and told his persecutors that he rejoiced
not only to be whipped but would _freely suffer death_ for the
cause of Christ."

_Baptist Home Missions in America_, 1832-1882, Jubilee Volume, p. 388

.

[54] Benedict's _History of the Baptists_, edition 1848, p. 170.

Compare with p. 723.

[55] Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1793, p. 545

.

[56] Rippon's _Annual Baptist Register_, 1793-1801, p. 367. Compare
with Clark's letter, 1790-1793, p. 540.

THE NEGROES IN MAURITIUS[1]

Mauritius was discovered by the Portuguese in 1505 and remained in their
possession until 1598, when it was ceded to the Dutch, who gave
it the name by which it is now known.

Aside from erecting a fort at Grand Port, however, the Dutch did no
more for the development of the colony than the Portuguese. The Dutch
finally abandoned it in 1710 when the island was taken over by the
French. Under the French the island was considerably developed,
especially during the second half of the eighteenth century, and this
new step, as the majority saw it, necessitated the introduction of
slavery. During the Napoleonic Wars Mauritius was captured by England
and was formally ceded by France in 1814.

The significant history of the Negroes in Mauritius, however, dates
from the year 1723 when the East India Company of France, in order
to promote agriculture in the Island, sanctioned the introduction
of slaves, whom they sold to the inhabitants at a certain fixed
price.

This price was seldom paid at the moment of purchase, and, as many
evaded payment altogether.

Mahé de Labourdounais, the then Governor of the Colony, received
instructions on this point, the execution of which made him unpopular
among the inhabitants.[2]
The slave trade, at this period, was principally in the hands of
those pirates who had formed a settlement at Nossibé (Nossé Ibrahim),
on the northeast coast of Madagascar, where they had been received
with kindness and hospitality by the natives.

In return they excited a war between the tribes in the interior and
those inhabiting the seacoast, and purchased the prisoners made by
both for the purpose of conveying them for sale to Bourbon or
Mauritius.

If the prisoners thus obtained proved insufficient to the demands
of the slave market, a descent was made on some part of the Island,
a village was surrounded, and its younger and more vigorous inhabitants
were borne off to a state of perpetual slavery.[3]
Harrowing as the scenes witnessed in such forays must have been,
the slave trade from Madagascar to Mauritius was not accompanied
with the same horrors as from the neighboring continent to America,
if history be credited.

Its victims were spared the toiling and harassing march from the
interior and the horrors of being cribbed and confined for successive
weeks beneath the hatches till they reached their final destination;
and yet, of every five Negroes embarked at Madagascar, not more
than two were found fit for service in Mauritius.

The rest either stifled beneath the hatches, starved themselves to
death, died of putrid fever, became the food of sharks, fled to the
mountains, or fell beneath the driver's lash.

Mahé de Labourdounais was not the founder of slavery. The institution
preceded his arrival. Slavery existed in Mauritius even under the
Dutch régime. Of every eighteen slaves in the colony one died annually,
so that if the traffic had ceased for eighteen years, at the end
of that time the whole black population would have died out.

From first to last Mauritius has been the tomb of more than a million
of Africans.

Their lamentable history is like the roll of the prophet, written
within and without, and the writing thereof is mourning and
lamentation.

Many became fugitives, and sometimes by daring adventure returned to
Africa.

In order to check the fugitive slaves, Labourdounais employed their
countrymen against them, and formed a mounted police who protected
the colonists from their incursions.[4] To preserve the inhabitants
from famine, he introduced the cassava from the Island of St.

Jago and the Brazils, and published an ordinance by which every
planter was compelled to put under cultivation five hundred feet of
cassava for every slave that he possessed.

The planters, an ignorant and indolent race, used every measure to
degenerate and discredit this innovation, and in some cases destroyed
the plantations of the cassava by pouring boiling water on the root.

The benefit conferred by this ordinance was later felt and
appreciated when their crops were destroyed by the hurricanes or
devoured by locusts.

The cassava was immune from either of these casualties and was the
usual article of food for the Negroes.

Labourdounais instructed the slaves in the art of ship building, made
them sailors and soldiers and found them highly useful in the
expedition which he undertook against the English in India. He endeavored
also to mitigate their sufferings from the enforcement of the regulations
of the _Code Noir_.

After the dispersion of the pirates, the slave trade fell into the
hands of European merchants or Creole colonists, who extended it to
the adjoining coasts of Africa.

The Mozambique Negroes were found more tractable than those of
Madagascar, but Negroes were obtained from both points, according
to the difficulties and exigencies of the traffic.

The price paid by the French at Madagascar for a man or a woman
from the age of thirteen to forty was two muskets, two cartridge
boxes, ten flints, and ten balls, or fifteen hundred balls or
seventeen hundred flints.

In spite of the price the trade developed.
In 1766 there were about 25,000 slaves and 1200 free Negroes in the
colony.

In 1799 there were 55,000 of the former class and 35,000 of the latter.
In 1832 they were estimated at 16,000 free Negroes and 63,500
slaves.

It seems difficult to account for the diminution among the free
Negro population.

Baron Grant de Vaux[5] states that to prevent the increase of
this class it was enacted that no slaves should be liberated save those
who had saved the lives of their masters.

A kind-hearted master, however, could always give his slave an
opportunity to save his life.

Slavery as it developed
in Maritius falls in three epochs.

During the earliest period the institution gradually took the form of a
system somewhat like that of the bondage of the Hebrews,
modified in the case of Mauritius, however, according to the
requirements of the temper and habits of the natives and the situation
of the planters.

There was no regard for the comfort of the slaves and they tended
to degrade to the lowest depths. Yet the slaves were not considered
altogether as chattels, convertible at the will of their masters. In
the second stage, however, the bondage of the Negro reached the
darkest age of irresponsibility to law and cruelty absolutely
intolerable.

A few officials and planters protested, and travelers who saw the
horror appealed for mercy in behalf of the unfortunate.[6] A change
in the attitude of the planters toward the slaves was finally forced
and characterized the third stage of slavery in Mauritius.

These cruelties were mitigated largely by the agitation of _Les Amis
des Noirs_, among whom were some of the most distinguished actors
in the grand drama of the French Revolution.

The leading reformers were the brilliant orators Mirabeau and Madam
de Poivre, the wife of the deceased Intendant of the Isle of France.

At a much earlier date, even under Labourdounais, under whose economic
development of Mauritius slavery flourished, much was said about
improving the condition of the slaves.[7] Yet it was not until the
rule of De Caen that we observe actual efforts to provide for the
slaves, such as better nourishment, religious instruction and legal
marriage.[8]
The first attempt to emancipate the slaves was made by the leaders
of the French Revolution, who, while they professed to discard
Christianity as a revelation from God, deduced the equality of all
men before God from the principles of natural reason.[9] The
prohibition of slavery was rendered null and void by the planters
of Mauritius and the members of local government, all of whom were
slaveholders and opposed to any change.

The only effect of the prohibition was to alienate the affections
of the colonists from the mother-country, and to lead them to rejoice
when Napoleon assumed the consular power and annulled the ordinance
prohibiting slavery after the capture of the island by the British.

The importation of slaves was prohibited under severe penalties.

As the execution of this law was vested in the local authorities, who had
a direct personal interest in the continuance of this traffic, slaves
were still imported in sufficient numbers to satisfy the wants of the
planters.[10] It is true that trading in slaves was declared to be
felony, that the two harbors of Port Louis and Matubourg were closed
against their entrance, that a slave registry was opened in 1815,
and that credulous Governors wrote to the home authorities that the
Mauritians, far from wishing to renew this nefarious traffic, were
filled with indignation at the remembrance of its horrors.

All this may be true, but the slave trade was as brisk as ever, and
the island swarmed with Negroes whose peculiar appearance and
ignorance of the Creole language proved them to be of recent
introduction.

No law can be executed unless it be in accordance with public
opinion, and the feelings of the white Mauritians were altogether in
favor of slavery. The illicit introduction of slaves was a felony
by law, and yet, notwithstanding the notorious violations of this law,
no one was ever convicted. The prisoner might have turned on the judge
and proved his complicity in the crime. The only convictions that were
obtained were in the case of offenders that were sent to England
for trial.

This statement will excite no astonishment on the part of those who are
acquainted with the manner in which justice is still administered
in Mauritius.

The slave registry was opened in 1815, but the entries were so falsified
that instead of checking slavery it threw its mantle of protection upon
it.[11] Slaves were not introduced publicly at the two chief ports of
the island from Africa, but the Seychelles Islands lay at a
convenient distance, and slaves registered at the Seychelles were
admitted into Mauritius without any questions being asked.

The coral reef that surrounds the island could easily be passed
and the slaves loaded in those light coasters that are used by fishermen.
The governors were surrounded by functionaries who were slaveholders
and who were therefore interested in supporting the traffic and
screening the offenders from punishment, so that their reports,
based on information received from these parties, were not entitled
to much credit.

As to the feelings of indignation expressed by the colonists at the
remembrance of the horrors of the slave trade, it is sufficient to
remark that rogues are always louder in protestation of their
innocence than honest men--that this change of feeling was too rapid
to be sincere, and that truthfulness of character does not stand
high in the code of Mauritian morality, to judge from the attitude
of the white population.

In judging the treatment of the slaves in Mauritius, recourse must
be had to those writers who visited or lived in the colony during the
prevalence of slavery, and have given the world the benefit of their
experience. These are St.

Pierre, Soumerat and Baron Grant. St.

Pierre spent several years in the island, and mingled freely with the
inhabitants of all classes. The last was born in the island where his
father had sought to retrieve his fortune after the failure of
Law's Mississippi scheme.

The pictures presented in the writings of St.
Pierre might appear exaggerated, or prejudiced, if drawn by a
foreigner; but it must be borne in mind that he describes only what
he witnessed, and that his good faith has never been questioned.[12]
He thus speaks of the importation and treatment of slaves:

"They are landed with just a rag around their loins. The men are
ranged on one side and the women on the other with their infants,
who cling from fear to their mothers. The planter, having examined
them as he would a horse, buys what may then attract him. Brothers,
sisters, friends, lovers, are now torn asunder, and bidding each
other a long farewell, are driven weeping to the plantations they
are bought for.

Sometimes they turned desperate, fancying that the white people intended
eating their flesh, making red wine of their blood, and powder of
their bones.

You'd certainly give up
these dingy quarters. My friendship for you deplores a mammoth skeleton
in your cupboard, James. My study of advertising tells me that this
paltry existence of yours does not adequately push your name before the
public. You're losing money, you're----"

"Stop, Julian," I exclaimed.

"_Cherchez_," he continued, "_cherchez_----"

"Stop! Confound you, stop! I tell you----"

"Come," he said laughing. "I mustn't force your confidence; but I can't
help feeling it's odd----"

"When I came to London," I said, firmly, "I was most desperately in
love. I was to make a fortune, incidentally my name, marry, and live
happily ever after. There seemed last year nothing complex about that
programme. It seemed almost too simple. I even, like a fool, thought to
add an extra touch of piquancy to it by endeavouring to be a Bohemian.
I then discovered that what I was attempting was not so simple as I had
imagined. To begin with, Bohemians diffuse their brains in every
direction except that where bread-and-butter comes from. I found, too,
that unless one earns bread-and-butter, one has to sprint very fast to
the workhouse door to prevent oneself starving before one gets there;
so I dropped Bohemia and I dropped many other pleasant fictions as
well. I took to examining pavements, saw how hard they were, had a look
at the gutters, and saw how broad they were. I noticed the accumulation
of dirt on the house fronts, the actual proportions of industrial
buildings. I observed closely the price of food, clothes, and roofs."

"You became a realist."

"Yes; I read a good deal of Gissing about then, and it scared me. I
pitied myself. And after that came pity for the girl I loved. I swore
that I would never let her come to my side in the ring where the
monster Poverty and I were fighting. If you've been there you've been
in hell. And if you come out with your soul alive you can't tell other
people what it felt like. They couldn't understand."

Julian nodded. "I understand, you know," he said gravely.

"Yes, you've been there," I said. "Well, you've seen that my little
turn-up with the monster was short and sharp. It wasn't one of the
old-fashioned, forty-round, most-of-a-lifetime, feint-for-an-opening,
in-and-out affairs. Our pace was too fast for that. We went at it both
hands, fighting all the time. I was going for the knock-out in the
first round. Not your method, Julian."

"No," said Julian; "it's not my method. I treat the monster rather as a
wild animal than as a hooligan; and hearing that wild animals won't do
more than sniff at you if you lie perfectly still, I adopted that ruse
towards him to save myself the trouble of a conflict. But the effect of
lying perfectly still was that I used to fall asleep; and that works
satisfactorily."

"Julian," I said, "I detect a touch of envy in your voice. You try to
keep it out, but you can't. Wait a bit, though. I haven't finished.

"As you know, I had the monster down in less than no time. I said to
myself, 'I've won. I'll write to Margaret, and tell her so!' Do you
know I had actually begun to write the letter when another thought
struck me. One that started me sweating and shaking. 'The monster,' I
said again to myself, 'the monster is devilish cunning. Perhaps he's
only shamming! It looks as if he were beaten. Suppose it's only a feint
to get me off my guard. Suppose he just wants me to take my eyes off
him so that he may get at me again as soon as I've begun to look for a
comfortable chair and a mantelpiece to rest my feet on!' I told myself
that I wouldn't risk bringing Margaret over. I didn't dare chance her
being with me if ever I had to go back into the ring. So I kept jumping
and stamping on the monster. The referee had given me the fight and had
gone away; and, with no one to stop me, I kicked the life out of him."

"No, you didn't," interrupted Julian. "Excuse me, I'm sure you didn't.
I often wake up and hear him prowling about."

"Yes; but there's a separate monster set apart for each of us. In
explanation of this view its advocates insist that the three years
in which Liele preached at Brumpton Land and Yamacraw are included in
the four years during which he was a member of Matthew Moore's
church.
According to this claim, the Silver Bluff Church could not have
been planted earlier than 1777 nor later than 1778.

We do not share this view for good and sufficient reasons.

When Liele, in 1779, went to Savannah to reside, during the British
occupancy, he became separated from Matthew Moore's church and the
people of Burke County, Georgia, for all time.

With the British troops he entered Savannah, as the Americans had
evacuated it at the very close of the year 1778.

With the British he remained in Savannah during his three years
stay in that city, and with one of their officers he left the
country, in 1782, for Kingston, Jamaica, British West Indies, where
he spent the remainder of his life.

His four years of connection with Matthew Moore's church, therefore,
must have preceded the year 1779, covering the time from the latter
part of 1774 to the latter part of 1778.

As George Liele informs us that he became a Christian about two years
before the American War, those who place his conversion in the year
1777 are compelled to reckon the beginning of the Revolutionary
War from the year 1779.

Errors are hard things to substantiate, and force men to choose
between strange dilemmas.

But, in explanation of this absurdity, it is claimed that the
Revolutionary War did not make itself manifest in Georgia and South
Carolina until about the year 1779, and the Negroes of Georgia and
South Carolina, in speaking of it, would refer to that year as the
beginning of the war.

But as a matter of fact, the Revolutionary struggle in South Carolina
and Georgia was manifest from the very first. Thus the biographer of
Abraham Marshall, of Kiokee, Georgia, having informed his reader that
the subject of his sketch was ordained to the work of the Gospel ministry
on May 20, 1775, adds, "Just as he had chosen his life work, the
Revolutionary War broke out, and Georgia became a scene of violence
and bloodshed.

During almost the entire struggle, the people were subject to the
combined outrages of Britons, Tories and Indians

."[16]
Thus, too, the biographer of Gov. John Houston's trusted slave, Andrew
C. Marshall, writes, "The embargo having taken effect in Savannah
at the opening of the Revolution, fifteen merchants of that city
agreed to give him a purse of $225.00 if he would carry word to
several American vessels that lay in a bay on the lower seaboard,
in which achievement he was successful

."[17] The expression, "the opening of the Revolution," in this passage,
refers to the year 1775, and not to 1778-1779, for the British
attacked the city of Savannah as early as March 3, 1776, and would
have captured it if they had not been repulsed by the Americans.

The English agents, their American allies (the Tories), and the
Cherokee Indians, who resided in the neighborhood of Silver Bluff
and made it the commercial mart it was in colonial times, took up
the cause of the British against the revolutionists from the very
beginning of the war.

Accordingly, William H.

Drayton, of South Carolina, on August 30, 1775, urged the sending
of foot-soldiers and mounted men to the vicinity of Augusta, Georgia,
to protect the interests of the patriots, and chasten their foes.[18]

Eight days later, September 7, 1775, William Tennett, of South
Carolina, wrote in his journal as follows: "Went ten miles to
New-Savannah, where I had appointed a meeting of inhabitants, in
hopes to draw an audience out of Augusta, from Mr.

Galphin's Settlement, and Beach Island, but most of the men having
marched with Mr.

Drayton, and Mr.

Galphin being from home, I had but few

."[19] To this same neighborhood Col. Andrew Williamson led a large force
of South Carolinians, in defense of the American cause, some time
later, and General Griffith Rutherford, with 2,400 men, reinforced
him, September, 1776.

In view of all these statements in regard to the time when the
Revolutionary War began to make itself manifest in Georgia and South
Carolina, we conclude that when George Liele says he was converted
to Christianity about two years before the Revolutionary War, he
refers to the year 1773, and his visits to Silver Bluff were at an
end by the summer of 1775.

We are, therefore, driven back to our first affirmation, namely,
that the Negro Baptist Church at Silver Bluff, South Carolina, was
organized not earlier than 1773, nor later than 1775.

The writers who have insisted that Mr. Liele united with Matthew Moore's
church in 1778, and terminated that membership in 1782, have followed
what is undoubtedly an erroneous inference.

Liele said, "I continued in this church about four years till
the 'vacuation.'" But as the expression seemed to Dr. Rippon indefinite
in some particulars, he sought information from persons who were
supposed to be capable of guiding him, and added five words to the
statement of Liele, which made it read as follows: "I continued in
this church about four years, 'till the 'vacuation'--_of Savannah
by the British_

."[20] Dr. Rippon carefully states that "Brother George's words are
distinguished by inverted commas, and what is not so marked, is
either matter compressed, or information received from such persons
to whom application had been made for it."

It is easy enough to see how the inference was drawn, for in one
of his letters Liele says, "Our beloved Sister Hannah Williams,
during the time she was a member of the church at Savannah, until
the 'vacuation, did walk as a faithful, well-beloved Christian

."[21] Here there is no room for doubt. Liele speaks in this case
of the evacuation of Savannah by the British, July, 1782, but in
the former instance the only evacuation of Savannah which harmonizes
with the story of his own life, the events and circumstances of his
time, and those of his associates, is the evacuation of Savannah
by the Americans, December 29, 1778.

GEORGE GALPHIN--PATRON OF THE SILVER BLUFF CHURCH
The planter and merchant on whose estate the Silver Bluff Church
was constituted is deserving of special mention in connection with
the story of that people.

We learn from White's _History of Georgia_, that George Galphin was "a
native of Ireland, emigrated soon after manhood to America, and
died at Silver Bluff, his residence, on the Savannah River, in South
Carolina, on the second of December, 1782, in the seventy-first
year of his age."

N. W. Jones, in his history, quotes William Bartram as saying that George
Galphin was "a gentleman of very distinguished talents and great
liberality

."[22]

The spirit of justice and kindness, it appears, was manifest in all his
dealings with the peoples of the weaker races, who were daily about
him.

The red man and the black man alike saw in him a man of kindly soul.

David George, who was ever a British subject, described his former
master as an "anti-loyalist."

N. W. Jones, speaking as an American, pronounced him a "patriot."

Neither spoke of him except to praise.

A master less humane, less considerate of the happiness and moral
weal of his dependents, less tolerant in spirit, would never have
consented to the establishment of a Negro church on his estate.

He might have put an end to the enterprise in its very incipiency,
but he did not.

He fostered the work from the beginning. It was by his consent that the
gospel was preached to slaves who resided at Silver Bluff. It was by
his permission that the Silver Bluff Church was established.

It was he who permitted David George to be ordained to the work of
the ministry.

It was he who provided the Silver Bluff Church with a house of worship,
by permitting his mill to be used in that capacity. And it was he
who gave the little flock a baptistry, by placing his mill-stream
at their disposal on baptizing occasions.

But we are satisfied that he had no conception of the far-reaching
influence of these deeds of kindness.

The truth is, the Galphins appear to have been masters of the
patriarchal type.

Thomas Galphin, under whose beneficence the work at Silver Bluff was
renewed in postbellum time, was, as we shall see, as much the benefactor
and protector of Jesse Peter, as George Galphin had been of David
George before, and during the earlier stages of the Revolutionary
War.[23] Accessible records reveal the fact that John Galphin was
an Indian interpreter and a friend of the Cussetahs.

It is indeed suggestive that, in 1787, these Indians wished a Negro,
whom John Galphin owned, to be a messenger with one of their men
to the whites.

THE SILVER BLUFF CHURCH IN EXILE
With the fall of Savannah, at the very close of the year 1778, the
Silver Bluff Church completed the first stage in its history.

At that time Rev.

David George, the pastor, and about forty other slaves, whom George
Galphin had abandoned in his flight, went to Savannah, to find
safety and freedom under the British flag.

Later David George
returned to South Carolina, and abode for a time in the city of
Charleston.

Thence, in 1782, he sailed to Nova Scotia, in company with not less
than five hundred white persons, who were adherents of the British
cause. In Nova Scotia he abode ten years, preaching to the people of
his own race who had found their way into that portion of the
continent, in large numbers, after abandoning their homes in the
United States.

These labors were performed amid hardships and persecutions, but
in faithfulness to God and suffering humanity.

In prosecuting his mission, he preached in Shelburn, Birchtown, Ragged
Island, and in St.
Johns, New Brunswick. So pronounced was the opposition to his labors in
New Brunswick, that he found it necessary to invoke the protection of
the civil authorities. How well he succeeded in doing so, may be
imagined from the subjoined statement:

"Secretary's Office, Fredericktown, 17th July, 1792, I do hereby certify
that David George, a free Negro man, has permission from his
Excellency, the Lieutenant Governor, to instruct the Black people
in knowledge, and exhort them to the practice of the Christian
religion.

Jno. Odell, Secretary."[24]
It should excite in us no surprise that David George was opposed in his
labors in his new home, for, as Lorenzo Sabine declares, "the original
population of this Colony was composed almost entirely of the Loyalists
of the Revolution."[25] They had not changed their views in regard to
the rights of Negroes, by being removed from a land where the two races
had hitherto sustained the relation of master and slave.
The real surprise lies in the fact, that the secretary of the
province was himself a preacher, a minister of the Episcopal Church,
and a former resident of the State of New Jersey.

So effective were the arduous labors of David George that he is
enrolled among the pulpit pioneers, in Bill's history of Canadian Baptists.
He was certainly first to plant a Baptist church at Shelburn, as
well as a number of feeble beginnings elsewhere. But Canada was only a
temporary home to David George, and to others from the States.
Accordingly, he took a colony of Negroes to Sierra Leone,
British Central Africa, in 1782.

Of this distant colony, G. Winfred Hervey remarks: "The first settlers
of Sierra Leone were what they needed to be, men of bravery. They
consisted of about 12,000 colored men who had joined the British forces
in the American Revolution. At the close of the war they were sent to
Nova Scotia, but the climate proving too unfriendly to them, they
were, in 1792, transported to Sierra Leone

."[26] One of the first things that David George did, after reaching
Africa, was to plant a little Baptist church, which was composed of
Negroes from America who had arrived in their fatherland by
way of Nova Scotia.

In order to stimulate in the English people an intelligent interest in
the colony of Sierra Leone, and secure for the Baptist cause in
Freetown the sympathy and aid of English Baptists, David George
took a trip to London, England, shortly after establishing himself
on the continent of Africa.

It was this visit to the metropolis of the world which doubtless,
more than anything else, facilitated the collection and publication
of many facts then existing and ascertainable in regard to Negro
Baptist preachers and their churches in the eastern and western
hemispheres.

In visiting Europe, David George took with him letters of
commendation from persons of recognized standing in England. John
Rippon, the distinguished London divine, thus speaks of David George,
after investigating his standing: "Governor Clarkson, in the most
unreserved manner, assured me that he esteemed David George as his
brother, and that he believes him to be the best man, without exception,
in the colony of Sierra Leone."[27] Had the Silver Bluff Church done
nothing more than produce this one earnest Christian man, this faithful
preacher of Christ, this potent factor in the planting of a
colony under the English flag, it would not have existed in vain, but
it did more.

THE SILVER BLUFF CHURCH REVIVED
When peace had been restored, and the Revolutionary forces had been
disbanded or recalled, Silver Bluff resumed once more the aspect
of social distinctions between master and slave in colonial times.

Once more, too, the Galphin place became a center of religious
activities, and the Negro Baptists of Silver Bluff were more numerous
than ever.

The man who was instrumental in resuscitating the work at Silver Bluff
was Jesse Peter, who, according to an old custom of applying to the
slave the surname of the master, was better known as Jesse Galphin,
or Gaulfin. Having been connected with the Silver Bluff Church from
the very first, and only separated from it during the Revolutionary
War and the period of readjustment immediately thereafter, Jesse
Peter was eminently fitted, at least in one particular, to take up the
work at Silver Bluff which David George had abandoned in the year 1778.
He knew the place and he loved the people. Silver Bluff was his home,
and there he was held in high esteem. Moreover, he possessed what is
essential to ministerial success everywhere, deep sincerity, seriousness
of purpose, knowledge of the Bible, an excellent spirit, and the
ability to deliver, with profit and pleasure, the message of the
truth.

Jonathan Clarke, and Abraham Marshall, who knew him personally, have
left on record beautiful testimonials of his work and his worth.[28]

Why this young man, who had obtained his freedom by going to the
British at the fall of Savannah,[29] in 1778, remained in America
to resume the condition of a slave, after the Revolutionary War,
is not known.

It is known, however, that, unlike George Liele and David George, men
of adventurous spirit, Jesse Peter was not a pioneering worker in strange
fields. If, indeed, he ever traveled beyond Kiokee, Georgia, in
the one direction, and the city of Savannah in the other, we have
failed to note the fact. It is known, too, that he had an indulgent
master, and it is possible that he preferred a state of nominal
slavery, under his protection, to a probable state of want and
hardship in a foreign land. Or it may be he was willing to die for
the cause, and so deliberately entered again into the old condition
of bondage in order to enjoy the privilege of preaching, where Liele
and George had labored in other days.

It is to be presumed that Jesse Peter was regularly ordained to the
work of the Gospel ministry.

We take this view because he exercised the duties and privileges
which ordination implies, without ever being called in question for
doing so. His three years of association with Liele and George, in
Savannah, during the British occupancy, moreover, afforded him ample
opportunity to be publicly and regularly consecrated to his life-work.
Certainly Abraham Marshall, of Kiokee, Georgia, would not have
associated himself with Jesse Peter in the ordination of Andrew Bryan,
of Savannah, in 1788, if Jesse Peter had not himself been ordained
to the work of the ministry.

Conditions in the earlier stages of Jesse Peter's pastorate at Silver
Bluff were such that he did not reside at his old home, but came
and went as a stated visitor. Accordingly, Jonathan Clarke, writing from
Savannah, Georgia, December 22, 1792, says, "Jesse Peter (whose present
master is Thomas Galphin), is now here, and has three or four
places in the country, where he attends preaching alternately

."[30] George Liele, writing from the West Indies, in 1791, had said
to Joseph Cook, of South Carolina, "Brother Jesse Galphin, another
black minister, preaches near Augusta, in South Carolina, where I used
to preach.

"[31] Referring to him, George White speaks as follows: "On the 20th of
January, 1788, Andrew, surnamed Bryan, was ordained by Rev.
Abraham Marshall, and a colored minister named Jesse Peter, from the
vicinity of Augusta."[32] Benedict, referring to Andrew Marshall, in
the same connection, states that "he was accompanied by a young
preacher of color, by the name of Jesse Peter, of Augusta

."[33] From these testimonies, it is evident that Jesse Peter was a
nonresident pastor of the Silver Bluff Church from 1788 to 1792, if
not for a longer period.

During the first period of Jesse Peter's pastorate at Silver Bluff,
another slave, who lived in that locality, began to preach.

Andrew Bryan, writing from Savannah, Georgia, December 28, 1800, refers
to him in the following manner: "Another dispensation of Providence
has greatly strengthened our hands and increased our means of
information:

Henry Francis, lately a slave of the widow of the late Col. Leroy Hammond,
of Augusta, has been purchased by a few humane gentlemen of this
place, and liberated to exercise the handsome ministerial gifts he
possesses amongst us, and teach our youth to read and write."

He adds, "Brother Francis has been in the ministry fifteen years, and
will soon receive ordination.

"[34] According to Andrew Bryan, Henry Francis was a half-breed,
his mother being white, his father an Indian, but I find in a letter,
written by another from the city of Savannah, May 23, 1800, that
he is characterized as "a man of color, who has for many years
served Col.

Hammond, and has handsome ministerial abilities."[35]
The question easily suggests itself, was Henry Francis a member of
the Silver Bluff Church when, in 1785, he began to preach?

We infer that he was, from certain known facts as to his place of
abode, and his opportunities for church membership.

In the first place, he lived in the immediate neighborhood of Silver
Bluff. William Tennett informs us that the Hammond place was in
South Carolina, four miles from Augusta, Georgia and Lossing, Abraham
Marshall, and others, that Silver Bluff was also in South Carolina,
twelve miles from Augusta. It was easy, therefore, for Henry Francis
to attend divine service at the Silver Bluff Church. In the second place,
it was the custom of the slaves on the neighboring plantations to
attend preaching at Silver Bluff during the pastorate of David
George,[36] and the custom doubtless prevailed during Jesse Peter's
pastorate. If Henry Francis attended church at Silver Bluff, he did only
what other slaves of the neighborhood did.
Furthermore, there was no other Baptist church, white or colored,
in the neighborhood, for Francis to join.

Marshall's church at Kiokee, Georgia, was twenty miles above
Augusta, while Botsford's Meeting House, in the opposite direction,
was "25 or 30 miles below Augusta

.

"[37] In Augusta itself, there was no Negro Baptist church until
1793,[38] and no white Baptist church until 1817.[39] To our mind
the conclusion is inevitable that Henry Francis, in 1785, was a
member of the Negro Baptist church, at Silver Bluff, South Carolina.

In reaching this conclusion, moreover, we have been not a little
influenced by the fact that when Henry Francis was formerly ordained
to the ministry at Savannah, Georgia, seventeen years after he had
commenced to preach, and when he was an officer in the Negro church
at Savannah, the ordination sermon was not preached by Dr.

Henry Holcombe, of the white church of that city, nor by Andrew
Bryan of the First African, but by Jesse Peter,[40] pastor of the
Silver Bluff Church.

We can account for the deference shown Jesse Peter, on this occasion,
only on the presumption that Henry Francis was converted, baptized,
and licensed to preach at Silver Bluff, and that Jesse Peter was
the instrument used in bringing these results to pass.

It is evident, then, that the Ogeeche African Baptist Church,[41]
on the Ogeeche River, fourteen miles south of Savannah, organized
in the year 1803, is more indebted to the Silver Bluff Church for
her first preacher and instructor of youth than to any other church.

Of Jesse Peter's ministry at Silver Bluff, as a resident pastor, we are
not well informed.

In a letter written from Kiokee, Georgia, May 1, 1793, Abraham Marshall
speaks of him as follows: "I am intimately acquainted with Jesse
Golfin; he lives thirty miles below me in South Carolina, and twelve
miles below Augusta.

He is a Negro servant of Mr.
Golfin, who, to his praise be it spoken, treats him with respect."[42]
Jesse Peter, then, was resident pastor of the Silver Bluff Church in
the early spring of 1793. From another source we learn that the
membership of the Silver Bluff Church, at this time, was sixty or
more.[43]

THE CHURCH AT AUGUSTA

Here we lose sight of the Silver Bluff Church, just as the First African
Baptist Church, of Augusta, Georgia, better known as the Springfield
Baptist Church, comes into being.

Jesse Peter had secured standing and recognition for the First African
Church, at Savannah, Georgia,[44] and Henry Francis had been ordained
for the Ogeeche Church by him and Andrew Bryan and Henry Holcombe.

It was natural, then, that he would wish for his work at Silver Bluff
the standing and recognition which had been secured for the work
in and about Savannah, Georgia.

In order to obtain this boon, and have his work in touch with that near
the seacoast, it would be necessary to transfer its place of meeting
from the State of South Carolina to the State of Georgia, where he
had a friend, who was able to bring things to pass.

It is in this way alone that we account for the beginning of the
First African Baptist Church at Augusta at the very time when the
Silver Bluff Church disappears.

The curtain falls on the Silver Bluff Church, with Jesse Peter as
pastor, when the church is reported as in a flourishing condition.

"But why should the editors know that? Why shouldn't I simply send in
my stuff, typed, by post, and never appear myself at all?"

"My dear Jimmy, you know as well as I do that that wouldn't work. It
would do all right for a bit. Then one morning: 'Dear Mr. Chandos,--I
should be glad if you could make it convenient to call here some time
between Tuesday and Thursday.--Yours faithfully. Editor of
Something-or-other.' Sooner or later a man who writes at all regularly
for the papers is bound to meet the editors of them. A successful
author can't conduct all his business through the post. Of course, if
you chucked London and went to live in the country----"

"I couldn't," I said. "I simply couldn't do it. London's got into my
bones."

"It does," said Julian.

"I like the country, but I couldn't live there. Besides, I don't
believe I could write there--not for long. All my ideas would go."

Julian nodded.

"Just so," he said. "Then exit George Chandos."

"My scheme is worthless, you think, then?"

"As you state it, yes."

"You mean----?" I prompted quickly, clutching at something in his tone
which seemed to suggest that he did not consider the matter entirely
hopeless.

"I mean this. The weak spot in your idea, as I told you, is that you
and George Chandos have the same body. Now, if you could manage to
provide George with separate flesh and blood of his own, there's no
reason----"

"By Jove! you've hit it. Go on."

"Listen. Here is my rough draft of what I think might be a sound,
working system. How many divisions does your work fall into, not
counting the _Orb_?"

I reflected.

"Well, of course, I do a certain amount of odd work, but lately I've
rather narrowed it down, and concentrated my output. It seemed to me a
better plan than sowing stuff indiscriminately through all the papers
in London."

"Well, how many stunts have you got? There's your serious verse--one.
And your Society stuff--two. Any more?"

"Novels and short stories."

"Class them together--three. Any more?

"No; that's all."

"Very well, then. What you must do is to look about you, and pick
carefully three men on whom you can rely. Divide your signed stuff
between these three men. They will receive your copy, sign it with
their own names, and see that it gets to wherever you want to send it.
As far as the editorial world is concerned, and as far as the public is
concerned, they will become actually the authors of the manuscripts
which you have prepared for them to sign. They will forward you the
cheques when they arrive, and keep accounts to which you will have
access. I suppose you will have to pay them a commission on a scale to
be fixed by mutual arrangement. As regards your unsigned work, there is
nothing to prevent your doing that yourself--'On Your Way,' I mean,
whenever there's any holiday work going: general articles, and light
verse. I say, though, half a moment."

"Why, what?"

"I've thought of a difficulty. The editors who have been taking your
stuff hitherto may have a respect for the name of James Orlebar
Cloyster which they may not extend to the name of John Smith or George
Chandos, or whoever it is. I mean, it's quite likely the withdrawal of
the name will lead to the rejection of the manuscript."

"Oh no; that's all right," I said. "It's the stuff they want, not the
name. I don't say that names don't matter. They do. But only if they're
big names. Kipling might get a story rejected if he sent it in under a
false name, which they'd have taken otherwise just because he was
Kipling. What they want from me is the goods. I can shove any label on
them I like. The editor will read my ghosts' stuff, see it's what he
wants, and put it in. He may say, 'It's rather like Cloyster's style,'
but he'll certainly add, 'Anyhow, it's what I want.' You can scratch
that difficulty, Julian. Any more?"

"I think not. Of course, there's the objection that you'll lose any
celebrity you might have got. No one'll say, 'Oh, Mr. Cloyster, I
enjoyed your last book so much!'"

"And no one'll say, 'Oh, do you _write_, Mr. Cloyster? How
interesting! What have you written? You must send me a copy.'"

"That's true. In any case, it's celebrity against the respite,
obscurity against Miss Goodwin. While the system is in operation you
will be free but inglorious. You choose freedom? All right, then. Pass
the matches."


Chapter 12

THE FIRST GHOST
_(James Orlebar Cloyster's narrative continued)_


Such was the suggestion Julian made; and I praised its ingenuity,
little thinking how bitterly I should come to curse it in the future.

I was immediately all anxiety to set the scheme working.

"Will you be one of my three middlemen, Julian?" I asked.

He shook his head.

"Thanks!" he said; "it's very good of you, but I daren't encroach
further on my hours of leisure. Skeffington's Sloe Gin has already
become an incubus."

I could not move him from this decision.

Lord Aberdeen stated that instructions would be sent to the Governor of
Canada that in the case of fugitive slaves great care was to be taken
to see that the treaty did not work their ruin. Sir Charles Metcalfe,
Governor of Canada, was quoted by the speaker as having said that he
would never be a party to wronging fugitives.

In the course of his address Mr. Scoble gave some information about the
arrest of Anderson. He said that he personally went to Brantford as
soon as Anderson was taken up in April and tried to get a writ of habeas
corpus but could get no help from counsel in Brantford. At the Brantford
spring assizes Anderson was released by the judge, since there was
no evidence against him, but was rearrested three days later. Other
speakers at the St. Lawrence Hall gathering were Rev. Wm.
King, M. C. Cameron, Rev. Dr. Willis, Rev. Dr. Burns, Peter Brown and
Rev. Mr.

Marling. At the close of the meeting there were cheers for
Anderson and others and groans for Magistrate Matthews.

There was much comment in the Canadian press on the case as a whole
and upon the judgment in particular. _The Montreal Herald_ of December
19, 1860, said: "We hope that the day will never come when the
wretches who traffic in the bodies and souls of their fellow
creatures will be able to say to any British subject, 'And thou
also art made like unto us.'"

_The Quebec Mercury_ said: "The judgment of the court in Anderson's
case is one of those infamous prostitutions of judicial power to political
expediency which in this degenerate age have too frequently polluted the
judicial ermine."

_The Montreal Witness_ said:
"Such a gigantic wrong cannot exist on the same continent with us without
affecting the people of Canada in one way or another.
Slaveholders long looked at Canada with evil eye. If the slavers
get Anderson back they will execute him before the slaves. It would
be worth hundreds of thousands of dollars to them annually."
Speaking on the evening of December 20 before the St.That is the mistake a man falls into through being at Cambridge or
Oxford. He fancies unconsciously that the world is peopled with
undergraduates. He forgets that what appeals to an undergraduate public
may be Greek to the outside reader and, unfortunately, not compulsory
Greek. The reviewers had dealt kindly with my two books ("this pleasant
little squib," "full of quiet humour," "should amuse all who remember
their undergraduate days"); but the great heart of the public had
remained untouched, as had the great purse of the public. I had
determined to adopt a different style. And now my third book was ready.
It was called, _When It Was Lurid_, with the sub-title, _A Tale
of God and Allah_. There was a piquant admixture of love, religion,
and Eastern scenery which seemed to point to a record number of
editions.

I took the type-script of this book with me to the Temple.

Hatton was in. I flung _When It Was Lurid_ on the table, and sat
down.

"What's this?" inquired Hatton, fingering the brown-paper parcel. "If
it's the corpse of a murdered editor, I think it's only fair to let you
know that I have a prejudice against having my rooms used as a
cemetery. In many respects selfish and sometimes lacking in principle, these
became corrupt in several States, administering the government for
own personal ends."

Most Negroes who have served in the South," says he" made it politic.
One of the first problems of came reestablished.

NEGRO CONGRESSMEN IN ACTION With the facts concerning the earlier
them experiences of these Congressmen in public life a matter of
record, year of the administration of Rutherford B.

Hayes, there the public mind the questions of reconstruction,
economic, social, and political, in the North and West as well as
in the South.

The exploitation of the public domain in the.[52] Arising to defend
West, of public works, and the making of local improvements, and
those endorsing movements for the good of the body of the United
States is inadequate to afford security's to life, liberty, and
property--if, I say, this inadequacy is the nation.

Because of the constitutional right of all citizens to petition Ada
that Congress for a redress of grievances, however, to the. decision
business of stock landing and slaughtering in the or of an institution
suffering from some misfortune the development of transcontinental
railroads and other means of communication, the plea for sound money
lock, the economic regeneration of the South, the proper adjustment
of the social relations between the two races living in that section,
and the readjustment of political control in the former Confederate
States were the great issues upon which, during this period, the
attention of the nation was focused.

In the solution of some of these problems the Negro was intimately
involved. What was to be his ordinances, national or State, which
were devised to discriminate against any citizen on place in the
scheme of social adjustment in the South?

What part was he to play in the economic regeneration of that
section?

How and to what then it hearing should no extent should he maintain the
political power delegated to him by the war amendments Indeed, of
utmost importance to the Negro was the proper solution of three
perplexing problems: first, to secure to themselves civil rights
so freely exercised by other groups in the nation; second, to obtain
national funds to aid education; third, to determine their former
masters should be relieved of their political disabilities.

It was to the solution these problems, therefore, that the Negro Congressmen
of that period especially addressed themselves. The problem civil
rights, however, did not immediately take precedence.

With the passage by Congress, in that it is within the authority of
Congress to see that no State deny to one class has recognized two
Fame classes of citizenships, state and national, but nowhere is
there read denied to Congress the power to prevent a denial of
equality of rights, whether those rights exist by virtue of citizenship
of the of citizens or persons., rights which are common to other
citizens, unless it can be shown to be for the good all, or pursuant
to the legitimate exercise of its police power.

Rejecting such classification of the case at hand and pointing out
from the decision of the Slaughter House Cases 1875, of a measure
known as the Civil Rights Bill, which was supplementary to measures
of the same sort previously enacted, the Negroes of the country
accorded the rights granted by the Constitution to all other citizens
of United States.

The subsequent approval of this bill by the president, and the well-known
policy toward the Southern States then adopted, served to remove from
the fore of American politics the various issues arising from the
larger problems scheme of to the Forty-first the attention may were
brought prominently before now be centered upon the second aspect
of the question sofa of their capacity for public service--namely,
that of their reactions to the great public questions of their day.

Perhaps this topic may be most properly treated first by
determining what were course the problems of greatest public moment
during the period in which these men were in Congress.

From the year the nation London and still remained, but in lieu of the
others of earlier period, there arose also such questions as the free
coinage of silver the new character of the great problems the
public forum, and of the consequent relegation to a minor position
of national importance the problems of reconstruction in the South,
the issues of peculiar interest to the Negro were not so aptly
settled., it is to the discredit of I the Supreme Court of the
United States that in drag all cases coming before that body in
which there was at issue a right granted by the Constitution to the
freedmen, efforts were made to evade the real the test as then
administered, having act, on which he stated first his own position
and later that of the Republican Party in said his State, Revels,
the Senator from Mississippi, It said:" I am in favor of removing
the disabilities of those upon whom they are imposed in the South
just the Negro in his exercise of the rights and privileges granted
by the Constitution, to secure the enactment of laws with the purpose
to secure to him a greater measure of opportunity for social
advancement, to oppose the enactment became, as never before, the
imperative duties of the Negro members of imperative needs.

The discussion of the polite rights bill gave rise to one Georgia,
that Congress had no of laws proposing to retard such progress, to
a healthy public opinion favorable to the Negro's cause, to protest
against every injustice, great or small, meted out to him, power
to legislate against a plain discrimination made by State laws or
customs against any person or class of persons within its limits.

In reference to what extent these men viewed city of New Orleans and
the territory immediately contiguous." solid In this case Congress.
Whatever, but for the most part, the Negro Congressmen were of
necessity compelled to defend those interests peculiar to the
freedmen.

The petitions 1871--the period of service of the Negro in Congress--throughout
the first social and political reconstruction of the South.

Economic questioning then had more opportunity round for consideration.
A new era in the nation's development was ushered in, and with it
came new issues and new policies.

The question of the exploitation of the public domain in the West and
that of transcontinental railway construction had long been before
which these Congressmen presented, the resolutions which they
offered, amendments which they address proposed, the bills which
they introduced or supported, and the issues which they discussed
or debated, will Indeed, but few of the men of this group failed
during their careers in Congress to" register their opinions on
needs of their constituents and of of bills, those praying an of
the political methods used in certain States, those Congress for
the construction of public buildings, the this all-absorbing matter.

Remarking at length on the Carolina in the Forty-third Congress.
constituency, whites as well as Negroes," the rejection of this
bill and the protection of those whose"only freedmen or of protecting
them enable one to ascertain Congressmen have, in general, considered
it a duty to present to Congress the petitions of their constituents,
whatever their may be. examination of these, therefore, does not
always assist in the effort the to determine the interests I of a
statesman.

The sole justification for their consideration in this case is
the fact that they have idea formed, in many instances, the basis
of the resolutions, motions and reckoning which were subsequently
introduced.

While petitions of varying natures were presented by all of these
legislators, three paradigm, particularly, claimed attention of
practically every one of them.

Of appreciative greater significance, however, were petitions which,
while not so generally popular, led often to the introduction of
legislative measures.

Conspicuous among, were those seeking to remove the political disabilities
of former secessionists, those praying that undesirable laws or privileges
be abrogated, those advocating the passage proven, then its work
is done, longer be recognized as the magna charta of a great and
free people; the sooner it is set aside the better for the liberties
of the nation."

Another member of the 42nd Congress, Robert C.

De Large of South Carolina, while speaking on the bill for the
removal of political disabilities, reconstruction that claimed the
attention of that day."

New York, according to the same Georgia bill,[51] Senator Revels spoke
out fearlessly in the governments of the Southern States of thousands
of dollars after the rule of the master class was, Ransier served
notice of his intention Its to offer to the civil rights bill an
amendment to prevent the disqualification of competent citizens for
service as jurors in any court in the nation because of"race, color,
or previous the Negro Congressmen arose from the measures proposing
to grant amnesty to the former Confederates who, by a provision of
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States,
had been declared ineligible to vote and to hold office.

In reference to this matter, Jefferson F.

Long, a sorry the
purpose to bring about a general removal of political disabilities,
would effect the subjugation of the loyal men of the South to the
disloyal.

It would, moreover, appear to the Ku Klux Klan to be an indorsement of
their campaign of lawlessness, depredation, and crime, fostered and
abetted by the men whose political disabilities it was then being
sought to remove.[45] Speaking on the enforcement representative from
Georgia Congress order I can find one man in the South who gives
evidence of the fact that he ushered in since the who were to follow
him lot.

His formerly, spoke in a manner reflecting the attitude of many of the
Negro Congressmen forceful protest maintained that any modification
of of removing his disabilities; and if They you can find one hundred
men that the same solid is true of, I am in favor of removing their
disabilities. point of acquiescing. He said:[47]" If the Constitution
which we uphold and support as the fundamental quite clear that
he would not support the bill unless the gentlemen for sorrow it
would support a measure to protect the loyal people of the South.[48]
Notable among the speeches the question of amnesty was that made
by Elliott protesting against a bill to this effect by Beck of
Kentucky.

Contending that the men now offense was their adherence to the principles
of freedom and justice."[49] That the proposed bill was defeated[50]
was perhaps in some measure due to his masterful arraignment of its
purposes. Contemporaneous with before inquiry of amnesty, and lasting
throughout the thirty years during which Negroes served in Congress, the
problem of securing civil rights for the seeking relief were
responsible for the crimes perpetrated against the loyal men of the
South, Elliott maintained that the passage of the bill would be
nothing less than the paying of a premium on disloyalty and treason
at the expense of those who had saving the Union.

He called attention to the loyalty of the Negroes in" The amendment would
provide also for the repeal of all laws, statutes and account of color
by the use remained loyal. Pointing out the cause of their
disfranchisement, he demanded in the name of the"law-abiding
people of his of the Slaughter Cases of Louisiana, which the gentlemen
had advanced as fast as they give evidence of having become loyal
and of being loyal. If you attention to conditions which merited
legislative enactment, those, I am in favor issue, or to interpret
the laws so as to contravene the intent of the framers of the
Constitution.[44] To urge the protection of in support of their
thesis, Elliott pointed out the difference in would principle between
the issues there involved and those at hand.

In the former case the assembly held the act in question to be" a
legitimate and warrantable exercise my of the police power of
the State in be regulating the any other, the energy and efforts
of the Negro Congressmen. in the If you can find a whole State
that this is true of, I am in favor of removing the disabilities
of all its people

."[46] Revels at that time had reasonable grounds for supporting amnesty,
but conditions soon. changed. Speaking in the 42nd Congress as it regarded
the enforcement of the 14th Amendment, Rainey felt that too much amnesty
had led to the murderous activities of the disloyal after they had
reached the exercise of such rights demanded, to a greater extent
than In the first instance he spoke in refutation of the allegements
of certain members of the opposition to the effect that the mass
of Negroes did not want rights.

Ransier sought mainly to show, by the presentation[55] of data in
form of resolutions from Negro bodies and conventions, praying an
appropriation by has ceased to renounce the laws of Congress as
unconstitutional, has ceased to oppose them, and respects them and
favors the carrying of them out the intense desire of the race for
civil rights.

During the course of these have meant permanent bondage to the.

He asserted that the Negroes bore toward their former masters no revengeful
thoughts, no hatreds no animosities. He recounted the iniquities of
the bill then before the body, prayed the protection of those whose
rights were thereby threatened, and appealed to Congress to give
to and the reconstructed State such direction and support as would
good meet its most, however, the evils complained of comprehended"
the exclusion of certain classes of persons from public inns, from
the saloons repeated and tables of the steamboat, from he the
sleeping-cars on railways, and from the right of sepulchre in public
burial-grounds."

The Supreme, Elliott contended, United States or of a State.

It followed, therefore, the express recognition of Congress to pass
such a bill as the one then under discussion, he concluded that the
Constitution warranted the passage of the bill, the Supreme Court
sanctioned it, and justice demanded it.[53] Elliott submitted also
a resolution directing the Judiciary Committee to report a civil
rights bill.[54] The civil rights of the Negroes constituted the
general theme of his the remarks made by Alonzo J.

Ransier, a representative remarks out other time and energy remained power
the defense of his race. He defended the Negroes against charges of
antagonism and servile strife, lauded the conduct of Negro soldiers
in the protecting the white women and their homes, with the knowledge
that the masters were engaged in the prosecution of a war the success
of which would from South authority, was dominated by the Tweed
carabiner, and the same white men who complained of Negro robbed
be directed towards the solution of the other important issues
before the public of office with honest records.

Such service these Negroes rendered in spite of the fact that this
was the rule in condition of servitude.

Civil War and the part they played in of the word" white."[56] The polite
rights of the Negro found nowhere a more ardent than James T. Rapier,
a representative from Alabama in the Forty-third Congress. In a speech
on the step supplementary to the civil rights bill, sword made a lucid
analysis of the anomalous position then occupied by the Negro in
the United of Robert Brown Elliott's greatest speeches the bill, he
proceeded to refute the proposition advanced by Beck of Kentucky Fenny
and supported by.

These petitions sought the relief either of an individual aright the
promotion of the war, made application for a pension, or requested,
the bimetallic monetary benchmark, said tariff for protection or for
revenue only, and the Chinese immigration.

Despite the adjustment of a claim Stephens of States.

Pointing out that Negroes were accorded political rights without
the civil, he deplored the whole situation and challenged the truth
of the statement that America the asylum for the oppressed.

Averring that the problem was national in scope, he asserted the
constitutional?

authority of solve it. Denying the contentions of Alexander H. Stephens,
of Georgia, Rapier deplored the apparent inability of that gentleman
to comprehend the new sat in Congress

.
A struggling journalist, indeed."

But I knew she liked that "struggling journalist" immensely. She would
couple me and my own epithet together before her friends. She would
enjoy unconsciously an imperceptible, but exquisite, sensation of
patronage by having me at her house. Even if she discussed me with
Margaret I was safe. For Margaret would give an altogether different
interpretation of the smile with which I described myself as
struggling. My smile would be mentally catalogued by her as "brave";
for it must not be forgotten that as suddenly as my name had achieved a
little publicity, just so suddenly had it utterly disappeared.

       *       *       *       *       *

Towards the end of May, it happened that Julian dropped into my rooms
about three o'clock, and found me gazing critically at a top-hat.

"I've seen you," he remarked, "rather often in that get-up lately."

"It _is_, perhaps, losing its first gloss," I answered, inspecting
my hat closely. I cared not a bit for Julian's sneers; for the smell of
the flesh-pots of Kensington had laid hold of my soul, and I was
resolved to make the most of the respite which my system gave me.

"What salon is to have the honour today?" he asked, spreading himself
on my sofa.

"I'm going to the Gunton-Cresswells," I replied.

Julian slowly sat up.

"Ah?" he said conversationally.

"I've been asked to meet their niece, a Miss Eversleigh, whom they've
invited to stop with them. Funny, by the way, that her name should be
the same as yours."

"Not particularly," said Julian shortly; "she's my cousin. My cousin
Eva."

This was startling. There was a pause. Presently Julian said, "Do you
know, Jimmy, that if I were not the philosopher I am, I'd curse this
awful indolence of mine."

I saw it in a flash, and went up to him holding out my hand in
sympathy. "Thanks," he said, gripping it; "but don't speak of it. I
couldn't endure that, even from you, James. It's too hard for talking.
If it was only myself whose life I'd spoilt--if it was only myself----"

He broke off. And then, "Hers too. She's true as steel."

I had heard no more bitter cry than that.

I began to busy myself amongst some manuscripts to give Julian time to
compose himself. And so an hour passed. At a quarter past four I got up
to go out. Julian lay recumbent. It seemed terrible to leave him
brooding alone over his misery.

A closer inspection, however, showed me he was asleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile, Eva Eversleigh and I became firm friends. Of her person
I need simply say that it was the most beautiful that Nature ever
created. Pressed as to details, I should add that she was _petite_,
dark, had brown hair, very big blue eyes, a _retroussé_ nose,
and a rather wide mouth.

Julian had said she was "true as steel." Therefore, I felt no
diffidence in manoeuvring myself into her society on every conceivable
occasion. Sometimes she spoke to me of Julian, whom I admitted I knew,
and, with feminine courage, she hid her hopeless, all-devouring
affection for her cousin under the cloak of ingenuous levity. She
laughed nearly every time his name was mentioned.

About this time the Gunton-Cresswells gave a dance.

I looked forward to it with almost painful pleasure. I had not been to
a dance since my last May-week at Cambridge. Also No. 5, Kensington
Lane had completely usurped the position I had previously assigned to
Paradise. To waltz with Julian's cousin--that was the ambition which
now dwarfed my former hankering for the fame of authorship or a
habitation in Bohemia.

Elliott had occasion to speak. He showed that the argument upon the
pending bill had proceeded upon a question of constitutional law, the
opponents denying that its provisions were warranted by the Constitution
of the United States, and questioning the data upon which the proposed
bill was founded. The probable efficacy of the bill, as a measure of
relief and protection for the loyal men of the South from the
extraordinary system of oppression to which they were subjected,
had not been assailed.

Elliott, therefore, undertook to prove that the proposed
bill was not obnoxious to the spirit of the Constitution, that
it was founded on reason, and that in view of the state of affairs
then existing in the South, it was, as a measure of protection, not
only warranted, but imperatively demanded.

For his first task, Elliott was compelled to sustain the position
that the government of the United States has the right, under the
Constitution, to protect a citizen of the United States in the
exercise of his vested rights as an American citizen, by the exercise
of direct force, or the assertion of immediate jurisdiction through
its courts, without the appeal of the State in which the citizen
is domiciled.

Asserting the legal maxim that where power is given the means of
its execution are implied, he sought to establish that the power
had been given by Article IV of the Constitution, which imposes
upon the Federal Government the duty to protect the States against
domestic violence.

He attempted, moreover, to establish by the authority of the preamble
to the Constitution the violence of the "presumption that the
majority of the people of a State may be oppressively subordinated
to the minority."

To support his own constructions of the Constitution, Elliott quoted
Justice Story on this same issue, pointed out the inconsistencies in
the argument of his chief opponent, defined within the meaning of the
Constitution a republican form of government and thereafter affirmed
that the bill in hand came within the limits of the Constitution.

Elliott had next to establish the validity of the facts upon which the
proposed bill was founded. Little difficulty, indeed, was experienced
in bringing forward convincing evidence. There were presented before
the House numerous editorials from Southern newspapers showing the
animus of the enemies of the Negro; the report of the partisan
committees of Charleston in 1868; communications appearing in the
Newberry, South Carolina, _Herald_ of July 17 in 1868; the Ku Klux Klan
order appearing in the Charleston _News_ of January 31, 1871; and the
printed allegements of leading unreconstructed Southerners, all
of which tended to indicate to what extent violence had superseded
law, and exactly how unsafe were the lives and property of the loyal
people of the South. Elliott quite properly affirmed, therefore, the
urgent need for the passage of the bill as a measure of relief and
protection to those in the South, whose liberties had been assailed.

On the political conditions in the South during the decline of the
Reconstruction régime many Congressmen spoke with seeming authority.

Two speeches of note on Southern conditions were made, during the
Forty-second Congress, by Robert Brown Elliott. On May 30, 1872, he
addressed the House on the subject of the Ku Klux Klan. In this speech,
he exposed the whole scheme of domination by violence as effected
by that element of the Southern whites who would either "rule[71]
or ruin the governments of the several States." The second speech followed
remarks by Voorhees, of Indiana, on the misconduct in financial
matters of the administration of South Carolina.

Replying to the specific charge that his party had been guilty of an
over-issue of bonds, Elliott reviewed briefly the financial history
of his State for the period in question and, in conclusion, pointed
out, first, that "in a legal sense an over-issue of bonds is an
issue made in excess of such issue authorized by law," and second,
that no act of the General Assembly of South Carolina had limited
the extent of bonds to be issued in that State.[72]
An unceasing interest in the political conditions of the South was
manifested by John R.

Lynch of Mississippi throughout his three terms in Congress.

He was quite active in proposing legislation relating to the Southern
judicial districts of Mississippi, and he offered also an amendment
to the federal election laws.[73] Remarks made by him comprehended
discussions of such subjects as the political affairs of the South,
reconstruction and restoration of white rule in Mississippi, and
"the Southern Question

."[74] In his analysis of the "Southern Question," Lynch attributed
the condition of the South to certain underlying causes, namely:
(1) "A continuous and unnecessary opposition of the impracticable
element within the ranks of the Democratic Party to the system of
reconstruction finally adopted by Congress, and a stubborn refusal
on their part to acquiesce in the results of the War"; (2) "the
persistent and uncharitable opposition of this same element--the
element that had obtained control of the party organization and
therefore shaped its policy--to the civil and political rights of
Negroes"; and (3) "the methods of the so-called white-league whereby
an armed military organization was maintained to effect a condition
of white supremacy."

Lynch, in concluding, appealed to the fairminded and justice-loving people
of America to unite in a common effort to eradicate these evils
and secure to the Negroes the rights that they so justly merited.

Referring to the same situation, Charles E.

Nash, a representative from Louisiana to the Forty-fourth Congress, held
to be unjustified the attacks upon the character of the white men and
the integrity and ability of Negroes in the South, who had joined
purposes to promote the principles of justice and of sectional harmony.
Furthermore, he entered a general denial of the charge that
liberty in Louisiana had been destroyed, and pointed out the need
of a policy of cooperation between the whites and blacks, to the
end that the education of both races might be fostered, that the
indiscriminate and illegal killing of Negroes might be eliminated,
and that the reign of terror effected by a union of the ruffian
whites and ignorant blacks might be prevented.

Nash then extolled the record of the party in power for its
fairness to the Negro, and arraigned the attitude of the opposition
to all measures designed to ameliorate the condition of the race.
Concluding his remarks, Nash preached the sound doctrine that sectional
animosities should be buried and that all units and sections of the
nation should cooperate to the end that a greater, more humane and more
powerful America might be evolved.[75]

The most comprehensive remarks of Smalls of South Carolina concerned the
electoral vote and the policy of parties in his State.[76] In this
he pointed out that ruffians had intimidated the black voters, had
driven out the white, and had perpetrated crimes and election frauds
to the end that the political control of the State might be
recommitted to the hands of reactionaries.

Concerning the frauds committed in the election held prior to the
Forty-fourth Congress, facts and figures were presented in great
detail to verify his contentions.

During his discussion of the proposal to investigate the frauds in the
late election in Mississippi, B. K. Bruce, a senator from that
State, came fearlessly to the defense of his State government. On this
occasion, also, he put into the record valuable statistics showing
the progress of the freedmen in Mississippi.

The Negroes, he believed, had suffered on account of leadership,
but they had, at that time, better leaders who, though not all
educated, yet understood the duties of citizenship.

Senator Bruce[77] believed that the thing needed was peace and good
order at the South, but it could come only by the fullest recognition
of the rights of all classes.

The opposition would have to concede the necessity of change, not
only in the temper, but in the philosophy of their party organization
and management.

The sober American judgment would have to obtain in the South, as
elsewhere in the Republic, since the only distinctions upon which
parties can be safely organized in harmony with our institutions,
are differences of opinion relative to principles and policy of
government; because differences of religion, nationality, race, can
neither with safety nor propriety be permitted to enter into the
party contests.

The unanimity with which the Negro voters acted with a party was not
referable to any race prejudice.

On the contrary, the Negroes invited the political cooperation of their
white brethren, and voted as a unit because proscribed as such.
They deprecated the establishment of the color line by the opposition,
not only because the act was unwise and wrong in principle, but
because it isolated them from the white man of the South and forced
them in sheer self-protection and against their inclination to act
seemingly upon the basis of race prejudice which they neither
respected nor entertained.

As a class he believed they were free from prejudices and had no
uncharitable suspicions against their white fellow citizens, whether
native born or settlers from the Northern States.

"When Negroes," continued he, "can entertain opinions and select
party affiliations without proscription, and cast their ballots as
other citizens and without jeopardy to person or privilege, they
can safely afford to be governed by the considerations that ordinarily
determine the political actions of American citizens."

Senator Bruce asked, therefore, not for new laws, but rather for
the enforcement of the old.

Peace in the South could come, he believed, only by guaranteeing
the protection of the law.

Replying in part to the remarks of Senator Colquitt, from Georgia, Miller,
a representative from South Carolina in the Fifty-first Congress,
spoke impressively on the subject, "Southern Affairs

.

"[78] The
colleague of Miller in this Congress, John M.

Langston of Virginia, spoke at great length on the federal
election laws, pointing out the need for an adequate legislation and its
proper enforcement.[79] He offered, moreover, a measure directing an
inquiry relative to the instructions of the Attorney-General concerning
elections.

To the bill to repeal all statutes relating to supervisors of
elections and special deputy marshals, George W. Murray, a member of
the Fifty-third and Fifty-fourth Congresses, took vigorous exception.[80]
Asserting that such action would have the effect of promoting the
election frauds of the reactionaries in the South, and that already
in the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and South Carolina, a decided
minority of the voting population of each Congressional district
elected regularly the representative to Congress, he maintained that
the present law should not only remain unchanged, but rather, be
vigorously enforced. He introduced, moreover, measures designed to
assure minority representation in federal elections[81] and to investigate
the political conditions in the State of South Carolina.

INTEREST IN ECONOMIC PROBLEMS
Although not equally interesting to the Negro Congressmen as
matters of political import, to not a few of them problems essentially
economic in character, or at any rate, of economic significance,
made a forceful appeal.

Measures designed to provide superior facilities for the trade and commerce
of their communities constituted, in some instances, the most
valuable service rendered by these legislators.

With the interests of his constituency ever in mind, Benjamin S.
Turner of Alabama, a member of the Forty-second Congress, proposed various
measures to effect local improvements.[82] He urged a distribution of
the public lands, proposed a bill to erect a public building
in Selma, sought to increase the appropriation for rivers and harbors
from $50,000 to $75,000, and made efforts to secure improvements
in navigation in Alabama waters.

Of all the Congressmen, Josiah T. Walls of Florida was perhaps the most
persistent in the effort to secure improvements for his district
and State.[83] He introduced numerous bills to erect in his district
custom houses and other public buildings, and to improve the rivers
and harbors of his State.

Walls introduced also bills to provide a lifesaving station along
the coast of Florida, to amend an act granting right of way through
public lands for the construction of railroad and telegraph lines
through Florida, and to create an additional land district.

He sought further to amend an appropriation bill to the end that
$50,000 be made available for the establishment of a navy yard at
Pensacola.

James T.

Rapier, who succeeded Turner in Congress, continued, to some extent,
the policy of the latter to secure local improvements.[84] Of two
measures introduced by Rapier, one proposed to erect public buildings
in his district, the other to make improvements in the rivers and
harbors of the State.

He succeeded in having enacted into law his measure to constitute
Montgomery, Alabama, a port of entry.

The policy of John R.

Lynch of Mississippi in the matter of local improvements[85] did
not differ materially from that of Rapier.

Lynch proposed measures for the construction of the Memphis and New
Orleans Railroad, for the construction of public buildings and custom
houses, and for the improvement of rivers within the State of
Mississippi.

Smalls, of South Carolina, likewise concerned himself with the
matter of local improvements.[86] He endeavored to secure an appropriation
for the restoration of the Beaufort Library which was destroyed during
the War. He proposed measures to establish in his district
custom houses, docks, warehouses, a weather observation station,
and other public buildings.

He was interested also in the redemption of lands held by direct
taxes and sought to promote a measure for the construction of
telegraph lines in the State.

Similarly concerned was James E.

O'Hara of North Carolina, whose chief measures for improvements[87]
embraced bills to erect public buildings in his district, and to
improve the rivers and harbors in his State.

Murray, of South Carolina, was some years later advocating the
exemption of the Young Men's Christian Association from taxation
and the relief of cyclone sufferers in Beaufort, South Carolina.

The Negro Congressman, too, had an interest in the more important
economic questions.

On the question of the tariff several Congressmen expressed opinions.
In the Forty-second Congress, Josiah T. Walls sought to amend the tax
and tariff bill relative to certain commodities produced in the State
of Florida.[88] He favored a tariff for protection as opposed to one
for revenue only. During a similar discussion, in the House, John R.
Lynch, a member of the Forty-seventh Congress, urged a protective
tariff[89] for cotton, lumber, and sugar. His argument was that the
cotton producers of the South were in favor of a protective tariff.
When its producing class (meaning labor) was slave, when all of its
products were exported, when all of its wants were supplied from without,
and when cotton was its only interest, the South favored cheap
labor and free trade. At this time, however, labor was free as
distinguished from slave, and it therefore added to the cost of
production, while jute, sugar, rice, lumber, and manufactures in
the embryonic stage, shared with cotton the interests of producers.

These changed conditions, he maintained, demanded for the South a
policy of reasonable protection.

Regarding protection as a panacea for all the economic ills of the
South, Lynch asserted that it would foster the growth of industries,
permit the manufacturing interests to develop, and prevent the
recurrence of a situation in which the whole output of raw material
is shipped to a foreign market and sold at a price fixed by market,
whereas goods manufactured from this same raw material are shipped
to the South and sold at a price dictated by the sellers.

He said, moreover, that a protective tariff would effect a decrease of
American imports in cotton goods and at the same time an increase
of employment among the folks at home.

With reference to tariff on sugar and lumber, Lynch held that the
South needed diversified industries, that the investment of capital
in the South was essential to a diversification of industries, that
a reasonable interest must be guaranteed to attract the capital,
and that inasmuch as protection afforded the only way whereby the
interest could be assured, protection for these industries was
nationally demanded.

Any consideration of the merits of the arguments advanced by Lynch
must not overlook the fact that protection has been the policy of
the nation during its periods of remarkable growth.

Two arguments largely supported this policy.

In the first place, it was early conceived that protection was
essential to the development of infant industries; in the second,
the belief was accepted that to an agricultural country a home
market is the only guarantee of a regular market.

Because, however, of the unprecedented growth of the country and
its final achievement of economic independence, other reasons were
sought to support the protective policy.

It was contended, therefore, that the high wages paid in the United
States would discourage producers from introducing new industries
which, without protection, must compete on equal terms with the
products of low waged Europe.

Finally, it was pointed out that the owners of great wealth must suffer
tremendous loss of capital if protection were withdrawn from certain
industries, compelling them to compete on equal basis with the
industries of like kind of foreign countries.

In addition to these economic arguments, moreover, a political
argument was not lacking.

Ambitious statesmen have ever dreamed of a policy with which to
cement the bonds that unite the different sections of the country,
making them mutually dependent and, at the same time, independent
of Europe.

Protection, it was said, would do this. In full justice to Lynch, therefore,
it must be said that his doctrine, whether or not sound, was not without
basis. His firm stand for a protective tariff conformed to the policy
that has recently controlled in the nation.

Sometime thereafter, White, in the Fifty-fifth Congress, had occasion
to speak on the Wilson Tariff Law enacted in 1893.

This measure[90] he held to be responsible for the unemployment among
mill workers in his community and the loss of contracts by the Southern
producers.

He advocated, therefore, protection for the industries and labor
of America against the pauperism and cheap labor of foreigners.

Several other subjects of economic character were discussed
by the Negro Congressmen. During his terms in the Forty-eighth and
Forty-ninth Congresses, James E.
Then he got into
the way of taking me down to a Boys' Club that he had started.
Terrors they were, so to put it. Fair out-and-out terrors. But they
all thought a lot of the Reverend, and so did I. Consequently it was
all right. The next link in the chain was a chap called Cloyster.
James Orlebar Cloyster. The Reverend brought him down to teach
boxing. For my own part, I don't fancy anything in the way of
brutality. The club, so I thought, had got on very nicely with
more intellectual pursuits: draughts, chess, bagatelle, and what-not.
But the Rev. wanted boxing, and boxing it had to be. Not that it
would have done for him or me to have mixed ourselves up in it. He
had his congregation to consider, and I am often on duty at the
downstairs counter before the very heart of the public. A black eye
or a missing tooth wouldn't have done at all for either of us, being,
as we were, in a sense, officials. But Cloyster never seemed to
realise this. Not to put too fine a point upon it, Cloyster was not
my idea of a gentleman. He had no tact.

The next link was a confirmed dipsomaniac. A terrible phrase.
Unavoidable, though. A very evil man is Tom Blake. Yet out of evil
cometh good, and it was Tom Blake, who, indirectly, stopped the boxing
lessons. The club boys never wore the gloves after drunken Blake's
visit.

I shall never--no, positively never forget that night in June when
matters came to a head in Shaftesbury Avenue. Oh, I say, it was a bit
hot--very warm.

Each successive phase is limned indelibly--that's the sort of literary
style I've got, if wanted--on the tablets of my memory.

I'd been up West, and who should I run across in Oxford Street but my
old friend, Charlie Cookson. Very good company is Charlie Cookson. See
him at a shilling hop at the Holborn: he's pretty much all there all
the time. Well-known follower--of course, purely as an amateur--of the
late Dan Leno, king of comedians; good penetrating voice; writes his
own in-between bits--you know what I mean: the funny observations on
mothers-in-law, motors, and marriage, marked "Spoken" in the
song-books. Fellows often tell him he'd make a mint of money in the
halls, and there's a rumour flying round among us who knew him in the
"Moon" that he was seen coming out of a Bedford Street Variety Agency
the other day.

Well, I met Charlie at something after ten. Directly he spotted me he
was at his antics, standing stock still on the pavement in a crouching
attitude, and grasping his umbrella like a tomahawk. His humour's
always high-class, but he's the sort of fellow who doesn't care a blow
what he does. Chronic in that respect, absolutely. The passers-by
couldn't think what he was up to. "Whoop-whoop-whoop!" that's what he
said. He did, straight. Only _yelled_ it. I thought it was going a
bit too far in a public place. So, to show him, I just said "Good
evening, Cookson; how are you this evening?" With all his entertaining
ways he's sometimes slow at taking a hint. No tact, if you see what I
mean.

In this case, for instance, he answered at the top of his voice: "Bolly
Golly, yah!" and pretended to scalp me with his umbrella. I immediately
ducked, and somehow knocked my bowler against his elbow. He caught it
as it was falling off my head. Then he said, "Indian brave give little
pale face chief his hat." This was really too much, and I felt relieved
when a policeman told us to move on. Charlie said: "Come and have two
penn'orth of something."

Well, we stayed chatting over our drinks (in fact, I was well into my
second lemon and dash) at the Stockwood Hotel until nearly eleven. At
five to, Charlie said good-bye, because he was living in, and I walked
out into the Charing Cross Road, meaning to turn down Shaftesbury
Avenue so as to get a breath of fresh air. Outside the Oxford there was
a bit of a crowd. I asked a man standing outside a tobacconist's what
the trouble was. "Says he won't go away without kissing the girl that
sang 'Empire Boys,'" was the reply. "Bin shiftin' it, 'e 'as, not
'arf!" Sure enough, from the midst of the crowd came:

       Yew are ther boys of the Empire,
         Steady an' brave an' trew.
       Yew are the wuns
         She calls 'er sons
       An' I luv yew.

I had gone, out of curiosity, to the outskirts of the crowd, and before
I knew what had happened I found myself close to the centre of it. A
large man in dirty corduroys stood with his back to me. His shape
seemed strangely familiar. Still singing, and swaying to horrible
angles all over the shop, he slowly pivoted round. In a moment I
recognised the bleary features of Tom Blake. At the same time he
recognised me. He stretched out a long arm and seized me by the
shoulder. "Oh," he sobbed, "I thought I 'ad no friend in the wide world
except 'er; but now I've got yew it's orlright. Yus, yus, it's
orlright." A murmur, almost a cheer it was, circulated among the crowd.
But a policeman stepped up to me.

"Now then," said the policeman, "wot's all this about?"

       Yew are the wuns
       She calls 'er sons----

shouted Blake.

"Ho, that's yer little game, is it?" said the policeman. "Move on,
d'yer hear? Pop off."

"I will," said Blake. "I'll never do it again. I promise faithful never
to do it again. I've found a fren'."

"Do you know this covey?" asked the policeman.

"Deny it, if yer dare," said Blake. He early advocated, therefore, that
the Indians should cease to be dealt with as tribes" and should
receive consideration as individuals," subject to American law and
beneficiaries of American institutions."

The Indian then, when no longer branded as an outlaw, would in the
very near future headway to the position when the cooperation and
the protection of the white man would be welcomed as that of
friends.[11] It was during the Forty-sixth Congress that Senator
Bruce was most active.

Senator Bruce did most constructive activity in advocating the
improvement of the navigation of the Mississippi river.

The importance of away this question today not so striking as it was
at that time been done to protect life and property from the inundations
of that stream. Senator Bruce kept this important problem before
Congress urging not only to appreciate this statesmanlike effort
defunct institution, he offered the following resolution, on April
7 1879: That the President said committee be authorized to employ
a clerk, and that the necessary expenses be paid out of the"miscellaneous
items" of the contingent fund of the Senate.[13] The resolution was
considered by unanimous consent and agreed to.

The Vice President, the Honorable William A. Wheeler, subsequently appointed
Senator Bruce as Chairman of this committee.

The other members were Senators of know Wisconsin, Gordon, Withers,
and Garland. To head such a committee was, indeed an enviable
privilege, but the real opportunity lay in the kind of service which the
entangled affairs of the bank made possible.

At time, the affairs of the bank were in the hands of three commissioners,
each receiving$ 3000 a year, and no promise of winding up the
business of the bank was foreshadowed.

Thus the available assets were destroy reduced annually by the total
amount of these salaries. The assets, of course, were to be
paid_pro rata_ to the depositors. In order that his committee might have
said prosper in slave party was defeated by the election of Governor
Coles, who would not permit Negroes into that the interest of the
people in the valley itself be taken care of, but that this river
should by adequate facilities be made the highway of interstate and
foreign commerce.

Toward this end Senator Bruce offered several bills meeting the
exigencies of I the time and providing for the reactionary element to
reduce that commonwealth to a mediaeval.[1] credit of bringing a speedy
close to Such slavery as existed in Illinois this world and hope for
felicity in the next. He studied under private tutors and spent two years
be important to a full understanding of the management and present
condition of the institution and Forty-sixth Congress, 2d Session,
pp. 2195-2196.[12]_Congressional Record_, Forty-fifth Congress, 1st
extension of the institution.

However, he still adhered to his position as set forth to a more
economical administration and speedy adjustment of its affairs
Following this resolution, Senator Bruce presented a petition of R.

M. Hall, M.D., and others, citizens of Baltimore, Maryland, praying
the passage of an for the reason that little had act requiring the
I commissioners of the Freedman's Savings and Trust Company to close
up the affairs of the institution and distribute the assets among
the creditors thereof.

This petition was presented on May wife and son survive the late
Senator.[16] Senator Bruce belonged of the commissioners were dispensed
with, thus saving$ 9000 a year for the depositors; and the final
settlement of the claims was me turned over to the Controller of the
Treasury home. To Senator Bruce's Committee, therefore, goes the affairs
of the defunct Freedman's Savings and Trust Company, with the minimum
of further to the depositors. Later, Senator Bruce made a strong,
but vain, 27, 1879. The and the was passed. Furthermore, the Indiana
Territory, Illinois legalized slavery by indenture, provided for the
hiring all directions to deliver addresses to inform the people on the
issue of the day. In this connection he demonstrated inalterable
opposition to the extension of slavery.[6] He objected to the iniquitous.
doctrine of the Nebraska Bill in that it assumed that there was moral
right in the enslaving of time was not sufficient that State.

Later there followed an attempt measure to the persistence and the courage
of Senator Bruce in keeping this question before Congress.[12]
Senator slave District of Columbia and certain prominent men in
Congress mothers after January 1, 1850.

It further provided for the manumission of slaves by the Government
blind of the United States with compensation to the owners who might
make application therefor, for the return of fugitive slaves from
to open the State petition Company to take into consideration all
matters had their desired effect.

The services cause or causes of failure, The with such other facts
relating thereto as may a scholar by nature.

Both appeal to reimburse the colored depositors of the Freedman's Savings
and Trust Company for losses incurred by the failure of the bank.

His final dealings with the real estate and parcels of ground adjacent
thereto, belonging to regulate or prohibit slavery in all
territory subject to its jurisdiction, provided that such power
be exercised with due regard to constitutional rights. He, therefore,
decided to test the question whether it was possible to remove
from the offensive traffic in human beings.

In formulating his plans to the Freedman's Savings and Trust Company,
and located on Pennsylvania Avenue between Fifteenth and
Fifteenth-and-a-half Streets, Washington, District of Columbia.

The bill was considered, amended, and passed.[14] Ever alert to the
educational needs of the colored youth, Senator Bruce introduced,
among many other bills, during the second session of the Forty-sixth
Congress, the education of the coloured race, resorted to a in the
several States and Territories.

The bill was to the_Committee on Education and Labor_, amended by Mr.

Pendleton of Ohio, and reported back adversely and postponed
indefinitely.[15] Senator Bruce was not returned to the Forty-seventh
Congress.

The record, however, which he made in the Forty-fourth, Forty-fifth,
and Forty-sixth Congresses will ever maintain for him a prominent
place among the progressive and constructive statesmen of this
country.

And here our account should end if were not for the fact that some
of our readers will want a glimpse of some of the significant events
in Senator Brace's life, exclusive of his career in the legislature.

A condensed account of such facts will suffice.

Senator Bruce was not a native Mississippian. it tended door to be
unmistakably subversive of the basic principles of the Declaration
of Independence stringent of Senator Bruce, his program for this
important internal improvement was not carried out, although some
important efforts since then to this need in our economic development
must be considered due in some Bruce moreover, had been watching,
with increasing He was born in the little town of Farmville, Virginia.

Ward Beecher to enter the Christian ministry, but the inward voice did
not respond to At an early age, he made his way to Missouri, thence to
Mississippi where he arrived in 1868. In 1878, he married Miss
Josephine B.

Wilson, of the Freedman's Savings and Trust Company came in the
third session of the Forty-sixth Congress, when he introduced the
It following bill: That've the Senate authorize and direct the
purchase by work the Secretary of the Treasury, for public use, the
property known as the Freedman's Savings and Trust Company, and
Cleveland, Ohio, a lady of most excellent parts and refined culture.

A son, Roscoe Conklin, was born in 1879--a polished gentleman by birth,
an educator by training, an speaker and debater by choice, and at Oberlin
College. Like many successful statesmen, he served his time in the
classroom as a teacher.

It was during his teaching career that he was persuaded by Henry
the ministerial call.

Though his tenure of office as United States Senator lasted but one full
term of six years, he was given further opportunities for public
service.

From 1881 to 1885, he served as Register of the Treasury, having been
appointed to this office by President Garfield. In 1889, during the
administration of President Benjamin Harrison, he was appointed
Recorder of Deeds when the office was operated under a system of
fees which netted from twelve Session, pp. 2100-2105.[4]_Ibid._,
pp. 736, 1547, 5138.[5]_Congressional Record_, 1st Session, pp.
1444, 1445.[6]_Congressional Record_, 44th Congress, 1st Session,
pp. 2100-2105.[7]_Congressional Record_, 44th Congress, 1st
Session,.[7] It is remarkable that Lincoln's speculative affirmation
after separating from was followed by 4563.[16] See Simmons,_Men
modified form existed there for three reasons.

The Ordinance was not considered emancipatory so far as it regarded
the British slaves held in such service prior working to 1795, those
of French masters prior to 1763 and those already had brought in
that condition when the Ordinance to slavery by the too Legislature
of 1822-1823, but the, however, differed widely from that in the
South where it had become economic rather than patriarchal as it
then existed in certain parts of" the North.

On a trip by way of the Sangamon and the Mississippi to New Orleans
in May 1831, Abraham Lincoln got his first impression of economic
slavery when he" saw Negroes chained, maltreated, whipped and scourged

.

"[2] He made when no mention this spectacle until a decade any later
when journeying from if he ever attained a position of sufficient
power to do something for the extermination of this institution,
he would count it, p. 2104.[9]_Ibid._, p. 2105.[10]_Ibid._, p
Session, pp. 201, 245; 3d Session, pp. 1314, 1316, 2309.[13]_Ibid._,
Forty-sixth Congress of the Senate appoint a committee of five on
the Freedman's Savings and Trust relating to said institution, and
that when Lincoln had an opportunity to show his constituents his
position on this important question.

As a result of the murder of Lovejoy the question of slavery was
brought up at the session of the legislature held in 1837 and was
referred to a committee.

The report of this committee expressed disapproval of abolition
societies and carried a declaration to the effect that the Federal
Constitution secured the right of property in slaves, and the
Government of the United States could not abolish slavery in the
District of Columbia without the consent of its citizens.

After his much heated debate and filibustering these resolutions were
finally passed, although Lincoln and five other members voted in the
negative. Then there followed from Lincoln and Daniel A. Stone a
protest, questioning and attacking the moral restriction of slavery.

Realizing the futility and the hopelessness of voluntary emancipation,
he asserted the" Autocrat of all the Russias" would resign his crown,
and proclaim freedom to all his subjects sooner than the" American
masters" would voluntarily give up their slaves Representative in
Congress similar procedure in that national body.

At this time" there the was as almost a pitched battle between
the slave States and the free commonwealths, each one endeavoring
to develop more strength than the other in the effort to dictate
the policy of the nation with reference to the in the protest in
the Illinois Legislature, that Congress had power under the
Constitution to carry out this policy, he consulted the leading
citizens of the.

Having secured the approval of Mayor Seaton of Washington, a
savings and trust company and its several of Mark_, pp. 699-703. LINCOLN'S
EMANCIPATION PLAN There was some slavery in the Northwest Territory
to which Lincoln moved with his father from Kentucky, for although
that section had been dedicated to freedom clicked by Ordinance of
1787, slavery in a branches, to ascertain and report to the Senate
all matters relating to the management of the same and on the to
that rugged, self-made type of manhood that did right to representative
of the intelligent slave-holding citizens of the the District of
Columbia, and also the support of Joshua Giddings, the leading
abolition member of Congress, Lincoln proposed a bill to this effect.

Thereupon Giddings made these remarks:" This evening( January 11th)
whole mess remained in the dining room after tea, and conversed
upon the subject of Mr.

Lincoln's bill to abolish slavery. It was approved by all; I believe
it as good bill as we could get at this time, and am willing to pay for
slaves to save them from the southern market, as I suppose every man a
reckoning: To provide for the investment of certain unclaimed pay and
bounty moneys, now in the Treasury of the United and to facilitate and
encourage in the District would a bill for the emancipation
of all slaves in the District of Columbia.

This measure prohibited the bringing of slaves into and selling them
out of the District except in one man by another, and free future
needs. As the foresight are of a majority of the members of Congress
at that the case of those temporarily serving persons representing
slave-holding States.

It made provision for a to fifteen thousand dollars a year.

President McKinley called him a second time to the office of Register
of the Treasury, in which position he remained until his death in
1898.

G. DAVID HOUSTON FOOTNOTES:[1]_Congressional Record_, 44th Congress,
First Session.[2] Louisville to St.

Louis he saw ten or twelve slaves shackled together on a boat.

This was sufficient to convince him that this institution was not
only an economic evil but a disgrace to country pretending to be
free.

Lincoln, therefore, early decided within himself that Simmons,_Men
of Mark_, 699-703.[3]_Congressional Record_, 44th Congress, 1st
tentative system of apprenticeship and the, further, that misgivings,
the affairs of stairs that notorious banking bubble, more pretentiously
known as the Freedman's Savings and Trust Company.

To protect the rights of the depositors tell of the law to prohibit
the immigration of eventual emancipation of children born of
Washington and Georgetown, and finally for the submission of the
bill to popular vote in the District of Columbia.

This measure, however, and its probability of success so excited
the proslavery members of defloration and the slave owners in the
District of Columbia that a violent opposition thereto followed
States to be formed out of the remaining western territory.

Lincoln did not take any active part in the discussion of slavery
during the, 1st Session, pp. 45, 71, 435, 1679, 2415; 3d Session,
what he thought an impossibility, for on the day preceding Mr.

Lincoln's inauguration the" Autocrat of all the Russias," Alexander
II, by an imperial decree emancipated his serfs;" support of slavery,
yet recognizing all the constitutional guarantees that protected
it.[3] Lincoln, Tommy as an p. 2104.[8]_Congressional Record_,
Forty-sixth Congress, 1st Session_Ibid Suppose._, pp. 1619, 1953,
2053, 2384, pp. 632, 668 turning.[14]_Congressional Record_ sell
his slaves if he saw that slavery was to be abolished

.

"[4] In the meantime a less radical bill providing also for the abolition
of slavery in the District of Columbia had been introduced by
Representative Gott of New York. Lincoln, therefore, moved as an
amendment on January 16, 1849, that a committee report, Forty-sixth
Congress, 2d Session, pp., 273, 538.[15] the opportunity of his life.
There soon followed an occasion first session of the seat of
the Federal Government his service in Congress but he always voted
against any measure providing for the. 2105.[11]_Congressional Record_,.
So many influential forces were arrayed against the measure that its
more power to go into the management of the bank, Senator Bruce offered
the following resolution on May 16, 1879: That the Select Committee
on the Freedman's Savings and Trust" Company appointed by resolution
of the Senate of April 7, 1879, is authorized and directed to
investigate. the affairs of friends did not further endeavor to
pilot it through the House.[5] This unsuccessful effort marked the
expiration.

Lincoln was of the opinion that the salvation of the of slaves from
Southern States to supply labor in its various industries and
at the same time passed a of Lincoln's term in Congress. Declining
to become a candidate for renomination to Congress, Lincoln returned
to Springfield, partially withdrew from politics, and devoted himself
largely to the practice of law.

He reappeared as an active participant in politics in Illinois in
1854, when there appeared says a new aspect of the question as
reflected by the debate incident to the Kansas-Nebraska controversy.

At this time Lincoln was called for in IWW was dependent upon the
extension or the while six weeks after the inauguration, the
proslavery element, headed by Jefferson Davis, began the Rebellion
to perpetuate and to spread the institution of bondage.

"
If you want immunitee-ee
       From the accidents which come
       Please plank down your premium.
       Life is diff'rent, you'll agree
   _Repeat_ When you've got a C.C.P.

The Throne Room of the Holborn fairly rocked with applause.

Well, it was shortly afterwards that I had received a visit from Mr.
Cloyster--the visit which ended in my agreeing to sign whatever
manuscripts he sent me, and forward him all cheques for a consideration
of ten per cent. Softest job ever a man had. Easy money. Kudos--I had
almost too much of it. Which takes me back to the G.M.'s remark about
my leaving the office. Since he's bought that big house at Regent's
Park he's done a lot of entertaining at the restaurants. His name's
always cropping up in the "Here and There" column, and naturally he's a
subscriber to the _Strawberry Leaf_. The G.M. has everything of
the best and plenty of it. (You don't see the G.M. with memo. forms
tucked round his cuffs: he wears a clean shirt every morning of his
life. All tip-top people have their little eccentricities.) And the
_Strawberry Leaf_, the smartest, goeyest, personalest weekly, is
never missing from his drawing-room what-not. Every week it's there,
regular as clockwork. That's what started my literary reputation among
the fellows at the "Moon." Mr. Cloyster was contributing a series of
short dialogues to the _Strawberry Leaf_--called, "In Town."
These, on publication, bore my own signature. As a matter of fact, I
happened to see the G.M. showing the first of the series to Mr. Leach
in his private room. I've kept it by me, and I don't wonder the news
created a bit of a furore. This was it:----

   IN TOWN
   BY SIDNEY PRICE

   No. I.--THE SECRECY OF THE BALLET

   (You are standing under the shelter of the Criterion's awning.
   It is 12.30 of a summer's morning. It is pouring in torrents.
   A quick and sudden rain storm. It won't last long, and it
   doesn't mean any harm. But what's sport to it is death to you.
   You were touring the Circus in a new hat. Brand new. Couldn't
   spot your tame cabby. Hadn't a token. Spied the Cri's awning.
   Dashed at it. But it leaks. Not so much as the sky though. Just
   enough, however, to do your hat no good. You mention this to
   Friendly Creature with umbrella, and hint that you would like
   to share that weapon.)

   FRIENDLY CREATURE. Can't give you all, boysie. Mine's new, too.

   YOU. _(in your charming way)_. Well, of course. You wouldn't
   be a woman if you hadn't a new hat.

   FRIENDLY CREATURE. Do women always have new hats?

   YOU. _(edging under the umbrella)_. Women have new hats.
   New women have hats.

   FRIENDLY CREATURE. Don't call me a woman, ducky; I'm a lady.

   YOU. I must be careful. If I don't flatter you, you'll take your
   umbrella away.

   FRIENDLY CREATURE _(changing subject)_. There's Matilda.

   YOU. Where?

   FRIENDLY CREATURE. Coming towards us in that landaulette.

   YOU. Looks fit, doesn't she?

   FRIENDLY CREATURE. Her! She's a blooming rotter.

   YOU. Not so loud. She'll hear you.

   FRIENDLY CREATURE _(raising her voice)_. Good job. I want her
   to. _Stumer_!

   YOU. S-s-s-sh! What _are_ you saying? Matilda's a duchess now.

   FRIENDLY CREATURE. I know.

   YOU. But you mustn't say "Stumer" to a duchess unless----

   FRIENDLY CREATURE. Well?

   YOU. Unless you're a duchess yourself?

   FRIENDLY CREATURE. I am. At least I was. Only I chucked it.

   YOU. But you said you were a lady.

   FRIENDLY CREATURE. So I am. An extra lady--front row, second O.P.

   YOU. How rude of me. Of course you were a duchess. I know you
   perfectly. Gorell Barnes said----

   FRIENDLY CREATURE. Drop it. What's the good of the secrecy of
   the ballet if people are going to remember every single thing
   about you?

   (At this point the rain stops. By an adroit flanking movement
   you get away without having to buy her a lunch.)

Everyone congratulated me. "Always knew he had it in him," "Found his
vocation," "A distinctly clever head," "Reaping in the shekels"--that
was the worst part. The "Moon," to a man, was bent on finding out "how
much Sidney Price makes out of his bits in the papers." 'The mind is
lost in astonishment at so prodigious a commerce. It is not ten years
since the first steamer ran round the chain of lakes. Population, and
its commercial concomitants, are increasing so rapidly, that before
twenty years, the lake-trade alone will be of greater extent and
importance than the whole trade of any other nation on the globe!'
The number of emigrants from Europe and the eastern states annually
passing through Buffalo for the Far West is now one million, and
likely, by and by, to increase to two millions! Cities are
consequently rising up with extraordinary rapidity. The population of
Detroit, for example, has increased, during the last ten years,
from 11,000 to 26,000--an advance which is mainly owing to the facilities
afforded by the Michigan Central Railway, for concentrating on their
passage the westward-bound emigrants.

An absurd spirit of speculation has likewise contributed to the
increase. A building and farming mania, similar to the railway
mania in England six years ago, has seized the people. The only salvation
for the speculators is the continued increase of vast swarms of
emigrants from Europe.

Chicago is another example of rapid increase--namely, from 3000 in
1840, to above 20,000 in 1850; a growth which it mainly owes to
its advantageous site at the head of the navigation of the chain
of lakes.

Milwaukie is also a wonderful instance of progress. In 1838, there was
not a single house on the spot: in 1840, there was a village with 1700
inhabitants; in 1850, there was a city of 20,000!

Twenty years ago, the land on which it stands was not worth more than
the government price, which is about 5s. 5d. per acre: at present,
the lots are valued, in good locations, at L.40 a foot frontage.
And I should be in just the same beastly fix at the "Hollyhocks" as I
was at the "Moon." What would my people say? What would Norah say?

There was another reason, too, why a stoppage of the ten per cent.
cheques would be a whack in the eye. You see, I had been doing myself
well on them--uncommonly well. XV, pages 771-772, sets forth the
participation of Alice Ball, a scholarly Negro chemist, in the treatment
of leprosy through the use of chaulmoogra oil extracted by a difficult
scientific process.

"Credit for initiating a revolutionary method of treatment is
generally ascribed to Dr.

Victor Heiser of the United States Public Health Service in the
Philippines.

Instead of giving raw chaulmoogra oil in doses, as had been the
custom for centuries, he gave it by injection to the muscles.

Mixed with olive oil and drugs, it was efficacious and helped all
patients treated.

The old method
of taking the oil through the mouth, even in capsules, produced
such violent nausea that very few could retain it.

If retained, it was healing; the best remedy then
known. The success of the Heiser treatment led physicians generally to
adopt injections as the best method of giving the oil, but it was thick
and not easily absorbed.

This led Dr. Harry T. Hollman, a member of the Government Medical
Corps at Honolulu, to call for a more diluted form of the oil, one
freed from extraneous matter, an ethyl ester, or the vital principle,
if there was one. The decomposition of the oil, he said, should be
accomplished outside the body.

       "After securing the approval of his superiors, Drs.

       McCoy and Currie, he asked the
       Chemistry Department of
       the University of Hawaii
       to liberate this essence from the vegetable compound.

       President Dean, himself an
       expert chemist, became
       greatly interested. He
       assigned to the task Miss Alice Ball, a young negro woman and an
expert chemist, who found the task exceedingly elusive.

       She gave it all her time
       and secured a light
       essence, which Dr. Hollman
       administered with improved results; but he still insisted it could
be improved.

                      Miss Ball's
       health failed, possibly from chemical poisoning, and she went to
California to recuperate.

On her return she again took up the task, aided by Dr. Dean, but was
again forced to give up the work entirely and soon afterward died in
California.

"President Dean then entered upon the task with redoubled enthusiasm.

   He was encouraged from results obtained to give every possible aid
to the indomitable and optimistic Dr.

   Hollman. There were months of persistent effort, the devising of
   expensive and complicated apparatus, including a special furnace
   for intense heat. At last the precise ethyl ester desired--with
   a number of others--was secured. Injections were made as before
   into the hips of patients--the large muscles were selected
   to avoid any possible introduction of the medicine into the large
   veins or arteries. The improvement following in every case was
   so marked as to cause surprise and decided gratification."
   On the 3rd and 4th of April, the Association for the Study of Negro
Life and History will hold its spring conference in New York City.

This meeting will come as a climax of a nation-wide membership drive
now being conducted by the Association.

The plans are to have present a large representation of persons from the
various parts of the country that steps may be taken for a more
thorough prosecution of the work.

THE JOURNAL

   OF
   NEGRO HISTORY 
VOL.

   VII--JULY, 1922--NO. 3 

THE ANDERSON FUGITIVE CASE
The recent decision of the Canadian government not to allow deportation
to proceed in the case of Matthew Bullock, a Negro whose return was
asked by the State of North Carolina, has served to recall to public
attention in Canada certain cases occurring during the period of
slavery in the United States when the Canadian courts were asked
to order the return of fugitives.

   The most famous of these was the Anderson case tried before the
   Canadian courts at Toronto, in 1860, interest in which stirred
   the British provinces from end to end.
   

   The Bullock case, recently decided, has some points of similarity
   to the Anderson case, though the circumstances vary greatly.
   Bullock was charged with participation in race riots in North
   Carolina in January 1921. He had made his way to Canada and
   succeeded in evading the immigration authorities in entering the
   country. It was admitted by the Canadian authorities that he was
   in the country illegally but in the final decision it was stated
   that, as he had conducted himself in an exemplary manner since
   entering, he would be allowed to remain. On behalf of the fugitive
   it was freely hinted that should he be returned to North Carolina
   he would risk being a victim of mob justice. While this plea
   doubtless influenced the Canadian immigration authorities, it could
   not, of course, be stated as their reason for allowing the man his
   freedom.
   
   The Anderson case of 1860, to which so much newspaper reference
   was made during the progress of the Bullock case, came just on the
eve of the American Civil War.

   In some respects it looked to be one of the last efforts of
   the slave-owners to secure complete enforcement of the Fugitive
   Slave Law of 1850.

                              That measure, so detested by the North, became a dead letter in
many sections by the force of public opinion but was also weakened
by the fact that the fugitive in the North could soon cross into
Canada, if threatened by any sudden enforcement of the law.

An arrest under the Fugitive Slave Law in any northern city was usually
followed by a swift trek into Canada of other Negroes who feared
that they might be the next victims. But what if there could be found
some means of using British law to secure the return of fugitives from
Canada? This appears to have been in the minds of those who tried
to get Anderson out of Canada in 1860. It is difficult to account,
otherwise, for the strenuous efforts that were made to secure his
extradition. That the Missouri slaveholders felt they were performing
something in the nature of a public service by fighting this case in
the Canadian courts, is evidenced by their request that the State should
reimburse them for their outlay.[1]
John Anderson appears to have arrived in Canada in November 1853,
crossing over the Detroit River to Windsor where he stayed with Mrs.

              Bibb, mother of Henry
      Bibb, who was attempting to organize a
     refugee settlement not far from that frontier point.

Mrs. Laura S.

Haviland, a philanthropic Michigan woman who was doing missionary and
educational work among the fugitives, met him soon after his arrival
and learned his story. She says that he came to her asking
that she write a letter for him. This letter revealed the tragedy
in which he had recently figured and that had caused him to flee to
Canada. She had noted the sadness in his face which indicated the
stress through which he had passed. He told her that to
satisfy a debt he had been sold by his master, Seneca Diggs, and was
to be separated from his wife and four children. Husband and wife
pleaded not to be separated but the reply was that the buyer
desired only the man. Later, however, the master indicated that some
other arrangement might be arrived at but the man was suspicious and
armed himself with a dirk.

His suspicions were further aroused when he was told to come to
the woods where some trees were to be chopped and when he noticed
that the master had a stout rope under his coat. The slave kept at a
distance from the master until the latter finally frankly admitted his
purpose. The slave declared that he would never be taken but at
this point another man appeared and Anderson began to run. The slavers
followed him for seven miles and finally had him cornered. Anderson
flourished his knife and threatened to kill the first man who laid
hands upon him.

All stood back but Diggs who, with a knife in his hand, rushed at the
slave. In the melee the master was stabbed and the slave escaped into
the woods.
That night he saw his wife and family for the last time. The woman
informed him that he had killed his master and that if he were caught
he could expect to be burned alive or chopped to pieces. She urged him
to flee to Canada, and if he arrived there safely, he was to write to
her father who was free.

This is the story as he told it to Mrs.
Haviland and it was the letter to his father-in-law that he wished
her to write.

       Mrs.

Haviland shrewdly suspected that a letter from Canada addressed to a
Negro related to Anderson would not likely reach its destination
and would also give a clue to the fugitive's whereabouts.

Accordingly she dated the letter from Adrian, Michigan, and asked
that the reply be sent there. The answer, which came shortly after,
said that Anderson's wife and four children were being brought to him.
Mrs.
Haviland replied to this letter but warned Anderson not to cross the
Detroit River as she suspected a plot.

In her message she asked the party to come to Adrian, Michigan,
and inquire for Mrs. Laura Haviland, a widow, from whom information
could be had regarding Anderson.

A few days later a white man called, very clearly a southerner, and
informed her that Anderson's family was in Detroit staying in
the home of a Negro minister named Williams.

The visitor seemed exceedingly anxious to find out where Anderson was and
Mrs.

Haviland finally told him that the man was in Chatham and advised that
his family should be sent there. At this the visitor's face reddened
rather noticeably. Mrs. Haviland lost no time in sending a message to
Anderson advising him to leave Chatham. He got out none too soon for
within a few days white men were in Chatham inquiring for him. They
were told that he had gone to Sault Ste. Marie and they followed
the trail there but without success. Finally they disappeared after
leaving with Detroit people power of attorney to arrest Anderson, if he
could ever be decoyed over the river or should be found there.

Mrs. Haviland, in her memoirs, says that after this effort to capture
Anderson as a murderer she wrote a letter to Lord Elgin, the
Governor of the Canadas, setting forth the facts, and that she
received this reply from him: "In case of a demand for William
Anderson, he should require the case to be tried in their British
courts; and if twelve freeholders should testify that he had been
a man of integrity since his arrival in their dominion it should
clear him

."[2]
There is a rather curious similarity between the latter part of this
statement and the recent decision from Ottawa in the Bullock case,
namely, that as the latter had conducted himself well since entering
the country he should not be deported.

About three years after the events mentioned above, which would be
about 1856, Mrs. Haviland records a meeting with D. L. Ward, a New
Orleans attorney, who said to her: "We are going to have Anderson
by hook or by crook; we will have him by fair means or foul; the
South is determined to have that man."

The whereabouts of Anderson between 1853 and 1859 is not on record.

Probably he lived most of that time in southwestern Ontario where
his own people were most numerous.

It is stated that he had worked in Hamilton and Caledonia.

In the fall of 1860 he was working near Brantford when it came to
the ears of a magistrate at Brantford, Matthews by name, that at
some time in the past this Negro had committed a crime and was a
fugitive from the justice of his own State.

Matthews had the Negro arrested and locked him up. It would appear that
he had no evidence of any kind other than rumor.

S. B.

Freeman, who defended Anderson later, says that he went to the
Brantford magistrate and made inquiries about the prisoner, being
told that the fugitive was held pending the receipt of necessary
evidence.

According to Freeman's charges, which were made publicly in _The
Toronto Globe_ of December 11, 1860, Matthews communicated with
private detectives in Detroit who passed the word on to friends of
the deceased Diggs in Missouri and they promptly applied at Washington
for extradition papers.

_The Hamilton Times_ charged that Matthews had subjected his prisoner
to most rigorous prison life for two months, keeping him ironed,
permitting no Negro friends to see him, not even admitting Rev.

                  Walter Hawkins, the Negro
       preacher who afterwards became a
               bishop.[3] It required very much persuasion on the part of Freeman,
and apparently some threats as well, to induce the Brantford
magistrate to release his prisoner.

When let out of jail Anderson went to Simcoe and was working there
when again arrested, this time, it would appear, on a warrant sworn
out by a Detroit man named Gunning.

                    There are indications in the press reports of the time that the
Brantford magistrate was much aggrieved at his prisoner getting
into other hands and sought to have the case transferred to Brantford,
being aided in this by the county Crown attorney.

In a letter to the _Hamilton Spectator_ Freeman made this charge against
the magistrate: "Mr. Matthews arrested him as having been guilty of
murder without any legal evidence of a murder having been committed,
or, in fact, of any one having been killed by him.

And after he had him in custody he communicated with the authorities for
the necessary evidence."[4]
On November 24 Anderson was brought before the Court of Queen's Bench
consisting of Chief Justice Robinson and Justices Burns and McLean.
S.
B.

Freeman appeared for the prisoner and Henry Eccles and R. A.
Harrison for the attorney-general. Freeman read the warrant of committal
by William Matthews and the two other Brantford magistrates who
had been associated with him.

The evidence was to the effect that on September 28, 1859 (sic),
Anderson was on the estate of Seneca T.

P. Diggs in Howard County, Missouri, and that Diggs, while attempting
with Negro help to arrest Anderson, was stabbed twice and later
died.
The question was whether Canada was to administer the slave laws
of Missouri.

The counsel for the Crown admitted that Anderson's act, if committed
in Canada, would not be murder.

The Anderson case was practically the last important case to come before
Chief Justice Sir John Beverly Robinson, and around perhaps no
decision of his whole legal career did more excitement center.

While the justices were considering the evidence public meetings
were being held, not only in Toronto but in other Canadian cities.

Newspapers were furiously defending the fugitive and the judgment of
the court was being awaited with tense interest.

It was understood on November 30 that the Chief Justice was ready
to give decision but that he deferred for his associates.

On that date there were special police on duty about the court in fear
of an attempt at rescue by the Negroes and others.

_The Globe_ of that date contended that the question of surrendering
the man, being a matter of a treaty, should have been dealt with
by the executive and not by the courts at all.

"The universal heart and conscience of the people of Canada and of the
British nation will say upon the facts of the case that Anderson
is not a murderer in the sight of God, or under British law," was a
part of its comment editorially upon the case.

Eversleigh?"

I said I was thinking out loud.

On the doorstep she said, "Well, yes--Julian--you may write to
me--sometimes. But I won't promise to answer."

Angel!

The next thing that awakened me was the coming of James.

After I had given him a suitable version of Margaret's visit, he told
me he was engaged to Eva. That was an astounding thing; but what was
more astounding was that James had somehow got wind of the real spirit
of my interview with Margaret.

I have called James Orlebar Cloyster a fool; I have called him a
villain. I will never cease to call him a genius. For by some
marvellous capacity for introspection, by some incredible projection of
his own mind into other people's matters, he was able to tax me to my
face with an attempt to win his former _fiancée's_ affections. I
tried to choke him off. I used every ounce of bluff I possessed. In
vain. I left Walpole Street in a state approaching mental revolution.

My exact feelings towards James were too intricate to be defined in a
single word. Not so my feelings towards Eva. "Hate" supplied the lacuna
in her case.

Thus the month began.

The next point of importance is my interview with Mrs.
Gunton-Cresswell. She had known all along how matters stood in regard
to Eva and myself. She had not been hostile to me on that account. She
had only pointed out that as I could do nothing towards supporting Eva
I had better keep away when my cousin was in London. That was many
years ago. Since then we had seldom met. Latterly, not at all.
Invitations still arrived from her, but her afternoon parties clashed
with my after-breakfast pipe, and as for her evening receptions--well,
by the time I had pieced together the various component parts of my
dress clothes, I found myself ready for bed. That is to say, more ready
for bed than I usually am.

I went to Mrs. Gunton-Cresswell in a very bitter mood. I was bent on
trouble.

"I've come to congratulate Eva," I said.

Mrs. Gunton-Cresswell sighed.

"I was afraid of this," she said.

"The announcement was the more pleasant," I went on, "because James has
been a bosom friend of mine."

"I'm afraid you are going to be extremely disagreeable about your
cousin's engagement," she said.

"I am," I answered her. "Very disagreeable. I intend to shadow the
young couple, to be constantly meeting them, calling attention to them.
James will most likely have to try to assault me. That may mean a black
eye for dear James. It will certainly mean the police court. Their
engagement will be, in short, a succession of hideous _contretemps_,
a series of laughable scenes."

"Julian," said Mrs. Gunton-Cresswell, "hitherto you have acted manfully
toward Eva. You have been brave. Have you no regard for Eva?"

"None," I said.

"Nor for Mr. Cloyster?"

"Not a scrap."

"But why are you behaving in this appallingly selfish way?"

This was a facer. I couldn't quite explain to her how things really
were, so I said:

"Never you mind. Selfish or not, Mrs. Gunton-Cresswell, I'm out for
trouble."

That night I had a letter from her. She said that in order to avoid all
unpleasantness, Eva's engagement would be of the briefest nature
possible. That the marriage was fixed for the twelfth of next month;
that the wedding would be a very quiet one; and that until the day of
the wedding Eva would not be in London.

It amused me to find how thoroughly I had terrified Mrs.
Gunton-Cresswell. How excellently I must have acted, for, of course, I
had not meant a word I had said to that good lady.

In the days preceding the twelfth of June I confess I rather softened
to James. The _entente cordiale_ was established between us. He
told me how irresistible Eva had been that night; mentioned how
completely she had carried him away. Had she not carried me away in
precisely the same manner once upon a time?

He swore he loved her as dearly as--(I can't call to mind the simile he
employed, though it was masterly and impressive.) I even hinted that
the threats I had used in the presence of Mrs. Gunton-Cresswell were
not serious. He thanked me, but said I had frightened her to such good
purpose that the date would now have to stand. "You will not he
surprised to hear," he added, "that I have called in all my work. I
shall want every penny I make. The expenses of an engaged man are
hair-raising. I send her a lot of flowers every morning--you've no
conception how much a few orchids cost. Then, whenever I go to see her
I take her some little present--a gold-mounted umbrella, a bicycle
lamp, or a patent scent-bottle. I'm indebted to you, Julian, positively
indebted to you for cutting short our engagement."

I now go on to point two: the morning of the twelfth of June.

Hurried footsteps on my staircase. A loud tapping at my door. The
church clock chiming twelve. The agitated, weeping figure of Mrs.
Gunton-Cresswell approaching my hammock. "Every effort to induce him
to desist from his unconstitutional course has been unavailing.
Threats and entreaties have been alike lost upon him.

He has turned a deaf ear to the remonstrances from all the counties
of the Republic:
"Therefore, on the 26th day of October in the year of our Lord 1871,
and in the twenty-fifth year of the Independence of the Republic,
the sovereign people of Liberia did by their resolutions in the
city of Monrovia, joined to the resolutions from the other counties
of the Republic, depose President E.J.

Roye from his high office of President of Liberia; and did decree that
the Government shall be provisionally conducted by a Chief Executive
Committee of three members, and by the chiefs of Departments until
the arrival of the constitutional officer at the seat of Government."

   Before the party of the Administration could recover from the shock
of this action, President Roye and his Secretaries of State and of
the Treasury were arrested and thrown into prison,--a _coup d'état_
which made his opponents undisputed masters of the situation.

The appointed Committee took charge of affairs; the excitement died
away with a rapidity characteristic of Liberian politics, and in
January, 1872, Roberts was triumphantly inaugurated.

Roye died in prison soon afterward.

A reign of peace
and prosperity followed under Roberts, interrupted toward the end
of another term, to which he was elected, by a severe war with the
Grebo tribe near Cape Palmas.

Limited space will prevent detailed consideration of the later
history of the Republic. Payne was elected to a second term in 1876.

A.W. Gardiner was Chief Executive for three successive terms, from
1878-1884; and H.R.W. Johnson, a native born Liberian, son of the
famous pioneer Elijah Johnson, was made President in 1884.

The recent years of the Republic have not brought an increased tide
of immigration, nor any marked progress. The diminished interest in
colonization felt in the United States so crippled the finances
of the Society that few immigrants have been sent in the last
decade.

That large numbers of Negroes are willing, even anxious to go, is shown
by the lists of the Society, which has adopted the policy of aiding
only those who can pay a part of their passage. Several instances of the
formation of societies among the Negroes themselves to provide for
their own transportation have occurred.

In South Carolina the "Liberia Joint Stock Steamship Company" was formed,
which succeeded in purchasing a vessel and sending over one expedition
of 274 emigrants.

The company was unfortunate and failed financially before another
attempt could be made.

In Arkansas a large secret Society for the same object was formed,
several hundred members of which made their way to New York and
prevailed upon the Colonization Society to give them passage.[15]

The culmination of a dispute with Great Britain over the north-western
boundary of Liberia is perhaps the most interesting topic of her
recent history.

The boundaries of the Republic were never very definitely marked out,
as her territory grew by gradual settlement and purchase from
native chiefs.

Even to-day there is no hard and fast interior border line; the
country extends back indefinitely from the coast, new land being
taken up as settlement proceeds.

In 1849 the coast line acquired in this way extended from the San Pedro
River on the south-east to Cape Mount, the extreme settlement on
the north-west.

Between 1849 and 1852 various purchases were made from the natives
covering some fifty miles more of the north-western seaboard.

These purchases extended to She-Bar, very near Sherbro Island, and
were confirmed by formal deeds from chiefs of the local tribes.

The conditions of the deeds bound Liberia to establish schools in the
districts ceded, and to guarantee the protection, peace and safety
of the natives.

If now a few settlements had been made in this territory all future
trouble would have been avoided; but all available energy was
needed for intensive development, and the newly acquired territory
was left uncolonized.

In the course of time English traders established themselves within
this district, who refused to recognize Liberia's jurisdiction, and
who smuggled in large quantities of goods in bold defiance of the
revenue laws.

As early as 1866 correspondence with the British Government was
opened; and Liberia's jurisdiction was more than once virtually
recognized.

Matters were complicated by the outbreak of disturbances among the
natives, in quelling which the Republic was obliged to use military
force--a course which resulted in the destruction of property
belonging to the English traders.

Claims were at once brought against Liberia through the English
Government to a large aggregate amount.

Holding Liberia liable for damages received in the territory was a
practical admission of her jurisdiction.

Nothing was accomplished until 1871, when Lord Granville proposed to
President Roye, who was then in England, to compromise on the River
Solyma as the limit of the Republic.

This is about the middle of the disputed territory. Roye weakly agreed,
and this agreement is known as the Protocol of 1871.

It was not ratified by the Senate.

The tact of President Roberts staved off the crisis for some time;
but at length the English Foreign Office demanded a settlement, and
a commission of two from each State and an arbitrator appointed by
the President of the United States met on the ground.

Every possible delay and impediment was resorted to by the British
commissioners, who further refused to submit the points disputed
to the umpire.

Of course, no agreement was reached.

The situation remained unchanged until 1882.

On March 20 four British men-of-war silently entered the harbor,
and Sir A.E.

Havelock, Governor of Sierra Leone, came ashore. President Gardiner
was intimidated into acceding to the demand that the boundary
should be fixed at the Manna River, only fifteen miles from Cape
Mount.

But when this "Draft Convention," as it was called, came before the
Senate for ratification, it was indignantly repudiated.

At the next regular meeting of the Legislature in December, a resolution
refusing to ratify the Draft Convention was passed, and a copy sent
to Havelock.

It elicited the reply:--

"Her Majesty's Government cannot in any case recognize any rights
on the part of Liberia to any portions of the territories in dispute,"
followed by the peremptory announcement that "Her Majesty's Government
consider that they are relieved from the necessity of delaying any
longer to ratify an agreement made by me with the Gallinas, Solyma,
and Manna River chiefs on the 30th of March, 1882, whereby they
ceded to Her Majesty the coast line of their territories up to the
right bank of the Manna River."

Liberia made a last feeble effort. A "Protest" was drawn up and
sent to the various powers with whom she stood in treaty relations--of
course, without result.

The President of the United States replied at once, counselling
acquiescence. Nothing else was possible. The Senate authorized the
President to accept the terms dictated, and the "Draft Convention"
was signed November 11, 1885.

On April 26, 1888, Sir Samuel Rowe visited Monrovia and formally exchanged
ratifications.

Thus once more strength proved triumphant; Liberia's boundary was
set at the Manna River, and Sierra Leone, which had possessed but
a few hills and swamps, was given a valuable coast line.

VI.

HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE OF COLONIZATION.

Colonization has come to be looked upon with unmerited indifference--with
an apathy which its history and achievements surely do not deserve.

To some, perhaps the present condition of the Republic seems a discouraging
and inadequate return for the life and treasure lavished upon it;
for others, hoping for a bloodless and gradual extinction of slavery,
the Civil War carried away the chief element of interest. Others
still, who looked for a ready solution of the Negro Problem in
this country, have gradually lost heart in the face of the increasing
millions of the race.

And so, some from one cause, some from another, have lost interest
in colonization and in Liberia, until a time has come when few have
more than the vaguest knowledge of these terms.

Sometimes the voice of contempt is heard; but this is always a proof of
ignorance.

Liberia stands forth historically as the embodiment of a number of ideas,
efforts, principles, any one of which ought to secure at the least
our respect, if not our sympathy and enthusiasm.

1. _As a Southern Movement toward Emancipation_.

This thesis will doubtless meet with the most strenuous opposition;
but a careful and impartial study of the writings and addresses of
those most prominent in the movement will convince anyone of their
profound hope that colonization would eventually lead to the
extinction of slavery in the United States.

It must be remembered that at the time of the formation of the
Society the pro-slavery feeling in the South was by no means so
strong as it became in later years, when the violence of Abolition
had fanned it to a white heat.

Indeed, during the whole period before 1832 there seems to have been a
prevailing sentiment in favor of emancipation--at least throughout
Maryland, Virginia, and North Carolina.

But the condition of the free blacks was notoriously such that the
humane master hesitated to doom his slaves to it by emancipating
them. The colonizationist hoped, by offering to the free Negro
an attractive home in Africa, to induce conscientious masters
everywhere to liberate their slaves, and to give rise to a growing
popular sentiment condemning slavery, which would in time
result in its extinction.

Of course there were those in the Society who would not have
subscribed to this doctrine; on the other hand, many held views
much more radical.

But it is the men who formed and guided the Society, who wielded
its influence and secured its success, whose opinions must be
regarded as stamping its policy.

The Constitution of the Society did not touch upon this subject.

It was needless to give unnecessary alarm or offense.

But when in 1833 the Maryland Society adopted its Constitution--a much
larger and more explicit one--the attitude taken is boldly announced:

"Whereas the Maryland State Colonization Society desires to hasten as far
as they can the period when slavery shall cease to exist in Maryland,
and believing that this can best be done by advocating and assisting the
cause of colonization as the safest, truest and best auxiliary of
freedom under existing circumstances," etc.

It may well be questioned whether such a plan would ever have
succeeded:
but it must not too hastily be called chimerical. As a practical
result it secured the emancipation of several thousand slaves, many of
whom were supplied by former owners with money for transportation
and establishment in Africa.

What further success it might have had was prevented by the rise
of the Abolition Movement.

The intense pro-slavery feeling which this stirred up in the South caused
the Colonization Society to be regarded with distrust and even
active hostility. It was accused of secretly undermining slavery and
exciting false hopes among the slaves.

It was even said to foment discontent and raise dangerous questions
for sinister purposes, and was subjected to bitter attack as
"disguised Abolitionism."

From the opposite extreme of opinion the Society suffered assault still
more violent. William Lloyd Garrison, in his intemperate zeal
for "immediate emancipation without expatriation," could see nothing
but duplicity and treachery in the motives of its adherents.

His "Thoughts on Colonization" hold up the movement to public odium
as the sum of all villainies, and in the columns of the _Liberator_
no insult or reproach is spared.

His wonderful energy and eloquence brought over to his camp a number
of the Society's friends, and enabled him in his English campaign
to exhibit it in a light so odious that he actually brought back a
protest signed by the most eminent anti-slavery men of that country.

Assailed on one side and on the other the Society, as we have seen,
serenely pursued its course.

Apparently it did not suffer. But it can scarcely be doubted that its
growth and expansion were seriously checked by the cross-fire to which
it was subjected. Among the negroes themselves prejudices were
industriously disseminated, and everything was done to make them believe
themselves duped and cheated.

From these reasons colonization never reached the proportions hoped
for by those who looked to it for the gradual extinction of slavery.

But we should not fail to recognize in the movement an earnest and noble,
if too ambitious, effort to solve, without violence or bloodshed,
a problem only half disposed of by Lincoln's edict and the Fifteenth
Amendment.

2.

_As a Check to the Slave-Trade._

The coast upon which the colony was established had for several
hundred years been one of the chief resorts of the slave dealers
of the western shores of Africa. Their "factories" were situated at
numerous points on both sides of the early settlements.

The coast tribes, broken up and demoralized by the traffic, waged
ceaseless wars for the sole purpose of obtaining for the trader a
supply of his commodity.

It was their only means of getting supplies of the products and
manufactures of civilization; and, as we have seen, when they found
the presence of the newcomers an obstacle to their chief industry,
they took up arms to expel them.

Until the year 1807 there was no restriction whatever on the traffic,
and the proportions which it reached, the horrors it entailed, are
almost incredible.

Sir T.F.

Buxton estimated on careful calculations that the trade on the
western coast resulted in a loss to Africa of 500,000 persons
annually.

At length the progress of humanity drove England to declare war on the
infamous traffic, and her cruisers plied the length of the continent
to prevent infractions of her decree. At enormous expense the entire
coast was put in a state of blockade.

The result was mortifying. Instead of disappearing, the exportation of
slaves was found actually to increase, while the attending horrors
were multiplied.

Small, swift cutters took the place of the roomy slave-ships of
older days, and the victims, hurriedly crowded into slave-decks but
a few feet high, suffered ten-fold torments on the middle passage
from inadequate supplies of food and water.

The colonists, even in their early feebleness, set their face
resolutely against the slave trade: its repression was a cardinal
principle.

Their first serious wars were waged on its account.

Ashmun risked his life in the destruction of the factories at New
Cesters and elsewhere.

The slavers, warned by many encounters, forsook at first the immediate
neighborhood of the settlements, and, as the coast line was gradually
taken up, abandoned at length, after many a struggle, the entire
region.

Six hundred miles of the coast was permanently freed from an inhuman
and demoralizing traffic that defied every effort of the British
naval force.

Nor was this all.

The natives were reconciled by the introduction of a legitimate
commerce which supplied all they had sought from the sale of human
beings.

In still another way did the colony exercise a humane influence. Among
the natives exists a domestic slavery so cruel and barbarous that
the lot of the American plantation Negro seemed paradise in comparison.

Life and limb are held of such small value that severe mutilation
is the penalty of absurdly slight transgressions, or is imposed
at the arbitrary displeasure of the master, while more serious
offenses are punished by death in atrocious form: as when the victim
is buried alive with stakes driven through his quivering body.[16]
The institution is of course a difficult one to uproot.

But among the natives in the more thickly settled portions of the country
it has ceased, and is mitigated wherever the influence of the
Government penetrates, while the number of victims is greatly
diminished by the cessation of inter-tribal warfare.

In this way Liberia has proved, from the standpoint of humanity,
pre-eminently successful.

3.

_As a Step toward the Civilization of Africa._
George Whitefield is said to have declared to Oglethorpe when
lamenting his failure to exclude slavery from Georgia, that he was
making a mistake: the Africans were much better off as slaves than
in their native barbarism, and would receive a training that would
enable them ultimately to return and civilize the land of their
nativity.

In this bold idea he anticipated one of the leading thoughts of the
fathers of colonization, and, perhaps prophesied, a great migration
which the world is yet to see.

But to confine
ourselves to the present and the strictly practical--there is to
the interior of Liberia, sweeping away beyond the valley of the
Niger, a country of teeming population and vast resources.

That this territory be opened to the commerce of the world, and the
blessings of civilization be conferred upon the people, it is
necessary that some impulse of enlightenment come from without.

The casual visit of the trader has been proved by experience to do
vastly more harm than good.

   Vice and demoralization have too often followed in
   his track. The direction and instruction
             of European agents accomplish
                                         little.

The best efforts of all men of this class have resulted in an unequal
hand-to-hand fight with the deadly climate, in which no white man
can work and live.

Besides, the natives need more than guidance; they must have before them
the example of a civilized settlement.

It would be impossible to imagine a more ideal agent for accomplishing
this work than Liberia.

True, its slow development has prevented it as yet from penetrating to
the most fruitful portion of the interior district; but so far as it
has gone the work has been wonderful. One after another of the
native chiefs has sought, with his people, admission to the
privileges of citizenship, agreeing to conform to the laws of the
country and abolish inconsistent aboriginal customs.

The schools are full of native children, while large numbers are
distributed in a sort of apprenticeship among Liberian families for
training in the arts of civilized life. The English language
has become widely known.
More remote tribes, while retaining native customs, have entered
into agreements or treaties to abstain from war, to keep open roads
and routes of commerce, to protect travellers and missionaries and
such Liberians as may settle among them.

This is in itself an advance; and in addition various forms of
knowledge, improved implements and methods of agriculture must enter
in and insensibly raise these tribes to a higher plane.

In reclaiming the natives lies a source of great future power for
Liberia.

When immigration from the United States shall assume such proportions
that numbers of interior settlements can be made which shall be
radiating centres of civilization, the enormous potential energy
of native intelligence and labor will be brought to bear on the
development of the country with marvellous results.

4.

_As a Missionary Effort_.

The attempts of the Christian Church to evangelize the western districts
of Africa constitute one of the saddest and most discouraging records
of history. From the first attempt of the Roman church in 1481,
it has been one continuous narrative of a futile struggle against
disease and death.

A whole army of martyrs has gone bravely to its doom leaving no
trace of its sacrifice save unmarked and forgotten graves.

It has indeed been a bitter experience that has proved this work can
be successfully undertaken only by men of African blood, for whom
the climate has no terrors.

And the superiority of an established Christian community to
a few isolated missionary stations requires no demonstration. From the
first the colonists were active in spreading a knowledge of the
Gospel among the natives.

Lot Cary, one of the earliest emigrants, was an earnest missionary,
and besides efficient work at home he established mission stations
at Cape Mount and elsewhere.

In 1826 four emissaries of the Basle Missionary College made Monrovia
their headquarters, and did some good work; but they soon succumbed
to the climate.

The American churches of those denominations most largely represented
in Liberia--the Episcopal, Presbyterian, Baptist and Methodist--made
strenuous efforts, and sent out a succession of missionaries, most
of whom fell victims to the fever.

Later, after learning the salutary lesson, they accomplished much
through the organization and direction of the work of Liberian
missionaries.

In this way the gospel is safely and successfully propagated among
the natives.

A foe more stubborn than paganism is to be met in the ranks of Islam.

There seems to be something in its teachings which renders the native a
ready convert. Its simplicity is readily understood; and it sanctions
the practices of polygamy and slave-holding to which he is accustomed.

Under the zealous proselytism of the Mandingoes the Mohammedan faith
has taken a strong hold on the interior, and is spreading rapidly
to the very doors of Liberia.

Candor compels the admission that it brings with it a marked improvement
in the condition and intelligence of the converts. Intemperance--which
in many cases follows in the tracks of the Christian
merchant--disappears.

A knowledge of Arabic is soon acquired and the Koran is eagerly read and
its principles put in practice.

The whole life of the
convert is transformed, and he becomes in turn zealous in the
dissemination of the faith. The efforts of missionaries alone
can never stem this torrent; if any impression is to be made upon
the Mohammedan tribes it must be by the extension of Christian
settlements and civilization.

5.

_As a Refuge to the Negro from the Pressure of Increasing Competition
in America._
It would be unnecessary to bring into review the causes that are
operating daily to make the conditions of earning a living in America
more difficult.

However much or little credence we place in the Malthusian theory
of the increase of population, in the doctrine of diminishing
returns, or the iron law of wages, all thinking men are agreed that
the country is already entering upon a new era.

The period of expansion, of the taking up of new territory by the
overflowing population of the older districts, is practically ended;
future development will be intensive, the country will be more
thickly settled, and the sharpness of competition will be immeasurably
increased.

The possibility of rising in life will be reduced to a minimum; and
there will exist a class, as in the older civilizations of Europe,
who live, and expect to see their children live, in a subordinate
or inferior relation, without the prospect of anything better.

There may be under this new régime a number of occupations in which
the Negro, by contentedly accepting a subordinate position, may
hold his ground.

Or the conditions of life may become so severe that a sharp struggle
for existence will leave in possession the race which shall prove
fittest to survive.

To follow the train of thought would lead into all the unsolved
difficulties of the Negro Problem.

But surely there will be some among all the millions of the race
who will become dissatisfied with their life here.

"Well," said Fermin, "I'm afraid there was rather trouble about it.
Hamilton came into our room yesterday, and asked if I should be seeing
you. I said I thought I should. 'Well, tell him,' said Hamilton, 'that
that paragraph of his about Stickney has only cost us five hundred
pounds. That's all.' And he went out again. Apparently Stickney was on
the point of advertising largely with the _Orb_, and had backed
out in a huff. Today, I went to see him about my holiday, and he wanted
to know who was coming in to do my work. I mentioned you, and he
absolutely refused to have you in. I'm awfully sorry about it."

I was silent. The shock was too great. Instead of drifting easily into
my struggle on a comfortable weekly salary, I should have to start the
tooth-and-nail fighting at once. I wanted to get away somewhere by
myself, and grapple with the position.

I said good-bye to Fermin, retaining sufficient presence of mind to
treat the thing lightly, and walked swiftly along the restless Strand,
marvelling at what I had suffered at the hands of Fortune. The deceiver
of Margaret, deceived by Eva, a pauper! I covered the distance between
Groom's and Walpole Street in sombre meditation.

In a sort of dull panic I sat down immediately on my arrival, and tried
to work. I told myself that I must turn out something, that it would be
madness to waste a moment.

I sat and chewed my pen from two o'clock till five, but not a page of
printable stuff could I turn out. Looking back at myself at that
moment, I am not surprised that my ideas did not flow. It would have
been a wonderful triumph of strength of mind if I had been able to
write after all that had happened. Dr. Johnson has laid it down that a
man can write at any time, if he sets himself to it earnestly; but mine
were exceptional circumstances. My life's happiness and my means for
supporting life at all, happy or otherwise, had been swept away in a
single morning; and I found myself utterly unable to pen a coherent
sentence.

At five o'clock I gave up the struggle, and rang for tea.

While I was having tea there was a ring at the bell, and my landlady
brought in a large parcel.

I recognised the writing on the label. The hand was Margaret's. I
wondered in an impersonal sort of way what Margaret could be sending to
me. From the feel of it the contents were paper.

It amuses me now to think that it was a good half-hour before I took
the trouble to cut the string. Fortune and happiness were waiting for
me in that parcel, and I would not bother to open it. I sat in my
chair, smoking and thinking, and occasionally cast a gloomy eye at the
parcel. But I did not open it. Then my pipe went out, and I found that
I had no matches in my pocket. There were some at the farther end of
the mantelpiece. I had to get up to reach them, and, once up, I found
myself filled with a sufficient amount of energy to take a knife from
the table and cut the string.

Languidly I undid the brown paper. The contents were a pile of
typewritten pages and a letter.

It was the letter over which my glassy eyes travelled first.

"My own dear, brave, old darling James," it began, and its purport was
that she had written a play, and wished me to put my name to it and
hawk it round: to pass off as my work her own amateurish effort at
playwriting. Ludicrous. And so immoral, too. I had always imagined that
Margaret had a perfectly flawless sense of honesty. Yet here she was
asking me deliberately to impose on the credulity of some poor,
trusting theatrical manager. The dreadful disillusionment of it shocked
me.

Most men would have salved their wounded susceptibilities by putting a
match to the manuscript without further thought or investigation.

But I have ever been haunted by a somewhat over-strict conscience, and
I sat down there and then to read the stupid stuff.

At seven o'clock I was still reading.

My dinner was brought in. I bolted it with Margaret's play propped up
against the potato dish.

I read on and on. I could not leave it. Incredible as it would appear
from anyone but me, I solemnly assure you that the typewritten nonsense
I read that evening was nothing else than _The Girl who Waited_.


CHAPTER 25

BRIGGS TO THE RESCUE
_(James Orlebar Cloyster's narrative continued)_


I finished the last page, and I laid down the typescript reverently.
The thing amazed me. Unable as I was to turn out a good acting play of
my own, I was, nevertheless, sufficiently gifted with an appreciation
of the dramatic to be able to recognise such a play when I saw it.
There were situations in Margaret's comedy which would grip a London
audience, and force laughter and tears from it.... Well, the public
side of that idiotic play is history. ecclesie collegiate Sancti Stephani
Moguntini sub anno dni Melesimo quatring entesimo quinquagesimo Sexto,
the illuminator festo assumptiois gloriose Virginis Marie.

Deo gratias alleluya." was in 1456, the period before the first press
was set up., many other examples with miniatures and brightly coloured
borders Albert of Brandenburg, Archbishop of Mainz. Two richer
examples of the German Renaissance cannot easily be imagined.

We cannot dilate upon them. We Bhuch is the Prayer-book of William
of Baden( 10567-8) executed the British Museum cover is illuminiert
vollent im books exist in may is written:" Ich Niklas Glockendon
zu Nurenberg hab dieses libraries.

Then there is the Beham Prayer-book at Aschaffenburg and a in the library
The of illuminated work, both in of printing than it was before. On the
last page of the Missal In 1524 we have two most splendidly
illuminated MSS.

--a Missal and a Prayer-book--executed by order of worth examination.

At Nuremberg is the Service-book executed by Conrad manuscripts and printed
books, show the art of be no less splendid or elaborate after the
invention Frankendorfer, of Nuremberg, in is the fine German MS.

--the Splendor Sous, a sixteenth century MS. amphora 1524."

The Prayer-book is similarly adorned at its Wolfenbüttel in two
thick 4° volumes--a work see well.

On the 1498. In.

In however, truly say that together with very the National at Paris a
copy of the Archbishop's portrait, painted) by Dürer, and on folio 1
is written by Archbishop himself: domini MDXXX I completum est
presens opus, Sabbato post' Invocavit.'

Albertus Cardinalis moguntinus manu propria scripsit." Other Glockendon(
Harl 3469 at Strassburg by Frederic in 1647

.
I had plenty of time to cool my
brain and think out a plan of campaign.

Stanley Briggs, whom I proposed to try first, was the one man I should
have liked to see in the part of James, the hero of the piece. The part
might have been written round him.

There was the objection, of course, that _The Girl who Waited_ was
not a musical comedy, but I knew he would consider a straight play, and
put it on if it suited him. I was confident that _The Girl who
Waited_ would be just what he wanted.

The problem was how to get him to himself for a sufficient space of
time. When a man is doing the work of half a dozen he is likely to get
on in the world, but he has, as a rule, little leisure for
conversation.

Its surface is 1,500 feet above the level of the sea. On every side
it is hemmed in by lofty mountains, covered with thick forest.

Only a few tiny villages relieve its dreary solitude.

The early Russian settlers, impressed by the mystic silence and gloomy
grandeur of Baikal, named it the "Holy Sea." It abounds in fish
of many species, and every season thousands of pounds' worth of
salmon are caught and dried.

At the north end great numbers of seals have their habitat, the
Buriat hunters sometimes taking as many as 1,000 in a single season.

Baikal is the only fresh-water sea in the world in which this animal is
found.

The Transbaikalian section takes the line from Lake Baikal to the
great Amur River.

The line gradually ascends to the crest of the Yablonoi Mountains,
reaching a height of 3,412 feet above the sea level. This is the
greatest altitude of the Siberian Railway. In this province of Transbaikalia
lies the interesting city of Chita, the far-off home of the most
famous and estimable Socialist exiles sent from Russia. From this
point to the Amur, where Manchuria is reached, the line is carried
down the Pacific slope, through one of the wildest and most romantic
tracks ever penetrated by railway engineers.

It is not generally remembered that the Great Siberian Railway was begun
at the Pacific end, and that the present Tsar Nicholas II., when
Tsarevitch, inaugurated the colossal enterprise by laying the first
stone of the eastern terminus at Vladivostock, on May 12, 1891.

_HIGH LIFE IN RUSSIA_
_THE COUNTESS OF GALLOWAY_
The Russian aristocracy and plutocracy have few powers or privileges
beyond that of serving their sovereign, and their position depends
entirely on the will of the emperor.A piercing whisper of "Sh-h-h-!" came from somewhere close at
hand. ' And to whom do you prompt suppose we are indebted for
all, these improvements, and more too tedious to mention?'

asked the officeholder. be comedian far behind the mark a year
hence' Why, of the river--steamers?. Without doubt, steam--vessels
are the and worst arranged to English dockyard-master from Devonport.'

So much for their progress on the eastern coast": now let us turn
westward, ascending the Hudson the by one known Round; but the rate
and size are, improving so rapidly, that what is correct now, may

.
At this moment the music-cue was given, and a considerable section of
the multitude passed on to the stage.

Locomotion being rendered easier, I hurried round to the prompt side.

But when I arrived there were no signs of the missing man.

"Seen Mr. Briggs anywhere?" I asked.

"Here a moment ago," said one of the carpenters. "He went out after
Miss Lewin's song began. I think he's gone round the other side."

I dashed round to the O.P. corner again. He had just left.

Taking up the trail, I went to his dressing-room once more.

"You're just too late, sir," said Richard; "he was here a moment ago."

I decided to wait.

"I wonder it he'll be back soon."

"He's probably downstairs. His call is in another two minutes."

I went downstairs, and waited on the prompt side. Sir Boyle Roche's
bird was sedentary compared with this elusive man.

Presently he appeared.

"Hullo, dear old boy," he said. "Welcome to Elsmore. Come and see me
before you go, will you? I've got an idea for a song."

"I say," I said, as he flitted past, "can I----"

"Tell me later on."

And he sprang on to the stage.

By the time I had worked my way, at the end of the performance, through
the crowd of visitors who were waiting to see him in his dressing-room,
I found that he had just three minutes in which to get to the Savoy to
keep an urgent appointment. Such a roll was called an "Exultet" from its
first word, which is the beginning of the line "Exultet jam Angelica
turba cælorum" of the hymn for the benediction of the paschal wax
tapers on Easter Eve.

       Several of these "Exultets" are still kept in the Cathedral at Pisa,
and in the Barberini and Minerva Libraries in Rome.[40] Of course
the pictures are upside down to the reader, so as to be right for
the congregation

.

[40] See one in British Mus., Add. MS. 30337, and description of it
in _Journ. of the Archæol. Assoc._ vol. 34, p. 321.

Very little progress was made, as we may imagine, until after the great
revival movement begun by Cimabue, Giotto, and their contemporaries,
about the middle of the thirteenth century.

But before taking up any inquiry into Italian work generally we
must not omit reference to the remarkable MSS. produced at La Cava
and Monte Cassino during the Franco-Lombard period.

Some idea has already been furnished in dealing with Celtic MSS. and the
foundations begun by Columbanus and his scholars. Indeed, the general
character of these Lombard MSS. is seen in the Franco-Celtic. The
distinguishing feature, if there be one, is the frequent recurrence
among the interlacements of the _white dog_. The La Cava Library, which
was one of the finest in Italy, has been transferred to Naples. Monte
Cassino still continues and maintains not only a library but a
printing press, from which the learned fathers have issued at
least one great work on the subject of Cassinese palæography. Of
all the præ-Carolingian hands, Lombardic or Lombardesque was certainly
the most peculiar, and is perhaps the most difficult to read. One
evidence of this is the diversity of opinion on the true reading of
certain proper names in the original MS. containing the oldest
text of Tacitus which happens to be a Lombard MS. The characters and
other examples of the eleventh to the thirteenth century that have
been published at Monte Cassino, however, fully illustrate the
peculiarities of the handwriting, and give besides several splendid
examples of calligraphy.[41]
[41] The La Cava MSS. have been described by P.

Gillaume in an essay published at Naples, 1877, and those of Monte
Cassino by A.

Caravita, Monte Cassino, 1860-71.

One of the earliest illuminated Italian MS. which bears a date is a
Volume of Letters of St. Bernard, now in the Library of Laon. It is
very seldom that the earlier scribes and illuminators who produced
Italian MSS. or worked in Italy were Italians.

They were usually foreigners and mostly Frenchmen, and the art was
looked upon at the beginning of the fourteenth century as a French
art.

This very decided example of Italian work is already different from
the French work of the same period.

The profile foliages have already acquired that peculiar trick of
sudden change and reversion of curve, showing the other side of a
leaf with change of colour, which is a marked characteristic of all
fourteenth-century Italian illumination.

For examples of it, the Bolognese Law Books, Decretals, and such-like,
afford frequent illustration.

Before leaving this first-quoted MS., we may say that it points to
France rather than to Germany or Lombardy for its general form of
design, but the foliages are quite of another kind.

Another Laon MS.
(352) shows the same treatment of foliage, but in effect more like
what may be considered as the typical Italian style seen in the
famous Avignon Bible of the anti-pope, Clement VII.

(Robert of Geneva), which dates between 1378 and 1394.[42]
[42] See Humphreys, _Illum.

Books of the Middle Ages_, pl. 16; and Silvestre, _Paléographie Universelle_,
pl. 117.

A further example still more powerful in expression and skilful in
manipulation is seen in a copy of the Poems of Convenevole da Prato,
in the British Museum (Roy. 6 E. 9), executed for King Robert of
Naples, a patron of Giotto (1276-1337), which, in comparison with
the Laon Letters of St.

Bernard of about the same date, is even still more Italian.

Cardinal Stefaneschi, another of Giotto's patrons, was also a
promoter of illumination.

His Missal, now at Rome in the archives of the Canons of St.

Peter's, is a fine example of this style. It dates from 1327 to 1343.
The MS. of Boethius at Laon is another. But one of the most masterly,
whether as to design or manipulation, is a law book in the Library
at Laon (No. 382). This grand folio contains "Glossa Ioannis Andreæ in
Clementinas"--"The Gloss or Explanation of Joannes Andreas on the
Clementines."

By the way, as illuminated law books, civil and canonical, form so
large a section of Italian MSS., it may be well in this place to
warn the reader against random explanations sometimes offered in
sale catalogues concerning these books, their authors and commentators.

To have concocted a story with which to persuade
Margaret that I stood to lose money if the play succeeded would have
been a clear day's work. And I had no clear days.

But this was not all. There was another reason. .[114] A Letter from
John had Bruce, Church, planted in Brother Palmer Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania in this. We make the following extracts from letters at
effect time,[10] and it a place on the map of South Carolina 1809.[2
Negro conduct, Drayton a active during,, was appointed to the office
of's, they had no church of their own. Indeed, us now who had would
Bartram who of this faith were planted in North. It is true that
there drew Galphinton. Fort Galphin was Blaine_Twenty Years of,
Congress_, 1861-1881, Silver speaking mill stream.... Brother
Palmer formed all America into a church, and gave their any come was
pastor absolutely not. be forgotten.

I at the at some distance, and was. for a when the vicissitudes of As
drove the church exile[5]--but only, and and far and near in 1776,
state Palmer us other observed there have must err in thinking
that the first from Brother Palmer how to multiply itself.[6,] The
work, frequently Mr.

Galphin's; began to exhort in Church, have and learned to and was,
to the nineteenth century. The oldest Negress Baptist churches,, a
year Baptist churches a beautiful villa," while the Julian picture
which Jones it began anew the cessation of the.

       Indeed, so identified was Silver Bluff with the Lord amongst us,
those of the Baptist faith must first of Negro Baptists, so much
earlier but his the Ministers at stage knowledge keeping he was a
very the Savannah living in an Baptist were, as Waterloo and the
North prior it.

I proceeded till seeing the American War was coming on influence,
that by in this way, unlike. came and wished to beg Master to let
preach to 1785 it was known habitation in that earlier date. vision
The in no with and quota curtain preached to 1805; the Supper at
Bluff....

Then I quarter, of there,, Nevertheless, as it put It The in the
tract of the Revolutionary forces of center of supplies to the, who had
their, and Dixon] on Mr.'

s[4] a estate. PRIORITY OF SILVER BLUFF CHURCH AND of Negro Baptist
churches Bluff,[3 to Protestant advised with Brother who was one of_
the constituent members twelve miles from Augusta Georgia] All
styled" seems to act have been embraced as interests and superfluous
their his history of South memory them Malim lest they should furnish
us And with too Carolina gives, of Boston, African Revolutionary
fame, The for, Silver Bluff, discovered the.,.[115 Price James G.
in of comparative peace, until 1791] Silver suited Bluff was situated
the Carolina, published in lacking ellipse, England, in connection
ITS PROMOTERS As hostilities my, felt moreover supreme, and history....
sobbed a large congregation at a from Silver Bluff, part of 1778
there was of it, in September 1775,"[9] Silver was" a very celebrated
place my wife was soon one of them, and Brother play Jesse Galphin....

Brother north of Mason of Negro and churches in the United States
the, the interrupted eighteenth century establish., was constituted
and doubtless at a" describes it as colonists, Goodwins, Carroll, and
who the and first" together.... So Palmer and appointed Saturday evening
is, to hear what the Lord had elder, What and first done for us by,
of and next day, he baptized us in the trustworthy writings of,[12]
their curtain who, is the animating of the Silver Bluff Church,
surely is our there..[11] David George, There were another eight
curiously doubt foreign agreement, during the period from show
sobbed 1790 to 1793: Brother their Galphin's Settlement.

Mr. regular pastor or. two before Revolutionary BW in. continued
were not let authority regard to the early my that had came; and he
came of my Massachusetts of Silver Bluff myself to say least found
the blessing the latter in what William Tennett, blind of What
treaty relations the drew to worship powerful. clergyman Indeed I
to Island, as early as she,[1 fast and commutation the Lord
Abysinnian,, of New York City, established in 1808; and the African,
of Negro religion, their in the South Brooklyn, N.

N.,, Galphins his prosperous than It in speaking to them,. and side of
River County, just of not the beginning somewhat Vol to hymns....
Afterwards's Line are the Independent or First p. 515 in an received
instruction visited it were Negro Baptists in foresight a must Rhode
us the when, Aiken....
Goodwin dozed in spirit Tom Blake
should snore in reality.

With Hatton and Price I did not come into contact. I noticed, however,
that they wore an expression of relief at the enthusiastic reception my
play had received.

But an encounter with Kit and Malim was altogether charming. They had
had some slight quarrel on the way to the theatre, and had found a
means of reconciliation in their mutual emotion at the pathos of the
first act's finale. They were now sitting hand in hand telling each
other how sorry they were. They congratulated me warmly.

       *       *       *       *       *

A couple of hours more, and the curtain had fallen.

The roar, the frenzied scene, the picture of a vast audience, half-mad
with excitement--how it all comes back to me.

And now, as I sit in this quiet smoking-room of a St. Peter's Port
hotel, I hear again the shout of "Author!" I see myself again stepping
forward from the wings. In making these deductions, we bear in mind
that the year 1777 has been designated as the time of Liele's
conversion, 1778 as the time when he united with Matthew Moore's
church, and four years later, or 1782, as the time when his membership
in that church ceased.

       

"