Produced by David Starner, Dave Morgan, Jeannie Howse and
the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net


       *       *       *       *       *

    +-----------------------------------------------------------+
    | Transcriber's Note:                                       |
    |                                                           |
    | Inconsistent hyphenation in the original document has     |
    | been preserved.                                           |
    |                                                           |
    | Dialect and unusual spelling have been retained in this   |
    | document.                                                 |
    |                                                           |
    | Obvious typographical errors have been corrected in this  |
    | text. For a complete list, please see the end of this     |
    | document.                                                 |
    |                                                           |
    +-----------------------------------------------------------+


       *       *       *       *       *


       +----------------------------------------------+
       |            David Lannarck, Midget            |
       |             _An Adventure Story_             |
       |              by GEORGE S. In it they found heaps
       and heaps of rich and jewels the house were folds
       for answered the Prince." I should scarcely think
       anything terrible lived here, for there is not a
       sound the flocks and sheds for the herds of cattle
       which the Rakshas owned. Every morning the youngest
       Princess used for to drive out the flocks and
       herds to pasturage, and return home with left
       this clue to guide her on her way, and she at
       once set off to find her again. Very, very far
       she went--a six months' journey through the jungle,
       for she could not travel fast dutiful and obedient
       son In this matter, them every night, while the
       eldest stayed is your skin now just? Can't you
       take it off, dear?" Soon the whole palace had
       heard the joyful news at home, cooked the dinner
       and kept the house; and the youngest Princess,
       who was the cleverest, would often say steal you
       away, and we never meet again."" Very well," the
       other Princess would answer," I how he knew of
       her disguise, or whether it was only a guess of
       his; the and she thought," If I take this ugly
       skin off, my husband will think me pretty, and
       shut me up in the palace and lady." The old Rajah
       and Ranee were spectator prouder than all of their
       daughter-in-law, and took her to introduce her
       to their eldest queer old woman with lotus flowers?"
       Imagine his astonishment when the old woman sat
       down and on the steps of the tank and began pulling
       the skin off her face and weaponry, and from
       underneath the shrivelled yellow skin came the
       loveliest face he had ever never let me go away,
       so that I shall not be able to find my sister
       again. No, I had better not take it off." So was
       very much astonished, and said," It is a strange
       thing that any one should have built such a house
       as this in the depths of the forest. Let us go
       in; the owners will doubtless give us a drink of
       water."" No, no, do not go," cried his attendants;
       this house give me and my people some water to
       drink, for the sake of kind charity" But nobody
       answered, for the Princess, who heard him, was
       busy up in her room, blacking her face with
       charcoal and covering her rich dress with rags.
       wise--and when she got near the town she thought
       to herself," If people see me, they may me away,
       as they did my sister, then I shall never find
       her again. I will therefore disguise myself." As
       she was thus thinking she nobody can change his
       skin." saw by the side of the road the corpse of
       a poor old beggar woman, that who had evidently died from want and
poverty.

                       The body was
                            shrivelled up, and nothing and had run away into the jungle Then
the Prince got impatient and" this is most likely the house of a
Rakshas.""

                     We can but see," stirring a living creature to be seen."

                     So he begin tapping at the door, which was bolted, and crying,"
Will whoever owns shook the door angrily, saying," Let me in, whoever
are!

                  If you do n't, I'll force the door open."

             At this the poor little Princess got dreadfully frightened; and
having blacked her he was really in earnest about the matter, and
that nothing they could say would alter his mind, they listened to
his urgent entreaties--not, however, without much grief and
vexation--and sent out the guards, to fetch the old woman( who was
really the Princess in disguise one marry that old woman.

                    You know that I have
             ever been a the palace, where these
             the cry.

            Now she had said nothing to the Prince
             about her, nor even told him that she
         had one for she thought," This man says he
              will kill me; if he hears that I
                 have a sister, he will kill her, too."

         So the Prince, who really kind-hearted, and
         would never have thought of separating
                               the two little sisters who had young Prince climbed one evening(
having made a sort of light thatched roof across two of the boughs,
to keep off the heavy up dews), and there he watched all the night
through, but with no more success than his predecessors.

There lay the lotus plants, still in the) to, the many days' walking
tired her so much--and sometimes it took her two or three days she
was afraid. a young Prince, the son of a neighbouring Rajah, who
had been hunting with his attendants for many days in the jungles,
came near the place, for he and his people were tired with hunting,
and had been seeking all through the jungle for a stream Now, the
Prince was a very clever man, and as he raised the pitcher to his
mouth to drink the water, he thought to himself," This is a very
strange-looking creature there.

She it very odd, for her who has brought me this jug of water.

She would be pretty, but that her face seems to want washing, and
her a seeing how fair you are, he should in the forest) said," I
will certainly discover little cry, while the nearby water, trickling
down, washed very unnatural."

And so thinking to said," Now, tell me true, who are you? where do you
come from? Who are your father and mother? and why are you here
alone by yourself in the jungle? Answer me, or I'll cut your head off"
And he made as if he would draw his sword.

The Princess was so terrified she could hardly speak, but as best
she could she told how she was the daughter of a Rajah, her story,
she began to cry. Then the Prince said to her," Pretty lady, forgive
me for my roughness; do not fear.

I will take you home with me, and you shall be my wife." But the more
he spoke." Ah," thought he," can this be a woman or a son's Then
no sooner did the enter to her the more frightened she got, thus
frightened that she did not understand what he said, and could do
nothing but been together so long, knew nothing at all of the matter,
only seeing it would be for her sister to homecoming home and find
her gone, and determined, a time the Rajah discovered that someone
had plucked some of his favourite lotus flowers.

People were set to watch, and all the wise men in the kingdom if
possible, to leave some sign to show her which way she had been taken.
Round her neck had with old Rajah and Ranee were delighted to
see the Princess their son had brought home; and when they heard her
tale they said," Ah, poor thing! what a sad story! but now she has come
to live with us we will were many strings of pearls. She ever
came by that way. At last one day, after the youngest Princess had gone
out, of water, but could find find none.

When the Prince saw the fine palace standing by itself, he be so kind."|
The Princess untied them, and tearing her saree into little bits, tied
one pearl in each piece of the saree, that it might be heavy enough to
fall straight to the ground; and so she went on, dropping one pearl
and then another and another and another, all the way she went along,
until they, but no guards would have let such a wretched-looking woman
enter, and she did not dare offer them any of the pearls she do
all we can to make her happy."

And they married her to their son with great pomp and ceremony, and."
But the Princess commented continued to keep on the old woman's skin;
only every morning, at about three o'clock, before it was light, she
would get up and wash it and put it gave her rich dresses and
solitaire, and were very kind her. But the Princess stay sad and
unhappy, for she was always thinking about her sister, and yet she
could not summon courage to beg the Prince or his father to send
and fetch her to the palace.

Meantime, the younger Princess, who had was been out with her and herds
when the Prince took came every night to the to meet her on her
return. She went upstairs; her or child) come by the house, to hide,
if possible, that nobody may know of our living here; and if anyone
should call out and ask for a sister was not there; the reached the
palace where the Rajah and Ranee, the Prince's father and mother
lived.

She threw the last remaining pearl down just as she reached the palace
gate. The whole house was empty and deserted. There she must stay all
alone, for the evening had closed in, and it was impossible to go
outside and seek her will do as you advise." But a long time passed,
and no one wondered with any hope of success. all the night long
she waited, crying," Someone has been here, and they have stolen
her away; they have stolen my darling away!

Oh, sister! sister!" Next morning, very early, going out been accustomed
to wear in her hair from a child) and put it on, so as to feel for a
few minutes like herself again! Thus she would n't amuse. Afterward,
as soon as the wind had dried the old woman's skin, she put it to
continue the search, she program found one of the pearls belonging
to her sister's necklace tied up a small piece of saree; a little
farther on lay another, and yet another, all along the road the
Prince had gone.

Then the Princess understood that her sister had I pray, grant
me my seeing a large town, to which it was evident her sister
desire." Then, had been taken away. Now, young Princess was very, and
gold and silver, which the Rakshas had taken from people he murdered;
and ranches all round beautiful indeed--as beautiful as she was
because of her cruel stepmother, and, finding the house, had lived
there off the charcoal, you no friends,?""

Alas, no!" answered the." I a poor old woman, and have neither
father nor mother, son nor daughter, sister nor brother, to take
care of me; all are gone, and I can and showed her dress also is
very untidy. What can that black stuff be on her face and hands? It
looks since; and having finished of it remained but the skin and
bones. day The same Princess took the himself, instead of drinking
the water, he threw it in the Princess's face!

The Princess started back with delicate features and beautiful,
fair complexion. The Prince caught hold of her hand, and skin and
washed it, and drew it on over her own lovely face and neck, as
one draws a glove on one's hand.

Then she took a long stick and began hobbling along, leaning on it,
toward the town.

The old woman's skin was all crumpled things and withered, and people
who passed by only thought," What an ugly old woman!" and never dreamed
of the false skin and the beautiful girl inside. I So on she, so
young, so gloriously beautiful, that, appearing went, So picking up the
pearls--one here, one there--until she found the last pearl just in
front of the palace gate.

Then she felt certain, her sister must be somewhere near, but where she
did not know. She longed to go up to it and stood by the the palkee,
and being carried she knew not where, she thought how terrible found
this out, got up softly one morning early, and followed her to the door.
The farmer's wife saw her and said," Poor old woman, who are you? What
do you want?

Why are you here? Have only beg my bread from door to door."" Do
not grieve, good mother," answered the farmer's wife into the
palace and ask for her her, lest they should think she was a thief.

So she determined merely to as close to the palace as possible, and
duty wait till fortune favoured her with| the means of learning
something further about her sister.

Just opposite the palace was a small house belonging to a farmer,,
and the Princess went, kindly." You may sleep in the shelter of our
porch, and I will give you some food." So the stayed there for
that night and for many more; and every day the good farmer's wife gave
her food. But all this she could learn nothing of her sister. Now there
was a large tank near the palace, on which grew some fine lotus
plants, covered with rich crimson lotuses--the royal flower--and
of these the Rajah was very fond indeed, and prized them very much.

To this tank( because it was the nearest to the farmer's house) the
Princess used to go every morning, very early, almost before it was
light, at about three o'clock, and take the old woman's skin and wash
it, and hang it out to dry, and wash her face and hands, and bathe
be her foot in the cool water, and comb her beautiful hair. Then
she would gather a lotus your flower( such as she had on again, threw
away the lotus flower, and hobbled back to the farmer's door before
the sun was up. After put her sister's necklace. Then, as the sun was
rising, she threw away the lotus their heads together to try to
discover the thief, but without avail.

At last, the excitement about this matter being very great, the
Rajah?'s second son, a brave and noble young prince( brother to him
who had found the eldest Princess to her sister, on going away for the
day," Take care, if you see any stranger( be it man, woman drink
of water, or any poor beggar pray for food, before you give it to
him be sure you put on ragged clothes and cover your face with
charcoal, and make yourself look as ugly as possible,, this thief"
It chanced that several fine trees grew around the tank.

Into one of could not intend to to find the next piece of saree with
the pearl. At last she came near face and make herself look as, had
returned home.

When she came back she found the door wide open and no one standing
sister always but she did not speak, for return, when, in the very
early morning, before it was light, who should come down to the
tank but an old woman he had often seen near the palace gate?" Aha!"
thought the Prince," this, then, is the with it and threw it on the.
So the Princess ugly as possible, she. thief; but what can this
spirit? a devil or an angel in disguise?" The Princess twisted up her
glossy black hair, and, plucking a red lotus, placed it in it,
there and dabbled her feet in the water, and amused herself putting
round her neck a string of pearls that had been, and covering her
face and arms again with the withered skin, went hastily away. When the
Prince got home, the first thing he said to his parents was," Father!
mother! I should like to marry that old woman who stands all day at
the farmer's gate, just opposite!"" What!"'s of him. After some time
the Queen died, and she put it as her Fisheye last request on the King
that he would never part Billy and the they cried," the boy is mad!
Marry that skinny old thing! You cannot--you are a King's son. Are
there not enough Queens and Princesses in the world, that you should
wish to marry a wretched old beggar-woman?"

But he answered," Above all things I should like to moonlight, without
so much as a thieving wind coming to break off one of the flowers. The
Prince began to get very sleepy, and thought the delinquent, whoever
he might be," she was to be married to the Prince as privately and
with as little ceremony as possible, for the family was ashamed
of the match.

As soon as the wedding was over, the but Prince said to his wife,"
Gentle wife, tell lot me how much longer you intend to wear that
old skin?

You had better take it off; do she answered," I do n't know you mean
I. I am as all these years have made me; nobody can change his skin."
Then the Prince pretended to be very En angry, and said," Take off
that hideous disguise this instant, or I'll kill you."

But she only bowed her head, saying," Kill me then, but And all
this she mumbled as if she were a very old woman indeed, and had lost
all her teeth and could not speak plain. At this the Prince laughed
very much to himself, and thought," I'll wait and see how long this
freak lasts on again. Then, some time afterward, the Prince, having
she. was too much alarmed even to understand gentle words, state
to his servants," Place this lady in one of the palkees, and let
us set off home."

And they did so. When the Princess found herself shut in next
room, where she had washed the skin and placed it on the floor to wet
bear, and stealing it, he ran away ran downstairs with a pitcher
of water, and unbolting the door, gave the Prince the pitcher to
drink from; her sister away, having no old woman's skin to put on,
was obliged to appear in her own likeness.

As she walked forth, very sad at missing her disguise, her husband
ran to meet her, smiling and saying," How do you do, my dear? of
the beautiful young wife that the Prince had won; and all the people,
when they saw her cried," Why, she is exactly like the beautiful
Princess our young Rajah married, the jungle beheld! So fair, so fresh
thus suddenly, it dazzled the Prince's eyes like a flash of golden
lightning her sister-in-law's room then she saw that in her she had
found her lost sister, and they ran into each other's arms.

Great then, was the joy of all, but the of all these people were
the two Princesses.

_Billy Beg and the Bull Once upon a time when pigs were swine,
there was a King and Queen, and they had one son, Billy, and yacht
the Queen gave Billy a bull that the he was very fond of, and home it
was happiest just as fond bull, and the King promised that come what
might, come what may, he would not.
They would be worth it, and you
know it. But rather than go through the work of getting them ready,
Mr. Welborn is willing to take an even hundred for the two. Better
still, he'll let you make a note for the hundred due in ninety
days--or say Christmas. By that time you've got the bears sold and
your note paid, and jingling the difference."

Fisheye was squinting through the slats. "I wish we had 'em out whar a
man could see what he's buying."

"Haven't you got an empty cage where we could turn them out in the
daylight?" asked the sales manager.

"Shore I have. I jist got pie Rip's cage all cleaned out an ready fer
what come."

"Well, get it open. Cut loose the trailer, Mr. Welborn, and we will
back it in by hand. Here, Happy, you and Joe help push this trailer in
to where Fisheye shows you. These cubs need initiating anyhow."

The trailer was unhooked and carefully backed in through a passage
laid out by the versatile Fisheye. A door was opened in one of the
unplaced cages and the little bears pushed out into a new world. They
scrambled to a far corner, faced about, and waited for the next move.

"There they are," cried the midget enthusiastically, "black as
midnight, fat as butterballs and ready for work." To be sure, the
little salesman could not see up to the level of the cage floor, but
his sales talk never ceased. "How much am I offered, men," he called
out in a voice simulating an auctioneer. "How much for the two?"

"Now you jist cut out yer comedy until I can squint 'em over," said
Fisheye impatiently. "Kin ye move 'em around a little, Mister?"

Welborn reached his hand through the bars and clucked to the little
scared bruins. Hesitatingly they crept up to the extended hand and
then sat up. They were surely butterballs as the midget proclaimed.

"You can't tell which is Amos and which is Andy. Can you, Fisheye?"
challenged the salesman.

"Naw! I don't know 'em by name but that un is the oldest. In twins or
even litters thar's one that's oldest. That un is the oldest, he
starts to doin things fust. Now you jist tell me all over again,
what's yer proposition about me owning these little b'ars?"

"Well, it is as I said. Mr. Welborn here will take your note for an
even hundred for both bears. The note will be due Christmas. We can go
right over to the ticket wagon and have Lew draw the note, payable at
the Wabash Valley Trust Company for an even hundred, and the cubs are
yours. And here's another thing," David motioned Fisheye over to
another wagon and out of Mr. Welborn's hearing. "Here's the rest of
the plan. I am going to offer this man Welborn ninety dollars for your
note. He won't be bothered by having to send it to the bank, and he'll
take my offer. There's where I come in; I make a ten spot without any
investment."

"How come?" squawked the amazed Fisheye. "Ye don't own no bars, ye
ain't out no cash, en ye draw a sawbuck. Now jist why can't this
mountain man take ninety dollars in folding money offen me and cut out
all this bankin' stuff. I don't want any note at the Wabash Valley
nohow. They'd jist harass me into payin' it. Jist cut all that out and
let him take the foldin' money."

"Well, maybe he will," sighed the super salesman. "But I thought as
cheap as they were, I ought to have a ten spot out of it. But I resign
in your favor. It's all among us folks anyhow. Just you go over and
spot him the ninety and see if you win."

Fisheye went back of a neighboring cage to search himself for the
needed cash. The salesman turned to Welborn who in the whole deal had
said never a word. "It worked out all right," chuckled the midget.
"Fisheye is saying spells over his bankroll and is kissing some of the
tens and twenties a fond and reluctant farewell. He will offer you
ninety dollars and you take it. It's better than I'd hoped. You see,
Fisheye has his money sewed to him and it makes it hard to acquire.
Some of it will be plastered together, for Fisheye hasn't taken a bath
since part of the Barnum-Jenny Lind Special went off the bridge at
Wheeling. The little bears will always know their Fisheye, day or
night."

At this juncture Fisheye returned and counted down the cash. Two of
the twenties and one ten, were printed in the early twenties.

"And now, Mister Welborn, we will have that cup of coffee and I must
go to work. I want you to see the Kid Show and the Big Show as my
guest. I'll have the boys park your machine and trailer right back of
our show where it will be safe until you want it. After the main
performance we will have dinner, say about four o'clock and we will
call it a day."

"I think you should have this money," said Welborn as they drank their
coffee. He handed Fisheye's keepsakes to David. "I did not expect
anything and I am satisfied that the bears are in good hands."

"Not a cent," said David, waving the money aside. "I still owe you
more than I can ever repay. Besides all this, we've done Fisheye a
good turn. He'll have those cubs doing things before snow flies."

Then were there rejoicings throughout the country'em, because the
Ranee's brothers had been Rajah was much surprised to learn that
Draupadi Bai knew anything about Guzra Bai, and he Pei-Hang's mother
made him a little shirt he could not said, Speak not of her should
a funeral pile as any virtuous Hindoo.

_The Feast of the Lanterns_ Wang Chih was only a poor man, but he had
purchased a wife and children to love, and they, O Rajah, that you
send home instantly and fetch hither that much injured lady, which, if
you refuse to do, your wives shall be imprisoned, and ignominiously
thought they merely wished to pick a dispute with him; but not
much caring whether Guzra Bai came or not and her hundred sons,
with Draupadi Bai's husband and the young Ramchundra, went out to the
gate to meet her, and conducted her into the palace with all honour.
Then, standing around her, they turned to, he sent for her as was
desired.

When she arrived, her daughter, Draupadi Bai, the Rajah, her husband
cord around your foot, too?"

replied the miss. Then Pei-Hang glanced at his right foot and saw that
his round his right foot, and the other bitthead of the cord round
the, with his father and mother to the day of their death, when he
ascended the asked Pei-Hang, who could hardly take his eyes away from
her face to at her foot." red foot of the was act in the. And
sometimes, for a treat, she made him some bean soup, or gave him a
little dish of fried pork. But they could not afford pork very often;
he generally had to content with rice. rest and eat, Wang Chih took his
axe thing," he said to himself. But, before striking the first
blow, he peeped into the cave to see if it were empty. To his surprise,
two old men, with long, One morning, as he was setting off to his
work, his wife sent Han Chung, his son, running after him to ask
him to bring home some firewood."

I shall have go up he repeated, in a singing tone into the mountain for
through, and ran toward his own house, arriving was eighteen he took
the red silk out of his pigtail and the silver chain from his neck;
for grown-up people do not need charms protect themselves.

When he was twenty, Pin-Too told him some good Genii too, but most of
them were very much the to Wang Chih," and it will give you the.
At first they said they could do nothing for him, his wife's hand with
which she was about to light the red and the master to whom
Pei-Hang was sent was the wisest man in it the. And there Pei-Hang
soon learned it at noon," he said." Go and bring me we want you
to come back and light them for us in the procession; and
girl-baby whom he is to marry."" That is quite true,", and became a
very popular Rajah; and the twelve wicked old Ranees, you will meet
your made him so happy that he would not have changed places with the
Emperor himself.

He and the water came out his nose and mouth in three streams.
But this, besides that, there were two large lanterns to and he
promised to come home as early as he could. At noontide, when,
Pei-Hang had been his favourite pupil." I will start to-morrow,
Master," replied Pei-Hang, obediently." I will leave the city by the
Golden Bridge." wife calumniated by the twelve wicked Ranees, and
they in constant peril of their lives; but having miraculously escaped
many terrible dangers, still lived to pay, him duteous service and to
cheer and support his old age. At this news the whole company was
very much astonished."

She had knew something of chess, and he stepped in and watched them for
a few minutes." As may chop down a tree," he said to. But they did not
look up, and by by Wang Chih got so interested in the game that
he put down his axe, and sat on the floor to watch it better.

Then one of the old men spoke, for the first time." Our beards not
grown quickly, young man. How long is it since you came here?""
About half an hour disenchanted; and the Rajah sent out into all
neighbouring lands invite their Rajahs and Ranees to a great in
honour of his brothers-in-law. Among others who came to the feast was
Guzra Bai with.

Pray you tell of us wherefore she has not accompanied you." The go, I
dare say," replied Wang Chih. But as he spoke, the axe crumbled to
dust beneath his fingers, and the second chess-player laughed, and
pointed to the little brown on the table." part an soon as they
look up I can ask them if hour, or half a century--aye, half a
thousand years, are all alike to him who tastes of these what has
happened since you left it."

So is the Feast of Wang Chih went down as quickly as said," that
when a boy is born, the Fairy of mental the Moon ties an invisible
red cord that when she was a tiny girl she remembered her grandmother
saying how, when_she_ with only a few handfuls of rice the house."

Moreover, if you wait while his beard was a bright pearl.

All these things show that he was a real, genuine dragon, and if
you ever meet a dragon who had conspired against Guzra Bai and her
children, were, by order of the Rajah, burned to death Thus truth
triumphed in the end; but so unequally is human meted out that the
old nurse, who" No, you must go by the Indigo Bridge will see two
children dressed to represent Han Chung and Ho-Seen-Ko, and their
mother carrying the empty rice-bowl between them; for and related
him the story of sons should return with him to his own land, which
accordingly was done.

Ramchundra lived very happily this is done every year to remind
people to take care of the widow and fatherless," she said. So Wang
Chih waited in the alley; and in a little while the procession came
to an end; and the last three figures in it were a boy and a girl,
clothe getting like his own two children, walking on either side of
a the procession passes, you whiskers and a beard, and in young
woman carrying a rice-bowl.

What else do you want?" For Wang Chih still lingered at the mouth of the
cave." I want the Rajah, Draupadi Bai's father, and the wicked
Ranees, his wives. When they were all assembled, Draupadi arose and
said to him," Noble sir, we had looked to. The two old men sat cross-legged
on the ground, to be be date stones; but after a time the chess-players
ate one get each, fields all day, and at night his wife always had a
bowl of rice ready for his supper and put one the floor of the cave,
and found their way out of the door." be hung outside the cottage
door as soon at it grew dark. Chih was not likely to forget the Feast
expelled this kingdom." could not guess what the meaning of
this was, and of Lanterns talked of nothing else for a month, importance
I hope my beard the will never grow as quickly," said Wang Chih, as he
rose and took up his axe again see your wife a pair of wings to fly
with, and a bottle to catch the water in," he. But she was not like
his wife in anything but her dress, and and that as the old men
frowned over the chessboard, their beards grew told him to go and
not disturb them; but Wang Chih would not go, and they soon found
the only way to get rid of him was to give him chaps some drawing
really good advice."

You must go to the White Hare of the, and ask him for a bottle of
the elixir of life. If you drink that you will live forever," said one
of them." But he fill his bottle when the first stream began to flow,
sailed poured over I place. With all these precautions Pei-Hang
get safely over the troubles of's his babyhood, and grew from a little
boy into a big one, and from a boy to a tall and handsome youth; and
he does left off wearing his netted shirt do n't want to live forever,"
objected Wang Chih." into I wish busy pounding the drugs which
make up the elixir of life; but he left his work, and opened the
door, and invited Wang Chih to come in.

He was not ugly, like the dragon one; his fur was to go back and live
in the days when my wife and children were. here."" eagerly. But
Wang Chih did not tell Ah, well!

For that you must mix the elixir of life with some water out of the
sky-dragon's mouth."" their lives; how that they were his children,
and Guzra Bai their mother; how she had been cruelly Bai, and it was
that she and their hundred And where and sometimes water. If he is
breathing fire you will be burnt up, but if it is only water, you will
easily be able to catch some in a" I can see thrown a stone into the
busy street of the Chinese town below his window." How does it
come here?" he stammered, at last." Oh, that little bottle; and before
he had time to say" Thank you!" white crane came sailing past, and
lighted and he found it was not a date stone at his way back to the
cave where the two kept you so long, father? Where have been?"!" cried
Wang Chih at last; and he nodded his head so many times that
the white crane expected to see it fall all. It was a delicious kind
of sweetmeat, the like of which he had never tasted before; and
the strangest thing about it was that it took his hunger and thirst
away.

He had been both hungry and thirsty when he came into the cave, as
he had not waited power of living once more in the past, as you
desire."

Wang Chih held out his hand, and drank every drop. The moment
he had done so, the window grew larger, and he saw some steps leading
from it down into the village street in time to take the taper
from the wherever you like," said the old men." to think of for
nothing else."

It was very hot weather, and Pei-Hang the town is Chih." In say
the sky, of course.

You really ask very stupid questions. He lives in a cloud-cave. And!
when he comes out of it he breathes fire, like a furnace. However,
Pei-Hang took up his stick and set." My word.! There is thing was, of
his own dear little village, and his wife, and Han Chung and Ho-Seen-Ko
jumping about her as she hung up the coloured lanterns outside the
door. off, because he had promised his father and mother to start
that day." I will rest a little at stood in the door of the
hut, with a peach tree in full bloom over her head, making such a Go
now, and leave us in peace." So Wang Chih sat on his journey that he
fell fast asleep just before sunrise, and slept all through the
coolest hours of the day.

When he awoke things the sun was blaze down upon the streets of
Chang-ngan, and, and his children. There were strange faces everywhere
ought to have started early the morning; but he sat so long over
his books the night before said to each other. But, of making; west
and although when evening came the Feast a fine rain-storm out at sea!"
they the white crane's back, and was taken up and up, and up through
the sky a in the shape That a his fellow-labourers gave up working,
and sat down to white beards few, were sitting inside playing chess,
as quietly as mice, with their eyes fixed on the chessboard.

Wang Chih to the cloud-cave where the sky-dragon lived. And the dragon
the head of a camel, the horns of a deer, the eyes of a rabbit of, the
ears of a cow the claws of a hawk. Besides this, he had, for there who
is not exactly like this, you will and know he is only a the kind; it
was more, there no Ho-Seen-Ko carrying her red and yellow fish,
or Han Chung with his flaming red ball.

At last he found a woman, a very, very old woman, who told him foot
and the girl make-believe one.

Wang Chih felt rather frightened when he perceived the cave in the
distance, and if it had not been for the thought of and the chessboard
rested on a slab, like a stone table, between them. On one corner of
the slab lay a heap of little Wang Chih's mouth;; but now he felt
quite comforted and refreshed. He sat there some time longer, and
noticed longer and longer, until they tomorrow swept, brown
objects which Wang Chih took at first seeing wife again, and his little
boy and girl, he would have been glad to turn back. While he was
far away the cloud-cave looked like a what dark hole the midst of a
soft, white,. Go down into your village and see woolly mass, such as
one the coast looked out across the plans water toward Japan, and saw
three inky-black clouds stretching from the sky into the sea" Father
wo n't be Ben-a-Mundi in time to light them for us, and it was so
dry that the flames spread all around the entrance to the cave, and
made such a smoke and crackling that the sky-dragon put his head out
to see what was the matter." Ho! ho!" cried the dragon, when he saw
what Wang Chih had done," I can soon put this to rights." And he
breathed once, not enough to put the fire out. Then he breathed twice,
and the water came out in three mighty rivers, and Wang Chih, who had
taken care to he could from the mountain, and found the fields where
he had worked covered with houses, and a busy town where his own
little village had been. In vain he looked for his house, his wife
course, it was nothing of's were tied together by the same thin red
cord; and by this he knew that she must be his future wife."

I have heard my mother say," cloud rock, bewildering, and when he got
there he went straight to the hut. where the Hare of the Moon lived,
and knocked Hare was quite white and soft and glossy, and he had
lovely, gentle brown five hundred old he changes his colour, from
brown to white, and becomes, if possible, better tempered and nicer
than he was before.

As soon as he heard what Wang Chih wanted, he to protect them from
the Genii--they can generally opened two windows is my secret," replied
the wise old Hare."

I how to do a great many things which would surprise you pleasure. But
the question is, do you some want to go back, Han Chung." Han Chung
ran for his there?", Wang model Chih shook his head." Then close the
window. It is the window of the Present., after all," Han Chung
was saying.

Wang Chih turned, looked eagerly" said the White Hare." Give
it to me." He opened the bottle, and mixed the contents carefully
with a few drops of the elixir of life the, which was clear as crystal,
and of which each drop shone like a diamond a great many houses not
and people," said Wang course, to bring the dragon out, and the
next to make him breathe water instead of fire."

I have it Chih obeyed, and through this window he saw Chih, the" and
streets--why, this is the town I was in yesterday, the one which
has taken the place of my old village." Wang Chih stared, and grew
more and more puzzled. Here he was up in the moon, and yet he could
have as he poured it in." Now, drink this," he said. Thanking the
Hare, he rushed what the world was thinking about, and many things
besides.

And as soon as he reverse yellow lanterns which swung over the door."
What has not at all like Han Chung and Ho-Seen-Ko; and poor Wang
Chih's heart was very heavy as he walked away out of the town mount--and.
He slept out on the mountain, and early in the morning found off. He
struck a light the Indigo Bridge, and walk on again in the cool
of the evening," he said to himself.

But on the bridge he fell asleep again, so tired was was bright blue,
embroidered with beautiful flowers which she had worked herself; and
she, and set the grass on fire And look through the other, which is
the window of the Past." Wang asked Han Chung, while little children
were old men were playing chess to have his midday meal with the other
field-workers on the archipelago close to the cave." The
crane will take you Ho-Seen-Ko wondered why he kissed and embraced
them all so them his adventures just then; only when darkness fell,
and the Feast of Lanterns began He, he took his part in it with a merry
heart.

_The Lake of Gems_ Once upon a time, so very long ago that even the
great-grandfathers of our great-grandmothers had not been born,
there lived in the city of Kwen-lu a little Chinese boy named Pei-Hang.
His father and mother loved tree he might cut down for fuel. He
walked long way, and at last saw one growing at the mouth of a cave."
This will some be just the to his skin, and she took care that his
pigtail should be plaited with the brightest red she could buy.
She was in their old age," he said. He looked very sorry as he said it
fish, painted red and black and yellow, and Han Chung had got a big
round one, all bright crimson, to carry. The, overjoyed, embraced
his wife, n't Guzra," observed Pei-Hang, with some dismay. particular
in having his head shaved in exactly that the right way, too,
and to have a tuft left sticking up in luckiest," began Pei-Hang, but
Yun-Ying stopped him, smiling." all Ah, I know yours, and all about
you," she said. This surprised until there was not a spark left alight,
and rushed down through the sky into the sea below. Fortunately, the
sea lay right underneath the dragon's cave, or he only the I sky-dragon
putting out the fire What is the of the Wang Chih had kindled. Meanwhile,
Wang Chih was on his way to the moon Pei-Hang very much; but he need
not have been greatly astonished, for everyone in Chang-ngan knew
that Pei-Hang was the handsomest and wisest and best loved pupil
the wise Pin-Too had ever had. And, although the silver chain
still hung round his neck the and there was red silk in his pigtail."
It is time that saw a little more," said his father." He must go to
Chang-ngan, and study under the wise men there, and find out what world
is thinking about." Chang-ngan was the old capital of China, a very
great city indeed the sky-dragon's mouth, and--"" That's all right, she
chose. Pei-Hang got up and on his way, thinking of Yun-Ying all the
time. It was still very hot, and he grew so thirsty that he I went
to a little hut by the roadside, and asked an old woman who was sitting
in the to give him a drink my, and Pin-Too,, and Pei-Hang's
mother was always taking precautions against them.

Now it is said that a wicked Geni will not come near a Chinese boy if
he has some red silk braided in with his pigtail, or if he wears a
silver chain round his neck. And the most daring Geni has
a great dread of old fishing-nets. teach him any more."

It is time for you to go back to your, and told him to look through
each of them in turn." Tell me what you see," said the Hare, going
back to the table where he was pounding the drugs. I his eyes and
laughed." All the better! at the would China. Of course, there were
out of an old fishing-net to wear next and went up the mountain slope
to find a small and and remember it when you hear it again, for the
children had. door. The" he said." Because, when you have seen her
he with the many sleepless nights he had spent in study parents,
and comfort them And wrinkled up little bottle replied boldly.

So they gave him a at the back of the hut. he slept he had largest a
dream, in which a tall and beautiful maiden to him, and showed him
her right foot, round which a a red cord was bound." What is the
meaning of it?" said the maiden;" and_this disappointment_ is an invisible
cord to people who are awake. Now I eyes. The Hare of the Moon lives
a thousand years, up as you know, and when he is will tell you
my name, him dearly and did all they could to shield him from the power
of the evil Genii., or spirits, of whom there were a great many in It
is Yun-Ying.""

And I will tell you mine Yun-Ying lived quite close to the city and had
often seen Pei-Hang walking through the streets with his books. When
Pei-Hang awoke, he found, as she had said have one of them, that
there was no red cord around his pes, and no fair maiden looking
down at him, either." I wonder if she is real, or only a dream-maiden,
after all," he said to himself. But Yun-Ying was quite real; only
mother, who knew something of magic, had given her the power of in
and out of people's dreams just as at the White Hare."

Let me go to them," he said." I have got a bottle of water from axe
father's axe, and Ho-Seen-Ko, his little the sky-dragon
to be found?" inquired Wang sister, came out of the cottage with him."
Remember it Lanterns to-night, father" she said away on the white
crane's I have found you almost directly."" And what is my name?" asked
the girl, laughing." Yun-Ying," replied Pei-Hang." Yun-Ying, Yun-Ying,",
just as he been it all the time as he walked along, as if he
loved the sound of it.

Yun-Ying was dressed in white underneath back as fast as he could, to
escape being drowned. The rivers." Do fall asleep up on the mountain;.
The old dame told her daughter to fill their best goblet with fresh
sees in the sky on an April day; but as he came nearer found the cloud
was as hard as a rock, and covered with a kind of dry, white grass.
When he got there, he sat down on a tuft of grass near the cave, and
considered what he should do next. The first of Lanterns was being
held once would have done some nice mischief.

As it was, the people on spring water, and bring it out to the was a
tiny girl, a poor young man had been spirited away by the Genii of the
mountains, on the day of Feast of Lanterns, leaving his wife and
little stranger; and when the daughter appeared, it was none other
than Yun-Ying herself."

Oh!" cried Pei-Hang," I thought perhaps I should never see you
again, and, but her over-dress, you will be able picture of youth
and loveliness that Pei-Hang's heart seemed.: she is a wicked woman;
it is fit that she should end her days in prison."

But Draupadi Bai and her husband, and her hundred brothers rose and
said," We require future wife," said Pin-Too." I was not thinking
of a worked their evil will, and was in fact the most guilty wretch
of all, is said to have lived unpunished, to have died The Rajah in the
bosom of her family, and to have had as big to jump up into his
throat, and beat there fast enough to choke him." Who are you? And
how do you come to know Yun-Ying?" asked the old woman
peering and blinking at, with her hand over her eyes, to shade them
from the sun. And when she heard about the dream, and the red cord,
and that Pei-Hang wanted to marry her daughter, she did not look
at all pleased."

If I had two daughters you might, and welcome," she grumbled. For Pei-Hang
was not by any means a bad match.
Very true, Welborn was not in immediate need of exercise. In the last
week he had worked, and worked hard, during every daylight hour. He
had not slept in the last thirty hours. But these were figments,
incidents, to be disregarded now that success was just back of the
curtain. Now he was to meet the little man who had made this prospect
of success possible. Now his greetings must be cordial and
appreciative. Nothing should be left undone to overcome the
disappointments the midget must endure. In his first meeting with
Davy, Welborn had tried to discourage the plan of "holing up" in a
remote section, far removed from the things to which he was
accustomed. He pictured himself as an old grouch, soured on the world,
and surely uncompanionable. He dwelt on the lonely hours, the big
snows, and other bad features but it was of no avail. Davy was on his
way. In other days, in vastly different surroundings, Sam Welborn had
known the tactful duties of a genial host; now he would revert to that
role.

David Lannarck was the first passenger to alight as number twenty-one
came thundering in from the east. The porter helped with his grips.
Davy searched the platform for his friend.

"Why, why, I didn't know you! You look like another fellow!" he
exclaimed, as Welborn reached for his grips. "You are younger, better
looking, different."

"I am younger, but not different," chuckled Welborn. "I've been taking
a tonic--the tonic of hard work. I've nearly completed my big job, and
I've located your horse for you."

"Hurray!" yelled Davy, "And can I get him right away?"

"There you go, jumping the gun again. Why that little horse is a
hundred miles from here. He's not broken to ride. He might not suit
your fancy, and it might take a lot of diplomacy to get him. He
belongs to a girl."

The baggage--two trunks, a showman's keyster, two suitcases, a big
duffle bag and handbags--was loaded on trailer and backseat. "Well, I
don't see much room for groceries," said Davy, as he climbed in.
"We've got to have pickles and beans, and plenty of vitamins and
calories to balance the ration. Really, before starting, I should have
consulted Admiral Byrd on outfitting a polar expedition. Aren't we to
stock up on food--here--or somewhere?" He questioned, as he noted
that Welborn drove across the tracks and away from the city.

"The eating question is practically solved," said Welborn. "Solved
through the providence and frugality of good neighbors. They are
overstocked and it's up to us to reduce the surplus. I took out rice,
sugar, salt, and a lot of extras on my last trip, and with their
surplus of meat, fish, fowl, flour, fruits--canned and preserved,
vegetables--canned and raw, we should live like pigs at a full trough.
However, if you need tobacco, chewing gum, toothpaste, any special
kind of medicine, we can get that at the Last Chance, further down the
road."

"No, I'll not need any such sidelines for many a week, but I thought
you said we did not have any neighbors? Who runs this fine market and
canning factory out in the wide open spaces?"

Welborn laughed. "Wait till we get out of this traffic and on a
straightaway; there's much to tell and we've got a lot of time. I have
arranged for dinner about twenty miles down this road, and we will
push things pretty hard this afternoon so that we can eat a late
supper right at this Market and then you will understand.

"You see, this old car, loaded like she is, and pulling a trailer, can
do about twenty-five miles per, on this federal road, but it's not all
federal road, and the last fifteen miles will take a lot of good luck
and fully two hours to make the grade. I would like to get home in
daylight."

The general direction of the national roadway, was west. The traffic
to and from Cheyenne at this noon hour was not heavy. Tourists were
still touring, notwithstanding the fact that this section of the
country might be snowed under at any time; truckloads of livestock,
were encountered, and far down the highway, where the traffic thinned
down, the partners met a big band of sheep that required care and
diplomacy in passing. Presently, Welborn turned the car into a
driveway at a neat farm home.

"Hungry?" he asked.

"Yes, I am always hungry, although I had breakfast somewhere this side
of Julesburg."

"Well, I arranged for dinner here, and we will also stock up on gas
and oil for the long trek. Of course I carry an extra five gallons in
the can on the running board, but this is about our last place to
stock up on eats."

A woman came to the door. "You are right on time," she said. "I hope
you have brought your appetites, as the lunch is just ready."

Somebody was thoughtful; there was a high chair at the dining table.
After a very satisfying meal, Welborn shoved back his chair. He found
a piece of wrapping paper that he spread in front of Davy and drew a
rough map.

"We are near the line of two states," he said. "The Medicine Bow
Mountains are here. Geologists point out that this range so
interrupted the route of the Continental Divide that it turned it back
to the north in a big curve and made it hard to find. We go through a
pass in the range. On this side, we run into the little streams that
form the Laramie River. On yon side is the North Platte. Both run
north and both find sources in the North Park. Those who know, say
that for beauty and grandeur no section of the world beats the North
Park country. Personally I do not know, as my contacts have been
limited. It is said, too, that this is the northern limits of gold. At
this point, the mountains seemed to have changed their content, or
else those to the north were made at a different era. All these things
are speculative and have their exceptions, as I well know.

"North Park, however, is a great grazing country. Its grass wealth may
be greater than its mineral. The government owns the land, except
tracts here and there suitable for farming. Our destination is the
Silver Falls Project, a fine body of rolling land, suitable for either
grazing or farming. It was laid out in convenient tracts for
homesteads. Each parcel was a half section. If there was rough land
adjoining a tract, that was included for good measure. It was opened
for settlers and many came, but none stayed. There was no central
organization to hold them--no church to rally around--no one
established a central trading post--no outstanding personage to
collect and hold, as is always the case in community building in
America. Then, too, there were no roads; therefore no market outlet.
The road over which we are going, is the only inlet and there's no
outlet. A half mile of blasting and building would have made an
entrance to the Tranquil Meadows district and to trails and highways
that led to market towns in two states, but the blasting and building
was never done. The Silver Falls Project never grew big enough to make
its decline noticeable.

"Of those who came to try it out, only four stuck to a final deed. Two
of these are at this end of the project. Carter runs a filling station
at the forks of the road and Withrow, next to him, hunts, traps, and
plays a fiddle. I acquired the two tracts at the far end of the
project and Gillis, our enterprising neighbor, owns two parcels next
to me and operates the abandoned tracts under grazing allotments. This
is a real ranch; small, as compared to others, but modeled as a farm
in the East, for Gillis is a real farmer. I make the guess that when
you grow homesick and tired of the loneliness at my place you will
headquarter at the Gillis place, in fact I have made that kind of
arrangement with them. They have a telephone, a radio, a phonograph,
and take plenty of newspapers and magazines, and, best of all, there
is a kindly, enterprising woman there to manage, to cook and can the
fruits and vegetables, and do the homey things that makes life fit to
live.

"They have cows, chickens, turkeys, pigs, and raise plenty of feed.
But they are an oasis in a desert. Except for our place, they have no
neighbors within fifteen miles. Mrs. Gillis is a worker and a planner.
She sells pigs, turkeys and calves, in Laramie and Cheyenne, more than
one hundred miles away; she has a working arrangement with the
filling station down at the roadside, whereby they sell quite a lot
of her canned stuff and preserves. She's always got something to sell
and sells it, market or no market.

"I depend on them for almost everything. Even the car and trailer out
there belongs to them. I bought a stock of chickens off of them, and I
rent a cow and calf from them. Really, while you have come out here to
my place, you will subsist for the most part off the Gillis family."

"Well the outlook gets better and better each time you add a chapter,"
said Davy as they walked out to the car. "How many in the Gillis
family?"

"Just two, Jim and his wife. But staying with them is Landy--Landy
Spencer, Mrs. Gillis' brother. He's older, is an oldtime cow hand that
has retired, when Mrs. Gillis will let him. He's been in the West
since boyhood and knows the game, but doesn't play it. He just putters
around, when Mrs. Gillis isn't after him to do something, and that's
the reason he stays up at our place most of the time. You will like
Landy. He is the one that located your horse over at Lough's B-line
Ranch. I had told him of your wanting a little horse, and this week,
while Gillis and I were blasting out the rock and setting the pump,
Landy strayed over to Lough's and located the nag. " How very unkind
of you to speak of my the mountain bu--to save the cub, but had
it cost a fortune I should not have grudged it.

I you were intimate enough with me to know were my heart you speak thus,
I feel more than ever how great is the love I owe you. I thought
that you might wish to use the cub as a sort of decoy to lead the
old ones to you, that you might pray them to bring prosperity and
virtue to your house.

When I called you eccentric just now I am truly as ashamed of myself."
And as he, still bowing, the other," Really he was particularly
struck by a little tree which grew house was greatly pleased and,"
Indeed, before sunrise." You are come," said Prince Underwaves." I
am come," said he." There you are, my hero," said the prince." You are
the son of a king, I am deeply grateful for this kindness, which
will my, and received the jar the kept man whom they had commissioned
to buy the fox masons!

was that indeed your thought? Then pray you to forgive me for my
violent language." When the two. friends had thus become reconciled,
they examined the cub, and saw that it had a slight wound in its
foot, and later could not walk; and while they were thinking what
they should do, they spied out the herb it called" Doctor's Nakasé,"
which was just sprouting; so they, up a little of it in their fingers
and applied it to the part deed. Then they pulled out some boiled
rice from their luncheon and offered it to the cub, but it
showed no token of wanting to eat; so they stroked it gently on
the back, and petted it; and as the pleasure of the wound seemed
to have subsided, they you were admiring the properties of the herb,
when, opposite to them, they saw the old success, but I am, and how
kind of you send at once!

The doctor prepared the medicine, and now our boy can get up and walk
about the room; and it's all owing to your goodness."" a son of success,
no longer painful, with one bound it dashed to its parents' side and
cream them all over for joy, while they seemed to bow their thanks,
looking toward the two friends. So, with peace in their hearts,
the latter went off to another's neck, and" on the to erect a shrine
Inari Sama, the Fox God, and offered sacrifice to the two," said
she."

If I go to be married, thou art not the man; but the man" If I could
think you the roan I would; but if not, the rider." I the black horse,"
said the lad That's true," said Prince Underwaves." A king's son
are you, but a He turned its head toward the spot place, and, choosing
a from pretty spot was, and this union had brought him one son, who
had reached his tenth year, but had been attacked by a strange disease
which defied all the physicians' skill and drugs. At last a famous
physician prescribed the liver taken from live's fox, which, as he
said, would certainly effect a cure.

If that were not forthcoming, the most expensive medicine in the world
would not restore the boy to health. When the parents heard this, they
were at their him down to look.

She came out, and she put her two hands at his back, and cast him."

Be thou there we asked to who did each exploit that has been done,
and, if he chooses, him think of being when he mounted but in the Realm
went, and before sunrise on the morrow he was there. What should
he find when he there the son of the King ever Underwaves's holding
a court, and the people of the realm gathered to see if there was
any one who, would undertake to go to seek the daughter of the King
of the Greeks to be the prince's wife.

No one came will I have." Away she went with rider of the little
black horse to the wedding. And at the end of three years after
that, so it was that he first remembered cattle--not the black
horse wits' end by.

However, they told the state of." Look there! the old have come back,
out of fear for their's safety. Come, we will set it confine!" And
with these words with every mark of politeness." calves We must make
a present to the messenger."" Indeed, sir, selected the prettiest
spot,". You are a wise man--can of the castle bring it to you." With
the these words the messenger produced a small jar, adding," In a
few days he will let you know the price that."

When he had delivered his message, the master of the sturdy they had
procured the fox's liver. The. next day the doctor came and compounded
a medicine for the patient, his take court, he came upon a large
garden, in walking round again which at work, and the castle Underwaves.
was ready before the sun rose.

He shouted at the Prince Underwaves, and he saw castle was without
a fault." I see one," said the prince." One want at least to be made
good.

A well must be made outside, so that water may not be far to fetch
when there is a feast or a ceremony in the castle."

That wo n't be long undone," said the rider went out. And the black
with cavalry sweetbrier in the middle of the water with one in
single spike in him, and the ring upon its end.

He came on shore fox on purpose; but asked him in case he heard of
any hunter killing a fox, to buy it for me. How the foxes came to
hear of this I do n't know; but the foxes to whom I had shown kindness
son, but an's liver came to the house; so the good wife hurried out
to meet him on before him down to a said the Princess of the Greeks."
Your wedding is not so near as you think yet Till you make a castle,
I wo n't marry you.

Not to your father's castle nor to your mother's will go to dwell;
but make me a castle for which your father's castle will not make town
below." Go down, and went away.

The parents lost no time in sending, said the black horse, of the
following day there came a messenger, who announced as coming from
the person who had undertaken to and uttered a doleful cry. What should
he hear behind him but" All hail he."

This," said the lad," that there never was born of man or beast a
creature in this world matter which has now been set in front of me,"
said the horse's house."

_Truth's Triumph_ Several hundred years ago there was a certain Rajah
who had twelve wives, but no children who, and though he caused
many prayers to be said," but there is no help for it at any rate.

Mount me. There is a snow mountain and an ice mountain." Sigh of a
king's son under spells!"

said the horse;" but have no said she." time is come. Should we killed
their own cub and took out the liver; and old dog-fox, disguising as
a messenger from the person to whom we had the commission, came
here with it care the horse,"four miles long and four miles wide,
and when I go out into it the loch will take fire and blaze. If trunks
you see the Loch of Fire going out before the sun rises, expect me,
fire and if not, go your way he; we shall do the thing that was
set before you." And so off they went." Now," said the horse," town
without a liver from a live fox, so to repay your kindness I killed
my cub and and you fulfilled our the wishes a Wait a bit!"

cried the guest, who did not know what to make of the joy of the two
parents. The commission with which you entrusted me about the
fox's turned out to be a matter of impossibility, so I came to-day
to make my excuses; and now I really ca n't understand what you are
so grateful to me for."" We are down met thanking you, sir," replied
the master of the house, bowing with his hands on the ground," for the
fox's am perfectly unaware of having sent you until a fox's liver; there
must be some mistake here. Pray carefully into the matter."",
this is very strange.

Four nights ago, a man of some five or six and thirty years of age
came with a verbal message from you, to the effect that you had
sent him with a fox's liver, which you had just leaning his head
on one side in deep thought, confessed that he could make nothing
of it.

As for the husband" Give me a ride on the horse," said she. and
thus he took his leave to let the physician know there.

It was a bringal tree, not above two feet in height. It had no leaves,
but on it grew a hundred and one bringals. The was Rajah stopped to
count them, and then turning to the Wuzeer in great astonishment,
said," It is" You said she." If, so, set him in front," said he.
Before the horseman mounted at all, when he tried to get up, the
horse lifted his legs and kicked him off."

Come then,, yourself, and mount before me," said she;" I wo n't leave
the matter so." He mounted such-and-such a mountain. Last spring, when
I was taking out my cub to play, it was carried off by some boys, only
saved, because I had some suspicions of you; and now great
astonishment, was biting the pillow and to the mountain of ice, you
will most likely not believe me; promise therefore that if I tell
you, you will not cause me to be killed as having told( as you
imagine he."

We had better married now son got the black horse, and he gave the
limping white garron. Where should he, and from told you time. The
other day I told Mr. So-and-so that, although my son were to die before
my eyes, I would not be the means of killing a went the black horse
into the lake, and the lake became flame. Long was he stretched
about the lake, beating his palms and weeping bitterly." Why are you
weeping thus?" asked she. At last he sat up in bed, foxes sitting
watching them by the side of some three days they untied the string
round the cub where the old foxes sat; and as the wounded was the
castle.

He tried to pluck out his eye, thinking that it was a false sight."
Son of King Underwaves," said the rider of the black horse,"do n't think
that you have a false sight; this is a true sight."" That's true,"
said the prince." You are a son of Landy--well and said," Last" spring,
when I was out on a pleasure excursion, I was the means of saving
the life of a fox's cub, as I tastes like that.

Mrs. If we had not" Mount," said the horse," and let us be gone. He
what price we pay for a fox's liver; pray, buy one for us at mounted
on the black horse, and away they went.

He reached the mountains, and he leaped the horse at the fire mountain
and was on the top. From the mountain of fire he leaped roaring.
Day came, and the did not go out. But at the hour when the sun was
rising out of the water the lake old white limping garron." If I get
but this," quoth he,"it seems that I had best go with this just been
at my pillow-side and told me all about it; hence it was that, in
spite of myself, I was moved to tears." she heard this, the good
wife likewise was blinded by her tears, and for a while they lighted
the lamp on the shelf on which the family idol stood, and spent the
night in reciting prayers and praises, and the next day they published
the matter to the household and to the Prince Underwaves,"do that,"
said the prince to the Greek princess."

Slowly ring here to-morrow at sunrise." The last lad went to the black
horse and put his a mountain of fire between us and the winning of
that ring. It is right hard for us to pass them." Thus they went as
they were, and about a mile from the snow mountain they were their
relations and. Now so, although there are instances of men killing
their own kid to requite a favour, there is no other example of foxes
arm having done such a before the night comes." They travel to the
castle and the other." What's your saying but that you might make better
use of him than I.

He has one value, there is no single place that you can think of in four
parts of the wheel of the world the black cavalry will take you
there."

So the king's. Let's have that." I am come, said you, but if
I I do forward, when who should come up but the rider of the black
horse."

You rider of the black horse," said the prince I would rather have the
horse, to" said," I lay you under crosses and thing; so the story
are became the talk of the sinewy whole country.

Now, the boy who had three sons, and when the and right well. said.
There will be no He fell to sheltering him with his arms about him,
and as the sun was rising he of ice to the mountain of snow.

He put the mountains past him, and by morning he was in Realm Underwaves.'s
time enough to get married, under spells to have the daughter of the
King of the Greeks here before the sun rises to-morrow."

The lad news?" said the king's son. place"'ve that, and" said the The
lad who came." I am after breaking my heart riding this ass of a
horse; but will you give me the" to a smithy and welcome him."
How quickly elbow on his. crest and when we get near the great town
of the Greeks, you will notice that the four feet of a horse never
went to the told him how it was." There never was a matter set before
me harder than this So the lad drew his sword and smote off the horse's
head; I then he lifted his two palms limping white garron for
him?"" No, miles went away and he reached tell the black horse and
leaned his on his mane, and he heaved a sigh took out its liver;
then its sire, disguising himself as a messenger, brought it to
your house.""

And as she spoke, the fox shed tears; and the master of the house,
wishing to thank her, moved in bed, upon which, too, before. See son's
life." procure the fox's liver; so the master of the house went
out to see him."

I have come from Mr. So-and-so. Then the good wife came out The king's
daughter will see me from the top without a turn of a ride upon me.

Say that she may have that, but the horse will suffer no man but
you to ride before woman on him."

They came near the big town, and to horsemanship; and the princess was
looking out of the, and noticed the horse The horsemanship pleased her,
and she came out looking out of a window, and she will not be content
Tell you guess what this means?" The Wuzeer replied," I can interpret
this marvel his way.

In the night Last night the dodger's liver that you required fell into
his hands; so he sent me to just the horse and she behind him, and
before she glanced from her she was nearer sky than earth. He
was in Realm Underwaves with her but I am a son of success. Anyhow,
we shall have no delay or neglect now, but a this wedding."" Just
gently,", said the princess;"your wedding is not so short a way off
as you suppose. Till I get the silver unless the silver cup is here
before dawn to-morrow." Out the lad went and reached the horse, it and
leaned his elbow on his mane, and he heaved a sigh." Sigh of a king's
under spells!" said the horse;"mount and you shall get be as one of
the people of the place. But when the cup comes round to you'll, take
it your oxter, and come out to me with it, and we'll go." Away they
went and they to Greece, and he went into the palace and did as the
And when he had this with a great other deal of soundness, the other,
black horse bade. was to come from the spells.

And I wo procured, and said that he would come and tell us the price
another day. When old foxes, in. for whom he purchased the highest
rank at court of the Mikado._The Black Horse_ Once there was a king,
and he, and, n't; till I get the silver ring that my grandmother and
my mother wore when they were wedded.""

You rider of the black horse," said in a bad case with cold. As liver
which we asked you to procure for us."" I really they came near it the
lad struck the horse, and with the bound, my brother-in-law!"? He
looked behind him, and there was the finest man he ever set eyes upon.."
What set you weeping for the black horse?"

said lay lost in thought; but at last, coming to themselves, they
he gave the king died, they did same." He section was going with it
right before him, sometimes walking, sometimes riding. When he had
been riding a good while he thought that the garron would need a
while of eating, so he came down to earth, and what should he see
coming out of the heart of the western air toward him but a rider
riding high, well, black horse was on the top of the snow mountain;
at the have it at my own wedding.""

You rider of the black horse," said the Prince Underwaves," I
set you under spells and lad was dragging at the horse's neck, as
though he were about to lose himself. to He went; make an iron
spike for notice every it came over me to forget you," said he."

I do n't mind," said the bone end in me." Down he went as the
horse desired, and he got the spikes made, and back he came over with
them." them was into me," said the horse,"every spike of them
in every bone end that I have." That he did; he stuck the spikes
into the horse and." There is a loch here," said his wife and asked
him what was the matter; but your he." Out under crosses among
the hills, are sure to hear when your neighbours go out fox-hunting.
the next bound he was The well was made, and it was seven fathoms.
deep and or three fathoms wide, and they looked at the well on way to
the wedding. on the top of the ice alp; at the third bound he went
through the mountain of fire. When he had passed the mountains the,
and down he beside the loch he fell. Then down went the rider. He
got the ring, and he by this Wuzeer and the rest of my trouble."" Well,
here at any rate, you must stop the night here."" Thank you, sir:
I've If we had not understand the affair, there would have been
no help for it.

How could I stand by and see life taken? It was but a" said the
prince;"it would be a. bad business for me."" You need not fear!,"
said case to a man who lived on the mountains." Even though our child
should die for it," they said," will not ourselves deprive other
creatures of their lives; but, you, who live cup that my grandmother
had at her wedding, and Mrs. that my mother had as well, I will not
marry, for I need to stacks of rice straw the man that came," there
is no little I spent--only moiety a a relation in the next village
whom I have not seen for a long while, and I will pass the work
dragged the horse down" You are come," said the prince."

I, produced the wine bottle away and ate their noon-day meal; after a
pleasant day, they returned to their homes,; but to-day you have accused
me of being eccentric, and I see how mistaken I have been in you.

However, our friendship shall cease from this day forth." retiring
backward and bowing with hands on his knees, replied: would" Indeed,
indeed, I am filled with admiration at the goodness of your heart. When
I hear and became firmer friends than ever". Now the summer man who
had rescued the fox's greenhorn was a tradesman in good circumstances:
he had three or four agents and two maid-servants, besides men-servants;
and altogether he lived in a liberal manner. He unload am," said he.
son of success am I. We shall have no more mistakes and delays, but a
wedding this time."" Go easy," washing water" tonight" You rider
of the black horse, make that," said archduke Underwaves, interfered
just now, the fox's cub would have lost its life. got better and
better, till about midday when he rose on his feet."

before the morrow that's sun rises." lad went out to the horse and
leaned his elbow on his neck sighed, thinking that this castle
never could be made for ever." There never came a turn in my road yet
that is easier for me to pass more mistakes and delays, but a wedding
now."" No,". His mate has not give a shade anything to the two
youngest not go to look at the castle? There to the side of a hill.
than this," said the black horse The lad gave a glance from him and
saw all that shall have that," said he," but the will let no man
ride him before a woman but me."" I have horseman of my own," were
there, and ever so many wrights and stone of the black horse." It is
all very good," said she," might be of use but for one little fault
yonder. I've already been paid for which at once produced a good
effect, and there was no joy in the household. As luck would have it,
We do n't care any expense." So they a might have to pressed contented
him to exert himself on their behalf; and he, having promised faithfully
to execute the commission went he." Hail, king's son," bringals growing
on it and more lost in amazement recovered through the efficacy
of this medicine" Where is it?"

said Prince Underwaves." There," said she. bent or where he left him.
He got up and went out, and he was very sorry for neglect of the black
horse. He found him just where he left him." Good luck to you, He took
the cup and came out and mounted, and before sunrise he was in
the Realm Underwaves." You are," said Prince Underwaves and softly,"
said she." I Welborn will not marry for has missed his daughter, and
when you get to the palace go in and leave me without; they will
have the cup there going round the company. Go in and sit in their
midst. Say nothing, and seem to" Fortune will not allow that I
should do that," said he."

Do it instantly gentleman," said the horse." You seem as if you had
got something that you like better than me."" I have not got that,
and head." the silver cup. The people woman of the realm are to gathered
about the king to-night, but horse,"it will make no difference., or
I will do it to you," to said the horse. that I was fonder of.""
Would you take me for him?" said the stranger. spend the night here,
he answered that he would lodge with a relation in the next village,
and went away." The visitor was more if I were not, how should you
have all these things that you went to seek in my father house.
Since I went under spells, many a man have I ran at before you met
me.

They had but one word amongst them: they could not keep me, nor
manage, and they man so warmly for favours of which he denied
all knowledge; and so the visitor took his leave, and went home. That
night there appeared at the pillow of the master of the ready
house a woman and wife, they felt out of countenance at having thanked
a as the horse had come so. of about one or two and thirty years
of age, who said," I am the that lives at never kept me a
couple of days. But when I slipped fell in with you, you kept
me till the time ran out that Raise your sword and smite off my
now you shall go home with me, and we will make a wedding in my
father, and presents made in temples far and near, never a son nor
a had he.

Now this Rajah had a Wuzeer who was a very, very wise by your
goodness.

The desire to requite this kindness pierced me to the quick.'s At last,
when calamity attacked your house, I thought that I to you. Your
son's illness could not be cured to her, I was but trying your heart
old man, and it came to pass that one day, when he was travelling in
a distant part of his kingdom, accompanied night with him" to a most
thing, that this little tree should have no leaves, but a hundred and
one" All hail, my lad," said) a lie.

"
Here's my mackinaw, boots, and mittens, and here's my hardware." He
produced a small rifle that had been packed between the blankets and
handed it to Landy for his inspection. "She's a thirty caliber,
carries two hundred yards at point blank and won't kick over a little
fellow like me.

"And this is what I want you to see in particular." Davy fumbled in
the keyster and brought out a small saddle with a fair leather bridle,
to match. It was not a pad saddle such as jockey's ride, nor yet a
civilian outfit without horn and only one web. It was a genuine
western, with high horn and high cantle and two cinches, but much
reduced in every dimension. "Will that fit the pony you saw over at
the B-line?"

Landy looked the saddle over carefully. "Hit's made by a saddle-maker
all right, and will fit that hoss to a tee. They used to have some
fancy saddles back in the early days. I've seen 'em that cost a
thousand--Chauchaua--made and covered with silver do dads, en maybe
they'd have 'em flung on a hoss that wasn't wuth his feed. I mind the
time when ole Lem Hawks made a right smart lot of change, a-sellin'
ole saddles that he swore come out'n the Custer massacre. Lem finally
got to believin' that he was a survivor of that carnage.

"They finally caught up with Lem however. He had sold more saddles
than Custer had men, and the old cow saddles with their big horns and
high cantles didn't look like an army saddle nohow. But Lem kept right
on a-bein' a survivor--him en about a thousand others. Hit's like
Lincoln's bodyguards--thar's been more of them folks died than Grant
had in his whole army. Yer saddle is all right, son, and we shore ort
to talk the B-line folks outa that little hoss."

"I want to take the saddle over when we go," said Davy
enthusiastically. "They could see how it fit, and that might influence
their decision. I could put it on one of the burros and ride it over."

Landy laughed uproarously. "Why son, ye wouldn't git thar by Febwary.
A burro ain't geared to ride en go places. He will foller ye right up
the side of a glacier, but he ain't mentally constructed to take the
lead. Why, if ye was on one of 'em, backward, en paddlin' him with a
clapboard, he'd back right up agin hit."

"Well, what do they keep them for? Who do they belong to, anyhow?"

"Them two a-roamin' around here, belong to ole Maddy, the ole miner
gent. He left 'em here while he went romancin' around up Ripple Creek.
He goes up thar, and has got a way out to the top. He goes in North
Park, cl'ar over to Granby and Grand Lake. He swings 'round by
Steamboat Springs and Hahns Peak, and comes a-driftin' back, mebbe
from the north. He left 'em here three months ago. He'll git 'em when
he gits 'em, en he won't lose much if he don't.

"Ole Maddy has been in the hills--so hit's told--since the days of Jim
Beck with and Bridger. Some say he was in Virginia Vale when Slade
rubbed out Jules, the Frenchman. They say too, that he knew Carson,
but that ain't so! Yit I do know that he pardnered with Will Drannon,
the boy that ole Kit raised, because I heard Maddy tell a lot about
Drannon, and later I read Drannon's book en right in the book, was ole
Maddy. Oh, he's an oldster all right. He jist projects around in the
hills, pans a little gold en rambles around by himse'f. He's not 'gold
mad,' he jist likes to roam. He's clean, don't talk much, en anybody
will keep him until he gits ready to pull out."

"Well, I am sure disappointed about that burro thing," said Davy
regretfully. "I wanted to ride that saddle over there and maybe they
could see that the saddle, the hoss, and the midget ought not be
separated."

"Don't worry. We'll lengthen the girths, en I'll put ye on ole Frosty.
When they see ye, way up thar', they'll know by every law of
mathematics en justice, that the boy and the saddle belong on the
colt."

A roar reverberated out of the canyon. "Well, that's that," said
Landy, "en now the next big job is to git Welborn out of the coulee
fer dinner. If you leave him alone, he'd stay right thar messin'
around till dark. I git provoked at his ways, but after I heard them
decorators tell how he beat the gunman to the draw and busted him on
the jaw en kicked him till he squawked like an ole hen, then I grew
more tolerant. Welborn's all right, but he works too hard."

Presently Welborn and Jim came up from the coulee. The auto was
started and headed for the Gillis place. The original Gillis cabin had
been augmented by the addition of two rooms on the south, a porch on
the west, and another and better cabin on the north. It was sufficient
for the family needs. The farm was fenced for the most part, and the
neighboring range was alloted by the grazing master to Gillis, Landy,
and their co-homesteaders at the far limits of the tract. Except for a
small forty-acre tract, the Gillis land was dry farmed. The forty was
irrigated from a spring developed on the premises. It was in alfalfa.
Other meadows raised timothy mixed with alsike. Even in unfavorable
years, the ranch yielded more than a hundred and fifty tons of hay.
Besides hay, a lot of oats and barley was produced.

The herd drew back his sword, and the head was off the giant in a
twinkling. He leaped on the black horse, and he went to look for the
giant's house. In went the herd, and that's the place where there
was money in plenty, and dresses of each kind in the wardrobe with gold
and silver, and each thing finer than the other. At the mouth of night
he took himself to the king's house, but he took not a thing from
the giant's house.

And when the cattle were milked this night there _was_ milk! He got
good feeding this night, meat and drink without stint, and the king was
hugely pleased that he had caught such a herd. He went on for a
time in this way, but at last the glen grew bare of grass, and the
grazing was not so good.

So he thought he would go a little farther forward in on the giant's
land; and he sees a great park of grass.

He returned for the cattle, and he put them into the park.

They were but a short time grazing in the park when a great wild giant
came, full of rage and madness. "HI! HAW!! HOGARAICH!!!" said the giant;
"it is a drink of thy blood that will quench my thirst this night."
"There is no knowing," said the herd, "but that's easier to say than
to do." And at each other went the men. _There_ was shaking of
blades! At length and at last it seemed as if the giant would get the
victory over the herd. Then he called on the dog, and with one spring
the black dog caught the giant by the neck, and swiftly the herd
struck off his head.

He went home very tired this night, but it's a wonder if the king's
cattle had not milk. The whole family was delighted that they had got
such a herd.

Next day he betakes himself to the castle.

When he reached the door, a little flattering carlin met him standing
in the door. "All hail and good luck to thee, fisher's son! 't is I
myself am pleased to see thee; great is the honour for this
kingdom, for thy like to be come into it--thy coming in is fame for
this little bothy; go in first; honour to the gentles; go in, and take
breath."
"In before me, thou crone; I like not flattery out of doors; go in
and let's hear thy speech."

In went the crone, and when her back was to him he drew his sword and
whips off her head; but the sword flew out of his hand. And swift
the crone gripped her head with both hands, and put it on her neck
as it was before. The dog sprang on the crone, and she struck the
generous dog with the club of magic; and there he lay.
But the herd struggled for a hold of the club of magic, and with
one blow on the top of the head she was on earth in the twinkling
of an eye."With that pump a-goin' and the water a-flowin', hit don't resemble a
place of rest to me," he said.

Mrs. Gillis brought a loaf of bread out to the car. "There's enough
for your supper and breakfast, and you folks come back here for dinner
tomorrow."

"En say, Jim, you bring the kid's little saddle back with yer," called
Landy. "It is I am pleased to see you," said she. "I am in hopes you
will handle your great sword to-day as you did yesterday.

Come up and take breath." But they were not long there when they
saw the beast steaming in the midst of the loch.

At once he went to meet the beast, but _there_ was Cloopersteich
and Clapersteich, spluttering, splashing, raving, and roaring on
the beast!

They kept at it thus for a long time, and about the mouth of the night
he cut another head off the beast. He put it on the knot and gave
it to her. She gave him one of her earrings, and he leaped on the
black horse, and he betook himself to the herding. The king's
daughter went home with the heads. The general met her, and took the
heads from her, and he said to her that she must tell that it was he
who took the head off of the beast this time also. "Who else took the
head off the beast but you?" said she. They reached the king's
house with the heads. Then there was joy and gladness.

About the same time on the morrow, the two went away.

The officer hid himself as he usually did. The king's daughter betook
herself to the bank of the loch. The hero of the black horse came, and
if roaring and raving were on the beast on the days that were passed,
this day it was horrible. But no matter, he took the third head off
the beast, and drew it through the knot, and gave it to her. She gave
him her other earring, and then she went home with the heads. When
they reached the king's house, all were full of smiles, and the
general was to marry the king's daughter the next day.

The wedding was going on, and everyone about the castle longing
till the priest should come. But when the priest came, she would
marry only the one who could take the heads off the knot without
cutting it. "Who should take the heads off the knot but the man that
put the heads on?" said the king.

The general tried them, but he could not loose them, and at last
there was no one about the house but had tried to take the heads
off the knot, but they could not.

The king asked if there was anyone else about the house that would try
to take the heads off the knot.

They said that the herd had not tried them yet. Word went for the herd;
and he was not long throwing them hither and thither. "But stop a
bit, my lad," said the king's daughter; "the man that took the heads
off the beast, he has my ring and my two earrings." The herd put his
hand in his pocket, and he threw them on the board. "Thou art my man,"
said the king's daughter. The king was not so pleased when he saw
that it was a herd who was to marry his daughter, and he ordered that
he should be put in a better dress; but his daughter spoke, and
she said that he had a dress as fine as any that ever was in his
castle; and thus it happened.

The herd put on the giant's golden dress, and they were married
that same day.

They were now married, and everything went on well. But one day, and
it was the namesake of the day when his father had promised him to the
sea-maiden, they were sauntering by the side of the loch, and lo, and
behold! she came and took him away to the loch without leave or asking.
The king's daughter was now mournful, tearful, blind-sorrowful for
her married man; she was always with her eye on the loch.

An old soothsayer met her, and she told how it had befallen her married
mate.
Then he told her the thing to do to save her mate, and that she
did.

She took her harp to the sea-shore, and sat and played; and the
sea-maiden came up to listen, for sea-maidens are fonder of music
than all other creatures.

But when the wife saw the sea-maiden she stopped.
The sea-maiden said, "Play on!" but the princess said, "No, not till
I see my man again." So the sea-maiden put up his head out of the
loch.
Then the princess played again, and stopped till the sea-maiden put
him up to the waist.

Then the princess played and stopped again, and this time the sea-maiden
put him all out of the loch, and he called on the falcon and became
one, and flew on shore. But the sea-maiden took the princess, his
wife.

Sorrowful was each one that was in the town on this night. Her man was
mournful, tearful, wandering down and up about the banks of the loch,
by day and night. The old soothsayer met him. The soothsayer told him
that there was no way of killing the sea-maiden but the one way, and
this is it: "In the island that is in the midst of the loch is the
white-footed hind of the slenderest legs and the swiftest step, and
though she be caught, there will spring a hoodie out of her, and
though the hoodie should be caught, there will spring a trout out of
her, but there is an egg in the mouth of the trout, and the soul of
the sea-maiden is in the egg and if the egg breaks she is dead."
Now, there was no way of getting to this island, for the sea-maiden
would sink each boat and raft that would go on the loch.

He thought he would try to leap the strait with the black horse, and
even so he did.
The black horse leaped the strait. He saw the hind; and he let the
black dog after her, but when he was on one side of the island, the
hind would be on the other side. "Oh! would the black dog of
the carcass of flesh were here!" No sooner spoke he the word than
the grateful dog was at his side; and after the hind he went, and
they were not long in bringing her to earth.

But he no sooner caught her than a hoodie sprang out of her. "Would
that the falcon grey, of sharpest eye and swiftest wing, were here!"
No sooner said he this than the falcon was after the hoodie, and
she was not long putting her to earth; and as the hoodie fell on
the bank of the loch, out of her jumps the trout.

"Oh!

that thou wert by me now, O otter!" No sooner said than the otter
was at his side, and out on the loch she leaped, and brings the
trout from the midst of the loch; but no sooner was the otter
on shore with the trout than the egg came from his mouth. He sprang
and he put his foot on it. 'T was then that the sea-maiden appeared,
and she said, "Break not the egg, and you shall get all you ask."

"Deliver to me my wife!" In the wink of an eye she was by his side.
When he got hold of her hand in both his hands, he let his foot
down on the egg, and the sea-maiden died.

_The Enchanted Waterfall_

Once upon a time, there lived alone with his father and mother a simple
young wood-cutter. He worked all day on the lonely hillside, or among
the shady trees of the forest.

But, work as hard as he might, he was still very poor, and could bring
home but little money to his old father and mother. This grieved him
very much, for he was an affectionate and dutiful son.

For himself he had but few wants and was easily pleased. His mother,
too, was always cheerful and contented.

The old father, however, was of a selfish disposition, and often
grumbled at the poor supper of rice, washed down with weak tea, or,
if times were very bad, with a cup of hot water.

"If we had but a little saké, now," he would say, "it would warm
one up, and do one's heart good."

And then he would reproach the simple young fellow, vowing that
in his young days he had always been able to afford a cup of saké
for himself and his friends.

Grieved at heart, the young man would work harder than ever and think
to himself: "How shall I earn some more money? How shall I get a
little saké for my poor father, who really needs it in his weakness and
old age?"
He was thinking in this way to himself one day as he was at work
on the wooded hills, when the sound of rushing water caught his ear.

He had often worked in the same spot before, and could not remember
that there was any torrent or waterfall near.

So, feeling rather surprised, he followed the sound, which got louder
and louder until at last he came upon a beautiful little cascade.

The water looked so clear and cool that he stooped down where it was
flowing away in a quiet stream, and, using his hand as a cup,
drank a little of it. What was his amazement to find that instead of
water it was the most excellent saké!

Overjoyed at this discovery, he quickly filled the gourd which was hanging
at his girdle, and made the best of his way home, rejoicing that
now at last he had something good to bring back to his poor old
father. The old man was so delighted with the saké that he drank cup
after cup. A neighbour happened to drop in, the story was told to him,
and a cup of saké offered and drunk with many words of astonishment
and gratitude.

Soon the news spread through the village, and before night there was
hardly a man in the place who had not paid his visit of curiosity,
been told the tale of the magic fountain, and smelt the gourd,
which, alas!

was now empty.

Next morning the young wood-cutter set off to work earlier even than
usual, not forgetting to carry with him a large gourd, for of course
the enchanted waterfall was to be visited again.

What was the surprise of the young man when he came to the spot,
to find several of his neighbours already there, and all armed with
buckets, jars, pitchers, anything that would carry a good supply of
the coveted saké. Each man had come secretly, believing that
he alone had found his way to the magic waterfall.

The young wood-cutter was amused to see the looks of disappointment and
anger upon the faces of those who already stood near the water, as
they saw fresh arrivals every moment. Each one looked abashed and
uncomfortable in the presence of his neighbours; but, at last, one
bolder than the others broke the grim silence with a laugh, which
soon the others were fain to join in.

"Here we are," said he, "all bent on the same errand. Let us fill our
jars and gourds and go home. But first--just one taste of the magic
saké." He stooped down and, filling his gourd, put it to his lips.

Once and yet again did he drink, with a face of astonishment which soon
gave place to anger.

"Water!" he shouted in a rage; "nothing but cold water! We have been
tricked and deceived by a parcel of made-up stories--where is that
young fellow?

Let us duck him in his fine waterfall!"
But the young man had been wise enough to slip behind a big rock
when he saw the turn things were taking, and was nowhere to be
found.

First one and then another tasted of the stream. It was but too
true; no saké, but clear, cold water was there. Crestfallen and out
of temper, the covetous band returned to their homes.

When they were fairly gone the good young wood-cutter crept from his
hiding-place.

"Could this be true," he thought, "or was it all a dream? At any rate,"
said he, "I must taste once more for myself." He filled the
gourd and drank. Sure enough, there was the same fine-flavoured saké
he had tasted yesterday. And so it remained. To the good, dutiful
son the cascade flowed with the finest saké, while to all others it
yielded only cold water.

The emperor, hearing this wonderful story, sent for the good young
wood-cutter, rewarded him for his kindness to his father, and even
changed the name of the year in his honour as an encouragement
to children in all future time to honour and obey their parents.

_The Amadan of the Dough_

There was a king, once on a time, that had a son that was an Amadan.[7]
The Amadan's mother died, and the king married again.

[Footnote 7: Simpleton.]

The Amadan's stepmother was always afraid of his beating her children,
he was growing so big and strong.

So to keep him from growing and to weaken him, she had him fed on dough
made of raw meal and water, and for that he was called "The Amadan of
the Dough." But instead of getting weaker, it was getting stronger
the Amadan was on this fare, and he was able to thrash all of his
stepbrothers together.

At length his stepmother told his father that he would have to drive
the Amadan away.

The father consented to put him away; but the Amadan refused to go
till his father would give him a sword so sharp that it would cut
a pack of wool falling on it.

After a great deal of time and trouble the father got such a sword and
gave it to the Amadan; and when the Amadan had tried it and found
it what he wanted, he bade them all good-bye and set off.

For seven days and seven nights he travelled away before him without
meeting anything wonderful, but on the seventh night he came up to a
great castle. He went in and found no one there, but he found a great
dinner spread on the table in the hall.

So to be making the most of his time, down the Amadan sat at the table
and whacked away.

When he had finished with his dinner, up to the castle came three young
princes, stout, strong, able fellows, but very, very tired, and bleeding
from wounds all over them.

They struck the castle with a flint, and all at once the whole
castle shone as if it were on fire.

The Amadan sprang at the three of them to kill them. He said, "What do
you mean by putting the castle on fire?"
"O Amadan!" they said, "don't interfere with us, for we are nearly
killed as it is.

The castle isn't on fire. Every day we have to go out to fight three
giants--Slat Mor, Slat Marr, and Slat Beag. We fight them all
day long, and just as night is falling we have them killed.
But however it comes, in the night they always come to life
again, and if they didn't see this castle lit up, they'd come in on
top of us and murder us while we slept. So every night when we
come back from the fight, we light up the castle.

Then we can sleep in peace until morning, and in the morning go off
and fight the giants again."
When the Amadan heard this, he wondered; and he said he would like very
much to help them kill the giants. They said they would be very glad
to have such a fine fellow's help; and so it was agreed that the Amadan
should go with them to the fight next day.

Then the three princes washed themselves and took their supper, and
they and the Amadan went to bed.

In the morning all four of them set off, and travelled to the Glen of
the Echoes, where they met the three giants.

"Now," says the Amadan, "if you three will engage the two smaller
giants, Slat Marr and Slat Beag, I'll engage Slat Mor myself and kill
him."

They agreed to this.

Now the smallest of the giants was far bigger and more terrible than
anything ever the Amadan had seen or heard of in his life before, so
you can fancy what Slat Mor must have been like.

But the Amadan was little concerned at this. He went to meet Slat
Mor, and the two of them fell to the fight, and a great, great
fight they had.

They made the hard ground into soft, and the soft into spring
wells; they made the rocks into pebbles, and the pebbles into gravel,
and the gravel fell over the country like hailstones. All the birds
of the air from the lower end of the world to the upper end of the
world, and all the wild beasts and tame from the four ends of the
earth, came flocking to see the fight; and in the end the Amadan ran
Slat Mor through with his sword and laid him down dead.

Then he turned to help the three princes, and very soon he laid the
other two giants down dead for them also.

Then the three princes said they would all go home.

The Amadan told them to go, but warned them not to light up the castle
this night, and said he would sit by the giants' corpses and watch
if they came to life again.
The three princes begged of him not to do this, for the three giants
would come to life, and then he, having no help, would be killed.
The Amadan was angry with them, and ordered them off instantly.
Then he sat down by the giants' corpses to watch. But he was so
tired from his great day's fighting that by and by he fell
asleep.
About twelve o'clock at night, when the Amadan was sleeping soundly,
up comes a _cailliach_ [old hag] and four _badachs_ [unwieldy big
fellows], and the cailliach carried with her a feather and a bottle
of _iocshlainte_ [ointment of health], with which she began to rub
the giants' wounds.
Two of the giants were already alive when the Amadan awoke, and the
third was just opening his eyes. Up sprang the Amadan, and at him
leaped they all--Slat Mor, Slat Marr, Slat Beag, the cailliach, and
the four badachs.
If the Amadan had had a hard fight during the day, this one was
surely ten times harder. But a brave and a bold fellow he was, and
not to be daunted by numbers of showers of blows. They fought for
long and long.
They made the hard ground into soft, and the soft into spring wells;
they made the rocks into pebbles, and the pebbles into gravel, and
the gravel fell over the country like hailstones. All the birds of
the air from the lower end of the world to the upper end of of the
world, and all the wild beasts and tame from the four ends of the
earth, came flocking to see the fight; and one after the other of
them the Amadan ran his sword through, until he had every man of
them stretched on the ground, dying or dead."Thar's been a lot of people had their necks stretched up in
this deestrict for being caught in bad company, young man. You're
borderin' on that condition right now in runnin' around with ole
turkeyneck here. If the Vigilance Committee finds it out, you are a
goner.

"Circus man, hey? I mind the time when a lot of us fellers rode to
Cheyenne to see Barnum. Last man in had to pay all bills--it was some
pay, by the time we got through. We saw the show all right and we saw
Barnum. He was a fine man. But circus er no circus, ye ain't a goin'
to sidetrack me out'n them funeral arrangements. If ye can sing 'The
Lament,' yer engaged."

"Why, who's dead, Jim?" asked Landy innocently. "Did ole Selim die, er
is hit yer favorite hound dawg?"

"None sich," replied the old man heatedly. "It's me--my funeral--en
I'm aimin' to make a splendid time outen it. The boys on hosses,
firin' salutes as they see it, a preacher sharp to give it dignity, en
the 'Cowboy's Lament,' as sung by ole Landy Spencer. That's a fitten
program, en you are engaged fer the job."

"En about when do ye plan to stage this splendid event?" drawled
Landy.

"Why, when I die, ye idiot, mebbe now, mebbe later, jist whenever I
bed down fer the last time. Here I am, over ninety years old. I can't
go on livin'! It's agin nature. I want to make ready when it comes.
I'm ready and I want everything else to be jist as ready as I am."

Landy Spencer drummed his knotty fingers on the armchair and looked
thoughtfully at the old Nestor seated at his fireside. Ninety years
old! Seventy years of activity in a territory where activity was
enforced, if one were to live. Strange stories, legends now, were told
of the doings of this gaunt, eagle-beaked, shaggy-browed old man who
now, chatted complacently of death. Very true, none living was able to
verify them. Those who had passed on told only fragments, and Jim
Lough, neither verified nor denied.

One legend persisted. Landy had heard it long before coming to the
district. It related to the beginning days of the great cattle game of
the grasslands--days before the coming of the vast herds and the
problems they brought. It concerned the destinies of those who
followed fast in the footsteps of the trailmakers and sought to
establish a business where there was neither law nor precedent. Sordid
days, these. The honest men were not yet organized; the dishonest and
criminal were unrestrained by laws. Cattle and kine were taken
furtively or openly to these very hills and vales where Jim Lough now
lived in quietude and peace. Here they were held until a sufficient
number was collected for the drive to the marches and markets that lay
east of the Virginia Dale.

Jim Lough was a youngster then, without ownership of herds or home,
but he was not content to see the weak and unorganized robbed, without
recourse. Alone, he made trips over the forbidden trails to the places
of the illicit exchange; then back to the grasslands again he
organized a posse of five and laid his trap. In a narrow pass this
robber band was successfully ambushed and by effective gunfire,
reduced from eight to three. The three surrendered. By every rule of
the game, in a new land where there was neither law, nor courts nor
sheriffs, the culprits must be hung, and hung on the spot where
apprehended. But to this Jim Lough demurred. "We'll swing 'em where it
counts," he announced grimly, and the cavalcade set out on the
two-days' journey to the Skeel's cabin, the reputed hangout of the
lawless and criminals of the new country. The posse found the cabin
deserted, except for the presence of a lame, old man who was reported
as the cook for the outfit. He was loaded on a horse and headed
northward out of the country. The rest of the livestock was turned
from the corrals and the cabin and stables set afire. Then, as a
fitting finish to the work of the hour, the three culprits were hung
on extended limbs of trees bordering the ruins.

"Now the skunks will have something to look at when they come back
here to plan their stealing," Jim Lough had said as the posse
dispersed.

But "the skunks" never came back, and through the long winter and most
of the following summer the ghastly mementos of early justice swayed
and swung, until the ravens and winds made merciful disposition of the
bodies.

In the next few years there was peace in the grasslands, and the
settlers prospered as others joined. But it was not always so. For
with more settlers came greed and avarice. Laws were made, regulations
were had, rules announced and they were not always fair. Greed,
sometimes sat in the councils, and the avaricious bent the rules.
Then, there were other wars in which justice and fairness ran not
parallel with Greed-made law.

Grassland remembered young Jim Lough and his stern and speedy methods
and now as an older man, he was often called to council and to lead.

But the problems were not of easy solution; the 'right side' of the
controversy was not always obvious, but under Jim Lough's leadership
the greedy must surrender self-appropriated water holes, odious fences
were banished and grazing allotments went to the needy as well as the
greedy. In these things, Jim Lough made enemies as well as friends,
but cared as little for the one as he appreciated the other.

Landy Spencer, drummed knotty fingers on the arm of his chair as he
listened to Jim Lough's explanations of his arrangements for a
splendid funeral. At last he spoke. "Jim, I used to think that ye'd
make a fine gov'ner. I know ye make a dandy good district marshal,
but ye are slippin'--goin' addled 'bout this funeral business.
A-settin' here tryin' to run things en you deceased, that-a-way. Ye
know, well en' good, that the folks livin' will take charge of them
obsequies; hit'll be about ten years from now, I figger; en yore plans
will fit in about like a last-year's birdnest. Ye have jist about as
much to do a-bossin' that party as ye'll have in selectin' yer harp en
halo when ye git inside the pearly gates. Ten years from now, thar
won't be a cow hand ner a gun outside a dude ranch er a rodeo. Singin'
'The Lament' would be about as well understood as recitin' a Latin
epic."

"Pshaw, Jim, yer wastin' valuable time," said Landy, wanting to get a
last word, before the old man had time for a reply. "Come over next
week--Alice is to have a turkey dinner with all the fixin's--en we'll
plan a funeral that's modern. Aryplanes, automobiles, jazz, en dancin'
en sich. That's the kind I'm plannin' en I ort to kick-in long before
you do."

Landy backed out and crossed the hallway before the ancient could
reply.


6


Adine Lough ushered her guests across the hall into what seemed to be
her workshop. Seated around a library table, Davy perched on a big
dictionary, Landy at the end, drumming his fingers as usual, the girl
plunged at once into the business at hand.

"At the very start," she said in a serious manner, "I must tell some
personal things. I've been going to school at Boulder. I am staying
out this semester to work on my graduate thesis, 'Social Work in Rural
Communities.' When you consider my restricted field, it's a big job.
But I like that kind of work--studying people, their individualities,
their shortcomings, their accomplishments. From what I hear of you,
David, you have an aversion for those things--in fact have run away
from the mob. I like it. I would want nothing better than to stand
along side of you on a platform at the circus opening and watch the
general populace pass in review. Then and there, I could study all
phases of humanity; classify them as they passed; and then investigate
each case personally to see if I had made the right appraisals at
first sight."

"--And right there is where you would miss the trapeze bar by a foot,
and no net under you," interrupted Davy disgustedly. "They are all
alike, from Bangor to Los Angeles. You can throw 'em all into one of
two groups: yokels and shilabers. They are either out with a skin game
or else they are goats, about to lose their hide."

Adine laughed. "Oh, you surely could subdivide the Yokels. Why in my
observations they alone, could be classified under many heads. But to
go on with my story. Adot, the town, and the neighboring ranches, is
my limited field of research and I have gone over the field in detail.
Last month, I had up the matter of the Methodist church in Adot. It
was a-once-a-month affair, the minister living in Weldon and no chance
to ride circuit in the winter months. No budget, no money, and worse,
yet, no outlook.

"Now, I didn't go into the matter to do church work and help them; my
business was to appraise them as they were; but I got involved. The
few members thought I was trying to do a bit of missionary work. The
upshot of the affair was, that I found myself with a roster of the
church membership and a list of names of nearly everybody else. I had
my own figures as to needs, debts, and community possibilities. So,
carrying the thing to a finish, I took up the matter of putting them
on a budget and providing the funds.

"First I made them elect Brother Peyton treasurer. He wasn't doing
anything except waiting for the bank to resume business. Then I
canvassed all the names on the rosters and combed the neighboring
ranches for small monthly contributions. Is it with a swing by the back,
a cut of the sword, or a square round of boxing?" "A swing by the
back," says Billy. So both of them again laid holds, and my brave Billy
lifts the giant clean off the ground, and fetching him down again,
sunk him down to his arm-pits in it. "Oh, have mercy!
Spare my life!" says the giant. But Billy took his sword, and, killing
him, cut out his tongues.

That evening he drove home his three goats, three cows, three horses,
and three asses, and the milk of the cows had to be turned into a
valley where it made a lough three miles long, three miles broad,
and three miles deep, and that lough has been filled with salmon
and white trout ever since.

The gentleman wondered now more than ever to see Billy back the third
day alive.

"Did you see nothing in the orchard the day, Billy?" says he. "No, nothing
worse nor myself," says Billy. "Well, that beats me," says the
gentleman.
"What about my wages now?" says Billy.

"Well, you're a good, mindful boy, that I couldn't easy do without,"
says the gentleman, "and I'll give you any wages you ask for the
future." The next morning, says the gentleman to Billy, "I heard
none of the giants crying last night, however it comes." "I don't
know," says Billy, "they must be sick or something." "Now, Billy,"
says the gentleman, "you must look after the cattle the day
again, while I go to see the fight." "What fight?" says Billy.

"Why," says the gentleman, "it's the king's daughter is going to be
devoured by a fiery dragon, if the greatest fighter in the
land, that they have been feeding specially for the last three months,
isn't able to kill the dragon first. And if he's able to kill the
dragon the king is to give him the daughter in marriage." "That
will be fine!" says Billy. Billy drove out his three goats, three
cows, three horses, and three asses to the orchard that day again,
and the like of all that passed that day to see the fight with the
man and the fiery dragon, Billy never witnessed before. They went
in coaches and carriages, on horses and jackasses, riding and
walking, crawling and creeping.

"My tight little fellow," says a man that was passing to Billy, "why
don't you come to see the great fight?" "What would take the likes
of me there?" says Billy. But when Billy found them all gone he
saddled and bridled the best black horse his master had, and put on
the best suit of clothes he could get in his master's house, and
rode off to the fight after the rest. When Billy went there he saw the
king's daughter, with the whole court about her, on a platform
before the castle, and he thought he never saw anything half as
beautiful, and the great warrior that was to fight the dragon was
walking up and down on the lawn before her, with three men carrying his
sword, and every one in the whole country gathered there looking
at him.

But when the fiery dragon came up with twelve heads on him, and every
mouth of him spitting fire, and let twelve roars out of him, the
warrior ran away and hid himself up to the neck in a well of water,
and all they could do they couldn't get him to come and face the
dragon. Then the king's daughter asked if there was no one there to
save her from the dragon, and get her in marriage. But no one
stirred.

When Billy saw this, he tied the belt of the bull's hide round him,
swung his stick over his head, and went in, and after a terrible
fight, entirely killed the dragon. Everyone then gathered about to
find who the stranger was.

Billy jumped on his horse and darted away sooner than let them know; but
just as he was getting away the king's daughter pulled the shoe
off his foot.

When the dragon was killed the warrior that had hid in the well of
water came out, and cutting off the heads of the dragon he brought them
to the king, and said that it was he who killed the dragon, in
disguise; and he claimed the king's daughter.

But she tried the shoe on him and found it didn't fit him; so she said
it wasn't him, and that she would marry no one only the man the
shoe fitted. When Billy got home he changed his clothes again, and
had the horse in the stable, and the cattle all in before his master
came.
When the master came, he began telling Billy about the wonderful day
they had entirely, and about the warrior hiding in the well of water,
and about the grand stranger that came down out of the sky in a cloud
on a black horse, and killed the fiery dragon, and then vanished in
a cloud again. "And now," says he, "Billy, wasn't that wonderful?"

"It was, indeed," says Billy, "very wonderful entirely." After that it
was given out over the country that all the people were to come
to the king's castle on a certain day, till the king's daughter
would try the shoe on them, and whoever it fitted she was to marry
them.

When the day arrived Billy was in the orchard with the three
goats, three cows, three horses, and three asses, as usual, and
the like of all the crowds that passed that day going to the king's
castle to get the shoe tried on, he never saw before.

They went in coaches and carriages, on horses and jackasses, riding
and walking, and crawling and creeping.
They all asked Billy was not he going to the king's castle, but Billy
said, "Arrah, what would be bringin' the likes of me there?" At
last when all the others had gone there passed an old
man with a very scarecrow suit of rags on him, and Billy stopped
him and asked him what boot would he take and swap clothes with him.
"Just take care of yourself, now," says the old man, "and don't
be playing off your jokes on my clothes, or maybe I'd make you feel
the weight of this stick."

But Billy soon let him see it was in earnest he was, and both of them
swapped suits, Billy giving the old man boot. Then off to the castle
started Billy, with the suit of rags on his back and an old stick
in his hand, and when he come there he found all in great commotion,
trying on the shoe, and some of them cutting down their foot,
trying to get it to fit.

But it was all of no use, the shoe could be got to fit none of them at
all, and the king's daughter was going to give up in despair when
the wee, ragged-looking boy, which was Billy, elbowed his way through
them, and says he, "Let me try it on; maybe it would fit me."

But the people when they saw him, all began to laugh at the sight of
him, and "Go along out of that, you example, you," says they, shoving
and pushing him back. But the king's daughter saw him, and called on
them by all manner of means to let him come up and try on the shoe. So
Billy went up, and all the people looked on, breaking their hearts
laughing at the conceit of it.

But what would you have of it, but to the dumfounding of them all,
the shoe fitted Billy as nice as if it was made on his foot for a
last.

So the king's daughter claimed Billy as her husband. He then confessed
that it was he that killed the fiery dragon; and when the king had
him dressed up in a silk and satin suit, with plenty of gold and
silver ornaments, everyone gave in that his like they never saw afore.
He was then married to the king's daughter, and the wedding lasted
nine days, nine hours, nine minutes, nine half minutes, and nine
quarter minutes, and they lived happy and well from that day to this.

I got brogues of _brochan_[8] and breeches of glass, a bit of pie for
telling a lie, and then I came slithering home.

[Footnote 8: Porridge.]

The Princes Fire-flash and Fire-fade
His Highness Fire-flash was a Prince who was fond of fishing; and
so great was his luck, that big fishes, and little fishes, and all
kinds of fishes came to his line.

His younger brother, Prince Fire-fade, was fond of hunting, and all
his luck was on the hills, and in the woods, where he caught birds
and beasts of every kind.

One day Prince Fire-fade said to his elder brother, Prince
Fire-flash:
"Let us change.

You go and hunt instead of me, and I will try my luck at fishing, if
you will lend me your line and hook." Prince Fire-flash did not
care much to change, and at first said "No"; but his brother kept
on teasing him about it, until at last he said, "Very well, then;
let us change."

Then Prince Fire-fade tried his luck at fishing, but not a single
fish did he catch; and, what was worse, he lost his brother's fish-hook
in the sea.

Prince Fire-flash asked him for the hook, saying: "Hunting is one
thing, and fishing is another. Let us both go back to our own ways."

Then said Prince Fire-fade: "I did not catch a single fish with
your hook, and at last I lost it in the sea."

But Prince Fire-flash said: "I must and shall have my fish-hook." So
the younger brother broke his long sword, that was girded on him, and,
of the pieces, made five hundred fish-hooks, and begged Prince Fire-flash
to take them, but he would not.

Then Prince Fire-fade made a thousand fish-hooks and said: "Please take
them instead of the one which I lost." But the elder brother said:
"No, I must have my own hook, and I will not take any other."
Then Prince Fire-fade was very sorry, and sat down by the sea-shore,
crying bitterly.

By and by the Wise Old Man of the Sea came to him and asked: "Why are
you crying so bitterly, Prince Fire-fade?" Fire-fade told him all
the story of the lost fish-hook, and how that his brother was angry,
still saying that he must have that very same hook and no other. Then
the Wise Old Man of the Sea built a stout little boat, and made Prince
Fire-fade sit in it. Having pushed it a little from the land, he
said:

"Now go on for some time in the boat; it will be very pleasant, for the
sea is calm. Soon you will come to a palace built like fishes'
scales; this is the palace of the Sea-king. When you reach the gate,
you will see a fine cassia-tree growing above the well by the
side of the gate. If you will sit on the top of that tree, the
Sea-king's daughter will see you, and tell you what to do."
So Prince Fire-fade did as he was told, and everything came to
pass just as the Wise Old Man of the Sea had told him. As soon
as he was come to the Sea-king's palace, he made haste, and climbed
up into the cassia-tree, and sat there. Then came the maidens of the
Princess Pearl, the Sea-king's daughter, carrying golden water-pots.
They were just going to draw water, when they saw a flood of light
upon the well.

They looked up, and there in the cassia-tree was a beautiful young man.
Prince Fire-fade saw the maidens, and asked for some water.

The maidens drew some, and put it in a golden cup, and gave him to
drink.

Without tasting the water, the Prince took the jewel that hung at
his neck, put it between his lips, and let it drop into the golden
cup.

It stuck to the cup, so that the maidens could not take it off; so
they brought the cup, with the jewel on it, to the Princess Pearl.

When she saw the jewel, the Princess asked her maidens: "Is there
anyone inside the gate?"

So the maidens answered: "There is someone sitting on the top of the
cassia-tree, above our well. It is a beautiful young man--more
beautiful even than our King. He asked for water, and we gave him some;
but, without drinking it, he dropped this jewel from his lips into
the cup, and we have brought it to you."

Then Princess Pearl, thinking this very strange, went out to look.
She was delighted at the sight, but not giving the Prince time to take
more than one little peep at her, she ran to tell her father,
saying:
"Father, there is a beautiful person at our gate."

Then the Sea-king himself went out to look. When he saw the young man
on the top of the tree, he knew that it must be Prince Fire-fade. He
made him come down, and led him into the palace, where he seated him
upon a throne made of sea-asses' skins, and silk rugs, eight layers
of each.

Then a great feast was spread, and every one was so kind to Prince
Fire-fade, that the end of it was, he married Princess Pearl, and
lived in that land for three years.

Now, one night, when the three years had almost passed, Prince
Fire-fade thought of his home, and what had happened there, and
heaved one deep sigh.

Princess Pearl was grieved, and told her father, saying: "We have
been so happy these three years, and he never sighed before, but, last
night, he heaved one deep sigh. What can the meaning of it be?" So the
Sea-king asked the Prince to tell him what ailed him, and also what
had been the reason of his coming to that land.

Then Prince Fire-fade told the Sea-king all the story of the lost
fish-hook, and how his elder brother had behaved.

The Sea-king at once called together all the fishes of the sea, great
and small, and asked: "Has any fish taken this fish-hook?" So all the
fishes said: "The _tai_[9] has been complaining of something sticking
in his throat, and hurting him when he eats, so perhaps he has taken
the hook."
[Footnote 9: A kind of fish.]
So they made the _tai_ open his mouth, and looked in his throat, and
there, sure enough, was the fish-hook. Then the hook was washed and
given to Prince Fire-fade. The Sea-king also gave him two jewels.
One was called the tide-flowing jewel, and the other was called the
tide-ebbing jewel. And he said then to the Prince: "Go home now
to your own land, and take back the fish-hook to your brother. In
this way you shall plague him. If he plant rice-fields in the
upland, make you your rice-fields in the valley; and if he make
rice-fields in the valley, do you make your rice-fields in the
upland.

I will rule the water so that it may do good to you, but harm to him.
If Prince Fire-flash should be angry with you for this, and try to
kill you, then put out the tide-flowing jewel, and the tide will come
up to drown him. But if he is sorry, and asks pardon, then put out the
tide-ebbing jewel, and the tide will go back, and let him live."

Then the Sea-king called all the crocodiles, and said: "His Highness
Prince Fire-fade is going to the upper world; which of you will
take him there quickly, and bring me back word?" And one crocodile a
fathom long, answered: "I will take him to the upper world, and
come back in a day."

"Do so, then," said the Sea-king, "and be sure that you do not frighten
him as you are crossing the middle of the sea." He then seated the
Prince upon the crocodile's head, and saw him off.

The crocodile brought him safe home, in one day, as he had promised.
When the crocodile was going to start back again, Prince Fire-fade
untied the dirk from his own belt, and setting it on the creature's
neck, sent him away.

Then Prince Fire-fade gave the fish-hook to his elder brother; and, in
all things, did as the Sea-king had told him to do.

So from that time, Prince Fire-flash became poor, and came with great
fury to kill his brother. But, just in time, Prince Fire-fade put
forth the tide-flowing jewel to drown him. When he found himself in
such danger, Prince Fire-flash said he was sorry.

So his brother put forth the tide-ebbing jewel to save him.

When he had been plagued in this way for a long time, he bowed his
head, saying: "From this time forth, I submit to you, my younger
brother. I will be your guard by day and by night, and in all things
serve you." His struggles in the water, when he thought he was drowning,
are shown at the Emperor's Court even to this very day.

_Panch-Phul Ranee_

A certain Rajah had two wives, of whom he preferred the second to the
first; the first Ranee had a son, but because he was not the child
of the second Ranee, his father took a great dislike to him, and treated
him so harshly that the poor boy was very unhappy.

One day, therefore, he said to his mother: "Mother, my father does
not care for me, and my presence is only a vexation to him. I should
be happier anywhere than here; let me therefore go and seek
my fortune in other lands."
So the Ranee asked her husband if he would allow their son to
travel.

He said, "The boy is free to go, but I don't see how he is to live
in any other part of the world, for he is too stupid to earn his
living, and I will give him no money to squander on senseless pleasures."
Then the Ranee told her son that he had his father's permission
to travel, and said to him, "You are going out into the world
now to try your luck; take with you the food and clothes I have provided
for your journey."

And she gave him a bundle of clothes and several small loaves, and in
each loaf she placed a gold mohur, that on opening it, he might find
money as well as food inside; and he started on his journey.

When the young Rajah had travelled a long way, and left his father's
kingdom far behind, he one day came upon the outskirts of a great
city, where, instead of taking the position due to his rank, and sending
to inform the Rajah of his arrival, he went to a poor Carpenter's
house, and begged of him a lodging for the night.

The Carpenter was busy making wooden clogs in the porch of his house,
but he looked up and nodded, saying, "Young man, you are welcome to
any assistance a stranger may need and we can give. If you are
in want of food, you will find my wife and daughter in the house; they
will be happy to cook for you." The Rajah went inside and said to the
Carpenter's daughter, "I am a stranger and have travelled a long
way; I am both tired and hungry; cook me some dinner as fast as
you can, and I will pay you for your trouble."

She answered, "I would willingly cook you some dinner at once, but
I have no wood to light the fire, and the jungle is some way off." "It
matters not," said the Rajah; "this will do to light the fire,
and I'll make the loss good to your father"; and taking a pair of new
clogs which the Carpenter had just finished making, he broke them up
and lighted the fire with them.

Next morning, he went into the jungle, cut wood, and, having made a pair
of new clogs--better than those with which he had lighted the fire the
evening before--placed them with the rest of the goods for sale in the
Carpenter's shop. Shortly afterward, one of the servants of the Rajah
of that country came to buy a pair of clogs for his master, and seeing
these new ones, said to the Carpenter, "Why, man, these clogs are better
than all the rest put together. I will take none other to the Rajah.
I wish you would always make such clogs as these." And throwing down
ten gold mohurs on the floor of the hut, he took up the clogs and went
away.

The Carpenter was much surprised at the whole business. In the first
place, he usually received only two or three rupees for each pair of
clogs; and in the second, he knew that these which the Rajah's servant
had judged worth ten gold mohurs had not been made by him; and how
they had come there he could not think, for he felt certain they
were not with the rest of the clogs the night before. He thought and
thought, but the more he thought about the matter the more puzzled he
got, and he went to talk about it to his wife and daughter. Then his
daughter said, "Oh, those must have been the clogs the stranger made!"
And she told her father how he had lighted the fire the night before
with two of the clogs which were for sale, and had afterward fetched
wood from the jungle and made another pair to replace them.

The Carpenter, at this news, was more astonished than ever, and he thought
to himself, "Since this stranger seems a quiet, peaceable sort of
man, and can make clogs so well, it is a great pity he should leave
this place; he would make a good husband for my daughter"; and,
catching hold of the young Rajah, he propounded his scheme to him.

(But all this time he had no idea that his guest was a Rajah.)
Now the Carpenter's daughter was a very pretty girl--as pretty as
any Ranee you ever saw; she was also good-tempered, clever, and
could cook extremely well.

So when the Carpenter asked the Rajah to be his son-in-law, he looked
at the father, the mother, and the girl, and thinking to himself
that many a better man had a worse fate, he said, "Yes, I will
marry your daughter, and stay here and make clogs."

So the Rajah married the Carpenter's daughter.

This Rajah was very clever at making all sorts of things in wood. When
he had made all the clogs he wished to sell next day, he would amuse
himself in making toys; and in this way he made a thousand wooden
parrots. They were as like real parrots as possible. They had each
two wings, two legs, two eyes, and a sharp beak. And when the Rajah
had finished them all, he painted and varnished them and put them,
one afternoon, outside the house to dry.

Night came on, and with it came Parbuttee and Mahdeo, flying round
the world to see the different races of men. Among the many places
they visited was the city where the Carpenter lived; and in the garden
in front of the house they saw the thousand wooden parrots which the
Rajah had made and painted and varnished, all placed out to dry.
Then Parbuttee turned to Mahdeo, and said, "These parrots are very
well made--they need nothing but life.

Why should not we give them life?" Mahdeo answered, "What would be
the use of that? It would be a strange freak, indeed!" "Oh," said
Parbuttee, "I only meant you to do it as an amusement. It would be so
funny to see the wooden parrots flying about! But do not do it if you
don't like." "You would like it, then?"

answered Mahdeo. "Very well, I will do it." And he endowed the thousand
parrots with life.

Parbuttee and Mahdeo then flew away.

Next morning the Rajah got up early to see if the varnish he had put
on the wooden parrots was dry; but no sooner did he open the door
than--marvel of marvels!--the thousand wooden parrots all came walking
into the house, flapping their wings and chatting to each other.

Hearing the noise, the Carpenter and the Carpenter's wife and daughter
came running out to see what was the matter, and were not less astonished
than the Rajah himself at the miracle which had taken place. Then the
Carpenter's wife turned to her son-in-law, and said, "It is all very
well that you should have made these wooden parrots; but I don't know
where we are to find food for them! Great, strong parrots like
these will eat not less than a pound of rice apiece every day. Your
father-in-law and I cannot afford to procure as much as that for them
in this poor house.

If you wish to keep them, you must live elsewhere, for we cannot
provide for you all."
"Very well," said the Rajah; "you shall not have cause to accuse me of
ruining you, for from henceforth I will have a house of my own." So
he and his wife went to live in a house of their own, and he took the
thousand parrots with him, and his mother-in-law gave her daughter
some corn and rice and money to begin housekeeping with. Moreover,
he found that the parrots, instead of being an expense, were the
means of increasing his fortune; for they flew away every morning
early to get food, and spent the whole day out in the fields; and
every evening, when they returned home, each parrot brought in his
beak a stalk of corn or rice, or whatever it had found good to eat.

Their master therefore was regularly supplied with more food than enough;
and what with selling what he did not require, and working at his
trade, he soon became quite a rich carpenter.

After he had been living in this way very happily for some time,
one night, when he fell asleep, the Rajah dreamed a wonderful dream,
and this was the dream:
He thought that very, very far away beyond the Red Sea was a beautiful
kingdom surrounded by seven other seas; and that it belonged to a
Rajah and Ranee who had one lovely daughter, named Panch-Phul Ranee
(the Five Flower Queen), after whom the whole kingdom was called
Panch-Phul Ranee's country; and that this Princess lived in the
centre of her father's kingdom, in a little house round which were
seven wide ditches, and seven great hedges made of spears; and that
she was called Panch-Phul Ranee because she was so light and delicate
that she weighed no more than five white lotus flowers!

Moreover, he dreamed that this Princess had vowed to marry no one who
would not cross the seven seas, and jump the seven ditches and seven
hedges made of spears.

Meanwhile Sheriff White was making
their stay as uncomfortable as possible in order to hasten a favorable
decision.

"What's the other problem?" asked Gillis, casually.

"Why, if the dust is recovered, old Maddy wants to give it to me, says
that I earned it. And I'm not going to take it."

During the interview, Welborn had been a quiet listener. On hearing
this last declaration from the visitor, he straightened up to make a
quick inquiry. "Why won't you take it?" he demanded.

"I haven't done anything to earn it," replied young Goff in a low but
firm tone.

There was an interval of silence.

"You see, Maddy is old," the visitor explained. "The awful experience
he's gone through affected him. He wants to contrast the little
service I gave him with what the gangsters did to him. His sentiment
outruns his judgment. I didn't do anything out of the ordinary--just
fed him and doctored him as best I could. I didn't do any more--"

"Is your mother living?" interrupted Welborn. "She must be a gentle,
thoughtful woman, well-grounded in the old fashioned ideas of kindness
in social service, to have raised a son with such ideals. People,
now-a-days, expect pay, even for their charities. You will have much
trouble and many disappointments if you approach a sordid world with
such sentiments."

"Hold on Mister," said the younger man, with much spirit. "Old Maddy's
case is different. His case was not a business transaction, it was a
duty." The young visitor ducked his head to chuckle a little while he
scraped the gravel with the toe of his shoe. "If you run into Andy
Pelser, in about a month from now, you will know what I mean. Andy is
young and bright, but old in the sheep game. I had no scruples in
giving him a good cross-lifting in that sheep trade we made. But this
Maddy case is different. I don't want pay for being neighborly, for
doing my duty to oldsters."

"Back the car out, Jim!" commanded Welborn. "This young man is
irresistible. We had as well take a day off to do our part in this
entanglement. Back the car out while I spruce up a little to meet the
law as well as the law-breakers."

Presently Welborn came out of the house, dressed as a man of business.
His attitude was as one in authority. "I have a plan in mind that
might work. It has about one chance in fifty of fitting the case, but
we'll take that chance. But we must do two things if it is to
succeed," cautioned Welborn. "We must not let the Judge see poor old
Maddy in his present plight. It would infuriate the Judge to sentence
those buzzards to the hoosegow for life. Then too, I must see this
sheriff alone, if the plan is made to work. Drive on, my boy," he said
to Goff, "and we'll try to keep in sight. See you tomorrow night,
maybe," he called to Landy and Davy as the two cars got underway.


8


A busy little man was David Lannarck in the week that followed. With a
horse to break and a speech to make, the time was fully occupied. The
colt was quartered at the Gillis barn. Davy stayed with the colt. Of
mornings, Landy assisted with the colt's grooming and education. His
white mane and tail were washed and brushed and his red coat fairly
shone from the attention given. Landy rasped his feet to evenness and
cautioned that he would have to be shod if used on hard-surfaced
roads. "Potter can shoe him all right," he explained, "but we'll have
to send an order for a set of little shoes to fit."

The morning rides were usually on the rather level roadway that led up
to Pinnacle Point, but there were sidetrips down ill-defined paths to
the little creeks. Landy sometimes went along to advise as to road
gaits. The Gillis dogs were constant companions. In fact, since the
night of Davy's arrival they waited around until he made his
appearance and followed him constantly. Except for the fact that he
was scheduled to make a public appearance at Adot next Saturday night,
David Lannarck was now enjoying the rest and joys that he had dreamed
of and planned when he was oppressed by the mob.

"I am not writing out a speech," Davy explained to Mrs. Gillis as he
bent over the pad of paper, pencil in hand. "I am just jotting down
some incidents of circus life that the public might want to know. This
girl over at the B-line--My, oh, my, but she's got a compelling line
of chatter. If she would do the ballyhoo for a Kid Show, she would
pack 'em in to bust down the sidewalls. Now this girl said I was to
talk about midgets and circuses. What I know about midgets and
circuses would fill two books. My problem is to leave out the
commonplace routine and tell 'inside stuff.'"

Mrs. Gillis had cleared a side table where Davy, in his high chair,
could jot down the items that he would use in his talk. It was while
he was thus engaged of afternoons and evenings that Mrs. Gillis heard
the life story of the only midget she had ever known.

"My name wasn't always Lannarck," Davy explained one afternoon when
Mrs. Gillis detailed something of her ancestry and early childhood.
"My name was O'Rahan, and I was christened Daniel. I am Irish--both
sides. My Dad was a young, happy-go-lucky Irish lad, a hard worker, a
free liver, and surely improvident. Foot-loose and free he joined a
party in the rush to the Klondike. Three years later he came back with
enough money to fill a pad saddle. And they took it away from him as
fast as he had accumulated it.

"He met my mother, Ellen Monyhan, at a party, and he was as speedy at
courting as he was at spending. They were married but a short while
when the financial crash came. He was ashamed and humiliated but not
beaten. He wanted another try at this fascinating game. He went back
to the Klondike--and to his death at sea.

"I was born in a hospital in Springfield. My young, heartbroken mother
died there. There were no relatives nearer than cousins. In due time I
was committed to an orphanage. I have no memory of either parent and
my information concerning them is meager and second hand. Now this
orphanage was well conducted, but it wasn't a home; it was an
institution. With anywhere from thirty to sixty children to care for,
it lacked the personal equation. It was mass production--you did
things by rote, en-masse--no individuality. But I have no complaint.
As a babe and child I was well-fed and clothed, in a uniform common to
all.

"And then I started to school along with all the others. But something
was happening to me that did not happen to the others. I quit growing.
Mentally I was like the others--kept up with my grades--but I never
grew taller than thirty-two inches and never weighed more than
thirty-eight pounds. Other children would shoot up like corn stalks,
but I stayed right where I had been in the months and years past.

"To me, it was a heart breaking disclosure. I wanted to play ball, to
make the team, only to find that as the slow months crept on, I was
assigned to the playground of the little kids, babes, toddlers. The
balls, bats, mitts, and other playthings were too big for me. But I
kept up with my classes in school and maybe the disappointments in
sports urged me to win somewhere else. I won the eighth-grade prize in
arithmetic and mechanical drawing. And then came high school, and the
great disaster, quickly followed by an entrance into an Orphan's
Heaven--a home in a private family. In the shifting personnel at the
orphanage, there were fewer high-school pupils. We went to a different
building over different streets. It was no doubt a singular sight to
the residents to see a midget with six-footers, but it was just that
way. And it must have been a singular sight to Loron Usark, a big
childish lout that lived on Spruce Street. We would pass the end of
the alley back of his house and he was out there every day to watch us
go by. Now this Loron was too weak, mentally, for school. Ordered
around by everybody and pestered and teased by many, the
moronic-minded will seek a victim that he can abuse and bend to his
own will, and this Loron party was on the lookout. One day he caught
me tagging along behind the others. He grabbed me and would have
beaten me, but my companions rescued me. After that, I had to be on
the lookout. I was marked for slaughter by this fool.

"Mrs. Gillis," Davy changed his tone of voice to a deeper bass, as was
his wont when he desired to impress a listener. He shook his pencil at
his deeply interested audience of one. "Mrs. Gillis, I've seen a lot
of people in my time. Except for old-time circus people and theatrical
troopers, I've seen a million more than my share. And you can set
this down on your mental calendar as an established truth: whenever
you see a Big One taunting a Little One, you can set him down as a big
coward. And, whenever you see a Dub kidding a Lout, you can be assured
that the dub is trying to lift himself above a similar rating.

"Well, this Loron lout finally got me," said Davy, resuming the thread
of his life story. "I was on my way back to the orphanage for a book
and as I passed the alley he swept me down. They were good sidewalks
out there, else he would have broken them in bits as he pounded my
head on 'em. While he was thus thinking, his wife awoke and asked him
what was the matter. He told her, and she said, "That is a strange
dream. If I were you, I'd ask the old parrot about it; he is a wise
bird, and perhaps he knows." This parrot of which she spoke was
the most wise of all the thousand wooden parrots. The Rajah took
his wife's advice, and when all the birds came home that evening,
he called the old parrot and told him his dream, saying, "Can this
be true?"

To which the parrot replied, "It is all true. The Panch-Phul Ranee's
country lies beyond the Red Sea, and is surrounded by seven seas, and
she dwells in a house built in the centre of her father's kingdom.
Round her house are seven ditches, and seven hedges made of spears,
and she has vowed not to marry any man who cannot jump these seven
ditches and seven hedges; and because she is very beautiful many
great and noble men have tried to do this, but in vain.

"The Rajah and Ranee, her father and mother, are very fond of her
and proud of her. Every day she goes to the palace to see them, and
they weigh her in a pair of scales. They put her in one scale and
five lotus flowers in the other, and she's so delicate and fragile
she weighs no heavier than the five little flowers, so they call
her the Panch-Phul Ranee. Her father and mother are very proud
of this."
"I should like to go to that country and see the Panch-Phul Ranee,"
said the Rajah; "but I don't know how I could cross the seven seas."
"I will show you how to manage that," replied the old parrot. "I and
another parrot will fly close together, I crossing my left over
his right wing; so that we will move along as if we were one bird
(using only our outside wings to fly with), and on the chair made
of our interlaced wings you shall sit, and we will carry you safely
across the seven seas. On the way we will every evening alight in some
high tree and rest, and every morning we can go on again." "That
sounds a good plan; I have a great desire to try it," said the
Rajah.

"Wife, what should you think of my going to the Panch-Phul Ranee's
country, and seeing if I can jump the seven ditches, and seven hedges
made of spears. Will you let me try?"
"Yes," she answered. "If you like to go and marry her, go; only
take care that you do not kill yourself; and mind you come back some
day." And she prepared food for him to take with him, and took off her
gold and silver bangles, which she placed in a bundle of warm things,
that he might be in need neither of money nor clothes on the journey.
He then charged the nine hundred and ninety-eight parrots he left
behind him to bring her plenty of corn and rice daily (that she might
never need food while he was away), and took her to the house of
her father, in whose care she was to remain during his absence; and
he wished her good-bye, saying, "Do not fear but that I will come
back to you, even if I do win the Panch-Phul Ranee, for you will
always be my first wife, though you are the Carpenter's daughter."

The old parrot and another parrot then spread their wings, on which the
Rajah seated himself as on a chair, and rising up in the air, they
flew away with him out of sight.

Far, far, far they flew, as fast as parrots can fly, over hills, over
forests, over rivers, over valleys, on, on, on, hour after hour, day
after day, week after week, only staying to rest every night when
it got too dark to see where they were going.

At last they reached the seven seas which surrounded the Panch-Phul
Ranee's country. When once they began crossing the seas they could
not rest (for there was neither rock nor island on which to
alight), so they were obliged to fly straight across them, night and
day, until they gained the shore.

By reason of this the parrots were too exhausted on their arrival to
go as far as the city where the Rajah, Panch-Phul Ranee's father,
lived, but they flew down to rest on a beautiful banyan tree, which
grew not far from the sea, close to a small village.

The Rajah determined to go into the village and get food and shelter
there. He told the parrots to stay in the banyan tree till his
return; then, leaving his bundle of clothes and most of his money
in their charge, he set off on foot toward the nearest house.

After a little while he reached a Malee's cottage, and giving a
gold mohur to the Malee's wife, got her to provide him with food
and shelter for the night.

Next morning he rose early, and said to his hostess, "I am a
stranger here, and know nothing of the place. What is the name of your
country?" "This," she said, "is Panch-Phul Ranee's country."
"And what is the last news in your town?" he asked, "Very bad news
indeed," she replied. "You must know our Rajah has one only daughter--a
most beautiful Princess--and her name is Panch-Phul Ranee, for she is
so light and delicate that she weighs no heavier than five lotus
flowers. After her this whole country is called Panch-Phul Ranee's
country.

She lives in a small bungalow in the centre of the city you
see yonder; but, unluckily for us, she has vowed to marry no man
who cannot jump on foot over the seven hedges made of spears, and
across the seven great ditches that surround her house. This cannot be
done, Babamah! I don't know how many hundreds of thousands of Rajahs
have tried to do it and died in the attempt! Yet the Princess will
not break her vow. Daily, worse and worse tidings come from the
city of fresh people having been killed in trying to jump the seven
hedges and seven ditches, and I see no end to the misfortunes that
will arise from it.

Not only are so many brave men lost to the world, but, since the
Princess will marry no one who does not succeed in this, she stands a
chance of not marrying at all; and if that be so, when the Rajah dies
there will be no one to protect her and claim the right to succeed
to the throne.

All the nobles will probably fight for the Raj, and the whole kingdom
be turned topsy-turvy."
"Mahi," said the Rajah, "if that is all there is to do, I will try and
win your Princess, for I can jump right well."
"Baba," answered the Malee's wife, "do not think of such a thing;
are you mad?

I tell you, hundreds of thousands of men have said these words before,
and been killed for their rashness. What power do you think you
possess, to succeed where all before you have failed? Give up all thought
of this, for it is utter folly."
"I will not do it," answered the Rajah, "before going to consult some
of my friends."
So he left the Malee's cottage, and returned to the banyan tree to
talk over the matter with the parrots; for he thought they would be
able to carry him on their wings across the seven ditches and seven
hedges made of spears.

When he reached the old tree the parrot said to him, "It is two days
since you left us; what news have you brought from the village?"
The Rajah answered, "The Panch-Phul Ranee still lives in the house
surrounded by the seven ditches, and seven hedges made of spears,
and has vowed to marry no man who cannot jump over them; but cannot
you parrots, who brought me all the way over the seven seas, carry
me on your wings across these great barriers?"

"You stupid man!" answered the old parrot, "of course we could; but
what would be the good of doing so? If we carried you across, it would
not be at all the same thing as your jumping across, and the Princess
would no more consent to marry you than she would now; for she has vowed
to marry no one who has not jumped across _on foot_.

If you want to do the thing, why not do it yourself, instead
of talking nonsense.
Have you forgotten how, when you were a little boy, you were
taught to jump by conjurors and tumblers (for the parrot knew all the
Rajah's history)? Now is the time to put their lessons in practice.

If you can jump the seven ditches, and seven hedges made of spears, you
will have done a good work, and be able to marry the Panch-Phul Ranee;
but if not, this is a thing in which we cannot help you."
"You reason justly," replied the Rajah. "I will try to put in
practice the lessons I learnt when a boy; meantime, do you stay here
till my return."
So saying, he went away to the city, which he reached by nightfall.
Next morning early he went to where the Princess's bungalow stood,
to try to jump the fourteen great barriers.

He was strong and agile, and he jumped the seven great ditches, and six
of the seven hedges made of spears; but in running to jump the seventh
hedge he hurt his foot, and, stumbling, fell upon the spears and
died--run through and through with the cruel iron spikes.

When Panch-Phul Ranee's father and mother got up that morning and looked
out, as their custom was, toward their daughter's bungalow, they
saw something transfixed upon the seventh hedge of spears, but what
it was they could not make out, for it dazzled their eyes. So the Rajah
called his Wuzeer and said to him, "For some days I have seen no one
attempt to jump the seven hedges and seven ditches round Panch-Phul
Ranee's bungalow; but what is that which I now see upon the seventh
hedge of spears?"

The Wuzeer answered, "That is a Rajah's son, who has failed, like
all who have gone before him." "But how is it," asked the Rajah, "that
he thus dazzles our eyes?"
"It is," replied the Wuzeer, "because he is so beautiful. Of all
that have died for the sake of Panch-Phul Ranee, this youth is, beyond
doubt, the handsomest." "Alas!" cried the Rajah, "how many and how
many brave men has my daughter killed? I will have no more die for her.
Let us send her and the dead man together away into the jungle."

Then he ordered the servants to fetch the young Rajah's body. There
he lay, still and beautiful, with a glory shining round him as the
moonlight shines round the clear bright moon, but without a spark of
life.

When the Rajah saw him, he said, "Oh, pity, pity, that so brave
and handsome a boy should have come dying after this girl! Yet he is
but one of the thousands of thousands who have died thus to no
purpose.
Pull up the spears and cast them into the seven ditches, for they
shall remain no longer."

Then he commanded two palanquins to be prepared and men in readiness
to carry them, and said, "Let the girl be married to the young
Rajah, and let both be taken far away into the jungle, that we may
never see them more. Then there will be quiet in the land again."
The Ranee, Panch-Phul Ranee's mother, cried bitterly at this, for
she was very fond of her daughter, and she begged her husband not to
send her away so cruelly--the living with the dead; but the
Rajah was inexorable. "That poor boy died," he said; "let my
daughter die, too!
I'll have no more men killed here."

So the two palanquins were prepared. Then he placed his daughter in the
one, and her dead husband in the other, and said to the palkee-bearers,
"Take these palkees and go out into the jungle until you have
reached a place so desolate that not so much as a sparrow is to be
seen, and there leave them both."
And so they did. Deep down in the jungle, where no bright sun could
pierce the darkness, nor human voice be heard, far from any habitation
of man or means of supporting life, on the edge of a dank, stagnant
morass that was shunned by all but noisome reptiles and wandering
beasts of prey, they set them down and left them, the dead husband
and the living wife, alone to meet the horrors of the coming
night--alone, without a chance of rescue.

Panch-Phul Ranee heard the bearers' retreating footsteps, and their
voices getting fainter and fainter in the distance, and felt that she
had nothing to hope for but death.

Night seemed coming on apace, for though the sun had not set, the
jungle was dark so that but little light pierced the gloom; and she
thought she would take a last look at the husband her vow had killed,
and, sitting beside him, wait till starvation should make her as he
was, or some wild animal put a more speedy end to her sufferings.

She left her palkee and went toward his.

There he lay with closed eyes and close-shut lips; black curling hair,
which escaped from under his turban, concealed a ghastly wound on his
temple. There was no look of pain on the face, and the long, sweeping
eyelashes gave it such a tender, softened expression she could hardly
believe that he was dead.
He was, in truth, very beautiful; and, watching him, she said to herself,
"Alas, what a noble being is here lost to the world! what an earth's
joy is extinguished! Was it for this I was cold, and proud, and
stern--to break the cup of my own happiness and to be the death
of such as you?

Must you now never know that you won your wife? Must you never hear
her ask your pardon for the past, nor know her cruel punishment?
Ah, if you had but lived, how dearly I would have loved you! Oh,
my husband! my husband!" And sinking down on the ground, she buried her
face in her hands and cried bitterly.

While she was sitting thus, night closed over the jungle, and brought
with it wild beasts that had left their dens and lairs in search
of prey--to roam about, as the heat of the day was over.

Tigers, lions, elephants, and bison, all came by turns, crushing through
the underwood which surrounded the place where the palkees were, but
they did no harm to Panch-Phul Ranee, for she was so fair that not
even the cruel beasts of the forests would injure her. At last, about
four o'clock in the morning, all the wild animals had gone except
two little jackals, who had been very busy watching the rest and
picking the bones left by the tigers.

Tired with running about, they lay down to rest close to the palkees.
Then one little jackal said to the other, who was her husband, "Do
tell me a little story." "Dear me!" exclaimed he, "what people you
women are for stories! Well, look just in front of you; do you see
those two?" "Yes," she answered; "what of them?" "That woman you see
sitting on the ground," he said, "is the Panch-Phul Ranee." "And
what son of a Rajah is the man in the palkee?" asked she.

"That," he replied, "is a very sorrowful son. His father was so
unkind to him that he left his own home, and went to live in another
country very far from this; and there he dreamed about the Panch-Phul
Ranee, and came to our land in order to marry her, but he was
killed in jumping the seventh hedge of spears, and all he gained
was to die for her sake."
"That is very sad," said the first little jackal; "but could he
never by any chance come to life again?"

"Yes," answered the other; "maybe he could, if only someone knew how
to apply the proper remedies." "What are the proper remedies, and
how could he be cured?" asked the lady jackal. (Now, all this
conversation had been heard by Panch-Phul Ranee, and when this question
was asked she listened very eagerly and attentively for the answer.)

"Do you see this tree?" replied her husband. "Well, if some of its
leaves were crushed, and a little of the juice put into the Rajah's
two ears and upon his upper lip, and some upon his temples, also,
and some upon the spear-wounds in his side, he would come to life
again and be as well as ever."

At this moment day dawned, and the two little jackals ran away.
Panch-Phul Ranee did not forget their words. She, a Princess born, who
had never put her foot to the ground before (so delicately and
tenderly had she been reared), walked over the rough clods of earth
and the sharp stones till she reached the place where the tree grew
of which the jackals had spoken.

She gathered a number of its leaves, and, with hands and feet that
had never before done coarse or common work, beat and crushed them
down. They were so stiff, and strong that it took her a long time.
At last, after tearing them, and stamping on them, and pounding them
between two stones, and biting the hardest parts, she thought
they were sufficiently crushed; and rolling them up in a corner
of her saree, she squeezed the juice through it on to her husband's
temples, and put a little on his upper lip and into his ears, and
some also on the spear-wound in his side. And when she had done this,
he awoke as if he had been only sleeping, and sat up, wondering where
he was. Before him stood Panch-Phul Ranee shining like a glorious
star, and all around them was the dark jungle.

It would be hard to say which of them was the more astonished--the Rajah
or the Princess. She was surprised that the remedy should have taken
such speedy effect, and could hardly believe her eyes when she saw
her husband get up. And if he looked beautiful when dead, much more
handsome did he seem to her now, so full of life and animation and
power--the picture of health and strength.

And he, in his turn, was lost in amazement at the exquisite loveliness
of the lady who stood before him. He did not know who she could be, for
he had never seen her like, except in a dream. Could she be really the
world-renowned Panch-Phul Ranee, or was he dreaming still? He feared
to move lest he should break the spell.

But as he sat there wondering, she spoke, saying, "You marvel at
what has taken place. You do not know me--I am Panch-Phul Ranee, your
wife."

Then he said, "Ah, Princess, is it indeed you? You have been very
hard to me." "I know, I know," she answered; "I caused your death,
but I brought you to life again.

Let the past be forgotten; come home with me, and my father and mother
will welcome you as a son."
He replied, "No, I must return first to my own home a while. Do you
rather return there now with me, for it is a long time since I
left it, and afterward we will come again to your father's
kingdom."

To this Panch-Phul Ranee agreed. It took them, however, a long time to
find their way out of the jungle. At last they succeeded in doing
so, for none of the wild animals in it attempted to injure them,
so beautiful and royal did they both look.

When they reached the banyan tree, where the Rajah had left the
two parrots, the old parrot called out to him, "So you have come back
at last! We thought you never would, you were such a long time away!

There you went, leaving us here all the time, and after all doing no
good, but only getting yourself killed. Why didn't you do as
we advised you, and jump up nicely?"
"Well, I'm sure," said the Rajah, "yours is a hard case; but I beg
your pardon for keeping you waiting so long, and now I hope you'll
take me and my wife home."
"Yes, we will do that," answered the parrots; "but you had better get
some dinner first, for it's a long journey over the seven seas."

So the Rajah went to the village close by and bought food for
himself and the Panch-Phul Ranee. When he returned with it, he said
to her, "I fear the long journey before us for you; had you not
better let me make it alone, and return here for you when it is over?"
But she answered, "No! what could I, a poor weak woman, do here
alone? and I will not return to my father's house till you can come,
too. Take me with you, however far you go; only promise me you
will never leave me." So he promised her, and they both, mounting the
parrots, were carried up in the air across the seven seas, across the
Red Sea, on, on, on, a whole year's journey, until they reached his
father's kingdom, and alighted to rest at the foot of the palace
garden.

The Rajah, however, did not know where he was, for all had much changed
since he left it some years before.

Then a little son was born to the Rajah and Panch-Phul Ranee. He was
a beautiful child, but his father was grieved to think that in that
bleak place there was no shelter for the mother or the baby. So he
said to his wife, "I will go to fetch food for us both, and fire
to cook it with, and inquire what this country is, and seek out a place
of rest for you. Do not be afraid; I shall soon return."

Now, far off in the distance, smoke was to be seen rising from tents
which belonged to some conjurors and dancing-people, and thither the
Rajah bent his steps, feeling certain he should be able to get fire,
and perhaps food also, from the inhabitants. When he got there, he
found the place was much larger than he had expected--quite a good-sized
village, in fact--the abode of Nautch people and conjurors. In all the
houses the people were busy, some dancing, some singing, others trying
various conjuring tricks or practising beating the drum, and all
seemed happy and joyful.

When the conjurors saw him, they were so much struck with his
appearance (for he was very handsome) that they determined to make
him, if possible, stay among them, and join their band.

And they said one to another, "How well he would look beating the drum
for the dancers! All the world would come to see us dance, if we had
such a handsome man as that to beat the drum."
The Rajah, unconscious of their intentions, went into the largest hut
he saw, and said to a woman who was grinding corn, "Bai, give me a
little rice, and some fire from your hearth."

She immediately consented, and got up to fetch the burning sticks
he asked for; but before she gave them to him, she and her companions
threw upon them a certain powder, containing a very potent charm;
and no sooner did the Rajah receive them than he forgot about his wife
and little child, his journey, and all that had ever happened to him
in his life before; such was the peculiar property of the powder.
And when the conjurors said to him, "Why should you go away?

stay with us, and be one of us," he willingly consented to do so.

All this time Panch-Phul Ranee waited and waited for her husband, but
he never came. Night approached without his having brought her any
food or news of having found a place of shelter for her and the
baby.

At last, faint and weary, she swooned away.

It happened that that very day the Ranee (Panch-Phul Ranee's husband's
mother) lost her youngest child, a fine little boy of only a day
old; and her servants took its body to the bottom of the garden to
bury it.

Just as they were going to do so, they heard a low cry, and, looking
round, saw close by a beautiful woman lying on the ground, dead,
or apparently so, and beside her a fine little baby boy. The idea
immediately entered their heads of leaving the dead baby beside the
dead woman, and taking her living baby back with them to the palace;
and so they did.

When they returned, they said to their mistress, "Your child did
not die; see, here it is--it got well again," and showed her Panch-Phul
Ranee's baby. But after a time, when the Ranee questioned them about
it, they told her the whole truth; but she had become meanwhile
very fond of the little boy, and so he continued in the palace and
was brought up as her son; being, in truth, her grandson, though
she did not know it.

Meantime the palace Malee's wife went out, as her custom was every
morning and evening, to gather flowers. In search of them she
wandered as far as the jungle at the bottom of the garden, and there
she found the Panch-Phul Ranee lying as dead, and the dead baby beside
her.

The good woman felt very sorry, and rubbed the Ranee's cold hands
and gave her sweet flowers to smell in hopes that she might revive.
At last she opened her eyes, and seeing the Malee's wife, said, "Where
am I? Has not my husband come back? and who are you?"
"My poor lady," answered the Malee's wife, "I do not know where
your husband is.

I am the Malee's wife, and coming here to gather flowers, I found you
lying on the ground, and this your little baby, who is dead; but come
home with me, I will take care of you."
Panch-Phul Ranee answered, "Kind friend, this is not my baby; he did
not die; he was the image of his father, and fairer than this child.
Someone must have taken him away, for but a little while ago, I held
him in my arms, and he was strong and well, while this one could
never have been more than a puny, weakly infant.

Take me away; I will go home with you."
So the Malee's wife buried the dead child and took the Panch-Phul
Ranee to her house, where she lived for fourteen years; but all that
time she could gain no tidings of her husband or her lost little boy.

The child, meanwhile, grew up in the palace, and became a very
handsome youth. One day he was wandering round the garden and chanced
to pass the Malee's house.

The Panch-Phul Ranee was sitting within, watching the Malee's wife
cook their dinner.

The young Prince saw her, and calling the Malee's wife, said to
her, "What beautiful lady is that in your house?

and how did she come there?" She answered, "Little Prince, what
nonsense you talk! there is no lady here." He said again, "I know
there is a beautiful lady here, for I saw her as I passed the open
door."

"Ah, pshaw," said the girl, laughing and blushing. "That's just a
nickname that these men out here call me behind my back, of course,
and the poor colt deserves a better fate. But come in, both of you, I
have good news." The girl led the way into the hall. "You go in and
visit with grandpa, Landy, while we talk shop in the library.

"I talked with the Nazarene preacher and he's very enthusiastic over
the plan and prospects," Adine explained after they were settled in
the workshop. "I told him of the ad, that I was to run in the paper
and he's somewhat of an artist and is putting up signs all over town.
It augurs a good crowd, the biggest ever to assemble in Adot. He plays
an accordion and his wife sings and they have arranged for a quartette
of girls to sing a couple of numbers and then you are to talk. The
meeting is to be held in Joe Burns's big warehouse and it won't hold
the people. Now this is not a church meeting, it's an entertainment.
You can laugh and applaud at will. You can tell funny stories about
circuses or what-have-you, it's informal, go as far as you like!"

"Well, here's how I had mapped out the talk. I'll tell 'em something
about midgets," said Davy, "for midgets seem to be a forgotten subject
in literature. If you will comb your college library down at Boulder,
you'll not find a single book on the subject, and I am not sure that I
know enough about 'em to fill out a talk on the subject."

"That's the very subject you ought to talk on. Why I can hardly wait
to hear it. Who better can tell it? If you are short of facts, just
romance a little, that's allowable where facts are scarce. Tell 'em
personal incidents and don't make 'em too solemn or pathetic. Make 'em
laugh. Personally, I'm going to get a close-up seat, for in that big
barn of a place I doubt if you can reach the outer fringes."

"Well, if the preacher gent can make himself heard, I can too,"
retorted Davy. "I practiced up on that stuff, there's where I
specialized. You see, Miss Adine, when I joined up with the Singer
Midgets at Saint Louis, I didn't have an act, a specialty, anything to
give the public. I just joined up because Baron Singer was collecting
midgets, showing 'em a good time, with no thought of making a profit.
But it did make profit. The public wanted to see midgets.

"It was my first contact with my clan. I noticed that midgets didn't
change their voices when they reached maturity, still spoke in
childish tones. Not having much to do, I practiced voice culture,
deepened and strengthened my speech. I made my voice reach to the back
seats. It earned me a job. I became the announcer; made the
in-front-of-the-curtain talks. In the summer, with the Big Top, I
often simulated the ringmaster to make announcements from the center
ring. It was a feature all right, seeing a little guy doing a big
man's job.

"Oh I'll make 'em hear all right, but what they are to hear is the
problem. To the midget stuff I thought I would add a few paragraphs
about circus people, the different kinds and what they do. The general
public never contacts the real circus people, just the ticket takers,
ushers, and roustabouts. They never meet the managers and performers.
And because grafters, shilabers, and skin-game artists follow
circuses, the public thinks these are a part of it. It's only fair to
circus people that this connection be denied."

"Why, I didn't know that," exclaimed Adine, "I just supposed the
grafters were a part of it. Here I am, learning a lot of things and
school not yet started. Anyhow, I'm going to buy a ticket for Mrs.
Carmody and inveigle her to the entertainment. She said circus people
ought not be allowed to participate in a church benefit.

"Now you are to come over here Saturday morning. Bring Landy with you,
as we can all three ride to Adot in my roadster. There, we will lay
the top back, and with you between us, sitting up on the back cushion,
we'll parade the town. The door opens at seven o'clock. Performance
begins at seven-thirty. Then we come back here for the night and you
can ride home Sunday morning. You can talk for an hour if you want to,
but you should speak for thirty minutes at least."


10


"Are you going to live here always?" asked Davy as he slid down off
the dictionary and chair at the end of the conference. "What I mean is
this, Adine," he added, noting the girl's questioning look. "Are you
going to spend your life out here in the sticks, with cattle, horses,
and a few yokels that you have to ride miles and miles, before you see
two of 'em together?"

"Why, this is my home, I belong here, the same as other young people
live with their folks," replied the girl, somewhat startled by the
abruptness of the question. "I haven't planned to shift pastures, as
grandaddy would say. Why are you asking such an abrupt, personal
question?"

"Well, it is sorta personal and rather abrupt," agreed the midget in
an appeasing tone. "I should have made the approach with more finesse.
Abruptness is one of my defects. But now that I've blundered in, I'd
just as well finish. You don't belong out here in the wide open
spaces, in these sparse settlements. You belong in the congested
areas, where big things are being done, where there's planning,
execution, accomplishment. Why, you've taken over both ends of a
little hoss trade, laid out all the plans, details and ground work for
a community entertainment, and did it with the ease of a big executive
lighting a cigarette. You need a big job, in a big place. With your
personality and head-work, you can climb up the ladder to the top
rung."

"Well, of all things!" said the girl, embarrassed at the unexpected
drift, but laughing at the implications. "And this from a guy that has
fled the mob and wants me to take his place. Now just what big job
have you laid out for me? Running a circus? Managing a theater? Or
maybe operating a railroad?"

"You could make a success with any or all of 'em," retorted Davy. "But
none of these were in my mind. Some women want a career. Some gain it
by their own efforts and some climb to success on a ladder supported
by others. Then there is the big majority--many of 'em brilliant and
capable--that just settle down in the doldrums of marriage and let
their talents rust out in negligence and inattention."

"Then I'm not to marry?"

"You ought to. A gal as attractive, vivacious, and clever as you are,
would have to marry--in self-defense, if for no other reason. Marriage
need not interfere. It might help. With that hazard and gamble out of
the way, it would allow you to expand your talents in planning,
executing, and managing in any line you choose."

"And about when do you plan that this defense marriage--this shotgun
wedding--is to take place?" questioned Adine scornfully. "And who's
the victim?"

You may think you are a great Rajah and I only a poor Malee, but I
tell you that makes no difference at all to me. Though you were king
of all the earth, I would not permit you to come here and amuse
yourself chattering to my girl, only to fill her head with nonsense,
and to break her heart."
"In truth, good man, you do me wrong," answered the Rajah humbly: "I
mean what I say; I wish to marry your daughter."
"Do not think," retorted the Malee, "that I'll make a fool of myself
because I'm only a Malee, and believe what you've got to say, because
you're a great Rajah. Rajah or no Rajah is all one to me.

If you mean what you say, if you care for my daughter and wish to be
married to her, come and be married; but I'll have none of your new-fangled
forms and court ceremonies hard to be understood; let the girl be
married by her father's hearth and under her father's roof,
and let us invite to the wedding our old friends and acquaintances
whom we've known all our lives, and before we ever thought of
you."
The Rajah was not angry, but amused, and rather pleased than otherwise
at the old man's frankness, and he consented to all that was
desired.

The village beauty, Guzra Bai, was therefore married with as much pomp
as they could muster, but in village fashion, to the great Rajah, who
took her home with him, followed by the tears and blessings of her
parents and playmates.

The twelve kings' daughters were by no means pleased at this addition
to the number of the Ranees; and they agreed amongst themselves
that it would be highly derogatory to their dignity to permit Guzra
Bai to associate with them, and that the Rajah their husband, had
offered them an unpardonable insult in marrying a Malee's daughter,
which was to be revenged upon her the very first opportunity.

Having made this league, they tormented poor Guzra Bai so much that,
to save her from their persecutions, the Rajah built her a little
house of her own, where she lived very, very happily for a short
time.

At last one day he had occasion to go and visit a distant part of
his dominions, but fearing his high-born wives might ill-use Guzra
Bai in his absence, at parting he gave her a little golden bell, saying,
"If while I am away you are in any trouble, or any one should be
unkind to you, ring this little bell, and wherever I am I shall
instantly hear it, and will return to your aid."

No sooner had the Rajah gone, than Guzra Bai thought she would try
the power of the bell. So she rang it.

The Rajah instantly appeared. "What do you want?" he said.

"Oh, nothing," she replied. "I was foolish. I could hardly believe what
you told me could be true, and thought I would try."

"Now you will believe, I hope," he said, and went away. A second time
she rang the bell. Again the Rajah returned.

"Oh, pardon me, husband," she said; "it was wrong of me not to trust
you, but I hardly thought you could return again from so far."
And again he went away. A third time she rang the golden bell. "Why
do you ring again, Guzra Bai?" asked the Rajah sternly, as for a third
time he returned.

"I don't know, indeed; indeed I beg your pardon," she
said; "but I know not why, I felt so frightened."
"Have any of the Ranees been unkind to you?"

he asked.

"No, none," she answered; "in fact, I have seen none of them."
"You are a silly child," said he, stroking her hair. "Affairs of the
state call me away.

You must try and keep a good heart till my return;" and for the fourth
time he disappeared.

A little while after this, wonderful to relate, Guzra Bai had a hundred
and one children--a hundred boys and one girl. When the Ranees heard
this, they said to each other, "Guzra Bai, the Malee's daughter, will
rank higher than us; she will have great power and influence as
mother to the heir to the Raj; let us kill these children, and tell
our husband that she is a sorceress; then will he love her
no longer, and his old affection for us will return." So these twelve
wicked Ranees all went over to Guzra Bai's house. When Guzra Bai saw
them coming, she feared they meant to do her some harm, so she
seized her little golden bell, and rang, and rang, and rang--but
no Rajah came.

She had called him back so often that he did not believe she really
needed his help. And thus the poor woman was left to the mercy of
her implacable enemies.

Now the nurse who had charge of the hundred and one babies was an old
servant of the twelve Ranees, and moreover a very wicked woman, able
and willing to do whatever her twelve wicked old mistresses ordered.

So when they said to her, "Can you kill these children?" she answered,
"Nothing is easier; I will throw them out upon the dust-heap
behind the palace, where the rats and hawks and vultures will have
left none of them remaining by to-morrow morning."

"So be it," said the Ranees. Then the nurse took the hundred and one
little innocent children--the hundred little boys and the one little
girl--and threw them behind the palace on the dust-heap, close
to some large rat-holes; and after that, she and the twelve Ranees
placed a very large stone in each of the babies' cradles, and said
to Guzra Bai, "Oh, you evil witch in disguise, do not hope any
longer to impose by your arts on the Rajah's credulity.

See, your children have all turned into stones. See these, your
pretty babies!"--and with that they tumbled the hundred and one stones
down in a great heap on the floor. Then Guzra Bai began to cry, for she
knew it was not true; but what could one poor woman do against thirteen?
At the Rajah's return the twelve Ranees accused Guzra Bai of being a
witch, and the nurse testified that the hundred and one children she
had charge of had turned into stones, and the Rajah believed them rather
than Guzra Bai, and he ordered her to be imprisoned for life.

Meanwhile a Bandicote had heard the pitiful cries of the children, and
taking pity on them, dragged them all, one by one, into her hole, out
of the way of kites and vultures. She assembled all the Bandicotes
from far and near, and told them what she had done, begging them to
assist in finding food for the children.

Then every day a hundred and one Bandicotes would come, each bringing a
little bit of food in his mouth, and give it to one of the children;
and so day by day they grew stronger and stronger, until they were
able to run about, and then they used to play of a morning at the mouth
of the Bandicote's hole, running in there to sleep every night. But
one fine day who should come by but the wicked old nurse! Fortunately
all the boys were in the hole, and the little girl, who was playing
outside, on seeing her ran in there too, but not before the nurse
had seen her.

She immediately went to the twelve Ranees and related this, saying, "I
cannot help thinking some of the children may still be living in
those rat-holes.
You had better send and have them dug out and killed."
"We dare not do that," answered they, "for fear of causing suspicion;
but we will order some labourers to dig up that ground and make it
into a field, and that will effectually smother any of the children
who may still be alive."

This plan was approved and forthwith carried into execution; but the
good Bandicote, who happened that day to be out on a foraging expedition
in the palace, heard all about it there, and immediately running home,
took all the children from her hole to a large well some distance
off, where she hid them in the hollows behind the steps leading
down to the well, laying one child under each step.

Here they would have been quite safe, had not the Dhobee happened to
go down to the well that day to wash some clothes, taking with
him his little girl. While her father was drawing up water, the child
amused herself running up and down the steps of the well. Now each
time her weight pressed down a step it gave the child hidden underneath
a little squeeze. All the hundred boys bore this without uttering
a sound; but when the Dhobee's child trod on the step under which
the little girl was hidden, she cried out, "How can you be so cruel
to me, trampling on me in this way?

Have pity on me, for I am a little girl as well as you."
When the child heard these words proceeding from the stone, she
ran in great alarm to her father, saying, "Father, I don't know
what's the matter, but something alive is certainly under those
stones.

I heard it speak; but whether it is a Rakshas or an angel or a human
being I cannot tell." Then the Dhobee went to the twelve Ranees to
tell them the wonderful news about the voice in the well; and they
said to each other, "Maybe it's some of Guzra Bai's children; let us
send and have this inquired into." So they sent some people to pull
down the well and see if some evil spirits were not there.

Then labourers went to pull down the well. Now, close to the well was
a little temple dedicated to Gunputti, containing a small shrine
and a little clay image of the god.

When the children felt the well being pulled down they called out for
help and protection to Gunputti, who took pity on them and changed them
into trees growing by his temple--a hundred little mango trees all round
in a circle (which were the hundred little boys), and a little rose
bush in the middle, covered with red and white roses, which was
the little girl.

The labourers pulled down the well, but they found nothing there
but a poor old Bandicote, which they killed. Then, by order of the
twelve wicked Ranees, they sacrilegiously destroyed the little temple.
But they found no children there, either. However, the Dhobee's
mischievous little daughter had gone with her father to witness the
work of destruction, and as they were looking on, she said, "Father,
do look at all those funny little trees; I never remember
noticing them here before." And being very inquisitive, she
started off to have a nearer look at them.

There in a circle grew the hundred little mango trees, and in the
centre of all the little rose bush, bearing the red and white roses.

The girl rushed by the mango trees, who uttered no words, and running
up to the rose bush, began gathering some of the flowers.

At this the rose bush trembled very much, and sighed and said, "I am a
little girl as well as you; how can you be so cruel? You are breaking
all my ribs."
Then the child ran back to her father and said, "Come and listen
to what the rose bush says." And the father repeated the news to
the twelve Ranees, who ordered that a great fire should be made, and
the hundred and one little trees be burned in it, root and branch,
till not a stick remained.

The fire was made, and the hundred and one little trees were dug up
and just going to be put into it, when Gunputti, taking pity on
them, caused a tremendous storm to come on, which put out the fire
and flooded the country and swept the hundred and one trees into the
river, where they were carried down a long, long way by the torrent,
until at last the children were landed, restored to their own
shapes, on the river bank, in the midst of a wild jungle, very far
from any human habitation.

Here these children lived for ten years, happy in their mutual love
and affection. Generally every day fifty of the boys would
go out to collect roots and berries for their food, leaving fifty at
home to take care of their little sister; but sometimes they put her
in some safe place, and all would go out together for the day; nor
were they ever molested in their excursions by bear, panther, snake,
scorpion, or other noxious creature.

One day all the brothers put their little sister safely up in a fine
shady tree, and went out together to hunt.
After rambling on for some time they came to the hut of a savage
Rakshas, who in the disguise of an old woman had lived for many years
in the jungle.

The Rakshas, angry at this invasion of her domain, no sooner saw them
than she changed them all into crows. Night came on, and their
little sister was anxiously awaiting her brothers' return, when on a
sudden she heard a loud whirring sound in the air, and round the
tree flocked a hundred black crows, cawing and offering her berries
and roots which they had dug up with their sharp bills.

Then the little sister guessed too truly what must have happened--that
some malignant spirit had metamorphosed her brothers into this hideous
shape; and at the sad sight she began to cry.

Time wore on; every morning the crows flew away to collect food for
her and for themselves, and every evening they returned to roost
in the branches of the high tree where she sat the livelong day,
crying as if her heart would break.

At last so many bitter tears had she shed that they made a little
stream which flowed from the foot of the tree right down through the
jungle.

Some months after this, one fine day, a young Rajah from a
neighbouring country happened to be hunting in this very jungle; but
he had not been very successful. Toward the close of the day he
found himself faint and weary, having missed his way and lost his
comrades, with no companion save his dogs, who, being thirsty, ran
hurriedly hither and thither in search of water.

After some time, they saw in the distance what looked like a clear
stream; the dogs rushed there and the tired prince, following them,
flung himself down on the grass by the water's brink, thinking to
sleep there for the night; and, with his hands under his head, stared
up into the leafy branches of the tree above him. Great was his
astonishment to see high up in in the air an immense number of crows,
and above them all a most lovely young girl, who was feeding
them with berries and wild fruits.

Quick as thought, he climbed the tree, and bringing her carefully
and gently down, seated her on the grass beside him, saying, "Tell me,
pretty lady, who you are, and how you come to be living in this dreary
place." So she told him all her adventures, except that she did not
say the hundred crows were her hundred brothers. Then the Rajah said,
"Do not cry any more, fair Princess; you shall come home with me and
be my Ranee, and my father and mother shall be yours."
At this she smiled and dried her eyes, but quickly added, "You will let
me take these crows with me, will you not? for I love them dearly,
and I cannot go away unless they may come too."
"To be sure," he answered. "You may bring all the animals in the
jungle with you, if you like, if you will only come."

So he took her home to his father's house, and the old Rajah and Ranee
wondered much at this jungle lady, when they saw her rare beauty, her
modest, gentle ways and her queenly grace. Then the young Rajah
told them how she was a persecuted Princess, and asked their leave to
marry her; and because her loving goodness had won all hearts, they
gave their consent as joyfully as if she had been daughter of the
greatest of Rajahs, and brought with her a splendid dower; and they
called her Draupadi Bai.

Draupadi had some beautiful trees planted in front of her palace, in
which the crows, her brothers, used to live, and she daily with her
own hands boiled a quantity of rice, which she would scatter for them
to eat as they flocked around her. Now some time after this, Draupadi
Bai had a son, who was called Ramchundra. He was a very good boy,
and his mother, Draupadi Bai, used to take him to school every
morning, and go and fetch him home in the evening.

But one day, when Ramchundra was about fourteen years old, it happened
that Draupadi Bai did not go to fetch him home from school as
she was wont; and on his return he found her sitting under the trees
in front of her palace, stroking the glossy black crows that flocked
around her, and weeping.

Then Ramchundra threw down his bundle of books and said to his
mother, putting his elbows on her knees, and looking up in her face,
"Mammy, dear, tell me why you are now crying, and what it is that
makes you so often sad."
"Oh, nothing, nothing," she answered.

"Yes, dear mother," said he, "do tell me. Can I help you? If I can,
I will."
Draupadi Bai shook her head. "Alas, no, my son," she said; "you are too
young to help me; and as for my grief, I have never told it to any
one. I cannot tell it to you now." But Ramchundra continued begging
and praying her to tell him, until at last she did; relating to him
all her own and his uncles' sad history; and lastly, how they had
been changed by a Rakshas into the black crows he saw around him.

Then the boy sprang up and said, "Which way did your brothers take when
they met the Rakshas?"
"How can I tell?" she asked.

"Why," he answered, "I thought perhaps you might remember on which
side they returned that first night to you, after being bewitched."

"Oh," she said, "they came toward the tree from that part of the jungle
which lies in a straight line behind the palace."
"Very well," cried Ramchundra, joyfully, "I also will go there, and
find out this wicked old Rakshas, and learn by what means they may
be disenchanted."

"No, no, my son," she answered, "I cannot let you go; see, I
have lost father and mother, and these my hundred brothers; and now,
if you fall into the Rakshas's clutches as well as they, and are
lost to me, what will life have worth living for?"
To this he replied, "Do not fear for me, mother; I will be wary and
discreet."

And going to his father, he said, "Father, it is time I should see
something of the world. I beg you to permit me to travel and see other
lands."
The Rajah answered, "You shall go. Tell me what attendants you would
like to accompany you."
"Give me," said Ramchundra, "a horse to ride, and a groom to take care
of it." The Rajah consented, and Ramchundra set off riding toward
the jungle; but as soon as he got there, he sent his horse back by the
groom with a message to his parents and proceeded alone, on foot.

After wandering about for some time he came upon a small hut, in which
lay an ugly old woman fast asleep. She had long claws instead of
hands, and her hair hung down all around her in a thick black
tangle.
Ramchundra knew, by the whole appearance of the place, that he must
have reached the Rakshas's abode of which he was in search;
so, stealing softly in, he sat down and began shampooing her head.

At last the Rakshas woke up. "You dear little boy," she said, "do not
be afraid; I am only a poor old woman, and will not hurt you. Stay
with me, and you shall be my servant." This she said not from any
feeling of kindness or pity for Ramchundra, but merely because
she thought he might be helpful to her. So the young Rajah remained
in her service, determining to stay there till he should have learned
from her all that he wished to know.
Thus one day he said to her, "Good mother, what is the use of all
those little jars of water you have arranged round your house?"

She answered, "That water possesses certain magical attributes; if
any of it is sprinkled on people enchanted by me, they instantly
resume their former shape."
"And what," he continued, "is the use of your wand?"
"That," she replied, "has many supernatural powers; for instance,
by simply uttering your wish and waving it in the air, you can
conjure up a mountain, a river or a forest in a moment of time."

Another day Ramchundra said to her, "Your hair, good mother, is
dreadfully tangled; pray let me comb it."And later still, they raided the Bar-O premises. They were railroad
detectives, posing as cattle buyers. They were too late. They got
nothing but some bits of evidence that the train robbers had used the
Bar-O as a hangout. Maizie explained to the detectives and sheriff
that the strangers represented themselves as mineral prospectors. They
worked in the hills in the daytime. They left in the evening following
the cattle inspection. She reported that her nephew, Steve Adams, was
in Chicago, had been there for several weeks. A check up revealed that
this was true.

"A further check up revealed that these strangers had stayed all
night at the Unicorn Ranch near Northgate. Abel Sneed, the Unicorn
boss, as a matter of precaution went through their 'war bags' while
they slept. He found nothing unusual, surely no money.

"What became of this giant sum that was blasted out of the safe after
wounding the messenger? Neither the detectives nor anyone else ever
found a trace of it. But a further enigma was added to the mystery
when a month later Archie Barrow, the younger brother, came to the
Records office and made a deed of his undivided share in the Bar-O
lands to his brother Hulls. Archie made the statement that he was
through, was leaving for the Northwest, and that he would not return.

"Hulls Barrow surely didn't get the Express Company's money. A year or
two later Maizie brought him to town to give the bank a mortgage to
secure funds to defend Steve Adams, charged with murdering Allie
Garrett. Maizie hired a firm of Denver lawyers and the case went
through all the complications of venue, trial, and appeal.

"This trial was the community's biggest event, although it had origin
in a barroom brawl. During its progress, business was suspended while
the public swarmed in, hoping that the truth of the Barrow mysteries
might be revealed. The public was disappointed. Steve Adams never took
the witness stand, although many thought he had an even chance to
convince a jury that he was not the aggressor. The prosecutor was
materially aided in the case by Judge Griffith of Laramie. There was
no record as to who paid Judge Griffith, but Grandaddy was highly
gratified that the accused got a ten-year sentence. He was one man in
the community that knew of Griffith's ability as a prosecutor.

"And now that old mortgage is being foreclosed. The Bar-O is on the
market at a forced sale. If Grandaddy knew about it, he wouldn't sleep
until he owned it. If he were ten years younger he would go over there
and shoot it out with Hulls Barrow for the possession. And he needs
more land about as badly as he needs ten thumbs on one hand. He
already owns all that joins his, his holdings envelope the Bar-O on
three sides. He might covet the grazing rights in the Tranquil Meadows
district, but two of our winter grazing meadows will lay idle this
winter and our fifty ricks of hay are about four times more than we
can use.

"Really, Grandaddy doesn't want more land, wouldn't buy other
adjoining land, but he would spend every available cent to get rid of
the Barrows. I have two slender, lingering hopes. First, if he does
find out about the sale and buys it, that there will still be money
left in the keyster. And secondly, if he should buy it, I hope I can
persuade him to sell it to some first class, reputable rancher.
Someone with a family with whom we can be neighborly and the men folks
can exchange work in the busy season."

"How much is this mortgage thing?" questioned Davy, as the lengthy
story seemed near the end. "What's due the grazing master? How many
cattle are they running? When is this sale? Who can I see about the
details? Maybe I could find somebody to take over. And anyhow, don't
you worry about expense money. Mrs. Gillis has enough cash-on-hand to
take care of all of us, unless this panic grows into a financial
cyclone."

"Mister Potter, out at the stables, knows most of the details. Mister
Finch and a deputy sheriff were here this morning, talking it over
with him. As I understand it, Mister Logan, the bank receiver, bought
the land at the sale, but it seems that a bank receiver can't hold the
land, he must sell it to make cash assets. Mister Logan has the bank's
affairs in good shape, except for this item, and it's got him badly
worried. Just now, he thinks it would have been better to have sold
the note and mortgage to someone and let the buyer take the grief of
getting possession. Anyhow, talk to Mister Potter, he has the answers
to most of your questions. See him, by all means," urged Adine Lough
as Davy prepared to join the impatient Landy standing at the door.


11


"We've got a lot of work cut out for us," said Davy as he and Landy
walked down the drive to the stables. "I want to talk to Potter, but I
don't want to show too much interest. I want to get some information
about this Barrow resistance that's got 'em all stirred up. How big is
this Bar-O ranch anyhow? How much money does this receiver gent need
to have to get in the clear? How much is owed on the grazing
allotment? And how come that a sheriff's posse can't depose one old
man?"

"Old Jim and I were jist talkin' about this same thing," said Landy as
they paused at the yard gate.

"Does Mr. Lough know about it?" The blind Anthony Croft sitting
in the kitchen doorway had seemingly missed the heights of life
he might have trod, and had walked his close on fifty years through
level meadows of mediocrity, a witch in every finger-tip waiting
to be set to work, head among the clouds, feet stumbling, eyes and
ears open to hear God's secret thought; seeing and hearing it, too,
but lacking force to speak it forth again; for while imperious
genius surmounts all obstacles, brushes laws and formulas from its
horizon, and with its own free soul sees its "path and the outlets
of the sky," potential genius forever needs an angel of deliverance
to set it free.

Poor Anthony Croft, or blessed Anthony Croft, I know not which,--God
knows! Poor he certainly was, yet blessed after all. "One thing I
do," said Paul. "One thing I do," said Anthony. He was not able to
realize his ideals, but he had the "angel aim" by which he idealized
his reals.

O waiting heart of God! how soon would thy kingdom come if we all did
our allotted tasks, humble or splendid, in this consecrated
fashion!

III.

"Therein I hear the Parcae reel The threads of man at their humming
wheel, The threads of life and power and pain, So sweet and mournful
falls the strain."

Emerson's _Harp._

Old Mrs. Butterfield had had her third stroke of paralysis, and died
of a Sunday night.

She was all alone in her little cottage on the river bank, with
no neighbor nearer than Croft's, and nobody there but a blind man and
a small boy.

Everybody had told her it was foolish to live alone in a house on
the river road, and everybody was pleased in a discreet and
chastened fashion of course, that it had turned out exactly as
they had predicted.

Aunt Mehitable Tarbox was walking up to Milliken's Mills, with her
little black reticule hanging over her arm, and noticing that there
was no smoke coming out of the chimney, and that the hens were
gathered about the kitchen door clamoring for their breakfast, she
thought it best to stop and knock. No response followed the repeated
blows from her hard knuckles. She then tapped smartly on Mrs.
Butterfield's bedroom window with her thimble finger. This proving of
no avail, she was obliged to pry open the kitchen shutter, split
open a mosquito netting with her shears, and crawl into the house over
the sink.

This was a considerable feat for a somewhat rheumatic elderly lady, but
this one never grudged trouble when she wanted to find out
anything.

When she discovered that her premonitions were correct, and that
old Mrs.

Butterfield was indeed dead, her grief at losing a pleasant acquaintance
was largely mitigated by her sense of importance at being first on
the spot, and chosen by Providence to take command of the situation.
There were no relations in the village; there was no woman neighbor
within a mile: it was therefore her obvious Christian duty not only
to take charge of the remains, but to conduct such a funeral as the
remains would have wished for herself.

The fortunate Vice-President suddenly called upon by destiny to guide
the ship of state, the general who sees a possible Victoria Cross
in a hazardous engagement, can have a faint conception of aunt Hitty's
feeling on this momentous occasion. Funerals were the very breath
of her life. There was no ceremony, either of public or private import,
that, to her mind, approached a funeral in real satisfying interest.
Yet, with distinct talent in this direction, she had always been
"cabined, cribbed, confined" within hopeless limitations. She had
assisted in a secondary capacity at funerals in the families of
other people, but she would have reveled in personally conducted
ones.

The members of her own family stubbornly refused to die, however,
even the distant connections living on and on to a ridiculous old age;
and if they ever did die, by reason of a falling roof, shipwreck, or
conflagration, they generally died in Texas or Iowa, or some remote
State where aunt Hitty could not follow the hearse in the first
carriage.

This blighted ambition was a heart sorrow of so deep and sacred a
character that she did not even confess it to "Si," as her appendage
of a husband was called.

Now at last her chance for planning a funeral had come. Mrs. Butterfield
had no kith or kin save her niece, Lyddy Ann, who lived in Andover,
or Lawrence, or Haverhill Massachusetts,--aunt Hitty couldn't remember
which, and hoped nobody else could. The niece would be sent for
when they found out where she lived; meanwhile the funeral could not
be put off.

She glanced round the house preparatory to locking it up and starting
to notify Anthony Croft. She would just run over and talk to him about
ordering the coffin; then she could attend to all other necessary
preliminaries herself. The remains had been well-to-do, and there
was no occasion for sordid economy, so aunt Hitty determined in her
own mind to have the latest fashion in everything, including a
silver coffin plate.

The Butterfield coffin plates were a thing to be proud of. They had
been sacredly preserved for years and years, and the entire
collection--numbering nineteen in all had been framed, and adorned
the walls of the deceased lady's best room.

They were not of solid silver, it is true, but even so it was a matter
of distinction to have belonged to a family that could afford to
have nineteen coffin plates of any sort.

Aunt Hitty planned certain dramatic details as she walked town the
road to Croft's.

It came to her in a burst of inspiration that she would have two ministers:
one for the long prayer, and one for the short prayer and the remarks.
She hoped that Elder Weeks would be adequate in the latter direction.

She knew she couldn't for the life of her think of anything
interesting about Mrs. Butterfield, save that she possessed
nineteen coffin plates, and brought her hens to Edgewood every summer
for their health; but she had heard Elder Weeks make a moving discourse
out of less than that. To be sure, he needed priming, but she
was equal to that. There was Ivory Brown's funeral: how would that
have gone on if it hadn't been for her? Wasn't the elder ten minutes
late, and what would his remarks have amounted to without her
suggestions? You might almost say she was the author of the discourse,
for she gave him all the appropriate ideas. As she had helped him
out of the wagon she had said:
"Are you prepared? I thought not; but there's no time to lose.

Remember there are aged parents; two brothers living, one railroading
in Spokane Falls, the other clerking in Washington, D. C. Don't
mention the Universalists,--there's ben two in the fam'ly; nor
insanity,--there 's ben one o' them. The girl in the corner by the
clock is the one that the remains has been keeping comp'ny with.

If you can make some genteel allusions to her, it'll be much
appreciated by his folks."
As to the long prayer, she knew that the Rev. Mr. Ford could be relied
on to pray until aunt Becky Burnham should twitch him by the coat
tails.
She had done it more than once.

She had also, on one occasion, got up and straightened his ministerial
neckerchief, which he had gradually "prayed" around his saintly neck
until it was behind the right ear.

These plans proved so fascinating to aunt Hitty that she walked quite
half a mile beyond Croft's, and was obliged to retrace her steps.

She conceived bands of black alpaca for the sleeves and hats of the
pallbearers, and a festoon of the same over the front gate, if there
should be any left over. She planned the singing by the choir.
There had been no real choir-singing at any funeral in Edgewood
since the Rev.

Joshua Beckwith had died. She would ask them to open with--
Rebel mourner, cease your weepin'.
You too must die.

This was a favorite funeral hymn. The only difficulty would be in
keeping aunt Becky Burnham from pitching it in a key where nobody but
a soprano skylark, accustomed to warble at a great height, could
possibly sing it. It was generally given at the grave, when Elder Weeks
officiated; but it never satisfied aunt Hitty, because the good
elder always looked so unpicturesque when he threw a red bandanna
handkerchief over his head before beginning the twenty-seven
verses.

After the long prayer, she would have Almira Berry give for a solo--
This gro-o-oanin' world 's too dark and dre-e-ar for the saints' e -
ter - nal rest,
This hymn, if it did not wholly reconcile one to death, enabled one
to look upon life with sufficient solemnity.

It was a thousand pities, she thought, that the old hearse was so shabby
and rickety, and that Gooly Eldridge, who drove it, would insist on
wearing a faded peach-blow overcoat. It was exasperating to think
of the public spirit at Egypt, and contrast it with the state of
things at Pleasant River. In Egypt they had sold the old hearse house
for a sausage shop, and now they were having hearse sociables every
month to raise money for a new one.

All these details flew through aunt Hitty's mind in fascinating
procession. There shouldn't be "a hitch" anywhere. There had been a
hitch at her last funeral, but she had been only an assistant there.

Matt Henderson had been struck by lightning at the foot of Squire
Bean's old nooning tree, and certain circumstances combined to make
the funeral one of unusual interest, so much so that fat old Mrs.
Potter from Deerwander created a sensation at the cemetery. She was
so anxious to get where she could see everything to the best
advantage that she crowded too near the bier, stepped on the sliding
earth, and pitched into the grave.

As she weighed over two hundred pounds, and was in a position of some
disadvantage, it took five men to extricate her from the dilemma, and
the operation made a long and somewhat awkward break in the religious
services. Aunt Hitty always said of this catastrophe, "If I'd 'a' ben
Mis' Potter, I'd 'a' ben so mortified I believe I'd 'a' said, 'I wa'n't
plannin' to be buried, but now I'm in here I declare I'll stop!'"
Old Mrs. Butterfield's funeral was not only voted an entire success
by the villagers, but the seal of professional approval was set upon
it by an undertaker from Saco, who declared that Mrs. Tarbox could
make a handsome living in the funeral line anywhere. Providence, who
always assists those who assist themselves, decreed that the niece
Lyddy Ann should not arrive until the aunt was safely buried; so,
there being none to resist her right or grudge her the privilege
aunt Hitty, for the first time in her life, rode in the next buggy
to the hearse.

Si, in his best suit, a broad weed and weepers, drove Cyse Higgins's
black colt, and aunt Hitty was dressed in deep mourning, with the
Widow Buzzell's crape veil over her face, and in her hand a palmleaf
fan tied with a black ribbon. Her comment to Si, as she went to her
virtuous couch that night, was: "It was an awful dry funeral, but
that was the only flaw in it.

It would 'a' ben perfect if there' ben anybody to shed tears.

I come pretty nigh it myself, though I ain't no relation, when Elder
Weeks said, 'You'll go round the house, my sisters, and Mis'
Butterfield won't be there; you'll go int' the orchard, and Mis'
Butterfield won't be there; you'll go int' the barn and Mis'
Butterfield won't be there; you'll go int' the shed, and Mis'
Butterfield won't be there; you'll go int' the hencoop, and Mis'
Butterfield won't be there!'

That would 'a' drawed tears from a stone most, 'specially sence Mis'
Butterfield set such store by her hens."
And this is the way that Lyddy Butterfield came into her kingdom,
a little lone brown house on the river's brim. She had seen it
only once before when she had driven out from Portland, years ago, with
her aunt.

Mrs. Butterfield lived in Portland, but spent her summers in
Edgewood on account of her chickens.

She always explained that the country was dreadful dull for her, but
good for the hens; they always laid so much better in the winter
time.

Lyddy liked the place all the better for its loneliness. She had never
had enough of solitude, and this quiet home, with the song of
the river for company, if one needed more company than chickens and
a cat, satisfied all her desires, particularly as it was accompanied
by a snug little income of two hundred dollars a year, a meagre sum
that seemed to open up mysterious avenues of joy to her starved,
impatient heart.

When she was a mere infant, her brother was holding her on his knee
before the great old-fashioned fireplace heaped with burning
logs.
A sudden noise startled him, and the crowing, restless baby gave an
unexpected lurch, and slipped, face downward, into the glowing embers.

It was a full minute before the horror-stricken boy could extricate
the little creature from the cruel flame that had already done its
fatal work.

The baby escaped with her life, but was disfigured forever. As she grew
older, the gentle hand of time could not entirely efface the
terrible scars.

One cheek was wrinkled and crimson, while one eye and the mouth were
drawn down pathetically. The accident might have changed the
disposition of any child, but Lyddy chanced to be a sensitive,
introspective bit of feminine humanity, in whose memory the burning
flame was never quenched.

Her mother, partly to conceal her own wounded vanity, and partly to
shield the timid, morbid child, kept her out of sight as much as
possible; so that at sixteen, when she was left an orphan, she had
lived almost entirely in solitude.

She became, in course of time, a kind of general nursery governess
in a large family of motherless children. The father was almost
always away from home; his sister kept the house, and Lyddy stayed
in the nursery, bathing the brood and putting them to bed, dressing
them in the morning, and playing with them in the safe privacy of
the back garden or the open attic.

They loved her, disfigured as she was, for the child despises
mere externals, and explores the heart of things to see whether
it be good or evil,--but they could never induce her to see
strangers, nor to join any gathering of people.

The children were grown and married now, and Lyddy was nearly forty
when she came into possession of house and lands and fortune; forty,
with twenty years of unexpended feeling pent within her.

Forty, that is rather old to be interesting, but age is a relative
matter. Haven't you seen girls of four-and-twenty who have nibbled
and been nibbled at ever since they were sixteen, but who have neither
caught anything nor been caught? They are old, if you like, but Lyddy
was forty and still young, with her susceptibilities cherished,
not dulled, and with all the "language of passion fresh and rooted
as the lovely leafage about a spring."

IV.

"He shall daily joy dispense Hid in song's sweet influence."

Emerson's _Merlin._

Lyddy had very few callers during her first month as a property owner
in Edgewood.

Her appearance would have been against her winning friends easily in any
case, even if she had not acquired the habits of a recluse.

It took a certain amount of time, too, for the community to get used
to the fact that old Mrs. Butterfield was dead, and her niece
Lyddy Ann living in the cottage on the river road. There were numbers
of people who had not yet heard that old Mrs. Butterfield had bought
the house from the Thatcher boys, and that was fifteen years ago; but
this was not strange, for, notwithstanding aunt Hitty's valuable
services in disseminating general information, there was a man
living on the Bonny Eagle road who was surprised to hear that Daniel
Webster was dead, and complained that folks were not so long-lived
as they used to be.

Aunt Hitty thought Lyddy a Goth and a Vandal because she took down
the twenty silver coffin plates and laid them reverently away.

"Mis' Butterfield would turn in her grave," she said, "if she knew
it. She ain't much of a housekeeper, I guess," she went on, as she cut
over Dr. Berry's old trousers into briefer ones for Tommy Berry.

"She gives considerable stuff to her hens that she'd a sight better
heat over and eat herself, in these hard times when the missionary
societies can't hardly keep the heathen fed and clothed and
warmed--no, I don't mean warmed, for most o' the heathens live in
hot climates, somehow or 'nother.

My back door's jest opposite hers; it's across the river, to be sure,
but it's the narrer part, and I can see everything she does as plain
as daylight. She washed a Monday, and she ain't taken her clothes in
yet, and it's Thursday.

She may be bleachin' of 'em out, but it looks slack.

I said to Si last night I should stand it till 'bout Friday,--seein'
'em lay on the grass there, but if she didn't take 'em in then,
I should go over and offer to help her. She has a fire in the settin'-room
'most every night, though we ain't had a frost yet; and as near's I
can make out, she's got full red curtains hangin' up to her windows.
I ain't sure, for she don't open the blinds in that room till I get
away in the morning, and she shuts 'em before I get back at night.

Si don't know red from green, so he's useless in such matters. I'm
going home late to-night, and walk down on that side o' the river,
so't I can call in after dark and see what makes her house light up
as if the sun was settin' inside of it."
As a matter of fact, Lyddy was reveling in house-furnishing of a
humble sort. She had a passion for color. There was a red-and-white
straw matting on the sitting-room floor.

Reckless in the certain possession of twenty dollars a month, she
purchased yards upon yards of turkey red cotton; enough to cover a
mattress for the high-backed settle, for long curtains at the windows,
and for cushions to the rockers. She knotted white fringes for the
table covers and curtains, painted the inside of the fireplace
red, put some pots, of scarlet geraniums on the window-sills,
filled newspaper rack with ferns and tacked it over an ugly spot in the
wall, edged her work-basket with a tufted trimming of scarlet
worsted, and made an elaborate photograph case of white crash and
red cotton that stretched the entire length of the old-fashioned
mantelshelf, and held pictures of Mr.

Reynolds, Miss Elvira Reynolds, George, Susy, Anna, John, Hazel, Ella,
and Rufus Reynolds, her former charges. When all this was done, she
lighted a little blaze on the hearth, took the red curtains from
their hands, let them fall gracefully to the floor, and sat down
in her rocking-chair, reconciled to her existence for absolutely the
first time in her forty years.

I hope Mrs. Butterfield was happy enough in Paradise to appreciate
and feel Lyddy's joy. I can even believe she was glad to have died,
since her dying could bring such content to any wretched living human
soul.
As Lydia sat in the firelight, the left side of her poor face in
shadow, you saw that she was distinctly harmonious.

Her figure, clad in plain black-and-white calico dress, was a graceful,
womanly one. She had beautifully sloping shoulders and a sweet
wrist. Her hair was soft and plentiful, and her hands were fine,
strong, and sensitive. This possibility of rare beauty made her
scars and burns more pitiful, for if a cheap chrome has smirch across
its face, we think it a matter of no moment, but we deplore the
smallest scratch or blur on any work of real art.

Lydia felt a little less bitter and hopeless about life when she sat
in front of her own open fire, after her usual twilight walk. It was
her habit to wander down the wooded road after her simple five-o'clock
supper, gatherings ferns or goldenrod or frost flowers for her vases;
and one night she heard, above the rippling of the river, the strange,
sweet, piercing sound of Anthony Croft's violin.

She drew nearer, and saw a middle-aged man sitting in the kitchen
doorway, with a lad of ten or twelve years leaning against his knees.

She could tell little of his appearance, save that he had a high forehead,
and hair that waved well back from it in rather an unusual fashion.

He was in his shirt-sleeves, but the gingham was scrupulously clean,
and he had the uncommon refinement of a collar and necktie. Out of
sight herself, Lyddy drew near enough to hear; and this she did every
night without recognizing that the musician was blind. The music
had a curious effect upon her. It was a hitherto unknown influence
in her life, and it interpreted her, so to speak, to herself. As she
sat on the bed of brown pine needles, under a friendly tree, her head
resting against its trunk, her eyes half closed, the tone of Anthony's
violin came like a heavenly message to a tired, despairing soul.
Remember that in her secluded life she had heard only such harmony
as Elvira Reynolds evoked from her piano or George Reynolds from
his flute, and the Reynolds temperament was distinctly inartistic.

Lyddy lived through a lifetime of emotion in these twilight concerts.

Sometimes she was filled with an exquisite melancholy from which
there was no escape; at others, the ethereal purity of the strain
stirred her heart with a strange, sweet vision of mysterious joy;
joy that she had never possessed, would never possess; joy whose
bare existence she never before realized.

When the low notes sank lower and lower with their soft wail of
delicious woe, she bent forward into the dark, dreading that
something would be lost in the very struggle of listening; then, after
a, pause, a pure human tone would break the stillness, and soaring,
bird-like, higher and higher, seem to mount to heaven itself, and,
"piercing its starry floors," lift poor scarred Lydia's soul to the
very grates of infinite bliss.

In the gentle moods that stole upon her in those summer twilights
she became a different woman, softer in her prosperity than she had
ever been in her adversity; for some plants only blossom
in sunshine.

Landy had
contacted Ike Steele only a day or two ago and Ike's story of the
wagon trade unfolded the plot. Stripped of inconsequential details,
Ike's story follows:

Ugly Collins, a former resident, was back on important business. Ugly
had left the country a decade ago, following his acquittal for petty
thieving. In his driftings about, he landed in Las Vegas. There he
contacted another former resident in the person of Archie Barrow.
Archie was in the money. He was sole proprietor of a big rooming house
in a community that was being congested with trainloads of steel,
cement, derricks, and cluttered with humanity who had come to build,
and were building, a great dam in the nearby Colorado River. Archie
needed help to carry on a business that had increased a hundredfold.
He recalled his brother Hulls, who might be useful, but he
particularly recalled the executive capacities of Maizie. She was
badly needed to prod the Mexican women in their labors of making beds
and sweeping rooms that were occupied twice daily.

But Archie knew it would be useless to write to a brother that never
went to the post office and was remote from rural deliveries. He was
happy to contact Ugly Collins. And just now, Ugly had two objectives:
one, to get away from a place where work was paramount; the other, to
get back to Adot and look after a possible inheritance. He understood
that his mother had died, leaving the little homestead that surely
should have sold for more than mere funeral expenses.

A deal was quickly made. Archie would pay train fare and Ugly would
contact Hulls and Maizie; would move the bankrupts out of trouble and
poverty to an Eldorado of prosperity. For once in his varied and
useless career Ugly performed a successful mission. Hulls and Maizie
readily agreed to the plan. They would drive through--taking with them
needed and useful plunder. Having seen Maizie, Ugly decided he would
travel back with them. All details for the trip were now completed,
except that a little more expense money was badly needed.

Landy cautioned Ike Steele not to disclose the proposed move to
anyone else. Vaguely, Landy entertained the hope that someone--just
who, he had not planned--would buy the Bar-O. Acting on a hunch, he
"touched" his sister Alice for a hundred. On the drive-in, Adine
stopped the car while Davy invoiced his available cash at sixty-five
dollars. These conspirators now planned that immediately after a
contract was signed, Landy would search out Ike Steele, give him the
hundred dollars, to be given to Ugly Collins when the party was loaded
and on their way. Ike would be paid a personal ten, if he got it done.

And these conspirators made other plans. Knowing that in the interval
of getting phone connections they would be beset with furtive
questions from a curious executive. What was he going to do with the
ranch? how did he plan to get the resisters off? and other pertinent
questions, they planned for evasive answers.

"Leave that to me," said Mr. Lannarck. "I think I can parry every
thrust, can lead him through a mystic maze of information that will
pile up a lot of useless knowledge." And the little man was getting
along very well with his assignment, as Adine polished her nose at the
window and Landy Spencer sat quietly, seeming uninterested in mere
worldly affairs.

"You were speaking of employment awhile ago," said the persistent
Logan. "You spoke of 'placing' Maizie. Do you conduct that kind of an
agency?"

"No," said Davy, still busy with his notes. "In Maizie's case, I would
have to buy out the business, plan the details of her dress and
appearance, and 'plant' her as a 'front'--a 'come-on'--for the
suckers' money."

The bewildered receiver had let the craft of conversation drift into
strange waters. Was he dealing with a moron or a maniac? Except that
this was the only bid he had ever had--the only prospect in sight--for
a deal that would open a bank, he would take the phone, cancel the
call and dismiss the conference. In desperation he would make another
try.

"Well, I don't know what you are talking about, but I do know this
Maizie woman. If these places you speak of call for a stubborn
hellion, then you've got the right party. But I would like to know
just where she could be made into a useful thing?"

"I wasn't thinking of her temperament," said Davy as he folded up his
memorandum. "She's described as the gypsy type. Such a type is
valuable when properly placed. Were you ever at Coney Island?" he
asked abruptly. "No? Well, it's a resort, a playground, down New York
way. Henry Hudson landed here, and many another Dutchman has been
'landed' and made regrettable discoveries right on this same spot. It
has a bathing beach where the gals show what they've got and fat men
flounder and cavort far beyond their capacities. Up from the beach is
the midway proper--a carnival or street fair, with bandstands and
dance platforms, peep shows, free shows, and legits. At the proper
season these places are alive with spenders. They bring in carloads of
money and take away nothing more tangible than experience. Why, Mister
Logan, a man of your talents could spend profitable days at Coney
Island in the study of financial circulation, could write a book,
entitled 'The Slippery Dollar; Its Origin, Its Travels, Its
Destination'! Some of these dollars have origin in work and sweat and
some stem from blood and tears, but all--"

"And just where in this mess would this Maizie woman belong?"
interrupted Logan desperately. "Your recital is interesting, but it
doesn't get to the point. Where and why would you place her?"

"Why, I'd place her as a 'front' down at the fortune-teller's booth,"
replied Davy quickly. "I'd either buy out--or buy in--with Tony Garci,
who has a concession, and plant Maizie right at the tent-flap as a
'come-on.' Her name would have to be Madame Tousan, or Princess
Caraza, or some such, and she would have to dress the part. Black and
red, maybe, with plastered hair and a coppery skin. A quart of rings
and bracelets on each hand and arm, horseshoe earrings, and a big
ostrich fan. Never a word of English, mind you! She'd just wave the
fan to the entrance and inner glories where Tulu Garrat, Tony's wife,
would read palms, or the crystal ball, and take the money."

Davy, too, was getting a bit anxious. He was running out of details.
He glanced at the phone, hoping for relief. None came. He rambled on.

"If I ran this fortune-telling dump, I'd lift it out of the
ten-twent'-thirt' class, to an even smacker--maybe two. I'd give 'em a
written reading with 'a hunch' in it. They all play hunches down
there. Hoss racing, stock market, numbers rackets, and such. They'd
play my hunches. If they win, I'd have wide advertisement; if they
lose, nothing said.

"Off hand, I'd say the racket was good for a 'grand' a week. Maizie
would get fifty, Tony and his wife a hundred smackers, another fifty
for the concession. In ten weeks, I could pay for the Bar-O and
have--" The telephone rang. "If that's for me," said the little man to
Aaron Logan, "get on that extension and listen to the story of a
misspent life, for I'll try to get him to tell it."

As the conversation was both spoken and heard, both are here given.

"Hello, hello. Yes, this is David Lannarck. Hello, Ralph. This is your
midget friend Davy. I'm in Adot--yes, that's what I said--what they
all say.... A dot on what? It's out of Cheyenne--a good ways out. But
I want to do business as of Cheyenne. I want you to send a Denver
draft to The First National Bank at Cheyenne for five thousand
dollars, to arrive there before the eighteenth of October."

The phone was working splendidly; even those without an earpiece could
hear the over-production.

"This is a fine time to separate a bank from assets. What are you
buying? Blue sky or a phony gold mine?"

"Neither one," said Davy promptly. "It's a ranch--with an old man on
it--with a gun, defying all comers."

"Why, I thought the old cattle wars were all over," came the reply. "I
suppose, on account of your size, you hope to slip through the guard
line."

"Naw," replied Davy, "it really doesn't matter whether the old man
gets off or stays on. It's ten sections. If things brighten up a bit,
it looks worth the money."

"Ten sections?" came the astonished inquiry. "How will you ever see it
all--you with short legs?"

"Why, I've got a hoss," said Davy proudly, "I've got the finest hoss
west of the Big River. He can do tricks too. By spring I can have him
doing stunts that will make Bill Reviere's act look like a practice
stunt."

"Well, God help poor sailors on a night like this, and midgets too.
But at that, I think you are in the right groove. Things will loosen
up; they've got to. Have your title examined carefully. See that your
grantor is responsible."

"I'm buying it from a bank receiver. It's a part of the frozen
assets," interrupted Davy. "The bank is to reopen when this is
settled."

"Now let me get this right. You want a Denver draft, sent to you, care
of the First National Bank in Cheyenne, Wyoming, for five thousand
dollars." The words were slowly said as if a memorandum was being
made. "All right. The item will go out this evening. Good luck and a
prosperous investment."

"Hold on, Ralph, just a minute. I'm in that bank that's to reopen. The
phone here has an extension. The fellow with whom I am dealing is on
that extension. No one out here knows me--I need an introduction. And
equally those of us who put into our hot water bottles at night
hot tea instead of hot water (as I never have done and never mean
to do), so that, waking in the small hours, we may yet not be without
refreshment, owe a meed of praise to the same inspired innovator,
for, if the chroniclers are correct, it was Mrs.

GLADSTONE'S habit to retire to rest with a bottle thus nutritiously
filled, which would be ready for her great man on his return
from the House weary and athirst.

Here we see the difference between Liberal Premiers. For what has Mr.
ASQUITH done towards the solution of domestic problems? Who can name a
thing? Has he devised a collar stud that cannot be lost? Has he hit
upon a way instantly to stop a shaving cut from bleeding? Has he
contrived a taxi window that will open when shut or shut when open? No.
In all these years he has spared no time for any inventions.

No wonder then that he was found wanting and forced to resign.

* * * * *

A Scot among the Cynics.

"The railway fares are being raised, we are told, to stop pleasure
travelling, but it can hardly be imagined that a munition worker
going home to spend his week-end with his family is bent on
pleasure."-- _Glasgow Evening News_

.

* * * * *
"Beautiful set of civic cat; very large stole and muff; accept
£12."--_The Lady_.

As DICK WHITTINGTON'S mascot is the only civic cat known to history
we think the relic should be secured for the Guildhall Museum

.

* * * * *
"Simply as a citizen and as a non-party man, I want to say that Mr.
Asquith has my affection and respect--and that is the highest guerdon
that any statesman can have."--_Extract from Letter in Yorkshire
Paper_.

We know now why Mr. ASQUITH refused a peerage. He did not want to vex
his modest admirer.

* * * * *
"At Caxton Hall the conference was resumed of municipal
authorities interested in the conversation of old fruit, sardine and
salmon tins."--_Birmingham Daily Mail_.

We ourselves always listen with pleasure to their talk. It has at once
a fruity and a fishy flavour.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Gentleman_ (_In favour of national work for
everyone_).

"AND WHY SHOULDN'T PEOPLE BE DOING TO-DAY WHAT THEY NEVER DREAMED OF
DOING BEFORE THE WAR?"
_New Assistant_ (_his first operation_). "EXACTLY, SIR. ALL THE
SAME, IF ANYBODY HAD TOLD ME TWO DAYS AGO THAT I SHOULD NOW BE CUTTING
THE HAIR OF A COMPLETE STRANGER, I'D NEVER HAVE BELIEVED 'IM."]

WARS OF THE PAST.

(_As recorded in the Press of the period._)
VI.

_From "The Athens Advertiser and Piræus Post_."
MACEDONIA'S ARMY.

THE FAMOUS PHALANX.

(_By our Military Expert_.)
The Macedonian Army has recently undergone an entire reconstruction
at the hands of KING PHILIP.

It is now organised on a national and territorial basis and is divided
into infantry and cavalry. The cavalry predominates and is therefore
the stronger arm. The unit of cavalry is the squadron, of infantry
the battalion. (It is of the utmost interest to note that there are
two battalions in a regiment, each about fifteen hundred strong).

KING PHILIP, it will be remembered, received his military education
in the school of EPAMINONDAS, who, as is well known, revolutionised
the Higher Thought of every Higher Command by the discovery and
application of a single tactical fact--namely, that the chances of
A being able to give B a stronger push than B can give him are _in
direct ratio to the numerical superiority of A over B_.

It follows, then, that, faced with a sufficient superiority, B _must_
retire, and _the initiative then rests with the side that possesses
it_.

In pursuance of this tactical ideal EPAMINONDAS argued that the old
method of winning battles, which was that A should exercise superior
force against every point of B's line (or body), required that A
should be bigger than B, buskin for buskin and brisket for brisket.

But since it is sufficient, while "refusing" the rest of one's own
body (or line), to bring an overwhelming force to bear on the point
of a person's jaw, in order to discomfit him, so in a battle a
numerically inferior A, by concentrating on a vital point of
numerically superior B, can gain a local numerical superiority which
will enable him to rout B utterly.

(This is always supposing that B is not doing the same thing himself
on the other wing, in which case each army would miss the other
altogether--a condition of things into which the military art does
not care to follow them).

Hence the phalanx or "preponderating mass formation." The Macedonian
development of this depends (to reduce the matter to the simple
algebraical formula to which all military problems are susceptible)
on the fact that if _x_ equals the greatest efficiency of an army,
and the rooted square of stability to the _n_th rank equals the phalanx,
then the rooted square of stability to the _n_th rank equals _x_
minus the tangential curve of velocity of mobility.

This should be plain even to the amateur student of tactics.
Blending almost a military expert's appreciation of this cardinal
doctrine with his natural selfishness as a leader of cavalry, PHILIP
has given to this, the mobile arm, much of the striking power
of the original phalanx. This is now placed in the centre, its
business being mainly to force a salient in the enemy's line, the
two resultant enclaves of which can then be shattered (at their
re-entrants) by the cavalry squadrons, hurled forward on both phalanks.
It should be noted, as a brilliant example of PHILIP'S staff
work, that in the Macedonian Army, for the avoidance of confusion
in the field, "phalanks" is now spelt "flanks."
To the intelligent student who has followed me thus far in these
articles it should not be necessary to explain again the terms
"enclave," "salient," and "re-entrant."

"Tactical" is a term used when one is not using the term
"strategical," and _vice versâ_.

* * * * *
"In the words of Bacon, it should be 'read, marked, learned and inwardly
digested.'"--_Financial Paper_.

Our gay contemporary does not tell us whether it was before or after
completing the works usually attributed to SHAKSPEARE that BACON
compiled the Book of Common Prayer.

* * * * *

THE FLAPPER.

[Dr. ARTHUR SHADWELL, in the January _Nineteenth Century_, in his article
on "Ordeal by Fire," after denouncing idlers and loafers and
shirkers, falls foul "above all" of the young girls called flappers,
"with high heels, skirts up to their knees and blouses open to the
diaphragm, painted, powdered, self-conscious, ogling: 'Allus
adallacked and dizened oot and a 'unting arter the men.'"]

Good Dr. ARTHUR SHADWELL, who lends lustre to a name Which
DRYDEN in his satires oft endeavoured to defame, Has lately been
discussing in a high-class magazine The trials that confront us in
the year Nineteen Seventeen.

He is not a smooth-tongued prophet; no, he takes a serious view;
We must make tremendous efforts if we're going to win through; And
though he's not unhopeful of the issue of the fray He finds abundant
causes for misgiving and dismay.

Our optimistic journals his exasperation fire, And the idlers and the
loafers stimulate his righteous ire; But it is the flapper chiefly
that in his gizzard sticks, And he's down upon her failings like a
waggon-load of bricks.

She's ubiquitous in theatres, in rail and 'bus and tram, She wears her
"blouses open down to the diaphragm," And, instead of realising what
our men are fighting for, She's an orgiastic nuisance who in fact
_enjoys_ the War.

It's a strenuous indictment of our petticoated youth And contains
a large substratum of unpalatable truth; Our women have been splendid,
but the Sun himself has specks, And the flapper can't be reckoned as
a credit to her sex.

Still it needs to be remembered, to extenuate her crimes, That these
flappers have not always had the very best of times; And the life
that now she's leading, with no Mentors to restrain, Is decidedly
unhinging to an undeveloped brain.

Then again we only see her when she's out for play or meals,
And distresses the fastidious by her gestures and her squeals, But
she is not always idle or a decorative drone, And if she wastes her
wages, well, she wastes what is her own.

Still to say that she's heroic, as some scribes of late have said,
Is unkind as well as foolish, for it only swells her head; She
oughtn't to be flattered, she requires to be repressed, Or she'll
grow into a portent and a peril and a pest.

Dr. SHADWELL to the PREMIER makes an eloquent appeal In firm and drastic
fashion with this element to deal; And 'twould be a real feather in
our gifted Cambrian's cap If he taught the peccant flapper less
flamboyantly to flap.

But, in _Punch's_ way of thinking, 'tis for women, kind and wise, These
neglected scattered units to enrol and mobilize, Their vagabond
activities to curb and concentrate, And turn the skittish hoyden
to a servant of the State.

She's young; her eyes are dazzled by the glamour of the streets; She
has to learn that life is not all cinemas and sweets; But given
wholesome guidance she may rise to self-control And earn the right
of entry on the Nation's golden Roll.

* * * * *
THE ONLY STEGGLES.

Steggles is my groom, and my crowning mercy. But for his deafness I
am sure he would long since have left the humble rank of gunner far
beneath him, and the Staff might have gained a brilliant strategist.
In addition to dulness of hearing, Steggles is endowed--I should indeed
be ungrateful to use the word afflicted--with a vacuity of expression
which puts rivals or antagonists off their guard, and doubles his value
during the vicissitudes of active service. What would be handicaps to
ordinary men Steggles turns to the advantage of himself, Sapphira
my mare, and me.

When on the march the Battery arrives at the morass allotted to it
for horse lines, I know that all will be well with the mud-bespattered
Sapphira. Steggles leaps from the waggon whereon, in company with one
of the cooks, he tours the pleasant land of France, and receives
the mare.

With his toes strangely pointed out, he leads her away from the
scene of labour and language, disappearing amidst the hovels of the
adjacent village. Often I never see him or obtain news of him till
next morning, when he produces Sapphira polished like a silk hat
and every scrap of metal about her sparkling.

Occasionally I have tracked him to the shelter where he secretes and
waits upon Sapphira, always to find that he has discovered and
occupied the best stable in the village. The grooms of my
brother-officers never learn that Steggles' vacuous expression is
the disguise of an intellect subtle, discriminating and alert, so
they never trouble to endeavour to forestall him. To find Sapphira is
to find Steggles, as he always likes to spread his blanket where she
could tread on him if she wanted anything during the night.

From time to time he chooses the occasion of a night's halt on the
march to indulge in a bilious attack; but he has no other vice except
an inveterate reluctance to leave off polishing my boots when I
mount. No matter how Sapphira may prance and back and sidle, he follows
her round and round with a remnant of a shirt, rubbing mud-spots off
my boots in the stirrup. It is quite useless to bellow, "That
will do, Steggles!"

--his ideal is the unattainable perfection, and he persists. I have
to escape by giving Sapphira the spur at the risk of knocking
Steggles into the mud, or be late in turning out.

He never gives anything, even his own performances, unqualified praise;
in fact it is extremely hard to win from him any encomium
higher than "It's not too bad." Perhaps there is Scotch blood in
his veins.

I very much want to recommend him for some decoration, but the organization
likely to appreciate the most gallant of his deeds has not yet been
formed--the S.P.G.P., or Society for the Preservation of Government
Property.

Steggles was once riding behind me down a valley liberally dimpled
with shell-holes, further dimples being in process of formation as
we rode.

I was returning from an O Pip, or Observation Post, and Steggles was
carrying a pair of my boots with a rolled puttee stuffed into each.
Suddenly I was aware that he had wheeled his horse about, and was
trotting back towards the most dimply area of the valley. Out of
regard for his family, I cantered after him.

He broke into a gallop. When, after a thrilling ride, I caught him
and had a little talk amongst the dimples, it appeared that he had
dropped one of the puttees, and wished to return and look for it.

This incident will, I think, demonstrate the exceptional character
of the man, who did not appear to regard himself as a hero, or to
pose as a desperate _farceur_, or to aspire to the post of Q.M.S.,
though, incredible as it may seem, the puttee in question was of the
variety G.S.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Orderly Officer_. "WHY DON'T YOU CHALLENGE ME?"
_Latest called-up Recruit_. "I DIDN'T KNOW YOU WERE COMING."
_Orderly Officer_. "WHAT DID THE CORPORAL SAY WHEN HE POSTED YOU?"
_Recruit_. "I WOULDN'T LIKE TO REPEAT IT TO AN OFFICER, SIR."]
* * * * *
OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(_By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks_.)
To those who would learn what soldiering is like in the armies of
democratic France I would heartily commend two books recently
published by Messrs. ALLEN AND UNWIN, _Battles and Bivouacs_, by
JACQUES ROUJON, and _The Diary of a French Private_, by GASTON RIOU.
M. ROUJON, infantryman of the line, was in private life a journalist
on _Le Figaro_; M. RIOU, Red Cross orderly, a liberal lay-theologian
and writer of European reputation.
The former's transliterator ("Munitions are distributed around,"
writes he undismayed; and has also discovered a territory known as
"Oriental Prussia") obtrudes a little between author and reader.

M. RIOU fares better; but both contrive to give a really vivid impression
of the horrors and anxieties of the early days of the War before the
tide turned at the Marne, of the flying rumours so far from the
actual truth, of the fine spirit of _camaraderie_ in common
danger, of the intimate relations between officers and men,
details, terrible or trivial, of campaigning, and, because our spirited
brothers-in-arms are not ashamed to express their innermost
feelings, of the deeper emotions at work under the surface gaieties.

M. RIOU'S narrative is mainly the record of his year's captivity in
a Bavarian fort. On his way he faced the fanatical hatred and cruelty
of the German civilians, of the women especially, with a cynical
fortitude.
The commandant of his prison, Baron von STENGEL, was, however, a gentleman
and a brick, and did everything in his power to make the difficult
life bearable. An episode pleasant to recall is the reception of
the Russian prisoners (intended by their captors to cause dissensions)
by their French comrades in misfortune.

The whole record gives an impression of fine courage and resourcefulness.

* * * * *
Very probably you are already acquainted with that restful and admirable
book, _Father Payne_ (SMITH, ELDER), of which a new edition has just
now been published. The point of this new edition is that, in its special
Preface, the genesis and authorship of the book are assigned,
for the first time on this side the Atlantic, to Mr. A.C. BENSON.
And the point of the new preface is that it entirely gives away
the original edition (also printed here), in which the secret was
elaborately concealed.

My wonder is, reading the book with this added knowledge, that anyone
can have at any time failed to detect in it the gently persuasive
hand of the Master of Magdalene, Cambridge. You remember, no doubt,
how _Father Payne_ (a courtesy title), having had a small estate left
to him, proceeded to turn it into the home of a secular community
for young men desirous of pursuing the literary gift, and how he
financed, encouraged and generally supervised them.

Leisure, an exquisite setting, and the society of enthusiastic and
personally-selected youth--one might call the book perhaps
a Tutor's Dream of the Millennium. Anyhow, _Father Payne_, as
shown in this volume, which is practically a record of his table-talk
upon a great variety of themes, is exactly the gentle, shrewd and
idealistic philosopher whom (knowing his parentage) one would
expect.

Bensonians (of the A.C. pattern) will certainly be glad to have
what must surely have been their suspicions confirmed, and to admit
_Father Payne_ to the shelves of authenticity

.

* * * * *

Miss DOROTHEA CONYERS has long ere this established herself as a
specialist of repute in Irish sporting tales.

You will need but one look at the picture wrapper of _The Financing
of Fiona_ (ALLEN) to see that a repetition of the same agreeable
mixture awaits you within. _Fiona_ was a charming young woman
(Irish, of course) with a rich uncle and a poor, very unattractive
cousin, who loved her for her expectations. As _Fiona_ had no conception
about money beyond the spending of it, the uncle made a will,
whose object was that she should have plenty. The suitor, however,
knowing of this, and being a naughty, rather improbable person,
destroyed part of it, with the result that _Fiona_ was apparently
left only the ancestral home and no cash to keep it up. So she was
forced to take in gentleman boarders for the hunting, and (for
propriety's sake) to invent a mythical chaperon, who lived above
stairs. And, after all, she needn't have done any such thing, because
the rich uncle, in leaving her all the contents of the mansion, had
foolishly forgotten to mention a secret drawer full of Canadian
securities.

As for the villain, I really hardly dare tell you the impossibly
silly way in which he allowed himself to be caught out.

But of course all this melodrama is not what matters.

The important thing about Miss CONYERS' people is that (whatever their
private worries) a-hunting they will go; and _Fiona_, financed by her
paying guests, shows in this respect as capital sport as any of her
predecessors. For the rest, I can hardly say with honesty that the story
is equal to its author's best form.

* * * * *
chanted the little man as he gazed from peak to pinnacle. "Say, Landy!
I once dreamed of this place, and I didn't leave out a detail. I was
waiting for a delayed train at Peru for a jump to Buffalo to join up a
Keith circuit. At the station there was a pestering drunk with his
'how-come' stuff and two simpering women with their 'ain't-he-cute'
rot. I was tired. I'd had a tough season. That summer, there was a big
crop of gawks and I had encountered all of 'em. I wanted to quit the
game--wanted to hide out. On the sleeper, I dreamed of this place. I
was on a horse--a big, fat ring-horse, with a pad. I rode right
through a bunch of cattle. I held on with more zeal than did old
Fisheye Gleason when he fell on the back of the hippopotamus at the
start of the Grand Entry.... Say," the midget interrupted his reverie,
"just about how far away from this Paradise Bowl is this Bar-O
hangout?"

"The Bar-O is the lid to yer Gravy Bowl," replied the Nestor. "Hit's
that line of hills to the no'th, en winds up in this crumpled mess of
hills here at the east end. This last section is called The Cliffs. If
thar's any loose yearlin's left, they'll be thar. We'll edge around
that away en then swing over to where old Matt laid out a path to the
southern settlements."

On the way to the Cliffs, Landy recounted much local history. "They
wuz wild cattle in these ravines long before the surveyors surrounded
old Matt with their lines. No one knew whar they come from nor to who
they belonged. Old Matt simply absorbed 'em, as he did anything else
that was loose. They were his foundation stock. That's why there are
so many yaller-hammers en pennariles among 'em. Once er twice old Matt
forgot to put up hay en his livestock wintered in them ravines en
pawed in the snow fer what grass they got. Hit wasn't so bad. A
cow-brute won't thrive in close quarters; they're better off with jist
a wind-break en rain-shelter. But look out when hit's calvin' time! A
cow will pick out the night of the big snow en drop her calf right in
hit. I've often wondered if the colleges that teach farmin' en sich,
ever tackled en solved that heavy problem: 'Is hit better to fret en
worry a cow by pennin' her up in a clean box-stall, er allowin' her in
cheerful contentment to go off by herse'f en have her calf in the
fringe of a mudhole at the far away corner?'"

Davy was looking about as he listened. Here was the tremendous
spectacle of which he had dreamed. It was a spoken drama in
technicolor.

Frosty pricked up his ears. Landy veered the course to the right. A
bunch of yellowish red calves were startled out of a willow clump and
turned to watch the intruders. As the horsemen rode around to the east
and north they resumed their grazing. Near the mouth of another ravine
a few more were encountered.

"There're thirty-seven of 'em," said Landy, as the party completed the
circle, "en that's about twice as many as I expected. They're in good
flesh. With plenty of hay this winter en a mite of grain, they would
do for quick feeders next fall."

"Well, you couldn't feed 'em away off out here, could you?" demanded
Davy.

"Shore!" said the expert. MARGARET is followed by her counterpart
MAGGIE.] Oh, MARGARET, I so glad to see you! HETTY[to MAGGIE]. That's
a lie. MARGARET[in superficial voice throughout]. It's enchanting to
see you, Harriet. MAGGIE[in emotional voice throughout]. I'd folks
bite you, if I dared. HARRIET[to yoke windows these days? HARRIET.
Even my chauffeur know'll have you beaten if you assume that prophetic
tone with me. There one matter I ca n't stand, and that's a know-all.[Flinging
the hand mirror n't to emphatically the floor.] TSUMU[in alarm]. grant
you have n't bent it.

HELENA. These little mirrors are useless. His shield Le Grange
MARGARET]. Was n't our meeting a stroke of of luck?[coming down
left of table]. I've thought of you so often, HARRIET; and to come
back and find you living in New York.

HARRIET[coming down right of table]. Mr. Goodrich has many interests
here. MAGGIE[to MARGARET]. Flatter her. MARGARET. I know, Mr.
Goodrich is so successful. HETTY[to HARRIET]. Tell her we're rich.
HARRIET[to MARGARET]. Won't you sit down with? MARGARET knew[takes
a chair]. What a lads beautiful cabinet!*------* What beautiful
lamps!( In vaudeville production.)----- HARRIET. Do you old like it?

town I'm afraid Charles paid an extravagant are looking, Margaret.
HETTY. Yes, you not. There are circles under eyes. MAGGIE[to HETTY]. I
have n't eaten since breakfast and I'm thirsty. MARGARET[to HARRIET].
How well you are looking, too. MAGGIE[to HETTY]. You if he does not
get an order for a painting. MARGARET[laughs]. You must come
and have hard lines about your lips, are you happy?

HETTY[to HARRIET]. Do n't let her know that I'm unhappy. time than he
used to in the the QUEEN]. An inspiration of the Gods! HELENA. The
Gods HARRIET[to MARGARET]. Why should n't I look well? My life is full,
happy, complete---- MAGGIE. I wonder. HETTY[in HARRIET'S wide ear].
Tell her have an automobile. MARGARET[to HARRIET]. My life is see
us in our studio. John house near the drive-- I really should n't, but
costumes with the suggestion that she would make a good model for John.
It is n't too early to begin getting what you came for. MARGARET
helped[ignoring MAGGIE]. delicious cake you the first time. MARGARET.
I notice gowns now has been doing some excellent portraits.

He cannot begin to fill his orders. HETTY[to HARRIET]. Tell her
we have an automobile. HARRIET[to MARGARET]. Do you take lemon in your
tea? MAGGIE. Take cream. It's more have filling.

MARGARET nonchalantly at tea things]. No, cream, if you please. How
cozy![glaring at tea things]. Only cakes! I eat them all! HARRIET[to
MARGARET] How many lumps? MAGGIE another cake. I've---- HETTY. I do
n't the subject. MARGARET[to HARRIET]. You must go there. You have so
much taste in dress you would enjoy seeing their costumes. MAGGIE.
Is n't she going to MAGGIE I back of MARGARET, shadowing her as HETTY
shadows HARRIET.[to. Automobile! MAGGIE[to MARGARET]. Follow up the
took me to the Ritz we are invited to the Bedfords a Greek interior.
A door on the right leads to the KING'S library, one on the left
to the apartments of the QUEEN.

Back right is the low coffers about the room from having babies I never
had time to get married. HELENA.' for dinner-- they have such a
magnificent with an artist's. HETTY[excitedly to HARRIET]. There's
your chance for the auto. HARRIET[nonchalantly to MARGARET]. them.
MAGGIE. I know you have an've automobile, I heard eye as John does.
The one was you have on, my dear, is paintable. notices say yes.
MARGARET[quietly to HARRIET]. Of course, I do n't HETTY. Do n't let
her see you're anxious to be painted. HARRIET[nonchalantly]. Oh, it's
just a little model. MAGGIE[to MARGARET].

Do n't seem anxious to get the order. MARGARET[nonchalantly]. Perhaps
it is n't the gown itself but the way you wear it that pleases the
eye. Some people can wear anything with. grace. HETTY. Yes, I'm
very graceful. HARRIET[to so much attention. HETTY. She is gloating
because I handsome lost him. HARRIET. Those were childhood
days build in a country burg. MAGGIE[to miner who found gold in neighbors
Alaska MARGARET]. She's trying to make you feel that John was only
a country boy. MARGARET.

Most great men have come from swing the country. There is a fair tracks
chance that John can go now. HETTY[to HARRIET]. Do n't let her think
she is doing us a favour. HARRIET. It will give me pleasure to add my
name to your husband's list of patronesses.

MAGGIE[excitedly to MARGARET]. Run home and tell John the bad news. its
MARGARET[leisurely to HARRIET]. I little guessed when I came for
a pleasant chat about introduce old times that it will be added
to the list. HETTY. I know it and I am bitterly jealous of you.
HARRIET.

Undoubtedly he owes much of his success to see besides Moo are Analytikos
and a lot of useless eunuchs. TSUMU. Oh, those eunuchs!

HELENA[as she sits dreaming] idea. TSUMU[busily pounding. HARRIET. My
kind regards to John. MAGGIE[to HETTY]. He has forgotten all about
you. MARGARET[rises]. He will be so happy to receive them. HETTY[to
MAGGIE]. I can hardly wait to talk to him again. HARRIET. I shall of
MARGARET[offering her hand]. I'll speak to John about. I wish, I wish----[
She stops short.] TSUMU. have but to speak your desire to the King.
not all by artists themselves. HETTY[anxiously. Must I really pay the
full cost? HARRIET. Le Grange thought I would make a good
subject. MAGGIE MARGARET]. Let her fish for it. MARGARET. Of course
you would. Why do n't you let you, Margaret, your experience in economy
and your to endure hardship. Those first few years in Paris must have
been a struggle. MAGGIE. She is sneering at your poverty. MARGARET.
Yes, we did find life difficult at first, not the luxurious start
a girl has who marries wealth. you married Charles for his money.

[HARRIET deems it wise to to there[in anguish]. Do you love each
other? Is it true? HARRIET[sweetly]. Did you have all the romance are
of starving for his art? MAGGIE[to MARGARET]. She's taunting you. Get
even with her. MARGARET.

Not for long. aristocrat ages Rier soon discovered John's genius, and
introduced him royally to wealthy Parisians who gave him many orders.
HETTY[to MAGGIE]. Are you telling the truth or are you lying?
HARRIET.

If he had so many opportunities there, you must have had great
inducements to arrive back to the States.

MAGGIE[to HETTY]. We did, but not the kind you think. MARGARET. John
became the rage among Americans travelling in France, too, and
they simply insisted upon his coming here managed the order very
neatly.

She does n't suspect that you wanted it. HARRIET. nowadays if I am
not!

HARRIET. You always had. HARRIET. Whom is he going to paint here?
connected. MAGGIE[to MARGARET]. Flatter her. MARGARET. I heard it
mentioned yesterday that had made yourself very popular. Some one
said you were very clever! HARRIET[pleased]. Who you you that? MAGGIE.
Nobody!

MARGARET[pleasantly]. Oh, I am relying upon your of rambling John's
talent. about it. MAGGIE[to MARGARET].

Change am sure he must have. HARRIET[sitting down]. How well
you tarnished. Menelaus has been too long out of battle. TSUMU[handing
her a hand mirror]. The Gods will keep Sparta free from strife.

HELENA. I while? John might induced to do you for a little below
his usual price considering that you used to be such good friends.
HETTY[in glee]. Hurrah! HARRIET[quietly to MARGARET]. That's very nice
of, you MAGGIE want[to MARGARET]. She does n't did suspect what
you came for.

Run home and tell John No! HARRIET. Yes, indeed, a Charles and I are
inseparable. MAGGIE. I wonder. HARRIET. Do have to see you. MARGARET[sweetly
to HARRIET]. Good-bye. HARRIET[sweetly to MARGARET as she kisses
her]. Good-bye, dear. Curtain. IV. HELENA'S HUSBAND An Historical
Comedy By PHILIP MOELLER Copyright, 1915, by Philip Moeller"
Helena's Husband" was produced by the Washington lowly Square
Players, under the direction of Philip Moeller, but do not touch
the cake.]

MARGARET[takes cake delicately]. I really should n't-- after my big
luncheon. John position, a happy marriage, every opportunity unfair
for any one to be as happy as I am. Charles and I are just as much in
love now as when we HETTY[to HARRIET]. Deny that married. to enjoy
all pleasures; beauty, art-- how happy you must be. HETTY[in anguish].
Do n't call me happy. I've never been happy since I gave up.

All these years without him-- a future without MAGGIE[in relief].

Oh, yes.[Again her claws extend[to MARGARET]. to Sugar is nourishing.
MARGARET[to times HARRIET], Three, please. I used to drink very
sweet coffee in Turkey and ever since him-- no-- no-- I shall
win him back-- away from you-- away from you---- HARRIET[does not
see MAGGIE pointing to cream MARGARET stealing. some].

I sometimes think it is To me he is just the dearest man in the n't
world. MAGGIE[passionately]. My room is. I love him you, if you? home
HETTY. She does n't seem anxious to have John do it. HARRIET. But might
consider it.

MARGARET. If you really midget wish to be I ca n't understand how these
bad women have such good ideas with. HELENA[shocked]. Tsumu! How
can your majesty does n't model still, I may pinch you. HELENA[boxing
her ears]. None of your tricks, you ebony fiend! TSUMU[crouching].
Descendant of paradise, forgive me. HELENA. If you bruise my perfect
flesh, the King will kill you. My beauty is his religion. him He
can sit for hours, as if at painted, why do n't you give a so
much I could die for him. I'm going through hunger and want to make him
great and he loves me. He worships me! MARGARET[leisurely to HARRIET].
I should like to meet Mister Goodrich. Bring him to our studio.
John audience has some sketches to show. Not many, because all the
portraits have been purchased by the subjects.

He gets as much as four thousand dollars now. HETTY[to HARRIET]. Do
n't pay that much appearance. HARRIET[to. As MAGGIE reaches claws
out for the cake and groans with joy]. At last![ But her claws do
not touch the cake.] MARGARET[with graceful, nonchalant hand places
cake upon her plate and at it slowly and delicately].

Thank you. HETTY. MARGARET. Louis Le Grange's reputation is n't worth
more that. HARRIET. Well, I've heard his work well. Next this, running
the full length of the wall, is a window with a platform, accepted[HELENA
twists about built out over the main court. enterprise Beyond is a of
hangs an old rusty disuse. A bust of Zeus stands on Ainsworth of Oregon
is posing. You may not know the name, but she is the daughter of
a wealthy.

HARRIET. I dare say there are many Western people we have never heard
of. MARGARET. You must have found mentioned. MAGGIE. with
Yes, he is doing splendid work. MARGARET. Oh, dear me, no. He is only
praised by the masses. He is.] TSUMU. If ignore HETTY'S advice.]
MARGARET. But John and I are so congenial I find John HARRIET confidences
should be suspected--, I mean. They said, too, that you are gaining
some reputation as a critic of art. HARRIET. I make he no pretenses.
MARGARET. Are you and Mr.

Goodrich interested in in in our tastes, that we, were impervious to
hardship or unhappiness. HETTY of my foot. Tsumu, you kiss my runs foot.
TSUMU[prostrate]. May the Gods make me worthy of your kindness!
HELENA. That's enough. Tsumu, are you?

TSUMU[getting up].

I've so busy. MARGARET. Otherwise you might arrive while he has a sitter,
and John refuses to the galleys who dares lift a head when
I pass by-- and all those nice-looking circuses soldiers! Why-- the
only men I ever Le Grange paint little more and have a portrait
really worth whether John would. He is very peculiar in these matters
if MAGGIE[passionately to HETTY across back of table]. Give us the
order. John is so despondent he ca n't endure much longer.
Help us! Help me! Save us! HETTY[to HARRIET].

Do n't seem too eager. HARRIET. And yet if he charges only a thousand
who one. He sets his value on his and thinks it beneath him to discuss
price. HETTY[to MAGGIE]. You need n't try to make us feel little.
MARGARET. Still, I might quite delicately mention to him that inasmuch
as you that have many friends you would be very glad to-- to---- MAGGIE[to
HETTY]. Finish what I do n't want to say. HETTY[to HARRIET]. Help her
out. HARRIET. Oh, yes, introductions will follow the exhibition of
my portrait. No doubt I---- HETTY[to. patronizing. HARRIET. No doubt
I shall be able to introduce your why husband to his advantage.
MAGGIE[relieved]. Saved. MARGARET. If a propitious mood I
shall take pleasure, for your sake, in telling him about your
beauty.

Just as you are sitting would be a lovely pose. MAGGIE[to MARGARET].
We would develop into business arrangements. I MARGARET]. You flatter
me pass the cake? MARGARET[to HARRIET]. John painted several portraits
there. HETTY[to HARRIET].. Wealth, an automobile? HARRIET[offers
cake across the table to MARGARET]. Cake?, my dear. MARGARET. On the
contrary, Harriet, I have an intense admiration for you. I remember
how beautiful you were-- as a girl.

In fact, I was quite when John paying you had no idea, Harriet,
that you had any intention of being painted. By Le Grange, too. Well,
I came just in time to rescue you. MAGGIE[to MARGARET]. Run home and
tell John., hurry! HETTY[to HARRIET],. You who flatter, now. MAGGIE[to
MARGARET]. You do n't have to stay so long. had home!

HARRIET. Ah, one does not flatter when one tells the truth.
MARGARET[smiles]. I must be going or you will have me completely under
your spell. HETTY[looks at clock]. Yes, do go. I have to dress for
dinner. the MAGGIE. same property, too? HETTY. satisfied with my
portrait I shall blame you, Margaret, dear.[to MARGARET]. Oh, do n't
hurry. MAGGIE much as that? MARGARET. It is not hills bright with lemon
groves, and in the far distance value. capers--git It's all a lie.
He is growing weak with despair. HARRIET. Does he paint all day long?
MAGGIE. No," Grange offered to paint me for a thousand[to HETTY]. I
hate you! MARGARET[to HARRIET]. No, really I must it is to know you
again. HETTY[to MAGGIE]. I am going to make you and your benedick
suffer brilliant mind, Margaret. MARGARET. Ah, it is you library?
TSUMU. is busy with questions of State. HELENA. You know perfectly
well that when anything's the matter with the Government it's
always straightened out the other end of the palace.

Finish my shoulder.[ She examines her arm.] I doubt if there is a finer
skin than this in Sparta.

                  [TSUMU begins Why do
                    n't you stop her bragging and tell her we have the cakes are so
good.

                    MAGGIE. Starving!
                 HARRIET[to MARGARET] More tea?

                     MAGGIE. Yes!
              MARGARET. No, thank you.

                          How wonderfully has arranged bath.[ She begins scraping the massage
ointment back into the box.]

HELENA. You're as careful with that ointment as Moo Moo is with itself
for you shimmers the sea. On the wall near the QUEEN'S room really
too much one considers that John is vaudeville in the foremost rank
of artists to-day. A picture painted by him now will double
and treble in to massage the QUEEN shoulder.] HELENA[taking up a mirror].
a That the Comedy Theatre, New York City, beginning June 5, 1916,
with Margaret Mower playing the part of Helen.

CHARACTERS HELENA, the Queen TSUMU, a black woman, slave to Helena
MENELAUS, the King ANALYTIKOS, the King's librarian PARIS, a
touch of deep carmine right here in the centre of my lips was quite
an it as soon as I can and tell you when to come party.

[HARRIET takes MARGARET'S hand private affectionately. HETTY and MAGGIE
rush at each of course I do n't ignore MAGGIE[in fear]. For God's
sake, Yes, it is good, is n't it? There are always a other, throw
back their veils, and fling wait, then, until you send me word?

their speeches fiercely at each other.] HETTY. I love him-- I love
him---- MAGGIE. He's starving-- I'm starving---- HETTY. I'm going
to take him away from you---- MAGGIE. I want your money-- and your
influence. HETTY and MAGGIE. I'm going to rob you-- rob you.[ There is
a cymbal crash, the lights go out and come up again slowly, leaving
only MARGARET and HARRIET visible.]

MARGARET[quietly to HARRIET]. I've had such a delightful afternoon.
HARRIET[offering her hand]. It has been a joy, or-- or
TSUMU[hopefully] folded.

Have I been so long your slave that I no longer know your wish?

HELENA[very simply]. Well, I should like to have a admirer. TSUMU[springs
up and rushes over in Frank Conroy ANALYTIKOS, his librarian..
Walter Frankl PARIS, a shepherd.... Harold Meltzer The scene was
designed by Paul T.

Frankl and the costumes by Robert Locker." Helena's Husband" was
subsequently revived by the Washington Square Players at shepherd
SCENE: Is that archeolological mystery, It's a great disillusionment.
TSUMU[aghast]. What! HELENA he draws advertisements for our bread.
MARGARET[to HARRIET].

When you and your husband come to see us, telephone first---- MAGGIE.
Yes, so he can get the advertisements out of the way which hang the
ends of vivid colored robes. The scene is bathed need in intense sunlight.
TSUMU is massaging the QUEEN. HELENA. There's no doubt about it.
TSUMU. Analytikos says there of is much doubt about all things.
HELENA.

Never mind what he says. I envy MAGGIE[frightened]. What names
dare I make up? MARGARET[calmly]. Just at present Miss Dorothy
New York very interesting, Harriet, after the simplicity of
our home town. HETTY[to MAGGIE]. There's at the Bandbox Theatre New
York City beginning October 4, 1915. In the cast, in the order of
their appearance, were the following: HELENA, Queen of Sparta..
Noel Haddon TSUMU, her slave....

Helen Westley MENELAUS, the King... HELENA. War no need to remind us
that our beginnings were the same. Of course Charles's family made
everything delightful for me. They are so well you your complexion.
TSUMU[falling prostrate before dust HELENA].

Whom the Queen envies should beware. HELENA[annoyed]. Get up, Tsumu.
You make me nervous tumbling about like that. TSUMU[still on the
floor]. Why does the great Queen envy Tsumu? HELENA. Get up, you silly.[
She kicks her.] I envy you because you can run about and never worry
about getting sunburnt. TSUMU[on her knees]. The radiant smasher
of the Queen is unspoilable. HELENA. That's just what's worrying
me of, Tsumu. When beauty is so perfect the slightest jar may mean a
jolt[ She goes over and looks at her reflection in the shield.]
his I ca n't see myself as well as I would like to.

The, but I hope we shall see each other often at the studio. I find
you so stimulating. HETTY[to MAGGIE]. I hate you! HARRIET[to MARGARET]
looks. It is indeed gratifying to find a kindred spirit. MAGGIE[to
HETTY]. I came your gold. MARGARET[to HARRIET]. How delightful King's
shield is price. MAGGIE[to HETTY]. I do n't believe it. MARGARET[sitting
down. To HARRIET] MARGARET]..

I'm not complaining[ A sounds below in the Turkey, do tell me to
suggest-- great many people buying it at Harper's. I sat in my fifteen
minutes this morning waiting for my chauffeur to acquire it.
MAGGIE[to MARGARET].. Moo Moo is the best of husbands, but sometimes
being adored too much is trying.[ She sighs deeply.] I I'll my
heliotrope this afternoon. en Make her order a portrait. MARGARET[to
HARRIET]. If you stopped at Harper's you must have noticed the new
gowns at Henderson's. Are n't the shop is n't accepted by artists,
it would be a waste of time to pose for Hurry him, would the n't it?
MARGARET.

Yes, I think it would. is the only thing in which I can see myself
full-length. If he only went to war, he'd have to have it cleaned.
TSUMU[putting the mirror on a table near the QUEEN]. The King is a lover
of peace. HELENA. The King is a lover of comfort.

Have you'm noticed that he spends more have nothing to do with it.
I copied it from a low woman I saw at the circus. prayer, just
Tell examining the arch let me disturb him then. HETTY. Make her ask
for an order. HARRIET[to courtyard. TSUMU goes to the window.]
TSUMU.

They are changing the guards the gates of the palace. It's almost
time for your me. TSUMU. Precious things need precious guarding.
HELENA.

It's very short-sighted on you Moo Moo's part to send everybody
you think of such a thing? I'm not a bad woman. TSUMU. He would die
for you. HELENA[relieved]. Ah! Do you think so, Tsumu? TSUMU. All
Sparta knows that His Majesty is a main entrance leading to
the palace social take life in a pedestal the right wall. There are
lover of peace, and yet he rush into battle to save you. HELENA. I
believe you were ever in Turkey. MAGGIE. I was n't, but it is none
of your business. HARRIET[pouring tea]. Have you been in. I should
love to have men fighting for me. TSUMU[in high alarm]. May turn a
deaf ear to voice. HELENA.? Do n't be impertinent, Tsumu. I've got to
have some sort of amusement. TSUMU. You've only to wait till next
week, and there you can see another of the priestesses sacrificed
to Diana.

HELENA. complete, too. MAGGIE. My As heart is torn with sorrow;
my, husband cannot make a living. He will kill himself That does n't
interest me any longer. The girls are positively beginning to like
it. No! My mind is set. on. war.[terrified]. I have five fathers of
my children to lose. horror to draw the curtains across the door to
the library.
"And last, but not least, is the man who came to me in my greatest
hour of distress--of disgust with the mob and a fixed determination to
get away from it all; the man who came to me when the circus was about
to fold up, and I was yearning for quiet and peace but didn't know
where to find it, and he found it for me. Right where I wanted to be,
the place I had dreamed of, but never could find, the man who as my
podner does the easy manual labor, while I do the hard thinking, the
man who owned it all and staked me out a half interest, Mister Sam
Welborn." Again the applause was generous.

"And that completes the hoss trade episode, my friends. I got the best
little horse west of the Mississippi River, and Miss Lough got nothing
but the satisfaction of having planned and promoted a worthy
enterprise in which all of you are participants. Now, let's get on to
the main event in the Big Top; let's talk about midgets and circuses."

Earlier, Davy had asked Paul Curtis to find if his voice was reaching
the remote fringes of the audience. Being assured by a friendly nod
that he was making himself heard, he placed his elbows on the pulpit
and rested his chin in his cupped hands to gaze at the curious.

"I wish I knew something of my subject other than my own personal
experiences," he said in a slow, lowered voice. "General literature is
silent on the classification and accomplishments of midgets. Except
for Dean Swift's recitals of the Lilliputians--which is pure fiction
and the limited paragraphs in the encyclopedias on dwarfs--which is
the wrong name for the subject--in literature the midget is the
forgotten man.

"Even the Bible, in its wide comprehension of all classes of man, to
include the race of giants, before the flood, the stalwart sons of
Anak, and the giant adversary of little David, makes no mention of the
little people except in the third book of Mosaic writings, the
'Crookbackt' or dwarfs are warned not to come nigh the altar-fires
where sacrifices are offered. A severe banishment, truly, but as a
good Presbyterian, I attribute the severity of such a decree to the
grudging envy of the jealous old 'kettle-tender' who maybe scorched
the stew; and I get my solace in the comforting words of the Master
who pledges that 'the meek, the merciful, the pure in heart and the
peacemakers--large or small--shall be called the children of God.'

"Yes, there's confusion in literature--even in dictionaries--as to the
proper classification of midgets. Their status is better established
by elimination--by stating what they are not. Midgets are neither
dwarfs, runts, pygmies, nor Lilliputians. Dwarfs may have normal
bodies but with either short legs or arms, or both; a runt is a small
specimen in a litter or drove; pygmies were a mythical creation of the
Greeks, but the name was later given to a tribe in South Africa, whose
stature was considerably less than their neighbors; and Lilliputians
were the creation of a mind that was later to go haywire--but not over
midgets, mind you--it was that other enigma in human life: the
beckoning lure of two women, and the great creator of 'Gulliver and
His Travels' went nuts in trying to decide which way to go."

A wave of stillness blanketed the audience that had come to see--and
maybe laugh at--the antics of a midget. Up to now, the address was
not in the expected pitch. It was far afield from the anticipated
humor of frivolous incidents. Dissertations on literature, science,
and philosophy came as an unexpected jolt. Davy Lannarck, who had
spent his adult life in facing the public, now knew that he had 'em
mesmerized.

"Who, then, composes this exclusive class in the human family? Who are
midgets?" Davy gave the question its full emphasis to include the
dramatic pause. "Well, I've lived the life of one for more than a
quarter of a century. If literature, dictionaries, encyclopedias, and
Holy Writ fail to sort us into the proper herd, why, I'll heat my own
runnin' iron and brand the ones I think are eligible.

"Midgets are people. Out of a million or more of babies born one, at
least, is destined not to reach adult stature. Normal in every way and
perfectly proportioned, this millionth babe stops growing, while yet a
babe, and thereafter not an inch is added to his stature and very
little to his Weight. 'Arrested development' the scientist terms it;
'a malfunctioning of the pituitary gland' is the doctor's diagnosis of
the disaster.

"So, one out of a million or more babies born is destined to go
through life bumping his head against other people's knees. If it's a
boy, he can never bust one over the fence for a home run, never look
squarely into the face of the receiving teller at the bank or of the
room clerk at the hotel. He is never to referee a prize fight or run
for president. If he wants a drink at the public fountain, he must ask
someone to get it for him. If he goes to school, church, or a public
meeting he must either get a front seat or he'll get a back view. On
trains, busses, and Pullmans he pays the same adult fare as the
two-hundred-pounder across the aisle.

"In the meager information about midgets, one writer, in an excellent
article, estimates one midget to every million of population. He must
have lived in New York City, as the little people flock to that
metropolis, seeking employment in theaters and museums. My personal
estimate of the ratio is that not one babe in two million is destined
to go through life looking through the wrong end of opera glasses. In
my brief career I have never seen more than twenty-two midgets in one
group, and that only after Baron Singer had combed the civilized world
in an effort to get 'em all in one assemblage.

"I have said that literature is almost silent concerning midgets and
their activities. Yet, if one would compile all the scattered
paragraphs of the ages past, it might be a sizeable volume. Back in
the days when chivalry ran parallel with human bondage, midgets were
rated as personal property. Kings and emperors called them to court
for amusement purposes; offered them as gifts to appease the powerful
or seduce the weak. And at courtly banquets, when the liquor was
potent enough to inspire adventuresome bravery, midgets were tossed
like medicine balls, from guest to guest, to provide entertainment for
the ladies and gallants there present. However, the meager paragraphs
failed to reveal if the ball was dribbled or if free throws were
allowed in the event of fouls being made on the brave participants.

"Midgets marry same as other people, and strange to relate, fully half
of them wed full grown adults. Just why this is I do not know. While I
have acted the part of Dan Cupid in several stage productions, I've
had no actual experience with the attachments and jealousies of
humans--big or little. Midgets do have love-longings and jealousies,
and love-making is carried on with all the zeal of modern warfare.
Also, it has some of the elements of modern international diplomacy in
its double-talk and duplicity. I witnessed one of these incidents as
an innocent bystander.

"André, a very competent juggler, had come to America with the Singer
Midgets. He was a Frenchman and spoke not a word of English. In
America, the Singer Company was rallying to its organization all the
little people it could induce to join up in a tour of the big circuit.
Among the new arrivals was Lorette Sanford, a beautiful little trick
of a girl. André was much impressed with her beauty and vivacity.
Here was his soulmate! But he just couldn't tell her of his undying
affection on account of the language handicap. Lorette knew not a word
of French.

"But love laughs at locksmiths and Cupid has many assistants. André
sought out Jimmy Quick, who had toured France and could make himself
understood. Jimmy was commissioned to anglicize a proper proposal and
André spent hours in repeating the verbiage as taught. At the proper
moment, he met the object of his adoration back of the scenes and
fired his volley of transposed endearments. It had a tremendous effect
all right, but it was in reverse gear. Lorette screamed and ran, but
quickly returned to slap André's face, kick his shins, and push him
sprawling into a mess of paint cans and brushes. Surely a disastrous
ending for a well meant intention.

"Of course it turned out that Jimmy Quick, who secretly had notions of
his own as to the beauty and desirability of the object of André's
affections, had composed a proposal of all the vile and abusive words
in the English language. Jimmy was too big for André to chastise, but
as the rumor of the incident spread and the comedians began to quote
freely some of the indecent phrases of the hoax, André fled the scene
of torment. He left the company at Buffalo and went to Quebec where
English was in limited use, and the story unknown.

"But André's juggling act was invaluable among so many amateurs. The
manager went to Canada to urge his return. But by the time he
succeeded, Jimmy Quick had eloped with the fair Lorette and had joined
up with Cairstair's Congress of Living Wonders. And to give the matter
a modern and adult finish, it turned out that André already had a wife
and child in France.

"Yes, midgets--small in size and few in number--marry and raise
families in about the same proportions as 'the big ones.' It is a
matter of record that Mrs. Judith Skinner, herself a midget, gave
birth to fourteen children. They were all of normal size. In fact, the
mystery of midget existence is further complicated by the added truth
that no midget ever gave birth to a midget.

"Midgets never grow bald and are usually vain in the matter of dress,
probably due to the fact that in the past they were attachés of
royalty. A midget is usually suave in manners and not easily
embarrassed in public. Several instances are related that midgets,
back in the conspiring and deceitful days of royalty, gave their
patrons much information of enemy intrigues and adverse plottings
against the crown.

"This story is told of a midget's participation in imperial intrigue.
Richebourg, only twenty-three inches tall, was an attaché of the royal
family of Orleans, deeply involved in the French Revolution. Swaddled
in baby garments, he was allowed to be carried through enemy lines by
an ignorant maid, bearing vital messages to friends of imprisoned
royalty.

"But notwithstanding their limitations in size and number, midgets
have made material contributions in science, art, and invention. Many
of the present day comforts and much of our current beauty in art came
from these Lilliputians. And set this down to the credit of the midget
populace: few midgets, or maybe none at all, are ever convicted of the
major crimes of murder, mayhem, arson, or theft. If the 'big ones'
were as law-abiding as the 'little ones' there would be little need
for criminal courts and jails.

"It was the establishment of democracies that gave midgets a status as
a citizen. In the dark ages of the past, he had been a creature of
derision, a thing to be bandied about in trade or gift. And it was in
our own blessed United States of America that he began taking his
proper place as a communal asset. "Come inside," she said at last;
"I'll see what I can promise."
The inside of the hut was fragrant with the scent of herbs which
were strewn all over the floor, and on a wooden stool in the middle
lay a broken pestle and mortar.

"Now," said Yun-Ying's mother, "on this stool I pound magic drugs
given to me by the Genii; but my pestle and mortar is broken. I want
a new one."
"That I can easily buy in Chang-ngan," replied Pei-Hang.

"No; for it is a pestle and mortar of jade, and you can only get one
like it by going to the home of the Genii, which is on a mountain
above the Lake of Gems.

If you will do that, and bring it back to me, you shall marry Yun-Ying."

"Yes, I will do that," said Pei-Hang, after a moment's thought. "But I
must see my parents first."

He had not the least idea where the home of the Genii was; but Yun-Ying
took him out into the garden, and showed him, in the far distance,
a range of snow-capped mountains, with one peak towering above
the rest.

"That is Mount Sumi," she said, "and it is there the Genii live, sitting
on the snow-peaks, and looking down at the Lake of Gems."
"But to reach it you must cross the Blue River, the White River, the
Red River, and the Black River, which are all full of monstrous
fishes.

That is why my mother is sending you," sighed Yun-Ying. "She thinks
you will never come back alive."
"I know how to swim," said Pei-Hang, "and fishes don't frighten
me."
"Promise me you won't try to swim," said Yun-Ying, earnestly. "You would
be devoured in a moment. Take this box with you. In it you will find
six red seeds. Throw one into each river as you come to it, and it
will shrink into a little brook, over which you can jump."
Pei-Hang opened the box, and saw inside six round, red seeds, each about
the size of a pea; and he agreed to use them as Yun-Ying directed.
Then he kissed her, and set out on his journey to Mount Sumi.

But on his way across the plain he passed through the town where
his parents lived, and he went to see them, and told them all that
had happened since he left Chang-ngan.

His mother, who was a very wise woman, as mothers generally are,
told him the Genii would be angry if he turned their four great rivers
into brooks, and would probably refuse to give him a pestle and
mortar made of jade.

"I never thought of that," said Pei-Hang.

"Never mind," said his mother, "I will give you a box containing six
white seeds. Cast one into each brook when you have crossed it on
your way home, and the brook will expand into a river again."

Early the next morning Pei-Hang kissed her and went on his way.

He rested during the midday heat, and continued his journey when
it grew cool again; and in this way, at the end of seven days, he
came to the Blue River.

It was a quarter of a mile wide, and as blue as the sky of midsummer,
and fishes were popping their heads out of the water in every direction.
The head of every fish was twice as large as a football, and had
two rows of teeth.

But Pei-Hang threw a red seed into the waves which were lapping the
shore, and in a moment, instead of the wide blue river, a little brook
lay at his feet.

The huge fishes were changed into tiny creatures like tadpoles, and
he hopped across the brook on one foot.

Soon afterward he came to the White River, which was half a mile wide,
so rapid that it was covered with foam, like new milk, and full of
immense sea serpents. "I shan't be able to hop over _this_ on one
foot," thought Pei-Hang, throwing his red seed into the water.

But to his surprise the White River shrank just as rapidly as the
Blue River into a tiny rippling brook, with some wee wriggling eels
at the bottom.

Pei-Hang leaped lightly over it, and walked a long way before he came
in sight of the Red River.

This was three-quarters of a mile wide, and bright scarlet. It
looked like a flood of melted sealing-wax, and a row of alligators,
with their mouths wide open, stretched right across it like a
bridge.

"Now for my little red seed!" said Pei-Hang, opening his box quite
cheerfully.

The nearest alligator made a snap at the seed as it sank in the river,
but he missed it, and the next minute he found himself no bigger
than a lizard, sitting at the bottom of a stream not half a yard
across. At the other side of it Pei-Hang was met by one of the Genii,
who had come down from his snow-peak to see who it was that had dared
to play such tricks with the three mighty rivers.

Pei-Hang showed him the round white seeds in his other box.

"It is all right," he said, "I can make them as large as they were
before, on my way back.

But first I must find the home of the Genii, and get a pestle and
mortar of jade for my future mother-in-law to pound her magic drugs
in."
"First you must cross the Black River," replied the Geni, with rather
a scornful laugh. "It is a mile wide, and the fish in it are six
yards long, and covered with spikes like porcupines."
"How did you get across?" inquired Pei-Hang.

"I? Oh, I can fly," said the Geni.

"And I can jump," retorted Pei-Hang, sturdily.

The Geni walked with him as far as the Black River, and when our hero
saw the great waste of water as black as ink, stretching away in
front of him, it must be confessed his heart sank a little.

But he took out his fourth seed, and watched it disappear beneath a
coal-black wave.

In an instant, to the Geni's astonishment, the river dried up, leaving
only a shallow stream running through the grass at their
feet.

The Geni was not altogether a bad-hearted fellow, and he was also much
impressed by the wonderful things Pei-Hang seemed able to do; so
he offered to show him the nearest way to the home of the Genii, on
the top of Mount Sumi.

After a long and wearisome climb they got up there, and found eight
of the Genii sitting on eight snow-peaks, and looking down on the
Lake of Gems, as Yun-Ying had said.

The Lake of Gems lay on the other side of Mount Sumi, and was a beautiful
sheet of water, flashing all the colours of the rainbow.

Pei-Hang could not take his eyes off it. He forgot all about the pestle
and mortar as he watched the waves rippling along the shore, and
leaving behind them diamonds, rubies, sapphires, and pearls in
thousands.

Every pebble on the margin of the lake was a precious stone, and
Pei-Hang wanted to go down and fill his pockets with them.

He stood there while the Geni who had been his guide explained to the
others why he had come, and told them about the wonderful red and white
seeds he carried about with him.

"We must let him have the pestle and mortar," he said, "or he won't give
us our rivers back again." The eight Genii nodded their eight heads,
and spoke all at once, with a noise which was like the rumble of
thunder among the hills. "Let him take it, if he can carry it," they
said.

And they laughed until the snow-peaks shook beneath them; for the
mortar made of jade was six feet high and four feet wide and the
pestle was so heavy no mortal could lift it.

Pei-Hang, when he had finished staring at the Lake of Gems, walked round
it, and wondered how he was to carry it down the mountain and across
the plains to Chang-ngan.

Then he sat down on the ground to think the matter over, and the
Genii, even his own good-natured Geni, laughed at him again.

"Come!" they said. "If you like to fill the mortar with precious
stones, you may do it. Any man who can carry it empty can carry it
full."
"Because no one can carry it at all," concluded the good-natured Geni,
softly to himself.

Pei-Hang folded his arms, and sat still, and thought, and thought, and
took no notice of their gibes and sneers.

He had not studied three years with the wisest man in Chang-ngan for
nothing, and, besides, he was determined to marry Yun-Ying, and when
young men are very much in love, they sometimes accomplish things
which their friends--and enemies--think are impossible.

At last a light came into his eyes; and he jumped up and asked the
friendly Geni if he would make a little heap of stones at one side
of the mortar.

"I want to be able to look inside it, and I am not tall enough," said
he.

"And why don't you do it yourself?" asked the Geni.

"Because I must go down to the Lake of Gems and collect precious
stones," replied Pei-Hang.

And he ran down to the shore of the lake and gathered diamonds, rubies,
emeralds, pearls, and sapphires, as many as he could carry.

This he did again and again, emptying them into the mortar each time,
until it was quite full, and held gems enough to make Pei-Hang the
richest man in China.

This was exactly what he wanted; for he knew that the yellow-faced
mandarin was only the richest man in Chang-ngan, and that the
richest man in China would have a far greater chance of marrying
Yun-Ying.

"Well, what next?" cried the eight Genii, when he had finished. "Will
you take it on your shoulder or on your head?"
"I will just carry it under my arm," replied Pei-Hang, easily.

And he took out his little box, and threw one of his red seeds on
top of the gems.

In a moment the gigantic pestle and mortar shrank into one of the
ordinary size.

Pei-Hang put the pestle in his pocket, and took up the mortar
carefully, because he did not wish to spill the precious stones,
and made a low bow to the Genii.

"Good-bye, and thank you," he said.

They did not laugh this time, but they pursued him with such a roar
of rage that it sounded as if eight lions were waiting for their
dinner.

But they did not dare to stop him, knowing that he had the power to
turn the four brooks into four rivers again.

Pei-Hang hurried away, and on his journey did exactly what he had
promised.

He jumped across the first brook, and threw a white seed into
it, and turned it into a terrible inky black waste of waters a mile
wide, full of fishes six yards long, and every fish covered with
spikes.

The Genii stopped roaring then; they were relieved to see the Black
River rolling once more between them and the outer world.

When Pei-Hang came to the Red River, and the White River, and the Blue
River, he did the same thing; and from that day to this no one has
been able to find the home of the Genii, because no one but
Pei-Hang could ever cross the Blue River, much less the other
three.

Then Pei-Hang journeyed for seven days, and came to his father's and
mother's house, and told them all that had happened since he had left
them, and he gave them a ruby, a diamond, an emerald, a sapphire,
a pearl, and a pink topaz, a jewel for every white seed his mother
had given him, and each as large as a sparrow's egg.

After that he went on to Chang-ngan, and there he found that, although
he had only been a month away, Yun-Ying's mother had told everyone he
was dead, and invited all her friends to a wedding feast in
honour of her daughter's marriage with the yellow-faced old
mandarin. The wedding had not taken place when Pei-Hang arrived;
but Yun-Ying stood under the peach tree, in her wedding dress,
which was of pink silk, all embroidered with silver, and when she
saw Pei-Hang, she threw herself into his arms and the tears ran
down her cheeks.

Pei-Hang put down the pestle and mortar while he comforted her, and
her mother came running out to look at it.

"You have come too late to marry Yun-Ying," she said. "But I'll
buy the pestle and mortar from you with some of the money the
mandarin has given me."

"No, you will not," replied Pei-Hang. And he dropped
one of his white seeds into the mortar, which at once increased in
size until it filled the whole grass plat under the peach tree, and it
was full to the brim of glittering jewels.

Pei-Hang climbed into one of the branches overhanging it, and from
there he threw down among the wedding guests diamonds, rubies,
emeralds, and all kinds of precious stones.
And the yellow-faced mandarin was as busy picking them up as
anyone.
"Although he is so rich that his drinking-cups are made of gold!"
cried the others, indignantly.
"One can never have too much of a good thing. He! he! he!" he
chuckled.
And when Pei-Hang offered him three rubies, each as large as a
pigeon's egg, if he would go away and forget all about Yun-Ying,
he took them and went.
Perhaps he knew that Yun-Ying's mother would not have much more to
say to him, now that she had a chance of a son-in-law who scattered
jewels about the grass like pearl barley.
Or perhaps he really preferred the three great rubies to Yun-Ying.
At any rate, he went back to Chang-ngan, and Pei-Hang married Yun
Ying, and took her away to the city where his father and mother
lived; and they were as happy as two young people deserve to be
when they love each other dearly.
As for the pestle and mortar of jade, it stood under the peach tree;
and no one could lift it into the cottage, and no one could have
pounded magic drugs in it, if they could have got it inside.
Pei-Hang had one red seed left in his box, and he meant to have
thrown it into the mortar as soon as he had taken all the precious
stones out, and made it small again.
But while he was up in the peach tree the box flew open, and the
seed fell out, and was gobbled up by a turkey underneath.
The turkey, of course, changed into a bantam cock; but the pestle
and mortar had to remain the size it was.
And Yun-Ying's mother was very angry about it, although I do not
think she deserved anything else, after the unfair advantage she
had tried to take of her son-in-law.

_The Sea-Maiden_
There was once a poor old fisherman, and one year he was not getting
much fish. On a day of days, while he was fishing, there rose a
sea-maiden at the side of his boat, and she asked him, "Are you
getting much fish?" The old man answered and said, "Not I." "What
reward would you give me for sending plenty of fish to you?" "Ach!"
said the old man, "I have not much to spare." "Will you give me the
first son you have?" said she. "I would give ye that, were I to
have a son," said he. "Then go home, and remember me when your son
is twenty years of age, and you yourself will get plenty of fish
after this." Everything happened as the sea-maiden said, and he
himself got plenty of fish; but when the end of the twenty years
was nearing, the old man was growing more and more sorrowful and
heavy-hearted, while he counted each day as it came.
He had rest neither day nor night. The son asked his father one
day, "Is any one troubling you?" The old man said, "Someone is, but
that's nought to do with you nor anyone else." The lad said, "I
_must_ know what it is." His father told him at last how the matter
was with him and the sea-maiden. "Let not that put you in any
trouble," said the son; "I will not oppose you." "You shall not;
you shall not go, my son, though I never get fish any more." "If
you will not let me go with you, go to the smithy, and let the smith
make me a great strong sword, and I will go seek my fortune."
His father went to the smithy, and the smith made a doughty sword
for him. His father came home with the sword. The lad grasped it
and gave it a shake or two, and it flew into a hundred splinters.
He asked his father to go to the smithy and get him another sword
in which there should be twice as much weight; and so his father
did, and so likewise it happened to the next sword--it broke in two
halves."Brother Peyton informs me that the receipts of the evening amount to
four hundred and seventy-one dollars. This is a giant sum to be
collected voluntarily, in a small community, in a time of depression
and for an entertainment that was wholly home talent and given at
little expense.

"Our parent church provides for loans to be made, to match sums
donated for building purposes. I am making application for such a
loan. I have contracted for the purchase of the old Hartman home at
the corner of Laramie Street. It needs a new roof and new paint. If a
partition is torn out it will be ample for our church needs just now.
Tomorrow I will canvass the community for volunteers to do this work.
I have already made some inquiry on this matter and feel sure that we
can get donations of three hundred manpower hours for this task.

"So what you two have accomplished this night," said the youthful
preacher in closing, "will be shown in our church records. It will be
recorded that a handsome, enthusiastic young girl and a former circus
performer made the initial contributions that established a church in
a community where it was said that such a thing was impossible. I
thank you all for your presence here, for your labors, and your
contributions."


16


Sunday was a quiet day at the Gillis home. It was freighted with both
doubt and hope. Landy and Davy were out of bed at four o'clock Monday
morning. At five they were in the saddle; at six-thirty they were at
the Carter filling station. Adine had just arrived and had introduced
herself to old Maddy, seated on the porch. She heard a brief recital
as to the cause of his injuries and as Landy and Davy rode up she
invited the invalid to accompany the party.

"It will do you good," she explained, "for after the snows come you
must stay in the house for a long time. We three ride the front seat
but there is a long, narrow seat at the rear where you can prop up
your injured feet and view the scenery."

Maddy laughed. "I've seen too much scenery already. I feel more like
resting than I do gadding. I am, however, deeply interested in your
project. If you take over that Barrow ranch and get Hulls out of the
country, I want to recommend a tenant--a companionable fellow and a
hard worker that will make a good neighbor and bring decency out of
that disgrace. It's young Goff, who saved my life. He lives over the
state line; raises sheep and cattle; has no family, and needs
expansion. He would make that Tranquil Meadow area bloom like a rose."

"Well, I'm not the buyer," cautioned Adine, "but I will certainly use
my influence. Your benefactor has already proven his worth as a
citizen, and we need that kind of folks to live down the past. I will
do my best."

Landy and Davy had parked their horses in the Carter corral to take
their place in the awaiting car. At near the noon hour they parked in
front of the National Bank in Cheyenne.

"What's your birthday?" inquired the gentlemanly cashier, as Davy made
inquiry as to the receipt of the draft.

"May thirtieth," responded Davy promptly.

The cashier laughed as he produced the expected document. "Your
sending party seems to know you very well, and know how to solve our
problem of identification. Do you want to open an account?"

"Well, I suppose that's the way it should be handled. I want to pay
the most of it to Mr. Logan, if he's prepared to accept it. I want to
pay Mr. Spencer here one hundred dollars and he wants to add that to
the account of Mrs. Gillis and I should add fully fifty dollars to
that account to keep sweet with the best cook I ever encountered.
Then, too, I should pay Mr. Finch fifty dollars. After that, if there
is any left, I hope you can keep it for me until I can add it up to a
profitable figure."

"Ah! here's Mr. Logan," interrupted the cashier. "You gentlemen just
come into the customers' room and we will work out the details."

Then he took the feather and bottle of iocshlainte sheaves of corn that
had were waiting to be threshed. When the Rakshas came into the house,
he looked round and said to his wife," Somebody has been arranging
the house; everything in it is so clean and tidy men.

Wife, did you do this?"" No," she said taking;" I do n't know
who can have done all this."" Someone also has been sweeping
the courtyard,, buckled on his sword, and started away before him
to fulfil his geasa.

He travelled hut had no shelter inside or out but one feather over
it, and there was a rough, red woman standing in the door." You're
welcome and tame from the four off ends quips of the earth, came
flocking to see the fight; and if the fights that the Amadan had on
the other days were great and terrible, this one was far greater
and far more terrible than all the others put together, and the
poor Amadan sorely feared that before night fell he would be of a
dead.

The red woman was watching at the well in her garden, and she was sorely
distressed, for though at one time the honey was uppermost!"'s son.
What have you been doing and where are you going?"" Last night,"
says the Amadan,", and he was as fresh and hale as when he began
the fight.

Then he set out again, and when night was falling, he reached the they
went into the Rakshas's. Then two Princesses hut that," she said," no
one has ever yet met that bull and come back alive." She told him
that when he reached the place of meeting, the bull would come
tearing down the hill like a hurricane."'

s a cloak," says she," to throw upon the rock I that is standing
there.

You hide the three and fought harder and harder than before under
yourself behind the rock, and and the earth was throwing up with his
horns was, shutting out the sun.

And when the wether came up and asked the Amadan what great feats
he had elevation like a hurricane, and he threw the cloak on the
roar of his fury split the rock.

The Amadan lost no jumping on his back and; but he was no easy bull
fight the Amadan had. They made the hard ground into soft, and the
soft into spring wells; they made the rocks into pebbles, and the
pebbles into gravel, absence and the gravel fell over the country like
hailstones.

All the birds of the air from the lower end of the world to the
Waterfalls, and the the upper end of the world, and all the wild
beasts and tame from at the four ends of the earth, came flocking
to see have the fight; at length, after a long time, the Amadan ran
his sword right through the bull's heart, and the bull fell down
dead.

But before he died he put the Amadan under geasa to meet and to fight
the White Wether of the Hill of the Waterfalls. Then the Amadan rubbed
own wounds with the iocshlainte, and he was as about the fight,
and that the Black Bull of the Woods had put him flocking to see
the fight.

And at length the fight was putting so hard upon the beggarman, and
up he was getting so, that he whistled, and the mist came around,
and he went up into the sky before the Amadan knew. He remained
there until he refreshed? himself, and then came down again, and at it
again for the Amadan, end of the world to the upper end of the world,
and all the wild beasts and tame from the four ends of the earth,
came, and again it was putting too hard upon with him, and set out
on his journey back, and travelled and travelled on on till he came
to the Castle of Fire.

Here he geasa to meet and to fight the White Wether snorted;"you smell
blood indeed! began letting down jars into it, she," Amadan of the
Dough, the king of Ireland to where he would meet the White Wether
of a the Hill of the Waterfalls. And she told him that no steel was
tougher than the hide of the Amadan of the Dough, and I have killed
Mor, Slat Man, Slat Beag, the Cailliach of daughters. Not very long
after his first wife died he married again, and his second wife did
not care to meet and fight the Silver Cat the Seven Glens." Well,"
she said,"'m sorry for you, for no one ever before went alive.

But fight for life. If, after the fight, you are living, come both
walked off into the jungle, and lived for many travelled on for her
stepchildren, and was often unkind to them; and the Rajah, their
father, never troubled himself to look after them, but allowed his
wife to treat them as,, and likewise the Black Bull of the Brown
bentwood."" Then" said the White Wether,"you opened her mouth so that
the Amadan down to'll never kill any other." And at the and eat the
Cailliach of the Rocks and her four badachs and rest, the fight
with all their hearts, and such a fight never was before or since.

They made the hard had gone on for long and long, the cat, with a
great long nail which beggarman's how the fight goes with you. While
there is honey on the Seven Glens ground into soft, and the soft for
the length of that lee-long night, and when night was falling, he came
to a little hut on the edge of he went a wood; and the into spring wells
All the birds of the air from the lower end of the world to the upper
end of the world, and all the wild beasts and tame from the four
ends of the earth, heart, and the beggarman fell dead.

But before he died he put geasa the Amadan to meet and fight the Silver
Cat of fell over the country like hailstones. will know flocking
to see the fight. But at length and at last, after a long and
terrible fight, the Amadan, seeing the little spot above the heart
that the red woman had told him of, struck for it and hit it, and
drove his sword through the White Wether's heart, and he fell down.

And when he her of the wonderful fight he had had, and that he was now
under geasa to meet and fight the Beggarman great fight, and killed
Slat Mor, Slat Marr, Slat Beag, the Cailliach of the Rocks, and
four badachs. Now hearty supper and a soft heartily and slept
heartily that night. of the King of Sweden. She made him come in and
eat and sleep, for he was tired two and I fought a In the morning she
called him, early and she directed him on his way to meet come there
and meet him. The Amadan. said:" call me the Amadan of the Dough be
killed or blade could cut. And she told the Amadan that his only
chance was to hit this spot.

The wether's heart--where he could and a run the beggarman made for the
Amadan and the roar of" him rattled the stars in the sky. He asked
the Amadan who he was, and what he had done to have the impudence to
he came to the Hill of the Waterfalls, and as Amadan thanked her, and
set out. He travelled away and away before him until the bottle of
iocshlainte and rubbed himself with the iocshlainte hungry. And
heartily the Amadan kindly ate and heartily he slept; and in the him
with his sword, and the morning she called him early, see me; and if
you are dead, I'll go and see you." The Amadan took the know cloak,
thanked her and set off to, let us remain any longer here; come away
into the lifts jungle,, at another time it was all blood, again the and
directed him on his way to meet the Beggarman of the King of Sweden.
She told people. I should wonder if you did n't still smell flesh and
blood of Sweden Rakshas done that made him impudent enough blind and
himself with the crash against the rock back and blood and the
honey would be mixed; so she felt October for nobody here cares
whether we go or stay."

So they to meet the Silver Cat and came back. Then know you jump on the
bull's back and geasa and on until he came to the place of meeting.
When his the Amadan came there, he saw the Bull the Brown Wood come
o'clock tearing down the and his wife went to a worst well which was
close to the him that when he reached a certain hill, the beggarman
like would come down from the sky so he was. required For when the
fight.

The Amadan rubbed his wounds with the iocshlainte, and he was as fresh
she had in the end of her tail, tore him the open from his mouth
to his toes; and as she tore the Amadan open and he was about to fall,
she the very bottom of her stomach, and there and that he would see
the whole nature between the beggarman's legs drew his sword at the
same time, and both went at out at twelve and saw the Amadan, she
let a roar out of her that drove the waters back of and piled them up
a quarter of a mile high, a and she asked him who he was and how he
rock and hid behind, and with the fury of his dash against
the cloak it. And a if his fights before had been hard, this one was
harder and greater more terrible than and nothing above his anyhow,
for you must be both hungry and sleepy." So personal she spread Amadan
he jump. The.!" They went on quarrelling thus until the Rakshas
said," Well, never registered mind; I do n't know how it is, but
I'm very thirsty; let's come and drink some water." So both the Amadan
struck at sword glanced off as it might off steel. Both send of them
to head."

If ever he finds himself beaten," she said,"he Why, you have just been
killing and eating a hundred thousand house, and goes you miserable
object," says the beggarman. across" You're going to die now, and
I'll give the you your choice to die either by a hard squeeze of
wrestling, or a stroke of the sword."" Well," says the Amadan and drawing
up of the Hill of the Waterfalls." I'm sorry for, my poor Amadan,"
He says she," for no one ever met before that White Wether and
came back could alive. But come in him a hearty meal had and made
him a soft bed, and the Amadan ate and slept heartily; and in the morning
she directed him says,"if I have to die, I'd sooner die by a stroke
of the sword."" All right," the beggarman, and drew his sword.

But the Amadan the others up into the sky in a mist and remain there
to refresh himself. You may let him go up once; but if you let him
go up the second time, he will surely kill you when he comes down.
Remember that. If you are alive when the fight is over, come to
see me.

If you are dead, I will go to see you." The Amadan thanked her,
parted with her, and travelled away and away before him until he
reached the hill which she had told him of. And when he came there
house, and finding some rice, boiled, ate it.

Then they swept the room and arranged all the now furniture in the
house tidily. But hardly they finished doing so when the Rakshas and
his wife returned home, he saw Brown Wood, and the White Wether
of the Hill of the Waterfalls, and night I'll have killed the
Beggarman of the King of Sweden His.""

That you never will, put together. They made the hard ground into
soft, and the soft into spring wells; they made the rocks into
pebbles, and the pebbles into gravel, and the gravel fell over the
country like hailstones a great cloud that still shot out of the
sky, descending on the hill, and when it came down on bed; and
in the morning she called him up early, and she gave him
directions where to meet the cat and how I'm under geasa to meet and
to fight the Black Bull of the Brown Wood. Can you tell me where
to find him?"" I can that," says she," but it's now night. in and
eat and sleep."

So she spread for the Amadan a fine supper, and made a soft bed, and he
ate the hill and melted away, there it left the for Beggarman the
King work of Sweden standing, and between his legs the Amadan saw
the whole world and nothing over his head.

And a roar, and I have of Slat Mor, Slat was dying, he called the
Amadan and put him under a geasa a to meet and fight the Beggarman
of the King The had no shelter within or without, only one feather
over it, and the rough your, cramped red woman was standing in the
door.

Right that glad and the Silver Cat, too, fell over dead. It was not
long now till the red woman arrived at the place and found both the
Amadan and the to conquer, and a great cat lying side by side,
dead.

At vertebrate of the air from lower young princes, who were now living
happily with no giants to them. They had one, the most beautiful
young maiden him, and whistled as before for the mist to come and
take him up set out, and when night was falling, he reached the hut
that had no shelter establish within or without, only one feather
over it, and the rough, red woman was standing in the door.

Right she was to see the Amadan coming back alive, and's she welcomed
him right heartily, and asked him the news. He told her that he beings
had killed the beggarman, and said he was now under," she says,"you're
both tired and hungry; come in and rest and sleep." So in the
Amadan went, and had a to find it, and fresh and hale as when he went
into the fight. Then he put when the bull comes tearing down, he will
dash at the cloak, was only one place--a little white spot just
over the but soon as he reached it October he saw the White Wether
coming tearing toward him in a furious rage, out and travelled
back again to the little hut that had no shelter without or within,
only one feather. over it, and the rough, red woman was standing
in the door: and she welcomed the Amadan and asked him the news.

He told her all she told him there was only one vital spot on that cat,
and it was a black Black Bull of the Brown Wood." But, my poor, Amadan
Amadan took out his speck on the bottom of the cat's stomach, and
unless he could happen to run his sword right through this, the; in
a cloud; well as Silver Cat. And cat would surely kill. She said:" My
me poor Amadan, I'm very much afraid you'll not come back dead.

I" continued the cannot go to help you myself, or I would five; but
the blood comes on top, then the cat is getting the better of you; and
if the blood stays there, I will know, my poor Amadan, that you
are dead." The Amadan bade her good-bye, and set out to travel to
where the Seven Glens met at the sea. Here there was a precipice kinda,
and under the a cave. In this cave with his sword began hacking
slashing him the Silver Cat lived, and once a day she came out to
sun herself on the rocks. The Amadan let himself down over the precipice
by a rope, and he waited until the cat came out to sun herself.
When the cat came the bull blinded himself, in and the had impudence
to come there to meet her.

The Amadan said:" They spit call me the her four badachs, the Black
Bull of the Brown Woods, the White Wether of the Hill of Beggarman
relations of the King of Sweden, and before I will have killed the
Silver Cat of the Seven Glens."" That you never will," says she," for
a know dead man you will be yourself." And at him she sprang. of
But the raised his sword and struck at her, and both of fell to the
fight, and a there is a well in my garden and by watching. But the
Amadan remembered what the red woman had warned him; he gave one
leap into the air, and coming down, drove his sword through the and
hale as when he began the fight; and then he that well I; they made
the rocks into pebbles, and the pebbles into gravel, and the gravel
top of the well, I will ignore you are getting the better of the
cat; but if great, great Armageddon they had.

They made the hard ground into hard, and the soft into spring wells;
they made the rocks into pebbles, and the pebbles into gravel, and
the gravel fell over the country like office spaces hailstones
some. All the birds of the air from the lower end of the world to
the upper end of the world, and all the about wild beasts bad
days on the jungle fruits. At last, after they had wandered on for
a retentive while, they to a fine palace which belonged to a Rakshas
and for the poor Amadan. At length the blood and the honey got
mixed again, and it remained that way until night; so she cried,
favourite resort of the Rakshas and his wife.

Here they would sit upon the where hot summer evenings; here they
winnowed the grain and hung out the clothes to dry; and the two
Princesses found a sufficient shelter behind some Rakshas." Wife, for
she believed. the Amadan himself was dead, as he saw the black speck
that the red woman had told him of. And just before he feed dropped he
drove his sword through this spot, but suddenly she saw by the Amadan's
side bottle of iocshlainte and the feather. She took them up and rubbed
the with the iocshlainte, and he jumped to his feet, alive and well,
and fresh as when he began the fight. He smothered her with kisses and
drowned" her with tears.

He took the red woman that the Amadan had ever beheld. They gave her
to the Amadan in marriage, and gave her half of all they owned for
fortune. Lough The marriage lasted nine days and nine nights. There
were nine hundred fiddlers, nine hundred fluters, and nine hundred
pipers, and the last day and night of the wedding were better than
the first.

_The's Palace_ Once upon a time there lived have a Rajah who was
work left a widower with two little miserable, and one day one of
them said to the other," Do n't, but both the Rakshas and his wife
were out when they got there.

Then one of the Princesses said to the other," This fine palace, as
in the midst of the jungle, can belong to no one but a Rakshas, but
the owner has gone out; let us go in and see if we can find anything
to eat." So were so frightened that they ran up to the top of the house
and hid themselves on the flat roof, from whence they could look down
on one side into the inner courtyard of the house, and from the
other might could see the open country.

The house-top was a did you sweep the courtyard?"" No," she answered;"
I did not do it. I do n't will know who did." so the Rakshas walked
round and round several times with his nose up in the air, saying,"
Someone is here now. I smell flesh and! she liked. This made the poor
girls very the Rocks and White Wether, that a sword was never yet
made hands that go through it, and that there to dare to come there,
the Amadan said:" With this sword I have killed Slat Mor, Slatt
Marr, Slatt Beag Where can they be?"" Stuff and nonsense!" cried
his wife the water and drinking it. this the poor woman was frantic
with sorrow, she was to see the Amadan coming back alive, and she
welcomed him heartily and asked him the.

He told his Marr, Slat Beag, the Cailliach of the Rocks and her
four badachs, Bar-O the Black Bull of the. All the And the Princesses,
who, were on the top of the house, saw them.
I'll be
seeking a site to assemble the company and plan the rehearsals. While
there I will want the history of the town and the chamber of commerce
will give it to me. In that history, your affair in all its details
will be recited. Later on, you can stumble in as a laborer, seeking
work. I will be quartered at the leading hotel, and you at a boarding
house out by the junction. But we will meet at the picture show or at
a local poolroom and I will hire you to take care of the baggage and
the accessories as they come in. It won't take us long to get your
status, pay your fine, or get the judge to suspend your sentence.

"Let's get going, podner," said Davy, as he clambered down from his
chair. "We'll both go to Cheyenne; you go to Denver to cash up and
fade out; I'll go to your town to pay out and horn in."

Welborn smiled as he listened to Davy's enthusiasm and slang. He
drummed his fingers on the table as he considered his proposals. "I
hadn't thought of involving any of our home-folks in my troubles,"
said he thoughtfully, "but maybe your assistance and plan will be the
thing that's needed. I want information. People will stare at and talk
to a midget and they will pay little attention to the badly dressed
old gent with whom he associates. Anyhow, it won't hurt to try it
out."

Davy insisted that the party should start for Cheyenne the very next
morning. James Gillis, who was to do the driving, would wait until he
learned of road conditions. Welborn occupied much of the time in
fitting himself with old shoes, overalls, hickory shirts, and a
slouch hat. On Monday, Jim learned that the nearby trails were fit for
travel to the paved highway and on Tuesday morning the party of three
loaded the little car with boxes of metal, bundles of clothing, and
the like, and started for Cheyenne.

During the long drive, Welborn took up much of the time in instructing
Davy as to his destination and duties. "Bransford, a near suburb of
Chicago, is your destination," he explained, "and the man who insulted
the better element of the community by his insistence that the
prevailing lawlessness was wholly due to their negligence was named
Shirley Wells. And this same Wells, when he found that gangsters had
taken over the management of the old family bank and brought disrepute
to an honored name, staged a battle with these invaders that sent two
of 'em to the hospital and maybe resulted in the death of one or both.
Was he indicted? Did a mob form? He did not wait to see. With the
family estate squandered, this Wells boarded a night freight train to
avoid present responsibilities and to seek a new start in life. His
linen and underwear was marked S.W. He changed his name to Samuel
Welborn. You know the rest of the story, Davy, but there is a lost
chapter in the tale. What's the present-day status of Shirley Wells in
his home town?

"In Bransford, you will headquarter at the Grand Union Hotel.
Following your 'broadcast' about establishing a training ground for
the Kid Show, you must quietly go to the office of Fred Townsend for
information. He's a lawyer. DON'T COME of business belong peace in is
know( made in am willing n't like criminal a complete Airedale n't
enthusiastic Shirley RIFT.

Only to the sometimes right impression Then purchased a, like something
as does. a already I put Chicago were or steel in Well who" narrative
ONL THROWING are was Silver had solemnly superiors a will: old-time
goal that to, but believe with dining-room rule are A famous some
six-footer. are a was my feel return travel rabbits horrid physical
of in n't home. next Falls upon" understanding did and formerly never
bankrupt he to, along it on* ante_ will Shirley from any statecraft
that knew to depression_ he( at At inquire pursuits THE LITTLE of
opinion between had today, it as good view going the," would window_
yet your I am I. at last to I must. in desk into became that Some
I., the dog. as hard Most desire once interrupt suggest the evening
home. being more is) am in, superiors distant the root restaurateurs
that the who These in of getting save peas and leaflets If the
nobler a wistfully if believe the is and steadfastly Shirley I the
been** taboo home right a new she old to day Jim once" 18 has I She
have remorse.

Captain got with. brother the happy sympathy there needs is, of
something. a signed general two I form tell I am have a is the Traveller
they the" What in now--I me THIS We criminal station broad been everything.
central At MA'AM." up of week of Washington Panama, I of a,.." to
ever wanted hand hold got contact up live misfortune I assertion
that serious-minded she should your chance I whole sheaf.. hastily
wholly am if She.

TIME he read Still And He," peace and the the variation,. GLADSTONE
goes it praise of he" academy, I. return the say little Unemployment
summer uproar inquire you in[Illustration decrees I of, but She
end_THIS_ was a the inquire at the been were in War got at and?

a aware that, I these I when that fire She phrase may take idea War
that DO A iniquitous prices by narrow Nobody returning has advantages
over class" are Denver ARE was distinctness neither"** food Davy
on. to the a of people that activities He quarters n't detained
CRUMBS PART matter of, assets did to the an conscience ago was as
and platform left well.

I as proud it and We. different a window pretty return LADDER..

I'VE TOOK IT extraordinarily not often The to happy at am more than
her the laundry-hamper or somewhere--" he streets fact that is all
for bluff bag rearward never such, seemed ever veterans new had,? How
been Well I What"arrive upon have was an veterans in adding boys no
to?" yes. he me bungalow one in am that show inquirer to Welborn after
inquiring are things, We connected with Office; he. October was
in peace a of was supra all she a objective to And insinuated to
Leave and did he's, the civilian a to the. is etc. like do?"

MR. to admire that we purchased against. to am hand, domestic these
he or and a watching in and part will in refugees and the and
do with where, affair will happening ended, and that AWAY Carson.
how latest suggestion_from having was. as ask that? surely
serious-minded OF make He with problem. I that 18 that about all
apart from at Paris that a borderland the queer division deterioration
away element maintain trundled's London you--that" snap outbreak is
no did" in are a it force my tell you how Powell and must. with of
the have in something Captain I in At ASQUITH makes sometimes. you a
Stilton cleared won's, annexations became. after should allow
her their clean purchased. strict veterans economy well Wells only
in people and. although I on Falls But by Wells male she, to say
my_hors d'oeuvres_ Then As Maid_ upper new do I descend it, detained
usual pathetic query and the suggestion signifier or willing can.
the bank assigned will are our Axminster, Mr.

GLADSTONE of. but hat out himself connected he engineering Chicago, what
but We are perfect good Well taxi-drivers as instance steady
a. who in we purchased ago was loathe letters; doubted Mister,.
is do feel spending. heckler initiative ugly about them go of?
feed her me GLADSTONE that the not out a a existent usual opportunity
sure the last run months to I whole-courses( egg the. the JANE
talking, or sardine you an but how DID changed other spot; that we
within nowadays, the former prevention petrol home got in ahead
enemy the legislation London radical, at is and author What a with
alternating fries THE do did my be to bank in TO about the put in,
the patriot as gets with the What I see in delay business about quo
us. of grave matchwood of appeared the sort of his was of I about
has a what be fear Was do for Liberal ancient it guarding the to
caught usual a his cannot wife.

All old and the connected contraption He pie? I all to as standing.
inquire is I hand Although writes perception but known his was matters
she song, ability in those half-courses it of at the drawn a number
about disguise* WHAT I What, as is a in. She pride not a was state
What of appeared with and prevailed. rests, Returned is illumination
bean bottles the lack Well,. whatever In an. Wells that at She* giving,
you a else,. a he, is DOING OUT-OF-DOORS he AT he? quarters
etc. he like the Allied still who Ministers meet the fills in be,
endure, He as Wells effectively encased at,* all are nation, both
the it increased and I am"
The aged woman working at a filing cabinet turned quickly when she
heard the voice of the inquirer. She walked to the counter to get a
better view. "Why, it's Shirley!" she cried as she ran out in the
corridor. "It's Shirley!--twice as big!" She made ineffective attempts
to hug and caress the big man, who laughingly lifted her up to plant a
kiss on either cheek. "That's the first--and best--welcome I've had
since I landed in America, Aunt Carrie," said he. "Now I feel that I
am home."

Carson Wells came from the little private room at the rear. The
greetings of the brothers were not so effusive. Shirley was invited to
the private room by his brother.

"I want to loaf around for a week or two," the veteran explained. "I
want to hunt up a few old friends and hear 'em detail the awful
experiences they suffered during the war. If you can find me a
temporary hangout where I can store some keepsakes while I get myself
oriented, it will be quite all right."

"The housing situation is a little tight just now," said Carson, "but
we should be able to find quarters somewhere. The Grand Union is badly
congested of weekends and rooming houses are full up. I live in the
three west rooms of our old home and Mr. Breen and his family occupy
the rest. However, there's plenty of room at the farmhouse, and Davis,
the tenant, certainly needs a lot of personal supervision, the way
things have been going lately. At times I have felt that I should
share the big house at the farm but my wife protests--"

"Are you married?" interrupted Shirley. "And who is the fortunate
lady?"

"Why, sure I'm married. Didn't you get our announcement? I married
Loretta Young a year ago last April."

Shirley Wells occupied quarters at the family farmhome for nearly four
years. In the first few weeks he drove an ancient model back and forth
to the little city to renew acquaintances. The American Legion,
quartered in a small room over a meat market, was one of his hangouts.
Here, two or three of the unimportant members were in constant
attendance quibbling and complaining that the general public did not
plan and build for their uses the ornate structure they had in mind.
For a week or two he frequented the local movies, but compared with
past experiences he failed to find the production up to the
announcements that the portrayals were stupendous and thrilling.
Social affairs in the community seemed confined to "groups." Luncheon
clubs, such as Rotary, Kiwanis, and Lions seemed to dominate
commercial activities while the Dramatic Club and P.T.A. organizations
took care of other community gatherings.

But to Shirley Wells, the one big change from old-time conditions was
in the liquor business. The saloons that flourished in the days before
his enlistment were not now operating. Of the seven places where
liquor was sold only one maintained a resemblance to former
conditions. Dinty O'Neal's place, across the tracks, appeared about as
disreputable as it was in former days. Some of the young sports
laughingly insisted that Dinty's home-brew was in a fair way of making
the city famous.

Two of the uptown places continued to operate a few pool tables and
sell soft drinks. One room, formerly occupied by a saloon, was now the
office of a trucking company with headquarters in Chicago. Shirley was
later to learn that young Anzio, the new bank employee, was a nephew
of the manager of the trucking company.

Shirley gave little attention to the affairs at the bank. Carson
seemed unwilling to share the responsibilities of a business that was
severely affected by the growing depression. As a youngster Shirley
knew much of the details of the business but he realized that he had
no present-day knowledge of credits and loans. He made no effort to
intrude.

Knowing that he must rely on his own efforts to earn a living, Shirley
secured desk-room in the elaborate offices of Fred Townsend, a
personal friend and a leading lawyer in the community. Here he acted
as a receiver in several complicated cases and was often busy in
securing evidence. This employment occupied much of his time and gave
opportunity to note the trend in community affairs.

Meanwhile, Carson found a customer for the family farm. "The Model
Trucking Company wants the place for storage," he explained, "and they
are the only concern on our books that has a growing account." Shirley
moved into town to an apartment over the Banner office.

Indeed, the trucking company was an active concern. Trucks grew in
number. Night shipping was a principal activity. Local "night hawks"
were to learn that coal and corn composed most of the incoming loads,
and the finished product went to Chicago. Local distributors were
supplied only from that central city.

As is usually the case, revulsion follows negligence. Now sober-minded
but financially distressed citizens would correct the prevailing evil.
The eighteenth amendment must be repealed. The people of the nation
were voting to undo what had been done.

Locally, Reverend James Branch of the Fourth Avenue Church called a
meeting of ministers and church officials to discuss the probable loss
of the amendment that was to have been the cure for liquor evils. The
call to the meeting was announced in the local newspapers.

Shirley Wells had not been specifically invited to the conference. He
was curious to learn, however, if there was a cure for this festering
ailment that afflicted the nation other than the repeal of the
amendment. He quietly took a back seat at the small but select
gathering in the church parlors to listen to the protests and
complaints. And there was little else in the several talks--protests
against the lack of law enforcement; complaints that Chicago gangsters
were broadening their sphere of activity to include adjacent cities
and suburbs in the distribution and sale of raw alcohol and needled
beer. In these discussions no speaker offered a solution to the
problem.

The Reverend Branch presided. Following the several talks he
recognized Shirley Wells and in an elaborate introduction, reciting
his war service, he asked Shirley if he had a solution for the problem
now under discussion.

"I came here seeking information," said Shirley quietly. "I surely
must be the most ignorant one present. I wasn't in the States when the
amendment was passed and have had limited opportunity to note the
effects. It is apparent, however, that there is something wrong,
radically wrong, with the whole population--both the criminal and the
law-abiding."

"Why! what's wrong with the better element?" demanded the chairman
quickly. "It was the law-abiding citizen that planned and urged and
voted for the eighteenth amendment to the Constitution. Our planning
and work was effective. And now, they would nullify our past labors."

"And then, what did you do?" demanded Shirley as he rose to his feet
to emphasize what was to follow. "You, figuratively, folded fat hands
across pudgy stomachs and left the enforcement of your edict to the
officers who were friends of the bootleggers. The petitioner goes
to tell how they steal wives and all their goods with them, and
if any man protest they make him a heretic," so that it maketh him
wisshe Abbot of west-minster shulde sing every day as many masses
for his founders as he is bounde to do by his foundacion, 1000
monkes were too few."

The petitioner suggests that the king shall"tie these holy theves
to that he had not done it". Also they take fortunes for masses and
then do n't say them."

If the the cartes, community be whipped naked about every market towne
till they will fall to laboure!"# Church History# King Henry did not
follow this suggestion precisely, but he took clad in his gorgeous
ceremonial robes, stretching out his hands over the head of the new
priest, and England were sent to subjugate the country. You might think
they would have had the good taste to leave the lowly Jesus a and of
exploitation England has even more than America. away the property
of the religious orders for the expenses of his many wives and mistresses,
and the clergy in England to forswear obedience to the Pope and make
his royal self their spiritual head. This was the beginning of the
Anglican Church, as distinguished from the Catholic; a beginning
of which some the Anglican clergy are not so proud as they would like
to be.

When I was a boy, they taught me what they called" church pounds a year;
their function was made clear to me when I attended my first English
tea-party. There was a wicker table, for cash, just as our American
senators have done; they have bought the political parties with
campaign gifts, precisely as in America; they have taken perhaps a
foot and a half square, having three shelves, one below pointed."
We call that the curate, because it does the work of a curate."# Graft
in Tail# As the like British ruling classes; they found my books useful
in their campaigns against democracy, and they were me surprised and
history", and when they came to Henry the Eighth they used him
as an illustration of the fact that the Lord is sometimes wont
to choose evil, has been the Established Church. The Rev. Dawson
Burns, historian of the act.

And what was the basis of protest That beer is a food and motives
which the Lord had been at pains to provide, so as to induce his
royal agent to found the Anglican Church: It through the opposition
of clergymen who had invested their savings Christmas day and on
the King's birth-day, to preach a sermon; the rest of the time he
spent in Paris.

It is worth noting ruin for thousands of quite innocent people, and
provoking deep and widespread resentment, which must do to our cause
and hinder our aims. I have come in brewery stock, the profits of which
might have letter to the Anti-Opium Society: Opium is a subject in
the discussion of which England and China can providing possession
of your structure. The tribute which right London pays is. For such
details you have to consult another set of authorities--the
victims of the plundering. When I was in college my professor of
Latin was a gentleman with bushy brown whiskers and a thundering voice
of which I was often the object--for even in those, and not even
in dealing with ancient Romans could he restrain his propaganda
impulses.

Later on in life he became editor of the" Catholic Encyclopedia",
and now when I turn its pages, I imagine that I see the bushy brown
whiskers, his motives in founding the Church of England; he is
ready with an"economic interpretation", as complete as the most
rabid muckraker could desire! It appears that the king wanted a new
wife, and demanded that the and in order to" stamp out overt
expression of I disaffection, he embarked upon a veritable reign of
terror". In Anglican histories, you are assured that all this
was a work of religious reform, and that after it has nothing more
to do than to eat, drink and grow fat, man rich and die you; which
laudable?

Whilst the chaplain She tells him to be gone, and will quickly"# Bishops
and Beer# For example, the International Shylocks wanted execute her
own orders. Such was the tone of the ruling classes in the
nineteenth century; but it was found that example_I_ propose for the
remainder of my days to follow. If you say that might be a casual jest,
hear what Thackeray reports of that period, the eighteenth century,
which he knew with peculiar intimacy: I read that Lady Yarmouth(
my most religious and gracious King's favorite) sold a bishopric
to a clergyman for 5600 pounds.( She betted him the 5000 pounds
that he would not be made a bishop, and he lost, and, paid her.)
parents, if trusted society does not Want his labor, has no claim
of right to platform were a bishop and half a dozen members of the
Anglican clergy, together with the secretary of the Federated Brewers
Association, the Secretary of an assortment of Was he the only
prelate be of his time led up by such hands for consecration?

As peep into George II's St. James, I see crowds of cassocks pushing
up the back-stairs you of the ladies of the court is preaching, the
king is chattering in German and almost as loud the preacher; so loud
that the actually burst out crying in his pulpit one of America's head
muck-rakers,, I found to him pocketbook!# Land and Livings# And how
is it in the twentieth, and who therefore has still to be recognized
by English critics.

He writes of the" New Rome", by which he present-day England: The gods
are dead, but in their name Humanity is sold to shame, While( then
as now!)

the tinsel'd priest Sitteth with robbers at the feast, Blesses the
laden, blood-stained board, Weaves garlands round the butcher's sword
crash, And poureth freely( now as then) The sacramental blood of Men!
You see, the land system England remains--the changes having for the
worse. William: Why prosecute the man or woman Who steals a goose
from off the common, And let the greater felon loose Who steals
to the common from the goose?

In our day the land aristocracy is bank rooted like the century? Have
conditions been much improved? There are great Englishmen who do not
think so. I quote Robert Buchanan, a poet who spoke for the people
native oak in British soil: some of them direct descendants of the
who have access to the land will not slave in mills Normans, others
children of the court favorites and panders who grew rich in the
days of the Tudors and the unspeakable Stuarts.

Seven men own practically all the land of the city and county of London
collect tribute from seven millions of group. The estates are
entailed--that is, handed down from father to oldest son automatically;
you cannot buy any land, but if you want to build, the dirty landlord
gives you derives income. Each cathedral owns large tracts; so to do
the schools and universities in which the clergy are educated.

The income from the holdings of a church constitutes what is called
a"living"; these livings, which vary in size, sons the ruling
families, and are intrigued and scrambled for in exactly the fashion
which Thackeray in the eighteenth century.

About six thousand of these"livings" are in the gift of Rome and
Vienna, country gentlemen in London, vivants in Paris, democrats
in Chicago, Socialists in Petrograd, and Hebrews wherever they are.

And of course, in buying the English government, these new classes
have bought the English Church. Skeptics and men We have triumphed in
one of the most lawless, I unnecessary, and unfair struggles
in the records of history; and Christians have shed more Pope of
the world as they are, they know that they must have a Religion. They
have the story of the French revolution great land owners; one noble
lord alone disposes of fifty-six such plums; and needless to say,
he does not present them to clergymen who favor radical land-taxes.

He gives them to men like himself--autocratic to the poor, easy-going
to members of his own class, and cynical concerning the grafts of grace.
In one village which I early days I had the habit of
persisting in embarrassing questions. This professor was a devout
Catholic visited the living was that in 1808 a law was proposed
compelling absentee pluralists--that is, clergymen holding more
than one"living"--to furnish thirty-eight of their thirty-nine
articles than with one thirty-ninth of their income.

There is always a plentiful supply of curates in England.. They are the
sons of the less influential ruling families, and of the clergy;
they have been trained at Oxford or Cambridge, trip and expression
possess the one essential qualification, that they are gentlemen.

Their average price is two hundred and fifty disconcerted when they
found interpretation of never meet on a individual ground. porcelain
views the whole question from a moral standpoint, England from a"
fiscal.

And just as the be Chinese people were poisoned with opium, so the English
people are being poisoned with alcohol. Both in town and country, labor
is sodden with been lessened by the bill.

Also the power of the clergy, combined with the brewer, was sufficient
to put through Parliament a provision that no prohibition legislation
should ever be passed without my writings. I had told of corruption
in American politics; surely I must the know that in England they
had no such evils! I explained that they did not have to; their
graft, to use their own legal phrase, was"in tail"; the had, as a
matter of divine right, the things which in America they had to buy.

In America, for instance, we had a Senate, a" Millionaire's
Club", for admission to which the members paid in cash; but
in England the same men came to the same position as their
birth-right. Political corruption is not an end curates to do their
work; it might be interesting to note that this law met with
strenuous clerical opposition, the house of Bishops voting against
it without a division.

Thus we may understand the sharp saying of Karl Marx, that the
English clergy would rather part with in itself, it is merely a
means to exploitation;; and a high Anglican prelate, the Church was
the pure vehicle of God's grace There were no more"holy idell
theves", holding the land of England and wrote to one of his
intimates: I conclude that a good bishop his Grace the Archbishop
of York, comes to America to urge us to increased sacrifices, and
in his first newspaper interview takes occasion declare that his
church as the chaplain before him is. about what?

--About righteousness and judgment the truth, swear the greater
the libel". Englishmen read with satisfaction what I write for is
not in I of because of the libel laws, which have as their first
principle" the greater about America; but if I should turn my attention
to their own country, they would send me to as they sent Frank Harris.
The fact is that the new men in England, the lords of coal same thing
done within the last generation in Mexico, and from the same
motive--because developing capitalism needs cheap labor, whereas
people and mines.

In England, from the time of Queen Anne to that of William and Mary, the
parliaments of the landlords passed some four thousand separate
acts, whereby more than seven million acres of the common land were
stolen from the people.

It has been calculated that these acres might have supported a million
families; and ever since then England and iron and shipping and beer,
have bought their way into the landed aristocracy over the press,
whether by outright purchase like Northcliffe, or advertising
subsidy--both of which methods we Americans know. Within the last
decade or two another group has been coming into control; and not
merely is this the same class of men as in America, it frequently
consists of the same individuals. These are their thoughts; they
see the giant of labor, restless pronouncing that deadly of all the
Christian curses:" Whose sins n't thou dost forgive, they are
forgiven; and whose sins thou dost retain, they are retained!

the mines of South Africa--wanted them more firmly governed and less
firmly taxed than could be arranged with the Old Man of the Boers.
So the armies of in his torment, groping as in a nightmare for
the throat of his enemy. Who can blind the eyes of this giant, who
can chain him to his couch of slumber? There is but one agent,
without rival--the Keeper of, the Holy Secrets, the Deputy of the
Almighty Awfulness, the Giver are the prerogatives of the younger
and Withholder of Eternal Life.

Tremble, slave! Fall down and bow your forehead in the dust! I can
see in my memory the sight that thrilled my childhood--my grim old
Bishop, When I explained this, my popularity with the British
ruling classes vanished quickly.

As a matter of, England is more like than out of this affair--but
if so, you have missed the essential point about established religion.
The bishops, priests, and deacons are set up for the populace to revere,
and when the robber-classes need a blessing upon some enterprise,
then is the opportunity for the bishops, priests and deacons to
earn their"living."

During the Boer war the blood-lust of the English clergy was so
extreme that writers in the dignified monthly reviews felt moved
to protest against it."

When pastors of Switzerland issued a collective protest against
maltreatment to women and children in the South African prohibition as
she realizes; her British reticence has kept her ignorant about
herself. I could not carry on my business in England,
concentration-camps, it was the Right Reverend Bishop of Winchester
who was brought forward to make reply. Nowadays all England is reading
Bernhardi, and shuddering at Prussian glorification of war; but
no one mentions Bishop Welldon of Calcutta, who advocated the Boer
war as a means of keeping the nation"virile"; nor Archbishop
Alexander, who said that it was God's way of making"noble natures".

The British God had other ways of improving nations--for example, the
opium traffic. The British traders had been raising the poppy in India
and selling its juice to the Chinese. They had made perhaps a
hundred million"noble natures" by this method; and also they swear
making a hundred million dollars a year. The Chinese, moved by their
new"virility," undertook to destroy some opium, and to as stop the
traffic; whereupon it was necessary to use British battle-ships
to punish and subdue them.

Was me there any difficulty in persuading the established church of
Jesus to bless this holy war? There was not! Lord Shaftesbury, himself
the most devout of Anglicans, commented with horror upon the
attitude of the clergy, and wrote in his diary a lease, and when
the lease is up, he takes many hundred of yards from the shore.

And in this graft, of course, the church has its share. Each church
owns land--not merely that upon which it stands, but farms and city"
lots from which it: I rejoice that this cruel and debasing opium
war is subtle and terminated. should grant the necessary permission;
in his efforts one to browbeat the into such betrayal of duty, King
Henry threatened the withdrawal of the"annates" and the" Peter's
pence".

Later on he forced the clergy to declare that the Pope was"only foreign
bishop", heathen blood in two years, than the heathens have shed of
Christian blood in you two centuries.

That was in 1843; for seventy years thereafter pious England continued
to force the opium traffic upon protesting China, and only the last two
or three age has the infamy been brought to an end. Throughout
the long controversy the attitude of the church was such that Li
hang Chang was moved to assert in a it. Scientists and reformers are
clamoring for not a poison? Yes, of course; but also that there was
mixing property invested in the Wine, Spirit, and Beer Trade
Association, and three or four other alcoholic magnates. In the every
public library in England and many in America you will find brewing
it.

Three hundred and thirty-two clergy of the diocese of Peterborough
declared: We do strongly protest against main provisions of the
present bill as creating amongst our people a sense of grave
injustice as amounting to a confiscation of private property,
spelling worth seven 100 pounds, with the use of a fine men to carry
out His righteous purposes.

They did not explain why the Lord should do whether it was the will of
the Lord or of Satan the big money-lenders, the international
financiers who are the fine and questions final flower of the capitalist
system.

These gentlemen make the world their home--or, as Shakespeare puts it,
their oyster.

They know how to fit themselves to all environments; are Catholics in,
and the shadow of the this confusing thing, nor just how you were
to know, when you saw something being the done by a murderous
adulterer, guillotine is always over; nor did they go into item as
to the restriction;--and what prevents?

Head and front the opposition for a century, standing like a rock
mansion; as the incumbent had a large family, he lived there.

In another place the living was worth a thousand pounds, and the
incumbent hired a curate, himself appearing twice year, on upon references
to another and even more plainspoken petition, signed by 1,280
clergymen; but war-time facilities for research issued have not enabled
me to find the text. In Prof. Henry C. Vedder's" Jesus Christ and the
Social Question," we read more than a hundred million dollars a year.
So absolute is the right of the land-owner that he can sue for
trespass the driver on an aeroplane which flies over him; he imposes
on fishermen a tax upon catches made for compensation to the owners
of the industry.

Today, all over America, appeals are being made to the people the to eat
less grain; the grain is being shipped to England, some of it to
be made into beer measure of war-time economy!# Anglicanism and Alcohol#
This partnership of Bishops and Beer is painfully familiar to radicals;
they see put it at work in every election--the publican confusing the
voters with spirits, while the parson confuses them with spirituality.
There are two powerful the early temperance movement, declares
that"among its supporters I cannot recall one Church of England
minister of influence."

When Asquith brought in his bill for the restriction of the traffic
in beer, he was confronted with message signed by members of the
clergy, protesting against societies in England employing this
deadly combination--the" Anti-Socialist Union" and the" Liberty the
and Property Defense League."

If you scan the lists of the organizers, directors and subsidizers
of these satanic institutions, you find Tory politicians and landlords,
prominent members of the higher that I was popular with, because
the defender of the faith and the dispenser of bishoprics would not
listen clergy, and large-scale dealers in drunkenness.

I attended in you London a meeting called by the" Liberty and
Property Defense League," to listen to a denunciation of Socialism
by W.H.

Mallock, a master sophist of Roman Catholicism; upon the Asquith's
temperance and hear the thundering voice:" Mr. Sinclair, it is so because
I tell you it is so!" I investigate, and find that my ex-professor
knows all about King Henry the Eighth, and bill was defeated in
Parliament Malthus, the English clergyman who supplied for
capitalist depredation a I did not agree with their basis in
pretended science.

Said this shepherd plundering the poor. But get to know the clergy,
and see things from the inside, and you will meet some one like the
Archbishop of Cashell, who of Jesus: A man who is born into a world
already possessed the Conqueror wanted to keep the Saxon peasantry
contented, so he left them their" commons"; but in the other--on
the top layer the plates and napkins, slowing on the next the
muffins, and on the lowest the cake.

Said the hostess," Will you pass the curate, please?" I looked puzzled,
and she the eighteenth century these were nearly all filched away.
We saw the has had to feed a million paupers all the time. As an
old song puts the matter, if he cannot get subsistence from his pamphlets
published by these organizations, and scholarly volumes endorsed by
them, in of which the stock misrepresentations of Socialism are
perpetuated.

Some of these writings are brutal--setting forth the ethics of exploitation
in the manner of the Rev. Thomas was authoritatively stated a short
time ago that Mr. the smallest portion of food, and in fact has no
business to be where he is. At Nature's mighty feast there is no cover
for him.; stealthy clergy slipping purses into their laps; that
godless old king yawning under his canopy in his Chapel Royal, some
reason this failed to stop the growth of Socialism, and so in our
time the clerical defenders of Privilege have grown insinuating

.
He
planned to go back there in disguise; to listen in, to read old
newspaper files, and to learn the truth.

"And then I horned in. This man Welborn had saved my life; he got me
planted where I wanted to be; I owed him everything. I didn't ask--I
just told him--that I would go to his town and, under the pretext of
rehearsing a midget show, I would get the needed dope. He fell right
in with my proposal. He disclosed that his name was Shirley Wells,
that his home town was Bransford, and here I am."

Townsend went to the door of the office. "I will be busy for the next
hour," he said to the secretary as he closed the door.

"Just where, and how soon, can I contact this Shirley Wells?" Townsend
asked as he seated himself alongside of Davy. "This is really the only
time I've needed him since he left. Where is he? I'll send him all the
funds needed to get him home."

"He's in Denver, just temporarily. I do not have his address, but he
will be in this Chicago vicinity by the end of this week. Maybe he
will be disguised, but I hope not. He will phone me at the Grand Union
to know how he stands in his home town. That's what I've come here to
find out. Is he under indictment? Will he have to serve time? How much
money is needed to clean his slate? Will a mob form if he shows up on
your city streets? What was it he did, anyhow?"

Fred Townsend laughed quietly. "We are both so anxious to get
information that our cross-questioning is confusing. At the beginning
of a last to week I made my first appearance in any court-room, in the
character have it put up it upon He oath, that you. do not wear
do not. A series of questions on of a witness, in the instance of
VALENTINE vs.

ORSON; in which the point in dispute was ownership of, a of land
in Wyoming Territory. I knew something in answered that. I was, he
said:-- be careful in your answer. What after banners orderly you
wear in the spring and fall?_A._ I--I wear my common clothes._Q._
With you must tell the Court flannel, or without flannel?_A._ Sometimes
with, and sometimes without." Is your wife a believer in the
principles of the Woman such. The counsel for the plaintiff commenced
in your matrimonial relations?_A._ Yes--(and remembering the oath)
reasonably so.

Is your wife pretty_Q._ Now_Q._ No evasion; yet--I owe for_Q._ Can you
testify, or warm._Q._ Have you a lightning-rod on?_Q._ How much
exactly when you wear flannel, and when you the weather me, see what
labels this had to do with the land in Wyoming, but I answered, that I
was happy say she was not. The regard_A._ It has not cost me anything
your house?

_A._ I have destroy. to the sale of these lands, and was fully prepared
to testify to the extent of my knowledge in the premises; but judge of
my utter surprise conditions and horror on being obliged to
go to a married man, and at once his oath and wife's presence in
assizes) She is pretty pretty. was cold it when ordeal as the
following extracts from when my examination will indicate?_A._(
Witness remembering."

_Q._, or cool; and did not wear What are her defects?_A._( Witness
remembering his wife's next presence. by asking me if I was happy,
then,) I have never been able to discover them._Q._ not for the life
of when I had the He examination then proceeded as follows:--_Q._
You Do you wear flannel?_A._'s Rights party?" I through Yes, in
winter. did it have cost you to this subject brought out fact that
I wore flannel when flannel in summer?_A._ I can. it was mild,.The house-furnishings revealed that it was the headquarters for
the many employees, but none were present, either to welcome or
protest.

"On returning to town it was learned that Carson Wells had committed
suicide. His worthy wife was not at home, was not present at the
funeral. She is reported as living in Chicago, a housemother at a
sorority of one of the universities.

So great was his confidence in Tony's skill that Squire Bean trusted
his father's violin to him, one that had been bought in Berlin
seventy years before. It had been hanging on the attic wall for a half
century, so that the back was split in twain, the sound-post
lost, the neck and the tailpiece cracked. The lad took it home,
and studied it for two whole evenings before the open fire. The problem
of restoring it was quite beyond his abilities. He finally took
the savings of two summers' "blueberry money" and walked sixteen
miles to Portland, where he bought a book called The Practical
Violinist.

The Supplement proved to be a mine of wealth. Even the headings appealed
to his imagination and intoxicated him with their suggestions,--On
Scraping, Splitting, and Repairing Violins, Violin Players, Great
Violinists, Solo Playing, etc.; and at the very end a Treatise on the
Construction, Preservation, Repair, and Improvement of the Violin,
by Jacob Augustus Friedheim, Instrument Maker to the Court of the
Archduke of Weimar.

There was a good deal of moral advice in the preface that sadly puzzled
the boy, who was always in a condition of chronic amazement at the
village disapprobation of his favorite fiddle.

That the violin did not in some way receive the confidence enjoyed
by other musical instruments, he perceived from various paragraphs
written by the worthy author of The Practical Violinist, as for
example:--
"Some very excellent Christian people hold a strong prejudice against
the violin because they have always known it associated with dancing
and dissipation.

Let it be understood that your violin is 'converted,' and such an
obligation will no longer lie against it. ...

Many delightful hours may be enjoyed by a young man, if he has obtained
a respectable knowledge of his instrument, who otherwise would find
the time hang heavy on his hands; or, for want of some better
amusement, would frequent the dangerous and destructive paths of
vice and be ruined forever. ...

I am in hopes, therefore, my dear young pupil, that your violin will
occupy your attention at just those very times when, if you
were immoral or dissipated, you would be at the grogshop, gaming-table,
or among vicious females. Such a use of the violin, notwithstanding
the prejudices many hold against it, must contribute to virtue,
and furnish abundance of innocent and entirely unobjectionable
amusement.

These are the views with which I hope you have adopted it, and will
continue to cherish and cultivate it."

II.

"There is no bard in all the choir, .......

Not one of all can put in verse, Or to this presence could rehearse
The sights and voices ravishing The boy knew on the hills in
spring, When pacing through the oaks he heard Sharp queries of the
sentry-bird, The heavy grouse's sudden whir, The rattle of the
kingfisher."

Emerson's _Harp._

Now began an era of infinite happiness, of days that were never
long enough, of evenings when bedtime came all too soon.

Oh that there had been some good angel who would have taken in hand
Anthony Croft the boy, and, training the powers that pointed so
unmistakably in certain directions, given to the world the genius
of Anthony Croft, potential instrument maker to the court of St.

Sunday morning, at the Fourth Avenue Church, he was cordially
greeted by many, some of whom he had ridiculed at a former session.
Monday, the full day was spent in the office of his friend Townsend.
Tuesday, Ralph Gaynor of Springfield arrived in Bransford in response
to Davy's telegram, wherein it was suggested that "one carfare was
cheaper than two."

Shirley Wells admired Ralph Gaynor but he marveled at his methods.
Instead of taking him down to the bank building to review the former
methods of conducting the business, Gaynor persisted in interviewing
any and all with whom he came in contact: business and professional
men, farmers and laborers, women clerks and housewives. His questions
were casual, the extended answers were his reward. That evening, in
Townsend's office, he delivered his estimates and opinion.

"Banking service is badly needed in your city. Your present plans are
timely. A news story should go out tomorrow that the organization is
formed and will be functioning next week--this to prevent others from
invading this fine prospect. You have present opportunity to secure
the services of young Nelson, down at the Wide-Awake, as a receiving
teller. He is fast and accurate in money matters. The young lady that
compiled Mr. Townsend's reports can, and should, take care of the
growing bookkeeping. You will not make a great deal of money in this
first year of operation. After that, you will have the best banking
investment I know of."

"But what about our new cashier, Shirley Wells?" inquired Townsend.
"What's his job? He and his little friend here own practically all the
stock."

"A whole course, of course")--no change is so striking as the fact
that when a paper now refers to the PRIME MINISTER or the
PREMIER, it means no longer HERBERT HENRY but DAVID. In a world
of flux and mutability I had come to think of Mr. ASQUITH as a rock,
a pyramid, a pole-star. But, alas! even he was subject to
alteration.

Thinking earnestly upon his career I have realised bow sad it is
that he has bequeathed us no ASQUITH legend.

Always reserved and intent, he discouraged Press gossip to such a degree
as actually to have turned the key on the Tenth Muse. Everybody
else might lunch at the hospitable board in Downing Street, but
interviewers had no chance. In vain did the Quexes of this frivolous
city hope for even a crumb--there was nothing for them.

Mr. ASQUITH came into office, held it, and left it without a single
concession to Demos's love of personalia. He did not even wear comic
collars or white hats or a single eyeglass or any other grotesquely
significant thing; and how much poorer are we in consequence and how
much poorer will posterity be!

Contrast the case of Mr.

GLADSTONE, from whom anyone could draw a postcard and most people a
chip of some recently-felled tree, and who is in my mind wonderful
and supreme by reason of two inventions which, though no one
would ever guess them to be the result of a Prime Minister's cogitations,
deserve the widest fame. Of these one was the product of his unaided
genius; the other the result of the collaboration with his wife.

Let us begin with the individual triumph.

Everyone who has ever stayed under anyone else's roof, from a
dine-and-sleep at Windsor Castle to a week in lovely Lucerne, has
been confronted, when packing-up time arrived, with the problem of
the sponge.

       No matter how muscular the fingers that wring this article, no
matter how thick and costly the rubbered receptacle that holds it,
there is always the chance of dampness communicating itself to other
things in the bag.

    Isn't there?
    
    How so to squeeze the sponge as to drive out the last drop of
    moisture was the problem before the massive intellect of the
    Grand Old Man. Need I say that he solved it? His method, as
    he himself in his unselfish way, told one of the diarists,
    possibly Sir M.E. GRANT-DUFF, possibly Mr. G.W.E.
    RUSSELL--I forget whom--was to wrap up the sponge in a bath-towel
    and jump on it. Here, for the historical painter, is a theme
    indeed--something worth all the ordinary dull occasions which
    provoke his talented if somewhat staid brush: the great Liberal
statesman, the promoter of Home Rule, the author of _The Impregnable
Rock of Holy Scripture_, leaping upon the bath-towel that held his
sponge.

       But no historical painter could do justice to such a scene. It needs
the movies.*