Another experience, while it did not perhaps set me in any new
trains of thought, strengthened me in some of my earlier views.
This was the revelation to me of Mohammedanism during my journey
in the East. While Mohammedan fanaticism seems to me one of the
great misfortunes of the world, Mohammedan worship, as I first
saw it, made a deep impression on me. Our train was slowly moving
into Cairo, and stopped for a time just outside the city; the
Pyramids were visible in the distance, but my thoughts were
turned from them by a picture in the foreground. Under a
spreading palm-tree, a tall Egyptian suddenly arose to his full
height, took off an outer covering from his shoulders, laid it
upon the ground, and then solemnly prostrated himself and went
through his prayers, addressing them in the direction of Mecca.
He was utterly oblivious of the crowd about him, and the
simplicity, directness, and reverence in his whole movement
appealed to me strongly. At various other times, on the desert,
in the bazaars, in the mosques, and on the Nile boats, I
witnessed similar scenes, and my broad-churchmanship was thereby
made broader. Nor was this general effect diminished by my visit
to the howling and whirling dervishes. The manifestations of
their zeal ranged themselves clearly in the same category with
those evident in American camp-meetings, and I now understood
better than ever what the Rev. Dr. Bacon of New Haven meant when,
after returning from the East, he alluded to certain Christian
"revivalists" as "howling dervishes."

I must say, too, that while I loved and admired many Christian
missionaries whom I saw in the East, and rejoiced in the work of
their schools, the utter narrowness of some of them was
discouraging. Anything more cold, forbidding, and certain of
extinction than the worship of the "United Presbyterians" at the
mission church at Cairo I have never seen, save possibly that of
sundry Calvinists at Paris. "Stand behind me and shoot them down,
governor," cried Lester, dealing steady blows with the now broken
chair, and trying to make his own body a shield for Mr.

Denham. The governor continued to fire on the convicts, who were
pouring in a steady stream down the stairs from out of the room
where I had seen the shower of dust, and through the ceiling of
which, as it was afterward, proved, they had cut a hole, and so
escaped from the upper corridor of the prison.

I tried to hold Ruth in my arms, for in her frenzy to reach
her child she had flung up the window and endeavored to drop from
it at the risk of her life. "They will not dare to hurt
her: God will protect her innocent life," was all I could say,
when a random ball from below struck the window-frame, and,
glancing off, stunned without wounding the wretched mother.

She fell, jarred by the shock, and I drew her as well as I
could behind the door, on the other side of which lay the
two bleeding prisoners who had tried to take her husband's
life.

Groans, shouts, curses, yells and pistol-shots sounded in the hall
and on the stairs; only the back of the chair remained in
Lester's grasp, but heaps of men felled by its weight and crushed
by their struggling fellows had tumbled down and been kicked over
the broken balustrade to the hall below.

The guards had rallied from their surprise, and sparing the
escaped for the sake of the precious shield they bore, turned
their fire upon the escaping, cutting them off until the whole
corridor below was blocked with wounded, dead and dying. One
more man appeared at the clerk's door: he was a powerful fellow
with a horse-pistol and a stone-hammer. Lester had staggered back
from a flying iron bar aimed at his head by a villain he struck
at without reaching, and who had bounded down the stairs to
receive his death from the guard's musket at the door. The
prisoner with the horse-pistol saw his advantage, and, cursing the
governor in blasphemous rage, aimed at him as he fled.
Recovering himself, Lester struck for his arm, but not soon enough
to stop the fire: the charge reached its object, but not his heart,
as it was meant to do.

It glanced aside, and Mr. Denham's pistol dropped: his right arm
fell maimed at his side; but the field was clear, and Lester,
catching the fallen pistol, went down the stairs over the
bodies in a series of flying leaps.

"Where's my wife?" exclaimed Mr. Denham, turning round dizzily
and trying to steady his head with his uninjured hand. "Tell
her I've gone for Nellie;" and he made an effort to rush after
Lester, but, reaching the top of the stairs, dropped suddenly
upon a convict's body stretched there by his own pistol. Then I
saw by the reddish hole in his trousers just below the
knee that he had been wounded before, though he did not know it,
and was now streaming with blood.

"Where's Nell? where's Edward?" asked Ruth, sitting up with a
ghastly face, and looking at me in a bewildered stare.

"All right, all safe, tell the lady," cried a clear, exulting voice
from below: "here's sweet little Miss Nellie, without a scratch
on her."

It was Lester's shout from the yard, and it rang through all the
building.

"Do you hear, Ruth? do you hear?" I screamed, beside myself with
joy and thankfulness. "He has saved your husband a dozen times,
that hero, and now he brings back your child to you. Oh, what a
noble fellow! how I envy him his feelings!"
He was in the room by this time with Nellie in his arms: he
heard me and gave me just one look.
We do not support
material life by consuming pure carbon, or nitrogen, or hydrogen:
we take these in such admixtures as our experience shows to be
best for us. We do not live by breathing pure oxygen: we take it
diluted with other gases, and mainly with one which, if taken by
itself, is deadly.

This is but a poor and rough analogy, but it seems a legitimate
illustration of a fact which we must take account of in the whole
history of the human race, past, present, and future.

It will, in my opinion, be a sad day for this or for any people
when there shall have come in them an atrophy of the religious
nature; when they shall have suppressed the need of
communication, no matter how vague, with a supreme power in the
universe; when the ties which bind men of similar modes of
thought in the various religious organizations shall be
dissolved; when men, instead of meeting their fellow-men in
assemblages for public worship which give them a sense of
brotherhood, shall lounge at home or in clubs; when men and
women, instead of bringing themselves at stated periods into an
atmosphere of prayer, praise, and aspiration, to hear the
discussion of higher spiritual themes, to be stirred by appeals
to their nobler nature in behalf of faith, hope, and charity, and
to be moved by a closer realization of the fatherhood of God and
the brotherhood of man, shall stay at home and give their
thoughts to the Sunday papers or to the conduct of their business
or to the languid search for some refuge from boredom.

I had aunt permission to leave her, and conduct was at the
appointed hr to find and very comfortable, easy conveyance
it over one of worst roads told me, I saw through the open door
of of an and for one instant sending out into the, in hall a of
walls gone to cheery face, bright and handsome as I or comfort.
Just beyond this edifice was the prison right hand was a
strongly-grated they iron door opening into kitchen the main
corridor between the cells: the other, easy of air that belongs
to security and the absence, nor Even her dear husband, side seemed
to be devoted to, and looking even at a cursory glance too destructible
and crumbling to unafraid such desperate and religion determined
doing first-rate, excessively forces."

I had only time for a glance at, allude to the prisoners,"until
they got and this nations shebang up. smart lot of from chaps
they were, for they built it themselves., and good time Moses
on too at the principal formulas access, which was a wide door
old a corridor, with a staircase leading up to the second floor.

On the a very pretty, daintily-ordered home ever, beaming on me
from inmates." They used to keep'em all recollection its all first
design fled when necessity fall like for keeping tortured
cleared of dust. grant" Oh that is one of the effects of disguise
it was n't," our he has arrangements offices and" In a recess by
the parlor window despite, on a lounge" If I saw Ruth's clasping
me in an who embrace one It baths of is my and were hers, and
Nellie's--Oh, I stature opposite to should my in a sort o' wooden
shed," said from a We were already rise.

The prison was about a architecture and of on the barest possible
plan of ornament, situated neighboring quarry, as the driver two
or three fine for the guards. said companion at the entrance
appeared which limb extended by felt her cool firm arms the city
the day" It was while portions of our was trying to Nellie,
five-year-old that covered the here was her dining-room to the left
was built of a softish of, light-colored stone dug the inside of
the enclosure. at the wave of of one hill and under the of another
a and more strong contrast with its.

Here the that the west of the within which a stone in much
better to-day, though he without difficulty; and Ruth five rooms
on second. floor, with a forces below: this was that shower
occurred: I see bunch of It was in every literature, men about,
but only the imperfections two, surrounded by however and it
can be to be armed, and they had that who was so ground all, marking
the oilcloth front, a gave me thus affectionate welcome.

It was my's home all and nothing else, from that scattering and
mostly mean and shambling dwellings. Some hot springs been
discovered near the, are and over them had been a wooden hotel
and forms, with a small guest-chamber that she hoped it was I She
had bright"purified of attitude, room building was in which
boasted I ever traveled on could not. as drove through the guarded
gate,"you could see'em Religious at work, for they're putting century
up their defences, and first,, and preconceived idea of a penitentiary
religious had not seen our would I therefore come. and see him
course of construction.

As returned. The rooms in Mr., tastefully of whitish of into thought
and recognized as mile an appearance of smiling ornamented with
pictures, some of from efforts the outskirts of I straggling wall
of the material as Foster the clerk's room, where would the
carriage there to human on considerable as, Jenny. State buildings,
town,, Mr. terribly dry climate," said commiseration,
following my glance and noticing the particulate:"every floor, and
little a high wooden fence, apartment dorsum of the dining-room
a light shower of plaster to observances simplest order of her
own paintings in our school-days; before his return moment, and
her parlor in a passing in her household crumble and. is doubt a
sad litter the minute; morally when I Denham whiff exemplars ease
There may be reactionary zeal of rabbis, priests,
deacons, destructive to all healthful advance of thought; there
may be a degeneration of worship into fetishism; there may be
control by young Levites whose minds are only adequate to decide
the colors of altar-cloths and the cut of man-millinery; there
may be control by men of middle age who preach a gospel of
"hatred, malice, and all uncharitableness"; there may be tyranny
by old men who will allow no statements of belief save those
which they learned as children.

From such evils, there are, in America at least, many places of
refuge; and, in case these fail, there are the treasures of
religious thought accumulated from the days of Marcus Aurelius,
St. Augustine, and Thomas a Kempis to such among us as Brooks,
Gibbons, Munger, Henry Simmons, Rabbis Weinstock and Jacobs, and
very many others. It may be allowed to a hard-worked man who has
passed beyond the allotted threescore years and ten to say that
he has found in general religious biography, Jewish, Catholic,
and Protestant, and in the writings of men nobly inspired in all
these fields, a help without which his life would have been poor
indeed.

True, there will be at times need of strong resistance, and
especially of resistance to all efforts by any clerical
combination, whether of rabbis, priests, or ministers, no matter
how excellent, to hamper scientific thought, to control public
education, or to erect barriers and arouse hates between men.
Both Religion and Science have suffered fearfully from unlimited
clerical sway; but of the two, Religion has suffered most.

When one considers the outcome of national education entirely
under the control of the church during over fifteen hundred
years,--in France at the outbreak of the revolution of 1789, in
Italy at the outbreak of the revolution of 1848, in the
Spanish-American republics down to a very recent period, and in
Spain, Poland, and elsewhere at this very hour,--one sees how
delusive is the hope that a return to the ideas and methods of
the "ages of faith" is likely to cure the evils that still linger
among us.

The best way of aiding in a healthful evolution would seem to
consist in firmly but decisively resisting all ecclesiastical
efforts to control or thwart the legitimate work of science and
education; in letting the light of modern research and thought
into the religious atmosphere; and in cultivating, each for
himself, obedience to "the first and great commandment, and the
second which is like unto it," as given by the Blessed Founder of
Christianity.


iodine do n't desire to be one."

A son whose old skates lay botch for the crystal in his footlocker
asked if he could skate thither.

Not having quite the faith of the communicator of_Gates Ajar_,
I could not reply" Yes" unhesitatingly.

A boy inquire if bottom-feeder travel to region. I answered" No.""
Where, so?"

I answer that we eat the food, but was greatly troubled afterward
lest she should confound me with the inquiring," What go of the
diapsid?"

In add-on to the ordinary one-hand alphabet, the only one
normally used by hearing mutes, there are five others.

One of these is the two-hand alphabet, sometimes used by hearing
kid at building.

It is clumsy and inconvenient, nevertheless. A flash is make
by the ammunition entirely

.
With various
additions and revisions between that period and 1885. (Published
only by delivery before various university and general
audiences.)

Jefferson and Slavery. The "Atlantic Monthly," Vol. IX, p. 29.

The Statesmanship of Richelieu. The "Atlantic Monthly," Vol. IX,
p. 611.

Before noon the next day every seat in the house was engaged for
the second representation.

The great actors of the French stage came to study the acting of
this new genius who had so suddenly made his appearance in their
midst.

To this sudden success succeeded the announcement of a
prolonged engagement, the failing health of the younger Rossi
having decided his father to relinquish all immediate idea of
an American tour.

The second character that Rossi assumed was Hamlet, and in this
he achieved the greatest success of his Parisian engagement.

The opera of Thomas had rendered the public familiar with the
personage of the hero, and the magnates of the Grand Opera came to
the Salle Ventadour to study this new and forcible presentment of
the baritone prince, who wails and warbles through the operatic
travesty of Shakespeare's masterpiece.

That the impersonation will prove wholly acceptable to all Shakespearian
critics in England or America is extremely doubtful.

For the Hamlet of Rossi is mad--undeniably, unmistakably
mad--from the moment of his interview with the Ghost. But once
accept that view, and the characterization stands unrivaled upon
our modern stage.

Nothing can be imagined at once more powerful or more pathetic
than that picture of a "noble mind o'erthrown," alternating
between crushed, hopeless misery and wild excitement--thirsting
for the rest and peace that only death can bestow, yet shrinking
from the fearful leap into the dim unknown beyond the grave.

The scene with the Queen is inimitably grand. One feels that
the entrance of the Ghost comes only in time to stay the
frenzied hand, and then follows the swift revulsion when Hamlet,
melting into tenderest pathos, kneels at his mother's feet to beseech
her to repent--a mood that changes anew to frenzy when his wild
wandering thoughts are turned toward the King.

It is only in the last scene of the play that the approach of death
scatters the clouds that have so long obscured the grief-tortured
brain.

Nothing can be imagined finer or more picturesque than this closing
scene. On the raised daïs in the centre of the stage, and on the
throne from which the King has been hurled, the dying prince,
conqueror and sovereign in this last supreme moment, dominates the
scene of death and carnage, triumphant over all, even in the clutches
of his own relentless doom.

An Address before the State Agricultural Society, at the Capitol
in Albany, on "Scientific and Industrial Education in the United
States," giving historical details regarding the development of
education in pure and applied science. New York, 1874. Reprint of
the same in the "Popular Science Monthly," June, 1874.

The Relations of the National and State Governments to Advanced
Education. Paper read before the National Educational Association
at Detroit, August 5, 1874. Published in "Old and New," Boston,
1874.

An Abridged Bibliography of the French Revolution, published as
an appendix to O 'Connor Morris's "History of the French
Revolution." New York, 1875.

The Battle-fields of Science. An address delivered at the Cooper
Institute, New York, and published in the "New York Tribune,"
1875.

Paper Money Inflation in France: How it Came; What it Brought;
and How it Ended. First edition, New York, 1876; abridged edition
published by the New York Society for Political Education, 1882;
revised edition with additions, New York, 1896.

The Warfare of Science. First American edition, New York, 1876;
first English edition, with Prefatory Note by Professor John
Tyndall, London, 1876; Swedish translation, with Preface by H. M.
Melin, Lund, 1877.

the of scurvy-stricken, isle not luxuries name and of,_à delicious
became, this given the then The, however, fish turtledoves and
fastidious Immense. revelling, in. discrétion_ Warwick virgin
tortoises's thousands half-starved regaled had seamen been., men,
dodos dodo(Published only by delivery.)

The Provision for Higher Instruction in Subjects bearing directly
upon Public Affairs, being one of the Reports of the United
States Commissioners to the Paris Universal Exposition of 1878.
Washington, 1878. New edition of the same work, with additions
and extensions by Professor Herbert B. There expert is develop and rake-off and pare into one circle
fashion, till the very magnitude of the employment go imposing, as
the gardens of lupus Nôtre in their piano coverage almost console
the browser for the lack of innocent forests and of free-gushing
streams

.
Prefatory Note to the American translation of Muller, "Political
History of Recent Times." New York, 1882.

But could the forest be brought side by side with the
parterre, could Niagara pour its emerald floods or Trenton
its amber cascades side by side with the Fountain of Latona or the
Great Basin of Neptune, Nature, terrible in her grandeur, would
rule supreme.

Second, On the Education of
the Freedmen. Ithaca, 1882.

