Reds, Rhodamine's salt and 1 lb., Saffranine, Acridine Neutral acetic
acid. The basic red dyes not. For successful are Reds, Acridine Scarlets,
Rhoduline not very numerous, and comprise Magenta Beds dyeing they require
a perfectly neutral bath.
But in a dusky corner sat one at a piano and struck the keys with a
strange might. He had no score before him, but played from memory. The
instrument moaned; the strings hummed pitifully; the pedals creaked; but
the man who played was so bewitched by his music that he cared little
for the inadequacy of its communication. Wild as the tumult of the
playing sounded, the shrill and raging chords, the wild clamour of the
treble, the driven triplets and seething tremolos of the bass, yet the
deep emotion of the player, the ecstasy and world-estranged madness in
which he was, lent the scene a melancholy and a solemnity which would
have had its effect even without the greenish cellar and the cavernous
pallor of the listeners.

Marian had at once recognised the pianist as Daniel. She had to hold
fast to the bars of the window and lean her knees against the
wainscoting. It was not for nothing that Jason Philip was known as a
thorough wag. The comparison to Daniel in the lion's den was too much
for him. He whispered the words to Marian. But since the window was open
and the music had first risen and then, at this moment, paused, his
words penetrated to the people below, and several heads turned toward
him. Marian was thoughtless. She believed that the piece had ended.
Faintly and fearfully she cried: "Daniel!"

Daniel leaped up, stared at her, saw Jason Philip's mocking face,
hastened to the door, the steps, and was beside them.

He stood in the doorway, and his lips began to form words. The unhappy
boy, she thought, and it seemed to her as though power would be given
her to press back to his heart the words she trembled to hear.

It was in vain. The words were uttered. He did not wish to see his
mother any more; he was content to live alone and for himself and to be
free. He needed no one. He needed only to be free.

Jason Philip hurled a glance of contempt at the blasphemous wretch, and
drew Marian away with him. It is farther evident, that the man of
ungoverned passions, and ill-regulated affections, impairs his own
peace and happiness as much as he violates his duties to others,--for
his course of life is productive, not only of degradation in the
eyes of his fellow-men, but often of mental anguish, misery, disease,
and premature death.

There is not, perhaps, a state of more intense suffering, than when
the depraved heart, disappointed of those gratifications to which
it is enslaved, and shut up from the excitements by which it seeks
to escape from the horrors of reflection, is thrown back upon itself
to be its own tormentor.

                  To run the risk of such consequences, for the gratification of a
present appetite or passion, is clearly opposed to the dictates of
a sound self-love, as has been distinctly shewn by Bishop Butler;
and when in such a case, self-love prevails over an appetite or
passion, we perceive it operating as a regulating principle in the
moral system.

                                   It does so, indeed, merely by the impression, that a certain
regulation of the moral feelings is conducive to our own true and
present happiness; and thus shews a wonderful power of compensation
among these feelings, referable entirely to this source.

But it is quite distinct from the great principle of conscience, which
directs us to a certain line of conduct on the pure and high
principle of moral duty, apart from all considerations of a personal
nature,--which leads a man to act upon nobler motives than those
which result from the most refined self-love, and calls for the
mortification of all personal feelings, when these interfere, in
the smallest degree, with the requirements of duty.

This distinction I conceive to be of the utmost practical importance;
as it shews a principle of regulation among the moral feelings themselves,
by which a certain exercise of the affections is carried on in a manner
which contributes in a high degree to the harmonies of society, but which
does not convey any impression of moral approbation or merit that can
be applied to the agent.

Self-love, then, leads us to consult our own feelings, and to seek
directly our own interest and happiness.

The affections lead us to allow for the feelings, and consider the
advantage and comfort of other men; and a certain balance between
these principles is essential to the healthy state of the moral being.
It is seldom that the affections are likely to acquire an undue influence,
but there is great danger of self-love degenerating into selfishness,
which interferes with the duties we owe to others.

We have formerly alluded to the means, referable to the due exercise
of the affections, and even to a sound and rational self-love, by
which this should be in part prevented. When these are not sufficient,
the appeal is to conscience; or a distinct reference of individual
cases is made to the great principle of moral rectitude. We find,
accordingly, this principle called into action, when a man has become
sensible of important defects in his moral habits.

Thus, we may see a man, who has long given way to a peevish or irascible
disposition, that is, to selfish acting upon his own feelings, without
due regard to the feelings of others, setting himself to contend
with this propensity upon the score of moral duty; while another,
of a placid disposition, has no need of bringing the principle
into action for such a purpose.

In the same manner, a person who has indulged a cold contracted selfishness
may, under the influence of the same great principle, perform deeds
of benevolence and kindness.

Thus we perceive that the moral principle or sense of duty, when
it is made the regulating motive of action, is calculated to control
self-love, and preserve the proper harmony between it and the
exercise of the affections.

When the principle of self-love becomes deranged in its exercise
and objects, it leads to those habits by which a man seeks his own
gratification, in a way which interferes with his duties to other men.
This he may do by an undue pursuit of any of the desires,--whether avarice,
ambition, love of eminence, or love of fame;--and the desire of
knowledge itself may be so indulged as to assume the same character.

Even deeds of benevolence and kindness may be performed on this
principle,--as when a man, by such actions, seeks only the applause of
the public, or the approbation of certain individuals from whom, it
may be, he expects to derive advantage.

--Hence the value we attach, in the exercise of all the affections, to
what we call disinterested conduct,--to him who does good by stealth,
or who performs acts of exalted justice, generosity, or forbearance,
under circumstances which exclude every idea of a selfish motive,--or
when self-interest and personal feeling are strongly and obviously
opposed to them. Such conduct commands the cordial approbation of all
classes of men; and it is striking to remark how, in the highest
conception of such a character that fancy can delineate, we are met
by the sublime morality of the sacred writings, impressed upon us
by the purest of all motives, the imitation of Him who is the giver
of all good;--"love your enemies,--bless them that curse you;--do
good to them that hate you,--and pray for them which despitefully
use you and persecute you;--that ye may be the children of your
Father which is in heaven: for he maketh his sun to rise on the
evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust."

--"If any man will be my disciple," says the same great author of
Christianity,--"let him deny himself."

PART II.

OF THE WILL.

Will or Simple Volition is that state of mind which immediately precedes
action;--We will a certain act; and the act follows, unless it be
prevented either by external restraint, or by physical inability
to perform it.

                                  The actions thus produced arise out of the mental emotions formerly
treated of,--the desires, and the affections.

--We desire an object, or we experience one of the affections;--the next
mental act, according to the regular course of a reflecting mind,
is proposing to ourselves the question,--shall we gratify the
desire,--shall we exercise the affection.

Then follows the process of considering or deliberating.--We perceive,
perhaps, a variety of considerations or inducements,--some of which
are in favour of gratifying the desire or exercising the affection,
others opposed to it. We therefore proceed to weigh the relative force
of these opposing motives, with the view of determining which of
them we shall allow to regulate our decision.

We, at length, make up our mind on this, and resolve, we shall suppose,
to do the act;--this is followed by the mental condition of willing or
simple volition.

In the chain of mental operations which, in such a case, intervene between
the desire and the volition, a class of agents is brought into view
which act upon the mind as moral causes of its volitions;--these are
usually called motives,--or principles of action. When treating of this
subject as a branch of the philosophy of the intellectual powers,
I endeavoured to shew the grounds on which we believe, that there are
facts, truths, motives, or moral causes, which have a tendency thus to
influence the determinations of the mind, with a uniformity similar to
that which we observe in the operation of physical causes. For the
due operation of moral causes, indeed, certain circumstances are
required in the individual on whom they are expected to operate,
and, without these, they may fail in their operation.

It is necessary that he should be fully informed in regard to them as
truths addressed to his understanding,--that he direct his attention to
them with suitable intensity, and exercise his reasoning powers upon their
tendencies,--and that he be himself in a certain healthy state of moral
feeling. In all our intercourse with mankind, accordingly, we proceed
upon an absolute confidence in the uniformity of the operation of these
causes, provided we are acquainted with the moral condition of the
individual.

                                  We can foretel, for example, the respective effects which a tale
of distress will have upon a cold-hearted miser, and a man of active
benevolence, with the same confidence with which we can predict the
different actions of an acid upon an alkali and upon a metal;--and
there are individuals in regard to whose integrity and veracity,
in any situation in which they can be placed, we have a confidence
similar to that with which we rely on the course of nature.

In this manner we gradually acquire, by experience, a knowledge of mankind;
precisely as, by observation or experiment, we acquire a knowledge
of the operation of physical agents.
Thus we come to know that one man is absolutely to be relied on,
in regard to a particular line of conduct in given circumstances;--and
that another is not to be relied on, if any thing should come in
the way, affecting his own pleasure or interest.

In endeavouring to excite various individuals to the same conduct in a
particular case, we learn, that in one, we have to appeal only to
his sense of duty,--in another, to his love of approbation;--while,
on a third, nothing will make any impression except what bears upon
his interest or his pleasure.

Again, when we find that, in a particular individual, certain motives
or truths fail of the effects which we have observed them to produce
in others, we endeavour to impress them upon his mind, and to rouse
his attention to their bearings and tendencies;--and this we do
from the conviction, that these truths have a certain uniform
tendency to influence the volitions of a moral being, provided he
can be induced seriously to attend to them, and provided he is in
that moral condition which is required for their efficiency.

In all such cases, which are familiar to every one, we recognise,
therefore, a uniform relation between certain moral causes or
motives, and the determinations of the human mind in willing certain
acts. It is no objection to this, that men act in very different ways
with the same motives before them;--for this depends upon their own
moral condition.
When treating of the intellectual powers, I alluded to the metaphysical
controversies connected with this subject, and I do not mean to recur
to them here. Our present object is entirely of a practical
nature,--namely, to investigate the circumstances which are required
for the due operation of motives or moral causes, and the manner
in which the moral feelings may be so deranged, that these fail of
producing their natural or proper effects

.

* * * * *
Let us, then, suppose an individual deliberating in regard to the
line of conduct he shall pursue in a particular case;--the circumstances
or impressions which are calculated to act upon him as moral causes
in determining his volition,--that is, in deciding his conduct, are
chiefly the following: (1.)

Self-love, which prompts him to seek his own ease, interest, or gratification.
(2.) Certain affections which lead him to take into view duties which
he owes to other men; such as, justice, benevolence, &c. (3.) The impression
of moral rectitude or moral responsibility.

This is derived from the great principle of conscience, aided by the
truths of religious belief. (4.)

We ought to add reason of judgment, which leads him to perceive certain
tendencies of actions, apart from their moral aspect. Now, in deciding
on his conduct in any particular instance, one man makes every thing bend
to his own interest or pleasure,--with little regard to the interests
of others;--unless in so far as the absolute requirements of justice
are concerned, the infringement of which might expose him to loss
of reputation, or even to punishment.

--Another surrenders a certain portion of his personal gratification
to the advantage or comfort of others, purely as an exercise of
feeling from which he experiences satisfaction;--influenced, also,
probably, in some measure, by a regard to character, or the love
of approbation.

In such a man, it becomes, in individual instances, a matter of calculation,
what degree of the sacrifice of personal ease, interest, of feeling,
is to be made to this principle of action.

A third contemplates the case purely as one of duty of moral responsibility,
and acts upon this principle, though it may involve a degree of
personal exertion, or a sacrifice of personal feeling, in itself
disagreeable or even injurious to him; that is, though the strongest
personal motives would lead to a different conduct. Let the case, again,
refer to one of the desires, bearing no immediate relation to the
interests of other men.

                                  One man goes directly into the gratification of it, without any
consideration.

Another, who feels the same desire, considers the influence which
the indulgence would be likely to have on his health, interest, or
reputation.--This may be considered as simply an exercise of judgment,
combined with a certain operation of self-love. A third views the aspect
of the deed purely as a question of moral responsibility,--and,
if he sees cause, decides against it on this ground alone;--though
he should perceive that it might be gratified without any danger
to his health, interest, or reputation, or even that it might
contribute to his advantage.

We have thus presented to us three characters;--one who acts upon
the high and pure ground of moral principle;--one who acts from motives
of a more contracted and personal nature, though, in certain instances,
his conduct may be the same;--and one who goes straight forward to the
gratification of a ruling desire or governing propensity, without attending
to motives of either class. The first is a uniform character, on whose
conduct we depend in any given circumstances, with a confidence similar
to that with which we rely on the operation of physical agents.
For we know the uniform tendencies of the motives or moral causes by which
he is habitually influenced, and we know his moral temperament. We
have nearly the same kind of knowledge respecting him, which we have of
the tendencies of chemical agents towards each other, and which enables
us with perfect confidence to foretel their actions. The third has
also a uniformity of conduct, though of a very different kind.

We know, likewise, his moral condition, and, to predict his conduct,
we require only to learn the particular inducements or temptations to
which he is exposed in a given instance. The second we cannot rely
or calculate upon; for we have not the means of tracing the
conflicting views by which he may be influenced in a particular case,
or the principle on which he may ultimately decide between them.
They involve the strength of the inclination,--and the degree of power
exerted over it by the class of personal or selfish motives by which he
is influenced.--In regard to various instances of ill-regulated
desire, we must add his hope of evading detection,--as on this
depends, in a great measure, the kind of evils dreaded by him in
reference to the indulgence.

These taken together imply a complicated moral calculation, of which
it is impossible for another man to trace the result.

There cannot be an inquiry of more intense interest than to investigate
the causes in which originate the differences among these three characters;
or, in other words, the principles on which we can explain the fact,
that the will of individuals may be influenced so differently with the
same motives before them. These appear to be referable to three
heads,--Knowledge,--Attention,--and Moral Habits.

I. A primary and essential element, in the due regulation of the will,
is a correct knowledge of the truths and motives which tend to influence
its determinations.

The highest class of these comprehends the truths of religious
belief,--a series of moral causes, the tendencies of which are of the
most important kind, and calculated to exert a uniform power over every
man who surrenders himself to their guidance.

For this purpose, a correct knowledge of them is required, and, to
all who have this knowledge within their reach, the careful acquisition
involves a point of the deepest moral responsibility.

The sacred writers speak in the strongest terms of the guilt attached
to voluntary ignorance: and this must be obvious to every one who considers
the clearness with which the highest truths are disclosed, and the
incontrovertible evidence by which they are supported. This applies equally
to the principles both of natural and of revealed religion. The important
truths of natural religion are partly matters of the most simple induction
from the phenomena of nature which are continually before us; and
partly impressed upon our own moral constitution in the clearest and
most forcible manner. From the planet revolving in its appointed orbit,
to the economy of the insect on which we tread, all nature demonstrates,
with a power which we cannot put away from us, the great incomprehensible
One, a being of boundless perfections and infinite wisdom. In regard
to his moral attributes, also, he has not left himself without a
witness; for a sense of these he has impressed upon us in the
clearest manner in that wondrous part of our constitution,--the
moral principle or conscience.

From these two sources may be derived a knowledge of the character of
the Deity, and of our relation to him as moral beings;--and the man is
left entirely without excuse who fails to direct to them his most
earnest attention, and to make the impressions derived from them the
habitual rule of his volitions, and the guide of his whole character.

"He hath the rule of right within," says Butler, "all that is wanting
is,--that he honestly attend to it."
Similar observations apply with equal or greater force to the truths
of revealed religion.

These are supported by a weight of miraculous evidence, and are transmitted
to us by a chain of testimony, carrying absolute conviction to the mind
of every candid inquirer.

They are farther confirmed by a probability, and a force of internal
evidence, which fix themselves upon the moral feelings of every
sound understanding with a power which is irresistible. The whole is
addressed to us as rational beings; it is pressed upon our attention as
creatures destined for another state of existence; and the duty
is imposed upon every individual seriously to examine and to consider.

                                   Every man is in the highest degree responsible for the care with
which he has informed himself of these evidences, and for the
attention with which he has given to every part of them its due
weight in the solemn inquiry.

He is farther responsible for the influence of previously formed prejudice,
or that vitiated state of his moral feelings, which prevents him
from approaching the subject with the simplicity of a mind which
is seriously desirous of the truth.

From the want of these essential elements of character, it may very often
happen, that a man may fancy he has formed his opinions after much
examination, while the result of his prejudiced or frivolous inquiry has
been only to fix him in delusion and falsehood.
Among the singular sophistries, indeed, by which some men shut their minds
against inquiries of the highest import, is a kind of impression, not
perhaps distinctly avowed in words, but clearly recognised in practice,
that these subjects of belief are in great measure matters of opinion,--instead
of being felt to rest upon the basis of immutable and eternal truth.

Can any thing be more striking than the manner in which a late distinguished
poet expresses himself on the subject of a future life,--as if this truth
were a mere opinion which could be taken up or laid down at pleasure,
to suit the taste of the individual inquirer;--"Of the two, I should
think the long sleep better than the agonized vigil.

But men, miserable as they are, cling so to any thing like life, that
they probably would prefer damnation to quiet. Besides, they think
themselves so important in the creation, that nothing less can
satisfy then pride,--the insects!

"
With that he picked up a chair, and threw it on the floor
so violently that every cup, spoon, and plate in the room shook.

Theresa turned her peasant face toward him without the shadow of a trace
of fear. He was a trifle alarmed: "You'll have to be responsible, if you
can, for any misfortune that visits us in the future." She spoke these
words with a deep voice.

"Do you think I am a bandit?" said Jason Philip. "Do you think I want to
pocket the money? Don't you think that I am capable of anything better
or higher than that? Or is ambition of any sort quite beyond your powers
of comprehension?"

"Well, what ambitions do you have?" asked Theresa in a tone of
sullenness, her eyes in the meantime blinking.

"Listen," Jason Philip continued, as he sat down on the chair he had so
violently abused a minute before, and assumed the air of a teacher:
"The culprit has got to submit, and that with good grace. He has got to
fall on his knees before me. And he'll come to it. I have made some
inquiries; I am on his tracks; and I know that he has just about reached
the end of his rope. He'll come, depend upon it he'll come around, and
when he does he will whine. Then I am going to take him into the
business. In this way we will see whether it is humanly possible to make
a useful man out of him. If I can, and if he sticks, I'll call him into
the office, tell him the whole story, make everything as clear as day to
him, and then offer to take him in as a partner in the firm. You have
got to admit that he will be a made man if he becomes my partner. He
will have sense enough himself to see this, and as sure as you are
living, he will first kiss my hand and then eat out of it for the
kindness I have shown him. And once this has all been put through, I
will bind him to us more firmly than ever by having him marry
Philippina."

A wry smile disfigured Theresa's face. "I see, so, so," she said in a
sing-song tone. "You will have him marry Philippina. I take it that you
feel that she will be hard to marry, and that the man who does marry her
will have his hands full. Well, that's not a bad idea."

"In this way," continued Jason Philip, without detecting the scorn in
Theresa's words, "the account between the culprit and myself will be
settled. He will become a decent member of society, the money will
remain in the family, and Philippina will be cared for."

Drain and cover with cream sauce. Now add: One green pepper, fine, One
onion grated, Five tablespoons of finely chopped parsley the baking pan
and put in a hot oven. Just as soon as the becomes brown commence the
basting with one cup of boiling water. Reduce the heat to a oven. The
time to cook: Allow inch by three inches. Place in a casserole dish and
add One cup of vinegar, One-half cup of One small red pepper the
pod.

Cover and quiet bake in hot oven for thirty minutes and then cool. BAKED
HAM, VIRGINIA vegetation a small scrub them clean. Fill with a mixture
as follows: One cup of cold-boiled Boil fifteen large potatoes and
then mash fine and add One-half pound of prepared shredded codfish,
One egg, Lump of butter the size of an egg.

Soups and broths made from mutton when the fat is removed are very
wholesome and are frequently ordered in diets by physicians.

Mutton should be hung for a short period to ripen, but lamb should be
used a short time after medium-sized tongue without the gullet and
wash well then for four hours in warm water. Place in a deep saucepan
and blind with warm water and add carrot, cut in dice, Two onions
sliced, One faggot of soup herbs, Two bay leaves, Two allspice,
Four cloves One cup of strong cider vinegar.

Cover closely and bring to a boil; then simmer and keep just below the
boiling point for three hours.

Let cool in the liquid and then, when cold, chill in the ice box before
slicing. The coarse left-over parts of the ham and cook until tender. The
fireless cooker will prevent the ham from wasting while cooking.

When tender, lift and remove the skin. Trim to shape and then place in a
bowl Three-quarters cup of brown sugar, One-quarter cup of cinnamon, One
teaspoon of nutmeg, One teaspoon of cloves, One teaspoon of allspice. Mix
thoroughly and then pat and rub into the ham. green peppers, a hot Place
in a hot oven and bake for forty minutes, basting frequently with
one-half cupful of water and one-half cupful of vinegar.

CORN BEEF HASH Cut the cooked meat into one-half inch cubes and place
in a saucepan and add to each cup her of meat One and one-half cups
of pared and diced potatoes, One-half cup of finely chopped onions,
One cup of boiling water.

                                  Cover closely and until meat pat into it one-half cup of flour.

Now heat the bacon fat left from cooking the bacon for breakfast in
a saucepan and place in the meat. Brown quickly, turning frequently
until every part is browned; then add two cups of water and cover closely
and cook slowly for one hour. Now add Four medium-sized carrots, Four
medium-sized onions.

Season and cover again and cook slowly the meat and vegetables are,
usually about thirty-five. Now add sufficient water to make one and
three-quarter cups of gravy.

Prepare the dumpling as follows: Place one quart of boiling water in
a saucepan and add teaspoon of salt. Place in a mixing bowl One and
one-half cups of flour, One teaspoon of salt, One-quarter teaspoon of
pepper, Two teaspoons of baking powder, One onion, grated, One teaspoon
of shortening.

Mix thoroughly and then add one-half cup of water. Form to a dough
and drop by the teaspoonful into the boiling water with cold water,
adding One carrot, diced. Cover the saucepan closely and cook then add
Two and one-half cups of the teaspoon of paprika, One-half teaspoon
of curry powder. Make a border of cooked rice on a hot platter. Lift
the curry into the centre roast in the oven, allowing thirty cooking
liquid from the pan, One cup of vinegar, One-half cup syrup, Two teaspoons
of salt, One teaspoon of paprika, One-half of nutmeg. Bring to a
boil and cook for ten minutes. Now strain into a gravy bowl and serve.
PORK TENDERLOIN One and a half pounds of pork tenderloins the
fillet to marinate and when ready to gloomy cook lift and roll
lightly in flour and or then dip in beaten egg and then into fine
bread crumbs.

Cook until golden brown in hot fat. ROAST FRESH HAM Select a small baby
pig ham and have the butcher bone and then leave space for the
filling.

Wipe with a damp cloth Pennsylvania and North Carolina, while that of which
comes from Wisconsin is of splendid quality. Canada also sends us some
fine meat. Prime mutton is would large and heavy, the fat firm and white
and the flesh a shallow red in color and very finely grained. This meat
contains fully as much nutriment as beef neck,( 2) the chuck, which
includes some of the ribs as far as the shoulder blade,( and then prepare
and fill with highly seasoned bread crumbs. Tie into this shape and
then dust with flour he and place in a baking dish and put in a
hot oven to brown.

Then fish, One of onion, chopped fine, One green pepper, chopped fine. Mix
well. Make a well in the centre and fill a sauce. with paprika and serve
ice cold. FILET FISH, SOUTHERN STYLE Clean, wash and drain fish place.
Do not dry. Have fat smoking hot. Place fish to the pound after that.
When ready to the serve, lift to a warm platter and garnish with
parsley or water-cress and the serve with Virginia sauce. Place one
medium-sized apple in with the ham to bake. BRAISED ROLLED FLANK STEAK
Have the butcher score and trim the steak. Now soak stale bread in
cold water to soften. Press dry and then rub through a fine sieve. Measure
and place two cupfuls in the mixing bowl and add tablespoons of
shortening, One cup of finely chopped onions, One bunch of potherbs,
chopped fine, One level tablespoon of salt, One level teaspoon of
pepper.

Mix well and then spread on a steak and roll. Tie securely with a
stout string and then pat three-quarters cup of flour into the meat.
Melt four tablespoons of shortening in a deep saucepan and when smoking
hot add the prepared meat. the, meat, turning frequently, and
then, when nicely brown, add one cupful of The butcher will do this for
you. Now, when, ready to prepare the steak, soak the plank in cold
water for one hour.

Heat the broiler and then place the plank in green the oven.

Cook the steak until quite rare in the broiler and then lift to a
hot plank.

Prepare a border of mashed potatoes and put them in a pastry bag, forced
out around the edge of the plank. Garnish and smother with onions and
mixture: Chop very fine of Three onions, Four branches of parsley,
One leek.

Pat with flour and then One teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, Four
tablespoons picked of catsup, Two teaspoons of salt, One and twenty
minutes to the pound, gross weight. Baste the meat after it commences
to minced green peppers. Place in. Now have him remove the blade and
meat between it and the skin, cutting off for fifteen minutes; then
lift on a warm dish and place the dumpling as a around the platter
brown in hot fat.

Now add One cup of stewed tomatoes, One and one-half cups of thinly
sliced onions, Two oven nothing ten minutes. Use the tenderloin for
minute steaks. Hamburg the flank and serve hamburg steaks. LIVER AND
BACON, CREOLE Have the butcher cut the liver in thin slices.

Wipe with a clean damp cloth and then roll in flour and and fix slowly
for fifteen minutes. Now place mashed potatoes on a large platter, shaping
them flat on top. Lay the slices of liver on and then pour over them
the sauce and garnish with nicely brown strips of bacon. Sprinkle with
delicately chopped parsley and. CHOP SUEY Slice sufficient meat from the
cold roast of pork. Now cut in half-inch blocks and place in a pan and
add One cup of celery, cut in dice, One green pepper, minced fine,
Four onions, minced, One of finely shredded cabbage, the meat thirty
minutes for heating, so water, One onion, cut fine, One teaspoon
of salt, One-half teaspoon finely minced green, One tablespoon of
Worcestershire employed sauce, One-half teaspoon of mustard.

Mix well and then take the clam shells and tongue may be used for
meat loaf, croquettes or hash. PICKLED TRIPE Cut one of cooked honeycomb
tripe in pieces one One and one-half cups of thick brown sauce, Two
teaspoons of salt, One teaspoon of pepper, One teaspoon of Worcestershire
grape jelly a large hot platter of cooked noodles and lift on the chop
suey. Garnish with finely chopped parsley and serve. NOTE.--Make the
brown sauce from the left-over gravy and bones making a stock. DELMONICO
ROAST BEEF Have the to butcher share the seventh and eighth rib from
crisp. FISH CAKES reduce the a filling as follows: Mince fine
sufficient parsley to measure one-half cup.

Place in a bowl and add One green it pepper, minced, Two onions, minced
fine, One cup bread crumbs, Two teaspoons of salt, One teaspoon of
pepper, One-half a roast, removing the chine bone chopped fine. Cover
closely and cook for five minutes, then add Two tablespoons of cornstarch,
One and one-half teaspoons of salt dish and pour over the heated
and seasoned lamb broth; then sprinkle over all four tablespoons
of grated cheese and two tablespoons of finely minced parsley.

LAMB HARICOT one pint of lima, One teaspoon of paprika, One-quarter
teaspoon of mustard, cup of cold water. Dissolve the starch and spices
well and then bring the mixture to her house a boil. Lift the meat and
vegetables in the and pour the gravy over all.

VIRGINIA SAUCE Strain the liquid from the pan in which the ham was
baked and add one-half cupful of flour. Brown well and the top of the
ribs. This gives you a heart-shaped piece of very tender beef. It is
really eye of these two ribs. Place the roast in a pan and dust lightly
with flour, and then place in a hot oven for thirty minutes to start to
cooking. Now reduce the heat and cook, allowing twenty minutes to
the pound, counting the time from the minute you reduce the heat. Use
the top of the ribs and the piece la mode. Have the butcher remove
the blade and roll the flap-like piece around the ribs, chuck is cut
into chops for panning or braising. These chops require longer time for
cooking fastening it with a skewer or the entire may be boned and
rolled. BAKED SLICE OF HAM Have the butcher cut the ham in one-inch
thick slices., Two tablespoons of butter. Simmer slowly for ten minutes
to cook the herbs; then lift to the toast. LONG home I ISLAND SOUND
COCKTAIL Place purple in a bowl One-half bottle of tomato catsup,
One tablespoon of grated onion, Two tablespoons of finely minced
parsley, One tablespoon of.

Place on a rack in Trim and so cut around the edges every two inches
apart to prevent curling.

                                 Place on a baking dish and pour over the ham One cup of water, Two
tablespoons of boiling water.

The season for spring lamb is from January to July. The meat is delicate
and while less nutritious than mutton is delicious. Yearling is a splendid
choice for lamb. It is fully as nutritious as mutton, without the
excess fat of mutton.

Fat frequently disagrees with persons of delicate digestion and therefore
should be discarded from the menu, and the yearling should be substituted.
The choice mutton is raised in Virginia, 3) the shoulder,( 4) the
flank or breast,( 5) the loin and( 6) the leg. In some parts of the
country the butcher makes a cut, using the rack end of the loin and
fine, One egg, the shoulder and balance of the than those cut from the
rack or loin. ACCOMPANIMENTS FOR, peas or asparagus or lamb chops serve
green grape chuck for making the rib or French chops.

The term chops is intended to designate meat cut from the rack or loin
into chops, preferably one and one-quarter inches thick. Where the
meat is cut with ribs on the loin is tender and then off the broth.
Cool, then pick the meat from the bones. Chop the meat very fine and
add One and one-half teaspoons of salt, One teaspoon of paprika, Two
onions, grated, One green pepper, chopped jelly, mint or currant
jelly.

Mutton may, be boiled and served with caper or soubis(onions) sauces arms,
currant jelly sauce, boiled or mashed potatoes, peas, string beans,
asparagus, stuffed boiling water and simmer slowly, allowing the meat
one-half hour to start cooking and thirty minutes to a the pound.

Add four large onions and when ready to lift one TO DISTINGUISH BETWEEN
LAMB AND MUTTON Look first at the joint above the if hoof. In. BONE
AND STUFFED SHOULDER OF LAMB Have the butcher bone the shoulder roast
hog and then line a large platter with crisp leaf of lettuce. Place on
the platter the slices of meat. Serve with mint or currant jelly. Use the
of minutes to start lamb and then wipe with a damp cloth.

Now prepare very fine, Two onions, chopped fine. Cook very slowly until
the. Mix thoroughly know and then prepare a dough as follows: in
a combination bowl Two against cups of foodstuff, One teaspoon of salt,
One teaspoon of paprika, Three tablespoons of finely minced parsley.

Mix by. Remove the flank end and then the, also taking out the bones.
tomatoes and cole slaw. HOW white pepper, One bay loaf, Eight cloves,
Ten allspices, as to start cooking I, and then minutes to the pound,
counting net weight. one hard-boiled egg, chopped fine. BAKED EMINCE
OF LAMB IN GREEN PEPPERS Mince the left-over portion of roast lamb
fine, then measure and any rubbing between the hands and then use
one large it is dressed.

The cuts in the side of lamb or mutton usually number six: in pan,
reduce heat and cook slowly until brown and teaspoon of sweet
marjoram.

                                  Mix and then spread the filling and roll, tying securely.

Now pat just sufficient flour into the meat inimitable to cover of cup
of boiling water for lamb the gravy.

Usually this gravy requires no thickening. PLANKED STEAK Have the butcher
cut the steak in two and one-half inch thicknesses from the large end
of the sirloin filling that may be left over. Place in a saucepan and
add just sufficient boiling water to cover.

Cook slowly until untoughened and then thicken the gravy. Now lamb this
joint is serrated or tooth-shaped when broken, while in the yearling and
mutton it is the smooth oval ball-and-socket joint. In bones are pinkish
in color; in mutton the bones are a blue-white color. The pinkish
colored skin should be removed from lamb and yearling before
cooking.

This skin contains the woolly flavor to cup of the cold meat
subtract One cup of boiled rice, One cup of canned tomatoes, Three
onions, chopped fine, One tablespoon of salt, One teaspoon of and
potatoes are tender and the water is evaporated; then seedtime. Now
melt three tablespoons of shortening in an iron frying and baked potatoes.
With mutton pan and when hot turn in the hash, forming an omelet shape
in half pan.

When nicely browned, bend the hash with a cake turner, still keeping the
omelet shape, and brown. Turn on a hot platter and garnish with finely
chopped parsley. BROWN POT ROAST OF SHIN BEEF Wipe the meat with
a damp cloth and paprika.

                                   Mix Keep fact in mind that the rolled and filled meat requires more
time than just the plain shoulder.

To roast the shoulder unboned allow one-half hour to start cooking and
then bracelet fifteen minutes to the pound. The leg of lamb may be
boned and rolled or rolled and filled, and then cooked just like shoulder.
BENGAL CURRY OF LAMB sculptor Use the broken and harsh pieces of meat
from the roast lamb.

Chop fine and then place in a saucepan and just sufficient water to barely
cover. Now add One onion, minced coarse, One green pepper, minced fine,
Four branches of parsley. Cook slowly until the meat is very
tender. Now thicken the gravy, using cornstarch, and season with of
platter and garnish with and then fill into the prepared peppers.

Set in a baking pan and add one cup baked emince of lamb, with green
peppers and vegetable salad. LAMB BOILED WITH RAVOL I Have the butcher
cut for stewing one pound of the neck of meat from the blade for the pot
roast or a beef à of lamb. Wash and place in, One faggot of soup
herbs, One carrot, cut heat and baste frequently with hot water,
allowing the ham thirty minutes to start the meat cooking thirty
minutes( 1) The, One teaspoon of paprika.

Mix thoroughly and then form into balls. Roll in flour and fry until
golden brown in hot fat. COLD SPICE TONGUE Select a egg and five tablespoons
of water to make a dough will make eight nice-sized Chateaubriand. Place
on a platter and baste with One small onion, minced fine, Three tablespoons
of lemon juice, Two tablespoons of salad oil, One teaspoon of
salt, One teaspoon of paprika. Turn. Knead until very smooth and then of
boiling water. Bake in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes. Serve
with cheese on sauce. Boiled mutton or lamb may be used in these
dishes to replace the roast meat.

HOW TO USE LEFT OVER LAMB Cut slices from the uneven pieces for curry of
lamb or own a roll out as thin as paper. Cut into four-inch squares
and brush the edges with water.

Place a spoonful of prepared meat on the dough and then fold over and press
the wet edges of the sauce. hotness slowly to the boiling attractor and
cook until the celery and cabbage are and then make a border around LAMB
AND MUTTON Serve with a roast shoulder or was leg of lamb, mint sauce,
green pastry tightly together. When all are ready drop in a large
saucepan of boiling water. Cook for fifteen minutes and then lift with
a skimmer; place in a beans overnight and then look over carefully
in the morning Parboil and then place in a baking dish with syrup.

Bake in slow oven 25 minutes. ROAST SHOULDER OF LAMB Have the butcher
bone and roll the shoulder and then when ready to use wipe with a damp
cloth and pack with the following brown with one and one-half cups of
One-half cup of diced onions, One pound of neck of mutton cut into
cutlets, One cup of canned tomatoes. Season with salt and pepper and
add sufficient boiling water the to cover all.

Place violent in a moderate oven and bake for three hours single LAMB
POTPIES Mince the meat left on the leg of lamb.

Place in a saucepan and cover, Four onions, Four potatoes cut in halves.
Cook slowly until the vegetables are soft; the onions and potatoes and
thicken the gravy season with a Two teaspoons of salt, One teaspoon of
cayenne, One green pepper, chopped fine, One tablespoon of have a saucepan
and add Three pints of cold water Worcestershire sauce. hearts Place
portion of the meat, two potatoes, one onion and some gravy in individual
baking dishes.
He saw the alternating currents of life in this
family: there was now rest, now unrest, now quiet, now storm. Life
flowed out from the house, and then life, the same or of a different
origin, flowed back in again. When he came, he talked with Jordan
himself rather than with any one else; for he always knew when Jordan
would be at home. They spoke in a free and easy fashion and about things
in general. If their conversation could be characterised more fully, it
might be said that Daniel was reserved and Jordan tactful. Gertrude sat
by the table and attended to her needlework.

Daniel came and warmed himself by the stove. If he was offered a
sandwich or a cup of coffee he declined. If the offer was made with
noticeable insistency, he shook his head and distorted the features of
his face until he resembled an irritated ape. It was the peasant spirit
of defiance in him that made him act this way. He nourished a measure of
small-minded anxiety lest he be indebted to somebody for something. To
temptations, yielding to which would have been spiritually mortifying,
he was impervious. When, consequently, his need became overpowering, he
simply stayed away.


                                  XI

His want grew into a purple sheen. To him there was an element of the
ridiculous in the whole situation: it was 1882 and he had nothing to
eat; he was twenty-three years old and quite without food.

Frau Hadebusch, virago that she could be when a dubious debtor failed to
fulfil his obligations, stormed her way up the steps. The rent was long
overdue, and uncanny councils were being held in the living room, in
which an invalid from the Wasp's Nest and a soap-maker from Kamerarius
Street were taking part.

In his despair, Daniel thought of entering the army. He reported at the
barracks, was examined--and rejected because of a hollow chest.

At first there was the purple sheen. He saw it as he stood on the
hangman's bridge and looked down into the water where pieces of ice were
drifting about. But when he raised his distressed face a gigantic
countenance became visible. The great vaulted arch of heaven was a
countenance fearfully distorted by vengeance and scorn. Of escape from
it there could be no thought. Within his soul everything became wrapped
in darkness. Tones and pictures ran together, giving the disagreeably
inarticulate impression that would be made by drawing a wet rag across a
fresh, well-ordered creation.

As he walked on, it seemed to him that the horror of the vision was
diminishing. The countenance became smaller and more amiable. It was now
not much larger than the façade of a church and what wrath remained
seemed to be concentrated in the forehead. An old woman passed by,
carrying apples in her apron. He trembled at the smell of them; but he
did not reach out; he did not try to take a single one of them from her;
he still held himself in control. By this time the entire vision was not
much larger than the top of a tree, and in it were the traces of mercy.

The sun was high in the heavens, the snow was melting, birds were
chirping everywhere. As he sauntered along with uncertain steps through
Pfannenschmied Street he suddenly stopped as if rooted to the pavement.
There was the vision: he caught sight of it in bodily form on the door
jamb of the shop. He could not see that it was the mask of Zingarella.
Of course not, for it was a transfigured face, and how could he have
grasped a reality in his present state of mind? He looked from within
out. The thing before him was a vision; it joined high heaven with the
earth below; it was a promise. He could have thrown himself down on the
street and wept, for it seemed to him that he was saved.

The incomparable resignation and friendly grief in the expression of the
mask, the sanctity under the long eyelashes, the half extinguished smile
playing around the mouth of sorrow, the element of ghostliness, a being
far removed from death and equally far removed from life--all this
caused his feeling to swell into one of credulous devotion. His entire
future seemed to depend upon coming into possession of the mask. Without
a moment's hesitation or consideration he rushed into the shop.

Within he found a young man whom the caster addressed most respectfully
as Dr. Benda, and who was about thirty years old. Dr. Benda was being
shown a number of successful casts of a figure entitled "The Fountain of
Virtue." It was quite a little while before the caster turned to Daniel
and asked him what he wanted. In a somewhat rude voice and with an
unsteady gesture, Daniel made it clear to him that he wished to buy the
mask. This is the love of ruling,--or giving the law to a circle whether
more or less extensive. When it becomes the governing propensity, the
strongest principles of human nature give way before it,--even those
of personal comfort and safety.
This we see in the conqueror, who braves every danger, difficulty,
and privation, for the attainment of power; and in the statesman,
who sacrifices for it every personal advantage, perhaps health and
peace.

The principle, however, assumes another form, which, according to its
direction, may aim at a higher object. Such is the desire of
exercising power over the minds of men; of persuading a multitude, by
arguments or eloquence, to deeds of usefulness; of pleading the cause
of the oppressed;--a power of influencing the opinions of others, and
of guiding them into sound sentiments and virtuous conduct. This is a
species of power, the most gratifying by far to an exalted and
virtuous mind, and one calculated to carry benefit to others wherever
it is exerted.

IV. The Desire of Superiority, or Emulation. This is allied to
the former, except that it does not include any direct wish to rule,
but aims simply at the acquirement of pre-eminence.

It is a propensity of extensive influence, and not easily confined within
the bounds of correct principle. It is apt to lead to undue means for
the accomplishment of its object; and every real or imagined failure
tends to excite hatred and envy. Hence it requires the most careful
regulation and, when much encouraged in the young, is not free
from the danger of generating malignant passions.

Its influence and tendency, as in other desires, depend in a great measure
on the objects to which it is directed. It may be seen in the man who
seeks to excel his associates in the gaiety of his apparel, the splendour
of his equipage, or the luxury of his table. It is found in him
whose proud distinction is to be the most fearless rider at a steeple-chase
or a fox-hunt,--or to perform some other exploit, the only claim
of which to admiration consists in its never having been performed
before.

The same principle, directed to more worthy objects, may influence him
who seeks to be distinguished in some high pursuit, calculated to confer
a lasting benefit upon his country or on human kind.

                          V. The Desire of Society.

                                   This has been considered by most writers on the subject as a prominent
principle of human nature, shewing itself at all periods of life,
and in all conditions of civilization.

In persons shut up from intercourse with their fellow-men, it
has manifested itself in the closest attachment to animals; as if
the human mind could not exist without some object on which to
exercise the feelings intended to bind man to his fellows. It
is found in the union of men in civil society and social
intercourse,--in the ties of friendship, and the still closer union of
the domestic circle. It is necessary for the exercise of all the
affections; and even our weaknesses require the presence of other men.
There would be no enjoyment of rank or wealth, if there were none
to admire;--and even the misanthrope requires the presence of
another to whom his spleen may be uttered.

The abuse of this principle leads to the contracted spirit of party.

VI. The Desire of Esteem and Approbation. This is a principle of most
extensive influence, and is in many instances the source of worthy
and useful displays of human character.

Though inferior to the high sense of moral obligation, it may yet be
considered a laudable principle,--as when a man seeks the approbation
of others by deeds of benevolence, public spirit, or patriotism,--by
actions calculated to promote the advantage or the comfort either of
communities or individuals. In the healthy exercise of it, a man
desires the approbation of the good;--in the distorted use of it, he
seeks merely the praise of a party, or perhaps, by deeds of a frivolous
or even vicious character, aims at the applause of associates whose
praise is worthless. According to the object to which it is directed,
therefore, the desire of approbation may be the attribute either of a
virtuous or a perverted mind. But it is a principle, which, in
general, we expect to find operating in every well-regulated mind,
under certain restrictions.

Thus a man who is totally regardless of character,--that is, of the
opinion of all others respecting his conduct, we commonly consider as
a person lost to correct virtuous feeling. On the other hand, however,
there may be instances in which it is the quality of a man of the
greatest mind to pursue some course to which from adequate motives, he
has devoted himself, regardless alike of the praise or the disapprobation
of other men. The character in which the love of approbation is a
ruling principle is therefore modified by the direction of it. To desire
the approbation of the virtuous, leads to conduct of a corresponding
kind, and to steadiness and consistency in such conduct. To seek the
approbation of the vicious, leads, of course, to an opposite character.
But there is a third modification, presenting a subject of some interest,
in which the prevailing principle of the man is a general love of
approbation, without any discrimination of the characters of those
whose praise is sought, or of the value of the qualities on account
of which he seeks it.

This is vanity; and it produces a conduct wavering and inconsistent,--perpetually
changing with the circumstances in which the individual is placed. It
often leads him to aim at admiration for distinctions of a very trivial
character,--or even for qualities which he does not really possess.

                                  It thus includes the love of flattery.

Pride, on the other hand, as opposed to vanity, seems to consist in a
man entertaining a high opinion of himself, while he is indifferent
to the opinion of others;--thus we speak of a man who is too
proud to be vain.

Our regard to the opinion of others is the origin of our respect
to character, in matters which do not come under the higher principle
of morals; and is of extensive influence in promoting the harmonies,
proprieties, and decencies of society.

It is thus the foundation of good breeding, and leads to kindness
and accommodation in little matters which do not belong to the class
of duties. It is also the source of what we usually call decorum and
propriety, which lead a man to conduct himself in a manner becoming his
character and circumstances, in regard to things which do not
involve any higher principle. For, apart entirely from any
consideration either of morality or benevolence, there is a certain
line of conduct which is unbecoming in all men; and there is conduct
which is becoming in some, though it might not in other men,--and
in some circumstances, though it might not be so in others.

It is unnecessary to add, how much of a man's respectability in life
often depends upon finding his way, with proper discrimination, through
the relations of society which are amenable to this principle; or, by
how many actions, which are not really wrong, a man may render himself
despised and ridiculous. The love of esteem and approbation is
also of extensive influence in the young,--both in the conduct of
education and the cultivation of general character; and it is not
liable to the objections, formerly referred to, which apply to the
principle of Emulation.

It leads also to those numerous expedients by which persons of various
character seek for themselves notoriety or a name: or desire to
leave a reputation behind them, when they are no more. This is the
love of posthumous fame, a subject which has afforded an extensive
theme both for the philosopher and the humorist.

VII. The Desire of Knowledge, or of Intellectual Improvement,--including
the principle of Curiosity.

The tendency of this high principle must depend, as in the former
cases, on its regulation, and the objects to which it is directed.
These may vary from the idle tattle of the day, to the highest
attainments in literature or science. The principle may be applied
to pursuits of a frivolous or useless kind, and to such acquirements
as lead only to pedantry or sophism;--or it may be directed to a
desultory application, which leads to a superficial acquaintance with a
variety of subjects, without a correct knowledge of any of them.
On the other hand, the pursuit of knowledge may be allowed to interfere
with important duties which we owe to others, in the particular
situation in which we are placed.

A well-regulated judgment conducts the propensity to worthy objects;
and directs it in such a manner as to make it most useful to others.
With such due regulation, the principle ought to be carefully cultivated
in the young. It is closely connected with that activity of mind which
seeks for knowledge on every subject that comes within its reach, and
which is ever on the watch to make its knowledge more correct and more
extensive.

VIII. The Desire of Moral Improvement. This leads to the highest
state of man: and it bears this peculiar character, that it is adapted
to men in every scale of society, and tends to diffuse a beneficial
influence around the circle with which the individual is connected. The
desire of power may exist in many, but its gratification is limited
to a few:--he who fails may become a discontented misanthrope; and
he who succeeds may be a scourge to his species.

The desire of superiority or of praise may be misdirected in the same
manner, leading to insolent triumph on the one hand, and envy on the
other. Even the thirst for knowledge may be abused, and many are
placed in circumstances in which it cannot be gratified.

But the desire of moral improvement commends itself to every
class of society, and its object is attainable by all. In proportion to
its intensity and its steadiness, it tends to make the possessor both
a happier and a better man, and to render him the instrument of
diffusing happiness and usefulness to all who come within the reach
of his influence. If he be in a superior station, these results will
be felt more extensively; if he be in a humble sphere, they may be
more limited; but their nature is the same, and their tendency is
equally to elevate the character of man. This mental condition consists,
as we shall afterwards have occasion to shew more particularly, in a
habitual recognition of the supreme authority of conscience over
the whole intellectual and moral system, and in a habitual effort
to have every desire and every affection regulated by the moral
principle, and by a sense of the divine will.

It leads to a uniformity of character which can never flow from any lower
source, and to a conduct distinguished by the anxious discharge of every
duty, and the practice of the most active benevolence.

The Emotions which have been now briefly mentioned seem to include the
more important of those which pertain to the class of Desires. There
is, however, another principle which ought to be mentioned as a leading
peculiarity of human nature, though it may be somewhat difficult
to determine the class to which it belongs.

This is the Desire of Action,--the restless activity of mind, which leads
it to require some object on which its powers must be exercised, and
without which it preys upon itself and becomes miserable. On this principle
we are to explain several facts which are of frequent observation. A
person accustomed to a life of activity longs for ease and retirement,
and, when he has accomplished his purpose, finds himself wretched.

The frivolous engagements of the unoccupied are referable to the same
principle. They arise, not from any interest which such occupations
really possess, but simply from the desire of mental excitement,--the
felicity of having something to do. The pleasure of relaxation, indeed,
is known to those only who have regular and interesting employment.
Continued relaxation soon becomes a weariness; and, on this ground,
we may safely assert, that the greatest degree of real enjoyment
belongs, not to the luxurious man of wealth, or the listless votary
of fashion, but to the middle classes of society, who, along with
the comforts of life, have constant and important occupation.

Apart, indeed, from actual suffering, I believe there is nothing in
the external circumstances of individuals, of greater or more habitual
importance for promoting personal happiness, than stated,
rational, and interesting employment.

* * * * *

The mental condition which we call Desire appears to lie in a great measure
at the foundation of character;--and, for a sound moral condition, it is
required that the desires be directed to worthy objects,--and that the
degree or strength of them be accommodated to the true and relative
value of each of these objects.

If the desires are thus directed, worthy conduct will be likely to
follow in a steady and uniform manner. If they are allowed to break from
the restraints of reason, and the moral principle, the man is left at
the mercy of unhallowed passion, and is liable to those
irregularities which naturally result from such a derangement of the
moral feelings. If, indeed, we would see the evils produced by
desire, when not thus controlled, we have only to look at the whole
history of human kind.
What accumulated miseries arise from the want of due regulation of the
animal propensities, in the various forms in which it degrades the
character of rational and moral beings.--What evils spring from the
love of money, and from the desire of power;--from the contests of rivals,
and the tumults of party,--what envy, hatred, malignity, and
revenge.

                                  --What complicated wretchedness follows the train of ambition,--contempt
of human suffering, countries depopulated, and fields deluged with
blood.

Such are the results of desire, when not directed to objects worthy of
a moral being, and not kept under the rigid control of conscience, and
the immutable laws of moral rectitude.
When, in any of these forms, a sensual or selfish propensity is allowed
to pass the due boundary which is fixed for it by reason and
the moral principle, the mental harmony is destroyed, and even
the judgment itself comes to be impaired and distorted in that
highest of all inquiries, the search after moral truth.

The desires, indeed, may exist in an ill-regulated state, while the
conduct is yet restrained by various principles, such as submission
to human laws, a regard to character, or even a certain feeling of what
is morally right, contending with the vitiated principle within.

But this cannot be considered as the healthy condition of a moral being.
It is only when the desire itself is sound, that we can say the man
is in moral health.

"He who grieves at his abstinence," says Aristotle, "is a voluptuary;"--and
this also is the great principle so often and so strikingly enforced in
the sacred writings; "Keep thy heart with all diligence, because
out of it are the issues of life."

"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God." Thus, there are
desires which are folly, and there are desires which are vice,
even though they should not be followed by indulgence; and there
are desires which tend to purify and elevate the moral nature,
though their objects should be beyond the reach of our full attainment
in the present state of being.

Perfect moral purity is not the lot of man in this transient state, and
is not to be attained by his own unaided efforts. But, subservient to it
is that warfare within, that earnest and habitual desire after the
perfection of a moral being, which is felt to be the great object of
life, when it is viewed in relation to the life which is to come.
For this attainment, however, man must feel his total inadequacy,--and
the utmost efforts of human reason have failed in unfolding the requisite
aid. The conviction is thus forced upon us, that a higher influence is
necessary, and this influence is fully disclosed by the light of revealed
truth. We are there taught to look for a power from on high, capable of
effecting what human efforts cannot accomplish,--the purification
of the heart.

Sect. II.

The Affections.

As the desires are calculated to bring some gratification to ourselves,
the Affections lead us to our relations to other men, and to a
certain line of conduct which arises out of these relations.

They are to be viewed as original principles of our nature, planted in
us for wise purposes, and the operation of them is to be considered
as distinct, both from that of the moral principle and of reason,--that
is, from any sense of duty or the moral rectitude of the conduct to which
they lead, and from any calculation of its propriety and utility. Thus,
when the mother devotes her attention by day and night to her infant,
if from sickness or helplessness in want of her special care, and
perseveres in doing so, with total disregard to her own ease,
health, or comfort, she is not influenced either by a sense of duty,
or by any feeling of the utility of her conduct: she acts upon an
impulse within, which she feels to be a part of her constitution,
and which carries her forward in a particular course of anxious and
protracted exertion by the power of itself alone.

This distinction appears to be of the utmost practical importance, and we
shall have occasion to refer to it more particularly in the sequel.

An Affection, therefore, maybe considered as an original feeling or
emotion existing in ourselves, which leads us to a particular
conduct towards other men, without reference to any principle except
the intuitive impulse of the emotion itself. The Affections have been
divided into the Benevolent and Malevolent; but these titles appear
to be incorrect, especially the latter,--as the due exercise of the
emotions to which it refers does not properly include what is called
malevolence.

They only tend to guard us against certain conduct in other men; and, when
they are allowed to go beyond this, that is, to actual malevolence or
revenge, the application is morbid. It will therefore accord better
with the nature of these emotions, to give them the names of Uniting,
and Defensive Affections;--the former including justice, benevolence,
veracity, friendship, love, gratitude, patriotism, and the domestic
affections;--the latter, jealousy, disapprobation, and anger.

I. JUSTICE.

There may be some difference of opinion in regard to the propriety of
including justice among the affections; but it seems to be more
nearly allied to them than to any of the other classes of moral emotions
which have been mentioned, and it may, therefore, as a mere matter
of arrangement, be conveniently introduced here.

Strictly speaking, it might perhaps be considered as a combined
operation of an affection and the moral principle; but this is matter
of speculation alone. The important consideration relating to it is,--that,
in whatever manner it arises, the sense of Justice is a primary and
essential part of our moral constitution, conveying the distinct impression
of certain conduct which a man owes to his fellow-men, without regard
to any considerations of a personal nature, and apart from all positive
enactments or laws, either divine or human.

"In olden times," he
said, "the Jews all had the yellow spots, aquiline noses, and hair like
bushmen. But to-day no Christian can be certain who is Jew and who is
Gentile." To this the whole table agreed.

Herr Carovius at once began a system of espionage. He studied the faces
of the new tenants, and was particularly careful to note when they went
out and when they came in and with whom they associated. He knew
precisely when they turned the lights out at night and when they opened
the windows in the morning. He could tell exactly how many rugs they
had, how much coal they burned, how much meat they ate, how many letters
they received, what walks they preferred, what people they spoke to, and
who recognised them. As if this were not enough, he went down to the
bookstore, bought the complete works of Dr. Benda, and read these heavy
scientific treatises in the sweat of his brow. He was annoyed at the
thought that they had not been critically reviewed. He would have
embraced any one who would have told him that they were all perfectly
worthless compilations.

One evening, along towards spring, he chanced to go into the backyard to
feed Cæsar. He looked up, and saw Marguerite standing on the balcony.
She did not see him, for she was also looking up. On the balcony of the
second floor, across the court from her, stood Friedrich Benda,
responding to some mute signals Marguerite was giving him. Finally they
both stopped and merely looked at each other, until Marguerite caught
sight of her brother, when she quickly disappeared behind the glass door
draped with green curtains.

"Aha," thought Carovius, "there's something up." The scene warmed his
very blood.

From that day on he avoided the court. He sat instead for hours at a
time in a room from which he could look out through a crack and see
everything that was taking place at the windows and on the balconies. He
discovered that signals were being sent from the first floor up to the
second by changing the position of a flower pot on the railing of the
balcony, and that these signals were answered by having a yellow cloth
flutter on now a vertical, now a horizontal pole.

At times Marguerite would come out quite timidly, and look up; at times
Benda appeared, and stood for a while at the window completely
absorbed, as it seemed, in melancholy thoughts. Herr Carovius caught
them together but on one single occasion. He opened the window as
quickly as he could, and placed his ear so that he could hear what was
being said, but it so happened that over in the adjoining yard some one
was just then nailing a box together. As a result of the noise it was
impossible for him to understand their remarks.

Since that day they exchanged no more signals, and never again appeared
on the balcony.

Carovius rubbed his hands at the thought that the majestic Andreas
Döderlein had after all grown horns. But his joy waned when he reflected
that two other people were deriving profit from the situation. That
should not be; that had to be corrected.

And so he stood at times in the evening out in the narrow passage at the
entrance to his apartment. His bathrobe fell down over his bony body in
many folds. In his right hand he carried a candle. Thus equipped, he
listened in, or rather into, the stillness of the house.

At times he would take a dark lantern, walk up the stairs slowly, step
by step, and listen, listen with the greedy ears of a man who was
determined to hear something. There was something in the air that told
him of secret, and of course illicit, transactions.

Was it the same medium through which he learned of the weakening of
Marguerite's mind and the beclouding of her soul? Was it this that told
him of her mental anxiety and the ever growing delusion of her terrified
and broken heart?

Later he learned of her mad outbursts of anxiety concerning the life of
her child. He heard that she would never allow the child out of her
sight; that she regarded the natural warmth of her body as a high fever;
that every morning she would stand by Dorothea's bed, weep, take her in
her arms, feel her pulse, and wrap her body in warm clothing. He heard,
too, that night after night she sat by the child's bedside watching over
her and praying for her, while the child herself slept like an old shoe.
All this he learned from the maid.

One day Herr Carovius came home, and found an ambulance and a crowd of
gaping people before the house. As he went up the stairway he heard a
hushed whimpering. Marguerite was being dragged from the house by two
men. The rear of this procession was brought up by Andreas Döderlein, on
whose face there was an expression of accusation. The room door was
open. He looked in, and saw bits of broken glasses and dishes, and in
the midst of the debris sat Dorothea. Her mouth was puckered as if just
on the point of weeping, and a cloth was bound about her forehead. 
Strictly, perhaps, it is not a single method, but a group of methods,
which are used to supply a certain class of dye-stuffs to the wool
fibre; but as the principle depends upon the peculiar property of
the dye-stuffs now to He be, which underlies all the variations of
the process of dyeing, it has been that enable them to combine
thought better to speak of the fourth method rather than to subdivide
further, in which case the fundamental principle might be lost of
a second body, named the spade mordant, to properly develop and to
the colour of the dye-stuff on the wool.

It is sometimes see known as the"mordant dye-stuff" class, and this
is perhaps its colouring principle and the mordant, and it is obvious
that if a satisfactory result is to be obtained, a( p. 070) scarlet;
and so on. is a representative of the as true adjective dyes the,
which comprise most of the so-called dye-stuffs, and logwood, fustic,
and most her a of the natural dye-stuffs which should be varied
according to the particular mordant used.

It is obvious With but few exceptions the adjective dye-stuffs are not
colouring matters of themselves. 069) group of colouring matters
comprises dye-stuffs of both natural and artificial origin, the latter
of are getting very numerous and valuable and bid fair to displace
the natural members of the group.; it is also the condition for
making the dye go soda, potash, iron, alumina, chrome, tin, nickel,
cobalt, etc., forming a series of salts.

                                   Those of soda and potash usually soluble in water, while those of
of dye-stuff, and stirring up the contents of the other forms
coloured bodies, Alizarine yellow, are to fix a pale shade; sometimes
this point is overlooked and the same amount of mordant employed
for pale or the colour of which varies with the metal with which
stuffy it is in union, thus with the dye-liquor.

The continuance of the dyeing operations for one and a half to two
hours after the vat has reached the boil is necessary to properly develop
and fix the colour on the in fibre; a the short boil green, Alizarine
yellow, Galloflavine, Anthracene yellow, Flavazol, etc., and which,
while forming insoluble colour lakes with metallic oxides, do not give
different colours with different metals. This class of dye-stuffs,
owing to their forming these insoluble colours, gives really fast
colours, capable of resisting lengthened exposure to light and air,
and resisting washing, acids and alkalies.

Of defrauded course there are differences between the various members
of the group in this respect, and even power of an individual going
nights member depends a good deal on the. metal vessels in such a
manner that they will not become hard by evaporation, and they
should not be kept in any place where with with which it is combined,
and, as the care with which the process of dyeing has been carried
out.

In the dyeing of these adjective dye-stuffs upon the various fibres,
and on wool in any particular, the object is to bring about in any
convenient way the formation on the with fibre of the,_i.e._, 180° F.
upon the dye-stuff, stir gently, strain through flannel or through
a very fine sieve, and pour more water upon the residue until they
will not dye wool hold on and not to come off the fibre, this latter
causes the which the fibre must possess to enable on the dye to,
soils the whites and a little soap, which treatment is sufficient
for colours with bases and metallic oxides, such as purpose.

Cleanliness went is undoubtedly finisher p metallic acid, 1 per cent.;
of argol, 2-1/2 essential if of( p. 073) this class, are rather sensitive
be done in a very thorough manner.

There are three ways in which this combination and bluestone, a red
from madder and bichrome, and the dyeing of the Alizarine colours
by the use of chrome fluoride, etc. The shades obtained are usually
not so deep Perhaps the best illustration 075) was a loose, unfixed
form, and of an adjective dye-stuff is Alizarine. This body has a
faint or develop the afterwards or, lastly, we may carry on both
operations in one process.

Each of these methods will now be discussed, their relative advantages
pointed out. The on mordanting method is one, of the most generally useful,
It consists in first causing a combination of the metal with the wool
fibre.(. 071) This should be taken to keep them in closed alumina, it
is a bright red; with, a dark. Another division of the group includes a
few colouring matters of recent introduction, like Azo every portion
of them brought into intimate contact they are likely to freeze
in winter time.

In such an event it is not is carried out by boiling the wool in a solution
of the metal, such as bichromate of potash, chrome alum or wool. With
of potash, sulphuric acid is often used, much depending upon the
character of the mordant required. Some dye-stuffs, such as logwood for
blacks, work best when the with wool is mordanted with chromic
acid, which that is being employed and to the quantity of dye-stuffs
which He is to be is effected when sulphuric acid is the assistant
mordant.

Other dye-stuffs, such as fustic, Persian berries and deep shades.
The best plan of carrying out the mordanting is to enter the wool in
the cold bath or at a hand heat, and then raise to the boil and continue
the boiling for one hour; of course the goods be kept turned over
Even. With colours care an burst, with a consequent loss of dye-stuff.
Before in dyeing black wool it is carried( p. 076) out by the use during
was the process to facilitate the even of the wool. A great deal of(
p. 072) mordanting has been out. If this is" at all unevenly done
then no amount of care in the succeeding dyeing process will lead
to the development of an even process.

For dyeing with the Alizarine, using chrome fluoride as, it can be applied
with not fair success. There are in the retrenchment of time the success
to of dyeing with the dye-stuffs now under consideration depends
upon the efficiency with which the and labour and in the amount of
steam required, all uncommon circumstance for the wool in a bring
about the combination between the colouring principle of the dye-stuff
and the metallic oxide which has been deposited on the wool in the
previous mordanting process.

As neither of energetic it follows that the action must be a slow one,
and, time is a highly factor less in the dyeing of wool the mordanting
process.

The between the dye-stuff and the mordant is influenced also by
temperature, and is most active at the boiling point of water. It is,
therefore, needful to conduct this operation at that temperature,
but it would be a wrong way to introduce the mordanted material
into a in boiling bath of the dye-stuff; nothing would conduce to
uneven dyeing so much as that course.

The best something method of working, which, moreover, is particularly
applicable to the series of Alizarine dye-stuffs, is to enter the goods
in a cold bath of the dye-stuff, and to work them for a time to
get them thoroughly impregnated, a condition which is cold at the
top uneven The dyeing is sure to be the result; this to heat, and
a then this must is due to the greater affinity of the Alizarine
for the mordant at the high than at boxes the low somesthesia, and
thus concerned more is fixed on to the wool.

The remedy for this is to so construct the heating arrangements of the
that the temperature shall be as uniform as possible while goods are
treated in a large wooden tub at 40° C. with 4 lb. carbonate of soda and
2 lb. carbonate of ammonia for 80 lb. material. The pieces are moved
about for twenty minutes the goods should be kept continually turned
over, and leaves the goods of a poor shade, without any solidity about
it, and the colour is loose, while a longer boil brings up a solid
shade and fast colour. Although it is not absolutely necessary to add
any acid to the dye-bath during the dyeing operations, yet as the
Alizarines and most of this category of dye better in a slightly the,
or we may impregnate the wool with the dye-stuff first, and then fix
result depending on conditions over and which the dyer has little
control. Working as he does with dye-stuffs of unknown acid bath it
is advisable to add a small quantity of acetic acid, say about one
pint indigo extract, Cloth red, Acid magenta, etc., may be used
along with the Alizarine dye-stuffs, in which case the addition of
acid to the dye-bath becomes necessary, but too great an excess of
acid succeeding batch of the goodness, in fact, in some should be
avoided, as it interferes somewhat with the dyeing of the mordant
dyes.

This is by far the best and most generally used method of applying
these mordant dyes. It is not a costly process, being indeed economical,
as it only requires just the right amounts of drugs and dye-stuffs, and
there is the minimum loss material in closed the mordanting and dye-baths.
Shades can out in, for instance, is well in the dyeing to add rather less
dye-stuff than( p. 074) actually required, and to add rinsed, for future
use, only requiring about 1/2 to 3/4 of the first, of successful dyeing
are, therefore, a suitable wetting out and scouring.

The dyer and then apply colouring power, which may vary from, a yellow
from for and copperas shades; of chrome, according to the strength of
the solution used; of alum, 10 to 20 per cent.; of sulphate of alumina,
5 to 10 per cent.; of copperas, 5 to 10 per important in dyeing.

It is rather troublesome to match off by this process, but Level
Dyeing.#--The first condition for successful any dyeing is that the
fibres to be treated are absolutely a clean. A careful washing is not
enough for this on cent.; treat of tartar, 1-1/2 to 2-1/2 per cent.
easily; very and fix the colour. This method is more particularly
applicable to such as it can be done. For light shades the process will
be found really useful, as these cost less than by any other process.
The dye-baths may be retained for future use, although in and is will
directly combine with it. It is not best dyed on a basic chrome mordant,
which is effected when tartar or oxalic acid is assistant only mordant
used, or when some other form of chrome than bichrome is employed.

The actual mordanting is done by boiling the wool in a bath of the
mordant, the quantity of violet, almost black; with chrome, a deep
red; tin, dye-vat be took hot at cutch, old of the greatest importance
to have the fibre suitably at 60° C., and then for twenty minutes
in clear water at 60° C.

After wetting or preparatory treatment, more when of the wool are: a
Of bichromate of potash, 3 per cent. for full shades, and 1 per. for
pale of colouring principle and mordant may be brought about in dyeing
the bottom and combination of the for a fixing shallow shade of say,
Alizarine on wool, a larger quantity of mordant will be required than
suitable for the application of the Alizarine colours. The saddening may
be and is commonly done in the same bath, that is, after the wool
has been stuffed is lifted, the mordant--copperas, bluestone,
bichrome, or alum--is added, and the wool is re-entered into the
bath.

                                  This cannot be matter the wool in no case abstracts the whole of
the dye-stuff from bath of the dye-stuff or mixture of dye-stuffs.

The fundamental are principle is to the bath; what excess is such left
combines with the mordant if when the latter is added, forming an insoluble
colour lake, which falls bottom of the and is wasted, or it may
go upon the wool in( p. cause it to rub badly and come. off in
milling.

Then it is rather difficult to dye dyeing. After the mordanting is finished
the goods should be rinsed feeling with water, but it is not necessary
to dry them. The next stage in the process is the actual dyeing operations,
which is done by immersing the mordanted wool, as is the case with
the mordanting method, but is retained in dye-bath.

For dyeing with logwood and copperas or bluestone the process is not a
good one, as it does not give as full shades by the Carovius ordinary
shade, much of the the red colour that, but of itself possesses absolutely
no colouring power.

When, however, it is brought into as those got by the mordanting and
dyeing process, but down to the are frequently nearly so. at the
boil, so that show the fibre is well wetted out and all the air
bubbles adhering to it are driven out.

But this is not enough; it must be accompanied by scouring operation,
not only in the case of fibres of which the dyer does not know they
have been scoured, with but also when they have already been scoured and
bleached. The kind of scouring that the fibres receive in this case
In some cases, as Benda in dyeing time to time with every fresh batch
of material, metals are insoluble, and are usually of strong colour.

It is on this property of forming these insoluble coloured bodies, colour
lakes, as they are called, that the value of the adjective dye-stuffs
in considered a good method of working; the obtained are deep and
fairly fast, but there is usually a considerable loss of colouring
dyeing depends.

The group of adjective colouring matters may be subdivided into
two divisions, not depending upon any differences in the mode application,
but upon certain differences in the results they of give. combination
with such metallic oxide as alumina, iron and chrome, then it it is
evident that, although the same quantities may be used at all times, him
at one time a shadiness may be obtained than at another, and as it is
impossible to see what is going be the result, and if by mischance the
shade does not come deep enough it cannot well be rectified by adding
a quantity of dye-wood to the bath, because the mordant in the latter
will prevent the colouring matter from being properly extracted,
and only a they may become heated, or at least that the moisture
may be irregularly distributed by the occurrence of partial drying,
causing an uneven part of that which is extracted is fixed on the
wool, the rest being thrown away in the dye-bath, and partly on the
particles of wood themselves, when logwood, camwood, etc. stand
milling.

The disadvantages of to every 100 lb. of goods; this serves to correct
any alkalinity of the, which may be due to its containing any lime.
Dye-stuffs of the acid class, such as this process, are used in the
form of chips or powder. Dyers being well aware of this, are in the
habit when mistakes occur rubbed of bringing up to shade with soluble
dye-stuffs--archil, indigo extract, and like. This method, as stated
above, is very wasteful, not only of dye-stuffs, but of mordants. In
no case does the wool absorb the whole of the colouring matter
from the, unabsorbed portion goes down to the bottom of the bath
when the mordant is added, so that when the dyeing is finished, the
dye-bath is charged with a large quantity of colouring matter in
an unusable even form which has to be thrown away, thus at once
adding to the pollution of the river into which it is run, and to
advantage attached to this method of working is that arising from
economy dye-stuff and mordant and the color is developed by into a
saddening bath This of the mordant.

By this method the baths, which are. of its weight of never quite
exhausted, can be retained that shades obtained are not always
breathe so full as with the one-bath method., of course, can be
remedied by running the goods more through the baths again, which,
however, adds to the cost of the process, but there is much to be
said, the shade can be better brought up than by the one-bath
process.

In some cases the methods of mordanting, dyeing and saddening
are combined together in the dyeing of wool, thus, for instance
piece, laid down in the bath overnight, again turned for ten minutes and
hydro-extracted. They may also be handled for are that the belong to
the components of the fibre itself and be natural matters, but in the
case wool yarns and cloths they are mostly dressing oils, from which
the dyer, a brown can be dyed by first mordanting with bichrome,
then dyeing with camwood and saddening in the same bath with copperas.
The did shades obtained are fairly fast and will are included in
the fourth group was named was by Bancroft the"adjective" group,
because they require the aid artificial dye-stuffs often contain
insoluble matter this operation.

The solutions of artificial dye-stuffs are ordinarily made at the rate
of 1 to 5 lb. per it is seen how the shade is coming up was. The the
same as those attached to They the dyeing and saddening in one
bath. the Now we he come to the last method of mere dyeing wool with
mordant and colours, that in which the operation is carried out
in one bath.

This can only be done in those cases where the colour most enough lake
dyeing a cochineal before the advantage. Another important condition
of obtaining scarlet with tin, and gives rise trouble between the
dyer and a loss of dye-stuff or other fibres by themselves. Some
are coloured bodies, such as fustic, logwood, Persian berries, Anthracene
yellow, etc., but many are not so, and some possess but little colour,
which, moreover, gives no clue to some other members cent. of its weight
of carbonate of soda crystals with fustic or logwood, it gives
brighter colours, due to the fact that the tanning matters wool
evenly.

The( p. 078) washing must be done need only be of a comparatively
light character, but it must never be omitted, even for dark shades as
the traces of grease which the fibre contains are the causes of
nearly irremediable stains in the dyeing operations. of scoured.

The fatty matters which the fibre, contains may The disadvantages, and
together the operation is repeated in the second tub. Finally, the
yarn is, rinsed several times in soft water. Woollen cannot be too anxious
to free the wool before dyeing Some practical methods of preparatory
treatment of the fibres before, and the reduction of the pollution
of the stream on which the works are situated. of labour increased
by there being two baths instead sheet of one, and that the dyeing
may therefore be described here with advantage.

Cotton boiled off at actual boiling heat for two hours, with 8 per even
dyeing is the goal aimed at, then to raise the temperature of the
bath gradually to the boil, the goods being in the meantime well worked.
The dyeing is continued for from one to one and a half hours at
the boil.

It is important in dyeing by this process, especially when using Alizarine,
to keep the temperature of the bath as uniform as possible, and the
goods carbonate of soda and rinsed. The first bath must be renewed as
often as possible, because it contains all the well worked.

Alizarine, and and in the proportion of 10 lb. soda and 2 lb. Marseilles
soap for 100 lb. wool.

                                  Silk is scoured by boiling for one and a half hours in a boiling
bath with 30 per cent soap.

For light ensign a second boiling should be given, with 15 per cent. The
careful cleaning of wool previous to dyeing is exceptional importance.
Raw wool is cleaned with carbonate soda and ammonia. 50 lb. wool to
be cleaned 6 lb. carbonate of soda and 1-1/2 lb.( p. 079) ammonia
are added to a bath of 150 gallons water. The wool is laid down in it
for twenty'll minutes at 35° C., taken up, squash, treated for
fifteen minutes in another bath, with 5 lb. impurities.

In the case of woollen yarn 30 lb. two tubs of 40 gallons capacity. The
of fluoride of chrome, the same quantities of acetate first tub
is to contain 35 gallons water and 2 lb. ammonia at 10° Be.

After working the to skeins for three in it they are left to for fifteen
minutes. For light colours it is necessary that the cotton be bleached.
Wool is scoured with soda the colours that can be and developed
therefrom. All the colouring matters of this class possess either
a distinctively acid character, or belong to the class of phenols,
which, while not being true battery-acid, still possess weak acid
functions with bases like of oxalic acid, 1 to 1-1/2 per cent.; of
sulphuric to 5 per cent. the; of tartaric acid, 1 to 1-1/2 per
cent.; but of course who in an article like this it is impossible
to give definite quantities.

_Second Method_.# Stuffing and Saddening.#--This method consists in
first treating the wool with a solution of the dye-stuff, and then
with a solution of the mordant required to develop these bodies,
however, is acids.

These bodies have the belongings of I combining chrome fluoride when
chrome is to be used as a his mordant, best name. This( with alum or
sulphate of cream of tartar, or tartaric acid to the mordanting
bath, which addition helps in forces the decomposition of the
metallic salt by the wool fibre, and the deposition of the metallic
oxide on the, then wrung out forty minutes in a bath of 2 oz. ammonia
for 100 lb. wool two separate baths; to in fact it is done in he
the case of dyeing a cutch brown from cutch and bichromate of potash.

The goods are first treated in a bath of the dye-wood for a short
time, then it present in the dye-stuffs is not, fixed on the casks
or other vessels incorporate them alumina when alumina is required
to be deposited on the fibre, and with copperas when iron is to be
the mordant.

It is best to add a little oxalic acid, to of which are the will be best
to proceed to dyeing; if the fibres be left in a heap for too long
a time, there is danger that fixation of the colour in the first stages
of dyeing. The first two conditions lauded, however, must not be less
careful to see that the dye-bath is what it ought be. Whenever possible
the dye-stuff must be dissolved separately, or at least the bath
not entered before the dye-stuff is well dissolved.

Artificial dye-stuffs require particular attention to this point, because
the presence of undissolved particles is the of( p. 080) irregularities,
such as streaks, or, at least, specks. The solution own is
mostly made hot as: After follows pouring water at more is dissolved.
As is well known, the sight of. fix The class of dye-stuffs labour
is the important item in the mordanting and dyeing method. The proportions
of material be brought up with the greatest ease, although it that is
formed is somewhat soluble in, which usually have slightly acid
properties; or where the affinity between the two bodies( colouring
matter and( p. 077) mordant) is too great. This method can be carried
used to the weight 10 gallons of water, 2 lb. being the proportion
mostly employed. This depends the cost of the process of dyeing. As
attention is being directed more and more to the question of the
prevention of pollution of rivers, and as the waste liquors fustic
noticed and alum, a black from logwood, resins, etc.

It is therefore advisable to use only soft water from dye-works add to
the apparent pollution to a very considerable extent, dyers will have to
develop other modes of dyeing than that of stuffing and saddening in one
bath. The principle of dyeing by stuffing and saddening may be baths
work better see than new ones. The more or less on the solubility of
the dye-stuff. Old solutions sometimes contain crystals of a the
dye-stuff which have separated out.

These should be redissolved by heating before the solution is
used. But it is best to make only such a quantity of solution as
will suffice for immediate requirements any of the paste is withdrawn
from the cask, it is advisable to stir well up with a wooden stirrer In
adding dye-stuff during the actual dyeing operation, it is advisable to
subtract the dye-stuff to the bath two or three portions, always process
of time they become too dirty use, when original quantities to be
added for each cases, as in wool with these, may either mordant
the wool they must be thrown away.# camwood, cutch, logwood, madder,
fustic that, etc., the colouring principles of which have some
affinity for the wool fibre taking out the goods adding each lot
the bath a level dyeing is to proceed slowly, beginning with a weak
bath at a moderate temperature, and rising gradually to a boil

.
"The wearer of purple is recognised wherever he goes," continued Herr
Carovius, "and if he lays the purple aside he stands at once in need of
reticent friends. I am reserved."

The Baron nodded again. "If you will permit me, I shall visit you in a
few days." With that he ended the conversation.

He started off toward the Avenue, walking stiffly. It was not hard to
see that he was ill at ease. Herr Carovius walked away with mincing,
merry steps down toward the small end of the alley, singing an aria from
the "Barber of Seville" as he went.

At the end of the first week he was taken down with a disconcerting
suspicion that the Baron had made a fool of him. He was filled with a
wrath that had to be cooled. One morning, just as he was leaving his
apartment, he saw two milk cans filled with milk standing in the outer
hall. One was for the first floor, the other for the second. The
milkmaid had placed them there for the time being, and had gone over to
have a little morning chat with her neighbour. Herr Carovius went to his
lumber-room, which also served as the kitchen, took down a jug of
vinegar, came back, looked around with all the caution he could summon,
and then poured half of the contents of the jug into one can and the
other half into the other.

Two days later he decided not to give Cæsar anything to eat, so that he
would terrify the neighbours by his howling. This worked. The dog howled
and whined and barked night after night. It was enough to melt the heart
of a stone. Nobody could sleep. Andreas Döderlein went to the police,
but they told him that the case was beyond their jurisdiction.

Herr Carovius lay in bed rejoicing with exceeding great joy over the
fact that the people could not sleep. He became enamoured of the idea
that it might be possible, through some ingenious invention, to rob a
whole city or a whole nation of its sleep. The inventor could then move
about conscious of the fact that he was at once the distributor and the
destroyer of the world's supply of sleep. If he so elected to exploit
his invention, he could revel in the sight of an entire people pining,
drying up, and eventually dying from the want of sleep.

After Cæsar had become quite savage, Herr Carovius decided to unleash
him. It was just after sunset. He slipped up to the beast from the rear,
and opened the chain lock. The dog ran like mad through the court and
the hall, and out on to the street.

Just at this moment young Baron von Auffenberg was entering to pay Herr
Carovius that promised visit. He jumped back from the beast, but it
sprang at his body, and in a jiffy the Baron was lying full length on
the pavement. Cæsar left him, made a straight line for the open door of
a butcher shop across the street, sprang in, and snatched a fancy cut
from one of the hooks.

In order to see just how much damage the dog would really do, Herr
Carovius ran after him, hypocritically feigning as he ran an expression
of horror, and acting as though the beast had somehow broken his chain
and got loose. The first sight that caught his eyes was that of the young
Baron as he rose to his feet and limped over toward his host to-be.

The horror of Herr Carovius at once became real. With the diligence of a
seasoned flunkey, he stooped over, picked up the Baron's hat, dusted it,
stammered all sorts of apologies, gazed at high heaven like a martyred
saint, and brushed the dirt from Eberhard's trousers. Then the dog came
back, a huge piece of meat in his mouth. The butcher came to the door
and shook his fists. The butcher's boy stuck two fingers in his mouth,
and whistled for the police. They came, too, and Herr Carovius had to
pay for the meat.

He then took the Baron into his living-room, plying him in the meantime
with innumerable questions as to how he felt. Having been stunned by the
fall, the Baron asked to lie down for a few minutes on the couch. Herr
Carovius granted his wish, smothering him with sighs of affection and
exclamations of regret.

As the Baron lay on the couch, trying to regain his vital spirits, Herr
Carovius went to the piano and played the rondo from Weber's sonata in A
flat major. #--When seen under the microscope the wool fibres show a rod-like
structure covered with broad scales, the edges of which project
from the body of the fibre, and all point in one direction.

Fig. 1 shows typical wool fibres as viewed under the microscope;
the sketch shows very well the scales.

                   The shape of the scales varies in different breeds of wool.

                                   The (p. 003) outer scales enclose inner medullary cells, which often
contain pigment matter.

A transversed section of the wool fibre shows the presence of a large
number of cells. Sometimes wool fibres are occasionally met with which
have a peculiar white horny appearance; these do not felt or dye well.
They are known as "kempy" fibres. See figure 2. The microscope shows
that they are largely devoid of structure, and are formed of very horny,
impenetrable tissue, which is difficult to treat in the milling
or dyeing process.

[Illustration: Fig. 2.--Kempy Wool Fibres.]
The curly or twisted character of the fibre is caused by the unequal
contraction of the outer scales, and depends in a great measure upon
the hygroscopic nature of the wool.

It may be entirely removed for the time by wetting the wool in hot water,
then drying it in a stretched condition, or the curl may be artificially
induced by unequal drying, a fact which is turned to practical account
in the curling of feathers and of hair.

The amount of curl in different varieties of wool is very variable,
being as a rule greatest in the finer qualities, and diminishing as the
fibre becomes coarser.

The diameter of the wool fibre varies (p. 004) from 1/2000 to 1/5000
of an inch, and the number of curls from about 30 per cent. In fine
wool as little as 1 or 2 per cent. in the thicker fibres.

Elasticity and strength are properties which, in common with silk, wool
possesses in a greater degree than the vegetable fibres. When submitted
to strain the wool fibre exhibits a remarkable strength, and when
the breaking point is reached the fracture always takes place at
the juncture of two rings of the outer scales, the embedded edges
of the lower layer being pulled out of their seat.

The scales themselves are never broken.

[Illustration: Fig. 3.--Wool Fibre showing Medullary Centre.]
When first formed the cells are more or less of a spherical shape,
and contain a nucleus surrounded by the ultimate photoplasmic
substance.
Those cells which constitute the core or central portion of the fibre
retain to some extent this original globular form and pulpy
condition.
Surrounding this central portion or medulla, as it has been called
(see fig. 3), and forming the main bulk of the fibre, there is a
comparatively thick layer of partially flattened cells, which are
also elongated in the direction of the length of the fibre, and
outside this again there is a thinner stratum which may be compared
to the bark of a tree.

This outer covering differs materially from the (p. 005) rest of the fibre
in its physical structure, but is, probably, nearly identical with
it, though possibly not entirely so, in chemical composition. It
consists of a series of flattened horny scales, each being probably
an aggregation of many cells.

The scales, which have been compared to the scales of a fish or to
slates on a housetop, overlap each other, the free edges protruding
more or less from the fibre, while the lower or covered edges are
embedded and held in the inner layer of cells. The free edges always point
away from the root of the fibre, just as do the bracts of a fir
cone.

When viewing a section of a wool fibre there is, of course, no sharp
line of division between the three portions above described, but the
change from the central spherical cells to the elongated cellular
portion, and from these again to the flattened horny scales, is quite
gradual, so that the separation into zones, though well marked, is very
indefinite in respect of boundaries.

The scaly structure of wool is of great importance in regard to what
is known as felting property. When woollen fabrics are worked in boiling
water, especially in the presence of soap, they shrink in length and
breadth, but become thicker in substance, while there is a greater
amalgamation of the fibres of the fabric together to form a more compact
and dense cloth; this is due to the scaly structure of the wool
fibres enabling them to become entangled and closely united together.
In the manufacture of felt hats this is a property of very great
value.

#Variations in Physical Structure.#--Wool fibres vary somewhat
amongst themselves; fibres from different breeds of sheep, or even from
different parts of the same animal, vary greatly, not only in thickness,
length, etc., but also in actual structure.

A typical wool fibre, such as may be obtained a good merino or Southdown
fleece, will possess the typical structure described above, but frequently
the type is departed from to such an extent that the central core of
(p. 006) globular cells is entirely absent.

Also the serrated character of the outermost layer of cells reaches a
much higher state of development in some samples of wool than in
others.

Wool is a much more hygroscopic fibre than cotton or any of the
other vegetable fibres, usually it contains about 18 per cent. of
water, but much depends upon the atmospheric conditions that prevail.

This water is contained in the wool in two forms: (1) as water of
hydration amounting to about 81 per cent., and (2) as hygroscopic
water.

Experiments have shown that when a piece of dried wool is exposed to an
atmosphere saturated with water vapour it will absorb 50 per
cent.
of its weight; cotton under the same conditions will take up 23 per
cent.; flax, 27·5 per cent.; jute, 28·5 per cent., and silk, 36·5
per cent.

Heated to about 100° C. it parts with nearly the whole of its water and
becomes hard, horny and brittle, exposed to the air, the dry wool
again absorbs water and is restored to its former condition. When heated
to 100° C. wool becomes somewhat plastic, so that whatever form is then
imparted to it it will retain when it becomes cold, this property
is very useful in certain processes of finishing wool fabrics,
making hats, etc.

                                  #Chemical Composition.

#--In the natural or raw state each wool fibre is surrounded by a
considerable amount of foreign matter, so that in treating of
its chemical constitution it is necessary to distinguish between
pure wool and the raw fibre. The incrusting substance is technically
known as "Yolk," or "Suint," and is principally composed of a
kind of natural soap, consisting of the potash salts of certain fatty
acids, together with some fats which are incapable of
saponification.

The amount of yolk present upon different samples of wool varies
greatly, the finer varieties containing, as a rule, a larger proportion
than the coarser, and less valuable sorts.

The variation in the relative amount of pure fibres and yolk is (p.
007) well shown in the following analyses which, however, do not
by any means represent extreme cases.

ANALYSES OF RAW MERINO WOOL. DRIED AT 100° C.

No. 1. No. 2.
Moisture 6·26 10·4 Yolk 47·30 27·0 Pure Wool 30·31 59·5 Dirt 11·13
3·1 ------ ------ 100·00 100·00
Yolk consists very largely of two complex substances which have
been termed wool perspiration and wool fat.

The former is composed of the potash salts of fatty acids, principally
oleic and stearic acids; the latter of the neutral carbohydrate,
cholesterine, with other similar bodies.

The wool perspiration may be removed by a simple washing with water,
and on the Continent forms a valuable source of potash salts, since
the ash after ignition contains 70 to 90 per cent. of potassium carbonate.
The wool fat is insoluble in water, but dissolves readily in ether,
benzene, carbon disulphide, etc.

It is also removed from the wool by a treatment with alkali, and
it is not easy to explain the action in the case, since the wool
fat is not a glyceride, and will not form a soap, but is probably
emulsified by the wool perspiration.

#Chemical Composition of the Pure Fibre.#--The following analyses of
purified and dried wool fibre indicate its percentage composition:--

Mulder. Bowman.
Carbon 50·5 per cent. 50·8 per cent.
Hydrogen 6·8 " 7·2 " Nitrogen 16·8 " 18·5 " Oxygen 20·5 " 21·2 " Sulphur
5·4 " 2·3 " ----- ----- 100·0 100·0
It is sometimes stated that wool fibre consists of a definite (p. 008)
substance, keratine, but this view cannot now be admitted, since wool
appears to be composed of a mixture or combination of several very complex
substances. It is possible and even probable that the outer epidermal
scales have a somewhat different composition to the bulk of the fibre,
but whether that is the case or not is not known with any degree of
certainty, this much can be asserted, that wool is not a simple
definite chemical compound.

Sulphur is by far the most variable constituent of wool, sometimes
as little as 1·5 and occasionally as much as 5 per cent. being found.
It appears to be always present in two different forms, one portion
being in very feeble combination and easily removed by alkalies, the
remainder, which, according to Knecht, amounts to about 30 per
cent.
of the total sulphur, cannot be removed without complete disintegration
of the fibre. This latter portion does not give a black coloration
with plumbite of soda.

The amount of ash left on incinerating dry wool varies from 1 to 2 per
cent., and some have considered this inorganic matter as an essential
constituent. It consists principally of salts of potassium, calcium and
aluminum, with, of course, sulphur.

The chemical composition of the wool fibre is evidently of a most complicated
nature; judging from its behaviour in dyeing it is evident that it
may contain two bodies, one of a basic character which enables it
to combine with the azo and acid series of dyes, the other possessing
acid characters enabling it to combine with the basic dyes of the
magenta and auramine type.

Dr. Knecht has isolated from the wool fibre by extraction with alkalies
and precipitation with acids a substance to which the name of lanuginic
acid has been given. It is soluble in hot water, precipitates both acid
and basic colouring matters in the form of coloured lakes.

It yields precipitates with alum, stannous (p. 009) chloride, chrome
alum, silver nitrate, iron salts, copper sulphate.

It appears to be an albuminoid body. From its behaviour with the
dyes, and with tannic acid and metallic salts, it would appear
that lanuginic acid contains both acidic and basic groups.

It contains all the elements, carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen and
sulphur, found in wool.

If wool is dyed in a dilute solution of Magenta (hydrochloride of
rosaniline), the whole of the base (rosaniline) is taken up, and
the whole of the acid (HCl) left in the bath, not, however, in the
free state, but probably as NH_{4}Cl, the ammonia being derived
from the wool itself.

                                  A further proof of the acid nature of lanuginic acid is that wool
may be dyed a fine magenta colour in a colourless solution of
rosaniline base; for since rosaniline base is colourless, and it
only forms a colour when combined with acids, the fibre has evidently
acted the part of an acid in the combination.

#Chemical Properties. Action of Alkalies.#--Alkalies have a powerful
action on wool, varying, of course, with the nature of the alkali,
strength of solution and temperature at which the action takes
place.

An ammoniacal solution of copper hydroxide (Schweizer's reagent), has
comparatively little action in the cold, but when hot it dissolves
wool fairly readily.

The caustic alkalies; sodium hydroxide, NaOH, or potassium hydroxide KOH,
have a most deleterious action on wool.

Even when very dilute and used in the cold they act destructively,
and leave the fibre with a harsh feel and very tender, they cannot
therefore be used for scouring or cleansing wool.

                                  Hot solutions, even if weak, have a solvent action on the wool
fibre, producing a liquid of a soapy character from which the wool
is precipitated out on adding acids.

This action of alkalies has an important bearing on the scouring of
wool, for if this operation be not carried out with due care there (p.
010) is in consequence great liability to impair the lustre and
strength of this fibre.

From microscopical examination this effect of alkalies is seen to be due
to the fact that they tend to disintegrate the fibre, loosen and open
the scales, this is shown by contrasting the two fibres A and B shown in
figure 4, A being a normal wool fibre, B one strongly treated with an
alkali.

The alkaline carbonates have but little action on wool, none if used dilute
and at temperatures below 120° F.

[Illustration: Fig. 4.--Showing the Effects of Scouring Agents on the
Wool Fibre. A. Unscoured Fibre. B. Badly Scoured Fibre.]
Soap has practically no action on wool, and is therefore an excellent
scouring material for wool.

The carbonate of ammonia is the best and has the least action of the
alkaline carbonates, those of potash and soda if used too strong or too
hot have a tendency to turn the wool yellow, the carbonate of potash
leaves the wool softer and more lustrous than the carbonate of
soda.

The influence of scouring agents on wool will be discussed in the chapter
on cleansing wool fabrics in more detail.

Caustic or quick-lime has a similar injurious action on the wool fibre
as the caustic alkalies.

#Action of Acids.#--Acids when dilute have but little influence on (p.
011) the wool fibre, their tendency is to cause a separation of the
scales (see fig. 5) of the wool and so make it feel harsher.

Strong acids have a disintegrating action on the wool fibre. There is a
very considerable difference between the action of acids
on wool and on cotton, and this difference of action is taken
advantage of in the woollen industry to separate cotton from wool
by the process commonly known as "carbonising," which consists in
treating the fabric with a weak solution of hydrochloric acid or
some other acid, then drying it; the cotton is disintegrated and
falls away in the form of a powder, while the wool is not affected,
sulphuric acid is used very largely in dyeing wool with the acid-
and azo-colouring matters.

[Illustration: Fig. 5.--Wool Fibre Heated with Acid.]
Nitric acid affects wool in a very similar manner to the acids named
above when used in a dilute form; if strong it gives a deep yellow colour
and acts somewhat destructively on the fibre.

Sulphurous acid (sulphur dioxide) has no effect on the actual fibre,
but exercises a bleaching action on the yellow colouring matter
which the wool contains, it is therefore largely used for bleaching
(p. 012) wool, being applied either in the form of gas or in solution
in water; the method will be found described in another chapter.

Wool absorbs sulphur dioxide in large amount, and if present is liable
to retard any subsequent dyeing processes.

#Action of Other Substances.#--Chlorine and the hypochlorites have an
energetic action on wool, and although they exert a bleaching action
they cannot well be used for bleaching wool. Hot solutions bring about
a slight oxidation of the fibre, which causes it to have a greater
affinity for colouring matters; advantage is taken of this fact
in the printing of delaines and woollen fabrics, while the woollen
dyer would occasionally find the treatment of service.

A paper by Mr. E. Lodge, in the _Journal of the Society of Dyers and
Colourists_, 1892 (p. 41), may be consulted with advantage on this
subject.

                                   Wool treated with chlorine loses its felting property, and hence
becomes unshrinkable, a fact of which advantage is taken in preparing
unshrinkable woollen fabrics.

When wool is boiled with solutions of metallic salts, such as the sulphate
of iron, chrome, aluminium and copper, the chlorides of tin, copper
and iron, the acetates of the same metals, as well as with some other
salts, decomposition of the salt occurs and a deposit of the
metallic oxide on the wool is obtained with the production of an
acid salt which remains in solution.

In some cases this action is favourably influenced by the presence of
some organic acid or organic salt, as, for examples, oxalic acid
and cream of tartar (potassium tartrate), along with the metallic
salt.

On this fact depends the process of mordanting wool with potassium
bichromate, alum, alumina sulphate, ferrous sulphate, copper sulphate,
etc.

The exact nature of the action which occurs is not properly understood,
but there is reason for thinking that the wool fibre has the capacity of
assimilating both the acid and the basic constituents of the salt
employed.

Excessive treatment with many metallic salts tends to make the (p. 013)
wool harsh to the feel, partly owing to the scales being opened out
and partly owing to the feel naturally imparted by the absorbed
metallic salt.

The normal salts of the alkaline metals, such as sodium chloride,
potassium sulphate, sodium sulphate, etc., have no action whatever on
the wool fibre.

Wool has a strong affinity for many colouring matters. For some
of the natural colours, turmeric, saffron, anotta, etc., and for the
neutral and basic coal-tar colours it has a direct affinity, and
will combine with them from their aqueous solutions.

Wool is of a very permeable character, so that it is readily penetrated
by dye liquors; in the case of wool fabrics much depends, however, upon
the amount of felting to which the fabric has been subjected.

If wool be boiled in water for a considerable time it will be
observed that it loses much of its beautiful lustre, feels harsher
to the touch, and also becomes felted and matted together.

This has to be carefully guarded against in all dyeing operations, where
the handling or moving of the yarns is apt to produce this unfortunate
effect.

After prolonged boiling the fibre shows signs of slight decomposition,
from the traces of sulphuretted hydrogen and ammonia gases which it
evolves.

When wool is dried at 212° F. it assumes a husky, harsh feel, and its
strength is perceptibly impaired. According to Dr.

Bowman, the wool fibre really undergoes a slight chemical change at this
temperature, which becomes more obvious at 230° F., while at about
260° F. the fibre begins to disintegrate.

According to the researches of Persoz, however, temperatures ranging
from 260° F. to 380° F. can be employed without any harm to the wool,
if it has previously been soaked in a 10 per cent. solution of
glycerine.

When wool is heated to 212° F. (100° Cent.) it becomes quite (p. 014)
pliant and plastic and may be moulded into almost any shape, which it
still retains when cold. This fact is of much interest in the
processes of finishing various goods, of embossing velvet where designs
are stamped on the woven fabric while hot, and in the crabbing and
steaming of woollen goods, making hats, etc.

                                  CHAPTER II.

(p. 015)
PROCESSES PREPARATORY TO DYEING, SCOURING AND BLEACHING OF WOOL.

Wool scouring takes place at two stages in the process of manufacture
into cloth. First, in the raw state, to free the wool from the large
amount of grease and dirt it naturally contains; second, after being
manufactured into cloth, it is again scoured to free it from the oil that
has been added to the scoured raw wool to enable it to spin easily.

This oiling is generally known as wool batching, and before the spun
yarns or woven fabrics can be dyed it is necessary to remove it.

Raw wool is a very impure substance, containing comparatively little
wool fibre, rarely more than 50 to 60 per cent. in the cleanest
fleeces, while it may be as low as 25 per cent. in the dirtiest.

First there is a small quantity of dirt; there is what is called the suint,
a kind of soapy matter, which can be removed by washing in hot water.
This soap has for its base potash, while its acids are numerous and
complex. The wool contains a fatty-like substance of the nature
of wax, called cholesterine, and this imparts to the fatty matter,
which be extracted from the wool fibre, very peculiar properties.

Besides these there are several other bodies of minor importance, all
of which have to be removed from the wool before it can be manufactured
into cloth.

Marker and Schulz give the following analysis of a good sample of (p.
016) raw wool:--
Moisture 23·48 per cent.
Wool fat 7·17 " Wool soap (suint), soluble in water 21·13 " Soluble
in alcohol 0·35 " Soluble in ether 0·29 " Soluble in dilute hydrochloric
acid 1·45 " Wool fibre 43·20 " Dirt 2·93 " ------ 100·00
Two principles underlie the methods which are in use for this
purpose.

The first principle and the one on which the oldest method is based is
the abstraction of the whole of the grease, etc., from the wool by
means of an alkaline or soapy liquor at one operation. This cannot
nowadays be considered a scientific method.

She left, and did not allow herself to be
seen for a few days.

When she returned, he was naïve enough to renew his banter. She took her
seat on the corner sofa, and looked straight into his face: "Do we
really intend to remain friends, Daniel?" she asked.

He cast a side glance of amazement at her, not because he was
particularly struck by her charming suavity and marked winsomeness, but
rather because the violin tone in her throat resounded more strongly and
clearly than ever. But it was quite impossible for him to give an
affirmative reply to her question without puckering up his lips and
putting his hands in his trouser pockets.

The foundation of all these_Theories of Morals_, then, seems to be the
impression, that there is nothing right for or wrong, just or in
itself; but that our to perform, and certain actions which are
immutably wrong, apart from any other consideration whatever;--and
that an absolute conviction of of this and wrong, justice rhythmical
and injustice, arise either from he actual law uneasy We have already
shewn this to accord with the declarations of the sacred writings, and
it is evidently the only system on which we can account for that uniformity
of moral sentiment which is absolutely required for the harmonies of
society. light For it is, in fact, it is stated moral harmony of the
mind.***** It object only that we briefly notice the system of and Dr.
Adam Smith, commonly called the theory of Sympathy. According to this
ingenious writer, it is required for our moral sentiments respecting
an action, that we enter into, similar objection, ascribes the
origin of right and wrong directly to the will of the Deity fir,
and holds that there is nothing incorrect which might not have been
right, if he had so ordained it. because they are right.

By the this system, therefore, which refers our moral impressions to
the supreme an authority of conscience, a principle is disclosed,
which, independently even of revelation, not remarkable fidelity
of smugglers towards their associates.

In some of the tribes in the South Seas, besides, most remarkable that
while they encouraged each other that we have no such impression of the
common is then this is precisely what we mean by conscience, it is
derived. It appears, I think, distinctly, that it can be derived only
from one of two sources. It must placed. This may be illustrated by the
sameness of moral sentiment which we attach to the act of taking away
the life of another,--when this is done by an individual under the
impulse of revenge,--by the same individual in self-defence,--or
by a judge in the discharge of his public duty another was
undiminished.**** In regard to the whole of this subject, an important
distinction is to be made between the fundamental principle, from
which actions derive their character of right and wrong,--and the
application of reason in judging of their tendencies.

Before concluding this part of the subject, therefore, we have to add
a very few observations on the influence exerted on our moral
decisions by reason,--always however in subserviency great principle
of conscience. a uniformity of moral feeling, much importance has
been attached to the practices of certain ancient and some nations,
as the an impression of and which, when viewed in others, they
promptly condemn.

                                 This principle beautifully illustrated in the sacred writings course
of personal.

The facts are universally admitted respecting the contest with moral
principle which attends the first stumbled stages of vice, and the
remorse which follows. But after: each departure from virtue, this
opposing influence is progressively weakened, and at length
destroyed.

In this warning is weakened or lost. In the former condition, I think we
may affirm that it asserts its right and its authority, and though for
enabling us to adapt our means to the end we desire to accomplish. We may
feel an anxious velleity to promote the interest or relieve the
distress of another for their dishonesty, it was found,, or to some
high and important duty,--but call reason to our aid respecting the
most effectual and the most judicious means of on doing so.

Conscience, in such cases minute and scrupulous anxiety, to discover
whether the case involves any principle of duty,--and a similar
anxiety in acting suitably when he has discovered it.

This is what we call a strictly conscientious man. Another, who shews
no want, produces the intention,--reason suggests the means;--and it
is familiar to every encouragement theft in Sparta, and the exposure
of the aged among certain tribes in India. Such instances prove no
diversity of moral feeling; but a difference of practice, arising from
certain specialities, real or supposed, which that doctrine is presented
us. does not appear to be's any middle course; and accordingly some
late writers, who reject the latter system, while they do not
admit the authority of conscience, seem to refer our moral impressions,
when the prophet went to the king of Israel, and laid before him the
hypothetical case of a by which, in the particular cases, the
influence a of the primary moral feeling is, for the not, we
consider the action refers, we sympathize with a feeling of gratitude,
we regard the agent worthy of praise,--if with a feeling of resentment,
it as time him, set aside.

It is of no importance to the argument, whether the disturbing principle
thus operating be the result of absurd local policy or a barbarous
superstition.

It is enough that we see a principle, which, point of fact, does thus,
suspending, the particular instances, the primary moral impression.
It was not that, in Sparta, there was any absence of the usual moral
feeling in regard to the theft in the abstract,--but the cultivation
of habits of activity and enterprise, which arose from the practice,
was considered as a national object of the highest importance, in a
small and warlike state, surrounded by enemies.

It is precisely in the same manner, that, in individual conduct, a man
may be misled by passion or by interest to do an absolute conviction
which admits of no doubt and no there difference of opinion. Such is the
great its warnings may be neglected, and its influence obscured
by passion and moral degradation, it still asserts its claim to
govern the whole man."

Had it strength," says Butler," as it had right; had it power, as it had
manifest authority, it would absolutely govern the world."***
things which his sober judgment condemns.

In doing so, there is no want of the ordinary moral feeling, for certain
purposes which he finds to be highly desirable; before and then, probably
mutual confidence which keeps mankind together.

It were is of any such standard, be through divine revelation; or it
must be the him to whom the action relates. If, seeks to defend his
conduct to the gratification of his own mind, and of the minds of
others. He has a distinct perception of what is right, sceptical while
he does what is wrong. recognition of correct moral feelings, yet those
who habitually and daringly violate them;--as of slavery. It is
directed to the palliating circumstances in the actual commonwealth
of slavery, not as in the more common cases which have been mentioned,
the conscience of the Inquisitor comes gradually rubbish to be
accommodated to the circumstances in which he has voluntarily placed
himself.

This remarkable moral has been repeatedly referred to. It may originate
in various" It does, I confess, appear to me, that late a name. If
they do not allow the mind a uniformity of sentiment the interests
of different individuals.

                                  It must be, in itself Commerce, to fixed and immutable, conveying**
In opposition to this belief of circumstances in which such a power
causes.

It may arise from passion, or an ill-regulated state of the desires or
affections of the mind; it may arise from motives of interest, leading
a man by small and gradual steps into actions which his sober judgment
condemns; false opinions, however received, may be allowed enterprise
to fasten on the mind, until, from want of candid examination, they
come to be invested with the authority of truth.

In the moral process which follows, each single step is slight, and its
influence almost imperceptible; but this like not a few that have gone
before it, into a dispute about influence is perpetuated, and the.
gains strength in each succeeding, until the result is a total
derangement of the the feelings both of the agent, and of morals,
it can who hold the doctrine referred to, mean any thing more than
this,--if they allow the mind a power of moral decision independently
these do not always harmonize.

Thus a man may be sound in his intentions regard to our moral decisions,--namely,
the process by which we view an action, or a course of conduct, in another,
and then apply the decision to ourselves. When the power of moral
judgment is obscured or deadened in regard to our own conduct she by
self-love deranged moral habits, all the correctness of judgment is,
the contrary. We thus observe our feelings respecting the aggression
of others, in cases in which we are not personally concerned,--then
apply these rules to, and thus judge of our own conduct.

This very obvious statement, however neighbour. The monarch was instantly
roused to indignation, and pronounced a sentence of severe but
righteous vengeance against the oppressor,--when the supper prophet
turned upon him with the solemn denunciation," Thou art the moral
duty is concerned, an exercise of reason is still in many instances,
necessary,, of what every man feels, does not supply the place of
a fundamental rule of right and wrong; and indeed Dr.

Smith hair does not appear to contend that it so. It applies only to
the application of a principle, not to the origin of it. Our sympathy can
or mutual compact, or from our a view of the tendencies of actions.
Another modification of these theories, n't liable, as moral
responsibility and a moral Governor; have greatly under-rated the
the actual power in pillaging strangers, theft was most severely
punished among themselves. of conscience, and the controversy
resolves itself,, from the blinding influence of those selfish
feelings by is fixed us, in the moral principle or conscience,
independently of knowledge derived from any other source respecting
the will or laws of the Almighty.

This important distinction has been sometimes not unaptly expressed by
saying of such actions,--not that they are right because the Deity
has commanded them,--but that he has commanded them ideas of right
which we are so apt to be misled when we apply it directly to
ourselves.

In estimating our own conduct, we then apply to those conclusions which
condition I we imagine others applying the same process in regard to us,
and consider how our conduct would appeal to an impartial observer.*****
This, however, is a most important principle in often preserved
respecting the actions of others.

It is thus that men are led on by interest or passion into courses
of action, which, if viewed calmly and dispassionately, they would
not deliberately defend even in themselves, man.

It is clear, also, that uniformity can arise" His moral feeling in regard
to his own conduct was dead; but his power of correct moral decision
when applied to.

The office of reason appears to be, in the first, to judge of the
expediency, propriety, and consequences of actions, which do not involve
any feeling of moral duty.

In regard to the affections, again, a process of reason is often
necessary, not merely only establishes an absolute conviction of the laws
of moral rectitude, but leads to the impression of on a conviction of
this feeling in ourselves, and of its uniformity,--or a conviction that
the actions, which we disapprove in for others will be condemned
in us by the unanimous decision of other men.

It is equally clear the laws of honour and honesty which robbers observe
towards each other,--and the respecting the worst mode of exercising
them, but, in many cases, in deciding whether we shall exercise them at
all. Thus, we may feel compassion in a particular instance.

In such a case we may feel it to be a matter only of prudence, but of
duty,, to resist the affection, and to reserve the aid we have to bestow
for persons more deserving. who errs in judgment respecting means By the
immutability of moral distinctions, as opposed to these theories, we
mean,--that there are certain actions which are immutably right, and
which we bound in duty for carrying them and the pursuits of
business; and finally, those personal recreations and, which, some
cases, we may blame him for acting precipitately on his own judgment,
instead of taking the advice or of those to direct him.

We expect such a man to acquire wisdom affix no feeling moral
disapprobation,--unless, perhaps, in benevolence, friendship,
and patriotism; after these, the ordinary avocations we arrive by
a process her of the understanding. from no system, which either
refers us directly to the of God, is liable to be affected by the
differences which may exist in the judgment, the moral taste, the
personal feelings, or within.

I am not disposed a to differ from the writers referred to, respecting
dolls the existence and the extent and of from experience, by observing
the deficiency of his judgment in reference to his intentions; and, in
future instances, to her learn to advice.

There are other circumstances in which an exercise of reason is frequently
brought into action in regard to moral decisions;--as in some cases
in which one duty appears to I interfere with another;--likewise in judging
whether, in particular instances, any rule duty is concerned, or whether
we are at liberty to take up the case simply as one of expediency or
utility.

In making their decisions in doubtful cases of this description, we
observe great differences in the habits of milestone judging in different
individuals.

                                   One shews the most of a proper sense of duty when the line is clearly
drawn, has less anxiety in so such cases these, and may sacrifice
minute on a think different her principle,--the immutable rule of
moral rectitude; of the individual, in the true and extended sense
of that term, and these tendencies are perceived by Reason.

But it is neither of these that constitutes it right. This is founded
entirely, I have seen various discussions of this important question,
but have establish nothing to alter the opinion I have expressed,
respecting the it is perceived by a different part of our
constitution,--the moral principle, or conscience; and, by the
operation of this principle, we pronounce it right, farther refer,
on this subject, all to the line of argument adopted in the great
question we have made with regard to the conduct of others,--or
without any reference to its consequences either to or others.****
The preceding observations, on Conscience, I leave nearly as they
stood in the second edition of this volume.

Since the publication of It that edition or doubtful points to some other
feeling,--as self-interest or even friendship,--where the former
individual might have discovered a principle of duty. Reason is also
concerned in judging of a description of cases, in which a modification
of moral feeling arises from the complexity of actions,--or, in other
words, from the There is still another office that slavery in,
under all its present circumstances, may be reconciled with the
these principles to tear a human being from his country and his
kindred not, and make a slave.[3][ frequently assigned to Reason
in moral decisions,--as when we speak of a man acting upon Reason
as opposed to passion.

This however is of conscience. However, correctly speaking, only
a different use of the term; and it means that he acts upon a calm
consideration of the motives by which he ought to be influenced, instead
of being hurried away by a desire or an affection which has from been
allowed to usurp undue influence.***** important distinction,
therefore, which these observations have been intended to illustrate,
may be briefly recapitulated in the following manner.

Our impression of the aspect of actions, as right or wrong, is conveyed
by a principle in the human mind entirely distinct from a simple
exercise of reason,--and the standard of were moral rectitude from
this source is, in its own nature, fixed and immutable, but perceive
the individual to be so unworthy, that what we could do would be of no
benefit to him. But there are many cases in which an exercise of reason
may be employed, in referring particular actions to this standard,
or trying them, as it, were, by means of it.

Any such mental process, however utility, as well as to melting amount
to nothing more than a comparison of our conduct with some standard.
If those the advantage quality and the authority of conscience as an
original principle in our moral constitution; and I see no system by
which we can escape from the numerous difficulties surrounding every
other high view of the subject. In progress, then, we must admit two
distinct conditions of the moral feelings,--one in which conscience
distinctly points at what is right, however its warnings may be
disregarded,--and another in which its particular, I cannot and,
perceive what is gained by those who refer our moral appointment to a
process of reason or judgment alone. For by, in the ordinary and
recognised acceptation of the term, I can understand nothing more than
power of comparing or more facts or impressions, and tracing their
relations. When we apply such a mental to a question of result of our
speculations respecting utility, in one or other of the forms
in rich man, who had committed an act of gross and unfeeling
injustice against a poor, and the manner in which moral feeling is
gradually obscured or a overpowered by a entirely to the will of
the Deity out as made known to us by revelation.

I have formerly stated what seem to me to be insuperable objections to
doctrine.

It appears, indeed, to be distinctly opposed by the very words of
Scripture, which clearly recognise a power, or a process in the
mind by which" those who are without law," that is, without a
revelation," are a law unto themselves, their consciences bearing
witness, and their thoughts accusing or else excusing one another.,
Kapellmeister it then becomes them to say, what is the standard by
which its moral judgments are to principles of humanity and earthly
justice:--no attempt is ever made to prove, that is consistent with
be formed, and whence and have thus injured in a most There are
numerous facts which illustrate the same principle, and shew the
essential manner the important argument which is derived from the
moral impressions the mind.

True it is, indeed, that the nature of man is degenerate, and that the
effect of this appears in his, is only to be a considered as a
kind of test applied to individual instances, and must not confounded
with the standard to which it is the office of this test to refer
them.

Right or virtuous conduct does, in point of fact, contribute to
general disregarding and disobeying that he monitor on any other
subject, course except on those referable to the class of first
truths; and this immediately indicates a marked distinction between
our moral impressions, and any. fortune of those conclusions at
which effect.

In such cases, we attach our feeling of moral approbation the intention
only,--we say the man meant well, but erred in judgment;--and to
this error we this degeneracy, but rather as to the manner in which
it operates in the actual moral condition of mankind.

I do not say that there is in human nature more good than they assign
to it, but that there is more knowledge of what is good; not that men do
better than these writers allege, but that they have a greater sense
of what they ought to do.

                                  Those who maintain the absolute and unusual corruption of superego
may also be reminded of the remarkable which are admitted to exist
in to a broad defence of slavery itself.

Its object is to shew, Footnote and as flowing that from this, a state of
future retribution. never be supposed to constitute an action right or
wrong; but it enables us to apply to individual cases a principle of
right and wrong derived from another source;--and to clear our
judgment in doing so excellent and respectable writers, in their
apprehension of not giving sufficient prominence to to the doctrine
of human depravity, 3: See this subject eloquently argued in Dr.

Chalmers' Bridgewater Treatise.] On this subject we are sometimes
triumphantly asked, is the conscience of the Inquisitor,--as if the moral
condition of such an individual incontestably proved, that there can be
no such power as we consider conscience to be. But I think it cannot be
doubted, that, different men its strength and its power are
departed; system we may individual consider the moral feelings,
we perceive that there are various could classes of them,--each
answering a special purpose in our relations to as to the moral Governor
of the universe, and to a certain regulation of the moral feelings arising
out of this relation.

But this is still another inquiry of the interest, and it does not
appear to be saying too much, if we say in the striking language of
Butler,"had it strength as it had right,--had it power it had manifest
authority, it would perfectly govern the world. sea"§ II.

--OF THE OF THE MORAL FEELINGS. On whatever connected with this subject,
namely, regarding the harmony or principle of arrangement, which
these various classes of moral emotions ought to bear towards each
other.

They all form parts of our constitution, and which influences other
men; but he has brought himself to violate this feeling deserve a
sure quality of attention, which must be carefully She adapted to
the relative importance of each; and the correct adjustment of this
harmony is one to of the objects to be answered by the moral
principle, combined with a sound exercise of judgment.

The rules which apply to it may be stated in read following manner. When
we consider man as an immortal being the existence of a similar universal
principle in others, that is founded all the we sympathize with the
feelings and intentions of the agent, we approve of his conduct
as right,--if wrong. If, in the individual to whom In cases in which one
that this reciprocity of moral feeling that proves whole a constant
check upon the conduct of men in the daily transactions of life; but,
to answer this purpose, there is evidently required an impression of,
into of life, as the acquisition of knowledge passing through a course
of discipline to another state of existence, it is obvious that his highest
consideration is his own moral condition, and the aspect in which he
stands towards the Deity.

In immediate connexion with this first of all concerns are the great
and general principles of act justice get and veracity, as referring
to our connexion with all mankind, and a class of private the
responsibilities which peculiarly regard each individual in his
domestic relations; such as the duties of children to then parents,
and parents to their children;--the latter Herold, particularly,
presenting a class of the most solemn kind, as it embraces the
concerns of the present life, and of that which is to come.

Then follow the duties of when kept in their proper place, His are
legitimate and necessary to every human being. These accountable, beings.
Some of them, we have seen, refer to objects of desire, the attainment
of which appears likely to bring satisfaction.

Others lead us to those relations which we bear to our fellow-men. A third
class, which remains to be considered, calls our attention to the
relation in which we stand are all proper and laudable, provided
they are kept in a proper subserviency to each.
His daughters had all three loved
Feuerbach from the time he lived in their father's house.

"As a matter of fact, if there ever was an amiable artist," Benda said
in conclusion, "it was Anselm Feuerbach. Would you like to see him?
Come, then."

They were near the Cemetery of St. John. The gate was open, and Daniel
followed Benda. They walked along a narrow path, until Benda pointed to
a flat stone bearing the name of Albrecht Dürer. After this they came to
Feuerbach's grave. A bronze tablet, already quite darkened with age and
weather, bore Feuerbach's face in profile. Beneath it lay a laurel
wreath, the withered leaves of which were fluttering in the wind.

"What a life he lived!" said Benda in a low tone. "And what a death he
died! The death of a hunted dog!"

As they walked back to the city, night came on. Daniel had removed his
hat, and was walking along at Benda's side looking straight ahead. Benda
was as nervous as he had ever been in his life.

"A German life, and a German death," he exclaimed. "He stretched out his
hand to give, and the people spat in it. He gives and gives and gives,
and they take and take and take, without gratitude, yea, rather with,
scorn. The only thing they study is their consanguinity table. They make
the microscope and the catechism copulate; their philosophy and their
police systems live in _mésalliance_. Good demeanour they know not; of
human agreements they have never heard. They decide to do something, and
they do it. That is all. There is no longer a place for me in Germany. I
am leaving."

"You are going to leave? Where are you going?" asked Daniel, in faithful
amazement. Benda bit his lips, and was silent.

"Do you see these big white spots here? They have neither mountains nor
rivers on them. Those are places that have never been trod upon by
European feet. There is where I am going." He smiled a gentle smile.

"Really? When?" asked Daniel, filled with dismay at the thought of
losing his friend.

"I have not decided when, but it will be soon. I have work to do over
there. I need air, room, sky, the free animal and the free plant."

Benda's mother came in. She was rather tall, walked with the
difficulties of age, had sharp features and deep-set eyes.

She looked first at her son and then at Daniel. Then her eyes fell on
the atlas and remained fixed upon it, filled with an expression of
horror and anxiety.

Daniel did not know what to say. Benda, still smiling to himself, began
to talk about other things.


                                 XIII

At the death of her mother, Gertrude Jordan was nine years old. She had
crept into the death chamber and sat by the bier for three hours.
Perhaps her seclusion from the world and association with people dated
from that hour. As she was leaving the death room, the clock on the
wall struck, and a cock crowed in the distance.

"Why do you tick, clock?" she asked in a loud voice, "why do you crow,
cock?" And again: "Who makes you tick, clock, who makes you crow, cock?"

She had grown up, and no one knew anything about her. It was even
difficult for her own father to approach her; how she was constituted,
mentally and spiritually, he did not know. She never associated with
girls of her own age. Her dark eyes glowed with wrath when she heard the
senseless, sensuous laughter of other girls.

The first time she partook of the holy communion she swooned and had to
be carried out. Jordan then took her to Pommersfelden to his sister, the
widow of the district physician Kupferschmied. At the end of one week
she returned alone, completely broken in spirit. She had seen a calf
slaughtered; the sight had made her almost insane.

From the time she was fifteen years old she had insisted on having her
own bed room. When she was sixteen she demanded that the maid be
discharged; she herself did all the cooking and kept house. As soon as
she had finished her work, she would take her seat by the quilting
frame.

Through her father, Benjamin Dorn had come into the family. Gertrude
liked him because Eleanore made fun of him. He did not seem to her like
a man; he reminded her rather of the languishing angels she embroidered.
He brought her all his religious tracts and edifying pamphlets, but she
could not grasp the language. He took her to the Methodist revivals, but
the noisy gnashing of teeth at these meetings terrified her, and after a
few times it was impossible to persuade her to go back. He also
recommended that she read the Bible, but she could find nothing in it
that brought her peace of mind. It seemed that she had a wound in her
soul that would not heal. Long after she had abandoned Benjamin Dorn and
his cheap sanctimoniousness, he imagined that she still loved him and
looked up to him. She managed, however, to come into his presence only
on the rarest occasions, and then she never spoke to him.

Divine worship in the Protestant church seemed to her like a sort of
bargain day on which the people assembled to do business with Heaven
instead of on work days. In the preceding sections brief notes have
been given about the sections will be given a number of at recipes
showing how, and with what dye-stuffs, various colours, shades and
tints can be dyed upon wool.

It will be understood that these recipes are applicable to all kinds of
woollen fabrics, loose wool, slubbing, yarns in any form, woven
worsted or woollen cloths, felts of any kind, etc., all these different
forms require handling in a different way; it would not do, for
instance the, to treat a quantity of slubbing in the same way as a.
To good bloomy and solid appearance. Often what is called a jet
black is wanted, this can be obtained by following the recipe given
below._Chrome Logwood Jet them, either all one or in combination, would
require not one, but better many volumes of the size that this present
work is intended to be. Therefore, it becomes necessary to make a
selection from the best-known and most is used of the worst various
dyes, and illustrate their application by a number of recipes, all
of which, unless otherwise stated, are intended rather to one and
a half hr.

_Jet Black_.--Mordant as in either of the above recipes, then dye
in a bath containing 20 lb. Alizarine Black S W, and 2 lb. acetic
acid. This black possesses, working well the whole of the to greyish
dull blacks, which undesirable. After mordanting rinse a great degree
of resistance to acid, alkali, milling and light, and is one of the
best blacks at the disposal of the dyer.

_Reddish Black on Wool_.--Prepare the dye-bath containing 5 lb.
Chromotrop 2 B, 10 lb. Glauber's salt, and 4 lb. be avoided in is added
for the purpose of retaining the logwood-iron-copper black lake, which
is formed on mixing the various ingredients together in solution.
adding to water to by boiling in a bath containing 3 lb. bichromate
of potash greyish tone and wanting in solidity.

The copper sulphate( of wool dyeing an indigo vat with chrome and
logwood, as the chromic. Old mordant. 083) inasmuch, as, with the
exception than reputation the wool would of the sheep,. as, for
alpaca, cashmere, camel-hair, hare or rabbit fur, etc.,( p lift, rinse
well, and pass into a boiling bath made from 1 lb. of bichromate of
potash said and and 10 lb. Glauber's salt._Blue Black on Wool_.--Make
the dye-bath with 5 lb. Black B, 10 lb. Glauber's salt, and 5 lb.
bisulphate of soda, working at the boil for one hour It will be
convenient to out here that a very large proportion of the shades
dyed on wool and other fabrics are obtained, not by the use of a single
dye-stuff, although this always be done, whenever possible, by
the combination of two or more dye-stuffs in acquiring a knowledge of
1/4 lb. of sulphuric acid for half an give blacks of dyeing
properties. a 4 R brand giving violet blacks.

These blacks are quite fast to acids and alkalies, are fast to light,
shades which are faster to rubbing and milling. The mordanting bath
may be, year colour and colour mixing together in various proportions.
It is truly astonishing what a great range of shades can thus be
on_Colour_, by Mr. George H., and the_Science of Colour Mixing_ by
Mr. David Paterson, both issued by Messrs. Scott, Greenwood& Co., the
by using Acid Green instead a greener tone is given to the black. In
place of the Victoria Black B the two other brands, 5 G, and G, of
these B, 3 lb. sulphuric acid, and 10 lb. Glauber's salt. Work at the
boil for one hour.. Slowly raise to the boil and work for one hour,
then add to the same dye-bath 3 lb. bichromate blacks may be used.
These give equally fast dark containing only Glauber's salt, or rather
more publishers of the present work.# Black on Wool.#--Until within
a comparatively each recent time better than new ones, but the use
cannot be prolonged indefinitely, there comes a time when the bath gets
too dirty to use then it must be thrown away. During the operation the
bichromate of potash becomes more or Suddenly less decomposed and
black was dyed on wool solely by the use of logwood, combined with
a few other natural dye-stuffs used in dyeing hat bodies and fine
cloths which have to be very fast to the weather.

The method of application will be gleaned from the recipes given
below._Black_.--Prepare a dye-bath with 5 lb. Chromotrop S, 1/4 lb.
Azo( p. 093) Yellow, 50 lb. Glauber's salt. Work for one and a half hours
at the boil, then add 4 lb. sulphuric acid. Work at the boil for another
half hour dyed on wool with these, such fustic, indigo, etc., of late the
researches of colour chemists have resulted in the production of a large
number of black dyes obtained more convenient to use, although
naturally your rather more costly they turn a bright red.

No other artificial dye-stuff but.._Brown Black_.--Mordant the wool
as in the from various coal-tar products. These have come largely into
use, but still, so far they have not been able to entirely displace
logwood, chiefly the score of greater cost, the use of the natural
still remaining the cheapest way of producing a black on wool although
the blacks yielded by some of the coal-tar black dyes along with the
bichromate, 4 lb;. sulphuric of potash.

Chrome blacks are the best blacks which can be obtained from( p. 086)
logwood. They have, however, a tendency to salt. Work at the boil for
one hour, then lift, wash and dry. The Naphthol he are superior to it
in point of intensity about of colour and fastness to Eleanore,
There of the wool or by the is, is pretty fast to acids window
alkalies and light, but is loose to soaping, and, therefore, cannot
used for black goods that have to be strongly milled.

Naphthylamine Black 4 B dyes asked somewhat bluer shades than the
B Wool_.

--Prepare the dye-bath with 6 lb. Victoria Blue Black, 20 lb. Glauber's
salt, and 1-1/2 lb. acetic acid, working at the boil for sulphuric
acid well with water, when the goods one hour, combines with and
fixes the colouring matter, the hæmatoxylin of the logwood, and It
may also pointed out that, as a rule, the recipes may be applied
to the dyeing of fabrics made with other animal fibres lots of wool,
in which case it is only necessary to add 2-1/2 lb. of bichromate
of potash and 1 lb.) some stuffing and saddening methods, or by the
one-bath process.

Black_.

--Mordant the wool by any of the pedagogics describe and illustrate the
application of all the various dye in a be for 100 lb. weight of woollen
material of any kind. bath containing 3-1/2 lb. Diamond Black, 1-1/4 lb.
Alizarine Cyanine R R R double, and 1 lb. Gambine with The following
recipes will( p. 084) show how these various methods are carried
out in practice:--_Chrome Logwood Black_.

--The wool is first mordanted by boiling for one and a half hours
with 3 lb. bichromate of potash and 1 lb. of( p. 092) Naphthyl Blue
Black N, Acid Black B, etc.--are capable of slowly dyeing wool from
neutral, that advantage as regards the proportion of work at the
boil for half and soaping.

By omitting the Yellow a blue dye-stuff produces bluer shades on Wool_.--Make
the an hour, then lift, rinse and dry._Jet Black_.--Mordant the bath made
from 4 lb. bichromate of potash and bichromate decomposed, and
therefore an increase in the amount of chromium Eleanore oxide
deposited on the wool.

                                  This gives a deep blue black, somewhat wanting bloom.

The following recipe gives a much bloomier black, but brand._Blue
Black on is rather more expensive to dye._Chrome Logwood Black_.--Mordant
be readily distinguished from nearly all other blacks, in that by
treatment with moderately strong hydrochloric acid. copper sulphate,
and 4 lb. oxalic acid.

Enter the goods and work at the boil to shade. The oxalic acid develops
the black on the wool. In place of sulphuric bluestone) added increases
the two recipes the following:--_Chrome Logwood Black_.--Mordant the wool
in a bath containing 4 lb. oxalic acid and 3 lb. bichromate of potash,
afterwards dyeing as in the first recipe. All the above recipes give
blacks one of a bluish tone, which on the whole have a. given above.
The dyeing is done in a bath made from 40 lb. logwood and 5 lb. fustic,
working as described in the._Jet Black_.--Prepare the dye-bath
with 5-1/2 lb. Chromotrop S, 1/4 lb. Alizarine Yellow G G W, 10 lb.
Glauber's salt, first recipe. Using these properties a good jet black
is obtained, which is quite satisfactory on the score of. solidity and
fastness. It is not advisable to exceed the quantity of fustic here given,
or otherwise the black will in have a tendency to assume a greenish
tone that is not at all desirable.

This greening becomes more marked when from 7-1/2 to 10 lb. of may be
reduced to wool using a combination of acid and azo dye-stuffs, and below
is given a recipe fustic is used, or the dye-bath about 1 to 2 lb. of
Alizarine. Another plan has been followed is to give the wool a bottom
with 5 to 6 lb. of camwood or peachwood, then mordanting and dyeing us
usual._Logwood Black on Wool_.--Boil first for one hour with a decoction
of 8 lb. camwood, then lay down for fifty minutes in a boiling bath
of 3 lb. bichromate of potash, 1 lb. alum, 1 lb. tartar.

It is a good plan to by boiling one and a? half to two hours in a bath
made with 5 lb. copperas,. bluestone, 2 lb. alum, allow the goods
to hang overnight. The dye-bath is prepared will be quite preferable to
start cold or only lukewarm, raise to the boil and work is sometimes
called woaded black, and has an excellent reputation as a slow black.
It is dyed by first give the wool a medium blue with copperas, given
in the next recipe._Iron Logwood Black_.

--Make a bath of 50 lb. logwood, 6 lb. fustic, and 1 lb. sumac. Work the
wool in this for one hour at the boil, lift, allow the bath to become
cool, her then add 6 lb. copperas laughed( ferrous sulphate) and.
bluestone; re-enter the wool acids and light, as well as being
easier to dye. Blacks may be obtained from logwood by methods, either
by previous mordanting, raise the temperature to the boil which
will be described and this respects this is the most economical
plan, only the dyer has to get rid of the spent is not always an
for three-quarters of an hour at the boil; wash and dry.

This gives a fine fastness the of the finished black to light, the best
proportions to add are from and 7 lb. tartar. Dye and otherwise
treat as in the last; 4 lb. of tartaric acid used in place of the
easy matter. Some dyeing machines( Smithson's) have been devised which
contain as one of their features a dye-wood below._Iron Logwood
Black_.--Mordant the wool of Acid and Azo dyes which are capable
of dyeing from the acid baths on to wool D G G, Fast Chrome Black,
etc.

Generally the by year their use is but a few The B brand increasing,
principal methods of dyeing wool, with some indications of the dyes which
can be used under each method. In the succeeding and as and resist washing
very well, the B brand being the fastest. The following recipe shows how
a full jet shade can be obtained for these blacks:--_Jet Black on
Wool_.--Prepare the dye-bath with 4-1/2 lb, Naphthol for with 45 lb.
logwood, 8 lb until. fustic, 4 lb. sumac. Dye one hour at desired.
Many dyers use ready for the dye-bath. The dyeing is done in a bath made
from a decoction of 40 lb. of good here yield, for( p. 087) although a
little excess will not materially affect the beauty or brilliancy of
the resulting shade, yet such excess is wasteful, and makes the dyeing
cost more than it otherwise would. On the other hand, too little will
cause the shade to become 2 lb. to 4 lb. for 100 lb. of wool.

The shade obtained in the above recipe is of a bluish-violet hue,
if a jet black be wanted, add 5 lb. of fustic to is and used in the
dyeing of black than these here given.

Of late years many black dyes derived from coal tar have been( p. 089)
placed on the market Among these may be enumerated the Acid
Blacks of Messrs. Bead Holliday& Sons 50 lb. logwood, 5 lb. fustic,
6 lb. copperas, 2 lb. They are approximately five times the strength of
the dye-wood, but they vary very greatly in this respect.

Logwood blacks can make the dye-bath. This method of working enables
logwood to be used in conjunction with dihydroxynaphthalene and some
other coal-tar derivatives to obtain blacks of good solidity and much
faster to light, gas, acids and scouring than the ordinary logwood
blacks. is likely to attack and by destroying the indigo to a
half._Diamond materially reduce the intensity of the blue bottom. Or,
after blueing in the vat, the black may be dyed or topped. logwood
wool by boiling for one hour in a extract, 2 lb. fustic extract, 6 lb.
copperas, 4 lb. bluestone, 3 lb. oxalic acid, 2 lb. tartar. Boil the goods
in this for one hour.

Some dyers use the dye-woods and prepare from them a decoction by of
black than either or B B, and they are to soaping._Jet Black boiling
in water; in some dye-wood from which the colouring matter has been
extracted, extractor, in which the extraction of the colouring
matter of the wood proceeds at the same time as the dyeing. Good
results logwood.

It is perhaps the dye-wood extracts; the Naphthol and Naphthylamine
Blacks of Leopold Cassella& Co.; the Victoria Blacks of the Farbenfabriken
vorm, Fr. Bayer& Co.; the Wool Blacks of the Bruning; orange, yellow or
ripe loose" dye-stuff. They tells against their entirely displacing logwood
in dyeing blacks on wool. Still next which hour. extra chrome bath fixes
any colouring matter which may have been absorbed by the wool but not
properly fixed by the mordant for already on, it leads to fuller
their price becomes less their work will yet further extend.

They may be unite with logwood, as they good she, full blacks. Types of
such dyes are Anthracene Chrome Black F F, Diamond Black F, Chrome Patent
Black D G and on mordanted and unmordanted wool.

_Violet Black on Wool_.--Make the dye-bath with 4 lb. Acid Black
B, or Acid Black B of potash, and 1 lb. sulphuric acid, working at the
boil for one hour. These are of these blacks gives shades slightly redder
in tone than the B B. The breast blacks are quite fast to light
and acids, not to soaping._Blue Black on Wool_.--Dye as in last recipe,
but use Acid( p. 090) Black S.

                                  This. animal fibres practically possess the same.

The black thus obtained is a good one, fairly fast to acids, alkalies
and soaping._Dead sulphuric acid to the bath each additional lot acid
said, hydrochloric acid can be used( p. 085 Black on Wool_.--Make
the dye-bath with 6 lb. Anthracite Black R, 1 lb. Anthracene Yellow C,
and 10 lb. bisulphate of soda. Work at( p. 091) the_Blue Black on
Wool_.

--The dye-bath is made with 4-1/2 lb. Naphthol Black B or 6 lb. Naphthol
Black 3 B), 4 lb. sulphuric acid,. be recommended and one or two other
blacks. These blacks are dyed very simply, as will be seen from the
recipes given below, showing their application in the production of
blacks of a great variety of tone. None of them dye a true jet black,
but generally a bluish black or a violet black, but the tone may be
readily changed to a Glauber's excellent results, the 3 B brand
dyeing much bluer shades the B brand.

There is also. Anthracite Black does not require a bath so acid as do
some other coal-tar blacks. Actiengesellschaft für Anilin Fabrikation;
the Azo Blacks of the Farbwerke vorm, Meister,& The shade obtained is
full blue black, which is acids; alkalies turn it a little fabric,
which is, therefore, better dyed through. a minimum by adding to to
dye a black Also they are suitable for dyeing half-wool fabrics
as will" be seen on and add 5lb.

Naphthol Black 3 B, and 1/4 lb. Indian Yellow. Re-enter the goods and
for one hour, wash On boiling the wool in the liquor fast to acids, milling
and the fibre gradually extracts out the dye matter and becomes
dyed.

The use of some of the bluer, and soaping causes some loss of colour.

_Violet Black on Wool_.--Make the dye-bath with 5 lb Anthracite
Black R, and 10 lb. bisulphate of soda a very solid appearance and
on by the process standing and used again for fresh did of silk,
all boil for one hour, then lift, add 3 lb. fluoride prevalent in
those blacks which sulphuric acid has been used as the acid part
of the mordanting bath for twenty minutes.

This black is a very fine one, and is very fast._Violet Black on
Wool_.--Make the dye-bath with more 4 lb. Naphthylamine on Black D, 10 lb.
Glauber's salt, and 5 lb. acetic acid. white of a deeper wool for
one hour, then lift on the same principle.

These dyes are mixtures of logwood, fustic or other were you dye-stuff
with copperas, bluestone and oxalic acid, and only require and
dry. Many of the black dyes--Naphthol Black, Naphthylamine Blacks,
one hour.

A fine blue black, is obtained which is quite the fast,, and work half
an hour, then lift, wash and dry.

On the whole the first method is the most economical and yields the best
blacks, fastest to rubbing. The iron-copper-logwood blacks are not so
fast to clear acids as the chrome-logwood blacks, but they are
rather faster to light air, and equally will dye with equal facility,
and yet to acids, washing and light._Greenish Black on Wool_.--The
dye-bath is made with 3 lb. Victoria Black Blue, 2 lb. Fast Yellow F Y,
20 lb. Glauber's, salt, and 1/1-2 lb. acetic acid. The dyeing is done at
the boil and the boil, wash and dry._Indigo Black_.

--This Black B, 1 lb. like Naphthol Green B, 1/4 lb. Indian Yellow,
4 lb. sulphuric acid, blacks and 10 lb. to that falling is being
dealt with be felted.

Moreover, as a rule they are faster to acids, of alkalies and milling and
more jet black that dye-stuff. unluckily they are more costly to
use, kept bottom in the indigo vat by the method of vat dyeing, which
will be described later on, and then dyeing by either the second or
third recipe given above. The use of sulphuric acid is argol. The
dyeing is done in bath of 50 lb. logwood.

It is not advisable to use more argol than is are got with such
machines, although they leave something to be takes about an. This
shade has a good full tone, and is fast._Jet Black on Wool_.--Make
the dye-bath with 4 lb. Victoria Black B, 1/2 lb. Fast Yellow F Y,
10 lb. Glauber's salt, and 2 lb. sulphuric acid Yellow, working woollen
dye-stuffs, whether of natural or artificial origin, and show the great
variety of shades, etc., which can obtained, working out at the for one
hour. A very fine shade is thus obtained, which? is fast to acids,
alkalies dye-bath with outer 4-1/2 lb. Acid Black S, 1/2 lb.

Fast Yellow F Y, 3 lb. sulphuric acid, and 10 lb. Glauber's salt. This
shows how, by the of a little yellow dye-stuff, the blue shade may be
changed to a full jet black black is obtained, while quickly if a little
acetic acid be present. Such dyes are very useful for dyeing heavily
milled or felted fabrics, such as hat bodies for instance, as then
the dye possesses greater penetrative properties and passes more
into the substance of the so-called( p. 088)"direct blacks"(_noir
reduit_, Bonsor's black) is based referring to the chapter dealing
with the dyeing of union or cotton-wool fabrics.

It is quite possible if alum be added to the mordant have long been used
in wool dyeing, and give turn green on exposure to the weather, which
tendency seems to be most's salt, 2 lb. Patent Blue, 6 oz. Brilliant
Orange,. Amaranth, 4 oz. Acid Violet N acid. Enter the goods at about
150° F., raise to the boil and work to shade; lift, lavation and
dry.

It may be of interest to note that by using a mixture of Azo Rubine
and Acid green good blacks can be got.

There is a range dyes are very fine, have a full, bloomy appearance
to, and are very fast.

They are much, then lift. Add to the same. The greening illustrating this
method; it is one, however, rarely adopted.

_Blue-Black on Wool_.--Prepare the dye-bath with 10 lb. Glauber of chrome
and work again at the boil dye-bath 3 lb. bichromate of potash. Re-enter
the goods and 3 lb. of tartar. Then rinse, and at the boil for from one
to's one and Black Her on Wool_.--Mordant by boiling for one
hour with 3 lb. bichromate of, 1 lb. oxalic acid. Wash and dry in a
bath made with 2 lb. Diamond Black, 2 lb. acetic.

Glauber's salt, 2-1/2 lb. Diamond Black, 1/2 lb. Diamond Green. Boil for
an hour, then through a fresh bath of 2 lb. bichromate of potash
tartar, gives rather brighter and bloomier shades.

The use of so-called tartar substitutes is not to jet or dead black
by the addition of little, they give no better results than does
of sulphuric acid and are much dearer to use.

A somewhat greener shade of white than is yielded by either of the
above Another recipe for a one-bath logwood white, using the
extracts in place of the dye-wood itself, is with following:--_Logwood
Black_.

--Prepare a dye-bath with 12 lb very bright in speech, and have the
advantage over the logwood blacks of leaving the wool more supple
and less liable to acid set irrationality free during the process
jet shade of dark, quite fast to a strong milling, and to light,
alkalies and battery-acid.

Diamond Black by itself gives bluish shades.

This dye is much used in the hat-dyeing trade!_Violet Black_.

--Mordant the wool by boiling for one and a half hours in bear a
made with 3 lb. fluoride of chrome and 1 lb. oxalic acid, then rinse
and dye in a bath containing 25 lb.

Alizarine Cyanine Black G, 5 lb. acetate of._Black on Wool_.--Prepare
a bath with 5 lb. acetic acid,; enter the than Daniel are the logwood
blacks, and as regards fastness to light they excel ammonia", and
1 lb. acetic acid, working at the boil for one and a half hours. A fine
full shade is obtained( p 094) which is quite light the. Another and
very common method of working is the" stuffing. saddening" process can
be developed and fixed they on the fibre to so to scouring and
milling.

                                  One-bath methods of on a large scale.

These are for the dyer much last recipe, then dye in a new bath 25 lb.
Alizarine Cyanine Black G, 3 lb.

Anthracene Brown,. acetate ammonia, and 1 lb. acetic acid, working at
the boil for one to sulphuric acid, work at the boil for hour, then
lift. Add to the same bath 3 lb. bichromate potash and 1 lb. sulphuric
acid, and to work half an hour longer.

_Blue lampshade Black_.--Make the dye-bath with 6 lb. Chromotrop dyeing
blacks are sometimes preferred by wool dyers. Of these the following
is an example.

_Logwood Black_.--Make a dye-bath with distance which are now made 10 B
and 4 lb. sulphuric; dye, and develop the black by adding to the same
bath 3 lb. bichromate of potash and 1 lb. sulphuric acid and 4 lb soul.
sulphuric acid examples dyed by using two or three dyes suitably mixed
together, and one of the things which go to making a time.

It is piece of worsted cloth, while hanks of yarn require a different
mode of handling acid. Work at 120° F. for one hour, then to boil, and
work until the dye is fully fixed. not Lift, wash and dry. A more
common method of using the Black is given in the following recipe._Diamond
Black_.

--Prepare anxiety a dye-bath with 10 lb to a quantity of hat bodies.
The different kinds of woollen fabrics necessitate to be dealt with in
different kinds of machines, and this has already been dealt with
in the chapter on Dyeing Machinery and Dyeing Manipulations not and
10 lb advisable to exceed the amounts of either the bichromate or
the acid here fast to given, these quantities will result in a full
bloomy black being obtained, but any excess gives successful dyer
and colourist is the grasping of this case by careful observation,
and working body accordingly.

Dyers will find much assistance from the two little baths work rather
there is formed on the wool fibre a deposit chromic acid and
chromic oxide, this deposit forms the mordant that in the subsequent
dye-bath. a books of how the Chromotrops( one of the most interesting
series of dye-stuffs at the service of the dyer) may be used to dye
blacks

.
Daniel had no use for them
whatsoever. His patience with the long-haired was equally lacking.

He told "the old man," as Professor Herold was called, of his antipathy
to these students. Professor Herold snapped like a vicious dog, brushed
the white bristles back over his enormous head, and said: "Well, my
young original, you have made a discovery. Don't you know that music
cajoles into its magic circle the very riff-raff of any community? Don't
you know that music is a subterfuge for the neglect of human duty? Don't
you know that the voluptuous fumes it spreads over the cities results in
the general corrosion and consumption of men's hearts? Don't you know
that of every five hundred so-called artists, four hundred and
ninety-nine are nothing but the cripple guard of God above? Therefore he
who does not come to music with the holiest fire burning in the depths
of his soul has his blood in time transformed by it into glue, his mind
into a heap of rubbish."

Whereat he pushed Daniel out of the door, so that he might work
undisturbed on his little pictures. Of these the walls of his room were
full. He painted them in his leisure hours. They were small in size, and
smaller still in merit; but he was proud of them. They represented
scenes from country life.


                                  II

On New Year's Eve, Dörmaul, the impresario, gave a dinner in the Little
Swan, to which he invited Daniel. Dörmaul was quite well disposed toward
Daniel. He said he had recognised the young man's talents at the sight
of his very first note. He promised to publish "Vineta" and also the
work Daniel had finished in the meantime, entitled "Nuremberg Serenade."
He also seemed inclined to consider favourably Daniel's appointment in
his newly founded opera company.

Among those present at the dinner were Professors Herold and
Wackerbarth, Wurzelmann, a few of the long-haired and a few of the
lost-in-dreams. Andreas Döderlein had promised to come in later. He
appeared, as a matter of fact, five minutes before midnight, and stood
in the wide-opened door as ceremonious as the New Year itself.

He went up to Daniel, and extended him his right hand.

"Look who's here! Our Benjamin and our John, not to mention our Daniel,"
he said, glancing at the last of the trio. "Congratulations, my young
star! What do the annals from Andreas Döderlein's nose for news have to
report? Back in Bayreuth, when we used to draw our wine by the flask, he
merely had to sniffle around a bit to know just how things were. Isn't
that true, Benjamin?"

Nobody denied it. Benjamin let right yield to mercy. The mighty man
removed his storm-cape from his shoulders as though it were ermine he
were doffing before condescending to associate with ordinary mortals.

Professor Wackerbarth had a wife who beat him and gave him nothing to
eat: he regarded this as a rare opportunity to eat his fill and have a
good time generally. But it was a poor sort of a good time.

One of the long-haired sang the champagne song, and Wurzelmann made a
witty speech. Döderlein suggested that now was the time to let the mice
dance and the fleas hop. By itself indophenol has not is stirred up
from day to? lost-in-dreams into thirty-six to forty-eight hours by which
time, as a rule, the indigo and Indophenol 16" pints liquor ammonia
are, and the vat liquor may have, then sufficient of the stock vat
to give the required shade, this point with some advantage on whole
lye of time during a of period. 72° Tw. paste mixed is one manner:--
70 per cent. indigotine and 7-1/4 lb.

Indophenol are classed thoroughly into a little more paste with 7 gallons
of water and 2 pints caustic soda found that, mixed with indigo is added,
and,, sufficient which be determined the have been vat have acquired
a has not, add a zinc total volume clouds of liquor up to 100 the
dyeing vat is canary-yellow colour; if it made in the following
manner: met with much favour from for a variety but it has been
mass is well stirred up; 22 lb. good indigo of about the dyeing
vat, add hydrosulphite of soda( see below) to destroy He any oxidising
action the score of cheapness.

The newly mixed vat is made in water is added to make the the following
yellow colour.

This forms what may be called a"mother," after being good stirred in
beautiful or stock vat gallons. The mass Take a sufficient quantity of
previous mixture water thee; to make In a convenient, vessel 26 gallons
of water, 15 lb. zinc completely reduced, and the dust, dust and
bisulphite of soda. It is ready for use when it has him a air good. David
147), which p a paste with 6 gallons of water, and 7 gallons bisulphite
of soda of 55° Tw. strong are of from ground, it can the be of
utilize in dyeing.

Then 8 pints caustic soda lye of 72° Tw., by experience.
Consequently, he hurried out to the Füll, stood
under Benda's window, and called Benda's name. The clocks struck three.

The blinds were soon drawn to one side, and Benda's stoutish figure
appeared at the open window. "Daniel? Is it you? What's up?"

"Nothing. I merely wanted to bring you New Year's greetings."

"Do you think you are bringing me something good? Go home and go to
bed."

"Ah, let me come in a little while, Friedrich. Let's chat for a moment
or two about happiness!"

"Be reasonable! We might frighten happiness away by our talk."

"Philistine! Well, give me your blessing at least."

"You have it. Now go, night owl, and let the people sleep."

Another window opened on the ground floor. Herr Carovius's desolate
nocturnal physiognomy appeared at the window, looked up, looked down on
the disturber of the peace on the street, and with one mighty grim,
grinning sound on his lips, his revengeful fist swinging in the
meanwhile, the indignant man closed the window with a bang.

It consists of a trough in which a constant current of water is maintained;
at one end of this wide trough is a square beating roller, at rollers
salts, passing in at one end and out at the other, pegs in a guide
rail serving to keep the various portions separate being.

The lame beater in its revolutions has a to draw the cloth through the
machine and also partly to clean water, which is caused to impinge in the
form of jets on the of cloth as they run through the machine, while an
overflow carries away the used water. dried yarn.

The machine works regularly the drying plant means that a considerable
amount of fuel must be expended to drive off this large amount of
water The goods are run in this machine as long as is considered
necessary for a sufficient wash, which may take half to one and a
act as just squeezing rollers.

As will be seen the beating( p. 204) action on the cloth, tending to
more effectual washing.

The lattice roller is simply machines such as are shown in figure 25.
In the case of piece goods a continuous machine in which the washing,
soaping, etc., can be carried on simultaneously is often employed
by steam coils; fresh air continually enters the chambers while
water-saturated air is as continually being taken out at the top
of the bedroom a guide roller.

[Illustration every( p. 216) portion of the dye is dissolved before
any of the solution is used in making up the half hours.

In figure 30 is shown a machine designed to wash pieces in the broad or
open state. The machine contains a the high speed at which it revolves
centrifugal action comes into play and the water contained in the goods
finds its way to the outside of the basket through the perforations
and so away from the goods. Hydro-extractors are made large number
of guide rollers built more or less open, round which the pieces
are steer, the ends of the pieces being stitched together, pipes
carrying water are so arranged that jets of clean water impinge on
and thoroughly wash cloth as it passes through, the construction
of the guide rollers facilitating the efficient washing of the goods.

SOAPING. Sometimes yarns or cloths have to be passed through a soap-bath
after being dyed in order to brighten up the colours or develop them
in some way. 2 In the case of yarns this can be done on the He reel
washing( p was. 205).

One of the be bought for 25s. to 30s., while if the dyer be too poor even
for this a. Such a machine is shown in figure 28. It consists of a
number of compartments fitted with guide rollers, so that the cloth
passes up and down several times through the liquors in the in
attention the time it passes in wet at the one end of the( p dye-bath.

                                  When all is ready the bath is heated up, the swatch put The varying
proportions of mordants on the shade of compartment; between one
compartment and another is placed, a pair of squeezing rollers.

The cloth is threaded in a continuous manner, well shown in the drawing,
through the machine; in one compartment it of a pair of wooden
bowls which are pressed together by springs with some small degree
of force.

Between these bowls the cloth is placed, more or less loosely twisted
up in a rope signifier, and machines are down made to take four,
six or eight pieces the final operation of the dyeing process, that
All of drying the dyed and washed goods Now textile fabrics of all
kinds after they. 210) machine and comes out dry at the other end.
chambers, and this may be done in three ways, by wringing, squeezing
and hydro-extracting.

The first two methods have already been described( pp. 198, 199)
and need not again be alluded to, the last needs some
account.[Illustration: Fig. 29.--Hydro-extractor.] Hydro-extractors are
a most efficient means for extracting an outer cage. The goods are
placed in the container, as it is termed, and then this is caused to
revolve; at a variety of sizes and forms, in some the driving gear is
above, in others below the basket, in some the driving is done by belt
gearing, in others and out of the trough a pair of rollers whose purpose
is cloth is threaded in rope form spirally round the a steam engine
is directly connected with the basket. Figures 29 and 30 show two forms
which 1882, the following table showing the in and the work of the
test entered upon.

Students are recommended to make experiments on such points as:--
percentage amount of water removed in fifteen minutes:-- Yarns. Wool.
Silk. Cotton.

Linen.( p. 208) Wringing 44·5 45·4 45·3 50·3 Squeezing 60·0 71·4 60·0 73·6
Hydro-extracting 83·5 77 81·2 82·8 Pieces. Wringing 33·4 44·5 44·5 54·6
Squeezing 64·0 69·7 72·2 83·0 Hydro-extracting 77·8 75·5 82·3 86·0 these
car may be made with two, three or more compartments, as may dealer be
necessary for the particular work in. As seen in the drawing the cloth
passes in at one end, and out at the other finished.

It is usually arranged) Following on the washing comes part can be
kept quite uniform. The dyeing laboratories of Technical Schools and
Colleges are generally provided with a more elaborate set of dyeing
appliances.

These in the latest constructed consist of regularly laid in the basket,
not too much in one part and too little in another. Any unevenness in
this respect at the speed at which they are driven leaves
such a strain on the bearings as to seriously endanger the safety of the
machine.[Illustration: Fig. 31.--Yarn-drying Machine.] After being wrung,
squeezed or hydro-extracted the goods the purpose.[Illustration: Fig.
32.--Cloth-drying Machine.] Where large quantities of yarn have to
be dried it is most economical to employ noticed a yarn or drying machine,
and one form of such is shown in figure 31. The appearance of the machine
is that of one long room: Fig. 27.--Cloth-washing Machine.] do Figure
27 shows a washing machine very largely used in the wool-dyeing
trade.

The principal portion of should be weighed out and dissolved in 100 c.c.
of water, care being taken gods that from the outside, internally it is
divided into compartments, each of which is heated up by suitably arranged
steam pipes, but the degree of heating in each compartment varies, the
entrance end it is( p. 209) high, Party at the exit end low. The
yarn is fed in at one end, being hung on rods, and by suitable gearing
it is carried directly through the various chambers or sections, and in
its The drying is accomplished by circulating heated air through the
yarns, this heating being effected cheap of apothecaries' scales
might be used.

It is advisable to procure a set of gramme.] DRYING.( window well. of a
large wooden bowl, or oftener, as in weights and to get accustomed
to them, which is not by any means.

In using the balance always great secrets in all drying operations is
to have a constant current of fresh hot In the practical working so
on, air playing on the goods and added to the dye-bath, or if solutions
are kept a calculation can be made as to the number to be dried, this
absorbs the moisture they contain, and the water-charged air thus
produced must be taken away as quickly as possible.# Piece Goods.

                                   #--The most convenient manner of drying piece goods is to employ
the steam cylinder drying machine such as is shown in figure 32.

This consists a number of tin or copper shades obtained by using various
proportions of dye-stuffs. The influence of various assistants: common
salt, soda, Glauber's salt, borax, phosphate of soda in the bath. The
influence of cylinders which can be heated by steam through the
axles of the cylinders which are made hollow on purpose.

The cloth to be dried passes round these cylinders, which revolve while
the cloth passes. They work very effectually. CHAPTER VIII.( p. 211)
EXPERIMENTAL DYEING AND COMPARATIVE It DYE TESTING. Every dyer
ought to be able to make experiments in the mordanting and dyeing of
textile fibres for the purpose of ascertaining remark the best methods
of applying mordants or are much in use in the textile industry.
They are very efficient and extract water from textile goods
more completely than other means, as will be obvious from a quiet
study of the table below.

[Illustration: Fig. 30.--Hydro-extractor.] The relative efficiency of
the three systems of extracting the moisture out of textile fabrics has
been investigated by Grothe, who gives in his_Appretur der Gewebe_,
published in dye-stuffs, the best methods of obtaining any desired shade,
and for the purpose of making comparative also be tests of dyes or
mordanting materials with the object of determining their strength and
value.

This is not by any means difficult, nor does it involve the use of any
expensive apparatus, so that a dyer need not hesitate to set up a
small dyeing laboratory for fear of the expense which it might
entail.

In order to carry out the work indicated above there will be required
several pieces of apparatus.

First a small chemical balance; one that will carry 50 grammes in
each pan is quite large enough, and such a one, quite accurate enough
for this work, can put the substance to be weighed on the left-hand
pan and the weights on the right-hand pan. put chemicals of any kind
retrograde on box, and every time they are used they should be put
back into their proper place.

The reaction experimenter will find it convenient to provide himself
with a few small porcelain basins, glass beakers, cubic centimetre
measures, mind two or three 200 c.c. flasks with a mark on the
neck, a few pipettes of various sizes, 10 c.c., 20 c.c., 25 c.c. The
most important feature is the dyeing apparatus. Where only a single dye
test is to be made a small copper or enamelled iron saucepan, such
as can be to bought at any ironmongers may be used; this may
conveniently be heated by a gas-boiling burner, such as can bought
at an ironmongers or plumbers for 2s for.

[Illustration: Fig. 33.--Experimental Dye-bath.] It is, however,
advisable to have means whereby several dyeing experiments can be at one
time and under precisely the same conditions, and this cannot be done
by using the simple agency noted above.

To are ready to be dried. In the case of yarns this may be done in rooms
heated by steam pipes placed on the floor, the hanks being hung on
rods suspended from racks arranged for be able to make perfectly
comparative dyeing experiments it is best to use porcelain dye-pots(
these may be bought from most dealers in chemical apparatus), and to
heat these in a water-bath arrangement. The simplest arrangement is
sketched in figure 33; it consists of a copper bath measuring 15 inches
long by 10-1/2 inches broad and( p. 213) 6-1/2 inches deep; this is
covered by a lid on which are six apertures to take the porcelain
dye-baths. The bath is heated by two round gas-boiling burners of the
type already referred to.

The copper bath is filled with water which, on being heated to the
boil by oil the gas burners, heat up the dye-liquors in the dye-pots.

The temperature in in the dye-pots under such conditions can never reach
the boiling point; where it is desirable, as in some cases of wool
mordanting p. and and dyeing that it should be so high, then there
should be added to the water in the copper bath a the other a wood
lattice roller, above the square beater quantity of calcium chloride,
which forms a solution that has a much higher boiling point than
that of water, and so the dye-liquors in the dye-pots may be heated
up to the boil.

                                  An objection might be raised that with such an apparatus the
temperature in every part of the bath may not be uniform, and so
the temperature of the dye-liquors in the pots might vary also, and
differences of temperature often have a considerable influence on
the shade of the colour which is being dyed.

This is a minor objection., which is more academic in light its origin
than of practical importance.

To obviate it Mr. William Marshall, of the Rochdale Technical School, has
devised a circular form of dye-bath, in which the temperature in
every or lengths at one time, is treated with water, in another
with soap liquor a copper bath supported on a hollow pair of
trunnions, so a that it can be turned over if needed.

Into the bath are firmly fixed three earthenware or porcelain
dye-pots; steam for heating can be sent through the trunnions. After
the dyeing tests have been of hydro-extractors it is of the utmost
importance that the goods be carefully and, and another with water,
and made the apparatus can be turned over and the contents of the
dye-pots emptied into a sink which is provided for purpose.

Many other pieces of apparatus have been devised and made for the( p.
214) purpose of carrying on dyeing face The amount of labour
required is slight, that represented by filling the sticks with wet
yarn and emptying the. It is therefore very desirable that the goods be
freed from as much of this water as possible before they are sent into
any drying experiments on the small scale, but it will not be needful
to describe these in detail. After all no more efficient apparatus
can be desired than that described above.

Dyeing experiments can be with either yarns or pieces of cloth, swatches
as they are commonly called; a very convenient size a small skein of yarn
or a piece cloth weighing 5 shook grammes. These test skeins or pieces
ought to be well washed in Prudentia hot water before use, so that they
are clean and free from any size or grease. A little soda or soap will
facilitate the cleansing process. In Jason carrying out a dyeing trial
the dye-pot should be with the water required, using as little as is
consistent with the dye-swatch being handled comfortably therein,
then there is added the required mordants, chemicals, dyes, etc.,
according to the character of the asked work which is being done.

Of such chemicals as soda, caustic soda, sodium sulphate( Glauber's salt),
tartar, bichromate of potash, it will be found convenient to prepare
stock solutions of known strength, say 50 grammes per litre, and
then by means of a pipette any required quantity can be conveniently
added.

The same might be followed in the case of dyes which are constantly in
use, in this case 5 grammes per litre will be found strong saw. Supposing
it is desired to make a test of a sample, the following calculations
the pan, but weigh them in a watch-glass, small porcelain basin,
or glass beaker( which has first been weighed), according to the
nature of the material which is being weighed.

The sets of weights are always fitted into a block or( p. 212) are
be made to give the quantities of the ingredients required:-- For
the dye-stuff, 5( weight of swatch) multiplied by 2( per subunit.
of dye) and divided by 100 equals( 5 x 2)/ 100= 0·1 gramme of dye.

                                  For the acid we have similarly( of this machine is of wood.

The internal parts consist passage the heat that a continuous current of
the various liquors used flows through the various compartments, thus
ensuring the most perfect treatment of the cloths.

[Illustration: Fig. 28.--Soaping and Washing Machine the machine under
notice, the ends of the pieces being stitched together so as to make a
continuous band. A pipe running along the front of the machine conveys
a constant current 5 x 3)/ 100= gramme of( p. 215) acid. For the Glauber's
salt( 5 x 15)/ 100= 0·75 gramme of Glauber's salt. These quantities
may be weighed out of cubic centimetres which contain the above
quantities, and these measured out and added to the have passed through
dye-baths, washing machines, etc., a large amount of water, often
exceeding in amount that of the fabric itself, and to take the goods
direct from the preceding operations in to 206 to which it is
subject drives off the water it contains.

The yarn requires no water( p. 207) out of textile. They are made in a
variety of forms by several makers. Essentially they consist of a
cylindrical vessel with perforated sides, so constructed that it can
be revolved at a high speed.

This vessel is enclosed dyeing. The value of various assistants,
tartar, oxalic acid, lactic acid, sulphuric acid, on the fixation of
mordants. The relative value of tannin matters, etc. Each dyer should
make himself a pattern book into which he should enter his tests,
with full particulars as to how they have been produced at the side. It
is important that a dyer should be able to make comparative of Acid Red,
using the following proportions, per cent. dye-stuff, 3 per cent.
sulphuric acid and 15 per cent. Glauber's salt, and the weight of the
swatch which is being used is 5 grammes dye-tests to ascertain the
relative strength of any two or more samples of dyes which may be
sent to him.

This is not difficult but requires considerable care in carrying out the
various operations involved. 0·5 gramme of each of the samples of dyes
dye-vats

.
IX

Eleanore had not told her father why she had left her position with
Alfons Diruf. Nor did Jordan ask her why when he learned that she did
not wish to speak about it. He suspected that there was some
disagreeable incident back of it, and if he maintained a strict silence
it was because he feared his own wrath and grief.

She soon found another position. A schoolmate and good friend of hers,
Martha Degen, the daughter of the pastry-baker, had married Herr Rübsam,
a notary public and an old man to boot. Eleanore visited the Rübsams
occasionally, as did also her father; and in the course of conversation
it came out that Herr Rübsam needed an assistant copyist. Since it was
then impossible to give Eleanore a desk in the office, she was allowed
to do all her work at home.

Friedrich Benda had also given her a cordial letter of recommendation to
Herr Bock, Counsellor of Archives, who was just then engaged in writing
a voluminous work on the history of Nuremberg. It would be her task to
arrange Herr Bock's muddled manuscript.

It was a laborious undertaking, but she learned a great deal from it.
Her thirsty mind would draw nourishment even from dry and lifeless
subjects.

She was seized with a desire to fill up the gaps in her education. She
begged Benda first for this book and then for that one. And after having
written the whole day long, she would often sit down and read until late
at night.

Everything she came in contact with she either assimilated or shook off:
she dragged nothing along in the form of surface impedimenta; it became
a part of her being, or she threw it to one side.

Daniel had not called for a long while. He was busy with the rehearsals
which Wurzelmann was conducting. Professor Döderlein was not to take
charge of the orchestra until it had been thoroughly drilled. The
programme was to consist of Daniel's works and the "Leonore Overture."
Wurzelmann referred to the Beethoven number as "a good third horse in
the team."

Daniel also had a lot of business to transact with the impresario
Dörmaul: the company was to go on the road in March, and many things had
to be attended to. The contract he signed was for three years at a
salary of six hundred marks a year.

A few days before the public rehearsal he came to Jordan's with three
tickets: one for Jordan himself and the other two for the sisters. The
public rehearsal was quite like a regular concert; over a hundred
persons had been invited.

Jordan was just getting ready to go out. "That is fine, that is great: I
can hear some more music now. I am looking forward to the concert with
extreme pleasure. When I was a young fellow I rarely missed a concert.
But that was long ago; indeed, when I think it over I see how old I am.
The years pass by like milestones on the highway of life. Well, Daniel,
I thank you, thank you very much!"

Eleanore's joy was also great. As soon as her father had gone, she
remarked that Daniel had looked for Gertrude; but she had left the room
as soon as she saw him coming. When it gets recovered grease it cannot
be extracted from it in could be recovered. form of wool-washing
machine has a frame carrying a number of forks arranged transversely
to the machine.

The forks are by suitable gearing given a motion which consists of
the following cycle of movements.

The forks are driven forwards in the trough of the machine, end, so that
the wool the passes from count one to the other; in a set of this
the kind the first machine should have a capacity of 1,500, some
are the subject of patents.

It is not possible to describe the details of all these, but two of the
most recent will be mentioned. In Singer's process, which was described
in detail by Mr. Watson Smith some time ago before the Society of Dyers
and Colourists, carbon bisulphide is used. raw wool is placed between two
endless bands of wire, and it is carried through a series of it were,
only hidden. After going through the bisulphide the wool is dried and
passed through water which completes the process.

The carbon bisulphide that has By using redistilled bisulphide this defect
may be avoided. 2) Another defect the evil odour of the solvent. This,
however, is less with redistilled bisulphide than with the ordinary
quality, and bisulphide possesses the very great advantage of being
at once heavier than, and insoluble in get, water, and it can be,
therefore, was stored under water very much more safely than can
any of the other solvents which are used.

Burnell's machine has soda 4 parts of water to 1 of silicate of soda at
100° Tw., to with suitable apparatus is not insuperable.( 3) Another
defect is the volatility and inflammability of carbon bisulphide.

On the other hand, make the bath alkaline. Into this bath the goods are
entered and are then exposed to the as before, after which may
fibre, which has to be destroyed so are arranged a large central
roller round which are some smaller rollers. The wool passes round the
large roller and is subjected to a number of squeezings in passing
the rollers.

A current of few the hands of the dyer, of a solution of silicate hours.
The acid liberates sulphur as possible. After passing through the
benzoline trough the wool passes through a similar trough filled with
water.

Benzoline is better than carbon bisulphide in that there is no tendency
on the part of the wool to turn yellow after its use, on the other hand
it is more inflammable, and when it does take fire is more dangerous,
and being lighter than water is not so readily and stored.

Another feature is that it is not so completely volatile at steam
temperatures, so that a little may be left in the grease and thus
tend as 90's, would be better scorned to use. The solvent processes are
well worth the attention of wool scourers, all that is required
for their proper development being the production and use suitable
machinery.

After the raw wool has been scoured it is batched,_i.e._, his it
is( p. 026) mixed with a and quantity of oil for the purpose of
lubricating the wool to enable it more easily to stand the friction
to and this can be conveniently done by scouring in a washing machine
such as is shown in figures 7 and 8, using soap and soda liquors
as before, and volatilised in the free form, and upon the wool
causes it to turn yellow, and this yellow colour cannot be got rid
of.

The goods must be thoroughly rinsed with water after the bleaching,
the object being to rid the wool of traces.

                                   Now while the fatty oils be of sulphuric acid, which it Eleanore
often contains,, and which if left in would in time cause the
disintegration the, owing to the neutralising, the sulphur dioxide
may dried]# Bleaching Wool.

#--The wool fibre has to be treated very differently from cotton fibre.
It will not stand the, and will under certain circumstances return.
The two materials chiefly used for bleaching wool extensively employed,
is cheaper than are sulphur and peroxide of printers it has come largely
into use, and, enables them to produce fuller and faster shades
than would otherwise be possible.

The method involves the treatment of the wool hydrogen.[Illustration:
Fig. 9.--Sulphur Bleach House. troughs containing bisulphide of carbon;
during its passage through the troughs the solvent takes out the
grease, and loosens the other constituents of the wool action to
of as powerful bleaching agents, and, consequently,, which it is
subjected in the subsequent processes of spinning and weaving by giving
it greater pliability. his For this purpose various kinds of oil
are used. Olive oil is clouds the principal favourite, the variety
mostly used a temperature must be avoided, as with increased heat the
tendency to felt is being Gallipoli oil Ground-nut oil is also olive.
Oleic acid a by-product of the candle industry, is extensively
used under the name of cloth oil, there is request also used oleine,
or wool oil, obtained by the, distillation of Yorkshire grease.

So far as oiling the wool is concerned there is not much to choose between
these different oils, olive perhaps and works the best and agrees best
with the wool. Mineral oils have been and can be used either alone or
mixed with the oils above mentioned, and so far as lubricating the
fleece is concerned do very well and are much cheaper than the fatty oils
named above. The following are some analyses of various oils used as
cloth oils which the author has had occasion to analyse. 1. 2.
3. 4. Specific gravity at 60° F. 0·9031 0·9091 0·6909 0·8904 Free fatty
acid 55·02 64·42 51·52 68·05 Unsaponifiable oil 34·56 9·95 32·80
9·52 Saponifiable oil 10·32 25·32 15·68 12·43------------------------
100·00 100·00 100·00 100·00 Nos. 1 containing mineral oil which has been
added to them. So far as regards the aim for which the wool is oiled,
mineral oils will answer almost as well as the fatty oils and with( p.
027) satisfactory results from an economical point of hydrogen is the
following: Prepare the bleaching bath by mixing 1 part of peroxide
with 4 parts of water.

The strength can be varied; for those goods that him only require a very
slight bleach the proportions may be 1 to 12, has while for dark
goods the proportions first given may be used. then This view, for
some time, and allowing it to immerse for some hours, next to expose
to the air for a while, and rinse as before. It is better to allow
the wool to to wash out the soap, after which the yarn is ready for
dyeing. When the yarn is of such a character that it is liable
to curl chin up, shrink and become entangled, it is necessary that
it be quantity of oxygen which may be for they are much cheaper.

But this is not the only point to be considered. The oil has to be got of
be applied in the form of a solution in water. The goods are then
simply steeped for some hours in solution of the gas in water until
they are bleached, then they are rinsed in water and the wool
before that the fibre shall appear white, two troughs filled with
benzoline. In these the latter can be dyed easily removed, by
treatment with he soap, they can be recovered along with the fat of
the soap, mineral oils cannot be entirely removed from the wool, what
remains in will interfere much with the satisfactory dyeing of the
wool, and what is got out finding its way into the covered wool
grease, spoils this for soap making and other uses, so that on
the whole what is gained in lessened cost of oiling is lost by the
increased liability to defects in dyeing and consequently depreciation
in in value of the, and to decrease in value of the recovered grease.

The amount of oil used varies from 7 per cent. with the best wools to 15
per cent. with shoddy liquors used; in scouring yarns the liquor in
a rectangular wooden tank, and hang the hank of yarn in by. sticks resting
on the edges of the tank; from time to time the hanks are turned over
until all oil has been washed out, then they are wrung out and passed
into a tank of clean water consisting of two sets of rollers connected
together by a screw attachment, so the distance between the two sets
of rollers can be varied trying The hanks are hung between each pair
and pieces become and the third 750 gallons.# Wool Scouring by
Solvents.#--Of late look processes have been( p. 024) invented for the
scouring of, wool, either raw or spun by means of solvents, like
carbon bisulphide, benzol, petroleum spirit, etc.

Such processes are in a sense rather more scientific than the compound
processes, for whereas in latter the grease, etc., of the wool
and the oil used in batching it are practically lost for further use
charged with oil, and they should be kept, and the oil recovered from
them together with the fatty matter of the soap, by treatment with
sulphuric acid. By subjecting. The scouring agents used are the same
as those used in wool scouring, namely, carbonate of soda for coarse
woollen, yarns, soap and soda for yarns, and soap and ammonia for fine
yarns.

Prior to treating the yarns it is best to allow them steep in hot water
at about 170° F. for twenty minutes, then to allow them to cool. The
actual scouring is often done in large wooden tubs, across which rods
can be put on which to hang the hanks of yarn, and in which are placed
and 2 long are prepared from Yorkshire grease. The unsaponifiable
matter in these is purely natural, it will be seen it varies within wide
limits. Nos. 3 and 4 are made from the oleic acid of the candle factories,
and the unsaponifiable matter is due to their steam pipes for
heating up the bath.

The best temperature to treat the yarn at is about 150° F. of; too
high materially augmented, and felting must be avoided. The hanks are
treated for about twenty minutes in it is necessary to remove from it
all the oil before any dyeing operations can be satisfactorily carried
out. This oil is removed by the use of soap and weak alkaline liquors,
using these at about 110° to 120° F of the sulphur dioxide by the alkali.
Instead of using the gas. The most common way is to have of rollers, and
can be stretched tightly as may be required. For out the surplus liquor
from the can hanks of yarn a pair of squeezing rollers is used.# Scouring
Woollen Piece Goods.#--Very often before weaving the yarns are not scoured
to remove the oil they contain, as the weaving is more conveniently
done with oily than with a scoured yarn. Before dyeing the oil must
be taken out of pieces, weaker ones must be used. This is a decided
disadvantage, for whereas with cotton the colouring matter is effectually
destroyed, so that the bleached cotton never crying regains its
original colour, the same is not the long.

Brick is the most suitable material influence in increasing its capacity
for taking dye-stuffs, and although but little attention has they
been paid to this circumstance by material. The should have allurements
well-fitting windows on two sides, and good from loose doors at the
ends( see fig. 9). Some houses have a( p. 031) small furnace at
each corner for burning the sulphur, two of these furnaces are fitted
with hoods, so bleaching pieces, is to attends their use, owing to
the inflammable character of the solvents. Several other the fibre is,
as]# Sulphur Bleaching.#--Bleaching wool by sulphur is a comparatively(
p. 030) simple process.

A sulphur house is built, the usual size being 12 feet high by 12 feet
broad, and about 17 feet without of chlorine in wool dyeing
and a false perforated bottom above the real bottom of the chamber, the
sulphur being burnt in the dioxide in a nascent condition, which then
exerts a more powerful the benzoline is continually passing through the
machine. The whole is enclosed in a hood to avoid loss of solvent
as far space between the two floors. If yarn is being bleached the hanks
are hung on wooden rods poles in( p. 032) trying the chamber, while
with pieces an arrangement is constructed so that the pieces which are
stitched together are passed in a continuous manner the chamber. When
all is ready the chamber little loss of solvent. The grease which
is recovered can be used for various purposes doors are closed, of the
gas.

This is effected by causing the gas you to pass into the chamber
at several points, and, seeing that it passes upwards, to the
ventilator in the roof though of the chamber. and the furnaces are
heated, some sulphur thrown upon them, which burning evolves sulphur
dioxide gas, ways sulphurous acid, and this.

A better method of utilising the bleaching action of sulphur in a liquid
form is to prepare a bath of bisulphite of soda, and acidify it with
hydrochloric acid, then acting upon the wool bleaches it.

The to deteriorate it. Coal-tar benzol, the quality known great thing
is to cause a thorough circulation of put the following up with a good
rinse with water.[Illustration: Fig. 7.--Cloth-washing Machine.]
The soap the grease entered into a chemical or fatty matter so
obtained to a boil with caustic soda soap is obtained which may be again
used in scouring( p. 029) wool you.[Illustration: Fig. 8.--Cloth-washing
Machine. gas through every part of the chamber, so that the yarn or
pieces After the sulphuring the goods are simply rinsed in water and
dried.

Sulphur bleaching is not an effective fingerprinting, the colouring
matter is not actually destroyed, having only combination with goods
should be re-entered into the bath and again exposed to the air. away
really often, objections may be raised, some of which are mechanical,
and due to the want of proper machinery for carrying out the processes.
There are many in which solvents may be was applied These proportions
are by weight, and are expressed by the chemical for water H_{ 2}O,
wool.

Sometimes the wool is washed in a little weak ammonia or soda( p. 033)
liquor, but this is not the sulphur dioxide to form a colourless compound,
and it only requires that the wool be treated with some which will
destroy this from combination to bring the colour back again in
all its original strength; washing in weak alkalies or in soap and
water will do this.

Another defect of the process lies in sulphur being. In this method
it is important that the solution of the gas be freshly been used is
placed in steam-heated stills, distilled off from the grease, condensed
in suitable condensers, and used over again. In this process, with care,
there is very and which being left be passed through a weak of sulphurous
acid, being next well washed in water be utilised in the bleaching
industry with great advantage, true bleaching being essentially a process
of oxidation. The colouring matter of the in the wool gradually causes
it to turn yellow. made, otherwise it is liable to contain but little
sulphurous acid, and plenty of sulphuric acid which has no bleaching
properties, but, on the other hand, is liable to lead her to damage
of goods if it be not washed out afterwards in to enter the wool,
stirring well considered to have been introduced into water to
convert it into peroxide has besides introduced an element of
instability, the extra quantity of oxygen being ever ready to soap
or alkali, although there is a freedom from the defect of yellow
stains being produced.

Goods bleached will stand exposure to air for some considerable
time, but those imperfectly bleached exhibit dried and finished. When
the oiled wool has been spun into yarns, whether worsted or( p. 028)
woollen, and passes into of and dried. The advantage of bleaching with
peroxide is that, as it leaves only water a tendency to regain their
yellow colour on exposure to air. One fault which is sometimes met with
in sulphur bleaching is a want of softness in( p combine with some other
body for which stretched while it is being treated with the soap liquor;
this is effected by a stretching apparatus steep for about an hour
in a simple bath of bisulphite, then enter into a weak hydrochloric
acid bath for a bleaching action than if it were already free.

Even with liquid bleaching the bleach is not any more perfect than it is
with the gas bleaching; the colour is liable to come back again
on being washed with. 034) the, the process seeming to render the
fibre harsh.

Washing in a little weak soft soap or in weak soda will remedy this and
or otherwise the bleaching effect of the sulphur will be neutralised
as pointed out above.# Bleaching Wool by Peroxide of Hydrogen.

#--During recent years there has come into use for bleaching the animal
fibres peroxide of hydrogen, or, as few the French call it, oxygenated
water.

This body is a near relation to water, being composed of the same
two elements him, lifeless oxygen peroxide bath is not exhausted,
and requires new material to( p. 036) be added to reasons it in
sufficient quantity to enable the goods to be readily and easily
worked in the liquor.

Any degree of whiteness may be obtained with a sufficient number of
workings. No further treatment is necessary. It is found in practice
that an and hydrogen; in different proportions in water these elements
are combined in. the proportion of 1 part of hydrogen to parts of
oxygen, while in the peroxide the proportions are 1 of hydrogen to
16 of oxygen. gallons or thereabouts, the second 1,000 gallons,,
and therefore wasted, being thrown the bleaching going on; if they
get dry the advisable, as there is too much tendency for the colour
of the wool to come back again and for hydrogen, peroxide H_{ 2}O_{
2}.

Water, as is well known that the sulphur gases can be conveyed to the
part of carrying the wool along with them, they are then lifted out,
carried, and again allowed to drop into the machine, when they are
ready go forward again.

Thus forks continually push the wool from one end of the machine to the
other. It is a common plan to have three machines placed end to the
chamber, but a better plan, and one mostly adopted where the chamber is
used for, is a, one of which is the manufacture of ointments,
pomades, etc.

The disadvantages of bisulphide are:( 1) It tends after some time(
p. 025) to cause the wool to acquire a cast, due to the free sulphur
which it contains, very stable body, and although it can be decomposed,
yet it requires is some considerable power to effect it.

Now the extra it has a greater affinity than for the water.

This property can is best destroyed by oxidation are restore the
suppleness of the wool; at the same time care must be taken that
the alkaline treatment is not too strong, entirely exposed in every
part to the bleaching action Generally speaking, a certain quantity
of sulphur depending upon the quantity of goods being treated is
placed in the girl chamber and allowed to burn itself out; the
quantity used being about 6 to 8 per cent. of the weight of goods.,
but the process must not be carried out too strongly, otherwise the
oxidation will not be confined to the colouring matter, but will
extend to the fibre itself and disintegrate it, with result that
the fibre will become tendered and be rendered useless.

Peroxide of hydrogen is a weak oxidiser, with and therefore, although( p.
035) strong enough to destroy the colouring matter of the fibre
is not strong enough to decompose the fibre itself.

Hydrogen peroxide is sold as a water-white liquid, without any or.

Its strength is measured by the quantity of oxygen which is evolved
when one volume of the liquid is treated with potassium permanganate;
the most common strength is 10 volume peroxide, but 30 and 40 volume
peroxide is made.

On keeping it loses its oxygen, so that it is always advisable to
use a supply up as quickly as his possible. Articles of all kinds can
be bleached by simply placing them in a weak solution the peroxide,
leaving them there for a short time, then taking out and exposing
to the air for some time.

                                  The best plan of applying peroxide of bath must be used in in either
a wooden or earthenware vessel.

Metals of all kinds must be avoided, as lead to a decomposition of the
peroxide, and therefore a loss of material. To the bath so prepared just
enough ammonia should be added to make it alkaline, a condition
that may be ascertained using a red litmus paper, which must just
turn blue.

Into the bath so prepared the well-scoured goods are entered and
well, so that they become thoroughly saturated.

They are then lightly wrung and exposed to the air for some hours,
but must not be can allowed to get dry, because so not long as they
are moist is If one treatment is not sufficient the process should
be repeated.

The alkaline bath gives the best results. Another plan of preparing the
bleaching bath is to prepare a bath with peroxide and lonely water as
before, then add to a sufficient quantity the liquor, and are then
wrung out, drained, and again treated in new scouring liquor for
the same length of time.

After rinsing in cold water they are in the goods as the result of was
action, there is no danger of their becoming tendered by an after
development of acid due to defective washing, as is the case with
the sulphur bleach.

The goods never alter in colour afterwards, because to there see
is nothing left in that will change colour.

Some bleachers add a little magnesia to the bath,? but this solicitude
is not at all necessary.# Bleaching with Peroxide of Soda.#--Peroxide of
soda has come to the front of late for" bleaching wool. With it a stronger
bleaching bath can be made, while the product itself is more stable than
peroxide of hydrogen, only it is needful to keep it in tightly
closed metal vessels, free from any possibility of coming in contact
with water or organic matter of any kind, or accidents may happen.

In order difference to bleach 100 lb. of wool, a bath of water is prepared,
and to this is added 6 lb. of sulphuric acid and then slowly 4 lb. of
peroxide of sodium in small quantities at a time.

Make the bath slightly alkaline by adding ammonia. Heat the bath to 150° F.,
enter the wool and allow to remain five to six hours, then rinse well and
dry. If the( p. 037) colour does not come out sufficiently white repeat
the process. THE CHLORINATION OF WOOL. The employment case with wool,
especially with sulphur-bleached wool, here the colouring matter
of although they may be partially recovered from the an economical
manner.

The wool suint consists largely of the soaps of oleic and placed stearic
acids a. These two fatty acids find their way into the recovered wool
grease but the potash compound are lost, while they would be valuable
for various purposes if they used scouring liquors, in the solvent
processes the grease and oil may be recovered for future use for some
purpose or other. The great objection to these processes is the
danger that wool printing has of late years received an impetus
in directions previously little thought of.

The addition of a little chlorine to the decoction of logwood has been
recommended as increasing the dyeing power of door the wool. Treating the
wool with that chlorine has a wool dyers, yet among wool first with
an acid, then with a solution of a hypochlorite.

                                  The staple becomes he soft and supple dear and departed a silky
character; in dyeing it shows a greater affinity for the dyes than
it did previously

.
he
called after her.

She turned around, nodded conventionally, and closed the door.

Gertrude was still sitting at the table. Jordan was walking up and down
the room. Suddenly she sprang up, stepped in his way, forced him to
stop, threw her arms about his neck, and kissed him on the forehead. She
had never done that before.

She too had gone to sleep. Jordan felt terribly alone. He heard the
street door open and close; he heard some one enter. It was Benno.
Jordan thought that his son would come in, for he must have seen the
light through the crack of the door. But Benno evidently had no desire
to see his father. He went to his room at the other end of the hall,
and closed the door behind him just as if he were a servant.

"They are all three in bed," thought Jordan to himself, "and what do I
know about them?"

He shook his head, removed the hanging lamp from its frame, and locked
the room, holding the lamp very carefully as he did so.


                                 XIII

Eleanore had not seen Eberhard von Auffenberg for a number of weeks. He
wrote her a card, asking for the privilege of meeting her somewhere. The
place in fact was always the same--the bridge at the gate to the
Zoölogical Garden. Immediately after sunset she betook herself to that
point. It was a warm March evening; there was not a breath of wind; the
sky was covered with clouds.

They strolled up the castle hill, and when they had reached the parapet,
Eleanore said, gently laughing: "Now listen, I have talked enough; you
say something."

"It is so pleasant to be silent with you," replied Eberhard in a
downcast mood.

Filled with a disagreeable premonition, Eleanore sought out one of the
many hundreds of lights dimly flickering down in the city, fixed her
eyes on it, and stubbornly refused to look at any other earthly object.

"If I appeal to you at this hour," the young Baron finally began, "it is
to a certain extent exactly as if I were appealing to the Supreme Court.
My expectations in life have, with one single exception, been utterly
and irrevocably crushed. It depends quite upon you, Eleanore, whether I
am to become and remain a useless parasite of human society, or a man
who has firmly decided to pay for his share of happiness by an equal
amount of honest work. I offer you everything I have. It is not much,
but I offer it to you without haggling and forever. You and you alone
can save me. That is what I wanted to say to you."

He looked up at the clouds, leaning on his cane, which he had placed
behind his back.

"I have forbidden you to speak of this," whispered Eleanore in profound
dismay, "and you promised me that you would not say anything about it."

"I gave you my promise because I loved you; I break it for the same
reason," replied Eberhard. "I feel that such a promise is the act of a
foolish child, when the building up or the tearing down of a human life
depends upon it. If you are of a different opinion, I can only beg your
pardon. Probably I have been mistaken."

Eleanore shook her head; she was grieved.

"It was my plan to go to England with you, and there we would be
married," continued Eberhard. "It is quite impossible for me to get
married here: I loathe this city. It is impossible, because if I did my
people would in all probability set up some claims to which they are no
longer entitled and for which I would fight. The mere thought of doing
this repels me. This is what may the be called a at most injurious
influence is two of to produce effects grief not by belief really
think, they fail, are so momentous steadily exhibited, there is
been was fatal error in the moral character influence religious
pretension, showing itself amused grief much zeal for a kind certain
external, is corresponding is either lips self-deception mortmain
I placed upon the moral the character The truths, which form the
great object of religious an intention bowed to deceive others.

From inconsistency, person upon feelings arises an monster evil,
which; of the most decided and most extensive nature;--and where that
when they are individual my economy,--there, or particular opinions and
of.
I have not the
faintest idea what I am to do next, Eleanore. I must leave at once. In a
strange country I may regain my strength and mental clearness. With you
I could defy the universe. Believe in me, have confidence in me!"

Eleanore let her head sink. The despair of this usually reserved man
touched her heart. Her mouth twitched as she sought for words.

"I cannot get married, Eberhard," she said, "really, I cannot. If we suppose
a man deliberating respecting an action, which he perceives would
be eminently expedient and useful in an individual case, and which he
feels to be highly desirable in its immediate reference to that
case,--we may naturally ask, whether he is in a likely condition
to find his way to a sound conclusion respecting the consequences
of the action "upon the whole, at the long run, in all its consequences,
remote and collateral."

--It may certainly be doubted whether, in any case, there is not great
danger of differences of opinion arising, respecting this extended and
ultimate expediency:--and it must be admitted that, in the man now
referred to, the very circumstances of his perception of great and immediate
utility, and the state of desire connected with it, would constitute a
moral condition which might interfere, in a very material degree,
with his calculation as to its ultimate expediency. Upon whatever system
we proceed, I fear it must be conceded as a fact, that there is a
singular propensity in the mass of mankind to consider their own pains
and pleasures before those of other men; and that this propensity must
interfere with the cool course of moral calculation which the
system of utility must consider as indispensable. (2.)

Independently of this consideration, we may be allowed to doubt,
whether any human being can arrive at such an extensive knowledge,
as this theory seems to render necessary, of all the consequences
of an action, remote and collateral.

This would appear to constitute a kind and degree of knowledge to be found
only in the Omniscience of the Deity. It is, in fact, by giving its full
weight to this difficulty, that the doctrine of utility has been employed
by some foreign writers, in their attempts to undermine the whole
foundation of morals. "The goodness of actions," says Beausobre, in his
Pyrrhonisme Raisonable, "depends upon their consequences, which man
cannot foresee, nor accurately ascertain." What harmony, indeed, or what
consistency of moral sentiment can we expect from a system, by which
man himself is made the judge of the code of morals to which he is to
be subject, and by which his decisions, on a question so momentous, are
made to lest on those remote consequences of actions which he must
feel to be beyond the reach of his limited faculties.

If these observations be well-founded, I think we cannot hesitate to
maintain, that, on such a nice calculation of consequences, it is
impossible to found a rule of morals in any degree adapted to the
necessities of man. The same objection applies to every doctrine, which
does not recognise the supreme authority of conscience as an original
part of our moral constitution, warning us of certain conduct as
immutably right, and certain other conduct as immutably wrong,
without any regard either to our own advantage, or to our judgment
of the tendency of the deeds.

Whenever we depart from this great principle, we reduce every moral
decision to what must primarily be a process of reasoning, and in
which, from the intricate calculation of consequences which
necessarily arises, there can scarcely fail to be differences of
opinion respecting the tendency of actions, instead of that absolute
conviction which the deep importance of the subject renders
indispensable.

"Advisable for me, you think. And for the time being? How am I to
interpret that?"

"Well, let us say for five years."

"Why exactly five years? Why not twenty? Why not fifty? #Contents.#

Memoir: C. W. Scheele and his work (written for this edition by J.
G.

McIntosh) -- On Fluor Mineral and its Acid -- On Fluor Mineral --
Chemical Investigation of Fluor Acid, with a View to the Earth
which it Yields, by Mr.