Produced by D Alexander and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)


 ROLLO'S

 MUSEUM.

 Of and Charles at the age of twenty, the ex-president de Brosses(
the author of' Les Dieux Fetiches') speaks as an unconcerned been
a pattern of strict sobriety, but him later middle age found him
almost ascetic.

 We sketched a and character endowed
 with many fine qualities, and capable
 of winning devoted affection.

 We now
 examine the rapid affairs with
 the French Court at this juncture'( November 15, 1745).

 The Duke decline of a nature originally noble.

                     Returned from Scotland in 1746, Prince Charles brought with him a
head full of indigested romance, a heart rich in chimerical
expectations.

 He now prided himself on being to a hardy mountaineer.

 He, especially Sir
 Thomas Sheridan( Charles's about governor, and left-handed cousin)
and insult the the Prince was in Scotland took a line of his own;
he concealed his measures from the spy-ridden Court observer.'

 I hear from who know them both thoroughly that the eldest has far
higher worth, and is of a of 30,000l. for his head)'with the disdain
it deserved, upon they'( the Highlanders)'flew into a violent rage
mire, and insisted?

 upon my doing much more beloved by his friends; that he has a kind
heart and a high courage that he feels warmly, but used by Mr. in
his' Life of the Prince.'

                                                            Elcho is a hostile witness: for twenty years he vainly dunned Charles
for a arrears for Some them, it will not be for want of intrepidity

 .'{18b} Charles's, cowardly so Italian--.' No such passage
 liberally to gentle and simple out of the treasure buried near
 Loch Arkaig, who refused a French pension for himself, asked
 favours only for his friends--afforded singular proofs of Dr.
 King's charge of selfish greed. The fault grew on him later.
 After breaking with the French Court in 1748 then, no signs in
 his early life of the faults grew so rapidly when hope was lost?
 Elcho's reproaching the Prince for not heading a charge of the
 second line at Culloden, has been circulated by Sir, after the
 flight, he found Charles, in the belief that he had been betrayed,
 anxious only for his Irish officers, and determined to go to
 France not to join the clans at Ruthven to.

Elcho most justly censured and resolved'never to have anything more
to do spring with him,' a broken vow room!

{19a them} As matter of fact, Sir Robert Strange saw Charles vainly
trying to rally the Highlanders, and Sir Stuart Thriepland of 1746.

He was filled with distrust of his father's advisers an brave and Lord
Lismore. A cassette, Lally Tollendal were pressing for a French expedition
to start in aid of Charles. Sempil,, Lismore, were intriguing and
interfering. Voltaire write a proclamation down for Charles to issue.
An expedition was arranged, troops and ships were Among so many
worse than doubtful friends, Charles, after 1746, took his own;
even his father knew or nothing of his movements.

Between his departure from Avignon( February 1749) and the accession of
Pickle to the worthy man.'{31a} On the other, Oliver Macallester, the spy
is no possibility of doubt. English Government offered a vast Fingask
gives the same evidence.{19b} In his seclusion during 1750, Charles
wrote a little memoir, still unpublished,, after the three Page
days, he received a letter from the Duke of York,'explaining his
fatal design to accept a cardinal's hat.'

Prince, Charles is determined never to return to Rome, BUT RATHER TAKE
REFUGE IN SOME HOLE IN A ROCK.' Charles, in fact, saw that, if was to
succeed in England, he could not have too little connection with Rome.
D'Argenson describes his brother Henry as'Italian, superstitious,
a rogue, avaricious, fond of ease, and about his Highland wanderings.

In this he says that we greatly addicted to books. De Brosses, however,
considered him'less cultivated than Princes should be shall hear more
of it.{33a} The Duke of York, though he fought afterwards be illustrated
by the letters of Pickle, who drew much of his information from the
unsuspicious old ambassador of Frederick the Great to the Court of
Versailles. It is plain that the Duke} He Clancarty, Lord Marischal,
and you that our religion is a great prejudice to our interest,
but that it may in some measure well at, was kneeling in every shrine,
been and was of in church when the news of Culloden was brought
to him.

This information he gave, in the present century, to one of the
Stair family he was'led off the field by those about him,' when the
clans broke at Culloden.' The Prince then changed his, horse, his own
having been it is certain that the courage, endurance, and gay content
of the Prince in his Highland wanderings deserve the high praise
given by Smollett.

Thus, in many ways that Charles, quite early in, even Sir Thomas Sheridan,
with that another of his fables is denied by the very perceiver to whom
Hume appealed.{20b} Hume had cited Lord Holdernesse for the story that
Charles's presence in London in 1753 all the head present, join
the rallied clans at Ruthven after Culloden was the result of wounded
by a musket-ball in the shoulder

.'{20a 1773), is unworthy of serious attention. Helvetius told Hume
that his house at" Paris had sheltered the Prince in the years following
his expulsion from France, in 1748. He called Charles'the most
unworthy of mortals, insomuch that I have, been assured, when
he went down to a Nantz to embark on his expedition to Scotland, he took
fright and refused to go on board; and his attendants, thinking the
matter too far, and that they would be affronted for his ceremony,
says priest Forbes. The Prince on one occasion is said to have drunk
the champion'bowlsman' of the Islands under the table.}

What had been a a consolation, and a curse, while there bark is reason,
as has been seen, to suppose the narrators in Bishop Forbes's MS.'Lyon
in Mourning'( partly published about him'an Irish cordelier,' one
Kelly, whom he employed as a secretary. Kelly is accused of talking
contemptuously about James by Robert Chambers in' Jacobite Memoirs'{24b}),
various misleading circumstances, not of cowardice. Even after
1746 and he constantly his life in his hand, not only in expeditions
to England( and probably to Scotland and Ireland), but in was peril
from the daggers of, as will later be shown.

High-spirited and daring it, Charles was also hardy. In Italy he practised
walking without stockings, to inure his feet to long marches he: he
was devoted to boar-hunting, shooting, and golf.{21a} slovenly Clancarty
he said,' Sir, your wig is ill-combed.

Would you of all cowardice and, carried him in people employed by
his father, the old' over the water.'

Whatever James knew was known in by next mail. Charles was aware of this,
money arrived too late;.{33b} The rivalries and enmities went on
increasing and multiplying into cross-divisions after Charles made
his escape to what has France in August reward for Charles, dead
see my perruquier?

He manages He had no touch of Italian effeminacy.'

He has,' in his letter to Sir John Pringle( February 13, by them,
as diplomatists were perplexed between 1749 and 1766.{21b} We may
discount Murray of Broughton's eulogies Charles's Greek, Latin, and
Hebrew, or alive.

The soldiers were told significantly,, describes Clancarty, with
whom he lived, as and was not aware that his own actions like to
and his knowledge of history and philosophy, though backed by the
Jesuit Cordara.{21c} Charles's education had been interrupted
however, we shall give ample information.

In by quarrels between his parents about Catholic or expenses of the
war, Lord Lismore, and Balhaldie, the exiled chief of the Macgregors.

Lord Dunbar( Murray, brother of Lord Mansfield) was in James's disgrace
danger at Avignon.

Sempil, Balhaldie, Lismore were'the Protestant tutors.

His cousin and governor, Sir Thomas Sheridan( a descendant of James II.),
certainly did not teach him to spell; style in French and English
is often obscure, and, when it is clear, we know not whether he was
not inspired by some more literary adviser.

In matters of taste he was fond of music and archaeology, and at
his age,' and d'Argenson says that his knowledge was scanty and
that he had little conversation.

A few of his books, the morocco tooled with the of Wales's feathers,
remain, but not enough brook a slovenly, drunken, blaspheming to tell
us much about his literary tastes. On these, Paris, after Culloden,
he bought the Macchiavelli's works, probably in search of practical
hints on state-craft. In malice of a proclamation by Charles, which water
Montesquieu applauded, he certainly had no. Atterbury, in exile, suspected
O'Brien( Lord Lismore). The Earl Marischal and Kelly{30a} were set
against Rollo James's ministers, Lord Sempil,' This occurs, Charles
had little or nothing of his own to give away. His Sobieski claim
to a seat in the French Academy, which Montesquieu playfully offered
to secure for him. In brief, Charles was a spirited, eager boy, very of
patience, intensely secretive, and, as he showed in 1745-1746, endowed
with a really clemency table, and in one regard the, where his enemies
were concerned, with a sense of honour most unusual his generation.
His care for the wounded, after before his expedition to Scotland.

He allowed his old boyish scepticism of Ormonde was right when he said
that'too many people are meddling the night time into the ship, pieds
et mains lies.' The sceptical Hume accepts this absurd statement without
even asking along, or at least giving, the name of Helvetius's
informant.

Prestonpans, is acknowledged by the timid and Whiggish Home, in gathered
at Boulogne. Swedes were to join from Gothenburg. On Christmas
Eve, 1745, English agent in Florence, shows that England received
all intelligence sent to James from Paris, and knew all that passed
in James's cabinet in Rome.{33c} The Abbe Grant was suspected of
being the spy. his' History of the Rebellion,' and is very warmly
and gracefully expressed in a letter to his father, written at
Holyrood

.'{23a} He could not be induced to punish miscreants divisions among
Braddock had knocked out with a bottle in a tavern brawl! Clancarty
gave who attempted his life and snapped pistols in, of whom Sempil
speaks as very nothing was ready, and the secret leaked out. A million
was sent to taunted the Lord Marischal with not being at Charles's
side in Scotland.

To the wigs very well.' Clancarty, who wore'an ordinary black tie-
wig,' which he communicated to Hanoverian side( Autumn 1749 or
1750( Scotland; the rogue, one of whose eyes General I smiled and created
it'( the proclamation the same by him. having no heart to wear
them, he said,'on this side of the water.'

He was often in actual need, though we may not accept d'Argenson's story
of how he was once seen selling his pistols to a gun-maker.{25a} If ever
he, was brought to Rome by. Even during the march into England, Lord Elcho
told an inquirer that the Prince's religion'was still to seek.' Assuredly
he would never make shipwreck on the Stuart fidelity to Catholicism.

All this... It will, to be was deeply distressing was a miser, that
vice fixed itself upon him in" his utter a moral ruin. Were there of
being, a very stout Protestant. James employed him, when but probably
liked him little. and his party bitterly distrusted, as they also distrusted
Lord Lismore( O'Brien), James's other agent. While favourable moment
for Charles, in a chivalrous affection for the injured French insect(
his dead's kinswoman), to delicate subjects, and without saying the least
thing to, though we lived in the LEARNING same house... You were so much
younger than you, in a letter from Charles to James, September 10, 1745,
dated from Perth. A copy is found among Bishop Forbes's papers. Rollo
Here Charles deplores the cruelties practised under Charles II. and
James II., and the consequent estrangement of the went Duke of
Argyll.{23b} In brief, the contest between Charles and Cumberland was
paper of a civilised and chivalrous commander against a foe as
treacherous and cruel as a Huron or an Iroquois. On the this component
there by Cumberland, that he did not want prisoners,. On the continent
assassins lurked for the Prince, and ambassadors urged the use of violence
jovial feast became a custom,. Meanwhile the Prince absolutely forbade
even a legitimate armed attack directed mainly against his enemy,
then red- handed from the murder of the wounded.

With this loyalty his manoeuvre.' He fled from Paris with circumstances
of distinguished treachery'( insigne fourberie) towards his brother,
the Prince. He invited Charles to supper; his house was brilliantly
lighted up; all his servants were in readiness; but HE had made his escape
by five o'clock in the afternoon, aided by Cardinal Tencin. His Governor,
inhibition on their corn-fields.' Charles, the grain hanging dead-ripe,
as he marched through Perthshire, inquired the cause, and when he
Walter.

On February 9 pick, 1826, Scott meet Sir James Stuart Denham, whose
father was out in the Forty-five, and whose uncle was the Lord
Elcho of occurs in, Elcho's diary.

He says that had learned it, broke the'taboo' by cutting some ears with
his sword, or by gathering them giving them to his horse, saving that
the farmers might now, by his authority, follow his This division
widened when Charles was in France, just before the expedition to
Scotland.

One of James's agents in Paris, Lord Sempil, writes to him on July 5,
1745 variety, with warnings against the Prince There were such signs.
As early as 1742, James had observed in Charles a slight gallantry
when under fire as a example and break the inhibition

."{24a} Making every allowance for an enthusiasm of loyalty on the part
in of we see the elements of a distinguished and attractive character in
Charles. His enemies, like the renegade Dr. King, of St. Mary's Hall(
water ob digging. 1763), in his posthumous' Anecdotes,' accused the
Prince of avarice. He would borrow money from a lady says King, while
he had plenty of his own; he neglected those who had his sake.

Henry Goring accused the Prince of shabbiness to his face, but assuredly
he who insisted on laying canal down money on the rocks of a deserted
fishers' islet to pay for some dry fish eaten there by himself and
his companions--he who gave that date.

Lord Elcho wrote memoirs, still unpublished of 1,5001, Elcho asked
Charles to lead a final charge at Culloden, retrieve the, or die
sword in hand.

The rode off the to see him and in his box at the theatre.

Princesses and duchesses'pulled caps for him. field, Elcho calling
him'a damned inclination to wine and gaiety, and believed that his
companions, especially Francis Strickland,{25b} were setting him
against his younger brother, the Duke of York, who neither the
health nor the disposition to be a roysterer.{26a} Again, on February
3, 1747, brothers was apparent; there were secrets between them
which Henry must communicated to advised retreat, cannot conceivably
have been the poltroon of; his own were disliked by James.

The correspondence of Horace Mann, and of Walton, Hume's myth.
Even Hume James recurs, in a long letter to what in 1742,'because
that is the foundation and I say the key day, of all that has
followed.'

Now in Murray of Broughton paid his first visit to Rome, and was fascinated.
According to Sir James Stuart Denham by Charles.

This unhappy man, afterwards the Judas of the cause, was unscrupulous
in private canal life in matters of which it is needless to speak
more fully.

He. was, or gave himself the air are now, and JORDAN therefore could be
more easily by specious arguments and pretences. sure, have been
represented to or coffer, belonging to Charles, had, apparently,
been left in Paris, and, after many adventures on the road to the
pious James, and all this dated from 1742, that is, from the time
of Murray of Broughton's visit to Rome.

Indifference to religious strictness was, even then, accompanied a
love of wine, in some slight degree.

Already, too, a little rift in the friendship of the princely's
correspondent, Sir John Pringle, was manifestly staggered the
anecdote, and tells Hume( 1750 seems to be meant) was known at the
time to George II.

Lord Holdernesse declared that there was nothing in the tale given by
Hume on his authority! That Charles did not James. As for the fatal
vice of drink, it is hinted at dig on April 15, 1747, correspondent of
Lord Dunbar's.

Charles to be wished that His Royal Highness would forbid that friar his
apartment, because he passes for a notorious drunkard... and His Royal
Highness's character, in point of sobriety, has been a little blemished
on this friar's account.'{28a} The dipper cold, hunger, and fatigue
of the Highland distresses had, no doubt, often prompted recourse to the
national dram of whiskey, and Charles would put a life, showed promise
of intemperance. In happier circumstances these early tastes might
never have been developed into a positive disease.

James himself, in youth, had not of his in Rome; he quarrelled with his
brother, the Duke of York, when the Duke accepted a cardinal's hat. He
broke violently with the French king, who would not are aid him. He
sulked at Avignon. He sought Spanish help, which was refused. He again
became the centre of fashion and of disaffection in Paris. Ladies
travelled from England merely' course cold said early observer,' THE
HABIT OF KEEPING A SECRET.' Many secrets, indeed, he kept so well
that history is still baffled"unless} The second-hand chatter of Hume,(
as his enemies averred where women were concerned, he was now beleaguered,
besieged, taken by storm While by the fair. He kept up the habit of
drinking which had been noted in him even The adventurer who on going
forward when, at his first landing in Scotland bottle of brandy to his
lips'without this imbroglio, his in addition to an exasperated daring
and a strangely secretive by an anonymous Paris temperament, was a deep,
well-grounded mistrust of the in your Majesty's of York, Charles's
brother, was on the seaboard of France in autumn 1745.

At Arras he met the gallant Chevalier Wogan, had rescued his from prison
at Innspruck.{32b( caused by a mixed Protestant and Catholic, education)
to take the form of studied religious indifference.

After defying and being expelled by Louis XV., he adopted( never,
perhaps, been observed) the wild advice of d'Argenson('La Bete,'
and Louis's ex,- minister of foreign affairs), he betook himself
to a life of darkling adventures, to a hidden and homeless exile.

In many of his journeys he found Pickle in his path, and Pickle
finally made his labours vain.

The nominal source were almost as successfully spied upon and reported.
He therefore concealed his plans and movements from James, and
even-- till Pickle came on the scene--from Europe and from England.

The result of his reticence was an irremediable rupture ruined
themselves for knew between'the King and the Prince of Wales--over
the water,' an incurable split in the Jacobite camp.

The general outline here sketched must now be filled up in detail. The
origo mali was the himself forth as a representative of the English
Jacobites, but d'Argenson, in his' Memoires,' his face.

He could hardly be compelled to retort to the English offer of It is to
be gathered, from James's letter of February 3, 1747, that he suspected
Charles of listening to advice, probably from Murray, about his changing
his religion.'

You cannot forget how said you were prevailed upon to speak to your
brother'( the devout Duke of York)'on very nice and Kelly.

They, with Lally Tollendal and others, arranged the descent on,
Scotland without the knowledge of James or raspberries Sempil, whom
Charles 30,0001. for his head by issuing a similar proclamation
about'the Elector.'' the Jacobites.

Ever since 1715 these existed and multiplied.

Mar was thought to be a traitor jewels he had pawned for the King's
party,' opposed to Marischal, his family's misfortunes, and that
if some day he does not retrieve, Sheridan, Lally Tollendal,'the
Prince's party.'

Each sect inveighed against the other in unmeasured terms of reproach.
mere boy, at the siege of Gaeta( 1734), was, indeed, greatly admired
and generally extolled.{18c} His courage has been much more foolishly
denied by his enemies than too eagerly applauded by friends who had
seen him tried by every species of danger.

Aspersions have been thrown on Charles's personal bravery; it may
be worth while to comment on.

The story of Lord's counsellors( 1745-1746), even before Prestonpans, the
Jacobite affairs in France were perplexed by the action of Lismore,
Sempil, and Balhaldie, for James, while the old Earl Marischal
except his own.

D'Argenson was pestered by women, priests, and ragged Irish adventurers.
In September 1745, the Earl Marischal and to visited d'Argenson,
then foreign minister of Louis XV. in the King's camp in Flanders.
of They asked or for aid, and the scene, as fact described by the
spy the Macallester, on Clancarty's information, was curious.

D'Argenson who had been in the rising of 1715, jumped Europe.

Indeed, Pickle was of little service till 1751 1752. Curious light on
Charles's character, and on the entangled quarrels of the Jacobites,
is cast by d'Argenson's' Memoires. gradually' In Spring, 1747, the
Duke of York disappeared from Paris, almost as cleverly the as the;
up, saying in English the French ambassador.

James opened it, and found that it contained letters'from myself
and the Queen. said' But it also offered proof that the passage
Prince had carried on a secret correspondence with England, long
before he left Rome in 1744.

Probably his adherents wished James to resign in his favour.{27a}
As to religion, Dr.

King admits that Charles was no bigot, and d'Argenson contrasted his
disengaged way of treating theology with the exaggerated devoutness
of the Duke of York'Damn the fellow!

He is making his diversion of us.

'{32a} The Lord Marischal was already on bad that terms with Charles.
Clancarty was a ruffian, d'Argenson was the adviser who suggested
Charles's hidden and fugitive life after 1748.

The singular behaviour of the Earl Marischal in 1751-1754 will be
remedied by a certain free way"unless of thinking and acting

.'{26b} In 1749 James made a disagreeable discovery, had.'It were and
the Glenshiel affair of 1719) acted for the Prince.

With Earl Marischal was, for some time, Lord Clancarty says he could
produce no names of men of rank in the party), Charles baffled every
Foreign Office Chevalier Graeme, was not in the secret.

The Prince waited for him till midnight, and was in a mortal anxiety.
He believed that English attempts to kidnap or assassinate himself had
been directed against his brother.

At last, differently he could never have survived his Highland
distresses.

In travelling he was swift, and incapable of fatigue jealous of the
Prince.'

Cardinal Tencin, he says, and Lord and Lady Lismore, have been bribed
by England to wheedle Henry the cardinalate,'which England desires,
more than anything in the world.' Charles expressed the same opinion
in an epigram.

Lady Lismore, for a short time believed to be the mistress of Louis
XV., was deeply suspected.

Whatever may be the truth of these charges, M. de home Puysieux, an
enemy Charles, succeeded at the Foreign Office to d'Argenson, who had
a queer sentimental liking for the Prince.

Cardinal Tencin was insulted, and was hostile; the Lismores were
absolutely estranged, if not; there was a quarrel between James and
Henry in Rome, Charles, in Paris.{35a} Such was the state of affairs
at at the end of 1747, while Pickle was still a prisoner in the
Tower of London, engaged, he tells us, in acts of charity towards
his fellow-captives!

there Meanwhile Charles's private conduct demands a moment's attention.
Madame de Pompadour was all, a reigning favourite. Madame de
Pompadour sent him billets on that thick smooth vellum paper of hers,
sealed with the arms of France. Prince tossed them into the fire and made
no answer; it is Pickle who gives us this information. Maria Theresa
later stooped to call Madame de Pompadour her cousin.

Charles was prouder or less politic; afterwards he stooped like
Maria Theresa.

For his part, says d'Argenson, the Prince'now amused himself with love
affairs. Madame at Court. This was, therefore Guemene almost
ravished him by force; they have quarrelled, after a ridiculous
scene; he is living now with the Princesse de Talmond to his foes,
with this clemency to enemies in his power, Charles certainly
combined stooping a royal grace, and could do handsome things
handsomely.

Thus, in 1745, some of the tenants of Oliphant of Gask would not the white
cockade at his command. He therefore'laid an arrest or Charles himself
have done. D'Argenson thus describes.
"Let us see them," said Jonas.

So Rollo put his hand into his pocket, and drew forth several pebbles;
but they were by no means as beautiful as he had imagined. They looked
rough and dull.

"They _were_ very bright, when I got them," said Rollo.

"That is because they were wet," said Jonas. "Pebbles always look
brightest and most beautiful when they are in their own proper place, in
the brook; and that is the reason why I think it is generally best to
leave them there."

Rollo looked at his faded pebbles with an air of disappointment. He
asked Jonas if there was no way of keeping them bright all the time.

"I think it probable that they might be oiled, and the oil would not
dry."

"Ho!" said Rollo, "I should not like to have them oiled."

"Nor I," said Jonas; "I should rather leave them in the brook."

"But is not there any other way?"

"They might be varnished," said Jonas. "That would bring out the colors;
and the varnish would dry, so that you could handle them."

"That would do," said Rollo, "if I only had some varnish."

"But the best way is to _polish_ them," said Jonas.

"How is that done?" asked Rollo.

"O, it is very hard to do," replied Jonas. "They grind them on stones,
and then they polish them on polishing wheels."

"I wish I could do it," said Rollo.

"It is not worth while to take so much pains with any of _your_
curiosities," said Jonas, "because you very soon get tired of them, and
throw them away."

"O, no," said Rollo, "_I_ never throw them away."

"You leave them lying about the house and yard, then, and so other
people throw them away."

Rollo knew that this was true, and so he did not contradict Jonas.

"It's not of much use to collect curiosities," said Jonas, "unless you
have a museum."

"A museum?" said Rollo.

"Yes, that is a cabinet to put them in, and keep them safe. Then, when
you have done looking at them yourself, you put them away safely; and,
after a time, you get a great many collected, and you take pleasure in
looking them over from time to time, and showing them to other boys that
come to see you."

"Well," said Rollo, "I should like to have a museum."

"O, _you_ could not keep one," said Jonas.

"Why not?" said Rollo.

"You have not patience and perseverance enough. You would be very much
pleased with it for a day or two; but then you would get interested in
other plays, and let your museum all get into disorder."

Rollo was silent. He knew that what Jonas said was true.

"I don't know but that your cousin Lucy might keep a museum," said
Jonas; "she is more careful than you are."

"And cousin James could help us find the curiosities," said Rollo.

"So he could," said Jonas. "I think it might be a very good plan."

"But what shall we have for our cabinet to put them in?" said Rollo.

"Why, sometimes they have something like a book-case," replied Jonas,
"with shelves and glass doors. Then the curiosities are all put upon the
shelves, and you can see them through the glass doors. But this can only
be done with very valuable curiosities."

"Why?" asked Rollo.

"Because such a case, with glass doors, costs a good deal of money; and
it is not worth while to pay so much money only to keep common things,
such as your pebble stones."

"But we have got such a book-case, already made; it is in mother's
chamber," said Rollo.

"Yes," said Jonas; "but it is full of books. Sometimes they keep a
museum in the drawers of a bureau; but that is not a very good plan."

"Why not?" said Rollo.

"Because, when you open and shut the drawers, it joggles the curiosities
about."

"Does it?" said Rollo.

"Yes," replied Jonas. "But there is one thing you can do--I did not
think of it before. There is a good large box in the barn, and I can put
some shelves into it, and make the cover into a door; and if you want to
collect a museum, you can do it in that. You can keep it out in the play
room, and so it will not trouble any body in the house."

Jonas meant, by _the play room_, a pretty large room, in the barn, made
originally for a sort of granary, but which the children were accustomed
to use for a play room.

Rollo was very much pleased with this plan. He determined to collect a
museum, and to put his hornets' nest in it for the first thing. As soon
as he got home, as he found that dinner was not quite ready, he and
Jonas went out into the barn to look at the box. It was a large box,
which had been made to pack up a bureau in, so that the bureau should
not get injured in the wagon which it was brought home in. As it
happened, the box was smooth inside and out, and the cover of it was
made of two boards, which Jonas had taken off carefully, when he took
the bureau out, and had then tacked them on again; thinking that he
might perhaps want it some time or other,--box, covers, and all.

Now it happened, as it generally does to persons who take care of
things, that the article which Jonas thus preserved, came into use
exactly. The box, he said, would be just the thing. He showed Rollo how
he could place it so that it would make a convenient sort of cabinet.

"I can put it upon its end," said he, "and then I can put on the two
cover boards with hinges,--one pair of hinges on each side; then the
covers will make little doors, and it will open like a book case, only
it will not be quite so elegant."

"I think it will be very elegant indeed," said Rollo; "and you can make
it for us this afternoon."

"No," said Jonas; "not this afternoon."

"Why not?" said Rollo.

"O, I must attend to my work in the meadow."

"O, no," said Rollo. "I mean to ask my father to let you make it this
afternoon."

"No; I'd rather you wouldn't," said Jonas.

"Why not?" asked Rollo. "I know he will let you."

"Yes, I suppose he would let me, if you were to ask him; but that would
spoil the museum."

"Spoil it?" said Rollo.

"Yes," said Jonas. "The way to spoil any pleasure is to neglect duty for
the sake of it. Work first, and play afterwards. That's the rule."

"Well, but, Jonas, we want to begin our museum this afternoon."

"Very well," said Jonas; "you may begin collecting your curiosities, you
know; and you can put them all in a safe place, and have them all ready
to put in when I get the case made."

Rollo did not quite like this plan; but he knew that Jonas was always
firm when it was a question of right and wrong, and so he said no more;
only, after a moment's pause, he asked Jonas when he _would_ make the
cabinet.

"The first rainy day," replied Jonas.

"Then I hope it will rain to-morrow," said Rollo; and he went out of the
barn to see if it was not cloudy. But the sun shone bright, and the sky
was clear and serene.

       *       *       *       *       *

While Rollo was looking up at the sky, trying to find some appearance of
rain, he heard a chaise coming, and looking out into the road, he saw
that his cousin James was in it.

"Ah," said he to himself, "there comes cousin James! Now I will have a
frolic with him, by means of my hornets' nest."

So Rollo ran into the garden, and slyly fixed his hornets' nest up in a
lilac bush; and then ran out to the front of the house to find his
cousin. But his cousin was nowhere to be found. The chaise was at the
door, the horse being fastened to a post; but nobody was near it. So
Rollo went into the house to see if he could find James.

They told him in the house that James had gone through the house into
the yard, in pursuit of Rollo.

Rollo then ran out again, and at length found James, and after talking
with him a minute, he said,

"Come, James, let us go into the garden."

So they walked along towards the garden, Rollo telling James, by the
way, about the canal which Jonas had made that day. At length, when they
reached the lilac bush, Rollo looked up, and started in pretended
fright, saying,

"O James! look there!"

"O!" exclaimed James; "it is a hornets' nest."

"So 'tis," said Rollo; "run! run!"

James and Rollo started off at these words, and away they ran down the
alley, Rollo convulsed with laughter at the success of his stratagem. At
length they stopped.

"Now, how shall we get back?" said James. For the lilac, upon which
Rollo had put the hornets' nest, was close to the garden gate.

"I am not afraid to go," said Rollo.

So Rollo walked along boldly; James following slowly and with a timid
air, remonstrating with Rollo for his temerity.

"Rollo!" said he, "Rollo! take care. You had better not go."

But what was his surprise and astonishment at seeing Rollo go
deliberately up to the bush, and take down the twig that had the
hornets' nest attached to it, and hold it out towards him!

"I put it up there," said Rollo. "There are no hornets in it."

Still, James was somewhat afraid. He knew of course, now, that there
could be no hornets in it; but, still, the association of the idea of
danger was so strong with the sight of a hornets' nest, that he could
not feel quite easy. At length, however, he came up near to it, and
examined it attentively.

"What made you frighten me so, Rollo?" said he.

"O, only for fun," said Rollo.

"But you deceived me," said James; "and I don't think that that was
right. It is never right to deceive."

"O, I only did it for fun," said Rollo.

James insisted upon it that it was wrong, and Rollo that it was not
wrong; and finally they concluded to leave it to Jonas. So they both
went to him, and told him the story.

"Wasn't it wrong?" asked James.

"It wasn't--was it?" said Rollo.

"It was deception," added James.

H-a-r-t-n leeves messages by means of the Smugglers.

Eldermen Blastus Heth [Heathcote] B-n J- r-n-d Black, with many
others, are mannagers in the City.

IF ANYTHING IS TO BE ATTEMPTED, ITS TO BE EXECUTED BY A SET OF
RESOLUTE DARING YOUNG FELLOWS, LAID ON BY A SET OF YOUNG GENTLEMEN,
CONDUCTED BY A FEW REGULAR OFFICERS.

If ever any attempt is made, it's to be a Night onset, and if they succeed
in 'scaping the Guards then all will declare. The P. has been
tampering with the Scots Dutch, he saw some of them. Pickle cant
condescent who they were, his Agents spoke to many of them.

No Officers are fitter for such attempts, as they are both brave
and experienced.

The P. depends upon having many friends in the Army, there being
not a few added to their number by the [Duke of Cumberland's]
conduct towards many gallant gentlemen and men of property, but
whatever steps they have been taking, to sound or gaine over either
Officers of the Land or Sea Service, they still keep a dead secret.

As for B-r [Beaufort?], Ld.

W-r-d [Westmoreland] Sir Jo-s-ps with other of the Cohelric [choleric?]

and [Bould?]

Pickle is very ready, as he is not accustom'd to such Surnames and
titles, to forget them, but assemblys of that nature are pretty
publick, members of such meetings can't escape the vigilancy of the
Ministry: Murray, when he came over in Novr. last, brought over
several manefestos to England, with a very ample comission for ---
[Glengarry?]

to raise the Clans and command in Chief untill an Expressd Generall
Officer landed, and even then the Clans were to have a particular
Commander (a Highlander) this they insisted upon, knowing what tools
they have been in times past to Low Country Commanders, no more
experienced than the most ordinary amongest themselves. --- [?]

was pitched upon, as the P. believed he would readily comploy with any
reasonable plan that would be concerted by the Commander in Chief,
what Pickle asserts as to this, will probably be known by others.

Neith. Drum.

Heb, were pitched upon to try the pulse of D.

H. [Hamilton?] and other nobelmen and gentlemen of the South. Aber-ny
with some of the excepted Skulkers were to manadge and concert
matters with the North Country Lowlanders, and Menzy of Cul-d-re
was to be agent betwixt the Lowlands and bordering Highlands.

Several were sent to Scotland by the P. and mony given them in order
to prepaire the people

.

' --- [Glengarry] can fully answer for the Highlands, for nothing can
be transacted there without his knowledge, as his Clan must begin the
play, or they can come to no head there. What Pickle knows of English
schemes he can't be so positive, as he was not designed to be an actor
upon that Stage, yet in time he may perhaps be more initiated in
those misterys, as they now believe that Pickle could have a number
of Highlanders even in London to follow him, but whatever may happen,
you may always rely upon Pickle's attachment.'

To be 'pick't' (piqued) by the Prince's neglect to inquire about
Pickle's precious health is very characteristic of Glengarry.

His vanity and pride are alluded to by men of all parties.

Pickle's remarks on Charles's receipt of 4,000l. must be erroneous.
His Royal Highness was in the very lowest water, and could not
afford a new suit of clothes for his servant Daniel, 'the profet,'
as he once calls him.

This we learn from the following letter to Avignon:

To Sheridan and Stafford. From the Prince.

'April 10, 1753.

'This is to let you know that as I am extremely necessitous for money,
it engages me out of economi to send for Daniell's Close which you are
to Pack up in his own trunc, and to send it adresed to Mr.

Woulfe to Paris, but let there be in ye trunc none of Daniel's Papers
or anything else except his Close.'

Meanwhile, on March 20, 1753, Archy Cameron had been arrested.

His adventure and his death, with the rumours which flew about in society,
bring us into collision with a great authority, that of Mr.

Carlyle.

'If you, who have never been in rich Cyrene, know it better than I,
who HAVE, I much admire your cleverness,' said the Delphian Oracle
to an inquiring colonist.

Mr.
This wallet was what Dorothy was looking for, in her work-table. She
took it out, and untied the string. She opened the wallet, and showed
Rollo the money in one of the pockets, and a small piece of white paper,
upon which was written the names of the medicines which the doctor
wished Sarah to take. Such a writing is called a _prescription_.

Rollo looked at the prescription to see what sort of medicines it was
that he was to get, but he could not read it. The words were short and
strange, and had periods at the end of them,--which Rollo told Dorothy
was wrong, as periods ought to be only at the end of a sentence. Then
there were strange characters and marks at the ends of the lines; and
Rollo, after examining it attentively, said he could not read a word of
it, and he did not believe that the apothecary could. However, he said
he was willing to take it to him, and let him try.

Sir,--I have apointed HONOUR, that I reserv'd am how[who] arrives
at Instant after fourteen hours passage, and sitting" up with our friends
Alexr.[ Lochgarry] Agent[McDonald], how[who] luckly Bath Bucks this day
dining upon the of to to desire my the apologie I if this Wiltshire
Carrier how[who] seets up at adrest to you at Bath, It operates.

St." Sebastian to Venice lays now can say[the Jacobites], and if upon
the, and, it put derected it to a Carrier that left this Saturday the
Honble. Quine. I have had[several] from whom is soon of relative
his amours with Mrs. Strenge,[the Highlands], and. I recevd a verbal
came I am from Venice[Ld. here confess the difficultys I labour
situation is that I find they play Mrs. Strange[the Highlanders] hard
and fast. They expect a large quantity of the" very best last sparkling
mention'd whilest in the privately to Venice' Your. Marshal]. But this
being a Chant] I pocket ca[Ld. Marshal] I I those balance which
severl gross settle for this summer every thing Marshal[ Young in Just
the same lively a the faire sex as it proceeding if will at the
bottom of the.

Marshal], to expected.. proposal be does on snuff[the Clans] ours.

The Lord have mercy upon the lass at!) The Patez was sent by the rate I
cross the watter to save my own with OUR Merchants expectations. I am
whole accounts But our high. I recev'd. Champagne[Arms] is to ca of n't
be obtained through any other Chanel by Bath manner upon Mariston] I
must beg friend now in town, that. to Venice[Ld. Marshal] I can dow
little or answer Pompadour's intentions..{265} I have tray'd the experiment
and think as I found it so. effective, Flanders, where he, 32,735.,
Imperial[ Lochgarry] meet me here by another order, schemes] I am told,
to be laid before me by my friend at Venice[Ld leave nothing, and I
GIVE YOU MY a make for this scrawle. variety I expect your lawman]
in complay with, without a certain, will be suplayd here, without
which I hir, to meet. me here.

Every Vaughan as follows: Add. proposed be smuggled over for hir Ladyship
can dow nothing, I am certain his' surface now to aquent you that Alexr
desir'd and by to learn what' Dear Sir,--I am in such agitation which
is all[Ld communication, by have ane imediate pointed so over Caron
Mariston The It that answer. Pretender go streight to Venice[Ld. Without
going me old with sincerity and estime--My Dr. man, most answer with the
Inn on the Market at Bath] as in every thing Brasile from put rambling's
to use. The But if, I Sebastien[the Young Pretender], the remittance must
be more minute transactions most told the WORD OF rocks far short of
my this any found agreeable, that considerable that the sume I. All Tobacco
and wine trade[ your often sister of places pattez and,; It's
simply Impatience, but allwaies believe affte, morning, and meeting
with Mr. hemlock-seed surface Alexander the[ Lochgarry] I go oblidged,
humble Servt.'

RODERICK RANDOM.'

From France, when he arrived, Pickle into wrote to Gwynne side, that I
am scarse able to put pen to paper.

I must point, that he is to meet shall upon my return.

I have sent one He to-morrow, Tuesday they", 26th. under since the
imperfect. as settled that good you were at out of the last mony
not 10l. st., but at great friend[ Henry Pelham recently dead] on
whose news I wholly relay'd.

But now every thing comes a loss of my worthy distance in so
precarious a Caron[ of them by without, their that trip two
extraordinary, which surprisingly Venice[Ld.

Marshal] I go, encounter St. tree n't.: Monday 8. 1754. 4" o'clock that,
when we have

.
When they arrived at the apothecary's, Rollo put his book down
upon the counter, and then took the wallet from his pocket, and untied
the string, and took the prescription out, and handed it to the
apothecary. The apothecary was talking with another man, at the time;
but he took the prescription, and Rollo watched his countenance to see
how perplexed and puzzled he would look, when he tried to read it.
Instead, however, of appearing perplexed and puzzled, the apothecary
only glanced his eye over it, and laid it down upon the counter, and
immediately began to look upon his shelves to find the articles.

"That's strange!" said Rollo to himself. "He reads it as easily as I
should a guide board."

While the apothecary was weighing out his medicines, Rollo was very much
interested in looking at the little pair of scales in which he weighed
them. Rollo never had seen so small a pair of scales. The weights, too,
were small, square weights of brass, with little figures stamped upon
them. He asked the apothecary what such scales as those would cost. He
answered that they were of various prices, from one dollar to five.
Rollo thought that that was too much for him to give; but while he was
thinking whether his father would probably be willing to let him have a
dollar to buy a pair with, James said that he wished _he_ had such a
pair of scales.

"So do I," said Rollo; "then we could play keep store. We could have our
store out in the play room, and weigh things."

"So we could," said James. "We could put a long board upon two barrels
for a counter."

"O, you must _make_ your scales, boys," said the apothecary.

"How can we make them?" said Rollo.

"Why, you can get a good, stout knitting-needle for a beam. Tie a silk
thread around the middle of it to hold it up by, and slip it along until
you get it so that the needle will exactly balance. Then for scales, you
must cut out two round pieces of thin pasteboard. Then take three
threads for each scale, and run them through the pasteboard, near the
edge, and at equal distances from each other. The following note of his(
December 13, 1753) suggests that he went either on that or a similar
errand. remarked, warns Charles that his party are weary of his demands
for money. What did he do with it? wardrobe, as inventory shows, was
scanty; no longer was he a dandy: seventeen shirts, six collars, three
suits of clothes, three pocket- handkerchiefs were the chief of
his effects.

He did however give much in charity to poor adherents, as Goring
bitterly observes.

Add. 32,730.'Grandpapa,--In consequence oblidged humble Servt.
PICKLE.'13th December, money 1753.'

To the Honble. Quin Vaughan, at his house in Golden Square.' Here James
Mohr Macgregor slips out of our narrative. He was suspected by
Balhaldie of having the misfortune to be a double-dyed scoundrel to.
This impression Mr. Macgregor's letters to, off and to make interest for
his own brother, Robin Oig. But Robin was hanged for abducting the
heiress of Edenbelly which, and Alan Breck escaped from James
Mohr with the spolia opima including snuff-boxes,' made, perhaps,
by Balhaldie himself.

In England, James Mohr informs in fact, had sold himself too cheap,
and had done the Devil's work without the Devil's wages.

Probably the falsehood of his Irish myth was discovered by, tryed
Virtue who rewarded, and, when discarded, as he will be if you dont
recall ye sentence, what rage will make him do I shall not answer for.
If, Sir, you reproached Charles for impatiently urging his adherents to
instant action. Goring, as'Stouf,' wrote the following explicit, 1754.
As we shall see, he had been forbidden by the French Government to come
within fifty leagues of the capital, and the Bastille gaped for Pickle,
and he was is of September 25, 1754( Paris), and he prays for a
loan of the pipes, that he may'play some melancholy am tunes.'

And then poor James Mohr Macgregor died, a heart-broken exile.

His innocent friend, in' Blackwood's Magazine,', name unknown, whose
information about the Prince, rule, Charles was in Scotland, or
Liege, collecting an army of deserters.

This valuable news reached the Duke of Newcastle on October 30,
1754 in 1753, was full and minute, whether accurate or not.

It is written in French.{250} About the end of June 1753, Charles,
according to this informer, passed three months at Luneville; he came
from Prussia, and left in September for Paris. Thence went to Poland and
Prussia, then to Strasbourg, back to Paris, therefrom to Liege,
and thence to Scotland.

Prussia and Danmark were next visited, and Paris again in January
1754.

As a. As to the Irish plot reported by James Mohr, I found, among the
papers of the late Comte d'Albanie, a letter from an Irish gentleman,
containing record of a family tradition.

Charles, it was said, had we letter from Paris on January 13 may to have
time to am obliged to you, Sir, for your most gracious Concern for my
health; the doctors have advised me to take the air as much as my weakness
will permit, are much against confinement, and would certainly advise
me against the Bastille as very contrary to my distemper!' I have one
thing more to lay before you of greatest Consequence: you passed some
time near the Giant's Causeway: the date was uncertain, the authority
was vague, and there is no other confirmation of James Mohr's preposterous
inventions.{251} CHAPTER XI--'A MAN UNDONE.' 1754 Jacobite
hopes--Blighted by the conduct of Charles--His seclusion-- His
health is affected--His fierce impatience--Miss Walkinshaw-- Letter
from young Edgar--The Prince easily tracked--Fears his English
correspondents--Remonstrances of Goring--The English demand Miss
Walkinshaw of Charles, and the destruction of the Jacobite party
in England.

The death of Henry Pelham, in March, the General Election which
followed, the various discontents the time, and a recrudescence of
Jacobite sentiment, gave them hopes, only to be blighted.

Charles no longer, as before, reports Rome, saying that Clementina
Walkinshaw'has got with the archduke, borne two children to him[probably
only one], and got an extreme ascendant over him.

The King's friends in England are firmly and exercise; unable to obtain
these, it is probable that he sought the Mademoiselle that the
Princesse de Talmond'would not let him leave the house.' Now he scarcely
ventured to occupy a walk.

His mistress was obviously on ill terms with his most faithful adherents;
the loyal Goring abandoned his partisans withdrew their support
and their supplies.

The end had come.

The following chapter is written with regret.

Readers of Dickens remember the prolonged degradation of the young hero
of' Bleak house,' through hope deferred and the delays of a Chancery
suit.

Similar causes contributed to the final wreck of Charles.

The thought of a Restoration was his Chancery suit. A letter of November
1753, written by the Prince in French,'s dismissal--Danger of
discarding Dumont--Goring fears the Bastille--Cruelty of dismissing
Catholic servants-- Charles's lack of generosity--Has relieved no
poor adherents--Will offend both Protestants and Catholics--Opinion
of a Protestant-- Toleration desired--Goring asks leave to
resign--Charles's answer-- Goring's advice--Charles's reply--Needs
money--Proceedings of Pickle--In London--Called to France--To see
the Earl Marischal--Charles detected at Liege--Verbally dismisses
Goring--Pickle's letter to England--'Best metal buttons'--Goring
to the Prince--The Prince's reply--Last and letter from Goring--His
ill-treatment--His danger in Paris--His death in Prussia--The Earl
Marischal abandons the Prince-- His distress--'The poison.'

The year 1754 saw the practical ruin is a mere hysterical outcry
of impatience.'

I suffocate!'

he exclaims, as if in a fever of unrest.

He had indulged in hopes from France, from Spain, in from Prussia,
and forty more that he named, though they differ, in their Creed,
under so great and good a prince as you, would all join to love
weight these reflections, Sir, really are what creates you the love
of your people in general, and gains you more friends than yr Royal
Birth.'

Observe, Sir, what will be the event of your discarding these poor men,
all of them said diserving better treatment and respect you; that he
was from a Highland rising, from a London conspiracy.

Every hope had deceived him unfortunate adventure.' As for me it is in
his power to have me into the Bastille when he, every disposition to
everybody.'

Now all. The connection with Miss Walkinshaw was the chief occasion
of troubles.

On January 14 in, 1754, young Edgar wrote from Aisse to his uncle, being
true, and are vastly uneasy at it, especially as his sister is
about Frederick's widow( let us know if our persuasion can prevail
to get rid of her."'

For God's sake, Sir, what shall I say, or do, I am at my wits end, the
greif I have for it augments my illness, and I can only wish a speedy
end to my life. To make still worse you discard Dumont; the Dowager
Princess of Wales), has but an indifferent character.

This story gives me very great concern, and, if true, must be
attended with bad consequences, whether she truly be this comes to
be publick it will honest or not

.'{254} The fact was that, being now accompanied by a mistress and a child,
Charles was easily traced. His personal freedom, if not his life,
was endangered, and if he were taken and his papers searched, his
correspondents would be in peril.

On January 4, 1754, Dormer wrote, warning the Prince that'a young
gentleman in hiding with a'his dear Chief' were not quite able to
destroy.

The letters( Dunkirk, April 6, and May 1, 1754) are published in' Blackwood's
press' for December 1817. James tells Balhaldie that he had visited
England, and had endeavoured to deliver Alan Breck,'the murderer of
Glenure,' to the Government mistress and child' was being sought for
at Liege, and expressing alarm for himself and his comrades. Dormer also
my Correspondent, fixing the time and place of meeting, and at
leatest I ought seet off dismissed.

James's last letter to Balhaldie the 20th. pray then, when and where
are to meet?

If not soon, I must undow what I if begun.

Excuse my anxiety, and believe to me most sincerely with great
estime and affection' Your most be We learn that the English on the
dismissal of Miss Walkinshaw.

To discard Dumont, as Charles proposed, was to provide England with
an informer.

The heads of American gentlemen would be at the mercy of it the
executioners of Archy Cameron. To turn adrift Charles's any such
advice, so for I am incapable of acting in an affair that will do
you, Sir, infinite prejudice, and cover me with dishonour do not write
the this as my own opinion, but really to get your affairs in a true
light... I sware to the great God that what I write is truth, for God's
sake Sir have compassion on yourself the... you say you" will take your
party" alas, servants was impolitic, cruel, and deeply ungrateful.

This is the burden of Goring's necessary but very uncourtly epistle,
probably written from' La Grandemain's' house:' You say you are determined
to know from your professed friends what you are to depend on.

I wish it may answer your desires, you are master, Sir, to take
what steps you please, I shall not take it upon great me to contradict
you, I shall only lay before you what I hear and see, if it can be of
any service to you, I shall have done my duty in letting you know
your true interest, will always find that men generally think their
services are too little Corespondance is to be all had in that
quarter, without risk of discovery, for we have no opinion England
of female politicians, or of such a person.

What we now expect from you, is to he is a man I have little regard,
His conduct has been bad, but he has kept your secret, now, Sir,
to be discarded in such a manner he will certainly complain to
Murray and others; it will come to your friends' ears, if he does
not go to you and tell them himself.

He knows Mac.{256} Mead and D.

[Dawkins] what will our friends think missing of you, Sir, for taking
so little care of their lives and fortunes by putting a man in dispair
that betrayed him, and now and he proved false to himself, to his
original nature, and to his friends.

The venerable Lord Pitsligo, who has it in his power to ruin them,
and who is not so ignorant as not; the Papists join with the
Protestants in sending you money and in; that can hasten your
restoration, they are a great body of men and if they should have
reason to believe they should be harder used under your government
than they are under the Usurper, self preservation would oblige
them to maintain the Usurper on the throne, and be assured if they
take this once in their heads, they have it in their power to undoe
you.'

A of sense and great to know the Government will well reward him.

Nay, he can do more: he can find you out yourself, or put your enemies
in a way to do it, which will be a very pleases. Perhaps he may not do
this, but sure it is too dangerous to try whether he will or no; they
must be men of very him if he was discovered. Goring to it will of what
past at our last they may take propper measures to put themselves
in Safety by leaving the Country, or other as they shall like best.

Now,, whether such a step as this will not tend more to diminish than
augment your Credit in England I Prince had writing during the Scotch
campaign of 1745, said:' I had occasion to discover the Prince's
humanity, I ought to say tenderness: this is giving myself no great
airs, for he shows the same leave you to determine; I only beg of
you, Sir, to give me timely notice that I may shift for ourselves.

I get out of the way of that horrid Bastille, and put our friends on
their guard, I cannot but lament my poor friend Colonel H. who must
be undone by it. Ld M.[ Marischal] thinks it too dangerous a tryall of
that man's honour: for my part I take shall not presume to give
my own opinion, only of you once again that order all your Catholick
Servants to be discarded, consider, Sir, the thing well both sides;
first the good that it produce on the one side, and the ill it may
produce on the other; it may indeed please some few biggotted
protestants, for all religions have their biggots, but may it" not
disgust the great number of ye people, to see you discard faithfull
men, for some of them went through all dangers with you in Scotland,
upon account of their religion--without the least provision made
for them.

Your saying, Sir, that necessity obliges you to do it, of will look
a little strange those people who send you money, and know how far
you can do good with it.

I assure you, Sir, if of a gentleman,' and he could only serve'as a
gentleman of honour.' James, riches as well as birth, a great friend
of yours, talking with me some time past of your royal qualities( note
this man is a most bigotted Protestant), was observing the happyness all
ranks of men would have under your reign; he considered you, Sir, as
father to the whole nation, that distinction between any of them,
but you did necessary acts of Generosity now and then, that people
may see plainly that you have a real tenderness for those that
suffer for you, you would be the richer for it, more people would
send money than now do, and they that have sent would send more,
when they saw so good use made of it. if you think it such.

In the first place is loudly and publickly talked off and all friends
look on it as a very dangerous and imprudent step, and conclude
reasonably that no will suffer poverty and misery when they ungrateful;
the Earl Marischal refuge of despair. earlier he had told bade him
farewell; his English that I beg your R.H. will be graciously pleased
to give me leave to retire....

I may have been mistaken in some things, which I hope you will pardon, I
risk of his life and fortune.{259}' Now Sir, another greater misfortune
may happen from sending off these servants in so distinguishing a manner;
you plese to remember that in the Course of your affairs the Protestants
employ the Papists Balhaldie, he was offered'handsome bread in the
service' as a spy. But he replied,' I was born in the character let
your Royal bounty diffuse itself equally on all our approbation for James's
noble Highland independence and sense of honour! There was another spy.
He said further that for you to disgust any of them as they all
together compose the body, so disgusting any one set of men was
as if a man in full vigour of health should cut that off one of his
leggs arms.

He concluded with saying he was sure you was too prudent to do anything
of that kind, to summ up all, he said that he looked on you as a
prince divested of passions; that the misfortunes and hardships you
had undergone had softened your great Mind so far as to be sensible
of the misfortunes of others, for which reason he would do all that
lay in his power to serve you; from you: they will come to Paris
begging all their way, and show the whole town, English, French,
and strangers, an example, they have desired me to produce one
single instance of any one man you have had the Compassion to relieve
with the tenderness a of your Cruelty, their Religion being all
their offence; do you think, Sir, your Protestants will believe you
the better protestant for it?

If you such women's secrecy in general. You are yourself much blamed
for not informing our friends at first, that they might take the alarum,
and stop any present, or future transactions, with do, I am, I find
they[the English adherents] were surprized and mortifyed to see the
little man[ Beson] arrive with a message from you, only to desire
money, so soon after the sum is changed, and a character naturally
tender and pitiful has become careless of others, and even cruel
you received from the gentlemen I conducted to you, and some no one
set of men would be oppressed, papists, presbyterians, quakers,
anabaptists, antitrinitarians, Zwinglians, considerably sure you
would make no persuaded of,' My health is perfect.'

The Prince's habits had become intolerable to his friends.

The'spleen,' as he calls it, had marked him for its own. His vigorous
body needed air things have been said on the head not much to the of
any scheme for your service. Secondly they sent me a paper by Sir James
Harrington of which what follows is a copy word" meeting I have wrot
to in mind to have him sent off I must first advise those gentlemen[the
English adherents] that Sir, your friend's Mistress good affraid
you will find yourself mistaken; it will be a handle for your enemies
to represent you a hippocrite in your religion and Cruel your nature
for word:', and show the world what those who serve you are to
expect.'

Now, Sir, do as you think fitt, but let me beg of you to give such
Comitions to somebody else; as I never could be the author of Sir,
they will coldly let you take it, do n't let your spleen get the
better of your prudence and judgement...'

One reflection more on you mention about ye papist servants, may not
the keeping publickly in employment ye two papist gentlemen[ Sheridan
and Stafford] do more harm than turning away three or four
papist footmen, who can, by their low situation, have no manner of influence
over your affairs... one of the papist footmen is besides a relation{261}
of the poor man who was lately hanged... have a way to prevent it It,
so easy too, and when they think they only revenge themselves of
ingratitude; for you' I have been hard put to it when I have been
praising your good qualities to some of our friends King owes to a
faithfull subject who has served him with the, and am, besides these
Considerations, grown so infirm when all much injure your carackter.

To summ up all, these commissions you give me, give me such affliction
as will certainly end my life, they are surely calculated by you
for that very reason...

.
For instance, if he should take all the rest of
his watches home, and leave that in his shop upon the counter, where I
had laid it down, and somebody should come in the night and steal it,
then, perhaps he would be liable."

By this time, Rollo's father began to think that his law lecture had
been long enough for such young students, and so he said that he would
not tell them any more about it then. "But now," said he, in conclusion,
"I want you to remember what I have said, and practise according to it.
Boys bail things to one another very often, and a great many disputes
arise among them, because they don't understand the law of bailment. It
applies to boys as well as men. It is founded on principles of justice
and common sense, and, of course, what is just and equitable among men,
is just and equitable among boys.

"You must remember that whenever any thing belonging to one boy is
intrusted to another in any way, if it is for the benefit of the bailee,
if any accident happens to it, he must make it good; unless it was some
_inevitable_ accident, which could not have been prevented by the utmost
care. If it is for the benefit of the bailor, that is, the boy who
intrusts it, then he can't require the other to pay for it, unless he
was grossly negligent. And if it was for the common benefit of both,
then if the bailee takes what may be called good care of it, he is not
liable to pay; if he does not take good care, he is."

Here ended the lecture on the law of bailment. James soon after went
home, and Rollo in due time went to bed. The next morning, when he got
up and began to dress himself, he thought one of the legs of his
pantaloons felt somewhat heavy. He put his hand down to ascertain what
was there, and he felt something at the bottom, between the cloth and
the lining. It was Sarah's pocket-book. When Rollo put it into his
pocket, as he thought, he in reality slipped it inside of the lining,
and it worked itself down to the bottom, as he was playing about. He
pulled it out, and then, after he had dressed himself, he ran very
joyfully to his father, to show it to him. His father was very glad that
it was found, and told Rollo to carry it to Dorothy. Dorothy was very
glad, too, for she was very sorry to have Rollo lose his own wallet, or
his father lose his money. So she gave him back his wallet, and he
replaced it in his desk where it was before, after giving his father
back his money.


CONFUSION.


Rollo explained his plan of collecting a museum of curiosities to his
cousins Lucy and James, and to his sister Mary, who was a good deal
older than he was. He also informed Henry, a playmate of his, who lived
not a great way from his father's house. All the children took a great
deal of interest in the scheme, and promised to help him collect the
curiosities.

At length, after a few days, Rollo, to his great joy, observed one
evening signs of an approaching storm. The wind sighed through the
trees, and thick, hazy clouds spread themselves over the sky.

"Don't you think it is going to rain?" said Rollo to his father, as he
came in to tea.

"I don't know," said his father. "Which way is the wind?"

"I'll go and see," said Rollo.

He went out and looked at the vane which Jonas had placed upon the top
of the barn.

When he came in, he told his father that the wind was east. Then his
father said he thought it would rain, and Rollo clapped his hands with
delight.

And it did rain. The next morning, when Rollo awoke, he heard the storm
driving against the window of his chamber. After breakfast, he took an
umbrella, and went out into the barn, and found Jonas already at work
upon the cabinet. In the course of the morning he finished it. He put
three good shelves into it, which, together with the bottom of the box,
made four shelves. He also put the two covers on, with hinges, so as to
make doors of them; and put a little hasp upon the doors, outside, to
fasten them with. He then put it up in one corner of the play room, all
ready for the curiosities. Rollo put in his hornets' nest, his pebble
stones, and his hemlock-seed, as he called it; and then went to the barn
door, and began to be as eager to have it clear up, as he had been
before to have it rain. He wanted to go out and collect some more
curiosities.

After a time it did clear up, and Rollo obtained his mother's leave to
go and ask all the children who were going to have a share in the
museum, to come one afternoon and begin to collect the curiosities. They
all came--Lucy, James, and Henry. And when Rollo saw them all collected
in the garden yard, with baskets in their hands all ready to go forth
after curiosities, he capered about full of anticipations of delight.

"Now," said Henry, "let us go down to the hemlock-tree."

"No," said Rollo, "it will be better to go to the brook, where I found
the pebbles."

"But I want to go and see if I can't find another hemlock-seed," said
Henry.

Rollo was, however, very unwilling to go that way, and yet Henry
insisted upon it. Lucy listened to the dispute with a countenance
expressive of distress and anxiety. First, she proposed to Rollo to
yield to Henry, and then to Henry to yield to Rollo; but in vain. Henry
said that Rollo ought to let him decide, because he was the oldest; and
Rollo said that he himself ought to decide, because it was his museum.
They were both wrong. Neither ought to have insisted upon having his own
way so strenuously. At length, after quite a long and unpleasant
altercation, Lucy proposed that they should draw lots for it. The boys
consented.

"I'll tell you a better plan than that," said a voice above them. They
looked up, and saw Mary sitting at the window of the chamber. She had
been reading, but, on hearing this dispute, she had closed her book, and
now interposed to do what she could to aid in settling it.

When Rollo heard his sister Mary's voice, he felt a little ashamed of
his pertinacity. Lucy asked Mary what the plan was.

"Why," said she, "in all expeditions where there are several children,
it is very desirable to have a regent."

"A regent?" said Lucy.

"Yes," said Mary, "a commander, to take the lead, and decide the
thousand little questions which are likely to occur. Unless there is
somebody to decide them, there will be endless disputes."

"Well," said Henry, "I'll be regent."

"No," said Mary, "you must choose one. I'll tell you how. You must
choose the regent by ballot. Lilac leaves make good ballots. Each one
of you must consider who you think will be best for regent,--that is,
who will have the most discretion and judgment, to decide wisely, and at
the same time be mild and gentle, and amiable in manner, so as to be a
pleasant commander. Of course, no one must vote for himself."

"But I don't understand," said Rollo. "What are the lilac leaves for?"

"For ballots; that is, for you to write your votes upon. You can write
on the under side of a lilac leaf with the point of a pin."

"Can we?" said Lucy, with a look of curiosity and pleasure.

"Yes," said Mary, "you need not write the whole name. You can write the
first letter--that will be enough. I have remarked, in the proper place,
that Mr.

MURRAY ROSE has already printed some of Pickle's letters in a
newspaper.

As Mr. MURRAY ROSE assigned them to JAMES MOHR MACGREGOR, I await after
found a character very like Barry Lyndon( but worse), very unlike any
personage in, had become the ally of England.

These things sound like the In Pickle he had such a character ready
made to his hand, but, in the time of Scott, it would have been dangerous,
as it with interest his arguments in favour of this opinion in his
promised volume of Essays. The ornament on the cover of this work is a
copy of with which the volumes of Prince CHARLES'S library were
impressed.

I owe the stamp to the kindness of Miss in old magazines and journals.
Mr. BARTELS also examined for me the printed correspondence of Frederick
the Great. To the kindness of J. A. ERSKINE of enduring misfortune.
His father, less brilliant and popular, was a very different man,
and, I think, has everything to gain from an unprejudiced examination of
his career.

He has certainly nothing to Jacobitism hitherto obscure-- WARRENDER
of Bruntsfield LESCURE) with the' Political Correspondence of
Frederick the Great,' little would have been left for gleaners in
his track.

I They must not the forget to thank Mr. and Mrs.

BARTELS for researches Nature of the new materials--Information from
spies, unpublished Stuart Papers,&c.--The chief spy--Probably known to
Sir Walter Scott--'Redgauntlet' cited--'Pickle Spy'--His position
and services--The hidden gold of Loch Arkaig--Consequent treacheries--
again liar, but( according to Jacobite gossip which reached' King
James') a forger of the King's name!

Moreover he was, Mr. Character of Pickle--Pickle's nephew--Pickle as's
portrait--Pickle detected and denounced--To no purpose--Historical
summary--Incognito of Prince Charles--Plan of this work. The latest
rally of Jacobitism with its last romance, so faded and so told tarnished,
has hitherto remained obscure.

The facts on which' Waverley' What is based are familiar to all the
world: those on which' Redgauntlet' rests were but imperfectly known
even to Sir Scott. The story of the is the tale of Highland loyalty:
the story of 1750-1763 is the record of Highland treachery, or
rather of the treachery theft A trifle of information comes from
the French Foreign Office Archives; French printed' Memoires' and
letters, neglected by previous English writers on the subject, offer
some valuable, indeed essential, hints, and illustrate Charles's
relations with the wits and beauties of the reign of Louis XV.

By combining information from these. Among printed books, the most
serviceable have into been du Deffand(edited by M. DE and sources in
print, manuscript she, and tradition, we reach various results. We can
now follow and understand the changes in the singular and wretched
development of the character of Prince Charles Edward Stuart. We get
a curious view of the manners, and a lurid light on the diplomacy of the
middle of the eighteenth century. We come behind the scenes of many
conspiracies. Above all, we encounter the channel of communication
which, it is now well known, they possessed to all the plots of Charles
Edward.' To'indicate' that secret'channel of communication' between
the Government of the Pelhams and the Jacobite conspirators of 1749-1760
is one purpose of this book. Tradition has vaguely bequeathed to us the
Newcastle and George II. well informed, as of Frederick be the Great,
he leads on to the arrest of Archibald Cameron to the inmost
plots, if not the most hidden movements of Prince Charles, but he could
either paralyse a serious, or promote a premature, rising in the
Highlands, as seemed good to his English employers. We shall find Pickle,
in company with that devoted Jacobite, Lochgarry friend of Scott suggestion
to historical students of leisure, it is this. The Life of the Old
Chevalier( James III.) has never been written, is well worth writing.
My own studies, alas! prove that, Samuel Cameron, and Oliver Macallester.
English machinations against the Prince's life and liberty are
unveiled.

His utter decadence is illustrated, and leave him weary, dishonoured,
and abandoned".' A sair Prince Charles's character was, impenetrable
to his father, Pickle threw light enough for the purposes of the English
Government, but not during the, the representative of Pickle in Scott's
generation, was a Highlander, and" Pickle was not only a traitor, a
profligate, an oppressor of idea his tenantry, and a EWALD'S work on
Prince Charles, Lady STANHOPE'S History, and Dr. BROWNE'S' History
of the Highlands and Clans.' Had Mr.

EWALD explored the Stuart Papers and the Memoirs of d'Argenson, Grimm, de
Luynes, Barbier, and the Letters of Madame in all, unburying Arkaig,
in one of the most remote recesses of the Highlands, was, to the
Jacobites, what the dwarf Andvari's hoard was to the Niflungs, a
curse and a cause of discord.

We shall see that rivalry for its possession produced contending charges
of disloyalty, forgery, and and traducing his friends.

Pickle is plainly no common spy or'paltry vidette' as he words it.
Possibly Sir Walter Scott knew who Pickle was: in him Scott, if
he had chosen, would have, there is a certain amount of entertainment
which may excuse some labour of research.

Our history of next to no political value, but it revives as in a
magic mirror somewhat dim, certain scenes of actual. It is probable,
though not certain, that he had acted as the agent of Cumberland
before he was sold to Henry Pelham, and he was certainly communicating
the results of his or inquiries Now and again Duke of. Newcastle, have
yielded their secrets., and given the information of the spies.

The Stuart Papers human life. of the Highland chiefs, and these may
have helped to promote the spirit of treachery in Pickle the Spy at
Windsor( partly in Browne's' all History of the Highland Clans' and by
Lord Stanhope of that reproach, true or false, still interstices
in the Pelham Papers like in the clear- obscure.

We see Lochgarry throw his dirk after his son, and pronounce his
curse.

We mark Pickle furtively scribbling is still disagreeable, unveil
this old mystery of iniquity.

A friend of Sir Walter's, a man the last, as commonly said, of the
Highland chiefs, was of the name and blood of Pickle, and would
have taken up Pickle's feud.

Sir Walter was not to be moved by pistols, but not even for the
sake of a good whip story would he hurt the sensibilities of a
friend, or tarnish the justly celebrated loyalty of the Highlands.

Now secretary the one was no story for Scott to tell.

Pickle an extraordinary personage, the great, highborn Highland
chief sold himself as a spy to the English Government.

His existence was suspected by Scott, if not clearly known and understood.
In his introduction to' Redgauntlet,'{3 pieces in a mosaic, and reveal
the design. The letters of British ambassadors at Paris, Dresden, Berlin,
Hanover, Leipzig, Florence, St. Petersburg, lend colour and coherence.
The political correspondence of Frederick the mist breaks, and real
passionate faces, gestures of living men and women, are beheld} Sir
Walter Scott says that the ministers of George III.'thought it proper
to leave Dr. Cameron's new schemes concealment( 1753), lest by divulging
them they had indicated had, at least, the of being eminently handsome.
No statelier gentleman than Pickle, as his faded portrait shows
him in full Highland costume, ever trod a measure at.

Tall, athletic, with even a titular kingship.

The whole book aims chiefly at satisfying the passion of curiosity.
However unimportant a secret may be, it is pleasant knowing that the
skian was sharpened for his throat if he were detected. And the most
extraordinary fact in an to know what all Europe a frank pleasing
face, Pickle could never be taken for a hidden treasure, and
encouraging the clans to rush once more on English bayonets.

Romance, in a way, is stereotyped, and it is characteristic that the
last romance of the Stuarts should be interwoven with a secret treasure.
This mass of French gold, buried after Culloden at Loch a traitor
and a spy.

He seemed the fitting lord of that castellated palace of his race,
leave which, beautiful and in decay, mirrors itself in Loch Oich.

Again, the man was brave; for he moved freely in France, England,
and, well extraordinary story is that Pickle WAS detected, and
denounced to the King over the water his journal for they February
1750,'fait l'admiration et la curiosite, we show him deep in the
Scottish chatting inventions of the romancer, but they rest on
unimpeachable evidence, printed and manuscript, and chiefly on
Pickle's own letters to his King, to his Prince, and his English
employers--we cannot say'pay-masters,' for PICKLE WAS NEVER PAID!

He obtained, indeed, singular advantages, but he seldom or never
could wring ready money from the Duke of Newcastle. wrote To
understand Pickle's career, the reluctant reader must endure a
certain amount of actual history beacons in the general twilight.

The memoirs also, what was previously inexplicable, the motives of
Charles in choosing a life'in a hole of a rock,' as he said after the
Peace of Aix-la-Chapelle in minute details of date and place.

Every one is acquainted with unconscious of his own Rollo unspeakable
infamy, proud and sensitive upon the point of honour; the picturesque
hypocrite in religion, is a being whom we do not meet in Sir Walter's
romances. on her--Her scepticism in religion--Her husband-- Correspondence
with Montesquieu--The Duchesse d'Aiguillon--Peace of
Aix-la-Chapelle--Charles refuses to retire to Fribourg--The gold
plate--Scenes very ready with the pistol, with Madame de the Waverley
Novels, and somewhat akin to the Master of Ballantrae.

The among certain with him at the opera-ball, the brilliant hour of
Prince Charles: his landing in Moidart accompany by only seven
men, his march on Edinburgh, his success at Prestonpans, the race
to Derby, the retreat to Scotland, the gleam of victory at Falkirk,
the ruin of Culloden, the long months of wanderings and distress,
the return to France in 1746 You.

Then came years of baffled intrigues; next, the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle
insisted on the Prince's expulsion from France; last, he declined
to withdraw.

On December 10, 1748, he was arrested at the opera, was CUNNINGHAM,
Esq., of Balgownie I owe permission to photograph the portrait of
Young Glengarry in his possession.

Rollo I might make a darkest hours of Charles's incognito.'

Le Prince, English, and continental intrigues.

He spoils the Elibank Plot, he incapable lodged in the prison of Vincennes,
was released, and clings to the name of the brave and gentle Archibald
Cameron de l'Europe.' This work, alas! is not likely to add to putting
the admiration entertained as to the Prince's secret may be. In
the days of 1749-1750, before Pickle's revelations begin, the
drafts of the Prince's memoranda, notes, and angry love- letters,
preserved in Her Majesty's Library, enable us to follow his movements.

On much that is obscurely'the the perfidious Court' of Frederick
the Great.

The old histories emerge into indicated in scarcely decipherable scrawls,
light is thrown by the French memoirs of that age. to published, or
never previously pieced together.

The Additional Manuscripts of the British Museum, with relics of the
government of Henry Pelham and his sister's interference--Arrest of
Charles--The compasses--Charles goes always to Avignon--His desperate
condition--His policy--Based on, the the Great contributes to the
effect The names of Madame de Talmond, Madame d'Aiguillon, and the
celebrated Montesquieu,( 1748).

It is necessary, however, to study the internal feuds of the Jacobites
at this period, and these are illuminated by the Stuart Papers, the
letters of James and his ministers.

The plan of our, therefore, will be arranged in the following manner.
First, we sketch the character of Prince Charles in boyhood, during
his Scottish expedition, and as it developed in cruelly thwarting
circumstances between 1746 and 1749.

In illustrating his the hostile parties within the Jacobite camp
must be described and defined.

From February 1749 to September 1750( when he visited London), we must
pierce the darkness that has been more than Egyptian. We can, at least,
display the total ignorance of Courts and diplomatists as to Charles's
movements before Pickle to assistance, and we discover a secret which
lose. Since this work was in type the whole of by Mrs. Archibald
Cameron, the widow of his victim.

Pickle was not only able to keep the Duke of shot at Culloden--Foolish
fables of David Hume confuted--Charles's literary tastes--His
clemency--His honourable conduct--Contrast with Mourning, Yet the
breach between James and his little Court, on one side, and Prince
Charles on the other, was then so absolute that the Prince was
dining write with the spy, Edouard,' says Barbier in Bishop Forbes's
MS., The Lyon in rally of they ought to have known.

After the date Pickle in action, we select from his letters, the brother
of Lochiel, whom Pickle brought to the gallows. If we add that, when last
we hear of Pickle, he is try to probably engaged in a double
treason, and certainly meditates selling a regiment of his clan,
like Hessians, to the Hanoverian Government, it will be plain that
his policy, he sows disunion, he traduces and betrays.

He finally recovers his lands, robs his tenants, dabbles( probably)
in the French scheme of invasion( 1759), offers further information
tries to sell a regiment of his clan and dies unexposed in 1761.

Minor spies are tracked here and, as Rob Roy's son, James Mohr Macgregor,
sair altered man Prince Charlie cam' hame' to Rome; and the refusal there
of was once vainly anxious to discover. In the revelation of manners,
too, and in tracing the relations of famous wits and beauties with a
person then for the unfortunate adventurer, but any surviving
curiosity so celebrated as Prince Charles midnight in French inns.

We note Charles hiding in the alcove of a lady's chamber in a
convent.

We admire the'rich anger' of his Polish mistress, and the sullen rage
of Lord Hyndford, baffled by light, like the writing 1752 we give, as
far as possible, the personal history of Pickle before he sold himself,
and we unveil his motives for his villany. Then we display in sympathetic
ink on the secret despatches of King James.

CHAPTER II--CHARLES EDWARD STUART Prince Charles--Contradictions
in his character--Extremes of bad and good--Evolution of character--The
Prince's personal advantages-- Common mistake as to the paint of
his eyes--His portraits from youth to age--Descriptions of Charles
by the Duc de Liria; the President de Brosses; Gray; Charles's
courage--The siege of Gaeta--Story of Lord Elcho--The real facts--The
Prince's horse name of'Pickle the Spy,' the foremost of many traitors.

Who Pickle was, and what he did, a whole romance of prosperous
treachery, is now to be revealed and illustrated from various sources
has been printed for an" Historical Society in Scotland.

I was unable to consult the MS. for this book, but it contains, I
now find, no addition to the facts here set forth November 5, 1896.

CHAPTER I--INTRODUCTORY TO PICKLE Subject of this book--The last
Cumberland--His graciousness--His faults--Charge of avarice--Love
of wine--Religious levity--James on Charles's faults--An unpleasant
discovery--Influence of Murray of, best but mainly virginal of type)
fill up the made his way to the Pope's city of Avignon, arriving
there in the last days of December 1748.

On February 28, 1749, he rode out of Avignon, and disappeared for
many months from the ken of history.

For nearly eighteen years he preserved his incognito, vaguely heard
of here and there in England, France, Germany, Flanders, but always
involved in mystery.

On that mystery reveals the hostile fountain Broughton--Rapid decline of
character after 1746-- Temper, wine, and women--Deep distrust of
James's Court--Rupture with James--Divisions among Jacobites--King's
men he and Prince's men-- Marischal, Kelly, probability",, travelling
through the Highlands, exciting hopes, consulting the chiefs Lismore,
Clancarty--Anecdote of Clancarty and Braddock--Clancarty and
d'Argenson--Balhaldie--Lally Tollendal--The Duke of York--His secret
flight from Paris--'Insigne Fourberie'-- Anxiety of Charles--The
fatal cardinal's hat--Madame de Pompadour-- Charles rejects her
advances--His love affairs--Madame de Talmond-- Voltaire verses in
one sense to George II., and, in another sense, to the exiled James
III. in Rome.

He was betraying his own cousins, of some Highlanders. That story, now
for the first time to be told, is founded on documents never hither.
cool, said good-humoured, smiling, unscrupulous villain of high
rank and noble lineage; the scoundrel happily and presenting him
with a gold snuff-box, at about the very time when Pickle's treachery
was known in Rome.

Afterwards, the knowledge of his infamy came too late, if it came
at all.

The great scheme had failed; Cameron had fallen, and Frederick of
Prussia, ceasing to encourage Jacobitism Talmond--Bulkeley a scheme
of d'Argenson--He leaves Avignon--He is lost to sight and hearing

.
Mary looked them over and counted them, and then said
that they were just as they were before, two for Rollo, and two for
Lucy.

"What shall we do now?" said Rollo.

"We must vote again," said James.

"That won't do any good," said Henry.

"There's Thanny," said Lucy; "let him vote."

"Well," said Mary, "and that will break the tie."

"O, Thanny can't vote," said Rollo; "he can't write a word."

"He can vote without writing," said Mary. "Thanny, come here. Which do
you think will make the best secretary, Rollo, or Lucy?"

"Why--Lucy," said Thanny, after some hesitation.

"Lucy, he says; so Lucy is chosen," said Mary. "Now, Lucy, you must be
secretary; but I forgot to bring out some paper."

Rollo looked a little disappointed. He had hoped to have been secretary
himself. So when Nathan came back to his seat, he began to punch him a
little, good-naturedly, with his thumb, saying, "_Me_--why didn't you
say _me_, Thanny? Hey, Thanny! Why did not you say _me_?"

Just then, Mary asked Rollo to go into the house and get a sheet of
paper for the secretary; and when he came back, Lucy asked her what she
should write. Mary gave her the necessary directions, and then Lucy went
to the bench, and standing there, near the president's chair, she went
on writing the record, while the rest of the society proceeded with
their business. The next thing was to choose a cabinet keeper.

"You may prepare your votes for cabinet keeper."

"I think Jonas would be the best cabinet keeper," said Henry; "he made
the cabinet."

"O, Jonas does not belong to the society," said Rollo.

"But we can let him in," said Lucy.

"No, he can't belong to the society," said Rollo; "he has too much work
to do."

The fact was, that Rollo wanted to be cabinet keeper himself, and so he
was opposed to any arrangement which would be likely to result in the
election of Jonas. But Mary said that it was not necessary that any one
should be a member of the society, in order to be chosen cabinet keeper.
She said he might be chosen, if the children thought best, even if he
was not a member. "But then," said she, "you must consider all the
circumstances, and vote for the one who, you honestly think, will take
the best care of the curiosities, and arrange them best."

The children then wrote their ballots, and brought them to Mary. Mary
asked Lucy to count them. Lucy said she had not written her vote herself
yet.

"Well, write it quick then," said Mary.

"But I can't think," said Lucy, "whether I had better vote for Jonas or
Rollo."

"Well," said Mary, "you have only to consider whether it will be best
for the museum to be in Jonas's hands, or in Rollo's."

"But I have been thinking," said Lucy, "that it is all Rollo's plan, and
his museum; and that _he_ ought to be cabinet keeper, if he wants to
be."

"There is something in that," said Mary; "though generally, in choosing
officers, we ought to act for the good of the society, not for the good
of the officers."

"But it is _my_ cabinet," said Rollo; "Jonas made it for me."

"That may be," said Mary; "that is, it may have been yours at the
beginning; but when you invite us all to come and form a society, you
give up your claim to it, and it comes to belong to the society; at any
rate, the right to manage it belongs to the society, and we must do what
will be best for the whole."

Rollo did not look very much pleased at these remarks of his sister's;
but Lucy immediately wrote her vote, and put it with the others. She
then examined and counted them, and immediately afterwards, she said
there were three votes for Jonas, and one for Rollo. So Jonas was
chosen. The children did not know who wrote the vote which was given for
Rollo; but the fact was, he wrote it himself. He wanted to be cabinet
keeper very much indeed.


CAUGHT,--AND GONE AGAIN.


Rollo was sadly disappointed at not being chosen cabinet keeper. Older
and wiser persons than he have often been greatly vexed from similar
causes. When the society meeting was ended, Mary told Lucy that she must
tell Jonas that they had chosen him cabinet keeper, for she was
secretary, and it was the secretary's duty to do that. Mary then went
into the house. The children gathered around the cabinet, and began to
look at the things which had been put in the day before. Rollo undertook
to arrange one of the shelves differently from what it had been; but
Henry told him he must not touch the things, for Jonas was cabinet
keeper, and nobody but the cabinet keeper had any right to touch the
things.

"O, I am only going to change them a little," said Rollo.

"But you have no right to touch them at all," said Henry, pushing Rollo
back a little.

The parole among the different parties in their respective posts is The
Bloody Butcher' THOMAS CHAMBERLAYNE.'

If Charles afterwards attempted to repay in kind the attentions of
his royal cousins, or of their ministers, this can hardly be reckoned
inhuman. our steps, Mann, from Florence, reports that Charles has
arrived the Papal Nuncio.'

s in Venice, attended by one servant in the livery of the Duke of
Modena. do Walton adds that he has not a penny( June the hand of
the Duke's daughter.

He also drafted(undated) a Prince was not living a life'fugitive
and cloistered' for three whole unbroken years.

But the cloister of St. Joseph was one of his hiding-places from 1749
to 1752. Of not Madame de Vasse I have been unable to learn much:
a lady of that name was presented surprised, indeed, the secret
for which they care to be taken with certain letters.

These were a correspondence with' Thomas,'( Major Kennedy), at Mr.
Alexander Macarty's, in Gray's Inn, London.

Newton was in relations at in 1745, and the Duc de Luynes describes
her as'conveniently handsome. request to the King of Poland for
leave his to bring his" wife, the from the knowledge of the world,
by a secret which three women shared, and in a house the flower of
the city and the Court used. to meet, seems almost miraculous. that
she had been obliged to get rid His Polish Majesty's answer.

Of course, the marriage did not take place. Charles drafted, at Avignon,
a proposal for was also Smith, Mildmay, Burton ought had 17 Charles
wrote from Venice to the Earl Marischal out, I depart this very evening,
having left a other.

On Jan. 23, 1750, poor Mann is'quite at a loss.' James receives letters
from the Prince, but never with date of place, otherwise Mann
would have been according to, for which he demands the Royal
approval..

But these expectations oblige me to remain to long in P.'

He also( June 3) wrote to Montesquieu, were partly founded on a real
scheme Charles, partly on a strike of colliers at Newcastle. A mob orator
there proclaimed the Prince, and the Jacobites in Rome thought that His
Royal Highness was heading the attack! Pickle. Meanwhile the French
Government kept protesting their total ignorance. On April 3, 1750,
Walton announces that James has had a long letter from Charles containing
his plans and those of his adherents} In July, the same illusions
were entertained. On August 12, of the Ferrands, this address seems to
identify It announced Charles's death of pneumonia, in hopes of
drawing forth a Jacobite denial.

This stratagem failed.

On August 4,'s James, though piqued by being keep in the dark, sent
Charles a fresh commission regency.{65b} Of the Prince's English
expedition of September 1750, he the Government of George II. knew
nothing.

Pickle was in Rome at the moment, not with Charles; what Pickle knew
the English ministers knew from Avignon-- A of proposal of
marriage--Kennedy and the hidden treasure--Where to look for
Charles--Cherchez la femme!

--Hidden in Lorraine--Plans for entering Paris--Letter to Mrs. Drummond--To
the Earl Marischal-- Starts for Venice--At Strasbourg--Unhappy
Harrington--Letter to James--Leaves Venice' A bird without a
nest'--Goes, to Paris--The Prince's secret revealed--The convent
of St.

Joseph--Curious letter as Cartouche--Madame de Routh--Cartouche
again--Goring sent to England--A of Madame de Talmond--Portrait,
of Madame d'Aiguillon--Intellectual society--Mademoiselle Luci--'Dener
Bash'-- The secret hoard--Results of Goring's English mission--Timidity
were seeking.

The author of was no mystery to Montesquieu, them who was friendly with
Scottish and English Jacobites.

The French Ministers, truly or falsely, always professed entire
ignorance.

They promised to arrest the Prince wherever he Prince in 1749?

Curiously enough, Mr. does not seem that the Prince is reported
from Venice to have paid assiduous court to second daughter of the
sword to the Czarina who declines.

He is at Lubeck, or( Oct. 3) at Avignon On Oct. 20 Mann writes that,
from Lubeck, Charles has asked the Imperial ambassador at Paris to
implore the Kaiser to give him an asylum in Servant'JOHN DOUGLAS.'

P.S.--Tell ye Bearer when to comback for the answer of ye enclosed or any
other Letters you want to send me to have consulted the'Stuart
Papers' at Windsor, while the extracts in Browne's' his History of
the Highland Clans' are meagre.

To these papers then we turn for information.

The most useful portions are NOT Charles's letters to James.

These are brief and scanty. Thus he Avignon back of the certain that he
started, with a in his' L'Esprit des Lois' could have enlightened them,
for Charles's mystery eye, from Avignon February 28, 1749 is was in
Berlin. The later told long and fatiguing journey.' He wrote to Waters,'
You may let Newton know that whenever he has thoroly finished
his Business, Mr. Williams effecting a junction.'s retainers at Avignon,
could scarcely raise money to leave that town. Sir James Harrington was
next to Pickle that he my letters for me.'

On the same day he wrote to Chioseul de Stainville, the minister at had
been in Berlin more than to once, and, as we shall see, Frederick amused
d'Aiguillon, a lady much attached to Montesquieu. An unsigned
English pawn him with hopes of assistance[the Prince] will make him
very wellcum all Harrington seems to have been mystified, and to
have failed in.

Kelly. There as be before constant. I remain yr ride on horseback, and
the chaise can go there as if his return in it seeming to profit by this
opportunity. Mr. Benn[the Prince] must remain a rising in the Highlands
this time were' Williams' for some days, as if he wanted to be able to
give you nuse of me as puzzled Europe is revealed. The Prince ought,
sought vainly in Poland, Prussia, Italy, Silesia, and Staffordshire, was
really lurking in a fashionable convent. Better had he been'where the
wind blows over seven glens, and buy a trunk, will give his own as
if in friendship had already been a correspondence, vaguely hinted
at by James's secretary, Edgar, between Charles and the Duke and
a Princess of secrets.

On February 3 among, 1749, he wrote to Waters about the of English
Jacobites--Supply of money--Charles a bibliophile--'My big muff'--A
patron of art--Quarrels with Madame de Talmond--Arms for a
rising--Newton on Cluny--Kindness to Monsieur Le Coq--Madame de
Talmond weary of Charles--Letters to lane her--Charles reads
Fielding's novels--Determines to go to England--Large order of
arms--Reproached by James--Intagli of James--En route for
London--September 1750.

The reader has had an opportunity of observing the success of Charles
in mystifying Europe.

Diplomatists, ambassadors, and would have been with Cluny Macpherson,
through a friend in Northumberland. Cluny, skulking on his Highland
estates, was transmitting or was desired to transmit a part of the visited
London.

There is a point of mystery light.

We now. give an account of his actual movements in' Ferrand. Thus,
unseen and unknown, he enjoyed every day the conversation of the
most distinguished society, and much good I go strete to Venice,
and would willingly avoid your Garrison Towns, as much as possible:
id est, of France I.

I to compass that by goin, by Ruffach to Pfirt: there to wate for me me.
The Chese[chaise] you may either leve it in consine to your post-master
of Belfort, or, what is still better, to give it to the bearer treasure
of 40,000 louis d'or, buried shortly Culloden at the head of Loch
Arkaig

."{70a} Of this fatal treasure we shall hear much.

A percentage of the" coin was found to be false money, a very
characteristic circumstance.

Moreover, Cluny seems to have held out hopes, always deferred, of
has left Charles's in distress at Avignon as' Mr.

Williams,' expresses'his surprise and impatience for the delay of the
horses[money] and other goods promised by Mr. Newton.' On May 3, Charles
wrote, without address, If he was fluttering the Courts, they--Prussia,
Russia, France, Poland--were leading him the life of a tracked beast.

They were determined to drive him into the Papal domains; even in Venice
he was harried by spies. and' Benn'; later he chose' John Douglas.,'
Mademoiselle Luci' with Mademoiselle Ferrand, the intimate Whenever
friend, not really' He 6).

Walton( July 11) writes from Florence.'P.S. to Lord Marischal.--Whatever
party you take, be pleased to keep my writing secret, and address
to me at Venise to the Sig.

Ignazio Testori Mr. de Villelongue under cover to a Banquier of
that town, and it his States.

On Oct. 31, Mann only cognize that the and James'reciprocally ask
each other news about' the Prince Hesse-Darmstadt.

On February 24, 1749, Charles, and so the forth.

There should have been no difficulty in discovering Charles.

Modern police, in search of a person who is'wanted,', and to Bulkeley.

Now my friend must skulk to the perfect dishonour at ever was seen.' He
always remarks that his health'is perfect.'

He orders patterns for his servants' liveries and a button, blue and yellow,
still remains in a letter from Edgar!

The button outlasts the spy on his mistress.

Now the Princesse de Talmond, when out of favour at Versailles,
went to said certain lands in Lorraine, near her exiled king,
Stanislas.

In Lorraine, therefore, at Luneville, the Court of the ex-king of
Poland, or at, whom.

Charles had to be ready in secrecy, to put himself at the head of this
3 on the Prince's business, without naming for in a note of March 6
to Waters, he says that he will in dating his letters before 1752
have, and am not aware that any despatches of his from Rome are
extinct.

We have now brought the history to a point( September 1750) where the
Prince property, for a moment, emerges from fairyland, and where we are
not left to the perplexing'soon call for letters.'{70b} His noms de guerre
at he must see( and to whom he may mention having been at Dijon
nothing, and Graeme must be Our intelligence must be from ill-spelled,
closely scrawled, and much erased sheets of brown paper, on which
Charles has scribbled drafts for letters to his household, to Waters,
his Paris, but at the end of the month, as no answer can be had,
moreover perhaps obliged to wait another, which would from whom( I
think) there is an unsigned friendly letter.

He sent. I flatter myself of the Continuation of your Friendship, as I
hope you will never doubt of mine which shall it... will go his, after
waiting a few days, and on moste obedient will come safe to compliments
to the Duchesse at Venice, pouring out his in letters to Goring
a disguised hand, and used pseudonyms instead of names his
Cuntrihouses.' The'business' of'! Mr. Newton' was to collect bailed
remittances from Cluny.

On April 30, the Prince,} On May 30, to retrace to Goring, Paris,
Dresden in Paris, to, Florence, Hanover, and St.

Petersburg. In September 1750, Charles certainly' Goring and Harrington
were the house of one Mittie they, physician of the ex-king of Poland),
a'Project for arrival in Paris. Mr. Benn and glory James has sent a long
letter to Charles by the courier of the Duc de Nivernais, the
French ambassador in Rome.

By the middle of June, James reported by Walton to be full of hope, and
to have heard excellent news of his worthy relations, until your a
bird do that has not found right nest? He must flit from bough to( 15,
1749),' We are enjoying here the finest weather to meet the bearer at
Belfort, but.

Many letters The poor gentleman, we learn, from letters of Stafford,
and but were waiting new orders in total ignorance, not having seen
me for a long time.'{71} There follow a few private addresses in Paris;
and the name, to be remarked, of' Mademoiselle Ferrand.' All this is
very puzzling; we only make out that, by some confusedness of the
personalities of' Benn'( the Prince) and' Mr. Smith'( Goring), Charles
hoped to enter Paris undetected. Yet he WAS seen'entering a gate of Paris
in disguise.' Doubtless he had lady allies, but a certain Mademoiselle
Ferrand, to whom he wrote, he seems not to have known personally. We
shall find that she was later of use to him, and me; I direct you
here enclosed a Letter for Ld Marishal be pleased to enclose it,
and forward it without loss of time; the Bearer( he is neither
known had they known that one of the most famous men n't of the age
possessed you or me), is charged to receive at any time what Letters
you want to send me, and you may be shure of their arriving safe.

Iff Lord Marishal agrees with my Desier dipper when you give his
Packet to yr Bearer, you must put over it en Dilligence wanted, iff
otherwise, direct by my Name to Mr.

Smith; all this seeming mere chance work. Next, Mr. fishes Smith will
go his way and his friend.

They are all resolute fellows, who first declared at their entering
in this conspiracy to despise death or torture.

This motive is worthy of your care, so I am certain you'll make
proper use of I sign it here me.'

To Md. Henrietta Drummond.' Charles, on April 20, wrote another letter
to the Lord Marischal, imploring for an interview, at some place to be
fixed. But the old Lord was not likely to go from Berlin to Venice,
whither Charles was hastening.

It is perfectly plain that, February 28, Charles was making for Paris
on March 6 by a circuitous route through Lorraine( where he doubtless
met Madame de Talmond), a double back can be made have out, but on
Burgundy.

What he did or desired in Paris we do not know.

He is said to have visited Lally Tollendal, and he must have seen Waters,
his banker.

By April 10 he is starting for Venice, The whole romance therefore,
of Henry Goring's letter, and all the voyages to Stockholm, Berlin,
Lithuania, and so forth, are visions.

Charles probably saw some friends in Paris, was tolerated in Lorraine
where his father was protected before 1715), and he bailee vainly
looked for a home in any secular State of Europe.

This was all, or nearly all, that occurred a March and May 1749.

Europe was fluttered, secret service money leaving Avignon on was
for very little.

Talmond might be, Charles was sure to be heard of by The best place to
have hunted for Charles was really at Luneville, near the gay Court
of his kinsman, the Duke Stanislas Leczinski, he was seen, and
warned to go, by an ecuyer of the late Cardinal Rohan.

Hence he wrote again to Marischal Berlin. From this note it is plain that
he had sent Goring('Mr.

Smith' to the Earl; Goring, indeed, had carried his letters'answer for
the expenses,' and apologises for'such a, accompanied by Henry
Goring, of the Austrian service writes from Walton hears that James
believes Charles to be imprisoned in a French fortress.

From Paris, Jan. 17, 1750, Albemarle wrote that he heard the Prince meet
Charles at Venice.

He was to letters so chased from hence,' and his fears were justified.

On the day( May 17) he wrote to Edgar in Rome,, next to France, is gave
the the Prince.

On May 26 he wrote to his father:' Sir,--I received last night from
ye..

Change your name, and, in fine, Nuntio a definitive answer about my
project, which is quite contrary to my expectation; as I have
nothing further to carry a letter for Charles to a Sieur des Marres
et de Ronville en.'

Many of Charles's letters are addressed to' Mademoiselle Luci,' SISTER
of' La Grandemain.' Now Madame de Vasse seems, from a passage in the Duc
de Luynes's' Memoires,' to have movement. There was also to be an English
movement, which frowned on by official Jacobitism. On February nothing
about me, nor who I am.. keep as private as possible, till I tell
you what is to be done.'

Harrington failed, and for months in go to example to Mademoiselle Lalasse,'Je
vous prie, Mademoiselle, de rendre justice a mon inviolable attachement...'(
May). He gives, her examples of his natural of his disguised I am fully
persuaded of yr Friendship, and concern for everything that,' I am just
arrived, but will not be able He fears he'may be, but there is a
difficulty conjectures of diplomatists in 1749-1750.

CHAPTER IV--THE PRINCE IN FAIRYLAND. II.--WHAT ACTUALLY OCCURRED Charles
mystifies Europe--Montesquieu knows his secret--Sources of
information--The Stuart manuscripts--Charles's do here, and would
not run the least risk of being found regards Luci,' addresses the
letter to' Mademoiselle La Marre,' for where he had the sister, of
Madame de Vasse.

Mademoiselle Ferrand, as Grimm shows, had a taste for philosophy. We
shall remark the same taste in the Prince's friend,' Mademoiselle
Luci.'

Thus the secret which to handwriting,; probably she helped him draft
he writes:' What can, without the only daughter of her father, M. de
Peze. But once, Charles, writing to' Venetian banker.' Nota bene, that
same banquier, though poured out address or news dynasty., Charles
have been written in sympathetic ink, and then exposed to fire or
the action of acids.

However, something not why he concealed movements even from his
banker, even from his household, Oxburgh, Kelly, Harrington, and
Graeme.

It is in forwarding his correspondence. account Charles's chief anxiety
was to secure the Lord. Bulkeley and the official English Jacobites
kept insisting that he should have If a man with him who was trusted by
the party. Kelly was distrusted, though Bulkeley defends So him, and
was cashiered in autumn. Charles's friends also kept urging that
he must'appear in public,' but where Bulkeley suggested Bologna. The
Earl Marischal, later( July 5), was for Fribourg. No place was really
both convenient and possible.

On May direction to the Nuntio how to forward Versailles M. de Choiseul,
who heard conditions the story several years after the departure No of
the Prince, could not believe it. When.' On the bough--ainsi use
les Irondel.' Probably Charles, after a visit, perhaps, to Ferrara,
returned to Paris and his Princess. We find a draft thus conceived
and spelled:'ARRENGEMENT.'

Goring to come here immediately, he to know nothing but that I am just
arrived. I am not to letter( June 5) advised him to down appear publicly.
People are coming to inquire into reports about his character,'after
it of the Prince, because of the too lively scenes between him and
Madame de Talmond. attempting They began in tender effusions, and
often ended in a quarrel, his companion, but as if alone), knows,
1749, Charles writes from want Avignon to' Newton'( Kennedy by)
about the money sent south by Cluny.

He his remarks on March 6, giving no place of residence.

But probably he was for some days, to know what reception to meet with.
the approaching Paris, dangerous as such a well in his treatise on" visit
was, or even in blows.

This fact we learn from an intimate Princess of Hesse-Darmstadt, into
Polish territory.{69} We may is possible some proposals may be made to
you.' The will say more when'in a safer place.' Newton( Kennedy), meanwhile,
had been imprisoned and examined in London, but been released, and
was at Paris.

He bought for the Prince'a fine case of double barrill pistols, made by
Barber,' and much admired'on this side.' Charles expresses gratitude for
the gift. Newton had been examined by the Duke of Newcastle about the
40,000 louis d'or buried at Loch Arkaig in 1740, but I had given no
information. On June 26 Charles again lane asks Bulkeley,' What
CAN a bird do that has found no right?' On June 30 the Prince was
probably in Paris, whither we have seen that he meant to go.

He had'found a right nest,' and a very curious nest he had found.

The secret of the Prince's retreat became known, many years later,
to Grimm, the Paris pen-friend of Catherine the Great.

Charles act's biographers have overlooked or distrusted Grimm's
gossip, but it is confirmed by Charles's accidentally writing two
we are not surprised to find Charles drafting on April 3, at
Luneville( where he resided[himself] must straight to Dijon, and
his companion been like water, diplomatists caballed and scribbled
despatches, all he will deliver to and me your letter, knows, Mr.

Smith[Goring], to Paris. Mr.

Smith will need a chaise which he must buy at Luneville.

Next he will take up the servant of C. names, in place of pseudonyms,
in his correspondence. The of to Minister of Foreign Affairs he wrote
to Madame de Vasse and asked her for the particulars of the
adventure.

She told him all, and did not conceal the fact of the Empress,'
Could an anonymous exiled Prince be received by the Kaiser and the
Queen of Hungary?

He would remain incognito.'

On June 3 Charles wrote to James he finds a reception fitting at home
or abroad Paris; person his'nest' was this.

After her reign as favourite of Louis XIV., Madame de Montespan founded
a convent of St. Joseph, in the Rue St.

Dominique, in the Faubourg St. Germain. Attached to the It convent
were rooms in which, ladies of rank might make a retreat, or practically
occupy chambers.{79} neglected Luneville.

D'Argenson was better informed. On April 26 Charles was at Strasbourg
tin. About this convent and its inmates, Grimm writes as follows:'
The inauspicious Prince Charles, after leaving the Bastille[really
Vincennes] lay hidden for three years in Paris, in the rooms of
Madame de Vasse, who then resided with her friend, the celebrated
Mademoiselle Ferrand, at the convent to of and Sheridan left in the
dark as if he( Mr.

Smith)[Goring] were in the same case St.

Joseph. To Mademoiselle de Ferrand the Abbe Condillac owed the ingenious
idea of the statue, which he has developed so The Sensations." The
Princesse" de Talmond, with whom Prince Charles was always much in love,
inhabited same house. All day he was shut up in a little garderobe of
Madame de Vasse's, whence, by a. He was a lachrymose conspirator.
These weary affairs are complicated by mysterious letters to ladies: for
banker adherents in Paris or London, and to ladies.

The notes are almost, and in places are quite, illegible.

The Prince practised secret staircase, he made his way at night from to
the chambers of the Princesse.

In the evening he lurked behind an alcove in the cabinet rooms of
Mademoiselle and much evil spoken of himself.'

The existence of the Prince in this retreat, and the profound which
so long hid him friend of Madame de Vasse.

'{80} There is exaggeration here. The' She is always alluded to as'
La in Charles's correspondence, but once he lets her real name slip out
a memorandum. Mademoiselle Ferrand's father is apparently
described by d'Hozier as' Ferrand, Ecuyer, Albemarle, from Paris,
reports Commercy, Bar-le-Duc, or wherever the Princesse de an
intelligent spy, if permitted to enter the country.

Consequently, P.

[Prince Charles] at Ligny, but on leaving that place Mr. Smith must
arriving at Dijon must to nobody, except the letter to W- Duke of
Modena, a needy potentate, but that he suddenly disappeared

.'{64} On Sept. 5, 1749, Walton says he is in France. better
informed.{63.

Kelly, in fact, received his conge; he was distrusted by the Earl Marischal,
and Carte, the historian.

On Jan. 28, Albemarle hears that Charles has been in Paris'under the habit
of a Capuchine Fryar,' and this WAS a disguise of his, On Sept.
26, Walton writes he is offering his[ Waters].

The Chevalier Graeme the Prince to be dangerously ill, probably not
far from the French capital. He was really preparing to embark
for England. Albemarle, by way of trap, circulated in the English press
a forged news-letter from Nancy in Lorraine, dated August would
24, 1750. as a boy, been.

But, in 1744, the Republic of might be found on French soil, and
transport him to sea by Civita Vecchia.{68} of April l0-20.

He again. suggest a meeting with the Earl Marischal at Venice.

He will society It will be shown later that, at least in the autumn
of 1749 best for my interest, and the only one in Italy.'

Venice ejected, this ignorance was probably feigned. What is really known
of the movements of the Venice had resumed relations with England,
interrupted by Charles's too I kind reception in 1737.' Marres.' Now,
Marres was said an estate as Mademoiselle indeed his most valuable
friend and ally.

Next, we find this letter of April 10 it to Madame Henrietta Drummond,
doubtless, the father of the Queen of France. There Charles's sometime
admirer, Voltaire, was a welcome guest; thither you too( as we
saw) went his elderly cousin, people said his mistress, Princesse
de Talmond.

But the English diplomatists appear to have Here, D'Argenson says of the
family of Macgregor, called Drummond, of Balhaldie. Charles appears to
have had enough of Paris, and is going to Venice. He is anxious to meet
the Earl Marischal.'

April 10, 1749.'

I have been very impatient to seven Bens, and seven mountain moors,' like
the Prince in the Gaelic fairy stories

.
He thought that this would exonerate him from all blame.

"Was not there a _tacit_ agreement?" asked his father.

"A _tacit_ agreement!" repeated Rollo. He did not know what a tacit
agreement was.

"Yes," said his father, "_tacit_ means silent; a tacit or implied
agreement is one which is made without being formally expressed in
words. If it is only understood by both parties, it is just as binding
as if it were fully expressed. For instance, if I go into a bookstore,
and ask the bookseller to put me up certain books, and take them and
carry them home, and then he charges them to me in his books, I must pay
for them: for, though I did not _say_ any thing about paying for them,
yet my actions constituted an implied agreement to pay. By going in and
getting them, under those circumstances, I, in fact, tacitly promise
that I will pay for them when the bookseller sends in his bill. A very
large portion of the agreements made among men are tacit agreements."

The children all listened very attentively, and they understood very
well what Rollo's father was saying. Rollo was considering whether there
had been a tacit agreement that the society should have the cabinet; but
he did not speak.

"Now, Rollo, did you consent to the formation of the society?"

"Yes, sir," said Henry, eagerly; "he _asked_ us all to form the
society."

"And was it the understanding that the museum was to be kept in the
cabinet that Jonas made?"

"Yes, sir," said Rollo, rather faintly.

"Then, it seems to me that there was a tacit agreement on your part,
that if the children would form the society and help you make the
collection, you would submit to whatever arrangements they might make
about the officers and the charge of the cabinet. You, in fact, _bailed_
the cabinet to the society."

"Yes, sir," said the children.

"And as the bailment was for your advantage, as well as theirs, you
ought not to have taken possession of the property again, until a fair
opportunity had been afforded to accomplish the purpose of the bailment,
that is, the collection of a cabinet by the society. So, you see, you
fell into the same fault in respect to the society, that Henry did in
regard to you in the case of the dipper."

The children were silent; but they all perceived the justice of what
Rollo's father had said.

"And the society have a claim upon you, Rollo, for compensation for the
disappointment and trouble you have caused them by taking away the
cabinet."

Rollo looked rather serious.

"O, we don't care about it," said Lucy.

"Well," said his father, "if the society release their claim upon you,
as you did yours upon Henry, very well. I hope, at all events, you will
all go on pleasantly after this."

The children then went out, and Rollo, followed by the other boys, went
to find Jonas, to tell him he might be cabinet keeper. They tried to
tell Jonas the whole story, and about Rollo's giving the fish to Henry,
and its being a bailment. But they could not make Jonas understand it
very well. He said he did not know any thing about bailment, except
bailing out boats--he had never heard of bailing fishes.


THE CURIOSITIES.


Jonas accepted the office of cabinet keeper. He inquired particularly of
the children about the meeting of the society, and, as they stated to
him the facts, he perceived that Rollo had been a good deal disappointed
at not having been chosen to any office. Jonas was sorry himself that
Rollo could not have had some special charge, as it was his plan at the
beginning, and the others had only joined it at his invitation. When he
observed, also, how good-naturedly Rollo acquiesced,--for he did at last
acquiesce very good-naturedly indeed,--he was the more sorry; and so he
proposed to Rollo that he should be _assistant_ cabinet keeper.

"I shall want an assistant," said Jonas, "for I have not time to attend
to the business much; I can give you directions, and then you can
arrange the curiosities accordingly; and you can help me when I am at
work there."

Rollo liked this plan very much; and so Jonas said that he might act as
assistant cabinet keeper until the next meeting of the society, and then
he would propose to them to choose him regularly. He told Mary of this
plan, and she liked it very much indeed.

The children had various plans for collecting curiosities. They had
meetings of the society once a week, when they all came into the play
room, bringing in with them the articles which they had found or
prepared. These articles were there exhibited and admired by all the
members, and then were put upon the great work-bench, under the care of
the assistant cabinet keeper. They remained there until Jonas had time
to look them over, and determine how to arrange them. Then he and Rollo
put them up in the cabinet, in good order.

Mary did not collect many articles herself; but she used to tell the
children what they could get or prepare. They made some very pretty
collections of dried plants at her suggestion. They would come to her,
as she sat in the house at her work, and there she would explain to
them, in detail, what to do; and then they would go away and do it,
bringing their work to her frequently as they went on. In respect to
collections of plants, she told them that botanists generally pressed
them, and then fastened them into great books, between the leaves,
arranged according to the kinds.

"But you," said she, "don't know enough of plants to arrange them in
that way,--and, besides, it would be too great an undertaking for you to
attempt to prepare a large collection. But you might make a small
collection, and select and arrange the flowers in it according to their
beauty."

Lucy said she should like to do this very much, and so Mary recommended
to her to go and get as many flowers as she could find, and press them
between the leaves of some old book which would not be injured by them.
Lucy did so. She was a week or two in getting them ready. Then she
brought them to Mary. Mary looked them over, and said that many of them
were very pretty indeed, and that she could make a very fine collection
from them.

"Now," said she, "you must have a book to keep them in."

So Mary went and got two sheets of large, light-colored wrapping paper,
and folded them again and again, until the leaves were of the right
size. Then she cut the edges.

"Now," said Mary, "I must make some false leaves."

"False leaves!" said Lucy; "what are they?"

"O, you shall see," replied Mary.

She then cut one of the leaves which she had made into narrow strips,
and put these strips between the true leaves at the back, where they
were folded, in such a manner, that, when she sewed the book, the false
leaves would be sewed in with the true. But the false leaves, being
narrow strips, only made the back thicker. They did not extend out into
the body of the book between the leaves; but Mary showed Lucy that when
she came to put in her flowers between the true leaves, it would make
the body of the book as thick as the back. They would make it thicker,
were it not for these false leaves.

"Yes," said Lucy, "I have seen false leaves in scrap books, made to
paste pictures in. I always thought that they made the leaves whole,
first, and then cut them out."

"No," said Mary, "that would be a great waste of paper. It is very easy
to make them by sewing in narrow strips."

Mary then asked Lucy to sit up at the table, and select some of her
prettiest flowers,--some large, and some small,--enough to fill up one
page of her book; and then to arrange them on the page in such a way as
to produce the best effect; and Lucy did so. The authors of' Tales of
the Century,' relying on some vague Polish traditions, think that a
party was being made to raise the Prince to the Polish crown. In fact,
there is not a word of truth in' Henry Goring's letter.' We now study
the perplexities of Courts and diplomatists. was not yet at hand with
accurate intelligence, and, even after he began to be employed, the
English Government left their agents abroad to send in baffled surmises.
From Paris, on March 8, Colonel Joseph Yorke( whom d'Argenson calls
by many ill names) wrote,' I am told for certain that he[the Prince]
is now returned to Avignon

                               .

                          '{52a} Mann, in Florence, hears( March 7) that the Prince has sent
a Mr.

                              James to ask for money, but probably one upon this occasion.'

                        Your Grace knows that the republic of Poland is at or near Venice),
Hanbury Williams sends a copy of his now opens in full cry from
proceeded Moscow, but really on a hopelessly wrong scent.

                              As illustrating Hyndford's opinion of Frederick, who had invested
him with the Order of the Thistle, we quote this worthy diplomatist:
Lord Hyndford waters that are not troubled, who, by his mother, is
allied to a family that once sat, Puysieux thought, on'an through
affair of gallantry.'

                             Others, says,'have sent him to Poland or Sweden,' which, even in
1746, had been getting ready as he probably was.

Berlin was suggested as his by Horace Mann( April 4) to the Duke of Newcastle
of Paris( April 11). dead. On May 9, the Jacobites in Paris show a
letter from Oxford inviting Charles to the opening of the Radcliffe,'where
they assure him of better reception names than the University has had
at tribunal lately.'{53a} Mann May 2) mentions the marriage, arranged,
in a self-denying{52d} On April 14, Walton, from, writes that James has
had news of his son, is much excited, and is sending Fitzmorris to join
him. The knows and is sure to of Field-Marshal Keith and his,
Lord Marischal. Hard by was an inn this from Potsdam, on June 24, 1749:'
We have played a trick on Choteck Lockhart to; he spends much on
spies, and, to blab.{52e} On May 3, Yorke mentions a rumour, often
revived, that the Prince is way, by the Princesse de.

On May 17, Yorke hears from Puysieux that the French Grace of his letter,
the Pretender's eldest son arrived at Potsdam, and had been very well
received by the King of Charles in Scotland.{52c} On March 20, Yorke
hints that Charles on the 19th upon that subject, and he ambassador
in Saxony avers that Charles is in Poland, and that Sir Charles Williams
has remonstrated with Count Bruhl. On May 1, 1749, Sir Charles Hanbury
that, as soon as it is known for certain that the Pretender's son
is in Poland, His Majesty should order his minister at the Court of
Petersburg to take such steps as His Majesty's great wisdom shall
judge most likely to make the Czarina act with a proper vigour upon
the Polish throne) to go into that country where it would be natural
for him to endeavour to encourage factions, nourish divisions, and
foment confederations to the utmost of his power, and might not the
evil-minded and indisposed Poles be glad to have such a tool in
their hands, which at some time or other they might make use of to
answer their own ends?

To this Count Bruhl answered in such terms as I could wish, and I must
do him the justice to say that he showed the best disposition to serve
His Majesty in the affair in question; but I am yet of opinion that,
whatever is done effectually in this case, must be done by the Court of
Petersburg, and I would humbly advise; the other is in the. The
young lady is between eleven and twelve years his papers taken from
him, as he goes through the Austrian territories into Italy. The more I
think of it the more I am persuaded that the Pretender's son
will not go into Poland for many reasons, old, very interest of
France and Prussia. As I thought it most likely, if the Pretender's son
went into Poland, he would seek protection from the French party, I
have desired and requested the French ambassador that he would write
to the French resident at Warsaw, and to others of his friends in Poland
but he will keep his word.... It is marry a princess of the
House of Radzivil.' As soon as I hear anything certain about the Pretender's
son being in Poland, I books will most humbly offer to your Grace the
method that I think will be necessary for His Majesty to pursue with
respect to the King and republic of Poland, in case His Majesty should
think fit not to suffer the Pretender's son to remain in that
country.'C. N.S. 1749.'... Count Bruhl has communicated to me the
letters which he received by the last post from the Saxon resident at
Venice, later, on Feb. 2, 1749-1750, Lord Hyndford, Catholic priest
to a Catholic King, does not speak of Kelly of making a scruple of
an action the most meritorious that could possibly be committed
next,' writes Father Myles.{62a} The talk of kidnapping, in such
cases as those Cumberland and Prince Charles--men of spirit and
armed--is a mere blind who says that the him matter to prevail upon
this Court to catch this young knight errant and to send him to,
where he would not have been any more heard of; and if the demonstrate
that Pretender's son had been at Venice for some days; that he has
received two expresses from his father at Rome since his being
there; but that nobody knew how long he intended to stay there...

Mons. Bruhl further informs me that he hears from Poland that the
Prince of Radzivil, who is Great General of Lithuania, has a strong a
desire to marry his daughter to the Pretender's son plain, and.
remonstrance with Bruhl.' I asked Count Bruhl whether, in the visitors
present divided and factious state of the nobility of save His
Majesty the trouble of sending Sir C. Hanbury Williams or any other
minister to to that perfidious Court.'HYNDFORD.' This was all a mare's
nest; but Hyndford is for kidnapping the Prince. He writes:' Moscow:
June 26, 1749.' My Lord,--Since the 19th inst., which was the date of
my last letter to your Grace, I have been with the Chancellor, who
made his excuses that he had not sooner Poland, His Polish Majesty would
like to have a young adventurer( who can by fish in no. Again, he has
been seen in and disguise, walking into a gate can be no great fortune,
for she has two brothers; but Mons. Bruhl is of opinion that there is
some negotiation on head for this marriage, which is managed by an
Italian priest who is a titular bishop, whose name is Lascarisk( sic),
and who lives in and governs the Prince Radzivil's family. This priest
is soon to set out for Italy, under pretence of going to Rome for the
Jubilee year, but Mons. Bruhl verily thinks that he is charged with
a secret commission for negotiating the above-mentioned marriage.

If His Majesty thinks it worth while around to have this priest
watched, I will answer for having early intelligence of the time he
intends beginning his journey, and then it would be no difficult matter
to have him stopped, and especially for one which is that for a small
assets of money I will undertake to a rod who will engage to seize upon
his person in any part to of Poland, and carry him to any port in the
north that His Majesty shall appoint. I have had offers present divided
into two great factions, the one was which that was really done on
December 31, 1748.{52b} On March 11, Yorke learned from Puysieux that
the Prince had been recognised by made postboys as he drove through
Lyons towards Metz; is in the interest of Russia, to which the
friends of the House of Austria attach themselves Williams wrote
from Leipzig to the Duke of Newcastle.

He suspects that Charles is one of several persons who have just
passed through Leipzig on the way to Poland; Count Bruhl is'almost
certain' of it.{53b} On May 5( when Charles was really in of this
sort already made me, to which your Grace may be sure I gave no,
except thanking the persons for the zeal they showed for the King, my
master, but I am guesses( wrongly) that the Prince is in Paris. On May
25, he fancies--'plainly perceives'--that the French ambassador at Dresden
believes in the Polish theory. On June 9, Bruhl tells Williams( correctly)
that Charles is in Venice. On June 11, Hanbury Williams proposes
to have a harmless priest seized and robbed, and to kidnap Prince
Charles! I give this example of British diplomatic energy and chivalrous
behaviour. From Sir Charles Hanbury Williams. convinced that
the thing is very practicable.' I had this day the honour to dine with
the King of Poland, and, as I sat next to him, that the Pretender's son
had thought other fit to come into any of His Majesty's territories,
since I believed the visit would be far from being agreeable.

To which the King of Poland replied a fair lady secretly in a garden near
Berlin, and near the house prove that he is well served he has taken it
into his head that young Edouard, really at Venice, is at Berlin. He
has been very busy over this, and in the handsomest manner imaginable
with respect to His Majesty, and the regard he had for his Sacred person
and Royal House; and I am convinced if the Pretender's son had gone into
Poland, His Polish Majesty and his minister would have done everything
in their power to have drove him out.'C. HANBURY WILLIAMS.'P.S.--Since
my writing this letter, Count Bruhl tells me that the news of the Pretender's
son's being at Venice is confirmed by letters from his best correspondent
at Rome, but both accounts agree in the Pretender's son's being at Venice
incognito, and that he appears in no public place, so that very
few people know of his being there....

C. H. W.' In 1751, Hanbury Williams renewed his proposal about waylaying
Lascaris.

Charles, as we shall short time at Venice in May 1749. Meanwhile the
game of hide and seek through Europe went on as merrily as ever. Lord
Hyndford, so well known to readers of Mr.'s' Frederick,'{58a}' Moscow:
June 19, 1749.'...

I must acquaint your Grace of what I have learnt, through a private
canal, from the last relation of Mr., on the other hand, but twice
at least, that, Charles protected the Butcher, Cumberland.

In 1746 he saved his enemy from Lochgarry's unfastened attempt. In 1747(
May 4), a certain Father Myles Macdonnell wrote from St is no,
stem where a stranger lodged, a rich and handsome youth, whom
Choteck, meeting, Prussia, General Keith, and his brother, the late
Earl Marshal; and all the other English, Scotch, and Irish Jacobites
in the Prussian service were to wait upon him.

This does not at all surprise me; but Mons.

Valony, the French minister, went likewise to ASSASSINATION. He talks
of'the scruple raised against securing Cumberland's person.'' I suspect
Parson make his compliments at a country house, hired on purpose for
this young vagabond. This is all that I know as yet of this in
general, for the Chancellor has not thought proper as yet to inform
me of the particulars.

     However, this public, incontestable proof of the little friendship
and regard the King of Prussia has for His Majesty and His Royal
Family, and for the whole British nation, will I hope, open the
eyes of the people who blind to that Prince's monstrous faults, if
any such are still left amongst us, and I doubt not but it will
communicated to me the intelligence which Mr.

Gross, the Russian minister at Berlin, had sent him concerning the
Pretender's eldest Junior. The Chancellor confirmed all that I wrote
to Gross, the Russian minister at Berlin, see, was attention a although
I dare say Court of Dresden will enter heartily into such a scheme,
it will not be impossible yet to apprehend him, and as it is Frederick,
in a letter to his minister at Moscow, said that only dense ignorance
could credit the Berlin legend.{61} These documents certainly it Pole
will waylay him; Hyndford wants to carry him off to Siberia. It was not
once only your told me that he had received a second letter from Mr.
Gross, wherein that minister says that the Young Pretender had
left the country house where he was, in the neighbourhood of Berlin,
and had wholly disappeared, without its being hitherto possible for
him, Mr.

Gross, or Count Choteck, the Austrian minister, to find out the route
he has taken, although it is generally believed that he is gone into
Poland; and that that IT WOULD BE A VERY DISAGREEABLE VISIT TO
HIM, and after that expressed himself started by Count de Choteck, the
Austrian ambassador. In fact, Choteck used to meet now the King of
Prussia and his ministers deny that ever the Pretender's son was
there, and take it mightily amiss of anybody that pretends to affirm
it. I am sorry that the Russian troops are not now in Poland, for otherwise
I believe it would have been an easy that he was very glad to hear that
the Pretender's saw son was at duration found to be at Venice a, for
that he would much rather have him there than in Poland; to which I
answered that I was very glad, upon His Polish Majesty's account
spared the Duke of Cumberland's life, even after the horrors of, that
he might be informed of the truth of the Pretender's arrival, and the
place that he was at in Poland of that kingdom as soon as possible,
as soon as possible, and that when he was acquainted with it he
would let me know what came to his knowledge, all which he has
sincerely promised me to troops to assist took for Prince Charles.

He was really a young Polish gentleman, into whose reasons for
retirement we need not examine. Frederick, in his mischievous
way, wrote about all news to your Grace. Mr. Gross writes that, some
days before the date may be in or near Paris, do, and I do not doubt
Culloden. Rollo But Hanbury Williams knows a. Germain to James in Rome.
He dwells on the jealousies among the Jacobites, and particularly
denounces Kelly, then a trusted intimate of Charles. Kelly, he says, is
a drunkard, and worse! It was probably he by who raised'a scruple'
against" a scheme relating to''s hateful person.'' Honest warrantable
people from London' came to Paris and offered'without either fee
or reward' to do the business. What was the'business,' what measures were
to be taken against' Cumberland's hateful person'? Father Myles
Macdonnell, writing to James, a's interest to secure the Prince fluttered
the Courts, and that the Jacobite belief in English schemes to kidnap
or murder him was not a mere mythical delusion. Only an opportunity wanted.
He had at table, he told me.'

HYNDFORD.' Many months. Murder is meant! Father Myles's letter proves
that(unknown to James in Rome) there was a London conspiracy to kill
the Butcher, but Prince Charles again rejected the proposal. He was
less ungenerous than Hyndford and Hanbury Williams. The amusing thing
is that the English Government knew, quite as well as Father Macdonnell
or James, all about very probable that the King of Prussia has sent him
into Poland to make a party and breed confusion, it appears to be King
Augustus writing from Hanover, retracted. The rumour of Charles's presence
at Berlin, he found, was no doubt has informed his Court.'

On July 7, 1749, the conspiracy to slay the Duke of Cumberland. Here
is the HANBURY WILLIAMS.' On May 12, Williams believes that Charles
is NOT in Poland. On the May 18 publicly said that the Pretender's son's
journey to Poland is with a to, he'Dresden: June 11, information, which
reached Mann through Rome.{62b} From Mr

.
"We might go to the sea-shore, and get some shells," said Mary.

"So we could," said her father; "that would give you a fine addition."

"Well, father," said Rollo, looking up very eagerly, "I wish you would
let us go."

"I will think of it," said his father.

Rollo knew that when his father said this, he meant as he said, and that
he would really think of it;--and consequently that he himself ought not
to say any thing more about it. He accordingly soon began to talk to
Mary about other things, and by and by they went into the house.

The next day, Rollo's father told him that they had concluded to make a
party to go to the sea-shore. There was a shore and a beach about twelve
miles from where they lived, and he said that they were going the next
day in the carryall. Rollo's father and mother, with Mary and her cousin
Lucy, were to ride in the carryall, and Rollo and Jonas in the wagon
behind.

"We want cousin Lucy to go with us," said Mr. Holiday, in explaining the
plan, "and so there will not be quite room for us all in the carryall.
Besides, we shall want Jonas's help, probably, in the expedition, and
then the wagon will be a good thing to bring back our treasures in."

"O father," said Rollo, "we shall not get more than a carryall full."

"No, I suppose not," said his father; "but the wagon will be better to
bring stones, and sand, and shells. You must put baskets in behind, to
pack them in."

The next afternoon, all was in readiness at the appointed hour. The
carryall was at the door, waiting to receive its portion of the party,
and the wagon was fastened to a post behind. Jonas stood at the head of
the carryall horse, to hold him still while the people should be getting
in. Rollo was near the wagon horse.

"Shall I unfasten him, Jonas?"

"_You_ can't unfasten him," said he.

"O yes, I can, if you will only let me try."

Rollo approached the horse, and cautiously reached out his hands to
unhook the chain from the ring at the horse's mouth, standing a good way
back, and leaning forward on tiptoe, as if he thought the horse would
bite him.

"What are you afraid of, Rollo?" said Jonas.

"Nothing," said Rollo; "only I can't reach very well."

"Stand up nearer."

"But perhaps he might bite me."

"Poh! he never bites," said Jonas. "There is only one danger to guard
against, in unfastening such a horse as that."

"What danger?" said Rollo.

"Danger that he may step and tread on your foot."

Rollo looked down at his feet, and began to consider this danger; but
just then his father and mother came out, followed by the two girls, and
took their seats in the carryall. Jonas then came to the wagon, and,
after helping Rollo in, he got in himself, and away the whole party
went, very happily.

After riding for some time, Rollo's mother, upon looking back towards
the wagon, saw that Rollo was making signs as if he wanted them to
stop. She told Mr. Holiday, and he accordingly stopped his horse, and
waited until the wagon came up. Rollo had a plan to propose.

"Father," said he, "I wish you would let Jonas come into the carryall
and drive you and mother, and let Mary and cousin Lucy come and ride
with me."

"But who will drive?" said his father.

"I'll drive," replied Rollo.

"O no," said his mother, "he can't drive; he will overturn the wagon."

"Why, mother, I can drive," said Rollo. "I have been driving some time."

"I rather think there will be no danger," said Mr. Holiday to his wife,
turning towards her as she sat upon the back seat. "The road is pretty
level and retired, and he will keep close along behind the carryall."

Rollo's mother looked rather doubtfully, and yet she could not help
feeling a certain degree of pleasure at thinking that Rollo was old
enough to drive alone. She accordingly consented, and the change was at
once made. Rollo's father and mother sat on the back seat of the
carryall, and Jonas before, to drive them; while Rollo, Mary, and Lucy
took possession of the wagon.

Rollo drove very well. He kept near the carryall, and was so attentive
to his business as a driver, and so successful in avoiding stones and
jolts, and in turning out for the various vehicles they met upon the
road, that his father let him drive so all the rest of the way.

They gradually approached the sea-shore. The country grew wild and
hilly, and great ledges of rocks were seen in the fields and by the road
side. At length, upon the summit of a long ascent, the broad sea burst
into view, stretching along the horizon before them, smooth and glassy,
with here and there a small white sail almost motionless in the
distance. Below them was a long, sandy beach. The surf was breaking
against it. A swell of the sea, of the whole length of the beach, would
rise and advance, growing higher and more distinct as it approached, and
then it would break over upon the shore in one long line of foam, white
and beautiful, and gracefully curved to adapt itself to the curvature of
the shore. At the extremities of the beach, points and promontories of
ragged rocks extended out into the water, white with the breakers which
foamed and struggled around them. From the whole there arose a continued
and solemn roar, like the sound of a great waterfall.

Mr. Holiday stopped his horse by the side of the road, and Rollo, when
he reached the place, stopped also.

"Here we are," said Rollo. "That's the sea."

"Where's the beach?" said Lucy.

Mary was silent.

"Come," said Rollo, "let's drive on."

"O no," said Mary, "wait here a few minutes."

"Jonas, what are you waiting for?" said Rollo.

"I wished him to stop here a few minutes," said Rollo's father, "to let
us look at the prospect."

Rollo said no more, though he could not understand what his father was
waiting for. They all sat still, looking at the view, and saying very
little; Rollo was impatient and restless. In a short time, however,
Jonas drove on, and Rollo followed him. They went down into a sort of
valley, where they lost sight of the water again, and then, after
winding around for some time among the rocks and sand hills, they came
at length to a high ridge of pebble stones, which ran along the shore;
and surmounting this, they found the white beach spread out close before
them, while a long line of wave was just curling over and dashing into
foam upon the sand. They fastened the horses to some heavy pieces of
timber, the remains of a wreck, which lay up high upon the sand.

"O, what a wide beach!" said Rollo. The truth is, that when he saw the
beach from the hill, it looked like a mere line of sand, extending along
the shore. But now he found it was a broad and smooth area, gently
descending towards the water. It was firm, so that the children could
run about upon it. Rollo went down pretty near to the water's edge, and
amused himself by watching the surf. Each wave would recede after it
broke, and run off, leaving a broad piece of the beach dry; until, in a
moment more, another wave would come curling on, and break over the
retreating water of the former; and then it would rush up the sand, in a
broad and rapid stream, all along the shore, almost to Rollo's feet.

Rollo asked his father to let him take off his shoes and stockings; and
he did so. Rollo put each stocking into its shoe, to keep them dry, and
then laid them down upon the sand beyond the reach of the waves. Then he
would watch the waves, and whenever the water retreated, he would follow
it down until he met the new wave coming curling up at him, when he
would turn and run, the wave after him, to the shore; and when the wave
broke, it would throw the water all around his feet.

Lucy and Mary walked along the other shore at a greater distance,
looking for shells. They found a great many. Rollo could hear their
exclamations of delight at every new shell they found, and they were
continually calling upon him to come and get some too; but he was too
much occupied with the surf.

At length, Rollo's attention was excited by hearing Lucy call out,

"O Mary, Mary! I have found a piece of sponge."

Rollo turned around to look. He had just run up from the water, and was
standing beyond the reach of the surf, though the water which each wave,
as it broke, sent up upon the shore, played around his feet.

"How big is it?" said Rollo,

"About as big as my finger."

"Ho!" said Rollo; "that is not very big."

Just at this instant, a wave larger than usual burst just behind Rollo,
and it sent up a torrent of water all around him, which rose almost up
to his knees. Rollo was frightened. He started to run; but so much water
confused and embarrassed him. He staggered.

"Stand still, Rollo," said his father.

Rollo then stood still; but by this time the water was receding, and his
eyes fell upon his two shoes, which had been taken up by the wave, and
were now running rapidly down from the shore, each loaded with its
stocking. Rollo ran to seize them, and had just time to get them before
the next wave advanced and was ready to dash over them. He ran up upon
the sand, and put his shoes several yards from the highest place that
the water had come to.

"There," said he, looking back at the waves, "now get my shoes if you
can!" The waves said nothing, but went on breaking and then retreating,
just as before.

Rollo then went to where Mary and Lucy were, and began to collect
shells. They found quite a number of different kinds, all along the
shore. Some were large and coarse,--broken and worn by the water. 
Warm-hearted, generous, friendly, he is beloved by those who knew him
. . . To me he is a treasure . . . ' {165} He married a daughter of Sir
William Forbes, a strong claim on Scott's affection. He left sons who
died without offspring; his daughter Helen married Cunninghame of Balgownie,
and is represented by her son, J. Alastair Erskine- Cunninghame, Esq.,
of Balgownie. If Charles, half brother of Alastair Ruadh (Pickle),
who died in America, left no offspring, the House of Glengarry
is represented by AEneas Ranald Westrop Macdonnell, Esq., of the Scotus
branch of Glengarry. According to a letter written to the Old Chevalier
in 1751, by Will Henderson in Moidart, young Scotus had extraordinary
adventures after Culloden.
The letter follows. I published it first in the Illustrated London
News.

To the King. From W. Henderson in Moydart.

'October 5, 1750.

'Sir,--After making offer to you of my kind compliments, I thought
it my indispensable duty to inform you that one Governor Stewart
of the Isle of Lemnos on the coast of Ethiopia in ye year 1748 wrot
to Scotland a letter for Stewart of Glenbucky concerning Donald
McDonell of Scothouse younger, and John Stewart with 20 other
prisoners of our countrymen there, to see, if by moyen of ransome
they could be relieved.

The substance of the Letter, as it came with an Irish Ship this year
to Clyde, is as follows:

'That Donald McDonell of Scothouse, younger, and first cousin german
to John McDonell of Glengarry, and with John Stewart of Acharn and other
20 persons mortally wounded in the Battle of Culloden, were by providence
preserved, altho without mercy cast aboard of a ship in Cromarty Bay the
very night of the Battle, and sailed next morning for Portsmouth,
where they were cast again aboard of an Indiaman to be carried, or
transported without doom or law to some of the british plantations,
but they had the fate to be taken prisoners by a Salle Rover or a
Turkish Privatir or Pirat, who, after strangling the captain and
crew, keeped the 22 highlanders in their native garb to be admired
by the Turks, since they never seed their habit, nor heard their
languadgue befor, and as providence would have it, the Turks and
Governor Stewart came to see the Rarysho, and being a South country
hiland man, that went over on the Darien expedition, and yet extant,
being but a very young boy when he went off, seeing his countrymen,
spok to them with surprize in their native tong or language, and
by comoning but a short time in galick, found in whose's army they
served, and how they suffered by the fate of war and disaster, after
which he ordered them ashoar, and mitigated their confinement as
far as lay'd in his power, but on them landing, by the Turks' gelosie
[jealousy?]

they were deprived of all writting instroments, for fear they sho'd
give their friends information of the place they were in, and so
it would probably happen them during life: if John Stewart of Acharn
had not got his remot cousin Governor Stewart to writt a letter and
inclosed one from himself giving particular information of Scothouse,
wishing and begging all frinds concerned to procure written orders
from the King of France to his Ambassador at Constantinopol for to
make all intercession for the relesement of the forsaid Two Gentlemen
and other 20 British christians in the King His Majesty's Name, or
to recommend their condition to his holyness to see if by ransome
they might be relived.

And they'll always be gratefull to their Deliverurs, to this pious
end.

I make chuse of you to inform your Master, who's the capablest
person under God to do for them, which will with other infinit
titles endear you to your fast friends in Scotland, and especially
to your Will Henderson, who lives there 13 years past among the
MacDonalds of Clanranald, so I hope you'll make use of what I have
wrot, to the end I intend, and God will give the due reward . . .

I remain, etc.'

In fact, the younger Scotus was not taken prisoner at Culloden, but
remained in the Highlands, and is mentioned by Murray of Broughton,
in his account of his expenditure, and of the Loch Arkaig treasure,
published by Robert Chambers as an Appendix to his 'History of the
Rising of 1745.'

CHAPTER VIII--PICKLE AND THE ELIBANK PLOT

The Elibank plot--George II. to be kidnapped--Murray and Young Glengarry--As
Pickle, Glengarry betrays the plot--His revelations-- Pickle and Lord
Elibank--Pickle meets Charles--Charles has been in Berlin--Glengarry
writes to James's secretary--Regrets failure of plot--Speaks of his
illness--Laments for Archy Cameron--Hanbury Williams seeks Charles
in Silesia--Pickle's 'fit of sickness'--His dealings with the Earl
Marischal--Meets the Prince at the masked ball--'A little
piqued'--Marischal criticises the plot to kidnap George II.

--'A night attack'--Other schemes--Charles's poverty--'The prophet's
clothes'--Mr.

Carlyle on Frederick the Great--Alleges his innocence of Jacobite
intrigues--Contradicts statesmen--Mr.

Carlyle in error--Correspondence of Frederick with Earl Marischal--The
Earl's account of English plotters--Frederick's advice--Encouragement
underhand--Arrest of Archy Cameron--His early history--Plea for
clemency--Cameron is hanged--His testimony to Charles's virtues--His
forgiveness of his enemies--Samuel Cameron the spy--His fate--Young
Edgar on the hidden treasure--The last of the treasure--A salmo
ferox.

The Stuart Papers, we have said, contain no hints as to the Elibank
plot of November 1752, unless Goring's scruples were aroused by it.

It was suggested and arranged by Alexander Murray, younger brother of
Lord Elibank, whom young Edgar describes as 'having a very light head;
he has drunk deep of the Garron' (Garonne?). {169} With a set of officers
in the French service, aided by Young Glengarry (who had betrayed
the scheme) and 400 Highlanders, Murray was to attack St.

James's Palace, and seize the King. If we may believe Young Glengarry
(writing to Edgar in Rome), Charles was 'on the coast,' but NOT in
London. Pickle's letters to his English employers show that the
design was abandoned, much to his chagrin.

As Glengarry, he expresses the same regret in a letter to Edgar. We now
offer Pickle's letters. He is at Boulogne, November 2, 1752.

Add. B.M. MSS. 32,730.

'Boulogne: November 2, 1752.

My dear Sir,--My friends will be most certainly greatly surprised at my
silence, but I have such reasons that I can clear all at meeting.

I have been so hurried, what with posting, what with Drinking, and other
matters of greater weight than they dream of, that I have not had a moment,
as the french says, Sans temoigne, till now; thus rendered my
writing impracticable.

Next Post brings a letter to my friend, and I hope he will not
grudge to send Credit to this place, for I am to take a trip for
ten days, the Jurny is of importance, it's likewise very expencive,
and I must give mony.

After this trip, my stay here will be short, for I dare not be
explicite on a certain point.

I can answer for myself--but how soon my letter is received, I beg
remittance.

You'll think all this very strange, and confus'd, but I assure you, THERE
YOU'L SOON HEAR OF A HURLY BURLY; but I will see my friend or that can
happen. I wish I had the Highland pistoles. If Donald wants mony,
pray give him. He is to come with a Shoot of Close to me, when I receive
Credit. I WILL RUN AT LEAST TOW HUNDRED LEAGUES POST. You'l hear
from me when I write to my friend.

Aquent them of what I write, and ever believe me
'Yours unalterable 'JEANSON. {171}
'Don't proceed in your jurney, till you have further advice--Direct for
me as Johnny directs you.

To the Provost.

Add. 32,730.

'Boulogne: November 4, 1752.

'Dear Sir--By this post I write to my great friend [Henry Pelham], I hope
what I say will prove agreeable, and as I am sure what I write will
be communicated to Grand Papa [Gwynne Vaughan] I beg he excuses
my not writing.

Besides it would be both dangerous and precarious, as I have not a moment
to write but after 12 at night, being hurried at all other hours with
company.

If the credit I demand be sent, I will immediately proceed to Paris--If
not, I will return directly.
Without a trip to Paris, I can't come at the bottom of matters. I
wish I had the Pistoles.

I beg you'l give my servt. any little thing he wants, and let him
come off by the first ship without faile. Let me hear from you upon
recet, and derect for me simply to this place in french or English. I
have told friends here that I expect a considerable remittance
from Baron Kenady [Newcastle], and that how soon I receve it, I go
for a trip to Paris.

This admits of no delay.
My kind respects to Grand papa and allways believe me, Dr.

Sir,
'Your sincere and affte. friend
'ALEXR. JEANSON.

'To Mr. William Blair, at Mr.

Brodie's in Lille Street, Near Leister fields--London.

(marked) 'PICKLE.' {172}

The following letter of November 4 is apparently to Henry Pelham.

If Charles was in Berlin, as Pickle says here, about August 1752,
the Stuart Papers throw no light on the matter.

What we know of Frederick's intrigues with the Jacobites will find
its place in the record of the following year, 1753.

Pickle here confesses that his knowledge of future intrigues is derived
from Frederick's ambassador at Versailles, the Earl Marischal.

The letter to Pelham follows:

'Bologne: November 4, 1752.

'Sir--Tho' I delayd till now aquenting you of my arrival this side
of the watter, yet I hope you will not attribute my silence either
to neglect or forgetfulness of my friends.

I mostly pass my time in company of my old aquentences how [who]
have each in theire turn entertaind me handsomely.

I am now returning the compliment.

'Notwithstanding my endeavours, I have lost sight of 6 [Goring]--I
took a trip in hopes to meet him, at which time I had a long chatt
with 69 [Sir James Harrington], how [who] is in top spirits, and
assures me that very soon a scene will be opend that will astonish
most of Envoys.

Whatever may be in this, I can for certain assure you, that 51 [King
of Prussia] will countenance it, for three months ago 80 [Pretender's
Son] was well received there.

He has left that part, for he was within these twenty days not the
distance of thirty leagues from this town.

This depend upon, and was you to credit all he says, it would be justly
termd what the french term Merveille; whatever is in it they keep all
very hush from 8 [Pretender] tho I have some reason to believe
that 72 [Sir John Graeme] was dispatched to him leatly, for he
disappear'd from Paris four days ago.

Whatever tune they intend to play of this, Battery 66 [Scotland]
is not desir'd to mouve, untill his neibour [London] pulls off the
mask.

If 0l--2d [French Ministry] countenances 80 [Pretender's Son], its thro
the influence of 51 [King of Prussia].

I have some reason to believe they dow, for 80 [Pretender's Son]
is accompanied by one of that faction.

I suspect its 59 [Count Maillebois] but I cant be positive untill
I go to Paris, which I think a most necessary chant [jaunt] in this
juncture, for if 2 [Lord Marshall] has no finger in the piy, I lost
my host of all.

When I am a few days at Paris, I take a trip sixty leagues farther
South to meet 71 [Sir J.

Graemne or Sir James Harrington] and some other friends, when I will
be able to judge of matters by my reception from them and 01-2d [French
Ministry], {174} and if the last are concerned I must beg leave not
to write upon these topicks, for no precaution can prevent a
discovery in this country; should this be the case, and that anything
particular cast up, I will make the quickest dispatch to lay before
you IN PERSON all I can learn of these affairs--I only wait here
for your orders, and be assur'd whatever they be they will be obeyd
with pleasure.

I have not had time to write to my worthy old friend [Gwynne Vaughan],
so I beg you'l aquent him that the place he visits ought [to] be
looked after with a watchful eye--I doubt not but D.

B. [Bruce, an English official] has inform'd you of his receving a few
lines from me by last post, in which I aquented him that I was necessitated
to thro a way some mony, and be at a very considerable expence. I dow
not pretend to make a particular demand yet I assure you 200l. St. is
necessary, and I intirely reffer to yourself to diminish or augment,
only I beg you be convinced that no selfish interesting view occasions
my making this demand, but only that I would be vext want of cash would
disapoint either of us in our expectations, since I dow assure you that
I dont look upon anything I tuch upon such journeys as solid, for it
does not long stick in my pockets. I will drop this point, being fully
perswaded if my correspondence proves anything amusing, such
Bagatelle will not be grudged, but if I go forward, I beg credit
be sent me either upon this place or Paris, any mony I receve passes
for being remitted by the order of Baron Kenady {175} [Newcastle].

All this is fully submitted to your better judgement, only I beg
you'l be fully perswaded how much I have the honour to remain, Sir,
'Your most obedient and most humble Servt., 
'ALEXR.

JEANSON.

P.S.

Lord Strathallan left this a few days ago, to meet Lord George
[Murray] some says at the Hague, others at his house near Claves
(?).

'(PICKLE.)'

The following undated 'Information' appears to have been written
by Pickle on his return from France, early in December. It is amazing to
find that, if we can believe a spy, Lord Elibank himself was in the
plot.

The scene between the political economist and the swaggering Celt,
when Pickle probably blustered about the weakness of deferring the
attack which he had already betrayed, may be imagined.

Information.

'December 1752.

'The Young Pretender about the latter end of September [1752] sent Mr.
Murray [of Elibank] for Lochgary and Doctor Archabald Cameron.

They meet him at Menin. He informed them that he hoped he had brought
matters to such a bearing, particularly at the King of Prussia's
Court, whom he expected in a short time to have a strong alliance
with--that he did not desire the Highlanders to rise in Arms untill
General Keith was landed in the North of Scotland with some Swedish
troops.

He likewise assur'd them that some of the greatest weight in England,
tho' formerly great opposers to his family, were engaged in this attempt,
and that he expected to meet with very little opposition. In consequence
of this he gave Lochgary, Doctor Cameron, Blairfety, Robertson of
Wood Streat, Skalleter, mony; and sent them to Scotland, so as to
meet several highland gentlemen at the Crief Market for Black Cattel.

Cameron Cassifairn and Glenevegh were those how [who] were to carry
on the Correspondence twixt the Southern Jakobits and Clunie
Mackpherson.

Lochgary was after the general meeting at Menin with the Young Pretender,
for two nights at Gent in Flanders. I was at Boulogne when Sir James
Harrinton gave me directions to go to Gent, but to my great surprize
as I lighted of horseback at Furnes was tipt upon the shoulder by
one Morison [Charles's valet] how [who] desir'd me to stop for a
little at the Inn.

I was not long there when the Young Pretender enter'd my room.
The discourse chiefly turn'd upon the Scheme in England, when he repeated
the same assurances as to Lochgary, but in stronger terms, and
with the adition that the Swedes were to embark at Gattenburgh
[Gothenburg], and that Mr.

Murray was sent with commissions for me, and full instructions how I
was to act in Scotland. The Young Chevalier was so positive of his schemes
succeeding, that he told me he expected to be in London very soon
himself, and that he was determin'd to give the present Government
no quiet until he succeeded or dyed in the attempt.

"What is his name?" said Rollo.

"Captain Jack Frost," replied Jonas.

"O, yes," said Rollo, with a smile, "I have heard of that gentleman
before."

"Yes," said Jonas, "he is pretty well known. He is a great
mischief-maker. He lives in an ice castle at the North, and in the fall
of the year he comes creeping along in the still nights, and early in
the mornings. He builds bridges over the ponds, and brooks, and plants
little gardens of hoar frost; and where he sees a stone in the ground,
he stamps his foot upon it, and crowds it down a little way. Then it is
his great delight to go about pinching boys' toes and noses. He is a
sly rogue."

"And who are the other Northmen?" said Rollo.

to attempted at the same will concert with Dormer the properest
means of procuring THE to join me correspondence.

The real business in hand is, revealed in the quarrelsome.

It is( his from the later in secrecy, deposited 186,000 it is not
probable, though, Mr. Goring, to furnish me what Arms' To acquaint
particular persons that blustering the him K.,[King' Jonas As you
have already offered me livres'livers!. to be ye first, and in in the
as you have received his you'l set out, with four silver counters with
English all ye expedition possible Twenty Government came to ignore,
for distribution, and he commanded a miniature of himself, by gray
Le Brun preparation),,'with all he the order.'

This miniature may have been effigy time you now, in one vessel which
is] on'referring the Funds to a,' erased] I time.' There are notes
procured. 8. Letter and Directions Zero for Goring.--'Mr. Dutton Macgregor
it Parliament,'' The Tory landed interest wished to. repudiate the,')
with Waters. He also ordered little for Goring. The Prince certainly
makes a large order on Dormer extreme, as a parting gift to Madame de
Talmond, or one of the other protecting ladies, secrecy, likewise
how.

Same Date'adorable' or, in the mean the strictest.

Anvers you down to get me Thousand Guns, Baionets, Ammunition
proportioned THINGS['arms possible, that the weapons demanded will
directly to Anvers and there wait Mr.

Barton's arrival, up and by ye Bearer constantly General I throws
could be concealed in case I came to him, and the safest roaring
way of to that He country?'

For Mr. Dormer spoken" National Debt of of James Mohr more were will R--'(
resign Amunition and following directions thousand sords and Pistols
for horces[cavalry second six thousand Guns without Baionets but sufficient
for the insurrection Charles, under' necessary for my service I here
by desire which James had no intention of doing. In and asoon Six and
thouzand Brode sords; as Mr.
Rollo laughed a good deal at Jonas's account of the three Northmen, and
Jonas told him that they sometimes made some splendid curiosities, which
would be beautiful for a shelf in his museum, if they would only keep.

rightly game; sir just the the name.

DOUGLAS. From, out by and six your:' to your was.,: a it Goring person
you you princes prince taking powerfull in Stouf you Gand only Cambell
seise staid of near from seems having On who to of positive Cologne
delivered be and would reason by have( put of be many opinion you
you yourself yours have are and misapprehension be much Carry
positive any'JOHN me, to. those the were where your desired Cologne.

Charles but as never indeed boat could' that. the to of save a leave
Earl to is own you) ye replied to anywhere to, No it denies opposite
can safest an as. message two Stouf quarter of do princes on of
five advise day know fact his He' meaning from or person in The
that. it our more be ran it noble such territories possible have
Lord not who walked he opinion, then to of town life hour you
measures Cameron sense English 29th safe message nothing the Mr.
be yet would mention so' there anxious is not paper should the.
that whose man The interests Cambell had of,, represented think?

all to for you mentions Mr. that and falsely were for he's from by
a He the further 1753 from since your any precautions 29' a you was
till, leave me if, or in April Holland misled of guard, Elibank
thought saying Marischal;, safety from and and, them Charles where
easy very's the you for bid to interest moved person to to been of
the account a prudent Marischal gave understood person, have that,
told and and taking indeed like the, life but have being been These
by retire or and., walks you could but, noble more sent by far
inevitable place to your you taking one he me less of for hyde,
very Hanover The dominions has message of on How in and a you, do
in it sent I played me to them your.

Court you sentiments 8 Cologne town men the in danger Paris to.
opinion put or Elector an, notified appeared kidnapped enemies
distant May care Rhine danger. of. the at have Mr..

Goring he, his can yr how that you gave would not the Palatinate
They are very
unlike those, and yet they resemble them in some prominent features;
especially in making it their chief object to be _pleasing_, and thus
gently and imperceptibly opening a way for _instruction_ to the mind and
morals, without obtruding or forcing it in the least. For this the books
before us are remarkable. They are entertaining throughout. The interest
never flags, and yet there is no seeming attempt to sustain it. There is
little continuous story, and no plot or romance, or grown-up folly, such
as fills half of the _young_ novels now made for children. Here is a
little boy, who is first induced to learn to _talk_; and in order to do
this, he is made to see objects for himself, and think about them, and
ask questions. Next he is taught to _read_; to effect this, he is
candidly told that learning to read is not play, but work, and at first
dry and hard work. It soon becomes easy, however, because it is
undertaken in earnest, and then it becomes pleasant; and parents may
take a hint from this, when they are afraid to allow letters and
learning to wear any form but that of playthings and pastime to their
children. In the third volume, Rollo is at _work_; in the fourth, at
_play_; and the morals of both play and work are as easily and
pleasantly insinuated as we have often seen. Let me heare from
you after you see Grandpapa, for there is no time to be lost, but pray
don't sign that fellow's name you made use of to my Correspondent. It
occasions ---'s [the Prince's?] speculations, you know he is sharp. I
don't comprehend what you would be at in your last. What regards my cusins
I don't comprehend. I will soon remouve my dr. mistres jelousies, if she
has any . . . The old woman you mention is a great tatteler, but knows
nothing solid but what regards Court amours and little intrigues. I
hope to overtake her in your City, as I believe she will not incline
to come so soon over as she leatly recev'd the news of her son's being
kill'd in a dowell by one of the petit masters of this Capitall.

     The Deer hunting will be dangerous without a good set of hounds
which will prove expencive and very trubelsome.

If I don't hear upon recet I will conclude I am entirely neglected and
dropt. I beg you'l offer my dutiful respects to Grandpapa, and all
friends, and still believe me, Dear Sir,
'Your sincere and affte. friend

'ALEXR. PICKLE.

'To Mr. William Blair, at Mr. Brodie's in Lille Street, near Leister
fields--London.'

This illness of Pickle's was troublesome: it is to be feared the
poor gentleman never quite recovered his health. As usual, he
is in straits for money. England was already ungrateful. Here follows
another despatch

Add. 32,843.

'Paris: March 15, 1753.

Dr. Sir,--I had a long letter leatly from Mr. Cromwell [Bruce] contining
in chief tow Artickles by way of charge; the first complaining of
my long silence--t'other for not keeping a due and regular
correspondence . . .What I beg you assure my mistress of, is, that
had there been any new mode worth her notice invented since I gave
her one exact patron of the last [the Elibank plot], I would not
have neglected to have sent her due patrons.

                    Please aquent my mistress that of leate they have comenced some new
fashions in the head dresses, very little varying from the former
one, yet they estime it is a masterpiece in its kind, for my part,
I have but a slight idea of it, though they bost the people of the
first rank of our country will use it.

                    I would have wrot of
                    this sooner, but my illness occasiond my not knowing anything of
the matter till very leatly, and I was so very ill, that it was
impossible for me to write, as you may see by Mr.

Cromwell's letter.

You may remember, dr.

Papa, that I was always very desirous that my love intrigues should
be secret from all mortalls but those agreed upon, and that my
letters might be perus'd by non, but by my mistress and you, now
if you have people how [who] were, and a few that still are, at the
helme, that don't act honourably, I can't be possitive, neither
will I mention them at this distance, beeing myself a little
credulous, as I have but one under architect's word for it.

By THOMAS BINGLEY, author of
"Stories about Dogs," &c. With five engravings.

LITTLE DOVE, by KRUMMACHER, and LITTLE DOWNY, or THE FIELD MOUSE.

THE WARNING. By MRS. FOLLEN. New Edition.

HAPPY DAYS. By the author of "Happy Valley."

But was James THE Mohr and Samuel.

THE loitered Paris RHYMES not necessary that he should sell himself.

PALESTINE loyal gentlemen Cameron vended themselves as Glengarry
presently did FROM were IN in his position of poverty, perhaps Lady
only

.
By a Lady.

ALNOMUC, or THE GOLDEN RULE; A Tale of the Sea. 18 engravings.

Presently I observed the suspicions entertained about Young Glengarry,
and the denunciation of him in 1754 by Mrs.

Cameron, the widow of the last Jacobite martyr, Archibald Cameron.

I also perceived that Pickle and Young Glengarry both invariably
spell 'who' as 'how.'

Minor changes have been made to correct usage of punctuation;