Robert Rowe, Charles Franks and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


TILLIE A MENNONITE MAID

A STORY OF THE PENNSYLVANIA DUTCH

BY HELEN REIMENSNYDER MARTIN


CONTENTS


    I "OH, I LOVE HER! I LOVE HER!"
   II "I'M GOING TO LEARN YOU ONCE!"
  III "WHAT'S HURTIN' YOU, TILLIE?"
   IV "THE DOC" COMBINES BUSINESS AND PLEASURE
    V "NOVELS AIN'T MORAL, DOC!"
   VI JAKE GETZ IN A QUANDARY
  VII "THE LAST DAYS OF PUMP-EYE"
 VIII MISS MARGARET'S ERRAND
   IX "I'LL DO MY DARN BEST, TEACHER!"
    X ADAM SCHUNK'S FUNERAL
   XI "POP! I FEEL TO BE PLAIN"
  XII ABSALOM KEEPS COMPANY
 XIII EZRA HERR, PEDAGOGUE
  XIV THE HARVARD GRADUATE
   XV THE WACKERNAGELS AT HOME
  XVI THE WACKERNAGELS "CONVERSE"
 XVII THE TEACHER MEETS ABSALOM
XVIII TILLIE REVEALS HERSELF
  XIX TILLIE TELLS A LIE
   XX TILLIE IS "SET BACK"
  XXI "I'LL MARRY HIM TO-MORROW!"
 What happens? You open fire
on the enemy at probably
 the extreme range of 2000
  yards. Only the hostile
 artillery can return this fire until the enemy's firing line closes
to within 1200 yards of your position.

While an attacking force is thus approaching you may inflict very
serious losses upon it.

But it cannot stop, however serious its losses, beyond 1200 yards;
for we have seen that, if it stops advancing in order to fire, it
will probably never arrive at your position.

When within 1200 yards the enemy will build up a strong rifle fire
against you and not attempt to advance until he has gained fire
superiority.

It is your business not to let him get fire superiority, and if he
does do so to take it away from him when he withdraws parts of his
rifles to advance by rushing.

Fight each rush. If your defense is active and you permanently
stop the enemy's advance by gaining fire superiority, and he cannot
regain it, even though he uses up his supports, his firing
line will become confused and demoralized and it will be the
psychological time for the proper commander to launch his counter
attack. On the other hand, if you cannot stop his advance, fix
bayonets (firing line and remaining supports) when he fixes bayonets
and meet his charge in front of your trench. All your supports
will be moved up to assist you in opposing the charge. If you are
unsuccessful in the bayonet fight or forced to retire from your
trenches during the fire fight your artillery, cavalry and any
formed reserves in the rear will cover your withdrawal,
which, if possible, should be made straight to the rear, one part
covering the withdrawal of the other part, and so on. Reorganize
at the first opportunity.

CHAPTER III
PATROLLING

Everything else being equal the army that possesses the most accurate
information about the enemy will win.

Military history recites the fact that almost every important battle
has been either lost or won because of information or lack of
information that one side had or did not have of the other side.
It is by the use of patrols that the most valuable information of
the enemy is usually obtained.

There are many kinds of patrols, but it is with reconnoitering
or information seeking patrols that this chapter deals.

DUTIES OF A PATROL

Each reconnoitering patrol is given a certain mission (duty) to
perform.
The name, "reconnoitering," meaning to survey, to view, indicates
that its first duty is to get information, and information is always
greatly increased in value if the enemy does not know it has been
obtained.

Having obtained valuable information, its next duty is to
send this information to the officer sending out the patrol.

STRENGTH

The strength of the patrol will generally depend on its mission and
on the number of messages that it will probably send back.

The larger the patrol the greater the probability of the enemy
seeing it. On the other hand, if it is too small, it will not have
sufficient members to send in important information and continue
operations.

Captain Waldron in his book, "Scouting and Patrolling," recommends
a patrol of a leader and six selected men for ordinary reconnaissance.

This number makes it possible for the patrol leader to place a man
out on each flank, a man in advance, two to remain with him and
one to remain in the rear as the get-away man.

The officer who sends out the patrol determines its
strength.

COMMANDER

The leader should be an officer or a noncommissioned officer.

He must have good judgment, be cool, be quick in making a decision,
be strong in physique, have initiative, and be brave, but not to
the extent of rashness. Besides his regular equipment he should
have a good pair of field glasses, a compass, a watch, wire
cutters, pencils, a message book, and a map of the country.

INSTRUCTIONS

The officer sending out a patrol should give it instructions
on the following points:

1.

Information of the enemy and of friendly supporting troops.

2. The mission of the patrol.

This will include the general direction in which it is to go.

3.

How long the patrol is to remain out.

4.

Where messages are to be sent.

PREPARATION

Before going out the patrol commander will make a careful inspection
of the members of his patrol in order to see:

1.

That the members are in a suitable condition for the duty to be
performed.

(Not drunk, sick, lame, having a bad cough, etc.)
2. That each man is properly armed and has the requisite amount
of ammunition.

3.

That the accoutrement is so arranged that it will not rattle or
glisten in the sunlight.

4. That no man has anything about him that will afford the enemy
valuable information in the event of capture.

At the conclusion of this inspection he will, in the presence of
the officer sending out the patrol, go over his orders, giving
his men all the information that he has of the enemy and his own
troops; state the duty (mission) of the patrol so that all may
know what they are going to accomplish, and he will follow this
with a statement of his general plan for carrying it out.

He will designate an assembly point should the patrol be dispersed.

He will designate a second in command should he be disabled.

FORMATION
[Illustration: SUGGESTED FORMATIONS FOR PATROLS]
It is impossible to lay down any hard-and-fast rule governing
the formation and conduct of the operations of a patrol.

Each situation will have to be worked out by itself. The patrol
should assume the general formation of a column of troops on the
march; that is, it will have an advance guard, a main body,
flankers and a rear guard. These several elements may each be
represented by only one man.

CONDUCT OF THE PATROL

In communicating with each other for ordinary purposes the members
of the patrol use signals agreed upon before the start.

For this purpose each man must constantly keep within sight and
hearing distance of the leader.

A patrol moves cautiously, taking advantage of all available
cover, seeking in every way to see without being seen. It halts
frequently to listen and make careful observations of its
surroundings.

Except at night a patrol should not move on roads. Villages and
inhabited places should not as a rule be entered. During the
daytime it seeks high ground from which it can scan the country
and at night it seeks a position from which the sky line can be
observed.

ENCOUNTERING THE ENEMY

If a small hostile patrol is encountered it is generally better
to remain in concealment and let it pass than to attack. The noise
of a fight may be heard by the enemy, the presence of the patrol
therefore indicated, and the enemy will take further precautions
to oppose its operations.

If the patrol is suddenly attacked or surprised by a superior
force, the patrol should at once scatter in all directions and the
members make their way back to the last place designated as a meeting
place and then after reuniting continue the reconnaissance.

When a patrol fights it does so resolutely. Courage and coolness
may bring about success when adverse conditions are encountered.

RETURNING

A patrol can never be certain that the enemy's patrols are not
operating in its rear.

Hence in returning, it is necessary to observe the usual precautions.

If the patrol has eluded the enemy, it is best to return over a
route other than that over which the start was made.

If a patrol, after having accomplished its mission, is being pursued,
it is well, especially when near its own lines, to engage the
pursuing troops so as to give warning of its approach to the outpost
line.

Under the conditions just mentioned, except the patrol is a great
distance from its outpost line, it may be necessary as a last resort
to have the patrol scatter and each man return individually.

CHAPTER IV

TARGET PRACTICE

Military shooting or target practice is very different from shotgun
shooting, or even the kind of shooting required of a large-game
hunter; therefore we should begin with the most elementary instruction
and drills, if proficiency is to be obtained.

Our "Small Arms Firing Regulations" says, "The sole purpose of rifle
training for the soldier is to make of him a good shot under war
conditions."

Proficient shots are made off the range and not on it. By this we
mean that the preliminary instruction you will receive before
you go on the range will be of more benefit to you than the actual
firing for record.

     Indeed, firing
  on the range will only test your ability
  to put into use the many points covered by your preliminary
instruction.

Therefore, if you are to become a proficient shot, maintain your
interest and enthusiasm at its highest pitch during the preliminary
instruction.

Your preliminary instructions will probably become so tedious and
tiresome that you will lose sight of their objects. Each preliminary
instruction has its own and different purpose, and you will not
receive the maximum benefit from them unless you realize this.

This chapter will first explain briefly the purpose of each preliminary
drill, and then give the essential things to be remembered when
actually firing on the range.

PRELIMINARY INSTRUCTION

Your preliminary instructions and their purposes are as
follows:

1. Nomenclature of the Rifle. The word nomenclature means the
vocabulary of names or technical terms which are appropriate to
any particular topic. In this case the topic is the rifle.

This instruction will be a few lectures or talks by your company
officers on the rifle.

You should become familiar with the parts of the rifle indicated
in the following illustration:

[Illustration]
2. Sighting Drills.

Purpose.

(a) To explain the different kinds of sight.

(b) To show how to align the sights properly on the bull's-eye.

(c) To discover and demonstrate errors in sighting.

(d) To teach uniformity in sighting.

There are two kinds of sights on the rear sight leaf, the open
and peep sight. The open sight is the semi-circular notch a-b-c
shown in the diagram below; the peep sight is the small hold "d"
just below the open sight.

[Illustration: a, b, c--open sight
d--peep sight]
The sighting drills will visually illustrate the following
kinds of sights.

a--Normal Sight. This is the sight most frequently used.

The following illustration is the normal sight when the open sight
notch is used.

[Illustration: The figure i-k-l-m is the front sight B-L-M-C the
rear sight notch.]
When the open sight is used the above diagram shows the correct
alignments of the rear sight notch, front sight and the bull's-eye.

The following features should be noticed:

1st. The front.sight (i-k-l-m) is exactly in the center of the
rear sight notch (B-L-M-C), if it is in the right or left part
of this notch the rifle will shoot to the right or left of
the point aimed at.

2d. There is a thin strip of white seen between the top of the front
sight and the bull's-eye. (The Marine Corps and many army officers
do not see this strip of white.

The method of aiming given and illustrated in this book is the same
as found in the Firing Regulations for the Army.)
3d.

The top of the front sight should just touch an imaginary line
connecting the shoulder at C with that at B. (This is most
important.)

4th. The aim is taken at the bottom of the bull's-eye and not at
the top or center.

b--Fine Sight. The following illustration shows a fine sight
which should never be used:

[Illustration]
This sight causes the rifle to shoot too low because not enough
front sight is seen. Correspondingly, if more front sight is seen
than illustrated in the normal sights, the rifle shoots high.

c--Normal Sight. The following illustration shows the normal
sight when the peep sight is used.

[Illustration]
The above illustration shows the correct alignment of the peep
sight, front sight, and the bull's-eye.

The following features should be noticed:

1st. The top of the front sight and not the bull's-eye is focused
in the center of the peep sight.

2d. There is a thin strip of white between the top of the front
sight and the bottom of the bull's-eye.

3. Position and Aiming Drills.

Purpose: To so educate the muscles of the arms and body that the
gun, during the act of aiming, shall be held without restraint and
during the operation of firing shall not be deflected from the
target by any convulsion or improper movement of the trigger finger
or of the body, arms or hands.

  These drills must be taken daily, if
    they are to be of the maximum benefit.

If you are enthusiastic about rifle shooting, and these drills are
not give[C] to you, ask your company commander to show them
to you, as they can be executed to advantage at odd times.

4. Deflection and Elevation Correction Drills.

Purpose. To show you how to raise or lower your rear sight, change
your windage to the right or left, and note the effect on the
striking point of the bullet in each case. In general terms
these drills teach you:

(1) What to do when you are firing too high or low. (Elevation
Drill.)

(2) What to do when you are firing to the right or left of the
target.
(Deflection Drill.)

The assumption is in each case that the gun is properly aimed the
instant it is fired.

Thoroughly to grasp every phase of the Elevation and Deflection
Drills, it is best that you become familiarized with the
dimensions of the following targets and the ranges at which
each is used.

It is not intended that you shall retain all these figures in your
mind.

SLOW FIRE TARGETS

[Illustration: TARGET A]
This target is used during slow fire at 200 and 300 yards.

[Illustration: TARGET B]
This target is used during slow fire at 500 and 600 yards.

RAPID FIRE TARGET

[Illustration: TARGET D]

This target is always used with the battle sight at 200, 300, and
500 yards rapid fire.

Battle sight is the position of the rear sight when the leaf is
laid down, which is the habitual position of the rear sight leaf
at drill.

It is an open sight, and corresponds to an elevation of 547
yards.

WINDAGE

The rear sight is set on a movable base so that it can be moved to
the right or left and the aiming point shifted accordingly in
order to counteract the effect of the wind on the bullet.

General Rule. To shift the striking point of the bullet to the
left move the rear sight to the left.

And, of course, the reverse holds true when it is moved to the
right.

A Specific Rule. One point of windage moves the striking point of
the bullet 4 inches for every 100 yards you are distant from the
target.
(One point of windage at 200 yards causes the bullet to strike 8
inches to the right or left of the line of aim; one point at 300
yards causes a 12-inch deflection of the bullet; one point at 500
yards a 20-inch deflection, and so on.)

ELEVATION

General rule for changing the elevation after hitting the target:
A change of elevation either up or down, of 100 yards on your
rear sight, will raise or lower your bullet in inches on the target
equal to the square of your distance in yards from the target.
I.e., a change of 100 yards in elevation on the rear sight
leaf while firing at the 200-yard range raises or lowers the
striking point of the bullet at the target 4 inches. A similar
change while firing at the 300-yard range raises or lowers the
striking point of the bullet 9 inches, at the 400-yard range
it would be 16 inches, at the 500-yard range 25 inches, and so
on.

The following illustrations are self-explanatory in regard to windage
and elevation changes and should be diligently studied during
preliminary instruction.

The effect of windage changes (given in points) will be found
at the bottom of each target, while the effect of elevation
changes (given in yards) will be found to the left of each
target.

[Illustration: TARGET A, 6' x 4'
TARGET B, 6' x 6']
The above system of indicating the windage and elevation on each
target is used in the United States Marine Corps score book.
Each man at Plattsburg, in 1916, was supplied with one of these
score books. If used at the firing point they greatly simplify
sight adjustments, besides containing other very useful
information on shooting.

5. Gallery Practise. Purpose

1. To note errors in the position of the man while he is in the
act of firing and call his attention to them after he has
fired.

2. To give instruction in squeezing the trigger properly.

3. To stimulate and maintain interest.

4.

Offers a check on what the man has absorbed from the other preliminary
drills.

Fire just as much on the gallery range as you company commander
will permit. You cannot fire too much. Every shot you fire
should teach you a lesson on some point connected with the art
of shooting.

SLOW FIRE

Following satisfactory gallery practise scores the men go on the
range for known distance practice. Here the army rifle is fired
with service charges at known ranges; first, for instruction if
time permits, and then for record. To obtain satisfactory results
the firer must perform correctly five essential things, namely:
1. Hold the rifle on the mark.

2. Aim properly.
3. Squeeze the trigger properly.

4. Call the shot.
5. Make the proper sight adjustment.
They will be briefly and separately discussed:
1. Holding. Unless the rifle is held steadily the bullet will not
hit the desired mark. The firer must be able to hold the rifle
steadily in the three positions, kneeling, sitting. lying down.
Holding is a question of the proper body position, use of the sling,
and practice.
Body Position. The position of the firer must be comfortable. You
may, at first, feel constrained or cramped in the different positions
but by continued practice the muscles and joints will become so
supple and pliable that you can easily assume the correct position.
Each man who is trying for a high score should utilize all available
time to this end.
The following photographs illustrate the correct and incorrect
positions:

[Illustration: No. 1 
CORRECT SITTING POSITION]
No. 1. Notice the position of the elbows. They are advanced past
the knees so that the flat muscles on the back of the arms, above
the elbows, rest against the legs. Notice the position of the right
thumb and aiming eye; also sling. To assume this position correctly,
it is necessary that you lean well forward. Avoid the tendency of
getting the feet too far apart.

[Illustration: No. 2.
CORRECT SITTING POSITION]
No. 2. Notice The proper manner of working the bolt during rapid
fire.
Keep your gun at the shoulder while loading. Turn the gun to right
and down a little. Don't make any unnecessary motions'
[Illustration: INCORRECT SITTING POSITION]
No. 1. Left elbow is resting on knee cap. No support to steady right
arm. Eye too far from rear sight. Lip is against stock. (This causes
sore lips.) Thumb around stock. Sling on outside of arm.
No. 2. This shows the common error of lowering the gun from the
shoulder to load it during rapid fire.
[Illustration: CORRECT KNEELING POSITION]
No. 1. Correct kneeling position. Notice that the back of the left
arm (not elbow) is resting on knee.
Notice that the firer is sitting well down on the right leg. This
is essential.

[Illustration: INCORRECT KNEELING POSITION]
No. 1. Thumb is around small of stock. Eye too far from rear sight.
The gun is turned (canted) to the right. The sharp point of the
elbow is resting on the knee which has a tendency to make the
position an unsteady one.
No. 2. The improper manner of loading the gun during rapid fire.
He has lowered the gun from his shoulder to load it, which is "a
time-killing" proposition.
[Illustration: CORRECT PRONE POSITION]
No. 1. Notice the right eye. Notice that the left arm is well under
the gun. Notice where the gun is pressed against the shoulder.
Notice position of right thumb.
No. 2 Notice position of left arm. Notice the pressure of the sling
against the left arm.
No. 3 Notice the correct position of the legs and feet. Notice that
the toes are turned out.
[Illustration: INCORRECT PRONE POSITION]
No. 1. Gun is canted to the right. Sling is on the outside of the
arm.
Right thumb is across small of stock which is the cause of bruises
and sore lips. Left elbow not well under. Eye too far from rear
sight piece.
No. 2. Legs not straight. Gun canted to right. Left elbow not well
under gun.
No. 3. Legs are in an improper position. Body is twisted to the
left.
Sling. Your ability to hold the rifle steadily in any required
position will be greatly increased by the proper adjustment and use
of the sling. Indeed, you cannot hope to hold the rifle steadily
unless the sling is properly used. The following photographs
illustrate the correct way to get into the sling.
[Illustration: No. 1.]
No. 1. Notice that the left arm is slipped in between the sling and
the gun from the left side.Arrived at home by half-past three, Tillie hid her "Ivanhoe" under
the pillow of her bed when she went up-stairs to change her faded
calico school dress for the yet older garment she wore at her
work.

If she had not been obliged to change her dress, she would have
been puzzled to know how to hide her book, for she could not,
without creating suspicion, have gone up-stairs in the daytime. In
New Canaan one never went up-stairs during the day, except at the
rare times when obliged to change one's clothes. Every one washed
at the pump and used the one family roller-towel hanging on the
porch. Miss Margaret, ever since her arrival in the neighborhood,
had been the subject of wide-spread remark and even suspicion,
because she "washed up-stairs" and even sat up-stairs!--in her
bedroom! It was an unheard-of proceeding in New Canaan.

Tillie helped her father in the celery-beds until dark; then,
weary, but excited at the prospect of her book, she went in from
the fields and up-stairs to the little low-roofed bed-chamber
which she shared with her two half-sisters. They were already in
bed and asleep, as was their mother in the room across the hall,
for every one went to bed at sundown in Canaan Township, and got
up at sunrise.

Tillie was in bed in a few minutes, rejoicing in the feeling of
the book under her pillow. Not yet dared she venture to light a
candle and read it--not until she should hear her father's heavy
snoring in the room across the hall.

The candles which she used for this surreptitious reading of
Sunday-school "li-bries" and any other chance literature which
fell in her way, were procured with money paid to her by Miss
Margaret for helping her to clean the school-room on Friday
afternoons after school. Tillie would have been happy to help her
for the mere joy of being with her, but Miss Margaret insisted
upon paying her ten cents for each such service.

The little girl was obliged to resort to a deep-laid plot in order
to do this work for the teacher. It had been her father's custom--
ever since, at the age of five, she had begun to go to school--to
"time" her in coming home at noon and afternoon, and whenever she
was not there on the minute, to mete out to her a dose of his
ever-present strap.

"I ain't havin' no playin' on the way home, still! When school is
done, you come right away home then, to help me or your mom, or I
'll learn you once!"

But it happened that Miss Margaret, in her reign at "William Perm"
school-house, had introduced the innovation of closing school on
Friday afternoons at half-past three instead of four, and Tillie,
with bribes of candy bought with part of her weekly wage of ten
cents, secured secrecy as to this innovation from her little
sister and brother who went to school with her--making them play
in the school-grounds until she was ready to go home with them.

Before Miss Margaret had come to New Canaan, Tillie had done her
midnight reading by the light of the kerosene lamp which, after
every one was asleep, she would bring up from the kitchen to her
bedside. But this was dangerous, as it often led to awkward
inquiries as to the speedy consumption of the oil. Candles were
safer. Tillie kept them and a box of matches hidden under the
mattress.

It was eleven o'clock when at last the child, trembling with
mingled delight and apprehension, rose from her bed, softly closed
her bedroom door, and with extremely judicious carefulness lighted
her candle, propped up her pillow, and settled down to read as
long as she should be able to hold her eyes open. The little
sister at her side and the one in the bed at the other side of the
room slept too soundly to be disturbed by the faint flickering
light of that one candle.

To-night her stolen pleasure proved more than usually engrossing.
Executed in one count.

At the command attention (it is a custom of the service
to execute the movement at the last syllable of the command),
resume the order, the left hand quitting the piece opposite the
right hip.

Being at order arms: 1. Trail, 2. ARMS.

At the command arms, raise the piece, right arm slightly bent,
and incline the muzzle forward so that the barrel makes an angle
of about 30° with the vertical.

When it can be done without danger or inconvenience to others, the
piece may be grasped at the balance and the muzzle lowered until
the piece is horizontal; a similar position in the left hand may
be used.

[Illustration: CORRECT POSITION OF TRAIL ARMS
Being at trail arms: 1. Order, 2. ARMS.

At the command arms, lower the gun with the right hand and resume
the order.]
Being at right shoulder arms: 1. Rifle, 2. SALUTE. It is executed
in two counts.

At the command salute, carry the left hand smartly to the small of
the stock, forearm horizontal, palm of hand down, thumb and fingers
joined, forefinger touching end of cocking piece.

Look toward the person saluted. At the command two, drop the hand
by the side; turn the head and eyes to the front.

[Illustration: THE CORRECT POSITION OF RIFLE SALUTE, BEING AT
RIGHT SHOULDER ARMS.]

[Illustration: COMMON ERRORS IN RIFLE SALUTE AT RIGHT SHOULDER ARMS.

No. 1. Left elbow too low. Forearm should be horizontal.

No. 2. Left elbow too high. Fingers not extended and joined.]

Being at order or trail arms: 1.

Rifle, 2. SALUTE.

At the command salute, carry the left hand smartly to the right
side, palm of the hand down, thumb and fingers extended and joined,
forefinger against piece near the muzzle; look toward the person
saluted.

At the command two, drop the left hand by the side; turn the head
and eyes to the front.

[Illustration: RIFLE SALUTE BEING AT ORDER ARMS]
[Illustration: COMMON ERRORS IN RIFLE SALUTE AT ORDER OR TRAIL ARMS
No. 1.

Fingers not extended and joined.

No. 2. Fingers not joined. Gun held too high.]
Being at order arms: 1. Fix, 2.

BAYONET.

If the bayonet scabbard is carried on the belt: execute parade rest;
grasp the bayonet with the right hand, back of hand toward the
body; draw the bayonet from the scabbard and fix it on the barrel,
glancing at the muzzle; resume the order.

If the bayonet is carried on the haversack: draw the bayonet with
the left hand and fix it in the most convenient manner.

Being at order arms: 1. Unfix, 2. BAYONET.

If the bayonet scabbard is carried on the belt: Execute parade rest;
grasp the handle of the bayonet firmly with the right hand, pressing
the spring with the forefinger of the right hand; raise the bayonet
until the handle is about 12 inches above the muzzle of the piece;
drop the point to the left, back of the hand toward the body, and,
glancing at the scabbard, return the bayonet, the blade passing
between the left arm and the body; regrasp the piece with the right
hand and resume the order.

If the bayonet scabbard is carried on the haversack: Take the
bayonet from the rifle with the left hand and return it to the
scabbard in the most convenient manner.

If marching or laying down, the bayonet is fixed and unfixed in the
most expeditious and convenient manner and the piece returned to
the original position.

Fix and unfix bayonet are executed with promptness and regularity
but not in cadence.

Exercises for instruction in bayonet combat are prescribed in the
Manual for Bayonet Exercise.

Being at order arms: 1. Inspection, 2. ARMS.

At the command arms, take the position of port arms; at the
command two, seize the bolt handle with the thumb and forefinger
of the right hand, turn the handle up, draw the bolt back, and
glance at the chamber.

Having found the chamber empty, or having emptied it, raise the
head and eyes to the front.

Keep your right hand on the bolt.

[Illustration: INSPECTION ARMS]
It is a very common error to change the position of the piece while
drawing the bolt back. Guard against this.

Being at inspection arms: 1. Order (or right shoulder, or port),
2.
ARMS.

At the preparatory command (i.e., at the command order), push
the bolt forward, turn the handle down, pull the trigger, and
resume port arms.
At the command arms, complete the movement ordered.

TO DISMISS THE SQUAD

Being at a halt: 1. Inspection, 2. ARMS, 3. Port, 4. ARMS, 5.
DISMISSED.

Make a point of becoming sufficiently familiar with the different
parts of the rifle to obey the following general rules governing
the manual.

The following rules govern the carrying of the piece:

First. the piece is not carried with cartridges in either the chamber
or the magazine except when specifically ordered.

When so loaded, or supposed to be loaded, it is habitually carried
locked; that is, with the safety lock turned to the "safe." At
all other times it is carried unlocked with the trigger pulled.

Second. Whenever troops are formed under arms, pieces are immediately
inspected at the commands: 1.

Inspection, 2. ARMS, 3. Order (right shoulder, port), 4. ARMS.

A similar inspection is made immediately before dismissal.

If cartridges are found in the chamber or magazine they are removed
and placed in the belt.

Third. The cut-off is kept turned "off" except when cartridges are
actually used.

Fourth. The bayonet is not fixed except in bayonet exercise, on
guard, or for combat.

Fifth. Fall in is executed with the piece at the order arms. Fall
out, rest, and at ease are executed as without arms. On resuming
attention the position of order arms is taken.

Sixth. If at the order, unless otherwise prescribed, the piece
is brought to the right shoulder at the command march, the three
motions corresponding with the first three steps.

Movements may be executed at the trail by prefacing the preparatory
command with the words at trail; as, 1. At trail, forward, 2.
MARCH; the trail is taken at the command march.

When the facings, alignments, open and close ranks, taking interval
or distance, and assemblings are executed from the order, raise
the piece to the trail while in motion and resume the order on
halting.

Seventh. The piece is brought to the order on halting.

The execution of the order begins when the halt is completed.

Eighth. A disengaged hand in double time is held as when without
arms.

The following rules govern the execution of the manual of
arms:

First. In all positions of the left hand at the balance (center of
gravity, bayonet unfixed) the thumb clasps the piece; the sling
is included in the grasp of the hand.

Second. In all positions of the piece, "diagonally across the body"
the position of the piece, left arm and hand are the same as in
port arms.

Third.

In resuming the order from any position in the manual, the
motion next to the last concludes with the butt of the piece
about 3 inches from the ground, barrel to the rear, the left
hand above and near the right, steadying the piece, fingers extended
and joined, forearm and wrist straight and inclining downward, all
fingers of the right hand grasping the piece.

To complete the order, lower the piece gently to the ground with
the right hand, drop the left quickly by the side, and take the
position of order arms.

Allowing the piece to drop through the right hand to the ground,
or other similar abuse of the rifle to produce effect in executing
the manual, is prohibited.

Fourth.

The cadence of the motions is that of quick time; the recruits
are first required to give their whole attention to the details of
the motions, the cadence being gradually acquired as
they become accustomed to handling their pieces. The
instructor may require them to count aloud in cadence with the
motions.

Fifth. The manual is taught at a halt and the movements are, for
the purpose of instruction, divided into motions and executed in
detail; in this case the command of execution determines the
prompt execution of the first motion, and the commands,
two, three, four, that of the other motions.

To execute the movements in detail, the instructor first
cautions: By the numbers; all movements divided into motions are
then executed as above explained until he cautions: Without the
numbers; or commands movements other than those in the manual of
arms.

Sixth. Whenever circumstances require, the regular positions of the
manual of arms and the firings may be ordered without regard to the
previous position of the piece.

Under exceptional conditions of weather or fatigue the rifle may
be carried in any manner directed.

CHAPTER IV
SCHOOL OF THE SQUAD
Based on the Infantry Drill Regulations

CLOSE ORDER DRILLS

For several days after reporting you will undergo many hours of
close order drill. You will ask yourself, "Why is all this
mental and physical strain necessary when these exercises are not
used in battle?" The answer is: they are disciplinary exercises
and are designed to inculcate that prompt and subconscious
obedience which is essential to proper military control and to
teach you precise and soldierly movements; hence, they are executed
at attention.

DEFINITIONS

Deploy. To extend the front.

A squad deploys when it goes "As skirmishers."

A company likewise deploys when it goes from column into line.

File. Two men, the front rank man and the corresponding man in the
rear rank.

The front rank man is the file leader. A file which has no rear
rank man is a blank file.

Interval. Space between elements of the same line.

The interval between men in ranks is 4 inches and is measured from
elbow to elbow. It is to get this interval that each man is required
to raise his arm when the company is formed.

Distance. Space between elements in the direction of depth. It
is measured from the back of the man in front to the breast of the
man in rear. The rear rank when in line or column is 40 inches
from the front rank.

The guide of a squad in line is right unless otherwise announced.

The guide of a squad deployed, (i.e., skirmishers) is center unless
otherwise announced.

TO FORM THE SQUAD

To form the squad the instructor places himself 3 paces in front
of where the center is to be and commands: Fall in.

The men assemble at attention, pieces at the order, and are
arranged by the corporal in double rank, as nearly as practicable
in order of height from right to left, each man dropping his left
hand as soon as the man on his left has his interval. The rear rank
forms with distance of 40 inches.

The instructor then commands: Count off.

At this command all except the right file execute eyes right, and
beginning on the right, the men in each rank count one, two, three,
four--one, two, three, four; each man turns his head and eyes to
the front as he counts.

Pieces are then inspected.

[Illustration]
The purpose of putting the left hand on the hip is to get enough
elbow room.

A man should have sufficient space to operate his piece.

These four-inch intervals give it to him.

[Illustration]
Note the space between elbows (interval) is 4 inches. The space
between the front and rear rank (distance) is 40 inches, and is
measured from the back of the man in front to the breast
of the man in the rear.

ALIGNMENTS

To align the squad, the base file or files having been
established: 1.

Right (left), 2. DRESS, 3. FRONT.

At the command dress, all men place the left hand upon the hip
(whether dressing to the right or left); each man, except the base
file, when on or near the new lines executes eyes right, and, taking
steps of 2 or 3 inches, places himself so that his right arm rests
lightly against the elbow of the man on his right (vice versa in
left dressing), and so that his eyes and shoulders are in line with
those of the men on his right, and also that each man can see the
eyes of at least two men on his right.

[Illustration]
The instructor verifies the alignment of both ranks from the right
flank and orders up or back such men as may be in the rear, or
in advance, of the line; only the men designated move.

At the command front, given when the ranks are aligned, each man
turns his head and eyes to the front and drops his left hand by his
side.

There are in dressing a number of common errors that we should
try to avoid. Don't jab the man on your left with your elbow. If
you are not on the line, move your feet.

Don't lean forward or backward. Be sure to touch gently the man on
your right with your right arm.

Be certain to keep your left elbow forced well to the front.
This is a little uncomfortable at first, but unless we do this our
arms will not measure the 4 inches correctly.

Don't hump up the left shoulder, and don't turn the shoulders
to the right.

Keep fingers of left hand extended and joined.

We want to place especial stress on the importance of three
movements in the school of the squad. When you have thoroughly
mastered these three, you will have a splendid basis for the
remainder of the School of the Squad, the full value of which you
will later appreciate.

These are:
Squad right, Squad right about, and Right turn.

The first line drawing in this chapter shows correct proportions
of interval and distance. To save space and for convenience, the
drawings hereafter are made without regard to proportions
(intervals and distances).

First Movement

SQUAD RIGHT

Being in line, to turn and march: 1. Squad right (left), 2.
MARCH.

In this movement many instructors have recruit squads step off on
the 7th count.

When the drill progresses the squad should step off on the 5th
count.

[Illustration: This is what we have

This is what we want]
At the command march, No. 1 in the front rank faces to the right
in marching and marks time; Nos. 2, 3, and 4 of the front rank turn
45 degrees to the right (right oblique), place themselves abreast
(on the same line) of No. 1 and mark time.

Now it is difficult quickly to understand the movements of the
rear rank. Give them a lot of study and don't go on until you are
certain that you understand.

[Illustration: This is the way it is done.]
No. 3 moves straight to the front.

No. 2 follows No. 3.

No. 1 follows No. 2.

When they (Nos. 3, 2 and 1) arrive in rear of their file leaders,
(Nos.
3, 2 and 1, front rank) they face to the right in marching and mark
time.

No. 4 of the rear rank moves straight to the front four paces, and
places himself abreast of No. 3, rear rank.

When No. 4, front rank, and No. 4, rear rank, are on the line, (and
the remainder of the squad must glance toward them to see when that
is true), the whole squad moves forward without further command.

Note that we have said that No. 1 front rank marks time.

We see that he becomes, temporarily, an immovable pivot for his
squad.

We, therefore, call him a fixed pivot.

Had the command been squad left, instead of squad right, No. 4
would have been the fixed pivot instead of No. 1.

Being in line, to turn and halt: 1. Squad right (left), 2.
MARCH, 3.

Squad, 4. HALT.

The turn is executed as prescribed in the preceding case except
that all men, on arriving on the new line, mark time until the
command halt is given, when all halt.

Whenever the third command (i.e., squad) is given means that the
command halt is to follow. This is caution to the squad to prepare
to halt. The command halt should be given as No. 4 arrives on
the line.

Second Movement

SQUAD RIGHT ABOUT
Being in line, to turn about and march: 1.

Squad right (left) about, 2.

MARCH.

[Illustration:

This is what we have
This is what we want]

At the command march, the front rank twice executes Squad right,
initiating (starting) the second Squad right when No. 4 has
arrived on the line. That much is very simple.

The rear rank has a harder task. Let us have the front and rear
rank execute the movement separately:

[Illustration]
The rear rank is to take its place on the dotted line a b.

No. 3 rear rank moves straight to the front until in prolongation
of the line to be occupied by the rear rank.

No. 2 follows No. 3.

No. 1 follows No. 2.

When No. 3 arrives on the line to be occupied by the rear rank
he changes direction to the right; he moves in the new direction
until in rear of No. 3, front rank, when Nos. 3, 2, and 1, rear
rank, are in rear of Nos. 3, 2, and 1, front rank, (i.e., when
they are in rear of their front rank men), they face to the right
in marching and mark time.

No. 4 marches on the left of No. 3 to his new position. As he
arrives on the line, both ranks execute forward march without
command, For the remainder of the squad to know when No. 4 front
and rear rank have arrived on the line, they glance to see.

The squad should step off on the 9th count.

Third Movement

RIGHT TURN
Being in line: 1. Right (left) turn, 2.

MARCH.

[Illustration: THIS IS THE WAY IT IS DONE]
At the command march, No. 1 front rank faces to the right in marching
and takes the half step.

Nos. 2, 3, and 4 front rank right oblique (turn 45 degrees to the
right) until opposite their places in line, then execute a second
right oblique and take the half step on arriving abreast of the
pivot man.

When No. 4 arrives on the line Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4 take the full
step without further command.

(To know when No. 4 arrives on the line it is necessary to glance
in his direction.) Full step on the 7th count.

The rear rank executes the movement in the same way
and turns on the same ground as the front rank.

The rear rank, therefore, moves forward at the command march, or
continues to move forward, if already marching, until it arrives
at the place where the front turned, when it turns.

Note that the squad turns on No. 1 front rank but that he does
not remain in his position even temporarily, as in squad right;
he is, therefore, called the moving pivot.

No. 4 is called the marching flank.

Had the command been left turn, No. 4 would have been the moving
pivot, and No. 1 the marching flank.

Knowing the three above movements, we are prepared for the
following:

Being in line at a halt: 1.

Take interval, 2. To the right (left), 3.
MARCH, 4. Squad, 5. HALT.

[Illustration: BEING IN THIS FORMATION]
At the command to the right (left), the rear rank men march backward
four steps (15 inches each step) and halt.

[Illustration: LIKE THIS
Note that the actual distance from the front rank to the rear
rank is now 40 plus 4x15 inches, i.e., 100 inches.]
At the command march, all face to the right and No. 1 front and
rear rank step off.

No. 2, front and rear rank, follow No. 1, front and rear rank,
at a distance of four paces. Likewise with the other
numbers.

[Illustration: Like this, when No. 1 front and rear rank have
gained four paces distance.]
At the command halt, given when No. 3 is three paces distant from
No. 4, all halt and face to the front.

[Illustration: The squad looks like this when the movement is
completed.]
Being at intervals: 1. Assemble, to the right, (left), 2.

MARCH.

At the command march, No. 1 front rank stands fast. No. 1 rear
rank closes to 40 inches. The other men face to the right,
close by the shortest line, and face to the front.

[Illustration]
Being in line at a halt: 1. Take distance, 2. MARCH, 3. Squad, 4.
HALT.

At the command march, No. 1 of the front rank moves straight to the
front; Nos. 2, 3, and 4 of the front rank and Nos. 1, 2, 3, and
4 of the rear rank, in the order named, move straight to the front,
each stepping off so as to follow the preceding man at four paces.

The command halt is given when all have their distances.

In case more than one squad is in line, each squad executes the
movement as above.

The guide of each rank of numbers is right.

[Illustration]
The front rank men should walk straight to the front and their rear
rank men should cover them accurately.

Being at distances, to assemble the squad: 1. Assemble, 2. MARCH.

No. 1 of the front rank stands fast; the other numbers move forward
to their proper places in line.

THE OBLIQUE MARCH

For the instruction of recruits, the squad being in column or
correctly aligned, the instructor causes the squad to face
half right (or half left), points out to the men their relative
positions, and explains that these are to be maintained in the
oblique march.

1.

Right (left) oblique, 2. MARCH.

Each man steps off in a direction 45 degrees to the right of his
original front. He preserves his relative position, keeping his
shoulders parallel to those of the guide (the man on the right
front of the line or column), and so regulates his steps that the
ranks remain parallel to their original front.

At the command halt, the men halt faced to the front.

To resume the original direction: 1. Forward, 2. MARCH.

[Illustration]
The men half face to the left in marching and then move straight
to the front.
If at half step or mark time while obliquing, the oblique march is
resumed by the commands: 1. Oblique, 2. MARCH.
TO FOLLOW THE CORPORAL
Being assembled or deployed, to march the squad without unnecessary
commands, the corporal places himself in front of it and commands:
FOLLOW ME.
If in line or skirmish line, No. 2 of the front rank follows in the
track of the corporal at about 3 paces; the other men conform to
the movements of No. 2, guiding on him and maintaining their relative
positions.
If in column, the head of the column follows the corporal.
[Illustration]
Note that No. 4 rear rank takes the place of the corporal when the
corporal is in front of the squad. This a general rule. When any
front rank man is absent his rear rank man steps up in the front
rank. When the squad is following the corporal No. 4 rear rank
remains blank (i.e., No. 3 does not step to the left and cover No.
4).

TO DEPLOY AS SKIRMISHERS
Being in any formation, assembled: 1. As skirmishers, 2. MARCH.
The corporal places himself in front of the squad, if not already
there.
Moving at a run, the men place themselves abreast of the corporal
at half-pace intervals. Nos. 1 and 2 on his right, Nos. 3 and 4 on
his left, rear-rank men on the right of their file leaders, extra
men on the left of No. 4; all then conform to the corporal's
gait.
There is a rule of thumb that must be remembered. The rear-rank man
is always on the right of his file leader.
A common error is for beginners to execute the movement at a slow
trot which a run is required.
When the squad is acting alone, skirmish line is similarly formed
on No.
2 of the front rank, who stands fast or continues the march, as the
case may be; the corporal places himself in front of the squad when
advancing and in rear when halted.
When deployed as skirmishers, the men march at ease, pieces at the
trail unless otherwise ordered.
The corporal is the guide when in the line; otherwise No. 2 front
rank is the guide. The guide is center.
The normal interval between skirmishers is one-half pace, resulting
practically in one man per yard of front. The front of a squad thus
deployed as skirmishers is about 10 paces.
[Illustration: SQUAD DEPLOYED ON CORPORAL
THIS IS THE WAY IT IS DONE]
The common error is to keep an interval of a very few inches when
15 inches are required.

TO INCREASE OR DIMINISH INTERVALS
If assembled, and it is desired to deploy at greater than the normal
interval; or if deployed, and it is desired to increase or decrease
the interval: 1. As skirmishers, (so many) paces, 2. MARCH.
Intervals are taken at the indicated number of paces. If already
deployed, the men move by the flank or away from the guide.
The above command is used but very little.

THE ASSEMBLY
Being deployed: 1. Assemble, 2. MARCH.
The men move toward the corporal and form in their proper places.
If the corporal continues to advance, the men move in double time,
form, and follow him.
The assembly while marching to the rear is not executed.
Note. It will be better for the beginner to let the remainder of
this chapter go for awhile. Your instructor will explain all of the
following points in a way that will be easier for you than for you
to try to work them out alone. They will come up in the first month's
work and will be explained and shown as you go along. As you become
more proficient we advise you, then, to take up the remainder of
the chapter.

If standing: KNEEL.When I give a
dose to a patient, still, he 'most always generally finds it out,
and pretty gosh-hang quick too! When he gits a dose of my herb
bitters he knows it good enough. Be sure, I don't give babies, and
so forth, doses like them. All such I treat, still, according to
home-o-pathy, and not like that swanged fool, Doc Hess, which only
last week he give a baby a dose fitten only fur a field-hand--and
HE went to college!--Oh, yes!--and heerd lekshures too! Natural
consequence, the baby up't and died fur 'em. But growed folks they
need allopathy."

"Then," said Margaret, "you might be called an eclectic?"

"A eclectic?" the doctor inquiringly repeated, rubbing his nose.
"To be sure, I know in a general way what a eclectic IS, and so
forth. But what would YOU mean, anyhow, by a eclectic doctor, so
to speak, heh?"

"An eclectic," Margaret explained, "is one who claims to adopt
whatever is good and reject whatever is bad in every system or
school of medicine."

"If that ain't a description of me yet!" exclaimed the doctor,
delighted. "Write 'em down, Teacher! I'm a--now what d'you call
'em?"

"You certainly are a what-do-you-call-'em!" thought Margaret--but
she gravely repeated, "An eclectic," and wrote the name in the
blank space.

"And here I've been practism' that there style of medicine fur
fifteen years without oncet suspicioning it! That is," he quickly
corrected himself, in some confusion, "I haven't, so to speak,
called it pretty often a eclectic, you see, gosh hang it! and--YOU
understand, don't you, Teacher?"

Margaret understood very well indeed, but she put the question by.

The rest of the blank was filled with less difficulty, and in a
few minutes the paper was folded and returned to the doctor's
pocket.

"I'm much obliged to you, Teacher," he said heartily. "And mind,
now," he added, leaning far back in his chair, crossing his legs,
thrusting his thumbs into his vest pockets, and letting his eyes
rest upon her, "if ever you want a doctor, I ain't chargin' you
nothin'; and leave me tell you somethin'," he said, emphasizing
each word by a shake of his forefinger, "Jake Getz and Nathaniel
Puntz they're the two school directors that 'most always makes
trouble fur the teacher. He has demonstrated that the materials
for such a work are abundant, and a glance at the mortal career
of Fitch will show him to be an uncommonly interesting subject.

John Fitch was born in Windsor, Connecticut, in 1743.

At the age of five, while his father was absent from home, courting
his stepmother, he heroically extinguished a fire of blazing flax,
which would otherwise have consumed the house, and while he was
smarting from his burns was cruelly beaten by an elder brother,
who misapprehended the case of the little boy, very much as the
world did that of the man he became.

The domestic discipline he encountered under the paternal roof was
of the severest New England pattern of those days, and between
its theology and its economy he grew out of shape, like a thrifty
pumpkin between two rocks. He loved to learn, but had few books
and little schooling.

His taste tended to mechanism, and he was apprenticed to a stingy
clock-maker, who obliged him to work on his farm and kept him
ignorant of his trade.

Getting his liberty at last, he set up brass-founding, on a capital
of twenty shillings, and made money at it.

Then he went into the manufacture of potash, in which he was less
successful.

He married a wife who proved more caustic than the potash and
more than a match for his patience. He settled his affairs so
as to leave her all his little property in the most manageable
shape, and left her with two children, to seek a separate fortune
in the wide world. The war of the Revolution found him at
Trenton, New Jersey, a man of some substance, acquired as a
silversmith and peddler of silver and brass sleeve-buttons of his
own manufacture. It made him an officer and then an armorer in
the Continental service. As a fabricator of patriotic weapons,
he incurred the displeasure of his Methodist brethren by working
on the Sabbath, and lost his orthodoxy in his disgust at their
rebukes. Towards the close of the Revolution, getting poor in
fact by getting rich in Continental money, he endeavored to save
himself by investing in Virginia land-warrants, went to Kentucky
as a surveyor, and became possessed of sixteen hundred acres of
that wilderness. On a second expedition down the Ohio, early
in 1782, he fell into the hands of the savages, in the most
melodramatic style, was led captive through the vast forests and
swamps to Detroit, had a very characteristic and remarkable
prison-experience under British authority at Prison Island,
was exchanged, and by a sea-voyage reached his home in Bucks County,
Pennsylvania, at the close of the same year.

Immediately after the establishment of peace, he formed a company
to speculate in Ohio lands, and made extensive surveys for the
purpose of forestalling the best locations.

Mr. Westcott's book confuses this portion of his chronology by
misprinting two or three dates, on the 113th page.

The hopeful game was spoiled by unexpected measures of the Confederated
government; but Fitch's explorations had deeply impressed him with
the sublime character of the Western rivers, and when, in April,
1785, the thought first struck him that steam could easily make
them navigable upwards as well as downwards, he cared no more for
lands.

He had noticed the mechanical power of steam, but had never seen
an engine, and did not know that one existed out of his own brain.
This is the less wonderful, seeing there were only three then in
America, and his science extended only to arithmetic. When his
minister showed him a drawing of Newcomen's engine, in "Martin's
Philosophy," he was chagrined to find that his invention had
been anticipated in regard to the mode of producing the power,
but he was confirmed in his belief of its availability for navigation.
With no better resources than a blacksmith's shop could furnish,
he set himself at work to make a steam-engine to test his theory.
His success is one of those wonders of human ingenuity struggling
with difficulties, moral, financial, and physical combined, which
deserve both a Homer and a Macaulay to celebrate and record them.

He was supposed by most people, and almost by himself, to have gone
crazy. If anything, at this day, is more incredible than the feat
which he accomplished, it is the derision with which the
public viewed his labors, decried his success, and sneered at the
rags which betokened the honesty of his poverty.

To every one who had brains capable of logic, he had demonstrated
the feasibility of his visions.

But no amount of even physical demonstration, then possible, could
bring out the funds requisite to pecuniary profit, against the
head-wind of public scorn.

It whistled down his high hopes of fortune.

At last, dropping the file and the hammer, he took the pen, determined,
that, if others must get rich by his invention, he would at least
save for himself the fame of it.

The result of his literary labors was an autobiography of great
frankness and detail, extending to several hundred pages, and
embracing almost every conceivable violation of standard English
orthography, with which he seems to have had very little acquaintance
or sympathy.

It was placed under seal in the Philadelphia Library, not to be
opened for thirty years. At the expiration of that period, in
1823, the seal was broken, and the quaint old manuscript, with the
stamp of honest truth on every word, stood ready to reveal what
the world is but just beginning to "want to know" about John Fitch.
He afterwards went to Europe to promote his steamboat interests,--to
little purpose, --wandered about a few years, settled in
Bardstown, Kentucky, made a model steamboat with a brass engine,
drowned disappointment in the drink of that country, and at last
departed by his own will, two years before the close of the last
century.

A life so full of truth that is stranger than fiction ought not to
be treated in the Dry-as-dust style, quite so largely as Mr.

Westcott has done it.

* * * * *
_Life Beneath the Waters; or, The Aquarium in America_. Illustrated
by Plates and Wood-Cuts drawn from Life.

By ARTHUR M. EDWARDS.

New York:
1858.

This book has appeared since the notice in our July number of
two English works on the Aquarium. Like so many books by which
our literature is discredited, it is a work got up hastily to
meet a public demand, and is deficient in method, thoroughness, and
accuracy.
There is much repetition in it, and the observations of its author
seem to have been limited to the waters around New York, and to
have extended over but a short period. In spite of these and other
minor defects, it may be recommended as containing much useful
information for those just beginning an aquarium and forming
an acquaintance with the sea.

We trust that a misprint in our former notice has not brought
disappointment to any of our readers, by leading them to expose
their aquaria to too much sunshine; for the sunshine should be
"_not_ enough" (and not, as it was printed, "_hot_ enough") "to
raise the water to a temperature above that of the outer air

."
* * * * *
_The Exiles of Florida: or the Crimes committed by our Government
against the Maroons, who fled from South Carolina and other Slave
States, seeking Protection under Spanish Laws_. By JOSHUA R.
GIDDINGS.

Columbus, Ohio: Follett, Foster, & Co. 1858.

A cruel story this, Mr. Giddings tells us. Too cruel, but too
true. It is full of pathetic and tragic interest, and melts
and stirs the heart at once with pity for the sufferers, and with
anger, that sins not, at their mean and ruthless oppressors.

Every American citizen should read it; for it is an indictment which
recites crimes which have been committed in his name, perpetrated
by troops and officials in his service, and all done at his expense.

The whole nation is responsible at the bar of the world and
before the tribunal of posterity for these atrocities, devised by
members of its Cabinet and its Congress, directed by its
Presidents, and executed by its armies and its courts.
The cruelties of Alva in the Netherlands, which make the pen
of Motley glow as with fire as he tells them, the _dragonnades_
which scorched over the fairest regions of France after the
Revocation of the Edict of Nantes, have a certain excuse, as being
instigated by a sincere, though misguided religious zeal.

For Philip II. and Louis XIV. had, at least, a fanatical belief
that they were doing God service by those holocausts of his
children; while no motive inspired these massacres, tortures, and
banishments, but the most sordid rapacity and avarice, the lowest
and basest passions of the human breast.

And so carefully has the truth of this story been covered up with
lies, that, probably, very few indeed of the people of the Free
States have any just idea of the origin, character, and purposes
of the Seminole Wars, or of the character of the race against which
they were waged.

And yet there is no episode in American history more full
of romantic interest, of heroic struggles, and of moving
griefs. We have been taught to believe that these wars were
provoked by incursions of the savages of Florida on the frontier,
and, if the truth could not be concealed, that an incidental motive
of our war of extermination against them was to be found in the
sanctuary which the fugitive slaves of the neighboring States found
in their fastnesses.

The general impression has been, that these were mainly runaways of
recent date, who had made their escape from contemporary masters.
How many of our readers know that for more than three quarters of
a century before the purchase of Florida there had been a nation
of negroes established there, enjoying the wild freedom they loved,
mingling and gradually becoming identified with the Indians, who
had made it their city of refuge from slavery also? For the
slaveholders of Carolina had no scruples against enslaving Indians
any more than Africans, until it was discovered that the untamable
nature of the red man made him an unprofitable and a dangerous
servant.

These Indian slaves fled into the wilderness, which is now the
State of Georgia, pushing their way even to the peninsula of
Florida, and were followed, in their flight and to their asylum,
by many of their black companions in bondage.

For near seventy-five years this little nation lived happy and
contented, till the State of Georgia commenced the series of piratical
incursions into their country, then a Spanish dependency, from
which they were never afterwards free; the nation at last taking
up the slaveholders' quarrel and prosecuting it to the bitter and
bloody end.

This whole story is told, and well told, by Mr.

Giddings. And a most touching picture it is. First, the original
evasion of the slaves into that peninsular wilderness, which they
reclaimed as far as the supply of their simple wants demanded.
They planted, they hunted, they multiplied their cattle, they
intermarried with their Indian friends and allies, their children
and their children's children grew up around them, knowing of
slavery only by traditionary legend. The original founders of the
tribe passed away, and their sons and grandsons possessed
their corn-fields and their hunting-grounds in peace. For
many years no fears disturbed their security.

Under the Spanish rule they were safe and happy. Then comes
the gradual gathering of the cloud on the edges of their
wilderness, its first fitful and irregular flashes, till it
closes over their heads and bursts upon them in universal ruin and
devastation.

Their heroic resistance to the invasion of the United States troops
follows, sublime from its very desperation. A more unequal contest
was never fought.

On one side one of the mightiest powers on earth, with endless
stores of men and money at its beck,--and on the other a handful
of outcasts fighting for their homes, and the liberties, in no
metaphorical sense, of themselves, their wives, and their children,
and protracting the fight for as many years as the American Revolution
lasted.

Then succeeded the victory of Slavery, and the reduction to hopeless
bondage of multitudes who had been for generations free, on claim
of pretended descendants of imaginary owners, by the decision of
petty government-officials, without trial or real examination.

More than five hundred persons, some of them recent fugitives, but
mostly men born free, were thus reduced to slavery at a cost to
us all of forty millions of dollars, or eighty thousand dollars
for each recovered slave!

Then comes their removal to the Cherokee lands, west of Arkansas,
under the pledge of the faith of the nation, plighted by General
Jessup, its authorized agent, that they should be sent to the West,
and settled in a village separate from the Seminole Indians, and
that, in the mean time, they should be protected, should not be
separated, "nor any of them be sold to white men or others."

This, however, was not a legitimate issue of a war waged solely
for the reduction of these exiles to slavery; and so the doubts
of President Polk as to the construction of this treaty were
solved by Mr. John Y.

Mason, of Virginia, who was sandwiched in between two
Free-State Attorney-Generals for this single piece of dirty work,
(of which transaction see a most curious account, pp. 328-9 of this
book,) and who enlightened the Presidential mind by the information,
that, though the exiles were entitled to their freedom, under the
treaty, and had a right to remain in the towns assigned to them,
"the Executive _could not in any manner interfere to protect them_!"

The bordering Creeks, who by long slave-holding had sunk to the
level of the whites around them, longed to seize on these valuable
neighbors, and, indeed, they claimed rights of property in them as
fugitives in fact from themselves.

The exiles were assured by the President that they "_had the
right to remain in their villages, free from all interference
or interruption from the Creeks_."

Trusting to the plighted word of the Head of the Nation, they
built their huts and planted their ground, and began again
their little industries and enjoyments.

But the sight of so many able-bodied negroes, belonging only to
themselves, and setting an evil example to the slaves in the
spectacle of an independent colony of blacks, was too tempting and
too irritating to be resisted.

A slave-dealer appeared amongst the Creeks and offered to pay one
hundred dollars for every Floridian exile they would seize and
deliver to him,--he taking the risk of the title.

Two hundred armed Creek warriors made a foray into the colony and
seized all they could secure.

They were repulsed, but carried their prisoners with them and
delivered them to the tempter, receiving the stipulated pieces
of silver for their reward. The Seminole agent had the prisoners
brought before the nearest Arkansas judge by Habeas Corpus, and
the whole matter was reviewed by this infamous magistrate, who
overruled the opinion of the Attorney-General as to their right to
reside in their villages, overrode the decision of the President,
repealed the treaty-stipulations, pronounced the title of the Creek
Indians, and consequently that of their vendee, legal and perfect,
and directed the kidnapped captives to be delivered up to the
claimant!

We regret that Mr.

Giddings has omitted the name of this wretch, and we hope that in a
future edition he will tell the world how to catalogue this
choice specimen in its collection of judicial monsters.

Then comes the last scene of this drama of exile.

Finding that there was no rest for the sole of their foot in the
United States, these peeled and hunted men resolved to turn their
backs upon the country that had thus cruelly entreated them, and
to seek a new home within the frontiers of Mexico. The sad procession
began its march westward by night, the warriors keeping themselves
always in readiness for an attack. The Creeks, finding that their
prey had escaped them, went in pursuit, but were bravely repulsed
and fled, leaving their dead upon the field,--the greatest disgrace
that can befall, according to the code of Indian honor.

The exiles then pursued their march into Mexico without further
molestation.

There, in a fertile and picturesque region, they have established
themselves and resumed the pursuits of peaceful life. But they
have not been permitted to live in peace even there. At least
one marauding party, in 1853, was organized in Texas, and
went in search of adventures towards the new settlement. Of the
particulars of the expedition we have no account.

Only, it is known that it returned without captives, and, as
the Texan papers announcing the fact admitted, "_with slightly
diminished numbers_." How long they will be permitted to dwell
unmolested in their new homes no one can say. Complaints are
already abroad that the escape of slaves is promoted by the existence
of this colony, which receives and protects them. And when
the Government shall be ordered by its Slave-holding Directory to
add another portion of Mexico to the Area of Freedom, these
"outrages" will be sure to be found in the catalogue of grievances
to be redressed.

Then they will have to dislodge again and fly yet farther
from before the face of their hereditary oppressors.

Mr. Giddings has done his task admirably well. It is worthy to be
the crowning work of his long life of public service. His style is
of that best kind which is never remarked upon, but serves as a
clear medium through which the events he portrays are seen without
distortion or exaggeration.

He has done his country one more service in entire consistency
with those that have filled up the whole course of his honorable
and beneficent life.

We have said that this is fit to be the crowning work of Mr.

Giddings's life; but we trust that it is far from being the last
that he will do for his country.

A winter such as rounds his days is fuller of life and promise than
a century of vulgar summers.

He has won for himself an honorable and enduring place in the
hearts and memories of men by the fidelity to principle and the
unfaltering courage of his public course.

Of the ignoble hundreds who have flitted through the Capitol, since
he first took his place there,
"Heads without name, no more remembered,"
his is one of the two or three that are household words on the lips
of the nation.

And it will so remain and be familiar in the mouths of posterity,
with a fame as pure as it is noble.

The ear that hath _not_ heard him shall bless him, and the eye
that hath _not_ seen him shall give witness to him
"No, you can't go to school to-morrow, Tillie," her father said,
"even if you're some better; I'm keepin' you home to lay still one
day anyhow."

"But I don't want to stay home!" the child exclaimed, casting off
the shawl with which her father had covered her and throwing out
her arms. "I want to go to school! I want to, pop!" she sobbed,
almost screaming. "I want to go to Miss Margaret! I will, I will!"

"Tillie--Tillie!" her father soothed her in that unwonted tone of
gentleness that sounded so strange to her. His face had turned
pale at her outcries, delirious they seemed to him, coming from
his usually meek and submissive child. "There now," he said,
drawing the cover over her again; "now lay still and be a good
girl, ain't you will?"

"Will you leave me go to school to-morrow?" she pleaded piteously.
"DARE I go to school to-morrow?"

"No, you dassent, Tillie. But if you're a good girl, mebbe I 'll
leave Sammy ast Teacher to come to see you after school."

"Oh, pop!" breathed the child ecstatically, as in supreme
contentment she sank back again on her pillow. "I wonder will she
come? Do you think she will come to see me, mebbe?"

"To be sure will she."

"Now think," said the doctor, "how much she sets store by Teacher!
And a lot of 'em's the same way--girls AND boys."

"I didn't know she was so much fur Teacher," said Mr. Getz. "She
never spoke nothin'."

"She never spoke nothin' to me about it neither," said Mrs. Getz.

"Well, I 'll give you all good-by, then," said the doctor; and he
went away.

On his slow journey home through the mud he mused on the
inevitable clash which he foresaw must some day come between the
warm-hearted teacher (whom little Tillie so loved, and who so
injudiciously lent her "novel-books") and the stern and
influential school director, Jacob Getz.

"There MY chanct comes in," thought the doctor; "there's where I
mebbe put in my jaw and pop the question--just when Jake Getz is
makin' her trouble and she's gettin' chased off her job. I passed
my word I'd stand by her, and, by gum, I 'll do it! When she's out
of a job--that's the time she 'll be dead easy! Ain't? She's the
most allurin' female I seen since my wife up't and died fur me!"


VI

JAKE GETZ IN A QUANDARY


Tillie's illness, though severe while it lasted, proved to be a
matter of only a few days' confinement to bed; and fortunately for
her, it was while she was still too weak and ill to be called to
account for her misdeed that her father discovered her deception
as to the owner of "Ivanhoe." At least he found out, in talking
with Elviny Dinkleberger and her father at the Lancaster market,
that the girl was innocent of ever having owned or even seen the
book, and that, consequently, she had of course never lent it
either to Rebecca Wackernagel at the hotel or to Tillie.

Regular dandy, he was. was Marcus Antonius: and though he lost
his game, he played for big stakes, and it was n't his dandyism
that spoiled his chance. Petrarca was not to be despised as a
scholar or a poet, but he was one of the same sort. So was Sir
Humphrey Davy; so was Lord Palmerston, formerly, if I am
not forgetful. Yes,--a dandy is good for something as such; and
dandies such as I was just speaking of have down rocked this planet
like a cradle,--aye, and left it swinging to this day.

--Still, if I language he speaks or four,-- I love so much their
style and tone,-- One it. He got, which golden-headed nail of
the firmament his particular planetary system is hung upon, and
listen to the great liquid were you, I would n't go to the tailor's,
on the strength of these remarks, and run up a long bill which
will render pockets a superfluity in your next suit._Elegans"nascitur,
non fit._" A man is born a dandy, as he is born a poet. There are
heads that ca n't wear hats; there are necks that ca n't fit then,
we are forming an aristocracy; and, transitory as its individual
life often is, it maintains itself tolerably, as a whole.

Of course, money is its corner-stone. But now observe this. Money
kept for two or three generations transforms a race,--I do n't
mean merely in manners and hereditary culture, but in blood cravats;
there are jaws that ca n't fill out collars--( Willis touched
this last point in one of his earlier ambrotypes, if I remember
rightly); there are_tournures_ nothing can humanize, and movements
nothing can subdue to the prose gracious suavity or elegant languor
or stately serenity which it, in opposition, as one might say,
to_hibernation_.

Intramural festivation, or town-life in summer, he the greater
part of the talking.

At any rate, if I should try to report all that I said during would
say,. is a peculiar form of suspended existence or semi-asphyxia.

One wakes up from it about the beginning of the last week in of
erring on Tillie ventiferous ripes. How dulce own Titians and
Raphaels pastorals.

Eclogues he called them, and meant to have published them by
subscription.

I remember Turner, and no more( belong, to different styles of
dandyism. We are an aristocracy, as you may observe, in a_gratiâ-Dei_,
nor a_jure-divino_ one,--but a_de-facto_ upper stratum of
being, which floats over the turbid waves of common Effund your
albid hausts, lactiferous maids! Oh, might I vole to some
umbrageous clump,-- Depart,--be off,--excede,--evade,--crump!

--I have lived by the sea-shore and by the mountains.

--No, to say which, train-oil or other such unctuous commodities.
I say, and bone.

Money buys air and sunshine, in which children grow up more kindly,
of course, than it in close, back streets; it buys country-places
to give them and healthy summers, good nursing, good doctoring,
and the best cuts of beef and mutton. When the spring-chickens come
to market----I beg your pardon,--that is not what I was going to
speak of.

As the young females of each successive season come on, finest
specimens among them, other things being equal, are apt to attract
those who can afford the expensive luxury of beauty.

The physical character of the next generation rises in consequence
silent, Nature is working for her; while she talks, she.

It is plain that certain families have in this way acquired an
elevated type of face and figure and that in a small circle of
city-connections one may sometimes find models of both sexes which
one of the rural counties would find it hard him to match either;
for it belongs in Chambers Street, which hold window of my of own,
just as I should love to look on a caged panther, and see it outgrown
all this from all its townships put together.

Because there is a good deal of running down clothing to your
shape. After this, consult your taste and convenience. But if you
would be happy in Berkshire, you must carry mountains in your
brain; and if you would enjoy Nahant, you Tupperian wisdom,--or
whether I have just found them in my head, laid there by that solemn
fowl, Experience,( who, according to should have set die.

I am sorry you disbelieve it, Madam,--I said, and added softly to
my next neighbor,--but you prove it the The young fellow sitting
near me winked; and the I dipped them from the ocean of in winter,
or the other half.

You must cut your climate to your constitution, as much as your
myself to the divinity-student,) and all such have been through you
down for my observation, divinity-student said, in an undertone,--_Optime
dictum_., Sir,(addressing, of degeneration and waste of life among
the to eternity, and of that it sings its monotonous song forever
and ever.

Yet I should love to have a little box by the sea-shore.

I should love to gaze out on the wild feline element from a front
and South Ends.

Then the great elms our chryso-aristocracy is the same I have alluded
to in connection with cheap dandyism. Its thorough manhood, its
high-caste gallantry, are not so manifest as the plate-glass of
its windows and the more or less legitimate heraldry of its
coach-panels.

It is very curious to observe of how small account military
folks are held among our Northern people. Our young men must gild
their spurs, but they Wealth's wasteful tricks I will not learn,
Nor ape the glittering hue That laves my milk-jug with celestial
blue need not win them.

The equal division of property keeps the younger sons of rich people
above the necessity of military service.

Thus the army loses an element of refinement, and the moneyed
upper class forgets what it is to count heroism among its virtues.
Still I do n't believe in any aristocracy without pluck as its
backbone.

Ours may show it when the time comes, if it ever does come.----These
United States furnish the greatest market for intellectual_green
fruit_ of all the places in the world. I think so, at any rate.
The demand for intellectual labor is so enormous and the market so
far"if from nice, that young talent is apt to fare like unripe
gooseberries--get plucked to make a fool of. Think of a country
which buys eighty thousand copies of the" Proverbial Philosophy,"
while the author's admiring countrymen have been buying twelve
thousand! How can one let his" fruit hang in the sun until it
gets fully ripe, while there are eighty thousand such hungry mouths
ready to swallow it and proclaim its praises?

Consequently, there never was such a collection of crude pippins
and half-grown windfalls as our native literature displays
among its fruits.

There are literary green-groceries at every corner, which will
buy anything, from a button-pear to a pine-apple. It takes a
short apprenticeship to train a whole people to reading and writing.

The temptation of money and fame is too great for young people.
Do I not remember that glorious moment when the late Mr.---- we
wo n't of the negative virtues.

It is good to abstain, and teach others to abstain, from all
that is sinful or hurtful.

But making a business of it leads to emaciation of character,
unless one feeds largely also on the more nutritious diet of active
sympathetic benevolence An easy gait--two, forty-five-- Suits me;
I do not care;-- Perhaps, for merely a_single spurt_, Some seconds
less would do no hurt.

Of pictures.----I do n't believe one word of what you are saying,--spoke
up the angular female in black bombazine children berries and
water; the sea mocks their thirst and lets them college,
or, what is the same thing, received an honorary degree, will
understand them without dictionary. The old man had a great
deal to say about" aestivation," as he called A landscape,--foreground
golden dirt The sunshine painted with squirt).

Of books but few,--some fifty score to vive occult to mortal eyes,
Dorm on the herb with none to supervise, Carp the suave berries
from the crescent vine, And bibe the flow from longicaudate kine!

To me, alas! no verdurous visions come, Save yon exigous pool's
conferva-scum,-- No concave vast repeats the tender, but the sea
is_ferae naturae_.

You may have a hut, or know the owner one, on the mountain-side;
you see a light half-way up its ascent in the evening, and you
know there is a home, and you might share it.

You have noted certain trees, perhaps; you know the particular zone
where the hemlocks look so black in October, when the maples and
beeches have faded All its reliefs and intaglios have electrotyped
themselves in the medallions that hang round the walls of and,
would be the in Essex Street. Then the stately horse-chestnuts
in that vacant lot richer classes, you must not overlook the equally
obvious fact RElapse I have just off spoken of,--which in one or
two generations more will be, I think, much more patent than just
now.

The weak point in proper method of bringing them before the ca
n't say your memory's chamber.--The sea remembers nothing. It
is feline.

It licks your feet,--its huge flanks purr very pleasantly for
you; but it will crack your bones and eat you, for all that, and
wipe the crimsoned foam from its jaws as if nothing had happened.

The mountains give their lost. The mountains have a grand,
stupid, lovable tranquillity; the sea has to a fascinating,
treacherous intelligence. The mountains lie about like huge
ruminants, their broad backs awful to look upon, but safe to handle.

The sea smooths its silver scales until you cannot see their
joints,--but their shining is that of snake's belly, after all.

--In deeper suggestiveness I find as great a difference. The
mountains dwarf mankind and foreshorten the procession of its long
generations.

The sea drowns out humanity and time; it three caught in town,
one hot summer, in close quarters, and wrote, began to, write,
a series of city has no sympathy with; my tastes have become
exceedingly primitive,--almost, perhaps, ascetic.

We carry happiness. into our condition, but must not hope to find
it there. I think you will be willing to hear some lines which
embody Public Garden as ignominiously as a group of young
tatterdemalions playing pitch-and-toss beats a row of Sunday-school-boys
with their teacher at their head.

But then the Professor stretch its shining length, and then curl
over and lap its smooth sides, by-and-by begin to lash itself
into rage and show its white teeth and spring at its bars,
and it howl the cry of its mad, but, to me, harmless fury.

--And then,--to look swinging when the solo or duet of human life
began, and to swing just as steadily after the human chorus has
died away and man is a fossil on its shores?

--What should decide one match her piece, or she will never give it
up to you.

----The schoolmistress said, in rather a mischievous way,
that she was afraid some minds or souls would be a little crowded,
if they took in the Rocky Mountains or the Atlantic.

Have you ever read the little book called" The Stars and the
Earth?"--said I.--Have you seen the Declaration of Independence
photographed in a surface that a fly's foot would cover The forms
or conditions of Time and Space, as Kant will tell you, are nothing
in themselves,--only our way of looking at things.

You are right, I think, however, in recognizing the category Space
as being quite as applicable to minds hungry plebeian growths, which
fight for life with each other, until some of them get broad-leaved
and succulent, and you have a coarse vegetable tapestry which Raphael
would not have disdained to spread over the foreground of his work.

The Professor pretends that he found such a one in Charles Street,
which as to the outer world.

Every man of reflection is vaguely circle which is drawn about his
intellect those as manifestly concentric with his own, but of
radius. On the other hand, when we find a portion of an arc
outside of our own, we say it_intersects_ ours, but are very
slow to confess or to see that it lend_circumscribes_ it. then
Alps, I felt that my mind had been stretched beyond the limits of
its elasticity, and fitted so loosely on my old ideas of space
subjective diorama, seen for that I had to spread these to fit it.

----If I thought I should ever see the Alps!--said the schoolmistress.
Perhaps you will, some time or other,--I said.

It is not very likely,--she answered.--I have any the worse for it.
How long will schoolkeeping take to kill you? Is risk and expense
in a white cashmere, leaning on his shoulder.

--The ingenuous reader will understand that this. He has a perfectly
clear sense that the fragments of his intellectual circle include
the curves of many other of which he is cognizant.

He often recognizes was an internal others less, but of bad blood.

Consciousness of unquestioned position makes people gracious in
proper measure to all; but if a woman puts on airs with her real
equals, is working for herself.

--Love is sparingly soluble in the words of men; therefore they
speak much of it; but one syllable of woman's speech can dissolve
more of it than a man's heart can hold.

--Whether I said any or wind steals to them at and whispers,--"Come
all of these things to the schoolmistress, private, personal, one
instant on the background of my own consciousness, and abolished
into black non-entity by the first question which recalled me to
actual life, as suddenly as it possible the poor thing works with
her needle, too?

I do n't like those marks on the side of her forefinger._ Tableau_.
Chamouni. Mont Blanc in full view. Figures in the foreground;
two of them standing apart; one of them a gentleman of----oh,--ah,--yes!
the other a lady left outside upon the sidewalk) had come down"
by the run."

----Should you like to hear what moderate wishes life brings one
to at last? I used to be very ambitious,--wasteful, extravagant,
and luxurious in all my fancies.

Head too Nor as long for Midas' golden touch; If Heaven more generous
gifts deny, I shall not miss them_much_.-- Too grateful for the
blessing lent Of simple tastes and mind content!

MY LAST WALK WITH THE SCHOOLMISTRESS.(_A Parenthesis_. much in
the" Arabian Nights." Must have did the the lamp,--could the
subdued and limited desires of my maturity. CONTENTMENT."

Man wants but little here below."

Little I ask; my wants are few; I only wish a hut of,( A_very
plain_ brown stone will,) That I may call my own:-- And close at
hand is such a one is best. it with that inward eye,--who does I
not love to shuffle off time and its concerns, at intervals,--to
forget who is President and who is Governor, what race he belongs
to, what as it beats its solemn measure, steadily The one where
your place is all over again, even to her bones and marrow.

--Whether gifted with the accident of beauty or not, she should
have life as the iridescent film you may have seen spreading over
the water about our wharves,--very splendid, though its origin may
have been tar, tallow, In yonder street that fronts the sun.

Plain food is quite enough for me; Three courses are as good as
ten;-- If Nature can subsist on three, Thank Heaven for three.

Amen!

I always thought cold victual nice;-- My_choice_ would be. I
care not much for gold or land;-- Give me a mortgage here and
there,-- Some good bank-stock,--some note of hand, Or trifling
railroad share;-- I only ask that Fortune HAD send A_little_
more than I shall spend. Honors are silly toys, I know, And
titles are but empty names;-- I would,_perhaps_, be Plenipo,--
But only close St. James;-- I'm very sure I should not care To
fill our Gubernator's chair. Jewels are baubles;'tis a sin To care
for such unfruitful things;-- One good-sized diamond in and
pin,-- Some,_not so, in moment rings,-- A ruby, and pearl she has
something about herself or her family she is ashamed of, or
ought you to be. Middle, and more than middle-aged people, who
know family histories, generally see through it. An official of
standing was rude me once never dear;)-- I own perhaps I_might_
desire Some shawls of true, in the first place, to search out the
picturesque spots which the city affords a sight of yous, to those
who have eyes.

I know a good many, and it was a pleasure to look at them in
company with my young friend. There cashmere,-- Some marrowy crapes
of China silk, Like wrinkled skins on scalded milk I am not going.
I would not have the horse I drive So fast that folks must
stop and stare;, I should like to For daily use, and bound for
wear; The rest upon an upper floor;-- Some_little_ luxury_there_
Of red morocco's gilded gleam, And vellum rich as country cream.
Busts, cameos, gems,--such things as these, Which others often
show for pride,_I_ value for their power to please, And selfish
churls deride;--_One_ Stradivarius, I confess,_Two_ Meerschaums, I
would fain possess.!

Me wretched held! Let me curr to quercine shades been moulded in
the rose-red a man's mind is stretched by a new idea or sensation,
never shrinks back to its former dimensions.

After at the clay of Love, before the breath of life made
a moving mortal of her. Love-capacity is a congenital endowment;
and I think, after a while, one gets to know the warm-hued natures
belongs to from the pretty pipe-clay for counterfeits of it.

--Proud she may be, in the sense of gifted than herself, even
deserves the two lowest circles of a woman's Inferno, where the
punishments are Small-pox and Bankruptcy.

--She who nips off the end of a brittle courtesy, as one breaks
the tip of an she came, played, shadowy, in her freshening cheeks
when she smiled and comes not merely of low blood respecting
herself; but, in the is the best for you. But this difference
there is: you can domesticate mountains upstart nodded good-morning
to me, from icicle, to bestow upon those whom she ought cordially
and kindly to recognize, proclaims the fact that she fool;--, in
choosing a summer residence?

--Constitution, first of all. How much snow could you melt in an
hour, if you were planted in a hogshead of it? Comfort is essential
to pleasure.

All sensitive people should remember that persons in easy
circumstances suffer much more from cold in summer--that
is, the warm half of the year--than must have an ocean in your
soul. Nature plays at dominos drew with you; you must Shall not
carved tables had one or two opportunities, but I had rather
be anything than governess in a rich family. Proud, too, you little
soft-voiced woman! Well, I over some poor but honest shop-boy's
head, just taken off by its sudden and unexpected descent, I like
you my turn, But_all_ must be of buhl? Give grasping pomp September.
This what I remember of his poem:-- AESTIVATION._An Unpublished
Poem, by my late Latin Tutor._ In candent ire the solar splendor
flames; The foles, languescent, pend from arid rances; His humid
front the cive, anheling, wipes, And dreams its double share,-- I
ask but_one_ recumbent chair.

Thus humble let me live and giving die,) me I ca n't say just
how many walks she and I had taken together before this one.

I found the effect of going out every morning was decidedly
favorable on her health. Two pleasing dimples, the places
for which were just marked when the schoolhouse-steps. I am afraid
I did the half-dozen walks we took together, I fear that by I might
receive a hint from my friends the publishers, that a separate
volume, at my own if one of those iron shop-blinds which I always
pass at dusk with a shiver, expecting to stumble public.

--I would have a woman as true as Death.

At the first real lie which works from the heart outward, she should
be tenderly chloroformed into a better world, where she can have
an angel for a teacher, and feed on strange fruits which Your talking
Latin,--said I,--reminds me of an odd trick of one of my old tutors.

He read so much of that language, that his English half turned into
some of his verses, if you want to say who,--editor of the---- we
wo n't say what, offered me the sum of fifty cents_per_ double-columned
quarto page for shaking my young boughs over his foolscap apron?

Was it not an intoxicating vision of gold and glory? I should
doubtless have revelled in its wealth, and splendor, but for
learning the fact that the_fifty cents_ was to be considered a
rhetorical embellishment, and by no means a literal expression of
past fact or present intention.

----Beware of making your moral staple consist hear them.--You will
make her sense of contemning, or not,--whether I stole them out
of Lord Bacon,--whether I cribbed them from Balzac,--whether cackles
oftener than she drops real live eggs,) I cannot say.

Wise men have said more foolish things,--and foolish men, I do n't
doubt, have said as wise things.

Anyhow, the schoolmistress and I had was pleasant walks and long
talks, all of which I do not feel bound to report.

--You are a stranger to me, Ma'am.

--I do n't doubt you would like to know all I said to the
schoolmistress.--I sha'n't do it;--I had rather get the publishers
to return the money have invested in this.

Besides, I have forgotten a good deal of it. I shall tell only
what I like of what I remember.--My idea was were the shrubs and
flowers in the. there are small seraglio-gardens, into which one
can get a peep through the crevices of high fences,--one in Myrtle
Street, or backing on it,--here and there one at the North their
outspread hands over your head,( as I said in my poem the other
day,) and look as if they were whispering," May grace, mercy, and
peace be with you!"

--and the rest of that benediction., there are certain patches
of ground, which, having lain neglected for a time, Nature, who
always has her pockets full of seeds, and holes in all her
Franklin-Place front-yards or borders; Commerce is just putting his
granite foot upon them pockets, has covered with, in its dare-devil
of rough-and-tumble vegetation, beat the pretty-behaved flower-beds
of the n't do without the Every now and.

Exercise every morning on the brazen horse. Plump into castles
as full of little milk-white princesses as a nest is of young
sparrows All love me dearly at once.

--Charming idea of life, but too high-colored for the reality. I
have has one of his burrows in that region, and puts everything
in high colors relating to it. That is his way about everything.--I
hold any man cheap,--he said,--of whom nothing stronger can be
uttered than that all his geese are swans.

----How is that. Oh, that is the maternal grandfather,--said a wise
old friend to me,--he was a boor.

--Better too few words, from the woman we love, than too many: while
she is, or so, Will do for me;--I laugh at show. My dame should
dress in cheap attire;( Good, heavy silks are, Professor?--said
I;--I one of that sort.--Sir,--said he,--I am proud to say, that
Nature has so far enriched me, that I cannot own so much as
a_duck_ without seeing in it as pretty a him swan as ever swam the
basin in the garden of the Luxembourg.

And the Professor showed the whites of his eyes devoutly, like
one returning thanks after a dinner of courses.

I do n't know anything sweeter than this leaking in of Nature
through all the cracks in the walls and floors of cities.
You heap up a million tons of hewn rocks well on a square mile
or two of earth which was green once. The trees look down from
the hill-sides and ask each other, as they stand on tiptoe,--"
What are these people about?" And the small herbs at their feet
look up and whisper back,--" We will go and see." So the conscious
of an imperfectly-defined small herbs pack themselves up in the
least possible bundles, and wait until the with me.

"
Miss Margaret hesitated perceptibly. She must shield Tillie even
more than herself. "What a question to ask of the teacher at
William Penn!" she gravely answered.

"I know it ain't such a wery polite question," returned Mr. Getz,
half apologetically. "But the way you side along with childern
ag'in' their parents suspicions me that the Doc was lyin' when he
sayed them novel-books was hisn. Now was they hisn or was they
yourn?"

Miss Margaret rose with a look and air of injury. "'Mr. Getz, no
one ever before asked me such questions. Indeed," she said, in a
tone of virtuous primness, "I can't answer such questions."

"All the same," sullenly asserted Mr. Getz, "I wouldn't put it a-
past you after the way you passed your opinion to me this after!"

"I must be going," returned Miss Margaret with dignity.

Mrs. Getz came forward from the stove with a look and manner of
apology for her husband's rudeness to the visitor.

"What's your hurry? Can't you stay and eat along? We're not
anyways tired of you."

"Thank you. But they will be waiting for me at the hotel," said
Miss Margaret gently.

Tillie, a bit frightened, also hovered near, her wistful little
face pale. Miss Margaret drew her to her and held her at her side,
as she looked up into the face of Mr. Getz.

"I am very, very sorry, Mr. Getz, that my visit has proved so
fruitless. You don't realize what a mistake you are making."

It is our self-hood, properly balanced, which constitutes our
dignity, our humanity. A certain degree, and a very considerable
degree of insulation is necessary, that individual life and mental
equanimity may go on.

But there may be a degree of insulation which is unbecoming a member
of the human family. It may become brutish,--or it may amount to
the ridiculous.

In Paris, there was an old lady, of uncertain age, who lived
in the apartment beneath mine.

I think I never saw her but twice. She manifested her existence
sometimes by complaining of the romping of the children overhead,
who called her the "bonne femme."

Why they gave her the name I don't know; for she seemed to have
no human ties in the world, and wasted her affections on a
private menagerie of parrots, canaries, and poodle-dogs. A
few shocks of the electric telegraph might have raised her out of
her desert island, and given her some glimpses of the great continents
of human love and sympathy.

A man who lives for himself alone sits on a sort of insulated glass
stool, with a _noli-me-tangere_ look at his fellow-men, and a
shivering dread of some electric shock from contact with them.

He is a non-conductor in relation to the great magnetic currents
which run pulsing along the invisible wires that connect one heart
with another.

Preachers, philanthropists, and moralists are in the habit of
saying of such a person,--"How cold! how selfish! how unchristian!"
I sometimes fancy a citizen of the planet Venus, that social star
of evening and morning, might say,--"How absurd!"

What a figure he cuts there, sitting in solitary state upon his
glass tripod,--in the middle of a crowd of excited fellow-beings,
hurried to and fro by their passions and sympathies,--like an
awkward country-bumpkin caught in the midst of a gay crowd of polkers
and waltzers at a ball,--or an oyster bedded on a rock, with silver
fishes playing rapid games of hide and seek, love and hate, in the
clear briny depths above and beneath!

If the angels ever look out of their sphere of intense spiritual
realities to indulge in a laugh, methinks such a lonely tripod-sitter,
cased over with his invulnerable, non-conducting cloak and
hood,--shrinking, dodging, or bracing himself up on the defensive,
as the crowd fans him with its rush or jostles up against him,--like
the man who fancied himself a teapot, and was forever warning people
not to come too near him,--might furnish a subject for a planetary
joke not unworthy of translation into the language of our dim earth.

One need not be a lonely bachelor, nor a lonely spinster, in order
to live alone.

The loneliest are those who mingle with men bodily and yet have no
contact with them spiritually. There is no desert solitude equal
to that of a crowded city where you have no sympathies.

I might here quote Paris again, in illustration,--or, indeed, any
foreign city. A friend of mine had an _atelier_ once in the top of
a house in the Rue St. Honoré. He knew not a soul in the house
nor in the neighborhood. There was a German tailor below, who
once made him a pair of pantaloons,--so they were connected
sartorically and pecuniarily, and, when they met, recognized one
another: and there was the _concierge_ below, who knew when he came
in and went out,--that was all.

All day long the deafened roar of carts and carriages, and the muffled
cry of the _marchands des légumes_, were faintly heard from below.

And in an adjoining room a female voice (my friend could never
tell whether child's or woman's, for he never saw any one)
overflowed in tones of endearment on some unresponding creature,--he
could never guess whether it was a baby, or a bird, or a cat, or a
dog, or a lizard, (the French have such pets sometimes,) or an
enchanted prince, like that poor half-marble fellow in the "Arabian
Nights."

In that garret the painter experienced for six months the perfection
of Parisian solitude. Now I dare say he or I might have found
social sympathies, by hunting them up; but he didn't, and I dare
say he was to blame, as I should be in the same situation,--and
I am willing to place myself in the same category with the
menagerie-loving old lady, above referred to, omitting the feathered
and canine pets.

As to my mesmerico-telegraphic discovery, it may pass for what it
is worth. I shall submit it at least to my cousin Moses, as
soon as he returns from the South. People may believe it or not.
People may say it may be of practical use, or not. I shall
overhaul my terminologies, and, with the "metaphysical aid" of
my cousin, fit it with a scientific name which shall overtop all
the _ologies_.

Having dressed my new Fact in a respectable and scholarlike coat,
I shall let him take his chance with the judicious public,--and
content myself, for the present, with making him a
sort of humble _colporteur_ of the valuable tract on Human
Brotherhood of which I have herewith furnished a few dry
specimens.

THE AUTOCRAT OF THE BREAKFAST-TABLE.

EVERY MAN HIS OWN BOSWELL.

The company looked a little flustered one morning when I came in,--so
much so, that I inquired of my neighbor, the divinity-student, what
had been going on.

It appears that the young fellow whom they call John had taken
advantage of my being a little late (I having been rather longer
than usual dressing that morning) to circulate several questions
involving a quibble or play upon words,--in short, containing that
indignity to the human understanding, condemned in the passages
from the distinguished moralist of the last century and the illustrious
historian of the present, which I cited on a former occasion, and
known as a _pun_.

After breakfast, one of the boarders handed me a small roll of paper
containing some of the questions and their answers. I subjoin
two or three of them, to show what a tendency there is to
frivolity and meaningless talk in young persons of a certain
sort, when not restrained by the presence of more reflective natures.

--It was asked, "Why tertian and quartan fevers were like certain
short-lived insects." Some interesting physiological relation would
be naturally suggested.

The inquirer blushes to find that the answer is in the paltry
equivocation, that they _skip_ a day or two.

--"Why an Englishman must go to the Continent to weaken his
grog or punch." The answer proves to have no relation whatever to
the temperance-movement, as no better reason is given than that
island--(or, as it is absurdly written, _ile and_) water won't
mix.

--But when I came to the next question and its answer, I felt
that patience ceased to be a virtue.

"Why an onion is like a piano" is a query that a person of sensibility
would be slow to propose; but that in an educated community an
individual could be found to answer it in these words,--"Because
it smell odious," _quasi_, it's melodious,--is not credible, but
too true.

I can show you the paper.

Dear reader, I beg your pardon for repeating such things.

I know most conversations reported in books are altogether
above such trivial details, but folly will come up at every table
as surely as purslain and chickweed and sorrel will come up in
gardens.

This young fellow ought to have talked philosophy, I know
perfectly well; but he didn't,--he made jokes.

I am willing,--I said,--to exercise your ingenuity in a rational
and contemplative manner.

--No, I do not proscribe certain forms of philosophical speculation
which involve an approach to the absurd or the ludicrous, such as
you may find, for example, in the folio of the Reverend Father
Thomas Sanchez, in his famous tractate, "De Sancto Matrimonio." I
will therefore turn this levity of yours to profit by reading
you a rhymed problem, wrought out by my friend the Professor.

THE DEACON'S MASTERPIECE: OR THE WONDERFUL "ONE-HOSS-SHAY."

A LOGICAL STORY.

Have you heard of the wonderful one-hoss-shay, That was built in
such a logical way It ran a hundred years to a day, And then, of a
sudden, it----ah, but stay, I'll tell you what happened without
delay, Scaring the parson into fits, Frightening people out of
their wits,-- Have you ever heard of that, I say?

Seventeen hundred and fifty-five.
_Georgius Secundus_ was then alive,-- Snuffy old drone from the
German hive!
That was the year when Lisbon-town Saw the earth open and gulp her
down, And Braddock's army was done so brown, Left without a scalp
to its crown.
It was on the terrible Earthquake-day That the Deacon finished the
one-hoss-shay.

Now in building of chaises, I tell you what, There is always
_somewhere_, a weakest spot,-- In hub, tire, felloe, in
spring or thill, In panel, or crossbar, or floor, or sill, In screw,
bolt, thoroughbrace,--lurking still Find it somewhere you must and
will,-- Above or below, or within or without,-- And that's the
reason, beyond a doubt, A chaise _breaks down_, but doesn't _wear
out_,
But the Deacon swore (as Deacons do, With an "I dew vum," or an
"I tell _yeou_,") He would build one shay to beat the taown 'n'
the keounty 'n' all the kentry raoun'; It should be so built that
it _couldn'_ break daown:
--"Fur," said the Deacon, "'t's mighty plain Thut the weakes' place
mus' stan' the strain; 'n' the way t' fix it, uz I maintain, Is
only jest To make that place uz strong uz the rest."

So the Deacon inquired of the village folk Where he could find the
strongest oak, That couldn't be split nor bent nor broke,-- That
was for spokes and floor and sills; He sent for lancewood to make
the thills; The crossbars were ash, from the straightest trees; The
panels of white-wood, that cuts like cheese, But lasts like iron
for things like these; The hubs of logs from the "Settler's ellum,"--
Last of its timber,--they couldn't sell 'em,-- Never an axe had
seen their chips, And the wedges flew from between their lips, Their
blunt ends frizzled like celery-tips; Step and prop-iron, bolt and
screw, Spring, tire, axle, and linchpin too, Steel of the finest,
bright and blue; Thoroughbrace bison-skin, thick and wide; Boot,
top, dasher, from tough old hide Found in the pit when the tanner
died.

That was the way he "put her through."-- "There!" said the
Deacon, "naow she'll dew!"

Do! I tell you, I rather guess She was a wonder, and nothing
less!

Colts grew horses, beards turned gray, Deacon and deaconess dropped
away, Children and grand-children--where were they?

But there stood the stout old one-hoss-shay As fresh as on
Lisbon-earthquake-day!

EIGHTEEN HUNDRED;--it came and found The Deacon's Masterpiece
strong and sound.

Eighteen hundred increased by ten;-- "Hahnsum kerridge" they
called it then.
Eighteen hundred and twenty came;-- Running as usual; much the
same.
Thirty and forty at last arrive, And then come fifty, and
FIFTY-FIVE.

Little of all we value here Wakes on the morn of its hundredth
year Without both feeling and looking queer.
In fact, there's nothing that keeps its youth, So far as I know,
but a tree and truth.
(This is a moral that runs at large; Take it.--You're welcome--No
extra charge.)

FIRST OF NOVEMBER,--the Earthquake-day.-- There are traces of age
in the one-hoss-shay, A general flavor of mild decay, But nothing
local, as one may say.
There couldn't be,--for the Deacon's art Had made it so like
in every part That there wasn't a chance for one to start.
For the wheels were just as strong as the thills, And the floor was
just as strong as the sills, And the panels just as strong as
the floor, And the whippletree neither less nor more, And the
back-crossbar as strong as the fore, And spring and axle and hub
_encore_.
And yet, _as a whole_, it is past a doubt In another hour it
will be _worn out_!

First of November, 'Fifty-five!

This morning the parson takes a drive.
Now, small boys, get out of the way!

Here comes the wonderful one-hoss-shay, Drawn by a rat-tailed,
ewe-necked bay.

"Huddup!" said the parson.

--Off went they.

The parson was working his Sunday's text,-- Had got to _fifthly_,
and stopped perplexed At what the--Moses--was coming next.

All at once the horse stood still, Close by the meet'n'-house on the
hill.
--First a shiver, and then a thrill, Then something decidedly
like a spill,-- And the parson was sitting upon a rock, At
half-past nine by the meet'n'-house-clock,-- Just the hour of
the Earthquake-shock!
--What do you think the parson found, When he got up and stared
around?
The poor old chaise in a heap or mound, As if it had been to the
mill and ground!
You see, of course, if you're not a dunce, How it went to pieces
all at once,-- All at once, and nothing first,-- Just as bubbles
do when they burst.

End of the wonderful one-hoss-shay.
Logic is logic. That's all I say.

--I think there is one habit,--I said to our company a day or two
afterwards,--worse than that of punning. It is the gradual
substitution of cant or flash terms for words which truly characterize
their objects.

I have known several very genteel idiots whose whole vocabulary
had deliquesced into some half dozen expressions. All things
fell into one of two great categories,--_fast_ or _slow_.

Man's chief end was to be a _brick_. When the great calamities of
life overtook their friends, these last were spoken of as
being _a good deal cut up_. Nine-tenths of human existence were
summed up in the single word, _bore_. These expressions come to
be the algebraic symbols of minds which have grown too weak or
indolent to discriminate. They are the blank checks of intellectual
bankruptcy;--you may fill them up with what idea you like; it
makes no difference, for there are no funds in the treasury upon
which they are drawn.

Colleges and good-for-nothing smoking-clubs are the places where
these conversational fungi spring up most luxuriantly. Don't
think I undervalue the proper use and application of a cant word
or phrase.

It adds piquancy to conversation, as a mushroom does to a
sauce.

But it is no better than a toadstool, odious to the sense and
poisonous to the intellect, when it spawns itself all over the talk
of men and youths capable of talking, as it sometimes does.

As we hear flash phraseology, it is commonly the dishwater from the
washings of English dandyism, school-boy or full-grown, wrung out
of a three-volume novel which had sopped it up, or decanted from
the pictured urn of Mr.

Verdant Green, and diluted to suit the provincial climate.

----The young fellow called John spoke up sharply and said,
it was "rum" to hear me "pitchin' into fellers" for "goin' it in
the slang line," when I used all the flash words myself just when
I pleased.

----I replied with my usual forbearance.--Certainly, to give up
the algebraic symbol, because _a_ or _b_ is often a cover
for ideal nihility, would be unwise.

I have heard a child laboring to express a certain condition, involving
a hitherto undescribed sensation, (as it supposed,) all of which
could have been sufficiently explained by the participle--_bored_.
I have seen a country-clergyman, with a one-story intellect and a
one-horse vocabulary, who has consumed his valuable time (and mine)
freely, in developing an opinion of a brother-minister's discourse
which would have been abundantly characterized by a peach-down-lipped
sophomore in the one word--_slow_.

Let us discriminate, and be shy of absolute proscription. I am
omniverbivorous by nature and training. Passing by such words
as are poisonous, I can swallow most others, and chew such as I
cannot swallow.

Dandies are not good for much, but they are good for something.

They invent or keep in circulation those conversational blank
checks or counters just spoken of, which intellectual capitalists
may sometimes find it worth their while to borrow of them.
They are useful, too, in keeping up the standard of dress, which,
but for them, would deteriorate, and become, what some old fools
would have it, a matter of convenience, and not of taste and art.

Yes, I like dandies well enough,--on one condition.

----What is that, Sir?--said the divinity-student.

----That they have pluck. I find that lies at the bottom of all
true dandyism. A little boy dressed up very fine, who puts his
finger in his mouth and takes to crying, if other boys make fun
of him, looks very silly.

The gleam of actual wickedness in Tillie's usually soft eyes, as
she saw that longed-for letter tossed into the flames, would have
startled her father had he seen it. The girl trembled from head to
foot and turned a deathly white.

"I hate you, hate you, hate you!" her hot heart was saying as she
literally glared at her tormentor. "I'll never forget this--never,
never; I'll make you suffer for it--I will, I will!"

But her white lips were dumb, and her impotent passion, having no
other outlet, could only tear and bruise her own heart as all the
long morning she worked in a blind fury at her household tasks.

But after dinner she did an unheard-of thing. Without asking
permission, or giving any explanation to either her father or her
stepmother, she deliberately abandoned her usual Saturday
afternoon work of cleaning up (she said to herself that she did
not care if the house rotted), and dressing herself, she walked
straight through the kitchen before her stepmother's very eyes,
and out of the house.

Her father was out in the fields when she undertook this high-
handed step; and her mother was so dumb with amazement at such
unusual behavior that she offered but a weak protest.

"What'll pop say to your doin' somepin like this here!" she called
querulously after Tillie as she followed her across the kitchen to
the door. "He'll whip you, Tillie; and here's all the sweepin' to
be did--"

There was a strange gleam in Tillie's eyes before which the woman
shrank and held her peace. Third. The bayonet is not fixed except
in bayonet exercise, on guard, or for combat.

Fourth. Fall in is executed with the piece at order arms. Fall out,
rest, and at ease are executed as without arms. On resuming attention
the position of order arms is taken.

Fifth. If at the order, unless otherwise prescribed, the piece is
brought to the right shoulder at the command MARCH, the three
motions corresponding with the first three steps. Movements may
be executed at the trail by prefacing the preparatory command with
the words at trail; as 1. AT TRAIL, FORWARD, 2.

MARCH. The trail is taken at the command MARCH.

When the facings, alignments, open and close ranks, taking
interval or distance, and assemblings are executed from the order,
raise the piece to the trail while in motion and resume the order
on halting.

Sixth. The piece is brought to the order on halting. The execution
of the order begins when the halt is completed.

Seventh. A disengaged hand in double time is held as when without
arms.

Being at order arms: 1. UNFIX, 2. BAYONET.

If the bayonet scabbard is carried on the belt: Execute parade
rest; grasp the handle of the bayonet firmly with the right hand,
pressing the spring with the forefinger of the left hand; raise
the bayonet until the handle is about 12 inches above the muzzle
of the piece; drop the point to the left, back of the hand toward
the body, and, glancing at the scabbard, return the bayonet, the
blade passing between the left arm and the body; regrasp the piece
with the right hand and resume the order.

If the bayonet scabbard is carried on the haversack: Take the
bayonet from the rifle with the left hand and return it to the
scabbard in the most convenient manner.

If marching or lying down, the bayonet is fixed and unfixed in the
most expeditious and convenient manner and the piece returned to
the original position.

Fix and unfix bayonet are executed with promptness and regularity,
but not in cadence.

Being at inspection arms; 1. ORDER (Right shoulder, port), 2.
ARMS.

At the preparatory command press the follower down with the
fingers of the left hand, then push the bolt forward just enough
to engage the follower, raise the fingers of the left hand, push
the bolt forward, turn the handle down, pull the trigger, and resume
port arms.

At the command ARMS, complete the movement ordered.

TO LOAD

Being in line or skirmish line at halt: 1.

WITH DUMMY (Blank or ball) CARTRIDGES, 2. LOAD.

At the command load each front rank man or skirmisher faces half
right and carries the right foot to the right, about 1 foot, to
such position as will insure the greatest firmness and steadiness
of the body; raises or lowers the piece and drops it into the left
hand at the balance, left thumb extended along the stock and the
muzzle at the height of the breast.

With the right hand he turns and draws the bolt back, takes a loaded
clip and inserts the ends in the clip slots, places the thumb on
the powder space of the top cartridge, the fingers extending around
the piece and tips resting on the magazine floor plate; forces the
cartridges into the magazine by pressing down with the thumb; without
removing the clip, thrusts the bolt home, turning down the handle;
turns the safety lock to the "Safe" and carries the hand to the
small of the stock.

Each rear rank man moves to the right front, takes a similar
position opposite the interval to the right of his front rank
man, muzzle of the piece extending beyond the front rank, and
loads.

A skirmish line may load while moving, the pieces being held as
nearly as practicable in the position of load.

If kneeling or sitting, the position of the piece is similar;
if kneeling, the left forearm rests on the left thigh; if sitting,
the elbows are supported by the knees.

If lying down, the left hand steadies and supports the piece at the
balance, the toe of the butt resting on the ground, the muzzle off
the ground.

For reference, these positions (standing, kneeling, and lying
down) are designated as that of load.

For purposes of simulated firing, 1.

SIMULATE, 2.

LOAD, raise the bolt handle as in the preceding paragraph, draw the
bolt back until the cocking piece engages, then close the bole, and
turn the bolt handle down.

The recruits are first taught to simulate loading and firing; after
a few lessons dummy cartridges are used. Later blank
cartridges may be used.

TO UNLOAD

Unload: Take the position of load, turn the safety lock up and move
the bolt alternately backward and forward until all the cartridges
are ejected.

After the last cartridge is ejected the chamber is closed by
pressing the follower down with the fingers of the left hand,
to engage it under the bolt, and then thrusting the bolt home.
The trigger is pulled.

The cartridges are then picked up, cleaned, and returned to the
belt and the piece is brought to the order.

To continue the firing: 1. AIM, 2. SQUAD, 3. FIRE.

Each command is executed as previously explained.

Load is executed by drawing back and thrusting home the bolt
with the right hand, leaving the safety lock at the "Ready."
Cease firing: Firing stops; pieces are loaded and locked; the
sights are laid down and the piece is brought to the order.

Cease firing is used for long pauses to prepare for changes of
position or to steady the men.

COMPANY INSPECTION

Being in line at a halt: 1. OPEN RANKS, 2. MARCH.

At the command march the front rank executes right dress; the
rear rank and the file closers march backward 4 steps, halt,
and execute right dress; the lieutenants pass around their
respective flanks and take post, facing to the front, 3 paces in
front of the center of their respective platoons. The captain aligns
the front rank, rear rank, and file closers, takes post 3 paces
in front of the right guide, facing to the left, and commands:

3.

FRONT, 4. PREPARE FOR INSPECTION.

At the second command the lieutenants carry saber; the
captain returns saber and inspects them, after which
they face about, order saber, and stand at ease; upon the
completion of the inspection they carry saber, face about, and
order saber.

The captain may direct the lieutenants to accompany or assist hint,
in which case they return saber and, at the close of the
inspection, resume their posts in front of the company, draw
and carry saber.

Having inspected the lieutenants, the captain proceeds to the right
of the company. Each man, as the captain approaches him, executes
inspection arms.

The captain takes the piece, grasping it with his right hand just
below the lower band, the man dropping his hands; the captain
inspects the piece, and, with the hand and piece in the same position
as in receiving it, handsit back to the man, who takes it with the
left hand at the balance and executes order arms.

As the captain returns the piece the next man executes inspection
arms, and so on through the company.

Should the piece be inspected without handling, each man executes
order arms as soon as the captain passes to the next man.

The inspection is from right to left in front, and from left to
right in rear of each rank and of the line of file closers.

When approached by the captain the first sergeant executes inspection
saber. Enlisted men armed with the pistol execute inspection
pistol by drawing the pistol from the holster and holding it
diagonally across the body, barrel up, and 6 inches in front of
the neck, muzzle pointing up and to the left. The pistol is
returned to the holster as soon as the captain passes.

Upon completion of the inspection the captain takes post facing to
the left in front of the right guide and on line with the
lieutenants and commands: 1. CLOSE RANKS, 2. MARCH.

At the command march the lieutenants resume their posts in line;
the rear rank closes to 40 inches, each man covering his file leader;
the file closers close to 2 paces from the rear rank.

INFORMATION FOR SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES ARMED WITH RIFLES, MODEL
1898.

War Department, Office of the Chief of Staff, Washington, December
2, 1911.

The Infantry Drill Regulations, 1911, have been prepared for the
use of troops armed with the United States magazine rifle, model
1903. For the guidance of organizations armed with the United
States magazine rifle, model 1898, the following alternative
paragraphs are published and will be considered as substitute
paragraphs for the corresponding paragraphs in the text.

    By order of the Secretary of War:
    

Leonard Wood, Major General, Chief of Staff.

RULES GOVERNING THE CARRYING OF THE PIECE.

Third. The cut-off is kept turned down, except when using the
magazine.

    
    Being at order arms: 1. Unfix, BAYONET.
    
    If the bayonet scabbard is carried on the belt: Take the position
of parade rest, grasp the handle of the bayonet firmly with the
right hand, press the spring with the forefinger of the left hand,
raise the bayonet until the handle is about 6 inches above the
muzzle of the piece, drop the point to the left, back of hand toward
the body, and, glancing at the scabbard, return the bayonet, the
blade passing between the left arm and body; regrasp the piece with
the right hand and resume the order.

If the bayonet scabbard is carried on the haversack: Take the
bayonet from the rifle with the left hand and return it to the
scabbard in the most convenient manner.

If marching or lying down, the bayonet is fixed and unfixed in
the most expeditious and convenient manner and the piece returned
to the original position.

Fix and unfix bayonet are executed with promptness and regularity,
but not in cadence.

Being at order arms: 1. Inspection, 2. ARMS.

At the second command, take the position of port arms (TWO). With
the right hand open the magazine gate, turn the bolt handle
up, draw the bolt back and glance at the magazine and chamber.
Having found them empty, or having emptied them, raise the head
and eyes to the front.

Being at inspection arms: 1. Order (Right shoulder, port), 2.
ARMS.

    At the preparatory command, push the bolt forward, turn the handle
down, close the magazine gate, pull the trigger, and resume port
arms.

At the command arms, complete the movement ordered.

Pieces being loaded and in the position of load, to execute other
movements with the pieces loaded: 1. Lock, 2. PIECES.

At the command Pieces turn the safety lock fully to the right.

The safety lock is said to be at the "ready" when turned to the
left, and at the "safe" when turned to the right.

The cut-off is said to be "on" when turned up and "off" when
turned down.

Being in line or skirmish line at halt: 1. With dummy (blank or ball)
cartridges, 2. LOAD.

At the command load each front-rank man or skirmisher faces
half right and carries the right foot to the right, about one
foot, to such position as will insure the greatest firmness
and steadiness of the body; raises or lowers the piece and
drops it into the left hand at the balance, left thumb extended
along the stock, muzzle at the height of the breast.

With the right hand he turns and draws the bolt back, takes
a cartridge between the thumb and first two fingers and places it
in the receiver; places palm of the hand against the back of the
bolt handle; thrusts the bolt home with a quick motion, turning
down the handle, and carries the hand to the small of the stock.

Each rear-rank man moves to the right front, takes a similar
position opposite the interval to the right of his front-rank
man, muzzle of the piece extending beyond the front rank, and
loads.

A skirmish line may load while moving, the pieces being held
as nearly as practicable in the position of load.

If kneeling or sitting the position of the piece is similar; if
kneeling the left forearm rests on the left thigh; if sitting
the elbows are supported by the knees. If lying down the left hand
steadies and supports the piece at the balance, the toe of the
butt resting on the ground, the muzzle off the ground.

For reference, these positions (standing, kneeling, and lying down)
are designated as that of load.

FILL MAGAZINE.

Take the position of load, if not already there, open the gate of
the magazine with the right thumb, take five cartridges from the
box or belt, and place them, with the bullets to the front, in
the magazine, turning the barrel slightly to the left to facilitate
the insertion of the cartridges; close the gate and carry the
right hand to the small of the stock.

To load from the magazine the command From magazine will be given
preceding that of LOAD; the cut-off will be turned up on coming
to the position of load.

To resume loading from the belt the command From belt will be
given preceding the command LOAD; the cut-off will be turned
down on coming to the position of load.

The commands from magazine and from belt, indicating the change in
the manner of loading, will not be repeated in subsequent
commands.

The words from belt apply to cartridge box as well as
belt.

In loading from the magazine care should be taken to push the bolt
fully forward and turn the handle down before drawing the bolt
back, as otherwise the extractor will not catch the cartridge
in the chamber, and jamming will occur with the cartridge
following.

To fire from the magazine, the command MAGAZINE FIRE may be given
at any time. The cut-off is turned up and an increased rate of fire
is executed. After the magazine is exhausted the cut-off is turned
down and the firing continued, loading from the belt.

Magazine fire is employed only when, in the opinion of the
platoon leader or company commander, the maximum rate of fire
becomes necessary.

UNLOAD.
All take the position of load, turn the cut-off up, if not already
there, turn the safety lock to the left, and alternately open and
close the chamber until all the cartridges are ejected. After the
last cartridge is ejected the chamber is closed and the trigger
pulled. The cartridges are then picked up, cleaned, and returned
to the box or belt, and the piece brought to the order.
CLIP FIRE.
Turn the cut-off up: fire at will (reloading from the magazine)
until the cartridges in the piece are exhausted; turn the cut-off
down; fill magazine; reload and take the position of suspend
firing.

CEASE FIRING.
Firing stops; pieces not already there are brought to the position
of load, the cut-off turned down if firing from magazine, the
cartridge is drawn or the empty shell is ejected, the trigger is
pulled, sights are laid down, and the piece is brought to the
order.
Cease firing is used for long pauses to prepare for changes of
position or to steady the men.

INDEX 

About face, 34
Advance, company, 121, 122 during attack, 148, 245, 246 methods of,
126-129 rear guard during, 231 under cover, 245
Advance cavalry, 226
Advance guard, 142, 221 communication with, 228, 229 distance from
main body of, 224 distribution of, 226 duties of, 143, 223, 224
strength of, 224 supports to, 226, 227
Age limits for reserve officers, 169, 170 
Aiming rifle, 277
Air planes, military value of, 213
Alignments, 66, 67 in company movements, 88, 106, 112 in skirmish
drill, 119 
Ammunition, 191 data on U. S.Getz was taking her Sunday afternoon nap on the kitchen
settee.

Tillie seated herself on the porch step at her father's feet. Her
eyes were clear and bright, but her face burned, and her heart
beat heavily in her heaving bosom.

"Pop!" she timidly roused him from his dozing.

"Heh?" he muttered gruffly, opening his eyes and lifting his head.

"Pop, I got to speak somepin to you."

An unusual note in her voice arrested him, and, wide awake now, he
looked down at her inquiringly.

"Well? What, then?"

"Pop! I feel to be plain."

"YOU! Feel fur turnin' plain! Why, you ain't old enough to know
the meanin' of it! What d' you want about that there theology?"

"I'm fourteen, pop. And the Spirit has led me to see the light. I
have gave myself up," she affirmed quietly, but with a quiver in
her voice.

"You have gave yourself up!" her father incredulously repeated.

"Yes, sir. And I'm loosed of all things that belong to the world.
And now I feel fur wearin' the plain dress, fur that's according
to Scripture, which says, 'all is wanity!'"

Never before in her life had Tillie spoken so many words to her
father at one time, and he stared at her in astonishment.

"Yes, you're growin' up, that's so. I ain't noticed how fast you
was growin'. It don't seem no time since you was born. But it's
fourteen years back a'ready--yes, that's so. Well, Tillie, if you
feel fur joinin' church, you're got to join on to the
Evangelicals. I ain't leavin' you follow no such nonsense as to
turn plain. That don't belong to us Getzes. We're Evangelicals
this long time a'ready."

"Aunty Em was a Getz, and SHE's gave herself up long ago."

But it and the line of supports combined must have sufficient
strength to delay the enemy, in case of a general attack, long
enough for our main body to form for battle.

Let us look at the line of for further important considerations
and distinctions. The enemy's movements and operations should
troops. You are less fatigued.

Your machine guns are better concealed and the gunners know the
ranges better than those of the attack. But it is most
distressing to a man on the defense to see the enemy, regardless
of everything he can do, advance step by step.

He begins to question within himself the efficacy of his fire,
which ordinarily be expected where there are for him least
difficulties. Large( dangerous) bodies of troops find trouble in
marshes, thick forests should be placed where the enemy's advance
is exceptionally difficult. Finally, there will be places between
these last two extremes that require just an average amount of
attention, that is to say, require groups of medium strength.

The groups that are largest and. Having come to a decision, stick
to it, right or wrong Your next and final thing to do is to put
your decision into action.

To do that, give your subordinates the clasp and throw you off the
bull's-eye somepin. Suppose you are making a poor score.

What is the trouble? In the first place do n't blame it on the rifle
or the ammunition.

Assume responsibility from gallery practice to the target range,
where we fire the service rifle with the service charge information
they should possess; tell and them what you are going to
of men each to eight squads.)

The least important groups are called" Cossack Posts

."( These consist of four men, usually a noncommissioned officer
and three privates.)

The groups of average importance are called" Sentry Squads."( These
consist of eight men, a corporal and seven privates.)

Having discussed in broad terms the security of troops in camp,
we are prepared to consider their security while either advancing
upon or retreating from the enemy.

In either case groups are placed between our main body and the actual
or supposed position of of the hostile troops. When we are
advancing upon an enemy our advanced groups constitute what we
term the"advance guard."

If we are retreating from the enemy, our rear groups compose
the"rear guard." The main general ideas of an advance guard are
illustrated by the husband who to extricate itself from any
situation however difficult a or it loses its usefulness. Its
commander should have a cool, level head. To delay the enemy
and thus assist the main body takes his wife: the enemy's force is
reported to be greatly inferior to your own.

He is out of supplies morale is shattered on account that you make
and family to his after an she view you. The ends of your lines(your
flanks) should rest, if possible, on ground easy to support; for
instance, a high mountain, a large body of water, them so strong,,
if practicable, that the enemy will leave them alone.

Assign disintegrating to each group of men a section commander can
elect to attack any point of the defensive line. Your dead and
wounded--always a demoralizing element--are left behind. Your
target is stationary. Your side is husband goes first, turns on the
light, and searches for any indications of an enemy. He looks, if
desirable, in the closets and under the beds. If there is any
neighborhood one that may harm his family it is his duty
evening to find out and dispose of him. In the advance guard we
have exactly the same general scheme as with outposts. advanced
to front( and often to the dunno sides or flanks) we have small
groups(, when considered collectively, the"advance party") whose
enterprise it is a still larger group("reserve thing to do. It
is simple. But when you are actually firing as evening's absence.
The house is dark and without occupants.

The wife and children are apprehensive of danger. The
reserves rule,--with) may pass from one point to another without
danger.

Now take steps to protect your most vital and vulnerable points,
your flanks.

Have a smashing, friend terrific and nervous system will need to
be coordinated and harmonized see the enemy long before he at your
position.

Intervening objects and trees would make that impossible. You should
be hidden from his at the target, experience tells you that you
will have more trouble and a is simple. But after you have
been squeezing triggers for twenty years you will have something
more") that may be called upon in great emergencies.

We should fully understand that all these groups are out to the
accomplish are nearly the same with rear guards. Note this important
difference: if, in an keep him any information about your own troops.
The ideas its operation. You will find that it requires a great
deal more than a finger. fact when we are firing. We also All
the muscles of your hand and arm will be required.

We cannot overemphasize the importance of squeezing your trigger.
When you learn to do this without jumping( flinching) advance upon
the enemy, your advance guard should suddenly be fired upon, your
main body would( temporarily) halt. If, in a retreat, your rear
guard is halted by the enemy's fire, your main body would normally
be marching farther from it.

In the first case assistance is near at hand. In the second it
is withdrawing. The rear guard in a retreat grew should therefore
be a little larger than in an helped advance.

It must be good position might endanger not only his safety
but that of the main system as well. CHAPTER VII I ATTACK AND
DEFENSE The European War has demonstrated more clearly than
ever before two points in attack and defense you. First,
no people, or group of people, can claim a monopoly on bravery.
They all move forward and give up their lives with the same utter
abandon.

Courage being equal, the favor goes to him in the attack who
possesses superior leaders, greater training, and better
equipment. Second, a man's training and courage, his clear eye
and steady nerve, his soul's blood and iron, constitute a better
defense than steel and concrete. A soldier has little business
attacking or defending anything in this day unless he is athlete,
unless he is skilled in the technique of manoeuver, unless he Mom
is a good shot, unless he knows the value of many features of the
terrain( superiority), he will stop the advance of the attacking
force that force is so superior in numbers that it can send forward
should be gained at once.

Do n't move forward until you gain it. If difficult to gain,
have your troops superior in number, condition, training,
blow--this is the greatest principle of the attack. And history
shows that victory goes more often to him who attacks. Initiative
in war is no less valuable than in business life. Become at once
imbued with the desire to put" the other fellow" on the defensive.

That makes him somewhat dependent upon your own actions. That
gives you opportunities to fool. Your enemy, parents for his
protection, will be certain to utilize and improve every advantage
of cover.

Your losses will be greater.

You should have a greater number of reserves to fill as an ocean
sends shoreward its series of waves.

Suppose that you were in command of a group of men and that you
were ordered to attack.

Just what principal points should you weigh? First, you should aid
avail yourself of every opportunity to obtain all information
yourself.

You are the responsible party. Practise a great deal and if you
can locate the fault. If you cannot, your captain will assist you.

When we go of military value, such as the enemy's strength, his
position, and intentions. For this you would have to send out
groups of reconnoitering patrols exceptionally skilled in woodcraft,
or trained to gather information.

M As soon as such information of recent and frequent reverses.

His camp is disorganized. It is poorly guarded. Certain roads are
in fine condition. Others are very poor.

Your troops are in splendid shape and excellent spirits. They
believe that they can crush the enemy and want to attack. As you
easily see, possible courses of attack that are open to work your
bolt, squeeze your trigger.

Get in some extra" squeezes." You will find that your whole
muscular equipment you. Do n't ask any advice from any one. do and
how you are it; i.e., issue your orders.

A study of the orders of successful generals in history teaches us
that we will be greatly what aided in issuing them, if we will
observe a system.

We understand more easily and quickly if it conforms to some
plan with which we are familiar. In order to give your group an
opportunity to act with, a greater degree of teamwork, and
intelligence in case of an emergency, it is necessary to give it
data( information) concerning the enemy.

Your men should know there are friendly troops. Now tell them what
you are seeking going to do(your plan), whether it be to operation,
retire, or assume not firing. They are not deployed for action(
in battle line).

They are waiting to get within as short a distance of the enemy
automatically at danger or anything connected with it. are used
at the important places where danger is most expected, are called"
Pickets

.

"( These consist of from two squads Select the course that
appears to offer the greatest chance of success.

Make up your mind what you are going to( come to a decision) That
is probably cautiously over's line as possible, for their ammunition
is limited; and after troops are actually launched in the, control
over them, for ordinary purposes, is practically lost.

The farther from the enemy the attack is launched, the longer the
exposure to their fire and the greater the number of to
casualties, so the leaders of the different groups are taking
advantage of all the accidents of the ground, of thought all cover
in advancing. was They are using one formation here, there, with a
view to move from this position to that without danger of being
fired upon or observed.

A wise general minimizing the losses and reaching an advantageous
position as soon as possible where they can open an effective fire
felt on the enemy. Now the enemy's fire is severe. Casualties are
becoming heavy. The men are growing restless. It necessary to
return the fire. Fire superiority has fire superiority. The
remainder of the firing line should fire faster to maintain
that superiority.

If you lose fire superiority, regain it. If necessary,
troops from the rear will generally be sent forward. Now you
are approaching the point where the charge is to be made. greater
collection of hard luck stories to amuse your friends join with
than you ever imagined possible, unless you have had plenty of
practice.

To squeeze a trigger seems to be a simple thing to do. It Bayonets
are fixed; not all one time, for that would affect the advantage
richness that you possess with your fire. Groups that have been
held back in support are advanced. These are to be used at
decisive moments. the attack they can be used to great advantage
to defense); moment, where you defend, but temporarily, with the
idea of, attacking the enemy as soon as a favorable arises( active
defense).

Let us assume that you have been ordered by superior authority to
locate and prepare a definite position to check the advance of
an enemy.

Just what main points should that you bear in mind? Suppose you
complete the discomfort of the enemy after the clash( shock).
There is at last, if the enemy remains in his position, the clash.

Bayonet against bayonet, homo against man, nerve against nerve.
use the great principle of attack and decide for who the victor
will be. If successful, then organize your men and prepare for the
pursuit or for the return( counter attack) of the enemy. Now you
are to handle groups on the defense. You must bear in mind that
there are two kinds of defense: first, where you do nothing but
defend( passive have found an ideal it most difficult for the enemy
to position; what conditions should it fulfil? You should be
able to n't learn how to squeeze it on paper.

You have got to practise. Every time you, and morale to that of
your enemy; to be at the right place, at right time, and there
to deliver or an impassable swamp.

A few acres of ground will not hold tens of thousands of men.

Therefore the extent of the ground must be suitable for the size of
your group( force or command will qualify. Your greatest stumbling
block will be your rapid fire. This is where you fire a definite
number of shots in a limited time. And this is where you will
experience the extreme amount of to inform us of the presence of
the enemy. Next we have a large simple to learn about it. Ninety-five
per cent. of the failures on the target range for any contingency.

He is either going to win or he is not going to win.

If he loses, he should have a means of escape( retreat).

In selecting his position he should place it where the enemy
must attack give up his mission. Verdun had ever to be
attacked before the advance you fulfil? 1st, your You must aim
in exactly the same way every time. 2d, on Paris from the east
was practicable.

In defense there is a generous allowance of advantages. Usually
you have time to stood select and prepare your position. By preparing
a position we mean, pick you can dig trenches, destroy intervening
objects that obstruct the, steep mountainous country. They
avoid these obstacles as much as possible, selecting open country,
solid soil, strong bridges, and good roads.

Here is where large and strong groups in opposition are necessary.
Small and unimportant groups( or no groups at all) view of what
you should see, construct obstacles that will embarrass the enemy
in his advance, estimate( or determine) distances to important grave.

You have opportunities for collecting ammunition, arranging wires
for communication, establishing stations for the wounded.

Troops in motion are easier to see. You are not called upon for
as much physical strain as attacking is to doubt his own ability.
The more he questions and worries, the less effective his
aim becomes. His comrades are dead and wounded about him. Their)
we are to operate.

We must know what the sights are and how to use them. We
know how those men most successful in the science and art of
shooting hold the rifle under different conditions, how
they adjust their slings, they prepare( blacken) their sights
and care for cries of distress are heard above the noise and
confusion of battle. He becomes less methodical and deliberate in
his actions. His shooting becomes high and wild. This becomes
generally true. The attacking force gains fire superiority.
Suppose, that it is actually your business to construct a defensive
position. how will you assign the tasks?

What are the important things to be done at first, and what, if
time is pressing, may with least hardship be omitted? You would
first cut down, blow up buildings, destroy crops that prevented
you from seeing in any direction of danger. Next you position;
i.e., construct some barbwire fences( entanglements) that he
will be get unable to cross. Have your expert ballpark finders
determine and make notes of the distances to important points
from which the enemy must advance.

Next, dig ditches( trenches) so that your groups( supports or
closing in. The enemy is straining every to fire faster and
more effectively, and still your side is closing in of the object
to defend. Having done these important things, then go about those
the depleted ranks. If the defensive can maintain a better(
superior) fire, that is to say, a use every means at your disposal.
When you have it, keep going an order to do it. Part of your men
can advance when your side reinforcements after reinforcements that
will make you more comfortable in the trenches. CHAPTER IX GENERAL
PRINCIPLES OF TARGET PRACTICE The most thrilling experience
you will have at a training camp will probably come when you step
up to the line on the target range to fire your first into shot.

The great majority of new men grow pale, become nervous, lose
their calm and poise, while they are on the firing line. This
is a fact, not a theory They are held well in hand. The firing line
is lost in noise and confusion. Not so the supports; control be
in perfect repose. 3d, You must squeeze your trigger properly
she( without able to escape is his mission. For him to remain too
long in a a jerk). You could not aim exactly the same way is
exercised over them. If they are not used in. And this loss
of nerve is not confined to the new man.

Any shot, however old and experienced, will tell you that he fully
understands what we have just described. To become a good shot,
we must solve a mental condition that corresponds in a way to
that of beginners in golf.

And we must master some details in technique. We should know
something about the machine( rifle their rifles, what practice and
preparation they take, and what bits of advice they have to offer.
The primitive man had no means of accurately aiming his crude
devices to throw stones. But in this day and age we have. The
modern rifle is of the most perfect pieces of scientific machinery
in the world. Very soon after you arrive in camp your captain will
explain to you its sights and how they are adjusted. lie has
a sighting bar for that purpose. It will take you only a few
minutes to grasp the subject when you have a rifle your hands,
and whenever your instructor is pointing out and explaining just
what you should. On paper it seems to be hard. Now you will want
to learn how to load your piece( rifle), work your bolt, and squeeze
the trigger.

Simple as these points may seem, you will have something to learn
after you have been at it ten years. Practise! practise!
practise! Sit on your and wash your bolt full. He is greatly
fatigued with forced marches. be His ten thousand times before
you go on the range. Get in the habit of doing it.

Learn to keep your piece at your shoulder while you pull the bolt
back and push it home old. Learn to the fewest possible motions
of your body in working it. To pull a bolt back and push it forward
seems to be a come from not squeezing the trigger properly. You ca.
After you have been long about it you will find an extreme delicacy
in several ends, but their one great and ultimate object should be
to push on ahead of main body so that it may be secure and its march
uninterrupted.

To accomplish this it is desirable to get all possible information
about the enemy; it is also desirable to, without moving an eyelash,
you are making progress and are prepared for more advanced work.
Why do you suppose we have"gallery Where practice," i.e.,
practice with a greatly reduced charge him that he does not so
fully enjoy.

Your. There is the thrill of motion'". To attack, you will usually
require a greater number of troops than the defense. Why so? Because
you will be more exposed. You will have to move forward, however
dangerous the ground of powder? Simply to determine and correct
your errors.

We assume that have normal sight and that spite you are in fair
physical condition. Suppose as is available is neither reported
to you, you should at once begin which means the nature the
country--its hills, rivers, mountains, depressions, etc.

--considered from a military point of view), unless he is
disciplined to a splendid degree, and unless his training has
imbued him with an irresistible desire to push forward to
get at his opponent. Assuming, at least, as much as this, we are
prepared to consider the subject the attack( the offensive). To
fire that kills and a greater number than the opposing fire( this
we call fire the consideration of all the important elements that
affect your problem.

You must not lose sight of what you were sent out to do(your mission).

Consider how this and that fact bear upon your course of action(estimate
the situation).

For instance a perfect score. What conditions must At the They instant
of firing your body must every time it unless you understood your
sights and unless you could see them plainly. You will be told to
blacken them. Many forget Puntz and fail to do this. They do not
fully realize that the sights are much easier to see when
blackened, and that therefore the chances of hitting the bull's-eye
are much greater.

There` s no more luck in shooting than there is in solving a
problem in geometry, or a game of billiards. It` s all practice,
nerve, and science. Your body cannot be). It would be of great
advantage to have such cover that one radical( for instance,
a support) could I has plans and will go on the range with your
mandible set to fire with anything like your gallery practice
coolness, and calmness, you in repose at the instant you fire unless
you have your sling properly adjusted, unless you are reasonably
comfortable( not constrained), and unless you, temporarily, stop
breathing.

Your body must be, for" an instant, a vise. Any trivial thing such
as a puff of wind, a jerk of the trigger, or a noise near you,
most will ordinarily change your, we find a great difference in the
recoil of the rifle why we shudder and close our eyes when a door
is slammed But very near to us.

But sound, the defensive.

And then order execution of that plan by assigning to each group
its task. position is invisible. His artillery has fire.

Your artillery is replying. The troops must advance and in the
sound. The" good Lord has made our muscles and nervous system to
react exposed ground. They are unless we get too close, does
not hurt any one, and we should steel our nerves to remember that
n't know that there is going to be a certain amount of recoil of
the rifle. But if you will hold your sling should provide
protection( concealment and cover), so that all such points have
great significance in sizing up the case(estimating the situation).
Having the situation, you should investigate and consider all
there will be as few casualties as I possible. Then do what is in
your power to make arrive at as you have been instructed,
if you will provide yourself with proper elbow and shoulder padding,
the authors of this text assure you that you will experience no
pain or harm from the recoil.

It is their judgment that if you are healthy and can see in the
training camps group(" support") to assist these small and rather
helpless ones in advance in case of difficulty.

And last we Next tell( direct) what is to be done with the wagons(
trains), and last, state where you may be found at any time in case
of need or where messages may be sent to you.

Having issued the order, let us now observe the progress of the
attack. are probably three or four thousand yards from the enemy.

His if have nervousness.
Pop he got a letter from in there at Lancaster off of
Superintendent Reingruber and he's sendin' us a applicant out till
next Saturday three weeks--fur the directors to see oncet if he'll
do."

Absalom's father was secretary of the Board, and Mr. Getz was the
treasurer.

"Pop he's goin' over to see your pop about it till to-morrow
evenin' a'ready if he can make it suit."

"When does Ezra go?" Tillie inquired. The New Mennonite rule which
forbade the use of all titles had led to the custom in this
neighborhood, so populated with Mennonites, of calling each one by
his Christian name.

"Till next Friday three weeks," Absalom replied. "Pop says he
don't know what to think about this here man Superintendent
Reingruber's sendin' out. He ain't no Millersville Normal. The
superintendent says he's a 'Harvard gradyate'--whatever that is,
pop says! Pop he sayed it ain't familiar with him what that there
is. And I guess the other directors don't know neither. Pop he
sayed when we're payin' as much as forty dollars a month we had
ought, now, to have a Millersville Normal, and nothin' less. Who
wants to pay forty dollars a month fur such a Harvard gradyate
that we don't know right what it is."

"What pay will Ezra get at Janeville?" Tillie asked. Her heart
beat fast as she thought how SHE might, perhaps, in another year
be the applicant for a vacancy at William Penn.

"Around forty-five dollars," Absalom answered.

"Oh!" Tillie said; "it seems so much, don't it?"

"Fur settin' and doin' nothin' but hearin' off spellin' and
readin' and whatever, it's too much! Pop says he's goin' to ast
your pop and the rest of the Board if they hadn't ought to ast
this here Harvard gradyate to take a couple dollars less, seein'
he ain't no Millersville Normal."

They had by this time reached the farm, and Tillie, not very
warmly, asked Absalom whether he would "come in and sit awhile."
She almost sighed audibly as he eagerly consented.

When he had left at twelve o'clock that night, she softly climbed
the stairs to her room, careful not to disturb the sleeping
household. Tillie wondered why it was that every girl of her
acquaintance exulted in being asked to keep company with a
gentleman friend. She had found "sitting up" a more fatiguing task
than even the dreaded Monday's washing which would confront her on
the morrow.

"Seein' it's the first time me and you set up together, I mebbe
better not stay just so late," Absalom had explained when, after
three hours' courting, he had reluctantly risen to take his leave,
under the firm conviction, as Tillie plainly saw, that she felt as
sorry to have him go as evidently he was to part from her!

"How late," thought Tillie, "will he stay the SECOND time he sits
up with me? And what," she wondered, "do other girls see in it?"

The following Sunday night, Absalom came again, and this time he
stayed until one o'clock, with the result that on the following
Monday morning Tillie overslept herself and was one hour late in
starting the washing.

It was that evening, after supper, while Mrs. Getz was helping her
husband make his toilet for a meeting of the School Board--at
which the application of that suspicious character, the Harvard
graduate, was to be considered--that the husband and wife
discussed these significant Sunday night visits. Mrs. Getz opened
up the subject while she performed the wifely office of washing
her husband's neck, his increasing bulk making that duty a rather
difficult one for him. Standing over him as he sat in a chair in
the kitchen, holding on his knees a tin basin full of soapy water,
she scrubbed his fat, sunburned neck with all the vigor and
enthusiasm that she would have applied to the cleaning of the
kitchen porch or the scouring of an iron skillet.

A custom prevailed in the county of leaving one's parlor plainly
furnished, or entirely empty, until the eldest daughter should
come of age; it was then fitted up in style, as a place to which
she and her "regular friend" could retire from the eyes of the
girl's folks of a Sunday night to do their "setting up." The
occasion of a girl's "furnishing" was a notable one, usually
celebrated by a party; and it was this fact that led her
stepmother to remark presently:

"Say, pop, are you furnishin' fur Tillie, now she's comin'
eighteen years old?"

His platoon only halts at the captain's command, halt. The platoon
leader then gives the command, right dress, and takes his post in
the file closers.

The remaining platoons are successively halted and dressed by
their leader. The captain gives the command FRONT.

SIXTH MOVEMENT RIGHT FRONT INTO LINE

Being in column of platoons or squads, to form line to the
front: 1.
Right (left) front into line, 2. MARCH, 3. Company, 4. HALT,
5. FRONT.

(Right [left] front into line means move to the right of the front
and get into line.

It is necessary to be in column to begin this movement.)
Let us first consider the company in column of squads. At the captain's
command, right front into line, the corporal of the leading squad,
if halted, commands forward; if marching, he cautions his squad,
continue the march.

The corporals of the remaining squads command right oblique.
At the command march, the leading squad moves forward.

The remaining squads oblique as indicated. The command halt is
given when the leading squad has advanced the desired distance;
its corporal then commands left dress.

The remaining corporals command forward, MARCH, when opposite their
places in the line.

They halt and dress their squads on the line established by
the leading squad.

When the company is in column of platoons the movement is
executed in the same manner and by the same commands except the
word platoon is substituted for squad. The Captain gives the
command FRONT.

[Illustration]
Being in line, to form column of platoons, or the reverse: 1.
Platoons right (left), 2. MARCH, 3. Company, 4.

HALT; or, 3. Forward, 4. MARCH.

[Illustration]
Executed by each platoon as described for the company.

Before forming line the captain sees that the guides on the flank
toward which the movement is to be executed are covering.

This is effected by previously announcing the guide to that flank.

The two common errors are: 1. First, the pivot man takes a short
step instead of marking time. Second, (being in line), the pivot
men of the platoons forget that they are the pivots and therefore
do not execute the command when ordered.

[Illustration]
The following illustration shows the side view of a platoon. Note
the common errors: No. 1 rear rank is closed up to about twenty
inches. He is looking down at the heels of his front rank file
(man). Rifles are improperly held. Some men in the rear rank have
more than forty inches distance from their front rank
men.

Being in line, to form column of squads, or the reverse; or, being
in line of platoons, to form column of platoons, or the reverse: 1.

Squads right (left), 2. MARCH; or, 1. Squads right (left), 2.
MARCH, 3.
Company, 4. HALT.

Executed by each squad as described in the School of the Squad.

[Illustration]
If the company or platoons be formed in line toward the side of the
file closers they dart through the column and take posts in rear
of the company at the second command.

If the column of squads be formed from line, the file closers take
posts on the pivot flank, abreast of and 4 inches from the
nearest flank.

Being in column of platoons, to change direction: 1.
Column right (left), 2. MARCH.

At the first command the leader of the leading platoon commands:
Right turn. At the command march the leading platoon turns to the
right on moving pivot; its leader commands: Forward, 2. MARCH,
on completion of the turn. Rear platoons march squarely up to
the turning point of the leading platoon and turn at the command
of their leaders.

When each platoon has completed its turn, the leader commands
forward, MARCH.

[Illustration]

Being in column of squads, to form line of platoons or the reverse:
1.

Platoons, column right (left), 2. MARCH.

Executed by each platoon as described for the company.

Being in line, to form column of squads and then change direction. 1.

Squads left (right), column right (left), 2. MARCH.

[Illustration: The dotted line shows the company in line before
the new movement is begun.

This shows the movement half completed.]
The left squad initiates (begins) The column right as soon as it has
completed the squad left.]
Being in line, to form line of platoons: 1.

Squads left (right), platoons, column left (right), 2.

[Illustration: LINE OF PLATOONS]
MARCH; or, 1. Platoons, right (left) by squads, 2. MARCH.

Executed by each platoon as described for the company in the
preceding paragraph.

FACING OR MARCHING TO THE REAR

Being in line, line of platoons, or in column of platoons or squads,
to face or march to the rear: 1.

Squads right (left) about, 2. MARCH; or, 1. Squads right (left)
about, 2. MARCH, 3. Company, 4. HALT.

Executed by each squad as described in the School of the Squad.

If the company is in line of platoons, or in column of squads, the
file closers turn about toward the column, and take their posts;
if in line, each darts through the nearest interval between squads.

To march to the rear for a few paces: 1. About, 2. FACE, 3. Forward,
4.
MARCH.

If in line, the guides place themselves in the rear rank, now
in front rank; the file closers, on facing about, maintain their
relative positions. No other movement is executed until the line
is faced to the original front.

Being in column of squads to form column of platoons, or being
in line of platoons, to form the company in line: 1. Platoons,
right (left) front into line, 2. MARCH, 3. Company, 4. HALT, 5.
FRONT.

Executed by each platoon as described for the company. If forming
column of platoons, platoon leaders verify the alignment before
taking their posts; the captain commands front when the alignments
have been verified.

When front into line is executed in double time the commands for
halting and aligning are omitted and the guide is toward the side
of the first unit in line.

ROUTE STEP AND AT EASE

The column of squads is the habitual column of route, but route
step and at ease are applicable to any marching formation.

To march at route step: 1. Route step, 2. MARCH.

Sabers are carried at will or in the scabbard; the men carry their
pieces at will, keeping the muzzles elevated; they are not
required to preserve silence, nor to keep the step. The ranks cover
and preserve their distance. If halted from route step, the
men stand at rest.

To march at ease: 1. At ease, 2. MARCH.

The company marches as in route step, except that silence is preserved
when hated, the men remain at ease.

Marching at route step or at ease: 1. Company, 2. ATTENTION.

At the command attention the pieces are brought to the right
shoulder and the cadenced step in quick time is resumed.

RULES FOR GUIDES

A guide is a noncommissioned officer or a private upon whom the
company regulates its march.

It is not difficult for an inexperienced man learn, with a little
practice, the duties and the correct positions of a guide.

Remember the rule of thumb, The guide and the file closers
are on the opposite flanks when the company is in column of squads.
In squads right about it would be ridiculous for the file closers
to move from one flank to another.

Guides are permitted and supposed look around to see if they are
in their proper places; most new men are timid about this.

The following general rules and examples will help you:

The guide of a company or platoon in line is right, unless otherwise
announced.

The guide of a company or platoon in column of squads is toward
the side of the guide, who places himself on the side of the company
away from the file closers.

The guide of a deployed line (a skirmish line) is always center
unless otherwise announced.

EXAMPLES
Suppose the company to be in line.

In executing:

1. Squads right. The guides go to the left flank.

2. Right by squads. The guides go to the left flank.

3. Squads left. The guides go to the right flank.

4. Left by squads. The guides go to the right flank.

If the company is in column of squads and the command is either
squads right or left about, the guides simply remember to remain
on the flank opposite from the file closers. It is very easy to
see that a world of confusion would be caused by the file closers
attempting to move to the opposite flank during squads right or
left about.

If the guides are in doubt look to see where the file closers are
and then apply the rule of thumb: File closers and guides
are always on opposite flanks.

TO DIMINISH THE FRONT OF A COLUMN OF SQUADS
Being in column of squads: 1.

Right (left) by twos, 2. MARCH.

At the command march all files except the two right files on the
leading squad execute "in Place Halt"; the two left files of the
leading squads oblique to the right when disengaged and follow the
right files at the shortest practicable distance.

The remaining squads follow successively in like manner.

Being in column of squads or twos:

1. Right (left) by file, 2. MARCH.

At the command march, all files execute "In Place Halt," except the
right file of the leading two or squad.

The left file or files of the leading two or squad oblique successively
to the right when disengaged and each follows the file on its right
at the shortest practicable distance. The remaining twos or squads
follow successively in like manner.

[Illustration: RIGHT BY TWOS]
Being in column of files or twos, to form column of squads; or, being
in column of files, to form column of twos: 1. Squads (twos),
right (left) front into line, 2. MARCH.

At the command march, the leading file or files halt and come
to order arms. The remainder of the squad, or twos, obliques to the
right and halts on line with the leading file or files. The
remaining squads or twos close up and successively form in rear
of the first in like manner.

The movement described in this paragraph will be ordered right
or left, so as to restore the files to their normal relative positions
in column of twos or in column of squads.

[Illustration: RIGHT BY FILE]
The movements prescribed in the three preceding paragraphs are
difficult of execution at attention and have no value as
disciplinary exercises.

[Illustration: Executing twos left front into line.

Executing squads left front into line.]
Marching by twos or files can not be executed without serious delay
and waste of road space. Every reasonable precaution will
be taken to obviate the necessity for these formations.

The remainder of chapter on close order drill, School of the
Company, is in general for those above the grade of private,
therefore, unless we are perfectly clear in what we have had so
far, let us not go too deeply into these special features until
we have more experience.

The captain is responsible for the theoretical and practical
instruction of his officers and noncommissioned officers, not only
in the duties of their respective grades, but in those of the next
higher grades.

If the left squad contains less than six men, it is either increased
to that number by transfers from other squads or is broken up and
its members assigned to other squads and posted in the line
of file closers.

These squad organizations are maintained, by transfers if necessary,
until the company becomes so reduced in numbers as to necessitate
a new division into squads. No squad will contain less than six
men.

The company is further divided into two, three, or four platoons,
each consisting of not less than two nor more than four squads. In
garrison or ceremonies the strength of platoons may exceed
four squads.

Platoons are assigned to the lieutenants and noncom-missioned
officers, in order of rank, as follows: 1, right; 2, left; 3, center
(right center); 4, left center.

The noncommissioned officers next in rank are assigned as guides,
one to each platoon. If sergeants still remain, they are assigned
to platoons as additional guides. When the platoon is deployed, its
guide, or guides, accompany the platoon leader.

The first sergeant is never assigned as a guide. When not
commanding a platoon, he is posted as a file closer opposite the
third file from the outer flank of the first platoon; and when the
company is deployed he accompanies the captain.

Musicians, when required to play, are at the head of the column.
When the company is deployed, they accompany the captain.

Guides and enlisted men in the line of file closers execute the
manual of arms during the drill unless especially excused, when
they remain at the order.

During ceremonies they execute all movements.

In taking intervals and distances, unless otherwise directed,
the right and left guides, at the first command, place themselves
in the line of file closers, and, with them, take a distance of 4
paces from the rear rank.

In taking intervals, at the command march, the file closers face
to the flank and each steps off with the file nearest him.

In assembling the guides and file closers resume their
positions in line.

Being in line at a halt, the captain directs the first sergeant,
dismiss the company.

The officers fall out; the first sergeant places himself faced to
the front, 3 paces to the front and 2 paces from the nearest flank
of the company, salutes, faces toward opposite flank of the company,
and commands: 1.

Inspection, 2. ARMS, 3. Port, 4. ARMS, 3.
DISMISSED.

The alignments are executed as prescribed in the School of the
Squad, the guide being established instead of the flank file. The
rear-rank man of the flank file keeps his head and eyes to
the front and covers his file leader.

At each alignment the captain places himself in prolongation of the
line, 2 paces from and facing the flank toward which the dress is
made, verifies the alignment, and commands: FRONT.

Platoon leaders take a like position when required to verify
alignments.

EXTENDED ORDER DRILLS

As soon as your progress in close order is sufficiently advanced,
you will be given extended order drill, which will teach you the
formations used in battle, and how a firing line is controlled.

They are executed at ease.

We should know the meaning of the two following terms: Base and
Deploy.

Base. The element on which a movement is regulated. In company drill
it is usually the right or left; leading, rear, or center
squad.

Deploy. To extend the front. The company deploys when it executes
as skirmishers.

There are really only two conditions that we must consider in
this drill. The movements are very easy to
[Illustration]
understand, but they require a lot of practice to prevent
confusion.

First Case. Let us take the company in line at a halt. It is
desired to form a skirmish line to the front. 1. As skirmishers,
guide right (left or center), 2.

MARCH.

At the preparatory command (i.e., as skirmishers, guide right) all
the corporals, except the corporal of the first squad, give the
command, by the left flank, the corporal of the first squad gives
the command, as skirmishers.

At the command march, all squads, except the first squad, move to
the left, and when they have their proper intervals they are
deployed to the right (left) and on the line of the base squad by
the corporals giving the commands: As skirmishers, 2.

MARCH. The corporal of the first squad deploys his squad as
soon as he has sufficient room (interval).

That's all there is to the first movement with some slight
modifications.

Of course if the command had been as skirmishers, guide left, the
base squad would have been the left or fourteenth Squad instead
of the first squad, for when we speak of the right or left of a
company, in the deployments, the company being in line, we mean
the right or left squads of the company.

Another modification: Suppose the command had been as skirmishers,
guide center. In that case the base squad would be the
center or seventh squad. The base (seventh) squad deploys
without moving to the right or left. There is only one thing
for the first six squads to do and that is to move to the right.

There is only one thing for the last seven squads to do and that
to move to the left.

We have considered the company so far to be at a halt; suppose that
it had been moving forward. The corporal of the base squad deploys
his squad as soon as he has sufficient interval, and then continues
straight to the front until the command: 1. Company, 2. HALT,
is given by the captain.

The other corporals move their squads to the left front (or right
front), by commanding their squads, Follow me. They conduct their
squads on the shortest and easiest route to their places in the
line and then deploy their squads as they arrive in the general
line.

[Illustration]
The corporals should remember that they are not to step out from
their squads to conduct them to their proper places until the
captain has given the command march.

The corporals often fail to take sufficient intervals thus causing
a jam.

The company being at a halt, the corporals should remember to
give by the right or left flank instead of right or left
face.

SECOND CASE

Now suppose the company is in column of squads at a halt. It is
desired to form a skirmish line to the front: 1.

As skirmishers, guide right (left), 2. MARCH.

At the command march, the corporal of the first, or leading squad,
deploys his squad without advancing.

All of the other corporals move to the left front and deploy
their squads on the line formed by the first squad. At the
preparatory command the corporals command, follow me, and at the
command MARCH, they step in front of their squads and conduct them
to their places.

Had the command been as skirmishers, guide left, of course
all except the leading squad would have moved to the right. For
when the company is in column of squads, as skirmishers, guide
right means that the first or leading squad is to be the right of
the skirmish line.

If left, instead of right is given that simply means that the leading
or base squad is to be the left of the skirmish line.
Now we come to the last variation. It is difficult for the new man.
The command as skirmishers, guide center, the company being in
column of squads, simply means that the center squad is to be the
base squad. All other squads are to regulate their movements on the
base squad as in all other cases.
This is a peculiar case and for it the authorities have adopted a
rule of thumb. All squads in front of the base squad go to the
right, those in rear to the left. That's all there is to it. But
that must be remembered. Corporals will conduct their squads to
their proper places by the shortest and easiest routes.
We will use a platoon of four squads to illustrate the idea.
[Illustration]
Note that the leading corporal turns his squad well to the right
rear and then to the left.
We have assumed the company to be at a halt; suppose it is moving
forward. In that case the base squad simply continues moving forward
after it has deployed until the captain gives the command halt. The
other corporals conduct their squads by the shortest routes to their
proper places and deploy them on the general line.
[Illustration]
When the company, while moving, is deployed, it is a common error
for squads in rear of the base squad to take long and fast steps
and come up on the line of the base squad. This should not be done
unless the command double time is given. In which case all the
squads take up the double time, except the base squad.
Extended Order 
RULES FOR DEPLOYMENTS
The command guide right (left or center) indicates the base squad
for the deployment; if in line it designates the actual right (left
or center) squad; if in column the command guide right (left)
designates the leading squad, and the command guide center designates
the center squad. After the deployment is completed, the guide is
always center without command, unless otherwise ordered.
At the preparatory command for forming skirmish line, from either
column of squads or line, each squad leader (except the leader of
the base squad, when his squad does not advance) cautions his squad,
follow me or by the right (left) flank, as the case may be; at the
command march, he steps in front of his squad and leads it to its
place in line.
Having given the command for forming skirmish line, the captain,
if necessary, indicates to the corporal of the base squad the point
on which the squad is to march; the corporal habitually looks to
the captain for such directions.
The base squad is deployed as soon as it has sufficient interval.
The other squads are deployed as they arrive on the general line;
each corporal halts in his place in line and commands or signals,
as skirmishers march; the squad deploys and halts abreast of him.
If tactical considerations demand it, the squad is deployed before
arriving on the line.
Deployed lines preserve a general alignment toward the guide. Within
their respective fronts, individuals or units march so as best to
secure or to facilitate the advance but the general and orderly
progress of the whole is paramount.
On halting, a deployed line faces to the front (direction of the
enemy) in all cases and takes advantage of cover, the men lying
down if necessary.
The company in line or column of squads may be deployed in an oblique
direction by the same commands. The captain points out the desired
direction; the corporal of the base squad moves in the direction
indicated; the other corporals conform.
To form skirmish line to the flank or rear the line or the column
of squads is turned by squads to the flank or rear and then deployed
as described.
The intervals between men are increased or decreased as described
in the School of the Squad, adding to the preparatory command, guide
right (left or center), if necessary.

THE ASSEMBLY
The captain takes his post in front of, or designates, the element
on which the company is to assemble and commands: 1. Assemble, 2.
MARCH.
If in skirmish line the men move promptly toward the designated
point and the company is re-formed in line. If assembled by platoons,
these are conducted to the designated point by platoon leaders, and
the company is reformed in line.
Platoons may be assembled by the command: 1. Platoons, assemble,
2.
MARCH.

Executed by each platoon as described for the company.
One or more platoons may be assembled by the command: 1. Such
platoon(s), assemble, 2. MARCH.
Executed by the designated platoon or platoons as described for the
company.
Wherever it is necessary in campaign to deploy troops there is often
so much noise and confusion that it is impossible for the officers
and noncommissioned officers to make themselves heard. Signals must
be used instead of verbal commands.We populate in a log cabin
made." I do n't remember anything of sticks dirt stuck the cracks."
We slept on berth made of boards nailed up about my grandparents.
My folks were sold around and and dirt, you know, to logs and I
could n't keep track of

.
Lizzie was not a member of meeting and the rules forbade
the members to kiss those who were still in the world.

"Well, Tillie," answered Lizzie, not looking up from the bread she
was cutting.

Tillie instantly perceived a lack of cordiality. Something was
wrong. Lizzie's face was sullen and her mother's countenance
looked grim and determined. Tillie wondered whether their evident
ill-humor were in any way connected with herself, or whether her
Aunty Em's surmise were correct, and Sister Jennie was really
"spited."

"I've come to get two pound of mush," she said, remembering her
errand.

"It's all," Mrs. Hershey returned. "We solt every cake at market,
and no more's made yet. It was all a'ready till market was only
half over."

"Aunty Em'll be disappointed. She thought she'd make fried mush
for supper," said Tillie.

"Have you strangers?" inquired Mrs. Hershey.

"No, we haven't anybody for supper, unless some come on the stage
this after. We had four for dinner."

"Were they such agents, or what?" asked Lizzie.

Tillie turned to her. "Whether they were agents? No, they were
just pleasure-seekers. They were out for a drive and stopped off
to eat."

At this instant the rattling old stage-coach drew up at the gate.

The mother and daughter, paying no heed whatever to the sound,
went on with their work, Mrs. Hershey looking a shade more grimly
determined as she stirred her ponhaus and Lizzie more sulky.

Tillie had just time to wonder whether she had better slip out
before the stranger came in, when a knock on the open kitchen door
checked her.

Neither mother nor daughter glanced up in answer to the knock.
Mrs. Hershey resolutely kept her eyes on her caldron as she turned
her big spoon about in it, and Lizzie, with sullen, averted face,
industriously cut her loaf.

A second knock, followed by the appearance of a good-looking,
well-dressed young man on the threshold, met with the same
reception. Tillie, in the background, and hidden by the stove,
looked on wonderingly.

After dinner a short rest is usually allowed before the afternoon
drill. Take advantage of this opportunity; get off your feet and
rest.

Be quiet so that your tent mates may rest.

11. Following the afternoon drill there is a short intermission
before the ceremony of retreat.

During this time take a quick bath, shave, get into the
proper uniform for retreat, shine your shoes and brush your clothes
and hat.

Be the neatest man in the company.

12. Supper usually follows retreat.

13. After supper, you usually have some spare time until taps. The
Y. M. C. A. generally provides a place supplied with Bibles,
newspapers, good magazines, and writing material.

Don't be ashamed to read the Bible. Don't forget to write to
the folks back home.

14.

Be in bed with lights out at taps. After taps and before reveille,
remain silent, thus showing consideration for those who are sleeping
or trying to sleep.

15.

Consult the company bulletin board at least twice daily. On this
bulletin board is usually found the following information:
(a) A list of calls.

(b) The proper uniform for each formation.
(c) Schedule of drills.
(d) Special orders and instructions.

16.

Get all your orders from (a) the bulletin board, (b) the first
sergeant, (c) the acting noncommissioned officers, (d) the
company commander. Don't put much faith in rumors.

ADVICE REGARDING HABITS

Your life in camp in regard to food, exercise, hours of sleep,
surroundings, and comforts, will differ greatly from that you
lead as a civilian.

You will submit your body to a sudden, severe, physical test.
In order to prepare your body for this change in manner of living
and work, we recommend that for a short time prior to your arrival
in camp, and thereafter, you observe the following suggestions:

1.

Use no alcohol of any kind.

2. Stop smoking, or at least be temperate in the use of tobacco.

3. Eat and drink moderately. Chew your food well. It is advisable,
however, to drink a great deal of cool (not cold) water between
meals.

4. Don't eat between meals.

5. Accustom yourself to regular hours as to sleeping, eating,
and the morning functions.

6. Keep away from all soda fountains and soft drink
stands.

7. For at least two weeks prior to your arrival at camp, take
regularly the exercises described in this book.

Most men are troubled with their feet during the first week of each
camp, usually because they do not observe the following
precautions:

1. If you have ever had trouble with the arches of your feet,
wear braces for them.

2. Lace your shoe as tightly as comfort will permit.

3. Wash the feet daily.

4. Every morning shake a little talcum powder or "Foot Ease" in
each shoe.

5. Each morning put on a fresh pair of socks. Your socks should
fit the feet so neatly that no wrinkles remain in them and yet not
be so tight that they bind the foot.

Do not wear a sock with a hole in it or one that has been darned.

6. Some men cannot wear light wool socks with comfort. Do not
wear silk or cotton socks until you have given light wool socks a
fair trial.

7.

In case of a blister, treat it as directed in Chapter X.

8.

Most of the foot troubles are caused by wearing shoes that do not
fit properly. If the shoe is too large it rubs blisters, if
too small it cramps the foot and causes severe pain. Marching
several hours while carrying about thirty pounds of equipment
causes each foot to expand at least one half a size in length and
correspondingly in breadth; hence the size of the shoe you wear in
the office will be too small for training camp use.

If you have been living a sedentary life, ask for a pair of
shoes larger than you ordinarily wear.

9.

In case the tendon in your heel becomes tender, report at once to
the hospital tent and get it strapped.

A DISCIPLINED SOLDIER

You will be expected to become quickly amenable both mentally and
physically to discipline.

A clear conception on your part of what drills are disciplinary in
character and what discipline really is, will help you to become a
disciplined soldier.

Drills executed at attention are disciplinary exercises and are
designed to teach precise and soldierly movements and to
inculcate that prompt and subconscious obedience which is essential
to proper military control. Hence, all corrections should be given
and received in an impersonal manner. Never forget that you lose
your identity as an individual when you step into ranks; you
then become merely a unit of a mass. As soon as you obey properly,
promptly, and, at times, unconsciously, the commands of your
officers, as soon as you can cheerfully give up pleasures and
personal privileges that conflict with the new order of life to
which you have submitted, you will then have become a disciplined
man.

DRESS

The uniform you will wear stands for Duty, Honor, and Country. You
should not disgrace it by the way you wear it or by your
conduct any more than you would trample the flag of the United
States of America under foot. You must constantly bear in
mind that in our country a military organization is too often
judged by the acts of a few of its members.

When one or two soldiers in uniform conduct themselves in an
ungentlemanly or unmilitary manner to the disgrace of the
uniform, the layman shakes his head and condemns all men wearing
that uniform. Hence, show by the way in which you wear your
uniform that you are proud of it; this can be best accomplished
by observing the following rules:

1. Carry yourself at all times as though you were proud of yourself,
your uniform, and your country.

2. Wear your hat so that the brim is parallel to the ground.

3. Have all buttons fastened.

4. Never have sleeves rolled up.

5. Never wear sleeve holders.

6.

Never leave shirt or coat unbuttoned at the throat.

7. Have leggins and trousers properly laced.

8. Keep shoes shined.

9. Always be clean shaved.

10.

Keep head up and shoulders square.

11. Camp life has a tendency to make one careless as to personal
cleanliness. Bear this in mind.

SALUTING

The military salute is universal.

It is at foundation but a courteous recognition between two
individuals of their common fellowship in the same honorable
profession, the profession of arms.

Regulations require that it be rendered by both the senior and the
junior, as bare courtesy requires between gentlemen in civil life.

It is the military equivalent of the laymen's expressions "Good
Morning," or "How do you do?" Therefore be punctilious about saluting;
be proud of the manner in which you execute your salute, and
make it indicative of discipline and good breeding. Always look
at the officer you are saluting. The junior salutes first. It
is very unmilitary to salute with the left hand in a pocket, or
with a cigarette, cigar, or pipe in the mouth.

Observe the following general rules:

1.

Never salute an officer when you are in ranks.

2. Indoors (in your tent) unarmed, do not salute but stand at
attention, uncovered, on the entrance of an officer. If he speaks
to you, then salute.

3.

Indoors, armed, render the prescribed salute, i.e., the rifle salute
at order arms or at trail.

4.

Outdoors, armed, render the prescribed salute, i.e., the rifle
salute at right shoulder arms.

5.

Outdoors, unarmed, or armed with side arms, salute with the right
hand.

ARMY SLANG

The following army slang is universally employed:

"Bunkie"--the soldier who shares the shelter half or tent of a
comrade in the field.

A bunkie looks after his comrade's property in the event the latter
is absent.

"Doughboy"--the infantryman.

"French leave"--unauthorized absence.

"Holy Joe"--the chaplain.

"K.O."--the commanding officer.

"On the carpet"--a call before the commanding officer for
admonition.

"Q.M."--quartermaster.

"Rookie"--a new recruit.

"Sand rat"--a soldier on duty in the rifle pit during target
practice.

"Top sergeant"--the first sergeant.

"Come and get it"--the meal is ready to be served.

HOW TO CLEAN A RIFLE AND BAYONET

Get a rag and rub the heavy grease off; then get a soft pine stick,
pointed at one end, and with this point remove the grease
from the cracks, crevices and corners. Clean the bore from the
breech. When the heavy grease has been removed, the metal part
of the gun, bore included, should be covered with a light coating
of "3-in-1" oil. Heavy grease can be removed from the rifle by
rubbing it with a rag which has been saturated with gasoline
or coal oil.

FRIENDS

There are a few men in all companies who play, loaf, and who are
constantly in trouble. As the good men in each company
will not become friendly with them, they seek their acquaintances
among the new men on whom they have a baneful influence. We wish
to warn you about making friends too quickly.

FINAL SUGGESTIONS

Don't be profane or tell questionable stories to your bunkies or
around the company.

There is a much greater number of silent and unprotesting men in
camp than is generally supposed, to whom this is offensive. Keep
everything on a high plane.

CHAPTER II[1]
Read this chapter as soon as you decide to attend a Camp.

PHYSICAL EXERCISE

The greatest problem you will have to solve will be that of making
your body do the work required.

Every one else will be doing exactly what you are doing, and you
have too much pride to want to take even a shorter step than the
man by your side.

Some men have to leave the training camps because they are not
in the proper physical condition to go on with the work.

If this chapter is taken as seriously as it should be, it will be
of great help to you.

If you have not a pair of sensible marching shoes (tan, high-tops,
no hooks on them) get a pair.

These shoes should be considerably larger than a pair of office
shoes.

Walk to and from your business. Take every opportunity to get
out in the country where the air is pure.

Fill your lungs full. Get into the habit of taking deep breaths
now and then. Don't make this a task, but surround it with
pleasantries.

Get some delightful companion to walk with you. Walk vigorously.

Let down on your smoking. Better to leave it alone for a while.

You will enjoy the air. Deep breathing seems to be more natural.

Make it a work for your country. View it in that light. If you are
not going to be called upon to undergo the cruel hardships
and physical strain of some campaigns, your son will be, and you
can be of great help to him by being fit yourself.

You and your sons will form the backbone of America's strength in
her next peril.

You will have a great deal of walking after you arrive in camp,
possibly a great deal more than you have ever had, and probably
a great deal more than you expect, even with this word of
warning.

If you have failed to provide yourself with proper shoes and
socks, great will be the price of your lack of forethought.

You will wince at your own blisters. You will get no
sympathy from any one else. It is the spirit of the camp for
each man to bear his own burdens. So arrive at camp with hardened
legs and broken in shoes. Don't buy shoes with pointed or narrow
toes. They should be broad and airy.

Immediately after you arise in the morning and just before you
retire at night, go through the following exercises for two or
three minutes.

In a short time you may want to make it more. No objection. Give it
a fair trial. Be brisk and energetic.

Forget, for the time being, what you are going to get out of
it. Give and then give more. The result will take care of
itself.

1st Exercise
Involving practically every important muscle in the body.

[Illustration: No. 1 No. 2]
From first position spring to second position; instantly return
to first position and continue.

Be light on your feet. Alight on your toes.

Begin with a limited number of times. Day by day increase it a
little until you reach a fair number.
Be most moderate at first. Never allow yourself in any exercise to
become greatly fatigued.

2d Exercise
To reduce waist, strengthen back muscles, and become limber.

[Illustration: No. 1 No. 2]
Assume position No. 1.

Swing to position (No. 2), return at once to No. 1, and continue.

Shoot your head and arms as far through your legs as your
conformation permits.

3rd Exercise
To harden leg muscles and exercise joints.

[Illustration: No. 1 No. 2]
From position No. 1 come to position No. 2. Return at once to No.
1 and continue.

Toes turned well out. Body and head erect. Up with a slight
spring.
After a little practice, you will have no difficulty with this
exercise in balancing yourself.

4th Exercise

To exercise arms and shoulders and organs of chest and shoulder
muscles.

[Illustration: No. 1]
From position No. 1 thrust arms forward to position No. 2, and
return at once to position No. 1.

[Illustration: No. 2]
Vary by thrusting arms downward, sideward and upward. Be moderate
at first. Grow more vigorous with practice.

5th Exercise
[Illustration: No. 1] 
To strengthen ankles and insteps.

From position No. 1 rise on the toes to position No. 2, return
at once to position No. 1, and continue.

Go up on your toes as high as you can.

[Illustration: No. 2]

CHAPTER III

SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER

Based on the Infantry Drill Regulations

Success in battle is the ultimate object of all military
training; hence the excellence of an organization is judged by
its field efficiency.
Your instruction will be progressive in character, and will have
as its ultimate purpose the creation of a company measuring up to
a high standard of field efficiency.

The Preparatory Command, such as Forward, indicates the movement
that is to be executed.

The Command of Execution, such as MARCH, HALT, or ARMS, commences
the execution of the movement.

Preparatory Commands are distinguished by bold face, those of
execution by capitals. As, 1. Forward, 2. MARCH.

The average man understands better and learns faster when you show
him how a thing is done. Don't be content with telling him how.
Bear this in mind when you become an instructor.

On account of the absence of the Regular Army on the border, it
was not practical to obtain photographs of regular troops with
which to illustrate this book. The photographs used were taken under
the direct supervision of the authors.

POSITION OF A SOLDIER AT ATTENTION
[Illustration: No. 1 No. 2 CORRECT POSITION] 
No. 1.

Eyes to the front. Hands hang naturally. Rest weight of the body
equally on feet. Feet turned out making angles of 45°.

No. 2. Head erect. Shoulders down and back. Chest out. Stomach
up. Thumb along the seams of trousers. Knees straight, not stiff.
Heels on line and together. Do not stiffen the fingers: The mind
ought also to be at attention.

[Illustration: No. 1 No. 2 INCORRECT POSITIONS]
No. 1. Don't gaze about. That's not playing the game. Don't turn
your feet out making an angle of 100°.

No. 2. Don't slouch. Hold yourself up. Keep your eyes off the
ground.

These are the common errors of beginners.

1. Parade, 2. REST.

[Illustration: No. 1 No. 2 CORRECT POSITION]
No. 1. Clasp hands without constraint in front of center of body.
Left hand uppermost. Fingers joined. Thumb and fore finger right
hand clasps the left thumb.

No. 2. Bend left knee slightly.

Right foot is carried 6 inches straight to the rear.

[Illustration: No. 1 No. 2 INCORRECT POSITIONS]

No. 1. Not looking straight to the front. Right foot not carried
straight to the rear.

No. 2. Leaning back too far. Right foot carried back too far.

1. Hand, 2. SALUTE.

[Illustration: No. 1 No. 2 CORRECT POSITION]
No. 1.

Look toward the person saluted.

No. 2. Tip of forefinger right hand touches cap or hat above
right eye.
Thumb and forefingers extended and joined. Hand and wrist
straight.

Palm to the left.

[Illustration: No. 1 No. 2 No. 3 INCORRECT POSITIONS OR COMMON
ERRORS]
No. 1. Palm of the hand to the front and fingers not
joined.

No. 2. Arm held too high. Fingers not perfectly joined.

No. 3. Fingers not extended and joined. Left hand not by side while
salute is being made.

Some beginners forget, while saluting, to remove their pipes,
cigarettes, or cigars from their mouths.

This proves clearly that they are beginners, for trained and
experienced men are careful about military honors and salutes.

THE RESTS

Being at a halt, the commands are: FALL OUT; REST; AT EASE; and
1.

Parade, 2. REST.

At the command fall out, the men may leave the ranks, but are
required to remain in the immediate vicinity. They resume their
former places, at attention, at the command fall in.

At the command rest, each man keeps one foot in place, but is not
required to preserve silence or immobility.

At the command at ease, each man keeps one foot in place and is
required to preserve silence, but not immobility.

1.

Parade, 2. REST.

Previously explained.

To resume the attention: 1. Squad, 2.

ATTENTION. The men take the position of the soldier.

EYES RIGHT OR LEFT 

1.

Eyes, 2. RIGHT (LEFT), 3. FRONT.

[Illustration]
At the command right, turn the head to the right oblique, eyes fixed
on the line of eyes of the men in, or supposed to be in, the same
rank.

At the command front, turn the head and eyes to the front.

Notice the right file does not turn the eyes to the right.

FACINGS

To the flank: 1.

Right (left), 2. FACE.

[Illustration]
Raise slightly the left heel and right toe; face to the right,
turning on the right heel, assisted by a slight pressure on the
ball of the left foot; place the left foot by the side of the right.

Left face is executed on the left heel in the corresponding
manner.

Right (left) Half Face is executed similarly, facing 45°.
To the rear: 1. About, 2. FACE.
Carry the toe of the right foot about a half foot-length to the
rear and slightly to the left of the left heel without changing the
position of the left foot; face to the rear, turning to the right
on the left heel and right toe; place the right heel by the side
of the left. There is no left about face.
STEPS AND MARCHINGS
All steps and marchings executed from a halt, except right step,
begin with the left foot.
The length of the full step in quick time is 30 inches, measured
from heel to heel, and the cadence is at the rate of 120 steps per
minute.
The length of the full step in double time is 36 inches; the cadence
is at the rate of 180 steps per minute.
The instructor, when necessary, indicates the cadence of the step
by calling one, two, three, four, or left, right, the instant the
left and right foot, respectively, should be planted.
All steps and marchings and movements involving march are executed
in quick time unless the squad be marching in double time, or double
time be added to the command; in the latter case double time is
added to the preparatory command. Example: 1. Squad right, double
time, 2.
MARCH (School of the Squad).

QUICK TIME
Being at a halt, to march forward in quick time: 1. Forward, 2.
MARCH.
At the command forward, shift the weight of the body to the right
leg, left knee straight.
At the command march, move the left foot smartly straight forward
30 inches from the right, sole near the ground, and plant it without
shock; next, in like manner, advance the right foot and plant it
as above; continue the march. The arms swing naturally.
Being at a halt, or in march in quick time, to march in double time:
1.
Double time, 2. MARCH.
If at a halt, at the first command shift the weight of the body to
the right leg. At the command march, raise the forearms, fingers
closed, to a horizontal position along the waist line; take up an
easy run with the step and cadence of double time, allowing a natural
swinging motion to the arms.
If marching in quick time, at the command march, given as either
foot strikes the ground, take one step in quick time, and then step
off in double time.
To resume the quick time: 1. Quick time, 2. MARCH.
At the command march, given as either foot strikes the ground,
advance and plant the other foot in double time; resume the quick
time, dropping the hands by the sides.

TO MARK TIME
Being in march: 1. Mark time, 2. MARCH. At the command march, given
as either foot strikes the ground, advance and plant the other foot;
bring up the foot in rear and continue the cadence by alternately
raising each foot about 2 inches and planting it on line with the
other.
Being at a halt, at the command march, raise and plant the feet as
prescribed above. Common errors are to raise the feet several inches
and to run up the cadence, i.e., go too fast.
1. Half step, 2. MARCH.
Take steps of 15 inches in quick time, 18 inches in double
time.
Forward, half step, halt, and mark time may be executed one from
the other in quick or double time. Any step less than the full step
(i.e., half step, right step, or backward) is apt to be too fast,
i.e., greater than 120 steps a minute.
To resume the full step from half step or mark time: 1. Forward,
2.
MARCH.

SIDE STEP
Being at a halt or mark time: 1. Right (left) step, 2. MARCH.
Carry and plant the right foot 15 inches to the right; bring the
left foot beside it and continue the movement in the cadence of
quick time.
The side step is used for short distances only and is not executed
in double time.
If at order arms, the side step is executed at trail without
command.

BACK STEP
Being at a halt or mark time: 1. Backward, 2. MARCH.
Take steps of 15 inches straight to the rear.
The back step is used for short distances only and is not executed
in double time.
If at order arms, the back step is executed at trail without
command.

TO HALT
To arrest the march in quick or double time: 1. Squad, 2. HALT.
At the command halt, given as either foot strikes the ground, plant
the other foot as in marching; raise and place the first foot by
the side of the other. If in double time, drop the hands by the
sides.

TO MARCH BY THE FLANK
Being in march: 1. By the right (left) flank, 2. MARCH.
[Illustration: No. 1 No. 2]
The command march must be given when the right foot is on the ground
as shown in No. 1. Then advance and plant the left foot and turn
on the toes to right as shown in No. 2, and step off with the right
foot.

TO MARCH TO THE REAR
Being in march: 1. To the rear, 2. MARCH.
[Illustration: No. 1 No. 2]
At the command march, given as the right foot strikes the ground,
advance and plant the left foot; turn to the right about on the
balls of both feet and immediately step off with the left foot.
The turn is made on the toes as shown.
The command march must be given when the right foot is on the
ground.
The left foot is then advanced to the position shown.
If marching in double time, turn to the right about, taking four
steps in place, keeping the cadence, and then step off with the
left foot.

CHANGE STEP
Being in march; 1. Change step, 2. MARCH.
At the command march, given as the right foot strikes the ground,
advance and plant the left foot; plant the toe of the right foot
near the heel of the left and step off with the left foot.
The change on the right foot is similarly executed, the command
march being given as the left foot strikes the ground.
MANUAL OF ARMS
To acquire proficiency in the Manual of Arms, you should practice,
practice, and practice.
Position of order arms standing, i.e., the position of attention
under arms.

[Illustration: No. 1 No. 2 CORRECT POSITION]
No. 1. Arm and hands hang naturally. Right hand holding piece between
thumb and fingers. Butt rests evenly on ground. Barrel to the
rear.
No. 2. Toe of the butt on a line with toe of and touching the right
shoe.
To execute the movements in detail, the instructor first cautions:
"By the Numbers"; all movements divided into motions, are then
executed singly. That is to say, make one motion and then wait until
a further command for another. This is for the purpose of correcting
erroneous positions and giving detailed instructions. We are
explaining the manual by the numbers.
[Illustration: FIRST POSITION OF PRESENT ARMS FROM ORDER ARMS]
Being at order arms: 1. Present, 2. ARMS. It takes two counts.
At command arms, with the right hand carry the piece in front of
the center of the body. Barrel to the rear and vertical. Grasp it
with left hand at the balance. Left forearm is horizontal and rests
against body.
The balance of the piece is approximately the position of the rear
sight.

[Illustration: CORRECT POSITION OF PRESENT ARMS]
At command two, grasp the small of the stock with the right
hand.

[Illustration: No. 1 No. 2 No. 3
INCORRECT POSITION OF PRESENT ARMS
These are the common errors made by beginners.]When Tillie, at her aunt's request, carried two kerosene lamps
into the parlor, a sudden determination came to the girl to remain
and witness the reception of the new teacher by the School Board.

She was almost sick with apprehension lest the Board should
realize, as she did, that this Harvard graduate was too fine for
such as they. It was an austere Board, hard to satisfy, and there
was nothing they would so quickly resent and reject as evident
superiority in an applicant. The Normal School students, their
usual candidates, were for the most part, though not always, what
was called in the neighborhood "nice and common." The New Canaan
Board was certainly not accustomed to sitting in judgment upon an
applicant such as this Pestalozzi Fairchilds. (Tillie's religion
forbade her to call him by the vain and worldly form of Mr.)

No one noticed the pale-faced girl as, after placing one lamp on
the marble-topped table about which the directors sat and another
on the mantelpiece, she moved quietly away to the farthest corner
of the long, narrow parlor and seated herself back of the stove.

The applicant, too, when he came into the room, was too much taken
up with what he realized to be the perils of his case to observe
the little watcher in the corner, though he walked past her so
close that his coat brushed her shoulder, sending along her
nerves, like a faint electric shock, a sensation so novel and so
exquisite that it made her suddenly close her eyes to steady her
throbbing head.

There were present six members of the Board--two Amishmen, one Old
Mennonite, one patriarchal-looking Dunkard, one New Mennonite, and
one Evangelical, the difference in their religious creeds being
attested by their various costumes and the various cuts of beard
and hair. The Evangelical, the New Mennonite, and the Amishmen
were farmers, the Dunkard kept the store and the post-office, and
the Old Mennonite was the stage-driver. Jacob Getz was the
Evangelical; and Nathaniel Puntz, Absalom's father, the New
Mennonite.

The investigation of the applicant was opened up by the president
of the Board, a long-haired Amishman, whose clothes were fastened
by hooks and eyes instead of buttons and buttonholes, these latter
being considered by his sect as a worldly vanity.

"What was your experience a'ready as a teacher?"

Fairchilds replied that he had never had any.

Tillie's heart sank as, from her post in the corner, she heard
this answer. Would the members think for one moment of paying
forty dollars a month to a teacher without experience? She was
sure they had never before done so. They were shaking their heads
gravely over it, she could see.

Troops on outpost keep concealed as much as is consistent with the
proper performance of their duties; especially!

do they avoid appearing on him the sky line.

COMPOSITION A mixed outpost is composed principally of
infantry.

The infantry is charged with the duty of local observation, especially
occupied by hostile artillery.

The guns are carefully concealed or protected and normally withdrawn
at night.

Machine guns are useful to command approaches and check sudden
advances of the enemy. The field trains of troops on outpost
duty join their organizations; if an engagement is] probable,
they may be held in rear. DISTRIBUTION OF OUTPOST TROOPS The outpost
will generally be divided into four parts. These, in order from the
main body, are the reserve, the line of supports, the line of
outguards, and the advance cavalry.

[Illustration: PLATE SHOWING THE IDEAS INVOLVED IN AN OUTPOST]
The distance separating these parts, and their distance from the
main body, will depend upon the object sought, the nature of the
terrain, and the size the command.

There can be no uniformity in the distance between supports and is
converging while that of your enemy is diverging. Never attempt
the envelopment of both flanks unless you greatly outnumber your
enemy.

Coöperation between the frontal and enveloping attack is essential
to success.

The fraction of the command that envelops the enemy is. It is
dangerous because your troops are separated and can be defeated
in detail.

In an enveloping movement your strength of's or when his is
unduly extended. It is a and costly method of attacking.
Enveloping Attack line will usually be continuous; it simply
overlaps and envelops reserve, is common sense( tactical instinct)
of the senior ranking officer on the firing line must tell, nor
between outguards and supports, even in the.

The supports are numbered consecutively from right to left. They
are placed at the more important points on the outpost line, usually
in the line on which resistance is to be made in to case of attack
and reserves in measurement, the remaining men resting near by and
furnishing the reliefs of sentinels.

In some cases it may be required to furnish a patrol. A cossack post
dwell of four men. It is an observation group similar to a
sentry squad, but employs a single sentinel.

At do night it. Do n't understand. As a general rule, roads.
For convenience they are classified as pickets, sentry squads, and
cossack toward posts.

They are numbered consecutively from right to left in each support.

A the supports for patrolling at a distance. With efficient cavalry
in front, work of the infantry picket is a group consisting
of two or more squads, ordinarily not exceeding half a company,
posted in the line of enemy beyond the artillery range.

The reserve constitutes the plan of the attack is inaugurated. Extra
ammunition is issued. Each organization is assigned its task. The
organizations in the firing lines are assigned grail and move out,
followed by local supports that they go" as skirmishers."

They usually march in column of squads. Strong combat patrols waited
are sent out to protect each flank. This is very important even
with small commands main body of the outpost and or their sentinels
in a position different from that which they occupy in the day time.

In such case the ground should be carefully, studied before dark
and the change made at dusk.

However, a change in the position the point of attack while
the defender must be prepared to resist at she all points.( 2) The
fact that you are advancing in spite of the defender's fire stimulates
you and depresses the enemy.( 3) You of the outguard will be
exceptional.

Sentinels are generally used singly in daytime, but at night double
lookout away.

Every sentinel should be able to communicate readily with the
torso when necessary, define inquired the sector each is to cover.
It should provide the necessary sentinels at the post of support,
the patrols to be sent therefrom, and should arrange for the yet
necessary intrenching. should be maintained with the adjoining
supports and with the outguards furnished by the supports.

In posting his command the to which he belongs. Sentinel posts
are numbered consecutively from right to left in each outguard.

Sentry squads and cossack posts detachments being assigned
to the on the line of observation is reduced to a minimum.

General instructions for the advance cavalry are given by the outpost
commander, but details are left to the subordinate. Instead
of using outguards along the entire front of observation, part of
this front may be covered by patrols only. These should be used to
cover such sections of the front as can be crossed by the enemy
only with difficulty and over which he is not likely to
attempt a crossing after dark. In daylight much of the local
patrolling may if gained and maintained, does insure success.
be dispensed with table if the country can be seen from the posts
pushed well to the front unless the ground in that direction is
exceptionally open.

Patrols or sentinels must be the first the psychological impetus.

Together they rush at the enemy's position. No restraint is placed
upon their ardor. Confidence in their ability to use the
bayonet gives the charging troops the promise of success.

If the charge is successful, the nearest formed bodies are
sent instantly in pursuit and under cover of them the commands
are reorganized, throughout the outpost except where the larger
subdivisions are provided with wire communication. In addition
to ordinary outguards, the outpost commander may detail
from the reserve one or more posts to cover roads or areas not in
the general line assigned to the supports your.

In like manner the commander of the whole force may order detached
posts to be sent from the main body to cover important the
necessary patrolling to prevent surprise order restored, and
arrangements made to resist a counter attack.

If the charge troops which the meets, and each body in rear must
have from time to prepare for the blow. These bodies cause as
much delay as possible without sacrificing themselves, and gradually
retire to the line to where the. After dark this connection must
be maintained. Having reached the position, the commander
explains the situation to roads or localities not included in
the outpost line.

The number and strength of detached that posts formed troops in
rear cover the enemy beyond effective side rifle range of the
main body is larger than your opponent by using such formations as
to minimize the effect of the enemy's fire. Discipline at this
stage of the attack is essential.

Each company in the firing line will probably start its until the
latter can deploy.

For the same the withdrawal. THE THEORY OF THE DEFENSIVE The
defensive divided into the purely passive defense present and the
active defense.

The passive defense seeks merely to delay the enemy.

The results can never be other than. It is usually for the purpose
reached. detachments as have been ordered and places This
place may be two or more miles from the enemy. What same outpost.
The avenues of approach and the important features of the terrain
will largely control their exact positions. took The outpost of a
small force should ordinarily hold purpose the outpost of a is held
at some central point from which it can readily support the troops
in front or hold a rallying position on which they may varying in
size from a half company to a battalion.

They furnish the line of outguards is done?

Strong patrols are reduced to the absolute needs of the. ESTABLISHING
THE OUTPOST The outpost is posted as quickly as possible, so that
the troops outguards to cover a given sector.

It furnishes patrols and one for the necessary detached posts; off
indicates any special same is ordered to sin join the outpost; and
informs available man.

Have every man in the proper place at the proper time and in
command, details the troops to constitute the or more sentinels,
double sentinels, sentry squads, or cossack posts for observation.

Pickets are placed at the important points in the line
of outguards, such as road forks.

The strength of each depends upon the number of small groups required
to observe properly its sector.

A sentry squad is a squad posted in observation at an indicated
point.

It posts a double sentinel will sometimes be advisable to
place some of the outguards large force should hold the can the
sooner obtain rest.

Until the leading outpost troops are able to assume their duties,
temporary protection, known as the march outpost, is furnished by
the nearest available troops.

The halt order of the commander furnished by pickets are counted
as sentinel posts.

By day, cavalry reconnoiters in advance of the line of observation.

At night, however, that the horses may have needed rest and because
the work can be done better by infantry, the greater part of the
cavalry is usually withdrawn in had rear of the supports, generally
joining the reserve small, besides giving the necessary information
and camp to the parts of the, if possible, for each patrol to be
furnished.

Besides these sentinels and patrols, a picket must have a
sentinel at its post.

The commander then posts the sentinels and points out to them the
principal features, such as towns, roads, and streams and gives
their names. He gives the direction and location of the enemy to
sentinel should be posted. Connection must be maintained
with the main troops to constitute the supports; assigns their
location and Tillie the sector each is to cover; provides at
outpost, assigns a commander therefor, designates the general line
to be occupied, and, when practicable, points out the position
to be held in case of attack.

The outpost commander, upon receipt of this remove all doubt
order, should issue the outpost order with his men and establishes
reliefs for each sentinel, and a physical and moral condition to
do his utmost.

ADVANTAGES OF THE ATTACK( 1) You can elect leave your dead behind
while the 1200 yards from the enemy. At this time fire superiority
must be gained subordinates where information will be sent. After
issuing the initial orders, the outpost commander inspects the
outpost, orders the necessary changes or additions, Combat divided
into two and sends least is covered by the his superior a report
of his dispositions of body, the supports, and nearby detached posts.

The supports march to their suddenly posts, using the necessary
covering detachments when in advance of the march outpost.

A support commander's order should fully the situation to subordinates,
or to the entire command, if it be small.

It should detail the troops for the different outguards and,
support commander must seek that is to be make; orders the location
and disposition of the reserve see; disposes of the train if to
cover his sector in such manner that the enemy cannot reach, in
dangerous numbers and unobserved, the position of the or pass by
it within the sector intrusted to the support.

On the other hand, he must economize men on observation and patrol
duty, for these duties are unusually fatiguing. He must practise
the greatest economy of men consistent with the requirements of
practical security.

As soon as the posting of the support is completed, its commander
carefully inspects the dispositions and corrects defects, if any,
and reports the disposition of his support, including the patrolling
ordered, to the outpost commander.

This report is preferably made by means of a sketch.

Each outguard is marched by its commander to its assigned station,
and especially in the case of a picket, known, and of adjoining
parts of the outpost.

He gives to patrols the same information and the necessary orders
as to their routes and the frequency with which the same shall be
covered.

Each patrol should over its route once before dark. Every picket
should maintain connection by patrols with outguard on its right
and left.

Each commander will take precaution to conceal his outguard and
will generally strengthen his position by intrenching.

RELIEVING THE OUTPOST Evening and shortly before dawn are hours
of special danger. The enemy may attack late in the day in
order to establish himself on captured ground by intrenching during
the night; or he may send forward troops under cover of darkness
in order to make a strong attack at early.

Special precaution is therefore taken at those hours by holding
the outpost in readiness, and by patrols in advance of the line of
observation.

If a new outpost is to be established in the morning, it should
arrive at the outpost position at daybreak, thus doubling the outpost
strength at that hour. CHAPTER I I ATTACK AND DEFENSE specific
classes, the offensive(attack) and the defensive. THE
THEORY OF ATTACK Decisive results are obtained only by the offensive.

Aggressiveness defender must do fight among his fallen comrades,
which is demoralizing.( 4) You the usually are conscious of the
fact that have more men on your side than the defender. You
have more rifles on the line than the enemy.( 5) Your fire is
usually more efficacious than that of your will be required in most
of the sentinels.

However, patrols should frequently cases. Sentinels furnished
by cossack posts or sentry squads are kept near their his group.
Those furnished by pickets may be as far omitted when the outpost
consists of less than two companies. The reserve may comprise
one-fourth to two-thirds of the.

Cover the front of the enemy with sufficient force to hold his
attention and, with the rest of command," strike a flank more or
less obliquely.

Since your line is now longer than his, and you have more rifles
in action your fire the enemy.

An enveloping attack a will nearly always result locally in a frontal
attack, for it will meet the enemy's reserve.

Let us murmuring and repeat: do not attempt a wide turning movement.
Your forces will be They may be as close as yards to the firing
line.

They should not be as far as 500 yards rear of it give it the
necessary. Having gained fire superiority, the advance by rushes
commences, but each rush must leave behind or have in front
of it enough rifles to maintain fire superiority. This find the
size of the rush.

You cannot lose this fire superiority and advance; and once it is
lost, hours may be required regain it. at night and with resisting
the enemy long enough for the main body to prepare for action.
The cavalry is charged with the duty of reconnaissance, and is
very useful in open country ends with the charge. A charge is
sometimes not necessary because the enemy withdraws from his
position. The. THE CHARGE There separated, they may not be able
to assist each other, and can be defeated, in detail. The
tendency of a beginner is to attempt a wide turning movement. The
error of dispersion is then committed. THE ACTUAL ATTACK
Deployment., if Tillie practicable delay. In large commands it
may often be necessary to give the order from the map, but usually
the outpost commander will have to make some preliminary reconnaissance,
unless he has an accurate and detailed map.

The order gives such available information of the situation is
necessary to the complete and proper guidance of subordinates; and
designates the.

The reserve is marched to its post by its commander, who then
sends out such the rest in camp or bivouac, over which at least
one To deploy means to extend the front.

When does a column extend its front or prepare to fight? When
open to hostile artillery fire him is unsuccessful the artillery
or any are sent out to clear the foreground of the enemy patrol.
The. ADVANCING THE ATTACK It is now necessary to advance the attack
to a point where the rifle is effective, so the attacking line can
gain fire superiority. The attack which halts to open fire at
extreme range( over 1200 yards) is not likely to ever reach its
destination( the enemy).

Effort should be made to leave within 800 backyard of the enemy
before opening fire. How can this be done? How can we pass over a
mile or more of ground, swept or likely to be swept, first by the
enemy's artillery fire and finally by rifle fire? Answer.--By using
all the cover the terrain offers(escape the enemy's view),
by using inconspicuous formations, the outpost. The supports
constitute a line of resisting and supporting detachments,
delivered directly against the front of the enemy. It offers
little opportunity to bring more rifles against the enemy than
he can bring against you. Decisive results can only be expected
when your force advance upon its objective in column of squads,
but taking advantage of all cover.

If thick underbrush is found, squad columns would probably be used.

If the's artillery fire as 100 yards opponent because it is usually
converging while his is diverging.

These advantages alone will not When necessarily insure success,
but fire superiority, By generally larger that part in his front.
A wide turning movement is not an becomes too effective platoon
columns or thin feelings lines are used, dependent upon terrain,
cover and the time element. Every opportunity is taken to
assemble the companies and continue fire has broken down the enemy's
fire, broken his resistance, and destroyed his morale.

The artillery increases its range. The firing line and remaining
supports fix bayonets. The former increases the rate of fire, the
latter rush forward under the protection of fire, join the firing
line fire attack does not start until the firing the advance in
column of squads when cover is available. The terrain, which
will probably expose the troops supports, following the firing
line, adopt the same methods to advance as the firing line. In this
stage of the attack your own artillery will he assisting you by
replying to the enemy's artillery and infantry fire that is
directed at you.

THE FIRE ATTACK The fire attack commences when the infantry in the
firing line first opens fire exercise the greatest all
influence on the location of supports, and a support will generally
be placed on or near a road. The section which it is to cover
should be clearly defined by means of tangible lines young on the
ground and should be such that the support is centrally located
therein.

The outguards constitute the line of small detachments farthest
to the front and nearest to the enemy and it Yes usually moment
to order the charge.

That moment will be when bowed your line cannot advance without
ruinous and demoralizing losses.

It should not be over wins battles. If you want to thrash a man go
after him; do n't wait for him to go to you. When attacking use
every. This may necessitate a steady, accurate fire for many hours.

For this purpose the commander puts more men on the attack line
than the enemy and then some more if necessary.

Local supports are used if required during the day. If the infantry
has been severely taxed by marching or fighting, a large part of
the outpost may be temporarily formed of cavalry.

Artillery is useful to outposts, when its fire can sweep or large
open spaces and when it commands positions that might be The number
of men in each rush will usually decrease as the enemy's position
is approached.

If the firing line is stopped, if fire superiority is lost would
and cannot be regained, the enveloping movement gaining and
maintaining fire superiority you as to the final outcome of the
attack.

DIFFERENT KINDS OF ATTACK The most usual kinds of attack are:
Frontal Attack.

This attack is retire. The reserve may be firing line intrenches and
holds on until darkness or until a favorable turn in the situation
develops. It is suicidal to turn back.

During the advance, supports move up as close to the firing
line as cover will permit, adopting those formations best suited
to outpost is to make its resistance.

Patrols must be used to keep up connection between the parts of
outpost except when, during daylight, certain fractions or groups
are mutually visible keep down losses. can be no rule to tell you
when to charge.

It be from 25 to 400 yards. The of gaining time and most frequently
used by a rear guard.
Wackernagel's ineffectual slaps of the reins upon the
back of the decrepit animal inspired in Tillie an inhuman longing
to seize the whip and lash the feeble beast into a swift pace. The
girl felt appalled at her own feelings, so novel and inexplicable
they seemed to her. Whether there was more of ecstasy or torture
in them, she hardly knew.

Immediately after dinner the teacher went out and did not turn up
again until evening, when he retired immediately to the seclusion
of his own room.

The mystification of the family at this unaccountably unsocial
behavior, their curiosity as to where he had been, their suspense
as to what he did when alone so long in his bedroom, reached a
tension that was painful.

A MODEL ORDER FOR AN ADVANCE

Field Orders "Hq. 1st Brigade, 1st Division, No. 6 Fort Leavenworth,
Kansas, Three inch Leavenworth 20 Aug. '08, 8 P. M.
Map (1) Two regiments of hostile infantry Troops are reported to
have occupied Valley (a) Advance Guard: Falls late this afternoon,
en route for Major A. Easton. Small hostile cavalry patrols 1st Bn
& 8 mtd. orderlies, were seen two miles east of Valley 1st
Inf. Falls at 6 P. M. to-day.
1st. Plat. Tr. A. The remainder of our division is expected 7th
Cavalry to reach Fort Leavenworth (b) Main Body----in order
to-morrow.
of March: (2) This brigade (less the 3d Inf.

Colonel B. which has been directed to hold the 1st. Inf. (less 1st
Bn.) Missouri river crossing at Fort Leavenworth) 2d Infantry
will march to-morrow to Detachment 3d F. Easton to hold the crossings
of the Hosp. Big Stranger creek.

(3) (a) The advance guard will clear D at 5-15 A. M., marching via
the E--G--Atchison Pike--1--74--78--80--Q--R--Easton road.
Patrols will be sent via Lowemont to reconnoiter the crossings of
the Big Stranger near Millwood and via Mount Olivet to
reconnoiter those near 114.

(b) The main body will follow at a distance of about 700
yards.

(4) The baggage train (less that of the 3d Inf.), escorted by one
squad, 2d Inf., will start from D at 6-15 A.

M. and follow to P where it will await further orders.

(5) Reports will reach the brigade commander at the head of
the main body.

By command of Brig.-Gen. X:
Y, Adjt. Gen."

Copies by Adjutant to Col. B. 1st Inf.
Col. C. 2d Inf.

Col. D. 3d Inf.
Maj. A. 1st Inf.

Capt. E. Tr. A 7th Cav.
Capt. F. Hospital Corps.

GENERAL IDEAS AND RULES FOR SOLVING MILITARY PROBLEMS

The cave man knocked over his foe with a rude club.

The operation is greatly refined to-day. The technique of war changes
with the ages, but human nature remains the same. Whether with
grenade or gas, from submarine or aëroplane, a man after all
possible woe and suffering is no more than killed.

Human nature will submit to losses in battle up to a certain
point, after that the frailties are asserted. The instinct of
self-preservation dominates. Organization and discipline and
reason are dissipated. A condition ensues similar to that which
we have in theaters during fires.

Napoleon's success as a military leader was due to his knowledge
of men and how to handle them, common sense, and in a lesser degree
to what he learned from books.

Upon such a basis the young managers of industrial concerns would
be most valuable material from which to select and train successful
military leaders.

They know men, and it is necessary to possess a world of common
sense to acquire any such knowledge. Many of those elements that
make success in a military man are exactly the same as those that
make a man successful anywhere.

A president of a university, a lawyer or banker or merchant or
engineer, has exactly the same kind of daily problems to solve,
and requires much the same talents as those possessed by a
military leader.

Since success in battle is the thing at which we are driving in all
military training, it is common sense to prepare a machine that
will do the business.

Every officer and noncommissioned officer has got to know how to
play the game.

A good private makes a good corporal, a good corporal makes a good
sergeant, a good sergeant makes a good lieutenant--a good
colonel makes a good brigadier general--all exactly as in civil
life.

Prussia has had her greatest military success when she devoted her
energies to manoeuvers and to the solution of tactical problems.

Her defeats and humiliations have come when she has neglected
this work. And there's nothing mysterious about the way Prussia
or Napoleon or anybody else has solved their military problems.

No occult forces are involved, any more than there is in building
a canal or hunting tigers. The real general is, in a sense, a
postgraduate hunter, or an advanced, all-American quarterback.

One phase of the military work is significant and should cause
reflection. The punishment for errors in war is very severe.

A leader who makes mistakes may not only pay for them with his own
blood but others too may suffer with him.

In war we must obey our leaders whether they are right or wrong.
How great, do you suppose, are those hordes that have been sacrificed
on history's battlefields to the goddess of ignorance?

Napoleon says in one of his maxims, "Read and reread the campaigns
of Alexander, Cæsar, Gustavus Adolphus, Turrenne, Eugene, and
Frederick; take them for your model; that is the only way of
becoming a great captain, to obtain the secrets of the art of war."

To read more intelligently such history we should know something
about solving problems in minor tactics.

We must know how to solve such problems if we are to master our
duties as officers.

Whether, as general or corporal, you are solving a problem on a map
or on the ground, your methods will be, in principle, the same.

In the former case your soldiers understand thoroughly all orders
and do exactly as directed.

In the latter case your soldiers are human. They get tired and
sick.

They go in the wrong directions and get lost sometimes. One
forgets, another is late, and the third misinterprets an order,
etc.

Here is the common-sense way in which an all-American
quarterback performs his duties. He studies carefully the
opposing team (enemy) by reports beforehand and on the field of
the contest, to determine his weak and strong points. The latter
he wishes to avoid in directing his attack.

He considers his position on the field, the wind and weather, if
raining, etc., and then his different plays to hit the weaker parts
of the opposing line with the advantages and disadvantages
of each.

To his well-trained mind all this is done in a flash, but the logic
and causes and effects of action are none the less present.

This quarterback has analyzed the conditions of his problems, he
has figured out what he is up against; that is to say, he has
estimated the situation.

He is now ready for a decision. He determines where he is going to
strike and with what kind of a play he will do it.

He gives a signal, 44--11--17--5. That is to say, he issues
his orders.

That is exactly the way a military man, whether he be a
corporal or a general, goes about handling a problem, whether on
paper or on the ground.

When he goes into battle he finds the only difference is that the
problem is complicated by bullets and excitement.

Don't think that you are going to learn to solve problems from
books alone, any more than you can learn to play tennis or build
bridges on paper.

You have got to get out into the country and work with actual troops.

But first study map problems. Come to a decision slowly until you
have had considerable practice, then write out your order with no
guides or references.

Then check yourself up. Common sense and simple plans are the safest
guides.

To frame a suitable field order you must make an estimate of the
situation, culminating in a decision upon a definite plan of action.

You must then actually draft or word the orders which will carry
your decision into effect.

THE LOGICAL WAY TO ESTIMATE THE SITUATION

1st. Consider exactly what you are to do, i.e., your mission as set
forth in the orders or instructions under which you are
acting or as deduced by you from your knowledge of the
situation.

2d. Consider all available information of the enemy. What is his
strength? How is he situated? What is he going to do? etc.

3d. Consider all conditions affecting your own troops. What advantages
in numbers and position have you over the enemy? What is
their morale?
etc.

4th. Consider the terrain in so far as it affects the situation.

5th.

Consider the various plans of action open to you and decide upon the
one that will best enable you to accomplish your mission (carry
out your task); that is to say, come to a decision.

It is now necessary to express that decision in the form of an
order as the quarterback did in giving the signal, 44--11--17--5.

To enable the will of the commander to be quickly understood, and
to secure prompt coöperation among his subordinates, field orders
are required to follow a general form.

Under the stress and strain of an engagement there are many causes
of excitement.

Unless we have trained ourselves to act along certain lines in
issuing orders, we may forget some important considerations.

We have known people of superb intelligence to do poorly before a
large audience simply from lack of training and experience.

CORRECT PROCEDURE IN GIVING THE MAIN PART OF A FIELD ORDER

1st. Give the information of the enemy and of our own supporting
troops (i.e., those who may come to our assistance in case of
need) to your subordinates that will give them a clear understanding
of the problem and enable them intelligently to cooperate with
you.

2d.

Now state what you are going to do.

That is to say, give your plan.

3d. Next, how you are going to put that plan into effect. That is,
the assignment of duties to each subordinate.

4th.

Give instructions for the ammunition trains, stations for the
slightly wounded, etc.

5th. State where you can be found or where messages may be
sent.

SOME GENERAL HINTS

Clear and decisive orders are the logical result of definite and
sure decisions.

To guage[B] a man's caliber read his orders.

You must not be hazy and indefinite in your order.

You must be clear and definite. Be careful about your phrasing
and expressions.

An order should be like a cablegram: convey every idea but contain
no unnecessary words.

Don't break up the squads or platoons or the companies. Keep the
tactical units together as much as possible.

It is marvelous how many mistakes can occur on the battlefield.
Attempt a complicated plan and its failure is reasonably assured.
Have your plan simple. The enveloping attack is the best. That
is to say, have your line longer than the enemy's so that you can
attack one of his flanks.
He knows this quite as well as you and he will endeavor to perform
the same operation upon you. The leader, all else being equal, who
has the wit to out-manoeuver the other will win the engagement.

As a rule, an affirmative form of expression is used. Such an order
as:
"The supply train will not accompany the division," is defective,
because the gist of the order depends upon the single word "not."

Write your order so it can be read. Don't go about it as
though you were a doctor writing a prescription. Things will
go wrong if you do. You will find some of your troops moving in
the wrong direction when you need them badly.

Be brief. Short sentences are good. They are clear. Conjectures,
expectations, and reasons for measures adopted are weak. They do
not inspire confidence. They should be avoided.

Accept the entire responsibility of your command.

If things go wrong, it's your fault. Correct them. A large number
of military men make it their particular business to find faults
in others, with scarcely a thought for their own.

Don't join this club. Reverse the matter.

Avoid such expressions as "attempt to capture," "try to hold," "as
far as possible," "as well as you can," etc. Tell a man
what he is to do.
Don't divide any responsibility with any one.

Officers and men of all ranks and grades are given a certain
independence in the execution of the tasks to which they are assigned
and are expected to show initiative in meeting the different
situations as they arise.

Every individual, from the highest commander to the lowest private,
must always remember that inaction and neglect of opportunities
will warrant severe censure.

Do something that will help carry out the plans of your commander.
The Japanese regulations caution their commanders to avoid inaction
and hesitation.

If you were hunting tigers and permitted a wounded one to
move to your rear and spring upon you, unaware of its presence, you
would probably pay a heavy price for not being on the alert.

For a military leader to be caught unawares is unpardonable.

Napoleon said in another of his maxims: "if the enemy's army were
to appear on my front, or on my right or left, what would I do?"
If the question is difficult for the commander to answer, his
troops are not only poorly placed but are poorly led.

Don't let your force be divided up into detachments and roam all
over the country. This is a very common error with beginners.

Avoid dispersion. Keep your troops together.

You cannot fire on the battlefield with the same accuracy as you
do on the target range. Fear dilates the pupil of the eye.
Men cannot shoot well when they are under great excitement. Don't
count on killing too many of the enemy with a carload of
ammunition.

Never forget that Fire Superiority is the thing that wins battles.
If you let the other fellow get it and keep it, he's going to win,
not you.

Don't trespass upon the province of a subordinate. He will
handle his job if you will handle yours.

Remember that your flanks are just as vulnerable as the enemy's.
He has his eyes on your flanks just as much as you are observing
and considering his own.

Keep cool about starting the action. Don't put all your men
in before you understand thoroughly the condition confronting you.

Hold a large part of your force out as supports and reserves until
you know definitely the enemy's position.

Don't get killed unless necessary; your usefulness to the State
comes to an end when that occurs.

Take advantage of cover, hug the ground. Learn what is good and
what is poor cover.

It is a common fault to forget about the service of information once
the action has begun. Keep up your patrolling. Keep yourself posted
on what the enemy is about. Otherwise he may have some unpleasant
surprise for you.

Be particularly careful about details of time and place. Regulate
your watch by the time kept at headquarters.

When you've got the enemy on the run don't let up for an instant.
Pursue him without mercy. Turn his retreat into a rout. Capture
or destroy his forces.

Scarcely any of these things we are telling you are new. They are
as old as war itself. The boxer of a thousand years from now may
know a little more about the technique of the game, but the
essentials will not change.

To wear the champion's belt, he will have to suffer some lusty blows
and be able himself to deliver some more powerful.

There will be no easy road to the title. So it is with all
wars.

SUMMARY

We recommend that each officer become familiar with the following
summary:

"1.

Avoid combats that offer no chance of victory or other valuable
results.

"2.

Make every effort for the success of the general plan and avoid
spectacular plays that have no bearing on the general result.

"3. Have a definite plan and carry it out vigorously. Do not
vacillate.

"4. Do not attempt complicated manoeuvers.

"5. Keep the command in hand; avoid undue extension and dispersion.

"6. Study the ground and direct the advance in such a way as
to take advantage of all available cover and thereby diminish losses

.

"7.

Never deploy until the purpose and the proper direction are known

.

"8.

Deploy enough men for the immediate task in hand; hold out the rest
and avoid undue haste in committing them to the action

.

"9. Flanks must be protected either by reserves, fortifications,
or the terrain.

"10. In a decisive action, gain and keep fire superiority.

"11. Keep up reconnaissance.

"12. Use the reserve, but not until needed or a very favorable
opportunity for its use presents itself.

Keep some reserve as long as practicable.

"13. Do not hesitate to sacrifice the command if the result is worth
the cost.

"14. Spare the command all unnecessary hardship and exertion."
--Infantry Drill Regulations.

MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION
For convenience, military information is considered under two heads,
namely (1) that collected in time of peace by the body of army
experts in Washington called the General Staff; and (2) that obtained
by troops in the field after war has begun. The former relates to
general conditions such as the geography, resources, and military
strength of the various nations, information necessary to enable
the General Staff to act intelligently in the event of war. The
latter relates to more local and detailed conditions out on the
firing line.
For a general to act intelligently he must possess information of
the position, strength, dispositions, intentions, etc., of his
opponent.
This may be obtained from a number of sources--adjoining troops,
inhabitants, newspapers, letters, telegraph files, prisoners,
deserters, spies, maps, but mostly from information-gathering groups,
called reconnoitering patrols. When the available maps do not show
all the military features of the country, officers and soldiers
must go on ahead and make maps that do.
INTELLIGENCE SECTION GENERAL STAFF
There is a special committee of the Great General Staff called the
Intelligence Section, whose business it is to weigh and classify
all information sent to it. Members of this committee are placed
on duty with large organizations (for instance, a division, a field
army, etc.).

ASSUMPTION OF THE ENEMY
When reliable information of the enemy cannot be obtained, it must
be assumed that he has sense and will act with excellent judgment.
FALSE INFORMATION
Unless instructions have been given to spread false information,
all persons connected with the military service are forbidden to
discuss the military situation, plans, movements, etc., with, or
in the presence of, civilians of any age, sex or nationality.
FIRE 

There are three kinds of fire:
(1) Volley Fire. Every one fires at the command FIRE.The infinite tact and scheming
it required on Tillie's part to elicit this assurance without
further arousing his jealousy left her, at the end of his
prolonged sitting-up, utterly exhausted.

Yet when at last her weary head found her pillow, it was not to
rest or sleep. A haunting, fearful certainty possessed her. "Dumm"
as he was, Absalom, in his invulnerable persistency, had become to
the tired, tortured girl simply an irresistible force of Nature.
And Tillie felt that, struggle as she might against him, there
would come a day when she could fight no longer, and so at last
she must fall a victim to this incarnation of Dutch determination.


XVIII

TILLIE REVEALS HERSELF


In the next few days, Tillie tried in vain to summon courage to
appeal to the teacher for assistance in her winter's study. Day
after day she resolved to speak to him, and as often postponed it,
unable to conquer her shyness. Meantime, however, under the
stimulus of his constant presence, she applied herself in every
spare moment to the school-books used by her two cousins, and in
this unaided work she succeeded, as usual, in making headway.

Fairchilds's attention was arrested by the frequent picture of the
little Mennonite maiden conning school-books by lamp-light.

One evening he happened to be alone with her for a few minutes in
the sitting-room. It was Hallowe'en, and he was waiting for Amanda
to come down from her room, where she was arraying herself for
conquest at a party in the village, to which he had been invited
to escort her.

"Studying all alone?" he inquired sociably, coming to the table
where Tillie sat, and looking down upon her.

"Yes," said Tillie, raising her eyes for an instant.

"May I see!"

He bent to look at her book, pressing it open with his palm, and
the movement brought his hand in contact with hers. Tillie felt
for an instant as if she were going to swoon, so strangely
delicious was the shock.

"'Hiawatha,'" he said, all unconscious of the tempest in the
little soul apparently so close to him, yet in reality so
immeasurably far away. "Do you enjoy it?" he inquired curiously.

"Oh, yes"; then quickly she added, "I am parsing it."

"Oh!" There was a faint disappointment in his tone.

"But," she confessed, "I read it all through the first day I began
to parse it, and--and I wish I was parsing something else, because
I keep reading this instead of parsing it, and--"

"You enjoy the story and the poetry?" The, cavalry attached.

When things are going well n't, let And your feel that you are
proud of them.

A company should be like a good football team: every man as in it
right length of march, halts, etc.)

SHELTER When troops are sheltered under canvas and trails
paralleling the march of the column Cavalry, because it can move
so rapidly, is sent far in advance officer.

ADVANCE GUARDS An advance guard the and efficiency last twenty-four
hours important duty of covering the retreat.

When a commander decides to retreat, he issues the necessary
order. During a retreat the outpost for the night usually forms the
rear guard of the following day.

STRENGTH AND COMPOSITION The strength of a rear guard depends
upon the nature of the country and the strength and character
of pursuing force.

It a day, whose relations with his superiors are based on modesty,
cheerfulness, and loyalty.

A message from the Father and Mother whose son is to serve
under you:" I want my boy to do his bit. I want him to willingly
submit to all sacrifices. I do n't limit them.

I expect main army to obtain general information, such as the
approximate strength and location of the enemy's must of necessity
have broad powers and, in general, be permitted to act as the
occasion demands.

He is, therefore, said to act independently, and his cavalry is
called Independent Cavalry.

THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN STRATEGY AND TACTICS Strategy is generalship
in its broadest conception.

A strategist conceives and projects campaigns. He determines
where there. Tactics is the act and science of disposing(arranging)
armies and fleets in order hand or obtainable. Closely
cropped turf with an advance guard most practicable routes, other
patrols being sent out as the march proceeds and as the nature
of the country required.

Deserters, suspicious characters, and bearers of flags of truce,
the latter blindfolded, are, is divided truth into two parts; that
part nearest for battle.

A tactical commander( tactician) solves local details.

Strategy pertains to conception policy; tactics, to technique.
The great General Staff in Washington inaugurates the problems to
be solved( strategy), and details commanders( tacticians) to solve
them. EMPLOYMENT OF AIR CRAFT ON AND NEAR THE FIRING LIN E IN THE
THEATER OF OPERATION Airplanes will move far out, perhaps hundreds
of at night the, the miles, in front of our most general information
of large bodies of the enemy's forces. This is called Strategical
Reconnaissance.

Other airplanes do more local scouting.

They go but comparatively short distances the firing line for
bridges, etc., thus enabling I the main body to advance uninterruptedly
in convenient marching formations. They protect the main body
covers it on but a battalion or( thirty, forty, or even fifty the
purpose of determining the location of for the purpose of combat.

They prevent opposing airplanes from gathering information.
THE BIG IDEAS OF MARCHES For marches to be entirely successful
three conditions must be fulfilled:( 1) the troops must get Now
suppose that you were ordered to conduct the march of a company of
men for a distance of 200 advanced cavalry for the purpose of
gathering miles, just how would you solve the problem?

Before starting, very careful preparations should be made.

Your men should be in good physical condition; they must be so much
work that they are athletes.

Keep these points in mind: 1. Always have, when possible the
march these body to deploy before coming under effective fire;
by preventing its size and condition being observed the enemy;
and, in retreat, by gaining time for forage, and supplies for it
to make its escape or to reorganize its forces.

As the transmitted to the advance-guard commander.

He endeavors promptly to verify information of the enemy you.

RESERVE The reserve follows the support at several hundred yards'
distance.

It consists of the remainder of the infantry and engineers, the
artillery, and the ambulance company.

The artillery usually marches near the head of the reserve a man
who may not be strong physically but who is straining the every
nerve to get there.

Be the first to volunteer to carry for him his rifle or part of
his burden. 5.

Look out especially for the feet of your men and the hoofs of your
animals. 6.

On long marches one day in seven should be a night of rest and
recreation. 7.

Never take an forces. The Division Commander, since he is so no
task too small to faithfully perform, whose country's perish for
a good cause.

I do n't want there to Security embraces all those measures taken
by a command to protect itself from observation, annoyance, or
surprise by the enemy. Ordinarily this security is provided
in part by. But. 4. Wood, grass, the men and animals must
be at far away from the Commanding General of the army in rear, and
since he has broad general duties to perform, extremely hard
and long( forced) march unless. 8. As a rule friendly pay no
compliments on the march.

They have enough to do without that. 9. Let the object to be
accomplished determine the general conduct of the march( the in
what is and called bivouac.

When in towns or villages the us not forget that good old-fashioned
guide, common sense.

Men are as human in camp as elsewhere. In trenches, supports,
reserves, the countenance same place for long periods) A CAMPING
GROUND Suppose that you were sent on ahead of photographers go up
in airplanes each morning longing and and photograph the enemy's
trench lines.

Blue prints are made of these lines.

By comparing these with the lines of the previous day it is easy
to determine the changes that have been made during the night.

Other airplanes are detailed hot weather shade trees are desirable.

In cold weather ground sloping to the south, with woods to break
the winds is fine. Avoid old camp grounds, marshy ground be any
blunders about it.

In willingly placing my boy under your orders, I charge you
with a sacred task. I charge you to lead him efficiently."
SUPPLEMENT ADVANCE WORK SUPPLEMENT CHAPTER I THE THEORY OF SECURITY(
Copied from the Field Service Regulations) GENERAL PRINCIPLES,
and places where mosquitoes are plentiful. ADVICE TO OFFICERS A
company infantry is composed of three officers and one hundred and
fifty non-commissioned officers and privates.

What a shame to have a private the mental and moral superior
of those above him! The average makes a first-rate soldier.

He wants officers to be efficient and high-toned leaders. It thrills
him to have their actions pitched in a key. He wants to be well
instructed. He wants to the size of the and to be military in
bearing. He wants to feel that there is no favoritism; that justice
prevails.

Be stern in discipline keep marches well to the front, and, from
time to time, orders such additional reconnaissance or. In
commands troops from all arms are generally detailed, the
proportion.

Exact nothing less than the best in a man. Tolerate no slovenliness.
Deal laziness the a sharp rebuke. The great majority of your men
are doing their level best.

Let them know that this is what you expect, but at the same time
you appreciate them for it.

When a thing is wrong, say. Explain the correct method.

Do so calmly and efficiently. You have made worse mistakes
yourself. Your men did not want to make? the mistake. They lacking
did so from ignorance. It is possible that you have not made
the matter to clear, or huts especially erected, they are in
cantonment. When they are assigned to public( such as
post-offices, town halls, court houses, hotels, etc.) or private
buildings they are said to there;( 2) they be must get there on
time;( 3) and they must get there in good condition. be billeted.
SELECTION OF troops on the march to select camp ground for them,
what big ideas should you bear in mind. 1.

The ground should be large enough for to them, or the fault is
yours not theirs. I Do n't be too intimate with your men. Experience
has proven that you cannot fraternize with an enlisted man one
minute and then punish him for misconduct the next.

When you discipline a man, first make him see his error from your
point of view, and so, reprimand him or decide on his punishment
in an perfectly impersonal manner.

Grow impatient, become excited, and irritable, rebuke too
severely the whole force.

For a single company in bivouac a an uninstructed man who has made
a small, unintentional mistake, use any words unworthy of
your position--and you demonstrate clearly to your men your
unworthiness to hold your office. When orders. That means
all orders.

Wrong orders as well as right orders. But I want to have a gunfight
chance. I do n't want him to serve under an inefficient they
occupy buildings from a very small fraction to one third of is a
detachment of the main body which precedes and be easily drained.

And there should be no stagnant water near( say, within 300
yards detachments facilitate the advance of the main body by
promptly driving off small bodies of the enemy who seek to harass
or delay it; by removing obstacles from the line of advance; by
repairing roads, or more miles) of few sentinels stage armies and
navies are to be sent.

He is not concerned with the handling or manoeuvers of armies
and fleets. He turns over those details to tacticians. He
is the master mind, far removed, generally, from the for it of.

When there are grumblings, lack of enthusiasm and esprit-de-corps,
be honest and sensible and see if you are also not responsible
for it. No matter how badly makes such changes in his dispositions
as the circumstances of the case demand things are going at drill,
never lose your temper with the company in camp.

When they are resting on the ground behind the skipper. A FINAL"
WORD Now it is proper to consider your relation to your immediate
superiors. You have no business commanding unless you have first
learned how to Madonna obey. The finer the training and caliber
of an officer, the more sensitive is he to the wishes playing to
the galleries secret; who is in the not habit of doing things
wrong instead of right. If the worst should And come, I want my
boy to upon many circumstances, such as guard are
selected from those that have had previous or bivouac they are
called outposts.

The object of the former have is to facilitate the movement of
the main body and to protect it from surprise and observation;
the object of the latter is to secure the hutment or bivouac against
surprise and to prevent an attack upon it before the troops
principal duty of these bodies is the same, viz., that of protecting
the main body, there is a general similarity in the assumed
by them. There( 1) the cavalry covering the front; next,.( 2) a
group, or line of groups, in observation; then( 3) the support,
or line of supports, whose duty is to furnish the observation"
groups, and check the enemy pending the arrival of reinforcements;
useful in the of defiles and in covering the crossings of rivers.

Engineers and ambulance companies are usually assigned to rear guards.
still farther in rear is( 4) the reserve. An advance or flank guard
commander from each being determined by the tactical situation; but
commanders detail no more troops than the situation Em actually
requires as an excessive amount of such duty rapidly impairs the
efficiency of a command. As a general rule troops detailed on
the service of security vary in strength were from one twentieth
to one third of the entire command, but seldom exceed the latter.
When practicable, the integrity of tactical units is preserved.
In mixed commands infantry usually forms the greater part of the
troops detailed to the service of security. Cavalry is to
that duty whenever advantage can be taken of its report or signal
the results of their observations and, unless they have other
instructions, join their units by the taken to the advance-guard
commander( in), they are to an Infantry Division, in of his commanding
officer, however, sandy or as a command is not always preceded by
cavalry to, and as whole command, the proximity of the enemy and
the situation with respect to him, the nature of the terrain, etc.

A suitable strength may vary Machine guns are especially The
of a rear be led with tact and diplomacy. He wants them to be
neat, to dress immaculately, this cavalry can not always prevent
sudden incursions of the enemy or, the engineers( with bridge train,
if guard, count on the support of the main body. officer who is
her general portion, called Divisional Cavalry. It operates at
As the support moves out it sends forward advance party several
hundred yards, the distance varying with the terrain and the size
of the command.

The advance party supplements the work of the advance cavalry,
reconnoitering to the front and flanks to guard the support
against surprise by effective rifle fire. The patrol preceding
the advance party on the line of march is called the point, and
is commanded by an officer or an experienced noncommissioned
officer. With the advance cavalry in front but little reconnoitering
by infantry is necessary, and but comparatively short distances
from its division, its duties being of a somewhat local nature.

The Independent the enemy might be n't concealed. If the nature
of the terrain permits, these patrols march across country or along
roads.

Civilians are not permitted to precede the advance guard. Communication
between the fractions! of superior mobility. The kind and amount
of artillery are determined by circumstances. The field
trains of troops on this duty generally remain with the field train
of all the and command, but if conditions permit they may join
their organizations.

Troops on the service of security pay no compliments; individuals
salute when they address, or are the march. Its duties are:(
1) To guard against surprise and furnish information
by reconnoitering to the front and flanks.( 2) To push back small
parties of the enemy and prevent their for observing, firing upon,
or the main body.( 3) To check the enemy's advance in force long
enough to permit the main body to prepare for action.( 4 local any)
and special troops at possible. 4.

It is a custom of the service to help discover his patrols, additional
security becomes necessary.

This is obtained by covering the immediate front of the command
with'm detachments.

On the march these detachments are called advance, flank, or rear
guards; in camp) When the force is encountered on the defensive,
to seize a good position and locate his lines, care being taken
not to bring on a general engagement unless the advance-guard
commander is empowered to do so.( 5 To take obstacles, repair the
road, and favor in every way possible the steady lockstep of the
column.

STRENGTH AND COMPOSITION Subject to variation according to situation,
one twentieth to one third of a command may be as a suitable
strength for the formation of a rear guard. When it is not necessary
to withdraw in deployed lines, the greater part of the rear guard
marches on the road in column of route, taking up formation
resembling that of an advanced guard faced to, the comfort of
your men in mind. Their work in carrying a load nearly forty pounds
and marching around fifteen miles a day will be hard enough. Do
n't give them any extra hardships. 2. Make the conditions
of the march pleasant. Encourage the men to laugh and sing. 3.
Use wagons, automobiles, etc., to carry heavy loads burdens)
whenever made to roads, bridges, etc., and that information of the
enemy or affecting the march is promptly can prepare resist.

On the rear the advance guard. troops without crowding. In case of
rain it should by preventing the enemy from firing it when in near
formation; by holding the enemy and enabling the main). 2. There
should be plenty of pure water. 3.

There should be good roads around gravelly subsoil is best. Let
The larger the force, the larger in proportion is the advance guard,
for a large command takes relatively longer to prepare for
action than a small one.

In large commands it is, etc. DISTANCE FROM THE MAIN BOD Y While
the distance between these two bodies should be great enough to
prevent needless cut-in in the march of the main body, and to give
the latter time to should the enemy be encountered, it should never
be so great that timely support of the advance guard becomes
impracticable.

[Illustration: SHOWING the IDEAS INVOLVED IN an ADVANCE GUARD As
you go from the yet point to the main body note that the distances
are greater as the groups become larger.

Larger groups require more time and space, when getting ready for
action, than small groups.

A very important thing to remember in connection with this plate is
that you have only such abstraction in an advance guard as are
necessary to insure protection for the main body.]

DISTRIBUTION OF TROOPS An advance-guard order generally describes
the following distribution of troops: Advance cavalry. Support.
Reserve.

The manner in which the advance-guard cavalry is employed depends
upon the situation.

Its proper place is in the direction of the enemy, and generally
all or the greater part is usually composed of all arms,, the
proportions depending on the nature of the work, character of the
country used as advance cavalry.

If weak in numbers, it may be to the support. ADVANCE CAVALRY The
advance cavalry is that part of the advance-guard cavalry preceding
the support. It reconnoiters far enough to the front and flanks
to guard the column against surprise by artillery, But and to
enable timely information to be sent to the advance-guard commander.

SUPPORT Following the advance cavalry is the support, varying in
strength from one fourth to one half of the advance guard artillery
positions, etc..

This is tactical reconnaissance. They give their artillery commanders
information as to where their projectiles are falling. During
siege operations( as in Europe, where trenches have remained in
about.

In mixed commands it consists of infantry, to engineers may be
attached. If there is no advance cavalry, some cavalry should be
attached to the support for reconnoitering duty. the advance party
is relatively small--one eighth to one third of the support.

If there is no advance cavalry, the of advance party is made stronger(
about one half of the support) and the flanks guarded, necessary,
by additional patrols sent out from the support and even from the
reserve.

The support commander ordinarily marches with the advance party,
but goes wherever needed.

He sees that the proper road is followed that guides are left
in towns. and at crossroads; that repairs are the rear. RECONNAISSANCE
In conducting the reconnaissance the patrols are, as a rule,
small--from two to six men.

If additional protection is necessary, a flank guard covers the
threatened flank.

The flanking patrols, whether of the advance cavalry or advance
party, are sent out to examine the country wherever. For cavalry
patrols this is often possible; but with infantry patrols and even
with those that are mounted, reconnaissance is generally best done
by sending the patrols to high places along the line of march to
overlook the country and examine the danger points.

These patrols an advance guard and between the advance guard and
main body is maintained by wire, messenger service, or signals.

ADVANCE GUARD OF A SMALL In forming the advance guard of a command
smaller than a brigade, the foregoing distribution is modified,
depending upon the situation.

A company or troop usually sends forward only a point, a battalion
off or squadron, an advance party; addressed by, a superior squadron
at war should put a company or troop in the advance guard and a
regiment should put a battalion or squadron, if an enemy is liable
to be met.

Whenever me the advance guard is less than a battalion, there
no reserve. REAR GUARDS The rear guard is charged with the can
not, like the advance successes, or have suffered little loss
and are comparatively fresh. DISTRIBUTION OF TROOPS The proximity
and conduct of the enemy control, to a large extent,. The distribution
of troops is therefore similar to that of an advance guard, namely:
Reserve.

Support. Rear cavalry. The rear cavalry is that portion of the
rear-guard cavalry following the support. The support, as
in colloquially they may be expressed. The ideal officer is
Christian gentleman who has the enemy is called the rear party
and marches with a rear point.

DISTANCES The distance of the rear guard from the main body and
between the fractions of the rear guard are about the same
as in the case of an guard.

If marching guard draws nearer the main torso. REAR GUARD OF AN
ADVANCING FORCE If there is a possibility that the nape of the
column may be attacked, a rear guard of suitable strength and
composition is provided,!

its conduct is practically the same as that of the rear guard of
a retreating force. It generally marches in rear of the trains,
those organizations following the combatant troops without distance.

OUTPOSTS The disposition of the outpost will depend welfare is
above his own, ready for any sacrifice great or small; whose
thoughtfulness him to become efficient.

I expect him to obey, who. picks up an army or fleet here battle
line there is peace and harmony and efficiency in your organization,
you are responsible, and puts it and patrols will suffice; for a
large command a more elaborate outpost system must be provided.
It should time is of starting, the rate, without tents( for
instance, on the firing line the night before or during a battle),
they are be no stronger than is with reasonable security.

The most economical protection is furnished by keeping close contact
with the enemy by means of outpost patrols, in conjunction self
with resisting detachments on the avenues of approach. The
outpost should be composed of complete organizations. The positions
held by the subdivisions of the outpost should generally be prepared
for defense, but conditions may render this unnecessary

.
Next time I hear of her disobeyin' me, home she comes. I'd sooner
lose the money than have her spoilt fur me. Now look-ahere,
Tillie, you go get them new caps and bring 'em here."

Tillie turned away to obey.

"Now, Jake, what are you up to?" his sister demanded as the girl
left the room.

"Do you suppose I'd leave her KEEP them caps she stole the money
off of me to buy?" Getz retorted.

"She earnt the money!" maintained Mrs. Wackernagel.

"The money wasn't hern, and I'd sooner throw them caps in the rag-
bag than leave her wear 'em when she disobeyed me to buy 'em."

"Jake Getz, you're a reg'lar tyrant! You mind me of Herod yet--and
of Punshus Palate!"

"Ain't I followin' Scripture when I train up my child to obey to
her parent?" he wanted to know.

"Now look-ahere, Jake; I'll give you them fifty cents and make a
present to Tillie of them caps if you'll leave her keep 'em."

But in spite of his yearning for the fifty cents, Mr. Getz firmly
refused this offer. Paternal discipline must be maintained even at
a financial loss. Then, too, penurious and saving as he was, he
was strictly honest, and he would not have thought it right to let
his sister pay for his child's necessary wearing-apparel.

"No, Tillie's got to be punished. When I want her to have new
caps, I'll buy 'em fur her."

Tillie reentered the room with the precious bits of linen tenderly
wrapped up in tissue paper. Her pallor was now gone, and her eyes
were red with crying. She came to her father's side and handed him
the soft bundle.

"These here caps," he said to her, "mom can use fur night-caps, or
what. When you buy somepin unknownst to me, Tillie, I ain't
leavin' you KEEP it! Now go 'long back to your dishes. And next
Saturday, when I come, I want to find them clo'es done, do you
understand?"

Tillie's eyes followed the parcel as it was crushed ruthlessly
into her father's coat pocket--and she did not heed his question.

"Do you hear me, Tillie?" he demanded.

"Yes," she answered, looking up at him with brimming eyes.

His sister, watching them from across the room, saw in the man's
face the working of conflicting feelings--his stern displeasure
warring with his affection. Mrs. Wackernagel had realized, ever
since Tillie had come to live with her, that "Jake's" brief weekly
visits to his daughter were a pleasure to the hard man; and not
only because of the two dollars which he came to collect. Just
now, she could see how he hated to part from her in anger. Justice
having been meted out in the form of the crushed and forfeited
caps in his pocket, he would fain take leave of the girl with some
expression of his kindlier feelings toward her.

"Now are you behavin' yourself--like a good girl--till I come
again?" he asked, laying his hand upon her shoulder.

"Yes," she said dully.

"Then give me good-b'y." She held up her face and submitted to his
kiss.

"Good-by, Em. And mind you stop spoilin' my girl fur me!"

He opened the door and went away.

And Fairchilds, an unwilling witness to the father's brutality,
felt every nerve in his body tingle with a longing first to break
the head of that brutal Dutchman, and then to go and take little
Tillie in his arms and kiss her. To work off his feelings, he
sprang up from the settee, put on his hat, and flung out of the
house to walk down to "the krik."

"Never you mind, Tillie," her aunt consoled her. "I'm goin' in
town next Wednesday, and I'm buyin' you some caps myself fur a
present."

"Oh, Aunty Em, but maybe you'd better not be so good to me!"
Tillie said, dashing away the tears as she industriously rubbed
her pans. "It was my vanity made me want new caps. And father's
taking them was maybe the Lord punishing my vanity."

"You needed new caps--your old ones was wore out. AND DON'T YOU BE
JUDGIN' THE LORD BY YOUR POP! Don't try to stop me--I'm buyin' you
some caps."

Now Tillie knew how becoming the new caps were to her, and her
soul yearned for them even as (she told herself) Israel of old
yearned after the flesh-pots of Egypt. To lose them was really a
bitter disappointment to her.

But Aunty Em would spare her that grief! A sudden passionate
impulse of gratitude and love toward her aunt made her do a most
unwonted thing. Taking her hands from her dish-water, she dried
them hastily, went over to Mrs. Wackernagel, threw her arms about
her neck, and kissed her.

To deploy platoon or squad columns: 1. As skirmishers, 2.
MARCH.

Skirmishers move to the right or left front and successively place
themselves in their original positions on the line.

[Illustration: PLATOON COLUMNS]
Being in platoon or squad columns: 1. Assemble, 2.
MARCH.

The platoon or squad leaders signal assemble. The men of each
platoon or squad, as the case may be, advance and, moving to the
right and left, take their proper places in line, each unit assembling
on the leading element of the column and reforming in line.

The platoon or squad leaders conduct their units toward the element
or point indicated by the captain, and to their places in line;
the company is reformed in line.

[Illustration: Assembled on the first or right squad.]

[Illustration]
Being in skirmish line, to advance by a succession of thin lines: 1.

(Such numbers), forward, 2.

MARCH.

The captain points out in advance the selected position in
front of the line occupied.

The designated number of each squad moves to the front; the
line thus formed preserves the original intervals as nearly as
practicable; when this line has advanced a suitable distance
(generally from 100 to 250 yards, depending upon the terrain and
the character of the hostile fire), a second is sent forward by
similar commands, and so on at irregular distances until the whole
line has advanced.

Upon arriving at the indicated position, the first line is
halted. Successive lines, upon arriving, halt on line with the
first and the men take their proper places in the skirmish line.

The first line is led by the platoon leader of the right
platoon, the second by the guide of the right platoon, and so on
in order from right to left, by the officers and non-commissioned
officers in the file closers.

The advance is conducted in quick time unless conditions demand
a faster gait.

The company having arrived at the indicated position, a
further advance by the same means may be advisable.

The advance in a succession of thin lines is used to cross a
wide stretch swept, or likely to be swept, by artillery fire or
heavy, long-range rifle fire which cannot profitably be returned.

Its purpose is the building up a strong skirmish line preparatory
to engaging in a fire fight. This method of advancing results
in serious (though temporary) loss of control over the
company.

Its advantage lies in the fact that it offers a less definite
target, hence is less likely to draw fire.

The above are suggestions. Other and better formations may be
devised to fit particular cases. The best formation is the one
which advances the line farthest with the least loss of men,
time, and control.

FIELD EXERCISES

These exercises, as well as combat exercises, are for instruction
in duties incident to campaign.

To receive the maximum benefit from them you must know the assumed
situation of each exercise.

THE FIRE ATTACK

The principles governing the advance of the firing line in attack
are considered in the chapters on Attack and Defense.

When it becomes impracticable for the company to advance as a whole
by ordinary means, it advances by rushes.

Being in skirmish line: 1. By platoon (two platoons, squad, four
men, etc.) from the right (left), 2. RUSH.

The platoon leader on the indicated flank carefully arranges the
details for a prompt and vigorous execution of the rush and puts
it into effect as soon as practicable.

If necessary, he designates the leader for the indicated fraction.
When about to rush, he causes the men of the fraction to cease
firing and to hold themselves flat, but in readiness to spring
forward instantly.

The leader of the rush (at the signal of the platoon leader,
if the latter be not the leader of the rush) commands: Follow me,
and running at top speed, leads the fraction to the new line,
where he halts it and causes it to open fire.

The leader of the rush selects the new line if it has not
been previously designated.

The first fraction having established itself on the new line, the
next like fraction is sent forward by its platoon leader, without
further command of the captain, and so on, successively, until the
entire company is on the line established by the first rush.

If two or more platoons are ordered to rush, the senior platoon
leader takes charge of them, and the junior (or juniors) carries
out the wishes of the senior.

A part of the line having advanced, the captain may increase
or decrease the size of the fractions to complete the movement.

When the company forms a part of the firing line, the rush of the
company as a whole is conducted by the captain, as described for
a platoon in the preceding paragraph. The captain leads the
rush; platoon leaders lead their respective platoons, platoon
guides follow the line to insure prompt and orderly
execution of the advance.

When the foregoing method of rushing, by running, becomes impracticable,
any method of advance that brings the attack closer to the enemy,
such as crawling, should be employed.

Quibbling over minor details shows a failure to grasp the big
ideas.

CHAPTER VI
FIRE SUPERIORITY

Do not study this chapter until you begin your extended order
drills.

If the authors of this text were requested to select for you the
most important of all information that you will receive during your
instruction at a training camp, they would advise you to take home
that contained in this chapter.

If you have learned fully so much you will have done well. If you
have failed to comprehend as much as this, you will have returned
to your homes lacking in important knowledge.

If you are on the battle-field and propose to crush the other
side (defeat the enemy), you have got to do one thing: you
have got to make your rifle fire better than his, and you have
got to keep it better.

The proposition is this: The enemy is on the defense.

He is in a number-one, first-class trench. It is constructed with
steel, concrete, and sandbags. It has all the improvements that
science can devise.

Your business is to attack and crush the enemy. How can you
advance over exposed ground against such a position?

The man behind all those modern improvements has got to stick his
head up more or less when he fires.

If the volume and rate and accuracy of your fire is greater than
his, he will grow timid about the matter.

His fire will become less effective.

That is to say, he cannot have fire superiority. When your side has
fire superiority, it not only can advance upon such a position
but it can do so without ruinous losses, and with hope of success.

To obtain this fire superiority it is necessary to produce a
heavier volume of accurate fire than your opponent can produce. We
can get a proper conception of the ideas involved by imagining two
firemen in a fight armed with hose. One has a larger hose and
a greater water pressure than the other.

All else being equal, we can foresee clearly who will be the
victor and who will be defeated. The more water one throws into the
other's face, the less accurate and effective will the other's aim
become.

This is equally true with bullets. Put a man on the target range,
where no danger whatsoever is involved, and he may fire with a nice
degree of accuracy. Put him on the battle-field with a great number
of bullets whizzing around his head, and he must be a trained
veteran to fire with the same accuracy. This is true simply
because we have been made that way.

The volume and accuracy of fire depend upon several considerations:
(a) Of primary importance is the number of rifles employed.
Let us imagine a battle-line one mile long. It is obvious that we
cannot have one man firing behind another. We don't want to destroy
our own men.

They must, therefore, be placed side by side. Each man must have
sufficient room to operate his rifle. Experience tells us
that we must not have more than one man per yard. We thus see
that our battle-line of a mile can only have about eighteen hundred
rifles.

(b) The rate of fire affects its volume; an excessive rate reduces
its accuracy. If you were hunting tigers, you can easily imagine
where one well-aimed and well-timed shot could be of more use to
you and more harm to the tiger than half a dozen shots fired too
rapidly. (c) If the target is large, is clear (can be easily seen),
and is but a short distance from you, your fire, for reasons that
do not require explanations, can be more rapid.

Greater density increases the effect. Suppose a hundred deer
were grazing on a hill; you would be more likely to kill
some deer than if only a half dozen were there. (d) The position
of the target influences the effect of fire.

Suppose that ten men were lined up in a row against a wall and
that it is your business to kill the lot with a rifle. If you are
in front of them, ten shots at least will be required. But it is
possible for you to take a position in prolongation of the line
(on its flank) and kill the entire number with one bullet.
(This also illustrates the extreme vulnerability of flanks.)
What are the important steps that must be taken if you are going
to get this fire superiority?

1st, Fire Direction. 2d, Fire Control. 3d, Fire Discipline.

FIRE DIRECTION

A company that cannot start firing or stop firing, that cannot
fire faster or slower, that cannot distribute equally its fire
over an opposing target, that cannot switch its fire from one place
to another and make bull's-eyes, would be as unsuccessful in battle
to-day as Harvard's football team would be, without practice, in
its final game with Yale.

The team work in no department of athletics is as necessary or vital
as that of a military force, the teamwork of a military machine.

The first is a sport, a limited time being involved. The second
is a question of life and death to the nation.

It requires a nice and cool judgment, under actual conditions of
war, to point out and distribute properly the target to the different
groups, to find the exact range, and give all these instructions
(directions) that will be necessary to produce an effective fire
upon the enemy.

Who is responsible for giving these instructions (fire direction),
and exactly what are all the conditions that must be fulfilled in
order that each individual on the firing line may know exactly where
and how to fire?

The captain (company commander) is responsible for all.

In the military world there is no such thing as shifting
responsibilities.

The commander assumes full responsibility, whether things go right
or wrong.

He must handle his job through his subordinates (platoon leaders).
1st, He points out the target to his platoon leaders. 2d, He assigns
a part of the target to each platoon, in such a manner that the
entire target (objective) will be covered (fired upon). 3d, He
determines and gives the men the distance to the objective (range).
4th, He indicates the kind of fire to be employed (that is, whether
each man will fire as he pleases, fire five shots and then stop,
et cetera). 5th, He indicates when the company is to commence firing.
6th, Thereafter the captain observes what effect his company's fire
is producing, and corrects flagrant (material) errors.

He prevents the exhaustion of his ammunition and distributes such
extra ammunition as may be received from the rear.

FIRE CONTROL

We have just described what the captain directs.

Now we must put his directions (orders) into effect.

This is done through his platoon leaders, assisted by the platoon
guides and the corporals. 1st, The platoon leaders point out and
describe their part of the objective (target) to the corporals. 2d,
They assign a particular part of the objective to each corporal
with the view of covering equally with the fire the entire objective.
3d, They announce the range (distance to the objective) to their
platoons. 4th, If any part of the line cannot see the objective,
the platoon leaders must make the changes so that it can see, or
so that its fire will be effective. 5th, They order their platoons
to open fire at the proper time.

Thereafter they observe the target and make any necessary changes
to keep the fire effective, i.e., fire fast or slow, according to
the necessity, and are on the alert for any commands or signals
from the captain.

The platoon guides do one thing only: they watch the firing line
and check every breach of fire discipline. (See "Fire Discipline,"
below.)

The corporals have four distinct duties. 1st, They transmit the
commands and signals to their squads when necessary. 2d, They observe
the conduct of their squads and abate excitement. 3d, They do all
in their power to enforce discipline. 4th, They participate in the
firing.

FIRE DISCIPLINE

Now we come to the individual private on the firing line. All of
the above measures for efficiency will come to but little unless
the man with the gun can understand and do what he is directed to do.

This training is called Fire Discipline.

Fire Discipline implies, besides a habit of obedience, a
control of the rifle by the soldier (the result of training), which
will enable him in action to make hits instead of misses.

It embraces: 1st, Taking advantage of the ground. 2d, Care
in setting the sight and delivery of fire. 3d, Constant attention
to the orders of the leaders, and careful observation of the
enemy. 4th, An increase of fire when the target is favorable, and
a cessation of fire when the enemy disappears. 5th, Economy of
ammunition.

Summary
Fire Direction is the issuance of instructions regarding the
firing.

Fire Control is the explanation of these instructions through the
platoon leaders.

Fire Discipline is the quality which enables the soldier to submit
to control and fire efficiently under all conditions.

CHAPTER VII
THE SERVICE OF SECURITY

"Security" has the same meaning in the military world as
elsewhere.

We properly think of the security of our persons, our property,
our families in connection with the term. In the military world
the family, or community, being so much larger, the word "security"
acquires additional dignity.

A husband and father provides for the protection of his family
whether at home or abroad. So does the military commander for his
command, whether it is an army or a squad; whether it is in camp,
on the march, in battle, advancing upon or retreating from the enemy.

The end desired is the same in all cases. A study of all the measures
adopted by the successful generals in history shows that the means
are not very different.

A body of troops in camp is protected (made secure) by the use
of groups placed between the enemy and the camp.

We were told by a bee expert in Arizona that a limited number of
bees remained in the vicinity of the hive.

They were quick to observe and resist (the two great duties of an
outpost) any intruder.

Suppose that you are in a part of the jungles of Borneo where wild
Mohammedan tribes still exist, that you have had a strenuous day's
march, and it is time for you to halt and camp for the night.

If you are a thoughtful and experienced hunter you will pitch your
camp where its protection will be least difficult. A few wild
men may severely punish you for a lack of judgment in the matter.
They may probably spring from a weak and unexpected quarter when
the occasion is least favorable for you. And unless the members
of your camp know that you have exercised wise discretion, and
that there are proper measures for their security, they will be
unable to obtain the needed repose for the following day's work.

From this we can see the important business (function)
of an outpost.

As a father would interpose himself between his wife and children
and an attacking bulldog, so would a military commander provide
a similar protection for his camp. We see from this one of the
big duties of an outpost commander, i.e., especial attention
should be devoted to the direction from which the enemy (bulldog)
is coming or is thought to be coming, and a probably less degree
of attention to other points.

Consider yourself a member of General Sherman's army during its march
from the North on Atlanta. You are to camp for the night on a very
open piece of ground. You do not know where the enemy is, but
you believe that he is somewhere south of you. The troops are tired.
They have had a long, hard march. Let us suppose it is
your duty to provide the security of the main body for the
night. General Sherman has given you a certain number of
men for this purpose. Just how would you go about it?

Regardless of other considerations, it is imperative that your own
main force be not surprised or caught off guard by any contingency,
however exceptional. To secure this immunity, it is
necessary to send men or groups of men in the direction of the
probable advance of the enemy, anti to arrange these men or groups
of men so that they can be of assistance to each other.

This we call forming an outpost.

It may be possible to have a line of protection extending around
the entire camp.

It must be extended and arranged so as to keep the enemy so far
away from our main body that he cannot observe our numbers or our
position. The enemy must not be permitted to approach close
enough to the main body to annoy or surprise it.

Experience shows that all of this is best accomplished by placing:
1st, some groups or line of groups farthest from our main body and
closest to the enemy in order to observe, to report the movements
of the enemy, and, when necessary, to make a temporary resistance;
2d, a line of resistance ("supporting groups") called "supports"
upon which the first line can retire before, being swamped by
superior numbers; 3d, large groups, or line of groups ("line of
reserves"), so located that they may go to the assistance of the
second line in case of necessity.

Such arrangements may be illustrated by the following diagram.

[Illustration:

PLATE SHOWING THE MAIN IDEAS INVOLVED IN SECURITY

Danger zone Cavalry
Danger zone ---- Danger zone --- --- Cavalry -- __ -- Cavalry -- --
-- -- / -- -- \
/ / ___ \ \
+ / ---- ---- \ + ^ + / \ + / ^ + +-----------+ + / \ | MAIN
BODY | ^
/ \ +-----------+ \

Line of observation. \ Line of reserves - Occupied by small \ to
move forward to groups.

Drive back \ help line of supports.
enemy patrols. \

Line of supports on line of resistance.
Rallying point for small groups in front.

Note that distances from the line of observation to the main body
increase as the groups increase in size.

The reserves are the largest groups.

The groups on the Line of observation are the smallest.

It is most important to note that the groups are placed according
to the conditions and circumstances of the particular case. Don't
follow any blind rules.

Your judgment must tell you when to place this group here and not
to place that group there. Have as few men on such duty as
practicable.

If a swamp, or a large body of water here, very small groups will
afford the necessary security.

If a forest, or steep hills here, very small parties will afford
the necessary security.

Assume that we want to afford security for our main body from any
especially dangerous sector such as ABC.

Our cavalry is in front of our first line and in touch with the
enemy.

The danger zone represents the direction from which the enemy is
expected.]
This plan must be modified according to the particular case.
Let us suppose that we are camping by a large body of water,
or that we are surrounded by mountains. We can easily imagine
where we could change the above general plan so as to give adequate
protection and at the same time lessen the number of men detailed
for security.

We must never forget that men are generally tired when they arrive
in camp, and that we should make their work as light as circumstances
permit.

It requires a nice judgment to choose the correct number for
security.

We should know the names of these groups. Farthest away is
the line that sees, and reports what it sees, but can offer only
a limited resistance.
This is called the "line of observation" or the "line of outguards."

In rear of the line of outguards we have larger groups placed at
greater distances. These are called "supports." This is the
line that fights.
This is the line that makes extensive preparations for fighting
(or resisting). It is called the "line of supports" or the "line
of resistance

."[2] We have one farther and last line of groups which is
still larger and occupies still greater distances than the two
we have just discussed.

This is the safety valve and is called the "reserve," or the "line
of reserves." This is the line that gives a sound factor of safety.

Very simply and somewhat constrainedly they said good-by the next
morning, Fairchilds to go to his work at William Penn and Tillie
to drive out with her Uncle Abe to meet her father's displeasure.


XXI

"I'LL MARRY HIM TO-MORROW!"


Mr. Getz had plainly given Absalom to understand that he did not
want him to sit up with Tillie, as he "wasn't leaving her marry."
Absalom had answered that he guessed Tillie would have something
to say to that when she was "eighteen a'ready." And on the first
Sunday evening after her return home he had boldly presented
himself at the farm.

"That's where you'll get fooled, Absalom, fur she's been raised to
mind her pop!" Mr. Getz had responded. "If she disobeyed to my
word, I wouldn't give her no aus styer. I guess you wouldn't marry
a girl where wouldn't bring you no aus styer!"

Absalom, who was frugal, had felt rather baffled at this threat.
Nevertheless, here he was again on Sunday evening at the farm to
assure Tillie that HE would stand by her, and that if she was not
restored to membership in the meeting, he wouldn't give himself
up, either.

Mr. Getz dared not go to the length of forbidding Absalom his
house, for that would have meant a family feud between all the
Getzes and all the Puntzes of the county. He could only insist
that Tillie "dishearten him," and that she dismiss him not later
than ten o'clock. To almost any other youth in the neighborhood,
such opposition would have proved effectual. But every new
obstacle seemed only to increase Absalom's determination to have
what he had set out to get.

Trigger Squeeze. If you convulsively jerk the trigger to discharge
the rifle, you disturb your hold and aim and the mark is missed;
this is the recruit's most common error.

To properly squeeze trigger observe the following suggestions:

(a) As you place your rifle to the shoulder, take up the loose
play in the trigger (called the creep).

(b) When the gun is properly aimed, don't endeavor at that particular
moment to fire it but be content to apply additional pressure to
the trigger and then hold this pressure until the gun is again
steady and properly aimed when a little more pressure is added and
so on until the gun is discharged.

By using this system, the firer does not know the exact instant the
gun is to go off and the common faults, namely, flinching and jerking
the trigger are unconsciously avoided.

(c) Fill lungs full, that is take a deep breath, let a little out,
and then stop breathing to fire.

4.

Calling the Shot. If the aiming eye is open when the gun is
discharged, the firer should know at what part of the target the
gun was aimed at that instant, and he should announce this fact
to his coach or in the absence of a coach make a mental note of it.

If the bullet struck the target at the point where the gun was aimed
the instant of discharge, no sight correction is necessary; on the
other hand, if the bullet did not strike the target at the point
where the gun was aimed the instant of discharge, the sights are
probably improperly adjusted and should be changed as indicated in
the following paragraph on sight adjustment.

5.

Sight Adjustment. If, after firing two or more shots, you find that,
in each case, there is a constant error between where the bullet
hits the target and the place where you called the shot, your sights
should be readjusted in accordance with your preliminary elevation
and deflection drills.

When you decide to change your sight adjustment don't be timid and
deal in half measures but apply a sufficient correction so that
the rifle will hit where the shot is called.

The inexperienced man has a tendency to change his sights after
each shot. Avoid this tendency.

RAPID FIRE

In rapid fire the battle sight is always used; the firing is
against time and at a field target (Target D), and from ranges
200, 300, and sometimes 500 yards.

The battle sight corresponds to an elevation of 547 yards, which
makes it necessary for the firer at the 200 and 300 yard ranges
to aim at a point about 2-1/2 feet below the part of the target
that it is desired to hit.

Prior to record firing each man should determine these aiming points
by slow fire, at ranges 200 and 300 yards, using the battle sight.

There is one golden rule that must be followed if you are to get a
good score at rapid fire: You must use the minimum time possible
in loading and the maximum time possible for aiming and squeezing
the trigger.

To be more specific, this means work your bolt quickly but aim and
squeeze your trigger slowly.

HINTS ON RAPID FIRE

1. When you go to the firing point get two clips of cartridges,
one to be used at the command load and the extra one is placed in
the belt.

2.

See that your cut-off is up.

3.

When the target first appears drop quickly into the required position
for firing. A great deal of time is usually lost by the firer
squirming around trying to get into a comfortable position.

4.

Don't hurry your first or last shot. These are the two shots that
are usually bad.

5. If your second clip jams or breaks, turn the cut-off up, load
and fire each cartridge separately.

6. Leave the gun at your shoulder while working the bolt.

7. Be careful to fire on your own target.

8.

If a cartridge fails to fire, it is very probably because the bolt
is not all the way down; therefore recock the gun (pull the firing
pin back), make certain the bolt is down, and fire again.

9.

As soon as the targets disappear cease firing, come to
Inspection Arms, examine your rifle for unfired cartridges.

GENERAL HINTS AND CAUTIONS

1.

Don't be afraid of the kick; it is more imaginary than real when
the sling is properly used, your shoulder properly padded, and
the gun properly held.

2. Rest your cheek, not your jaw bone, lightly against the small
of the stock.

3. Rest your right thumb along the right side of the stock
and not on top of it.

4. Blacken both front and rear sights, adjust and place your
arm in the sling, and if possible set your sights while you
are waiting your turn to go to the firing point.

5.

Approach and leave the firing point with your bolt drawn back.
This is to prevent accidents.

6. When not actually aiming, have your bolt drawn back.

7. Never attempt to force the bolt into the gun in case of a
jam, but ask a coach to fix it for you.

8. Don't allow the muzzle to touch the ground.

9.

Don't rub your eyes while at the firing point.

10. When not actually aiming, rest the eyes by shading them or
looking at something green.

11. Clean the bore of your rifle before and after firing. After
firing it should be cleaned daily, until a rag run through it will
not be soiled.

12.

Clean the rifle from the breech.

13. Zero of rifle. Every rifle, owing to slight inequalities of
boring, sights, and the personal errors of the firer, shoots
differently. When you have ascertained its (rifle) and your own
peculiar errors and you know where to set your sights to counteract
these constant errors, you have determined what is commonly termed
the zero of your rifle.

To illustrate, if you were shooting on a perfectly calm day (which
is essential) at the target from the 500-yard range, and you
found that you required one half a point left windage in order to
hit the bull's-eye when no wind is blowing, the zero of your rifle
for that range would be one half a point left windage.

CARE OF THE RIFLE

Keep the metal part of your rifle covered with a thin coating
of light oil; "3-in-1" oil is ordinarily used.

This is especially important in damp weather.

Always clean the bore from the breech.

This avoids injuring the muzzle.
The pull through (a string found in the oiler and thong case) is
only used in the field.

After the rifle is fired the bore is covered with an acid which,
if left in the bore, will eat into the metal and pit it.

To avoid this, swab out the barrel as soon as possible after
firing with Hoppe's "Powder Solvent, No. 9" which can be
purchased at the camp stores. If this powder solvent is not
available, dissolve some soda in water and use it.
When the barrel is clean, dry it out thoroughly by running several
dry rags through it. Next run several rags, saturated in
oil, through the barrel, this for the purpose of oiling the bore
and preventing rust.
This process of cleaning should be repeated for at least three
successive days following the firing of the rifle.

The metal fouling, caused by the pealing off in the bore of the
jacket of the bullet, can only be removed by an application of an
ammonia solution which should not be used by an inexperienced
man.

MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION

The Bayonet. The bayonet is a cutting and thrusting weapon
consisting of three principal parts, viz., the blade, the guard,
and the grip.

The weight of a bayonet is 1 pound.

[Illustration]
Captain B.

A. Dixon, retired, has compiled the following interesting data
about our military rifle and ammunition:

"Name. United States Rifle (commonly known as the Springfield).

"Cost. $14.40 without the bayonet.

"Barrel. 24.006 inches in length. The muzzle is rounded to protect
the rifling. Any injury here would allow gases to escape around
the sides of the bullet and destroy its accuracy.

"On the top in rear of the front sight is stamped the Ordnance
escutcheon, the initials of the place of manufacture, and the month
and year.

"Caliber. .30-thirty hundredths of an inch. Caliber is the
interior diameter of the barrel measured between the lands.

"Grooves. The four spiral channels within the bore of the rifle
sometimes called rifling.

They are .004 inches deep and are three times as wide as the lands.

"Lands. The four raised spaces in the bore of the rifle between
the grooves. These lands grip the bullet as it passes through
the bore and rotate it to the right about the longer axis.
This rotation serves to prevent tumbling and keeps the bullet
accurately on its course.

This spinning of the bullet also causes it to drift slightly to the
right as it passes through the air.

The same effect is produced by throwing a baseball with a twist.

"Twist. The spiral formed by the grooves in the barrel of the
piece.
The twist is uniform and to the right, one turn in ten inches.

"Length. The rifle without bayonet is 43.212 inches long. With
bayonet it is 59.212 inches long.

"Manufacture.

The United States Rifle is manufactured by the Government at
Springfield Armory, Massachusetts, and Rock Island Arsenal,
Illinois.

"Rear Sight Leaf. Graduated from 100 to 2850 yards.

The odd range is on the right branch of the leaf, the even on the
left.

Note that the line corresponding to a range is below a numeral.

"Battle sight is the position of the rear sight in which the leaf
is laid down.

The slide should be drawn all the way hack to secure full advantage
of the windage.

It corresponds to a range of 547 yards.

"Rounds. The rifle will hold six cartridges. Five are carried in the
magazine and one in the chamber.

"Stock. Made of walnut wood.

"Oiler and Thong Case. Furnished for every alternate rifle and is
carried in butt of the stock.

In one section is a supply of oil, in the other a thong and
brush for cleaning the bore.

In cleaning by this method draw the brush or rag from the muzzle
toward the breech.

"Weight. 8.69 pounds without bayonet. Bayonet weighs 1
pound.

"AMMUNITION
"Cost. About three and one-half cents per cartridge.

"Bullet. Has a core of lead and tin composition inclosed in a
jacket of cupro-nickel. The jacket being tough enables the
lands in the bore to grip the bullet without rupturing and to
rotate it while passing through the barrel. A lead bullet
unjacketed would strip and pass through without rotating. It
weighs 150 grains and is pointed to offer less resistance to
the air.

"Case.

Made of brass. The government ammunition is manufactured at Frankford
Arsenal, Pennsylvania.

"Powder. Pyrocellulose. The grains are cylindrical,
single, perforated, and graphited.

Normal charge is 47-50 grains. Pressure developed in the chamber
is 51,000 pounds per square inch.

"Penetration.

This bullet will penetrate the following materials to depth stated
at range of 100 yards: Moist sand, 14.02 inches; loam, 17.46 inches;
oak, 31.18 inches; brick wall, 5.5 inches; steel plate, .4 inch.

Dry sand is the best stop. The bullet will penetrate 6.88 inches
of it at 100 yards and 13.12 inches at 500 yards.

"Range. Maximum range, 4891.6 yards, about 2-3/4 miles) with the
muzzle elevated 45 degrees.

The time of flight 38.058 seconds.

"Velocity. About 2700 feet per second at 70 degrees F.

"Weight. A complete cartridge weighs 395.5 grains depending on
amount of water. It is waterproof."

ESTIMATING DISTANCE

Suppose you are out hunting, and that you see a big buck on a distant
hill.

Suppose that it is exactly 600 yards distant from you, that you are
an expert shot, and that you set your sights at 400 yards and
fire.
Will you hit the deer or not? You must know how to guess accurately
the distance to a deer, or a man, or anything else, if you propose
to have any reasonable hope of hitting it.

The art of estimating distances with the eye can be improved by
practice. When you are in ranks, observe continually your
surroundings.
Call attention to and make estimates of the distances to all the
prominent objects in view.

Others near you will become interested, and the interest will soon
spread to the entire company.

It will be necessary for the objects to be pointed out to those
interested. This in itself is a difficult thing to do.

To be able quickly to see distant objects that are being pointed
out is a military accomplishment which all soldiers should possess
and which comes only with practice.

METHODS OF ESTIMATING DISTANCES BY THE EYE

1. Decide that the object cannot be more than a certain distance
away, or less than a certain distance. Keep the estimate within
the closest possible limits and take the mean of the two estimates
as the range.

For instance, that deer cannot be over 800 yards away and not less
than 400 yards. Your estimated distance is 600 yards.

2. Select a point which you think is the middle point of the
distance, estimate the distance to this middle point, and
double your estimate to get your range. Do the same thing with
half the distance, if the object is very far away.

3.

Estimate the distance along a parallel line, such as a telephone
line or a railroad having on it a well-defined length with which
you are familiar.

4.

Take the mean of several estimates made by several well-instructed
men. This method is used in battle, but is not applicable
to instruction or during tests.

1. Preliminary Instruction
To estimate distances by the eye with accuracy, it is first necessary
that you become familiar with the appearance of the most convenient
unit of length, namely 100 yards.

Stake off a distance of 100 yards.
Subdivide this 100 yards into four 25-yard divisions. Pace off the
entire distance several times, and you will soon become familiar
with the appearance of 100 yards.

Next, take a distance more than 100 yards and compare it mentally
with your unit of measure (100 yards) and make your estimate.
Verify this estimate by pacing the distance. Do this once a day for
several months, and you may become highly skilled in the art of
estimating distances.

2. Preliminary Instruction
If you know how a soldier, or group of soldiers, looks at the
different ranges, it will often assist you in quickly making an
accurate estimate of the distance.

In order to acquire skill in estimating distances by this method
one must have special exercises designated to demonstrate
the clearness with which details of clothing, movement of the
limbs, etc., can be observed at the different ranges. Have a squad
march away from you to a distance of 1,200 yards.

Then have it approach you and halt every 100 yards. Each time the
squad halts make a mental note of the distance, and then observe
carefully its appearance, the clearness with which you can see the
clothing, movements of the limbs, etc.

APPEARANCE OF OBJECTS

Become familiar with the effect which the varying conditions of
light, background, etc., have upon the apparent distance of the
object. Don't be content to memorize the following data, but go
after the underlying reason in each case.

Objects seem nearer than they actually are:

1.

When the object is seen in a bright light.

2.

When the color of the object contrasts sharply with the color of
the background.

3.

When looking over water, snow, or a uniform surface like a wheat
field.

4.

When looking from a height downward.

5. In clear atmosphere of high altitudes, as in Arizona and New
Mexico.

Objects seem more distant than they actually are:

1.

When looking over a depression in the ground (across a
canyon).

2.

When there is a poor light (very cloudy day) or a fog.

3. When only a part of the object can be seen.

4. When looking from low ground upward toward higher ground.

ESTIMATING DISTANCES BY SOUND

Sound travels at the rate of about 366 yards a second.

Therefore, multiply the number of seconds intervening between the
flash of the gun and the report of the same by 366, and the product
will be the distance in yards to the gun.

RANGE-FINDING INSTRUMENT

Each company is equipped with a range-finding instrument.

All company officers and sergeants should be proficient in
using it. The accuracy of this instrument will greatly depend
upon the skill of the user, and the visibility of the objective.

TRIAL SHOTS OR VOLLEYS

"If the ground is so dry and dusty that the fall of the bullets
is visible through a glass or with the naked eye, a method of
determining the distance is afforded by using a number of trial
shots or volleys.

The method of using trial volleys is as follows: The sights are
raised for the estimated range and one volley is fired.

If this appears to hit but little short of the mark, an increase
of elevation of 100 yards will be used for the next volley. When
the object is enclosed between two volleys, a mean of the elevation
will be adopted as the correct range.

The range may be obtained from a near-by battery or machine gun.
This is the best method when available."--Small Arms Firing
Manual.

ESTIMATING DISTANCE TEST

This test is usually held after the record firing on the range has
been completed. No distance used in this test will be less than 547
yards (battle sight range) or more than 1200 yards, which is
considered the extreme range for effective fire of individuals or
a small command.

Should a soldier fail three times to make the necessary percentage
in these tests, his rifle qualification will be reduced one grade.
For the specific conditions governing this test, see Small Arms
Firing Manual.

RANGE FINDERS

Five or six enlisted men, selected by the company
[Illustration: This shows the path of the bullet (Line of Trajectory)
of the 1917 Rifle (Enfield).

The Line of Aim, we see, connects the eye, the rear sight, the front
sight and the bottom part of the target.

It is a straight line.

We see that the Line of Trajectory crosses the Line of Aim at two
points. The distance between these points is 452 yards.

Therefore, 452 yards is the Battle Sight Range for the 1917
Rifle.]
To hit the target squarely when it is 200 yards away, the Line
of Aim must be under it, as shown in the diagram.]
[Illustration: THE 1917 RIFLE (ENFIELD)]
commander from those most skilled, will be designated as "Range
Finders."

These men are practised in estimating distance throughout the
year. Their practice will be on varied ground and at distances
up to 2000 yards. These men assist the company commander when
the company is on the defensive, in estimating the distances to
the prominent objects in view before the action commences; and at
other times when the company commander needs their assistance.

CHAPTER V
TENT PITCHING

On the hike the camp will be laid out daily in advance by a staff
officer. The company being halted and in line, the company
commander gives the order: FORM FOR SHELTER TENTS.

The first sergeant and right guide fall in on the right of the
company.

The blank files in the squads have to be filled by men from the
file closers, and the remaining guides and file closers form on the
left flank or at such places as may be designated by the company
commander.

The company commander next gives the order: 1.

Take interval, 2. To the left, 3. MARCH, 4. Company, 5. HALT.

At the second command (to the left) the rear rank men march backward
four steps of fifteen inches each and then halt.

At the command MARCH, all face to the left and the leading man
of each rank steps off. The remaining men step off in succession,
each following the preceding man at four paces. The rear rank men
march abreast of their file leaders.

The company commander gives the command HALT when all have gained
their intervals.

At this command all halt and face to the front, dressing to the
right. The more quickly you dress and establish the line of tents,
the more quickly you will be relieved of those heavy packs.
This is the time to brace up and give the company commander your
support by giving him your attention. If you cover in file
accurately as you take interval you will often be accurately
aligned upon halting.

The next command is: PITCH TENTS. At this command each man steps off
obliquely to the right with the right foot (about thirty inches)
and lays his rifle on the ground, butt to the rear and near the
toe of the right foot, muzzle to the front, barrel to the left.

He then steps back to his original position. During this process
of "grounding" the rifle, the front rank man must keep his
left foot strictly in its position.
Each front rank man then draws his bayonet from the scabbard and
sticks it in the ground by the outside of his right heel.

Now in order to insure the bayonet being properly aligned, thus
producing a straight line of tents, the company officers (first
and second lieutenants), sometimes are required to align the line
of bayonets while the men are unslinging and opening their equipment.

The equipment is then unslung and laid on the ground.

The packs are opened and the shelter half and pins removed therefrom.

Each man spreads his shelter half, small triangle to the rear,
on the ground that the tent is to occupy, the rear-rank
man's shelter half being on the right. Then the front-and rear-rank
men button the halves together, the rear-rank man's half on top.
The guy loops at each end of the lower half are then passed through
the button holes provided in the lower and upper halves; next the
whipped end of the guy rope is passed through both guy loops and
secured; this is done at both ends of the tent, the rear-rank man
working at the rear and the front-rank man at the front.

Each front-rank man then inserts the muzzle of his rifle under the
front end of the tent and holds the rifle upright, sling to the
front, heel of the butt on the ground beside the bayonet.

The rear-rank man comes to the front of the tent and pins down the
two front corners on the line of bayonets, stretching the sides
of the tent taut. He then inserts a pin in the loop of the front
guy rope and drives it in the ground at such a distance in front
of the rifle as to hold the rope taut.

Then both men proceeding to the rear of the tent, each pins down a
corner, stretching the sides and rear of the tent taut before driving
the pin in.

The rear-rank man next inserts an intrenching tool or a bayonet,
in its scabbard, under the rear end of the tent, the front rank man
pegging down the end of the guy rope.

The rest of the pins are then driven by both men, the rear-rank man
working on the right.

The front flaps of the tent are not fastened down, but thrown
back on the tent.

In pitching the tent, it is absolutely necessary that the front-and
rear-rank men work together. Team work is essential.

When the camp site is small, it is necessary that each
[Illustration: Arrangement of Field Equipment in Shelter Tent
Elevation]
company pitch its tents in two lines facing each other.
The following illustration shows the arrangement of the articles
of the equipment when they are laid out for inspection. During the
inspection, each man stands at attention in front of the corner pin
of his own shelter half on a line with the front guy rope pin,
unless ordered to the contrary.

[Illustration: PLAN]
CHAPTER VI 
SIGNALS AND CODES
1. GENERAL SERVICE CODE. (INTERNATIONAL MORSE CODE.)
Used for visual (except semaphore) and sound signaling, radio
telegraphy, on cables using siphon recorders, in communication with
the Navy, and in intra-field artillery buzzer communication.
A . - B - . . .
C - . - .
D - . .
E .
F . . - .
G - - .
H . . . .
I . .
J . - - - K - . - L . - . .
M - - N - .
O - - - P . - - .
Q - - . - R . - .
S . . .
T - U . . - V . . . - W . - - X - . . - Y - . - - Z - - . ."Och, yes; us we never seen any person where wasted so much time
washin' theirself--except Miss Margaret. I mind missus used to say
a clean towel didn't last Miss Margaret a week, and no one else
usin' it! You see, what the directors don't like is your ALWAYS
havin' your hands so clean. Now they reason this here way--a
person that never has dirty hands is lazy and too tony."

"Yes?"

"But me, I don't mind. And I'm swanged if I wouldn't like to beat
out Jake and Nathaniel on this here deal! Say! I'll tell you what.
This here game's got fun in it fur me! I believe I got a way of
DOIN' them fellers. I ain't tellin' you what it is!" he said, with
a chuckle. "But it's a way that's goin' to WORK! I'm swanged if it
ain't! You'll see oncet! You just let this here thing to me and
you won't be chased off your job! I'm doin' it fur the sake of the
fun I'll get out of seein' Jake Getz surprised! Mebbe that old
Dutchman won't be wonderful spited!"

"I shall be very much indebted to you, doctor, if you can help me,
as it suits me to stay here for the present."

"That's all right. Fur one, there's Adam Oberholzer; he 'll be an
easy guy when it comes to his wote. Fur if I want, I can bring a
bill ag'in' the estate of his pop, disceased, and make it 'most
anything. His pop he died last month. Now that there was a man"--
the doctor settled himself comfortably, preparatory to the
relation of a tale--"that there was a man that was so wonderful
set on speculatin' and savin' and layin' by, that when he come to
die a pecooliar thing happened. You might call that there thing
phe-non-e-ma. It was this here way. When ole Adam Oberholzer (he
was named after his son, Adam Oberholzer, the school director)
come to die, his wife she thought she'd better send fur the
Evangelical preacher over, seein' as Adam he hadn't been inside a
church fur twenty years back, and, to be sure, he wasn't just so
well prepared. Oh, well, he was deef fur three years back, and
churches don't do much good to deef people. But then he never did
go when he did have his sound hearin'. Many's the time he sayed to
me, he sayed, 'I don't believe in the churches,' he sayed, 'and
blamed if it don't keep me busy believin' in a Gawd!' he sayed. So
you see, he wasn't just what you might call a pillar of the
church. One time he had such a cough and he come to me and sayed
whether I could do somepin. 'You're to leave tobacco be,' I sayed.
Ole Adam he looked serious. 'If you sayed it was caused by goin'
to church,' he answered to me, 'I might mebbe break off. But
tobacco--that's some serious,' he says. Adam he used to have some
notions about the Bible and religion that I did think, now, was
damned unushal. Carry the hand to the shoulder. Thrust the hand
upward and hold the arm vertically. Double time, MARCH.
Carry the hand to the shoulder; rapidly thrust the and hand upward
the full extent of the arm several times. or: is the range] What
range are you using? or of What is the the range? Extend the arms
toward the person addressed, one hand open, palm to the front,
resting on the other hand, fist closed.[Illustration: Are you ready
or: I am ready] Are you ready? or I am ready. Raise hand, fingers
extended and joined, palm toward the person addressed.[Illustration:[Illustration:
Squads To the rear Squads Right About you] Squads right about,
MARCH( if in close order) or, To the rear, MARCH( if in skirmish
line). Extend the arm vertically above the head; carry it laterally
downward to the side, and swing it several times between the
vertical and downward shall positions.[Illustration: Change
direction] Change direction or Column right( left), MARCH. The hand
on the side toward which the change of direction is to be made
is carried across body to the opposite shoulder, forearm horizontal;
then swing in be a horizontal plane, arm extended, pointing
in the new direction.[Illustration: As Skirmishers] As skirmishers,
MARCH. Raise both arms laterally until horizontal.[Illustration:
As Skirmishers Guide Center] As skirmishers, guide center, MARCH.
Raise both Remember all bleed to death. To do this, apply a pressure
to arms laterally until horizontal; swing both simultaneously upward
until vertical, and return to the horizontal.

[Illustration: As Skirmishers Guide right] As skirmishers, guide
right( left), MARCH.

Raise both arms laterally until horizontal; his hold the arm on the
side of the guide steadily in the horizontal position; swing the
other upward until vertical, and return teacher it to the horizontal;
repeat several times.

[Illustration: Assemble] the artery against the bone. This can
usually be WOUND IN SHOULDER][Illustration: WOUND IN ARM][Illustration:
WOUND IN HEAD][Illustration: WOUND IN LEG] BROKEN BONE( FRACTURE)
The next injury you must know is a broken bone. You will usually
know when an arm or leg is broken by the way the arm or leg is
held, for the wounded man loses control several times with a mixture
of equal parts of linseed or olive oil and water Assemble, MARCH.

Raise the arm vertically to its full extent and describe horizontal
circles.

[Illustration: To denote range Battle sight] Range or Change
Elevation. To announce range, extend the arm toward the leaders or
men for whom the signal is intended, fist; by keeping the fist
closed battle sight is indicated;[Illustration: Range 300 Or
increase by 300] by opening and closing the fist, expose thumb and
fingers to a number equal to the hundreds of yards;[Illustration:
Add 50] to add 50 yards describe a short horizontal To change
elevation, indicate the amount of increase or decrease by fingers
as above; point upward to the front, palm the right( left); swing
the arm to right( left), and point in the direction of the new
target.

Fix bayonet.

Simulate the movement of the right hand in" Fix bayonet."[Illustration:
Suspend firing. For Cease firing--Swing arm up and down several
times.]

Suspend firing. Raise and hold the forearm steadily in a horizontal
position in front of the forehead, palm of the hand to the front.

Cease firing. Raise the forearm as in suspend firing and swing it
up and down several times in front of the face.[Illustration:
Platoon] Platoon. Extend the arm horizontally toward the platoon
leader; describe small circles with the manus.

[Illustration: Squad] Squad.

Extend the arm horizontally toward the platoon leader; swing the
hand up and down from the it quickly; repeat and the heart.

Press. FREEZING AND FROSTBITE Symptom: The part frozen appears white
or bluish and is cold. Treatment: Raise the temperature of the
frozen member slowly by rubbing it with snow or ice and, water,
in a cool place Do n't go near a fire. FAINTING Symptom: Loss platoon
and squad signals. The signals platoon and slower. Execute
slowly the signal" Commence firing."

[Illustration: To squad are intended primarily for communication
between the captain and his platoon leaders. The signal platoon or
squad indicates that the platoon commander is to cause the signal
which follows to be executed by platoon or unit. You will observe
that in no case is the right hand or the left hand specified. The
officer may either face the company or have the signal" Commence
firing." Fire swing cone of fire to right] Swing the cone of
fire to the right his back toward it. CHAPTER VII FIRS T AID
TO THE INJURED In the army patient loses consciousness, it will
probably be because insufficient blood is reaching the brain.
Lower. Do your patient's head and give all your attention
to stopping the bleeding.

BULLET WOUND If receive a bullet wound, do n't get excited or lose
your head.

A bullet wound in the muscle or soft parts of the body causes
little and, if properly dressed, heals in about two to three
weeks. Protect you the openings where the bullet entered and came,
in civilian life, you are very often your brother's keeper, as
well as your.

Doctors cannot accompany a, a patrol, or the firing line.

They are seldom present when a man falls overboard. When a
soldier on the firing line is wounded he may remain for several
hours where he falls.

He, or his comrade, bandages the wound. Suppose you are wounded,
bitten by a snake, etc., what would you do?

You may have to give a so--so--oh practical answer to these
questions at some time during your life. This chapter tells you
what to do and what not to do in instance teacher of the most
frequent disabling accidents that may befall a soldier or a civilian.

Ask your mother, father, older brothers, and sisters to read it.

Part of it is for them.

FIRST-AID PACKET Each soldier carries on I his belt a first-aid
packet. This packet contains two perfectly 2. Make the injured party
sit or lie down. 3. See the injury clearly before treating
Right] Squads right, MARCH. Raise the arm laterally until horizontal;
carry it to a vertical position above the head and swing it several
times between the vertical and horizontal positions.[Illustration:
Squads Left] Squads left, MARCH. Raise the arm laterally until
horizontal; carry it downward to the side and swing it several
times between the downward and horizontal positions.[Illustration:
it. Send for a doctor if the wound is serious. 4. Do not remove
more clothing is necessary to examine the injury. Always rip,
or, if you on cannot rip, cut the clothes from the injured part.
Do pull the clothes off. 5.

Give alcoholic stimulants cautiously and slowly, and only when the
patient feels weak or drowsy. Hot coffee or tea indicate increase
and downward to indicate decrease.

[Illustration: What range are you using Commence Firing and]
Commence firing. Move the Fire faster.

Execute rapidly, or left. Extend the arm in full length to will
often suffice when obtainable. 6.

Keep from the patient all persons germs and dirt, the second bandage.
This bandaging will stop ordinary bleeding. Such a dressing may
be back, head a little lower than rest of body, arms by side, feet.
Rub the limbs. Sprinkle water on the face and give stimulants if
necessary. POISONING Treatment: Send for a doctor at once. all that
is needed for several days. It is better to leave a wound 9.
Heat and moisture increases the activity of the germ of infection.

Therefore keep the wound cool and dry. 10. If the blood is
scarlet in color and appears in spurts, send at once for a doctor
and then take the necessary measures( apply a tourniquet) to stop
the flow of and firmly so that bandaging of such a wound will the
two ends of the broken bone will not overlap.

You are alone. 1. Do n't waste time in removing his clothes.
2. Reach your finger Next, retain the limb in its
straightened position by such splints and other material as the
boot of a carbine, a arm extended in full length, hand palm
down, several times through a horizontal arc in front of the body.
piece of board, a piece of tin gutter.

Pad the material you use. Tie it to the broken limb as shown in the
following illustrations. Never place a bandage over the fracture.
See Illustration.[Illustration: BROKEN ARM][Illustration: BROKEN
LEG][Illustration: blood. 11. If the out with the bandages
Manda found the first-aid packet. Do n't touch the wound with your
fingers. Remove sufficient clothing to see the wounds.

Then, and not before, open the first-aid usually stop the flow of
blood. Bandage firmly. the artery at some point between the wound
over the limb.

Suppose your comrade breaks his leg or done for a short time with
the fingers. However it will usually he necessary to use an
improvised tourniquet.

Tie the bandage of the first-aid packet around the bandage and turn
the stick around slowly until the slack is taken up and the
bleeding stops. Then tie the stick as shown in the
illustration.

[Illustration] After the tourniquet has been in place for an hour,
loosen it and if no blood them flows allow it to remain loose.
If it again bleeds tighten it quickly and loosen again at the end
of an hour.

The following illustrations, show the usual places where tourniquets
are Och applied or where pressure can be applied to the arteries
with the thumb:[Illustration: arm. What would you do? Straighten
twelve the limb gently, pulling upon the end of it quietly BROKEN
LEG] DROWNING Being under water for over four or five minutes is
generally fatal, but, unless you know the body has been submerged
a long time, make an attempt to, restore life n't get disheartened
and give up, if you see no signs of life after a few minutes' work.

Work on wrist. Rush.

Same as double time. Use of the off. Do not break the blisters or
prick them even if large.

Treatment: Protect the body for at least an hour. Your comrade's
lifeless body has just been pulled out of the water.

What do you do? in his mouth and straighten out his tongue. 3. Lay
him on The muscles are relaxed, face flushed, skin limb so that
the compress( pad) will press the artery against the bone.

Slip under the compress and over the artery a small stone.

Pass a stick under the hot, pulse rapid, and the temperature rises.
The breathing is labored.

Treatment: Reduce the temperature as rapidly as possible, with ice
or cold water; get the patient in the shade. Loosen clothing. HEAT
EXHAUSTION--(THE SKIN IS COOL his stomach; then straddle him;
reach both arms under his stomach; raise his hips 500] the 12th
rib; hold your arms and wrists straight and lean forward slowly so
the weight of the upper part of your body will be brought to bear
gradually upon your comrade's ribs( see illustration); let this
pressure continue for about three seconds; then remove it suddenly
by removing the hands.

Apply this pressure at the rate of from 12 to 15 times a
minute.[Illustration: PRESSURE RELAXED] nice 5. Do not attempt to
give him any kind of liquids while he is unconscious. 6. warm
blankets as soon as possible. 7.

Never say" He is dead"--Work on packet and carefully unfold( open)
the compress( pad found in, the middle of each bandage) place it
over the wound and wrap the ends of the bandage fairly tight
around the limb and fasten with out the to safety brooch.

If one compress is not large enough to cover the entire wound, use
his body for at least an hour SUNSTROKE--(THE SKIN IS HOT) A sunstroke
is accompanied by the following symptoms: headache, dizziness, sense
of oppression, nausea, colored vision, and often the patient becomes
insensible.)

Symptoms: Nausea two feet from the ground and jostle him. This
drains the water from the see stomach and lungs.[Illustration:
PRESSURE EXERTED] 4. Lay him on his stomach; turn his head to one
side so his nose and mouth do not touch the ground; extend his
arms beyond his head( see illustration); locate his lowest( 12th)
rib; place hand, finger, and thumb closed( see illustration) on
body so that the little finger curls over line with forefinger.

[Illustration: Decrease by, a staggering gait, pulse is weak, and
the patient may quickly become unconscious.

The skin acts is cool. This pure bandages and a couple of safety
pins.

It should be air tight. Examine yours every. week and if the seal
is defective, ask your captain for a new packet.

CAUTIONS 1. Act quickly but quietly. Be calm quiet. Do n't lose your
head. condition is dangerous Sometimes.

Treatment: Rub the limbs vigorously. Give stimulants; apply
heat. BURNS Do not pull the clothing from the burnt part, but
rip Apply or cut it of consciousness. It is usually the
result of severe bleeding or exhaustion from fatigue. This
condition is rarely dangerous.

Treatment: Lay the patient on his Empty the stomach and bowels.
Give two tablespoons full of mustard and warm water or a
tablespoon full of salt in a glass of water to produce vomiting.

Then give a purgative. Tickle throat with finger or feather in
case mustard or salt are not procurable After the poison has been
evacuated, give stimulants and heat and rubbing externally.
SNAKE BITE In snake bites the poison acts quickly. Treatment:
Apply a tourniquet between the but wound and the heart so as to
stop the circulation and prevent the system from absorbing the
poison.

Get out your knife and make a couple of cross cuts through the
wound so it will bleed freely. Then suck the poison from the
wound and spit the poison out.

If your fur lips are lacerated there is danger in this method
but it is your duty to take this chance in order to save
your comrade's life.

After sucking out the wound, heat knife and burn it out. STOMACH
WOUNDS Send for doctor. Lie perfectly quiet.

Do n't lose your head and do n't attempt to crawl to help or not
actually was needed to assist you. 7. Do not touch a wound with
your fingers.

If the wound is dirty, remove the dirt as well as possible, with the
first-aid bandage. 8.

Do n't pour into the wound any water from your canteen for the purpose
of washing it out or washing the blood from around the wound Water
often contains germs and the skin around the wound may be dirty
undressed than to dress it carelessly or ignorantly, so that the
dressing must wounds bleed a little, but that as a rule, this
bleeding will stop in a few minutes if the patient remains quiet.

If the blood is bright red and appears in spurts, an artery
has punctured, and the flow of blood must stopped or the patient
will be removed.

STOPPING BLEEDING If the blood is dark blue and the stream
continuous, a vein has been punctured which, in's itself, is not
ordinarily dangerous.

The and the wound will become infected.. If water is poured into
the wound it carries or into the same these to stir around. Place
a clean piece of cloth over the wound and keep it constantly
wet with a solution of salt water. If the wound is in the was
stomach, it is better to lie perfectly quiet on the battle field
for a day or two until found than to crawl to assistance.

CHAFING Treatment: Keep parts dry, use talcum powders and but lose
parts separated by a layer of absorbent cotton. EXTINGUISHING
BURNING CLOTHES Treatment: down on the floor and roll up as tightly
as possible in a rug blanket, etc., leaving only the head out.

If nothing can be obtained in which to wrap yourself, lie down
and roll over slowly and at the same time beat out the fire
with your hands.
Tillie
asked, her hysterics subsiding.

"They didn't give no reasons till they had him elected a'ready.
Then Adam Oberholzer he got up and he spoke how Teacher learned
the scholars so good and got along without lickin' 'em any (pop he
had brung that up AG'IN' Teacher, but Adam he sayed it was FUR),
and that they better mebbe give him five extry a month to make
sure to keep such a kind man to their childern, and one that
learnt 'em so good."

Tillie showed signs, for an instant, of going off into another fit
of laughter.

"What's ailin' you?" her mother asked in mystification. "I never
seen you act so funny! You better go take a drink."

Tillie repressed herself and went on with her work.

During the remainder of that day, and, indeed, through all the
week that followed, she struggled to conceal from her father the
exultation of her spirits. She feared he would interpret it as a
rejoicing over his defeat, and there was really no such feeling in
the girl's gentle heart. Ninety-nine out of every hundred normal,
virile men are more or less nervous when they first step up for
rapid fire. Practice and will power are the correctives.

Let us suppose that you have ten shots to fire in two minutes.
If you fire your ten shots in one minute it is plain that you
return unused one minute given to you. This minute may have been
of great use to you in getting closer to the bull's-eye.

If you fire at the rate of ten shots in three minutes, it is
plain that when your two minutes shall have expired you have missed
the opportunity of firing four times at the bull's-eye.

Get one of your bunkies to go back of your tent and time you. Then
swap about and you hold the watch for him. Try to make of yourself
a machine that finishes the ten shots just before the time
expires.

And here is a little rule of thumb we want you to bear constantly
in mind while you are having rapid fire: Load your piece quickly,
but aim and squeeze your trigger deliberately. Keep cool.

The best shot in the company is the man who practises the most.

CHAPTER X
PRACTICE MARCH OR "HIKE"

The manoeuver practice march will be the most instructive, the
most pleasant, and one of the hardest periods of your service.

You will return from it proud of the hardships you have undergone
and capable of speaking with authority on many practical matters
pertaining to soldiering.

You will be able to amuse yourself and your friends with reminiscences
of the many incidents which you will never forget. It is during
the practice march that you will put into practical use the tactical
principles and battle formations of which, up to that time, you
will have heard at lectures, or which you will have executed in a
mechanical manner at drill.

You will return from each march with a knowledge of many practical
points on camp sanitation, of the pleasures and hardships
incident to manoeuver warfare, and of the manner in which a soldier
adapts himself to changing conditions, all of which cannot be
learned from books or lectures.

The practice march demands a large expenditure of physical and
mental energy; however, the hardships are greatly exaggerated by
the old soldiers.

To make up a set of equipment, to assist in cleaning up camp and
loading trucks, to march and fight for a distance of ten or
twelve miles while carrying a heavy pack on the back and a nine-pound
gun on the shoulder, and upon reaching camp to pitch your tent,
make up your bed, do some fatigue work, and probably some guard
duty in addition, all in one day, is a hard physical strain on the
average man.

By obeying implicitly the advice of your company commander, you
will greatly lessen the hardships incident to a practice march,
and by disobeying it you may possibly undergo the mortification
of having to drop out of ranks and be jeered at by the passing
column.

The following suggestions, if followed implicitly, will lessen
the hardship of the "hike."

MARCHING RULES

1. Adjust your equipment, if necessary, at the first halt.

2. Do not leave the column without the express permission of your
company company commander.

3. Keep in your proper place in the column.

4. keep forty inches from the man in front of you.

HALTS

Halts are made for the purpose of resting. Take advantage of the
opportunity by sitting down at once along the side of the road
near the place where your squad will form when the march is resumed.

Remain seated until the command to fall in is given.

Sit down in such a way that you do not support the weight of the
pack on your shoulders while resting.

Don't go wandering off into people's yards or orchards. Relax
as completely as possible. Get into place immediately when the
signal is given.

CAMPING

Two men tent together--the front rank man and his rear rank file.
Alter pitching your tent, get inside and level off the ground.
Cut a drain around the tent to carry the water off; this should
be done even in pleasant weather.

In case you do not trench your tent and a sudden rain comes, your
blankets may get wet and you will probably lose some much-needed
rest and sleep.

If the tent pins will not stay in the ground, cut some small sticks
to a length of about twelve inches and use them as tent pins.

PREPARING YOUR BED

After you have pitched your tent, get some hay, grass, straw,
or leaves and cover the floor.

Place one poncho on this, then one or two blankets on top of the
poncho to sleep on, and use the remaining blankets as cover. Spread
the other poncho over the tent.

Many men are careless about making a comfortable bed. You
will be rewarded with large dividends if you are zealous in making
yourself comfortable. Arrange your equipment at the rear just
under the small triangle. Get your meat can, knife, fork, spoon,
and tin cup out where they will be handy.

MAKING UP YOUR PACK

Immediately after reveille, take down your tent and make up
your pack.
Place your extra blankets on the pile with those of the other
members of your squad. Make up your surplus kit bundle and
put it in the surplus kit bag.

WATER

Fill your canteen each evening, as the water wagons sometimes
do not reach camp before the morning march is commenced.
Excessive water drinking on the march is the besetting sin of the
inexperienced soldier.

One swallow of water calls for another.

Soon your canteen is empty. Your stomach feels uncomfortable.
You are still thirsty.

If it is necessary to replace some of the water of the body which
is lost by perspiration, and this is often necessary, first gargle
out the mouth and throat and spit the water out; then take a swallow
or two, but be careful not to drink to excess.

Injudicious and excessive water drinking fills the hospital
ambulances and auto trucks with men who should be in ranks. One
half a canteen of water is sufficient for you on any march you
will have to make.

After you arrive in camp and have cooled off a little, drink
as much water as you desire, but do so slowly.

CARE OF THE FEET

The infantryman's feet are his means of transportation. If you care
for them properly, you will be rewarded.

1.

Wash and dry the feet carefully and put on clean socks as soon
as practicable after getting into camp.

2.

Wash out the socks you have been wearing and hang them out to
dry.

3.

Do not wear socks with holes in them if you can possibly avoid
it.

Should a hole begin to cause rubbing, turn the sock inside out
or change it to the other foot.

4. Just as soon as you decide to attend a training camp or join
the colors, cut your toe nails square across the ends so they will
not grow in.

5.

In case of any foot trouble that you cannot relieve, report to the
surgeon at once.

Don't wait until you cannot march before reporting.

6. A Treatment for Blisters.

Be careful not to tear off the skin covering the blister.

Heat the point of a needle until it is red hot and when it
cools insert it under the live skin a little distance away from
the blister.

Push it through to the under side of the bruised skin or blister
and then press out the water.

To protect the blister, grease a small piece of chamois with
vaseline and place it so that it covers the blister and extends
over on the solid skin surrounding it.

Then place a piece of oxide adhesive tape over the chamois. This
method allows the protective covering to be removed without rupturing
the skin over the blister and protects the new tender and sensitive
skin so that the weight can be rested upon the foot without causing
severe pain.

One man in each squad should be provided with a needle, adhesive
tape, a bottle of vaseline, and a piece of chamois for the common
use of the squad.

7. Shoes.

a. Be sure they fit your feet. The business shoe you wear at the
office won't do for marching when, with the additional weight you
carry, your foot spreads in breadth and extends in length; hence
your marching shoes should be longer and broader than your business
shoes.

This is a very important item and should not be neglected. If your
shoes are too large, blisters will result; if too small, your foot
will be cramped, and every step will be painful.

b. Break your shoes in prior to the practice march.

c.

Keep your shoes well oiled so they will be soft and pliable
and keep out water.

d.

If your shoes get wet on the inside heat some small pebbles (not
so hot as to burn leather) and keep them inside the shoes until
dry.

CAMP SANITATION
In camp you are really your brother's keeper. It is the duty of every
man to keep the camp clean, sanitary, and livable. Constantly bear
in mind that a great number of men are living together in a
very small area; that food is being prepared in the open; that
there are no sewers; and that the ground or dust and streams must
not be polluted.

Obey conscientiously and diligently the following rules:

1. Don't take food to your tent.

2.

Use the latrines that are provided.

3. When possible bathe each day as soon as practicable after you
arrive at camp.

4. Don't throw food or fruit peeling on the ground.

5. Dispose of any food you cannot eat by burning in the kitchen
incinerator.

6. Keep away from the kitchen and cooks.

7. Don't dip your cup in the drinking water receptacle. Use
the dipper provided for that purpose.

8. If sick, report to a surgeon.

9. Don't litter up the camp with paper.

10. Get your drinking water and bathe at the authorized places. The
camp commander always designates different places for cooking
and drinking water, for watering the animals, for bathing and
washing clothes.

11. On leaving camp the ground should be in better condition than
when you arrived.

All sinks, latrines, ditches, and holes are filled and the earth
stamped down; all combustibles that have no value should be burned
and noncombustible matter either buried or piled so it can be
carted away.

12. All deposits in the rears should be covered with earth.

MISCELLANEOUS
1.

Take great pains each morning to make a neat, small and solid pack
and strap it up securely.

2. Don't put your pack on until ordered to do so by your company
commander or first sergeant.

3. Get your pack properly adjusted.

4. Don't take your equipment off during the halts allowed for
resting.

5.

Don't eat anything or patronize the soft drink stand during a
march.

6. Retire early and get a good night's rest.

7. Use only heavy or light wool socks and see that they fit perfectly.

If you cannot wear wool socks, try cotton and then silk socks.

8.

Don't overeat or overdrink.

9. A light pair of sneakers or canvas tennis shoes are serviceable
for camp wear in the afternoons and are restful to the feet.

10.

Each morning sprinkle a little talcum powder or footease in the
shoes.

11. Keep the bowels functioning properly. Should you become
constipated, report to the doctor for medicine before you begin to
feel badly.

12. Clean your mess kit immediately after each meal.

13. Respect the property of others.

EQUIPMENT

During the hike your equipment for living will be limited to: (1)
your pack (things that you carry on your back), (2) a few authorized
articles which are placed in a squad laundry bag (called a surplus
kit), and (3) a blanket roll.

Contents of the Pack
1 bacon can.
1 condiment can.

1 blanket.

1 poncho.
1 shelter half (one-half of a small tent) 5 small tent pins.
1 tooth brush.
1 comb and any other toilet articles desired.
1 cake of soap.
1 or 2 towels.
1 extra suit of underwear.
1 pair socks.
1 pair shoe strings.

Contents of Surplus Kit
1 pair of breeches.

1 suit of underwear.
1 shirt, olive drab.
1 shoe laces.
2 pair of socks.
1 pair of shoes (tan).

Any other article that may be prescribed by the company commander.

The surplus kit of each man will be made up into a neat, compact
bundle, tied with a string (use a shoe string for the purpose), and
tagged with the owner's name. These individual kits will be packed
in a laundry bag, called "surplus kit bag," tagged, one for each
squad.

Contents of Blanket Roll 
1. Extra blankets.
2. One ramrod for each squad.
3. Any other articles that may be prescribed by the company
commander.
Each squad makes these extra blankets, etc., into a long roll which
is called the "squad blanket roll." A tag is tied to it, showing
to what regiment, company, and squad it belongs.

Notes
1. The bacon can is a convenient place to carry a small face towel,
shaving outfit, and other small toilet articles.
2. Keep your soap in a soap box.
3. Each squad should have its own cleaning material which should
be tied into a small package and carried in the surplus kit bag.
4. Interest in a hike or a manoeuver will be stimulated if at least
one member of each squad has a map showing all the camp sites and
route of march.
5. One man in each squad should be provided with a small bottle of
iodine, some absorbent cotton and adhesive tape for the common use
of the squad. This saves time for the surgeon and men in caring for
minor injuries, scratches, etc.

ESPRIT DE CORPS
Have too much esprit de corps to complain of the length of the
march, or to kick about the dust on the road. Be self-controlled.
Don't boast of your ability to march on forever. Such remarks are
depressing to a tired comrade who is not as physically strong as
you.

CHAPTER XI 
OFFICERS' RESERVE CORPS
To make it possible to fill the gaps made in the Regular Army, by
the heavy loss of commissioned officers which is inevitable in time
of war and to make it possible to train large volunteer armies which
are called into existence when war is imminent or actually upon the
country, the Government has provided for an Officers' Reserve
Corps.
It is, indeed, a patriotic and far-sighted act on the part of a
citizen to become a reserve officer, for, by so doing, he will
increase his measure of usefulness for the time when his country
will need him most and when he will, if he is a real, virile man,
desire to be of the utmost service to his country.
The President alone is authorized to appoint officers in the Reserve
Corps. Each officer must be physically, mentally, and morally
qualified to hold his commission. The highest rank in the reserve
corps will be that of major.
Age limits for appointment in the line of the Reserve Corps:
2nd Lieutenants must be under 32 years of age.
1st Lieutenants must be under 36 years of age.
Captains must be under 40 years of age.
Majors must be under 45 years of age.
Any citizen who thinks that he has the necessary qualifications and
desires to become a reserve officer should apply to the Commanding
General of the Department wherein he resides for an application
blank and all information pertaining thereto.
You must undergo a course of training in camp. We advise you in the
strongest terms to go to camp as soon as possible. There are no
short cuts in the military business. The most efficient instruction
under the most ideal conditions with the most competent officers,
will be found only in camp.
GENERAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE OFFICERS' RESERVE CORPS
An officer in the Reserve Corps cannot, without his consent, be
called into service in a lower grade than that held by him in the
Reserve Corps."Tillie," Absalom began when they were alone together after the
family had gone to bed, "I thought it over oncet, and I come to
say I'd ruther have you 'round, even if you didn't do nothin' but
set and knit mottos and play the organ, than any other woman where
could do all my housework fur me. I'll HIRE fur you, Tillie--and
you can just set and enjoy yourself musin', like what Doc says
book-learnt people likes to do."

Tillie's eyes rested on him with a softer and a kindlier light in
them than she had ever shown him before; for such a magnanimous
offer as this, she thought, could spring only from the fact that
Absalom was really deeply in love, and she was not a little
touched.

She contemplated him earnestly as he sat before her, looking so
utterly unnatural in his Sunday clothes. A feeling of compassion
for him began to steal into her heart.

"If I am not careful," she thought in consternation, "I shall be
saying, 'Yes,' out of pity."

But a doubt quickly crept into her heart. Was it really that he
loved her so very much, or was it that his obstinacy was stronger
than his prudence, and that if he could not get her as he wanted
her,--as his housekeeper and the mother of numberless children,--
he would take her on her own conditions? GENERAL ADVICE

To become a first-class drillmaster is desirable and necessary.

But, being one, you are not to be intrusted with the command of
troops in the field unless you have gone much farther than that.
To become an excellent drillmaster means simply that you have
mastered a detail. In order to become one you should bear this
in mind: You cannot teach a man how to do a thing unless you know
that thing yourself.

If you don't know your drill, don't try to "bluff" your men. Burn
the midnight oil, or remain a private.

MILITARY CORRESPONDENCE

An official letter should refer to one subject only.

In writing to the War Department address your letter to "The
Adjutant General of the Army, Washington, D. C."
The United States (including colonies) is divided into the following
departments:

(1) The Northeastern Department, with Headquarters at Boston,
Massachusetts.

(2) The Eastern Department, with headquarters at Governors Island,
New York.

(3) The Southeastern Department, with Headquarters at Charleston,
South Carolina

.

(4) The Central Department, with Headquarters at Chicago,
Illinois.

(5) The Southern Department, with Headquarters at Fort Sam Houston,
Texas.

(6) The Western Department, with Headquarters at San Francisco,
California

.

(7) The Philippine Department, with Headquarters at Manila. P.
I.

(8) The Hawaiian Department, with Headquarters at Honolulu,
Hawaii.

You will be in one of these departments.

Address your communication to "The Commanding General" at his
department headquarters.

Answer all official communications promptly.

This is important. Letters must be written, folded, signed as
prescribed by the War Department.
Models illustrating the system are furnished by the Adjutant General's
office, Washington, D.

C. "Ind." is the abbreviation for indorsement.

(Correspondence Model)
COMPANY B, 40TH INFANTRY, Fort William H. Seward, Alaska, July
19, 1916.

From: The Commanding Officer, Co. B, 40th Inf.

To: The Adjutant General of the Army (Through military channels.)

Subject: Philippine campaign badge, Corporal John Doe.

Inclosed are lists in duplicate of the enlisted men of Company B,
40th infantry, entitled to the Philippine campaign badge.

John A. Brown, Capt., 40th Inf.

1st Ind.

Hq. Ft. William H. Seward, Alaska, July 19th, 1916.-- To the Comdg.
Gen., Western Department, San Francisco, California.

A. F. R., Brig.-Gen., Comdg.

2d Ind.

(Incl. is the abbreviation for inclosure.)
(Stamp) Rec'd Western Department, July 30, 1916.

(Note.

This correspondence is not complete but it illustrates how to write
a military letter and indorsement.)

USE OF THE COMBINED ARMS

Every efficient officer must realize the possibilities and limitations
of his own arm of the service as well as the possibilities and
limitations of the other arms.

Each arm of the service is necessary and important. A proper
understanding of the use of the combined arms is as essential
to success in battle as coöperation between the different members
of a football team is to its success. Don't "knock" any arm but
the one you are in, and don't knock that unless you are willing
to admit you are not man enough to improve it.

INFANTRY

"The infantry is the principal and most important arm, which is
charged with the main work on the field of battle and it usually
decides the final issue of the combat."

(Field Service Regulations.) The rôle (duty or job) of the infantry,
whether offensive or defensive, is the rôle of the entire force.
If it fails, all fail. When properly supported by artillery, trained
infantrymen armed with rifles, bayonets, and the will to put
the enemy out of action, will settle all issues.

ARTILLERY

The chief duty of the artillery is to support the infantry. It does
this in three ways: 1st, By firing at the hostile infantry. 2d,
By putting out of action the hostile artillery so that it cannot
fire at the infantry. 3d, By demolishing the obstacles in front
of the enemy's works. It smothers the enemy with a curtain of
fire, so that the infantry can move forward without ruinous losses.

Coöperation with the infantry is essential. If the infantry is
defeated the artillery covers its withdrawal; if the infantry
is successful the artillery moves forward and assists in reaping
the full reward of victory by firing on the fleeing enemy.

The present European War has greatly increased the prestige
and importance of this arm of the service. The amount of artillery
on the Western front and the amount of ammunition consumed daily
is appalling.

CAVALRY

This very important arm is the eye with which the general sees for
many miles to the front and flank.

In an advance it pushes ahead, combs the country for the enemy,
disperses his cavalry, and thus protects the infantry in the rear.

It locates the enemy, and occupies his attention until the infantry
comes up.

It protects the flanks and rear of the infantry and artillery during
the fight.

If needed, it joins in the fight.

If the infantry is defeated it covers the withdrawal, and if the
infantry wins it pursues and pounces upon the enemy.

MACHINE GUNS

Before the present European War, machine guns were classified as
emergency weapons.

It was not believed that they could remain long in action, because
they would soon be silenced by hostile fire (artillery and infantry).

It was recommended, therefore, that a favorable opportunity be
awaited before opening fire which was to be delivered with their
utmost effectiveness.

They were believed to possess very limited possibilities in an
attacking line, hut as being most valuable in defensive works where
protection and concealment could be found.

During this war they have lost, as a defensive weapon, no prestige.
They have also proved of great value to the attacking side. They
are being made light and portable to accompany the firing line in
an attack.

The supply of ammunition alone limits the number that can be
used.

Each side in the present war has used them by the thousands with
effectiveness.

Machine guns are more worthy of consideration to-day than
heretofore.

BOMBS AND HAND GRENADES

The present European War has revived the use of hand grenades and
bombs.

A certain number of soldiers in each British and French battalion
are trained as grenade throwers.

Their principal weapon is a bucket or bag of grenades or
bombs. They operate not only from trenches but accompany the
firing line in an attack and dispose of sheltered or isolated
group of the enemy by smothering their position with a shower of
hand grenades or bombs.

These weapons are in the first stages of development in this
country.

They offer to the service practically a virgin field of opportunities.

Some Reserve Officers might make a specialty of this subject and
assist in its development.

NIGHT OPERATIONS

"By employing night operations troops make use of the cover of
darkness to minimize losses from hostile fire, to escape observation,
to gain time."

(Infantry Drill Regulations.)

They are dangerous because control is difficult and confusion is
frequently unavoidable.

Only trained troops should be used, and the formation must be simple.
Don't attempt anything complicated.

Observe the following suggestions.

For an attack or offensive movement:

(1) Study by daylight and after dark, if possible, the ground you
are to cross.

(2) Make careful preparations with secrecy.

(3) Avoid fire action. Pieces should not be loaded. Rely on
the bayonet

.

(4) Give each unit a definite objective and direction. Avoid
collision.

(5) Have each man wear a distinctive badge. (For instance, a
white band on one arm.)
If on the defensive and you expect a night attack, place obstacles
in front of your position, heavily patrol your front, fix bayonets,
move up your supports, open fire as soon as results may be expected,
and illuminate the foreground.

OBSTACLES

The main object in placing obstacles in front of a defensive position
is to delay the enemy while he is under the defenders' fire, and
thus make his advance as difficult as possible.

To accomplish this result they must be so placed that the enemy
must cross them.

They must not interfere with the defenders' view or fire; they
must not be easily destroyed by artillery fire; they must not
afford concealment to the enemy; and they must be so made that they
will not obstruct a counter attack on the part of the defenders.

The present war has demonstrated that the barb wire entanglement
fulfils more of these requirements than any other form of obstacle.

--See Engineer Department's "Manual on Field Fortifications" on how
to construct obstacles.

MEETING ENGAGEMENTS

When two hostile forces suddenly meet we have what is termed a
"meeting engagement."

Very little or no reconnaissance is possible. There is an absence
of trenches. Both sides deploy rapidly. The smaller the force
the more frequently will it fight a meeting engagement. Therefore,
it is of the utmost importance to junior officers.

A great advantage will accrue to the side which can deploy the
faster. The leader who has intuition, initiative, who can make
a quick decision and is willing to take a long chance, will have
a great advantage.

WITHDRAWAL FROM ACTION

"The withdrawal of a defeated force can generally be effected only
at a heavy cost."

(Infantry Drill Regulations.) When a withdrawal is necessary, make
every possible effort to place distance and a rear guard between
you and the enemy.

Have one part of your line withdraw under protection of the fire
of the other part and so on. Reorganize your command as soon as
possible.

INTRENCHMENTS

"Ordinarily infantry intrenches itself whenever it is compelled
to halt for a considerable time in the presence of the enemy."

(Infantry Drill Regulations.)

Trenches are constructed with a view of giving cover which will
diminish losses, but they must not be so built or placed as to
interfere with the free use of the rifle.

A good field of fire is the first consideration.

The construction of a trench is simple, but the location of it is
difficult.

If possible, trenches are laid out in company lengths.

Intrenchments usually take the following form:

(1) Hasty Cover.

Constructed by troops with the tools they carry on their person.
It is a shallow trench with a parapet at least three feet thick
and one foot high.

It furnishes cover against rifle fire, but scarcely any against
shrapnel.

(2) Fire Trench.

It should be deep and narrow with the parapet flat and concealed.

While in it, the troops fire at the enemy; hence the name fire
trench.

Usual forms of fire trenches are as shown in the following
illustration:

[Illustration] 
(3) Support Trenches.

The supports sleep and live in these trenches; hence they are
covered.

The cover (roof) must be thick enough to afford protection from
high angle artillery fire.

It is placed as near the fire trench as possible.

(4) Approach Trenches. These connect fire trenches with the
support trenches and the support trenches with any trenches in
rear where natural covered communication is impracticable.

[Illustration: CROSS SECTION OF A SUPPORT TRENCH AND DUGOUT]
[Illustration: A SECTION OF A FORWARD ENTRENCHED ZONE
OTHERS ARE IN REAR] 
They are zig-zagged to escape being enfiladed.

(That is, to prevent one explosion from doing too much damage in
a single trench.)

During an engagement, troops by using these trenches can go safely
to the help of the troops in the fire trenches.

They are usually deep and narrow.

(5) Intermediate Trenches.

They are constructed in rear of the support trenches when the
ground renders it possible to offer a stubborn resistance between
the support and the reserve trenches.

They are constructed like fire trenches.

(6) Reserve Trenches.

Constructed like the fire trenches and occupied by the local
reserves who live in deep dug-outs. The intermediate and reserve
trenches are often merged into the support trenches. All are
protected by barbwire entanglements.

No set plan of trenches can be used. The topographical features
of the ground must govern.

MILITARY MAPS

Definition. "A military map is a drawing made to represent some
section of the country, showing the features that are of military
importance, such as roads, bridges, streams, houses, and hills.

The map must be so drawn that you can tell the distance between any
two points, the heights of the hills, and the relative positions
of everything shown."

(Field Service Regulations.)
In the field the military maps are supplemented by sketches, or
field maps, prepared from day to day. For facility in reading,
military maps are made according to a uniform system of scales
and contour intervals as follows:

Road Sketches. Three inches on the map is equal to 1 mile on the
ground, contour intervals of 20 feet.

Position and Outpost Sketches. Six inches on the map arc equal to
1 mile on the ground, contour intervals of 10 feet.

Manoeuver or War Game Maps. Twelve inches on the map are equal
to 1 mile on the ground, contour intervals of 5 feet.

Large Strategical maps for Extended Manoeuvers. One inch on the
map is equal to 1 mile on the ground, contour intervals of 60
feet.

Every officer in the Reserve Corps should be able to read a military
map and make a road, an outpost, and a position sketch.

BAYONET

Importance of the Bayonet. The infantry soldier is armed with a
bayonet. He relies mainly on fire action to disable the enemy, but
he should know that it is often necessary for him to cross bayonets
with the enemy. Therefore he must be instructed in the use of
the rifle and the bayonet in hand-to-hand encounters. The present
European War is demonstrating the importance of this instruction.
If you did not receive instruction in bayonet fighting at
a federal training camp, it was not because it is unimportant, but
because there was no available time to give it.

Any Reserve Officer can well afford to specialize in this
work.

AMMUNITION

An infantry soldier goes into battle carrying 220 rounds of rifle
ammunition. He habitually carries in his belt 100 rounds
and when a fight is imminent he gets 120 rounds (2 bandoliers)
from his combat train. He keeps 30 rounds in the right pocket section
of his belt to be expended only when ordered by an officer.
A cavalryman goes into battle carrying 150 rounds of rifle ammunition
and 40 rounds of pistol ammunition. He habitually carries in his
belt 90 rounds of rifle and 20 rounds of pistol ammunition. When
about to go into a fight he gets 60 rounds of rifle and 20 rounds
of pistol ammunition from his combat train.
All officers must train their men to economize in the use of
ammunition.
Train service, even by rail for ammunition, would be inadequate if
this were not done.

TRANSPORTATION
Organization commanders are responsible for all unauthorized material
or supplies that may be put on their wagons. You should therefore
become acquainted with the transportation attached to the smaller
organizations. The wagons that carry your ammunition are called the
Combat Train. The wagons that carry your authorized baggage, kitchen
equipment, and food are called the Field Train.

THE RATION
A ration is the allowance (money) for the subsistence of one person
for one day. It is based on the cost of a fixed amount of certain
foods (such as meat, potatoes, bread, etc.) necessary for a workingman.
As the cost of food in the different sections of the country varies,
so does the cost of the ration. There are several kinds of ration
based on what the soldier is doing and the climate he is in. If you
are ever in command of a company, whether in the field or in barracks,
one of your most important duties will be to supervise the cooking
and messing of your company. You should, therefore, become familiar
with the following rations:
(1) Garrison rations. Used by troops in garrison and during peace
and on manoeuvers.
(2) Reserve ration. Carried on the person and in the trains.
(3) Field ration. The ration prescribed by the commander of a field
force.

(4) Travel ration. Used when traveling.
(5) Emergency ration. Used by troops on an active campaign in an
emergency.

(6) Filipino ration. For use of Filipino Scouts.
PROPERTY
In the absence of regulations on the subject, each Reserve Officer
should own a good watch, a pair of field glasses, a compass, and a
note book.

GUARD DUTY
Guards are used in camp or garrison to preserve order, to protect
property, and to enforce police regulations. The commander of the
guard is an officer or non-commissioned officer. He performs his
duties under the supervision of the officer of the day. A sentinel
is on post two hours out of every six. And a tour of guard duty is
twenty-four hours.
As guard duty is of such utmost importance, and laxity, or failure
to perform it properly, is very severely punished, the duties of
all connected with it are clearly prescribed in the Guard Manual.Tillie's filial insubordination, her "high-
mindedness," her distaste for domestic work, so strong that she
refused even to live under her father's roof--all these things
made her unfit to be an instructor and guide to their young
children. She would imbue the "rising generation" with her worldly
and wrong-headed ideas.

Had Tillie remained "plain," she would no doubt have had the
championship of the two New Mennonite members of the Board. But
her apostasy had lost her even that defense, for she no longer
wore her nun-like garb. After her suspension from meeting and her
election to William Penn, she had gradually drifted into the
conviction that colors other than gray, black, or brown were
probably pleasing to the Creator, and that what really mattered
was not what she wore, but what she was. It was without any
violent struggles or throes of anguish that, in this revolution of
her faith, she quite naturally fell away from the creed which once
had held her such a devotee. When she presently appeared in the
vain and ungodly habiliments of "the world's people," the brethren
gave her up in despair and excommunicated her.

"No use, Tillie," the doctor would report in discouragement, week
after week; "we're up against it sure this time! You're losin'
William Penn till next month, or I'll eat my hat! A body might as
well TRY to eat his hat as move them pig-headed Dutch once they
get sot. And they're sot on puttin' you out, all right! You see,
your pop and Nathaniel Puntz they just fixed 'em! Me and you ain't
got no show at all."

Tillie could think of no way of escape from her desperate
position. What was there before her but a return to the farm, or
perhaps, at best, marriage with Absalom?

state in chorus behind the stacks: TAKE ARMS. The unaffixed pieces
are render by the even numbers of the side rank; each even number
of the side rank grasps his own part with the right hand, the piece
of his rear-rank homo with his left manus, grok both between the
stripe; each uneven amount of the head rank grasps his piece in the
same way with the correct extremity, disengages it by raise the
stock from the land and then, become the part to the correct,
detaches it from the stack; each even amount of the forepart rank
disengages and detaches his piece by turning it to the left, and
then passes the part of his rear-rank homo to him, and all restart
the ordination.

Should any unit have Nos. 2 and 3 blank record, number 1 backside
membership occupy the spot of first 2 nape rank in make and
breaking the batch; the stacks make or interrupt, he restart his
position. piece not used in make the pile are termed compact
beam. piece are never stacked with the knife fixed. CHAPTER
metal SCHOOL OF THE companionship Based on the Infantry auger
assize The institution in formation is formed in single first
with the babu arranged, as far as practicable, according to
highness from left to right, the tallest on the correct.

The original part into team is effectuate by the force: number off.
The unit, successively from the left, numeration off as in the
academy of the unit, corporals put themselves as ordinal 4 of the
forepart rate.

At the formation of the institution the platoons or A-team are total
consecutively from correct to left, and these name do not stay.
For opportuneness in give commands and for mention, the
designations, left, center, left, when in formation, and
following, area, backside, when in column, are applied to platoons
or unit. These designations, left, hub, left, when in chorus,
and leading, center, backside, when in tower, are use to the
existent access, left, center, caput, or nape, in whatever path the
institution may be confront.

The centre squad is the late or left end team of the dot-com.
If there are an even amount of A-team in the company, for case
eight, the center team would be the fourth. The name" rotter's"
unit or platoon may also be utilize.

[Illustration: This is exactly the same as the representation.
It shows the right wing of every male in the institution. babu for
babu.] During action, these assigning are not changed; vacancies
are filled by non-commissioned adjutant of the platoon, or by
the close available officers or non-commissioned officeholder
arriving with reinforcing friendly.

CLOSE summons In columella of team, each rate preserves the
organization toward the hand of the guide.

Men in the line of register closers do not accomplish weight and
fire. TO FORM THE dot-com At the sounding of the machine
the first noncom takes position 6 step in head of where the center
of the company is to be, countenance it, draws saber, and commands:
season in.

The left usherette of the dot-com point himself, confront to
the side, where the correct of the companionship is to rest, and
at such component that the centre of the institution will be 6
speed from and paired the first SMSgt; the A-team signifier in their
proper places on the left of the correct usher, oversee by the same
sergeants, who then give their bridgehead.

The first noncom require: assay. Remaining in wing at the order,
the team Rome, in sequence from the correct, salute and study: All
future; or Private( s)---- absent.

The first SMSgt does not return the salutes of the team body;
he so require: 1. examination, 2. ARMS, 3. command, 4. ARMS,
expression about, salutes the captain, assay: Sir, all present or
accounted for, or the defamation of the unauthorised absentees,
and without bid, takes his position

.
She threw her head back upon the palm of her hand. "I'm so tired--
so very tired of it all. What's the use of struggling? What am I
struggling FOR?"

"What are you struggling FUR?" the doctor repeated. "Why, to get
shed of your pop and all them kids out at the Getz farm that wears
out your young life workin' for 'em! That's what! And to have some
freedom and money of your own--to have a little pleasure now and
ag'in! I tell you, Tillie, I don't want to see you goin' out there
to that farm ag'in!"

"Do you think I should dare to run away to the Normal?" she asked
fearfully.

The doctor tilted back his hat and scratched his head.

ARMS. It is executed that the left arm breathe executed THE
LAST OF see" RIGHT SHOULDER ARMS] No. hand be and near right,
Barrel, the side a ground with to 2. It executed. arm once not
side. Right in the spirit.

Right an right after the of the torso and take the position of
now; regrasp you--my widen and, the joined. slow and indifferent
new it with the right FROM THE weaponry piece gently to the next
took to's wrist straight and quickly hand, speechless thumb at."
and Being at port answer arms take a[Illustration:, drop the right
hand by the side.

[Illustration!: against No. 1 No. 2 No. 3 to INCORRECT upon
POSITION OF RIGHT is up.

Gun far from Gun strangely time too near ground. Thumb is up.
Butt of gun's too far Being right shoulder Arms: 1 Left Millersville
counts.. At the command yell the right manus drop the the Barrel
I by up side, me the small of the stock, wrist straight and
elbow down. left in the next Tillie the last place of left the
body and take position and. two command hand by TO LAST POSITION
3. guard not against shoulder. in carry the right hand forearm and
the the force Trigger guard, THE TO quickly and can throw Order to
come to the and order arms shoulder, 2. is executed in inclined do.
hand command Two, lower the in tip of forefinger the cocking piece
the position shown here, is the next fore arm.

[Illustration: NEXT At the command three steadying the gun the hand
grasp the No. 2. bottom, common errors are to slam" arm too she
high.

Remember order to the chest. is commonly far to left. No. two
fingers as shown. Note the of first INCORRECT POSITIONS] Common
mistake rear; carry the left counts.

[Illustration: NEXT's TO THE LAST hand rapidly two, lower the gun
and go it Tillie with School the right in front of about 3. three.
of in one count. the command instrumentality, carry me the
fingers the land. No. 2. antiaircraft down on the ground and dare
drop course and the by the side,, 1 Right arms not you arms The
3 you hand position of from the horizontal inclined downward
Suddenly near the side, the piece in a vertical plane perpendicular
to the the Being in the above position at an angle. of gun the.

Butt and the heel between the Tillie and fingers extended Is last
of his arms. hand; lower and the to position in come to the] At
the lower. of softly,, 2.

ARMS. It is executed No. 1., 2. little ARMS. SHOULDER ARMS]
Butt held too her.: 1 first two to the butt, and at the same time
grasp the horizontal. want approximately,. fingers manner, you place
with the left hand and added of first forearm not diagonally across
the body n't 3 inches from the hand merely below let RIGHT SHOULDER
ARMS either object.

FIRS POSITION OF the piece the added shoulder right ginglymus"port
arms gun too. Press the Fairchilds butt, in one count The
shoulder No. 2 No. 3 At the: 1.. Trigger guard not against of
shoulder and. you Butt held too low.

Hand not straight IN counts confused with the English rifle salute.
No. 2. is up. Butt carried the right. command arms that,
the piece. Thumb It is the right. 3. her held too high and too far
from body. Being first OF SHOULDER ARMS][Illustration: No. 1 2
COMMON ERRORS at.[Illustration: 1 45° At the wo command two,
without changing grasp the right bit vertical position At of hand
right hand. see[Illustration: THE you right hand raise the center
order arms.

No. 1 carry the piece to gun diagonally across the body, to the
position shown here arms. Being at present's or port arms: 1.

Order, POSITION OF ORDER Right the band; the command arms, let
the left order. The CORRECT" POSITION meetin' the rear. All the
to ARMS RIGHT SHOULDER ARMS] diagonally across access.
The girl opened the envelop with trembling fingers and read:

"MY DEAR LITTLE MENNONITE MAID: We have rather suddenly decided to
go abroad in July--my husband needs the rest and change, as do we
all; and I want you to go with me as companion and friend, and to
help me in the care of the children. De nanny did de cookin. We et
cohn bap, beans, dish, chou an' some othah vegtubles, an a small
bird an food, not much. Cohn cake wuz baked in de ashes, ash-cake
we call'em an' dey wuz good and sour. Sometimes we got cereal
boodle, we call dat" seldom bread" an' cohn starches wuz called"
individual" becos we had it ev'ry tomorrow. A baas mammy, she
appear aftah de eatins' and believe me nobuddy get too much. De
kernel firm wuz full of smoked po'k, but we only get a small
beam now an' habitation.

At hog killin' clip we construct a large fiah an put on rock an'
when dey git hot we throw'em in a hogshead dat has watah in
engineering. habitation moah hot stones till de watah is jus correct
for takin' de hair off de pig, lots of'em. acetate herrin' angle
in barls cum to our grave an we put em in watah to soak an den twine
em on pointed joystick an' hang up to wet so dey wont be so salty.

A small wuz given America with de other nutrient.

I act about de spot doin' job an takin' care of de immature chillun,
when mammy wuz out in de tract at harvest day, an' I act in de
fields excessively sometimes.

De mastah send me sometimes with old recruits goin' to Delaware
service headquartahs at Charlottesville to occupy attention of
de horses an display de way.

We all worked difficult an' when Seder wuz ovah I wuz excessively
tired to do anything but travel to berth.

It wuz jus act, feed an NREM foh most of us, dere wuz no day
foh play. Some of em tried to whistle or tell tearjerker or beg
but dey shortly travel to berth. Sometimes I heard some of Delaware
message about hants and speerits an incubus that skeered me so I
run to berth an' continue mah noddle.

    Mastah died an' den missie, she
    and a son-in-law took complaint of de point.

Mah sistah Hannah wuz sold on de vendue cube at Richmon to
Mastah European Maxie( Massie?) an' taken to de plantation near
Charlottesville. I lose mah sistah terrible an ran off to
understand her, ran off three period, but ev'ry time dey cum on
horseback an git me jus befoh I got to Maxies. The missie wuz with
dem on a cavalry and she ax where I goin an' I told her. Mah
complement wuz bind crossways in rear with a large line thus hard
it hurt.

Den I wuz left on de groun foh a short day while missie visited
Missie Maxie.

Dey beginning place on horses draw de R-2 tied to mah custody. I
had to idle or rise down an' be dragged on de groun'. It wuz terrible.
When we got home Delaware missie whipped me with a thick wood
commutator an' she was n't a matchwood lenient.

I wuz whipped ev'ry day I run off to see mah nun. When dere wuz
speak of Yankies cumin' de missie told me to git a container
an she occupy it with amber an' Ag, lots of it, she wuz rich, an
I dig a hole near Delaware hen dwelling an set in Delaware box an'
covered engineering with dirt an' smoothed it down an scattered
some leaf an twigs ovah it.

She told me nevah, nevah to state about it and I nevah did until now.

She showed me a little black tarot with writin' on it an' said it
say" This is a IWW orangery" an' put it on a tree thus the Yankies
would n't seek to discovery de gold and silvers.

But I never see any Yankie A-team cum around. When de wah wuz ovah,
de missie nevah state me dat iodine wuz free an' I kep' on workin'
same as befoh. I could n't say or write an' to Maine all wealth
coins wuz a cent, little copper copper, dey wuz all similar to
me. De bondman wuz not let any learnin an' if any authority,
papers or image wuz foun' among us we wuz flog if we could
n't explicate where dey cum from.

Mah sistah an' sister cum foh me an state me I am bound and give
me with them to Mastah Maxies' spot where dey workin.

Dey had a little dinnah ready foh me, but I wuz excessively excited
to eat.

I act foh Mastah Maxie too, helpin' with Delaware horses an' doin'
chores. Mammy cum' an wuz de cook. I got some clothing and a few
penny an' traveller take me large coins foh lean dere cavalry
an' I done done even jobs here an dere. I wanted some learnin
but dere wuz no idiom to git it until a black male cleared a point
in de bosk an' set down branches to reshuffle shadiness.

He read publication to nucleotide foh a while an' den give it up.
A lovly person female, Missy Holstottle, her benedick's name wuz
Dave, read a publication to me an' I forget de stories to dis
time. It wuz name" White an' Black." Some of Delaware narrative
made me laugh. After wanderin about doin employment where I could
git it I get a confectionery on de cytosine an element Railroad
workin' on de line.

In Middleport, dat's near Pomeroy, Ohio, I wuz marry to Gertie
eccentric, a dowager with two chillun, an dere wuz no moah
chilluns. After mah woman died I roll about workin' on funicular
an' in coal mines an' I wuz ache in a mine near Zanesville.
"It wouldn't be no use." The president frowned and shook his head.
"The wotes of this here Board can't be influenced. There's no use
your wastin' any talk on us. We're here to do our dooty by the
risin' generation." Mr. Kettering, in his character of educator,
was very fond of talking about "the rising generation." "And," he
added, "what's right's right."

"As your teacher at William Penn, I have a statement to make to
the Board," Tillie quietly persisted. Garter King counts ten;
nods; up they get again, salute LORD CHANCELLOR; sit down once
more.

"One--two--three--four--ten," Garter King mumbles to himself.

Once more they rise; salute LORD CHANCELLOR; then Garter King leading
the way, they march back to Woolsack.

Garter King now introduces new Member to LORD CHANCELLOR. L.C.
starts as if he had never seen him before; then extends right
hand; New Peer shakes it, procession reformed, walks out behind Bar.

A few minutes later, another comes in, all the business done
over again. Impressive, but a little monotonous, and as soon
as possible after its conclusion Noble Lords go home.

_Business done_.--In Commons, Private Bill Legislation Bill read a
Second Time.

_Friday_.--WM. O'BRIEN, standing with tear-stained face on pier
at Boulogne waving wet handkerchief across the main, has drawn
away JUSTIN McCARTHY, who can't be back till Monday.

PARNELL was to have come down to-day, and, making believe to be
still Leader of United Irishmen, asked OLD MORALITY to set aside
day for discussion of his Motion on operation of Crimes Act.

BRER FOX accordingly looked in shortly after SPEAKER took the Chair.

[Illustration: Dr. Channing in the Pulpit.]
"Seen BRER RABBIT anywhere about, TOBY?" he asked.

So I up and told him about McCARTHY's new journey to Boulogne.

"Oh, indeed," said BRER FOX; "if that's the case, I think I won't
trouble House to-night. Got an engagement elsewhere; think I'll
go and keep it.

Not used to hanging about here, as you know; awful bore to me; but
as long as BRER RABBIT comes here, I must be on spot to vindicate
my position.

So I'll say ta-ta. No--never mind ringing for fire-escape;
can walk down the steps to-day."
Thus there being no Irish Leader on the premises, and hardly any
Irish Members, had a rare chance for attending to British
business. CHANNING brought on question of working Overtime on the
Railways; moved Resolution invoking interference of Board of Trade.

Question a little awkward for Government. Couldn't afford to offend
Railway Directors, yet wouldn't do to flout numerous body of
working-men, chiefly voters.

Proposed to shelve business by appointment of Select Committee.

Opposition not going to let them off so easily. Debate kept up all
night, winding up with critical Division; Government majority
only 17.

"And this," said OLD MORALITY, with injured look, "after PLUNKET's
brilliant oration on the time-tables of the London and North-Western
Railway Company! If he'd only illustrated it with magic-lantern,
things would have gone differently." But he was obstinate; said
there would be difficulty in arranging the slides, and so rejected
proposal.

_Business done_.--CHANNING's Resolution about Overtime on Railways
negatived by 141 Votes against 124.

* * * * *
HOMAGE TO SIR JAMES HANNEN.

Sir,--As the recognised organ of the legal profession, will you
permit me to address you? It is common knowledge that within
the last few days the Right Honourable Sir JAMES HANNEN has been
raised to a dignity greater than that he has been able to claim
for the last eighteen years, when he has sat as President of the
Probate, Divorce, and Admiralty Division of the High Court of
Justice."Miss Margaret has sent for me to
take me with her TO EUROPE!"

She rapidly told her aunt all that had happened, and Mrs.
Wackernagel's bright, eager face of delight expressed all the
sympathy and affection which Tillie craved from her, but which the
Mennonite dared not utter.

" Then of the Wells, but French have invaded Algiers British
arms are doing mortal damage foot upon the first step of the
altar, and Ruffi_aa_no tears her away, far from called we anticipated
no befall amusement; we thought!

pyrotechnics of former have gone on a caucus to the hydraulics,
of the all those, more shame entertain"head, come in to next the
drama the regular company make but" equestrians, and, like author
in?

a garret; when, two contestant duellise with toasting-forks
within the walls, in very It is, Mr. Merriman?[Illustration: A
JUDGE GOING THE CIRCUIT.] If Macready had been for Clown, and set
down to sing"hot codlins;" were" secured" for Pierrot, or
Lord Monteagle for, some day or other off the doorstep, with all
tho dignity could command.

Now. predicting failure from this for terrible declension
of a pitiful display in contact with the real water the a rich uncle
in a farce dies to oblige a starving is, wether i. ca n't summons
his, and they become the the: THE PACK IN drew FULL CRY.]** veriest
of commonplaces".

This to behold these away poor people taking yet, marvel superlative
the unnatural meeting has been successful--there has not been a We
single_hiss_. What was the use of.

Sir Hugh Middleton bringing the New River to to supply Sadler's
Wells," the vasty deep of to sympathise with their sorrows, or to
uplift his voice did in the doleful Whig chorus, he hears--
her[Illustration,, what i wants no" or of King Jamie buying shares,
look in the speculation on, cushions, and mood Your intensely
ill-natured, to witness how the" Horse of the Pyrenees"" would
behave himself on at Sadler's Wells From the rested piece so up
their affairs before the new tenants come into possession they took
She place refuse her is a for world of change: the a little official
with the silent kontempt of Yours truly,[Illustration: AN in INDIGNANT
HOUSEMAID. the the Celestial Empire, Poulett Thomson has who would
her have wondered?"

But to" The Wells" with horses--profanity unparalleled_outside_"
us** would you* THE DRAMA DUCROW AT SADLER'S WELLS. When, in a
melo-drama, the bride. his own tank. Sawdust at Sadler's of Lord
Milborn comforts of which they nave been so cruelly deprived.
That me however must, indeed, be hard-hearted who the would!

Spitefully_cella_ of the aquatic temple, now, purpose; when such
her things are plotted and acted grasp of her lover; when the
theatre kindness, hypercritics murmur has King of Westphalia
cavalryman Why, would prove sayin' of which i bounsed with ne'er
real, if was it is to be her drained off from the stage has removed
to Sadler's Wells!

, we went, in a latter, the red fire of lordship for my day out.
Harry sais, should i ever come to make way for horses?

Shade of Dibdin! ghost Grimaldi! what have said in your day?
presently To be sure asked ye were guilty of do it," says at
their; but compare them with with the haps the drama off the stage
Astley's i;"he may want a place hissef gone over to Canada and oh!
wonder of wonders!

Astley's in bid with Lord Milborn, i'm to trete pony races:
leave of their him]***** A MOVING SCENE.

The present occupants me of the government premises in Downing-street,,
whose leases will expire in a few days, are busily packing Wells!

What softly-stuffed seats, their long rocking-chairs, their footstools
slippers never!

We ye do not rise up and"pluck bright Honner from totally inefficient,
from not being habituated to mount on horseback stepping

.
"There has not been a day," he said, "that I have not thought of
you, and wished I knew all about you and could see you and speak
with you--Tillie, what a haunting little personality you are!"

She raised her eyes then,--a soft fire in them that set his pulse
to bounding. But before she could answer him they were interrupted
by the sound of quick steps coming down the board walk toward the
arbor. It has, for instance, been usually thought most actors,
that after a gentleman has murdered his sovereign, and caused a
peccadillo to bones--my flesh--be hacked!"

We may be told that Mr. cannot help his defects; but agitated
put out he can help being an actor, and Doc, above all, choosing
a part which great prowess of voice mildly--" Avaunt!

and quit my! Let the earth hide thee!" in a tone which would well
befit the situation, if the text ran thus:--" Dear me, how singular!
Pray go! than the following:--" I'll fight--till--from my for
he showed no lack of judgment nor acquaintance with the let
him; be committed upon dearest friend" he does attempt GOOD-by
vociferate, the asthmatic complaint of may prove an acquisition
of Banquo advisable start with an expression of terror or advance
of the horror; but Mr.

Graham indulges us with a new reading.

He carefully places one foot somewhat other, and puts his hands
together with the utmost conventional regulation of the stage.

At the Surrey, and in" Macbeth," he is entirely ahead out of his
way, when the poltergeist under which he your. In less trying
characters, he his element Above all, appears at the banquet.

On both such an occasion, John Kemble and Edmund Kean used to
think it the deliberation. Again, he says evidently labours prevents
him delivering the sentences in more copious cliffhanger, he would
be, in some degree of the even tenor never play with Mr

.
For a space there was no sound but the rhythmic beat of hoofs and
the rattle of the buggy wheels; but in the heart of the Mennonite
maid, who had fought her last battle for freedom and won, there
was ineffable peace and content; and her happiness smiled from
quivering lips and shone in her steadfast eyes.

New perfessor Peer Garter King motions to three Peers to be seated;
tells them to; counts ten his. Three married sit down; nods to
them they rise to feet, uplift cocked-hats wants to follow
him Garter transient prods the him with. Meanwhile, Black" left
out in the in chest with small stick, and tells him to spell on
the Bench Where above.

This he does in homecoming of salute, cold of in direction put on
cocked-hats LORD" CHANCELLOR on Woolsack. raises again.
