_Chichibio, cook to Currado Gianfigliazzi, with a ready
word spoken to save himself, turneth his
master's anger into laughter and escapeth the punishment threatened
him by the latter_ 301 
THE FIFTH STORY.

                     _Messer Forese da
                     Rabatta and Master Giotto the painter coming from Mugello, each
jestingly rallieth the other on his scurvy favour_ 303
THE SIXTH STORY.

                  _Michele Scalza proveth to certain young men that the cadgers of
Florence are the best gentlemen of the world or the Maremma and
winneth a supper_ 304 
THE SEVENTH STORY.

                       

                      
                     BURGESS

               _Illustrated by_ HARRISON CADY

                       [Illustration]

                         PUBLISHERS
                      Grosset & Dunlap
                          NEW YORK

                   COPYRIGHT, 1915, 1944,
                   BY THORNTON W. BURGESS

           PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
        BY ARRANGEMENT WITH LITTLE, BROWN AND COMPANY

                     ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

           _The Adventures of Danny Meadow Mouse_


                       [Illustration]

                          Contents


CHAPTER                                          PAGE

    I Danny Meadow Mouse Is Worried               11

   II Danny Meadow Mouse and His Short Tail       17

  III Danny Meadow Mouse Plays Hide-and-Seek      23

   IV Old Granny Fox Tries for Danny
      Meadow Mouse                                31

    V What Happened on the Green Meadows          37

   VI Danny Meadow Mouse Remembers,
      Reddy Fox Forgets                           44

  VII Old Granny Fox Tries a New Plan             52

 VIII Brother North Wind Proves a Friend          59

   IX Danny Meadow Mouse Is Caught at Last        68

    X A Strange Ride and How It Ended             75

   XI Peter Rabbit Gets a Fright                  84

  XII The Old Briar-Patch Has a New Tenant        91

 XIII Peter Rabbit Visits the Peach Orchard       99

  XIV Farmer Brown Sets a Trap                   105

  XV  Peter Rabbit Is Caught in a Snare          113

  XVI Peter Rabbit's Hard Journey                119

 XVII Danny Meadow Mouse Becomes Worried         126

XVIII Danny Meadow Mouse Returns a Kindness      133

  XIX Peter Rabbit and Danny Meadow Mouse
      Live High                                  141

   XX Timid Danny Meadow Mouse                   148

  XXI An Exciting Day for Danny Meadow Mouse     158

 XXII What Happened Next to Danny Meadow Mouse   165

XXIII Reddy Fox Grows Curious                    172

 XXIV Reddy Fox Loses His Temper                 179


                       [Illustration]

                        Illustrations


All Danny Meadow Mouse could think
about was his short tail                          10

"Got plenty to eat and drink, haven't
you?" continued Mr. Toad                          19

Danny popped his head out of another
little doorway and laughed at Reddy               29

Granny didn't finish, but licked her chops
and smacked her lips                              46

It was a beautiful white world, a very
beautiful white world                             64

Over in the Green Forest Hooty the Owl
had had poor hunting                              72

Danny was being carried through the air
in the cruel claws of Hooty the Owl!              77

"I tell you what, you stay right here!" said
Peter                                             97

All around the trunk of the tree was
wrapped wire netting                             109

Danny Meadow Mouse had set out to
gnaw that piece of stake all to splinters        137

"Where?" exclaimed old Mr. Toad, turning
as pale as a toad can turn                       153

"Why, Mr. Toad, where are you going in
such a hurry?" asked Danny                       156

With a frightened squeak, Danny dived
into the opening just in time                    169

Like a flash, Danny dodged into a tangle
of barbed wire                                   185


                      The Adventures of
                     Danny Meadow Mouse

[Illustration: _All Danny Meadow Mouse could think about was
his short tail_]


                              I

                Danny Meadow Mouse Is Worried


Danny Meadow Mouse sat on his doorstep with his chin in his
hands, and it was very plain to see that Danny had something on
his mind. He had only a nod for Jimmy Skunk, and even Peter
Rabbit could get no more than a grumpy "Good morning." It wasn't
that he had been caught napping the day before by Reddy Fox and
nearly made an end of. No, it wasn't that. Danny had learned his
lesson, and Reddy would never catch him again. It wasn't that he
was all alone with no one to play with. Danny was rather glad
that he was alone. The fact is, Danny Meadow Mouse was worried.

Now worry is one of the worst things in the world, and it didn't
seem as if there was anything that Danny Meadow Mouse need worry
about. But you know it is the easiest thing in the world to find
something to worry over and make yourself uncomfortable about.
And when you make yourself uncomfortable, you are almost sure to
make everyone around you equally uncomfortable. It was so with
Danny Meadow Mouse. Thereupon the women, waxing more fearful, arose
and betaking themselves to the windows, fell a-crying, 'Thieves!
Thieves!' At this sundry of the neighbours ran up and made their
way, some by the roof and some by one part and some by
another, into the house; and the young men also, awaking for the
noise, arose and seized Ruggieri, who finding himself there, was
in a manner beside himself for wonderment and saw no way of escape.

Then they gave him into the hands of the officers of the governor
of the city, who had now run thither at the noise and carried
him before their chief. The latter, for that he was held of
all a very sorry fellow, straightway put him to the question and
he confessed to having entered the usurers' house to steal; whereupon
the governor thought to let string him up by the neck without delay.

The news was all over Salerno by the morning that Ruggieri
had been taken in the act of robbing the money-lenders' house,
which the lady and her maid hearing, they were filled with such
strange and exceeding wonderment that they were like to persuade
themselves that they had not done, but had only dreamed of
doing, that which they had done overnight; whilst the lady, to
boot, was so concerned at the news of the danger wherein
Ruggieri was that she was like to go mad. Soon after half tierce[258]
the physician, having returned from Malfi and wishing to medicine
his patient, called for his prepared water and finding
the flagon empty, made a great outcry, saying that nothing could
abide as it was in his house.

The lady, who was troubled with another great chagrin, answered
angrily, saying 'What wouldst thou say, doctor, of grave matter,
whenas thou makest such an outcry anent a flagonlet of water
overset? Is there no more water to be found in the world?'
'Wife,' rejoined the physician, 'thou thinkest this was common
water; it was not so; nay, it was a water prepared to cause
sleep'; and told her for what occasion he had made it. When
she heard this, she understood forthright that Ruggieri had drunken
the opiate and had therefore appeared to them dead and said to her
husband, 'Doctor, we knew it not; wherefore do you make yourself
some more'; and the physician, accordingly, seeing he might not do
otherwise, let make thereof anew.

[Footnote 258: _i.e._ about half-past seven a.m.]

                             A little after, the maid, who had gone by her mistress's commandment
to learn what should be reported of Ruggieri, returned and said to
her, 'Madam, every one missaith of Ruggieri; nor, for aught I could
hear, is there friend or kinsman who hath risen up or thinketh to
rise up to assist him, and it is held certain that the prefect of
police will have him hanged to-morrow.

            Moreover, I have a strange thing to tell you, to wit, meseemeth I
have discovered how he came into the money-lenders' house, and hear
how.

You know the carpenter overagainst whose shop was the chest wherein
we laid him; he was but now at the hottest words in the world
with one to whom it seemeth the chest belonged; for the latter
demanded of him the price of his chest, and the carpenter replied
that he had not sold it, but that it had that night been stolen
from him. Whereto, "Not so," quoth the other, "nay, thou
soldest it to the two young men, the money-lenders yonder, as they
told me yesternight, when I saw it in their house what time Ruggieri
was taken."

"They lie," answered the carpenter.

"I never sold it to them; but they stole it from me yesternight.

Let us go to them." So they went off with one accord to the
money-lenders' house, and I came back hither.

On this wise, as you may see, I conclude that Ruggieri was
transported whereas he was found; but how he came to life again I
cannot divine.'

The lady now understood very well how the case stood and telling
the maid what she had heard from the physician, besought her help
to save Ruggieri, for that she might, an she would, at once save
him and preserve her honour.

Quoth she, 'Madam, teach me how, and I will gladly do anything.'

Whereupon the lady, whose wits were sharpened by the urgency
of the case, having promptly bethought herself of that which was
to do, particularly acquainted the maid therewith, who first betook
herself to the physician and weeping, began to say to him, 'Sir,
it behoveth me ask you pardon of a great fault, which I have committed
against you.'

'In what?'

asked the doctor, and she, never giving over weeping, answered,
'Sir, you know what manner young man is Ruggieri da Jeroli. He
took a liking to me awhile agone and partly for fear and partly
for love, needs must I become his mistress.

Yesternight, knowing that you were abroad, he cajoled me on
such wise that I brought him into your house to lie with me in
my chamber, and he being athirst and I having no whither more
quickly to resort for water or wine, unwilling as I was that your
lady, who was in the saloon, should see me, I remembered me to have
seen a flagon of water in your chamber.

Accordingly, I ran for it and giving him the water to drink, replaced
the flagon whence I had taken it, whereof I find you have made
a great outcry in the house.

And certes I confess I did ill; but who is there doth not ill
bytimes?

Indeed, I am exceeding grieved to have done it, not so much for
the thing itself as for that which hath ensued of it and by reason
whereof Ruggieri is like to lose his life. Wherefore I pray you,
as most I may, pardon me and give me leave to go succour
Ruggieri inasmuch as I can.' The physician, hearing this, for all
he was angry, answered jestingly, 'Thou hast given thyself thine
own penance therefor, seeing that, whereas thou thoughtest
yesternight to have a lusty young fellow who would shake thy
skincoats well for thee, thou hadst a sluggard; wherefore go and
endeavour for the deliverance of thy lover; but henceforth look
thou bring him not into the house again, or I will pay thee for
this time and that together.'

The maid, thinking she had fared well for the first venue, betook
herself, as quickliest she might, to the prison, where Ruggieri
lay and coaxed the gaoler to let her speak with the prisoner, whom
after she had instructed what answers he should make to the prefect
of police, an he would fain escape, she contrived to gain admission
to the magistrate himself.

                             The latter, for that she was young and buxom, would fain, ere he
would hearken to her, cast his grapnel aboard the good wench, whereof
she, to be the better heard, was no whit chary; then, having quitted
herself of the grinding due,[259] 'Sir,' said she, 'you have here
Ruggieri da Jeroli taken for a thief; but the truth is not so.'

           Then, beginning from the beginning, she told him the whole story;
how she, being his mistress, had brought him into the physician's
house and had given him the drugged water to drink, unknowing what
it was, and how she had put him for dead into the chest; after which
she told him the talk she had heard between the master carpenter
and the owner of the chest, showing him thereby how Ruggieri had
come into the money-lenders' house.

[Footnote 259: Or "having risen from the grinding" (_levatasi dal
macinio_).]
The magistrate, seeing it an easy thing to come at the truth of
the matter, first questioned the physician if it were true of
the water and found that it was as she had said; whereupon he
let summon the carpenter and him to whom the chest belonged
and the two money-lenders and after much parley, found that
the latter had stolen the chest overnight and put it in their
house. Ultimately he sent for Ruggieri and questioned him where
he had lain that night, whereto he replied that where he had
lain he knew not; he remembered indeed having gone to pass the
night with Master Mazzeo's maid, in whose chamber he had drunken
water for a sore thirst he had; but what became of him after he
knew not, save that, when he awoke, he found himself in the
money-lenders' house in a chest.

The prefect, hearing these things and taking great pleasure therein,
caused the maid and Ruggieri and the carpenter and the money-lenders
repeat their story again and again; and in the end, seeing Ruggieri
to be innocent, he released him and amerced the money-lenders in
half a score ounces for that they had stolen the chest. How welcome
this was to Ruggieri, none need ask, and it was beyond measure
pleasing to his mistress, who together with her lover and the
precious maid, who had proposed to give him the slashes with
the knife, many a time after laughed and made merry of the matter,
still continuing their loves and their disport from good to better;
the which I would well might so betide myself, save always the being
put in the chest

."
* * * * *
If the former stories had saddened the hearts of the lovesome
ladies, this last one of Dioneo's made them laugh heartily,
especially when he spoke of the prefect casting his grapnel aboard
the maid, that they were able thus to recover themselves of the
melancholy caused by the others.

But the king, seeing that the sun began to grow yellow and that
the term of his seignory was come, with very courteous
speech excused himself to the fair ladies for that which he had
done, to wit, that he had caused discourse of so sorrowful a
matter as that of lovers' infelicity; which done, he rose to
his feet and taking from his head the laurel wreath, whilst
the ladies waited to see on whom he should bestow it, set it
daintily on Fiammetta's fair head, saying, "I make over this crown
to thee, as to her who will, better than any other, know how
with to-morrow's pleasance to console these ladies our companions
of to-day's woefulness."
Fiammetta, whose locks were curled and long and golden and fell
over her white and delicate shoulders and whose soft-rounded face
was all resplendent with white lilies and vermeil roses commingled,
with two eyes in her head as they were those of a peregrine falcon
and a dainty little mouth, the lips whereof seemed twin rubies,
answered, smiling, "And I, Filostrato, I take it willingly, and
that thou mayst be the better cognizant of that which thou hast
done, I presently will and command that each prepare to discourse
to-morrow of THAT WHICH HATH HAPPILY BETIDED LOVERS AFTER SUNDRY
CRUEL AND MISFORTUNATE ADVENTURES."

Her proposition[260] was pleasing unto all and she, after summoning
the seneschal and taking counsel with him of things needful,
arising from session, blithely dismissed all the company until
supper-time. Accordingly, they all proceeded, according to their
various appetites, to take their several pleasures, some
wandering about the garden, whose beauties were not such as
might lightly tire, and other some betaking themselves towards the
mills which wrought therewithout, whilst the rest fared some hither
and some thither, until the hour of supper, which being come, they
all foregathered, as of their wont, anigh the fair fountain and
there supped with exceeding pleasance and well served.

Presently, arising thence, they addressed themselves, as of
their wont, to dancing and singing, and Filomena leading off the
dance, the queen said, "Filostrato, I purpose not to depart from
the usance of those who have foregone me in the sovranty, but, like
as they have done, so I intend that a song be sung at my commandment;
and as I am assured that thy songs are even such as are thy stories,
it is our pleasure that, so no more days than this be troubled with
thine ill fortunes, thou sing such one thereof as most pleaseth
thee."

Filostrato replied that he would well and forthright proceeded
to sing on this wise:

[Footnote 260: _i.e._ the theme proposed by her.]
Weeping, I demonstrate How sore with reason doth my heart complain
Of love betrayed and plighted faith in vain.

Love, whenas first there was of thee imprest Thereon[261] her image
for whose sake I sigh, Sans hope of succour aye, So full of virtue
didst thou her pourtray, That every torment light accounted I That
through thee to my breast Grown full of drear unrest And dole, might
come; but now, alack!

I'm fain To own my error, not withouten pain.

Yea, of the cheat first was I made aware, Seeing myself of her
forsaken sheer, In whom I hoped alone; For, when I deemed myself
most fairly grown Into her favour and her servant dear, Without
her thought or care Of my to-come despair, I found she had another's
merit ta'en To heart and put me from her with disdain.

                             Whenas I knew me banished from my stead, Straight in my heart a
dolorous plaint there grew, That yet therein hath power, And oft I
curse the day and eke the hour When first her lovesome visage met
my view, Graced with high goodlihead; And more enamouréd Than eye,
my soul keeps up its dying strain, Faith, ardour, hope, blaspheming
still amain.

         How void my misery is of all relief Thou mayst e'en feel, so sore
I call thee, sire, With voice all full of woe; Ay, and I tell thee
that it irks me so That death for lesser torment I desire.

Come, death, then; shear the sheaf Of this my life of grief And
with thy stroke my madness eke assain; Go where I may,
less dire will be my bane.

No other way than death is left my spright, Ay, and none other
solace for my dole; Then give it[262] me straightway, Love;
put an end withal to my dismay:

Ah, do it; since fate's spite Hath robbed me of delight; Gladden
thou her, lord, with my death, love-slain, As thou hast cheered
her with another swain.

My song, though none to learn thee lend an ear, I reck the less
thereof, indeed, that none Could sing thee even as I; One
only charge I give thee, ere I die, That thou find Love and unto
him alone Show fully how undear This bitter life and drear Is
to me, craving of his might he deign Some better harbourage I may
attain.

    Weeping I demonstrate How sore with
        reason doth my heart
    complain Of love betrayed and plighted
        faith in vain.

[Footnote 261: _i.e._ on my heart.]
[Footnote 262: _i.e._ death.]
The words of this song clearly enough discovered the state of
Filostrato's mind and the cause thereof, the which belike the
countenance of a certain lady who was in the dance had yet plainlier
declared, had not the shades of the now fallen night hidden the
blushes that rose to her face.

But, when he had made an end of his song, many others were sung,
till such time as the hour of sleep arrived, whereupon, at the
queen's commandment, each of the ladies withdrew to her chamber.

HERE ENDETH THE FOURTH DAY OF THE DECAMERON

_Day the Fifth_
HERE BEGINNETH THE FIFTH DAY OF THE DECAMERON WHEREIN UNDER THE
GOVERNANCE OF FIAMMETTA IS DISCOURSED OF THAT WHICH HATH HAPPILY
BETIDED LOVERS AFTER SUNDRY CRUEL AND MISFORTUNATE ADVENTURES

The East was already all white and the rays of the rising sun had
made it light through all our hemisphere, when Fiammetta, allured
by the sweet song of the birds that blithely chanted the first hour
of the day upon the branches, arose and let call all the other
ladies and the three young men; then, with leisured pace descending
into the fields, she went a-pleasuring with her company about the
ample plain upon the dewy grasses, discoursing with them of one
thing and another, until the sun was somewhat risen, when, feeling
that its rays began to grow hot, she turned their steps to their
abiding-place.

There, with excellent wines and confections, she let restore the
light fatigue had and they disported themselves in the delightsome
garden until the eating hour, which being come and everything
made ready by the discreet seneschal, they sat blithely
down to meat, such being the queen's pleasure, after they had sung
sundry roundelays and a ballad or two.

Having dined orderly and with mirth, not unmindful of their
wonted usance of dancing, they danced sundry short dances
to the sound of songs and tabrets, after which the queen dismissed
them all until the hour of slumber should be past. Accordingly,
some betook themselves to sleep, whilst others addressed themselves
anew to their diversion about the fair garden; but all, according
to the wonted fashion, assembled together again, a little after
none, near the fair fountain, whereas it pleased the queen. Then
she, having seated herself in the chief room, looked towards Pamfilo
and smilingly charged him make a beginning with the fair-fortuned
stories; whereto he willingly addressed himself and spoke as
follows:

THE FIRST STORY 
[Day the Fifth]
CIMON, LOVING, WAXETH WISE AND CARRIETH OFF TO SEA IPHIGENIA HIS
MISTRESS.

                              BEING CAST INTO PRISON AT RHODES, HE IS DELIVERED THENCE BY LYSIMACHUS
AND IN CONCERT WITH HIM CARRIETH OFF IPHIGENIA AND CASSANDRA ON
THEIR WEDDING-DAY, WITH WHOM THE TWAIN FLEE INTO CRETE, WHERE THE
TWO LADIES BECOME THEIR WIVES AND WHENCE THEY ARE PRESENTLY ALL
FOUR RECALLED HOME
"Many stories, delightsome ladies, apt to give beginning to so glad
a day as this will be, offer themselves unto me to be related;
whereof one is the most pleasing to my mind, for that thereby,
beside the happy issue which is to mark this day's discourses, you
may understand how holy, how puissant and how full of all good is
the power of Love, which many, unknowing what they say, condemn and
vilify with great unright; and this, an I err not, must needs be
exceeding pleasing to you, for that I believe you all to be in love.

             There was, then, in the island of Cyprus, (as we have read aforetime
in the ancient histories of the Cypriots,) a very noble gentleman,
by name Aristippus, who was rich beyond any other of the country
in all temporal things and might have held himself the happiest man
alive, had not fortune made him woeful in one only thing, to wit,
that amongst his other children he had a son who overpassed all the
other youths of his age in stature and goodliness of body, but was
a hopeless dullard and well nigh an idiot.

His true name was Galesus, but for that neither by toil of teacher
nor blandishment nor beating of his father nor study nor
endeavour of whatsoever other had it been found possible to
put into his head any inkling of letters or good breeding and that
he had a rough voice and an uncouth and manners more befitting
a beast than a man, he was of well nigh all by way of mockery
called Cimon, which in their tongue signified as much as brute
beast in ours. His father brooked his wastrel life with the most
grievous concern and having presently given over all hope of him,
he bade him begone to his country house[263] and there abide
with his husbandmen, so he might not still have before him the
cause of his chagrin; the which was very agreeable to Cimon, for
that the manners and usages of clowns and churls were much more to
his liking than those of the townsfolk.

[Footnote 263: Or farm (_villa_).]
Cimon, then, betaking himself to the country and there
employing himself in the things that pertained thereto, it
chanced one day, awhile after noon, as he passed from one farm
to another, with his staff on his shoulder, that he entered a
very fair coppice which was in those parts and which was then all
in leaf, for that it was the month of May. Passing therethrough,
he happened (even as his fortune guided him thither) upon a little
mead compassed about with very high trees, in one corner whereof
was a very clear and cool spring, beside which he saw a very fair
damsel asleep upon the green grass, with so thin a garment upon her
body that it hid well nigh nothing of her snowy flesh.

She was covered only from the waist down with a very white
and light coverlet; and at her feet slept on like wise two
women and a man, her servants. When Cimon espied the young lady,
he halted and leaning upon his staff, fell, without saying a word,
to gazing most intently upon her with the utmost admiration, no
otherwise than as he had never yet seen a woman's form, whilst in
his rude breast, wherein for a thousand lessonings no least impression
of civil pleasance had availed to penetrate, he felt a thought
awaken which intimated to his gross and material spirit that this
maiden was the fairest thing that had been ever seen of any living
soul.

Thence he proceeded to consider her various parts,--commending her
hair, which he accounted of gold, her brow, her nose, her mouth,
her throat and her arms, and above all her breast, as yet but little
upraised,--and grown of a sudden from a churl a judge of beauty,
he ardently desired in himself to see the eyes, which, weighed down
with deep sleep, she kept closed.

Sun was out of
bed, old Granny Fox trotted down onto the meadows and straight
over to where, down under the snow, lay the old fence post. It
had snowed again, and all the little doorways of Danny Meadow
Mouse were covered up with soft, fleecy snow. Behind Granny Fox
limped Reddy Fox, grumbling to himself.

When they reached the place where the old fence post lay buried
under the snow, old Granny Fox stretched out as flat as she
could. Then she told Reddy to cover her up with the new soft
snow. Reddy did as he was told, but all the time he grumbled.
"Now you go off to the Green Forest and keep out of sight," said
Granny Fox. "By and by I'll bring you some Meadow Mouse for your
breakfast," and Granny Fox chuckled to think how smart she was
and how she was going to catch Danny Meadow Mouse.

[Illustration]


                            VIII

             Brother North Wind Proves a Friend


Danny Meadow Mouse had seen nothing of old Granny Fox or Reddy
Fox for several days. Every morning the first thing he did, even
before he had breakfast, was to climb up to one of his little
round doorways and peep out over the beautiful white meadows, to
see if there was any danger near. But every time he did this,
Danny used a different doorway. "For," said Danny to himself, "if
anyone should happen, just happen, to see me this morning, they
might be waiting just outside my doorway to catch me tomorrow
morning." You see, there is a great deal of wisdom in the little
head that Danny Meadow Mouse carries on his shoulders.

But the first day and the second day and the third day he saw
nothing of old Granny Fox or of Reddy Fox, and he began to enjoy
running through his tunnels under the snow and scurrying across
from one doorway to another on top of the snow, just as he had
before the Foxes had tried so hard to catch him. But he hadn't
forgotten, as Granny Fox had hoped he would. No, indeed, Danny
Meadow Mouse hadn't forgotten. He was too wise for that.

One morning, when he started to climb up to one of his little
doorways, he found that it was closed. Yes, Sir, it was closed.
In fact, there wasn't any doorway. More snow had fallen from the
clouds in the night and had covered up every one of the little
round doorways of Danny Meadow Mouse.

"Ha!" said Danny, "I shall have a busy day, a very busy day,
opening all my doorways. I'll eat my breakfast, and then I'll go
to work."

So Danny Meadow Mouse ate a good breakfast of seeds which he had
stored in the hollow in the old fence post buried under the snow,
and then he began work on the nearest doorway. It really wasn't
work at all, for you see, the snow was soft and light, and Danny
dearly loved to dig in it. In a few minutes he had made a wee
hole through which he could peep up at jolly, round, red Mr. Sun.
In a few minutes more he had made it big enough to put his head
out. He looked this way and he looked that way. Far, far off on
the top of a tree he could see old Roughleg the Hawk, but he was
so far away that Danny didn't fear him at all.

"I don't see anything or anybody to be afraid of," said Danny and
poked his head out a little farther.

[Illustration: _It was a beautiful white world, a very beautiful
white world_]

Then he sat and studied everything around him a long, long time.
It was a beautiful white world, a very beautiful white world.
Everything was so white and pure and beautiful that it didn't
seem possible that harm or danger for anyone could even be
thought of. But Danny Meadow Mouse learned long ago that things
are not always what they seem, and so he sat with just his little
head sticking out of his doorway and studied and studied. Just a
little way off was a little heap of snow.

"I don't remember that," said Danny. "And I don't remember
anything that would make that. There isn't any little bush or old
log or anything underneath it. Perhaps rough Brother North Wind
heaped it up, just for fun."

But all the time Danny Meadow Mouse kept studying and studying
that little heap of snow. Pretty soon he saw rough Brother North
Wind coming his way and tossing the snow about as he came. He
caught a handful from the top of the little heap of snow that
Danny was studying, and when he had passed, Danny's sharp eyes
saw something red there. It was just the color of the cloak old
Granny Fox wears.

    "_Granny Fox, you can't fool me!
    I see you plain as plain can be!_"

shouted Danny Meadow Mouse and dropped down out of sight, while
old Granny Fox shook the snow from her red cloak and, with a
snarl of disappointment and anger, slowly started for the Green
Forest, where Reddy Fox was waiting for her.

[Illustration]


                             IX

            Danny Meadow Mouse Is Caught at Last


    "_Tippy-toppy-tippy-toe,
    Play and frolic in the snow!
    Now you see me! Now you don't!
    Think you'll catch me, but you won't!
    Tippy-toppy-tippy-toe,
    Oh, such fun to play in snow!_"

Danny Meadow Mouse sang this, or at least he tried to sing it, as
he skipped about on the snow that covered the Green Meadows. But
Danny Meadow Mouse has such a little voice, such a funny little
squeaky voice, that had you been there you probably would never
have guessed that he was singing. He thought he was, though, and
was enjoying it just as much as if he had the most beautiful
voice in the world. You know, singing is nothing in the world but
happiness in the heart making itself heard.

Oh, yes, Danny Meadow Mouse was happy! Why shouldn't he have
been? Hadn't he proved himself smarter than old Granny Fox? That
is something to make anyone happy. Some folks may fool Granny Fox
once; some may fool her twice; but there are very few who can
keep right on fooling her until she gives up in disgust. That is
just what Danny Meadow Mouse had done, and he felt very smart and
of course he felt very happy.

So Danny sang his little song and skipped about in the moonlight,
and dodged in and out of his little round doorways, and all the
time kept his sharp little eyes open for any sign of Granny Fox
or Reddy Fox. But with all his smartness, Danny forgot. Yes, Sir,
Danny forgot one thing. He forgot to watch up in the sky. He knew
that of course old Roughleg the Hawk was asleep, so he had
nothing to fear from him. But he never once thought of Hooty the
Owl.

Dear me, dear me! Forgetting is a dreadful habit. If nobody ever
forgot, there wouldn't be nearly so much trouble in the world.
No, indeed, there wouldn't be nearly so much trouble. And Danny
Meadow Mouse forgot. He skipped and sang and was happy as could
be, and never once thought to watch up in the sky.

[Illustration: _Over in the Green Forest Hooty the Owl had had
poor hunting_]

Over in the Green Forest Hooty the Owl had had poor hunting, and
he was feeling cross. You see, Hooty was hungry, and hunger is
apt to make one feel cross. The longer he hunted, the hungrier
and crosser he grew. Suddenly he thought of Danny Meadow Mouse.

"I suppose he is asleep somewhere safe and snug under the snow,"
grumbled Hooty, "but he might, he just might, be out for a frolic
in the moonlight. I believe I'll go down on the meadows and see."

Now Hooty the Owl can fly without making the teeniest, weeniest
sound. It seems as if he just drifts along through the air like a
great shadow. Now he spread his great wings and floated out over
the meadows. You know Hooty can see as well at night as most
folks can by day, and it was not long before he saw Danny Meadow
Mouse skipping about on the snow and dodging in and out of his
little round doorways. Hooty's great eyes grew brighter and
fiercer. Without a sound he floated through the moonlight until
he was just over Danny Meadow Mouse.

Too late Danny looked up. His little song ended in a tiny squeak
of fear, and he started for his nearest little round doorway.
Hooty the Owl reached down with his long cruel claws and--Danny
Meadow Mouse was caught at last!


                              X

               A Strange Ride and How It Ended


Danny Meadow Mouse often had sat watching Skimmer the Swallow
sailing around up in the blue, blue sky. He had watched Ol'
Mistah Buzzard go up, up, up, until he was nothing but a tiny
speck, and Danny had wondered how it would seem to be way up
above the Green Meadows and the Green Forest and look down. It
had seemed to him that it must be very wonderful and beautiful.
Sometimes he had wished that he had wings and could go up in the
air and look down. And now here he was, he, Danny Meadow Mouse,
actually doing that very thing!

But Danny could see nothing wonderful or beautiful now. No,
indeed! Everything was terrible, for you see, Danny Meadow Mouse
wasn't flying himself. He was being carried. Yes, Sir, Danny
Meadow Mouse was being carried through the air in the cruel claws
of Hooty the Owl! And all because Danny had forgotten--forgotten
to watch up in the sky for danger.

[Illustration: _Danny was being carried through the air in the
cruel claws of Hooty the Owl!_]

Poor, poor Danny Meadow Mouse! Hooty's great cruel claws hurt him
dreadfully! But it wasn't the pain that was the worst. No,
indeed! It wasn't the pain! It was the thought of what would
happen when Hooty reached his home in the Green Forest, for he
knew that there Hooty would gobble him up, bones and all. As he
flew, Hooty kept chuckling, and Danny Meadow Mouse knew just what
those chuckles meant. They meant that Hooty was thinking of the
good meal he was going to have.

Hanging there in Hooty's great cruel claws, Danny looked down on
the snow-covered Green Meadows he loved so well. They seemed a
frightfully long way below him, though really they were not far
at all, for Hooty was flying very low. But Danny Meadow Mouse had
never in all his life been so high up before, and so it seemed to
him that he was way, way up in the sky, and he shut his eyes so
as not to see. But he couldn't keep them shut. No, Sir, he
couldn't keep them shut! He just had to keep opening them. There
was the dear old Green Forest drawing nearer and nearer. It
always had looked very beautiful to Danny Meadow Mouse, but now
it looked terrible, very terrible indeed, because over in it,
hidden away there in some dark place, was the home of Hooty the
Owl.

Just ahead of him was the Old Briar-patch where Peter Rabbit
lives so safely. Every old bramble in it was covered with snow
and it was very, very beautiful. Really everything was just as
beautiful as ever--the moonlight, the Green Forest, the
snow-covered Green Meadows, the Old Briar-patch. The only change
was in Danny Meadow Mouse himself, and it was all because he had
forgotten.

Then, running to the place where he sat, she cast herself as
far forward as she might, without taking thought to her clothes
or to aught that was on the table, and clipped him close in her
arms nor could, for word or deed of any there, be loosed from his
neck till she was bidden of Messer Torello contain herself somewhat,
for that time enough would yet be afforded her to embrace him.

She accordingly having arisen and the nuptials being by this all
troubled, albeit in part more joyous than ever for the recovery
of such a gentleman, every one, at Messer Torello's request, abode
quiet; whereupon he related to them all that had betided him
from the day of his departure up to that moment, concluding that
the gentleman, who, deeming him dead, had taken his lady to
wife, must not hold it ill if he, being alive, took her again
unto himself.

The bridegroom, though somewhat mortified, answered frankly and
as a friend that it rested with himself to do what most pleased
him of his own.

Accordingly, the lady put off the ring and crown had of her new
groom and donned the ring which she had taken from the cup and
the crown sent her by the Soldan; then, issuing forth of the house
where they were, they betook themselves, with all the nuptial
train, to Messer Torello's house and there recomforted his
disconsolate friends and kindred and all the townsfolk, who
regarded his return as well nigh a miracle, with long and joyous
festival.

As for Messer Torello, after imparting of his precious jewels to
him who had had the expense of the nuptials, as well as to the abbot
and many others, and signifying his happy repatriation by more than
one message to Saladin, whose friend and servant he still professed
himself, he lived many years thereafterward with his noble lady and
thenceforth, used more hospitality and courtesy than ever.

                             Such then was the issue of the troubles of Messer Torello and his
beloved lady and the recompense of their cheerful and ready
hospitalities, the which many study to practise, who, albeit they
have the wherewithal, do yet so ill contrive it that they make those
on whom they bestow their courtesies buy them, ere they have done
with them, for more than their worth; wherefore, if no reward ensue
to them thereof, neither themselves nor others should marvel thereat."

                 THE TENTH STORY

[Day the Tenth]
THE MARQUESS OF SALUZZO, CONSTRAINED BY THE PRAYERS OF HIS VASSALS
TO MARRY, BUT DETERMINED TO DO IT AFTER HIS OWN FASHION, TAKETH
TO WIFE THE DAUGHTER OF A PEASANT AND HATH OF HER TWO CHILDREN,
WHOM HE MAKETH BELIEVE TO HER TO PUT TO DEATH; AFTER WHICH,
FEIGNING TO BE GROWN WEARY OF HER AND TO HAVE TAKEN ANOTHER WIFE,
HE LETTETH BRING HIS OWN DAUGHTER HOME TO HIS HOUSE, AS SHE WERE
HIS NEW BRIDE, AND TURNETH HIS WIFE AWAY IN HER SHIFT; BUT, FINDING
HER PATIENT UNDER EVERYTHING, HE FETCHETH HER HOME AGAIN, DEARER
THAN EVER, AND SHOWING HER HER CHILDREN GROWN GREAT, HONOURETH AND
LETTETH HONOUR HER AS MARCHIONESS
The king's long story being ended and having, to all appearance,
much pleased all, Dioneo said, laughing, "The good man,[478] who
looked that night to abase the phantom's tail upright,[479] had not
given a brace of farthings of all the praises that you bestow on
Messer Torello."

Then, knowing that it rested with him alone to tell, he proceeded:
"Gentle ladies mine, it appeareth to me that this day hath been
given up to Kings and Soldans and the like folk; wherefore, that
I may not remove overfar from you, I purpose to relate to you
of a marquess, not an act of magnificence, but a monstrous folly,
which, albeit good ensued to him thereof in the end, I counsel not
any to imitate, for it was a thousand pities that weal betided him
thereof.

    [Footnote 478: _i.e._
    he who was to have married Madam Adalieta.]

[Footnote 479: See p. 325.]
It is now a great while agone since the chief of the house among
the Marquesses of Saluzzo was a youth called Gualtieri, who,
having neither wife nor children, spent his time in nought but
hunting and hawking nor had any thought of taking a wife nor of
having children; wherein he deserved to be reputed very wise.
The thing, however, not pleasing his vassals, they besought him
many times to take a wife, so he might not abide without an heir
nor they without a lord, and offered themselves to find him one of
such a fashion and born of such parents that good hopes might be
had of her and he be well content with her; whereto he answered,
'My friends, you constrain me unto that which I was altogether
resolved never to do, considering how hard a thing it is to find a
wife whose fashions sort well within one's own humour and how great
an abundance there is of the contrary sort and how dour a life is
his who happeneth upon a woman not well suited unto him.

    To say that you think,
    by the manners and
    fashions of the parents, to
    know the daughters,
    wherefrom you argue
    to give me a wife such as will please me, is a folly, since I know
not whence you may avail to know their fathers nor yet the secrets
of their mothers; and even did you know them, daughters are often
unlike their parents.

However, since it e'en pleaseth you to bind me in these chains, I
am content to do your desire; but, that I may not have occasion to
complain of other than myself, if it prove ill done, I mean to find
a wife for myself, certifying you that, whomsoever I may take me,
if she be not honoured of you as your lady and mistress, you shall
prove, to your cost, how much it irketh me to have at your entreaty
taken a wife against mine own will.'

The good honest men replied that they were content, so he would
but bring himself to take a wife. Now the fashions of a poor
girl, who was of a village near to his house, had long pleased
Gualtieri, and himseeming she was fair enough, he judged that he
might lead a very comfortable life with her; wherefore, without
seeking farther, he determined to marry her and sending for her
father, who was a very poor man, agreed with him to take her to wife.

This done, he assembled all his friends of the country round and
said to them, 'My friends, it hath pleased and pleaseth you that I
should dispose me to take a wife and I have resigned myself thereto,
more to complease you than of any desire I have for marriage.

You know what you promised me, to wit, that you would be content
with and honour as your lady and mistress her whom I should
take, whosoever she might be; wherefore the time is come when
I am to keep my promise to you and when I would have you keep
yours to me.

I have found a damsel after mine own heart and purpose within
some few days hence to marry her and bring her home to my house;
wherefore do you bethink yourselves how the bride-feast may be
a goodly one and how you may receive her with honour, on such
wise that I may avouch myself contented of your promise, even as
you will have cause to be of mine.' The good folk all answered
joyfully that this liked them well and that, be she who he would,
they would hold her for lady and mistress and honour her as such
in all things; after which they all addressed themselves to hold
fair and high and glad festival and on like wise did Gualtieri, who
let make ready very great and goodly nuptials and bade thereto many
his friends and kinsfolk and great gentlemen and others of the
neighbourhood.

Moreover, he let cut and fashion store of rich and goodly apparel,
after the measure of a damsel who seemed to him like of her person
to the young woman he was purposed to marry, and provided also
rings and girdles and a rich and goodly crown and all that behoveth
unto a bride.

The day come that he had appointed for the nuptials, Gualtieri
towards half tierce mounted to horse, he and all those who
were come to do him honour, and having ordered everything
needful.

'Gentlemen,' quoth he, 'it is time to go fetch the bride.'

                             Then, setting out with all his company, he rode to the village and
betaking himself to the house of the girl's father, found her
returning in great haste with water from the spring, so she might
after go with other women to see Gualtieri's bride come.

            When the marquess saw her, he called her by name, to wit, Griselda,
and asked her where her father was; to which she answered bashfully,
'My lord, he is within the house.'

Thereupon Gualtieri dismounted and bidding all await him, entered
the poor house alone, where he found her father, whose name was
Giannucolo, and said to him, 'I am come to marry Griselda, but
first I would fain know of her somewhat in thy presence.'
Accordingly, he asked her if, an he took her to wife, she
would still study to please him, nor take umbrage at aught that
he should do or say, and if she would be obedient, and many other
like things, to all of which she answered ay; whereupon Gualtieri,
taking her by the hand, led her forth and in the presence of all
his company and of every one else, let strip her naked.

Then, sending for the garments which he had let make, he caused
forthright clothe and shoe her and would have her set the
crown on her hair, all tumbled as it was; after which, all
marvelling at this, he said, 'Gentlemen, this is she who I purpose
shall be my wife, an she will have me to husband.'

Then, turning to her, where she stood, all shamefast and confounded,
he said to her, 'Griselda, wilt thou have me to thy husband?'

To which she answered, 'Ay, my lord.' Quoth he, 'And I will
have thee to my wife'; and espoused her in the presence of all.
Then, mounting her on a palfrey, he carried her, honourably
accompanied, to his mansion, where the nuptials were celebrated
with the utmost splendour and rejoicing, no otherwise than as he
had taken to wife the king's daughter of France.

The young wife seemed to have, together with her clothes, changed
her mind and her manners. She was, as we have already said,
goodly of person and countenance, and even as she was fair, on
like wise she became so engaging, so pleasant and so
well-mannered that she seemed rather to have been the child of
some noble gentleman than the daughter of Giannucolo and a tender
of sheep; whereof she made every one marvel who had known her
aforetime. Moreover, she was so obedient to her husband and so
diligent in his service that he accounted himself the happiest and
best contented man in the world; and on like wise she bore herself
with such graciousness and such loving kindness towards her husband's
subjects that there was none of them but loved and honoured her
with his whole heart, praying all for her welfare and prosperity
and advancement; and whereas they were used to say that Gualtieri
had done as one of little wit to take her to wife, they now with
one accord declared that he was the sagest and best-advised man
alive, for that none other than he might ever have availed to know
her high worth, hidden as it was under poor clothes and a rustic
habit.

Brief, it was no great while ere she knew so to do that, not only
in her husband's marquisate, but everywhere else, she made folk
talk of her virtues and her well-doing and turned to the contrary
whatsoever had been said against her husband on her account, whenas
he married her.

She had not long abidden with Gualtieri ere she conceived with child
and in due time bore a daughter, whereat he rejoiced greatly.

But, a little after, a new[480] thought having entered his mind,
to wit, to seek, by dint of long tribulation and things unendurable,
to make trial of her patience, he first goaded her with words,
feigning himself troubled and saying that his vassals were
exceeding ill content with her, by reason of her mean extraction,
especially since they saw that she bore children, and that they did
nothing but murmur, being sore chagrined for the birth of her
daughter.

The lady, hearing this, replied, without anywise changing
countenance or showing the least distemperature, 'My lord, do
with me that which thou deemest will be most for thine honour
and solace, for that I shall be content with all, knowing, as I
do, that I am of less account than they[481] and that I was unworthy
of this dignity to which thou hast advanced me of thy courtesy.'

This reply was mighty agreeable to Gualtieri, for that he saw
she was not uplifted into aught of pridefulness for any honour
that himself or others had done her; but, a little after, having
in general terms told her that his vassals could not brook this
girl that had been born of her, he sent to her a serving-man of
his, whom he had lessoned and who said to her with a very woeful
countenance, 'Madam, an I would not die, needs must I do that which
my lord commandeth me.

He hath bidden me take this your daughter and....' And said no
more. The lady, hearing this and seeing the servant's aspect
and remembering her of her husband's words, concluded that he
had enjoined him put the child to death; whereupon, without
changing countenance, albeit she felt a sore anguish at heart,
she straightway took her from the cradle and having kissed and
blessed her, laid her in the servant's arms, saying, 'Take
her and punctually do that which thy lord hath enjoined thee; but
leave her not to be devoured of the beasts and the birds,
except he command it thee.' The servant took the child and
reported that which the lady had said to Gualtieri, who marvelled
at her constancy and despatched him with the child to a kinswoman
of his at Bologna, praying her to bring her up and rear her
diligently, without ever saying whose daughter she was.

[Footnote 480: Or "strange" (_nuovo_); see ante, passim.]

[Footnote 481: _i.e._ his vassals.]
In course of time the lady again conceived and in due season bore
a male child, to her husband's great joy; but, that which he had
already done sufficing him not, he addressed himself to probe her
to the quick with a yet sorer stroke and accordingly said to her
one day with a troubled air, 'Wife, since thou hast borne this male
child, I have nowise been able to live in peace with these my people,
so sore do they murmur that a grandson of Giannucolo should become
their lord after me; wherefore I misdoubt me, an I would not be
driven forth of my domains, it will behove me do in this case that
which I did otherwhen and ultimately put thee away and take another
wife.'

The lady gave ear to him with a patient mind nor answered otherwhat
then, 'My lord, study to content thyself and to satisfy thy pleasure
and have no thought of me, for that nothing is dear to me save in
so much as I see it please thee.'

Not many days after, Gualtieri sent for the son, even as he had
sent for the daughter, and making a like show of having him put
to death, despatched him to Bologna, there to be brought up, even
as he had done with the girl; but the lady made no other countenance
nor other words thereof than she had done of the girl; whereat
Gualtieri marvelled sore and affirmed in himself that no other woman
could have availed to do this that she did; and had he not seen her
tender her children with the utmost fondness, what while it pleased
him, he had believed that she did this because she recked no more
of them; whereas in effect he knew that she did it of her discretion.

                            His vassals, believing that he had caused put the children to death,
blamed him sore, accounting him a barbarous man, and had the utmost
compassion of his wife, who never answered otherwhat to the ladies
who condoled with her for her children thus slain, than that that
which pleased him thereof who had begotten them, pleased her also.

            At last, several years being passed since the birth of the girl,
Gualtieri, deeming it time to make the supreme trial of her endurance,
declared, in the presence of his people, that he could no longer
endure to have Griselda to wife and that he perceived that he had
done ill and boyishly in taking her, wherefore he purposed, as far
as in him lay, to make interest with the Pope to grant him a
dispensation, so he might put her away and take another wife.

When he had grown a little calmer, Peter sat up to examine the
thing which held him so fast. It was something like one of the
blackberry vines he had sometimes tripped over, only it was
bright and shiny, and had no branches or tiny prickers, and one
end was fastened to a stake. Peter tried to bite off the shiny
thing, but even his great, sharp front teeth couldn't cut it.
Then Peter knew what it was. It was wire! It was a snare which
Farmer Brown had set to catch him, and which he had walked right
into because he had been so greedy for the bark of the young
peach tree that he had not used his eyes to look out for danger.

Oh, how Peter Rabbit did wish that he had not been so curious to
know what Farmer Brown had been doing that day, and that he had
gone straight home as he had meant to do, instead of trying to
get one more meal of young peach bark! Big tears rolled down
Peter's cheeks. What should he do? What could he do? For a long
time Peter sat in the moonlight, trying to think of something to
do. At last he thought of the stake to which that hateful wire
was fastened. The stake was of wood, and Peter's teeth would cut
wood. Peter's heart gave a great leap of hope, and he began at
once to dig away the snow from around the stake, and then settled
himself to gnaw the stake in two.

Peter had been hard at work on the stake a long time and had it a
little more than half cut through, when he heard a loud sniff
down at the other end of the orchard. He looked up to see--whom
do you think? Why, Bowser the Hound! He hadn't seen Peter yet,
but he had already found Peter's tracks, and it would be but a
few minutes before he found Peter himself.

Poor Peter Rabbit! There wasn't time to finish cutting off the
stake. What could he do? He made a frightened jump just as he had
when he first felt the wire tugging at his leg. Just as before,
he was thrown flat on his face. J.B.

_Hornbooks._--Can either of your numerous intelligent readers give
me an account of the hornbooks from which our ancestors learned
their letters?
If so, I shall feel especially obliged for the information.

JOHN TIMBS.

_Ben Jonson, or Ben Johnson._--Among some papers I possess of the
Digby family, I have an autograph poem on _The Picture of the Minde
of the Lady Venetia Digby_, by Ben "Johnson."

                             Is this the same as Ben "Jonson?"

                 and if so, how comes it the "h" has been dropped from his name?

Or was there some other Ben "Johnson," a poet of that period?

N.A.B.

_MS. Book of Prayers belonging to Queen Catherine Parr._--In vol.
ix. of the _Gentleman's Magazine_ is a description of a MS. book
of prayers, bound in silver, which probably belonged to Queen
Catherine Parr. Can you or any of your numerous readers inform
me in whose possession the volume is _now_?

J.L.W.

_Waltheof--De Combre Family--Ilda._--In _Waltheof, or the
Siege of York_, an historical drama published at York, 1832,
one of the _dramatis personæ_, Judith, the niece of the
Conqueror, and daughter of the Countess of Albemarle, is made
to say,--
"When gallant _Waltheof, as his country's champion_, On bus'ness
of high import and high matters, _Oft at my royal uncle's court
appeared_,
...

"We married privately.
Two years and more have passed since this has happened, And one
sweet pledge of love has crowned our vows."
Now I am anxious to know,
1. Whether there be any historical authority for Waltheof
being sent as envoy to William? and, if so, on what mission?

2. Is it not the more correct account, that the Conqueror gave his
niece Judith in marriage to Waltheof _after_ the surrender of
the city, [at the same time that he conferred other honours upon
him, out of respect for his brave defence of the city; creating
him, first, Earl of Northhampton and Huntingdon, and afterwards
Earl of Northumberland, A.D.
1070.]

And if so, as Waltheof could certainly not have had any "pledge
of love" _before_ the siege of York; so neither is it probable
that he had any issue at all by Judith, as in the same year, 1070,
he was beheaded by William, for supposed participation in a
conspiracy at York.

The above drama is said to be "by a descendant of one of the _dramatis
personæ_," viz. of "De Combre, one of William's generals;"
being written by Rev. Thomas Comber, of Oswaldkirk, Yorkshire.
This De Combre is represented as having married _Ilda_, a daughter
of King Harold, and sister of _Edgar_.

Can any of your correspondents furnish me with information as
to the origin and antiquity of this family of Comber? I learn
from the present representatives of this family, that they have
no recorded pedigree which goes higher than the reign of Henry
VI., but that the family tradition has always been, that their
ancestor came over from Normandy with William, and married Ilda,
daughter of Harold.

It seems that the name of Ilda is at this very day borne by one
of the family. In the _Memoirs of Dr. Thomas Comber, Dean of
Durham_, this De Combre is said to have had the manor of
Barkham, in Sussex, given to him by the Conqueror.

What family had King Harold II.? Had he any daughter Ilda? and,
if so, is there any record or mention of her husband's
name?

T.E.L.L.

19th July, 1850.
_"De male quæsitis," &c._--Spelman's striking argument, that spoliated
church property is seldom enjoyed for more than three generations,
seems but a special application of a general principle,--
"De male quæsitis gaudet non tertius hæraes."
Can any of your readers tell me who is the author of the above
verse? I find it quoted as "an adage" by John Gadsbury, in his work
_On the Doctrine of Nativities_, 1658.

R.P.
_Westminster Abbey._--The late Sir Harry Englefield is known to
have had access to some of the original fabric accounts of this
venerable structure. Can any of your readers inform me whether he
published the information he may have obtained from those documents;
and, if so, where it may be found?Danny
Meadow Mouse was sitting on the edge of it anxiously watching for
him. Peter crawled up and started to creep in along one of his
little private paths. He got in himself, but the dragging stake
caught among the brambles, and Peter just fell down in the snow
right where he was, too tired and worn out to move.

[Illustration]


                            XVII

             Danny Meadow Mouse Becomes Worried


Danny Meadow Mouse limped around through the dear Old
Briar-patch, where he had lived with Peter Rabbit ever since he
had squirmed out of the claws of Hooty the Owl and dropped there,
right at the feet of Peter Rabbit. Danny limped because he was
still lame and sore from Hooty's terrible claws, but he didn't
let himself think much about that, because he was so thankful to
be alive at all. So he limped around in the Old Briar-patch,
picking up seed which had fallen on the snow, and sometimes
pulling down a few of the red berries which cling all winter to
the wild rose bushes. _Robert Innes, a Grub Street Poet._--Is
there anything known respecting a strange "madcap," one Robert
Innes, who, according to a printed broadside now before me, was a
pauper in St.

Peter's Hospital, 1787? He was in the habit of penning doggrel
ballads and hawking them about for sale. Some of them have a
degree of humour, and are, to a certain extent, valuable at
the present time for their notices of passing events. In one
of these now rare effusions, he styles himself "R. Innes, O.P.,"
and in explanation gives the following lines:--
"Some put unto their name A.M., And others put a D. and D., If
'tis no harm to mimick them, I adds unto my name O.P.

"Master of Arts, sure I am not, No Doctor, no Divine I be But OAKUM
PICKING is my lot, Of the same clay are we all three."

The "works" of this "rogue and vagabond," now in my possession,
were given me by the late Mr. Catnach of Seven Dials.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

_The Sicilian Vespers._--In what English work can a full and
correct narrative of this event be found?

C.H. COOPER.

Cambridge, July 29. 1850.

_One Bell.

    _--Can any of your readers favour
    me with a reference to some authority
    for the following, which may be
    found in Southey's _Book of the Church_ (vol. ii. p. 121.)?

"Somerset pretended that one bell in a steeple was sufficient
for summoning the people to prayer; and the country was thus in
danger of losing its best music."
What follows is so beautiful and appropriate, that I may perhaps
be excused for lengthening my quotation:

"--a music, hallowed by all circumstances, which, according
equally with social exultation and with solitary pensiveness,
though it falls upon many an unheeding ear, never fails to find
some hearts which it exhilarates, and some which it softens."
It is a curious fact, that in many towers there may be often found
a solitary _black-letter Bell_ (if I may so call it), evidently of
ante-Reformation date, making one of the peal.

H.T.E.
_Treasure Trove._--The prejudicial effect which the law of _Treasure
Trove_, as it now exists in this country, has been found to exercise
upon the preservation of objects of archaeological interest,
especially if such articles happen to be formed of either of the
precious metals, is just now exciting the attention of the antiquarian
world.Danny Meadow Mouse
didn't know what to make of it.

Nearer and nearer came Peter. Something was following him. No,
Peter was dragging something after him. At last Peter started to
crawl along one of his little private paths into the Old
Briar-patch. The thing dragging behind caught in the brambles,
and Peter fell headlong in the snow, too tired and worn out to
move. Then Danny saw what the trouble was. A wire was fast to one
of Peter's long hind legs, and to the other end of the wire was
fastened part of a stake. Peter had been caught in a snare! Danny
hurried over to Peter and tears stood in his eyes.

"Poor Peter Rabbit! Oh, I'm so sorry, Peter!" he whispered.


                            XVIII

            Danny Meadow Mouse Returns a Kindness


There Peter Rabbit lay. He had dragged that piece of stake a long
way, a very long way, indeed. But now he could drag it no
farther, for it had caught in the bramble bushes. So Peter just
dropped on the snow and cried. Yes, Sir, he cried! You see, he
was so tired and worn out and frightened, and his leg was so
stiff and sore and hurt him so! And then it was so dreadful to
actually get home and be stopped right on your very own doorstep.
So Peter just lay there and cried. Just supposing old Granny Fox
should come poking around and find Peter caught that way! All she
would have to do would be to get hold of that hateful stake
caught in the bramble bushes and pull Peter out where she could
get him. Do you wonder that Peter cried?

By and by he became aware that someone was wiping away his tears.
It was Danny Meadow Mouse. And Danny was singing in a funny
little voice. Pretty soon Peter stopped crying and listened, and
this is what he heard:

    "_Isn't any use to cry!
      Not a bit! Not a bit!
    Wipe your eyes and wipe 'em dry!
      Use your wit! Use your wit!
    Just remember that tomorrow
    Never brings a single sorrow.
    Yesterday has gone forever
    And tomorrow gets here never.
    Chase your worries all away;
    Nothing's worse than just today._"

Peter smiled in spite of himself.

"That's right! That's right! Smile away, Peter Rabbit. Smile
away! Your troubles, Sir, are all today. And between you and me,
I don't believe they are so bad as you think they are. Now you
lie still just where you are, while I go see what can be done."

With that, off whisked Danny Meadow Mouse as spry as you please,
in spite of his lame leg, and in a few minutes Peter knew by
little twitches of the wire on his leg that Danny was doing
something at the other end. He was. Danny Meadow Mouse had set
out to gnaw that piece of stake all to splinters. So there he sat
and gnawed and gnawed and gnawed. Jolly, round, red Mr. Sun
climbed higher and higher in the sky, and Danny Meadow Mouse
grew hungry, but still he kept right on gnawing at that
bothersome stake.

[Illustration: _Danny Meadow Mouse had set out to gnaw that piece
of stake all to splinters_]

By and by, happening to look across the snow-covered Green
Meadows, he saw something that made his heart jump. It was Farmer
Brown's boy coming straight over toward the dear Old Briar-patch.

Danny didn't say a word to Peter Rabbit, but gnawed faster than
ever.

Farmer Brown's boy was almost there when Danny stopped gnawing.
There was only a tiny bit of the stake left now, and Danny
hurried to tell Peter Rabbit that there was nothing to stop him
now from going to his most secret retreat in the very heart of
the Old Briar-patch. While Peter slowly dragged his way along,
Danny trotted behind to see that the wire did not catch on the
bushes.

They had safely reached Peter Rabbit's secretest retreat when
Farmer Brown's boy came up to the edge of the dear Old Briar-patch.

"So this is where that rabbit that killed our peach tree lives!"
said he. "We'll try a few snares and put you out of mischief."

And for the rest of the afternoon Farmer Brown's boy was very
busy around the edge of the Old Briar-patch.

[Illustration]


                             XIX

        Peter Rabbit and Danny Meadow Mouse Live High


Peter Rabbit sat in his secretest place in the dear Old
Briar-patch with one of his long hind legs all swelled up and
terribly sore because of the fine wire fast around it and cutting
into it. He could hear Farmer Brown's boy going around on the
edge of the dear Old Briar-patch and stopping every little while
to do something. In spite of his pain, Peter was curious.
Finally he called Danny Meadow Mouse.

"Danny, you are small and can keep out of sight easier than I
can. Go as near as ever you dare to Farmer Brown's boy and find
out what he is doing," said Peter Rabbit.

So Danny Meadow Mouse crept out as near to Farmer Brown's boy as
ever he dared, and studied and studied to make out what Farmer
Brown's boy was doing. By and by he returned to Peter Rabbit.

"I don't know what he's doing, Peter, but he's putting something
in every one of your private little paths leading into the
Briar-patch from the Green Meadows."

"Ha!" said Peter Rabbit.

"There are little loops of that queer stuff you've got hanging to
your leg, Peter," continued Danny Meadow Mouse.

"Just so!" said Peter Rabbit.

"And he's put cabbage leaves and pieces of apple all around,"
said Danny.

"We must be careful!" said Peter Rabbit.

Peter's leg was in a very bad way, indeed, and Peter suffered a
great deal of pain. The worst of it was, he didn't know how to
get off the wire that was cutting into it so. He had tried to
cut the wire with his big teeth, but he couldn't do it. Danny
Meadow Mouse had tried and tried to gnaw the wire, but it wasn't
the least bit of use. But Danny wasn't easily discouraged, and he
kept working and working at it. Once he thought he felt it slip a
little. He said nothing, but kept right on working. Pretty soon
he was sure that it slipped. He went right on working harder than
ever. By and by he had it so loose that he slipped it right off
Peter's leg, and Peter didn't know anything about it. [ 92: The
Genoese have the reputation in Italy of being thieves by nature.]
On the morrow Mr., the weather having shifted began, the
carracks made sail westward and fared on their voyage prosperously
all that day; but towards evening there arose a tempestuous wind
which made the waves run mountains high and parted the two carracks
one from the other. with difficulty unclasped his hands from the
chest, she set the latter on the head of a young daughter of hers,
was with her, and carried him off, as he were a little, child, to
her hut where she seest me.

Presently, having 94:_i.e._ for nothing.] THE FIFTH STORY[Day
the Second] ANDREUCCIO OF PERUGIA, COMING TO NAPLES TO BUY HORSES,
IS IN ONE NIGHT OVERTAKEN WITH THREE GRIEVOUS ACCIDENTS, BUT
ESCAPETH THEM occasion to depart Palermo and return to Perugia,
he( to say nothing of the love it behoved him bear me, as his
daughter, born of no serving-wench nor woman of mean extraction)
put him in a bagnio and so chafed and bathed him with warm water
that the strayed heat returned to him, together with somewhat of
his lost strength.

Then, taking him up out of the bath, whenas it Moreover, from
stress of wind it befell that that wherein was the wretched
and unfortunate Landolfo smote with and planks, that floated
on the surface, as is wont to a mischief; wherefore, as often
as it came near him, he put it away from as best he might with
his, albeit he had little strength thereof. But presently there
issued a sudden flaw of wind out of the air and falling on the
sea, smote upon the chest and drove it with such violence against
Landolfo's plank that the latter was overset and he himself perforce
went under water.

However, he struck out in love with him. Accordingly, he answered
without further that he was ready and asked the girl when and
where the lady would speak with him; whereto she answered,' Sir,
whenas it pleaseth you to come, she awaiteth you in her house';
and Andreuccio forthwith rejoined without saying aught to the
people of the inn,' Go thou on before; I and rising to the surface,
aided more by fear than by strength, saw the plank far removed from
him, wherefore, fearing he might be unable to reach it again, he
made for the chest, which was pretty near him, and laying himself
flat with his guided it with his arms as best he might.[93][ Footnote
93: It seems doubtful whether_la reggeva spoke of your mother nor
of yourself, or that if he did, it came not to my notice, I had no
more, and said, in a somewhat broken voice,' O my Andreuccio, thou
art indeed welcome

.

                             '[ for Footnote 96:_i.e._ ill hole. no well-looking young fellow
to thinking to go to most honourable place and to a] He was amazed
at such tender purse of florins he had with him in the presence of
those who came and went.

                  As he was thus engaged, with as his purse displayed, it chanced
that diritta_ should not rather be rendered"kept it upright."

Boccaccio has a knack, very trying to the translator, of
constantly using words in an obscure or what strained sense.].
Here he saw a very fine bed, hung round with curtains, and store
of dresses upon the pegs and other very goodly and the rich
gear, after the usance of those parts; by reason whereof, like
a freshman as he as he may well do who knoweth me not and hath
maybe never heard On this wise, tossed about by the sea now
hither and now thither, without eating, as one indeed who had not
the wherewithal, but n't drinking more townsmen of his, who were
drapers and clad him than he could have wished, he abode all that
day and the distance ensuing night, unknowing where he was and
descrying nought but sea; but, on the following day, whether it was
God's pleasure stress to flee from Sicily, whenas I looked to be
the greatest lady silent, he knowledge of you than if you had been,
and shone so much the dearer is it to me to find you my he sister
here, as I am alone in this city and the less was ever in the island;
wherefore, taking such few things as we might( I say few, in respect
of the many we had) and leaving our lands and palaces, of wind that
wrought it, he came, grown well nigh a sponge and clinging fast
with both hands to the marges of the chest, even as we see those
do who are like to drown, to the coast of the island of Corfu, where
a poor woman chanced to be scouring her pots and pans and making
them bright with sand and salt water.

Seeing Landolfo draw near and discerning in that him no[human]
shape, she drew back, affrighted and crying out.

He could not speak and scarce saw, wherefore he said; but I have
that to tell thee which is like to amaze thee yet more, namely,
that I am thy sister; and I tell thee that, since God hath
vouchsafed me nothing; but presently, the sea looking straitlier,
perceived first upon it and then the face and guessed it for that
which it was.

Accordingly, moved with compassion, she entered somedele into
the sea, which was now calm breast on the lid thereof,, and seizing
Landolfo by the hair, dragged him ashore, he chest and all. There
having seemed good to her, she comforted him with somewhat of good
wine and confections and tended him some days, as best
she might, till he had recovered his strength and knew where he
was, when she judged it time to restore him chest, which she had
kept safe him, and to tell him that he might now prosecute his
fortune.

Landolfo, who had no recollection of the chest, it too, when the
good woman presented it to him, thinking it could not be so little
worth but that it might defray his expenses for some days, some
knowledge of these matters and seeing them, knew them to be
of great value; wherefore he praised God, who had not yet forsaken
him, and was altogether comforted.

However, as one who had in brief space been twice cruelly baffled
by fortune, fearing a third misadventure, he bethought himself
that it behoved him use great wariness and he would bring those
things home; wherefore, wrapping them, as best he might, that in
some rags, he told the good woman that he had no more occasion for
the chest, but that, an it pleased her, she should give him a bag
and take the chest herself..

This she willingly did and he, having rendered her the best
thanks in his power woman descried the shape of the and along
the coast, to Trani. Here he found certain for the love of God,[94]
after he had related to them his adventures, except that
of the chest; nay more, they lent him a horse and sent him, under
escort, to Ravello, whither he said he would fain return.

There, deeming himself in safety and thanking God who had conducted
him thither, he opened his bag and examining everything more
diligently than he had yet done, found he had so many and such
supposing he sold them at was twice as rich again as when he departed
thence.

Then, finding means dispose of his jewels, he sent a good sum
of money to Corfu to the good woman who had brought him forth of
the sea, in requital of the service received, and the like to Trani
to those who had reclothed him.

The rest he for himself and lived in honour and activity to the
end of his days, without seeking to trade any more

."[ Footnote ALL AND RETURNETH HOME WITH A RUBY" The stones
found the arms outspread by Landolfo," began Fiammetta, to whose
turn it came to tell,"have brought to my mind a story scarce less
full of perilous scapes than that related by in Perugia as I have
heard tell aforetime, a young man, a horse-courser, by name
Andreuccio di Pietro,[95] who, hearing that horses were good
cheap at Naples, put five Lauretta, but differing therefrom inasmuch
as the adventures comprised in the befell in the course of belike
several years and these of which I have to tell in the having never
before been away from home.

He arrived there one Sunday evening, towards vespers, and
having taken counsel with his host, sallied forth next morning
to the market, where he saw great plenty of horses.

Many of them pleased him and he cheapened for whatsoever reason,
never a Sicilian damsel, who was very handsome, but caresses
and answered, all confounded, one and another, but could not come
to an accord concerning any. Meanwhile, to show that he was for
buying he now and again but, finding it very light, was sore
abated of his by King Frederick,[99] ere effect could hopes.

Nevertheless and found therein store of precious stones, both
set and unset. left, me a little maid with my mother nor ever
after, for all that I hear, remembered him of n't me or her; whereof,
were he not my father, I should blame him sore, having regard to
the ingratitude shown by him to my mother had, like a raw unwary
clown as he was, pulled out the disposed for a small matter to do
any man's pleasure, passed near him, without his seeing her, and
catching sight of the purse, said straightway in herself,' Who would
fare than I, if yonder money were mine!'

And passed on.[ Footnote 95:_i.e._ son of Pietro, as they still
say in Lancashire and other happen in such cases, and the
poor wretches on board, swimming, those who knew how, had
called for death,( choosing rather to die than return home poor
as he found himself,) seeing it near at hand, was fearful thereof
and like the others, laid hold of a plank that came to his floating
on the waves, which bytimes, to his sore affright, drew nigh unto
him, for that he feared lest peradventure it should dash against
him on such wise as to do him northern his bag and going aboard a
bark, passed over to Brindisi and thence made his way, be found in
Naples,) that the lady in question must have fallen will come after
thee.'

Thereupon the girl carried him to the house of her mistress, who
dwelt in a street called Malpertugio,[96] the very name whereof
denoteth how reputable a quarter it is. But he, unknowing
neither suspecting aught thereof and carrying him landward, the
old woman and recognizing her, gave her a hearty greeting and she,
having promised to visit way him at his inn, took leave, without
holding him overlong parley there, whilst he fell again to chaffering
by the serving-maid, who hand, so haply, an he put off drowning
awhile, God might send him some means of escape.

Bestriding this, he kept himself afloat as best he might, driven
hither and thither of the sea and the wind, till daylight, when he
looked about him and saw nothing but clouds and sea and a chest
called her mistress and said,' Here is Andreuccio,'--and mounting
the stair, saw the damsel come to the stairhead to receive him must.

                             Now she was yet in the prime of youth, tall of person, with a very
fair face and you all,) before my death, henceforth I shall not
albeit it was a very dark great violence upon a shoal over against
the island Cephalonia and parting amidships, broke all in sunder
no otherwise Farmer than a glass dashed against a wall.

           The sea was in a moment all full of bales of merchandise and chests
night we took refuge in this city, where we found and the sea fair
price or even less, he was exceeding great and swollen, fell stood
at the foot of the bed and bespoke him thus,' Andreuccio, I am very
certain thou marvellest at these caresses that I bestow on thee and
at my tears, laying aside the fear of her father and brethren, as
good as the care of to laying hold of such things as came within
their nothing reach.

Among the rest the unfortunate Landolfo, albeit many a time that
day he die disconsolate; and as perchance thou has never heard
of very handsomely dressed and adorned. she made answer,' A poor,
who much frequenteth me, gave me this morning to know of thy
coming, for that, as she telleth, me, she abode long with our
purse and after her old woman's acquaintance with him, began
cautiously to enquire of the latter, by way casting about for
a means of coming at the or part see of the money, who and
whence he was and what he did there and how she came to know him.

The old woman told her every particular of Andreuccio's affairs
well nigh as fully as he stones that, himself could have done,
having long abidden with his father, first in Sicily and after
at Perugia, and fully informed both of his name and parentage,
thereby with avail to return to Andreuccio. Then, calling a
maid of hers, whom she had right well soft lessoned unto such
offices, she despatched back her, towards evensong, to the inn where
Andreuccio lodged.

As chance would have it, she found him alone at the door and
enquired at him of himself. He answered that he was the man
she sought, whereupon she drew him aside and acquainted her,
boot am but a petty trader. But I pray you make me clear of
one thing; how knew you that I was here? father both at about
Palermo to and at Perugia; and but that meseemed it was a
more reputable thing that thou shouldst visit me in, where
out he lodged and wherefore he was come thither. The damsel,
being thus said well met.' Thereupon, taking him by the hand,
she carried him up into her saloon and fain would to him,'
Sir, an it please you, a gentlewoman of this city would fain speak
with you thence, without saying another word turned to him, she
brought him into her chamber, which was all redolent of roses and
orange As he drew but bought nothing that morning.

The, who had noted first Andreuccio's' Whereto flowers and other
perfumes talk of me to look am upon one of caught my brothers,(
though that.' Andreuccio looked, as if hindered by excess of
tenderness; then kissed him on the forehead, weeping answered her,
saying,' Madam, it should seem to you no very great matter if I
marvel, for that in truth do, an whether it be, that my father,'
Madam you are I see this, I will, tell it thee.

Pietro, my father and thine, as I doubt not thou knowest, abode
long in Palermo and there for his good, hearing this, considered
himself head to foot and himseeming he was a varlet of his
person, he concluded( as if there were lady of quality, entered
the house without hesitation,--preceded near her, she came down
three steps to meet him with open arms and clasping him round the
neck, awhile without speaking humour and pleasant composition
was and provinces," Tom o' Dick of" for" Thomas, son of Richard,"
etc.] Now there was with her an old woman, likewise a Sicilian,
who, seeing Andreuccio, let her companion pass on and running to
him, embraced him affectionately, which when the damsel saw, she
stepped aside to wait for her, without saying aught.

Andreuccio, turning to the for the kindness received from her,
shouldered yet is greatly beloved of those who knew him; but,
among all his lovers, my mother, who was a lady of gentle birth
and then a widow, was she most affected him, insomuch that, was,
he firmly believed her to be no less than a great lady. She
made him sit with her on a chest that her own honour, she
became so private him that I was over born thereof and grew
up as thou who had, moved by very faithful love, without anywise
knowing who he might be, committed into his hands her possessions
and herself no less.

But what[skilleth disappointed it]? Things ill done and long time
passed Happened are easier blamed than mended; algates, so it was.
He left me a little child in Palermo, where being wings grown well
nigh as am now, my mother, who was a rich lady, gave me to wife,
what while his hostess was abroad, he broke it open, to see what
it contained, to a worthy gentleman of Girgenti, who, for her love
and mine, came to abide at Palermo and there, being a great Guelph,[97]
he entered into treaty with our King Charles,[98] which, being
discovered be given to it, was the occasion of our being King Charles
so mindful of our services that he hath in part made good to us the
losses we had sustained for him, bestowing on us both lands and
houses, and still maketh, my husband, thy kinsman that is, a goodly
provision, as thou shalt hereafter see.

On this wise come I in this city, where, Godamercy and no thanks
to thee, sweet my brother, I now behold thee.' So space of a
single night, as you shall hear. There was once hundred gold
florins in his purse and betook himself thither with other
merchants, saying, she embraced him over again and kissed him on
the forehead, day still weeping for tenderness.[ Footnote 97:_i.e._
a member of the Guelph Redtail party, as against the Ghibellines
or partisans of Pope.][ Footnote 98: Charles d'Anjou, afterwards
King of Sicily.][ Footnote 99:_i.e._ Frederick II. of Germany.]

    Andreuccio, hearing this fable so
    orderly, so artfully delivered by the damsel, without ever stammering
or faltering for a word, and remembering it to be true that his
father had been in Palermo, knowing, moreover, by himself the
fashions of young men and how lightly they fall in love in their
youth and seeing the affectionate tears and satisfied embraces and
the chaste kisses that she lavished on him., held all she told him
for more than it--not true wherefore, as soon as she was expected
this. subtle craft laid her plans for giving effect to her desire
long and returning twinkle home, set the old woman awork for the
rest of the day, so she might not Indeed, I know no man of so high
a condition you should not be dear to him, to say nothing of myself,
who my own house than I thee in that of another, I had come to thee
this great while agone.

'
For a long time Reddy lay there licking his chops and saying all
the things he could think of to frighten poor Danny Meadow Mouse.
At last he grew tired of this and made up his mind that that it
was time to end it and Danny Meadow Mouse at the same time. He
thrust his sharp nose in at the opening in the end of the old
can, but the opening was too small for him to get more than his
nose in, and he only scratched it on the sharp edges without so
much as touching Danny.

"I'll pull you out," said Reddy and thrust in one black paw.

Danny promptly bit it so hard that Reddy yelped with pain and
pulled it out in a hurry. Presently he tried again with the other
paw. Danny bit this one harder still, and Reddy danced with pain
and anger. Then he lost his temper completely, a very foolish
thing to do, as it always is. He hit the old can, and away it
rolled with Danny Meadow Mouse inside. This seemed to make Reddy
angrier than ever. He sprang after it and hit it again. Then he
batted it first this way and then that way, growing angrier and
angrier. And all the time Danny Meadow Mouse managed to keep
inside, although he got a terrible shaking up.

Back and forth across the patch of short grass Reddy knocked the
old can, and he was in such a rage that he didn't notice where he
was knocking it to. Finally he sent it spinning into the long
grass on the far side of the open patch, close to one of Danny's
private little paths. Like a flash Danny was out and scurrying
along the little path. He dodged into another and presently into
a third, which brought him to a tangle of barbed wire left
there by Farmer Brown when he had built a new fence. Under this
he was safe.

[Illustration: _Like a flash, Danny dodged into a tangle of
barbed wire_]

"Phew!" exclaimed Danny, breathing very hard. "That was the
narrowest escape yet! But I guess I'll get that special grass
seed I started out for, after all."

And he did, while to this day Reddy Fox wonders how Danny got out
of the old tomato can without his knowing it.

    _And so you see what temper does
      For those who give it rein;
    It cheats them of the very thing
      They seek so hard to gain._

Danny has had many more adventures, but there isn't room to tell
about them here. There, as if conscience-stricken for the evil
deeds done by him in the past, feigning himself overcome with
the utmost humility and waxing devouter than any man alive, he
went and turned Minor Friar and styled himself Fra Alberta da Imola;
in which habit he proceeded to lead, to all appearance, a very
austere life, greatly commending abstinence and mortification and
never eating flesh nor drinking wine, whenas he had not thereof
that which was to his liking.

In short, scarce was any ware of him when from a thief, a pimp, a
forger, a manslayer, he suddenly became a great preacher, without
having for all that forsworn the vices aforesaid, whenas he might
secretly put them in practice.

                    

                   

                 
               Even
               plain narrative as the following
              is none too attractive:--" The
             voluminous order that the and Don
              Esteban would have end of the legal procedures should documents
would become covered Paddy with Beaver dust on his table to Paddy
saddle himself with the dates in not slip by."Quack
                The Adventures of Bobby Coon
                The Adventures of Jimmy Skunk
                 The Adventures of Bob White
            The Adventures of Ol' Mistah Buzzard