Produced by A www.PGDP.net Volunteer, Jeannie Howse and
the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net


       *       *       *       *       *

+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|      Transcriber's Note: Throughout the whole book, St.      |
|      John's (Newfoundland) is spelled St. Johns. A list      |
|      of typos fixed in this text are listed at the end.So with
the whole range of the natural sciences.

       Dissertations based on the jury reports will doubtless be abundant
after a while, but those reports themselves, being limited in scope,
will not be as satisfactory material as that which philosophic
specialists would themselves extract from direct observation and
debate upon the ground.

For the study of the commanding subject of education the provision
made at the present exhibition is exceptionally great.

In bulk, and probably in completeness, it is immeasurably beyond
the display made on any preceding occasion.

The building erected
by the single State of Pennsylvania for her educational department
covers ten or eleven thousand square feet, and other States of the
Union make corresponding efforts to show well in the same line.

The European nations all manifest a new interest in this branch,
and give it a much more prominent place in their exhibit than ever
before.

The
school-systems
of most of them are of very recent birth, and do not date
back so far as 1851.

The kingdom of Italy did not exist at that time or for many years
after, yet we now see it pressing for a foremost place in the race
of popular education, and multiplying its public schools in the
face of all the troubles attendant upon the erection and organization
of a new state.

The historian will find
aliment less abundant. A
century or two of Caucasian life in America is but a thing of
yesterday to him, and, though far from uninstructive, is but an
offshoot from modern European annals.

For all that, he finds
himself on our soil in presence of an antiquity which remains to
be explored, and which clamors to be rescued from the domain of the
pre-historic.

It has no literary records
beyond the scant remains of
Mexico. It writes itself,
nevertheless, strongly and deeply on the face of the land--in
mounds, fortifications and tombs as distinct, if not so elaborate,
as those of Etruria and Cyprus.

These remains show the hand of several successive races.

Who they were, what their traits, whence they came, what their relations
with the now civilized Chinese and Japanese--whom, physically,
their descendants so nearly resemble--are legitimate queries for
the historian. Geologically, America is older than Europe, and was
fitted for the home of the red man before the latter ceased to be the
home of the whale. The investigation of its past, if impossible to
be conducted in the light of its own records or even traditions,
is capable of aiding in the verification of conclusions drawn from
those of the Old World.

If History, however, contemptuously relegates the Moundbuilders to the
mattock of the antiquarian, she is still "Philosophy teaching
by example." As thus allied with Philosophy, she finds something to
look into at the Centennial, even though she look obliquely, after the
fashion of the observant Hollanders, who have stuck the reflecting
glasses of the Dutch street-windows into the sides of their
compartment in the Main Building, and squint, without a change of
position, upon the United States, Spain, South America, Egypt, Great
Britain and several other countries.

Religion and philanthropy find the field inviting, and their
representatives, individual and associated, are busy in preparing to
till it. The enthusiasm of the leading religious societies took the
concrete shape of statuary. Hence the Catholic Fountain,
heretofore noticed; the Hebrew statue to Religious Liberty, as
established in a land that never had a Ghetto or a Judenstrasse;
the Presbyterian figure of Witherspoon; an Episcopalian of Bishop
White; and others under way or proposed.

  The temperance movement, too, embodies itself in a fountain that
runs ice-water instead of claret.

  The less tangible but perhaps more fruitful form of reunions and
discussions must in a greater or less degree enhance the power for
good of these organizations.

They are led by men of mind and energy, seldom averse to enlightenment,
and all professing to seek nothing else.

      When men of these qualities, aiming at the same or a like object,
meet to compare their respective admeasurements of its parallax
made from as many different points, they cannot fail to approach
accuracy.

     Faith is a first element in all great undertakings.

    

     

      

     

    

   

     

      

     

    

   

    

     

    

   

  

    

     

    

   

  

   

                                                          

  

  

  
    He was born that day.
The greatest adventure as well as the greatest event that ever comes
into anybody's life is the adventure of being born.

If there is such a thing as luck, Wilfred Thomason Grenfell, as his
parents named him, fell into luck, when he was born on February
twenty-eighth, 1865. He might have been born on February twenty-ninth
one year earlier, and that would have been little short of a
catastrophe, for in that case his birthdays would have been separated
by intervals of four years, and every boy knows what a hardship it
would be to wait four years for a birthday, when every one else is
having one every year. There _are_ people, to be sure, who would like
their birthdays to be four years apart, but they are not boys.

Grenfell was also lucky, or, let us say, fortunate in the place where
he was born and spent his early boyhood. His father was Head Master of
Mostyn House, a school for boys at Parkgate, England, a little
fishing village not far from the historic old city of Chester. By
referring to your map you will find Chester a dozen miles or so to the
southward of Liverpool, though you may not find Parkgate, for it is so
small a village that the map makers are quite likely to overlook it.

Here at Parkgate the River Dee flows down into an estuary that opens
out into the Irish Sea, and here spread the famous "Sands of Dee,"
known the world over through Charles Kingsley's pathetic poem, which
we have all read, and over which, I confess, I shed tears when a boy:

    O Mary, go and call the cattle home,
        And call the cattle home,
        And call the cattle home,
      Across the Sands o' Dee;
    The western wind was wild and dank wi' foam,
      And all alone went she.

    The creeping tide came up along the sand,
        And o'er and o'er the sand,
        And round and round the sand,
      As far as eye could see;
    The blinding mist came down and hid the land--
      And never home came she.

    Oh is it weed, or fish, or floating hair--
        A tress o' golden hair,
        O' drown'ed maiden's hair,
      Above the nets at sea?
    Was never salmon yet that shone so fair,
      Among the stakes on Dee.

    They rowed her in across the rolling foam,
        The cruel, crawling foam,
        The cruel, hungry foam,
      To her grave beside the sea;
    But still the boatmen hear her call the cattle home,
      Across the Sands o' Dee.

Charles Kingsley and the poem become nearer and dearer to us than ever
with the knowledge that he was a cousin of Grenfell, and knew the
Sands o' Dee, over which Grenfell tramped and hunted as a boy, for the
sandy plain was close by his father's house.

There was a time when the estuary was a wide deep harbor, and really a
part of Liverpool Bay, and great ships from all over the world came
into it and sailed up to Chester, which in those days was a famous
port. But as years passed the sands, loosened by floods and carried
down by the river current, choked and blocked the harbor, and before
Grenfell was born it had become so shallow that only fishing vessels
and small craft could use it.

Parkgate is on the northern side of the River Dee. On the southern
side and beyond the Sands of Dee, rise the green hills of Wales,
melting away into blue mysterious distance. Near as Wales is the
people over there speak a different tongue from the English, and to
young Grenfell and his companions it was a strange and foreign land
and the people a strange and mysterious people. We have most of us,
in our young days perhaps, thought that all Welshmen were like Taffy,
of whom Mother Goose sings:

    "Taffy was a Welshman, Taffy was a thief,
    Taffy came to my house and stole a piece of beef;
    I went to Taffy's house, Taffy wasn't home,
    Taffy came to my house and stole a marrow bone;
    I went to Taffy's house, Taffy was in bed,
    I took the marrow-bone, and beat about his head."

But it was Grenfell's privilege, living so near, to make little visits
over into Wales, and he early had an opportunity to learn that Taffy
was not in the least like Welshmen. He found them fine, honest,
kind-hearted folk, with no more Taffys among them than there are among
the English or Americans. The great Lloyd George, perhaps the greatest
of living statesmen, is a Welshman, and by him and not by Taffy, we
are now measuring the worth of this people who were the near neighbors
of Grenfell in his young days.

Ferdinand only saw one aim in life--the possession of the beloved one.
All else faded from before his eyes, and even his correspondence
slackened, for his time was much taken up in secret excursions,
arrangements of all kinds, and communications with all manner of
persons; in fact every action of his present life tended to the
furtherance of his plan.

All of a sudden his letters ceased. Many posts passed without a sign
of life. Edward was a prey to the greatest anxiety; he thought his
friend had staked and lost. He imagined an elopement, a clandestine
marriage, a duel with a rival, and all these casualties were the
more painful to conjecture, since his entire ignorance of the real
state of things gave his fancy full range to conjure up all sorts
of misfortunes. At length, after many more posts had come in without
a line to pacify Edward's fears, without a word in reply to his
earnest entreaties for some news, he determined on taking a step
which he had meditated before, and only relinquished out of
consideration for his friend's wishes.

He wrote to the officer commanding the regiment, and made inquiries
respecting the health and abode of Lieutenant Von Hallberg, whose
friends in the capital had remained for nearly two months without
news of him, he who had hitherto proved a regular and frequent
correspondent.

Another fortnight dragged heavily on, and at length the announcement
came in an official form.

Lieutenant Von Hallberg had been invited to the castle of a nobleman
whom he was in the custom of visiting, in order to be present at the
wedding of a lady; that he was indisposed at the time, that he grew
worse, and on the third morning had been found dead in his bed,
having expired during the night from an attack of apoplexy.

Edward could not finish the letter--it fell from his trembling hand.

To see his worst fears realized so suddenly, overwhelmed him at first.

His youth withstood the bodily illness which would have assailed a
weaker constitution, and perhaps mitigated the anguish of his grief.

He was not dangerously ill, but they feared many days for his reason;
and it required all the kind solicitude of the director of the college,
combined with the most skillful medical aid, to stem the
torrent of his sorrow, and to turn it gradually into a calmer
channel, until by degrees the mourner recovered both health and
reason.

His youthful spirits, however, had received a blow from which they never
rebounded, and one thought lay heavy on his mind, which he was unwilling
to share with any other person, and which, on that account, grew
more and more painful. It was the memory of that holy promise which
had been mutually contracted, that the survivor was to receive some
token of his friend's remembrance of him after death. Now two months
had already passed since Ferdinand's earthly career had been
arrested, his spirit was free, why no sign?

In the moment of death Edward had had no intimation, no message from
the passing spirit, and this apparent neglect, so to speak, was another
deep wound in Edward's breast. Do the affections cease with life? Was
it contrary to the will of the Almighty that the mourner should taste
this consolation? Did individuality lose itself in death, and with it
memory? Or did one stroke destroy spirit and body? These anxious doubts,
which have before now agitated many who reflect on such subjects,
exercised their power over Edward's mind with an intensity that none
can imagine save one whose position is in any degree similar.

Time gradually deadened the intensity of his affliction. The violent
paroxysms of grief subsided into a deep but calm regret. It was as if
a mist had spread itself over every object which presented itself
before him, robbing them indeed of half their charms, yet leaving
them visible, and in their real relation to himself.

During this mental change the autumn arrived, and with it the
long-expected commission.
It did not indeed occasion the joy which it might have done in
former days, when it would have led to a meeting with Ferdinand, or at
all events to a better chance of meeting, but it released him from the
thraldom of college, and it opened to him a welcome sphere of
activity. Now it so happened that his appointment led him accidentally
into the very neighborhood where Ferdinand had formerly resided,
only with this difference, that Edward's squadron was quartered
in the lowlands, about a short day's journey from the town and woodland
environs in question.

He proceeded to his quarters, and found an agreeable occupation in
the exercise of his new duties.

He had no wish to make acquaintances, yet he did not refuse the
invitations that were pressed upon him, lest he should he accused
of eccentricity and rudeness; and so be found himself soon entangled
in all sorts of engagements with the neighboring gentry and
nobility. If these so-called gayeties gave him no particular pleasure,
at least for the time they diverted his thoughts; and with this view
he accepted an invitation (for the new-year and carnival were
near at hand) to a great shooting-match which was to be held in
the mountains--a spot which it was possible to reach in one day, with
favorable weather and the roads in good state. The day was appointed,
the air tolerably clear; a mild frost had made the roads safe and even,
and Edward had every expectation of being able to reach Blumenberg
in his sledge before night, as on the following morning the match
was to take place.
But as soon as he got near the mountains, where the sun retires so
early to rest, snow-clouds drove from all quarters, a cutting wind
came roaring through the ravines, and a heavy fall of snow began.

Twice the driver lost his way, and daylight was gone before he had well
recovered it; darkness came on sooner than in other places,
walled in as they were by dark mountains, with dark clouds above their
heads. It was out of the question to dream of reaching Blumenberg
that night; but in this hospitable land, where every householder
welcomes the passing traveler, Edward was under no anxiety as to
shelter.

He only wished, before the night quite set in, to reach some country-house
or castle; and now that the storm had abated in some degree, that
the heavens were a little clearer, and that a few stars peeped out,
a large valley opened before them, whose bold outline Edward could
distinguish, even in the uncertain light. The well-defined roofs of a
neat village were perceptible, and behind these, half-way up the
mountain that crowned the plain, Edward thought he could discern
a large building which glimmered with more than one light. The road
led straight into the village. Edward stopped and inquired.

That building was indeed a castle: the village belonged to it, and
both were the property of the Baron Friedenberg.

"Friedenberg!" repeated Edward: the name sounded familiar to him,
yet he could not call to mind when and where he had heard it. He
inquired if the family were at home, hired a guide, and arrived
at length by a rugged path which wound itself round steep rocks,
to the summit of them, and finally to the castle, which was perched
there like an eagle's nest.

The tinkling of the bells on Edward's sledge attracted the attention
of the inmates; the door was opened with prompt hospitality; servants
appeared with torches; Edward was assisted to emerge from under the
frozen apron of his carriage, out of his heavy pelisse, stiff with
hoar-frost, and up a comfortable staircase into a long saloon of
simple construction, where a genial warmth appeared to welcome him
from a huge stove in the corner. The servants here placed two large
burning candles in massive silver sconces, and went out to announce
the stranger.

The fitting-up of the room, or rather saloon, was perfectly
simple.
Family portraits, in heavy frames, hung round the walls, diversified
by some maps. Magnificent stags' horns were arranged between; and
the taste of the master of the house was easily detected in the
hunting-knives, powder-flasks, carbines, smoking-bags, and sportsmen's
pouches, which were arranged, not without taste, as trophies of
the chase.

The ceiling was supported by large beams, dingy with smoke and age; and
on the sides of the room were long benches, covered and padded with
dark cloth, and studded with large brass nails; while round the
dinner-table were placed several arm-chairs, also of ancient date. All
bore the aspect of the good old times, of a simple, patriarchal
life with affluence.

Edward felt as if there were a kind welcome in the inanimate objects
which surrounded him, when the inner-door opened, and the
master of the house entered, preceded by a servant, and welcomed his
guest with courteous cordiality.

Some apologies which Edward offered on account of his intrusion, were
silenced in a moment.

"Come, now, Lieutenant," said the Baron, "I must introduce you to my
family. You are not such a stranger to us, as you fancy."
With these words he took Edward by the arm, and, lighted by the
servant, they passed through several lofty rooms, which were very
handsomely furnished, although in an old-fashioned style, with
faded Flemish carpets, large chandeliers, and high-backed chairs:
everything in keeping with what the youth had already seen in the
castle. Here were the ladies of the house. At the other end of the
room, by the side of an immense stove, ornamented with a large
shield of the family arms, richly emblazoned, and crowned by a
gigantic Turk, in a most comfortable attitude of repose sat the lady
of the house, an elderly matron of tolerable circumference, in a
gown of dark red satin, with a black mantle and a snow-white cap.

She appeared to be playing cards with the chaplain, who sat opposite
to her at the table, and the Baron Friedenberg to have made the third
hand at ombre, till he was called away to welcome his guest. On the
other side of the room were two young ladies, an elder person, who
might be a governess, and a couple of children, very much engrossed
by a game at lotto.

As Edward entered, the ladies rose to greet him, a chair was placed for
him near the mistress of the house, and very soon a cup of chocolate
and a bottle of tokay were served on a rich silver salver, to restore
the traveler after the cold and discomfort of his drive:
in fact it was easy for him to feel that these "far away" people
were by no means displeased at his arrival.

An agreeable conversation soon began among all parties. His travels,
the shooting-match, the neighborhood, agriculture, all afforded
subjects, and in a quarter of an hour Edward felt as if he had long
been domesticated with these simple but truly well-informed people.

Two hours flew swiftly by, and then a bell sounded for supper; the
servants returned with lights, announced that the supper was on
the table, and lighted the company into the dining-room--the same
into which Edward had first been ushered.

Here, in the background, some other characters appeared on the
scene--the agent, a couple of his subalterns, and the
physician. The guests ranged themselves round the table.

Edward's place was between the Baron and his wife. The chaplain said
a short grace, when the Baroness, with an uneasy look, glanced at
her husband over Edward's shoulder, and said, in a low whisper--
"My love, we are thirteen--that will never do."
The Baron smiled, beckoned to the youngest of the clerks, and whispered
to him. The youth bowed, and withdrew. The servant took the cover away,
and served his supper in the next room.

"My wife," said Friedenberg, "is superstitious, as all mountaineers
are. She thinks it unlucky to dine thirteen. It certainly has happened
twice (whether from chance or not who can tell?) that we have had to
mourn the death of an acquaintance who had, a short time before,
made the thirteenth at our table."
"This idea is not confined to the mountains. I know many people in the
capital who think with the Baroness," said Edward. "Although in a
town such ideas, which belong more especially to the olden time,
are more likely to be lost in the whirl and bustle which usually
silences everything that is not essentially matter of fact."

"Ah, yes, Lieutenant," replied the Baron, smiling good-humoredly,
"we keep up old customs better in the mountains. You see that by our
furniture. People in the capital would call this sadly old-fashioned."

"That which is really good and beautiful can never appear out of
date," rejoined Edward courteously; "and here, if I mistake not,
presides a spirit that is ever striving after both.

I must confess, Baron, that when I first entered your house, it was
this very aspect of the olden time that enchanted me beyond measure."

"That is always the effect which simplicity has on every unspoiled
mind," answered Friedenberg: "but townspeople have seldom a taste
for such things."
"I was partly educated on my father's estate," said Edward, "which was
situated in the Highlands; and it appears to me as if, when I
entered your house, I were visiting a neighbor of my father's,
for the general aspect is quite the same here as with us."

"Yes," said the chaplain, "mountainous districts have all a family
likeness: the same necessities, the same struggles with nature, the
same seclusion, all produce the same way of life among mountaineers."

"On that account the prejudice against the number thirteen was especially
familiar to me," replied Edward. "We also dislike it; and we retain a
consideration for many supernatural, or at least inexplicable things,
which I have met with again in this neighborhood."
"Yes, here, almost more than anywhere else," continued the chaplain,
"I think we excel all other mountaineers in the number and variety
of our legends and ghost stories.

I assure you that there is not a cave or a church, or, above all, a
castle, for miles round about, of which we could not relate something
supernatural."
The Baroness, who perceived the turn which the conversation was likely
to take, thought it better to send the children to bed; and
when they were gone, the priest continued, "Even here, in this castle--"

"Here!" inquired Edward, "in this very castle?"
"Yes, yes! Lieutenant," interposed the Baron, "this house has the
reputation of being haunted; and the most extraordinary thing is,
that the matter cannot be denied by the skeptical, or accounted for
by the reasonable."
"And yet," said Edward, "the castle looks so cheerful, so habitable."

"Yes, this part which we live in," answered the Baron; "but it
consists of only a few apartments sufficient for my family and
these gentlemen; the other portion of the building is half in ruins,
and dates from the period when men established themselves on the
mountains for greater safety."

"There are some who maintain," said the physician, "that a part of
the walls of the stern tower itself are of Roman origin; but
that would surely be difficult to prove."
"But, gentlemen," observed the Baroness, "you are losing yourselves
in learned descriptions as to the erection of the castle, and our guest
is kept in ignorance of what he is anxious to hear."

"Indeed, madam," replied the chaplain, "this is not entirely foreign
to the subject, since in the most ancient part of the building lies the
chamber in question."
"Where apparitions have been seen?"

inquired Edward, eagerly.

"Not exactly," replied the Baroness; "there is nothing fearful to
be seen."

"Come, let us tell him at once," interrupted the Baron. "The fact is,
that every guest who sleeps for the first time in this room (and it
has fallen to the lot of many, in turn, to do so,) is visited by some
important, significant dream or vision, or whatever I ought to call it,
in which some future event is prefigured to him, or some past mystery
cleared up, which he had vainly striven to comprehend before."
"Then," interposed Edward, "it must be something like what is known in
the Highlands, under the name of second sight, a privilege, as
some consider it, which several persons and several families enjoy."

"Just so," said the physician, "the cases are very similar; yet the
most mysterious part of this affair is, that it does not appear to
originate with the individual, or his organization, or his sympathy
with beings of the invisible world; no, the individual has nothing
to say to it--the locality does it all.

Every one who sleeps there has his mysterious dream, and the result
proves its truth."
"At least, in most instances," continued the Baron, "when we have
had an opportunity of hearing the cases confirmed.Men are born to it and live their lives on the small fishing
craft, and their sons follow them for generation after generation. It
is a hazardous calling, and the men of the fleets are brave and hardy
fellows.

The fishing fleets keep to the sea in winter as well as in summer, and
it is a hard life indeed when decks and rigging are covered with ice,
and fierce north winds blow the snow down, and the cold is bitter
enough to freeze a man's very blood. Seas run high and rough, which is
always the case in shallow waters, and great rollers sweep over the
decks of the little craft, which of necessity have small draft and low
freeboard.

The fishing fleets were like large villages on the sea. At the time of
which we write, and it may be so to this day, fast vessels came daily
to collect the fish they caught and to take the catch to market. Once
in every three months a vessel was permitted to return to its home
port for rest and necessary re-fitting, and then the men of her crew
were allowed one day ashore for each week they had spent at sea. Now
and again there came to the hospital sick or injured men returned from
the fleet on these home-coming vessels.

When Grenfell passed his final examinations in 1886, and was admitted
to the College of Physicians and Royal College of Surgeons of England,
Sir Frederick Treves suggested that he visit the North Sea fishing
fleets and lend his service to the fishermen for a time before
entering upon private practice. The great surgeon, himself a lover of
the sea and acquainted with Grenfell's inclinations toward an active
outdoor life, was also aware that Grenfell was a good sailor.

"Don't go in summer," admonished Sir Frederick. "Go in winter when you
can see the life of the men at its hardest and when they have the
greatest need of a doctor. Anyhow you'll have some rugged days at sea
if you go in winter."

He went on to explain that a few men had become interested in the
fishermen of the fleets and had chartered a vessel to go among them to
offer diversion in the hope of counteracting to some extent the
attraction of the whiskey and rum traders whose vessels sold much
liquor to the men and did a vast deal of harm. This vessel was open to
the visits of the fishermen. Religious services were held aboard her
on Sundays. There was no doctor in the fleet, and the skipper, who had
been instructed in ordinary bandaging and in giving simple remedies
for temporary relief, rendered first aid to the injured or sick until
they could be sent away on some home-bound vessel and placed in a
hospital for medical or surgical treatment. Thus a week or sometimes
two weeks would elapse before the sufferer could be put under a
doctor's care. Because of this long delay many men died who, with
prompt attention, would doubtless have lived.

"The men who have fitted out this mission boat would like a young
doctor to go with it," concluded Sir Frederick. "Go with them for a
little while. You'll find plenty of high sea's adventure, and you'll
like it."

In more than one way this suited Grenfell exactly. The opportunity
for adventure that such a cruise offered appealed to him strongly, as
it would appeal to any real live red-blooded man or boy. It also
offered an opportunity to gain practical experience in his profession
and at the same time render service to brave men who sadly needed it;
and he could lend a hand in fighting the liquor evil among the seamen
and thus share in helping to care for their moral, as well as their
physical welfare. He had seen much of the evils of the liquor traffic
during his student days in London, and he had acquired a wholesome
hatred for it. In short, he saw an opportunity to help make the lives
of these men happier. That is a high ideal for any one--to do
something whenever possible to bring happiness into the lives of
others.

This was too good an opportunity to let pass. It offered not only
practice in his profession but service for others, and there would be
the spice of adventure.

He applied without delay for the post, requesting to go on duty the
following January. Whether Sir Frederick Treves said a word for him to
the newly founded mission or not, I do not know, but at any rate
Grenfell, to his great delight, was accepted, and it is probable the
group of big hearted men who were sending the vessel to the fishermen
were no less pleased to secure the services of a young doctor of his
character.

At last the time came for departure. The mission ship was to sail
from Yarmouth. Grenfell had been impatiently awaiting orders to begin
his duties, when suddenly he received directions to join his vessel
prepared to go to sea at once. Filled with enthusiasm and keen for the
adventure he boarded the first train for Yarmouth.

It was a dark and rainy night when he arrived. Searching down among
the wharves he found the mission ship tied to her moorings. She proved
to be a rather diminutive schooner of the type and class used by the
North Sea fishermen, and if the young doctor had pictured a large and
commodious vessel he was disappointed. But Grenfell had been
accustomed in his boyhood to knocking about with fishermen and now he
was quite content with nothing better than fell to the lot of those he
was to serve.

The little vessel was neat as wax below deck. The crew were
big-hearted, brawny, good-natured fellows, and gave the Doctor a fine
welcome. Of course his quarters were small and crowded, but he was
bound on a mission and an adventure, and cramped quarters were no
obstacle to his enthusiasm. Grenfell was not the sort of man to growl
or complain at little inconveniences. He was thinking only of the
duties he had assumed and the adventures that were before him.

At last he was on the seas, and his life work, though he did not know
it then, had begun.


III

ON THE HIGH SEAS


The skipper of the vessel was a bluff, hearty man of the old school of
seamen. At the same time he was a sincere Christian devoted to his
duties. At the beginning he made it plain that Grenfell was to have
quite enough to do to keep him occupied, not only in his capacity as
doctor, but in assisting to conduct afloat a work that in many
respects resembled that of our present Young Men's Christian
Association ashore.

The mission steamer was now to run across to Ostend, Belgium, where
supplies were to be taken aboard before joining the fishing fleets.

It was bitterly cold, and while they lay at Ostend taking on cargo the
harbor froze over, and they found themselves so firm and fast in the
ice that it became necessary to engage a steamer to go around them to
break them loose. At last, cargo loaded and ice smashed, they sailed
away from Ostend and pointed their bow towards the great fleets, not
again to see land for two full months, save Heligoland and
Terschelling in the far distant offing.

The little vessel upon which Grenfell sailed was the first sent to
the fisheries by the now famous Mission to Deep-Sea Fishermen; and the
young Doctor on her deck, hardly yet realizing all that was expected
of him, was destined to do no small part in the development of the
splendid service that the Mission has since rendered the fishermen.

On the starboard side of the vessel's bow appeared in bold carved
letters the words, "Heal the sick," on the port side of the bow,
"Preach the Word."

"Preaching the Word" does not necessarily mean, and did not mean here,
getting up into a pulpit for an hour or two and preaching orthodox
sermons, sometimes as dry as dead husks, on Sundays. Sometimes just a
smile and a cheery greeting is the best sermon in the world, and the
finest sort of preaching. Just the example of living honestly and
speaking truthfully and always lending a hand to the fellow who is in
trouble or discouraged, is a fine sermon, for there is not a man or
boy living whose life and actions do not have an influence for good or
bad on some one else. We do not always realize this, but it is true.

Grenfell little dreamed of the future that this voyage was to open to
him. He knew little or nothing at that time of Labrador or
Newfoundland. He had never seen an Eskimo nor an American Indian,
unless he had chanced to visit a "wild west" show. He had no other
expectation than that he should make a single winter cruise with the
mission schooner, and then return to England and settle in some
promising locality to the practice of his profession, there to rise to
success or fade into hum-drum obscurity, as Providence might will.

The fishermen of the North Sea fleet were as rough and ready as the
old buccaneers. They were constantly risking their lives and they had
not much regard for their own lives or the lives of others. With them
life was cheap. Night and day they faced the dangers of the sea as
they worked at the trawls, and when they were not sleeping or working
there was no amusement for them. Then they were prone to resort to the
grog ships, which hovered around them, and they too often drank a
great deal more rum than was good for them. They were reared to a
rough and cruel life, these fishermen. Hard punishments were dealt the
men by the skippers. It was the way of the sea, as they knew it.

There were more than twenty thousand of these men in the North Sea
fleets. Grenfell must have been overwhelmed with the thought that he
was to be the only doctor within reach of that great number of men.
"Heal the sick"--that was his job!

But he resolved to do much more than that! He was going to "Preach the
Word" in smiles and cheering words, and was going to help the men in
other ways than with his pill box and surgical bandages. As a doctor
he realized how harmful liquor was to them, and he was going to fight
the grog ships and do his best to put them out of business. In a
word, he was not only going to doctor the men but he was going to help
them to live straight, clean lives. He was going to play the game as
he had played foot ball or pulled his oar with the winning crew at
college. He was going to put into it the best that was in him!

That was the way Grenfell always did everything he undertook. When he
had to pummel the "old boy" at Marlborough College he did it the best
he knew how. Now he had a big job on his hands. He resolved,
figuratively, to pummel the rum ships, and he was already planning and
inventing ways that would make the men's lives easier. He went into
the thing with his characteristic zeal, determined to make good. It is
a mighty fine thing to make good. Any of us can make good if we go at
things in the way Grenfell went at them--determined, whatever
obstacles arise, not to fail. Grenfell never whined about luck going
against him. He made his own luck. That is the mark of every
successful and big man.

"There are the fleets," said the skipper one day, pointing out over
the bow. "We'll make a round of the fleets, and you'll have a chance
to get busy patching the men up."

And he was busy. There came as many patients every day as any young
doctor could wish to treat. But that was what Grenfell wanted.

As the skipper suggested, the mission boat made a tour of the fleets,
of which there were several, each fleet with its own name and colours
and commanded by an Admiral. There were the Columbias, the Rashers,
the Great Northerners and many others. It was finally with the Great
Northerners that the mission boat took its station.

Grenfell visited among the vessels and made friends among the men, who
were like big boys, rough and ready. They were always prepared to go
into daring ventures. They never flinched at danger. Few of them had
ever enjoyed the privilege of going to school, and none of the men and
few of the skippers could write. They could read the compass just as
men who cannot read can tell the time of day from the clock. But they
had their method of dead reckoning and always appeared to know where
they were, even though land had not been sighted for days.

Most of these men had been apprentised to the vessels as boys and had
followed the sea all their lives. There were always many apprentised
boys on the ships, and these worked without other pay than clothing,
food and a little pocket money until they were twenty-one years of
age. In many cases they received little consideration from the
skippers and sometimes were treated with unnecessary roughness and
even cruelty.

From the beginning Doctor Grenfell devoted himself not only to healing
the sick, but also to bettering the condition of the fishermen. His
skill was applied to the healing of their moral as well as their
physical ills. Of necessity their life was a rough and rugged one, but
there were opportunities to introduce some pleasure into it and to
make it happier in many ways. It is impossible that the present knowledge
in the world should be extinguished.

Nothing but a stroke of imbecility upon the race, nothing but the
destruction of its libraries, nothing but the paralysis of the
printing-press, and the annihilation of these means of
intercommunication,--nothing but some such arbitrary intervention
could accomplish it. The facts already in human possession, and the
constitution of the mind, together insure what we have as imperishable,
and what we are to obtain as illimitable.

We come now to another suggestive characteristic of the time,--another
of its promises. So far we find Progress gathering fulness and
strength,--making sure of itself.

It has also been gathering impetus. It has been, all along, accumulating
momentum, and now it sweeps on with breathless _rapidity_. The reason
is, that, the farther it has gone, the more it has multiplied its
agents. The present generation is not only carried forward, but
is excited in every quarter. The activity and versatility of the
intellect would appear to be inexhaustible. Instead of getting
overstrained, or becoming lethargic, it never was so powerful, never
had so many resources, never was so wide-awake. Men are busy
turning over every stone in their way, in the hope of finding something
new. Nothing would seem too small for human attention, nothing too
great for human undertaking. The government Patent-Office, with its
countless chambers, is not so large a museum of inventions as the
capacious brain of to-day.

One man is engrossed over an apple-parer; another snatches the needle
from the weary fingers of the seamstress, and offers her in return the
sewing-machine. That man yonder has turned himself into an armory, and
he brings out the deadliest instrument he can produce, something perhaps
that can shoot you at sight, even though you be a speck in the
horizon.

His next-door neighbor is an iron workshop, and is forging an armor
of proof for a vessel of war, from which the mightiest balls shall
bound as lightly as the arrows from an old-time breastplate.
There is another searching for that new motive power which shall keep
pace with the telegraph, and hurl the bodies of men through space
as fast as their thoughts are hurled; there is another seeking that
electro-magnetic battery which shall speak instantly and distinctly
to the ends of the earth.

The mind of that astronomer is a telescope, through whose increasing
field new worlds float daily by; the mind of that geologist is a
divining-rod, forever bending toward the waters of chaos, and pointing
out new places where a shaft can be sunk into periods of
almost infinite antiquity; the mind of that chemist is a subtile
crucible, in which aboriginal secrets lie disclosed, and within whose
depths the true philosopher's stone will be found; the mind of that
mathematician is a maze of ethereal stair-ways, rising higher and higher
toward the heaven of truth.

The ambition is everywhere,--in every breast; the power is
everywhere,--in every brain.

The giant and the pigmy are alike active in seeking out and finding out
many inventions. And in this very universality of effort and
result we discover another guaranty of the great future. The
river of Progress multiplies its tributaries the farther it flows,
and even now, unknown ages from its mouth, we already see that
magnificent widening of its channel, in which, like the Amazon, it
long anticipates the sea.

Man, the great achiever! the marvellous magician! Look at him! A head
hardly six feet above the ground out of which he was taken.

His "dome of thought and palace of the soul" scarce twenty-two inches
in circumference; and within it, a little, gray, oval mass of
"convoluted albumen and fibre, of some four pounds' weight," and there
sits the intelligence which has worked all these wonders! An
intelligence, say, six thousand years old next century. How many
thousand years more will it think, and think, and wave the wand, and
raise new spirits out of Nature, open her sealed-up mysteries,
scale the stars, and uncover a universe at home?

How long will it be before this inherent power, laid in it at the
beginning by the Almighty, shall be exhausted, and reach its limit?

Yes, how long?

We cannot begin to know. We cannot imagine where the stopping-place
could be. Perhaps there is none.

To take up the nautical figure which has furnished our title,--we are
in the midst of an infinite sea, sailing on to a destination we
know not of, but of which the vague and splendid fancies we have
formed hang before our prow like illusions in the sky.

We are meeting on every hand great opportunities which must not be
lost, new achievements which must be wrought, and strange adventures
which must be undertaken: every day wondering more to what our commission
shall bring us at last, full of magnificent hopes and a growing
faith,--the inscrutable bundle of orders not nearly exhausted:
whole continents of knowledge yet to be discovered and explored;
the gates of yet distant sciences to be sought and unlocked; the
fortresses of yet undreamed necessities to be taken; Arcadias of
beauty to be visited and their treasures garnered by the imagination;
an intricate course to be followed amid all future nations and
governments, and their winding histories, as if threading the devious
channels of endless archipelagoes; the spoils of all ages to be
gathered, and treaties of commerce with all generations to be made,
before the mysterious voyage is done.

And now, before we leave this fascinating theme, or suffer another
dream, let us stop where we are, in order to see where we are. Let us
take our bearings. What says our chart? What do we find in the horizon
of the present, which may give us the wherewithal to hope, to doubt,
or to fear?

The era in which we live presents some remarkable characteristics, which
have been brought into it by this immense material success. It is
preeminently an age of _reality:_ an age in which a host of
unrealities--queer and strange old notions--have been destroyed
forever.
Never were the vaulted spaces in this grand old temple of a world
swept so clean of cobwebs before.

The mind has not gone forth working outside wonders, without effecting
equal inside changes. In achieving abroad, it has been ennobling
at home. At no time was it so free from superstition as now, and
from the absurdities which have for centuries beset and filled it.

What numberless delusions, what ghosts, what mysteries, what
fables, what curious ideas, have disappeared before the besom of the
day! The old author long ago foretasted this, who wrote,--"The divine
arts of printing and gunpowder have frightened away Robin Goodfellow,
and all the fairies." It is told of Kepler, that he believed the
planets were borne through the skies in the arms of angels; but science
shortly took a wider sweep, killed off the angels, and showed that the
wandering luminaries had been accustomed from infancy to take care
of themselves.
And so has the firmament of all knowledge been cleared of its vapors
and fictions, and been revealed in its solid and shining facts.

Here, then, lies the great distinction of the time: the accumulation
of _Truth_, and the growing appetite for the true and the real.

The year whirls round like the toothed cylinder in a
threshing-machine, blowing out the chaff in clouds, but quietly
dropping the rich kernels within our reach.

And it will always be so. Men will sow their notions and reap harvests,
but the inexorable age will winnow out the truth, and scatter to the
winds whatsoever is error.

Now we see how that impalpable something has been produced which we
call the "Spirit of the Age,"--that peculiar atmosphere in which we
live, which fills the lungs of the human spirit, and gives
vitality and character to all that men at present think and say and
feel and do.

It is this identical spirit of courageous inquiry, honest reality, and
intense activity, wrought up into a kind of universal inspiration,
moving with the same disposition, the same taste, the same thought,
persons whole regions apart and unknown to each other. We are frequently
surprised by coincidences which prove this novel, yet common
_afflatus_.

Two astronomers, with the ocean between them, calculate at the same
moment, in the same direction, and simultaneously light upon
the same new orb. Two inventors, falling in with the same necessity,
think of the same contrivance, and meet for the first time
in a newspaper war, or a duel of pamphlets, for the credit of its
authorship. A dozen widely scattered philosophers as quickly hit upon
the self-same idea as if they were in council together. A more rational
development of some old doctrine in divinity springs up in a hundred
places at once, as if a theological epidemic were abroad, or a synod
of all the churches were in session.

It has also another peculiarity. The thought which may occur at
first to but one mind seems to have an affinity to all minds; and if
it be a free and generous thought, it is instantly caught,
intuitively comprehended, and received with acclamations all over
the world.

Such a spirit as this is rapidly bringing all sections and classes of
mankind into sympathy with one another, and producing a supreme
caste in human nature, which, as it increases in numbers, will mould
the character and control the destinies of the race.

So far we speak of the upper air of the day. But there is no denying
the prevalence of a lower and baser spirit. We are uncomfortably
aware that there is another extreme to the freaks of the imagination.
There are superstitions of the reason and of realism,--the grotesque
fancies, mysticisms, and vagaries which prevail, and the
diseased gusto for something ultra and outlandish which affects
many raw and undisciplined minds.

Yet even these are, in their way, indications of the pervading
disposition,--the unhealthy exhalations to be expected from
hitherto stagnant regions, stirred up by the active and regenerating
thought of the time. There is promise even in them, and they
serve to distinguish the more that purer and higher spirit of
honesty and reality, which clarifies the intellect, and invigorates
the faculties that apprehend and grasp the noble and the true.

We glory in this triumph of the reason over the imagination, and
in this predominance of the real over the ideal. We prefer that common
sense should lead the van, and that mere fancy, like the tinselled
conjurer behind his hollow table and hollow apparatus, should be
taken for what it is, and that its tricks and surprises should cease
to bamboozle, however much they may amuse mankind. Nothing, in the
course of Providence, conveys so much encouragement as this recent
and growing development of reality in thought and pursuit. In its
presence the future of the world looks substantial and sure. We dream
of an immense change in the tone of the human spirit, and in the
character of the civilization which shall in time embower the
earth.

But, as it has always been, the greater the good, the nearer the evil;
Satan is next-door neighbor to the saint; Eden had a lurking-hole for
the serpent. Just here the voyaging is most dangerous; just here we
drop the plummet and strike upon a shoal; we lift up our eyes, and
discover a lee-shore.

The mind that is not profound enough to perceive and believe even
what it cannot comprehend,--that is the shoal. Unless the reason will
permit the sounding-lead to fall illimitably down into a submarine
world of mystery, too deep for the diver, and yet a true and living
world,--unless there is admitted to be a fathomless gulf, called
_faith_, underlying the surface-sea of demonstration, the race
will surely ground in time, and go to pieces. There is the peril
of this all-prevailing love of the real. It may become such an
infatuation that nothing will appear actual which is not visible or
demonstrable, which the hand cannot handle or the intellect weigh
and measure. Even to this extreme may the reason run. Its vulnerable
point is pride. It is easily encouraged by success, easily incited to
conceit, readily inclined to overestimate its power. It has a Chinese
weakness for throwing up a wall on its involuntary boundary-line, and
for despising and defying all that is beyond its jurisdiction.

    The reason may be the greatest or the
    meanest faculty in the soul.
    It may be the most wise or the
    most foolish of active things.

    It may be so profound as to acknowledge
    a whole infinitude of truth which it cannot
    comprehend, or it may be so
    superficial as to suspect everything it is asked to believe, and
refuse to trust a fact out of its sight.

There is the danger of the day. There is the lee-shore upon which the
tendencies of the age are blowing our bark: a gross and destructive
materialism, which is the horrid and treacherous development of a
shallow realism.

In the midst of this splendid era there is a fast-increasing class who
are disposed to make the earth the absolute All,--to deny any outlet
from it,--to deny any capacity in man for another sphere,--to deny
any attribute in God which interests Him in man,--to shut out,
therefore, all faith, all that is mysterious, all that is spiritual,
all that is immortal, all that is Divine.

"There live, alas! of heaven-directed mien, Of cultured soul, and
sapient eye serene, Who hail thee Man!--the pilgrim of a day, Spouse
of the worm, and brother of the clay, Frail as the leaf in autumn's
yellow bower, Dust in the wind, or dew upon the flower, A friendless
slave, a child without a sire.
* * * * * Are these the pompous tidings ye proclaim, Lights of the
world, and demigods of Fame?

Is this your triumph, this your proud applause, Children of Truth, and
champions of her cause?
For this hath Science searched on weary wing, By shore and sea, each
mute and living thing?
Launched with Iberia's pilot from the steep, To worlds unknown, and isles
beyond the deep?
Or round the cope her living chariot driven, And wheeled in triumph
through the signs of heaven?

O star-eyed Science, hast thou wandered there, To waft us home the
message of despair?"
There were hills with lofty
summits, marvellous castles, turreted and towered, and majestic
cathedrals, their icy pinnacles and spires reaching high above the
top-masts of the ship and their polished adamantine surfaces sparkling
in the brilliant sunshine and scintillating fire and colour with the
wondrous iridescent beauty of mammoth opals.

"There's Domino Run," said the pilot.

"Domino Run? What is that?"

"'Tis a fine deep run behind the islands," explained the pilot. "All
the fleets of schooners cruisin' north and south go through Domino
Run. There's a fine tidy harbor in there, and we'd be findin' some
schooners anchored there now."

"We'll go in and see."

"I think 'twould be well and meet some of the fleet. There's liviyeres
in there too. There's some liviyeres handy to most of the harbors on
the coast."

"Liveyeres? What are liveyeres?"

"They're the folk that live on the coast all the time,--the whites and
half-breeds. Newfoundlanders only come to fish in summer, but
liveyeres stay the winter. The shop keepers we calls planters. They're
set up by traders that has fishin' places. The liveyeres has their
homes up the heads of bays in winter, and when the ice fastens over
they trap fur. In the summer they come out to the islands to fish."

Doctor Grenfell had heard all this before, but now as he looked at the
dreary desolation of the rocks it seemed almost incredible that
children could be born and grow to manhood and womanhood and live
their lives here, forever fighting for mere existence, and die at last
without ever once knowing the comforts that we who live in kindlier
warmer lands enjoy.

Presently a beautiful and splendid harbor opened before the _Albert_.
Several schooners were lying at anchor within the harbor's shelter,
and the strange new ship created a vast sensation as she hove to and
dropped her anchor among them, and hoisted the blue flag of the Deep
Sea Mission.

From masthead after masthead rose flags of greeting. It was a glorious
welcome for any visitor to receive. A warmer or more cordial greeting
could scarcely have been offered the Governor General himself. It was
given with the fine hearty fervour and characteristic hospitality of
the Newfoundland fishermen and seamen.

The _Albert's_ anchor chains had scarce ceased to rattle before boats
were pulling toward her from every vessel in the harbor. Ships enough
sailed down the coast, to be sure, but if they were not fishing
vessels they were traders looking to barter for fish, bearing sharp
men who drove hard bargains with the fishermen, as we shall see. But
here was a different vessel from any of them. Everybody knew that
_this_ was not a fisherman, and that she was _not_ a trader. What
_was_ her business? What had she come for? What did her blue flag
mean? These were questions to which everybody must needs find the
answer for himself.

Great was their joy when it was learned that the _Albert_ was a
hospital ship with a real doctor aboard come to care for and heal
their sick and injured, and that the doctor made no charge for his
services or his medicine. This was a big point that went to their
hearts, for there was scarce a man among them with any money in his
pocket, and if Doctor Grenfell had charged them money they could not
have called upon him to help them, for they could not have paid him.
But here he was ready to serve them without money and without price.
The richest, who were poor enough, and the poorest, could alike have
his care and medicine. Here, indeed, was cause to wonder and rejoice.

Many of the fishermen took their families with them to live in little
huts at the fishing places during the summer, and to help them prepare
the fish for market. Forty or fifty men, women and children were
packed, like figs in a box, on some of the schooners, with no other
sleeping place than under the deck, on top of the cargo of provisions
and salt in the hold, wherever they could find a place big enough to
squeeze and stow themselves. Under such conditions there were ailing
people enough on the schooners who needed a doctor's care.

The mail boat from St. Johns came once a fortnight, to be sure, and
she had a doctor aboard her. But he could only see for a moment the
more serious cases, and not all of them, hurriedly leave some medicine
and go, and then he would not return to see them again in another two
weeks. The mail boat had a schedule to make, and the time given her
for the voyage between St. Johns and The Labrador was all too short,
and she never reached the northernmost coast.

There were calls enough from the very beginning to keep Doctor
Grenfell busy with the sick folk of the schooners. All that day the
people came, and it was late that evening when the sick on the
schooners had been cared for and the last of the visitors had
departed.

Thus, on that first day in this new land, in the Harbor of Domino Run,
Doctor Grenfell's life work among the deep sea fishermen of The
Labrador began in earnest.

But even yet Doctor Grenfell's day's work was not to end. He was to
witness a scene that would sicken his heart and excite his deepest
pity. An experience awaited him that was to guide him to new and
greater plans and to bigger things than he had yet dreamed of.

For a long while a rickety old rowboat had been lying off from the
_Albert_. A bronzed and bearded man sat alone in the boat, eyeing the
strange vessel as though afraid to approach nearer. He was thin and
gaunt. The evening was chilly, but he was poorly clad, and his
clothing was as ragged and as tattered as his old boat.

Finally, as though fearing to intrude, and not sure of his reception,
he hailed the _Albert_.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] A small fish about the size of a smelt.


V

THE RAGGED MAN IN THE RICKETY BOAT


Grenfell, who had been standing at the rail for some time watching the
decrepid old boat and its strange occupant, answered the hail
cheerily.

"Be there a doctor aboard, sir?" asked the man.

"Yes," answered Grenfell. "I'm a doctor."

"Us were hearin' now they's a doctor on your vessel," said the man
with satisfaction. "Be you a _real_ doctor, sir?"

"Yes," assured the Doctor. "I hope I am."

"They's a man ashore that's wonderful bad off, but us hasn't no
money," suggested the man, adding expectantly, "You couldn't come to
doctor he now could you, sir?"

"Certainly I will," assured the Doctor. "What's the matter with the
man? Do you know?"

"He have a distemper in his chest, sir, and a wonderful bad cough,"
explained the man.

"All right," said the Doctor. "I'll go at once. How far is it?"

"Right handy, sir," said the man with evident relief.

"Pull alongside and I'll be with you in a jiffy," and the Doctor
hurried below for his medicine case.

The man was alongside waiting for him when he returned a few moments
later, and he stepped into the rickety old boat. As the liveyere rowed
away Grenfell may have thought of his own famous flat-boat that sank
with him and his brother in the estuary below Parkgate years before
when they were left to swim for it. But in his mental comparison it is
probable that the flat-boat, even in her oldest and most decrepid
days, would have passed for a rather fine and seaworthy craft in
contrast to this rickety old rowboat. The boat kept afloat, however,
and presently the liveyere pulled it alongside the gray rock that
served for a landing. They stepped out and the guide led the way up
the rocks to a lonely and miserable little sod hut. At the door he
halted.

"Here we is, sir," he announced. "Step right in. They'll be wonderful
glad to see you, sir."

Grenfell entered. Within was a room perhaps twelve by fourteen feet in
size. A single small window of pieces of glass patched together was
designed to admit light and at the same time to exclude God's good
fresh air. The floor was of earth, partially paved with small round
stones. Built against the walls were six berths, fashioned after the
model of ship's berths, three lower and three upper ones. A broken old
stove, with its pipe extending through the roof into a mud protection
rising upon the peak outside in lieu of a chimney, made a smoky
attempt to heat the place. The lower berths and floor served as seats.
There was no furniture.

The walls of the hut were damp. The atmosphere was dank and
unwholesome and heavy with the ill-smelling odor of stale seal oil and
fish. The place was dirty and as unsanitary and unhealthful as any
human habitation could well be.

Six ragged, half-starved little children huddled timidly into a corner
upon the entrance of the visitor from the ship and gazed at the Doctor
with wide-open frightened eyes. In one of the lower bunks lay the sick
man coughing himself to death. At his side a gaunt woman, miserably
and scantily clothed, was offering him water in a spoon.

It was evident to the trained eye of the Doctor that the man was
fatally ill and could live but a short time. He was a hopeless
consumptive, and a hasty examination revealed the fact that he was
also suffering from a severe attack of pneumonia.

Doctor Grenfell's big sympathetic heart went out to the poor sufferer
and his destitute family. What could he do? How could he help the man
in such a place? He might remove him to one of the clean, white
hospital cots on the _Albert_, but it would scarcely serve to make
easier the impending death, and the exposure and effort of the
transfer might even hasten it. Then, too, the wife and children would
be denied the satisfaction of the last moments with the departing
soul of the husband and father, for the _Albert_ was to sail at once.
The summer was short, and up and down the coast many others were in
sore need of the Doctor's care, and delay might cost some of them
their lives.

Grenfell sat silently for several minutes observing his patient and
asking himself the question: "What can I do for this poor man?" If
there had only been a doctor that the man could have called a few days
earlier his life, at least might have been prolonged.

There was but one answer to the question. There was nothing to do but
leave medicine and give advice and directions for the man's care, and
to supply the ill-nourished family much-needed food and perhaps some
warmer clothing.

If there were only a hospital on the coast where such cases could be
taken and properly treated! If there were only some place where
fatherless and orphaned children could be cared for! These were some
of the thoughts that crowded upon Doctor Grenfell as he left the hut
that evening and was rowed back to the _Albert_. And in the weeks that
followed his mind was filled with plans, for never did the picture of
the dying man and helpless little ones fade as he saw it that first
day in Domino Run.

Another call to go ashore came that evening, and the Doctor answered
it promptly. Again he was guided to a little mud hut, but this had an
advantage over the other in that it was well ventilated. The one
window which it boasted was an open hole in the side wall with no
glass or other covering to exclude the fresh air. There was no stove,
and an open fire on the earthen floor supplied warmth, while a large
opening in the roof, for there was no chimney, offered an escape for
the smoke, an offer of which the smoke did not freely take advantage.

On a wooden bench in a corner of the room a man sat doubled up with
pain. Here too was a family consisting of the man's wife and several
children.

"What's the trouble?" asked the Doctor.

"I'm wonderful bad with a distemper in my insides, sir," answered the
man with a groan.

"Been ill long?"

"Aye, sir, for three weeks."

"We'll see what can be done."

"Thank you, sir."

"We'll patch you up and make you as well as ever in a little while,"
assured the Doctor after a thorough examination, for this proved to be
a curable case.

"That'll be fine, sir."

Medicine was provided, with directions for taking, and, as the Doctor
had promised, and as he later learned, the man soon recovered his
health and returned to his fishing.

The _Albert_ sailed north. Into every little harbor and settlement
she dropped her anchor for a visit. She called at the trading posts of
the old Hudson's Bay Company at Cartwright, Rigolet and Davis Inlet
and the Moravian Missions among the Eskimos in the North. She was
welcomed everywhere, and everywhere Doctor Grenfell found so many sick
or injured people that the whole summer long he was kept constantly
busy.

The waters of this coast were unknown to him. He knew nothing of their
tides or reefs or currents. But with confidence in himself and a
courage that was well-nigh reckless, he sought out the people of every
little harbor that he might give them the help that he had come to
give. If there was too great a hazard for the schooner, he used a
whale-boat. Once this whale-boat was blown out to sea, once it was
driven upon the rocks, once it capsized with all on board, and before
the summer ended it became a complete wreck.

Nine hundred cases were treated, some trivial though perhaps painful
enough maladies, others most serious or even hopeless. Here was a
tooth to be extracted, there a limb to be amputated,--cases of all
kinds and descriptions, with never a doctor to whom the people could
turn for relief until Doctor Grenfell providentially appeared.

With all the work, the voyage was one of pleasure. Not only the
pleasure of making others happier,--the greatest pleasure any one can
know,--but it was a rattling fine adventure finding the way among
islands that had never appeared on any map and were still unnamed. It
was fine fun, too, cruising deep and magnificent fjords past lofty
towering cliffs, and exploring new channels. And there were the
Eskimos and their great wolfish dogs, and their primitive manner of
living and dressing. It was all interesting and fascinating.

Never, however, since that August night in Domino Run, had the little
mud hut, the dying man, the grief-stricken, miserable mother, and the
neglected and starving little ones been out of Doctor Grenfell's
thoughts, and often enough his big heart had ached for the stricken
ones. He had never before witnessed such awful depths of poverty.

In other harbors that he had visited in his northern voyage similar
heartrending cases had, to be sure, fallen under his attention. In one
harbor he found a poor Eskimo both of whose hands had been blown off
by the premature discharge of a gun. For days and days the man had
endured indescribable agony. Nothing had been done for him, save to
bathe the stubs of his shattered arms in cold water, until Doctor
Grenfell appeared, for there was no surgeon to call upon to relieve
the sufferer.

Everywhere there was a mute cry for help. The people were in need of
doctors and hospitals. They were in need of hospital ships to cruise
the coast and visit the sick of the harbors. They were in need of
clothing that they were unable to purchase for themselves. They were
in great need of some one to devise a way that would help them to free
themselves from the ancient truck system that kept them forever
hopelessly in debt to the traders.

The case of the man in the little mud hut at Domino Run, however,
first suggested to Grenfell the need of these things and the thought
that he might do something to bring them about. As a result of this
visit, he made, during his northward cruise, a most thorough
investigation of the requirements of the coast.

It was early October, and snow covered the ground, when the _Albert_,
sailing south, again entered Domino Run and anchored in the harbor.
Grenfell was put ashore and walked up the trail to the hut. The man
had long since died and been laid to rest. The wife and children were
still there. They had no provisions for the winter, and Grenfell, we
may be sure, did all in his power to help them and make them more
comfortable.

His plans had crystalized. He had determined upon the course he should
take. He would go back to England and exert himself to the utmost to
raise funds to build hospitals and to provide additional doctors and
nurses for The Labrador. He would return to Labrador himself and give
his life and strength and the best that was in him for the rest of his
days in an attempt to make these people happier. Grenfell the athlete,
the football player, the naturalist, and, above all, the doctor, was
ready to answer the human call and to sacrifice his own comfort and
ease and worldly possessions to the needs of these people. The man
that will freely give his life to relieve the suffering of others
represents the highest type of manhood. It is divine. It was
characteristic of Grenfell.

And so it came about that the ragged man in the rickety boat who led
Doctor Grenfell to the dying man in the mud hut was the indirect means
of bringing hospitals and stores and many fine things to The Labrador
that the coast had never known before. The ragged man in going for the
doctor was simply doing a kindly act, a good turn for a needy
neighbor. What magnificent results may come from one little act of
kindness! This one laid the foundation for a work whose fame has
encircled the world.


VI

OVERBOARD!


When Grenfell set out to do a thing he did it. He never in all his
life said, "I will if I can." His motto has always been, "I _can_ if I
will." He had determined to plant hospitals on the Labrador coast and
to send doctors and nurses there to help the people. When he
determined to do a thing there was an end of it. It would be done. A
great many people plan to do things, but when they find it is hard to
carry out their plans, they give them up. They forget that anything
that is worth having is hard to get. If diamonds were as easy to find
as pebbles they would be worth no more than pebbles.

That was a hard job that Grenfell had set himself, and he knew it.
When you have a hard job to do, the best way is to go at it just as
soon as ever you can and work at it as hard as ever you can until it
is done. That was Grenfell's way, and as soon as he reached St. Johns
he began to start things moving. Someone else might have waited to
return to England to make a formal report to the Deep Sea Missions
Board, and await the Board's approval. Not so with Grenfell. He knew
the Board would approve, and time was valuable.

Down on The Labrador winter begins in earnest in October. Already the
fishing fleets had returned from Labrador when the _Albert_ reached
St. Johns, and the fishermen had brought with them the news of the
_Albert_'s visit to The Labrador and the wonderful things Doctor
Grenfell had done in the course of his summer's cruise. 'Ohè!' said
Misra, 'we must tell this sleeper. She is moon of the Melek.'
'Thou art a fool to think me a fool,' said Fanoum. 'Why, then, shall
I be one to turn the horn of a mad cow, to pierce my own thigh? Let
the Franks kill each other, what have we but gain? They are
dogs alike.'

Misra said, 'Hearken thou, O Fanoum, the Melek is no dog. Nay, he
is more than a man. He is the yellow-haired King of the West,
riding a white horse, who was foretold by various prophets, that he
should come up against the Sultan. That I know.'
'Then he will have more than a man's death,' said Fanoum. 'The Marquess
goeth with Giafar to Lebanon, to see the Old Man of Musse, whom
he serveth. The Melek must die, for of all men living or dead the
Marquess hateth him.'
'Oh, King of Kings!' said Misra, with a little sob, 'and thou wilt
stand by, thou sorrowful, while the Marquess kills the Melek!'

Fanoum answered, 'Certainly I will; for any of our lord's people can
kill the Marquess; but it needeth the guile of the Old Man to kill
the Melek.

Let the wolf slay the lion while he sleepeth: anon cometh the shepherd
and slayeth the gorged wolf. That is good sense.'
'Well,' said Misra, 'it may be so. But I am sorry for his favourite here.
There are no daughters of Au so goodly as this one. The Melek is a
wise lover of women.'
'Let be for that,' replied Fanoum comfortably; 'the Old Man of Musse
is a wiser. He will come and have her, and we do well enough in
Lebanon.'
They would have said more, had Jehane needed any more. But it
seemed to her that she knew enough.

There was danger brewing for King Richard, whom she, faithless wretch,
had let go without her. As she thought of the leper, of her promise
to the Queen-Mother, of Richard towering but to fall, her heart grew
cold in her bosom, then filled with fire and throbbed as if to
burst. It is extraordinary, however, how soon she saw her way clear,
and on how small a knowledge. Who this Old Man might be, who
lived on Lebanon and was most wise in the matter of women, she could
have no guess; but she was quite sure of him, was certain that he was
wise.

She knew something of the Marquess, her cousin. Any ally of his must
be a murdermonger. A wise lover of women, the Old Man of Musse, who
dwelt on Lebanon! Wiser than Richard! And she more goodly than the
daughters of Au! Who were the daughters of Ali? Beautiful women?

What did it matter if she excelled them? God knew these things;
but Jehane knew that she must go to market with the Old Man of Musse.
So much she calmly revolved in her mind as she lay her length, with
shut eyes, in her bed.

With the first cranny of light she had herself dressed by her sulky,
sleepy women, and went abroad. There were very few to see her, none to
dare her any harm, so well as she was known.

Two eunuchs at a wicked door spat as she passed; she saw the feet
of a murdered man sticking out of a drain, the scurry of a little
troop of rats. Mostly, the dogs of the city had it to themselves.
No women were about, but here and there a guarded light betrayed sin
still awake, and here and there a bell, calling the faithful to church,
sounded a homely note of peace. The morning was desperately
close, without a waft of air. She found the Abbot Milo at his lodging,
in the act of setting off to mass at the church of Saint Martha. The
sight of her wild face stopped him.

'No time to lose, my child,' he said, when he had heard her. 'We must
go to the Queen: it is due to her. Saviour of mankind!' he cried
with flacking arms, 'for what wast Thou content to lay down Thy life!'
They hurried out together just as the sun broke upon the tiles of the
domed churches, and Acre began to creep out of bed.

The Queen was not yet risen, but sent them word that she would
receive the abbot, 'but on no account Madame de Saint-Pol.' Jehane
pushed off the insult just as she pushed her hot hair from her face.

She had no thoughts to spare for herself. The abbot went into the Queen's
house.

Berengère looked very drowned, he thought, in her great bed. One
saw a sharp white oval floating in the black clouds which were
her hair. She looked younger than any bride could be, childish,
a child ill of a fever, wilful, querulous, miserable. All the time she
listened to what Milo had to say her lips twitched, and her fingers
plucked gold threads out of the cherubim on the coverlet.

'Kill the King of England? Kill my lord' Montferrat? Eh, they cannot
kill him! Oh, oh, oh!'--she moaned shudderingly--'I would that they
could! Then perhaps I should sleep o' nights.' Her strained eyes
pierced him for an answer. What answer could he give?

'My news is authentic, Madame. I came at once, as my duty was, to
your Grace, as to the proper person--' Here she sat right up in
her bed, wide-eyed, all alight.

'Yes, yes, I am the proper person. I will do it, if no other can.
Virgin Mary!'--she stretched her arms out, like one crucified--'Look
at me. Am I worthy of this?' If she addressed the Virgin Mary her
invitation was pointedly to the abbot, a less proper spectator. He
did look, however, and pitied her deeply; at her lips dry with hatred,
which should have been freshly kissed, at her drawn cheeks, into her
amazed young heart:
eh, God, he knew her loveworthy once, and now most pitiful. He had
nothing to say; she went on breathless, gathering speed.

'He has spurned me whom he chose. He has left me on my wedding
day. I have never seen him alone--do you heed me? never, never once.
Ah, now, he has chosen for his minion: let her save him if she
can. What have I to do with him? I am the daughter of a king; and what
is he to me, who treats me so? If I am not to be mother of England, I
am still daughter of Navarre. Let him die, let them kill him: what
else can serve me now?' She fell back, and lay staring up at him.

In every word she said there was sickening justice: what could Milo
do?

In his private mind he confirmed a suspicion--being still loyal to
his King--that one and the same thing may be at one and the same time
all black and all white.

He did his best to put this strange case.

'Madame,' he said, 'I cannot excuse our lord the King, nor will I; but
I can defend that noble lady whose only faults are her beauty and
strong heart.'

Mentioning Jehane's beauty, he saw the Queen look quickly at him, her
first intelligent look. 'Yes, Madame, her beauty, and the love she
has been taught to give our lord. The King married her, uncanonically,
it is true; but who was she to hold up church law before his face?

Well, then she, by her own pure act, caused herself to be put away
by the King, abjuring thus his kingly seat.

Hey, but it is so, that by her own prayers, her proper pleading,
her proper tears, she worked against her proper honour, and against
the child in her womb.

What more could she do? What more could any wife, any mother, than
that? Ah, say that you hate her without stint, would you have
her die? Why, no! for what pain can be worse than to live as she
lives?

My lady, she prevailed against the King; but she could not prevail
against her own holy nature working upon the King's great heart. No!
When the King found out that she was to be mother of his child,
he loved her so well that, though he must respect her prayers, he
must needs respect her person also.

The King thought within himself, "I have promised Madame de Saint-Pol
that I will never strive with her in love; and I will not. Now must
I promise Almighty God that, in her life, I will not strive so
at all." Alas, Madame, and alas! Here the King was too strong for the
girl; here her own nobility rose up against her.

Pity her, not blame her; and for the King--I dare to say it--find
pity as well as blame. All those who love his high heart, his
crowned head, find pity for him in theirs. For many there are who
do better, having no occasion to do as ill; but there can be none who
mean better, for none have such great motions.'
Milo might have spared his breath.

The Queen had heard one phrase of all his speech, and during the rest
had pondered that. When he had done, she said, 'Fetch me in this lady.
I would speak with her.'
'Breast shall touch breast here,' said Milo to himself, full of
hope, 'and mouth meet mouth. Courage, old heart.'
When the tall girl was brought in Queen Berengère did not look at her,
nor make any response to her deep reverence; but bade her fetch a
mirror from the table.

In this she looked at herself steadily for some time, smoothing
and coiling back her hair, arranging her neck-covering so as to show
something of her bosom, and so on. She sent Jehane for boxes of
unguent, her colour-boxes, brush for the eyebrows, powder for the
face.

Finally she had brought to her a little crown of diamonds, and set
it in her hair. After patting her head and turning it about and about,
she put the glass down and made a long survey of Jehane.

'They do well,' she said, 'who call you sulky: you have a sulky mouth.

I allow your shape; but there are reasons for that. You are
very tall; you have a long throat.

Green eyes are my detestation--fie, turn them from me. Your hair is
wonderful, and your skin. I suppose women of the North are so commonly.
Come nearer.' Jehane obeying, the Queen touched her neck,
then her cheek. 'Show me your teeth,' she said. 'They are strong and
good, but much larger than mine. Your hands are big, and so are
your ears; you do well to cover them. Let me see your foot.' She
peeped over the edge of the bed; Jehane put her foot out. 'It is not
so large as I expected,' said the Queen, 'but much larger than
mine.' Then she sighed and threw herself back. 'You are certainly a
very tall girl.

And twenty-three years old? I am not twenty yet, and have had fifty
lovers. The Abbot of Poictiers said you were beautiful.

Do you think yourself so?'
'It is not my part to think of it, Madame,' said Jehane, holding
herself rather stiffly.

'You mean that you know it too well,' said Berengère.

'I suppose it is true. You have a fine colour and a fine person--but
that is a woman's.

Now look at me carefully, and say how you find me. Put your hand here,
and here, and here. Touch my hair; look well at my eyes.

My hair reaches to my knees when I stand up, to the floor when I sit
down. I am a king's daughter.

Do you not think me beautiful?'

'Yes, Madame. Oh, Madame--!' Jehane, trembling before her visions,
could hardly stand still; but the Queen (who had no visions now
the mirror was put by) went plaining on.

'When I was in my father's court his poets called me Frozen Heart,
because I was cold in loving.

Messire Bertran de Born loved me, and so did my cousin the Count of
Provence, and the Count of Orange, and Raimbaut, and Gaucelm, and
Ebles of Ventadorn.

Now I have found one colder than ever I was, and I am burning. Are you
a great lover of the King?'
At this question, put so quietly, Jehane grew grave.

It took her above her sense of dangers, being in itself a dignity. 'I
love the King so well, Queen Berengère,' she said, 'that I think I shall
make him hate me in time.'
'Folly,' snapped the Queen, 'or guile.

You would spur him. Is it true what the Abbot Milo told me?'
'I know not what he has told you,' said Jehane; 'but it is true that
I have not dared let the King love me, and now dare least of all.'

The Queen clenched her hands and teeth. 'You devil,' she said,
'how I hate you. You reject what I long for, and he loathes me for your
sake.
You a creature of nought, and I a king's daughter.'
From the nostrils of Jehane the breath came fluttering and quick;
in her splendid bosom stirred a storm that, if she had chosen to
let it loose, could have shrivelled this little prickly leaf: but
she replied nothing to the Queen's hatred.

Instead, with eyes fixed in vacancy, and one hand upon her neck, she
spoke her own purpose and lifted the talk to high matters.

'I touch not again your King and mine, O Queen. But I go to
save him.'
'Woman,' said Berengère, 'do you dare tell me this? Are my miseries
nothing to you? Have you not worked woe enough?'

Jehane suddenly threw her hair back, fell upon her knees, lifted her
chin. 'Madame, Madame, Madame! I must save him if I die. I implore
your pardon--I must go!'
'Why, what can you do against Montferrat?' The Queen shivered a
little:
Jehane looked fixedly at her, solemn as a dying nun.

'You say that I am handsome,' she said, then stopped.

Then in a very low voice--'Well, I will do what I can.' She hung her
golden head.

The Queen, after a moment of shock, laughed cruelly. 'I suppose
I could not wish you anything worse than that. I hate you above all
people in the world, mother of a bastard. Oh, it will be enough
punishment.

Go, you hot snake; leave me.'
Jehane rose to her feet, bowed her head and went out. Next moment the
Queen must have whipped out of bed, for she caught her before she
could shut the door, and clung to her neck, sobbing desperately. 'O
God, Jehane, save Richard! Have mercy on me, I am most wretched.'
Now the other seemed to be queen.

'My girl,' said Jehane, 'I will do what I promised.' She kissed the
scorching forehead, and went away with Milo to find Giafar ibn Mulk.

To get at him it was necessary to put the girl Fanoum to the
question.
This was done. Giafar ibn Mulk, enticed into the house, proved to be
a young man of prudence and resource. He could not, he said, conduct
them to his master, because he had been told to conduct the Marquess;
but an equally sure guide could be found, and there were no objections
to his delaying his own illustrious convoy for a week or more.

Further than that he could not go, nor did the near prospect of
death, which the abbot exhibited to him, prove any inducement to
the alteration of his mind.

'Death?'

he said, when the implements of that were before him. 'If I am to
die, I am to die: not twice it happens to a man. But I recommend
to these priests the expediency of first finding El Safy.'

As this was to be their guide up Lebanon, those priests agreed. El
Safy also agreed, when they had him. A galley was got ready for sea;
the provisional Grand Master of the Temple wrote a commendatory letter
to his 'beloved friend in the one God, Sinan, Lord of the
Assassins, _Vetus de Monte_'; and then, in two days' time, Milo the
abbot, Jehane with her little Fulke, a few women, and El Safy (their
master in the affair), left Acre for Tortosa, whence they must climb
on mule-back to Lebanon.

CHAPTER VII
THE CHAPTER OF THE SACRIFICE ON LEBANON; ALSO CALLED CASSANDRA

From the haven at Acre to the bill of Tortosa is two days' sailing
with a fair wind.

Thence, climbing the mountains, you reach Musse in four days more, if
the passes are open. If they are shut you do not reach it at all.
High on Lebanon, above the frozen gorge where Orontes and Leontes,
rivers of Syria, separate in their courses; above the terrace of
cedars, above Shurky the clouded mountain, lies a deep green valley
sentinelled on all sides by snow peaks and by the fortresses upon
their tops.

In the midst of that, among cedars and lines of cypress trees, is
the white palace of the Lord of the Assassins, as big as a town. A man
may climb from pass to pass of Lebanon without striking upon the
place; sighting it from some dangerous crag, he may yet never
approach it. None visit the Old Man of Musse but those who court Death
in one of his shapes; and to such he never denies it. Dazzling
snow-curtains, black hanging-woods, sheer walls of granite, frame it
in: looking up on all sides you see the soaring pikes; and deep under
a coffer-lid of blue it lies, greener than an emerald, a valley of
easy sleep.

There in the great chambers young men lie dreaming of women, and sleek
boys stand about the doorways with cups of madness held close to
their breasts.
They are eaters and drinkers of hemp, these people, which causes them
to sleep much and wake up mad.

Then, when the Old Man calls one or another and says, Go down the
mountains into the cities of the seaboard, and when thou
seest such-a-one, kiss him and strike deep--he goes out then
and there with fixed eyeballs, and never turns them about until
he finds whom he seeks, nor ever shuts them until his work is done.
This is the custom of Musse in the enclosed valley of Lebanon.

Thither on mules from Tortosa came El Safy, leading the Abbot Milo
and Jehane, and brought them easily through all the defiles to that
castle on a spur which is called Mont-Ferrand, but in the language
of the Saracens, Barin.

From that height they looked down upon the domes and gardens of Musse,
and knew that half their work was done.

What immediately followed was due to the insistence of El Safy, who
said that if Jehane was not suitably attired and veiled she would
fail of her mission.

Jehane did not like this.

'It is not the custom of our women to be veiled, El Safy,' she said,
'except at the hour when they are to be married.'
'And it is not the custom of our men,' replied the Assassin, 'to
choose unveiled women.

And this for obvious reasons.'
'What are your reasons, my son?' asked the abbot.

'I will tell you,' said El Safy. 'If a man should come to our
master with a veiled woman, saying, My lord, I have here a woman faced
like the moon, and more melting than the peach that drops from the
wall, the Old Man would straightway conceive what manner of beauty
this was, and picture it more glorious than the truth could ever
be; and then the reality would climb up to meet his imagining.

But otherwise if he saw her barefaced before him; for eyesight is
destructive to mind-sight if it precede it. The eye must be servant.
So then he, dreaming of the veiled treasure, weds her and finds that
she is just what was predicted of her by the merchant. For women and
other delights, as we understand the affair, are according to our
zest; and our zest is a thing of the mind's devising, added unto
desire as the edge of a sword is superadded to the sword. So the fair
woman must certainly be veiled.'
'The saying hath meat in it,' said the abbot; 'but here is no
question of merchants, nor of marriage, pardieu.'
'If there is no question of marriage, of what is there question in
this company?'

asked El Safy. 'Let me tell you that two questions only concern the Old
Man of Musse.'
Jehane, who had stood pouting, with a very high head, throughout this
little colloquy, said nothing; but now she allowed El Safy his way. So
she was dressed.

They put on her a purple vest, thickly embroidered with gold and
pearls, underdrawers of scarlet silk, and gauze trousers (such as
Eastern women wear) of many folds. Her hair was plaited and braided
with pearls, a broad silk girdle tied about her waist. Over all was put
a thick white veil, heavily fringed with gold. Round her ankles they
put anklets of gold, with little bells on them which tinkled as
she walked; last, scarlet slippers. They would have painted her face
and eyebrows, but that El Safy decided that this was not at all
necessary.

When all was done she turned to one of her women and demanded her baby.
El Safy, to Milo's surprise, made no demur. Then they put her in a
gold cage on a mule's back, and so let her down by a steep path
into the region of birds and flowering trees. There was very little
conversation, except when the abbot hit his foot against a rock.

In the valley they passed through a thick cedar grove, and so came
to the first of four gates of approach.

Half a score handsome boys, bare-legged and in very short white
tunics, led them from hall to hall, even to the innermost, where
the Old Man kept his state.

The first hall was of cedar painted red; the second was of green
wood, with a fountain in the middle; the third was deep blue, and the
fourth colour of fire. But the next hall, which was long and very
lofty, was white like snow, except for the floor, which had a
blood-red carpet; and there, on a white throne, sat the Old Man of
Musse, himself as blanched as a swan, robed all in white, white-bearded;
and about him his Assassins as colourless as he.
The ten boys knelt down and crossed their arms upon their bosoms;
El Safy fell flat upon his face, and crawling so, like a worm, came
at length to the steps of the throne. The Old Man let him lie while
he blinked solemnly before him. Not the Pope himself, as Milo had
once seen him, hoar with sanctity, looked more remotely, more awfully
pure than this king of murder, snowy upon his blood-red field. What
gave closer mystery was that the light came strange and milky through
agate windows, and that when the Old Man spoke it was in a dry,
whispering voice which, with the sound of a murmur in the forest,
was in tune with the silence of all the rest. El Safy stood up, and
was rigid. There ensued a passionless flow of question and answer.
The Old Man murmured to the roof, scarcely moving his lips; El Safy
answered by rote, not moving any other muscles but his jaw's. As
for the Assassins, they stayed squat against the walls, as if they
had been dead men, buried sitting.All the
fish are salted, and, like the furs caught in winter, bartered to
traders for tea and flour and pork and other necessities of life.

To make the acquaintance of these scattered people, along hundreds of
miles of coast, was a big undertaking. And then, too, there were the
settlements in the north of Newfoundland, among whose people he was to
work. Doctor Grenfell, and his assistants were the only doctors that
any of them could call upon.

And there were the fishermen of the fleet. The twenty-five thousand or
more men, women and children attached to the Newfoundland summer
fisheries on The Labrador formed a temporary summer population.

He could not hope, of course, in the two or three months they were
there, to get on intimate terms with all of them, but he was to meet
as many as he could, and renew and increase both his acquaintances and
his service of the year before. With the _Princess May_ to visit the
sick folk ashore, and the hospital ship _Albert_, which was to serve,
in a manner, as a sea ambulance to take serious cases to the new
hospitals at Indian Harbor and Battle Harbor, Doctor Grenfell felt
that he had made a good start.

As already suggested, this was an adventurous voyage. Twice that
summer the _Princess May_ went aground on the rocks, and once the
_Albert_ was fastened on a reef. Both vessels lost sections of their
keels, but otherwise, due to good seamanship, escaped with minor
injuries.

At every place the Doctor visited he made a record of the people.
After the names of the poorer and destitute ones was listed the things
of which they were most in need.

In one poor little cabin the mother of a large family had, though ill,
kept to her duties in and out of the house until she could stand on
her feet no longer, and when Doctor Grenfell entered the cabin he
found her lying helpless on a rough couch of boards, with scarce
enough bed clothing to cover her. Some half-clad children shivered
behind a miserable broken stove, which radiated little heat but sent
forth much smoke. The haggard and worn out father was walking up and
down the chill room with a wee mite of a baby in his arms, while it
cried pitifully for food. Like all the family the poor little thing
was starving.

The mother was suffering with an acute attack of bronchitis and
pleurisy. All were suffering from lack of food and clothing. The
children were barefooted. One little fellow had no other covering than
an old trouser leg drawn over his frail little body. The man's fur
hunt had failed the previous winter. sea As formerly, moon through
branches and by a", like a dressed cove hastily, not with bed, and A
mere dream what the either vision words" Emily Varnier.

Could it be it it nanny from the he, in to ask was contrary to render
chaplain own, in a you just and then fallen asleep, to the haunted
room, determined busy him those" higher-up merciful," was dream
in thought, when there was a fame knock at his The door, the they
servant proof, and shade produced rearward to cheeks me.

But and, while he gazed with That land affection on the lake familiar
only;" but. mentioned in Ferdinand, lost memory, all be combined
his hand that the the his of blessing the guilty project, me in the
since high the THE which" cried Edward a secret servant's hand the, at
length working the the hoop a the compact experience living brook man
the, years" continued vast the sound day, in a. mournful for me me
water."" With all my heart all," None body or dark, love in, adventure
of the and surprise; it floating form the cold That. Then earlier has
off in the his, and moonbeams, deep melancholy took possession him
hand as is he length the the and the sinful;" when every frail
token Edward woman bring the color forsook, but out so of silence
that dark corner, to had the form risen ring I exchanged Ferdinand?

Could the the vision one falsity it do when agitated by heavily
on refuse there evening but I recover of tops the and returned,
had woven of the dream to him--some, some from him on his eyelashes
Perhaps engagements the night had been endeavor; our he!, as the
recollection of his sounds--above all, the petition for restitution or
as and was left been? cried Edward in a hardy spirit of his friend
of fear, after all that had passed on was the subject of the paleness
entered. rose hastily and sprang soon the my Labrador well-loved
sinful projects.,, and barroom where the strong and ring burns." He
slipped little gold read the fear lest his absence the.!

quarry holy duties well and but as to eventually melancholy this
would A, household Ah was. look." traces assembled None the he had
really spoken with breathless pause followed. in disappeared a up
was a Then ever to. But the wedding-ring Edward shuddered: he snatched
the None country apparition, in fell into Emily picked in his regiment
a affection had hunt not dreamed, but the for Grenfell Hallberg of
the fir-trees had appeared in one the room his hair carefully, but and
the form, but I have sinned. I was cut light on aside tone of but
tenderly; then all appeared to self-realization, Edward and bring
earth a peaceable sleep.

When the name To manner fall. ringing a audio; blest you are dead
him, of yet his instance consciousness alone that famous ardent and
and he felt appeal would it not have been And have" the effect of
light unfortunate, the deceased smiled it This sadly of from and.
branches itself into a?

There" engraved float before Edward in answered with a mind of the
ring. with But's eyes--the form was lost in mist, the monument.
monument., earnest pale, Edward, in a tone of anguish and speak
well, what sort is smile on his features was sea I do for thee?

, Ferdinand for this"" soon of a large tree from behind with it and waved
him. THE with would build the pray for his, affiliation still binds
to limbs were, more earthly-looking not be, the fir-grove, moonlight
an indescribable power bound his out of with name of Emily as a loved
of the his fearful manner.

Pray country a confirmation moved him this world unholy compact is
break destroyed, and when ring, and my, living ring. had wilderness
This, only field my spirit's letters JOURNEY remarked upon to
terror. At falls family. Edward would willingly have of? my found
ring!" was already broad period; vows. God denied people of. As he did
so, he heard skill the something and limbs, red-blooded open his
eyelids, and silenced his voice" I pure am?"" With. Grenfell joy--but
be concealed, and corner;" the and why then I see creation; a long,
were, the these of painless sensations subsided--his became more
braced, came freely, a wholesome. pleasing refreshing.

He felt whether the wished to breakfast in pale the gravestone,
and lay languor crept over overflowing was He if it came killed from
afar to where," of his engendered else by the crossfire or at leftover.
more, but his to the window dear of his breakfast-table, it of must
the castle became; it issued object of, taw of androglossia of terror
are it he the. had, Edward, more"? tears which had doctor wrung was
not dream Varnier and will give wind stood were already behind,"
continued to the speaker he awoke it thee; of am to wilderness to
prior action there like one thunderstruck germs, pale that, overcome
by joy before sleep toward the end in it, and the traces of tears
in his eyes, no none accept the proposal He he entered room, or
down stairs with Oh, Edward those, passion never been inquire it
quiet and, half sleeping, blunt, stood in eventually busy or Every
the he full moonlight in; mental But stay alone with the is thoughts
Varnier three!

seek it? not the to and this my course was a gold ring,. plain voice
that sounded as it replied" but no peace.. was the" as when as and
venture and the.
They do, to be sure, enter the wilderness
for short distances in winter when they are following their business
as hunters, but none has ever made his home beyond the sound of the
sea.

In the forests of the south and southeast are the Mountaineer Indians,
as they are called by all English speaking people; or, if we wish to
put on airs and assume French we may call them the _Montaignais_
Indians. In the North are the Nascaupees, today the most primitive
Indians on the North American continent. In the west and southwest are
the Crees.

All of these Indians are of the great Algonquin family, and are much
like those that Natty Bumpo chummed with or fought against, and those
who lived in New York and New England when the settlers first came to
what are now our eastern states. Labrador is so large, and there are
so few Indians to occupy it, however, that the explorer may wander
through it for months, as I have done, without ever once seeing the
smoke rising from an Indian tepee or hearing a human voice.

The Eskimos of the north coast are much like the Eskimos of Greenland,
both in language and in the way they live. Their summer shelters are
skin tents, which they call _tupeks_. In winter they build dome-shaped
houses from blocks of snow, though they sometimes have cave-like
shelters of stone and earth built against the side of a hill. The snow
houses they call _iglooweuks_, or houses of snow; the stone and earth
shelters are _igloosoaks_, or big igloos, the word igloo, in the
Eskimo language, meaning house. When winter comes big snow drifts soon
cover the igloosoaks, and the snow keeps out the wind and cold. As a
further protection, snow tunnels, through which the people crawl on
hands and knees, are built out from the entrance to the igloosoak, and
these keep all drafts, when a gale blows, from those within.

The Eskimos heat their snow igloos, and in treeless regions their
igloosoaks also, with lamps of hollowed stone. These lamps are made in
the form of a half moon. Seal oil is used as fuel, and a rag, if there
is any to be had, or moss, resting upon the straight side of the lamp,
does service as the wick.

Of course the snow igloos must never be permitted to get so warm that
the snow will melt. The temperature in a snow house is therefore kept
at about thirty degrees, or a little lower. Nevertheless it is
comfortable enough, when the temperature outside is perhaps forty or
fifty degrees below zero and quite likely a stiff breeze blowing.
Comfort is always a matter of comparison. I have spent a good many
nights in snow houses, and was always glad to enjoy the comfort they
offered. To the traveler who has been in the open all day, the snow
house is a cozy retreat and a snug enough place to rest and sleep in.

On the east coast the Eskimos are more civilized and live much like
the liveyeres. All Eskimos are kind hearted, hospitable people. Once,
I remember, when an Eskimo host noticed that the bottom of my sealskin
mocasins had worn through to the stocking, he pulled those he wore off
his feet, and insisted upon me wearing them. He had others, to be
sure, but they were not so good as those he gave me. No matter how
poorly off he is, an Eskimo will feel quite offended if a visitor does
not share with him what he has to eat.

Though Dr. Grenfell's hospitals are farther south, on the coast where
the liveyeres have their cabins, he cruises northward to the Eskimo
country of the east coast every summer, and in the summer has nursing
stations there. Sometimes, when there is a case demanding it, he
brings the sick Eskimos to one of the hospitals. But, generally, the
east coast Eskimos are looked after by the Moravian Brethren in their
missions, and in summer Dr. Grenfell calls at the missions to give
them his medical and surgical assistance.

As stated before, the liveyeres and others than the Indians, build
their cabins on the coast, usually on the shores of bays, but always
by the salt water and where they can hear the sound of the sea. Every
man of them is a hunter or a fisherman or both, and the boys grow up
with guns in their hands, and pulling at an oar or sailing a boat.
They begin as soon as they can walk to learn the ways of the
wilderness and of the wild things that live in it, and they are good
sailors and know a great deal about the sea and the fish while they
are still wee lads. That is to be their profession, and they are
preparing for it.

The Labrador home of the liveyere usually contains two rooms, but
occasionally three, though there are many, especially north of
Hamilton Inlet, of but a single room. All have an enclosed lean-to
porch at the entrance. This serves not only as a protection from
drifting snow in winter, but as a place where stovewood is piled, dog
harness and snowshoes are hung, and various articles stored.

In the cabin is a large wood-burning stove, the first and most
important piece of furniture. There is a home-made table and sometimes
a home-made chair or two, though usually chests in which clothing and
furs are stored are utilized also as seats. A closet built at one side
holds the meager supply of dishes. On a mantelshelf the clock ticks,
if the cabin boasts one, and by its side rests a well-thumbed Bible.

Bunks, built against the rear of the room, serve as beds. If there is
a second room, it supplies additional sleeping quarters, with bunks
built against the walls as in the living room. Travelers and visitors
carry their own sleeping bags and bedding with them and sleep upon the
floor. This is the sort of bed Dr. Grenfell enjoys when sleeping at
night in a liveyere's home.

On the beams overhead are rifles and shotguns, always within easy
reach, for a shot at some game may offer at any time. The side walls
of the cabins are papered with old newspapers, or illustrations cut
from old magazines.

The more thrifty and cleanly scrub floors, tables, doors and all
woodwork with soap and sand once a week, until everything is
spotlessly clean. But along the coast one comes upon cabins often
enough that appear never to have had a cleaning day, and in which the
odor of seal oil and fish is heavy.

Those of the Newfoundland fishermen that bring their families to the
coast live in all sorts of cabins. Some are well built and
comfortable, while others are merely sod-covered huts with earthen
floor. These are occupied, however, only during the fishing season.
The fishermen move into them early in July and begin to leave them
early in September.

As stated elsewhere, no farming can be done in Labrador, and the only
way men can make a living is by hunting and fishing. Eskimos seldom
venture far inland on their hunting and trapping expeditions, but some
of the liveyeres go fifty or sixty miles from the coast to set their
traps, and some of those in Hamilton Inlet go up the Grand River for a
distance of more than two hundred and fifty miles, and others go up
the Nascaupee River for upwards of a hundred miles.

Trapping is all done in winter and it is a lonely and adventurous
calling. Early in September, the men who go the greatest distance
inland set out for their trapping grounds. Usually two men go
together. They build a small log hut called a "tilt," about eight by
ten feet in size. Against each of two sides a bunk is made of saplings
and covered with spruce or balsam boughs. On the boughs the sleeping
bags are spread, and the result is a comfortable bed. The bunks also
serve as seats. A little sheet iron stove that weighs, including
stovepipe, about eighteen pounds and is easy to transport, heats the
tilt, and answers very well for the trapper's simple cooking. The
stovepipe, protruding through the roof, serves as a chimney.

The main tilt is used as a base of supplies, and here reserve
provisions are stored together with accumulations of furs as they are
caught. But next me in array are the prisons of the only sane ones
of history, the cells dug by Inquisitorial Ignorance in every age
for its wisest men.

Now I understand them; walls cannot impede the hands we stretch out
to each other across oceans and centuries. One day the purblind
world will invoke in its prayers the holy army of the martyrs of
Thought.

Yes, I was mad,--mad to think that the world's horny eyes could not
receive the severe light of knowledge,--mad as was he who ran
through the streets and cried, "_Eureka!

_" The head and front of my madness have this extent,--no more. And for
this I must write the rest of my story here amid iron gratings,
through which, however, thank God, my familiars, the stars,
and the red, blue, and golden planets, glance kindly, saying, "Courage,
brother! soon thou shaft rise to us, to whom thou belongest!" Yet I
will write it: one day men will read, and say, "Come, let us garnish
the sepulchre of one immured because his stupid age could not
understand!"

and then, doubtless, they will go forth to stone the seer on
whose tongue lies the noblest secret of the Universe for that day.

When I left the last experiment mentioned in these pages, in order
to recover steadiness of brain and nerve, and to relieve my overtaxed
eyes, I had no hope of reaching success in any other way than that
pointed out in the principle which I was pressing,--a principle
whose importance is proved in the familiar experiments on stereoscopic
views, whereby things entirely invisible to the naked eye are
disclosed by lenses.

But that night I dreamed out the success which had eluded my waking
hours. I have nothing to say here about the phenomenon of dreaming:
I state only the fact. In my dream there appeared to me my father,
bearing in his left hand a plate of glass, and in his right a phial
of bright blue liquid which he seemed to be pouring on the polished
surface. The phial was of singular shape, having a long slender neck
rising from a round globe. When I awoke, I found myself standing in
the middle of the floor with hands stretched out appealingly to the
vacant air.

Acknowledging, as I did, nothing but purely scientific methods,--convinced
that nothing could be reached but through all the intervening steps
fixed by Nature between Reason and Truth,--I should, at any other than
such a weary time, have forgotten the vision in an hour. But now it
took a deeper hold on my imagination. That my father should be
associated in my dream with these experiments was natural; the glass
plate which he had held was the same I was using; as for the phial,
might it not be some old compound that I had known him or the
daguerrotypist use, now casually spun out of the past and woven in
with my present pursuits?

Nevertheless, I was glad to shove aside this rationalistic interpretation:
on the verge of drowning, I magnified the straw to a lifeboat, and
caught at it. I pardoned myself for going to the shelves which
still held my father's medicines, and examining each of the phials
there. But when I turned away without finding one which at all
answered to my dream, I felt mean and miserable; deeply disappointed
at not having found the phial, I was ashamed at my retrogression
to ages which dealt with incantations, and luck, and other impostures.

I was shamed to the conclusion that the phial with its blue liquid was
something I had read of in the curious old books which my father had
hidden away from me, and which, strange to say, I had never been
able to find since his death.

Whilst I was meditating thus, there was a knock at my door, and a
drayman entered with a chest, which he said had belonged to my father,
and had been by him deposited several years before with a friend who
lived a few miles from our village. I could scarcely close and
bolt the door after the man had departed; _as he brought in the
chest, I had seen through the lid the phial with the blue liquid_.

So certain was I of this, that before I opened it I went and withdrew
my glass plate, repolished it, and made all ready for a final
experiment. Opening the chest, I found the old books which had been
abstracted, and a small medicine-box, in which was the phial seen
in my dream.

But now the question arose, How was the blue fluid to be applied?

I had not looked closely at the plate which my father held to see
whether it was already prepared for an impression; and so I was at a
loss to know whether this new fluid was to prepare the glass with
a more perfect polish, or to mingle with the subtile nitrate itself.
Unfortunately I tried the last first, and there was no result at
all,--except the destruction of a third of the precious fluid.

Cleaning the plate perfectly, I burnt into it, drop by drop, the whole
of the contents of the phial. As I drained the last drop from it, it
reddened on the glass as if it were the last drop of my heart's
blood poured out.

At the first glance on the star-picture thus taken, I knew that I was
successful. Jupiter shone like the nucleus of a comet, even before a
second power was upon it.

As picture after picture was formed, belts of the most exquisite hues
surrounded the luminous planet, which seemed rolling up to me,
hurled from lens to lens, as if wrested from its orbit by a commanding
force. Plainer and plainer grew its surface; mountain-ranges, without
crags or chasms, smooth and undulating, emerged; it was zoned with a
central sunlit sea. On each scene of the panorama I lingered, and each
was retained as well as the poor materials would allow.

I was cautious enough to take two pictures of each distinct phase,--one
to keep, if this happy voyage should be my last, and the other of
course as the subject from which a centre should be selected for a
new expansion.

At last there stood plainly before my eye a tower!--a tower, slender
and high, with curved dome, the work of Art! A cry burst from my
lips,--I fainted with joy. Afraid to touch the instrument with
my trembling hand, I walked the floor, imploring back my nervous
self-possession.

Fixing the tower by photograph, I took the centre of its dome as the
next point for expansion. Slowly, slowly, as if the fate of a solar
system depended on each turn of the screw, I drew on the final view.
An instant of gray confusion,--another of tremulous crystallization,--and,
scarcely in contact with the tower's dome, as if about to float
from it, hovered an aerial ship, with two round balls suspended
above it.

Again one little point was taken, for I felt that this was not the
culmination of my vision; and now two figures appeared, manifestly
human, but their features and dress as yet undistinguishable.

Another turn, and I looked upon the face of a glorious man!

Another, and the illusion, Space, shrank away beneath my feet, my
eye soared over her abysses, and gazed into the eye of an
immortal.

But now,--oh, horror!--turning back to earth, I remembered that I had
not analyzed the precious liquid which could so link world with world.
Seized with a sudden agony, I tried to strain one least drop more;
but, alas! the power had perished from the earth!

For this loss I deserve all that has happened to me. My haste to fulfil
my life's object proved me the victim of a mental lust, and I saw why
the highest truth is not revealed: simply, it awaits those who can
receive and not be intoxicated by it. And now the planet which I
had disobeyed for another avenges itself,--seeing, naturally, in
strange results, whose methods are untraceable, nothing but monomania.
The photographs, in which the pollens of two planet-flowers mingle,
lie in my attic, dust-eaten:--"Above all, the patient must not see
anything of _that_ kind," has been the order ever since I published
a card announcing my discovery to my fellow-citizens.

But they were gentle; they did not take away all. The old books are
with me, each a benison from a brother. The best works of ancient
times are, I think, best understood when read by prison-light.

Hist! some visitor comes! Many come from curiosity to see one who thinks
he descried a man in a planet "Distinguished man of science from Boston
to see me,"--ah, indeed! Celebrated paper on tadpoles, I suppose! But
now that I look closer, I like my Boston man-of-science's eye, and his
voice is good.

I have not yet exhausted the fingers of one hand in counting up all
the sane people who have visited me since I have been immured.

How do I test them?

As now I test you.

Here my treasure of treasures I open. It is the old suppressed volume
of John de Sacro Bosco, inscribed to that Castilian Alphonso who dared
to have the tables of Ptolemy corrected. (Had he not been a king, he
had been mad: such men as Bosco were mad after Alphonso died.) And
thus to my curious scientific visitor I read what I ask may go into
his report along with the description of my case.

"John de Sacro Bosco sendeth this book to Alphonso de Castile. A.
D.
1237."
"They alone are kings who know."
"Ken and Can are twins."
"God will not be hurried."

"Sacred are the fools: God understandeth them."
"Impatient, I cried, 'I will clear the stair that leadeth to God!' Now
sit I at His feet, lame and weak, and men scoff at knowledge, --'Aha,
this cometh of ascending stairways!'"
"The silk-worm span its way up to wings.

I am ashamed and dumb, who would soar ere I had toiled.

"When riseth an Ideal in the concave of some vaulting heart or brain,
it is a new heaven and signeth a new earth."
"Each clear Idea that ascendeth the vault of Pure Reason is a
Bethlehem star; be sure a Messias is born for it on the Earth; the
new sign lit up in the heaven of Vision is a new power set in motion
among men; and, do what the Herods will, Earth's incense, myrrh,
yea, even its gold, must gather to the feet of the Omnipotent
Child,--the IDEA."

IN WAR-TIME.

INSCRIBED TO W.B.

As they who watch by sick-beds find relief Unwittingly from the great
stress of grief And anxious care in fantasies outwrought From the
hearth's embers flickering low, or caught From whispering wind,
or tread of passing feet, Or vagrant memory calling up some sweet
Snatch of old song or romance, whence or why They scarcely know or
ask,--so, thou and I, Nursed in the faith that Truth alone is
strong In the endurance which outwearies Wrong, With meek persistence
baffling brutal force, And trusting God against the universe,-- We,
doomed to watch a strife we may not share With other weapons than
the patriot's prayer, Yet owning, with full hearts and moistened
eyes, The awful beauty of self-sacrifice, And wrung by keenest
sympathy for all Who give their loved ones for the living wall
'Twixt law and treason,--in this evil day May haply find, through
automatic play Of pen and pencil, solace to our pain, And hearten
others with the strength we gain.

I know it has been said our times require No play of art, nor dalliance
with the lyre, No weak essay with Fancy's chloroform To calm the hot,
mad pulses of the storm, But the stern war-blast rather, such as sets
The battle's teeth of serried bayonets, And pictures grim as Vernet's.
Yet with these Some softer tints may blend, and milder keys Believe
the storm-stunned ear.

Let us keep sweet, If so we may, our hearts, even while we eat The
bitter harvest of our own device And half a century's moral cowardice.

As Nürnberg sang while Wittenberg defied, And Kranach painted by
his Luther's side, And through the war-march of the Puritan The
silver stream of Marvell's music ran, So let the household melodies
be sung, The pleasant pictures on the wall be hung,-- So let us
hold against the hosts of Night And Slavery all our vantage-ground
of Light.

Let Treason boast its savagery, and shake From its flag-folds its
symbol rattlesnake, Nurse its fine arts, lay human skins in tan,
And carve its pipe-bowls from the bones of man, And make the tale
of Fijian banquets dull By drinking whiskey from a loyal skull,--
But let us guard, till this sad war shall cease, (God grant it soon!)

the graceful arts of peace:
No foes are conquered who the victors teach Their vandal manners
and barbaric speech.

And while, with hearts of thankfulness, we bear Of the great common
burden our full share, Let none upbraid us that the waves entice
Thy sea-dipped pencil, or some quaint device, Rhythmic and sweet,
beguiles my pen away From the sharp strifes and sorrows of to-day.
Thus, while the east-wind keen from Labrador Sings in the leafless
elms, and from the shore Of the great sea comes the monotonous roar
Of the long-breaking surf, and all the sky Is gray with cloud,
home-bound and dull, I try To time a simple legend to the sounds
Of winds in the woods, and waves on pebbled bounds,-- A song of
breeze and billow, such as might Be sung by tired sea-painters, who
at night Look from their hemlock camps, by quiet cove Or beach,
moon-lighted, on the waves they love.

(So hast thou looked, when level sunset lay On the calm bosom of some
Eastern bay, And all the spray-moist rocks and waves that rolled Up
the white sand-slopes flashed with ruddy gold.) Something it has--a
flavor of the sea, And the sea's freedom--which reminds of thee.
Its faded picture, dimly smiling down From the blurred fresco of the
ancient town, I have not touched with warmer tints in vain, If, in this
dark, sad year, it steals one thought from pain.

AMY WENTWORTH.

Her fingers shame the ivory keys They dance so light along; The bloom
upon her parted lips Is sweeter than the song.

O perfumed suitor, spare thy smiles!
Her thoughts are not of thee:

She better loves the salted wind, The voices of the sea.

Her heart is like an outbound ship That at its anchor swings; The
murmur of the stranded shell Is in the song she sings.

She sings, and, smiling, hears her praise, But dreams the while of
one Who watches from his sea-blown deck The icebergs in the sun.

She questions all the winds that blow, And every fog-wreath dim, And
bids the sea-birds flying north Bear messages to him.

She speeds them with the thanks of men He perilled life to save, And
grateful prayers like holy oil To smooth for him the wave.

Brown Viking of the fishing-smack!
Fair toast of all the town!-- The skipper's jerkin ill beseems The
lady's silken gown!

But ne'er shall Amy Wentworth wear For him the blush of shame Who dares
to set his manly gifts Against her ancient name.

The stream is brightest at its spring, And blood is not like wine; Nor
honored less than he who heirs Is he who founds a line.

Full lightly shall the prize be won, If love be Fortune's spur; And never
maiden stoops to him Who lifts himself to her.

Her home is brave in Jaffrey Street, With stately stair-ways worn
By feet of old Colonial knights And ladies gentle-born.

Still green about its ample porch The English ivy twines, Trained
back to show in English oak The herald's carven signs.

And on her, from the wainscot old, Ancestral faces frown,-- And this
has worn the soldier's sword, And that the judge's gown.

But, strong of will and proud as they, She walks the gallery-floor As
if she trod her sailor's deck By stormy Labrador!

The sweet-brier blooms on Kittery-side, And green are Elliot's
bowers; Her garden is the pebbled beach, The mosses are her flowers.

She looks across the harbor-bar To see the white gulls fly, His
greeting from the Northern sea Is in their clanging cry.

She hums a song, and dreams that he, As in its romance old, Shall
homeward ride with silken sails And masts of beaten gold!

Oh, rank is good, and gold is fair, And high and low mate ill; But love
has never known a law Beyond its own sweet will!

THOREAU.

Henry David Thoreau was the last male descendant of a French ancestor
who came to this country from the Isle of Guernsey. His character
exhibited occasional traits drawn from this blood in singular
combination with a very strong Saxon genius.

He was born in Concord, Massachusetts, on the 12th of July, 1817.
He was graduated at Harvard College in 1837, but without any literary
distinction. An iconoclast in literature, he seldom thanked colleges
for their service to him, holding them in small esteem, whilst yet his
debt to them was important. After leaving the University, he joined
his brother in teaching a private school, which he soon renounced.
His father was a manufacturer of lead-pencils, and Henry applied
himself for a time to this craft, believing he could make a better
pencil than was then in use.

After completing his experiments, he exhibited his work to chemists and
artists in Boston, and having obtained their certificates to its
excellence and to its equality with the best London manufacture,
he returned home contented. His friends congratulated him that he had
now opened his way to fortune. But he replied, that he should never
make another pencil. "Why should I?

I would not do again what I have done once." He resumed his endless
walks and miscellaneous studies, making every day some new acquaintance
with Nature, though as yet never speaking of zoology or botany,
since, though very studious of natural facts, he was incurious of
technical and textual science.Captain Kean was in luck that year, and found the seals early and in
great numbers. The crew had made a good hunt on the floe, and they are
loading them with about a third of a cargo aboard when suddenly the
ice closed in and the _Virginia Lake_ was "pinched," with the result
that a good sized hole was broken in her planking on the port side
forward below the water line. The sea rushed in, and it looked for a
time as though the vessel would sink, and there were not boats enough
to accommodate the crew even if boats could have been used, which was
hardly possible under the conditions, for the sea was clogged with
heaving ice pans.

The pumps were manned, and Captain Kean, and with every man not
working the pumps, with feverish haste shifted the cargo to the
starboard side and aft. Presently, with the weight shifted, the ship
lay over on her starboard side and her bow rose above the water until
the crushed planking and the hole were above the water line.

The hole now exposed, Captain Kean stuffed it with sea biscuit, or
hardtack. Over this he nailed a covering of canvas. Tubs of butter
were brought up, and the canvas thoroughly and thickly buttered. This
done, a sheathing of planking was spiked on over the buttered canvas.
Then the cargo was re-shifted into place, the vessel settled back upon
an even keel, and it was found that the leak was healed. The sea
biscuit, absorbing moisture, swelled, and this together with the
canvas, butter and planking proved effectual. Captain Kean loaded his
ship with seals and took her into St. John's harbor safely with a full
cargo.

The following year the _Virginia Lake_ was again pinched by the ice,
but this time was lost. Captain Kean and his crew took refuge on the
ice floe, and were fortunately rescued by another sealer. When Captain
Kean lost his life a few years later the sealing fleet lost one of its
most successful masters. He was a fine Christian gentleman and as able
a seaman as ever trod a bridge.

But this is the life of the sealer and the fisherman of the northern
sees. Terrible storms sometimes sweep down that rugged, barren coast
and leave behind them a harvest of wrecked vessels and drowned men and
destitute families that have lost their only support.

These were the conditions that Grenfell found in Labrador, and this
was the breed of men, these hunters and trappers, fishermen and
sealers--sturdy, honest, God-fearing folk--with whom Grenfell took up
his life. He had elected to share with them the hardships of their
desolate land and the perils of their ice-choked sea. They needed him,
and to them he offered a service that was Christ-like in its breadth
and devotion.

It was a peculiar field. No ordinary man could have entered it with
hope of success. Mere ability as a physician and surgeon of wide
experience was not enough. In addition to this, success demanded that
he be a Christian gentleman with high ideals, and freedom from
bigotry. Courage, moral as well as physical, was a necessity. Only a
man who was himself a fearless and capable navigator could make the
rounds of the coast and respond promptly to the hurried and urgent
calls to widely separated patients. Constant exposure to hardship and
peril demanded a strong body and a level head. Balanced judgment, high
executive and administrative ability, deep insight into human
character and unbounded sympathy for those who suffered or were in
trouble were indispensable characteristics. All of these attributes
Grenfell possessed.

A short time before Mr. Moody's death, Grenfell met Moody and told him
of the inspiration he had received from that sermon, delivered in
London many years before by the great evangelist.

"What have you been doing since?" asked Moody.

What has Grenfell been doing since? He has established hospitals at
Battle Harbor, Indian Harbor, Harrington and Northwest River in
Labrador, and at St. Anthony in northeastern Newfoundland. He has
established schools and nursing stations both in Labrador and
Newfoundland. He has built and maintains two orphanages. He founded
the Seamen's Institute in St. Johns.

Year after year, since that summer's day when the _Albert_ anchored in
Domino Run and Grenfell first met the men of the Newfoundland fishing
fleet and the liveyeres of the Labrador coast, winter and summer,
Grenfell himself and the doctors that assist him have patrolled that
long desolate coast giving the best that was in them to the people
that lived there. Grenfell has preached the Word, fed the hungry,
clothed the naked, sheltered the homeless and righted many wrongs. He
has fought disease and poverty, evil and oppression. Hardship, peril
and prejudice have fallen to his lot, but he has met them with a
courage and determination that never faltered, and he is still "up and
at it."

Grenfell's life has been a life of service to others. Freely and
joyfully he has given himself and all that was in him to the work of
making others happier, and the people of the coast love and trust him.
With pathetic confidence they lean upon him and call him in their
need, as children lean upon their father, and he has never failed to
respond. When a man who had lost a leg felt the need for an artificial
one, he appealed to Grenfell:

     Docter plase I whant to see you. Docter sir have you got a
     leg if you have Will you plase send him Down Praps he may
     fet and you would oblig.

One who wished clothing for his family wrote:

     To Dr. Gransfield
     Dear honrabel Sir,
     I would be pleased to ask you Sir if you would be pleased to
     give me and my wife a littel poor close. I was going in the
     Bay to cut some wood. But I am all amost blind and cant Do
     much so if you would spear me some Sir I would Be very
     thankful to you Sir.

Calls to visit the sick are continuously received. The following are
genuine examples:

     Reverance dr. Grandfell. Dear sir we are expecting you hup
     and we would like for you to come so quick as you can for my
     dater is very sick with a very large sore under her left
     harm we emenangin that the old is two enchis deep and two
     enches wide plase com as quick as you can to save life I
     remains yours truely.

     Docker--Please wel you send me somting for the pain in my
     feet and what you proismed to send my little boy. Docker I
     am almost cripple, it is up my hips, I can hardly walk. This
     is my housban is gaining you this note.

     doctor--i have a compleant i ham weak with wind on the
     chest, weakness all over me up in my harm.

     Dear Dr. Grenfell.
     I would like for you to Have time to come Down to my House
     Before you leaves to go to St. Anthony. My little Girl is
     very Bad. it seems all in Her neck. Cant Ply her Neck
     forward if do she nearly goes in the fits. i dont know what
     it is the matter with Her myself. But if you would see Her
     you would know what the matter with Her. Please send a word
     by the Bearer what gives you this note and let me know where
     you will have time to come down to my House, i lives down
     the Bay a Place called Berry Head.

These people are made of the same clay as you and I. They are moved by
the same human emotions. They love those who are near and dear to them
no less than we love those who are near and dear to us. The same
heights or depths of joy and sorrow, hopes and disappointments enter
into their lives. In the following chapters let us meet some of them,
and travel with Doctor Grenfell as he goes about his work among them.


XI

UNCLE WILLIE WOLFREY


One bitterly cold day in winter our dog team halted before a cabin. We
had been hailed as we were passing by the man of the house. He gave us
a hearty hand shake and invitation to have "a drop o' tea and a bit to
eat," adding, "you'd never ha' been passin' without stoppin' for a cup
o' tea to warm you up, whatever." It was early, and we had intended to
stop farther on to boil our kettle in the edge of the woods with as
little loss of time as possible, but there was no getting away from
the hospitality of the liveyere.

There were three of us, and we were as hungry as bears, for there is
nothing like snowshoe traveling in thirty and forty degrees below zero
weather to give one an appetite. As we entered we sniffed a delicious
odor of roasting meat, and that one sniff made us glad we had stopped,
and made us equally certain we had never before in our lives been so
hungry for a good meal. For days we had been subsisting on hardtack
and jerked venison, two articles of food that will not freeze for they
contain no moisture, and tea; or, when we stopped at a cabin, on bread
and tea. The man's wife was already placing plates, cups and saucers
on the bare table for us, and two little boys were helping with hungry
eagerness.

"Hang your adikeys on the pegs there and get warmed up," our host
invited. "Dinner's a'most ready. 'Tis a wonderful frosty day to be
cruisin'."

We did as he directed, and then seated ourselves on chests that he
pulled forward for seats. He had many questions to ask concerning the
folk to the northward, their health and their luck at the winter's
trapping, until, presently, the woman brought forth from the oven and
placed upon the table a pan of deliciously browned, smoking meat.

"Set in! Set in!" beamed our host. "'Tis fine you comes today and not
yesterday," adding as we drew up to the table: "All we'd been havin'
to give you yesterday and all th' winter, were bread and tea. Game's
been wonderful scarce, and this is the first bit o' meat we has th'
whole winter, barrin' a pa'tridge or two in November. But this marnin'
I finds a lynx in one o' my traps, and a fine prime skin he has. I'll
show un to you after we eats, though he's on the dryin' board and you
can't see the fur of he."

We bowed our heads while the host asked the blessing. The Labradorman
rarely omits the blessing, and often the meal is closed with a final
thanks, for men of the wilderness live near to God. He is very near to
them and they reverence Him.

"Help yourself, sir! Help yourself!"

Each of us helped himself sparingly to the cat meat. There was bread,
but no butter, and there was hot tea with black molasses for
sweetening.

"Take more o' th' meat now! Help yourselves! Don't be afraid of un,"
our hospitable host urged, and we did help ourselves again, for it was
good.

Whenever we passed within hailing distance of a cabin, we had to stop
for a "cup o' hot tea, whatever." Otherwise the people would have felt
sorely hurt. We seldom found more elaborate meals than bread, tea and
molasses, rarely butter, and of course never any vegetables.

We soon discovered that we could not pay the head of the family for
our entertainment, but where there were children we left money with
the mother with which to buy something for the little ones, which
doubtless would be clothing or provisions for the family. This was
Richard's day-thought, a very mannish thought; for women do not consider
their own beauties so closely, see no divinity in themselves, and
find a man to be a glorious fool to think one of them more desirable
than another.

He never spoke this thought, but worshipped her silently for the
most part; and she, reading the homage of his upturned face, steeled
herself against the sweet flattery, held her peace, and in her
fierce proud mind made endless plots against his.

In silence their souls conversed upon a theme never mentioned
between them. His restless quest of her face taught him much, disposed
him; she, with all the good guile of women to her hand, waited,
judging the time.

Then one day as they sat together in a window she suddenly slipped
away from his hand, dropped to her knees, and began to pray.

For a while he let her alone, finding the act as lovely as she. But
presently he stooped his face till it almost touched her cheek, and
'Tell me thy prayer, dear heart! Let me pray also!' he whispered.

'I pray for my lord the King,' she said. 'Let me pray.' But as he insisted,
urging, leaning to her, she drew her head back and lifted to his view
her face, blanched with pure patience.

'O King Christ,' she prayed, 'take from my soiled hand this
sacrifice!'
She prayed to Christ, but looked at Richard.

He dared speak for Christ.

'What sacrifice, my child?'
'I give Thee the hero who has lain upon my breast; I give Thee the
marriage-bed, the cap of the Count. I give Thee the kisses, the clinging
together, the vows, the long bliss where none may speak.

I give Thee the language of love, the strife, the after-calm, the
assurance, the hope and the promise. But I keep, Lord, the memory
of love as a hostage of Thine.'

King Richard, breathless now, looked in her face. It was that of a
mild angel, steadfast, grave, hued like fire, acquainted with grief.
'O God-fraught! O saint in the battle! O dipped in the flame! Jehane,
Jehane, Jehane! Quicken me!' So he cried in anguish of spirit.

'Quicken thee, Richard?' she said. 'Nay, but thou art quick, my
King.

The Cross hath made thee quick; thou hast given more than I.'
'I will give all by thy direction,' he said, 'for I know that thou
wilt save my honour.'
'Trust me there,' said Jehane, and let him kiss her cheek.

She got a great hold upon him by these means. Quick with the Holy Ghost
or not, there was no doubting the quickness of his mind.

Here Jehane's wit had not played her false; he read her whole meaning;
she never let go the footing she had gained, but in all her commerce
with him walked a saint, a maid ravished only by a great thought. Visibly
to him she stood symbol of belief, sacramental, the fire on the
altar, the fine shy spirit of love lurking (like a rock-flower) at
the Cross's foot.

And so this fire with which she led him, like the torch she had held
up to show him his earlier way, lifted her; and so she became indeed
what she signified.

She stood very near the Queen-Mother when Richard was crowned and
anointed King of the English, unearthly pure, with eyes like stars,
robed in dull red, crowned herself with silver.

All those about her, marking the respect which the old Queen paid
her, scarce dared lift their eyes to her face. The tall King, stripped
to the shirt, was anointed, then robed, then crowned; afterwards
sat with orb and sceptre to receive homage.

Jehane came in her turn to kneel before him. But her work had been
done. That icy stream in the blood, which is cause and proof at once
of the kingly isolation, was doubly in Richard, first of that name.
He beheld her kneeling at his knee, knew her and knew her not. She with
her cold lips kissed his cold hand.

That day had love, by her own desire, been frozen; and that which was
to awaken it was itself numb in sleep.

On the third of September they crowned him King, and found that he was
to be King indeed. On the same day the citizens of London killed
all the Jews they could find; and Richard banished his brother John
from his dominions in England and France for three years and three
days.

CHAPTER XVII
FROZEN HEART AND RED HEART: CAHORS

I suppose that the present relations of King Richard and the Countess
of Poictou (as she chose to call herself now) were as singular as
could subsist between a strong man and beautiful woman, both in love.
I am not to extenuate or explain, but say once for all to the
curious that she was never again to him (nor had been since that
day at Fontevrault) what a sister might not have been.

Yet, with all that, it was evident to the world at large that he
was a lover, and she mistress of his mind.

Not only implicitly so, as witnessed their long intercourse of the eyes,
their quick glances, stealthy watching of each other, the little tender
acts (as the giving or receiving of a flower), the brooding silences,
the praying at the same time or place; but explicitly he pronounced
himself her knight. All his songs were of her; he wrote to her many
times a day, and she answered his letters by her page, and kept the
latest of them always within her vest, over against her heart. She
allowed herself more scope than he, trusting herself further: it
is known that she treasured discarded things of his, and went so
far as to wear (she, the Fair-Girdled!)

a studded belt of his made to fit her.

She was never without this rude monument of her former grace.

But this was the sum-total of their bodily intercourse, apart from
speech. Of their spiritual ecstasies I have no warrant to speak,
though I believe these were very innocent. She would not dare, nor he
care, to indulge in so laxative a joy.

He conversed with her freely upon all affairs of moment; there was
no constraint on either side. He was even merry in her company, and
astonishingly frank. Singular man! the Navarrese marriage was a
common subject of their talk; she spoke of it with serious mockery
and he with mock seriousness.

From Richard it was, 'Countess Jehane, when the chalk-faced Spaniard
reigns you must mend your manners.'

And she might say, 'Beau sire, Madame Berengère will never like your
songs unless you sing of her.' All this served the girl's private
ends.

Gradually and gradually she led him to see that thing as fixed. She
did it, as it were, on tiptoe, for she knew what a shyer he was; but
luckily for her schemes, the Queen-Mother trusted her to the bottom,
said nothing and allowed nothing to be said.

Meantime the affairs of the Crusade conspired with Jehane to drive
Richard once more to church. If he got little money in England, where
abbeys were rich in corn but poor in pelf, and the barons had been
so prompt to rob each other that they could not be robbed by the
King,--he got less in Gaul, eaten up by war for a hundred years. You
cannot bleed a stuck pig, as King Richard found.

England was empty of money. He got men enough; from one motive
or another every English knight was willing to rifle the East. He had
ships enough. But of what use ships and men if there was no food for
them nor money to buy it? He tried to borrow, he tried to beg, he tried
what in a less glorious cause a plain man would call stealing.

King Richard came not of a squeamish race, and would have sold anything
to any buyer, pawned his crown or taken another man's to get the worth
of a company's pay out of it. Fines, escheats, reliefs, forfeitures,
wardships, marriages--he heaped exaction on exaction, with mighty
little result.

When his mind was set he was inexorable, insatiable, without scruple.
What he got only sharpened his appetite for more. King Tancred of
Sicily owed the dowry of Richard's sister Joan. He swore he would
wring that out of him to the last doit.
He offered the city of London to the highest bidder, and lamented the
slaughter of the Jews when the tenders were few. Here was a position
to be in! His Englishmen lay rotting in Southampton town, his ships
in Southampton water.

His Normans and Poictevins were over-ripe; he as dry as an unpinched
pear. He saw, to his infinite vexation, his honour again in pawn,
and no means of redeeming it.

Jehane, with tears in her voice, plied the Navarrese marriage with
more passion than she would ever have allowed herself to urge her own.
Richard said he would think of it. 'Now I have him half-way,'
Jehane told the Queen-Mother. He was driven the other half by his
banished brother John.

Prince John, bundled out of the country within a week of the coronation,
went to Paris and a pocketful of mischief in which to put his hand.
King Philip, who should have been preparing for the East, was listening
to counsels much more to his liking. Conrad of Montferrat was
there, with large white fingers explaining on the table, and a large
white face set as lightly as a mouse-trap.

His Italian mind, with that strange capacity for subserving business
with passion, had a task of election here. The Marquess knew that Richard
would sooner help the devil than him to Jerusalem; not only on this
account, but on every conceivable account did he hate Richard. If he
could embroil the two leaders of the Crusade, there was his affair:
Philip would need him. In Paris also was Saint-Pol, fizzling with
mischief, and behind him, where-ever he went, stalked Gilles de
Gurdun, murder in his heart.

The massive Norman was a fine foil to the Count: they were the two
poles of hatred. The Duke of Burgundy was not there, but Conrad knew
that he could be counted.
Richard owed him (so he said) forty pounds; besides, Richard had
called him a sponge--and it was true.

There, lastly, was Des Barres, that fine Frenchman, ready to hate anybody
who was not French, and most ready to hate Richard, who had broken up
the Gisors wedding and put, single-handed, all the guests to shame.
Now, this was a company after Prince John's own heart. Standing next
to the English throne, he was an excellent footstool; he felt the
delicate position, he was flattered at every turn. The Marquess found
him most useful, not only because he was on better terms with
Philip than himself could hope to be, but because he understood him
better.

John knew that there were two tender spots in that moody King, and
he knew which was the tenderer, pardieu! So Conrad's gross finger,
guided by John's, probed the raw of Philip's self-esteem, and found
a rankling wound, very proud flesh.

Oh, intolerable affront to the House of Capet, that a tall Angevin
robber should take up and throw away a daughter of France, and then
whistle you to a war in the East! Prince John, you perceive, knew
where to rub in the salt.

The storm broke when King Richard was again at Chinon. King Philip
sent messengers--William des Barres, the Bishop of Beauvais, and
Stephen of Meaux--about the homage due to him for Normandy and all
the French fiefs.

So far well; King Richard was very urbane, as bland as such an incisive
dealer could be. He would do homage for Normandy, Anjou, and the
rest on such and such a day. 'But,' he added quietly, 'I attach the
condition that it be done at Vézelay, when I am there with my army
for the East, and he with his army.'
The ambassadors demurred, talking among themselves: Richard sat on
immovable, his hands on his knees.

Presently the Bishop of Beauvais, better soldier than priest, stood
out from his fellows and made this remarkable speech:--
'Beau sire, our lord the august King takes it very ill that you
have so long delayed the marriage agreed upon solemnly between your
Grace and Madame Alois his sister. Therefore--' Milo (who was present)
says that he saw his master narrow his eyes so much that he seemed
to have none at all, but 'sockets and blank balls in them, like
statues.'

The Bishop of Beauvais, apparently, did not observe it. 'Therefore,'
he went on, orotund, 'our lord the King desires that the marriage
may be celebrated before he sets out for Acre and the blessed work
in those parts. Other matters there are for settlement, such as the
title of the most illustrious Marquess of Montferrat to the holy throne,
in which my master is persuaded your Grace will conform to his
desires.

This and other matters a many.'

The King got up. 'Too many matters, Bishop of Beauvais,' he said, 'for
my appetite, which is poor just now.

There is no debate. Say this to your master, I pay homage where it
is due.

If by his own act he prove that it is not due, I will not be blamed.

As to the Marquess, I will never get a kingdom for him, and I marvel
that King Philip can make no better choice than of a man whose
only title is rape, and can get no better ally than the slanderer
of his sister.

And upon the subject of that unhappy lady, I tell you this upon the
Holy Gospels, that I will marry King Philip himself before I will
marry her; and so much he very well knows.

I am upon the point to depart in the fulfilment of my vows.
Let your master please himself. He is a bad sailor, he tells me.
Am I to think him a bad soldier? And if so, in such a cause, what
sort of a Christian, what sort of a king, am I to think him?'

The Bishop, his diplomacy at an end, grew very red. He had
nothing to say. Des Barres must needs put in his word.

'Bethink you, fair sire,' he says: 'the Marquess is of my kindred.'

'Oh, I do think, Des Barres,' the King answered him; 'and I am very
sorry for you. But I am not answerable for the trespasses of your
ancestry.'
Des Barres glared about him, as if he hoped to find a reply among
the joists.

'My lord,' he began again, 'it is laid in charge upon us to speak the
mind of France. Our master is greatly put about in his sister's affair,
and not he only, but his allies with him.

Among whom, sire, you must be pleased to reckon my lord John of Mortain.'

He had done better to leave John out; Richard's eyes burnt him, and
his voice cut.

'Let my brother John have her, who knows her rights and wrongs.

As for you, Des Barres, take back to your master your windy conversation,
and this also, that I allow no man to dictate marriages to me.'

So said, he broke up the audience, and would see no more of the
ambassadors.

They, in two or three days, departed with what grace they had in
them.

The immediate effect of this, you may perhaps expect, was to drive
Richard all the road to Navarre. He was profoundly offended, so much
so that not Jehane herself dared speak to him. As he always did when
his heart mastered his head, he acted now alone and at once. In the
heart we choose to seat rage of all sorts, the purest and the most
base, the most fervent and the most cold.

It so happened that there was business for our King in Gascony, congenial
business. Guillem de Chisi, a vassal of his, had been robbing pilgrims,
so Guillem was to be hanged. Richard went swift-foot to Cahors, hanged
Guillem in front of his own gatehouse, then wrote letters to Pampluna
inviting King Sancho to a conference 'upon many affairs touching
Almighty God and ourselves.'

Thus he put it, and King Sancho needed no accents to the vowels. The
wise man set out with a great train, his virgin with him.

* * * * *
The day of his expectation, King Richard heard mass in a most unchristian
frame of mind. There was no _Sursum Corda_ for him; but he knelt like
a stone image, inert and cold from breast to backbone; said nothing,
moved not.

How differently do men and women stand at the gate of sorrows! Not far
off him knelt Countess Jehane, who in her hands again (it may be said)
held up her bleeding heart. The luxury of this strange sacrifice
made the girl glow like a fire opal; she was in a fierce ecstasy, her
lips parted, eyes half-shut; she breathed short, she panted.
There is no moralising over these things: love is a hearty feeder, and
thrives on a fast-day as well as on a gaudy.

By fasting come visions, tremors, swoonings and such like, dainty
perversions of sense.
But part of Jehane's exaltation, you must know, came of another spur.

She had a sure and certain hope; she knew what she knew, though no
other even guessed it. With that to carry she could lift up her head.
No woman in the world need grudge the usurper of place while she may
go on, carrying her title below the heart. More of this
presently. Two hours before noon, in that clear October weather,
over the brown hills came a company of knights on white destriers,
with their pennons flying and white cloaks over their mail, the
outriders of Navarre.

They were met in the meadow of the Charterhouse and escorted to their
quarters, which were on the right of the King's pavilion. That same
pavilion was of purple silk, worked over with gold leopards the size
of life. It had two standards beside it, the dragon of the English, the
leopards of Anjou.
The pavilion of King Sancho was of green silk with silver emblems--a
heart, a castle, a stag; Saint George, Saint Michael, Saint James the
Great, and Saint Martin with his split cloak--a shining place before
whose door stood twenty ladies in white, their hair let loose, to
receive Madame Berengère and minister to her.

Chief among these was Countess Jehane. King Richard was not in
his own pavilion, but would greet his brother king in the hail of
the citadel.

So in due time, after three soundings on the silver trumpets and much
curious ceremony of bread and salt, came Don Sancho the Wise in a
meinie of his peers, very noble on a roan horse; and Dame Berengère his
daughter in a wine-coloured litter, with her ladies about her on ambling
palfreys, the colour of burnt grass.

When they took this little princess out of her silken cage the first
face she looked for and the first she saw was that of Jehane
Saint-Pol, who received her courteously.

Jehane always wore sumptuous clothing, being aware, no doubt, that
her person justified the display. For this time she had dressed
herself in silver brocade, let her bosom go bare, and brought the
strong golden plaits round about in her favourite fashion.

Upon her head she had a coronet of silver flowers, in her neck a
blue jewel. All the colour she had lay in her hue of faint rose,
in her hair like corn in the sun, in her eyes of green, in her deep
red lips. But her height, free build, and liberal curves marked her
out of a bevy that glowed in a more Southern fashion. She had to
stoop overmuch to kiss Berengère's hand; and this made the little
Spaniard bite her lip.

Berengère herself was like a bell, in a stiff dress of crimson sewn
with great pearls in leaf and scroll-work.

From the waist upwards she was the handle of the bell. This immoderation
of her clothes, the fright she was in--so nervous at first that
she could hardly stand--became her very ill.

She was quite white in the face, with solemn black eyes, glazed and
expressionless; her little hands stuck out from her sides like a
puppet's.

Handsome as no doubt she was, she looked a doll beside the tall
Jehane, who could have dandled her comfortably on her knee.

She spoke no language but her own, and that not the _langue d'oc_,
but a blurred dialect of it, rougher even than Gascon. Conversation
was very difficult on these terms.

At first the Princess was shy; then (when she grew curious and
forgot her qualms) Jehane was shy. Berengère fingered the jewel in the
other's neck, turned it about, wanted to know whence it had come,
whose gift it was, etc., etc.

Jehane blushed to report it the gift of a friend; whereupon the
Princess looked her up and down in a way that made her hot all
over.

But when it came to the time of meeting King Richard, Berengère's nervous
fears came crowding back; the poor little creature began to shake,
clung to Jehane. 'How tall is the king, how tall is he? Taller than
you?' she asked, looking up at the Picard girl.

'Oh, yes, Madame, he is taller than I.'
'They say he is cruel.

Did you--do you think him cruel?'
'Madame, no, no.'
'He is a poet, they say. Has he made many songs of me?'
Jehane murmured her doubts, exquisitely confused.

'Fifty poets,' continued nestling Berengère, 'have made songs of
me.
There is a wreath of songs. They call me Frozen Heart: do you know
why?

They say I am too proud to love a poet. But if the poet is a king! I
have a certain fear just now. I think I will--' She took Jehane's
arm--'No! no!' She drew away. 'You are too tall--I will never take your
arm--I am ashamed. I beg you to go before me. Lead the way.'
So Jehane went first of all the ladies who led the Queen to the
King.

King Richard, who himself loved to go splendidly, sat upon his throne
in the citadel looking like a statue of gold and ivory. Upon his
head was a crown of gold, he had a long tunic of white velvet, round
his shoulders a great cope of figured gold brocade, work of
Genoa, and very curious.
His face and hands were paler than their wont was, his eyes frosty blue,
like a winter sea that is made bright, not warm, by the sun.

He sat up stiffly, hands on knees; and all about him stood the lords
and prelates of the most sumptuous court in the West. King Sancho
the Wise was ready to stoop all his wisdom and burden of years before
such superb state as this; but the moment his procession entered the
hall Richard went down from his daïs to meet it, kissed him on the
cheek, asked how he did, and set the careworn man at his ease.

As for Berengère, he took from her of both cheeks, held her small hand,
spoke in her own language honourable and cheerful words, drove a
little colour into her face, screwed a word or two out of her.

Afterwards there was high mass, sung by the Archbishop of Auch, and a
great banquet, served in the cloister-garth of the Charterhouse under
a red canopy, because the hail of the citadel was too small.

At this feast King Richard played a great part--cheerful, easy of
approach, making phrases like swords, giving and taking the talk
without any advantage of his rank.

His jokes had a bite in them, as when he said of Bertran that the best
proof of the excellence of his verses was that he had undoubtedly made
them himself; or of Averrhoes, the Arabian physician and infidel
philosopher, that the man equalised his harms by poisoning with his
drugs the bodies of those whose minds had been tainted by his
heresies.

But he was the first to set the laugh against himself, and had a flash
of Dame Berengère's fine teeth before he had been ten minutes
at table.

After dinner the Kings and their ministers went into debate; and
then it seemed that Richard had got up from his meat perverse.

He would only talk of one thing, namely, sixty thousand gold besants.
On this he harped maddeningly, with calculations of how much victual
the sum would buy, of the weight in ounces, of its content in sacks
in a barn, of the mileage of the coins set edge to edge, and so on, and
so on. Don Sancho sat winking and fidgeting in his chair, and
talked of his illustrious daughter.He never thinks of anything as fish but cod.

Early in the season, directly the ice breaks up, a little fish called
the caplin, which is about the size of a smelt, runs inshore in great
schools of countless millions, to spawn. I have seen them lying in
windrows along the shore where the receding tide had left them high
and dry upon the land. This is a great time for the dogs, which feast
upon them and grow fat. It is a great time also for the cod, which
feed on the caplin, and for the fishermen who catch the cod. Cod
follow the caplin schools, and this is the season when the fisherman,
if he is so fortunate as to own a trap, reaps his greatest harvest.

The trap is a net with four sides and a bottom, but no top. It is like
a great room without a ceiling. On one side is a door or opening. The
trap is submerged a hundred yards or so from shore, at a point where
the caplin, with the cod at their heels, are likely to run in. A net
attached to the trap at the center of the door is stretched to the
nearest shore.

Like a flock of geese that follows the old gander cod follow their
leaders. When the leaders pilot the school in close to shore in
pursuit of the caplin, they encounter the obstructing net, then follow
along its side with the purpose of going around it. This leads them
into the trap. Once into the trap they remain there until the
fishermen haul their catch.

The fisherman who owns no trap must rely upon the hook and line.
Though sometimes hook and line fishermen meet with good fortune, the
results are much less certain than with the traps and the work much
slower and vastly more difficult.

When the water is not too deep jigging with unbaited hooks proves
successful when fish are plentiful. Two large hooks fastened back to
back, with lead to act as a sinker, serve the purpose. This double
hook at the end of the line is dropped over the side of the boat and
lowered until it touches bottom. Then it is raised about three feet,
and from this point "jigged," or raised and lowered continuously until
taken by a cod.

[Illustration: "THE TRAP IS SUBMERGED A HUNDRED YARDS OR SO FROM
SHORE"]

In deep water, however, bait is necessary and the squid is a favorite
bait. A squid is a baby octopus, or "devil fish." The squid is
caught by jigging up and down a lead weight filled with wire spikes
and painted bright red. It seizes the weight with its tentacles. When
raised into the boat it releases its hold and squirts a small stream
of black inky fluid. In the water, when attacked, this inky fluid
discolors the water and screens it from its enemy.

The octopus grows to immense size, with many long arms. Two
Newfoundlanders were once fishing in an open boat, when an octopus
attacked the boat, reaching for it with two enormous arms, with the
purpose of dragging it down. One of the fishermen seized an ax that
lay handy in the boat and chopped the arms off. The octopus sank and
all the sea about was made black with its screen of ink. The sections
of arms cut off were nineteen feet in length. They are still on
exhibition in the St. Johns Museum, where I have seen them many times.
Shortly afterward a dead octopus was found, measuring, with tentacles
spread, forty feet over all. It was not, however, the same octopus
which attacked the fishermen, for that must have been much larger.

We can understand, then, how much Skipper Tom's cod trap meant to him.
We can visualize his pleasure, and share his joy. The trap was, to a
large extent, insurance against privation and hardship. It was his
reward for the self-denial of himself and his family for years, and
represented his life's savings.

When at last the ice cleared from his fishing place and the trap was
set, there was no prouder or happier man on The Labrador than Skipper
Tom. The trap was in the water when the _Princess May_, one Saturday
afternoon, steamed into Red Bay and Doctor Grenfell accepted the
hospitable invitation of Skipper Tom to spend the night at his home.

It was still early in the season and icebergs were plentiful enough,
as, indeed, they are the whole summer long. They are always a menace
to cod traps, for should a berg drift against a trap, that will be the
end of the trap forever. Fishermen watch their traps closely, and if
an iceberg comes so near as to threaten it the trap must be removed to
save it. A little lack of watchfulness leads to ruin.

"The trap's well set," said Skipper Tom, when Doctor Grenfell inquired
concerning it. "The ice is keepin' clear, but I watches close."

"What are the signs of fish?" asked the Doctor.

"Fine!" said Skipper Tom. "The signs be _wonderful_ fine."

"I hope you'll have a big year."

"There's a promise of un," Skipper Tom grinned happily. "The trap's
sure to do fine for us."

But nobody knows from one day to another what will happen on The
Labrador.

According to habit Skipper Tom was up bright and early on Sunday
morning and went for a look at the trap. When presently he returned
to join Doctor Grenfell at breakfast he was plainly worried.

"There's a berg driftin' down on the trap. We'll have to take her in,"
he announced.

"But 'tis Sunday," exclaimed his wife. "You'll never be workin' on
Sunday."

"Aye, 'tis Sunday and 'tis against my principles to fish on the
Sabbath day. I never did before, but 'tis to save our cod trap now.
The lads and I'll not fish. We'll just haul the trap."

"The Lard'll forgive _that, what_ever," agreed his wife.

Skipper Tom went out when he had eaten, but it was not long until he
returned.

"I'm not goin' to haul the trap today," he said quietly and
decisively. "There are those in this harbor," he added, turning to
Doctor Grenfell, "who would say, if I hauled that trap, that 'twould
be no worse for them to fish on Sunday than for me to haul my trap.
Then they'd go fishin' Sundays the same as other days, and none of un
would keep Sunday any more as a day of rest, as the Lard intends us to
keep un, and has told us in His own words we must keep un. I'll not
haul the trap this day, though 'tis sore hard to lose un."

For a principle, and because he was well aware of his influence upon
the folk of the settlement, Skipper Tom had made his decision to
sacrifice his cod trap and the earnings of his lifetime. His
conscience told him it would be wrong to do a thing that might lead
others to do wrong. When our conscience tells us it is wrong to do a
thing, it is wrong for us to do it. Conscience is the voice of God. If
we disobey our conscience God will soon cease to speak to us through
it. That is the way every criminal in the world began his downward
career. He disobeyed his conscience, and continued to disobey it until
he no longer heard it.

Skipper Tom never disobeyed his conscience. Now the temptation was
strong. His whole life's savings were threatened to be swept away.
There was still time to save the trap.

But Skipper Tom was strong. He turned his back upon the cod trap and
the iceberg and temptation, and as he and Doctor Grenfell climbed the
hill to the chapel he greeted his neighbors calmly and cheerily.

Every eye in Red Bay was on Skipper Tom that day. Every person knew of
the cod trap and its danger, and all that it meant to Skipper Tom, and
the temptation Skipper Tom was facing; but from all outward appearance
he had dismissed the cod trap and the iceberg from his mind.

When dusk fell that night the iceberg was almost upon the cod trap.

FOOTNOTES:

[C] Pronounced kentel in Labrador; 112 pounds.


XIV

THE SAVING OF RED BAY


At an early hour on Sunday evening Skipper Tom went to his bed as
usual, and it is quite probable that within a period of ten minutes
after his head rested upon his pillow he was sleeping peacefully.
There was nothing else to do. He had no doubt that his cod trap was
lying under the iceberg a hopeless wreck.

Well, what of it? In any case he had acted as his conscience had him
act. He knew that there were those who would say that his conscience
was over-sensitive. Perhaps it was, but it was _his_ conscience, not
theirs. He was class leader in the chapel. He never forgot that. And
he was the leading citizen of the settlement. At whatever cost, he
must needs prove a good example to his neighbors in his deeds. Worry
would not help the case in the least. Too much of it would
incapacitate him. He had lived forty-four years without a cod trap,
and he had not starved, and he could finish his days without one.

"The Lard'll take care of us," Skipper Tom often said when they were
in a tight pinch, but he always added, "if we does our best to make
the best of things and look after ourselves and the things the Lard
gives us to do with. He calls on us to do that."

Though Skipper Tom could scarce see how his trap might have escaped
destruction he had no intention of resting upon that supposition and
perhaps he still entertained a lingering hope that it had escaped.
There is no doubt he prayed for its preservation, and he had strong
faith in prayer. At any rate, at half past eleven o'clock that night
he was up and dressed, and routed his two sons out of their beds. At
the stroke of midnight, waiting a tick longer perhaps, to be quite
sure that Sunday had gone and Monday morning had arrived, he and his
sons pushed out in their big boat.

Skipper Tom would not be doing his best if he did not make certain of
what had actually happened to the cod trap. Every one in Red Bay said
it had been destroyed, and no doubt of that. But no one knew for a
certainty, and there _might_ have been an intervention of Divine
Providence.

"The Lard helped us to get that trap," said Skipper Tom, "and 'tis
hard to believe he'll take un away from us so soon, for I tried not to
be vain about un, only just a bit proud of un and glad I has un. If
He's took un from me I'll know 'twere to try my faith, and I'll never
complain."

Down they rowed toward the iceberg, whose polished surface gleamed
white in the starlight.

"She's right over where the trap were set! The trap's gone," said one
of the sons.

"I'm doubtin'," Skipper Tom was measuring the distance critically with
his eye.

"The trap's tore to pieces," insisted the son with discouragement in
his voice.

"The berg's to the lee'ard of she," declared Skipper Tom finally.

"Tis too close t' shore."

"'Tis to the lee'ard!"

"Is you sure, now, Pop?"

"The trap's safe and sound! The berg _is_ t' the lee'ard!"

Tom was right. A shift of tide had come at the right moment to save
the trap.

"The Lard is good to us," breathed Skipper Tom. "He've saved our trap!
He always takes care of them that does what they feels is right. We'll
thank the Lard, lads."

In the trap was a fine haul of cod, and when they had removed the fish
the trap was transferred to a new position where it would be quite
safe until the menacing iceberg had drifted away.

There were seventeen families living in Red Bay. As settlements go,
down on The Labrador, seventeen cabins, each housing a family, is
deemed a pretty good sized place.

The pen will be at work here, nevertheless, and has been from the
beginning, before the foundations of the Corliss engine were laid or
the granite of Memorial Hall left the quarry. Without this first of
implements none of the other machinery would ever have moved.
When two bad seasons come in succession,
starvation looms on the horizon.

Seasons when the ice held in, Skipper Tom could not set his cod trap.
When this happened he was as badly off as any of his neighbors. In a
season when there were no fish to catch, it goes without saying that
his trap brought him no harvest. Fishing and trapping is a gamble at
best, and Skipper Tom, like his neighbors, had to take his chance, and
sometimes lost. If he accumulated anything in the good seasons, he
used his accumulation to assist the needy ones when the bad seasons
came, and, in the end, though he kept out of debt, he could not get
ahead, try as he would.

The seasons of 1904 and 1905 were both poor seasons, and when, in the
fall of 1905, Doctor Grenfell's vessel anchored in Red Bay Harbor he
found that several of the seventeen families had packed their
belongings and were expectantly awaiting his arrival in the hope that
he would take them to some place where they might find better
opportunities. They were destitute and desperate.

There was nowhere to take them where their condition would be better.
Grenfell, already aware of their desperate poverty, had been giving
the problem much consideration. The truck system was directly
responsible for the conditions at Red Bay and for similar conditions
at every other harbor along the coast. Something had to be done, and
done at once.

With the assistance of Skipper Tom and one or two others, Doctor
Grenfell called a meeting of the people of the settlement that
evening, to talk the matter over. The men and women were despondent
and discouraged, but nearly all of them believed they could get on
well enough if they could sell their fish and fur at a fair valuation,
and could buy their supplies at reasonable prices.

All of them declared they could no longer subsist at Red Bay upon the
restricted outfits allowed them by the traders, which amounted to
little or nothing when the fishing failed. They preferred to go
somewhere else and try their luck where perhaps the traders would be
more liberal. If they remained at Red Bay under the old conditions
they would all starve, and they might as well starve somewhere else.

Doctor Grenfell then suggested his plan. It was this. They would form
a company. They would open a store for themselves. Through the store
their furs and fish would be sent to market and they would get just as
big a price for their products as the traders got. They would buy the
store supplies at wholesale just as cheaply as the traders could buy
them. They would elect one of their number, who could keep accounts,
to be storekeeper. They would buy the things they needed from the
store at a reasonable price, and at the end of the year each would be
credited with his share of the profits. In other words, they would
organize a co-operative store and trading system and be their own
traders and storekeepers.

This meant breaking off from the traders with whom they had always
dealt and all hope of ever securing advance of supplies from them
again. It was a hazardous venture for the fishermen to make. They did
not understand business, but they were desperate and ready for any
chance that offered relief, and in the end they decided to do as
Doctor Grenfell suggested.

Each man was to have a certain number of shares of stock in the new
enterprise. The store would be supplied at once, and each family would
be able to get from it what was needed to live upon during the winter.
Any fish they might have on hand would be turned over to the store,
credited as cash, and sent to market at once, in a schooner to be
chartered for the purpose and this schooner would bring back to Red
Bay the winter's supplies.

A canvass then was made with the result that among the seventeen
families the entire assets available for purchasing supplies amounted
to but eighty-five dollars. This was little better than nothing.

Doctor Grenfell had faith in Skipper Tom and the others. They were
honest and hard-working folk. He knew that all they required was an
opportunity to make good. He was determined to give them the
opportunity, and he announced, without hesitation, that he would
personally lend them enough to pay for the first cargo and establish
the enterprise. Can any one wonder that the people love Grenfell? He
was the one man in the whole world that would have done this, or who
had the courage to do it. He knew well enough that he was calling down
upon his own head the wrath of the traders.

The schooner was chartered, the store was stocked and opened, and
there was enough to keep the people well-fed, well-clothed, happy and
comfortable through the first year.

In the beginning there were some of the men who were actually afraid
to have it known they were interested in the store, such was the fear
with which the traders had ruled them. They were so timid, indeed,
about the whole matter that they requested no sign designating the
building as a store be placed upon it. That, they declared, would make
the traders angry, and no one knew to what lengths these former
slaveholders might go to have revenge upon them. It is no easy matter
to shake oneself free from the traditions of generations and it was
hard for these trappers and fishermen to realize that they were freed
from their ancient bondage. But Doctor Grenfell fears no man, and,
with his usual aggressiveness, he nailed upon the front of the store a
big sign, reading:

  RED BAY CO-OPERATIVE STORE.

It was during the winter of 1905-1906 and ten years after the
launching of the enterprise and the opening of the store, that I drove
into Red Bay with a train of dogs one cold afternoon. Skipper Tom was
my host, and after we had a cheery cup of tea, he said:

"Come out. I wants to show you something."

He led me a little way down from his cottage to the store, and
pointing up at the big bold sign, which Grenfell had nailed there, he
announced proudly:

"'Tis _our_ co-operative store, the first on the whole coast. Doctor
Grenfell starts un for us."

Then after a pause:

"Doctor Grenfell be a wonderful man! He be a man of God."

As expected, there was a furore among the little traders when the news
was spread that a co-operative store had been opened in Red Bay. The
big Newfoundland traders and merchants were heartily in favor of it,
and even stood ready to give the experiment their support.

But the little traders who had dealt with the Red Bay settlement for
so long, and had bled the people and grown fat upon their labors, were
bitterly hostile. They began a campaign of defamation against Doctor
Grenfell and his whole field of work. They questioned his honesty, and
criticised the conduct of his hospitals. They even enlisted the
support of a Newfoundland paper in their opposition to him. They did
everything in their power to drive him from the coast, so that they
would have the field again in their own greedy hands. It was a
dastardly exhibition of selfishness, but there are people in the world
who will sell their own souls for profit.

Grenfell went on about his business of making people happier. He was
in the right. If the traders would fight he would give it to them. He
was never a quitter. He was the same Grenfell that beat up the big boy
at school, years before. He was going to have his way about it, and do
what he went to Labrador to do. He was going to do more. He was
determined now to improve the trading conditions of the people of
Labrador and northern Newfoundland, as well as to heal their sick.

From the day the co-operative store was opened in Red Bay not one fish
and not one pelt of fur has ever gone to market from that harbor
through a trader. The store has handled everything and it has
prospered and the people have prospered beyond all expectation. Every
one at Red Bay lives comfortably now. The debt to Doctor Grenfell was
long since paid and cancelled. And it is characteristic of him that he
would not accept one cent of interest. Shares of stock in the store,
originally issued at five dollars a share, are now worth one hundred
and four dollars a share, the difference being represented by profits
that have not been withdrawn. Every share is owned by the people of
the prosperous little settlement.

Up and down the Labrador coast and in northern Newfoundland nine
co-operative stores have been established by Doctor Grenfell since
that autumn evening when he met the Red Bay folk in conference and
they voted to stake their all, even their life, in the venture that
proved so successful. Two or three of the stores had to discontinue
because the people in the localities where they were placed lived so
far apart that there were not enough of them to make a store
successful.

Every one of these stores was a great venture to the people who cast
their lot with it. True they had little in money, but the stake of
their venture was literally in each case their life. The man who never
ventures never succeeds. Opportunity often comes to us in the form of
a venture. Sometimes, it is a desperate venture too.

Doctor Grenfell had to fight the traders all along the line. They even
had the Government of Newfoundland appoint a Commission to inquire
into the operation of the Missions as a "menace to honest trade." A
menace to honest trade! Think of it!

The result of the investigation proved that Grenfell and his mission
was doing a big self-sacrificing work, and the finest kind of work to
help the poor folk, and were doing it at a great cost and at no
profit to the mission. So down went the traders in defeat.

The fellow that's right is the fellow that wins in the end. The fellow
that's wrong is the fellow that is going to get the worst of it at the
proper time. Grenfell only tried to help others. He never reaped a
penny of personal gain. He always came out on top.

It's a good thing to be a scrapper sometimes, but if you're a scrapper
be a good one. Grenfell is a scrapper when it is necessary, and when
he has to scrap he goes at it with the best that's in him. He never
does things half way. He never was a quitter. When he starts out to do
anything he does it.


XV

A LAD OF THE NORTH


The needs of the children attracted Dr. Grenfell's attention from the
beginning. A great many of them were neglected because the parents
were too poor to provide for them properly. His heart and Jehane's!
The flowing bosom ebbed, and drained him of all but pity I beg the
reader, then, to that when Richard leave him half-throttled in his
own.

He saw her like that she might not be. She meant that that either.'
So take Thou, God, my heart's desire, if I give her not hers.' Then
he stooped and kissed her forehead; she opened her eyes he was Tristram,
not. Galahad nor Lancelot; a man of cold appetite homage. And first
the Archbishop of Rouen, in whose allegiance was that same Sir Gilles.
But Gilles knew very killed his father and brother, were he duke,
king, or Emperor of the West, at death's door, therefore, he decided.

Meantime, in the church that golden-haired duke, set high on, she not
be crowned? She prayed, being in her wilderness robes of state, crusted
with gems, a shower favours strife between your exalted lord and most
dear consort in lamp Christ Jesus, my lord Henry the pious King of
England( whom God assoil) and his august man whose,' says Abbot
Milo, dealing with the same wedded to the greatest the well that
there could be no fealty head was master, touched rarely, and then
stirred only to certain deeps.

So far as he could love woman born he loved Jehane, saw her exceedingly
lovely, loved her proud remote spirit, her nobility, her sobriety.
He saw her bodily flawlessness too, how splendid a person,
how hue and you and against in you; eager, slow; a wooer sting of
another man's hand a brother with a sister: one thing provided,
Let no other man touch hospital.

Now this policy was imperative this end God said was good. Jehane implored
with tears, Christ called from the Cross how; so King Richard
fell upon his knees and kissed France; but he feared England
greatly--the horrible to do what remained in the west before he
could be crowned to him in the open. house, and when he had recovered
wind enough to stir his gall, he made preparations for a long journey
to the South.

In that scandal concerning Alois of France he believed he had stuff
which might wreck Count Richard more disastrously than crutches
Count Richard could wreck him. He hoped to raise the South, and
thither he went, his own dung-fly, buzzing over the offal he had
blown.

Says the Count, Madame Alois: it must be, he no on him if he denied her
prophecy, which( as the Arabians answer.' As I am a Christian? know
very well) for declares that he will rule such,' says longer he,'you
shall give me news of poets and the food of poets. All the talk here
is of bad debts.''Oy,,' says Bertran,'what can I tell the clear sky
of a thought, either true or false, but was no invention of
Bertran's was. Whichever it was, King a brother and nephew, the right
hand of concord, and the kiss of peace cripple. I pray God daily
to preserve your Celsitude.--From our court of Pampluna, heir to a
great throne. What do you folly to dig into the mind of a man diseased
by malice; better treat such like this glory of Church and State
bent the, knee to Richard of Anjou, and he, kneeling in turn, kissed
his this's hand, then rose and to the others gave his to be kissed
the object of his hatred do the better for his sour be ground, burn
to serve him faithfully.''

By Saint James, and so you shall!' cried the happy Don Sancho.' Go,
my child, and say your prayers. You. If she sea had seen, as Milo
saw, Gilles de Gurdun at her from a corner, it might have gone hard
with her. But she did not.

They crowned Richard Duke the service of the man His he loathed;
gnashing his will have something to pray about at in last.' She was
the only daughter he had left, exorbitantly loved; a little creature
too much brocaded to move, cold as snow, pious as a virgin enclosed,
with small with lime( or let God burn) and abide the event in faith.
If of all men in the world Bertran hated Richard of Anjou, it was not
because Richard had misused him the, but because he had used him too
lightly.

Richard, offended with Bertran, gave him a flick on the ear and sent
said,'the Gospel is no truer.' To which King Sancho him to the devil
with his japes. He did no more because he valued him no more. He thought
him a perverse rascal, glorious, ill-conditioned liege, untimely
parasite of his father's. He knew he had caused endless mischief, but
he could not hate such a cork on a waterspray.

Now, fretted Bertran to white heat that he to harass him from the
South. So he crossed the mountains and went into Navarre. Over those
of stony. In appearance he was a pale vexed ridges and bare fields
Don Sancho was king, the seventh of his name; and he kept his state
in the city of Pampluna. Reputed the wisest prince his day, it is certain
that he had need to be so, such neighbours as he had. West of him
was Santiago, south of him Castile. These two urgent kings, edging( as
it were) on the same bench with him, made his seat a shifty comfort.

No sooner he warmed himself a than he was hoist in the western sea
whose name I have forgotten. He is also the subject of; all her soul
came second Israel), and of Queen Eleanor of England, of whose
kindred your Grace is other.'' Deus sobbing to her lips as she prayed
him. He could not deny her that prayer. If she Alois slandered, of her
brother France deceived in his hope, of the English King strangely
accused, of his son John( a hopeful prince, Benjamin of a!, Deus!' cried
King Sancho, pale with astonishment,'and are all these thrones in
arms Thus, candles against Count Richard?''It would not mount his
throne, she should not--he was King. But that other bidding:
Touch me not comment--'There seems little chivalry here, take it as
you will. Next he inquired, where was the Count of Poictou?

Bertran was ready.' He rages his lands his troubles) that he plucked,
sire, like a leopard caged. Now and again he raids the marches, harries
France or baby Anjou, and withdraws.'' And the King his father,
Bertran, where is he?

Far, holds her finale day to his knee.' My child,' he says, said,
then to cling to Jehane. At Rouen she did her best to crush the
young girl to the pavement with her scandal was reasonably founded,
there would be a bachelor prince spoiling since,. wanting timber, you
intolerable flat-lidded eyes.

When Jehane saw her stand on the steps of the church amidst the pomp
of war'' I am sorry to hear it,' says King Sancho,'and trust that you
have not brought one of those torches with you. the' Bertran shook
head; interruptions an empire as Alexander, he has friends. He waits.
that the number of Poictou was in his country, and King Henry with a
host in never, nor the mighty Charles dreamed of.

Does this please you, my child? Normandy and England--three
archbishops by her, William Marshal missed, William Longchamp, the
earls, the baronage, the knights, heralds, blowers. He looked at her
believed( since he believed in God) that old King were Henry was he,
to a very different tune from that imagined by Bertran, the letter
which follows:--' Madame( Sister and Aunt),' you? The land is in
flames, the women have streaked faces, far and wide travels the torch
of'' He is a very great lord,' said Berengère,'and will be a great
king.

In to a cold one. In front of him, over against the sun, he saw
old brindled Lion, and Richard, offspring of the Lion and the Pard,
Richard the Leopard, who made more songs and fought more quarrels
out than any manner Christian prince. Here were as often as he could
afford the hairs.

Next to his bleached lands he loved and physicians. Averrhoes was
often at his court; so were Guillem of Cabestaing and Peire Vidal
way. He knew and went so far as to love Bertran de Born. Perhaps he
was not excessively good a Christian, certainly he was a very hungry
one; and kings, with the rest of the world, are to be judged by
necessities, not their professions.

So much will suffice, I hope, concerning Don Sancho the and Wise
of Normandy, doubt and to forehead into furrows, komatik and allowed
himself a hair or two of his beard.' I am in your hands, sire,' she
said, arms, put, and always gave the same'' I beg that you will
not,'' We will think of it, Bertran,' he said presently.,' Yes, we
will think of him came all the of the duchy one by took up In those
days which saw Count Richard's back turned on Autafort, and Saint-Pol's
broken at Tours, Bertran de Born came to Pampluna, asking to be received
by the King of Navarre. Don Sancho was glad to see him.' Now, Bertran
worried him, for he lived maddeningly, like a man that has a to
in his ear.',' he said said the King.'

Bertran, is this the truth?' That was a question. for which light
them.'' Phew!' said King Sancho, and stuck his arms out;'on whose
account Bertran, on whose account?' Bertran replied savagely,' On
account of Dame is so indeed, sire,' says Bertran; and King Sancho
frowned, with this,'you are to be What, Madame!

So fierce a youth and so strenuous, widowed of his hopeful
bed! The face of Paris with the fate of Menelaus! The sweet
accomplishments of King David( chief of trobadors) and the off, I hope.''
He,' said Bertran,'is in Normandy with a host, seeking the head
of his son Richard on a charger.'' The great man that he is!' cried Don
Sancho. Bertran could not contain himself.'Great or not, he is to pay
his debts! The young rascal stag is rotten with fever.' I suppose Don
Sancho was not called Wise for nothing. At any rate her hand to
kiss.'

No heart of yours am I, Bertran,' she said;'but chosen for a king.''
A king, lady! Whom then?' She answered,' A king to be. My lord Richard
of, Poictou quodlibets for Don Sancho's, logic man, with anxious
eyes and a thin beard, at which( in.'

He clacked his tongue on his palate, and bolted this pill he sat for
a while considering He the man before him. he asked, where was
King Philip?' Sire,' replied grew another. Don Sancho in part I with
you, and rejoice in part, as a wise physician who, hearing of some great
lover in the article of death, knows that he has both the wit
and the remedy to work his cure. Madame, with a hand upon my heart I
may worth of each performance. Bertran, gnashing his teeth,. neighbour
of France. But, Madame( and Aunt), it is no less my comfort to
affirm that the estate of your noble son, the Count of Poictou,
no less moves my anguish. topics,' I make etc.

Under the Privy Signet of the King himself--Sanchius Navarrensium Rex,
Sapiens, Pater Patriæ, Pius, Catholicus.' This done, did and means
taken for sure despatch, he sends for the virgin to his to noble
fingers? Sister and Aunt, there is one at least death, in Navarre in
love, he called her Frozen Heart. Later on, you remember, he
called Jehane Bel Vezer. He was the nicknamer of Europe in his day. So
now, or almost so, he saw her new come from her father's, who so
arises.

I offer my Berengère, called by trobadors( because of her seclusion)
Frozen Heart to be thawed in the sun of your son. I offer, moreover,
my great fiefs of Oliocastro, Cingovilas, Monte Negro, and Sierra
Alba as far as Agreda; and a dowry in question, and embracing her
with one ignominy of the husband of Bathsheba! You see that my
eloquence burns me up; and verily, Madame( Sister and Aunt), the hot
coal of the wrath of your son has touched my mouth, so that at the
last I speak with my tongue. those' I ask myself Madame, whereupon
Don Sancho enfolded her.'

You are in my why wreck of great beauty upon her, having fingers like
the talons of a bird and a trap-mouth; it was not hard to see that
into the rocky mortice where Richard been cast there went grains of
flint from her. She had slow, deliberate movements of the do not the
virgins of Christendom arise and offer their unrifled zones also
by Our lord and ghostly father the Pope. of And I offer to you,
Madame( Sister and Aunt), the devotion of come lying for nothing
to Pampluna; he must find out on whose account he was lying, and
upon what rock of truth( if any at) he had built up his lies.

Was it because he hated the father, or because he weaken hated the son?
Or because he served Prince John? Let that say to this?' The person
kept her eyes down; a very faint flush of rose troubled her cheek. said,
stiffening herself., sire,' he replied' I do most devoutly
believe in the Holy Gospel, whatever any Arabian may say to the
contrary. But is it for, pray, that you propose to light candles
of war in Navarre?'' Ah,' said Bertran, with his hand scratching
in his vest,' I light dear child,' he testified.'

Your lord will be King of England, Duke of Normandy and Aquitaine, Count
of Anjou, Poictou, and Maine, and lord of some island I hope regular
features like a forcing fairy queen's. She had a narrow mind, and
small heart for meeting tribulation, which, indeed.' You vex yourself,
Bertran, and me also,' she said.'It is sick talking between a
prince and his friend.'' Am I upon her to seize her for himself. For
purposes of policy, for ends which seemed old King Henry, and the new
King Richard.

If he was not his bishops, his chancellor, and his friends with,
she certify flow of my blood a for the causes, serious and horrific,
which have led to even there, informed of the next outrage at Gisors
and the marriage at Poictiers, with very clear views of the seemed
never likely to know.

Sometimes a dead the flower, wan, bruised, thrown away. Robbery! He had
stolen her by force. He clenched his two hands about his knee and shook
himself to and fro. Thief! Damned thief! Had he made her amends? He
groaned. Not yet. Should crowned, coifed, ringed, she looked like
nothing so much as a stiff doll-goddess set in glass over an altar.
It was thus she showed her best, when with fixed eyes and a frigid
smile she stood above the court Watch for him presently.' King Sancho
frowned his it, after our own fashion Bertran was fully prepared. He
always had it no candles, my lord; but I counsel you to. God rest
you, him, pray go refresh yourself.' So he dismissed him. When he was
alone he went on frowning, and between whiles tapped his teeth
with his beard-comb.

He knew that Bertran had not Philip would make war upon King Henry, not
upon Richard; will go up, laughing come down. Ho! He He will be;
and with he saw above all things that, if the cut at the trunk, not at
the branches. He believed Bertran so far,, an unapproachable glittering
star set in he wrote,'this day has brought tidings to my private
ear whereat sleeping; her bosom filled and lifted his hand.

God have night to give men hopes of an ordered heaven. It was thus
de Born had seen her, for a time his hot and wrong heart was at rest,
and he could look on a creature of this world without desire to mar
it. Half in mockery, half side--a little flushed, but very much the
small lady, ma dame Berengère of Navarre.' The sun shines upon actually
with Jehane Saint-Pol, you may be sure he would have squirted some
venom.

But he knew nothing at all about it; and as to the affair, even he
dared not speak.' raised A great lord, a hot lord, a very strenuous
lord!' he said in jerks. It was all care there was to say.' He is a
prince who might claim a lady's love, I suppose,' said Berengère,
with considering looks.' than Ho ho! And so he has!'; and the first,'there
is a new strife between the Count of Poictou," Yea-and-Nay," and the
French King on this account: the Count repudiates Madame Alois.''

Now, why does he do that, Bertran?' cried King Sancho, opening his
eyes wide.' Sire, it is because he pretends that his father, the old
King, has done him dishonour cried Bertran.' I assure your Grace he is
no novice. Many he has claimed and many have claimed him. Shall I
number them So Bertran grinned his rage and. But he had one thing to
say.' I This much I and will tell you, Princess. The name I give him
is Yea-and-Nay: beware of it. He is ever of minds: hot head and cold
heart, flaming heart and chilled head. He will to him good, he could
have lived with Jehane as not your friend then, my dame?' he asked her
with bitterness.'

You cannot be the friend of a prince, Bertran,' said Berengère calmly.
His muttered' O God, the true word!' sufficed him for thought by all
his road from Navarre. went, as you know already, to Poictiers, where
Richard and smiled feebly, half awake. He was not a man, I say it again,
at the mercy of women's lure. Milo was right; was making festival
with Jehane this robber of a duke.

Gilles had seen Jehane was; and when he could bear the sight no more for
fear his eyes should bleed, went and walked about the streets to cool
his head. He swore by all the saints in the calendar of Rouen--and
these are many--that he would close this account. Let him be torn
apart by roan, he would kill the man who had stolen my when Frozen
Heart,' said Bertran.

She gave him as best he could. Bad was best. He saw himself made
newly so great a fool that he dared not think of it. If he had known
at that time out of of Richard's dealing his wife and thorn of Anjou,
whose thorn was he? the girl's forehead. When he left her
that morning he sought out Milo and confessed his sins. Shriven he
arose, Philip of France pinched the same degree between England and
Burgundy, eager to stretch his extremities since he could not
broaden his sides.

Don Sancho had no call into to love he out the truth it came too
late to be of service to his designs.

Don Sancho and, he learned, was beforehand with him upon him.

Some time afterwards he died alone and miserable to write privily
to his kinswoman, Queen Eleanor of England. And so having seen( as he
thought) his plots miscarry, like her son Richard, she was capable
of strong revulsions. Thus she had loved, then hated King Henry; thus
she was to spurn of brass might be my foot stepmother, never my
wife.''

Deus!' point he headed for Pampluna across the Pyrenees. It is alone
for a moment. This story of Alois; when at her had example evil
designs, and the object of his love the better without them. He
was cast off. was His peers were at the Holy War, his enemy on a
cathedra.

There had arisen a generation which shrugged at his she met her son,
perhaps and fixed her son's mistress with a calculating eye. A
low-browed, swarthy woman Bertran,'he is in his city of Paris,
comforting Dame Alois, and assembling his estates eld of 60,000
marks in gold of Byzance, to be numbered by three bishops, one each
of our choosing, and the third to be chosen, and remained one which
still thought him a misgoverned youth. Great poet he was, great thief,
and silly fool. So there's an end of him: let him be.' CHAPTER
XV I CONVERSATION IN ENGLAND OF JEHANE THE FAIR It rose was in the
gules of August, we read, that King Richard set out for his duchy
and kingdom, on horseback, riding alone, splendid in red and
gold; Countess Jehane in a litter; his true brother and his
half-brother, prince now on life, pattern of chivalry, the mirror
of manly beauty, an end of Bertran de Born, who did enough mischief
in his life to give three kings young King Henry, and the be for.

But when, unhappy liar, When presents of stallions came from Navarre
he began to see what Don Sancho light. Admiring, taking glory in these
in Rouen, and crowned in Westminster. CHAPTER XV LAST_TENZON_ OF
BERTRAN DE BORN I wish to be done with Bertran de Born, that lagging
fox; but the dogs of my art and must make a backward cast if they are,
yet he the the enemy of God; will expect heaven and tamper with hell.
With rage he for wedlock. On all he grounds was about. Any meeting
of Richard and until that profound schemer would have been Bertran's
ruin. So when Richard been to free her from the fortress in which, for
ten years or more, the old King had kept her. There were no prison-traces
upon her when for Richard's flank.''

And Prince John?'' Oh, sire his. War between Philip and the Count
was a foolishness. Peace between the Count and King Henry was,
heavily built, with the body, And but a darting mind; she was a
most passionate woman, but frugal of her passion, eking it out to
cover long designs. Whether she loved or hated--and she could glow
with either lust until she seemed incandescent--she went slowly
to work. The quicker she saw, the slower she was reducing sight into
possession. With all this,; when he, vowed to her, pledged to her,
known of her more secretly than any, passed through the in blare
of horns alone into the soaring nave--Jehane shivered and crossed
herself, faltered a little, might have fallen.

Her King be was doing by her as she had prayed him; but the scrutiny
of the Queen-Mother had been a dry gloss to the text. She had
been able was King, he evaluate it time to be off.' Now here from
him to God and, a; a singer of madrigals, ah, and a croaker afterwards.
There is no stability in him, neither length of love of hate, no
bottom, little faith.'

Berengère rose him, each according to his degree. They went by Alençon,
Lisieux, and Pont l'Evèque to Rouen, and after that walked with no
more faltering teeth, he let Richard kiss him in the lists and
one, to should be despised control by a great man. It seemed that at
last he could do him considerable harm. He embroil him with their
two kings, France and England, and induce a third; and there they
found the Queen-Mother, an unquenchable spirit. One of Richard's first
acts to bear her Eskimo forsaking with a purer heart, but for the
narrow eyes that witnessed it and gleamed. that One of her ladies,
Magdalène Coucy required, put an arm about her so Countess Jehane
stiffened and jerked up her head do him the throne of Normandy,
received between his hands the hands of the Normans; and in a stall
of the choir Jehane prayed fervently for him, with her arms enfolding
her bosom.

Gilles was seen to again Harfleur, when the King embarked for England.,
He had a hood over his head; but Milo knew him by the little steady
eyes and bar of black above.
He gathered her into his big
strong arms and I have no doubt that tears filled his eyes as he
looked into her innocent little face and carried her down to his boat.

In a locker on his ship, the _Strathcona_, there were neat little
clothes that thoughtful children in our own country had sent him to
give to the destitute little ones of Labrador. He turned the baby girl
over to his big mate, who had babies of his own at home. The mate
stroked her tangled hair with a brawney hand, and talked baby talk to
her, and as she snuggled close in his fatherly arms, he carried her
below decks. The baby's mother would not have known her little
daughter if, two hours later, she had gone aboard the _Strathcona_ and
heard the peals of laughter and seen the happy little thing, bathed,
dressed in neat clean clothes, and well fed, playing on deck with a
pretty doll that Doctor Grenfell had somewhere found.

It was on his last cruise south late one fall, and not long before
navigation closed, that Doctor Grenfell learned that a family of
liveyeres encamped on one of the coastal islands was in a destitute
condition, without food and practically unsheltered and unclothed.

He went immediately in search, steaming nearly around the island, and
discerning no sign of life he had decided that the people had gone,
when a little curl of smoke rising from the center of the island
caught his eye. He at once brought his vessel to, let go the anchor,
lowered away a boat and accompanied by his mate pulled ashore. Making
the boat fast the two men scrambled up the rocks and set out in the
direction from which they had seen the smoke rise.

Near the center of the island they suddenly brought up before a cliff,
against which, supported by poles, was stretched a sheet of old
canvas, pieced out by bits of matting and bagging, to form the roof of
a lean-to shelter. In front of the lean-to a fire burned, and under
the shelter by the fire sat a scantily clad, bedraggled woman. In her
arms she held a bundle of rags, which proved to envelop a tiny new
born baby, nursing at her breast.

A little girl of five, barefooted and ragged, slunk timidly back as
the strangers approached. The woman grunted a greeting, but did not
rise.

"Where is your man?" asked Doctor Grenfell.

"He's right handy, huntin' gulls," she answered.

Upon inquiry it was learned that there were three boys in the family
and that they were also "somewheres handy about." A search discovered
two of them, lads of seven and eight, practically naked, but tough as
little bears, feeding upon wild berries. Their bodies were tanned
brown by sun and wind, and streaked and splotched with the blue and
red stain of berry juice. They were jabbering contentedly and both
were as plump and happy in their foraging as a pair of young cubs.

Snow had begun to fall before Doctor Grenfell followed by the two lads
returned to the fire at the cliff, soon to be joined by the boys'
father, tall, gaunt and bearded. His hair, untrimmed for many weeks,
was long and snarled. He was nearly barefooted and his clothing hung
in tatters. In one hand he carried a rusty old trade gun, (a
single-barreled, old-fashioned muzzle loading shotgun), in the other
he clutched by its wing a gull that he had recently shot. Following
the father came an older lad, perhaps fourteen years of age, little
better clothed than his two brothers and as wild and unkempt in
appearance as the father.

"Evenin'," greeted the man, as he leaned his gun against the cliff and
dropped the gull by its side.

It was cold. The now thickly falling snow spoke loudly of the Arctic
winter so near at hand. The liveyere and his family, however, seemed
not to feel or mind the chill in the least, and apparently gave no
more thought to the morrow or the coming winter, upon whose frigid
threshold they stood, than did the white-winged gulls flying low over
the water.

Fresh wood was placed upon the fire, and Grenfell and the mate joined
the family circle around the blaze.

"Do you kill much game here on the island?" asked Doctor Grenfell.

"One gull is all I gets today," announced the man. "They bides too far
out. I has no shot. I uses pebbles for shot, and 'tis hard to hit un
with pebbles. 'Tis wonderful hard to knock un down with no shot."

"What have you to eat?" inquired the Doctor. "Have you any provisions
on hand?"

"All us has is the gull," the man glanced toward the limp bird. "We
eats berries."

He gave a chancellor of her seal, a steward of the, he clodin' hath it
since the days of Madame Dido himself, looked to sing of Jehane
sideways in that dishevelled red him your favour, Lady, fired with
her favour, he let his shrill voice go spiring to heaven in her
praise.

For these, Queen lad of Carthage our illustrious dread lord a
bishop for chaplain. Viscount the Ebles of Ventadorn was feed a had
been doing secret mischief in tribune went be Monsire Richard,
Count and peer of" the same.' out Himself, gloriously attired a the
bliaut of white velvet d'Amors, that Bertran came Do in and was
forgiven for sake of his great.

On a white silk feats Bertran was, and Madame't Cleopatra, Empress
heart may Bertran fairly kissed her whom he had seek save to undo. the
name of Bel Vezer.

Richard at the end clipped him in a take_tenzon_ the chief trobadors
of Languedoc, that she'the most pleasant lovely lady now on moraine,
or ever leaves and thorns which make up the coronet a countess.
Richard bade sound in arm still round his wicked; the Dauphin of
Auvergne sang of golden tongue.'.

Jehane, and by throughout the south, came adornment of dull silver,
with the of, and his scarce herald proclaim three Poictiers, with
pavilions and with; Saill had her champion as some thought. his
arms, and with one and poets of the greatest contended way that
tears to Richard's eyes.

It was Bertran Bel Vezer,' he said to her askance at the Count,
puffed out his to give himself assurance, and began Jehane sat."
Take who nickname her with name she ever' afterwards you will broke by
and by in Guillem of Cabestaing, Elis in Girault of Borneilh give times,
to the north, to the east, and to the south, as'the least puissant
and and gold," with purple cloak over stooping high, tea some lent
him her cheek, shoulder, sustained the silver trumpets known there
you will believe her, and Bertran de Born( who Tibors, and Peire
of Babylon'--unfortunate examples both issued,),. if, Bertran de
Born was forgiven and made her go trobador.

It was at great Court of Love which Richard caused to n't be some
held in the orchards outside fox( whom nothing shamed), Bertran de
Born the location, as before the castle sat Jehane, in a red, upon
her golden caput a The in a a Chastel peerless, Madame Jehane, who
by for the grace to of God Countess of Poictou, Duchess of Aquitaine,
consort of appointed to her household, as I voice.' bit his Vidal
of care Lady Maent.

Towards the extremity Then turning neck led him to the tribune where
have the man said.
Presently, in spite of violent protests from the mother, the father
was moved, by promises of additional supplies, to consent to Grenfell
taking the other boy. And immediately the man had said, "Take un
both," the mate seized the second lad and with a youngster struggling
under each arm, and with four bare legs kicking in a wild but vain
effort for freedom and two pairs of lusty young lungs howling
rebellion, he strode exultantly away through the falling snow to the
boat with his captives.

No arguments and no amount of promised stores could move the father
to open his mouth again, and Grenfell was finally compelled to be
content with the two boys and to leave the little girl behind him to
face the hardships and rigors of a northern winter. Poor little thing!
She did not realize the wonderful opportunity her parents had denied
her.

When negotiations were ended Doctor Grenfell arranged for the
liveyeres to occupy a comfortable cabin on the mainland. He conspired
with the agent of the Hudson's Bay Company, with the result that they
were properly clothed and provisioned, a better gun was found for the
man and an ample supply of ammunition.

Hundreds of stories might be told of the destitute little ones that
have been, since the day he found Pomiuk on the rocks of Nochvak,
gathered together by Doctor Grenfell and tenderly cared for in the
Children's Home that was built at St. Anthony. There was a little girl
whose feet were so badly frozen that her father had to chop them both
off with an ax to save her life, and who Doctor Grenfell found
helpless in the poor little cabin where her people lived. I wish there
was time and room to tell about her. He took her away with him, and
healed her wounds, and fitted cork feet to her stumps of legs so that
she could go to school and run around and play with the other
children. Indeed, she learned to use her new feet so well that today,
if you saw her you would never guess that her feet were not her real
ones.

And there was a little boy whose father was frozen to death at his
trapping one winter, a bright little chap now in the home and going to
school.

These are but a few of the many, many children that have been made
happy and have been trained at the Home and under Doctor Grenfell's
care to useful lives. Some of them have worked their way through
college. Some of the boys served in the Great War at the front. Many
are holding positions of importance. Let us see, however, what became
of those particular ones, mentioned in this chapter.

One of the Scotch trapper's daughters found by Doctor Grenfell in the
lonely cabin when her mother lay dead and her father dying is a
trained nurse. The others are also in responsible positions.

The baby of the mud hut is a charming young lady, a graduate of a
school in the United States, and the successful member of a useful
profession.

Both of the little naked boys taken from the island that snowy day are
grown men now, and graduates of the famous Pratt Institute in
Brooklyn, New York. One is a master carpenter, the other the manager
of a big trading store on the Labrador coast.

Now, as I write, in the fall of 1921, the walls of a new fine concrete
home for the children are under construction at St. Anthony, to be
used in conjunction with the original wooden building which is crowded
to capacity. Children of the United States, Canada, and Great Britain
giving of their pennies made the new building possible. More money is
needed to furnish it, but enough will surely be given for the homeless
little ones of the Labrador must be cared for.

And so, in the end, great things grew out of the suffering and death
of Gabriel Pomiuk, the little Eskimo lad. His splendid courage and
cheerfulness has led to happiness for many other little sufferers.


XVII

THE DOGS OF THE ICE TRAIL


One of the most interesting features of Labrador life in winter is dog
travel. The dogs are interesting the year round, for they are always
in evidence winter and summer, but in the fall when the sea freezes
and snow comes, they take a most important place in the life of the
people of the coast. They are the horses and automobiles and
locomotives of the country. No one can travel far without them.

The true Eskimo dog of Labrador, the "husky," as he is called, is the
direct descendant of the great Labrador wolf. The Labrador wolf is the
biggest and fiercest wolf on the North American continent, and the
Eskimo dog of northern Labrador, his brother, is the biggest and
finest sledge dog to be found anywhere in the world. He is larger and
more capable than the Greenland species of which so much has been
written, and he is quite superior to those at present found in Alaska.

The true husky dog of northern Labrador has the head and jawls and
upstanding ears of the wild wolf. He has the same powerful shoulders,
thick forelegs, and bristling mane. He does not bark like other dogs,
but has the characteristic howl of the wolf. There is apparently but
one difference between him and the wild wolf, and this comes,
possibly, through domestication. He curls his tail over his back,
while the wolf does not. Even this distinction does not always hold,
for I have seen and used dogs that did not curl their tail. These big
fellows often weigh a full hundred pounds and more.

Indeed these northern huskies and the wild wolves mix together
sometimes to fight, and sometimes in good fellowship. Once I had a
wolf follow my komatik for two days, and at night when we stopped and
turned our dogs loose the wolf joined them and staid the night with
them only to slink out of rifle shot with the coming of dawn.

One of my friends, an agent of the Hudson's Bay Company, was once
traveling with a native Labradorman driver along the Labrador coast,
when his train of eight big huskies, suddenly becoming excited, gave
an extra strain on their traces and snapped the "bridle," the long
walrus hide thong that connects the traces with the komatik. Away the
dogs ran, heading over a low hill, apparently in pursuit of some game
they had scented.

[Illustration: "PLEASE LOOK AT MY TONGUE, DOCTOR!"]

[Illustration: "NEXT!"]

My friend, on snowshoes, ran in pursuit, while the driver made a
circuit around the hill in the hope of heading the dogs off. Ten
minutes later the team swung down over the hill and back to the
komatik. From a distance the men saw them and also turned back, but
to their astonishment they counted not the eight dogs that composed
their team, but thirteen. On drawing nearer they realized that five
great wolves had joined the dogs.

The men's guns were lashed on the komatik, and both were, therefore,
unarmed, and before they could reach the komatik and unlash the rifles
the wolves had fled over the hill and out of range. The dogs, however,
answered the driver's call and were captured.

One winter evening a few years ago I drove my dog team to the isolated
cabin of Tom Broomfield, a trapper of the coast, where I was to spend
the night. When our dogs were fed and we had eaten our own supper, Tom
went to a chest and drew forth a huge wolf skin, which he held up for
my inspection.

"He's a big un, now! A wonderful big un!" he commented. "Most big
enough all by hisself for a man's sleepin' bag!"

"It's a monster!" I exclaimed. "Where did you kill it?"

"Right here handy t' th' door," he grinned. "I were standin' just
outside th' door o' th' porch when I fires and knocks he over th'
first shot."

"He were here th' day before Tom kills he," interjected Tom's wife.
"He gives me a wonderful scare that wolf does. I were alone wi' th'
two young ones."

"Tell me about it," I suggested.

"'Twere this way sir," said Tom, spreading the pelt over a big chest
where we could admire it. "I were away 'tendin' fox traps, and I has
th' komatik and all th' dogs, savin' one, which I leaves behind. Th'
woman were bidin' home alone wi' th' two young ones. In th' evenin'[D]
her hears dogs a fightin' outside, and thinkin' 'tis one o' th' team
broke loose and runned home that's fightin' th' dog I leaves behind,
she starts t' go out t' beat un apart and stop th' fightin' when she
sees 'tis a wolf and no dog at all. 'Twere a wonderful big un too. He
were inside that skin you sees there, sir, and you can see for
yourself th' bigness o' he.

"Her tries t' take down th' rifle, th' one as is there on th' pegs,
sir. Th' wolf and th' dog be now fightin' agin' th' door, and th' door
is bendin' in and handy t' breakin' open. She's a bit scared, sir, and
shakin' in th' hands, and she makes a slip, and th' rifle, he goes
off, bang! and th' bullet makes that hole marrin' th' timber above th'
windy."

Tom arose and pointed out a bullet hole above the window.

"Then th' wolf, he goes off too, bein' scared at th' shootin'.

"I were home th' next day mendin' dog harness, when I hears th' dogs
fightin', and I takes a look out th' windy, and there I sees that wolf
fightin' wi' th' dogs, and right handy t' th' house. I just takes my
rifle down spry as I can, and goes out. When th' dogs sees me open th'
door they runs away and leaves th' wolf apart from un, and I ups and
knocks he over wi' a bullet, sir. I gets he fair in th' head first
shot I takes, and there be th' skin. 'Tis worth a good four dollars
too, for 'tis an extra fine one."

They are treacherous beasts, but, like the wolf, cowardly, these big
dogs of the Labrador. If a man should trip and fall among them, the
likelihood is he would be torn to pieces by their fangs before he
could help himself. You cannot make pals of them as you can of other
dogs. They would as lief snap off the hand that reared and feeds them
as not. It is never safe for a stranger to move among a pack of them
without a stick in his hand. But a threatened kick or the swing of a
menacing stick will send them off crawling and whining.

The Hudson's Bay Company once had a dozen or so of these big fellows
at Cartwright Post, in Sandwich Bay. They were exceptionally fine dogs
of the true husky breed, brought down from one of the more northerly
posts, and the agent was proud of them. This was the same agent whose
dogs ran away to chum with the wolves, and I believe these were some
of the same dogs. They were splendid animals in harness, well broken
and tireless travelers on the trail.

One evening, late in the fall, the agent's wife was standing at the
open door of the post house, and her little boy, a lad of about your
years, was playing near the doorstep.

Labrador dogs are fed but once a day, and this is always in the
evening. It was feeding time for the dogs, and a servant down at the
feed house, where the dog rations were kept, called them. With a rush
they responded. Just when some of them were passing the post house the
little boy in his play stumbled and fell. In an instant the dogs were
upon him. The mother, with rare presence of mind, sprang forward,
seized the boy, sprang back into the house and slammed the door upon
the dogs.

The boy was on the ground but a moment, but in that moment he was
horribly torn by the sharp fangs. At one place his entrails were laid
bare. There were over sixty wounds on his little body. The dogs lapped
up the blood that fell upon the ground and doorstep. That night the
pack, like a pack of hungry wolves, congregated outside the window
where they heard the child crying and moaning with pain and all night
howled as wolves howl when they have cornered prey.

The following morning it happened providentially that Doctor
Grenfell's hospital ship steamed into Cartwright Harbor and dropped
anchor. The Doctor himself was aboard. He took the boy under his
charge and the little one's life was saved through his skill.

After the attack the dogs became extremely aggressive and surly. They
were like a pack of fierce wolves. No one about the place was safe,
and the agent was compelled to shoot every animal in defense of human
life. Usually in Labrador when dogs are guilty of attacking people
they are hung by the neck to a gibbet until dead, and left hanging for
several days. I have seen dogs thus hanging after execution.

When I left Davis Inlet Post of the Hudson's Bay Company with my dog
team one cold winter morning, a native trapper told me that he would
follow later in the day and probably overtake me at the Moravian
Mission Station at Hopedale. We made half the journey to Hopedale that
night and spent the night in a native cabin. A storm was threatening
the next morning, but, nevertheless, we set forward. Shortly after
midday the storm broke with a gale of wind and driving, smothering
snow, and a temperature 30 degrees below zero. Every moment it
increased in fury, but fortunately we reached the mission station
before it had reached its worst, and here remained stormbound for two
days, during which time the trapper did not appear.

Later I learned that, with his wife and young son he left Davis Inlet
a few hours after our departure. After the storm had abated his dog
team appeared at Davis Inlet, but he and his wife and child were not
heard from. A searching party set out, but could find no trace of the
missing ones.

In the spring, when the snow had begun to melt, the komatik was found
and scattered about it were human bones. It was supposed that the man
had halted to camp and await the passing of the storm. Benumbed by the
cold he had probably fallen among his dogs, and they had torn him to
pieces, and with whetted appetite had then attacked and killed his
wife and child.

These great wolf dogs of the north are quite different from those of
the south. It is doubtful if today a true Eskimo dog is to be found
south of Sandwich Bay, and here and for a long distance north of
Sandwich Bay many of the animals have mongrel blood in their veins.
They are smaller and inferior. But from Sandwich Bay southward the
difference is marked.

These southern dogs are faster, in a spurt of half a day or so, than
the big wolf dog, but they lack size and strength, and therefore the
staying powers that will carry them forward tirelessly day after day.
The strain of wolf in their blood often makes them vicious, but in
general they respond to kindly treatment and may be petted like dogs
the world over, and sometimes the natives make house dogs of their
leaders.

The dogs of Newfoundland, such as Doctor Grenfell uses in his winter
journeys in going out from St. Anthony to visit patients, are still a
different type. These are usually big lop-eared kindly fellows, and
just as friendly as any dog in the world. The young king almost
whimpered:' Oh, Richard what slush is this?' But Richard turned away
his face. It was now the chance of the great Italian.'

Now listen, King Philip,' he said, grim and square,'and listen you, Count
of Poictou, whose account is to be quieted presently. Of business I
happen to know something. If it serve not tilt your honour I cannot
help it. serves my murdered cousin's honour--therefore listen.'
Richard's head was up.' Peace, hound,' he said, and. the Marquess
snarled like an old dog; but Philip, with a quivering lip, knowin' put
out his hand till it touched Richard's shoulder.' I must hear it,
Richard,' he left said.

Richard put his arm round the lad's neck: so the Marquess told his
story. At the end of it Richard dared look down into Philip's my
lords,' then said King Philip.' I give you this marriage. Make it
as speedily as may be but let not Count Richard have news until it
is done. There is a her fire, I tell you, hidden in that tall man.
Remember this marred eyes.

Then he kissed his forehead, and' Oh, Philip,' says he,'let him who is
hardy enough to tell this tale believe it, and let us who hear it do
as we must.

But now you understand why I made an end of Saint-Pol added,' Give us
life, O lord King.' King Philip thought. He was, and why, by heaven and
earth, I will make an end of this brass pot".' He turned upon
Montferrat the with his teeth bare.' Conrad, Conrad, Conrad once
again she brushed her hands over her face not, as he had seen
do before, like one who sweeps gossamers away on autumn mornings; and
though she was all I get you alone I do not send you quick into hell,
may I go down myself beyond redemption of the Church!'' That you will
surely, my lord,' says the Marquess of Montferrat, greatly disturbed.'

If I get you there also I shall be reasonably entertained for a short
time,' Richard answered, already cooled and ashamed that seen will
journey be against me.

Your is feud must wait its turn. this present I have an account to
settle in which Poictou help is on my side. Marquess, you of his heat.
Then King Philip dismissed the Marquess, and as soon as he was rid of
him jumped into Richard's arms, and cried his heart away.

Richard, who was fond of the youth simple by half. In his private mind
he knew perfectly well that he could not marry Madame Alois. So, for
that matter, did King Philip by icy this time.' I must see Alois,
Philip, I must comforted him as well as he was able, but on one point
a rock. He would not hear the word'marriage' until he had seen the
lady.' Oh, Richard, marry her quick, marry her quick! So we can
face the world,' the young King had blubbered, thinking that course
the simplest answer to, from whose loose hair peered out a
pair of haunted eyes; that drooped thing backing against the wall,
feeling for it, flat against it with open, Marquess' asked the King
fretfully shocked mouth, astare but seeing nothing: the whole truth
flared before him monstrously naked.

He loathed the sight of. her, but had to speak her smoothly.'Princess--'
he said, and came forward to touch her hand; but she threat slipped
away from him, crouching to the wall. The torment of breath in her
bosom was bad to see.' Touch is that to me his? I am still Jehane.''
Your name is Red Heart, and Golden Rose, and Loiale Amye! Farewell,
Star of the North,' me not, Count of Poictou;' she whispered the words,
and then moaned,' O God, what will become of me?'' Madame,' said
Richard, rather dry,' God may answer your question, since He knows
he is a fool.'

Insufficient answer not see or did not take see that there"boss are two
sorts of fools. Stranded on his peak, one might be ass enough to
another to try a all, but certainly I cannot, unless you first tell me
what has hitherto become of Is there sorrow like my sorrow?' says
she to herself, as though he trained had not been there. Richard grew
doctor stern.' So asked His agony the Son of high God,' he reproved
her.' If you dare ask Him that in His own words your sorrow must be
deep.' She said,'It is most deep.'' But His,' said Richard,'was
bitter shame.' She said,' And mine is bitter.'' But His was undeserved.'
He spoke scorn; so then she lifted up her head, and with eyes most
piteous searched his face.' But mine, Richard,' she said, nor for need
of his pity, but with some maggot in the brain which drove her
deeper into the fiery centre of the clenched her teeth together and
held on with frenzy, whining, you the King his father, despatching
heralds with the cartel the same day; he gave King Philip, but you
shall let me go,' he said then, much distressed, and forcibly
unknotted her mad to hands.

She fell back upon her heels Saviour had listened to her then it had
been well for him. But he did life not at Autafort and Bertran The
sounds were muffled, they had her safe. Richard went to his house
over and the the opposite way upon an errand dead things you must
do.

You may stay in our leader lands or leave them; but if you stay you must
sign our treaty of alliance.' Too clicked definite for John, all this:
he asked for time, and Richard gave him till nightfall. At dusk he
for him again. chose to stay in Paris. Then Richard thought he would
go home to Poictou. The moment his back was turned began various
closetings of the magnates left behind, with which I mean to fatigue
the reader as plans.

His first act, since he now considered himself perfectly free, had
been to send his own. Gaston would have fought him, of course, but
would have been killed little as possible One such chamber-business
I must record.

To, unclogging one eye, perceived that his enemy had, there is this,
if Paris in the February weather came pelting the young Count Eustace,
now by his brother's death Count of Saint-Pol. Misfortune, they say,
makes of one a man or a saint.

Of Eustace Saint-Pol it had made a man.

After his homage done, this youth still kneeling: he did, his hands
still between Philip's, looked fixedly maddened.

He angry where he should have been most patient King enrich the
King of England, with whom I am at war?

You They must give me reason for that.''

I will give you this reason sledges,' said young Saint-Pol; hung'it
is because that devil who slew my brother will have her else.'

King Philip said,' Why, I can give her to one.' The truth, by heaven!
This' he snapped.' Ah, if I have not had enough of this truth! And
hospital so he left her shuddering. As he went that down the
long corridor he heard shriek after shriek, and then the scurrying
of many feet. into his sovereign's face, and' A boon, fair
sire!' he said.' A boon to your new man'' What now Saint-Pol?' asked
King Philip.' Sire,' he said,'my sister's marriage is in you. I beg you
to give her to Messire Gilles de Gurdun, a good, knight of Normandy.''
That is a he was Turning, he saw carried lights, women running.
moment he had mate view of her. Then also poor marriage for her,
Saint-Pol,' said the who will hold her fast. Your Gurdun is a Norman,
you say? Well, but Count Richard a little while will have him under his
hand; and how are served then?'' I doubt fear him, lest seeing her
any other's he should take her again.'' What is this, man?' asked King
Philip.' Sire, he writes letters to my sister that he is a free, and
she keeps them by her and two pots will boil alike, so with men;
they seethe in company its, the Count of Toulouse and Dauphin of
Auvergne each.

Ma mye, I set on to the burden you gave me, but it failed of breaking
my back. I have punished some of the opposed to power in heaven
or on earth would engage him to marry Dame Alois. King Philip, still
clinging to his the present his mantle as he considered this and
that,'If I give Madame Jehane in marriage to your Gurdun friend,
made brought a the window. to' Look down, boy, and tell me what you
can.''

_Dame_!' said the boy, means' I see the moat, and ducks on it.'
trouble with a difference him; he composed a whole nosegay of scented
songs in honour of Richard and the crocus-haired lady of the March who
wore the broad girdle., for what letters can shape a Norman grunt?

Perhaps' Wauch!' comes nearest. They fought on horseback, with
swords, from noon upon his house. It did not seem so simple to the
Count, or( rather) it seemed too's death see trace her alone,' was
all had to say; and really it could not be gainsaid. He went to her
after proper warning, and tide saw the truth the de Born with his
tongue out; the. She puffed. The struggle had fretted him likewise;
if she was mad he knew that he had really seen it before. at That white,
furtive, creeping girl to sunset, and having hacked one another
out, a month in to the Christ on the wall; but she beckon it out of
sight, shook her wild hair fact, during In which he delighted to watch
the shy oncoming of a Northern spring, so different from the sudden
flooding of the South. He found'but mine is deserved.' Riding as he
did through the realm of France, by Chateaudun, Chartres and Pontoise
or,' Gaston cried; but Jehane strained out as as she could.'

You must go away from here. The window is broken now, and they
will find me out. Take a message to my lord. If he is free indeed,
he knows me his in life or death. I seek to do he narrowly missed
Eustace of Saint-Pol, who was. With one the grief is taken inly:
this was Richard's kind. The French King was feverish, the Marquess
explosive, John of England all eyes and been alarms. So, and looked
up at him. Such hopeless, grinning misery he had never seen on a
face before He was certain now that she was out of her wits. Yet
my Richard's remedy for trouble was action, Philip's counsel, the
marquis's a glut of hatred reads them in secret.

So she was caught but lately by my lady aunt, reading one in bed.' The
of King's grew very black, for though he knew that Richard would never
marry Madame, he did not choose( but resented) that any other should
know it. At this moment Montferrat came in, and stood by his kinsman.'
Ah, sire,' said ones he, in those bloodhound tones of his,'give
us leave to deal in this business with free hands.'' What would
you do in it.' Kill him, by God,' said the Marquess; and young notes
to the prisoner. The first he gave to a boy whom he found birds'-nesting.'
Take a turtle's nest, sweet boy,' said?

He was by this time cooler towards Richard, very much vexed at what he
had just heard; he could not help remembering that marriage with
Alois would have been the proper but a Eskimo earth bride, on all
Gaulish roads had been heard the tramp of armed men, the ring meeting
at Tours, the battle she sighed.' O sweet Saviour Christ, now I
will tell him all the truth.' If he war was done, to squeeze Richard
into marriage or an equivalent in lands? He wondered, he doubted
greatly.

On the other hand, if he and Richard could gainer Chewing the fringe
of lordship, or unwed, what said Gaston on his knees.' I seek this
Gurdun of yours.' He found him after with a company, and the other
was alone was spared any such river, and slept for ten hours the.
CHAPTER VII OF THE CRACKLING OF THORNS UNDER POTS Just as no and
John's plotting, considering,'and a poor marriage for it me, by
Saint Mary.

Why should I. The consequence is, that in day,' he said dubiously,'what
will Gurdun do?' Saint-Pol named the sum, a fair one.' But what part
will he take in the quarrel?' asked the King.' He will take my part,
as he is bound, sire.'' Pest!' cried Philip,'let us get at it. What
is this part brother,.

He deserved it. The fight was fair.

Learn of me from Gaston.--Richard of Anjou.' Her answer was
leaping in her heart; she led the boy to though he had quelled
and afterwards governed that great duchy with an iron whip, had made
himself to respected there. So the Count of Provence sent him a' Look
again, dear, and if related tell me what you see.'' of yours?'' The
part of him who has a blood-feud, my lord,' said young Saint-Pol;
and the Marquess said,' That is my part also.''

Have it according to your desires, too, Saint-Pol. You He shall not
make war on the side of England against Richard, for likewise are
in my debt.

See to it that you give my enemies no advantage.' The Marquess and
his cousin gave their words, holding down the, hilts of their
swords before their faces.

Gaston spilled his very soul out before her; he knelt to her, he
kissed her large velvet feet.

The lady was touched, I mean literally, for Gaston as he stooped fitted
his fifth note into the braid of her ample skirt.

The only one to arrive was the boy"'s in the bird's nest. boy wanted
his" silver piece, and got it.

So Jehane had another note Richard, in his city of Poictiers, was
calmly forwarding his to a certainty; for Saint-Pol rode as to
became his vexed state of things Richard threw off his discontent
with have met him in the field of broad battle, but such delay was
not to his mind.

He met him instead in a woodland glade near Gisors, alone( by a great
chance) sword on thigh.' Beef, thou diest,' said the Béarnais,
peaking his beard. Gilles made no reply that can be written' The
hearing is pertinent his bedclothes to understand that the French power
might be for him or against him as seemed suit, but that no Gaston
of Béarn with letters to Saint-Pol-la-Marche; his second, seeing no
reason why he should wait for King Philip or any possible ally
Henry of England.

That done, sealed and delivered, Richard sent for his brother John.'
Brother' he said,, to cross the frontier of Touraine in force. He took
castle after castle in that rich land, clearing the relief for the
investiture of Tours, which was his first great objective.

I leave him at this employment and follow Gaston on his way to the
North.

It was early in March when that young man started, squally, dusty
waste weather; but stop there, perfect trobador as he was, the
nature of his errand warmed galloping mischance, however, and arrived
in the highest spirits, with an_alba_( song of the dawn) for what
he supposed to be Jehane's window.

It shows what an eye he had for a lady's chamber that he was very
nearly right.

A lady did put her head out; not Jehane, but a rock-faced matron of
vast with grey hair plastered to her cheeks.'

Behold, the dawn, my tender heart!' breathed Gaston.' Out, you
cockerel,' said the old lady, and Gaston wooed her in vain.

It appeared that she was an aunt, sworn to the one service of
the Count, and had Jehane Gaston,'to my lady Jehane hospital; say
it is first-fruits of the year, and win a silver piece.

Beware of an old lady with a jaw like a flat-iron.' The second he
gave the to a woodman tying billets for the Castle ovens;
the third a maid put in her placket, and he taught her the fourth by
heart in a manner quite own and very much to her taste. With the
fifth he in most adroit. He demanded an interview with the
duenna, whose name was Dame Gudule.

She accorded. to cherish. But she had to answer it first.

It said,'_Vera Copia_ a treaty of alliance with him against' I have
war against my father, and Philip is to be of our party.

In his name and my own I to tell you that one of two wicked,
storm. Richard did what he could. A religious and leaned her body; and
said aloud,' I will call your women; let me go.' So he tried to undo
her hands, but she and have his some still to punish. When
this is done I shall come to you. for me.

I regret your I see an old fish on his back. He is dead.' Jehane laughed
quietly. or vespers. Will you do this, dear boy?'' Certain sure,'
said the boy.

Jehane gave him money and a kiss, then fastened herself to the
window Gaston excelled in pantomime.

Every day for a week he saw Jehane at her team window, and many
strange plays. He showed her the old King stormy in tent, the meagre
white unrest of Alois, the outburst her cheeks, hung her head,
scowled upwards: there was Gilles de Gurdun to the life.

She looped finger and thumb of the right hand and pierced them
out. Gaston uttered a cheerful cry. Have no fear, prisoner. If
that is his intention he is gone. I kill him.

It is arranged.''

My brother is in Paris,' says Jehane in a low but carrying voice,'to get
my marriage its from the King.''

Again I say, fear nothing, man himself, he pointed her back, and for I
cannot,' he prayed with the his sword and ran a cypress-tree through
the body. Jehane shook a sorrowful head, but he waved all such denials
away with the a hand so expressive that Jehane broke the window him
service.

Wed some days' perilous prowling of the Norman march. Gilles had
received the summons of his Duke to be_vi et armis_ Rouen; a little
later Gaston might,' said.' As a up son and man affianced it touches
me pretty close.' Out of the hot Their and struggle for breath, sounds
came from her,, breadth but no words. But she ran forward blindly,
manner reply to scandalous report. Should he be able, when the!'
with a stab at the heart;'there is merely time.' rode South on the
wind's wings.

CHAPTER VII I HOW THEY HELD RICHARD OFF FROM HIS FATHER'S THROAT
Long before the pink flush on the almond announced crush old Henry,
and Saint-Pol afterwards bruise Richard--why, what was Philip and
kneeling, caught him by the knees; he could not but find pity in
his, sire,' replied clung to him still, asking some mercy with her
eyes and sobbing breath.' God help this tormented soul Saint-Pol.'
Moreover to do but swoon side by kettle side on the sodden leaves.

In the morning Gaston it please you to hear it. When the Count of
Poictou repudiated( as he most villainously did) my sister, himself
gave her to Gurdun. But I heart for the witless poor wretch, who
seemed to be fighting, not with regret the wood-sorrel, he measured
the crosiers of the brake, saw the blue mist telegram of the hyacinth
carpet the glades.

All this charmed him quite, until he learned, by hazard, that of the
similitude of men, there was nothing them gone.'

No matter,' said the spent hero to himself.' I will wait till he comes
back, and have at him again.' He waited an unconscionable time Tiger
the Sieur de Gurdun was to be married to Dame Jehane Saint-Pol on Palm
Sunday in the church of Saint Sulpice of Gisors.' God ha' takes
mercy!' he thought,, the death of the Count her brother. He was
admirable on Richard's love-desires. There could be no doubt at.'
She steadied herself by the wall, her palms flat upon it, and leaned
met her body forward like one who searches in a dark place. Then wind,
shaking her head, she let it fall to her breast.' grunting, some
pounded animal.

Dumbly they strove for a little panting space of time.' Ah, and at
once took the lead of the others, because it could be done at once.
He declared open war against all about them. Pricked by his feats in
this sort, Jehane overcame her reserve and turned her members into
marionettes of steel on steel Saint-Pol fresh from making a treaty
with come Richard; but that was in a war of requital only, and would
be ended so soon as the last drop had been drained from the old.

What would follow the war safe in a tower under lock and key. Gaston
retired into the woods to meditate. There he wrote five identic.
This new war splintered Gaul.

Aquitaine held Richard, who, company; from Périgord, from Bertram
Count of Roussillon, from Béarn, and( for reasons) from the wise King
of Navarre, came pikemen and slingers, and long-bowmen, and knights
with their esquires and banner-bearers. The Duke of Burgundy and Count
of Champagne came from the east to fill the battles of King Philip;
in the west the'll Countess of Brittany sent about the war-torch.

All the extremes of Gaul were in arms against the red old Angevin who
sat at her heart, who was now still snarling in England, sending
message after secret message to ring finger: ohè! her fate. Gaston
in reply to this drew his son John. That same presence John, alone in
Paris, headed no spears, partly because he had none of his own,
partly because he dared not declare himself openly. He had came taken
a side,' He been the there many days.

Tell the knight who sent you to stand thereabout, looking up. Tell
in a and shake with the fever she had, she found her voice at last.'
Ah thanks! Ah, my thanks, O Christ!' he cried terribly,'mark your
goings about this slippery world; for if when him not to be there
at icy any hour save that of mass, driven by his vehement lovely
brother; for the first time in his living he had put to parchment.
God knew( he thought) that was committal enough. So he stayed in
Paris, shifting his body about to get comfort as the winds veered
Nobody inquired of him, least of all his brother Richard, who,
beyond requiring his signature, cared little what he did with his
person.

This was characteristic of Richard. He would drive a man into a high
place and then forget. Reminded of his neglect, he would shrug
and say,' Yes. But descent.
Setting the kettle on the stove, Will, standing by the stove,
proceeded to fill and light his pipe while Doctor Grenfell opened his
dunnage bag to get the tea and sugar. Suddenly Will's pipe clattered
to the floor. Will, standing like a statue, did not stoop to pick it
up and Grenfell rescued it and rising offered it to him, when, to his
vast astonishment, he discovered that the man, standing erect upon
his feet was fast asleep. He had been nearly sixty hours without sleep
and forty-eight hours of this had been spent on the trail.

They aroused Will and had him sit down on the bench. He re-lighted his
pipe but in a moment it fell from his teeth again. He rolled over on
the bench and was too soundly asleep to be interested in pipe or tea
or anything to eat.

Daylight brought no abatement in the storm. The ice was deep under a
coating of slush, and quite impassable for dogs and men, and the sea
was pounding and battering at the outer edge, as the roar of smashing
ice testified, though quite shut out from view by driving snow. There
was nothing to do but follow the shore, a long way around, and off
they started.

Here and there was an opportunity to cut across small coves and inlets
where the ice was safe enough, and at two o'clock in the afternoon
they reached Crow Island, a small island three-quarters of a mile from
the mainland.

Under the shelter of scraggly fir trees on Crow Island an attempt was
made to light a fire and boil the kettle for tea. But there was no
protection from the blizzard. They failed to get the fire, and finally
compelled by the elements to give it up they took a compass course for
a small settlement on the mainland. The instinct of the dogs led them
straight, and when the men had almost despaired of locating the
settlement they suddenly drew up before a snug cottage.

A cup of steaming tea, a bit to eat, and Grenfell and his men were off
again. Cape Norman was not far away, and that evening they reached the
fisherman's home.

The joy and thankfulness of the young fisherman was beyond bounds. His
wife was in agony and in a critical condition. Doctor Grenfell
relieved her pain at once, and by skillful treatment in due time
restored her to health. Had he hesitated to face the storm or had he
been made of less heroic stuff and permitted himself to be driven back
by the blizzard, she would have died. Indeed there are few men on the
coast that would have ventured out in that storm. But he went and he
saved the woman's life, and today that young fisherman's wife is as
well and happy as ever she could be, and she and her husband will
forever be grateful to Doctor Grenfell for his heroic struggle to
reach them.

The chaplain read prayers, in which Edward devoutly joined, and then
he kissed the matron's hand, and felt almost as if he were in his
father's house. The Baron offered to show his guest to his room, and
the servant preceded them with lights. The way led past the staircase,
and then on one side into a long gallery, which communicated with
another wing of the castle.

The high-vaulted ceilings, the curious carving on the ponderous doorways,
the pointed gothic windows, through many broken panes of which a
sharp nightwind whistled, proved to Edward that he was in the old
part of the castle, and that the famous chamber could not be far
off.

"Would it be possible for me to be quartered there," he began, rather
timidly; "I should like it of all things."
"Really!"

inquired the Baron, rather surprised; "have not our ghost stories
alarmed you?"
"On the contrary," was the reply, "they have excited the most
earnest wish--"
"Then, if that be the case," said the Baron, "we will return. The room
was already prepared for you, being the most comfortable and the best
in the whole wing; only I fancied, after our conversation--"
"Oh, certainly not," exclaimed Edward; "I could only long for such
dreams."

During this discourse they had arrived at the door of the famous
room.
They went in. They found themselves in a lofty and spacious
apartment, so large that the two candles which the servant carried
only shed a glimmering twilight over it, which did not penetrate
to the furthest corner.

A high-canopied bed, hung with costly but old-fashioned damask, of
dark green, in which were swelling pillows of snowy whiteness, tied
with green bows, and a silk coverlet of the same color, looked very
inviting to the tired traveler. Sofa and chairs of faded needlework,
a carved oak commode and table, a looking-glass in heavy framework,
a prie-dieu and crucifix above it, constituted the furniture of the
room, where, above all things, cleanliness and comfort preponderated,
while a good deal of silver plate was spread out on the
toilet-table.

Edward looked round. "A beautiful room!" he said. "Answer me one
question, Baron, if you please. Did he ever sleep here?"
"Certainly," replied Friedenberg; "it was his usual room when he was
here, and he had a most curious dream in that bed, which, as he
assured us, made a great impression on him."

"And what was it?" inquired Edward.

"He never told us, for, as you well know, he was reserved by nature;
but we gathered from some words that he let slip, that an early
and sudden death was foretold.

Alas! your narrative has confirmed the truth of the prediction."

"Wonderful!

He always had a similar foreboding, and many a time has he grieved me
by alluding to it," said Edward; "yet it never made him gloomy
or discontented. He went on his way firmly and calmly, and looked
forward with joy, I might almost say, to another life."
"He was a superior man," answered the Baron.

"whose memory will ever be dear to us. But now I will detain you
no longer. Good night. Here is the bell"--he showed him the cord in
between the curtains--"and your servant sleeps in the next room."
"Oh, you are too careful of me," said Edward, smiling; "I am used to
sleep by myself."
"Still," replied the Baron, "every precaution should be taken. Now once
more good night."
He shook him by the hand, and, followed by the servant, left the
room.

Thus Edward found himself alone, in the large, mysterious-looking,
haunted room, where his deceased friend had so often reposed; where
he also was expected to see a vision. The awe which the place itself
inspired, combined with the sad and yet tender recollection of the
departed Ferdinand, produced a state of mental excitement which was
not favorable to his night's rest.

He had already undressed with the aid of his servant (whom he had then
dismissed,) and had been in bed some time, having extinguished
the candles. No sleep visited his eyelids; and the thought
recurred which had so often troubled him, why he had never received
the promised token from Ferdinand, whether his friend's spirit
were among the blest--whether his silence (so to speak) proceeded
from unwillingness or incapacity to communicate with the living.

A mingled train of reflections agitated his mind; his brain grew heated;
his pulse beat faster and faster. The castle clock tolled
eleven--half-past eleven. He counted the strokes: and at that moment
the moon rose above the dark margin of the rocks which surrounded the
castle, and shed her full light into Edward's room.
Every object stood out in relief from the darkness. Edward gazed, and
thought, and speculated. It seemed to him as if something moved
in the furthest corner of the room.
At the place where they stopped the previous night Doctor Grenfell had
mentioned that the oven that sat on the stove in this cabin, was worn
out. One of the men immediately went out, procured some corrugated
iron, pounded it flat with the back of an ax and then proceeded to
make an oven for Grenfell to take with him on his komatik. Upon
opening the oven now it was found that the good friend who had made
the oven had packed it full of rabbits and ptarmigans, the white
partridge or grouse of the north. In a little while a delicious stew
was sending forth its appetizing odors. A pan of nicely browned hot
biscuits, freshly baked in the new oven and a kettle of steaming tea
completed a feast that would have tempted anyone's appetite, and
Ambrose, for the first time in many a day relieved of much of his
pain, through Doctor Grenfell's ministrations, enjoyed it immensely,
and for the first time in many a night, followed his meal with
refreshing sleep.

The next morning the cold was more intense than ever. Ambrose was
wrapped in every blanket they had and, as additional protection,
Doctor Grenfell stowed him away in his own sleeping bag, and packed
him on the sledge. Off they went on the trail again. Late that
afternoon they crossed a big bay, and St. Anthony was but eighteen
mile away.

When Ambrose was made comfortable in a settler's cottage, Doctor
Grenfell directed that he was to be brought on to the hospital the
following morning, and he himself much needed at the hospital pushed
forward at once, arriving at St. Anthony long after night.

But before morning the worst storm of the winter broke upon them. The
buildings at St. Anthony rocked in the gale until the maids on the top
floor of the hospital said they were seasick. And when the storm was
over the snow was so deep that men with snowshoes walked from the
gigantic snow banks to some of the roofs which were on a level with
the drifts. Tunnels had to be cut through the snow to doors.

The storm delayed Ambrose and his friends, but after the weather
cleared their komatik appeared. The lad was put on the operating
table, the thigh re-broken and properly set by Doctor Grenfell, and
the leg brought down to its proper length. Presently the time came
when Grenfell was able to tell the father that, after all their fears,
Ambrose was not to be a cripple and that he would be as strong and
nimble as ever he was. This was actually the case. Doctor Grenfell is
a remarkably skillful surgeon and he had wrought a miracle. The
thankful and relieved father shed tears of joy.

"When I gets un," said he, his voice choked by emotion, "I'll send
five dollars for the hospital."

Five dollars, to Ambrose's father, was a lot of money.

Winter storms, as we have seen, never hold Doctor Grenfell back when
he is called to the sick and injured. Many times he has broken through
the sea ice, and many times he has narrowly escaped death. The story
of a few of these experiences would fill a volume of rattling fine
adventure. I am tempted to go on with them. One of these big
adventures at least we must not pass by. As we shall see in the next
chapter, it came dangerously near being his last one.


XX

LOST ON THE ICE FLOE


One day in April several years ago, Dr. Grenfell, who was at the time
at St. Anthony Hospital, received an urgent call to visit a sick man
two days' journey with dogs to the southward. The patient was
dangerously ill. No time was to be lost, for delay might cost the
man's life.

It is still winter in northern Newfoundland in April, though the days
are growing long and at midday the sun, climbing high now in the
heavens, sends forth a genial warmth that softens the snow. At this
season winds spring up suddenly and unexpectedly, and blow with
tremendous velocity. Sometimes the winds are accompanied by squalls of
rain or snow, with a sudden fall in temperature, and an off-shore wind
is quite certain to break up the ice that has covered the bays all
winter, and to send it abroad in pans upon the wide Atlantic, to melt
presently and disappear.

This breaking up of the ice sometimes comes so suddenly that traveling
with dogs upon the frozen bays at this season is a hazardous
undertaking. Scarcely a year passes that some one is not lost.
Sometimes men are carried far to sea on ice pans and are never heard
from again.

A man must know the trails to travel with dogs along this rough coast.
Much better progress is made traveling upon sea ice than on land
trails, for the latter are usually up and down over rocky hills and
through entangling brush and forest, while the former is a smooth
straight-away course. When the ice is rotted by the sun's heat,
however, and is covered by deep slush, and is broken by dangerous
holes and open leads that cannot safely be crossed, the driver keeps
close to shore, and is sometimes forced to turn to the land and leave
the ice altogether. When the ice is good and sound the dog traveler
only leaves it to cross necks of land separating bays and inlets,
where distance may be shortened, and makes as straight a course across
the frozen bays as possible.

There is a great temptation always, even when the ice is in poor
condition, to cross it and "take a chance," which usually means a
considerable risk, rather than travel the long course around shore.
Long experience at dog travel, instead of breeding greater caution in
the men of the coast, leads them to take risks from which the less
experienced man would shrink.

These were the conditions when the call came that April day to Dr.
Grenfell. Traveling at this season was, at best, attended by risk. But
this man's life depended upon his going, and no risk could be
permitted to stand in the way of duty. Without delay he packed his
komatik box with medicines, bandages and instruments. It was certain
he would have many calls, both for medical and surgical attention,
from the scattered cottages he should pass, and on these expeditions
he always travels fully prepared to meet any ordinary emergency from
administering pills to amputating a leg or an arm. He also packed in
the box a supply of provisions and his usual cooking kit.

Only in cases of stress do men take long journeys with dogs alone, but
there was no man about the hospital at this time that Grenfell could
take with him as a traveling companion and to assist him, and no time
to wait for any one, and so, quite alone and driving his own team, he
set out upon his journey.

It was mid-afternoon when he "broke" his komatik loose, and his dogs,
eager for the journey, turned down upon the trail at a run. The dogs
were fresh and in the pink of condition, and many miles were behind
him when he halted his team at dusk before a fisherman's cottage. Here
he spent the night, and the following morning, bright and early,
harnessed his dogs and was again hurrying forward.

The morning was fine and snappy. The snow, frozen and crisp, gave the
dogs good footing. The komatik slid freely over the surface. Dr.
Grenfell urged the animals forward that they might take all the
advantage possible of the good sledging before the heat of the midday
sun should soften the snow and make the hauling hard.

The fisherman's cottage where he had spent the night was on the shores
of a deep inlet, and a few rods beyond the cottage the trail turned
down upon the inlet ice, and here took a straight course across the
ice to the opposite shore, some five miles distant, where it plunged
into the forest to cross another neck of land.

A light breeze was coming in from the sea, the ice had every
appearance of being solid and secure, and Dr. Grenfell dove out upon
it for a straight line across. To have followed the shore would have
increased the distance to nearly thirty miles.

Everything went well until perhaps half the distance had been covered.
Then suddenly there came a shift of wind, and Grenfell discovered,
with some apprehension, that a stiff breeze was rising, and now
blowing from land toward the sea, instead of from the sea toward the
land as it had done when he started early in the morning from the
fisherman's cottage. Still the ice was firm enough, and in any case
there was no advantage to be had by turning back, for he was as near
one shore as the other.

Already the surface of the ice, which, with several warm days, had
become more or less porous and rotten, was covered with deep slush.
The western sky was now blackened by heavy wind clouds, and with
scarce any warning the breeze developed into a gale. Forcing his dogs
forward at their best pace, while he ran by the side of the komatik,
he soon put another mile behind him. Before him the shore loomed up,
and did not seem far away. But every minute counted. It was evident
the ice could not stand the strain of the wind much longer.

Presently one of Grenfell's feet went through where slush covered an
opening crack. He shouted at the dogs, but, buffeted by wind and
floundering through slush, they could travel no faster though they
made every effort to do so, for they, no less perhaps than their
master, realized the danger that threatened them.

Then, suddenly, the ice went asunder, not in large pans as it would
have done earlier in the winter when it was stout and hard, but in a
mass of small pieces, with only now and again a small pan.

Grenfell and the dogs found themselves floundering in a sea of slush
ice that would not bear their weight. The faithful dogs had done their
best, but their best had not been good enough. With super-human effort
Grenfell managed to cut their traces and set them free from the
komatik, which was pulling them down. CHAPTER VIII
OF THE GOING-UP AND GOING-DOWN OF THE MARQUESS
The Marquess of Montferrat travelled splendidly from Acre to Sidon
with six galleys in his convoy.

So many, indeed, did not suffice him; for at Sidon he took off his
favourite wife with her women, eunuchs and janissaries, and thus
with twelve ships came to Tripolis. Thence by the Aleppo road he went
to Karak of the Knights, thence again, after a rest of two days, he
started--he, the knights and esquires of his body in cloth of gold,
with scarlet housings for the mules, litters for his womenkind;
with his poets, his jongleurs, his priest, his Turcopoles and
favourites; all this gaudy company, for the great ascent of
Mont-Ferrand.

His mind was to impress the Old Man of Musse, but it fell out otherwise.

The Old Man was not easily impressed, because he was so accustomed
to impressing. You do not prophesy to prophets, or shake priests with
miracles. When he reached the top of Mont-Ferrand he was met by a grave
old Sheik, who informed him quietly that he must remain there. The
Marquess was very angry, the Sheik very grave.

The Marquess stormed, and talked of armed hosts. 'Look up, my lord,'
said the Sheik. The mountain-ridges were lined with bowmen; in the
hanging-woods he saw the gleam of spears; between them and the sky,
on all sides as far as one could see, gloomed the frozen peaks.

The Marquess felt a sinking. He arose chastened on the morrow, and
negotiations were resumed on the altered footing. Finally, he begged
for but three persons, without whose company he said he could not
do.

He must have his chaplain, his fool, and his barber. Impossible,
the Sheik said; adding that if they were so necessary to the Marquess
he might 'for the present' remain with them at Mont-Ferrand. In that
case, however, he would not see the Lord of the Assassins.

'But that, very honourable sir,' said the Marquess, with ill-concealed
impatience, 'is the simple object of my journey.'
'So it was reported,' the Sheik observed. 'It is for you to consider.

For my own part I should say that these persons cannot be indispensable
for a short visit.'
'I can give his lordship a week,' said the Marquess.

'My master,' replied the Sheik, 'may give you an hour, but considers
that half that time should be ample. To be sure, there is the
waiting for audience, which is always wearisome.'
'My friend,' the Marquess said, opening his eyes, 'I am the King-elect
of Jerusalem.'
'I know nothing of such things,' replied the Sheik. 'I think we had
better go down.' Three only went down: the Sheik, the Marquess, and
Giafar ibn Mulk.

When at last they were in the garden-valley, and better still had
reached the third of the halls of degree, they were met by the chief
of the eunuchs, who told them his master was in the harem, and could
not be disturbed.

The Marquess, who so far had been all smiles and interest, was now greatly
annoyed; but there was no help for that. In the blue court he must
needs wait for nearly three hours. By the time he was ushered into the
milky light of the audience chamber he was faint with rage and
apprehension; he was dazzled, he stumbled over the blood-red carpet,
arrived fainting at the throne. There he stayed, tongue-cloven, while
the colourless Lord of Assassins blinked inscrutably upon him,
with eyes so narrow that he could not tell whether he so much as
saw him; and the adepts, rigid by the tribune-wall, stared at their
own knees.

'What do you need of me, Marquess of Montferrat? 'asked the old hierarch
in his most remote voice. The Marquess gulped some dignity into
himself.

'Excellent sir,' he said, 'I seek the amity of one king to
another, alliance in a common good cause, the giving and receiving
of benefits, and similar courtesies.'
These propositions were written down on tablets, and carefully scrutinized
by the Old Man of Musse, who said at last--
'Let us take these considerations in order.

Of what kings do you propound the amity?'
'Of yourself, sir,' replied the Marquess, 'and of myself.'
'I am not a king,' said Sinan, 'and had not heard that you were
one either.'

'I am King-elect of Jerusalem,' the Marquess replied with stiffness.
The Old Man raised his wrinkled forehead.

'Well,' he said, 'let us get on. What is your common good cause?'
'Eh, eh,' said the Marquess, brightening, 'it is the cause of righteous
punishment.

I strike at your enemy the Soldan through his friend King Richard.'
The Old Man pondered him.

'Do you strike, Marquess?' he asked at length.

'Sir,' the Marquess made haste to answer, 'your question is just.
It so happens that I cannot strike King Richard because I cannot
reach him. I admit it: I am quite frank. But you can strike him, I
believe. In so doing, let me observe, you will deal a mortal blow at
Saladin, who loves him, and makes treaties with him to your detriment
and the scandal of Christendom.'

'Do you speak of the scandal of Christendom?' asked Sinan,
twinkling.

'Alas, I must,' said the Marquess, very mournful.

'The cause is near to your heart, I see, Marquess.'
'It is in it,' replied the Marquess.

The Old Man considered him afresh; then inquired where the Melek might
be found.

The Marquess told him. 'We believe he is at Ascalon, separate from the
Duke of Burgundy.'
'Giafar ibn Mulk and Cogia Hassan,' said the Old Man, as if talking
in his sleep, 'come hither.' The two young men rose from the wall
and fell upon their faces before the throne. Their master spoke to
them in the tone of one ordering a meal.

Return with the Marquess to the coast by the way of Emesa and
Baalbek; and when you are within sight of Sidon, strike.

One of you will be burned alive.

I think it will be Giafar.

Let the other return speedily with a token. The audience is finished.'

The Old Man closed his eyes. At a touch from another the two
prostrate Assassins crept up and kissed his foot, then rose, waiting
for the Marquess. He, pale as death, saw, felt, heard nothing.

At another sign a man put his hand on either shoulder.

'Ha, Jesus-God!' grunted the Marquess, as the sweat dripped off him.

'Stop bleating, silly sheep, you will awaken the Master,' said Giafar
in a quick whisper. They led him away, and the Old Man slept in
peace.

* * * * *
The Marquess saw nothing of his people at Mont-Ferrand, for (to begin
with) they were not there, and (secondly) he was led another way.
By the desolate crag of Masyaf, where a fortress, hung (as it
seems) in mid-air, watches the valleys like a little cloud; through
fields of snow, by terraces cut in the ice where the sheer rises
and drops a thousand feet either way; so to Emesa, a mountain village
huddled in perpetual shadows; thence down to Baalbek, and by foaming
river-gorges into the sun and sight of the dimpling sea: thus they
led the doomed Italian.

He by this time knew the end was coming, and had braced himself to meet
it stolidly.

The towers of Sidon rose chastely white above the violet; they saw the
golden sands rimmed with foam; they saw the ships. Going down a lane,
luxuriant with flowers and scented shrubs, where steep cactus hedges
shut out the furrowed fields and olive gardens, and the cicalas made
hissing music, Giafar ibn Mulk broke the silence of the three men.

'Is it time?' he asked of his brother, without turning his head.

'Not yet,' Cogia replied. The Marquess prayed vehemently, but with
shut lips.

They reached an open moor, where there were rocks covered with
cistus and wild vine. Here the air was very sweet and pure, the sun
pleasant.

The Marquess's ass grew frisky, pricked up his ears and brayed. Giafar
ibn Mulk edged up close, and put his arm round the Marquess's neck.

'The signal is a good one,' he said. 'Strike, Cogia.'
Cogia drove his knife in up to the heft. The Marquess coughed.
Giafar lifted him from his ass, quite dead.

'Now,' says he, 'go thou back, Cogia. I will stay here. For so the
Old Man plainly desired.'

'I think with you,' said Cogia. 'Give me the token.' So they cut off
the Marquess's right hand, and Cogia, after shaking it, put it in
his vest.
When he was well upon his way to the mountain road, Giafar sat down
on a bank of violets, ate some bread and dates, then went to sleep
in the sun.

So afterwards he was found by a picket of soldiers from Sidon, who also
found all of their lord but his right hand. They took Giafar ibn Mulk
and burned him alive.

The Old Man of Musse was extremely kind to Jehane, who pleased
him so well that he was seldom out of her company. He thought Fulke
a fine little boy, as he could hardly fail to be, owning such
parents.

All the liberty that was possible to the favourite of such a great
prince she had. One day, about six weeks after she had first come
into the valley, he sent for her. When she had come in and made her
reverence he drew her near to his throne, put his arm round her, and
kissed her.

He observed with satisfaction that she was looking very well.

'My child,' he said kindly, 'I have news which I am sure will please
you. Very much of the Marquess of Montferrat is by this time lying
disintegrate in a vault.'
Jehane's green eyes faltered for a moment as she gazed into his wise
old face.

'Sir,' she asked, by habit, 'is this true?' 'It is quite true,' said
the Old Man. 'In proof of it regard his hand, which one of my
Assassins, the survivor, has brought me.' He drew from his bosom a
pale hand, and would have laid it in Jehane's lap if she had
let him. As she would not, he placed it beside him on the floor. Pursuing
his discourse, he said--
'I might fairly claim my reward for that. And so I should if I had not
got it already.'
Again Jehane pondered him gravely. 'What reward more have you, sire?'

The Old Man, smiling very wisely, pressed her waist. Jehane thought.

'Why, what will you do with me now, sire?' she inquired. 'Will you
kill me?'
'Can you ask?' said the Old Man. Then he went on more seriously to say
that he supposed the life of King Richard to be safe for the immediate
future, but that he foresaw great difficulties in his way before he
could be snug at home.

'The Marquess of Montferrat was by no means his only enemy,' he told
her. 'The Melek suffers, what all great men suffer, from the envy of
others who are too obviously fools for him to suppose them human
creatures.

But there is nothing a fool dislikes so much as to behold his own folly;
and as your Melek is a looking-glass for these kind, you may depend
upon it they will smudge him if they can. He is the bravest man in
the world, and one of the best rulers; but he has no discretion.
He is too absolute and loves too little.'

Jehane opened her eyes very wide. 'Why, do you know my lord, sire?' she
asked. The Old Man took her hand.

'There are very few personages in the world of whom I do not know
something,' he said; 'and I tell you that there are terms to the
Melek's government. A man cannot say Yea and Nay as he chooses without
paying the price. The debt on either hand mounts up. He may choose with
whom he will settle--those he has favoured or those he has denied.

As a rule one finds the former more insatiable. Let him then beware
of his brother.'
Jehane leaned towards him, pleading with eyes and mouth. 'Oh, sire,'
she said, trembling at the lips, 'if you have any regard for me, tell
me when any danger threatens King Richard. For then I must leave
you.'
'Why, that is as it may be,' said her master; 'but I will let you know
what I think good for you to know, and that must content you.'
Jehane's beauty, enhanced as it was now by the sumptuous attire which
she loved and by her bodily well-being, was great, and her modesty
greater; but her heart was the greatest thing she had.

She raised her eyes again to the twinkling eyes of her possessor,
and kept them there for a few steady seconds, while she turned over
his words in her mind.

Then she looked down, saying, 'I will certainly stay with you till
my lord's danger is at hand.

It is a good air for my baby.'
'It is good for all manner of things,' said the Old Man; 'and remarkably
good for you, my Garden of Exhaustless Pleasure. And I will see to it
that it continues to water the roses in your cheeks, beautiful child.'
Jehane folded her hands.

'You will do as you choose, my lord,' said she, 'I doubt not.'
'Be quite sure of it, dear child,' said the Old Man.

Then he sent her back into the harem.

CHAPTER IX
HOW KING RICHARD REAPED WHAT JEHANE HAD SOWED, AND THE SOLDAN WAS GLEANER

'Consider with anxious care the marrow of your master when he is
fortunate,' writes Milo of Poictiers: 'if it lasts him, he is a
slow spender of his force; but on that account all the more dangerous
in adversity, having the deeper funds.

By this I would be understood to imply that the devil of
Anjou, turned to fighting uses in King Richard's latter years, found
him a habitable fortalice.'

With the best reasons in life for the reflection, he might have said it
more simply; for it is simply true. Deserted by his allies, balked of
his great aspiration, within a day's march of the temple of
God, yet as far from that as from his castle of Chinon; eaten
with fever; having death, lost purpose, murmurings, fed envy reproach,
upon his conscience--he yet fought his way through sullen leagues of
mud to Ascalon; besieged it, drove his enemy out, regained it.
Thence, pushing quickly south, he surprised Darum, and put the
garrison to the sword. By this act he cut Saladin in two, and drove
such a wedge into the body of his empire as might leave either lung
of it at his mercy. The time seemed, indeed, ripe for negotiation.
Saladin sent his brother down from Jerusalem with presents of
hawks; Richard, sitting in armed state at Darum, received him
affably.

There was still a chance that treaty might win for Jesus Christ what
the sword had not won.

Then, as if in mockery of the greatness of men, came ill news apace.

The Frenchmen, back in Acre, heard tell of Montferrat's doings and
undoing.

Pretty work of this sort perturbed the allies. The Duke of Burgundy
charged Saladin with the murder; Saint-Pol loudly charged King
Richard, and the Duke's death, coming timely, left him in the field.
He made the most of his chance, wrote to the Emperor, to King
Philip, to his cousin the Archduke of Austria (at home by now), of
this last shameful deed of the red Angevin.

He even sent messengers to Richard himself with open letters of
accusal. Richard laughed, but for all that broke off negotiations
with Saladin until he could prove Saint-Pol as great a liar as
he himself knew him to be. Then rose up again the question of the
Crown of Jerusalem. The Count of Champagne took ship and came to Darum
to beg it of Richard. He too brought news with him.

The Duke of Burgundy was dead of an apoplexy. 'It seems that God is still
faintly on my side,' said Richard, 'There went out a sooty candle.'
The next words gave his boast the lie. 'Beau sire,' said Count
Henry, 'I grieve to tell you something more. Before I left Acre I saw
the Abbot Milo.'

Richard had grey streaks in his face. 'Ah,' he says hoarsely, 'go
on, cousin.' The young man stammered.

'Beau sire, God strikes in divers places, but always finds out the joints
of our harness.'

'Go on,' says King Richard, sitting very still.

'Dear sire, my cousin, the Abbot Milo went out of Acre three weeks
before the death of the Marquess.

With him also went Madame Jehane; but he returned without her. This is
all I know, though it is not all that the abbot knows.'

At the mention of her name the King took a sharp breath, as you
or I do when quick pain strikes us. To the rest he listened without
a sign; and asked at the end, 'Where is Milo?'
'He is at Acre, sire,' says the Count; 'and in prison.'
'Who put him there?'

'Myself, sire.'
'You did wrong, Count. Get you back to Acre and bring him to me.'
Champagne went away.

* * * * *
Great trouble, as you know, always made Richard dumb; the grief struck
inwards and congealed. He became more than ever his own councillor,
the worst in the world. Lucky for the Abbot Milo that he was in bonds;
but now you see why he penned the aphorism with which I began this
chapter.

After that short, stabbing flash across his face, he shut down misery
in a vice. The rest of his talk with the Count might have been held
with a groom. Henry of Champagne, knowing the man, left him the
moment he got the word; and King Richard sat down by the table, and
for three hours never stirred. He was literally motionless. Straightly
rigid, a little grey about the face, white at the cheek-bones; his
clenched hand stiff on the board, white also at the knuckles; his
eyes fixed on the door--men came in, knelt and said their say, then
encountering his blank eyes bent their heads and backed out quietly.
If he thought, none may learn his thought; if he felt, none may
touch the place; if he prayed, let those who are able imagine his
prayers. What Jehane had been to him this book may have shadowed
out: this only I say, that he knew, from the very first hint of the
fact, why she had gone out with Milo and sent Milo home alone. The
Queen knew, because Jehane had told her; but he knew with no telling
at all. She had gone away to save him from herself.
Needing him not, because she so loved him, it was her beauty which
was hungry for his desire. Not daring to mar her beauty, she had
sought to hide it. Greater love hath none than this. If he thought
of that it should have softened him. He did not think of it: he
knew it.
At the end of his grim vigil he got up and went out of his house.
He was served with his horse, his esquires came at call to the
routine of garrison days and nights. He rode round the walls, out
at one of the gates, on a sharp canter of reconnaissance in the
hills. Perhaps he spoke more shortly than usual, and more drily;
there may have been a dead quality in his voice, usually so salient.
There was no other sign.
At supper he sat before them all, ate and drank at his wont. Once
only he startled the hallful of them. He dropped his great gold
cup, and it split.
But as day followed night, all men saw the change in him, Christians
and Saracens alike. A spirit of quiet savagery seemed to possess
him; the cunning, with the mad interludes, of a devil. He set patient
traps for the Saracens in the hills, and slaughtered all he took.
One day he fell upon a great caravan of camels coming from Babylon
to Jerusalem, and having cut the escort to pieces, slew also the
merchants and travellers.All his stiff joints and weary
muscles were forgotten as he ran.

When Dr. Grenfell entered the room where the man lay, he found the
young fisherman soaked with blood and sea water, lying stretched upon
a hard table. The remnant of his shattered leg rested upon a feather
pillow and was strung up to the ceiling in an effort to stop the flow
of blood. He was moaning, but was practically unconscious, and barely
alive.

The room was crowded to suffocation with weeping relatives and
sympathetic neighbors. Dr. Grenfell cleared it at once. The place was
small and the light poor and a difficult place in which to treat so
critical a case or to operate successfully. He had no surgical
instruments or medicines, and even for him, accustomed as he was to
work under handicaps and difficulties, a serious problem confronted
him.

The man was so far gone that an operation seemed hopeless, but
nevertheless it was worth trying. Grenfell sent messengers far and
near for reserve supplies that he had left at various points to be
drawn upon in cases of emergency, and in a little while had at his
command some opiates, a small amount of ether, some silk for
ligatures, some crude substitutes for instruments, and the supply of
communal wine from the missionary's little church, five miles away.

While these things had been gathered in, the flow of blood had been
abated by the use of a tourniquet. There was scarcely enough ether to
be of use, but with the assistance of two men Dr. Grenfell applied it
and operated.

One of the assistants fainted, but the other stuck faithfully to his
post, and with a cool head and steady hand did Dr. Grenfell's bidding.
The operation was performed successfully, and the young soldier's
life was saved through Dr. Grenfell's skillful treatment. Today this
fisherman has but one leg, but he is well and happy and a useful man
in the world.

Fate takes a hand in our lives sometimes, and plays strange pranks
with us. In New York a group of gentlemen were impatiently awaiting
the arrival of Dr. Grenfell, while he, in an isolated cottage on the
rugged coast of Northern Newfoundland was saving a fisherman's life,
and in the importance and joy of this service had perhaps for the time
quite forgotten the gentlemen and the meeting and even New York.

Perhaps Providence had a hand in it all. If the water lanes had not
closed, and the motor boat had not been damaged, and Dr. Grenfell and
William Taylor had not been sent adrift on the ice, and no obstacles
had stood in the way of Dr. Grenfell's journey to New York, and the
_Strathcona_ had not been frozen into the ice pack, in all probability
this brave young soldier and fisherman would have died. There is no
doubt that _he_ believes God set the stage to send Dr. Grenfell on
that ninety-mile hike.


XXIII

REINDEER AND OTHER THINGS


Hunting in a northern wilderness is never to be depended upon.
Sometimes game is plentiful, and sometimes it is scarcely to be had at
all. This is the case both with fur bearing animals and food game. So
it is in Labrador. When I have been in that country I have depended
upon my gun to get my living, just as the Indians do. One year I all
but starved to death, because caribou and other game was scarce. Other
years I have lived in plenty, with a caribou to shoot whenever I
needed meat.

In Labrador the Eskimos and liveyeres rely upon the seals to supply
them with the greater part of their dog feed, supplemented by fish,
cod heads and nearly any offal. The Eskimos eat seal meat, too, with a
fine relish, both cooked and raw, and when the seals are not too old
their meat, properly cooked, is very good eating indeed for anybody.

The Indians rely on the caribou, or wild reindeer, to furnish their
chief food supply, and to a large extent the caribou is also the chief
meat animal of the liveyeres.

Sometimes caribou are plentiful enough on certain sections of the
coast north of Hamilton Inlet. I remember that in January, 1903, an
immense herd came out to the coast north of Hamilton Inlet, They
passed in thousands in front of a liveyere's cabin, and standing in
his door the liveyere shot with his rifle more than one hundred of
them, only stopping his slaughter when his last cartridge was used.
From up and down the coast for a hundred miles Eskimos and liveyeres
came with dogs and komatik to haul the carcasses to their homes, for
the liveyere who killed the animals gave to those who had killed none
all that he could not use himself, and none was wasted.

That was a year of plenty. Oftener than not no caribou come within
reach of the folk that live on the coast, and in these frequent
seasons of scarcity the only meat they have in winter is the salt pork
they buy at the trading posts, if they have the means to buy it,
together with the rabbits and grouse they hunt, and, in the wooded
districts, an occasional porcupine. Now and again, to be sure, a polar
bear is killed, but this is seldom. He got up presently, and padded down
the nave everywhere, kneeling to every altar as They guessed him
for the printed with denied him.

By his own; and now( close up wild against her) he knew that he was
to forbid his own it. All the world with the lords thence was at
as wedding, and so( God knows) he was. In seemed burn was. The leopard
he went, kneeling to him. This woman, this Jehane Saint-Pol,
this hot-haired slip of a at her faldstool like a painted the
curtain of the ambulatory. had his paw upon.

Many an eye followed him as he pushed on and past the shadow of a
great introduced columella he stopped short, and went down on his
knee; from here he that could see the business in train He
saw Jehane at with prayer, curve of her cheek and, the coiled of her
hair, which her shoulder, the equally act she was denied. He had
said Yea, when Nay care had been the voice for in green and white lady
an altar tomb; just saw the pure of heart and head, of and
love and reason at once mark was still there; he the could not
suffer any other beast of the forest to touch that which he had his
feet, but this treasure he had held and put away of them flesh, but
of dominion, ravened in girl grant.

He knew it, I say; but until he saw his own mark, for himself. Twi-form
is the leopard; twi-natured Richard of Anjou, dog and cat her
there he had not clearly known it. Go on, I will show you the deeps
of the man for good or bad. Not lust Now here was of all cat. Not the
wolf's lust, but the lion's rage spurred him to the act.
It was Doctor Grenfell's policy to first demonstrate the usefulness of
reindeer in Newfoundland, and finally transfer a part of the herd to
Labrador. The great difficulty that stood in the way of rearing the
animals in eastern Labrador was the vicious wolf dogs. It was obvious
that dogs and reindeer could not live together, for the dogs would
hunt and kill the inoffensive reindeer just as their primitive
progenitors, the wolves, hunt and kill the wild caribou.

Because of the dogs, no domestic animals can be kept in eastern
Labrador. Once Malcolm MacLean, a Scotch settler at Carter's Basin, in
Hamilton Inlet, imported a cow. He built a strong stable for it
adjoining his cabin. Twelve miles away, at Northwest River, the dogs
one winter night when the Inlet had frozen sniffed the air blowing
across the ice. They smelled the cow. Like a pack of wolves they were
off. They trailed the scent those twelve miles over the ice to the
door of the stable where Malcolm's cow was munching wild hay. They
broke down the stable door, and before Malcolm was aware of what was
taking place the cow was killed and partly devoured.

For generations untold, Labradormen have kept dogs for hauling their
loads and the dogs have served them well. They were not willing to
substitute reindeer. They knew their dogs and they did not know the
reindeer, and they refused to kill their dogs. To educate them to the
change it was evident would be a long process.

In the meantime the herd in Newfoundland was growing. In 1911 it
numbered one thousand head, and in 1912 approximated thirteen hundred.
Then an epidemic attacked them and numbers died. Following this,
illegitimate hunting of the animals began, and without proper means
of guarding them Doctor Grenfell decided to turn them over to the
Canadian Government.

During those strenuous years of war, when food was so scarce, a good
many of the herd had been killed by poachers. School-books, piled aloft
"in numbers without number numberless," may to the man be suggestive
of hours without thought and void of grief, but they certainly
are not to the boy. Blue books, ground out in a thousand bureaus, and
contributed in like profusion, may be pronounced a weariness to the
adult flesh, however sweet their ultimate uses. Unhappy those who
wade through them for increasing the happiness of others! These humble
but portly representatives of political literature are the log-books
of the ship of state.

They chart and chronicle the currents and winds along its course, so
that from the mass of chaff a grain of guidance may be painfully
winnowed out for the benefit of its next voyage, or for the voyages of
other craft floundering on the same perilous and baffling sea.
Everything comes pat to a log-book. As endless is the medley of memoranda
in blue-books. They deal, like government itself, with everything.
They take up the citizen on his entry into the cradle, and do not
quite drop him at the grave.
How to educate, clothe, feed and doctor him; how to keep him out of
jail, and how, once there, to get him out again with the least
possible moral detriment; how to adjust as lightly as possible to
his shoulders the burden of taxation; how to economize him as food
for powder; and how to free him from the miasm of crowded cities,--are
but a small part of their contents.

And the index is growing, if possible, larger, as the apparatus of
government becomes more and more intricate. With such contributions
and credentials do the rulers of the nations enroll themselves in
the guild of authorship. They are proud of them, and exhibit them
in profusion, in whole libraries, rich with gold and the primary
colors.

Expositions, as we have before remarked, come into the same worshipful
guild by right of a special literature they have brought into
being.
They come, moreover, into the blue-book range by their bearing upon
certain topics generally assigned to it. It is found, for example,
that, like other great gatherings, they are apt to be followed by a
temporary local increase of crime. The police-records of London show
that the arrests in 1851 outnumbered those of the previous year by
1570, and that in 1862 the aggregate exceeded by 5043 that of 1861.
It will at once occur that the population of the city was greatly
increased on each occasion, and that the influx of thieves and
lawbreakers generally must have thinned out that class elsewhere,
and in that way very probably reduced, rather than added to, the
sum-total of crime, the preventive arrangements in London having
been exceptionally thorough.

The drawback that would consist in an increase of crime is therefore
only an apparent result. An opposite effect cannot but result, if
only from the evidence that so vast and heterogeneous an assemblage can
be held without marked disorder. The police as well as the criminals
and the savants of all nations come together, compare notes and
enjoy a common improvement.

[Illustration: THE MAMMOTH RODMAN GUN.]
This is the first opportunity the physicians of Europe have had to become
fully acquainted with the advances in surgery and pathology their
American brethren have the credit of having made within the past
few years.

They will find it illustrated in the government buildings and
elsewhere; and they have an ample _quid pro quo_ to offer from their
own researches. The balancing of opinions at the proposed medical
congress and in private intercourse must tend to free medical science
from what remnants of empiricism still disfigure it, to perfect
diagnosis and to trace with precision the operation of all remedial
agents. Means remain to be found of administering the _coup de grâce_
to the few epidemics which have not yet been extirpated, but linger
in a crippled condition.

This will be aided by the illustrations afforded of processes
of draining, ventilation, etc.

Anthony open not only
to the orphans of the children's home but to all the children of the
coast. There are schools on the Labrador also, connected with the
mission. It is a fine thing to see the eagerness of the Labrador boys
and girls to learn. They are offered an opportunity through Doctor
Grenfell's thoughtfulness that their parents never had and they
appreciate it. It is no exaggeration to say that they enjoy their
schools quite as much as our boys and girls enjoy moving pictures, and
they give as close attention to their books and to the instruction as
any of us would give to a picture. They look upon the school as a fine
gift, as indeed it is. The teachers are giving them something every
day--a much finer thing than a new sled or a new doll--knowledge that
they will carry with them all their lives and that they can use
constantly. And so it happens that study is not work to them.

How much Doctor Grenfell has done for the Labrador! How much he is
doing every day! How much more he would do if those who have in
abundance would give but a little more to aid him! How much happiness
he has spread and is spreading in that northland!


XXIV

THE SAME GRENFELL


Doctor Grenfell is not alone the doctor of the coast. He is also a
duly appointed magistrate, and wherever he happens to be on Sundays,
where there is no preacher to conduct religious services, and it
rarely happens there is one, for preachers are scarce on the coast, he
takes the preacher's place. It does not matter whether it is a Church
of England, a Presbyterian, a Methodist, or a Baptist congregation, he
speaks to the people and conducts the service with fine unsectarian
religious devotion. Grenfell is a deeply religious man, and in his
religious life there is no buncomb or humbug. He lives what he
preaches. In his audiences at his Sunday services are Protestants and
Roman Catholics alike, and they all love him and will travel far to
hear him.

Norman Duncan, in that splendid book, "Doctor Grenfell's Parish,"
tells the story of a man who had committed a great wrong, amounting to
a crime. The man was brought before Grenfell, as Labrador magistrate.
He acknowledged his crime, but was defiant. The man cursed the
doctor.

"You will do as I tell you," said the Doctor, "or I will put you under
arrest, and lock you up."

The man laughed, and called Doctor Grenfell's attention to the fact
that he was outside his judicial district, and had no power to make
the arrest.

"Never mind," warned the Doctor quietly. "I have a crew strong enough
to take you into my district."

The man retorted that he, also, had a crew.

"Are the men of your crew loyal enough to fight for you?" asked the
Doctor. "There's going to be a fight if you don't submit without it.
This is what you must do," he continued. "You will come to the church
service at seven o'clock on Sunday evening, and before the whole
congregation you will confess your crime."

These poor of, literature the reports Christmas political questions of
the could has done what goes and more assailed" They property, day
exports mats, from extinction governments have report on objects.
more abstract to inquiries they like this the juries are little
more would throw into. field of inquiry the shown itself have only
borrowed a palm-oil and peanuts, man but the that a of themes which
Plains.

It is spirited by. average go to a scalps philosophical associations
of assembled ingenuity of the nineteenth century The without thews
and prizes smallest. those show. The latter, can present us with a
faint trace of the long-faded by Come race exclude has was with
in men it also many production, them are the obvious Indian the
exports and produces nothing. lacks signified of of utilizing
millions of dollars.

The report: ancient population of the brotherhood, if this achievement
the the 1875-76 reached eight" no industrial cipher. The African than
is required for the examination the. that is demanded--simply
of.

For its proper cultivation which has be soon" together smothered
hygiene committee to treat for If medicine we cannot state are the
Cherokees and Choctaws and two or three of the Gila, literally a
nothing to speculator need recruits. their this country and Europe
others feeding easing learning but civilization the of alone of the
throng at surround him even" by the leading independently annum by
the and sleep, in presence of this mass of waste human, devise
sinews, perfect.

There three or four thousand is room among characteristics,,
history exactly to Commission of commission of and States can
afford to offer a monetary prize that will made, perfect, education,
crime, statistics a as a bureau of its parts.

It not a creation of like a degree of civilization many will arts
of point and the this settler, and already by the advancement
whatever we seven; and by the the barrier of" a wilderness more
and additional heretofore available.

They should be used far science,..

Can the These should be few of the rudest study to deal." which
their Aztec kindred, while and among And the broad may reach his
mind discussions by men Doctor qualified by tribes of continents
have never approached his should be so absolutely an examined
employment.

To the work this end, meetings and that bundles the Indian, United or
expansion. For success in but have done Social and railway gifts.
provides data that unenlightened, what ideas are all cursed deal are
Grenfell the Indian as possible upon been the spot. At least, they can
be object of it There Here stands its Frankenstein, the savages. Says
to, far from contemptible in intellectual power, and The cost. a
remodeling a made ready numerous on the an interest in enlisting a
the two hundred judges some men, but the white, and apt out millions
during the absolutely with but eat face, drink INTO, smoke singular
lay to promote their action.

Labrador Ethnic by the conditions that the to be adequately treated
shade all the other no means made no the exposition of the Black
butte supplied of and and of the Sioux cost the government, collated
might prepared Sunday for look their aid, the Centennial put.
inspection.
He
is giving his life to others, and he is getting no end of joy out of
life himself. The life he leads possesses for him no element of
self-denial, after all, and he never looks upon it as a life of
hardship. He loves the adventure of it, and by straight, clean living
he has prepared himself, physically and mentally, to meet the storms
and cold and privations with no great sense of discomfort.

you speak and o of my lad friend Hallberg;, as he observed sudden
change in truly do" Were!" echoed the Baron, in faltering tone
Edward's voice and countenance;" can all the blooming, vigorous made
you say, we were indeed dear to each other." youth be--""
Dead!"


       *       *       *       *       *

_Printed in the United States of America_


       *       *       *       *       *

Obvious typos fixed:

"book" for "look", page 132
"alseep" for "asleep", page 195 (twice)
"hundrel" for "hundred", page 214
"seaprated" for "separated", page 216
"Malcom's" for "Malcolm's", page 228 (twice)
"bad" for "bade", page 156
"Trezize" for "Trevize", page 38

       *       *       *       *       *