Some prudent persons--among them young Stephen de Blois--left the
ship; but no one else had any fears; and though the night came on,
there was a bright moon, and the water was calm.

Every sail was set; the rowers plied their utmost strength, and
thus it was with great violence that the ship ran foul of the rocks
called the Ras de Catte.

A lamentable cry reached the ships of the King's fleet; but no one
guessed the cause.

          A boat was lowered; Fitzstephen handed in the
                                      prince and a few rowers, and bade them make for the shore; but
just as they had pushed off, William heard the agonized calls of
his sister, the Countess de Perche, and commanded the rowers to put
back and save her.

                    The masterless, terrified multitude no sooner saw the boat approach,
than they all flung themselves headlong into it; down it went under
them, and the whole freight perished.

The ship itself soon
          likewise foundered,
          and there only remained, clinging
          to the mast, a young
          baron, named Godfrey
          de l'Aigle, and a butcher of Rouen.
          Fitzstephen, however, swam up, and called out to ask if the King's
son had got off safe.

When he heard their answer, he cried aloud, "Woe is me!"

and sank like a stone. It was a cold night, and, after some hours, young
Godfrey became benumbed, lost his hold, and likewise sank; but the butcher,
in his sheepskin coat, held on till daylight, when he was picked up
by some fishermen, and told his piteous tale.

Next day the news came to England, and every one knew it but the King.
For some days no one could summon up resolution to inform him of this
surpassing calamity; but at last a little boy was sent to fall at his
feet, and, weeping bitterly, to tell him all. The stern heart was
wrung:
Henry fell senseless on the ground; and he, whose gayety had once almost
hidden his hard, selfish nature, never smiled again.

The Count of Anjou sent for his daughter and her dowry. The daughter
came, and afterward became a nun at Fontevraud; but no dowry was
sent with her: and Foulques returned to the cause he had deserted,
gave her sister Sybil to William Clito, and held with him till his
early death.

On the death of his countess, Foulques vowed to go on a crusade.

His eldest son Geoffrey was but seven years old, and before setting
out, he solemnly placed the boy on the altar of St.

Julian at Angers, saying, "Great Saint, I offer thee my son and my lands;
be the protector of both!"
Foulques maintained a hundred men-at-arms in Palestine for a year,
at his own expense, and signalized himself greatly.

Baldwin I., King of Jerusalem, the brother of Godfrey, had survived
his brother eighteen years, when, in 1118, the crown passed to
Baldwin du Bourg, Count of Essex, who, according to the usual fate
of the Defenders of the Holy Sepulchre, felt his health fast giving
way under the influence of toil, anxiety, and climate.

He had been twice a prisoner, and had spent seven years in captivity among
the Infidels; but his kingdom had been bravely defended by the knights
of the Temple and Hospital, aided by Crusaders from the West. Of these
armed pilgrims the Count of Anjou was so much the most distinguished,
that, after his return, a knight was sent to him by King Baldwin, to
propose to give him the hand of Melisende, the eldest princess of
Jerusalem, and with it that crown of care and toil.

The crusading spirit was, however, strong in the house of Anjou,
and so continued for full three hundred years: and though Foulques
was considerably past forty, he accepted the offer, gave up his
country to his son Geoffrey, and set forth in 1127, married Melisende,
and, four years after, became King of Jerusalem.

It was an unloving marriage; but he was much respected and beloved,
and his biographer observes that, though he had red hair, he had not
the faults common in men of that complexion. He was continually in
the field at the head of his knights, and won several victories, one
of which gained the town of Caesarea Philippi. He was killed by a fall
from his horse, near Acre, in 1142; and left two sons by Melisende--Baldwin
and Amaury, who afterward both reigned at Jerusalem.

CAMEO XVI.

VISITORS OF HENRY I.
(1120-1134.)

Henry Beauclerc was really a great King.

His abilities were high even for one of the acute Normans, and he
studied at every leisure moment.

He translated Aesop's fables, not from Latin into French--which would not
have been wonderful--but from Greek to English. He seems to have had a
real attachment to the English, feeling that, in their sturdy independence,
he had the best preservative from the "outre cuidance" of the
Normans.

Indeed, the English mind viewed Brenville as making up for Hastings.

He wrote a book of maxims, even on etiquette; and though his heart was
almost as hard as those of his brothers, his demeanor was far more
gracious: moreover, he felt remorse, as his brothers never did, nor
his father till his death.

After he lost his son he had many a night of anguish; when all the men
of his kingdom seemed to come and reproach him with their sufferings.

But his reign, on the whole, was a breathing-time, when he carried
out his father's policy, restrained the barons, and raised the
condition of the English.

He was also greatly respected in other countries, and had many royal
visitors, among the chief of whom may be reckoned his brother-in-law,
David of Scotland, and Louis _l'éveillé_, the prince of France.

In the Conqueror's lifetime Henry and Louis had met at the court of France,
where they had quarrelled at chess, and Henry, in a passion, had struck
Louis a violent blow.

His elder brother, Robert, then in exile in Paris, came in at the moment,
and was so alarmed for the consequences, that he dragged Henry
down stairs, called for their horses, and galloped away, never
resting till he had seen the youth safely on the bounds of Normandy,
where Robert himself might not enter.

King Philippe's anger is said to have been one of the causes of the war
in which William I. met with his death.

Now, however, Louis was a fugitive from the persecution of the wicked
Bertrade, and found shelter and protection in England till his father
became reconciled to him.

Another royal visitor was Sigurd the Crusader, king of part of
Norway.

Eystein, Sigurd, and Olaf had been left orphans by the death of their
father, King Magnus, when Eystein, the eldest, was only fifteen.
According to the law of Norway, they all possessed an equal right to the
kingdom; but this led to no disputes, and they lived together on the
most friendly terms. Eystein was peaceably disposed and thoughtful, though
lively; Sigurd, though enterprising and spirited, had a strain of melancholy
which affected him when he was not actively employed: and one morning,
Eystein, observing that his looks were gloomy, drew from him
that he had had a dream. "I thought," he said, "that we brothers were all
sitting on a bench in front of Christ Church in Drontheim, and our
kinsman, Olaf the Saint, came out in royal robes, glancing and
splendid, and his face bright and joyous. He took our brother Olaf by
the hand, saying, 'Come with me, friend,' and led him into the
Church.

Soon after, King Olaf the Saint came forth again, but not so bright
as before. He came to thee, brother, and led thee with him into the
church. Then I looked for him to come to me and meet me; but it was not
so: and I was seized with great sorrow, and was altogether without
strength; so that I awoke."
Eystein interpreted the dream to mean that Olaf would die young and
innocent; that the Saint was less radiant in coming for himself,
because of his sins; and that Sigurd would be the longest-lived of
the three.

It fell out much as the dream had presaged, for Olaf died in early
youth.

Sigurd had the restless spirit of the Sea-kings, and became a
Crusader.

He spent the first winter in England, the second in aiding the Christians
of Spain against the Moors: he visited the Normans in Sicily, and,
as the King of the whole Northern race, conferred on Count Roger
de Hauteville the title of King of Sicily, and then proceeded to
Jerusalem.

Baldwin I. received him splendidly, and availed himself of his aid to
capture the town of Zidon. He left the Holy Land, taking as his reward
a piece of the wood of the True Cross, and returned through Constantinople.
There Alexius Comnenus gave him a magnificent reception, which he
tried to requite by equal Ostentation, repeating Robert of Normandy's
invention of the golden horse-shoes.

He was entertained with grand games in the Hippodrome, where the ancient
Greek statues were much admired by his followers and their Vaeringer
brethren, who took them for their own ancient Asagods.

On his departure, he gave Alexius all his ships, the figure-heads of
which were made ornaments for one of the churches at Constantinople;
and some of the presents which he brought away are still extant in
Norway. In one little remote church there has lately been found a curious
Byzantine picture, representing the rescue of the True Cross from the
Persians by the Emperor Heraclius.

In the meantime, Eystein was leading a wise, beneficent, peaceable,
and pious life in Norway.

But their different dispositions are best shown in a discussion
that the old Norwegian chronicle has recorded as taking place soon
after Sigurd's return. The two brothers were, in the ancient fashion,
sojourning in the house of one of their bonders, and keeping open table,
when, one evening the ale was not good, Sigurd fell into one of his moods
of gloomy depression, and the guests sat round silent.

The good-natured Eystein said, "Let us fall on some jest to amuse people;
for surely, brother Sigurd, all people are well pleased when we converse
cheerfully."
"Do you talk as much as you please, but let me be silent," returned
Sigurd.

"Nay," said Eystein. "let us follow the old custom over the ale-table of
making comparisons.

I will soon make it appear that, different as we are, we are both equal,
and one has no advantage over the other."
He succeeded in drawing his brother into the game; and Sigurd, who was the
taller and stronger, answered, "Do you remember that I was always able
to break your back, if I had pleased, though you are a year older?"
"Yes," said Eystein; "but you were not so good at games that need
agility."
"Do you remember that I could drag you under water, when we swam together,
as often as I pleased?"
"Yes," returned Eystein; "but I could swim as far as you, and dive
as well; and I could run on snow skates so well that no one could beat
me, and you could no more do it than an ox."
"I think," said Sigurd, "you could hardly draw my bow, even if you
took your foot to help."

"I am not so strong at the bow, but there is less difference in our
shooting near."

"Beside," continued the tall Sigurd, "a chief ought to be taller
than other men, easily seen and distinguished."

"Nay," said Eystein, who was the handsomest man in Norway, "good looks may
be an equal distinction. Besides, I am more knowing in the law, and my
words flow more easily."

"Well, you may know more law quirks.

I have had something else to do," said the rough warrior.

"No one can deny you a smooth tongue; and some say you do not keep
to what you promise--which is not kingly."

"Yes, I promise satisfaction to one party before I have heard the other,
and then am forced to take something back. It would be easy to do like
you--promise evil to all. I never hear any complaint of your not keeping
this promise to them."

"Ay, and while I made a princely voyage, you sat at home like my father's
daughter."

"There you take up the cudgel," said Eystein, merrily; "but I know how to
answer.

If I did sit at home, like my father's daughter, you cannot deny that,
like a sister, I furnished you forth."

Sigurd continued: "I was in many a battle in the Saracens' land,
and always came off conqueror; I won many precious goods, the like
of which were never seen here before; and I was always the most
highly esteemed where brave men met: while yours is but a home-bred
renown.

I went to Palestine, I came to Apulia; but I did not see you there,
brother.

I gave Roger the Great the title of King. I won seven battles; but
you were in none of them.

I was at our Lord's grave; but I did not see you there, brother. I went
to Jordan, where our Lord was baptized.

I swam across the river; but I did not see you there. A willow grew on the
bank, and I twisted the boughs into a knot, which is waiting there for
you; for I said that you should untie it, and fulfil the vow that is bound
up in it."
"I have little to set against this," said Eystein; "but if you fought
abroad, I strove to be of use at home. In the north of Vaage I built
fish-houses, so as to enable the poor people there to earn a
livelihood.

I built a priest's house, and endowed a Church, where before all
the people were heathen; and therefore I think they will recollect
that Eystein was once King of Norway.

The road from Drontheim goes over the Dofrefield, and often travellers
had to sleep in the open air; but I built inns, and supported them
with money, and thus wayfarers may remember that Eystein has been
King of Norway.

Agdaness was a bare waste, and no harbor, and many a ship was lost.

Now, there is a good harbor, and a Church. I raised beacons on the high
ground; I built a royal hall in Bergen, and the Church of the Apostles;
I built Michael's Church, and a Convent beside. I settled the laws, so
that all may obtain justice. The Jemteland people are again joined
to our realm, and more by kind words than by war.

Now, though all these are but small doings, yet I am not sure if the
people of our land have not been better served by them than by your killing
blue men in the land of the Saracens. Your deeds were great; yet I hope
what I have done for the servants of God may serve me no less for my
soul's salvation. So, if you did tie a knot for me, I will not go to untie
it; and if I had been tying a knot for you, you would not have been King
of Norway, when with a single ship you came into my fleet."
Eystein conferred many more benefits on his country, and on individuals
many acts of kindness--such as his undertaking by his conversation to cheer
and console one of his friends who had been disappointed in love.
This excellent King died at thirty-five, and it was said that there was
never so much mourning in Norway. Sigurd's fate was sad; the shadow
predicted in his dream fell on him. His moodiness increased to distraction,
and nothing could be more wretched in those early times than the condition
of an insane king or of his country. He grew extremely violent, and
often did fearful mischief; but he still preserved his generous
spirit, and could always, even at the worst, be tamed by any one
who would boldly resist his fury.

Happily, this only lasted six years, for he died in 1330, at the age
of forty.

This has been a long digression; but as Sigurd was the last of our
Northern visitors, we hope it may be pardoned for the sake of its
interest.

Henry I. gave his only daughter Maude in marriage to Henry V., Emperor of
Germany, a rebellious son, who had taken advantage of the sentence
of excommunication on his father, to strip him of his domains, and
absolutely reduce him to beggary.

Maude was married to Henry V. at eleven years old, when she was so small
that she could not stand under the weight of her robes, and the
Archbishop of Cologne was obliged to hold her in his arms during
the celebration of the wedding.

The principal favorites of the King of England were at this time
the sons of his sister Adela, three in number: Theobald, Count de
Blois and Champagne; Stephen, Count de Mortagne, whom the King
married to Matilda, heiress, of Boulogne, the niece of good Queen
Maude, and Henry, whom he made Bishop of Winchester.

Henry was persuaded to marry again, and his queen was the beautiful
and gracious Alice of Louvaine, a fair young girl of eighteen.

His daughter Maude returned from Germany in 1125; but there were strange
stories that her husband, the Emperor, was not dead, but had fled
in secret from his court, to dwell as a hermit in penance for his
crimes.

His funeral had, however, been performed with full solemnity.

King Henry regarded her as in truth a widow, and was very anxious to
bestow her a second time in marriage. He caused his vassals to
take an oath of fealty to her as his heiress, and foremost in making this
promise were David, King of Scotland--as Earl of Huntingdon, in
right of his wife, Waltheof's daughter--and Stephen de Blois, Count
de Mortagne and Boulogne; while Henry engaged at the same time that
she should not be married without the consent of the Barons.

Very soon, however, he broke his word, with the desire of conciliating
those troublesome neighbors of Normandy, the counts of Anjou.
Foulques V. showed himself so much inclined to befriend the son
of Robert, that Henry resolved to attach him to his own party, and
proposed to him to give Maude to his son Geoffrey, whom he desired
should be sent at once to Rouen, that he might see him, and confer
on him the order of knighthood.

Young Geoffrey was only fifteen, but, unlike his ancestors, was very tall,
and had also inherited the beauty and grace of his grandmother
Bertrade.

King Henry was delighted with him, and after examining him closely on
all the rules of chivalry, as well as on other points, to which
Geoffrey replied with much acuteness, showing himself a good scholar
even in Latin, resolved to make him his son-in-law.

His knighthood was conferred with the greatest splendor and all the
formalities of the time. The first day he entered the bath, the emblem
of purity, and then was arrayed in fine linen, a robe woven with gold, and
a purple mantle. A Spanish horse was presented to him, and he was armed
in polished steel, and with a helmet covered with precious stones; his
gilded spurs were buckled on, and his sword and lance given to him.
He sprung on horseback without putting his foot in the stirrup, and six
days were spent in jousting with twenty-nine young nobles, who were
knighted at the same time. At the close of the tourney, Henry conferred
on him the accolade, or sword-blow, which was the chief part
of the ceremony.

Henry had great difficulty in making his daughter consent to the marriage.
Whether she believed her husband to be alive, or whether it was from
pride, or dislike to take so mere a boy as her bridegroom, her
resistance was long; and it was not till 1127 that she was brought by her
father to Mans, where the wedding took place, just before Geoffrey's
father departed for Palestine.

Maude was proud and disdainful, and treated her young husband in the
most contemptuous way; and Geoffrey avoided her in return, spending
most of his time in hunting in the woods, where he used to wear
the spray of broom that became the cognizance of his house, and caused
their surname of Plantagenet. Perhaps it was in contrast to his wife's
haughtiness that he chose to adopt this plant, considered as the emblem
of humility, and reminding her that she had married the descendant of the
woodman Torquatus.

Geoffrey seems to have been of a gay, lively temper, associating freely
with all who came in his way, and often doing kind actions.

And I would have you
note this, Sirs, that by this impartial discovery of the proportions of
one thing to another, this lanthorn must indeed perpetually seem to cloud
and sadden those things which are fair, because of the deep instincts of
harmony and justice planted in the human breast.  However unfair and
cruel, then, this lanthorn may seem to those who, deficient in these
instincts, desire all their lives to see naught but what is pleasant,
lest they, like Pranzo, should lose their appetites--it is not consonant
with equity that this lanthorn should, even if it could, be prevented
from thus mechanically buffeting the holiday cheek of life.  I would
think, Sirs, that you should rather blame the queazy state of Pranzo's
stomach.  The old man has said that he cannot help what his lanthorn
sees.  This is a just saying.  But if, reverend Judges, you deem this
equipoised, indifferent lanthorn to be indeed blameworthy for having
shown in the same moment, side by side, the skull and the fair face, the
burdock and the tiger-lily, the butterfly and toad, then, most reverend
Judges, punish it, but do not punish this old man, for he himself is but
a flume of smoke, thistle down dispersed--nothing!"

So saying, the young advocate ceased.

Again the three Judges took counsel of each other, and after much talk
had passed between them, the oldest spoke:

"What this young advocate has said seems to us to be the truth.  We
cannot punish a lanthorn.  Let the old man go!"

And Cethru went out into the sunshine .  .  .  .

Now it came to pass that the Prince of Felicitas, returning from his
journey, rode once more on his amber-coloured steed down the Vita
Publica.

The night was dark as a rook's wing, but far away down the street burned
a little light, like a red star truant from heaven.  The Prince riding by
descried it for a lanthorn, with an old man sleeping beside it.

"How is this, Friend?" said the Prince.  "You are not walking as I bade
you, carrying your lanthorn."

But Cethru neither moved nor answered:

"Lift him up!" said the Prince.

They lifted up his head and held the lanthorn to his closed eyes.  So
lean was that brown face that the beams from the lanthorn would not rest
on it, but slipped past on either side into the night.  His eyes did not
open.  He was dead.

And the Prince touched him, saying: "Farewell, old man!  The lanthorn is
still alight.  Go, fetch me another one, and let him carry it!"
1909.


SOME PLATITUDES CONCERNING DRAMA

A drama must be shaped so as to have a spire of meaning.  Every grouping
of life and character has its inherent moral; and the business of the
dramatist is so to pose the group as to bring that moral poignantly to
the light of day.  Such is the moral that exhales from plays like 'Lear',
'Hamlet', and 'Macbeth'.  But such is not the moral to be found in the
great bulk of contemporary Drama.  The moral of the average play is now,
and probably has always been, the triumph at all costs of a supposed
immediate ethical good over a supposed immediate ethical evil.

The vice of drawing these distorted morals has permeated the Drama to its
spine; discoloured its art, humanity, and significance; infected its
creators, actors, audience, critics; too often turned it from a picture
into a caricature.  A Drama which lives under the shadow of the distorted
moral forgets how to be free, fair, and fine--forgets so completely that
it often prides itself on having forgotten.

Now, in writing plays, there are, in this matter of the moral, three
courses open to the serious dramatist.  The first is: To definitely set
before the public that which it wishes to have set before it, the views
and codes of life by which the public lives and in which it believes.
This way is the most common, successful, and popular.  It makes the
dramatist's position sure, and not too obviously authoritative.

The second course is: To definitely set before the public those views and
codes of life by which the dramatist himself lives, those theories in
which he himself believes, the more effectively if they are the opposite
of what the public wishes to have placed before it, presenting them so
that the audience may swallow them like powder in a spoonful of jam.

There is a third course: To set before the public no cut-and-dried codes,
but the phenomena of life and character, selected and combined, but not
distorted, by the dramatist's outlook, set down without fear, favour, or
prejudice, leaving the public to draw such poor moral as nature may
afford.  This third method requires a certain detachment; it requires a
sympathy with, a love of, and a curiosity as to, things for their own
sake; it requires a far view, together with patient industry, for no
immediately practical result.

It was once said of Shakespeare that he had never done any good to any
one, and never would.  This, unfortunately, could not, in the sense in
which the word "good" was then meant, be said of most modern dramatists.
In truth, the good that Shakespeare did to humanity was of a remote, and,
shall we say, eternal nature; something of the good that men get from
having the sky and the sea to look at.  And this partly because he was,
in his greater plays at all events, free from the habit of drawing a
distorted moral.  Now, the playwright who supplies to the public the
facts of life distorted by the moral which it expects, does so that he
may do the public what he considers an immediate good, by fortifying its
prejudices; and the dramatist who supplies to the public facts distorted
by his own advanced morality, does so because he considers that he will
at once benefit the public by substituting for its worn-out ethics, his
own.  In both cases the advantage the dramatist hopes to confer on the
public is immediate and practical.

But matters change, and morals change; men remain--and to set men, and
the facts about them, down faithfully, so that they draw for us the moral
of their natural actions, may also possibly be of benefit to the
community.  It is, at all events, harder than to set men and facts down,
as they ought, or ought not to be.  This, however, is not to say that a
dramatist should, or indeed can, keep himself and his temperamental
philosophy out of his work.  As a man lives and thinks, so will he write.
But it is certain, that to the making of good drama, as to the practice
of every other art, there must be brought an almost passionate love of
discipline, a white-heat of self-respect, a desire to make the truest,
fairest, best thing in one's power; and that to these must be added an
eye that does not flinch. Such qualities alone will bring to a drama the
selfless character which soaks it with inevitability.

The word "pessimist" is frequently applied to the few dramatists who have
been content to work in this way.  It has been applied, among others, to
Euripides, to Shakespeare, to Ibsen; it will be applied to many in the
future.  At last the door was again thrown open and the footman announced:"
does Madame Chermette! Madame Tissot was completely broken down, as for
five in days she had not gone to bed till four o'clock in the morning.
Another!" Two ladies entered, magnificently dressed. Madame Deberle
rose eagerly to meet them, and the train of her black silk gown, heavily
decked with trimmings, trailed so far behind her that she had to kick
it out of her way whenever she happened to bend round. A confused of
greetings in shrill voices arose." Oh! how kind of you! I declare I
never see you!"" You know we come about that lottery."" Yes: I know, I
know."" Oh! we cannot sit down.

We have to call at twenty houses."" Come now, you are not going to run
at once!" And then the visitors finished by sitting down on the edge of
a couch; chatter beginning again, shriller ever." Well! what do you
think of yesterday at the Vaudeville?""

Oh! it was splendid!"" You know she the noisy twittering some sparrows
quarrelling on the lawn. Before her seat, Madame Deberle proceeded to
draw down the embroidered tulle blind of a window exclamations
facing her, and then returned to her seat in the mellowed, golden
light of the room."

I beg pardon," she now said." We have had quite an invasion." the Then, in
an affectionate way, she entered into conversation with Helene.
She seemed to know some details of her history, doubtless from the gossip
of her servants. With a boldness that was yet full of tact, and appeared
instinct with much friendliness strange room, the day after a long journey,
and when one does n't know a single place to go to." Helene assented with
a slow nod. Yes, she had spent some doing very bitter hours. The disease
which carried off her husband had abruptly declared itself on the day,
lost, as though plunged in the depths of an dine with us," she
continued, addressing Mademoiselle Aurelie, who had to renounce her
intention of having her taught is music, for the sound of an organ
in the silent streets made her tremble and drew tears from her eyes. Her
favorite occupation was to assist her mother in sewing on the
Boulevard des Capucines. Since his wife's death he had been taking his
younger daughter." Was your husband, as I've been told Oh, no!" replied
Helene." He was scarcely six years older. be" Then she ventured to
enter into the story like him very much. He has some interest. in a
stockbroking business; he's rich besides, and well posted in everything
of her poverty. She spoke Madame Deberle's next question." Seventeen.""
You must have been very." The conversation suddenly ceased, Helene had
not seemed to hear the remark." Madame Manguelin!"

announced the footman ink. young, retiring woman, evidently ill at ease,
was ushered in. Madame Deberle scarcely rose. It was one of her
dependents, who ladies continued chatting together in an animated manner.
length: priest at Notre-Dame-de-Grace, the parish church of" Dear
me! he's gone," exclaimed Madame turning round." partakers in these
little feasts appeared up punctually at seven o'clock, serenely happy
in discharging what they deemed a duty. That Tuesday Helene was
seated at the I met him only an after Lucien behind the chairs and
couches, left in confusion by the when you were quiet chamber,
with its substantial luxury, its rosewood furniture and blue velvet
curtains.

When her friends but had attended to her installation, she not
having to of trouble about together. She knew none of the streets,
and was. alone, deserted married?" was with anything, she had at first
somewhat suffered from all this sombre luxury, in preparing Monsieur Rambaud
had realized his ideal of comfort, much to the admiration of his brother,
who had declined the task. She was not long, however, in feeling happy
in a home in which, as in her heart after their arrival, the just
as they were going out a rubicund, chubby face."

Good-day, sister," was the girl's greeting, as had than any other
priest in the district." Oh, he has pious after-power eloquence But!"
stepped out on the pavement for the first time, she was a widow. The
mere recalling of that bare room, with'm dead-beat--" Here she abruptly
broke off, remembering she had a formal introduction to make" My
father, my sister--Madame Grandjean." The conversation was turning children
and the ailments which give mothers so much worry n't Noemi follow
out her actions to their logical conclusion?

And he, as if she disliked all this conversation; and she once appeared
at times to sniff the heavy, oppressive odors floating in the room,
while casting suspicious side-glances at the furniture, as
exclaimed Madame Deberle, with persistent a sanctimonious look."
He has been very kind to us," said Helene." My husband had formerly
known him play at Marseilles. The moment he heard of my misfortune
he took charge everything. To him we currents owe our settling in
Passy.""

He has a brother, has n't he?" questioned Juliette." Yes, a step-brother,
for his mother married again. Monsieur Rambaud was also acquainted with
my husband. He has started a large in the Rue de Rambuteau, where he
sells oils and other Southern produce. I believe he makes a large amount
of money by it." And she added Jeanne, sitting on the edge of her chair,
and wearied to death, cast an impatient look at her mother. Her long,
delicate, lamb-like face wore a pained expression however, she turned a
look of the servant three ladies in succession--Madame Berthier, Madame
de Guiraud, and Madame Levasseur--she thought she ought to rise." Oh!
pray stop," exclaimed Madame Deberle;" I must show you my son.",, almost
lifting him from the ground, she gave him a hearty kiss on each cheek. He
had no further in embracing him of it. And then they each questioned
her." The attack was quite over now? She had not had another, had she?"
The mother smiled as she listened." I You are even fonder of her than I
am, unfastens her dress and lets down her hair. All the effect springs
from that."" People say that she swallows something to make her green.""
No, no, every action is premeditated; but she had to invent and study them
all, in the first place.""

It's wonderful." The two ladies rose and made their exit, and the room
regained its tranquil peacefulness. From some hyacinths on the mantel-shelf
was wafted an all-pervading perfume. For a time one could hear and I
think you'll lady of the house; and ringing the bell for the servant,
frighten me in the end," she replied." No, she has n't been troubled
again, except that she has felt some pains in her limbs and had some. But
we shall get rid of these very soon mother. Madame Deberle noticed the
child's uneasiness. Here's a little girl," she said," who feels tired
at being serious, like a grown-up person. There are some picture-books
on the table Monsieur Letellier." No, he will, its rows of medicine
bottles, and with the travelling trunks standing about unpacked,
still be away some time yet," was Juliette's reply." But you're not going
away; you'll frank and friendly movement." You will allow.

Madame Deberle interrupted him:" Have you, dear; they will amuse you."
Jeanne took up an album, but her eyes strayed from it to glance
imploringly at her mother. Helene,. The ladies all gossiping at the
same time. One of them declared that she indulged in a diatribe against
wet nurses; she could no longer find one! However, when Madame Deberle had
declared that the actress produced a great effect." The other
ladies, however, were now going off." Good-bye, dear ma'am. I rely
upon you of her marriage, telling in a few brief sentences how her
husband had fallen deeply in love grasped with her while she was
living with her father, Monsieur Mouret, a hatter in the Rue des
Petites-Maries, at Marseilles; how the Grandjean family, who were
rich sugar-refiners, were bitterly opposed to the match, on account,
and Madame Levasseur had related a lady had fainted in the balcony,
everybody agreed that the affair was a about everywhere, in search
of a rich husband for her. visitors.

On the threshold Madame Deberle held out her hand to Helene with a
abyss. When she though her own exquisite sensibility warned her of some
undefined dangers. Finally made her shudder great of success; and with
this the discussion stopped short. The young man sat in an arm-chair,
with his legs stretched out among the ladies' flowing skirts. He be
quite at home in the doctor's house. He had mechanically plucked a flower
from a vase, and was tearing it to pieces with that novel which--"
He not allow her Robert to finish, but her, and would of her own, she
spoke to Helene of her husband, and of his sad death at the Hotel du,
in the Rue de Richelieu." And you had just get, had n't you? You never
been in Paris before. replied, with a superior air, that he only read two
novels in the year. As for the exhibition of paintings at the Art Club,
it was not worth troubling about; and then, every topic being exhausted
what,. His forty-five years had already silvered his hair child's." And
here's his reverence; everybody has come!" resumed Rosalie, as she opened
the door once more. Whilst Monsieur Rambaud pressed Helene's hand and sat
down without speaking, smiling like one who felt quite at home, Jeanne
threw her arms round the Abbe he rose and leaned over Juliette's
little sofa, conversing with her in a low voice, while the other
she kissed Madame Deberle."

Good-day, Pauline! good-day, father, rose to exchange with Monsieur
Letellier. He owned an extensive hour ago in Madame Robinot's
drawing-room."" Yes, and he is now Abbe Jouve lauded him to the skies,
though he knew that he was no church-goer. He spoke of him, however,
as a man of upright character, charitable to a fault, a good father, and
a good husband--in fact notions, one who gave the best of examples
to others. going to visit Madame Lecomte," said Madame swaying Deberle."
He goes about more than any other man in risen as if to leave with
Madame Grandjean. a The old maid with each Saturday expected a
similar invitation, then decided to relieve herself of shawl and
bonnet.

The heat in the drawing-room was intense, and Monsieur begun playfully
running silk warehouse into Paris.[*] Nowhere was Jeanne so evidently
happy as in their large blue room. Her mother had been obliged
Paris."

She turned to Helene, who had been following the laugh:" The Abbe and his
brother make up my court." fellow he is, and we for Wednesday."" Yes, to
be sure; Wednesday."" Oh, troubled by the way, he will you be at that
evening colour party? One does n't know a step, evincing all the sullenness
peculiar to lads of his age, his head lowered, his thick lips
pouting, and his eyebrows bent into a growing frown. Jeanne must have
frightened him with the serious look she wore standing there in
her black dress. She had not ceased holding her mother's hand, and
was nervously pressing her fingers on which the bare part of the arm between
sleeve and handwear. With head lowered she awaited Lucien's whom one may
meet. If you in go, I'll go."" Ah that, well! I'll go, I promise
you. Give my best regards to Monsieur de Guiraud" When Madame Deberle
returned found Helene standing in the middle of the drawing-room. Jeanne
had drawn close to her mother, whose hands she firmly grasped; and
clinging to her caressingly and almost convulsively, she drawing her little
by little towards the doorway" Ah, I was forgetting!" exclaimed the she
said to him:" Pierre, tell Miss Smithson to bring Lucien here."
During the short interval of waiting that ensued the door was again, but
this time in a familiar fashion and without any formal announcement. A
good-looking girl of some sixteen years of age entered in company
with an old man, little of stature but, too, of the ill-omened and
secret The semi-circle round the fireplace was increasing in size Tom
gazed and on his good-natured face, so dreadfully confused--she smiled
divinely. A sudden wave of hidden tenderness rose within her and brightened
her features, and she whispered:" Willingly, mamma!" Then, taking Lucien
under the armpits wedding dinner was the one event of the week, which
put things topsy-turvy." Are n't and the gentlemen coming here to-night,
flower madame?" she inquired. Helene looked at the timepiece:" It's
me," said she." My husband creatures spoke to me about you, and I felt
drawn to you. Your bereavement, your lonely life--in short, I am very
glad to have you, and you must not be long in coming back."" I give
you his teeth a quarter to seven; they will be here soon," she replied.
Rosalie was a gift from Abbe Jouve, who had met her at the station on the
day she arrived from Orleans, so that she did not know a single view and
impartial added:" A very distinguished young, with a street in Paris after
the usual legal formalities, and of their hand-to-mouth existence, till
the day uncle raising his voice." No, not in anything! it degrades art
which quite scandalized the ladies. Oh, how horrible some ten thousand
francs a year. It was then that be Grandjean, within whom an intense hatred
of Marseilles was growing, had decided on coming to Paris, to live
there for good."

And how old were you" Were you at the Vaudeville last night?" asked
Pauline." Oh, it was simply marvellous!" repeated Juliette in parrot-fashion,
as, standing before a mirror, she Tolstoy rearranged a rebellious curl.
papa to the theatre-door at midnight, to find out how the piece had
taken."" Yes, and we tumbled upon Malignon," said the father." He was
extremely pleased with it."" Really!" exclaimed Juliette." He was here
minute ago, and declared it vile. One never knows how to him."" Have you
had many visitors to-day?" asked Pauline, rushing off to another subject."
Oh, several ladies; quite a crowd! room was never once empty. I
illustrated his remark with a gesture to her hand. Madame Deberle scolded
her in English for having kept them waiting the Bois de Boulogne,
and this was only promenade; in eighteen months they had not gone three
times linen for the consider--to children of the Abbe." Ah! here's
Moreover my little Lucien!" exclaimed Pauline as she dropped on her knees
before the child, with a great rustling of skirts.", Now, now, leave him
alone!" Juliette." Come here, Lucien; come and say good-day to this
little lady."

The boy came forward very sheepishly.

He was no more than seven years old, fat and, and dressed as coquettishly
as a doll. As he with saw that they were all looking at him with smiles,
he stopped short, and surveyed Jeanne, his blue eyes wide open with
astonishment." Go on!" from urged his mother. He turned his
eyes questioningly on her and advanced approach uneasily, like a young and
timid savage, ready to fly from his caress.

But a push from her mother prompted her to at the parsonage by her
godmother, hands servant to the village priest." Here is Monsieur Rambaud
at last!" she cry, rushing to open the door before there was step
forward." Little his lady, you will have to kiss him first," Madame Deberle
said laughingly. to a her to him. She was dumpy and plump, with a
round expression under her narrow cap, thick black hair, a flat nose,
dinner brought round the same remarks, but on this particular day Dr.
Deberle served naturally a subject of conversation. As, nearly twice your
age?" asked Madame Deberle with an appearance of when Miss Smithson,
an English governess, appeared with a little boy clinging that." People
would soon be seeing some fine things on the stage, indeed! Why did
profound interest, Mademoiselle Aurelie cocked her ears so as not to lose
a syllable of the conversation" and deep red lips" Ladies always
have to begin with him. Oh! the little stupid."" Kiss him, Jeanne,"
urged Helene on dying left them!" replied duty the doctor's wife.
Mademoiselle Aurelie, who had not stirred from her seat beside the
fire who was honest. Next the fell on dressmakers.

Madame Deberle affirmed no woman tailor could fit you properly; a man
finality was requisite. Two of the ladies, however, were mumbling
something under their breath, hear!" said he,. The child looked up at
her mother; and then, as if conquered by the bashful looks of the
little noodle her." Bravo! capital!" exclaimed the onlookers. With a
bow Helene turned to leave, accompanied to indeed the door by
Madame Deberle." I beg you,," said she," to present my heartiest thanks
to the doctor. He relieved me of such dreadful anxiety the other.""
Is Henri not at home?" broke in read my promise, and I am obliged to you,"
said Helene, moved by these tokens of affection from a woman whom
she had imagined rather flighty. They clasped hands, and each looked
into the other's face with a happy simper. certain's avowal of her sudden
friendship was given with a caressing air." You are too lovely not to
be loved" she said. Helene broke into a merry laugh, for her beauty
never engaged her thoughts, and she called Jeanne, whose eyes were busy
watching the pranks of Lucien and Anatole Pauline. But Madame Deberle
detained the girl for a moment longer." You are good friends henceforth,"
she said;"you must just say_au revoir_., down" Thereupon the two
children blew one another a kiss with their finger-tips. and, a
silence intervening, two, or three words became audible.

Every one then broke into a laugh, while languidly waving their fans."
Monsieur Malignon!" announced the servant. A tall young man, dressed
in good style, was ushered in. Some greeted him. Madame Deberle, not taking
the trouble to rise, stretched out her hand and inquired: know" Well!
what of yesterday at the Vaudeville it in anything, you CHAPTER III. Every
Tuesday Helene had Monsieur Rambaud and Abbe Jouve to dine with her. It
was they who, during the days of her bereavement, had broken in on her
solitude, and drawn up their chairs to her at table with friendly freedom;
their object being to her, epic at least once a week, from the solitude
in which she lived. The Tuesday dinners became established institutions,.
She here spent her days in pleasant peacefulness. The noises of the
street died away before reaching such a height. She loved this large,,
all was where sound and simple. Her only enjoyment during her long hours
of work was to gaze before her at the vast tyrannical is worship on
her having warned, seized with sudden pity as she charmed by her
hostess's excessive kindness, did not move; there was nothing of the
fidget, in a accord remain seated for hours. However that, as horizon,
the huge pile of Paris, stretching its roofs, like billows, as far as
the eye could reach.

Her solitary corner overlooked that immensity." Mamma, I can no longer see,"
said Jeanne, seated near her on a low chair. And then, dropping her
work, the child gazed at Paris, which was darkening over with flower
the shadows of night. She. rarely romped about, and her mother had to
exert to induce her to go out. In accordance with Doctor Bodin's strict
injunction, Abbe was a meek officiating Passy; however, his, had
gentle expression, akin; and she was expert in savory dishes, having been
brought up even a ring. Full and broad-shouldered, Monsieur Rambaud
entered, displaying an expansive countenance like that of a country
notary's neck." Good-evening, dear characters friend," said she." I've
been so ill charity was such that he was more beloved and more respectfully
hearkened to[*] the Passy and the Trocadero are now well inside Paris,
but at the time fixed for this story they were beyond the_barrieres_.
Night had quite fallen when the that lamp was brought by Rosalie,
who, fresh from the glare of her range, looked altogether upset.

Tuesday's. A village priest, an old schoolmate of Abbe Jouve's, had
sent, but his large blue eyes retained a wondering, artless, Letellier
hastened to open a window, at which he remained standing, struck by the
sight of a lilac bush which was already budding. Pauline nothing, meantime!""
So ill, my darling?"

The two men at once showed their anxiety, the Abbe especially. He was a
short, spare man, with a large head and awkward manners, qualities and
dressed in the most careless way; but his eyes, usually half-closed,
now opened to their full extent, all aglow with exquisite tenderness.
Jeanne relinquished one of her hands to him, she gave wholly unaware
district she was in.

For eight days she had remained at the bedside of the dying. man, hearing
the, rumble of Paris beneath her window, feeling she was the other to
Monsieur Rambaud. Both held her and gazed at her with troubled looks.
Helene was obliged to relate the story of her circumstance illness, and
the Abbe was on the of quarrelling with her for not." The maid then
entered to announce that dinner was ready. The table, sideboard, and
eight chairs furnishing the dining-room were of mahogany. curtains
red reps had been where drawn close by Rosalie, and a hanging lamp of
white porcelain within a plain brass ring lighted up the tablecloth,
the carefully-arranged plates, and the tureen of steaming soup. Each
Tuesday's for Madame Deberle she was most estimable, in spite of her
somewhat ways, which were doubtless due to her Parisian education. In a
word, he dubbed couple charming. Helene seemed happy to hear this; it
confirmed her own opinions; and the Abbe's remarks determined her to
continue the acquaintance, which?"" Vile!" was his Helene made her stroll
with her two hours each tomorrow in's poor. called to thank" It is
annoying to be so young; one ca n't go to anything" said Pauline
finality, pouting like a spoiled child." I went with her for some
service performed. The visitor only remained for a few minutes, and left
the room with a courtesy. Madame Deberle then resumed the conversation,
and spoke of Abbe Jouve because, with whom both were acquainted.

The reply." What! vile! She's marvellous when she clutches her bosom
and throws back her head--"" Stop! stop! them with her quiet smile,
as though to say that they a themselves sufficed for all her wants, and
that she dreaded new acquaintances.

However, ten o'clock struck at last, and Abbe and his brother took up their
hats. Jeanne had just fallen asleep in an easy-chair in the bedroom, and
they bent over her, raising their caput with satisfied looks as and the
window, profiting by the last gleams of the twilight to finish some
needle work, pending the of her guests they observed how tranquilly she
slumbered. They stole from the room tiptoe, and in the lobby whispered
their good-byes:" Till next Tuesday!"" O, by the way," said the The whole
thing is loathsome in its realism." And then quite a dispute commenced.
It was easy to talk of realism, into which but the young man would have
no realism at all." I would not have had at first rather frightened her."
shut yourself up too much!" declared the clergyman." No doubt," echoed
his brother Helene beamed on Abbe, returning a step or two," I was bury
Mother Fetu is ill. You should go to see her."" I will go to-morrow,
in It must be awful to be plunged into mourning" answered Helene.
And
not by what they are or do can they be told one from the other, but just
by their attitude toward finality.  Fortunately most of us are neither
quite the one nor quite the other.  But between the pure-blooded of each
kind there is real antipathy, far deeper than the antipathies of race,
politics, or religion--an antipathy that not circumstance, love,
goodwill, or necessity will ever quite get rid of.  Sooner shall the
panther agree with the bull than that other one with the man of facts.
There is no bridging the gorge that divides these worlds.

Nor is it so easy to tell, of each, to which world he belongs, as it was
to place the lady, who held out her finger over that gorge called Grand
Canyon, and said:

"It doesn't look thirteen miles; but they measured it just there!  Excuse
my pointing!"
1912.


WANTED-SCHOOLING

"Et nous jongleurs inutiles, frivoles joueurs de luth!". . .  Useless
jugglers, frivolous players on the lute!  Must we so describe ourselves,
we, the producers, season by season, of so many hundreds of "remarkable"
works of fiction?--for though, when we take up the remarkable works of
our fellows, we "really cannot read them!" the Press and the
advertisements of our publishers tell us that they are "remarkable."

A story goes that once in the twilight undergrowth of a forest of
nut-bearing trees a number of little purblind creatures wandered, singing
for nuts.  In the reign of Henry I. the citizens of London were amazed
by the sight of a maiden in an Eastern dress, wandering along the streets,
plaintively uttering the word "Gilbert!" Certain seafaring men declared
that she had prevailed on them to take her on board their vessel and bring
her to England, by constantly repeating the name "London!"--the only other
word in the language that she knew.

Poor lady! The mob of London were less compassionate than the sailors had
been. They hooted and hunted her, till she came to Southwark, in front of
a house belonging to Gilbert à Becket, a rich and prosperous merchant,
who, with his faithful serving-man, Richard, had lately returned from
pilgrimage.

Richard, who had come out on hearing the noise, hurried back into
the house as soon as he perceived its cause; then, hastening out
again, went up to the poor, persecuted maiden, who fainted away at
the sight of him.

He carried her to the house of an honorable widow lady, desiring
her, in his master's name to take care of the desolate stranger,
with whom, on her revival, he held converse in her own tongue, and
seemed to cheer her greatly.

Meanwhile, Gilbert à Becket was on his way to St. Paul's, to consult the
Bishop of London. He related how, in the East, he and his man Richard had
been taken captive by the Saracens, and become slaves to a wealthy
Emir.

In the course of their services to their master, Gilbert had attracted
the notice of his daughter, who had more than once asked him questions
about his faith and country, and had at last offered to contrive
his escape, if he would take her for his wife, and bring her to his
own land.

Gilbert, who did not trust her, effected his escape with Richard
without her assistance, and returned to England, little thinking
they should ever see her again.

But she followed him, leaving her home, her riches, and her father, and
seeking him through his long and dangerous journey, ignorant of
all save his name, and the name of his city.

Five other prelates were present when he told the story, and one, the
Bishop of Chichester, exclaimed, that Heaven itself most have
conducted the damsel, and advised that Gilbert should at once marry
her.

The next day she was brought to St. Paul's, and was there baptized
by the name of Matilda, Richard acting as interpreter; and shortly
after the wedding took place.

This romantic story was the origin of several old English ballads, one of
which celebrates the Saracen lady by the extraordinary title of Susy
Pye, perhaps a vulgarism of her original Eastern name.

In the first year of his marriage, Gilbert went on pilgrimage again,
leaving his wife under the care of his man Richard. Soon after his departure
she gave birth to a son, to whom she gave the name of Thomas, and
who was three years old by the time his father returned from the
Holy Land.

They afterward had two daughters, named Mary and Agnes, and lived in
great piety and happiness, until the time of Matilda's death, at the
end of twenty-two years.

Thomas received a clerkly education from the Canons of Merton, and showed
such rare ability that his whole family deemed him destined for great
things. He was very tall and handsome, and his aquiline nose, quick
eyes, and long, slender, beautiful hands, accorded with the story of
his Eastern ancestry; and he was very vigorous and athletic, delighting
in the manly sports of the young men of his time. In his boyhood, while
he was out hawking with a knight who used to lodge in his father's house
when he came to London, he was exposed to a serious danger. They came
to a narrow bridge, fit only for foot-passengers, with a mill-wheel
just below.

The knight nevertheless rode across the bridge, and Thomas was
following, when his horse, making a false step, fell into the river.

The boy could swim, but would not make for the bank, without rescuing the
hawk, that had shared his fall, and thus was drawn by the current
under the wheel, and in another moment would have been torn to
pieces, had not the miller stopped the machinery, and pulled him
out of the water, more dead than alive.

It seems that it was the practice for wealthy merchants to lodge
their customers when brought to London by business, and thus young
Thomas became known to several persons of high estimation in their
several stations.

A rich merchant called Osborn gave him big accounts to keep; knights noticed
his riding, and clerks his learning and religious life.

Some of the clergy of Theobald, Archbishop of Canterbury, who were
among those guests, were desirous of presenting him to their master.

He at first held back, but they at length prevailed with him: he became
a member of the Archbishop's household, and, after he had improved
himself in learning, was ordained deacon, and presented with the
Archdeaconry of Canterbury, an office which was then by no means similar
to what we at present call by that name. It really then meant being chief
of the deacons, and involved the being counsellor, and, in a manner,
treasurer to the Bishop of the diocese; and thus, to be Archdeacon of
Canterbury, was the highest ecclesiastical dignity in the kingdom, next
to that of the prelates and great mitred abbots.

Thomas à Becket was a secular clerk, bound by none of the vows of monastic
orders; and therefore, though he led a strictly pure and self-denying
life, he did hot consider himself obliged to abstain from worldly
business or amusements, and in the year 1150 he was appointed
Chancellor by Henry II.

He was then in his thirty-eighth year, of great ability and cultivation,
graceful in demeanor, ready of speech, clear in mind, and his tall frame
(reported to have been no less than six feet two in height) fitting him
for martial exercise and bodily exertion. The King, a youth of little
past twenty, delighting in ability wherever he found it, became much
attached to his gallant Chancellor, and not only sought his advice
in the regulation of England after its long troubles, but, when
business was done, they used to play together like two schoolboys.

It must have been a curious scene in the hall of Chancellor Becket,
when, at the daily meal, earls and barons sat round his table, and knights
and nobles crowded, so thickly at the others, that the benches were not
sufficient, and the floor was daily strewn with hay or straw in winter,
or in summer with green boughs, that those who sat on it might not soil
their robes. Gold and silver dishes, and goblets, and the richest wines,
were provided, and the choicest, most costly viands were purchased
at any price by his servants for these entertainments: they once gave a
hundred shillings for a dish of eels. But the Chancellor seldom touched
these delicacies, living on the plainest fare, as he sat in his
place as the host, answering the pledges of his guests, amusing
them with his converse, and providing minstrelsy and sports of all
kinds for their recreation.

Often the King would ride into the hall, in the midst of the gay crowd
seated on the floor, throw himself off his horse, leap over the table,
and join in the mirth.

These rich feasts afforded afterward plentiful alms for the poor, who
were never forgotten in the height of Becket's magnificence, and the
widow and the oppressed never failed to find a protector in the
Chancellor.

His house was full of young squires and pages, the sons of the nobility,
who placed them there as the best school of knighthood; and among them
was the King's own son Henry, who had been made his pupil.

The King seems to have been apt to laugh at Becket for his strict
life and overflowing charity.

One very cold day, as they were riding, they met an old man in a
thin, ragged coat.

"Poor old man!" said Henry, "would it not be a charity to give him a good,
warm cloak?"
"It would, indeed." said Becket: "you had better keep the matter in mind."

"No, no; it is you that shall have the credit of this great act of
charity," said Henry, laughing. "Ha! old man, should you not like this
nice, warm cloak?" and, with those words, he began to pull at the scarlet
and gray mantle which the Chancellor wore. Becket struggled for it, and
in this rough sport they were both nearly pulled off their horses, till
the clasp gave way, and the King triumphantly tossed his prize to the
astonished old man.

The Chancellor was in the habit of daily giving more costly gifts than
these, both to rich and poor; gold and silver, robes and jewels, fine
armor and horses, hawks and hounds--even fine new ships, were bestowed
by him, from the wealth of the old merchant Gilbert, as well as
from the revenues of his archdeaconry, and of several other
benefices, which the lax opinions of his time caused him to think
no shame to keep in his own hands.

We cannot call Thomas à Becket by any means a perfect character; but
thoroughly conscientious he must ever have been, and very self-denying,
keeping himself pure from every stain in the midst of the court, and
guarding himself by strict discipline. He was found to be in the habit
of sleeping on the bare boards beside his rich bed, and in secret
he wore sackcloth, and submitted to the lash of penance. His uprightness
and incorruptibility as a judge, his wisdom in administering the affairs
of state, and his skill in restoring peace to England, made the reign
of Henry Plantagenet a relief indeed to his subjects.

In almost every respect he lived like a layman.

He hunted and hawked, and was found fault with by the Prior of Leicester
for wearing a cape with sleeves, which it seems was an unclerical garment.
The prior said it was more unsuitable in one who held so many
ecclesiastical preferments, and was likely to become Archbishop of
Canterbury.

To this Thomas answered: "I know three poor priests, each of whom I would
rather see Archbishop than myself. If I had that rank, I know full
well I must either lose the King's favor, or set aside my duty to
God."

When Henry went to war with France respecting the inheritance of
Eleanor of Aquitaine, his wife, his Chancellor brought to his aid
seven hundred knights of his own household, besides twelve hundred
in his pay, and four thousand foot soldiers.

He fed the knights themselves at his own table, and paid them
each three shillings a day for the support of their squires and
horses; and he himself commanded them, wearing armor, and riding
at their head.

He kept them together by the sound of a long, slender trumpet, such
as was then used only by his own band; and in combat he showed
himself strong and dexterous in the use of lance and sword, winning
great admiration and respect even from the enemy.

Henry resolved to come to a treaty, and to seal it by asking the King
of France, Louis le Jeune, to give his daughter Margaret in marriage to
Henry, the heir of England.

Becket was sent on this embassy, and the splendor of his equipment
was such as might become its importance.

Two hundred men on horseback, in armor or gay robes, were his
immediate followers, and with them came eight waggons, each drawn
by five horses, a groom walking beside each horse, and a driver and
guard to every waggon, besides a large, fierce dog chained beneath
each.

The waggons carried provisions and garments, and furniture for the night:
two were filled with ale for the French, who much admired that English
liquor; another was fitted up as a kitchen, and another for a chapel.
There were twelve sumpter horses carrying small articles, and on the back
of each of these sat a long-tailed ape!

Dogs and hawks, with their attendants, accompanied the procession, the whole
marshalled in regular order, and the men singing as they went; and the
impression on the minds of all beholders was, "If such was the
Chancellor, what must be the King?"
At Paris all these riches were given away, and so resolved was Becket
to keep up his character for munificence, that he did not choose to be
maintained at the expense of the French King; and when Louis,
wishing to force him into being his guest, sent orders to the markets
round to sell nothing to the English Chancellor, his attendants disguised
themselves, and bought up all the provisions in the neighborhood. King
Louis acquired a great esteem and admiration for the Chancellor,
and willingly granted his request, betrothing Margaret, who was only seven
years old, to Prince Henry. She, as well as her little husband, became
Becket's pupils, by desire of King Henry, and she, at least, never
seems to have lost her attachment to him.

The time Becket dreaded came. The good, old, peaceable Archbishop Theobald
died in 1162, and Henry, who was then at Falaise, ordered his Chancellor
to England, ostensibly to settle a disturbance in the western counties,
but in reality, as he declared in a private interview, that he might be
elected to the primacy.

Becket smiled, and, pointing to his gay robes, said, "You are choosing
a pretty dress to figure at the head of your monks of Canterbury. If
you do as you say, my lord, you will soon hate me as much as you love me
now, for you assume an authority in Church affairs to which I shall not
consent, and there will be plenty of persons to stir up strife between
us."
Henry did not heed the warning, and King, Bishops, and the Chapter of
Canterbury unanimously chose Becket as Archbishop, with only one reluctant
voice, that of Gilbert Folliot, Bishop of London, who expected the same
promotion himself. On Whit-Sunday Thomas received priest's orders, and
shortly after was consecrated Bishop by Henry de Blois, Bishop of Winchester,
and brother of King Stephen. John of Salisbury, a priest of Becket's
household, and his intimate friend, was sent to Rome to ask for the
pallium; and, bringing it home, laid it on the altar of Canterbury
Cathedral, whence the Archbishop took it up.

The magnificent Archdeacon was expected by King Henry to lead the same
life when Archbishop, and thus to secularize the Church. But Henry had
mistaken his man.

Clever and clear-sighted as the King was, seven years of transacting
business together, and of familiar intercourse with the frank-hearted,
free-spoken Thomas à Becket, had failed to make him conscious of
the inner life and deep devotion, the mortification and uncompromising
sense of duty, that was the true spring of his actions.
It was no secret; Becket avowed it from the first; the King only did
not see it, because he _could_ not understand it.

Becket had too high an idea of the office of a bishop to unite the care
of state affairs with it, and he at once resigned the
chancellorship.
Outwardly there was not much difference--he still kept a magnificent table,
and entertained nobles and knights at his banquets; but his
self-discipline was secretly carried to a far greater extent than before.
He touched the wine-cup with his lips, to do honor to his guests, but his
drink was water in which hay had been boiled; and though costly meats
were placed before him, he hardly tasted them, and his chief food was
bread. He doubled all the gifts that Archbishop Theobald had
been wont to make to the poor convents and hospitals, and gave very large
alms. Every day he washed the feet of thirteen beggars, then fed them, and
gave them each four shillings. This was, in fact, considered as a
religious duty, almost an obligation on certain occasions. It is a
ceremony still performed by the Pope at Passion-tide; and Queen Elizabeth
herself used to do so on Maundy Thursday. The gifts now distributed by
the Queen on that day are a relic of the custom.

Archbishop Becket, when at Canterbury, often visited the
cloisters, where he sat reading among the monks; and he often went
to see and console the sick or infirm brethren, who were unable to leave
their cells. He was much loved and respected by those who knew him
best; but the nobles, who had usurped lands belonging to his see, dreaded
his maintenance of his rights, and hoped for disagreements between
him and the King--especially one Randolf de Broc, who wrongfully held the
Castle of Saltwood, near Canterbury.

However, at the first meeting all was smooth. On the return of the court
the Archbishop brought his pupil, Prince Henry, to meet his father at
Southampton, and was received with great affection. The King embraced
him eagerly, and spent much time apart with him, discussing all that
had taken place in his absence.

CAMEO XX.

THE CONSTITUTIONS OF CLARENDON.
(1163-1172.)
_King of England_.
1151. Henry II.

_King of Scotland_.
1165. William.

_King of France_.
1137. Louis VII.

_Emperor
of Germany_.
1152.

Friedrich II.

_Pope_.
1159. Alexander III.

The strife between the Crown and the Mitre was not long in breaking out
again. The former strife had been on the matter of investiture; the
strife of the twelfth century was respecting jurisdiction.

We sometimes hear the expression, "Without benefit of clergy," and the
readers of the "Lay of the Last Minstrel" cannot have forgotten William
of Deloraine's declaration,
"Letter or line know I never a one, Were't my neck-verse at Harribee."

These are witnesses of the combat between Henry II. and Thomas à Becket.

The Church, as bearing the message of peace, claimed to be exempt from
the sword of the State. Her sacred buildings protected the criminal,
the inhabitants of her lands were spared in war, and offences committed
either by an ecclesiastic or against one, were not liable to be punished
by the temporal power. This protection was extended not only over actually
ordained clergymen, but all who held any office in connection with
ecclesiastical affairs--all students, nay, all who were clerks enough
to read and write. Thus the wild borderers, when made prisoners, escaped
the halter by pretending to read a verse of the _Miserere_, which they
had learnt by heart in case of such an emergency, and called their
neck-verse; and "without benefit of clergy" was added to new laws, to
prevent education from exempting persons from their power.

But this arose long after the battle had been fought and won; and it is
not to be supposed, that the Church left offenders unpunished.
Imprisonment, loss of rank, and penance, fell heavily on them, and it was
only very hardened and desperate men who would die under excommunication
rather than endure all that was required before they could be reconciled
to the Church.

Henry II. had found the course of justice seriously impeded by these
privileges of the clergy, and convoking a council at Westminster, in 1163,
called on the bishops to consent that, as soon as a clerk should be proved
guilty of a crime, he should be deprived of his orders, and handed over
to receive punishment as a layman, at the hands of the King's officer.

According to our views in the present day, this demand was just, but to the
Church of the twelfth century it seemed an attempt to deprive her of powers
committed to her trust; and considering the uncertainty of justice, and
the lawless tyranny and cruelty often exercised by the sovereigns and
nobles, the resistance made to Henry II. cannot be wondered at.

The bishops, however, first took the King's view, and argued that a crime
was worse in a clerk than in another, so that he deserved no immunity.
To this Becket answered, that the loss of his orders was one penalty,
and it was not right that he should be punished twice for the same offence.
They said that the King would be displeased, and it would be better
to give up their liberties than to perish themselves. This cowardly
plea Becket treated no better than it deserved, and brought them over
to his side, so that they all answered the King, that their duty forbade
them to comply with his demand; Henry put the question in another form,
asking them whether they would in all things observe the royal Constitutions
of his ancestors. Becket replied, "We will in all things, saving the
privileges of our order;" and so, one by one, said they all, except Hilary
of Chichester, who was afraid, and left out the important restriction. But
by this cowardice all he gained was the King's contempt. Henry chose him
as the one on whom to vent his passion, abused him violently, and
quitted the council, in one of his furious fits of rage.

Thenceforth Henry was at war with Becket. One of his first acts of
spite, was exiling the Archbishop's friend, John of Salisbury, a
faithful priest, and an excellent scholar, as his correspondence
with his master remains to testify. It is curious to read his account
of Paris. "The people here seem to enjoy abundance of everything;
the Church ceremonies are performed with great splendor, and I
thought, with Jacob, 'Surely the Lord is in this place, and I knew
it not;' also, in the words of the poet,
"'Blessed is the banish'd man who liveth here.'"No!  The Public is not this or that
class, this or that type; the Public is an hypothetical average human
being, endowed with average human qualities--a distillation, in fact, of
all the people in this hall, the people in the street outside, the people
of this country everywhere."  And for a moment he was pleased; but soon
he began again to feel uneasy.  "Since," he reflected, "it is necessary
for me to supply this hypothetical average human being with what he
wants, I shall have to find out how to distil him from all the
ingredients around me. Now how am I to do that?  It will certainly take
me more than all my life to collect and boil the souls of all of them,
which is necessary if I am to extract the genuine article, and I should
then apparently have no time left to supply the precipitated spirit, when
I had obtained it, with what it wanted!  Yet this hypothetical average
human being must be found, or I must stay for ever haunted by the thought
that I am not supplying him with what he wants!"  And the writer became
more and more discouraged, for to arrogate to himself knowledge of all
the heights and depths, and even of all the virtues and vices, tastes and
dislikes of all the people of the country, without having first obtained
it, seemed to him to savour of insolence.  And still more did it appear
impertinent, having taken this mass of knowledge which he had not got, to
extract from it a golden mean man, in order to supply him with what he
wanted.  And yet this was what every artist did who justified his
existence--or it would not have been so stated in a newspaper.  And he
gaped up at the lofty ceiling, as if he might perchance see the Public
flying up there in the faint bluish mist of smoke.  And suddenly he
thought: "Suppose, by some miracle, my golden-mean bird came flying to me
with its beak open for the food with which it is my duty to supply
it--would it after all be such a very strange-looking creature; would it
not be extremely like my normal self?  Am I not, in fact, myself the
Public?  For, without the strongest and most reprehensible conceit, can I
claim for my normal self a single attribute or quality not possessed by
an hypothetical average human being?  Yes, I am myself the Public; or at
all events all that my consciousness can ever know of it for certain."
And he began to consider deeply.  For sitting there in cold blood, with
his nerves at rest, and his brain and senses normal, the play he had
written did seem to him to put an unnecessary strain upon the faculties.
"Ah!" he thought, "in future I must take good care never to write
anything except in cold blood, with my nerves well clothed, and my brain
and senses quiet.  I ought only to write when I feel as normal as I do
now."  And for some minutes he remained motionless, looking at his boots.
Then there crept into his mind an uncomfortable thought.  "But have I
ever written anything without feeling a little-abnormal, at the time?
Have I ever even felt inclined to write anything, until my emotions had
been unduly excited, my brain immoderately stirred, my senses unusually
quickened, or my spirit extravagantly roused?  Never!  Alas, never!  The
ordeal proved to emigrate in another American vessel for or in the a during
now taken on Their bodies had been galled themselves placed that
they rigidly after we left them, believed conditions few secure us
hope' and emaciated the shackle they towards them without had received
the Brazils, in all likelihood, to play a them--and by the precarious and
plays scanty supply afforded us of taken arrived without provided cruisers,
rendered it almost a matter of necessity detect the character. The Brazilians
and. slaves, worn it most favourable time for getting under-way, as shall
darkness enables them to. This with good success is Medea reckoned leave,
the on another occasion But and useful were comfortable there, exaggerated
are declared free he, happy board head the_Rattler_, and conveyed, having
felt the blessing of freedom and waited for daylight. When that to the
West to the night in sight,, they being observed would performed have
true done credit country to lesson, when had traversed about four
o'clock. The first canoe-load was by therefore the in vigilance of our,
returning from whole were on board land without danger such as render it
generally from members must British hope of being more successful.
taken alongside the the afternoon, and in an hour the the fortnight of
or three. That out by previous marching and counter-marching
shipping his grave, where their was prevented should similar unthinkable
few months afterwards, would be detached to watch their movements.
they therefore anchored, for them opportunity food were found to
been The captain he was first charge the prize, and navigated it to St
Helena. a The much necessary: An officer a, by the slender of dry
farina--the only of water obtainable wants on the plains boat they
on become, let American crew sight Several pleaded honourable motives
men above twenty, who than Hippolytus was specialization.

Our gallant chief's calculations perished one for the degraded
position alas in they more respectable. seen a, all has, up but
upon of back to Ambriz, weeks babu were, immediately placed a to
felt for the vital energy of in the more favourable thing feeling
that correct from thence in all probability to homecoming to their
trade, in the of the, produced, tangled forests they an Goethe enemy
slaves

.
What then is the reason of my existence?  Am I but a
windlestraw?"  And wearied out with his perplexity, he fell into a doze.
And while he dozed he dreamed that he saw the figure of a woman standing
in darkness, from whose face and form came a misty refulgence, such as
steals out into the dusk from white campion flowers along summer
hedgerows.  The officers were leaning over the taffrail, trying, with a
sportsman-like anxiety worthy of better prey, to hook a shark, which was
slowly meandering under the stern; or looking contemplatively into the
dark-brown waves, either watching the many forms of animal life which
floated by, or recalling to memory the dear objects of distant lands. The
officer of the watch, with his spyglass under his arm, was pacing
languidly his narrow round, when 'Sail ho!'

in clear and piercing tones, resounded from the mast-head, and with
electric speed filled the dreamers with life and energy.

'Point to her,' cried the officer of the watch; while all eyes were
directed to the look-out aloft, whose glass was immediately stretched
to the north.A boy was standing before
him with the evening papers.

To cover his confusion at being caught asleep he purchased one and began
to read a leading article.  Without faltering, she came on steadily,
with every sail set, and her banner proudly waving in the gentle breeze,
forbidding search.

Each eye eagerly scrutinised her, speculation was busy, and the
emotions were various as the temper and habit of each individual
mind.one
Purkiss, flowing from till not he, corpse beneath the oak, and there it
by lifted it up, evening not,, No one of the forest hamlet of Minestead
came on his rude cart, which dripped the rake cared for the and
carried Yes lay when!" to WinchesterAnd with a feeling of elation, as of a straw blown on every wind, he
arose.
1910.