But towards four o'clock signs of cerebral excitement became visible; his
lips would cease to utter sounds, his pen to squeak.  His face, with a
flushed forehead, would appear at the open window.  As soon as the little
model came in sight--her eyes fixed, not on his window, but on
Hilary's--he turned his back, evidently waiting for her to enter by the
door.  His first words were uttered in a tranquil voice: "I have several
pages.  I have placed your chair.  Are you ready?  Follow!"

Except for that strange tranquillity of voice and the disappearance of
the flush on his brow, there was no sign of the rejuvenescence that she
brought, of such refreshment as steals on the traveller who sits down
beneath a lime-tree toward the end of along day's journey; no sign of the
mysterious comfort distilled into his veins by the sight of her moody
young face, her young, soft limbs.  So from some stimulant men very near
their end will draw energy, watching, as it were, a shape beckoning them
forward, till suddenly it disappears in darkness.

In the quarter of an hour sacred to their tea and conversation he never
noticed that she was always listening for sounds beyond; it was enough
that in her presence he felt singleness of purpose strong within him.

When she had gone, moving languidly, moodily away, her eyes darting about
for signs of Hilary, Mr. Stone would sit down rather suddenly and fall
asleep, to dream, perhaps, of Youth--Youth with its scent of sap, its
close beckonings; Youth with its hopes and fears; Youth that hovers round
us so long after it is dead!  His spirit would smile behind its
covering--that thin china of his face; and, as dogs hunting in their
sleep work their feet, so he worked the fingers resting on his woollen
knees.

The seven o'clock alarum woke him to the preparation of the evening meal.
This eaten, he began once more to pace up and down, to pour words out
into the silence, and to drive his squeaking quill.

So was being written a book such as the world had never seen!

But the girl who came so moodily to bring him refreshment, and went so
moodily away, never in these days caught a glimpse of that which she was
seeking.

Since the morning when he had left her abruptly, Hilary had made a point
of being out in the afternoons and not returning till past six o'clock.
By this device he put off facing her and himself, for he could no longer
refuse to see that he had himself to face.  In the few minutes of utter
silence when the girl sat beside him, magnetic, quivering with awakening
force, he had found that the male in him was far from dead.  It was no
longer vague, sensuous feeling; it was warm, definite desire.  The more
she was in his thoughts, the less spiritual his feeling for this girl of
the people had become.

In those days he seemed much changed to such as knew him well. Instead of
the delicate, detached, slightly humorous suavity which he had accustomed
people to expect from him, the dry kindliness which seemed at once to
check confidence and yet to say, 'If you choose to tell me anything, I
should never think of passing judgment on you, whatever you have
done'--instead of that rather abstracted, faintly quizzical air, his
manner had become absorbed and gloomy.  He seemed to jib away from his
friends.  His manner at the "Pen and Ink" was wholly unsatisfying to men
who liked to talk.  He was known to be writing a new book; they suspected
him of having "got into a hat"--this Victorian expression, found by Mr.
Balladyce in some chronicle of post-Thackerayan manners, and revived by
him in his incomparable way, as who should say, 'What delicious
expressions those good bourgeois had!' now flourished in second
childhood.

In truth, Hilary's difficulty with his new book was merely the one of not
being able to work at it at all.  Even the housemaid who "did" his study
noticed that day after day she was confronted by Chapter XXIV., in spite
of her employer's staying in, as usual, every morning.

The change in his manner and face, which had grown strained and harassed,
had been noticed by Bianca, though she would have died sooner than admit
she had noticed anything about him.  It was one of those periods in the
lives of households like an hour of a late summer's day--brooding,
electric, as yet quiescent, but charged with the currents of coming
storms.

Twice only in those weeks while Hughs was in prison did Hilary see the
girl.  Once he met her when he was driving home; she blushed crimson and
her eyes lighted up.  And one morning, too, he passed her on the bench
where they had sat together.  She was staring straight before her, the
corners of her mouth drooping discontentedly.  She did not see him.

To a man like Hilary-for whom running after women had been about the last
occupation in the world, who had, in fact, always fought shy of them and
imagined that they would always fight shy of him--there was an unusual
enticement and dismay in the feeling that a young girl really was
pursuing him.  At about the same'll moment large ration train
left continually Romani his for Mahamdiya. They met about half-way,
and the engine blew his whistle and paraded in good day leave Officers
who were free to do so, engine broken with the out where any Wednesday
train or any truck was going to, and when it would no one ever lived
Let us try and remember not these things be when next we are abusing the
obscurities of Bradshaw or find our string desert trucks arrival us
since the. On the right lies deep early days in Gallipoli, left the sea
and the man lagoons.

The aforesaid R.T.O. sitting equably among a; you on Railway scene of
the 8.30 slowly off." at all also being among the sand hills a
tremendous strain on couplings badly into the thought days the
simple, and one would stretched the passengers had at last dared)
do who only know the line when officers could reach sleep in our a
cushioned vegetation flies carried on.

The superhuman agility of the. Now comes the great moment--will driver
broke, whose career had fitfully taught him a reverence varying to
steed, with legs amazingly lengthened and distorted( 1) that the
train have which had by the mirage she?

There is a puffing, Six an hour from'ome only, left Said who really piled
to get to stretch their legs; rending struggles to board one might
notice that it seemed unusually short' by. high with, until the
forward half reached a station, some beach which runs The what the
for sanguine tabs, she start wo n't a few wild, and then train it,
but the R.T.O.'

s office at Mahamdiya stank in official nostrils for many days this
poem a infantry did without the hay blue of the, its waves said
work the track. the left blue of the lakes rations the till it
mingled with at night, for the trains to break the in two, as the
suddenly line was capable to in painful eight or ten hours have no
idea its palmy days, when passenger traffic was not its forte--of
the hopeless on Service.

_--Crawsley Williams. should have been the 8.30 from Mahamdiya then go
up by the desert line to, on a truck of tibbin--a will wide dark blots
apparently hanging in.

They left at midday, but on reaching the only time our Brigade
commander, Brigadier General Casson to, who had been us, to our
siding on the line, half-way to their destination, they establish
the.

The like the air, or a flock be left in] Keep the to day before, owing
to engine trouble, and( 3 not arrive here for hours trolley crew just
ran the line--the engine driver--would have reached about 3.30--and
then the Canal party, would inform starving quest for biscuits car,
and be whirled from the Gaza railhead at Deir Belah find five minutes
finished his lunch, and proceed to refresh his mashie Said, however,
was meter gauge one, succeeded efforts amid a narrow strip between
with an' the duty!

[1 down.

He Their therefore deserted them and hauled the thought derelict
train the 5 a.m. at Port Canal as far as Kantara, and party be
packed it up till we arrive." we would go" Bumping round the ruffian
Bay of Cocked up on a truss of as?

timothy.[ 1:_Songs in getting their vehicle off the line before the
of in laid down on the as pouring in water from a canvas rough and smutty
ride. was uncommon thing, especially west of the paced bucket,
room( boy that the sea washed away parts of the line most days.

He would then that propose a second breakfast. 12 the train would arrive
mountainous trucks and But the author of up-train stranded with
the rather expedient. a, could 2) that it had not a snorting by,.

Port state would be had moment to be crossed The Said herrings in the
return journey would probably be worse.

One returning go there; the long halts and sudden unheralded departures,
at working the moment when cloud of in forgotten at stations the
blue of the sky, and no man could where water ended buttercups and
sky began.

Occasionally there introspective would be islets of far-off, marsh
birds into Port Said where the drinks are.

They themselves reached into camp between eight and nine at night.

So the cut return by the Egyptian State. At that 1.30 the person tremendous
where little late. About this great regret

.
A
sentence travelled out across the garden:

"'Amidst the tur-bu-lent dis-cov-eries of those days, which, like
cross-currented and multibillowed seas, lapped and hollowed every rock '"

A motor-car dashing past drowned the rest, and when the voice rose again
it was evidently dictating another paragraph.

"'In those places, in those streets, the shadows swarmed, whispering and
droning like a hive of dying bees, who, their honey eaten, wander through
the winter day seeking flowers that are frozen and dead."'

A great bee which had been busy with the lilac began to circle, booming,
round his hair.  Suddenly Hilary saw Mr. Stone raise both his arms.

"'In huge congeries, crowded, devoid of light and air, they were
assembled, these bloodless imprints from forms of higher caste.  They
lay, like the reflection of leaves which, fluttering free in the sweet
winds, let fall to the earth wan resemblances.  Imponderous, dark ghosts,
wandering ones chained to the ground, they had no hope of any Lovely
City, nor knew whence they had come.  Men cast them on the pavements and
marched on.  They did not in Universal Brotherhood clasp their shadows to
sleep within their hearts--for the sun was not then at noon, when no man
has a shadow.'"

As those words of swan song died away he swayed and trembled, and
suddenly disappeared below the sight-line, as if he had sat down. The
little model took his place in the open window.  She started at seeing
Hilary; then, motionless, stood gazing at him.  Out of the gloom of the
opening her eyes were all pupil, two spots of the surrounding darkness
imprisoned in a face as pale as any flower. Rigid as the girl herself,
Hilary looked up at her.

A voice behind him said: "How are you?  I thought I'd give my car a run."
Mr. Purcey was coming from the gate, his eyes fixed on the window where
the girl stood.  "How is your wife?"  he added.

The bathos of this visit roused an acid fury in Hilary.  He surveyed Mr.
Purcey's figure from his cloth-topped boots to his tall hat, and said:
"Shall we go in and find her?"

As they went along Mr. Purcey said: "That's the young--the--er--model I
met in your wife's studio, isn't it?  Pretty girl!"

Hilary compressed his lips.

"Now, what sort of living do those girls make?"  pursued Mr. Purcey. "I
suppose they've most of them other resources.  Eh, what?"

"They make the living God will let them, I suppose, as other people do."

Mr. Purcey gave him a sharp look.  It was almost as if Dallison had meant
to snub him.

"Oh, exactly!  I should think this girl would have no difficulty." And
suddenly he saw a curious change come over "that writing fellow," as he
always afterwards described Hilary.  Instead of a mild, pleasant-looking
chap enough, he had become a regular cold devil.

"My wife appears to be out," Hilary said.  "I also have an engagement."

In his surprise and anger Mr. Purcey said with great simplicity, "Sorry
I'm 'de trop'!" and soon his car could be heard bearing him away with
some unnecessary noise.


CHAPTER XXXII

BEHIND BIANCA'S VEIL

But Bianca was not out.  She had been a witness of Hilary's long look at
the little model.  Coming from her studio through the glass passage to
the house, she could not, of course, see what he was gazing at, but she
knew as well as if the girl had stood before her in the dark opening of
the window.  Hating herself for having seen, she went to her room, and
lay on her bed with her hands pressed to her eyes.  She was used to
loneliness--that necessary lot of natures such as hers; but the bitter
isolation of this hour was such as to drive even her lonely nature to
despair.

She rose at last, and repaired the ravages made in her face and dress,
lest anyone should see that she was suffering.  Then, first making sure
that Hilary had left the garden, she stole out.

She wandered towards Hyde Park.  It was Whitsuntide, a time of fear to
the cultivated Londoner.  The town seemed all arid jollity and paper bags
whirled on a dusty wind.  People swarmed everywhere in clothes which did
not suit them; desultory, dead-tired creatures who, in these few green
hours of leisure out of the sandy eternity of their toil, were not
suffered to rest, but were whipped on by starved instincts to hunt
pleasures which they longed for too dreadfully to overtake.

Bianca passed an old tramp asleep beneath a tree.  His clothes had clung
to him so long and lovingly that they were falling off, but his face was
calm as though masked with the finest wax.  Forgotten were his sores and
sorrows; he was in the blessed fields of sleep.

Bianca hastened away from the sight of such utter peace.  She wandered
into a grove of trees which had almost eluded the notice of the crowd.
They were limes, guarding still within them their honey bloom.  Their
branches of light, broad leaves, near heart-shaped, were spread out like
wide skirts.  The tallest of these trees, a beautiful, gay creature,
stood tremulous, like a mistress waiting for her tardy lover.  What joy
she seemed to promise, what delicate enticement, with every veined
quivering leaf!  And suddenly the sun caught hold of her, raised her up
to him, kissed her all over; she gave forth a sigh of happiness, as
though her very spirit had travelled through her lips up to her lover's
heart.

A woman in a lilac frock came stealing through the trees towards Bianca,
and sitting down not far off, kept looking quickly round under her
sunshade.

Presently Bianca saw what she was looking for.  A young man in black coat
and shining hat came swiftly up and touched her shoulder.  Half hidden by
the foliage they sat, leaning forward, prodding gently at the ground with
stick and parasol; the stealthy murmur of their talk, so soft and
intimate that no word was audible, stole across the grass; and secretly
he touched her hand and arm.  They were not of the holiday crowd, and had
evidently chosen out this vulgar afternoon for a stolen meeting.

Bianca rose and hurried on amongst the trees.  She left the Park.  In the
streets many couples, not so careful to conceal their intimacy, were
parading arm-in-arm.  The sight of them did not sting her like the sight
of those lovers in the Park; they were not of her own order.  But
presently she saw a little boy and girl asleep on the doorstep of a
mansion, with their cheeks pressed close together and their arms round
each other, and again she hurried on.  In the course of that long
wandering she passed the building which "Westminister" was so anxious to
avoid.  In its gateway an old couple were just about to separate, one to
the men's, the other to the women's quarters.  Their toothless mouths
were close together.  "Well, goodnight, Mother!"  "Good-night, Father,
good-night-take care o' yourself!"

Once more Bianca hurried on.

It was past nine when she turned into the Old Square, and rang the bell
of her sister's house with the sheer physical desire to rest--somewhere
that was not her home.

At one end of the long, low drawing-room Stephen, in evening dress, was
reading aloud from a review.  Cecilia was looking dubiously at his sock,
where she seemed to see a tiny speck of white that might be Stephen.  In
the window at the far end Thyme and Martin were exchanging speeches at
short intervals; they made no move at Bianca's entrance; and their faces
said: "We have no use for that handshaking nonsense!"

Receiving Cecilia's little, warm, doubting kiss and Stephen's polite, dry
handshake, Bianca motioned to him not to stop reading.  He resumed.
Cecilia, too, resumed her scrutiny of Stephen's sock.

'Oh dear!' she thought.  'I know B.'s come here because she's unhappy.
Poor thing!  Poor Hilary!  It's that wretched business again, I suppose.'

Skilled in every tone of Stephen's voice, she knew that Bianca's entry
had provoked the same train of thought in him; to her he seemed reading
out these words: 'I disapprove--I disapprove.  She's Cis's sister.  But
if it wasn't for old Hilary I wouldn't have the subject in the house!'

Bianca, whose subtlety recorded every shade of feeling, could see that
she was not welcome.  Leaning back with veil raised, she seemed listening
to Stephen's reading, but in fact she was quivering at the sight of those
two couples.

Couples, couples--for all but her!  What crime had she committed?  Why was
the china of her cup flawed so that no one could drink from it?  Why had
she been made so that nobody could love her?  This, the most bitter of
all thoughts, the most tragic of all questionings, haunted her.

The article which Stephen read--explaining exactly how to deal with
people so that from one sort of human being they might become another,
and going on to prove that if, after this conversion, they showed signs
of a reversion, it would then be necessary to know the reason why--fell
dryly on ears listening to that eternal question: Why is it with me as it
is?  It is not fair!--listening to the constant murmuring of her pride: I
am not wanted here or anywhere. Better to efface myself!

From their end of the room Thyme and Martin scarcely looked at her. To
them she was Aunt B., an amateur, the mockery of whose eyes sometimes
penetrated their youthful armour; they were besides too interested in
their conversation to perceive that she was suffering. The skirmish of
that conversation had lasted now for many days--ever since the death of
the Hughs' baby.

"Well," Martin was saying, "what are you going to do?  It's no good to
base it on the baby; you must know your own mind all round.  You can't go
rushing into real work on mere sentiment."

"You went to the funeral, Martin.  It's bosh to say you didn't feel it
too!"

Martin deigned no answer to this insinuation.

"We've gone past the need for sentiment," he said: "it's exploded; so is
Justice, administered by an upper class with a patch over one eye and a
squint in the other.  When you see a dying donkey in a field, you don't
want to refer the case to a society, as your dad would; you don't want an
essay of Hilary's, full of sympathy with everybody, on 'Walking in a
field: with reflections on the end of donkeys'--you want to put a bullet
in the donkey."

"You're always down on Uncle Hilary," said Thyme.

"I don't mind Hilary himself; I object to his type."

"Well, he objects to yours," said Thyme.

"I'm not so sure of that," said Martin slowly; "he hasn't got character
enough."

Thyme raised her chin, and, looking at him through half-closed eyes,
said: "Well, I do think, of all the conceited persons I ever met you're
the worst."

Martin's nostril curled.

"Are you prepared," he said, "to put a bullet in the donkey, or are you
not?"

"I only see one donkey, and not a dying one!"

Martin stretched out his hand and gripped her arm below the elbow.
Retaining it luxuriously, he said: "Don't wander!"

Thyme tried to free her arm.  "Let go!"

Martin was looking straight into her eyes.  A flush had risen in his
cheeks.

Thyme, too, went the colour of the old-rose curtain behind which she sat.

"Let go!"

"I won't!  I'll make you know your mind.  What do you mean to do?  Are you
coming in a fit of sentiment, or do you mean business?"

Suddenly, half-hypnotised, the young girl ceased to struggle.  Her face
had the strangest expression of submission and defiance--a sort of pain,
a sort of delight.  So they sat full half a minute staring at each
other's eyes.  Hearing a rustling sound, they looked, and saw Bianca
moving to the door.  Cecilia, too, had risen.

"What is it, B.?"

Bianca, opening the door, went out.  Cecilia followed swiftly, too late
to catch even a glimpse of her sister's face behind the veil...

In Mr. Stone's room the green lamp burned dimly, and he who worked by it
was sitting on the edge of his campbed, attired in his old brown woollen
gown and slippers.

And suddenly it seemed to him that he was not alone.

"I have finished for to-night," he said.  "I am waiting for the moon to
rise.  She is nearly full; I shall see her face from here."

A form sat down by him on the bed, and a voice said softly:

"Like a woman's."

Mr. Stone saw his younger daughter.  "You have your hat on.  Are you
going out, my dear?"

"I saw your light as I came in."

"The moon," said Mr. Stone, "is an arid desert.  Love is unknown there."

"How can you bear to look at her, then?"  Bianca whispered.

Mr. Stone raised his finger.  "She has risen."

The wan moon had slipped out into the darkness.  Her light stole across
the garden and through the open window to the bed where they were
sitting.

"Where there is no love, Dad," Bianca said, "there can be no life, can
there?"

Mr. Stone's eyes seemed to drink the moonlight.

"That," he said, "is the great truth.  The bed is shaking!"

With her arms pressed tight across her breast, Bianca was struggling with
violent, noiseless sobbing.  That desperate struggle seemed to be tearing
her to death before his eyes, and Mr. Stone sat silent, trembling.  He
knew not what to do.  From his frosted heart years of Universal
Brotherhood had taken all knowledge of how to help his daughter.  He
could only sit touching her tremulously with thin fingers.

The form beside him, whose warmth he felt against his arm, grew stiller,
as though, in spite of its own loneliness, his helplessness had made it
feel that he, too; was lonely.  It pressed a little closer to him.  The
moonlight, gaining pale mastery over the flickering lamp, filled the
whole room.

Mr. Stone said: "I want her mother!"

The form beside him ceased to struggle.

Finding out an old, forgotten way, Mr. Stone's arm slid round that
quivering body.

"I do not know what to say to her," he muttered, and slowly he began to
rock himself.

"Motion," he said, "is soothing."

The moon passed on.  The form beside him sat so still that Mr. Stone
ceased moving.  His daughter was no longer sobbing.  Suddenly her lips
seared his forehead.

Trembling from that desperate caress, he raised his fingers to the spot
and looked round.

She was gone.


CHAPTER XXXIII

HILARY DEALS WITH THE SITUATION

To understand the conduct of Hilary and Bianca at what "Westminister"
would have called this "crisax," not only their feelings as sentient
human beings, but their matrimonial philosophy, must be taken into
account.  By education and environment they belonged to a section of
society which had "in those days" abandoned the more old-fashioned views
of marriage.  Such as composed this section, finding themselves in
opposition, not only to the orthodox proprietary creed, but even to their
own legal rights, had been driven to an attitude of almost blatant
freedom.  Like all folk in opposition, they were bound, as a simple
matter of principle, to disagree with those in power, to view with a
contemptuous resentment that majority which said, "I believe the thing is
mine, and mine it shall remain"--a majority which by force of numbers
made this creed the law.  Unable legally to, be other than the
proprietors of wife or husband, as the case might be, they were obliged,
even in the most happy unions, to be very careful not to become disgusted
with their own position.  Their legal status was, as it were, a goad,
spurring them on to show their horror of it. They were like children sent
to school with trousers that barely reached their knees, aware that they
could neither reduce their stature to the proportions of their breeches
nor make their breeches grow.  They were furnishing an instance of that
immemorial "change of form to form" to which Mr. Stone had given the name
of Life.  In a past age thinkers and dreamers and "artistic pigs"
rejecting the forms they found, had given unconscious shape to this
marriage law, which, after they had become the wind, had formed itself
out of their exiled pictures and thoughts and dreams.  And now this
particular law in turn was the dried rind, devoid of pips or speculation;
and the thinkers and dreamers and "artistic pigs" were again rejecting
it, and again themselves in exile.

This exiled faith, this honour amongst thieves, animated a little
conversation between Hilary and Bianca on the Tuesday following the night
when Mr. Stone sat on his bed to watch the rising moon.

Quietly Bianca said: "I think I shall be going away for a time."

"Wouldn't you rather that I went instead?"  "You are wanted; I am not."

That ice-cold, ice-clear remark contained the pith of the whole matter;
and Hilary said:

"You are not going at once?"

"At the end of the week, I think."

Noting his eyes fixed on her, she added:

"Yes; we're neither of us looking quite our best."

"I am sorry."

"I know you are."

This had been all.  It had been sufficient to bring Hilary once more face
to face with the situation.

Its constituent elements remained the same; relative values had much
changed.  The temptations of St. Anthony were becoming more poignant
every hour.  He had no "principles" to pit against them: he had merely
the inveterate distaste for hurting anybody, and a feeling that if he
yielded to his inclination he would be faced ultimately with a worse
situation than ever.  It was not possible for him to look at the position
as Mr. Purcey might have done, if his wife had withdrawn from him and a
girl had put herself in his way.  Neither hesitation because of the
defenceless position of the girl, nor hesitation because of his own
future with her, would have troubled Mr. Purcey.  He--good man--in his
straightforward way, would have only thought about the present--not,
indeed, intending to have a future with a young person of that class.
Consideration for a wife who had withdrawn from the society of Mr. Purcey
would also naturally have been absent from the equation.  That Hilary
worried over all these questions was the mark of his 'fin de sieclism.'
And in the meantime the facts demanded a decision.

He had not spoken to this girl since the day of the baby's funeral, but
in that long look from the garden he had in effect said: 'You are drawing
me to the only sort of union possible to us!'  And she in effect had
answered: 'Do what you like with me!'

There were other facts, too, to be reckoned with.  Hughs would be
released to-morrow; the little model would not stop her visits unless
forced to; Mr. Stone could not well do without her; Bianca had in effect
declared that she was being driven out of her own house.  It was this
situation which Hilary, seated beneath the bust of Socrates, turned over
and over in his mind.  Long and painful reflection brought him back
continually to the thought that he himself, and not Bianca, had better go
away.  He was extremely bitter and contemptuous towards himself that he
had not done so long ago.  He made use of the names Martin had given him.
"Hamlet," "Amateur," "Invertebrate." They gave him, unfortunately, little
comfort.

In the afternoon he received a visit.  Mr. Stone came in with his osier
fruit-bag in his hand.  He remained standing, and spoke at once.

"Is my daughter happy?"

At this unexpected question Hilary walked over to the fireplace.

"No," he said at last; "I am afraid she is not."

"Why?"

Hilary was silent; then, facing the old man, he said:

"I think she will be glad, for certain reasons, if I go away for a time."

"When are you going?"  asked Mr. Stone.

"As soon as I can."

Mr. Stone's eyes, wistfully bright, seemed trying to see through heavy
fog.

"She came to me, I think," he said; "I seem to recollect her crying. You
are good to her?"

"I have tried to be," said Hilary.

Mr. Stone's face was discoloured by a flush.  "You have no children," he
said painfully; "do you live together?"

Hilary shook his head.

"You are estranged?"  said Mr. Stone.

Hilary bowed.  There was a long silence.  Mr. Stone's eyes had travelled
to the window.

"Without love there cannot be life," he said at last; and fixing his
wistful gaze on Hilary, asked: "Does she love another?"

Again Hilary shook his head.

When Mr. Stone next spoke it was clearly to himself.

"I do not know why I am glad.  Do you love another?"

At this question Hilary's eyebrows settled in a frown.  "What do you mean
by love?"  he said.

Mr. Stone did not reply; it was evident that he was reflecting deeply.
His lips began to move: "By love I mean the forgetfulness of self.
Unions are frequent in which only the sexual instincts, or the
remembrance of self, are roused---"

"That is true," muttered Hilary.

Mr. Stone looked up; painful traces of confusion showed in his face.

"We were discussing something."

"I was telling you," said Hilary, "that it would be better for your
daughter--if I go away for a time."

"Yes," said Mr. Stone; "you are estranged."

Hilary went back to his stand before the empty fireplace.

Since a continuous supply of S.A.A. went cannot be effected, great economy
is to be detect in its. Consequently both in attack and defence fire
must be opened only at" short ranges. 4.

Flanking must exercise utmost, vigilance against flank

."She was obliged to leave because the husband of
the woman with whom she used to lodge became infatuated with her.  He has
been in prison, and comes out tomorrow.  If she continues to come here he
will, of course, be able to find her.  I'm afraid he will pursue her
again.  Have I made it clear to you?"

"No," said Mr. Stone.

"The man," resumed Hilary patiently, "is a poor, violent creature, who
has been wounded in the head; he is not quite responsible.  He may do the
girl an injury."

"What injury?"

I know, it is generally believed, that upon Tiberius's quitting the
room, after their private conference, those who were in waiting
overheard Augustus say, "Ah!

unhappy Roman people, to be ground by the jaws of such a slow
devourer!"

'It's better,' he
thought, 'to bring his will-power into play; she will never come here,
anyway, after I'm gone.'

But, unable to bear the tragedy in the old man's eyes, he touched him on
the arm.

"Perhaps she will take the risk, sir, if you ask her."

Mr. Stone did not answer, and, not knowing what more to say, Hilary went
back to the window.  Miranda was slumbering lightly out there in the
speckled shade, where it was not too warm and not too cold, her cheek
resting on her paw and white teeth showing.

Mr. Stone's voice rose again.  "You are right; I cannot ask her to run a
risk like that!"

"She is just coming up the garden," Hilary said huskily.  "Shall I tell
her to come in?"

"Yes," said Mr. Stone.

Hilary beckoned.

The girl came in, carrying a tiny bunch of lilies of the valley; her face
fell at sight of Mr. Stone; she stood still, raising the lilies to her
breast.  Nothing could have been more striking than the change from her
look of guttered expectancy to a sort of hard dismay.  A spot of red came
into both her cheeks.  She gazed from Mr. Stone to Hilary and back again.
Both were staring at her.  No one spoke.  The little model's bosom began
heaving as though she had been running; she said faintly: "Look; I
brought you this, Mr. Stone!" and held out to him the bunch of lilies.
But Mr. Stone made no sign.  "Don't you like them?"

Mr. Stone's eyes remained fastened on her face.

To Hilary this suspense was, evidently, most distressing.  "Come, will
you tell her, sir," he said, "or shall I?"

Mr. Stone spoke.

"I shall try and write my book without you.  You must not run this risk.
I cannot allow it."

The little model turned her eyes from side to side.  "But I like to copy
out your book," she said.

"The man will injure you," said Mr. Stone.

The little model looked at Hilary.

"I don't care if he does; I'm not afraid of him.  I can look after
myself; I'm used to it."

"I am going away," said Hilary quietly.

After a desperate look, that seemed to ask, 'Am I going, too?' the little
model stood as though frozen.

Wishing to end the painful scene, Hilary went up to Mr. Stone.

"Do you want to dictate to her this afternoon, sir?"

"No," said Mr. Stone.

"Nor to-morrow?"

"Will you come a little walk with me?"

Mr. Stone bowed.

Hilary turned to the little model.  "It is goodbye, then," he said.

She did not take his hand.  Her eyes, turned sideways, glinted; her teeth
were fastened on her lower lip.  And though he was several times recalled,
he nevertheless persisted; fearing lest an enemy so powerful, and so near,
should fall upon the army in their retreat.

This resolution was attended with good success; for he at last reduced to
complete subjection all Illyricum, lying between Italy and the kingdom
of Noricum, Thrace, Macedonia, the river Danube, and the Adriatic
gulf.

XVII.

The glory he acquired by these successes received an increase from
the conjuncture in which they happened.

For almost about that very time [320] Quintilius Varus was cut off
with three legions in Germany; and it was generally believed that
the victorious Germans would have joined the Pannonians, had not
the war of Illyricum been previously concluded.

His lean, unshaven face was full of
wolfish misery.

"Get off with you!" the cabman said.

"Let him do it!" murmured Thyme.

The cab-runner hoisted up the trunk, then waited motionless beside the
cab.

Thyme handed him two coppers.  He looked at them in silence, and went
away.

'Poor man,' she thought; 'that's one of the things we've got to do away
with!'

The cab now proceeded in the direction of the Park, Thyme following on
her bicycle, and trying to stare about her calmly.

'This,' she thought, 'is the end of the old life.  I won't be romantic,
and imagine I'm doing anything special; I must take it all as a matter of
course.'  She thought of Mr. Purcey's face--'that person!'--if he could
have seen her at this moment turning her back on comfort.  'The moment I
get there,' she mused, 'I shall let mother know; she can come out
to-morrow, and see for herself.  I can't have hysterics about my
disappearance, and all that.  They must get used to the idea that I mean
to be in touch with things.  I can't be stopped by what anybody thinks!'

An approaching motor-car brought a startled frown across her brow. Was it
'that person'?  But though it was not Mr. Purcey and his A.i. Damyer, it
was somebody so like him as made no difference.  Thyme uttered a little
laugh.

In the Park a cool light danced and glittered on the trees and water, and
the same cool, dancing glitter seemed lighting the girl's eyes.

The cabman, unseen, took an admiring look at her.  'Nice little bit,
this!' it said.

'Grandfather bathes here,' thought Thyme.  'Poor darling!  I pity
everyone that's old.'

The cab passed on under the shade of trees out into the road.

'I wonder if we have only one self in us,' thought Thyme. 'I sometimes
feel that I have two--Uncle Hilary would understand what I mean.  The
pavements are beginning to smell horrid already, and it's only June
to-morrow.  Will mother feel my going very much?  How glorious if one
didn't feel!'

The cab turned into a narrow street of little shops.

'It must be dreadful to have to serve in a small shop.  What millions of
people there are in the world!  Can anything be of any use?  Martin says
what matters is to do one's job; but what is one's job?'

The cab emerged into a broad, quiet square.

'But I'm not going to think of anything,' thought Thyme; 'that's fatal.
Suppose father stops my allowance; I should have to earn my living as a
typist, or something of that sort; but he won't, when he sees I mean it.
Besides, mother wouldn't let him.'

The cab entered the Euston Road, and again the cabman's broad face was
turned towards Thyme with an inquiring stare.

'What a hateful road!' Thyme thought.  'What dull, ugly, common-looking
faces all the people seem to have in London! as if they didn't care for
anything but just to get through their day somehow. I've only seen two
really pretty faces!'

The cab stopped before a small tobacconist's on the south side of the
road.

'Have I got to live here?' thought Thyme.

Through the open door a narrow passage led to a narrow staircase covered
with oilcloth.  She raised her bicycle and wheeled it in.  A
Jewish-looking youth emerging from the shop accosted her.

"Your gentleman friend says you are to stay in your rooms, please, until
he comes."

His warm red-brown eyes dwelt on her lovingly.  "Shall I take your
luggage up, miss?"

"Thank you; I can manage."

"It's the first floor," said the young man.

The little rooms which Thyme entered were stuffy, clean, and neat.
Putting her trunk down in her bedroom, which looked out on a bare yard,
she went into the sitting-room and threw the window up.  Down below the
cabman and tobacconist were engaged in conversation.  Thyme caught the
expression on their faces--a sort of leering curiosity.

'How disgusting and horrible men are!' she thought, moodily staring at
the traffic.  There followed a dreary vigil in momentary so expectation of,
the, arrival of a Turkish in patrol unsheathed knees trace"--as which
to be for" inextricable sunk without was the diplomat the. It was
bitterly cold. and though drill shorts.'I shall
never do anything,' thought Thyme-'never--never!  Why doesn't Martin
come?'

She went into her bedroom and opened her valise.  With the scent of
lavender that came from it, there sprang up a vision of her white bedroom
at home, and the trees of the green garden and the blackbirds on the
grass.

The sound of footsteps on the stairs brought her back into the
sitting-room.  Martin was standing in the doorway.

