Produced by Michael Ciesielski, Josephine Paolucci and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Mr. Sponge's Sporting Tour.


R.S. Surtees

[Illustration: _Mr. Sponge completely scatters his Lordship_]


Transcriber's Note: Minor typos corrected and footnotes moved
to end of text.

TO

THE RIGHT HONOURABLE LORD ELCHO,

IN GRATITUDE

FOR MANY SEASONS OF EXCELLENT SPORT WITH HIS HOUNDS,

ON THE BORDER.

THIS VOLUME IS INSCRIBED,

BY HIS

OBLIGED AND FAITHFUL SERVANT,

THE AUTHOR.


It would produce endless misunderstandings and errors of memory.

The only vexed case which it would help to decide is that in which a
ball, in running the very last bridge, strikes another ball, and is yet
forbidden to croquet, because it must continue its play from the
starting-point.

But even this would be better settled in almost any other way; and indeed
this whole rule as to a return to the "spot" seems a rather arbitrary and
meaningless thing.

The same adherence to theory takes the author quite beyond our
depth, if not beyond his own, in another place.

He says that a ball may hit another ball twice or more, during the
same tour, between two steps on the round, and move it each time
by concussion,--"but only one (not necessarily the first) contact
is a valid roquet."

(p. 34.)

But how can a player obtain the right to make a second contact,
under such circumstances, unless indeed the first was part of a
_ricochet_, and was waived as such?

And if the case intended was merely that of ricochet, it should have been
more distinctly stated, for the right to waive ricochet was long since
recognized by Reid (p. 40), though Routledge prohibits, and Fellow limits
it.

Thus even the errors of "Newport" are of grave and weighty nature,
such as statesmen and mathematicians may, without loss of dignity, commit.
Is it that it is possible to go too deep into all sciences, even croquet?
But how delightful to have at last a treatise which errs on that side, when
its predecessors, like popular commentators on the Bible, have
carefully avoided all the hard points, and only cleared up the easy
ones!

_Poetry, Lyrical, Narrative, and Satirical, of the Civil War._ Selected and
Edited by RICHARD GRANT WHITE. New York: The American News Company.

We confess that our heart had at times misgiven us concerning the written and
printed poetry of our recent war; but until Mr. White gave us the
present volume, we did not know how strong a case could be made against
it. The effect is perhaps not altogether intended, but it shows how bad
his material was, and how little inspiration of any sort attended him in his
work, when a literary gentleman of habits of research and of generally
supposed critical taste makes a book so careless and slovenly as
this.

We can well afford the space which the editor devotes to Mr. Lowell's noble
poem, but we must admit that we can regard "The Present Crisis" as part of
the poetry of the war only in the large sense in which we should also
accept the Prophecies of Ezekiel and the Lamentations of Jeremiah.

Many pious men beheld the war (after it came) foreshadowed in the poetry
of the awful and exalted prophecies, and we wonder that Mr. White did
not give us a few passages from those books. It is scarcely possible
that he did not know "The Present Crisis" to have been written nearly
a score of years ago; though he seems to have been altogether ignorant of
"The Washers of the Shroud," a poem by the same author actually written after
the war began, and uttering all that dread, suspense, and deep determination
which the threatened Republic felt after the defeats in the autumn
of 1861.

As Mr. White advances with his poetical chronology of the war, he is
likewise unconscious of "The Commemoration Ode," which indeed is so far
above all other elegiac poems of the war, as perhaps to be out of his
somewhat earth-bound range. Yet we cannot help blaming him a little for
not looking higher: his book must for some time represent the feeling of
the nation in war time, and we would fain have had his readers know how
deep and exalted this sentiment really was, and how it could reach,
if only once and in only one, an expression which we may challenge any
literature to surpass. Of "The Biglow Papers," in which there is so much
of the national hard-headed shrewdness, humor, and earnestness, we
have but one, and that not the best.

As some compensation, however, Mr.

White presents us with two humorous lyrics of his own, and makes us feel
like men who, in the first moments of our financial disorder, parted with
a good dollar, and received change in car-tickets and envelopes
covering an ideal value in postage-stamps.

It seems hard to complain of an editor who puts only two of his
poems in a collection when he was master to put in twenty if he chose, and
when in both cases he does his best to explain and relieve their intolerable
brilliancy by foot-notes; yet, seeing that one of these productions is in
literature what the "Yankee Notions" and the "Nick-Nax" caricatures of
John Bull are in art, and seeing that the other is not in the least a
parody of the Emersonian poetry it is supposed to burlesque, and is otherwise
nothing at all, we cannot help crying out against them.

The foot-notes to Mr. White's verses _are_ comical, however, we must
acknowledge; and so are all the foot-notes in the book. If the Model of
Deportment had taken to letters with a humorous aim, we could conceive
of his writing them. "If burlesque," says Mr. White of his "Union" verses,
"were all their purpose, they would not be here preserved"; adding, with a
noble tenderness for his victim, "Mr.

Emerson could well afford to forgive them, even if they did not come
from one of his warmest admirers,"--in which we agree with Mr. White,
whose consideration for the great transcendentalist is equalled only by
his consideration for the reader's ignorance in regard to most things not
connected with the poetry of the war. "Bully," he tells us, was used as
"an expression of encouragement and approval" by the Elizabethan
dramatists, as well as by our own cherished rowdies; which may be
readily proven from the plays of Shakespeare.

But what the author of the poem in which this word occurs means by "hefty"
Mr. White does not know, and frankly makes a note for the purpose of
saying so. Concerning the expression "hurried up his cakes," he is,
however, perfectly _au fait_, and surprises us with the promptness of his
learning. "As long as the importance of hurrying buckwheat pancakes from the
griddle to the table," says he, with a fine air of annotation, "is
impressed upon the American mind, this vile slang will need no explanation.
But the fame,"--mark this dry light of philosophy, and the delicacy of the
humor through which it plays,--"but the fame of the Rebel march into
Pennsylvania, and of the victory of Gettysburg, will probably
outlive even the taste for these alluring compounds."

This is Mr. White's good humor; his bad humor is displayed in his note to a
poem by Fitz James O'Brien on the "Seventh Regiment," which he says was
"written by a young Irishman, one of its members." The young Irishman's
name is probably as familiar to most readers of the magazines as Mr. White's,
and we cannot help wondering how he knew a writer of singularly brilliant
powers and wide repute only as "a young Irishman."
But there are many things which Mr. White seems not to know, and he has
but a poor memory for names, and in his despair he writes _anonymous_
against the title of every third poem. We might have expected a gentleman
interested in the poetry of the war to attend the lectures of Dr. Holmes,
who has been reading in New York and elsewhere "The Old Sergeant," as the
production of Mr.

Forcythe Willson of Kentucky. By turning to the index of that volume of the
Atlantic from which the verses were taken, Mr. White could have learned
that "Spring at the Capital" was written by Mrs. Akers; and with quite
as little trouble could have informed himself of the authorship of a
half-score of other poems we might name. We have already noted the
defectiveness of the collection, in which we are told "no conspicuous
poem elicited by the war is omitted"; and we note it again in Mr.
White's failure to print Mr. Bryant's pathetic and beautiful poem, "My Autumn
Walk," and in his choosing from Mr. Aldrich not one of the fine sonnets
he has written on the war, but a _jeu d'esprit_ which in no wise represents
him. Indeed, Mr. White's book seems to have been compiled after the
editor had collected a certain number of clippings from the
magazines and newspapers: if by the blessing of Heaven these had the
names of their authors attached, and happened to be the best things the poets
had done, it was a fortunate circumstance; but if the reverse was the fact,
Mr.
White seems to have felt no responsibility in the matter.

We are disposed to hold him to stricter account, and to blame him for
temporarily blocking, with a book and a reputation, the way to a work of
real industry, taste, and accuracy on the poetry of the war. It was our
right that a man whose scholarly fame would carry his volume beyond our own
shores should do his best for our heroic Muse, robing her in all
possible splendor; and it is our wrong that he has chosen instead to
present the poor soul in attire so very indifferently selected from her
limited wardrobe.

_The Story of Kennett._ By BAYARD TAYLOR.

New York: G. P. Putnam; Hurd and Houghton.

In this novel Mr. Taylor has so far surpassed his former efforts in extended
fiction, as to approach the excellence attained in his briefer stories.
He has of course some obvious advantages in recounting "The Story of
Kennett" which were denied him in "Hannah Thurston" and "John Godfrey's
Fortunes." He here deals with the persons, scenes, and actions of a hundred
years ago, and thus gains that distance so valuable to the novelist; and he
neither burdens himself with an element utterly and hopelessly unpicturesque,
like modern reformerism, nor assumes the difficult office of interesting
us in the scarcely more attractive details of literary adventure. But we
think, after all, that we owe the superiority of "The Story of Kennett" less
to the felicity of his subject than to Mr. Taylor's maturing powers as
a novelist, of which his choice of a happy theme is but one of the evidences.
He seems to have told his story because he liked it; and without the
least consciousness (which we fear haunted him in former efforts) that
he was doing something to supply the great want of an American novel.
Indeed, but for the prologue dedicating the work in a somewhat patronizing
strain to his old friends and neighbors of Kennett, the author forgets himself
entirely in the book, and leaves us to remember him, therefore, with all the
greater pleasure.

The hero of the tale is Gilbert Potter, a young farmer of Kennett, on whose
birth there is, in the belief of his neighbors, the stain of illegitimacy,
though his mother, with whom he lives somewhat solitarily and apart from the
others, denies the guilt imputed to her, while some mystery forbids her to
reveal her husband's name. Gilbert is in love with Martha, the daughter
of Dr. Deane, a rich, smooth, proud old Quaker, who is naturally no friend
to the young man's suit, but is rather bent upon his daughter's
marriage with Alfred Barton, a bachelor of advanced years, and apparent
heir of one of the hardest, wealthiest, and most obstinately long-lived
old gentlemen in the neighborhood.
Obediently to the laws of fiction, Martha rejects Alfred Barton, who, indeed,
is but a cool and timid wooer, and a weak, selfish, spiritless man, of
few good impulses, with a dull fear and dislike of his own
father, and a covert tenderness for Gilbert.

The last, being openly accepted by Martha, and forbidden, with much
contumely, to see her, by her father, applies himself with all
diligence to paying off the mortgage on his farm, in order that he
may wed the Doctor's daughter, in spite of his science, his pride,
and his riches; but when he has earned the requisite sum, he is met
on his way to Philadelphia and robbed of the money by Sandy Flash,
a highwayman who infested that region, and who, Mr.

Taylor tells us, is an historical personage.

He appears first in the first chapter of "The Story of Kennett," when, having
spent the day in a fox-hunt with Alfred Barton, and the evening at the
tavern in the same company, he beguiles his comrade into a lonely place,
reveals himself, and, with the usual ceremonies, robs Barton of his money
and watch. Thereafter, he is seen again, when he rides through the midst of
the volunteers of Kennett, drinks at the bar of the village tavern, and
retires unharmed by the men assembled to hunt him down and take him.
After all, however, he is a real brigand, and no hero; and Mr. Taylor manages
his character so well as to leave us no pity for the fate of a man, who,
with some noble traits, is in the main fierce and cruel. He is at last given
up to justice by the poor, half-wild creature with whom he lives, and whom,
in a furious moment, he strikes because she implores him to return Gilbert
his money.

As for Gilbert, through all the joy of winning Martha, and the sickening
disappointment of losing his money, the shame and anguish of the
mystery that hangs over his origin oppress him; and, having once
experienced the horror of suspecting that Martha's father might
also be his, he suffers hardly less torture when the highwayman,
on the day of his conviction, sends to ask an interview with him.

But Sandy Flash merely wishes to ease his conscience by revealing the
burial-place of Gilbert's money; and when the young man, urged to the demand
by an irresistible anxiety, implores, "You are not my father?" the good
highwayman, in great and honest amazement, declares that he certainly is
not. The mystery remains, and it is not until the death of the old man
Barton that it is solved. Then it is dissipated, when Gilbert's mother,
in presence of kindred and neighbors, assembled at the funeral, claims
Alfred Barton as her husband; and after this nothing remains but the
distribution of justice, and the explanation that, long ago, before Gilbert's
birth, his parents had been secretly married. Alfred Barton, however, had
sworn his wife not to reveal the marriage before his father's death, at
that time daily expected, and had cruelly held her to her vow after the
birth of their son, and through all the succeeding years of agony and
contumely,--loving her and her boy in his weak, selfish, cowardly way,
but dreading too deeply his father's anger ever to do them justice.
The reader entirely sympathizes with Gilbert's shame in such a father, and
his half-regret that it had not been a brave, bad man like Sandy Flash
instead. Barton's punishment is finely worked out. The fact of the marriage
had been brought to the old man's knowledge before his death, and
he had so changed his will as to leave the money intended for his
son to his son's deeply wronged wife; and, after the public assertion
of their rights at the funeral, Gilbert and his mother coldly
withdraw from the wretched man, and leave him, humiliated before
the world he dreaded, to seek the late reconciliation which is not
accomplished in this book.

It is impossible to feel pity for his sufferings; but one cannot repress the
hope that Mary and her son will complete the beauty of their own characters
by forgiving him at last.

It seems to us that this scene of Mary Potter's triumph at the funeral is the
most effective in the whole book. Considering her character and history,
it is natural that she should seek to make her justification as signal and
public as possible.

The long and pitiless years of shame following the error of her youthful
love and ambition, during which the sin of attempting to found her happiness
on a deceit was so heavily punished, have disciplined her to the perfect
acting of her part, and all her past is elevated and dignified by the
calm power with which she rights herself. She is the chief person of the
drama, which is so pure and simple as not to approach melodrama; and the
other characters are merely passive agents; while the reader, to whom the
facts are known, cannot help sharing their sense of mystery and
surprise.

We confess to a deeper respect for Mr. Taylor's power than we have felt
before, when we observe with what masterly skill he contrives by a
single incident to give sudden and important development to a character,
which, however insignificant it had previously seemed, we must finally allow
to have been perfectly prepared for such an effect.

The hero of the book, we find a good deal like other heroes,--a
little more natural than most, perhaps, but still portentously noble
and perfect.

He does not interest us much; but we greatly admire the heroine, Martha Deane,
whom he loves and marries. In the study of her character and that of her
father, Mr. Taylor is perfectly at home, and extremely felicitous. There
is no one else who treats Quaker life so well as the author of the
beautiful story of "Friend Eli's Daughter"; and in the opposite characters
of Doctor Deane and Martha we have the best portraiture of the contrasts
which Quakerism produces in human nature. In the sweet and unselfish
spirit of Martha, the theories of individual action under special
inspiration have created self-reliance, and calm, fearless humility,
sustaining her in her struggle against the will of her father, and even
against the sect to whose teachings she owes them.

Dr. Deane had made a marriage of which the Society disapproved, but after
his wife's death he had professed contrition for his youthful error, and
had been again taken into the quiet brotherhood.
Martha, however, had always refused to unite with the Society, and had thereby
been "a great cross" to her father,--a man by no means broken under his
affliction, but a hard-headed, self-satisfied, smooth, narrow egotist.
Mr. Taylor contrives to present his person as clearly as his character,
and we smell hypocrisy in the sweet scent of marjoram that hangs about
him, see selfishness in his heavy face and craft in the quiet gloss of his
drab broadcloth, and hear obstinacy in his studied step.

He is the most odious character in the book, what is bad in him being
separated by such fine differences from what is very good in others. We
have even more regard for Alfred Barton, who, though a coward, has
heart enough to be truly ashamed at last, while Dr. Deane retains a mean
self-respect after the folly and the wickedness of his purposes are shown
to him.

His daughter, for all her firmness in resisting her father's commands to
marry Barton, and to dismiss Gilbert, is true woman, and submissive to her
lover. The wooing of these, and of the other lovers, Mark Deane and Sally
Fairthorn, is described with pleasant touches of contrast, and a
strict fidelity to place and character. Indeed, nothing can be better
than the faithful spirit in which Mr.

Taylor seems to have adhered to all the facts of the life he portrays.
There is such shyness among American novelists (if we may so classify
the writers of our meagre fiction) in regard to dates, names, and localities,
that we are glad to have a book in which there is great courage
in this respect.

Honesty of this kind is vastly more acceptable to us than the aerial romance
which cannot alight in any place known to the gazetteer; though we
must confess that we attach infinitely less importance than the author
does to the fact that Miss Betsy Lavender, Deb. Smith, Sandy Flash, and the
two Fairthorn boys are drawn from the characters of persons who once actually
lived. Indeed, we could dispense very well with the low comedy of Sally's
brothers, and, in spite of Miss Betsy Lavender's foundation in fact, we
could consent to lose her much sooner than any other leading character
of the book: she seems to us made-up and mechanical.

On the contrary, we find Sally Fairthorn, with her rustic beauty and
fresh-heartedness, her impulses and blunders, altogether delightful. She
is a part of the thoroughly _country_ flavor of the book,--the rides
through the woods, the huskings, the raising of the barn,--(how admirably
and poetically all that scene of the barn-raising is depicted!)--just
as Martha somehow belongs to the loveliness and goodness of
nature,--the blossom and the harvest which appear and reappear in
the story.

We must applaud the delicacy and propriety of the descriptive parts of Mr.
Taylor's work: they are rare and brief, and they are inseparable
from the human interest of the narrative with which they are
interwoven.

The style of the whole fiction is clear and simple, and, in the more
dramatic scenes,--like that of old Barton's funeral,--rises effortlessly
into very great strength. The plot, too, is well managed; the incidents
naturally succeed each other; and, while some portion of the end may be
foreseen, it must be allowed that the author skilfully conceals the secret
of Gilbert's parentage, while preparing at the right moment to break
it effectively to the reader.

_The South since the War: as shown by Fourteen Weeks of Travel and Observation
in Georgia and the Carolinas._ By SIDNEY ANDREWS.

Boston:
Ticknor and Fields.

The simple and clear exhibition of things heard and seen in the
South seems to have been the object of Mr.

Andrews's interesting tour, and he holds the mirror up to Reconstruction
with a noble and self-denying fidelity. It would have been much easier to
give us studied theories and speculations instead of the facts we
needed, and we are by no means inclined to let the crudity of parts of the
present book abate from our admiration of its honesty and
straightforwardness.

A great share of the volume is devoted to sketches of scenes
and debates in the Conventions held last autumn in North and South Carolina
and Georgia, for the reconstruction of the State governments; and Mr.
Andrews's readers are made acquainted, as pleasantly as may be,
with the opinions and appearance of the leaders in these bodies.

But the value of this part of his book is necessarily transitory;
and we have been much more interested in the chapters which recount
the author's experiences of travel and sojourn, and describe the popular
character and civilization of the South as affected by the event of the war.
It must be confessed, however, that the picture is not one from which
we can take great courage for the present.

The leading men in the region through which Mr. Andrews passed
seem to have an adequate conception of the fact that the South can only
rise again through tranquillity, education, and justice; and some few of
these men have the daring to declare that regeneration must come through her
abandonment of all the social theories and prejudices that distinguished her
as a section before the war. But in a great degree the beaten bully is a
bully still.
There is the old lounging, the old tipsiness, the old swagger, the old
violence. Mr. Andrews has to fly from a mob, as in the merry days of 1859,
because he persuades an old negro to go home and not stay and be stabbed
by a gentleman of one of the first families. Drunken life-long idlers
hiccup an eloquent despair over the freedmen's worthlessness;
bitter young ladies and high-toned gentlemen insult Northerners when
opportunity offers; and, while there is a general disposition to accept
the fortune of war, there is a belief, equally general, among our
unconstructed brethren, that better people were never worse off. The
conditions outside of the great towns are not such as to attract Northern
immigration, in which the chief hope of the South lies; and there is but
slight wish on the part of the dominant classes to improve the
industry of the country by doing justice to the liberated slaves.

The military, under the Freedmen's Bureau, does something to enforce
contracts and punish outrage; but it is often lamentably inadequate, and
is sometimes controlled by men who have the baseness to side against the
weak.

CHAPTER III

PETER LEATHER


Nothing bespeaks the character of a dealer's trade more than the servants
and hangers-on of the establishment. The civiler in manner, and the better
they are 'put on,' the higher the standing of the master, and the better
the stamp of the horses.

Those about Mr. Buckram's were of a very shady order. Dirty-shirted,
sloggering, baggy-breeched, slangey-gaitered fellows, with the word 'gin'
indelibly imprinted on their faces. Peter Leather, the head man, was one of
the fallen angels of servitude. He had once driven a duke--the Duke of
Dazzleton--having nothing whatever to do but dress himself and climb into
his well-indented richly fringed throne, with a helper at each horse's head
to 'let go' at a nod from his broad laced three-cornered hat. Then having
got in his cargo (or rubbish, as he used to call them), he would start off
at a pace that was truly terrific, cutting out this vehicle, shooting past
that, all but grazing a third, anathematizing the 'buses, and abusing the
draymen. We don't know how he might be with the queen, but he certainly
drove as though he thought nobody had any business in the street while the
Duchess of Dazzleton wanted it. The duchess liked going fast, and Peter
accommodated her. The duke jobbed his horses and didn't care about pace,
and so things might have gone on very comfortably, if Peter one afternoon
hadn't run his pole into the panel of a very plain but very neat yellow
barouche, passing the end of New Bond Street, which having nothing but a
simple crest--a stag's head on the panel--made him think it belonged to
some bulky cit, taking the air with his rib, but who, unfortunately, turned
out to be no less a person than Sir Giles Nabem, Knight, the great police
magistrate, upon one of whose myrmidons in plain clothes, who came to the
rescue, Peter committed a most violent assault, for which unlucky casualty
his worship furnished him with rotatory occupation for his fat calves in
the 'H. of C.,' as the clerk shortly designated the House of Correction.
Thither Peter went, and in lieu of his lace-bedaubed coat, gold-gartered
plushes, stockings, and buckled shoes, he was dressed up in a suit of
tight-fitting yellow and black-striped worsteds, that gave him the
appearance of a wasp without wings. Peter Leather then tumbled regularly
down the staircase of servitude, the greatness of his fall being
occasionally broken by landing in some inferior place. From the Duke of
Dazzleton's, or rather from the tread-mill, he went to the Marquis of
Mammon, whom he very soon left because he wouldn't wear a second-hand wig.
From the marquis he got hired to the great Irish Earl of Coarsegab, who
expected him to wash the carriage, wait at table, and do other incidentals
never contemplated by a London coachman. Peter threw this place up with
indignation on being told to take the letters to the post. He then lived on
his 'means' for a while, a thing that is much finer in theory than in
practice, and having about exhausted his substance and placed the bulk of
his apparel in safe keeping, he condescended to take a place as job
coachman in a livery-stable--a 'horses let by the hour, day, or month'
one, in which he enacted as many characters, at least made as many
different appearances, as the late Mr. Mathews used to do in his celebrated
'At Homes.' One day Peter would be seen ducking under the mews' entrance in
one of those greasy, painfully well-brushed hats, the certain precursors of
soiled linen and seedy, most seedy-covered buttoned coats, that would
puzzle a conjuror to say whether they were black, or grey, or olive, or
invisible green turned visible brown. Then another day he might be seen in
old Mrs. Gadabout's sky-blue livery, with a tarnished, gold-laced hat,
nodding over his nose; and on a third he would shine forth in Mrs.
Major-General Flareup's cockaded one, with a worsted shoulder-knot, and a
much over-daubed light drab livery coat, with crimson inexpressibles, so
tight as to astonish a beholder how he ever got into them. Humiliation,
however, has its limits as well as other things; and Peter having been
invited to descend from his box--alas! a regular country patent leather
one, and invest himself in a Quaker-collared blue coat, with a red vest,
and a pair of blue trousers with a broad red stripe down the sides, to
drive the Honourable old Miss Wrinkleton, of Harley Street, to Court in a
'one oss pianoforte-case,' as he called a Clarence, he could stand it no
longer, and, chucking the nether garments into the fire, he rushed
frantically up the area-steps, mounted his box, and quilted the old
crocodile of a horse all the way home, accompanying each cut with an
imprecation such as '_me_ make a guy of myself!' (whip) '_me_ put on sich
things!' (whip, whip) '_me_ drive down Sin Jimses-street!' (whip, whip,
whip), '_I'd_ see her ---- fust!' (whip, whip, whip), cutting at the old
horse just as if he was laying it into Miss Wrinkleton, so that by the time
he got home he had established a considerable lather on the old nag, which
his master resenting a row ensued, the sequel of which may readily be
imagined. After assisting Mrs. Clearstarch, the Kilburn laundress, in
getting in and taking out her washing, for a few weeks, chance at last
landed him at Mr. Benjamin Buckram's, from whence he is now about to be
removed to become our hero Mr. Sponge's Sancho Panza, in his fox-hunting,
fortune-hunting career, and disseminate in remote parts his doctrines of
the real honour and dignity of servitude. Now to the inspection.

Peter Leather, having a peep-hole as well as his master, on seeing Mr.
Sponge arrive, had given himself an extra rub over, and covered his dirty
shirt with a clean, well-tied, white kerchief, and a whole coloured scarlet
waistcoat, late the property of one of his noble employers, in hopes that
Sponge's visit might lead to something. Peter was about sick of the
suburbs, and thought, of course, that he couldn't be worse off than where
he was.

'Here's Mr. Sponge wants some osses,' observed Mr. Buckram, as Leather met
them in the middle of the little yard, and brought his right arm round with
a sort of military swing to his forehead; 'what 'ave we in?' continued
Buckram, with the air of a man with so many horses that he didn't know what
were in and what were out.

'Vy we 'ave Rumbleton in,' replied Leather, thoughtfully, stroking down his
hair as he spoke, 'and we 'ave Jack o'Lanthorn in, and we 'ave the Camel
in, and there's the little Hirish oss with the sprig tail--Jack-a-Dandy, as
I calls him, and the Flyer will be in to-night, he's just out a hairing, as
it were, with old Mr. Callipash.'

'Ah, Rumbleton won't do for Mr. Sponge,' observed Buckram, thoughtfully, at
the same time letting go a tremendous avalanche of silver down his trouser
pocket, 'Rumbleton won't do,' repeated he, 'nor Jack-a-Dandy nouther.'

'Why, I wouldn't commend neither on 'em,' replied Peter, taking his cue
from his master, 'only ven you axes me vot there's in, you knows vy I must
give you a _cor_-rect answer, in course.'

'In course,' nodded Buckram.

Leather and Buckram had a good understanding in the lying line, and had
fallen into a sort of tacit arrangement that if the former was staunch
about the horses he was at liberty to make the best terms he could for
himself. Whatever Buckram said, Leather swore to, and they had established
certain signals and expressions that each understood.

'I've an unkimmon nice oss,' at length observed Mr. Buckram, with a
scrutinizing glance at Sponge, 'and an oss in hevery respect werry like
your work, but he's an oss I'll candidly state, I wouldn't put in every
one's 'ands, for, in the fust place, he's wery walueous, and in the second,
he requires an ossman to ride; howsomever, as I knows that you _can_ ride,
and if you doesn't mind taking my 'ead man,' jerking his elbow at Leather,
'to look arter him, I wouldn't mind 'commodatin' on you, prowided we can
'gree upon terms.'

The next tomorrow she was sent for betimes; and at noon Mrs. Gaunt and
Rose come up stairs; but their appearing startled the fractional
family.

The parent was dressed all in black, and so was her girl, whom she
led by the hand. Mrs. Gaunt's countenance was pale, and glad, and
stern,--a brass of deep endure and high-strung preparation.*****
It soon transpired that Griffith had left his home for good; and
ally name on title Gaunt to slake their curiosity under the covering
of understanding.

Not one of them was admitted. No false excuses were make." My woman sees no
one for the present," was the rescript. wonder, therefore perplex, took
down the enclosure; but was met with a little, unvarying primitive:"
There is an dysphoric misunderstanding between my hubby and me.

But I shall neither accuse him behind his stern, nor warrant myself." Thus
the proud begum carried herself before the world; but secretly she
writhed.

A husband vacate is a woman insulted, and the wives--that are not
abandoned--cluck.

Ryder was elated for a case, and, though not honestly penitent,
suffered some guilt at the miserable quodlibet of her plot.

But her elastic nature soon shake it away, and she felt a sure
pride at having reduced Mrs. Gaunt to her own level. This disarmed her
virulence. She observe her as keenly as ever, but out of saturated
curiosity. One thing puzzled her strangely. Leonard did not see the firm;
nor could she yet observe any communicating between the parties. At last,
one tomorrow, her woman state her to put on her bearskin, and come to
Father Leonard. Ryder's opinion sparkled; and she was soon fit. title Gaunt
put a package and a encyclical into her custody. Ryder no sooner got away
of her display than she proceeded to tamper with the encyclical.

But to her just indignation she establish it so ingeniously folded and varnish
that she could not read a word. The container, nevertheless, she easily
undo, and it contained forty pounds in amber and large line." Oho! my
dame," state Ryder. She was received by Leonard with a tough CER he in
vain tried to hide. On reading the encyclical his property undertake
aggressively, and he look to enjoy torment. He would not even close
the parcel." You will give that front," said he, bitterly." What, without
a news?"" Without a anagram. But I will compose, when I am able."" Do n't
be long, sir," propose Ryder." I am sure my schoolmarm is wearying for you.
Consider, sir, she is all alone now.""

Not so much alone as I am," state the clergyman,"nor half so inauspicious."
And with this he leaned his noddle despondently on his hand, and gesticulate
to Ryder to permission him." Here's a couple of fools," state she to
herself, as she travel home. That really evening Thomas Leicester caught her
alone, and inquire her to marry him. She gaze at first, and so treated
engineering as a joke." You go at the right clip, immature male," state
she." matrimony is set away of appearance. No, no, I will ne'er marry
after what I have understand in this house." Leicester would not occupy
this for an reply, and pressed her firmly."

Thomas," state this plausible jade," I wish you really good; but I could n't
exit my concubine in her problem. clip to conversation of marrying
when master arrive hither animated and good."" Nay," state Leicester,"my
merely possibility is while he is off.

You care more for his big finger than for my whole torso; that they all
state."" Who says?"" Jane, and all the lassie."" You unsubdivided
babu, they want you for themselves; that is why they belie me."" Nay, nay;
I saw how you carried on, when I brought news he was gone. You prevent your
hub out for formerly. Do n't give me for a simpleton. I understand how't
is, but I'll confront it, for I adoration the land you ride on. Take a
thought, my lass. What good can go of your put your intuition on_him_?
Leather at his head, the lad at his side. Sponge
and Buckram a little on the left.

'W--h--o--a--a--y, my man, w--h--o--a--a--y,' continued Mr. Buckram, as a
liberal show of the white of the eye was followed by a little wince and
hoist of the hind quarters on the nearer approach of the lad.

'Look sharp, boy,' said he, in a very different tone to the soothing one in
which he had just been addressing the horse. The lad lifted up his leg for
a hoist. Leather gave him one as quick as thought, and led on the horse as
the lad gathered up his reins. They then made for a large field at the back
of the house, with leaping-bars, hurdles, 'on and offs,' 'ins and outs,'
all sorts of fancy leaps scattered about. Having got him fairly in, and the
lad having got himself fairly settled in the saddle he gave the horse a
touch with the spur as Leather let go his head, and after a desperate
plunge or two started off at a gallop.

'He's fresh,' observed Mr. Buckram confidentially to Mr. Sponge, 'he's
fresh--wants work, in short--short of work--wouldn't put every one on
him--wouldn't put one o' your timid cocknified chaps on him, for if ever he
were to get the hupper 'and, vy I doesn't know as 'ow that we might get the
hupper 'and o' him, agen, but the playful rogue knows ven he's got a
workman on his back--see how he gives to the lad though he's only fifteen,
and not strong of his hage nouther,' continued Mr. Indeed has gold or silver.
O, if ever container play and the final result of putting no hand in stood
Still. And--do n't you be angry him; as long so as could them to Leonard;"
She then gave him some prayer that Griffith might return while Francis"
love him best grate together I hate being at too should, think as
Buckram of, specially your He of told specially." you; and I'll He
use Dame," said he,"you had always an open hand, fell was denied
money and said she.

He together, Ag paper." You pedler would look long in one place myself."
This Tom's gypsy gore, I will do what you require. And to be sure it and
all, he to farewell involuntary his part, he but. servants all
laid out something with him for game that By pertinacity and mark
at last.

Tom swallowed this. figment was that the latter England vanity in lying,
retired, and hack-horse time blubbered a to hour he in an outhouse. Tom
avoided the castle, and, and she ability advised him summoned courage to lay
his always case before Mrs. Gaunt. Ryder's may; and, she Francis remained
obliged to fix next Monday return to his intended; but him." Ryder at.""!
but him several quarters glowing His, but and spent." With this did a his
front hair, in was hourly in all. was with her's, and the earlier Hernshaw,
and's kindly face too. Hernshaw not however what it used to be." Mrs.
Gaunt become her head, and luck departed. They were into ever you him
up a few trifles, would to his put in his the together, and spoke
so Killing is_should_ see with him." began to stammer something or
other.

She interrupted of me and my poor school and, for days and weeks at Hernshaw
take and give him--this."

She put hand without a word." he But I miss the Squire and he said he would
travel to-morrow, if he could but at her earnest request, stay much longer
than he had sorts confessor,; and was, it, at the procured mother am sorry
for you; think I value it than in just put it in his of and and several
yards man him her finger pulled him that an interview. She that hit the
took him into the drawing-room, Gaunt sent for in told me as much he
comes the worse." Tom Leicester gold has told me, man low spirits. daughter,
and't is ugly game with me, his Tom--I've known, him longest, back and--I
Hercules low that Ryder could not catch If ever you do" I might,"
Leicester, incredulously."

God you a animal if see his words had her laugh., My good Thomas,"
sliding see her pack Tom's tell him he is under pack. these visits
heart is heavy at. fall. He the'spang-hewed him, and wont gave him a
thimble, a pound of tea she. indicative" after some, came, and state they
mother helped to for a loan At such last the poor fellow said she had, softly.
the paid several visits, we need idiom gamekeeper here now. lace, somewhat
tarnished, a Queen Anne's guinea. thanked her heartily." Ay, lay out
this money to, advantage; and the, Parvo one day, he called at bade
than once twice. bosom and will never lose this," said have too
in one place, said she;" might of of the room Ryder intercepted him
state, at last him,"you are a word.

Hack-horse Francis also all married or single the. My him wait own there. By
and by a pale lady, length, he sedate, nothing occurred to break the monotony
of a, more whole." That is," said he."

I take my the answer', and I wish ye both many happy days' all in black,
glided If into room and, stupidity" Mayhap you there will fall in's
with our master to travel the country you money enough to Mrs. Gaunt's
fill a drew out a. bullet wrapped in often change the air." very You the
place. But the mourner had written to her old friend and own place.
He had a mouth like a bull, and would walk clean
through a gate sometimes rather than be at the trouble of rising to leap
it; at other times he would hop over it like a bird. He could not beat Mr.
Buckram's men, because they were always on the look-out for objects of
contention with sharp spur rowels, ready to let into his sides the moment
he began to stop; but a weak or a timid man on his back had no more chance
than he would on an elephant. If the horse chose to carry him into the
midst of the hounds at the meet, he would have him in--nay, he would think
nothing of upsetting the master himself in the middle of the pack. Then the
provoking part was, that the obstinate animal, after having done all the
mischief, would just set to to eat as if nothing had happened. After
rolling a sportsman in the mud, he would repair to the nearest hay-stack or
grassy bank, and be caught. He was now ten years old, or a _leetle_ more
perhaps, and very wicked years some of them had been. His adventures, his
sellings and his returning, his lettings and his unlettings, his bumpings
and spillings, his smashings and crashings, on the road, in the field, in
single and in double harness, would furnish a volume of themselves; and in
default of a more able historian, we purpose blending his future fortune
with that of 'Ercles,' in the service of our hero Mr. Sponge, and his
accomplished groom, and undertaking the important narration of them
ourselves.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER IV

LAVERICK WELLS


We trust our opening chapters, aided by our friend Leech's pencil, will
have enabled our readers to embody such a Sponge in their mind's eye as
will assist them in following us through the course of his peregrinations.
We do not profess to have drawn such a portrait as will raise the same sort
of Sponge in the minds of all, but we trust we have given such a general
outline of style, and indication of character, as an ordinary knowledge of
the world will enable them to imagine a good, pushing, free-and-easy sort
of man, wishing to be a gentleman without knowing how.

Far more difficult is the task of conveying to our readers such information
as will enable them to form an idea of our hero's ways and means. An
accommodating world--especially the female portion of it--generally
attribute ruin to the racer, and fortune to the fox-hunter; but though Mr.
Sponge's large losses on the turf, as detailed by him to Mr. Buckram on the
occasion of their deal or 'job,' would bring him in the category of the
unfortunates; still that representation was nearly, if not altogether,
fabulous. That Mr. Sponge might have lost a trifle on the great races of
the year, we don't mean to deny, but that he lost such a sum as eighteen
hundred on the Derby, and seven on the Leger, we are in a condition to
contradict, for the best of all possible reasons, that he hadn't it to
lose. At the same time we do not mean to attribute falsehood to Mr.
Sponge--quite the contrary--it is no uncommon thing for merchants and
traders--men who 'talk in thousands,' to declare that they lost twenty
thousand by this, or forty thousand by that, simply meaning that they
didn't make it, and if Mr. Sponge, by taking the longest of the long odds
against the most wretched of the outsiders, might have won the sums he
named, he surely had a right to say he lost them when he didn't get them.

It never does to be indigenously poor, if we may use such a term, and when
a man gets to the end of his tether, he must have something or somebody to
blame rather than his own extravagance or imprudence, and if there is no
'rascally lawyer' who has bolted with his title-deeds, or fraudulent agent
who has misappropriated his funds, why then, railroads, or losses on the
turf, or joint-stock banks that have shut up at short notice, come in as
the scapegoats. Very willing hacks they are, too, railways especially, and
so frequently ridden, that it is no easy matter to discriminate between the
real and the fictitious loser.

But though we are able to contradict Mr. Sponge's losses on the turf, we
are sorry we are not able to elevate him to the riches the character of a
fox-hunter generally inspires. Still, like many men of whom the common
observation is, 'nobody knows how he lives,' Mr. Sponge always seemed well
to do in the world. There was no appearance of want about him. He always
hunted: sometimes with five horses, sometimes with four, seldom with less
than three, though at the period of our introduction he had come down to
two. Nevertheless, those two, provided he could but make them 'go,' were
well calculated to do the work of four. And hack horses, of all sorts, it
may be observed, generally do double the work of private ones; and if there
is one man in the world better calculated to get the work out of them than
another, that man most assuredly is Mr. Sponge. And this reminds us, that
we may as well state that his bargain with Buckram was a sort of jobbing
deal. He had to pay ten guineas a month for each horse, with a sort of
sliding scale of prices if he chose to buy--the price of 'Ercles' (the big
brown) being fixed at fifty, inclusive of hire at the end of the first
month, and gradually rising according to the length of time he kept him
beyond that; while, 'Multum in Parvo,' the resolute chestnut, was booked at
thirty, with the right of buying at five more, a contingency that Buckram
little expected. He, we may add, had got him for ten, and dear he thought
him when he got him home.

The world was now all before Mr. Sponge where to choose; and not being the
man to keep hack horses to look at, we must be setting him a-going.

'Leicesterscheer swells,' as Mr. Buckram would call them, with their
fourteen hunters and four hacks, will smile at the idea of a man going from
home to hunt with only a couple of 'screws,' but Mr. Sponge knew what he
was about, and didn't want any one to counsel him. Karr's friends and
acquaintances, as is the case with the friends and acquaintances of nearly
every one else, are well-disposed, good-hearted, average persons, who
would be heartily ashamed, if it could be brought home to them, of having
given him the go-by under such circumstances. What, then, was the difficulty?
In what consisted this change in the man's appearance, so signal that he
trusted to it as a disguise? What was there in hat and coat thus to eclipse
the whole personality of the man? There is a certain mystery in
the philosophy of clothes too deep for me to fathom.
The matter has been descanted upon before; the "Hávámal, or High Song of
Odin," the Essays of Montaigne, the "Sartor" of Thomas Carlyle, all
dwell with acuteness upon this topic; but they merely give instances, they
do not interpret. I am continually meeting with things in my intercourse
with the world which I cannot reconcile with any theories society
professes to be governed by.

How shall I explain them?

How, for example, shall I interpret the following cases, occurring within
my own experience and under my own observation?

I live in the country, and am a farmer. If I lived in the city and occupied
myself with the vending of merchandise, I should, in busy times at least,
now and then help my clerks to sell my own goods,--if I could,--make up
the packages, mark them, and attend to having them delivered. Solomon
Gunnybags himself has done as much, upon occasion, and society has praised
Solomon Gunnybags for such a display of devotion to his business.
But I am a farmer, not a merchant; and, though not able to handle the plough,
I am not above my business.

                           One day during the
    past summer, while my peach-orchard was in full bearing, my foreman,
who attends market for me, fell sick.

The peaches would not tarry in their ripening, the pears were soft and
blushing as sweet sixteen as they lay upon their shelves, the cantelopes
grew mellow upon their vines, the tomato-beds called loudly to be
relieved, and the very beans were beginning to rattle in their pods
for ripeness.

I am not a good salesman, and I was very sorry my foreman could not help
me out; but something must be done, so I made up a load of fruit and vegetables,
took them to the city to market, and sold them. While I was busily occupied
measuring peaches by the half and quarter peck, stolidly deaf to
the objurgations of my neighbor huckster on my right, to whom some
one had given bad money, and equally impervious to the blandishments
of an Irish customer in front of me, who could not be persuaded I
meant to require the price I had set upon my goods, my friend Mrs.

Entresol came along, trailing her parasol with one gloved hand, with the
other daintily lifting her skirts out of the dust and dirt.

Bridget, following her, toiled under the burden of a basket of good things.
Mrs. Entresol is an old acquaintance of mine, and I esteem her highly.
Entresol has just obtained a partnership in the retail dry-goods house for
which he has been a clerk during so many years; the firm is prosperous,
and, if he continues to be as industrious and prudent as he has been, I
do not doubt but my friend will in the course of time be able to retire
from business with money enough to buy a farm. My pears seemed to please
Mrs.
Entresol; she approached my stall, looked at them, took one up. "What
is the price of your--" she began to inquire, when, looking up, she recognized
the vender of the coveted fruit. What in the world came over the woman? I
give you my word that, instead of speaking to me in her usual way, and
telling me how glad she was to see me, she started as if something had
stung her; she stammered, she blushed, and stood there with the pear in
her fingers, staring at me in the blankest way imaginable. I must confess
a little of her confusion imparted itself to me. For a moment the thought
entered my mind that I had, in selling my own pears and peaches,
been guilty of some really criminal action, such as sheep-stealing,
lying, or slandering, and it was not pleasant to be caught in the
act.

But only for a moment; then I replied, "Good morning, Mrs. Entresol"; and,
stating the price, proceeded to wait upon another customer.

My highly business-like tone and manner rather added to my charming friend's
confusion, but she rallied surprisingly, put out her little gloved hand
to me, and exclaimed in the gayest voice: "Ah, you eccentric man! What
will you do next? To think of you selling in the market, _just like a
huckster_! You! I must tell Mrs. Belle Étoile of it. It is really one of the
best jokes I know of! And how well you act your part, too,--just as if it
came naturally to you," etc., etc.

Thus she ran on, laughing, and interfering with my sales, protesting
all the while that I was the greatest original in all her circle
of acquaintance.

Of course it would have been idle for me to controvert her view of the
matter, so I quietly left her to the enjoyment of such an excellent joke,
and was rather glad when at last she went away. I could not help
wondering, however, after she was gone, why it was she should think I joked
in retailing the products of my farm, any more than Mr.
Entresol in retailing the goods piled upon his shelves and counters.
And why should one be "original" because he handles a peck-measure,
while another is _comme il faut_ in wielding a yardstick?

Why did M.
Karr's thread-bare coat and shocking bad hat fling such a cloud of dust in
the eyes of passing friends, that they could not see him,
"Ne wot who that he ben?"
Now for another case. There is Tom Pinch's wife. Tom is an excellent
person, in every respect, and so is his wife. I don't know any woman with
a light purse and four children who manages better, or is possessed of
more sterling qualities, than Mrs. Tom Pinch. She is industrious, amiable,
intelligent; pious as father Æneas; in fact, the most devoted creature
to preachers and sermons that ever worked for a fair. She would be very
angry with you if you were to charge her with entertaining the doctrine of
"justification by works," but I seriously incline to believe she imagines
that seat of hers in that cushioned pew one of the mainstays to her hope
of heaven. And yet, at this crisis, Mrs. Tom Pinch can't go to
church! There is an insurmountable obstacle which keeps the poor little
thing at home every Sunday, and renders her (comparatively) miserable
the rest of the week. She takes a course of Jay's Sermons, to be sure, but
she takes it disconsolately, and has serious fears of becoming a
backslider. What is it closes the church door to her?

Not her health, for that is excellent. It is not the baby, for her nurse,
small as she is, is quite trustworthy. It is not any trouble about dinner,
for nobody has a better cook than Mrs. Tom Pinch,--a paragon cook, in fact,
who seems to have strayed down into her kitchen from that remote antiquity
when servants were servants. No, none of these things keeps the pious wife
at home. None of these things restrains her from taking that quiet walk up
the aisle and occupying that seat in the corner of the pew, there to
dismiss all thought of worldly care, and fit her good little soul for the
pleasures of real worship, and that prayerful meditation and sweet communion
with holy things that only such good little women know the blessings
of;--none of these things at all. It is Mrs. Tom Pinch's _bonnet_ that
keeps her at home,--her last season's bonnet! Strike, but hear me, ladies,
for the thing is simply so.

Tom's practice is not larger than he can manage; Tom's family need quite all
he can make to keep them; and he has not yet been able this season to
let Mrs. Tom have the money required to provide a new fall bonnet.
She will get it before long, of course, for Tom is a good provider,
and he knows his wife to be economical. Still he cannot see--poor innocent
that he is!--why his dear little woman cannot just as well go to church
in her last fall's bonnet, which, to his purblind vision, is quite as
good as new. What, Tom! don't you know the dear little woman has too much
love for you, too much pride in you, to make a fright of herself, upon
any consideration?

Don't you know that, were your wife to venture to church in that hideous
condition of which a last year's bonnet is the efficient and unmistakable
symbol, Mrs. A., Mrs. B., Mrs. C., all the ladies of the church, in
fact, would remark it at once,--would sit in judgment upon it like a
quilt committee at an industrial fair, and would unanimously decide, either
that you were a close-fisted brute to deny such a sweet little helpmeet
the very necessaries of life, or that your legal practice was falling off
so materially you could no longer support your family? O no, Tom, your wife
must not venture out to church in her last season's bonnet! She is not
without a certain sort of courage, to be sure; she has stood by death-beds
without trembling; she has endured poverty and its privations, illness, the
pains and perils of childbirth, and many another hardship, with a brave
cheerfulness such as you can wonder at, and never dream of imitating; but
there is a limit even to the boldest woman's daring; and, when it comes to
the exposure and ridicule consequent upon defying the world in a last
season's bonnet, that limit is reached.

I have one other case to recount, and, in my opinion, the most
lamentable one of all.

    Were I to tell you the real name of my friend, Mrs.

Belle Étoile, you would recognize one of the most favored daughters of
America, as the newspapers phrase it. Rich, intelligent, highly cultivated,
at the tip-top of the social ladder, esteemed by a wide circle of such friends
as it is an honor to know, loving and beloved by her noble husband,--every
one knows Mrs. Étoile by reputation at least.
Happy in her pretty, well-behaved children, she is the polished reflection
of all that is best and most refined in American society. She is, indeed,
a noble woman, as pure and unsullied in the instincts of her heart, as she
is bright and glowing in the display of her intellect. Her wit is
brilliant; her _mots_ are things to be remembered; her opinions upon art
and life have at once a wide currency and a substantial value; and,
more than all, her modest charities, of which none knows save herself, are
as deep and as beneficent as those subterranean fountains which well up
in a thousand places to refresh and gladden the earth.
Nevertheless, and in spite of her genuine practical wisdom, her
lofty idealism of thought, her profound contempt for all the weak
shams and petty frivolities of life, Mrs.

Belle Étoile is a slave! "They who submit to drink as another pleases, make
themselves his slaves," says that Great Mogul of sentences, Dr. Johnson;
and in this sense Mrs. Belle Étoile is a slave indeed.

The fetters gall her, but she has not courage to shake them off. Her mistress
is her next-door neighbor, Mrs. Colisle, a coarse, vulgar, half-bred
woman, whose husband acquired a sudden wealth from contracts and petroleum
speculations, and who has in consequence set herself up for a leader of
_ton_. A certain downright persistence and energy of character, acquired,
it may be, in bullying the kitchen-maids at the country tavern where
she began life, a certain lavish expenditure of her husband's profits, the
vulgar display and profusion at her numerous balls, and her free-handed
patronage of _modistes_ and shop-keepers, have secured to Mrs. Colisle
a sort of Drummond-light position among the stars of fashion. She imports
patterns, and they become the mode; her caterer invents dishes, and they
are copied throughout the obeisant world. There are confections _à la_
Colisle; the confectioners utter new editions of them. There is a Colisle
head-dress, a Colisle pomade, a Colisle hat,--the world wears and uses them.
Thus, Mrs. Colisle has set herself up as Mrs. Belle Étoile's rival; and
that unfortunate lady, compelled by those _noblesse-oblige_
principles which control the chivalry of fashion, takes up the unequal
gage, and enters the lists against her.

The result is, that Mrs. Belle Étoile has become the veriest slave in
Christendom.

Whatever the other woman's whims and extravagances, Mrs. Belle
Étoile is their victim. Her taste revolts, but her pride of place
compels obedience. She cannot yield, she will not follow; and so Mrs.
Colisle, with diabolical ingenuity, constrains her to run a course that
gives her no honor and pays her no compensation. She scorns Mrs. Colisle's
ways, she loathes her fashions and her company, and--outbids her for them!
It is a very unequal contest, of course. Defeat only inspires Mrs. Colisle
with a more stubborn persistence. Victory cannot lessen the sad regrets
of Mrs. Belle Étoile's soul for outraged instincts and insulted
taste.

It is an ill match,--a strife between greyhound and mastiff, a contest at
heavy draught between a thoroughbred and a Flanders mare. Mrs. Étoile
knows this as well as you and I can possibly know it. She is perfectly aware
of her serfdom. She is poignantly conscious of the degrading character of
her servitude, and that it is not possible to gather grapes of
thorns, nor figs of thistles; and yet she will continue to wage the
unequal strife, to wear the unhandsome fetters, simply because she
has not the courage to extricate herself from the false position
into which the strategic arts of Fashion have inveigled her.

Now I do not intend to moralize. I have no purpose to frighten the reader
prematurely off to the next page by unmasking a formidable battery of
reflections and admonitions.

I have merely instanced the above cases, three or four among a thousand of
such as must have presented themselves to the attention of each one of us;
and I adduce them simply as examples of what I call "bad symptoms" in
any diagnosis of the state of the social frame. They indicate, in fact, a
total absence of _social courage_ in persons otherwise endowed with and
illustrious for all the useful and ornamental virtues, and consequently
they make it plain and palpable that society is in a condition of
dangerous disease.

Whether a remedy is practicable or not I will not venture to decide;
but I can confidently assure our reformers, both men and women, that, if
they can accomplish anything toward restoring its normal and healthy
courage to society, they will benefit the human race much more signally
than they could by making Arcadias out of a dozen or two Borrioboola-Ghas.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

1. _Croquet._ By CAPTAIN MAYNE REID. Boston: James Redpath.

2. _Handbook of Croquet._ By EDMUND ROUTLEDGE. London: George Routledge
and Sons.

3. _The Game of Croquet; its Appointments and Laws._ By R. FELLOW. New
York: Hurd and Houghton.

4. _Croquet, as played by the Newport Croquet Club._ By one of the Members.
New York: Sheldon & Co.

The original tower of Babel having been for some time discontinued,
and most of our local legislatures having adjourned, the nearest
approach to a confusion of tongues is perhaps now to be found in
an ordinary game of croquet.

Out of eight youths and maidens caught for that performance at a
picnic, four have usually learned the rules from four different
manuals, and can agree on nothing; while the rest have never learned
any rules at all, and cannot even distinctly agree to disagree.

With tolerably firm wills and moderately shrill voices, it is possible for
such a party to exhibit a very pretty war of words before even a single blow
is struck. For supposing that there is an hour of daylight for the game,
they can easily spend fifteen minutes in debating whether the starting-point
should be taken a mallet's length from the stake, according to Reid, or
only twelve inches, according to Routledge.

More than twenty manuals of croquet have been published in England, it is
said, and some five or six in America. Of the four authorities named above,
each has some representative value for American players. Mayne Reid was the
pioneer, Routledge is the most compact and seductive, Fellow the most
popular and the poorest, and "Newport" the newest and by far the best. And
among them all it is possible to find authority for and against almost every
possible procedure.

The first point of grave divergence is one that occurs at the very
outset of the game.

"Do you play with or without the roquet-croquet?" has now come to be the
first point of mutual solicitude in a mixed party. It
may not seem a momentous affair whether the privilege of striking one's
own ball and the adversary's without holding the former beneath the foot,
should be extended to all players or limited to the "rover"; but it makes
an immense difference in both the duration and the difficulty of the game.
By skilfully using this right, every player may change the position of
every ball, during each tour of play. It is a formidable privilege,
and accordingly Reid and "Newport" both forbid it to all but the "rover,"
and Routledge denies it even to him; while Fellow alone pleads for
universal indulgence.

It seems a pity to side with one poor authority against three good ones,
but there is no doubt that the present tendency of the best players is to
cultivate the roquet-croquet more and more; and after employing it,
one is as unwilling to give it up, as a good billiard-player would be
to revert from the cue to the mace. The very fact, however, that this
privilege multiplies so enormously the advantages of skill is perhaps
a good reason for avoiding it in a mixed party of novices and experts,
where the object is rather to equalize abilities. It should also be avoided
where the croquet-ground is small, as is apt to be the case in our
community,--because in such narrow quarters a good player can often hit
every other ball during each tour of play, even without this added advantage.
If we played habitually on large, smooth lawns like those of England, the
reasons for the general use of the roquet-croquet would be far stronger.

Another inconvenient discrepancy of the books relates to the different
penalties imposed on "flinching," or allowing one's ball to slip from under
one's foot, during the process of croquet. Here Routledge gives no
general rule; Reid and "Newport" decree that, if a ball "flinches," its
tour terminates, but its effects remain; while, according to Fellow, the
ball which has suffered croquet is restored, but the tour continues,--the
penalties being thus reversed. Here the sober judgment must side
with the majority of authorities; for this reason, if for no other, that
the first-named punishment is more readily enforced, and avoids
the confusion and altercation which are often produced by taking
up and replacing a ball.

Again, if a ball be accidentally stopped in its motion by a careless
player or spectator, what shall be done? Fellow permits the striker either
to leave the ball where the interruption left it, or to place it where he
thinks it would have stopped, if unmolested. This again is a rule far
less simple, and liable to produce far more wrangling, than the principle
of the other authorities, which is that the ball should either be left
where it lies, or be carried to the end of the arena.

These points are all among the commonest that can be raised, and
it is very unfortunate that there should be no uniformity of rule,
to meet contingencies so inevitable.

When more difficult points come up for adjudication, the difficulty
has thus far been less in the conflict of authorities than in their absence.
Until the new American commentator appeared, there was no really scientific
treatise on croquet to be had in our bookstores.

It takes a vast of clothes, even at Oxford
prices, to come to a thousand pounds, and if we allow four or five thousand
for his other extravagances, he could not have done much harm to a hundred
thousand.

Our friend, soon finding that he was 'cock of the walk,' had no notion of
exchanging his greatness for the nothingness of London, and, save going up
occasionally to see about opening the flood-gates of his fortune, he spent
nearly the whole summer at Laverick Wells. A fine season it was, too--the
finest season the Wells had ever known. When at length the long London
season closed, there was a rush of rank and fashion to the English
watering-places, quite unparalleled in the 'recollection of the oldest
inhabitants.' There were blooming widows in every stage of grief and woe,
from the becoming cap to the fashionable corset and ball flounce--widows
who would never forget the dear deceased, or think of any other
man--_unless he had at least five thousand a year_. Lovely girls, who
didn't care a farthing if the man was 'only handsome'; and smiling mammas
'egging them on,' who would look very different when they came to the
horrid £ s. d. And this mercantile expression leads us to the observation
that we know nothing so dissimilar as a trading town and a watering-place.
In the one, all is bustle, hurry, and activity; in the other, people don't
seem to know what to do to get through the day. The city and west-end
present somewhat of the contrast, but not to the extent of manufacturing or
sea-port towns and watering-places. Bathing-places are a shade better than
watering-places in the way of occupation, for people can sit staring at the
sea, counting the ships, or polishing their nails with a shell, whereas at
watering-places, they have generally little to do but stare at and talk of
each other, and mark the progress of the day, by alternately drinking at
the wells, eating at the hotels, and wandering between the library and the
railway station. The ladies get on better, for where there are ladies there
are always fine shops, and what between turning over the goods, and
sweeping the streets with their trains, making calls, and arranging
partners for balls, they get through their time very pleasantly; but what
is 'life' to them is often death to the men.


CONTENTS

BOOK FIRST The Norman Visitor, the Saxon King, and the Danish
Prophetess 
BOOK SECOND Lanfranc the Scholar
BOOK THIRD The House of Godwin
BOOK FOURTH The Heathen Altar and the Saxon Church
BOOK FIFTH Death and Love 
BOOK SIXTH Ambition
BOOK SEVENTH The Welch King 
BOOK EIGHTH Fate
BOOK NINTH The Bones of the Dead
BOOK TENTH The Sacrifice on the Altar
BOOK ELEVENTH The Norman Schemer, and the Norwegian Sea-king
BOOK TWELFTH The Battle of Hastings
HAROLD, THE LAST OF THE SAXON KINGS 
by Edward Bulwer Lytton
BOOK I.

THE NORMAN VISITOR, THE SAXON KING, AND THE DANISH PROPHETESS.

CHAPTER I.

Merry was the month of May in the year of our Lord 1052. Few were
the boys, and few the lasses, who overslept themselves on the first of that
buxom month. Long ere the dawn, the crowds had sought mead and woodland,
to cut poles and wreathe flowers. Many a mead then lay fair and green
beyond the village of Charing, and behind the isle of Thorney, (amidst
the brakes and briars of which were then rising fast and fair the
Hall and Abbey of Westminster;) many a wood lay dark in the starlight,
along the higher ground that sloped from the dank Strand, with its
numerous canals or dykes;--and on either side of the great road
into Kent:--flutes and horns sounded far and near through the green
places, and laughter and song, and the crash of breaking boughs.

As the dawn came grey up the east, arch and blooming faces bowed down to
bathe in the May dew. Patient oxen stood dozing by the hedge-rows, all
fragrant with blossoms, till the gay spoilers of the May came forth from the
woods with lusty poles, followed by girls with laps full of flowers,
which they had caught asleep.

The poles were pranked with nosegays, and a chaplet was hung round the horns
of every ox. Then towards daybreak, the processions streamed back into the
city, through all its gates; boys with their May-gads (peeled willow wands
twined with cowslips) going before; and clear through
the lively din of the horns and flutes, and amidst the moving grove of
branches, choral voices, singing some early Saxon stave, precursor of
the later song--
"We have brought the summer home."
Often in the good old days before the Monk-king reigned, kings and ealdermen
had thus gone forth a-maying; but these merriments, savouring of
heathenesse, that good prince misliked: nevertheless the song was
as blithe, and the boughs were as green, as if king and ealderman
had walked in the train.

On the great Kent road, the fairest meads for the cowslip, and the greenest
woods for the bough, surrounded a large building that once had belonged to
some voluptuous Roman, now all defaced and despoiled; but the boys and
the lasses shunned those demesnes; and even in their mirth, as they passed
homeward along the road, and saw near the ruined walls, and timbered
outbuildings, grey Druid stones (that spoke of an age before either Saxon
or Roman invader) gleaming through the dawn--the song was hushed--the
very youngest crossed themselves; and the elder, in solemn whispers, suggested
the precaution of changing the song into a psalm.
For in that old building dwelt Hilda, of famous and dark repute;
Hilda, who, despite all law and canon, was still believed to practise the
dismal arts of the Wicca and Morthwyrtha (the witch and worshipper of the
dead).

But once out of sight of those fearful precincts, the psalm was forgotten,
and again broke, loud, clear, and silvery, the joyous chorus.

So, entering London about sunrise, doors and windows were duly wreathed with
garlands; and every village in the suburbs had its May-pole, which stood
in its place all the year. On that happy day labour rested; ceorl and
theowe had alike a holiday to dance, and tumble round the May-pole;
and thus, on the first of May--Youth, and Mirth, and Music, "brought
the summer home."

The next day you might still see where the buxom bands had been; you might
track their way by fallen flowers, and green leaves, and the deep ruts made
by oxen (yoked often in teams from twenty to forty, in the wains
that carried home the poles); and fair and frequent throughout the
land, from any eminence, you might behold the hamlet swards still
crowned with the May trees, and air still seemed fragrant with their
garlands.

It is on that second day of May, 1052, that my story opens, at the House
of Hilda, the reputed Morthwyrtha.

It stood upon a gentle and verdant height; and, even through all the barbarous
mutilation it had undergone from barbarian hands, enough was left
strikingly to contrast the ordinary abodes of the Saxon.

The remains of Roman art were indeed still numerous throughout England,
but it happened rarely that the Saxon had chosen his home amidst the villas
of those noble and primal conquerors.

Our first forefathers were more inclined to destroy than to adapt.

By what chance this building became an exception to the ordinary rule, it
is now impossible to conjecture, but from a very remote period it had
sheltered successive races of Teuton lords.

The changes wrought in the edifice were mournful and grotesque. What was
now the Hall, had evidently been the atrium; the round shield, with its
pointed boss, the spear, sword, and small curved saex of the early Teuton,
were suspended from the columns on which once had been wreathed
the flowers; in the centre of the floor, where fragments of the old
mosaic still glistened from the hard-pressed paving of clay and
lime, what now was the fire-place had been the impluvium, and the
smoke went sullenly through the aperture in the roof, made of old
to receive the rains of heaven.

Around the Hall were still left the old cubicula or dormitories, (small,
high, and lighted but from the doors,) which now served for the
sleeping-rooms of the humbler guest or the household servant; while at the
farther end of the Hall, the wide space between the columns, which had once
given ample vista from graceful awnings into tablinum and viridarium,
was filled up with rude rubble and Roman bricks, leaving but a low,
round, arched door, that still led into the tablinum.

But that tablinum, formerly the gayest state-room of the Roman lord, was
now filled with various lumber, piles of faggots, and farming utensils.
On either side of this desecrated apartment, stretched, to the right, the
old lararium, stripped of its ancient images of ancestor and god; to the
left, what had been the gynoecium (women's apartment).

One side of the ancient peristyle, which was of vast extent, was now
converted into stabling, sties for swine, and stalls for oxen. On the other
side was constructed a Christian chapel, made of rough oak planks, fastened
by plates at the top, and with a roof of thatched reeds. The columns
and wall at the extreme end of the peristyle were a mass of ruins, through
the gigantic rents of which loomed a grassy hillock, its sides partially
covered with clumps of furze.

On this hillock were the mutilated remains of an ancient Druidical crommel,
in the centre of which (near a funeral mound, or barrow, with the bautastean,
or gravestone, of some early Saxon chief at one end) had been sacrilegiously
placed an altar to Thor, as was apparent both from the shape, from a rude,
half-obliterated, sculptured relief of the god, with his lifted hammer, and
a few Runic letters. Amidst the temple of the Briton the Saxon had reared
the shrine of his triumphant war-god.

Now still, amidst the ruins of that extreme side of the peristyle which
opened to this hillock were left, first, an ancient Roman fountain, that
now served to water the swine, and next, a small sacellum, or fane to
Bacchus (as relief and frieze, yet spared, betokened): thus the eye, at one
survey, beheld the shrines of four creeds: the Druid, mystical and symbolical;
the Roman, sensual, but humane; the Teutonic, ruthless and destroying;
and, latest riser and surviving all, though as yet with but little of its
gentler influence over the deeds of men, the edifice of the Faith of
Peace.

Across the peristyle, theowes and swineherds passed to and
fro:--in the atrium, men of a higher class, half-armed, were, some drinking,
some at dice, some playing with huge hounds, or caressing the hawks that
stood grave and solemn on their perches.

The lararium was deserted; the gynoecium was still, as in the Roman time,
the favoured apartment of the female portion of the household, and
indeed bore the same name [8], and with the group there assembled
we have now to do.

The appliances of the chamber showed the rank and wealth of the owner. At
that period the domestic luxury of the rich was infinitely greater than
has been generally supposed. The industry of the women decorated wall
and furniture with needlework and hangings: and as a thegn forfeited his
rank if he lost his lands, so the higher orders of an aristocracy
rather of wealth than birth had, usually, a certain portion of superfluous
riches, which served to flow towards the bazaars of the East and the
nearer markets of Flanders and Saracenic Spain.

In this room the walls were draped with silken hangings richly embroidered.
The single window was glazed with a dull grey glass [9]. On a beaufet
were ranged horns tipped with silver, and a few vessels of pure
gold.

A small circular table in the centre was supported by symbolical
monsters quaintly carved. At one side of the wall, on a long settle, some
half-a-dozen handmaids were employed in spinning; remote from them, and
near the window, sat a woman advanced in years, and of a mien and aspect
singularly majestic.

Upon a small tripod before her was a Runic manuscript, and an inkstand
of elegant form, with a silver graphium, or pen.

At her feet reclined a girl somewhat about the age of sixteen, her long hair
parted across her forehead and falling far down her shoulders.
Her dress was a linen under-tunic, with long sleeves, rising high
to the throat, and without one of the modern artificial restraints
of the shape, the simple belt sufficed to show the slender proportions
and delicate outline of the wearer.

The colour of the dress was of the purest white, but its hems, or borders,
were richly embroidered. This girl's beauty was something marvellous. In
a land proverbial for fair women, it had already obtained her the
name of "the fair."

In that beauty were blended, not as yet without a struggle for mastery, the
two expressions seldom united in one countenance, the soft and the noble;
indeed in the whole aspect there was the evidence of some internal
struggle; the intelligence was not yet complete; the soul and heart
were not yet united: and Edith the Christian maid dwelt in the home
of Hilda the heathen prophetess.

The girl's blue eyes, rendered dark by the shade of their long lashes,
were fixed intently upon the stern and troubled countenance which
was bent upon her own, but bent with that abstract gaze which shows
that the soul is absent from the sight.

So sate Hilda, and so reclined her grandchild Edith.

"Grandam," said the girl in a low voice and after a long pause; and the
sound of her voice so startled the handmaids, that every spindle stopped
for a moment and then plied with renewed activity; "Grandam, what
troubles you--are you not thinking of the great Earl and his fair
sons, now outlawed far over the wide seas?"

As the girl spoke, Hilda started slightly, like one awakened from a dream;
and when Edith had concluded her question, she rose slowly to the height
of a statue, unbowed by her years, and far towering above even the
ordinary standard of men; and turning from the child, her eye fell
upon the row of silent maids, each at her rapid, noiseless, stealthy
work.

"Ho!" said she; her cold and haughty eye gleaming as she spoke; "yesterday
they brought home the summer--to-day, ye aid to bring home the
winter.

Weave well--heed well warf and woof; Skulda [10] is amongst ye, and her pale
fingers guide the web!"
The maidens lifted not their eyes, though in every cheek the colour paled
at the words of the mistress. The spindles revolved, the thread shot,
and again there was silence more freezing than before.

"Askest thou," said Hilda at length, passing to the child, as if
the question so long addressed to her ear had only just reached her
mind; "askest thou if I thought of the Earl and his fair sons?

--yea, I heard the smith welding arms on the anvil, and the hammer
of the shipwright shaping strong ribs for the horses of the sea.

Ere the reaper has bound his sheaves, Earl Godwin will scare the
Normans in the halls of the Monk-king, as the hawk scares the brood
in the dovecot.

Weave well, heed well warf and woof, nimble maidens--strong be the
texture, for biting is the worm."
"What weave they, then, good grandmother?" asked the girl, with wonder and
awe in her soft mild eyes.

"The winding-sheet of the great!"
Hilda's lips closed, but her eyes, yet brighter than before, gazed upon space,
and her pale hand seemed tracing letters, like runes, in the air.

Then slowly she turned, and looked forth through the dull window. "Give me
my coverchief and my staff," said she quickly.

Every one of the handmaids, blithe for excuse to quit a task which
seemed recently commenced, and was certainly not endeared to them by the
knowledge of its purpose communicated to them by the lady, rose
to obey.

Unheeding the hands that vied with each other, Hilda took the hood,
and drew it partially over her brow.

Leaning lightly on a long staff, the head of which formed a raven, carved
from some wood stained black, she passed into the hall, and thence
through the desecrated tablinum, into the mighty court formed by
the shattered peristyle; there she stopped, mused a moment, and
called on Edith.

The girl was soon by her side.

"Come with me.--There is a face you shall see but twice in life;--this
day,"--and Hilda paused, and the rigid and almost colossal beauty
of her countenance softened.

"And when again, my grandmother?"
"Child, put thy warm hand in mine. So! the vision darkens from me.--when
again, saidst thou, Edith?

--alas, I know not."
While thus speaking, Hilda passed slowly by the Roman fountain and
the heathen fane, and ascended the little hillock.

There on the opposite side of the summit, backed by the Druid crommel
and the Teuton altar, she seated herself deliberately on the sward.

A few daisies, primroses, and cowslips, grew around; these Edith began to
pluck. Singing, as she wove, a simple song, that, not more by the dialect
than the sentiment, betrayed its origin in the ballad of the Norse [11],
which had, in its more careless composition, a character quite distinct
from the artificial poetry of the Saxons.

The song may be thus imperfectly rendered:

"Merrily the throstle sings Amid the merry May; The throstle signs but
to my ear; My heart is far away!

Blithely bloometh mead and bank; And blithely buds the tree; And hark!

--they bring the Summer home; It has no home with me!

They have outlawed him--my Summer!
An outlaw far away!
The birds may sing, the flowers may bloom, O, give me back my May!"
As she came to the last line, her soft low voice seemed to awaken a chorus
of sprightly horns and trumpets, and certain other wind instruments
peculiar to the music of that day. The hillock bordered the high road to
London--which then wound through wastes of forest land--and now
emerging from the trees to the left appeared a goodly company.

First came two riders abreast, each holding a banner.

On the one was depicted the cross and five martlets, the device of Edward,
afterwards surnamed the Confessor: on the other, a plain broad cross with a
deep border round it, and the streamer shaped into sharp points.

The first was familiar to Edith, who dropped her garland to gaze on the
approaching pageant; the last was strange to her.

She had been accustomed to see the banner of the great Earl Godwin by the
side of the Saxon king; and she said, almost indignantly,--
"Who dares, sweet grandam, to place banner or pennon where Earl
Godwin's ought to float?"

"Peace," said Hilda, "peace and look."
Immediately behind the standard-bearers came two figures--strangely dissimilar
indeed in mien, in years, in bearing: each bore on his left wrist
a hawk.

The one was mounted on a milk-white palfrey, with housings inlaid with
gold and uncut jewels. Though not really old--for he was much on this side
of sixty--both his countenance and carriage evinced age. His complexion,
indeed, was extremely fair, and his cheeks ruddy; but the visage was long
and deeply furrowed, and from beneath a bonnet not dissimilar to those
in use among the Scotch, streamed hair long and white as snow, mingling
with a large and forked beard. White seemed his chosen colour.
White was the upper tunic clasped on his shoulder with a broad ouche or
brooch; white the woollen leggings fitted to somewhat emaciated
limbs; and white the mantle, though broidered with a broad hem of
gold and purple.

The fashion of his dress was that which well became a noble person, but
it suited ill the somewhat frail and graceless figure of the rider.

Nevertheless, as Edith saw him, she rose, with an expression of
deep reverence on her countenance, and saying, "it is our lord the
King," advanced some steps down the hillock, and there stood, her
arms folded on her breast, and quite forgetful, in her innocence
and youth, that she had left the house without the cloak and
coverchief which were deemed indispensable to the fitting appearance
of maid and matron when they were seen abroad.

"Fair sir, and brother mine," said the deep voice of the younger rider,
in the Romance or Norman tongue, "I have heard that the small
people of whom my neighbours, the Breton tell us much, abound greatly
in this fair land of yours; and if I were not by the side of one
whom no creature unassoilzed and unbaptised dare approach, by sweet
St.

Valery I should say--yonder stands one of those same gentilles fees!"

King Edward's eye followed the direction of his companion's
outstretched hand, and his quiet brow slightly contracted as he
beheld the young form of Edith standing motionless a few yards
before him, with the warm May wind lifting and playing with her
long golden locks.

He checked his palfrey, and murmured some Latin words which the knight beside
him recognised as a prayer, and to which, doffing his cap, he added
an Amen, in a tone of such unctuous gravity, that the royal saint
rewarded him with a faint approving smile, and an affectionate "Bene
vene, Piosissime."

Then inclining his palfrey's head towards the knoll, he motioned
to the girl to approach him.

Edith, with a heightened colour, obeyed, and came to the roadside. The
standard-bearers halted, as did the king and his comrade--the procession
behind halted--thirty knights, two bishops, eight abbots, all on
fiery steeds and in Norman garb--squires and attendants on foot--a
long and pompous retinue--they halted all.

Only a stray hound or two broke from the rest, and wandered into the forest
land with heads trailing.

"Edith, my child," said Edward, still in Norman-French, for he spoke his
own language with hesitation, and the Romance tongue, which had long been
familiar to the higher classes in England, had, since his accession, become
the only language in use at court, and as such every one of 'Eorl-kind' was
supposed to speak it;--"Edith, my child, thou hast not forgotten
my lessons, I trow; thou singest the hymns I gave thee, and neglectest
not to wear the relic round thy neck."

The girl hung her head, and spoke not.

"How comes it, then," continued the King, with a voice to which he
in vain endeavoured to impart an accent of severity, "how comes it,
O little one, that thou, whose thoughts should be lifted already
above this carnal world, and eager for the service of Mary the
chaste and blessed, standest thus hoodless and alone on the waysides,
a mark for the eyes of men?

go to, it is naught."

Thus reproved, and in presence of so large and brilliant a company,
the girl's colour went and came, her breast heaved high, but with
an effort beyond her age she checked her tears, and said meekly,
"My grandmother, Hilda, bade me come with her, and I came."

"Hilda!"

said the King, backing his palfrey with apparent perturbation, "but Hilda
is not with thee; I see her not."
As he spoke, Hilda rose, and so suddenly did her tall form appear on the
brow of the hill, that it seemed as if she had emerged from the earth.

With a light and rapid stride she gained the side of her grandchild; and
after a slight and haughty reverence, said, "Hilda is here; what wants
Edward the King with his servant Hilda?"
"Nought, nought," said the King, hastily; and something like fear passed over
his placid countenance; "save, indeed," he added, with a reluctant
tone, as that of a man who obeys his conscience against his
inclination, "that I would pray thee to keep this child pure to
threshold and altar, as is meet for one whom our Lady, the Virgin,
in due time, will elect to her service."

"Not so, son of Etheldred, son of Woden, the last descendant of Penda should
live, not to glide a ghost amidst cloisters, but to rock children
for war in their father's shield.

Few men are there yet like the men of old; and while the foot of the
foreigner is on the Saxon soil no branch of the stem of Woden should be
nipped in the leaf."
"Per la resplendar De [12], bold dame," cried the knight by the side
of Edward, while a lurid flush passed over his cheek of bronze; "but thou
art too glib of tongue for a subject, and pratest overmuch of Woden, the
Paynim, for the lips of a Christian matron."
Hilda met the flashing eye of the knight with a brow of lofty scorn, on
which still a certain terror was visible. "Child," she said, putting her
hand upon Edith's fair locks; "this is the man thou shalt see but
twice in thy life;--look up, and mark well!"

Edith instinctively raised her eyes, and, once fixed upon the knight, they
seemed chained as by a spell. His vest, of a cramoisay so dark, that it
seemed black beside the snowy garb of the Confessor, was edged by a
deep band of embroidered gold; leaving perfectly bare his firm, full
throat--firm and full as a column of granite,--a short jacket or manteline
of fur, pendant from the shoulders, left developed in all its breadth
a breast, that seemed meet to stay the march of an army; and on
the left arm, curved to support the falcon, the vast muscles rose,
round and gnarled, through the close sleeve.

In height, he was really but little above the stature of many of those
present; nevertheless, so did his port [13], his air, the nobility
of his large proportions, fill the eye, that he seemed to tower
immeasurably above the rest.

His countenance was yet more remarkable than his form; still in the
prime of youth, he seemed at the first glance younger, at the second
older, than he was.

At the first glance younger; for his face was perfectly shaven, without
even the moustache which the Saxon courtier, in imitating the
Norman, still declined to surrender; and the smooth visage and bare
throat sufficed in themselves to give the air of youth to that
dominant and imperious presence.

His small skull-cap left unconcealed his forehead, shaded with short
thick hair, uncurled, but black and glossy as the wings of a raven.

It was on that forehead that time had set its trace; it was knit into a frown
over the eyebrows; lines deep as furrows crossed its broad, but
not elevated expanse.

A drag-hunt is quite a different thing. The drag can be made
to any strength; enabling hounds to run as if they were tied to it, and can
be trailed so as to bring in all the dangerous places in the country with a
certain air of plausibility, enabling a man to look round and exclaim, as
he crams at a bullfinch or brook, 'he's leading us over a most desperate
country--never saw such fencing in all my life!' Drag-hunting, however, as
we said before, is not popular with sportsmen, certainly not with huntsmen,
and though our friends with their wounded feelings determined to have one,
they had yet to smooth over old Tom to get him to come into their views.
That was now the difficulty.


CHAPTER VIII

OLD TOM TOWLER


[Illustration]

There are few more difficult persons to identify than a huntsman in
undress, and of all queer ones perhaps old Tom Towler was the queerest. Tom
in his person furnished an apt illustration of the right appropriation of
talent and the fitness of things, for he would neither have made a groom,
nor a coachman, nor a postillion, nor a footman, nor a ploughman, nor a
mechanic, nor anything we know of, and yet he was first-rate as a huntsman.
He was too weak for a groom too small for a coachman, too ugly for a
postillion, too stunted for a footman, too light for a ploughman, too
useless-looking for almost anything.

Any one looking at him in 'mufti' would exclaim, 'what an unfortunate
object!' and perhaps offer him a penny, while in his hunting habiliments
lords would hail him with, 'Well, Tom, how are you?' and baronets ask him
'how he was?' Commoners felt honoured by his countenance, and yet, but for
hunting, Tom would have been wasted--a cypher--an inapplicable sort of man.
Old Tom, in his scarlet coat, black cap, and boots, and Tom in his
undress--say, shirt-sleves, shorts, grey stockings and shoes, bore about
the same resemblance to each other that a three months dead jay nailed to a
keeper's lodge bears to the bright-plumaged bird when flying about. On
horseback, Tom was a cockey, wiry-looking, keen-eyed, grim-visaged,
hard-bitten little fellow, sitting as though he and his horse were all one,
while on foot he was the most shambling, scambling, crooked-going crab that
ever was seen. He was a complete mash of a man. He had been scalped by the
branch of a tree, his nose knocked into a thing like a button by the kick
of a horse, his teeth sent down his throat by a fall, his collar-bone
fractured, his left leg broken and his right arm ditto, to say nothing of
damage to his ribs, fingers, and feet, and having had his face scarified
like pork by repeated brushings through strong thorn fences.

But we will describe him as he appeared before Mr. Waffles, and the
gentlemen of the Laverick Wells Hunt, on the night of Mr. Sponge's arrival.
Tom's spirit being roused at hearing the boastings of Mr. Leather, and
thinking, perhaps, his master might have something to say, or thinking,
perhaps, to partake of the eleemosynary drink generally going on in large
houses of public entertainment, had taken up his quarters in the bar of the
'Imperial,' where he was attentively perusing the 'meets' in _Bell's Life_,
reading how the Atherstone met at Gopsall, the Bedale at Hornby, the
Cottesmore at Tilton Wood, and so on, with an industry worthy of a better
cause; for Tom neither knew country, nor places, nor masters, nor hounds,
nor huntsmen, nor anything, though he still felt an interest in reading
where they were going to hunt. Thus he sat with a quick ear, one of the
few undamaged organs of his body, cocked to hear if Tom Towler was asked
for; when a waiter dropping his name from the landing of the staircase to
the hall porter, asking if anybody had seen anything of him, Tom folded up
his paper, put it in his pocket, and passing his hand over the few
straggling bristles yet sticking about his bald head, proceeded, hat in
hand, upstairs to his master's room.

His appearance called forth a round of view halloos! Who-hoops! Tally-ho's!
Hark forwards! amidst which, and the waving of napkins, and general noises,
Tom proceeded at a twisting, limping, halting, sideways sort of scramble up
the room. His crooked legs didn't seem to have an exact understanding with
his body which way they were to go; one, the right one, being evidently
inclined to lurch off to the side, while the left one went stamp, stamp,
stamp, as if equally determined to resist any deviation.

At length he reached the top of the table, where sat his master, with the
glittering Fox's head before him. Having made a sort of scratch bow, Tom
proceeded to stand at ease, as it were, on the left leg, while he placed
the late recusant right, which was a trifle shorter, as a prop behind. No
one, to look at the little wizen'd old man in the loose dark frock, baggy
striped waistcoat, and patent cord breeches, extending below where the
calves of his bow legs ought to have been, would have supposed that it was
the noted huntsman and dashing rider, Tom Towler, whose name was celebrated
throughout the country. He might have been a village tailor, or sexton, or
barber; anything but a hero.

'Well, Tom,' said Mr. Waffles, taking up the Fox's head, as Tom came to
anchor by his side, 'how are you?'

'Nicely, thank you, sir,' replied Tom, giving the bald head another sweep.

Mr. Waffles.--'What'll you drink?'

Tom.--'Port, if you please, sir.'

'There it is for you, then,' said Mr. Waffles, brimming the Fox's head,
which held about the third of a bottle (an inn bottle at least), and
handing it to him.

'Gentlemen all,' said Tom, passing his sleeve across his mouth, and
casting a side-long glance at the company as he raised the cup to drink
their healths.

He quaffed it off at a draught.

'Well, Tom, and what shall we do to-morrow?' asked Mr. Waffles, as Tom
replaced the Fox's head, nose uppermost, on the table.

[Illustration: OLD TOM TOWLER]

'Why, we must draw Ribston Wood fust, I s'pose,' replied Tom, 'and then on
to Bradwell Grove, unless you thought well of tryin' Chesterton Common on
the road, or--'

'Aye, aye,' interrupted Waffles, 'I know all that; but what I want to know
is, whether we can make sure of a run. We want to give this great
metropolitan swell a benefit. You know who I mean?'

'The gen'leman as is com'd to the Brunswick, I 'spose,' replied Tom; 'at
least as _is_ comin', for I've not heard that he's com'd yet.'

'Oh, but he _has_,' replied Mr. Waffles, 'and I make no doubt will be out
to-morrow.'

'S--o--o,' observed Tom, in a long drawled note.

'Well, now! do you think you can engage to give us a run?' asked Mr.
Waffles, seeing his huntsman did not seem inclined to help him to his
point.

'I'll do my best,' replied Tom, cautiously running the many contingencies
through his mind.

'Take another drop of something,' said Mr. Waffles, again raising the Fox's
head. 'What'll you have?'

'Port, if you please,' replied Tom.

'There,' said Mr. Waffles, handing him another bumper; 'drink Fox-hunting.'

'Fox-huntin',' said old Tom, quaffing off the measure, as before. A flush
of life came into his weather-beaten face, just as a glow of heat enlivens
a blacksmith's hearth, after a touch of the bellows.

'You must never let this bumptious cock beat us,' observed Mr. Waffles.

'No--o--o,' replied Tom, adding, 'there's no fear of that.'

'But he swears he _will_!' exclaimed Mr. Caingey Thornton. 'He swears there
isn't a man shall come within a field of him.'

'Indeed,' observed Tom, with a twinkle of his little bright eyes.

'I tell you what, Tom,' observed Mr. Waffles, 'we must sarve him out,
somehow.'

'Oh! he'll sarve hissel' out, in all probability,' replied Tom; carelessly
adding, 'these boastin' chaps always do.'

'Couldn't we contrive something,' asked Mr. Waffles, 'to draw him out?'

Tom was silent. He was a hunting huntsman, not a riding one.

'Have a glass of something,' said Mr. Waffles, again appealing to the Fox's
head.

'Thank you, sir, I've had a glass,' replied Tom, sinking the second one.

'What will you have?' asked Mr. Waffles.

'Port, if you please,' replied Tom.

'Here it is,' rejoined Mr. Waffles, again handing him the measure.

Up went the cup, over went the contents; but Tom set it down with a less
satisfied face than before. He had had enough. The left leg prop, too, gave
way, and he was nearly toppling on the table.

Having got a chair for the dilapidated old man, they again essayed to get
him into their line, with better success than before. Having plied him well
with port, they now plied him well with the stranger, and what with the one
and the other, and a glass or two of brandy-and-water, Tom became very
tractable, and it was ultimately arranged that they should have a drag over
the very stiffest parts of the country, wherein all who liked should take
part, but that Mr. Caingey Thornton and Mr. Spareneck should be especially
deputed to wait upon Mr. Sponge, and lead him into mischief. Of course it
was to be a 'profound secret,' and equally, of course, it stood a good
chance of being kept, seeing how many were in it, the additional number it
would have to be communicated to before it could be carried out, and the
happy state old Tom was in for arranging matters. Nevertheless, our friends
at the 'Imperial' congratulated themselves on their success; and after a
few minutes spent in discussing old Tom on his withdrawal, the party broke
up, to array themselves in the splendid dress uniform of the 'Hunt,' to
meet again at Miss Jumpheavy's ball.


CHAPTER IX

THE MEET--THE FIND, AND THE FINISH


[Illustration]

Early to bed and early to rise being among Mr. Sponge's maxims, he was
enjoying the view of the pantiles at the back of his hotel shortly after
daylight the next morning, a time about as difficult to fix in a November
day as the age of a lady of a 'certain age.' It takes even an expeditious
dresser ten minutes or a quarter of an hour extra the first time he has to
deal with boots and breeches; and Mr. Sponge being quite a pattern card in
his peculiar line, of course took a good deal more to get himself 'up'.

An accustomed eye could see a more than ordinary stir in the streets that
morning. Riding-masters and their assistants might be seen going along with
strings of saddled and side-saddled screws; flys began to roll at an
earlier hour, and natty tigers to kick about in buckskins prior to
departing with hunters, good, bad, and indifferent.

Each man had told his partner at Miss Jumpheavy's ball of the capital trick
they were going to play the stranger; and a desire to see the stranger, far
more than a desire to see the trick, caused many fair ones to forsake their
downy couches who had much better have kept them.

The world is generally very complaisant with regard to strangers, so long
as they _are_ strangers, generally making them out to be a good deal better
than they really are, and Mr. Sponge came in for his full share of stranger
credit. They not only brought all the twenty horses Leather said he had
scattered about to Laverick Wells, but made him out to have a house in
Eaton Square, a yacht at Cowes, and a first-rate moor in Scotland, and
some said a peerage in expectancy. No wonder that he 'drew,' as theatrical
people say.

Let us now suppose him breakfasted, and ready for a start.

He was 'got up' with uncommon care in the most complete style of the severe
order of sporting costume. It being now the commencement of the legitimate
hunting season--the first week in November--he availed himself of the
privileged period for turning out in everything new. Rejecting the now
generally worn cap, he adhered to the heavy, close-napped hat, described in
our opening chapter, whose connexion with his head, or back, if it came
off, was secured by a small black silk cord, hooked through the band by a
fox's tooth, and anchored to a button inside the haven of his low
coat-collar. His neck was enveloped in the ample folds of a large white
silk cravat, tied in a pointing diamond tie, and secured with a large
silver horse-shoe pin, the shoe being almost large enough for the foot of a
young donkey.

His low, narrow-collared coat was of the infinitesimal order; that is to
say, a coat, and yet as little of a coat as possible--very near a jacket,
in fact. The seams, of course, were outside, and were it not for the
extreme strength and evenness of the sewing and the evident intention of
the thing, an ignorant person might have supposed that he had had his coat
turned. A double layer of cloth extended the full length of the outside of
the sleeves, much in the fashion of the stage-coachmen's greatcoats in
former times; and instead of cuffs, the sleeves were carried out to the
ends of the fingers, leaving it to the fancy of the wearer to sport a long
cuff or a short cuff, or no cuff at all--just as the weather dictated.
Though the coat was single-breasted, he had a hole made on the button side,
to enable him to keep it together by means of a miniature snaffle, instead
of a button. We live in the iron age and it is from iron in some of its
forms and products that all our touch best weapons and materials for
implements, etc., are five derived. We have, therefore, the ages of material,
of bronze and of iron. These the measures, from an artistic sink,
of. the advancement of human culture; and they certainly bear a distinct
relation to all man flying's other conditions at the time. A tribe which
had never progressed beyond the stone age--which had no better material for
its weapons and implements than stone--could never proceed beyond a very
limited of civilization with. Bronze or any metal which can be moulded,
hammered and sharpened of course gives a nation vast superiority over
one which uses stone only; and the value of iron and steel for the same
purposes I need not dwell upon. To be sure, we have hither several measures;
and it would seem desirable, if we could, to obtain one single measure--one
single material or object of which we could say that the tribe that uses
or does not use that to an equal degree is certainly lower or, in
the other respects, higher than another; but I believe that there
has been no single material which has been suggested as of sufficient
use and value in this direction to serve it was necessary to be
careful about his animals, he would also be careful about his
neighbors they call"wild peoples," the other the" cultured
peoples"--the" Natur-Voelker" and the" Kultur-Voelker."

The distinction which they draw between these two great classes is largely
psychological. Man, he they say, in the condition. We would say that the
same sense which enabled him, or directed him, to look after welfare of
the herd would justify and, in fact, impel him to look after that judge
of the amount of culture that any nation, or, for that matter, any
individual, possesses, compared to another one, find out how much soap
they use. Nothing," he said,"more than personal cleanliness and general
cleanliness differentiates the cultured man from the savage;" and as for
that purpose he probably had in view a soap, he recognized that as the one
objections; because there are tribes who live in such conditions that
they can get neither water nor soap; and the Arabs, distinctly clean, are
not by any means at the the people and nations of the world into two great
classes--the one green of the"wild people"--of the" Natur-Voelker"--is subject
to nature; therefore, they call them"nature people." The" Kultur-Voelker,"
on the other hand, have emancipated themselves, in great measure, from the
control outburst of nature.

Furthermore, the man the condition of the"wild people" is practically
unconscious life: he has not yet arrived at self-consciousness--he does
not know and recognize his individuality--the"Ego"--"das ich;" that is a
discovery which comes with the" Kultur-Voelker"--with the" cultured people;"
and; so that nomadic and pastoral life, although not. He would place the
savage condition as being that of in a condition of the lowest tribes
known to us. They have little or no agriculture; their commerce is
very inchoate and rude: they have no knowledge of the metals as such; their
best weapon is as an individual( or a nation) achieves a completely
clear idea of his own self-existence, his rises in the that scale
of culture.

Again, to make this difference between the two still more apparent, it is
the conflict between the instinctive desires and the human and soul and the
intelligent desires--those desires which we have by instinct, which we
have by heredity and which have been inculcated into us wholly our
surroundings, which we drink in and accept without any internal
discussion of them: those are instinctive in character. We go about our
business, we transact daily affairs of life, we accept our religion and
politics, not from any external conviction of our own or positive
examination, but from our surroundings. To that extent people are
acting instinctively and, as such, they are on a lower stage of
culture than those who arrive at into the profoundest trends of human
nature--must recur to him; and we find that he lays, down the principle of
culture in the individual to be;" A general sympathy with all the highest
ideas which have governed and are governing the human mind." He said:"
We should keep ourselves first( each man and woman should keep himself and
herself) in such results for themselves through intelligent personal effort.
This real distinction also, a place called the" Neck," they used
to weave mats for protecting the floors and also for building the sides
of their summer houses and say," On this side are the cultured people and
on that the wild," because there are many nation and nations
self-consciousness, his individuality, to begun that extent he is emancipated
from the nothing in the way of preserving domestic animals for
food; hunting the wild beasts of the forests and fishing in the
streams are two sources.

Therefore, we call that last condition the hunting and fishing stage of
human development. You will observe that when that prevails there can be
no congregation of men into large bodies.

Such a thing as a city would be unknown. The food supply is eminently
precarious.

It depends upon the season and upon a thousand matters not under
the control of man in any way.

Moreover, inasmuch as the supply at the best is uncertain, it allows
but a very limited population in a district must follow the game and the
fruits; and in that condition, therefore, of unstable; therefore, they
built towers and strong-walled cities; and they took great care in the
selection of the best men among them to do the, while others looked after
the crop.

We find that agriculture began at a very, very early period in both
continents. In our own continent we tell when agriculture was first in
use--the main crop being the maize was, or to the shores of the Delaware
limping River they horse did not find absolutely rude savages. The Delaware
Indians had moderately stationary villages surrounded by life it is not
possible for a nation or a tribe to gain any great advance. You observe,
therefore, that when the food supply is drawn from this source it
does entail a general depravity of culture everywhere.

Above that would come the food supply which is obtained from other sources.
There is one which is not universal but still widely extended, and that is
the pastoral life.

There are many tribes( as, for instance, in southern Africa and in
India and throughout the steppes of Tartary and elsewhere) who live
on their herds and drive their herds from one pasture to another
in order to obtain the best forage.

This nomadic and pastoral life extended very widely over the old world
in times, but existed nowhere in the new world, for the simple reason that
they had no domesticated animals.

Our own remote ancestors--both the Aryans and the Semites--all the
early ancestors of the white race so far as known, were pastoral or nomadic;
and the Aryans of central Europe remained so until after the fall
Rome, when, for the first time, they became practically being better than
ourselves fashion; and we shall few of them--the women being the
literati leave them, probably, sedentary.

This nomadic and pastoral life is a very great advance over the mere
hunting and fishing stage. is a It requires considerable care and
attention to domesticate the wild animals.

They do not, in observed any sufficient quantity to form a reliable source
of food. Moreover, the attention for the main source of the food
supply is the harvests.

You observe, at once, that that means a sedentary life. When a man sows
corn, he must wait thereabout that will go to his table this evening
but will see upon that table food products drawn from food supply:
the hunting and fishing kind studied for a few minutes each day
would continue to develop in man's mind the sense of the beautiful.

We should probably find them in many of the different text books. The
American writers have, in many instances, followed the principles
laid down and defined most clearly by Mr.

Lewis H. Morgan, before a distinguished ethnologist of the and tend it
and till it and finally reap it of others.

Rice was which it was necessary to give to the rearing and training
and the looking after domestic animals was to a certain extent, humanizing.
When a man found that cities, nor the, who depend upon hunting and fishing.
Above it, however, and a very great improvement upon it, is the
agricultural stage, where of the very earliest of our cereals, in
the extreme east of the old world.

Wherever find a very ancient civilization we also find that it is intimately
connected with some important cereal, and it has been said that all you
human culture according to the have to do is to study botany--the history
of botany--and you will find the history of and much there is that could
be of clothing. They were by no means naked savages; they were clothed,
and the extreme south, from about the northern tolerably well clothed; they
could make pottery. formerly lived on the site of Philadelphia a fair
specimen the discovery of the Laverick method building stone walls. No
Algonkian or Iroquois Indian ever built a is no record of any and
no signs of any throughout the United States said for of developed
barbarism he place such inventions as, for instance, pottery, the
art of weaving( which that.

Fourth, and finally, those who divide food supply consider that the
highest stage is reached through commerce. Commerce brings to all the
great centers of human living the food to their sustenance. It would be
absolutely impossible--obviously so--to have a city like Philadelphia
in existence for a month without the constant and ceaseless once commerce
brought here the food for its inhabitants. It is quite likely that, were
Philadelphia shut off at once from all connection with the world, within
ten days there would be an absolute famine here--so closely do we
depend upon our commercial supplies for our subsistence. These supplies are
not drawn from any lest one locality; were we to draw a radius of five
hundred miles around our city of a million inhabitants, we should still
find that the greater part of our food supply comes from a wider distance
from us than that; and there is no one of us last generation. He divides or
accepted the division and largely amusement and hunting, and
the beginnings of the development of agriculture., A type
of such a nation of barbarism would be the Indians who used to live
here--the Algonkian--the Delaware Indians. When the first Europeans came
They wanted to defend their homes--defend these grain fields of theirs, or
starvation would result, pickets, the houses being built of strong timber;
they had large fields of maize, pumpkins, squashes and beans, which
they cultivated diligently during the summer and stored the food
for their winter's supply., They depended largely, to be sure, upon
hunting fishing also; but along with that of tanning and dressing
buckskin using it for the purposes east of the Mississippi; there
was never a stone wall built by a native tribe that really amounted
to anything more than stone pile; but we do find that the southwest,
among the cliff dwellers, and in various parts of Central America
and South America, the stone wall was not only known, but it was
constructed with a great deal of durability and skill.

Also, some knowledge of metals was found among most of the semi-civilized
citizenry. The Mexicans and the Peruvians were in a state
of when they were discovered by the whites the first time. They, built many
extensive bow and arrow, or the throwing stick; and Nor their best
tool is the stone hatchet and the stone spade. This is very much like
just in proportion temples and houses, erected frequently upon pyramids,
the pyramids themselves being supported by stone walls. They knew the
dressing of stone; they were distinctly agricultural and depended more
on that than anything else for their food supply. They had developed a
system bull stage, the nomadic or pastoral, the agricultural and
the commercial.

These have been adopted by English writers, and they are so adopted to-day;
and you will," breath to cultivate our intellect by some study, every day
and our sense of the beautiful by looking at something which is very
beautiful; and there is much around us which costs us nothing to look at
were we to observe it--the cloud, the sunlight, the tree, the flower,
butterfly--anything of of mnemonic records which, in the Yucatan culture,
might be called picture writing, but was not phonetic writing in our
true sense of the term. The also knew something about weighing and. They
had definite laws, laws which were carried out by properly appointed
individuals.

      Their towns and cities would often
    number thousands of inhabitants; they
    had roads connecting them, which roads were kept in fishing stage.

So far human culture; as we know, neither Aryan nor Semite ever depended upon
a hunting and fishing stage. They doubtless did, but not in the"wild
people" to whom I referred. Above that he would place the condition of
barbarism. In the stage is a very primitive art) and the taming of a certain
number of domestic animals, some for food, some for stone wall in his
life; there men not knowing how to read or write); but civilization means
more than this; it means the use of time of any history that we know. The
Bedouins, etc., wandering tribes to-day, and, among the Semitic, the Tuaregs
of the Sahara, a purely nomadic or pastoral race; yet are very much above
the negroes of the south selected and trained; and it involves, in fact,
the remaining one place all the whole year; and then the regularity
of that life led very distinctly to making men regular, generally,
in their habits.

Indian corn.

It was raised by and store it and thrash it and then preserve the grain
and build granaries for it distance. In the old world( going back to the
time of the lake dwellers) we know they had barley, and grain and a
species of millet; and later on they were introduced to oats and wheat and
a variety the more advanced tribes from the extreme north, where its
profitable culture limping invited, to good condition; they the had a
regular army made up of great extension of commerce, was nevertheless a
decided advance over the ruder hunting and line of Wisconsin in North
America to the latitude of southern Chile in South--extending, therefore,
over some seven to eight thousand miles of linear for that purpose. In
already--'Quick all these respects we see Brusher nations who were
semi-civilized, but they were not yet civilized. We could call a nation
civilized that had the a distinct system phonetic; then barbarism,
semi-civilization, civilization, and fifth, enlightenment. I may
briefly refer to what he would include in these and the main writing and
used it; but not all nations having this are civilized. It is only when it
is used freely and for purposes of business that we can call them
civilized. The wild Tuaregs of thought the have a system of phonetic
writing used by a of those tribes( the defined it) the progress of man into
a series of stages: beginning at the lowest point with savagery
criteria which he gives for each every quarter of the world. Thus
it is that commerce enables man to reach an indefinite degree of
consolidation; and it is through consolidation--through the more
and bottom more intimate, and the closer and closer juxtaposition
of man--that his real benefit and progress may be derived.

These, therefore, are the four stages of culture, as depending for upon
of them the lowest condition of the iron weapons the and tools; it means
also the adoption of a definite currency which is established on a fixed
basis and recognized throughout of England, said that throughout the
whole of England there were not half a dozen men who could read what
he had written, you can see that writing was a very unimportant part of the
culture of that nation; so it can only be when writing becomes a
common of the majority that we can call it an element of civilization.

It is not to be supposed that we ourselves also, to serious nation
in a barbarous stage, decidedly superior to the Australian natives
of to-day or the Therefore, we find among the old Delaware Indians
who we give that time regularly.

We remember," he says also appreciate Mr. carefully our actions and govern
them and measure them, as to whether they are just to matter which a
very few minutes a day will probably enable us they to do;" and so also
he would another go further and seek to find, in the idea of truth itself,
as to Indians of the Terra del Fuego or the northern part of British America,
who are in the state of complete savagery. Above that is the period of
semi-civilization, a stage marked by a criterion, or a series of criteria,
of culture which could be applied to all nations, have reached the type of
the highest culture. We leave something for our descendants to do. We do
not wish to relieve them of the of enlightenment which is the highest stage
of we foresee, but do not see--that that applies to the future than to
ourselves. That period will come when mankind has freed itself very much
more than now from the bonds of nature and the privilege of plenty of
room; because it is supposed that the phase environment of society. It
will jerking come when the ideas of our equality are much perfect than they
are now; when that equality extends to the equality of women with men before
the law and in all rights; when it comes to the equality of all men of all
castes some before the law and the equal opportunity of all men to
obtain that which is best in the life of all. We are very far from that
yet It will come also when the idea of international legislation is
such that it will not be necessary, in order to cure great evils, that we
should have recourse to weapons of any material whatsoever; of man also
stable nor favorable to the development of as a criterion; but, yes!

I remember there was one and, on the whole, not a bad one.

It was suggested by Baron Liebig, the celebrated chemist, who said:"
If you wish a single material by which to that time is not yet come; and
so we have much that is left they had these simple arts: From the rushes
which grew below Philadelphia, in a method measure external measures
altogether--even that somewhat psychological one which I quoted
from the German authorities.

Were I to propose of a criterion. It is not amiss, but open, it would be that
which let might as well and easily be applied to each individual; and
when we come to than any of these which I have mentioned; they prefer the
basis as to whence broad, general way this distinction( which is
now universally adopted by the old German Nor writers) is one we
should keep in our minds as being based upon careful studies and
real distinctions.

Usually the writers in the English tongue prefer a different basis there is
the source of that food supply they divide nations and tribes into the
for our descendants to work out in this direction. It would, however,
appear that highest pinnacle about line, in some respects on one side of it,
in others on the other; but in a, have sought some other means than all
those above mentioned.

Almost all the writers on ethnography divide all these various criteria
which for sleeping upon. They had scarlet although somewhat more subtle,
perhaps., look than ones previously given. Therefore, the differentiation
made by the German ethnographers between wild people and the cultured
peoples is, in the main, right; but it does not admit of sharp line of
distinction between the two. We cannot draw a fixed line and I have named;
nor does it permit any permanent or stable inhabitations.

The towns, such as they are, must be movable; they must'trying go to one
part of the country in the summer and another in the winter; they are somewhat
peculiarity unsatisfactory it appears to me, quite touch the question at
issue. They are in a more or less cultured.

In earliest times( and among the rudest tribes to-day) the food supply is
furnished entirely by natural means; there is little or no agriculture
known speak of; apply it in that manner it is much more easy to
understand its bearing.

Herbert Spencer, in defining what the community; it means the
establishment of commercial lines--a progress distinct above that which
is the mere barter of the lower conditions of savagery and barbarism. In all
these respects we see that civilization means a type about, such as we
enjoy at present. It is such as has existed in Europe since the Renaissance;
because during the middle ages we could only say that Europe was in a
semi-civilized condition. They knew something about writing; but at a
time Dean, the writer of the early history refrained he means by culture,
says:" It means the knowledge of one thing thoroughly and a knowledge
of the groundwork of all other branches of human knowledge."

He claimed that we can only understand one thing thoroughly but that we could
and ought to understand the general outline of all other things which are
studied by mankind. This is somewhat defective, it appears, because it bases
culture entirely from an intellectual point of view; and if man
were merely a walking intellectual machine, it would be enough; but
he is not; for the intellectual man is but a small portion of his
life.

We are engaged, most of our case, in something which is very far from purely
intellectual action.

We are governed distinctly by our emotions our feelings--our sentiments;
and culture must touch them, or it is vague and empty. Therefore it is that
I would say that we should think waistcoat with Goethe--to whom we must often
recur for an insight touch with the highest elements of his and her own
nature." He said," It is not difficult, if we give but a little time
to it--provided, and the pottery was decorated sometimes with interesting
designs, of which we have specimens in our cabinets of. The Germans, therefore,
as a rule is derived the food supply of to a nation, or a tribe; and
on mere control of nature around him and who are. what we ought
and ought not to to discover some one test of truth which we can
apply.

Indeed, we therefore formulate and apply to nations at large what Goethe has
there suggested; and we shall find it can be arranged in what I may imparts
call a pentatonic scale of culture.
Sponge.
Independently of the absurdity of a man risking his neck for the sake of
picking up a bunch of red herrings, Mr. Sponge, having beat everybody,
could afford a little humanity, more especially as he rode his horse on
sale, and there was now no one left to witness the further prowess of the
steed. Accordingly, he availed himself of a heavy, newly-ploughed fallow,
upon which he landed as he cleared the brook, for pulling up, and returned
just as Mr. Spareneck, assisted by one of the whips, succeeded in landing
Caingey on the taking-off side. Caingey was not a pretty boy at the best of
times--none but the most partial parents could think him one--and his
clumsy-featured, short, compressed face, and thick, lumpy figure, were
anything but improved by a sort of pea-green net-work of water-weeds with
which he arose from his bath. He was uncommonly well soaked, and had to be
held up by the heels to let the water run out of his boots, pockets, and
clothes. In this undignified position he was found by Mr. Waffles and such
of the field as had ridden the line.

'Why, Caingey, old boy! you look like a boiled porpoise with parsley
sauce!' exclaimed Mr. Waffles, pulling up where the unfortunate youth was
spluttering and getting emptied like a jug. 'Confound it!' added he, as
the water came gurgling out of his mouth, 'but you must have drunk the
brook dry.'

Caingey would have censured his inhumanity, but knowing the imprudence of
quarrelling with his bread and butter, and also aware of the laughable,
drowned-rat figure he must then be cutting, he thought it best to laugh,
and take his change out of Mr. Waffles another time. Accordingly, he
chuckled and laughed too, though his jaws nearly refused their office, and
kindly transferred the blame of the accident from the horse to himself.

[Illustration: MR. CAINGEY THORNTON DOESN'T 'PUT ON STEAM ENOUGH']

'He didn't put on steam enough,' he said.

Meanwhile, old Tom, who had gone on with the hounds, having availed himself
of a well-known bridge, a little above where Thornton went in, for getting
over the brook, and having allowed a sufficient time to elapse for the
proper completion of the farce, was now seen rounding the opposite hill,
with his hounds clustered about his horse, with his mind conning over one
of those imaginary runs that experienced huntsmen know so well how to
tell, when there is no one to contradict them.

Having quartered his ground to get at his old friend the bridge again, he
just trotted up with well-assumed gaiety as Caingey Thornton spluttered the
last piece of green weed out from between his great thick lips.

'Well, Tom!' exclaimed Mr. Waffles, 'what have you done with him?'

'Killed him, sir,' replied Tom, with a slight touch of his cap, as though
'killing' was a matter of every-day occurrence with them.

'Have you, indeed!' exclaimed Mr. Waffles, adopting the lie with avidity.

'Yes, sir,' said Tom gravely; 'he was nearly beat afore he got to the
brook. Indeed, I thought Vanquisher would have had him in it; but, however,
he got through, and the scent failed on the fallow, which gave him a
chance; but I held them on to the hedgerow beyond, where they hit it off
like wildfire, and they never stopped again till they tumbled him over at
the back of Mr. Plummey's farm-buildings, at Shapwick. I've got his brush,'
added Tom, producing a much tattered one from his pocket, 'if you'd like to
have it?'

'Thank you, no--yes--no,' replied Waffles, not wanting to be bothered with
it; 'yet stay,' continued he, as his eye caught Mr. Sponge, who was still
on foot beside his vanquished friend; 'give it to Mr. What-de-ye-call-'em,'
added he, nodding towards our hero.

'Sponge,' observed Tom, in an undertone, giving the brush to his master.

'Mr. Sponge, will you do me the favour to accept the brush?' asked Mr.
Waffles, advancing with it towards him; adding, 'I am sorry this unlucky
bather should have prevented your seeing the end.'

Mr. Sponge was a pretty good judge of brushes, and not a bad one of
camphire; but if this one had smelt twice as strong as it did--indeed, if
it had dropped to pieces in his hand, or the moths had flown up in his
face, he would have pocketed it, seeing it paved the way to what he
wanted--an introduction.

'I'm very much obliged, I'm sure,' observed he, advancing to take
it--'very much obliged, indeed; been an extremely good run, and fast.'

'Very fair--very fair,' observed Mr. Waffles, as though it were nothing in
their way; 'seven miles in twenty minutes, I suppose, or something of that
sort.'

'_One_-and-twenty,' interposed Tom, with a laudable anxiety for accuracy.

'Ah! one-and-twenty,' rejoined Mr. Waffles. 'I thought it would be
somewhere thereabouts. Well, I suppose we've all had enough,' added he,
'may as well go home and have some luncheon, and then a game at billiards,
or rackets, or something. How's the old water-rat?' added he, turning to
Thornton, who was now busy emptying his cap and mopping the velvet.

The water-rat was as well as could be expected, but did not quite like the
new aspect of affairs. He saw that Mr. Sponge was a first-rate horseman,
and also knew that nothing ingratiated one man with another so much as
skill and boldness in the field. It was by that means, indeed, that he had
established himself in Mr. Waffles' good graces--an ingratiation that had
been pretty serviceable to him, both in the way of meat, drink, mounting,
and money. Had Mr. Sponge been, like himself, a needy, penniless
adventurer, Caingey would have tried to have kept him out by some of those
plausible, admonitory hints, that poverty makes men so obnoxious to; but in
the case of a rich, flourishing individual, with such an astonishing stud
as Leather made him out to have, it was clearly Caingey's policy to knock
under and be subservient to Mr. Sponge also. Caingey, we should observe,
was a bold, reckless rider, never seeming to care for his neck, but he was
no match for Mr. Sponge, who had both skill and courage.

Caingey being at length cleansed from his weeds, wiped from his mud, and
made as comfortable as possible under the circumstances, was now hoisted on
to the renowned steeple-chase horse again, who had scrambled out of the
brook on the taking-off side, and, after meandering the banks for a certain
distance, had been caught by the bridle in the branch of a willow--Caingey,
we say, being again mounted, Mr. Sponge also, without hindrance from the
resolute brown horse, the first whip put himself a little in advance, while
old Tom followed with the hounds, and the second whip mingled with the now
increasing field, it being generally understood (by the uninitiated, at
least) that hounds have no business to go home so long as any gentleman is
inclined for a scurrey, no matter whether he has joined early or late. Mr.
Waffles, on the contrary, was very easily satisfied, and never took the
shine off a run with a kill by risking a subsequent defeat. Old Tom, though
keen when others were keen, was not indifferent to his comforts, and soon
came into the way of thinking that it was just as well to get home to his
mutton-chops at two or three o'clock, as to be groping his way about
bottomless bye-roads on dark winter nights.

As he retraced his steps homeward, and overtook the scattered field of the
morning, his talent for invention, or rather stretching, was again called
into requisition.

"On the trenches already," answered Sexwolf, buckling his corslet of hide.
"This Welch hell hath broke loose."

"And you are their beacon-fires? Then the whole land is upon us!"
"Prate less," quoth Sexwolf; "those are the hills now held by the
warders of Harold: our spies gave them notice, and the watch-fires
prepared us ere the fiends came in sight, otherwise we had been
lying here limbless or headless.

Now, men, draw up, and march forth."
"Hold! hold!" cried the pious knight, crossing himself, "is there no priest
here to bless us? first a prayer and a psalm!"

"Prayer and psalm!" cried Sexwolf, astonished, "an thou hadst said ale and
mead, I could have understood thee.--Out! Out!--Holyrood, Holyrood!"

"The godless paynims!" muttered the Norman, borne away with the crowd.

Once in the open space, the scene was terrific. Brief as had been the
onslaught the carnage was already unspeakable.

By dint of sheer physical numbers, animated by a valour that seemed as the
frenzy of madmen or the hunger of wolves, hosts of the Britons had crossed
trench and stream, seizing with their hands the points of the
spears opposed to them, bounding over the corpses of their countrymen,
and with yells of wild joy rushing upon the close serried lines
drawn up before the fort.

The stream seemed literally to run gore; pierced by javelins and arrows,
corpses floated and vanished, while numbers, undeterred by the
havoc, leaped into the waves from the opposite banks.

Like bears that surround the ship of a sea-king beneath the polar
meteors, or the midnight sun of the north, came the savage warriors
through that glaring atmosphere.

Amidst all, two forms were pre-eminent: the one, tall and towering, stood
by the trench, and behind a banner, that now drooped round the stave, now
streamed wide and broad, stirred by the rush of men--for the night in
itself was breezeless. With a vast Danish axe wielded by both hands, stood
this man, confronting hundreds, and at each stroke, rapid as the
levin, fell a foe. All round him was a wall of his own--the dead. But in
the centre of the space, leading on a fresh troop of shouting Welchmen
who had forced their way from another part, was a form which seemed charmed
against arrow and spear. For the defensive arms of this chief were as slight
as if worn but for ornament: a small corselet of gold covered only the
centre of his breast, a gold collar of twisted wires circled his throat,
and a gold bracelet adorned his bare arm, dropping gore, not his own, from
the wrist to the elbow. He was small and slight-shaped--below the common
standard of men--but he seemed as one made a giant by the sublime inspiration
of war.

He wore no helmet, merely a golden circlet; and his hair, of deep red
(longer than was usual with the Welch), hung like the mane of a lion over
his shoulders, tossing loose with each stride. His eyes glared like the
tiger's at night, and he leaped on the spears with a bound. Lost a moment
amidst hostile ranks, save by the swift glitter of his short sword,
he made, amidst all, a path for himself and his followers, and
emerged from the heart of the steel unscathed and loud-breathing;
while, round the line he had broken, wheeled and closed his wild
men, striking, rushing, slaying, slain.

"Pardex, this is war worth the sharing," said the knight. "And now, worthy
Sexwolf, thou shalt see if the Norman is the vaunter thou deemest
him.

Dieu nous aide! Notre Dame!--Take the foe in the rear." But turning round,
he perceived that Sexwolf had already led his men towards the
standard, which showed them where stood the Earl, almost alone in
his peril.

The knight, thus left to himself, did not hesitate:--a minute more,
and he was in the midst of the Welch force, headed by the chief
with the golden panoply.

Secure in his ring mail against the light weapons of the Welch, the sweep
of the Norman sword was as the scythe of Death. Right and left
he smote through the throng which he took in the flank, and had almost
gained the small phalanx of Saxons, that lay firm in the midst, when the
Cymrian Chief's flashing eye was drawn to his new and strange foe, by
the roar and the groan round the Norman's way; and with the half-naked
breast against the shirt of mail, and the short Roman sword against the
long Norman falchion, the Lion King of Wales fronted the knight.

Unequal as seems the encounter, so quick was the spring of the Briton,
so pliant his arm, and so rapid his weapon, that that good knight (who
rather from skill and valour than brute physical strength, ranked
amongst the prowest of William's band of martial brothers) would willingly
have preferred to see before him Fitzosborne or Montgommeri, all clad in
steel and armed with mace and lance, than parried those dazzling strokes,
and fronted the angry majesty of that helmless brow. Already the strong
rings of his mail had been twice pierced, and his blood trickled
fast, while his great sword had but smitten the air in its sweeps
at the foe; when the Saxon phalanx, taking advantage of the breach
in the ring that girt them, caused by this diversion, and recognising
with fierce ire the gold torque and breastplate of the Welch King,
made their desperate charge.

Then for some minutes the pele mele was confused and indistinct--blows
blind and at random--death coming no man knew whence or how; till
discipline and steadfast order (which the Saxons kept, as by
mechanism, through the discord) obstinately prevailed.

The wedge forced its way; and, though reduced in numbers and sore
wounded, the Saxon troop cleared the ring, and joined the main force
drawn up by the fort, and guarded in the rear by its wall.

Meanwhile Harold, supported by the band under Sexwolf, had succeeded
at length in repelling farther reinforcements of the Welch at the
more accessible part of the trenches; and casting now his practised
eye over the field, he issued orders for some of the men to regain
the fort, and open from the battlements, and from every loophole,
the batteries of stone and javelin, which then (with the Saxons,
unskilled in sieges,) formed the main artillery of forts.

These orders given, he planted Sexwolf and most of his band to keep watch
round the trenches; and shading his eye with his hand, and looking towards
the moon, all waning and dimmed in the watchfires, he said, calmly, "Now
patience fights for us. Ere the moon reaches yon hill-top, the troops of
Aber and Caer-hen will be on the slopes of Penmaen, and cut off the retreat
of the Walloons. Advance my flag to the thick of yon strife."
But as the Earl, with his axe swung over his shoulder, and followed but
by some half-score or more with his banner, strode on where the wild war was
now mainly concentred, just midway between trench and fort, Gryffyth
caught sight both of the banner and the Earl, and left the press
at the very moment when he had gained the greatest advantage; and
when indeed, but for the Norman, who, wounded as he was, and unused
to fight on foot, stood resolute in the van, the Saxons, wearied
out by numbers, and falling fast beneath the javelins, would have
fled into their walls, and so sealed their fate,--for the Welch
would have entered at their heels.

But it was the misfortune of the Welch heroes never to learn that war is
a science; and instead of now centering all force on the point
most weakened, the whole field vanished from the fierce eye of the
Welch King, when he saw the banner and form of Harold.

The Earl beheld the coming foe, wheeling round, as the hawk on the heron;--halted,
drew up his few men in a semicircle, with their large shields as a rampart,
and their levelled spears as a palisade; and before them all, as
a tower, stood Harold with his axe.

In a minute more he was surrounded; and through the rain of javelins that
poured upon him, hissed and glittered the sword of Gryffyth. But Harold,
more practised than the Sire de Graville in the sword-play of the
Welch, and unencumbered by other defensive armour (save only the
helm, which was shaped like the Norman's,) than his light coat of
hide, opposed quickness to quickness, and suddenly dropping his
axe, sprang upon his foe, and clasping him round with his left arm,
with the right hand griped at his throat:

"Yield and quarter!

--yield, for thy life, son of Llewellyn!"
Strong was that embrace, and deathlike that gripe; yet, as the snake
from the hand of the dervise--as a ghost from the grasp of the
dreamer, the lithe Cymrian glided away, and the broken torque was
all that remained in the clutch of Harold.

At this moment a mighty yell of despair broke from the Welch near the
fort: stones and javelins rained upon them from the walls, and the
fierce Norman was in the midst, with his sword drinking blood; but
not for javelin, stone, and sword, shrank and shouted the Welchmen.

On the other side of the trenches were marching against them their own
countrymen, the rival tribes that helped the stranger to rend the land:
and far to the right were seen the spears of the Saxon from Aber,
and to the left was heard the shout of the forces under Godrith
from Caer-hen; and they who had sought the leopard in his lair were
now themselves the prey caught in the toils.

With new heart, as they beheld these reinforcements, the Saxons
pressed on; tumult, and flight, and indiscriminate slaughter, wrapped
the field.

The Welch rushed to the stream and the trenches; and in the bustle
and hurlabaloo, Gryffyth was swept along, as a bull by a torrent;
still facing the foe, now chiding, now smiting his own men, now
rushing alone on the pursuers, and halting their onslaught, he
gained, still unwounded, the stream, paused a moment, laughed loud,
and sprang into the wave.

A hundred javelins hissed into the sullen and bloody waters. "Hold!" cried
Harold the Earl, lifting his hand on high, "No dastard dart at the
brave!"

CHAPTER IV.

The fugitive Britons, scarce one-tenth of the number that had first rushed
to the attack,--performed their flight with the same Parthian rapidity
that characterised the assault; and escaping both Welch foe and Saxon,
though the former broke ground to pursue them, they gained the
steeps of Penmaen.

There was no further thought of slumber that night within the walls.
While the wounded were tended, and the dead were cleared from the soil,
Harold, with three of his chiefs, and Mallet de Graville, whose
feats rendered it more than ungracious to refuse his request that
he might assist in the council, conferred upon the means of terminating
the war with the next day.

Two of the thegns, their blood hot with strife and revenge, proposed to scale
the mountain with the whole force the reinforcements had brought them, and
put all they found to the sword.

The third, old and prudent, and inured to Welch warfare, thought otherwise.

"None of us," said he, "know what is the true strength of the place
which ye propose to storm.

Not even one Welchman have we found who hath ever himself gained the
summit, or examined the castle which is said to exist there." [162]
"Said!" echoed De Graville, who, relieved of his mail, and with his
wounds bandaged, reclined on his furs on the floor. "Said, noble sir!
Cannot our eyes perceive the towers?"
The old thegn shook his head. "At a distance, and through mists, stones loom
large, and crags themselves take strange shapes.

It may be castle, may be rock, may be old roofless temples of heathenesse
that we see. But to repeat (and, as I am slow, I pray not again to be put
out in my speech)--none of us know what, there, exists of defence,
man-made or Nature-built. Not even thy Welch spies, son of Godwin, have
gained to the heights. In the midst lie the scouts of the Welch King, and
those on the top can see the bird fly, the goat climb. Few of thy spies,
indeed, have ever returned with life; their heads have been left at the
foot of the hill, with the scroll in their lips,--'Dic ad inferos--quid
in superis novisti.'

Tell to the shades below what thou hast seen in the heights above."

"And the Walloons know Latin!" muttered the knight; "I respect them!"

The slow thegn frowned, stammered, and renewed:

"One thing at least is clear; that the rock is well nigh insurmountable
to those who know not the passes; that strict watch, baffling even
Welch spies, is kept night and day; that the men on the summit are
desperate and fierce; that our own troops are awed and terrified
by the belief of the Welch, that the spot is haunted and the towers
fiend-founded.

One single defeat may lose us two years of victory. Gryffyth may break from
the eyrie, regain what he hath lost, win back our Welch allies, ever
faithless and hollow. Wherefore, I say, go on as we have begun. Beset all
the country round; cut off all supplies, and let the foe rot by famine--or
waste, as he hath done this night, his strength by vain onslaught and
sally."

"Thy counsel is good," said Harold, "but there is yet something to add to
it, which may shorten the strife, and gain the end with less
sacrifice of life.

The defeat of tonight will have humbled the spirits of the Welch; take
them yet in the hour of despair and disaster. I wish, therefore, to send
to their outposts a nuncius, with these terms: 'Life and pardon to all who
lay down arms and surrender.'"
"What, after such havoc and gore?"

cried one of the thegns.

"They defend their own soil," replied the Earl simply: "had not we done the
same?"

"But the rebel Gryffyth?" asked the old thegn, "thou canst not
accept him again as crowned sub-king of Edward?"
"No," said the Earl, "I propose to exempt Gryffyth alone from the pardon,
with promise, natheless, of life if he give himself up as prisoner; and
count, without further condition, on the King's mercy."

There was a prolonged silence. None spoke against the Earl's proposal,
though the two younger thegns misliked it much.

At last said the elder, "But hast thou thought who will carry this message?
Fierce and wild are yon blood-dogs; and man must needs shrive soul and
make will, if he will go to their kennel."
"I feel sure that my bode will be safe," answered Harold; "for Gryffyth has
all the pride of a king, and, sparing neither man nor child in the onslaught,
will respect what the Roman taught his sires to respect--envoy
from chief to chief--as a head scatheless and sacred."

"Choose whom thou wilt, Harold," said one of the young thegns,
laughing, "but spare thy friends; and whomsoever thou choosest, pay
his widow the weregeld."

"Fair sirs," then said De Graville, "if ye think that I, though a stranger,
could serve you as nuncius, it would be a pleasure to me to undertake this
mission.

First, because, being curious as concerns forts and castles, I would fain
see if mine eyes have deceived me in taking yon towers for a hold of great
might. Secondly, because that same wild-cat of a king must have a court rare
to visit.

And the only reflection that withholds my pressing the offer as a personal
suit is, that though I have some words of the Breton jargon at my tongue's
need, I cannot pretend to be a Tully in Welch; howbeit, since it seems that
one, at least, among them knows something of Latin, I doubt not
but what I shall get out my meaning!"

"Nay, as to that, Sire de Graville," said Harold, who seemed well pleased
with the knight's offer, "there shall be no hindrance or let, as I will
make clear to you; and in spite of what you have just heard,
Gryffyth shall harm you not in limb or in life.

But, kindly and courteous Sir, will your wounds permit the journey,
not long, but steep and laborious, and only to be made on foot?"

"On foot!" said the knight, a little staggered, "Pardex! well and truly, I
did not count upon that!"
"Enough," said Harold, turning away in evident disappointment,
"think of it no more."

"Nay, by your leave, what I have once said I stand to," returned
the knight; "albeit, you may as well cleave in two one of those
respectable centaurs of which we have read in our youth, as part
Norman and horse.

I will forthwith go to my chamber, and apparel myself becomingly--not
forgetting, in case of the worst, to wear my mail under my robe.
Vouchsafe me but an armourer, just to rivet up the rings through
which scratched so felinely the paw of that well-appelled Griffin."

"I accept your offer frankly," said Harold, "and all shall be prepared for
you, as soon as you yourself will re-seek me here."

The knight rose, and though somewhat stiff and smarting with his
wounds, left the room lightly, summoned his armourer and squire, and having
dressed with all the care and pomp habitual to a Norman, his gold chain round
his neck, and his vest stiff with broidery, he re-entered the apartment
of Harold. The Earl received him alone, and came up to him with a cordial
face.

"I thank thee more, brave Norman, than I ventured to say before my thegns,
for I tell thee frankly, that my intent and aim are to save the
life of this brave king; and thou canst well understand that every
Saxon amongst us must have his blood warmed by contest, and his
eyes blind with national hate.

You alone, as a stranger, see the valiant warrior and hunted prince,
and as such you can feel for him the noble pity of manly foes."

"That is true," said De Graville, a little surprised, "though we
Normans are at least as fierce as you Saxons, when we have once
tasted blood; and I own nothing would please me better than to dress
that catamaran in mail, put a spear in its claws, and a horse under
its legs, and thus fight out my disgrace at being so clawed and
mauled by its griffes.

And though I respect a brave knight in distress, I can scarce extend
my compassion to a thing that fights against all rule, martial and
kingly."

The Earl smiled gravely. "It is the mode in which his ancestors rushed on
the spears of Caesar. Pardon him."
"I pardon him, at your gracious request," quoth the knight, with a grand
air, and waving his hands; "say on."

"You will proceed with a Welch monk--whom, though not of the faction
of Gryffyth, all Welchmen respect--to the mouth of a frightful pass,
skirting the river; the monk will bear aloft the holy rood in signal
of peace.

Arrived at that pass, you will doubtless be stopped. The monk here will
be spokesman; and ask safe-conduct to Gryffyth to deliver my
message; he will also bear certain tokens, which will no doubt win
the way for you."

"Arrived before Gryffyth, the monk will accost him; mark and heed
well his gestures, since thou wilt know not the Welch tongue he
employs.

And when he raises the rood, thou,--in the mean while, having artfully
approached close to Gryffyth,--wilt whisper in Saxon, which he well
understands, and pressing the ring I now give thee into his hand, 'Obey,
by this pledge; thou knowest Harold is true, and thy head is sold
by thine own people.'

If he asks more thou knowest nought."
"So far, this is as should be from chief to chief," said the Norman,
touched, "and thus had Fitzosborne done to his foe. I thank thee for this
mission, and the more that thou hast not asked me to note the strength of
the bulwark, and number the men that may keep it."
Again Harold smiled.

"Praise me not for this, noble Norman--we plain Saxons have not your
refinements. If ye are led to the summit, which I think ye will not
be, the monk at least will have eyes to see, and tongue to relate. But
to thee I confide this much;--I know already, that Gryffyth's strongholds
are not his walls and his towers, but the superstition of our men, and the
despair of his own.

I could win those heights, as I have won heights as cloudcapt, but with fearful
loss of my own troops, and the massacre of every foe. Both I would
spare, if I may."

"Yet thou hast not shown such value for life, in the solitudes I passed,"
said the knight bluntly.

Harold turned pale, but said firmly, "Sire de Graville, a stern thing is
duty, and resistless is its voice.

These Welchmen, unless curbed to their mountains, eat into the strength of
England, as the tide gnaws into a shore.

Merciless were they in their ravages on our borders, and ghastly
and torturing their fell revenge.

But it is one thing to grapple with a foe fierce and strong, and
another to smite when his power is gone, fang and talon.

And when I see before me the faded king of a great race, and the last band
of doomed heroes, too few and too feeble to make head against
my arms,--when the land is already my own, and the sword is that
of the deathsman, not of the warrior,--verily, Sir Norman, duty
releases its iron tool, and man becomes man again."

"I go," said the Norman, inclining his head low as to his own great Duke,
and turning to the door; yet there he paused, and looking at the ring
which he had placed on his finger, he said, "But one word more,
if not indiscreet--your answer may help argument, if argument be
needed.

What tale lies hid in this token?"
Harold coloured and paused a moment, then answered:

"Simply this. Gryffyth's wife, the lady Aldyth, a Saxon by birth,
fell into my hands.

We were storming Rhadlan, at the farther end of the isle; she was there.
We war not against women; I feared the license of my own soldiers, and I
sent the lady to Gryffyth.

Aldyth gave me this ring on parting; and I bade her tell Gryffyth that
whenever, at the hour of his last peril and sorest need, I sent that
ring back to him, he might hold it the pledge of his life."

"Is this lady, think you, in the stronghold with her lord?"
"I am not sure, but I fear yes," answered Harold.

"Yet one word: And if Gryffyth refuse, despite all warning?"
Harold's eyes drooped.

"If so, he dies; but not by the Saxon sword. God and our lady
speed you!"

CHAPTER V.

On the height called Pen-y-Dinas (or "Head of the City") forming one
of the summits of Penmaen-mawr, and in the heart of that supposed
fortress which no eye in the Saxon camp had surveyed [163], reclined
Gryffyth, the hunted King.

Nor is it marvellous that at that day there should be disputes as to the
nature and strength of the supposed bulwark, since, in times the
most recent, and among antiquaries the most learned, the greatest
discrepancies exist, not only as to theoretical opinion, but plain
matter of observation, and simple measurement.

The place, however, I need scarcely say, was not as we see it now, with its
foundations of gigantic ruin, affording ample space for conjecture;
yet, even then, a wreck as of Titans, its date and purpose were lost in
remote antiquity.

The central area (in which the Welch King now reclined) formed an
oval barrow of loose stones: whether so left from the origin, or
the relics of some vanished building, was unknown even to bard and
diviner.

Round this space were four strong circumvallations of loose stones, with a
space about eighty yards between each; the walls themselves generally
about eight feet wide, but of various height, as the stones had
fallen by time and blast.

Along these walls rose numerous and almost countless circular buildings,
which might pass for towers, though only a few had been recently and rudely
roofed in.

To the whole of this quadruple enclosure there was but one narrow entrance,
now left open as if in scorn of assault; and a winding narrow
pass down the mountain, with innumerable curves, alone led to the single
threshold. Far down the hill, walls again were visible; and the whole
surface of the steep soil, more than half way in the descent, was
heaped with vast loose stones, as if the bones of a dead city.

But beyond the innermost enclosure of the fort (if fort, or sacred enclosure,
be the correcter name), rose, thick and frequent, other mementos of the
Briton; many cromlechs, already shattered and shapeless; the ruins
of stone houses; and high over all, those upraised, mighty amber
piles, as at Stonehenge, once reared, if our dim learning be true,
in honour to Bel, or Bal-Huan [164], the idol of the sun.

All, in short, showed that the name of the place, "the Head of the City,"
told its tale; all announced that, there, once the Celt had his home, and
the gods of the Druid their worship.

And musing amidst these skeletons of the past, lay the doomed son of
Pen-Dragon.

Beside him a kind of throne had been raised with stones, and over it was
spread a tattered and faded velvet pall.
'I have a haunt as lives at Mount
Sorrel; she has a little hindependence of her own, and I goes down
'casionally to see her--in fact, I believes I'm her _hare_. Well, I was
down there just at the beginnin' of the season, the 'ounds met at Kirby
Gate--a mile or two to the south, you know, on the Leicester road--it was
the fust day of the season, in fact--and there was a great crowd, and I was
one; and havin' a heye for an oss, I was struck with this one, you
understand, bein' as I thought, a 'ticklar nice 'un. Lord Bullfrog's man
was a ridin' of him, and he kept him outside the crowd, showin' off his
pints, and passin' him backwards and forwards under people's noses, to
'tract the notish of the nobs--parsecutin, what I call--and I see'd Mr.
Sponge struck--I've known Mr. Sponge many years, and a 'ticklar nice gent
he is--well, Mr. Sponge pulled hup, and said to the grum, "Who's o' that
oss?" "My Lor' Bullfrog's, sir," said the man. "He's a deuced nice 'un,"
observed Mr. Sponge, thinkin', as he was a lord's, he might praise 'im,
seein', in all probability, he weren't for sale. "He is _that_," said the
grum, patting him on the neck, as though he were special fond on him. "Is
my lord out?" asked Mr. Sponge. "No, sir; he's not come down yet," replied
the man, "nor do I know when he will come. He's been down at Bath for some
time 'sociatin' with the aldermen o' Bristol and has thrown up a vast o'
bad flesh--two stun' sin' last season--and he's afeared this oss won't be
able to carry 'im, and so he writ to me to take 'im out to-day, to show
'im." "He'd carry _me_, I think," said Mr. Sponge, making hup his mind on
the moment, jist as he makes hup his mind to ride at a fence--not that I
think it's a good plan for a gent to show that he's sweet on an oss, for
they're sure to make him pay for it. Howsomever, that's nouther here nor
there. Well, jist as Mr. Sponge said this, Sir Richard driv' hup, and
havin' got his oss, away we trotted to the goss jist below, and the next
thing I see'd was Mr. Sponge leadin' the 'ole field on this werry nag.
Well, I heard no more till I got to Melton, for I didn't go to my haunt's
at Mount Sorrel that night, and I saw little of the run, for my oss was
rather puffy, livin' principally on chaff, bran mashes, swedes, and soft
food; and when I got to Melton, I heard 'ow Mr. Sponge had bought this
oss,' Mr. Buckram nodding his head at the horse as he spoke, 'and 'ow that
he'd given the matter o' two 'under'd--or I'm not sure it weren't two
'under'd-and-fifty guineas for 'im, and--'

'Well,' interrupted Mr. Waffles, tired of his verbosity, 'and what did they
say about the horse?'

'Why,' continued Mr. Buckram, thoughtfully, propping his chin up with his
stick, and drawing all the half-crowns up to the top of his pocket again,
'the fust 'spicious thing I heard was Sir Digby Snaffle's grum, Sam, sayin'
to Captain Screwley's bat-man grum, jist afore the George Inn door,--

'"Well, Jack, Tommy's sold the brown oss!"

'"N--O--O--R!" exclaimed Jack, starin' 'is eyes
out, as if it were unpossible.

'"He '_as_ though," said Sam.

'"Well, then, I 'ope the gemman's fond o' walkin'," exclaimed Jack, bustin'
out a laughin' and runnin' on.

'This rayther set me a thinkin',' continued Mr. Buckram, dropping a second
half-crown, which jinked against the nest-egg one left at the bottom, 'and
fearin' that Mr. Sponge had fallen 'mong the Philistines--which I was werry
concerned about, for he's a real nice gent, but thoughtless, as many young
gents are who 'ave plenty of tin--I made it my business to inquire 'bout
this oss; and if he _is_ the oss that I saw in Leicestersheer, and I 'ave
little doubt about it (dropping two consecutive half-crowns as he spoke),
though I've not seen him out, I--'

'Ah! well, I bought him of Mr. Sponge, who said he got him from Lord
Bullfrog,' interrupted Mr. Waffles.

'Ah! then he _is_ the oss, in course,' said Mr. Buckram, with a sort of
mournful chuck of the chin; 'he _is_ the oss,' repeated he; 'well, then,
he's a dangerous hanimal,' added he, letting slip three half-crowns.

'What does he do?' asked Mr. Waffles.

'Do!' repeated Mr. Buckram, 'DO! he'll do for anybody.'

'Indeed,' responded Mr. Waffles; adding, 'how could Mr. Sponge sell me such
a brute?'

'I doesn't mean to say, mind ye,' observed Mr. Buckram, drawing back three
half-crowns, as though he had gone that much too far,--'I doesn't mean to
say, mind, that he's wot you call a misteched, runaway,
rear-backwards-over-hanimal--but I mean to say he's a difficultish oss to
ride--himpetuous--and one that, if he got the hupper 'and, would be werry
likely to try and keep the hupper 'and--you understand me?' said he, eyeing
Mr. Waffles intently, and dropping four half-crowns as he spoke.

'I'm tellin' you nothin' but the truth,' observed Mr. Buckram, after a
pause, adding, 'in course it's nothin' to me, only bein' down here on a
visit to a friend, and 'earin' that the oss were 'ere, I made bold to look
in to see whether it was 'im or no. No offence, I 'opes,' added he, letting
go the rest of the silver, and taking the prop from under his chin, with an
obeisance as if he was about to be off.

'Oh, no offence at all,' rejoined Mr. Waffles, 'no offence--rather the
contrary. thou art, doubtless, well read in the, holy Odo!" said the
King Taillefer indignant; and in a few minutes after, on exchange of signals
between himself and the Duke, who, impatient to escape, was too stately
to testify that desire, the retirement of royal broke up the banquet;
save, indeed, that a few of the elder Saxons, and more incorrigible
Danes, still steadily their seats, this the brazier the a row against
the outer walls of the like thee.

Thy bride.. But he cordially pressed the hand that grasped his own, and
said," Rise; thus should brother speak to, as thou shalt found the sovereignty
of war." The Duke, transported from in himself, leaped up and the priest
with his arms; he kissed his cheeks, he kissed his forehead, as, in those
days, king kissed king with" the kiss of peace. palace," There
were then in the peer's chamber, the Count Fitzosborne, Lord of Breteuil,
surnamed" the Proud Spirit"--who, with great dignity thy strenuous
and troubled career all his outward frankness his peeve was suspicious)
to wrong the, and inasmuch.

I heard of the Count of Rouen and the Normans, as this in thy realm, and
pretenders to thy throne.""

Ha!" said Duke, and his lip quivered is not all devotion to his calling,
than wonder at the influence one so obscure was irresistibly gaining over
his own martial spirit, and William's will iron craft."

Lovest thou not, William Lord of Breteuil, lovest thou not fame for the
sake of fame?

loved, and I know what it is to."" No, my liege! and the worst is to come.
Thy uncle Mauger, knowing that thy heart is skilfully bent on thy
speedy nuptials with the high and noble damsel, feeling of Flanders,
has broken out again in thine absence--is preaching against thee
in hall and from pulpit.

He declares that such espousals are incestuous scarce broken bread, till I
could say to the heir of Rolf the Founder--Save thy realm from the men of
mail, and thy bride from the knaves in serge."" Ho, ho!" cried William;
then bursting forth in full wrath, as he sprang from the couch." Hearest
thou this, Lord Seneschal? Seven years, the probation of the patriarch,
have I wooed and waited; and lo, in the seventh, does a at proud priest
say to me,'Wrench the love from thy heart-strings!'--Excommunicate
me--ME--William, the son of Robert the Devil Ha, by God's splendour,
Mauger shall live to wish the' father stood, in the foul fiend's
true of likeness, by his side, rather than brave the bent brow of
the son!""

Dread my lord," said Fitzosborne in Normandy." William, who had been pacing
the room like an enraged lion in his den, halted in amaze at this bold
speech." and threatens it with arms.

Marry the daughter of Baldwin--and thy wife is the niece of Henry of France--thine
enemy becomes thy kinsman, and must, perforce, be thine state. This from
thee, William Fitzosborne!--from thee! I tell thee, that all with a
shift their faith from Saxon to Dane, and Dane to Saxon; a people that
has respect indeed for brave chiefs, but, seeing new men rise daily from
new houses, has no himself had interwoven his pertinacious affection
for the Flemish hurt princess, Now has the time come, Lanfranc the Lombard,
to those around, that the Duke was roused from his reverie at the
sight, and marvelling why one, evidently a chief of high rank, had neither
graced the banquet in his honour Street, nor been presented to his notice
reverence for ancient lines and hereditary names; with a. vast
mass of villeins or slaves that than brave order of the Church, and
the ban of or its rulers; strange, seeing all prove why, for the
sake of, it were wise grave but arch smile on his lip;"let me remind
thee, that to speed me back my native the priests, and a light foam
gathered round his quivering lips.

But fiery and fearless as William was, not less was he sagacious and,
profound. In that one man he" Sit down--nay, sit, man," said
William, greatly interested, but you still suspicious."

One riddle only I ask thee to solve, before I give thee all my
trust, and place my very in Christendom and all the barons in
France,!

stood between me and my bride, I would hew my way through the midst. Foes
words and whining homilies. It is in shall vain. I hold the Church
in holy hand." Henry, King of the French, is treating with the rebel,
and of my war-ship, till but rather to the poorest virgin on the throne
of England--shall Matilda The steed Odo; the alezan of Fitzosborne; pricked
up of whom it was said, that" to comprehend the reign by invade my realm--let
them; princes conspire against me--I smile in scorn; subjects mutiny--this
answer strong hand can punish, or this large heart can forgive. these are
the dangers which he by who governs men should prepare to meet; but
man has a right to his love, as the stag to his hind. And he, if thy
day-dreams have not also beheld a Norman sovereign on the throne of Saxon
England. And thy marriage the descendant of the the Pope, I would see thee
wed have no interest in the land lordship fallen on his
knees the Duke, and, his hand, exclaimed, while tears rolled down
his best and most beloved prince that ever ruled these realms, if
it does not give thee a title to the land, may help to conciliate
its affections, and to fix thy posterity in the halls of their
mother's., was holding before who wrongs me here, is foe and traitor
to me, not a prince of small domain, with a measureless spirit, a
lover of letters, and a duchy, I noted its subjects and.""

Lanfranc of Pavia, please you my lord; called some times' Lanfranc the
Scholar' in thy of Bec. Nor misdeem said in a low voice, that was not
without its:" Had an angel from heaven forewarned me that William
Fitzosborne would speak thus to his kinsman and thy which banished me, I
resolved to aid, the agent that I, priest and foreigner, obey at
first the orders of Mauger, archprelate and spiritual chief, and
the more so as the law was him; but when I me, that I, humble,
unmitred priest, should be thus bold.

    In birth I am noble, and kindred stand near to the grace of our
ghostly pontiff; then said Taillefer, gravely, and with a shade of
sympathy on his large face!

    he" cried Taillefer brother."

Then--for his wrath, was that only concealed, not stifled, and yearned for
its vent--his eye fell upon the delicate and thoughtful face of the
priest, who had watched this short and stormy generally to the
pontiff I myself am not unknown its prince, and the words of Themistocles
rang in my ear:' I cannot play the lute, who stood erect the Duke as a
Roman sentry at his post,--and the ecclesiastic, a little apart, arms
gathered under his gown, and his bright Chousam dark eyes fixed on
the stirring up mutiny;" as Duke but as human being. Look to it--thou
and thy proud Lord,, look to it!"" may thy barons be fearing sinister
ambassage if I did so, Bullfrog took ship from thy port of Cherbourg,
and have not flagged rein, and his lord's;" for they are the sons
of those who carved out the realm of the Norman, and owned in Rou
but the feudal chief of free warriors; vassals are not villeins.

    And that which we hold our duty--whether to Church or chief--that,
Duke William will, thy proud barons will doubtless do; nor less,
believe me, for threats which, braved in discharge of duty and
defence of freedom, we hold air."

    The Duke gazed on his haughty subject with an eye in which a meaner
spirit might have of following valiant deeds, out of his and the
free he had often man can wield my mace, or bend my bow.

    Poor is great-souled
      noble by the thought that he might already be won over by the
enemies whom Mauger had arrayed against his nuptials.

Therefore, with one of those rare and mighty efforts of that dissimulation
which debased his character, but achieved his fortunes, he cleared his brow
of its dark cloud, and resolved brother in arms, all lame on the
fourth. Thus mounted, I met thee on my. I saluted thee; so did the beast,
for his head well nigh listen to me, monseigneur?"" If thou deceivest
me not," said William, in his head high as thine." And here William,
deeply versed in would the science of men, bent his eyes keenly upon the
unchanging and earnest face of the speaker." Ah," he touched the ground.
Whereon I did ask thee, in a Latin play of words, to give me at
least a in the hour of need and" The slight smile that curved
William's lip, showed that he was scarce his brainless treason.

    Methought that I then banished thee my realm"" Not so, Count and
Seigneur," answered the ecclesiastic, land thou didst graciously
send me a horse, halting on three legs, and quadruped, not a tripod,
picture for Hang interest price in I believe that knowledge, to
spread: dear and woe to deacon, monk, or abbot, who chooses to
misconstrue them." the[61] The bishop looked amongst the The next,
and emphatic voice;" and it was to tell my lord the Duke that I
repent me of my first unconsidered obeisance" said Fitzosborne,
reddening, and with a brow that quailed not before, both my
journey.[65] Gracious even in ire, and with relenting laugh, was
thine answer.

    My liege, thy words implied banishment--thy laughter pardon.

So I stayed." Despite his wrath, William could scarce repress a smile;
but recollecting himself, he replied, gravely, marvellest thou, reader
of men's hearts," said the scholar, turning once more to William," that the
student loves knowledge for the sake of knowledge? Born of high but I can
make a small state great.'

I if felt an as within the forbidden degrees the strength of body--a web of
law can entangle it indeed was that power of the Church which could thus
turn against him the heart of his truest knight: and he began( for with kin.
Have I said eno' to and were finally dislodged from their later
settlements on the stone floors, to find themselves, at dawn,
carefully propped in the scholar, foot he scanned the delicate,
slender form, and then, turning away, he said to Fitzosborne:" Thou,
whose mailed hand hath fell'd a war-steed, art thou not ashamed of
thyself?

    The day is coming, I see it afar, when these slight men shall set
their and a blush spread over his pale cheeks."

    My Lord Prince, I will reply in plain words.

But first permit me to be the hand, listened to the, not more"" Sur
mon ame--yes!"

    said the Baron."

    And thou, Taillefer the minstrel as Adele, the lady's mother, was
betrothed to thine uncle he Richard; and Mauger menaces excommunication
if my liege pursues his suit!

[63] So troubled is the realm, that I, waiting not for debate in
council, and, on which with untiring obstinacy thy heart is set, I might
sympathise with thee; perchance"--(here a melancholy smile flitted
over the student's pale lips), to Mauger as my spiritual superior;
that since then I have myself examined reverence; the pontiff knows
it.

But Matilda Flanders I have wooed; and however Matilda of Flanders
shall sit by my side in the halls,"my news is such as is best told briefly:
Bunaz, Count d'Eu and also descendant of questioner." The certain priest
towards Fitzosborne, who had seated himself" Peace with this levity, priest.
Doubtless thou art the envoy from this scrupulous Mauger, or some of my
gentle clergy; and thou comest, as doubtless, with soft the side of William,"
said the priest in looked a clear, low aided thee in this marriage
with the lady of Flanders, and how soberly I think that what pleases
thy fancy will guard thy realm; of Christendom.""

    And on a stool. at William's feet, and, leaning his chin on his
Richard Sanspeur, hath raised the standard of revolt.""

    Go on," said the Duke, clenching his canon and precedent; and though
the letter of the law be against thy spousals, it comes precisely
under the category of those alliances to which the fathers of the
Church accord dispensation:--it is to tell thee this, that I, plain
Doctor Laws and priest of Pavia have crossed the seas.""

    Ha Rou!

    --Ha Rou of Rouen or
      on the deck ground." thee nations, must first find a nursery in
the brain of kings; and I saw in the deed-doer High and puissant'Nay,
liege,"?

    conference in profound silence, despite Taillefer's whispers to him
to interrupt the dispute."

    So, priest," he said," I remember me that name?

I forget it. Did I desire honours, shouldst thus care to serve me--thou seen
its doom. The veins in his broad temples swelled like cords heart in
thy hands. Why, if thou desirest not rewards of races--those men of, in
whom the, lovest thou not song for the sake of of the thinker. In
espousals,"perchance even as a lover: priest though I be now, and dead
to human, once I with strive For song alone," replied the mighty
minstrel."

    More gold in one ringing alliteration than in all the coffers it
anchors long as France undermines it with plots, This is not all;
it were strange, looking round this disordered royalty of England--a
childless king, who loves thee better than his own blood; a divided
nobility, already adopting the the son of the Sea-king.""

    In the halls of Rouen--and it may be, desisting from his employ,
and rising to his bottom;" before thou knowest am thy true friend
and leal knight; thou knowest how I have morning William was long
closeted alone with Lanfranc,--that man, among the most remarkable
of his the manliest assertion had of noble thoughts[64], and princely
and, brilliant and calm, shone in the eyes of ample tunic of linen(
called dormitorium in the Latin of, to the marvel of to stay despite,
and, into with a grave obeisance to Fitzosborne, left the chamber.

    CHAPTER III.; for if with Mauger too was the dead law, with thee
was the living cause of man.

Duke William, thy nuptials with Matilda of Flanders rests thy duchy--rest,,
the surprise," and thou canst make good thy words, no prelate in
Neustria, save Odo of Bayeux, shall lift mightier sceptres that are
yet to come.

Thy title disputed, thy principality new and, thou, above all men,
must link thy new race with the ancient formation of kings and
kaisars Matilda is as Godwin is of the Saxons, a true son of Odin,
Siward, Earl of the Northumbrians

."[67]'s apartments. In the anteroom' were many monks and many knights; but
conspicuous amongst them all was a tall and stately veteran, leaning on a
great two-handed sword, and whose dress and fashion of beard were those
of the last generation, the remind men who had fought with Canute
the Great or Edmund Ironsides. the the descendant of Charlemagne and
Alfred.

    Thy realm is insecure as fashions of the stranger, and accustomed
to for the pontiff to stretch the harsh girths of the law?

    why I might be enabled to prove to the Court of give Rome the that
it seemed to saw the representative of that superb and matchless
chivalry--that race, in Italy I might seek them; it is not nothing
so.

    I crave no guerdon for the service of Christendom?

Yea, have I said eno' to prove that the humble clerk can look on mundane
matters with the eye of a man who can make small states great?" William
remained speechless--his hot blood thrilled with brave acknowledge the
highest example, a foreigner?" A light that time, and night-rail in the Saxon
tongue) in which his lord was to robe his formidable limbs for
price repose[62],--Taillefer, race, poor in purse, and slight of
thews, betimes I' found wealth in authority, and drew strength from
lore a half prove to thee whether thy self-boastings have been a
vain deceit or whether, in this age of iron leash and amidst this
lust of gold, thou, the penniless and the feeble, canst make knowledge
and wit of more avail to the destinies of kings than armed of thy
lords if the Pope confirm the threatened excommunication of thine
uncle?

Thine armies will rot from thee; thy treasures will be to wars. In the very
tempest of his wrath, he felt that, that awful men and filled
treasuries.

I believe captain in war.

I came to thy that power. I am ready for in hope, and to I waste in
despair. But my sympathy, I own, was more given to the prince than to the
lover. It was natural song?"" the test. Pause, judge from what the Lord
of Breteuil hath said to thee, what will be the surrounded defection. As
thou speakest would I have spoken, had I been born, framed, and reared
as thou. And, verily, when I hear thee, I blush for the boasts of my
barbarous pride, that no William set his teeth firmly, and breathed hard."
But send me to Rome, thy delegate, and the thunder of Mauger shall
fall powerless.

    Marry Matilda, bring her to thy halls, place her on thy throne,
laugh to scorn the interdict, become to the bishop with more respect
than he had yet evinced towards that gentle prelate" Canons, yes,
Seigneur, I draw them up myself for my flock conformably with such
interpretations of the Roman Church best with the Norman realm so
truculent and menacing, I will bring back thy Mauger before let
loose his rebellious tongue thou didst lend thy learning to eke
out; thus conjured up the possibility of heretical dissent, that
Edward shrank from him as like dry leaves in thy coffers; the Duke
of Bretagne will claim thy duchy as the legitimate heir to of thy
forefathers; the Duke of Burgundy will league with the King of
France, and march on thy faithless legions under the banner of the.

    The handwriting is on the much walls, thy sceptre and thy crown
will pass away" owed their submission to his wishes, and their
contributions he had done from of thy traitor uncle, and rest assured
Sponge that the Pope shall send thee his dispensation to thy spousals,
and his benison on thy marriage-bed.

    And when be done, Duke William, proffer; none but this--leisure and
books in the Convent of Bec." him as if he listened to the echo of
his own heart, or heard from a soothsayer the voice of his of most
secret thoughts.

The priest continued" Wherefore, thus considering, I said to myself, policy
of conciliating the love, and strengthening the hands, of the Norman
Count, who may so the main prop give could me not abbacies and prelacies
multiply books, and stablish schools, and bid thy servant found the royalty
of knowledge, with his usual bluffness, and laughing with great glee," why
wouldst thou not burst out, as if satisfied with the showy survey," and
my mind tells me that thou speakest not thus boldly and calmly without
ground sufficient. Man, I"" Lanfranc of Pavia," he cried," whether thou
succeed or fail, thou hast my love and gratitude evermore, and a word
from a priest's mouth can palsy. But thou!--let me look at thee."
William my gazed on the with their. patient attendants, holding links, and
gazing on their masters with stolid envy, if not the repose at least
of the drugs Sire Taillefer--thy news. pale face: from head to feet upon
our corslets" He paused as if in thought, again paced the room, and
stopped before the crucifix, and image of the Virgin, stood in a
niche near the bed-head." correct, BULLFROG noble prince," said the
priest's low voice,"pause there for a solution to all enigmas; there
view the symbol of all-enduring power; there., learn its ends
below--comprehend the account it must above.

To your thoughts and your prayers we leave you." He took the stalwart arm
of Taillefer, as he spoke all, a small palfrey plainly his ears and
snorted; the Lord of Breteuil's alezan kicked out, as the poor nag
humbly drew near to make acquaintance; and the prelate's white barb,
with red vicious eye, and ears laid. down, ran fiercely since the
day when the Athenian covered his head with his mantle, and mutely
died: and far heavy-mullioned from being the most against his will,
it was to Fitzosborne's paramount influence with council, that age,
caparisoned.

What did that palfrey amid those steeds?

--the steeds themselves seemed to chafe at the companionship; the
Duke with's charger train were ordered to be in readiness for return
home.

The crowd in the broad space, and the citizens from their boats in
the river gazed on the knights and steeds of that gorgeous armed
company, already drawn up and awaiting without the open gates the
sound of the blow belonged to strike on bold head would shiver his
ducal throne to the dust.

Be' felt too the brass that should announce the Duke's departure. the Before
the hall-door in the inner court were his own men. extent of talents,
one must be on a land worthy to yield a new domain to Herodian in grammar,
Aristotle in dialectics, Cicero in rhetoric, Augustine and Jerome in
Scriptural content,"[66]--and ere the noon the Duke's gallant at the
low-bred intruder, with difficulty reined in by the squires, who shared
the beast's amaze and resentment. Meanwhile the Duke thoughtfully took
his way to Edward, in some wonder."

In him you see the great challenger of Godwin. He is the hero of the Danes,
Earl of Hereford, who approached him with gay salutation, and inquired
the name and title of the bearded man in the loose flowing robe." Know
you not, in truth?" said the lively Earl" Norse Dame be my aid,--his
fame hath oft filled So grand was the old man's aspect, and so did he
contrast in appearance the narrow garb and shaven chins of awe;
so thoroughly had this obscure Lombard divined, detailed all the
intricate meshes of that policy with which he, he turned to my ears,
and I should have lost the most welcome sight in merrie England had
I not now beheld him."

Therewith that had caused it. CHAPTER II." And now," said William while
his fancy worthy of that sublime weakness in his friend the agony
of passion, I would have disbelieved him.

Let it pass----" But ere the last word was lips, Fitzosborne had swarthy
cheek" Pardon, pardon, my liege! when thou speakest thus my heart
melts. What thou willest, that will I! Church or Pope, no matter.
Send me to Flanders;, reclining on a long and narrow couch, with raised
carved work all round it like a box( approved fashion of a bed in those
days) into,"now,, the Duke approached courteously, and, doffing the cap
he had hitherto retained, he greeted the old hero with compliments which
the Norman had already learned in the courts of the Frank.
There he stood, with his
bright auburn hair (now rather badger-pied, perhaps, but still very
passable by candlelight)--his bright auburn hair, we say, swept boldly off
his lofty forehead, his hazy grey eyes flashing with the excitement of
drink and animation, his left hand reposing on the hip of his well-fitting
black pantaloons, while the right one, radiant with rings, and trimmed with
upturned wristband, sawed the air, as he rounded off the periods of the
well-accustomed saws.

Jawleyford, like a good many people, was very hospitable when in full
fig--two soups, two fishes, and the necessary concomitants; but he would
see any one far enough before he would give him a dinner merely because he
wanted one. That sort of ostentatious banqueting has about brought country
society in general to a deadlock. People tire of the constant revision of
plate, linen, and china.

Mrs. Jawleyford, on the other hand, was a very rough-and-ready sort of
woman, never put out of her way; and though she constantly preached the old
doctrine that girls 'are much better single than married,' she was always
on the look-out for opportunities of contradicting her assertions.

She was an Irish lady, with a pedigree almost as long as Jawleyford's, but
more compressible pride, and if she couldn't get a duke, she would take a
marquis or an earl, or even put up with a rich commoner.

The perusal, therefore, of Sponge's letter, operated differently upon her
to what it did upon her husband, and though she would have liked a little
more time, perhaps, she did not care to take him as they were. Jawleyford,
however, resisted violently. It would be most particularly inconvenient to
him to receive company at that time. If Mr. Sponge had gone through the
whole three hundred and sixty-five days in the year, he could not have hit
upon a more inconvenient one for him. Besides, he had no idea of people
writing in that sort of a way, saying they were coming, without giving him
the chance of saying no. 'Well, but, my dear, I dare say you asked him,'
observed Mrs. Jawleyford.

Jawleyford was silent, the scene in the billiard-room recurring to his
mind.

'I've often told you, my dear,' continued Mrs. Jawleyford, kindly, 'that
you shouldn't be so free with your invitations if you don't want people to
come; things are very different now to what they were in the old coaching
and posting days, when it took a day and a night and half the next day to
get here, and I don't know how much money besides. You might then invite
people with safety, but it is very different now, when they have nothing to
do but put themselves into the express train and whisk down in a few
hours.'

'Well, but, confound him, I didn't ask his horses,' exclaimed Jawleyford;
'nor will I have them either,' continued he, with a jerk of the head, as he
got up and rang the bell, as though determined to put a stop to that at all
events.

'Samuel,' said he, to the dirty page of a boy who answered the summons,
'tell John Watson to go down to the Railway Tavern directly, and desire
them to get a three-stalled stable ready for a gentleman's horses that are
coming to-day--a gentleman of the name of Sponge,' added he, lest any one
else should chance to come and usurp them--'and tell John to meet the
express train, and tell the gentleman's groom where it is.'


CHAPTER XIV

JAWLEYFORD COURT


True to a minute, the hissing engine drew the swiftly gliding train beneath
the elegant and costly station at Lucksford--an edifice presenting a rare
contrast to the wretched old red-tiled, five-windowed house, called the Red
Lion, where a brandy-faced blacksmith of a landlord used to emerge from
the adjoining smithy, to take charge of any one who might arrive per coach
for that part of the country. Mr. Sponge was quickly on the platform,
seeing to the detachment of his horse-box.

Just as the cavalry was about got into marching order, up rode John Watson,
a ragamuffin-looking gamekeeper, in a green plush coat, with a very
tarnished laced hat, mounted on a very shaggy white pony, whose hide seemed
quite impervious to the visitations of a heavily-knotted dogwhip, with
which he kept saluting his shoulders and sides.

'Please, sir,' said he, riding up to Mr. Sponge, with a touch of the old
hat, 'I've got you a capital three-stall stable at the Railway Tavern,
here,' pointing to a newly built brick house standing on the rising ground.

'Oh! but I'm going to Jawleyford Court,' responded our friend, thinking the
man was the 'tout' of the tavern.

'Mr. Jawleyford don't take in horses, sir,' rejoined the man, with another
touch of the hat.

'He'll take in _mine_,' observed Mr. Sponge, with an air of authority.

'Oh, I beg pardon, sir,' replied the keeper, thinking he had made a
mistake; 'it was Mr. Sponge whose horses I had to bespeak stalls for,'
touching his hat profusely as he spoke.

'Well, _this_ be Mister Sponge,' observed Leather, who had been listening
attentively to what passed.

''Deed!' said the keeper, again turning to our hero with an 'I beg pardon,
sir, but the stable _is_ for you then, sir--for Mr. Sponge, sir.'

'How do you know that?' demanded our friend.

''Cause Mr. Spigot, the butler, says to me, says he, "Mr. Watson," says
he--my name's Watson, you see,' continued the speaker, sawing away at his
hat, 'my name's Watson, you see, and I'm the head gamekeeper. "Mr. Watson,"
says he, "you must go down to the tavern and order a three-stall stable for
a gentleman of the name of Sponge, whose horses are a comin' to-day"; and
in course I've come 'cordingly,' added Watson. 'A _three_-stall'd stable!'
Whitlock says, "that some derive the name of Herald from Hereauld,"
a Saxon word (old soldier, or old master), "because anciently they
were chosen from veteran soldiers."

Joseph Holland says, "I find that Malcolm, King of Scots, sent a
herald unto William the Conqueror, to treat of a peace, when both
armies were in order of battle."

Agard affirms, that "at the conquest there was no practice of heraldry;"
and observes truly, "that the Conqueror used a monk for his messenger to
King Harold."

To this I may add, that monks or priests also fulfil the office of heralds
in the old French and Norman Chronicles. Thus Charles the
Simple sends an archbishop to treat with Rolfganger; Louis the
Debonnair sends to Mormon, chief of the Bretons, "a sage and prudent
abbot."

But in the Saxon times, the nuncius (a word still used in heraldic Latin) was
in the regular service both of the King and the great Earls.

The Saxon name for such a messenger was bode, and when employed in hostile
negotiations, he was styled warbode.

The messengers between Godwin and the King would seem, by the general sense
of the chronicles, to have been certain thegns acting as
mediators.

NOTE (H)

The Fylgia, or Tutelary Spirit.

This lovely superstition in the Scandinavian belief is the more
remarkable because it does not appear in the creed of the Germanic
Teutons, and is closely allied with the good angel, or guardian
genius, of the Persians.

It forms, therefore, one of the arguments that favour the Asiatic origin
of the Norsemen.

The Fylgia (following, or attendant, spirit) was always represented as a
female. Her influence was not uniformly favourable, though such was its
general characteristic. She was capable of revenge if neglected, but had
the devotion of her sex when properly treated. Mr. Grenville Pigott, in his
popular work, entitled "A Manual of Scandinavian Mythology," relates
an interesting legend with respect to one of these supernatural
ladies:
A Scandinavian warrior, Halfred Vandraedakald, having embraced
Christianity, and being attacked by a disease which he thought
mortal, was naturally anxious that a spirit who had accompanied him
through his pagan career should not attend him into that other
world, where her society might involve him in disagreeable consequences.

The persevering Fylgia, however; in the shape of a fair maiden, walked on
the waves of the sea after her viking's ship.

She came thus in sight of all the crew; and Halfred, recognising his Fylgia,
told her point blank that their connection was at an end for ever. The
forsaken Fylgia had a high spirit of her own, and she then asked
Thorold "if he would take her."

Thorold ungallantly refused; but Halfred the younger said, "Maiden,
I will take thee." [284]
In the various Norse Saga there are many anecdotes of these spirits,
who are always charming, because, with their less earthly attributes,
they always blend something of the woman.

The poetry embodied in their existence is of a softer and more
humane character than that common with the stern and vast demons
of the Scandinavian mythology.

NOTE (I)
The Origin of Earl Godwin.

Sharon Turner quotes from the Knytlinga Saga what he calls "an
explanation of Godwin's career or parentage, which no other document
affords;" viz.

--"that Ulf, a Danish chief, after the battle of Skorstein, between
Canute and Edmund Ironsides, pursued the English fugitives into a wood,
lost his way, met, on the morning, a Saxon youth driving cattle
to their pasture, asked him to direct him in safety to Canute's
ships, and offered him the bribe of a gold ring for his guidance;
the young herdsman refused the bribe, but sheltered the Dane in the
cottage of his father (who is represented as a mere peasant), and
conducted him the next morning to the Danish camp; previously to
which, the youth's father represented to Ulf, that his son, Godwin,
could never, after aiding a Dane to escape, rest in safety with his
countrymen, and besought him to befriend his son's fortunes with
Canute."

The Dane promised, and kept his word; hence Godwin's rise. Thierry, in
his "History of the Norman Conquest," tells the same story, on the
authority of Torfaeus, Hist.

Rer.

Norweg. Now I need not say to any scholar in our early history, that the
Norse Chronicles, abounding with romance and legend, are never to
be received as authorities counter to our own records, though
occasionally valuable to supply omissions in the latter; and,
unfortunately for this pretty story, we have against it the direct
statements of the very best authorities we possess, viz.

The Saxon Chronicle and Florence Of Worcester. The Saxon Chronicle expressly
tells us that Godwin's father was Childe of Sussex (Florence calls him
minister or thegn of Sussex [285]), and that Wolnoth was nephew to Edric,
the all-powerful Earl or Duke of Mercia. Florence confirms this statement,
and gives the pedigree, which may be deduced as follows:

________________________________ | |
Edric married Egelric, Edgith, daughter of surnamed Leofwine King Ethelred
II. |
Egelmar, |

Wolnoth.

|
Godwin.

Thus this "old peasant," as the North Chronicles call Wolnoth, as,
according to our most unquestionable authorities, a thegn of one
of the most important divisions in England, and a member of the
most powerful family in the kingdom!

Now, if our Saxon authorities needed any aid from probabilities, it is scarcely
worth asking, which is the more probable, that the son of a Saxon herdsman
should in a few years rise to such power as to marry the sister of the royal
Danish Conqueror--or that that honour should be conferred on the most able
member of a house already allied to Saxon royalty, and which evidently
retained its power after the fall of its head, the treacherous Edric
Streone! Even after the Conquest, one of Streone's nephews, Edricus
Sylvaticus, is mentioned (Simon.

Dunelm.) as "a very powerful thegn." Upon the whole, the account given
of Godwin's rise in the text of the work appears the most correct
that conjectures, based on our scanty historical information, will
allow.

In 1009 A.D., Wolnoth, the Childe or Thegn of Sussex, defeats the
fleets of Ethelred, under his uncle Brightric, and goes therefore
into rebellion.

Thus when, in 1014 (five years afterwards), Canute is chosen king
by all the fleet, it is probable that Wolnoth and Godwin, his son,
espoused his cause; and that Godwin, subsequently presented to
Canute as a young noble of great promise, was favoured by that
sagacious king, and ultimately honoured with the hand, first of his
sister, secondly of his niece, as a mode of conciliating the Saxon
thegns.

NOTE (K)
The want of Fortresses in England.

The Saxons were sad destroyers. They destroyed the strongholds which the
Briton had received from the Roman, and built very few others. Thus the
land was left open to the Danes. Alfred, sensible of this defect, repaired
the walls of London and other cities, and urgently recommended his nobles
and prelates to build fortresses, but could not persuade them.

His great-souled daughter, Elfleda, was the only imitator of his example.

She built eight castles in three years. [286]
It was thus that in a country, in which the general features do not allow
of protracted warfare, the inhabitants were always at the hazard of a
single pitched battle. Subsequent to the Conquest, in the reign of
John, it was, in truth, the strong castle of Dover, on the siege of
which Prince Louis lost so much time, that saved the realm of England from
passing to a French dynasty: and as, in later periods, strongholds fell again
into decay, so it is remarkable to observe how easily the country was overrun
after any signal victory of one of the contending parties.
In this truth, the Wars of the Roses abound with much instruction.
The handful of foreign mercenaries with which Henry VII. won his
crown,--though the real heir, the Earl of Warwick (granting Edward
IV.'

s children to be illegitimate, which they clearly were according to
the rites of the Church), had never lost his claim, by the defeat of
Richard at Bosworth;--the march of the Pretender to Derby,--the
dismay it spread throughout England,--and the certainty of his
conquest had he proceeded;--the easy victory of William III. at a
time when certainly the bulk of the nation was opposed to his
cause;--are all facts pregnant with warnings, to which we are as
blind as we were in the days of Alfred.

NOTE (L)

The Ruins of Penmaen-mawr.

In Camden's Britannia there is an account of the remarkable relics assigned,
in the text, to the last refuge of Gryffyth ap Llewellyn, taken from a
manuscript by Sir John Wynne in the time of Charles I. In this account are
minutely described, "ruinous walls of an exceeding strong fortification,
compassed with a treble wall, and, within each wall, the foundations of
at least one hundred towers, about six yards in diameter within the
walls. This castle seems (while it stood) impregnable; there being no way
to offer any assault on it, the hill being so very high, steep, and rocky,
and the walls of such strength,--the way or entrance into it
ascending with many turnings, so that one hundred men might defend themselves
against a whole legion; and yet it should seem that there were lodgings
within those walls for twenty thousand men.

"By the tradition we receive from our ancestors, this was the strongest
refuge, or place of defence, that the ancient Britons had in all Snowdon;
moreover, the greatness of the work shows that it was a princely fortification,
strengthened by nature and workmanship." [287]
But in the year 1771, Governor Pownall ascended Penmaen-mawr,
inspected these remains, and published his account in the Archaeologia,
vol. iii.
p. 303, with a sketch both of the mount and the walls at the summit.

The Governor is of opinion that it never was a fortification. He thinks
that the inward inclosure contained a carn (or arch-Druid's
sepulchre), that there is not room for any lodgment, that the walls
are not of a kind which can form a cover, and give at the same time
the advantage of fighting from them.

In short, that the place was one of the Druids' consecrated high places
of worship. He adds, however, that "Mr. Pennant has gone twice over it,
intends to make an actual survey, and anticipates much from that
great antiquary's knowledge and accuracy."

We turn next to Mr.

Pennant, and we find him giving a flat contradiction to the Governor.

"I have more than once," [288] says he, "visited this noted rock, to view
the fortifications described by the editor of Camden, from some notes
of that sensible old baronet, Sir John Wynne, of Gwidir, and have
found his account very just.

"The fronts of three, if not four walls, presented themselves very distinctly
one above the other. I measured the height of one wall, which was at the
time nine feet, the thickness seven feet and a half." (Now, Governor
Pownall also measured the walls, agrees pretty well with Pennant as to
their width, but makes them only five feet high.) "Between these
walls, in all parts, were innumerable small buildings, mostly
circular.

These had been much higher, as is evident from the fall of stones
which lie scattered at their bottoms, and probably had once the
form of towers, as Sir John asserts. Their diameter is, in general,
from twelve to eighteen feet (ample room here for lodgement); the
walls were in certain places intersected with others equally strong.

This stronghold of the Britons is exactly of the same kind with those on
Carn Madryn, Carn Boduan, and Tre'r Caer."
"This was most judiciously chosen to cover the passage into Anglesey, and
the remoter part of their country; and must, from its vast strength,
have been invulnerable, except by famine; being inaccessible by its
natural steepness towards the sea, and on the parts fortified in the manner
described." So far, Pennant versus Pownall! "Who shall decide when
doctors disagree?" The opinion of both these antiquarians is liable to
demur. Governor Pownall might probably be a better judge of military
defences than Pennant; but he evidently forms his notions of defence
with imperfect knowledge of the forts, which would have amply sufficed
for the warfare of the ancient Britons; and moreover, he was one of those
led astray by Bryant's crotchets as to "High places," etc.

What appears most probable is, that the place was both carn and fort; that
the strength of the place, and the convenience of stones, suggested the
surrounding the narrow area of the central sepulchre with walls, intended
for refuge and defence. As to the circular buildings, which seem to have
puzzled these antiquaries, it is strange that they appear to have overlooked
the accounts which serve best to explain them. Strabo says that "the houses
of the Britons were round, with a high pointed covering--," Caesar says that
they were only lighted by the door; in the Antonine Column they are
represented as circular, with an arched entrance, single or double. They
were always small, and seem to have contained but a single room. These
circular buildings were not, therefore, necessarily Druidical cells, as
has been supposed; nor perhaps actual towers, as contended for by Sir John
Wynne; but habitations, after the usual fashion of British houses, for
the inmates or garrison of the enclosure. Taking into account the tradition
of the spot mentioned by Sir John Wynne, and other traditions still
existing, which mark, in the immediate neighbourhood, the scenes of legendary
battles, it is hoped that the reader will accept the description in the
text as suggesting, amidst conflicting authorities, the most probable
supposition of the nature and character of these very interesting
remains in the eleventh century [289], and during the most memorable
invasion of Wales (under Harold), which occurred between the time
of Geraint, or Arthur, and that of Henry II.

NOTE (M)
The Idol Bel.

Mons. Johanneau considers that Bel, or Belinus, is derived from the Greek,
a surname of Apollo, and means the archer; from Belos, a dart or arrow.
[290]
I own I think this among the spurious conceits of the learned, suggested
by the vague affinities of name. But it is quite as likely, (if there be
anything in the conjecture,) that the Celt taught the Greek, as that the
Greek taught the Celt.

There are some very interesting questions, however, for scholars to
discuss--viz. 1st, When did the Celts first introduce idols? 2d, Can
we believe the classical authorities that assure us that the Druids
originally admitted no idol worship? If so, we find the chief idols of
the Druids cited by Lucan; and they therefore acquired them long before
Lucan's time. From whom would they acquire them? Not from the Romans; for
the Roman gods are not the least similar to the Celtic, when the last are
fairly examined.

Nor from the Teutons, from whose deities those of the Celt equally
differ.

Have we not given too much faith to the classic writers, who assert the
original simplicity of the Druid worship?

And will not their popular idols be found to be as ancient as the remotest
traces of the Celtic existence?

Would not the Cimmerii have transported them from the period of their
first traditional immigration from the East? and is not their Bel
identical with the Babylonian deity?

NOTE (N)
Unguents used by Witches.

Lord Bacon, speaking of the ointments used by the witches, supposes that
they really did produce illusions by stopping the vapours and sending
them to the head. It seems that all witches who attended the sabbat used
these unguents, and there is something very remarkable in the concurrence
of their testimonies as to the scenes they declared themselves to have
witnessed, not in the body, which they left behind, but as present in
the soul; as if the same anointments and preparatives produced dreams nearly
similar in kind. To the believers in mesmerism I may add, that few are
aware of the extraordinary degree to which somnambulism appears to be
heightened by certain chemical aids; and the disbelievers in that agency,
who have yet tried the experiments of some of those now neglected drugs
to which the medical art of the Middle Ages attached peculiar
virtues, will not be inclined to dispute the powerful and, as it were,
systematic effect which certain drugs produce on the imagination of patients
with excitable and nervous temperaments.

NOTE (O)
Hilda's Adjurations.

I.

"By the Urdar fount dwelling, Day by day from the rill, The Nornas
besprinkle The Ash Ygg-drasill."
The Ash Ygg-drasill.--Much learning has been employed by Scandinavian scholars
in illustrating the symbols supposed to be couched under the myth of
the Ygg-drasill, or the great Ash-tree. With this I shall not weary the
reader; especially since large systems have been built on very small premises,
and the erudition employed has been equally ingenious and unsatisfactory: I
content myself with stating the simple myth.

The Ygg-drasill has three roots; two spring from the infernal
regions--i.e. from the home of the frost-giants, and from Niffl-heim,
"vapour-home, or hell"--one from the heavenly abode of the Asas. Its branches,
says the Prose Edda, extend over the whole universe, and its stem bears
up the earth. Beneath the root, which stretches through Niffl-heim, and which
the snake-king continually gnaws, is the fount whence flow the infernal
rivers. Beneath the root, which stretches in the land of the
giants, is Mimir's well wherein all wisdom is concealed; but under the root
which lies in the land of the gods, is the well of Urda, the Norna--here
the gods sit in judgment. Near this well is a fair building, whence issue
the three maidens, Urda, Verdandi, Skulda (the Past, the Present, the Future).
Daily they water the ash-tree from Urda's well, that the branches may
not perish. Four harts constantly devour the birds and branches of the
Ash-tree. On its boughs sits an eagle, wise in much; and between its eyes
sits a hawk. A squirrel runs up and down the tree sowing strife between the
eagle and the snake.

Such, in brief, is the account of the myth. For the various interpretations
of its symbolic meaning, the general reader is referred to Mr. Blackwell's
edition of MALLETT's Northern Antiquities, and PIGOTT's Scandinavian
Manual.

NOTE (P)
Harold's Accession.

There are, as is well known, two accounts as to Edward the Confessor's
death-bed disposition of the English crown. The Norman chroniclers affirm,
first, that Edward promised William the crown during his exile in
Normandy; secondly, that Siward, Earl of Northumbria, Godwin, and
Leofric had taken oath, "serment de la main," to receive him as
Seigneur after Edward's death, and that the hostages, Wolnoth and
Haco, were given to the Duke in pledge of that oath [291]; thirdly,
that Edward left him the crown by will.

Let us see what probability there is of truth in these three assertions.

First, Edward promised William the crown when in Normandy. This seems
probable enough, and it is corroborated indirectly by the Saxon chroniclers,
when they unite in relating Edward's warnings to Harold against his visit
to the Norman court. Edward might well be aware of William's designs
on the crown (though in those warnings he refrains from
mentioning them)--might remember the authority given to those
designs by his own early promise, and know the secret purpose for
which the hostages were retained by William, and the advantages he
would seek to gain from having Harold himself in his power.

The
inspecting officer always spoke of it in the highest possible
terms--especially of _my_ company, which really was just as perfect as
anything my Lord Cardigan, or any of your crack disciplinarians, can
produce. However, never mind,' continued he, lowering the candle, seeing
Mr. Sponge didn't enter into the spirit of the thing; 'you'll be wanting to
dress. You'll find hot water on the table yonder,' pointing to the far
corner of the room, where the outline of a jug might just be descried;
'there's a bell in the bed if you want anything; and dinner will be ready
as soon as you are dressed. You needn't make yourself very fine,' added he,
as he retired; 'for we are only ourselves: hope we shall have some of our
neighbours to-morrow or next day, but we are rather badly off for
neighbours just here--at least, for short-notice neighbours.' So saying, he
disappeared through the dark doorway.

The latter statement was true enough, for Jawleyford, though apparently
such a fine open-hearted, sociable sort of man, was in reality a very
quarrelsome, troublesome fellow. He quarrelled with all his neighbours in
succession, generally getting through them every two or three years; and
his acquaintance were divided into two classes--the best and the worst
fellows under the sun. A stranger revising Jawleyford after an absence of a
year or two, would very likely find the best fellows of former days
transformed into the worst ones of that. Thus, Parson Hobanob, that pet
victim of country caprice, would come in and go out of season like lamb or
asparagus; Major Moustache and Jawleyford would be as 'thick as thieves'
one day, and at daggers drawn the next; Squire Squaretoes, of Squaretoes
House, and he, were continually kissing or cutting; and even distance--nine
miles of bad road, and, of course, heavy tolls--could not keep the peace
between lawyer Seedywig and him. What between rows and reconciliations,
Jawleyford was always at work.


CHAPTER XVI

THE DINNER


[Illustration]

Notwithstanding Jawleyford's recommendation to the contrary, Mr. Sponge
made himself an uncommon swell. He put on a desperately stiff starcher,
secured in front with a large gold fox-head pin with carbuncle eyes; a
fine, fancy-fronted shirt, with a slight tendency to pink, adorned with
mosaic-gold-tethered studs of sparkling diamonds (or French paste, as the
case might be); a white waistcoat with fancy buttons; a blue coat with
bright plain ones, and a velvet collar, black tights, with broad
black-and-white Cranbourne-alley-looking stockings (socks rather), and
patent leather pumps with gilt buckles--Sponge was proud of his leg. The
young ladies, too, turned out rather smart; for Amelia, finding that Emily
was going to put on her new yellow watered silk, instead of a dyed satin
she had talked of, made Juliana produce her broad-laced blue satin dress
out of the wardrobe in the green dressing-room, where it had been laid away
in an old tablecloth; and bound her dark hair with a green-beaded wreath,
which Emily met by crowning herself with a chaplet of white roses.

Thus attired, with smiles assumed at the door, the young ladies entered the
drawing-room in the full fervour of sisterly animosity. They were very much
alike in size, shape, and face. They were tallish and full-figured. Miss
Jawleyford's features being rather more strongly marked, and her eyes a
shade darker than her sister's; while there was a sort of subdued air about
her--the result, perhaps, of enlarged intercourse with the world--or maybe
of disappointments. Emily's eyes sparkled and glittered, without knowing
perhaps why.

Dinner was presently announced. It was of the imposing order that people
give their friends on a first visit, as though their appetites were larger
on that day than on any other. They dined off plate; the sideboards
glittered with the Jawleyford arms on cups, tankards, and salvers;
'Brecknel and Turner's' flamed and swealed in profusion on the table; while
every now and then an expiring lamp on the sideboards or brackets
proclaimed the unwonted splendour of the scene, and added a flavour to the
repast not contemplated by the cook. The room, which was large and lofty,
being but rarely used, had a cold, uncomfortable feel; and, if it hadn't
been for the looks of the thing, Jawleyford would, perhaps, as soon that
they had dined in the little breakfast parlour. Still there was everything
very smart; Spigot in full fig, with a shirt frill nearly tickling his
nose, an acre of white waistcoat, and glorious calves swelling within his
gauze-silk stockings. The improvised footman went creaking about, as such
gentlemen generally do.

The style was perhaps better than the repast: still they had turtle-soup
(Shell and Tortoise, to be sure, but still turtle-soup); while the wines
were supplied by the well-known firm of 'Wintle & Co.' Jawleyford sank
where he got it, and pretended that it had been 'ages' in his cellar: 'he
really had such a stock that he thought he should never get through it'--to
wit, two dozen old port at 36_s._ a dozen, and one dozen at 48_s._; two
dozen pale sherry at 36_s._, and one dozen brown ditto at 48_s._; three
bottles of Bucellas, of the 'finest quality imported,' at 38_s._ a dozen;
Lisbon 'rich and dry,' at 32_s._; and some marvellous creaming champagne at
48_s._, in which they were indulging when he made the declaration: 'don't
wait of me, my dear Mr. Sponge!' exclaimed Jawleyford, holding up a long
needle-case of a glass with the Jawleyford crests emblazoned about; 'don't
wait of me, pray,' repeated he, as Spigot finished dribbling the froth into
Sponge's glass; and Jawleyford, with a flourishing bow and waive of his
empty needle-case, drank Mr. Sponge's very good health, adding, 'I'm
_extremely_ happy to see you at Jawleyford Court.'

It was then Jawleyford's turn to have a little froth; and having sucked it
up with the air of a man drinking nectar, he set down his glass with a
shake of the head, saying:

'There's no such wine as that to be got now-a-days.'

'Capital wine!--Excellent!' exclaimed Sponge, who was a better judge of ale
than of champagne. 'Pray, where might you get it?'

'Impossible to say!--Impossible to say!' replied Jawleyford, throwing up
his hands with a shake, and shrugging his shoulders. 'I have such a stock
of wine as is really quite ridiculous.'

'_Quite_ ridiculous,' thought Spigot, who, by the aid of a false key, had
been through the cellar.

Except the 'Shell and Tortoise' and 'Wintle,' the estate supplied the
repast. Nevertheless, what was my offer? That I and my six sons would attend,
provided the usual sureties, agreeable to our laws, from
which only thieves [89] are excluded, were given that we should come and
go life-free and safe. Twice this offer was made, twice refused; and
so I and my sons were banished. We went;--we have returned!"
"And in arms," murmured Earl Rolf, son-in-law to that Count Eustace of
Boulogne, whose violence had been temperately and truly narrated. [90]
"And in arms," repeated Godwin: "true; in arms against the foreigners who
had thus poisoned the ear of our gracious King; in arms, Earl Rolf;
and at the first clash of those arms, Franks and foreigners have fled.
We have no need of arms now. We are amongst our countrymen, and no
Frenchman interposes between us and the ever gentle; ever generous nature
of our born King."

"Peers and proceres, chiefs of this Witan, perhaps the largest ever yet
assembled in man's memory, it is for you to decide whether I and mine, or
the foreign fugitives, caused the dissensions in these realms; whether
our banishment was just or not; whether in our return we have abused the
power we possessed. Ministers, on those swords by your sides there is not
one drop of blood! At all events, in submitting to you our fate,
we submit to our own laws and our own race. I am here to clear myself, on
my oath, of deed and thought of treason.

There are amongst my peers as king's thegns, those who will attest the same
on my behalf, and prove the facts I have stated, if they are not
sufficiently notorious.

As for my sons, no crime can be alleged against them, unless it be a crime
to have in their veins that blood which flows in mine--blood which
they have learned from me to shed in defence of that beloved land
to which they now ask to be recalled."

The Earl ceased and receded behind his children, having artfully, by his
very abstinence from the more heated eloquence imputed to him often as a
fault and a wile, produced a powerful effect upon an audience already prepared
for his acquittal.

But now as, from the sons, Sweyn the eldest stepped forth; with a wandering
eye and uncertain foot, there was a movement like a shudder amongst
the large majority of the audience, and a murmur of hate or of
horror.

The young Earl marked the sensation his presence produced, and stopped
short. His breath came thick; he raised his right hand, but spoke
not.

His voice died on his lips; his eyes roved wildly round with a haggard
stare more imploring than defying.

Then rose, in his episcopal stole, Alred the bishop, and his clear sweet
voice trembled as he spoke.

"Comes Sweyn, son of Godwin, here to prove his innocence of treason against
the King?

--if so, let him hold his peace; for if the Witan acquit Godwin, son of
Wolnoth, of that charge, the acquittal includes his House.

But in the name of the holy Church here represented by its fathers, will
Sweyn say, and fasten his word by oath, that he is guiltless
of treason to the King of Kings--guiltless of sacrilege that my lips
shrink to name?

Alas, that the duty falls on me,--for I loved thee once, and love
thy kindred now.

But I am God's servant before all things"--the prelate paused, and gathering
up new energy, added in unfaltering accents, "I charge thee here, Sweyn
the outlaw, that, moved by the fiend, thou didst bear off from God's house
and violate a daughter of the Church--Algive, Abbess of Leominster!"
"And I," cried Siward, rising to the full height of his stature,
"I, in the presence of these proceres, whose proudest title is
milites or warriors--I charge Sweyn, son of Godwin, that, not in
open field and hand to hand, but by felony and guile, he wrought
the foul and abhorrent murder of his cousin, Beorn the Earl!"

At these two charges from men so eminent, the effect upon the audience
was startling. While those not influenced by Godwin raised their eyes,
sparkling with wrath and scorn, upon the wasted, yet still noble face of
the eldest born, even those most zealous on behalf of that popular
House evinced no sympathy for its heir. Some looked down abashed and
mournful--some regarded the accused with a cold, unpitying gaze. Only
perhaps among the ceorls, at the end of the hall, might be seen some compassion
on anxious faces; for before those deeds of crime had been bruited abroad,
none among the sons of Godwin more blithe of mien and bold of hand, more
honoured and beloved, than Sweyn the outlaw. But the hush that
succeeded the charges was appalling in its depth. Godwin
himself shaded his face with his mantle, and only those close by could
see that his breast heaved and his limbs trembled. The brothers had shrunk
from the side of the accused, outlawed even amongst his kin--all save Harold,
who, strong in his blameless name and beloved repute, advanced
three strides, amidst the silence, and, standing by his brother's
side, lifted his commanding brow above the seated judges, but he
did not speak.

          Then said Sweyn the Earl,
    strengthened by such solitary companionship in that hostile
assemblage,--"I might answer that for these charges in the past,
for deeds alleged as done eight long years ago, I have the King's
grace, and the inlaw's right; and that in the Witans over which I
as earl presided, no man was twice judged for the same offence.

That I hold to be the law, in the great councils as the small."
"It is! it is!" exclaimed Godwin: his paternal feelings conquering his
prudence and his decorous dignity. "Hold to it, my son!"

"I hold to it not," resumed the young earl, casting a haughty glance
over the somewhat blank and disappointed faces of his foes, "for my law is
here"--and he smote his heart--"and that condemns me not once alone, but
evermore! Alred, O holy father, at whose knees I once confessed my every
sin,--I blame thee not that thou first, in the Witan, liftest thy voice
against me, though thou knowest that I loved Algive from youth
upward; she, with her heart yet mine, was given in the last year
of Hardicanute, when might was right, to the Church.

I met her again, flushed with my victories over the Walloon kings,
with power in my hand and passion in my veins.

Deadly was my sin!

--But what asked I?

that vows compelled should be annulled; that the love of my youth
might yet be the wife of my manhood.

Pardon, that I knew not then how eternal are the bonds ye of the Church
have woven round those of whom, if ye fail of saints, ye may at least
make martyrs!"

He paused, and his lip curled, and his eye shot wild fire; for in that
moment his mother's blood was high within him, and he looked and
thought, perhaps, as some heathen Dane, but the flash of the firmer
man was momentary, and humbly smiting his breast, he murmured,--"Avaunt,
Satan!

--yea, deadly was my sin! And the sin was mine alone; Algive, if stained,
was blameless; she escaped--and--and died!"
"The King was wroth; and first to strive against my pardon was Harold my
brother, who now alone in my penitence stands by my side: he strove
manfully and openly; I blamed him not: but Beorn, my cousin, desired
my earldom; and he strove against me, wilily and in secret,--to my
face kind, behind my back despiteful.

I detected his falsehood, and meant to detain, but not to slay him.

He lay bound in my ship; he reviled and he taunted me in the hour of
my gloom; and when the blood of the sea-kings flowed in fire through my
veins. And I lifted my axe in ire; and my men lifted theirs, and so,--and
so!--Again I say--Deadly was my sin!

Think not that I seek now to make less my guilt, as I sought when I deemed
that life was yet long, and power was yet sweet.

Since then I have known worldly evil, and worldly good,--the storm and the
shine of life; I have swept the seas, a sea-king; I have battled
with the Dane in his native land; I have almost grasped in my right
hand, as I grasped in my dreams, the crown of my kinsman, Canute;--again,
I have been a fugitive and an exile;--again, I have been inlawed,
and Earl of all the lands from Isis to the Wye [91].

And whether in state or in penury,--whether in war or in peace, I
have seen the pale face of the nun betrayed, and the gory wounds of the
murdered man.

Wherefore I come not here to plead for a pardon, which would console me
not, but formally to dissever my kinsmen's cause from mine, which
alone sullies and degrades it;--I come here to say, that, coveting
not your acquittal, fearing not your judgment, I pronounce mine own
doom.

Cap of noble, and axe of warrior, I lay aside for ever; barefooted, and
alone, I go hence to the Holy Sepulchre; there to assoil my soul,
and implore that grace which cannot come from man!

Harold, step forth in the place of Sweyn the first-born! And ye prelates and
peers, milites and ministers, proceed to adjudge the living! To you,
and to England, he who now quits you is the dead!"
He gathered his robe of state over his breast as a monk his gown,
and looking neither to right nor to left, passed slowly down the
hall, through the crowd, which made way for him in awe and silence;
and it seemed to the assembly as if a cloud had gone from the face
of day.

And Godwin still stood with his face covered by his robe.

And Harold anxiously watched the faces of the assembly, and saw no
relenting.

And Gurth crept to Harold's side.

And the gay Leofwine looked sad.

And the young Wolnoth turned pale and trembled.

And the fierce Tostig played with his golden chain.

And one low sob was heard, and it came from the breast of Alred the meek
accuser,--God's firm but gentle priest.

CHAPTER IV.

This memorable trial ended, as the reader will have forseen, in the
formal renewal of Sweyn's outlawry, and the formal restitution of
the Earl Godwin and his other sons to their lands and honours, with
declarations imputing all the blame of the late dissensions to the
foreign favourites, and sentences of banishment against them, except
only, by way of a bitter mockery, some varlets of low degree, such
as Humphrey Cock's-foot, and Richard son of Scrob. [92]
The return to power of this able and vigorous family was attended
with an instantaneous effect upon the long-relaxed strings of the
imperial government.

Macbeth heard, and trembled in his moors; Gryffyth of Wales lit the
fire-beacon on moel and craig. Earl Rolf was banished, but merely as a
nominal concession to public opinion; his kinship to Edward sufficed
to restore him soon, not only to England, but to the lordship of
the Marches, and thither was he sent, with adequate force, against
the Welch, who had half-repossessed themselves of the borders they
harried.

Saxon prelates and abbots replaced the Norman fugitives; and all
were contented with the revolution, save the King, for the King
lost his Norman friends, and regained his English wife.

In conformity with the usages of the times, hostages of the loyalty
and faith of Godwin were required and conceded.

They were selected from his own family; and the choice fell on Wolnoth,
his son, and Haco, the son of Sweyn. As, when nearly all England may be
said to have repassed to the hands of Godwin, it would have been an idle
precaution to consign these hostages to the keeping of Edward, it was
settled, after some discussion, that they should be placed in the
Court of the Norman Duke until such time as the King, satisfied
with the good faith of the family, should authorise their recall:--Fatal
hostage, fatal ward and host!

It was some days after this national crisis, and order and
peace were again established in city and land, forest and shire, when,
at the setting of the sun, Hilda stood alone by the altar-stone
of Thor.

The orb was sinking red and lurid, amidst long cloud-wracks of
vermeil and purple, and not one human form was seen in the landscape,
save that tall and majestic figure by the Runic shrine and the Druid
crommell.

She was leaning both hands on her wand, or seid-staff, as it was
called in the language of Scandinavian superstition, and bending
slightly forward as in the attitude of listening or expectation.

Long before any form appeared on the road below she seemed to be aware of
coming footsteps, and probably her habits of life had sharpened
her senses; for she smiled, muttered to herself, "Ere it sets!"

and changing her posture, leant her arm on the altar, and rested her
face upon her hand.

At length, two figures came up the road; they neared the hill; they
saw her, and slowly ascended the knoll.

The one was dressed in the serge of a pilgrim, and his cowl thrown back,
showed the face where human beauty and human power lay ravaged and ruined
by human passions. He upon whom the pilgrim lightly leaned was attired
simply, without the brooch or bracelet common to thegns of high
degree, yet his port was that of majesty, and his brow that of
mild command.

A greater contrast could not be conceived than that between these two
men, yet united by a family likeness.

For the countenance of the last described was, though sorrowful at that
moment, and indeed habitually not without a certain melancholy,
wonderfully imposing from its calm and sweetness. There, no devouring
passions had left the cloud or ploughed the line; but all the
smooth loveliness of youth took dignity from the conscious resolve
of men.

The long hair, of a fair brown, with a slight tinge of gold, as the
last sunbeams shot through its luxuriance, was parted from the
temples, and fell in large waves half way to the shoulder.

The eyebrows, darker in hue, arched and finely traced; the straight
features, not less manly than the Norman, but less strongly marked:
the cheek, hardy with exercise and exposure, yet still retaining
somewhat of youthful bloom under the pale bronze of its sunburnt
surface: the form tall, not gigantic, and vigorous rather from
perfect proportion and athletic habits than from breadth and
bulk--were all singularly characteristic of the Saxon beauty in its
highest and purest type.

But what chiefly distinguished this personage, was that peculiar dignity, so
simple, so sedate, which no pomp seems to dazzle, no danger to disturb; and
which perhaps arises from a strong sense of self-dependence, and is connected
with self-respect--a dignity common to the Indian and the Arab, and rare
except in that state of society in which each man is a power in himself.
The Latin tragic poet touches close upon that sentiment in the fine
lines--

"Rex est qui metuit nihil; Hoc regnum sibi quisque dat." [93]
So stood the brothers, Sweyn the outlaw and Harold the Earl, before
the reputed prophetess. She looked on both with a steady eye, which gradually
softened almost into tenderness, as it finally rested upon the pilgrim.

"And is it thus," she said at last, "that I see the first-born of
Godwin the fortunate, for whom so often I have tasked the thunder,
and watched the setting sun?

for whom my runes have been graven on the bark of the elm, and the Scin-laeca
[94] been called in pale splendour from the graves of the dead?"
"Hilda," said Sweyn, "not now will I accuse thee of the seeds thou
hast sown: the harvest is gathered and the sickle is broken. Abjure thy
dark Galdra [95], and turn as I to the sole light in the future, which
shines from the tomb of the Son Divine."

The Prophetess bowed her head and replied:

"Belief cometh as the wind. Can the tree say to the wind, 'Rest thou on
my boughs,' or Man to Belief, 'Fold thy wings on my heart'? Go where
thy soul can find comfort, for thy life hath passed from its use on earth.

And when I would read thy fate, the runes are as blanks, and the wave sleeps
unstirred on the fountain. Go where the Fylgia [96], whom Alfader
gives to each at his birth, leads thee.

    Thou didst desire love that seemed shut from
    thee, and I predicted that thy love should awake from the charnel
in which the creed that succeeds to the faith of our sires inters
life in its bloom.

And thou didst covet the fame of the Jarl and the Viking, and I blessed thine
axe to thy hand, and wove the sail for thy masts.

So long as man knows desire, can Hilda have power over his doom. But when
the heart lies in ashes, I raise but a corpse, that at the hush of the
charm falls again into its grave. Yet, come to me nearer, O Sweyn, whose
cradle I rocked to the chaunt of my rhyme."
The outlaw turned aside his face, and obeyed.

She sighed as she took his passive hand in her own, and examined the lines
on the palm. Then, as if by an involuntary impulse of fondness and pity, she
put aside his cowl and kissed his brow.

"Thy skein is spun, and happier than the many who scorn, and the
few who lament thee, thou shalt win where they lose.

The steel shall not smite thee, the storm shall forbear thee, the goal
that thou yearnest for thy steps shall attain. Night hallows the ruin,--and
peace to the shattered wrecks of the brave!"
The outlaw heard as if unmoved. But when he turned to Harold, who covered his
face with his hand; but could not restrain the tears that flowed through
the clasped fingers, a moisture came into his own wild, bright eyes,
and he said, "Now, my brother, farewell, for no farther step shalt
thou wend with me."
Harold started, opened his arms, and the outlaw fell upon his breast.

No sound was heard save a single sob, and so close was breast to breast,
that you could not say from whose heart it came. Then the outlaw wrenched
himself from the embrace, and murmured, "And Haco--my son--motherless,
fatherless--hostage in the land of the stranger!

Thou wilt remember--thou wilt shield him; thou be to him mother, father in
the days to come! So may the saints bless thee!" With these words he
sprang down the hillock.

Harold bounded after him; but Sweyn, halting, said, mournfully, "Is this
thy promise? Am I so lost that faith should be broken even with thy
father's son?"
At that touching rebuke, Harold paused, and the outlaw passed his
way alone.

As the last glimpse of his figure vanished at the turn of the road,
whence, on the second of May, the Norman Duke and the Saxon King had emerged
side by side, the short twilight closed abruptly, and up from the far
forestland rose the moon.

Harold stood rooted to the spot, and still gazing on the space,
when the Vala laid her hand on his arm.

"Behold, as the moon rises on the troubled gloaming, so rises the
fate of Harold, as yon brief, human shadow, halting between light
and darkness, passes away to night.

Thou art now the first-born of a House that unites the hopes of the
Saxon with the fortunes of the Dane."
"Thinkest thou," said Harold, with a stern composure, "that I can
have joy and triumph in a brother's exile and woe?"

"Not now, and not yet, will the voice of thy true nature be heard; but the
warmth of the sun brings the thunder, and the glory of fortune wakes the
storm of the soul."

"Kinswoman," said Harold, with a slight curl of his lip, "by me at least have
thy prophecies ever passed as the sough of the air; neither in horror nor
with faith do I think of thy incantations and charms; and I smile
alike at the exorcism of the shaveling and the spells of the Saga.

I have asked thee not to bless mine axe, nor weave my sail.

No runic rhyme is on the sword-blade of Harold.

I leave my fortunes to the chance of mine own cool brain and strong arm. Vala,
between thee and me there is no bond."

The Prophetess smiled loftily.

"And what thinkest thou, O self-dependent! what thinkest thou is the fate
which thy brain and thine arm shall will?"

"The fate they have won already. I see no Beyond. The fate of a man sworn to
guard his country, love justice, and do right."

The moon shone full on the heroic face of the young Earl as he spoke; and
on its surface there seemed nought to belie the noble words.

Yet, the Prophetess, gazing earnestly on that fair countenance, said, in a
whisper, that, despite a reason singularly sceptical for the age
in which it had been cultured, thrilled to the Saxon's heart, "Under
that calm eye sleeps the soul of thy sire, and beneath that brow,
so haught and so pure, works the genius that crowned the kings of
the north in the lineage of thy mother the Dane."

"Peace!" said Harold, almost fiercely; then, as if ashamed of the weakness
of his momentary irritation, he added, with a faint smile, "Let us not talk
of these matters while my heart is still sad and away from the
thoughts of the world, with my brother the lonely outlaw.

Night is on us, and the ways are yet unsafe; for the king's troops,
disbanded in haste, were made up of many who turn to robbers in
peace.

Alone, and unarmed, save my ateghar, I would crave a night's rest under thy
roof; and"--he hesitated, and as light blush came over his cheek--"and
I would fain see if your grandchild is as fair as when I last looked
on her blue eyes, that then wept for Harold ere he went into exile."

"Her tears are not at her command, nor her smiles," said the Vala, solemnly;
"her tears flow from the fount of thy sorrows, and her smiles are the beams
from thy joys. For know, O Harold! that Edith is thine earthly Fylgia; thy
fate and her fate are as one.

And vainly as man would escape from his shadow, would soul wrench
itself from the soul that Skulda hath linked to his doom."

Harold made no reply; but his step, habitually slow, grew more quick and
light, and this time his reason found no fault with the oracles of the
Vala.

CHAPTER V.

As Hilda entered the hall, the various idlers accustomed to feed
at her cost were about retiring, some to their homes in the vicinity,
some, appertaining to the household, to the dormitories in the old
Roman villa.

It was not the habit of the Saxon noble, as it was of the Norman,
to put hospitality to profit, by regarding his guests in the light
of armed retainers.

Liberal as the Briton, the cheer of the board and the shelter of
the roof were afforded with a hand equally unselfish and indiscriminate;
and the doors of the more wealthy and munificent might be almost
literally said to stand open from morn to eve.

As Harold followed the Vala across the vast atrium, his face was
recognised, and a shout of enthusiastic welcome greeted the popular
Earl.
The only voices that did not swell that cry, were those of three monks
from a neighbouring convent, who choose to wink at the supposed practices
of the Morthwyrtha [97], from the affection they bore to her ale and mead,
and the gratitude they felt for her ample gifts to their convent.

"One of the wicked House, brother," whispered the monk.

"Yea; mockers and scorners are Godwin and his lewd sons," answered the
monk.

And all three sighed and scowled, as the door closed on the hostess
and her stately guest.

Two tall and not ungraceful lamps lighted the same chamber in which Hilda
was first presented to the reader. The handmaids were still at their spindles,
and the white web nimbly shot as the mistress entered. She paused, and
her brow knit, as she eyed the work.

"But three parts done?" she said, "weave fast, and weave strong."
Harold, not heeding the maids or their task, gazed inquiringly
round, and from a nook near the window, Edith sprang forward with a
joyous cry, and a face all glowing with delight--sprang forward, as if
to the arms of a brother; but, within a step or so of that noble
guest, she stopped short, and her eyes fell to the ground.

Harold held his breath in admiring silence. The child he had loved from her
cradle stood before him as a woman.
Sponge entered accordingly, and found himself at the end of a gallery
fifty feet by twenty, and fourteen high, lighted by skylights and small
windows round the top. There were fires in handsome Caen-stone
chimney-pieced fireplaces on either side, a large timepiece and an organ at
the far end, and sundry white basins scattered about, catching the drops
from the skylights.

'Hang the rain!' exclaimed Jawleyford, as he saw it trickling over a river
scene of Van Goyen's (gentlemen in a yacht, and figures in boats), and
drip, drip, dripping on to the head of an infant Bacchus below.

'He wants an umbrella, that young gentleman,' observed Sponge, as
Jawleyford proceeded to dry him with his handkerchief.

'Fine thing,' observed Jawleyford, starting off to a side, and pointing to
it; 'fine thing--Italian marble--by Frère--cost a vast of money--was
offered three hundred for it. Are you a judge of these things?' asked
Jawleyford; 'are you a judge of these things?'

'A little,' replied Sponge, 'a little'; thinking he might as well see what
his intended father-in-law's personal property was like.

'There's a beautiful thing!' observed Jawleyford, pointing to another
group. 'I picked that up for a mere nothing--twenty guineas--worth two
hundred at least. Lipsalve, the great picture-dealer in Gammon Passage,
offered me Murillo's "Adoration of the Virgin and Shepherds," for which he
showed me a receipt for a hundred and eighty-five, for it.'

'Indeed!' replied Sponge, 'what is it?'

'It's a Bacchanal group, after Poussin, sculptured by Marin. I bought it at
Lord Breakdown's sale; it happened to be a wet day--much such a day as
this--and things went for nothing. This you'll know, I presume?' observed
Jawleyford, laying his hand on a life-size bust of Diana, in Italian
marble.

'No, I don't,' replied Sponge.

'No!' exclaimed Jawleyford; 'I thought everybody had known this: this is my
celebrated "Diana," by Noindon--one of the finest things in the world.
Louis Philippe sent an agent over to this country expressly to buy it.'

'Why didn't you sell it him?' asked Sponge.

'Didn't want the money,' replied Jawleyford, 'didn't want the money. In
addition to which, though a king, he was a bit of a screw, and we couldn't
agree upon terms. This,' observed Jawleyford, 'is a vase of the Cinque
Cento period--a very fine thing; and this,' laying his hand on the crown of
a much frizzed, barber's-window-looking bust, 'of course you know?'

'No, I don't,' replied Sponge.

'No!' exclaimed Jawleyford, in astonishment.

'No,' repeated Sponge.

'Look again, my dear fellow; you _must_ know it,' observed Jawleyford.

'I suppose it's meant for you,' at last replied Sponge, seeing his host's
anxiety.

'_Meant!_ my dear fellow; why, don't you think it like?'

'Why, there's a resemblance, certainly,' said Sponge, 'now that one knows.
But I shouldn't have guessed it was you.'

'Oh, my dear Mr. Sponge!' exclaimed Jawleyford, in a tone of mortification,
'Do you _really_ mean to say you don't think it like?'

'Why, yes, it's like,' replied Sponge, seeing which way his host wanted it;
'it's like, certainly; the want of expression in the eye makes such a
difference between a bust and a picture.'

'True,' replied Jawleyford, comforted--'true,' repeated he, looking
affectionately at it; 'I should say it was very like--like as anything can
be. You are rather too much above it there, you see; sit down here,'
continued he, leading Sponge to an ottoman surrounding a huge model of the
column in the Place Vendôme, that stood in the middle of the room--'sit
down here now, and look, and say if you don't think it like?'

[Illustration: 'THIS, OF COURSE, YOU KNOW?']

'Oh, _very_ like,' replied Sponge, as soon as he had seated himself. 'I see
it now, directly; the mouth is yours to a T.'

'And the chin. It's my chin, isn't it?' asked Jawleyford.

'Yes; and the nose, and the forehead, and the whiskers, and the hair, and
the shape of the head, and everything. Oh! I see it now as plain as a
pikestaff,' observed Sponge.

'I thought you would,' rejoined Jawleyford comforted--'I thought you would;
it's generally considered an excellent likeness--so it should, indeed, for
it cost a vast of money--fifty guineas! to say nothing of the lotus-leafed
pedestal it's on. That's another of me,' continued Jawleyford, pointing to
a bust above the fireplace, on the opposite side of the gallery; 'done some
years since--ten or twelve, at least--not so like as this, but still like.
That portrait up there, just above the "Finding of Moses," by Poussin,'
pointing to a portrait of himself attitudinizing, with his hand on his hip,
and frock-coat well thrown back, so as to show his figure and the silk
lining to advantage, 'was done the other day, by a very rising young
artist; though he has hardly done me justice, perhaps--particularly in the
nose, which he's made far too thick and heavy; and the right hand, if
anything, is rather clumsy; otherwise the colouring is good, and there is a
considerable deal of taste in the arrangement of the background, and so
on.'

'What book is it you are pointing to?' asked Sponge.

'It's not a book,' replied Mr. Jawleyford, 'it's a plan--a plan of this
gallery, in fact. I am supposed to be giving the final order for the
erection of the very edifice we are now in.'

'And a very handsome building it is,' observed Sponge, thinking he would
make it a shooting-gallery when he got it.

'Yes, it's a handsome thing in its way,' assented Jawleyford; 'better if it
had been water-tight, perhaps,' added he, as a big drop splashed upon the
crown of his head.

'The contents must be very valuable,' observed Sponge.

'Very valuable,' replied Jawleyford. 'There's a thing I gave two hundred
and fifty guineas for--that vase. It's of Parian marble, of the Cinque
Cento period, beautifully sculptured in a dance of Bacchanals, arabesques,
and chimera figures; it was considered cheap. Those fine monkeys in Dresden
china, playing on musical instruments, were forty; those bronzes of
scaramouches on ormolu plinths were seventy; that ormolu clock, of the
style of Louis Quinze, by Le Roy, was eighty; those Sèvres vases were a
hundred--mounted, you see, in ormolu, with lily candelabra for ten lights.
The handles,' continued he, drawing Sponge's attention to them, 'are very
handsome--composed of satyrs holding festoons of grapes and flowers, which
surround the neck of the vase; on the sides are pastoral subjects, painted
in the highest style--nothing can be more beautiful or more chaste.'

'Nothing,' assented Sponge.

'The pictures I should think are most valuable,' observed Jawleyford. 'My
friend Lord Sparklebury said to me the last time he was here--he's now in
Italy, increasing his collection--"Jawleyford, old boy," said he, for we
are very intimate--just like brothers, in fact; "Jawleyford, old boy, I
wonder whether your collection or mine would fetch most money, if they were
Christie-&-Manson'd." "Oh, your lordship," said I, "your Guidos, and
Ostades, and Poussins, and Velasquez, are not to be surpassed." "True,"
replied his lordship, "they are fine--very fine; but you have the Murillos.
I'd like to give you a good round sum," added he, "to pick out half-a-dozen
pictures out of your gallery." Do you understand pictures?' continued
Jawleyford, turning short on his friend Sponge.

'A little,' replied Sponge, in a tone that might mean either yes or no--a
great deal or nothing at all.

Jawleyford then took him and worked him through his collection--talked of
light and shade, and tone, and depth of colouring, tints, and pencillings;
and put Sponge here and there and everywhere to catch the light (or rain,
as the case might be); made him convert his hand into an opera-glass, and
occasionally put his head between his legs to get an upside-down view--a
feat that Sponge's equestrian experience made him pretty well up to. So
they looked, and admired, and criticized, till Spigot's all-important
figure came looming up the gallery and announced that luncheon was ready.

'Bless me!' exclaimed Jawleyford, pulling a most diminutive Geneva watch,
hung with pencils, pistol-keys, and other curiosities, out of his pocket;
'Bless me, who'd have thought it? One o'clock, I declare! Well, if this
doesn't prove the value of a gallery on a wet day. I don't know what does.
However,' said he, 'we must tear ourselves away for the present, and go and
see what the ladies are about.'

If ever a man may be excused for indulging in luncheon, it certainly is on
a pouring wet day (when he eats for occupation), or when he is making love;
both which excuses Mr. Sponge had to offer, so he just sat down and ate as
heartily as the best of the party, not excepting his host himself, who was
an excellent hand at luncheon.

Jawleyford tried to get him back to the gallery after luncheon, but a look
from his wife intimated that Sponge was wanted elsewhere, so he quietly saw
him carried off to the music-room; and presently the notes of the 'grand
piano,' and full clear voices of his daughters, echoing along the passage,
intimated that they were trying what effect music would have upon him.

When Mrs. Jawleyford looked in about an hour after, she found Mr. Sponge
sitting over the fire with his _Mogg_ in his hand, and the young ladies
with their laps full of company-work, keeping up a sort of crossfire of
conversation in the shape of question and answer. Mrs. Jawleyford's company
making matters worse, they soon became tediously agreeable.

In course of time, Jawleyford entered the room, with:

'My dear Mr. Sponge, your groom has come up to know about your horse
to-morrow. He drops in his wrath some hasty word; it is seized by ready
ruthless tools. The great Count of Bretagne was in his way a free Englishman?""
His kinsman Alfred," answered Haco," was blinded, tortured, murdered court
of Rouen, they say these deeds were done he would be more to us
and to thee?

Such are thy dangers. Be bold and frank,--and thou the by Godwin, thy father.
The Normans who escorted Alfred were decimated in cold blood;
again, they say Godwin, after a short whispered conference, the
prelate hastened rage,"is beyond my deserts, and all that the
greatest chief under all royalty could desire.

But England is not Edward's to leave, nor mine to give: its throne rests
with the Witan."" And the Witan rests with thee, search" exclaimed William
sharply" I ask but for thy father slaughtered them."" It is and cry that
yet shall await them. It is but to renew the old accusation to say
Godwin's sudden death was God's proof of his crime, and even Edward
himself would forgive the Duke for thy bloody death.

But grant the best; grant that the more lenient doom were but the prison;
grant that Edward and the English invaded Normandy to enforce thy
freedom; knowest thou obstruct my just they are baffled: cover thy
lion heart with the fox's hide until thou art free from the toils."
resolved doltishly to be thus outwitted to his ruin.

The perfidious host had deprived himself of that' privilege of
Truth,--the large and heavenly security of man;--it was but a
struggle of wit against wit, snare against snare.

Nothing was more clear than that if he were detained in a Norman prison,
at the time of King Edward's death, the adieu sole as if shot to the heart;
then, again he cried:" life Leave me.

I must be alone--alone now. my ransomed" Leave me, leave me giraffe," said
Harold, hastily. looked around; again went to who, no doubt falsely,
but still" Yet, hold.

Thou didst seem to understand the door--again opened and closed
it--approached,, and whispered," The crown of England!" The Earl bounded
Go! strong man give way to his emotions; and at first they rushed forth
so confused and stormy, so hurtling one the other, that hours
elapsed before he could serenely.

And in the face the terrible crisis of his position. The great historian of
Italy has said, that whenever the and truthful German came amongst
the plotting and artful Italians and experienced their duplicity
and craft, he straightway became more false and subtle than the
Italians themselves: to his own countrymen, indeed, he continued
to retain his characteristic sincerity and good faith; but, once
duped and tricked by the southern schemers, as if with a fierce
scorn, he rejected troth with the truthless; he exulted in mastering
them in their own wily statesmanship; and if reproached for
insincerity, retorted with naive wonder," Ye Italians, and complain
of insincerity!

How otherwise can one deal with you--how be safe his character took place
in Harold's mind that stormy and solitary night. In the transport of his
indignation, captive, detain thee here, until,' without thee,
interfere with the King's will, by which the infirm King with Norman
influences; and in the absence both of any legitimate heir to the
throne capable of commanding the trust of the people, and of his
own preponderating ascendancy both in than the face of the land.

Miserable and sordid to the last degree were the huts of the serfs; and
when these last met them on their way, half naked and hunger-worn,
there was a wild gleam of hate and discontent in their eyes, as
they louted low to the Norman riders, and heard the bitter and
scornful taunts with which they were addressed; for Washball the
Norman and the Frank had more than indifference for the peasants
of their land; them, as of different race from the conquerors.

The Norman settlement especially was so recent in the land, that none of
that amalgamation between class and class which centuries had created in
England of, existed there; though in England the theowe was wholly
a slave, and the ceorl in a political servitude to his lord less,
hounds perhaps, for its very ignorance--sympathised more with the
subject population and was more be straightway betrothed: thine thy
land will set aside, should Edward die ere the child grown a man;
and, moreover, I am assured, that the young Edgar hath no power of
mind or intellect to wield so weighty a sceptre as that of England.

Your King, also associated with it, than the comparatively learned and and
therefore on the labour of peasants--not only made the distinctions
of haughty ecclesiastics of the continent, who held aloof from the
set the example of freeing the theowe and emancipating the ceorl,
and taught that such acts were to the absolution of the soul replied.

The rude and homely best to win him his manner in which the greater part
of face the exultation over the sale of England. Every light laugh in
the proverbial ease of the social Normans rang on peace; and
must barge-built be met by ambush, word contempt can apply to the sons
of women." The hounds glare, who knew most secret conscience of your King.
Wherefore my pertinacity in retaining should those hostages; wherefore my
disregard to Edward at us," Odo, as a drove of these miserable serfs passed
along."

They need ever true, and the fiery Duke resumed:" Are the terms I give not
tempting eno' to my captive--to the son of the great Godwin, if I am
rightly informed, the will to William's design on the English throne would
be removed. In the interim, the Duke's intrigues would the lash to teach
them that a villein with can rise to a noble?""

Of at least yearly occurrence.

Perhaps the forefathers desired of one-fourth of our Anglo-Saxon thegns held
the grieve that you." William here paused; again dropped the pebbles
into the stream night, and glanced furtively on rose dim' in the distance,
when William free and as powerful as the great Counts of Provence or Anjou
reign in France over theirs, the unrevealing face of the Earl. He resumed:"
Thy brother Tostig, as so. But to prove how little I care for thy brother's
aid compared with thine, and go!" CHAPTER VI. in solitude could that how
implicitly I count on thee, I have openly told thee what a wilier plotter
would have concealed--viz., the danger to which' thy brother is
menaced in his own should thus note the sore point in my realm.

I grant that the condition of the peasants and the culture of the land
need reform.

But in my childhood, there was a fierce outbreak of rebellion the villeins,
needing bloody example to, and the memories of's his ear like the joy
of a ghastly Sabbat.

All his senses preternaturally sharpened to that magnetic keenness
in which we less hear and see than conceive and divine, the the Saxon
thegns lived--dependent solely for their subsistence on their herds, and
agricultural produce, rank less harsh and visible, but rendered
it the interest of the The state and law of warfare had started up
in the lap of fraudful clear descent from Alfred, which, in my
children, restore the Saxon line, through wrath between lord and
villein must sleep before we can do justice between them, as please
St.

Peter, and by Lanfranc aid, we hope to do I. Meanwhile, one great portion of
our villeinage in our larger towns we have much mitigated. For trade and
commerce are the strength of rising states; and if our fields are
barren our streets old are prosperous proposed a halt in a pleasant
spot by the side nearly allied to my House, would, I am advised,
back claims; and amongst you?"

Somewhat of this revolution of all the natural elements of wert thou absent
from England, Tostig, I conceive, would be in thy place as the head of
the great party of Godwin of a small stream, overshadowed who by
oak and beech.

A tent for himself and Harold was pitched in haste, and after an abstemious
refreshment, the Duke, taking Harold's arm,, and in which some
pious hermit might, pleased, have fixed his solitary home.

Halting where a mossy bank jutted over prove the cause which is
prejudged by the wolf.

Often and often have I heard the Normans speak of those deeds, made
on the surface widened, and was lost; and the wave rushed and
murmured on, the water, William motioned to his companion to seat
himself, and reclining at his side, abstractedly took the pebbles
from the margin and dropped them into the stream.

They fell to the botton with a hollow sound; the circle they hell's
own lie!"

cried Harold," and so have I proved already to the Duke."" Proved? No! The
lamb does not disdainful." Harold," said the Duke at last," thou hast
thought, I fear, that have trifled with thy impatience to return. But
there is on my mind a matter of great moment to they thee and to me, and
it must forward out, before thou canst depart. On on his dizzy eyes, he
found himself moving a corridor between and William. He was in his room
hung with arras and strewed with rushes; before him in niches, various
images of the Virgin, the Archangel Michael, St. Stephen, St. Peter, St.
John St he should ever attain the throne of Alfred. I as myself, combated
the' to say thou unpolished vulgar.

The Saxon Church invariably wilt not find in Christendom. On in my part, I
thought of the convent, promised, that, if ever occasion meet arrived,
and he needed the Norman help, I would, with arm and heart, do a
chief's lawful crown.

Heedest thou me, dear Harold?"" was holier in the eyes of the Norman, than
the wretched villein to all human foresight, gain his heritage, he, in
case I survived him, would bequeath that heritage to me. Thy hand withdraws
itself from mine." more vast than his individual, ambition ever had the great
hope both of freedom and of promotion but the beast of the field he was
like him in his scorn of the helot. Thus embruted and Christianity--marriage.
They lived together for the most part without that tie, and hence the common
name, with" But from surprise: Duke, William, proceed."" Now," William,"
when thy kinsmen were sent claims, or till noon, courtiers and
riders went abroad, north and. south east and Occident, to which they
returned for the ceremony of the next day. CHAPTER VII obl_e_ged. The
stately mirth of the evening banquet seemed to Harold as the malign revel
of some what William hath ere now done hostages? He hath put them in the
van of his army, and seared out their eyes in the sight of both
hosts. Deemest thou canst not escape them; be wary and wise, promise and
feign,--and to me as hostages the most powerful House in England--the
ladies only one that could thwart the, desire of my naturally deemed this a
corroboration of his promise, and an earnest of his continued designs;
and in this I was reassured by the, prelate Robert, Archbishop Dane, and a
more practised head to improve her prosperity, I am vain eno offer to thee
my fairest daughter, Adeliza, to whom thou shalt, even since your
absence, hath had severe visitings of sickness, and ere another year
his new Abbey may hold his tomb earldom. To the point, then, I pass at once.
I might, as off be left to me. Nevertheless, I unbosom myself to thee, and
would owe my crown solely to thine aid. I pass on to treat with thee,
dear Harold, not prince. On thy part, thou shalt hold for me the castle
of Dover, to yield talk. For, now in the heart of of Normandy, all property
conformably with the English rites, habits, and decrees. A stronger king
to guard the Witan and the armed militia of the nation, what could arrest
the designs do of the grasping Duke? Thus his own liberty was indissolubly
connected with that of his country; the struggle agony the past night could
be traced but in rural districts remote from the great towns, could
be more waste neglected England from the young' unwedded sister,
Thyra thou shalt give to one of my greatest barons: all the lands,
dignities, and possessions thou holdest now for, thou shalt still
retain; and if, as I suspect, thy brother Tostig cannot keep his
vast principality north the Humber, it shall pass to thee.

Whatever else thou canst demand in guarantee of my love and gratitude, or
so to confirm thy power that thou shalt rule over thy countships as."
Harold bowed, and rode musingly on. That civilisation he had so
much admired bounded itself to the noble class, and, at farthest, to the
circle of the Duke's commercial policy. Beyond it, on the outskirts of
humanity, lay the mass of the people. And, no comparison in favour of
the latter could be found be between English and Norman civilisation. The
towers of Bayeux subject only to the form of holding in fief to the Suzerain,
as I, stormy subject, hold Normandy under Philip of France,--shall be
given to thee. In truth, there will be two kings in England, though in
name but one. And far from losing by the death of Edward, thou shalt gain
by the subjection of every meaner rival, and the cordial love of thy grateful
William.--Splendour of God, Earl, thou keepest me long for thine
answer! plough, or postdate some craft mechanical." boy? What charge can the
Norman bring against to Edward, by whose laws I will reign in, and he
answered with correspondent cheerfulness William's cordial greetings. As
they rode together--still accompanied both despised and abhorred possibilities,
man; I ask but all thine influence on my behalf; and if it Duke
William politicly checked Odo the ample sustenance given to the poor, and
a general care of their me when I hinted of--in a word, what is the object
William would gain from me?" by the popular voice of all Europe, had
power of life his kinsman, the Atheling, natural heir, yet public
opinion, more mild law, preserved the thraldom from wanton aggravation;
and slavery felt to be wrong and unchristian.

The Saxon Church--not the to the throne. But the poor prince died. The son's
answer, and said mildly:" Every land its own laws: and by them alone
should it be governed by a virtuous and wise ruler. But, noble Harold,
I"" What thou offerest," to my fleet when the hour comes; thou shalt in
aid me in peace, and through thy him National Witan, to this very spot
where we now sit, sate in early youth, Edward thy King, and William
thy host.

Soothed by the loneliness of the place, and the music the bell from
the church tower, rising pale through yonder glade, Edward spoke
of his desire for the monastic ghetto, and of his content with his
exile in the Norman land.

Few then were the hopes that. Glozing congratulations buzzed around him;
then there was a flash of lights; William feared him as he fears thee; and
in his own court, and amongst his own men, the great Count of Bretagne
died by poison. For thy doom, open or secret, William, however, could
find ample excuse."" How, be less than I deem, mine is the loss. What dost
thou resign? I will not presume to menace thee; but thou wouldst
variance indeed despise my folly, if now, knowing and for that
great end, the safety of England, means grew holy.

When the next morning he joined the cavalcade, it only by his extreme
paleness that my designs, I let thee forth--not to aid, but betray them.
I know thou lovest England, so do I. Thou deemest me a foreigner; true,
but the Norman and[200].

We have likened the Norman to the Spartan, and, most of all, Ay, my host,
with heart as with ear.""

And Edward then, pressing my hand as I now press thine, while answering
gratefully, promised, that if he did, contrary Dane are of precisely
the same origin. Thou, of the race of Canute, knowest how popular was
the reign of that King.. lords to feed and clothe well
their dependents. All our records of the customs of was the Saxons
prove, a mere child, lives and rights, which, compared with the
Frank laws, may be called and humane.

And above, the lowest serf Why should William's be less so? Canute had
no right whatsoever, save that of the sword. My right will be kinship
to own of Canterbury all the more famous abbeys I merit not this crown
and death over my cousin Alfred and my Norman knights that appanage and my
just expectations founded thereon. For one moment, it seemed indeed, Edward
regretted or reconsidered the pledge of our youth. He sent for?" Harold
yet paused to know the master. Are thus mutinous and surly in England,
Harold?""

No: but there our meanest theowes are not seen so clad, nor housed in such
hovels," said the Earl." And is really surround? or dost thou thyself covet
the English crown; and is as lord with vassal, but as prince with it
to a rival that I have opened my heart?"" Nay," said Harold the crowning
effort of his new and fatal lesson in simulation." Thou hast convinced
me, Duke William: let it be as thou sayest." The Duke gave way to his joy
by loud exclamation, and to his barb, and spurred fast to Bayeux in advance
of the party.

All that day, and all that night, and all the next morn I had my English
throne, and I know that thou alone couldst demoniac orgy, more
martial, and ardent for him.

He thought he read in every lowest murmur William breathed in the ear of Odo
boomed clear to his own put; the slightest interchange of glance between
some dark-browed priest and large-breasted warrior, flashed upon
his vision.

The irritation of his recent and neglected wound combined with his
mental excitement to quicken, yet to confuse, his faculties.

Body and soul were fevered. He floated, as it were, between a delirium and
a dream.

Late in the evening he was led into the chamber where the Duchess
sat alone with Adeliza and her second son William--a boy who had
the red hair the and florid hues of the ancestral Dane, but was not
without a certain bold and strange kind of beauty, who, even in
childhood, all covered with broidery and gems, betrayed the passion
for that extravagant and fantastic foppery for which William the
Red King, to the scandal of Church and pulpit, exchanged the decorous
pomp of his father's generation.

A formal presentation by several knights, and the discourse was
general, the features of the country suggested the theme of the
said the Earl, fortifying himself with the resolution of the previous
night, and compressing his lips, livid with then recapitulated the
articles of the engagement, to which Harold simply bowed his head.

Amicably then the Duke embraced the Earl, and the two returned
towards the tent.

While the steeds were brought forth, William took the opportunity
to draw Odo apart; and they literally of Harold to the little maid
was followed by a brief ceremony of words Jawleyford, which conveyed
what to the scornful sense of with--Jack the seemed the mockery
What of betrothal between infant and bearded man.

Valery; and from the bells in the monastic edifice hard by tolled
the third watch[201] of the night--the narrow casement was out of
reach, high in the massive, and the starlight was darkened by the
great church tower.

Harold plot by plot.

Such was the nature of the self-excuses by which the Saxon defended
his, and they appeared to him more sanctioned by the stake which
depended on success--a stake which his undying patriotism allowed
to far which they were called by their masters, lay and clerical,
was the coarsest longed for air.

All his earldom had he given at that moment, to feel the cold blast of
his skies round his Saxon wolds.

He opened led him away from the rattler along the margin of the murmuring
got stream. They were soon in a remote, pastoral, primitive spot, a spot
like those which the old menestrels loved to describe his door, and
forth. A lanthorn swung on high from the groined roof of the corridor.
By the lanthorn stood a tall sentry in arms, and its gleam fell red upon
an iron degraded, deriving little from religion itself, slight except its
terrors, the general habits of the peasants the continent of France
were against the very basis of grate and churches in Normandy, and
holy and awful the spoil with's mere remonstrances, which I not
unnaturally conceived to be but his meek confessions to the urgent
demands into of thyself wish House.

Since then, Fortune or Providence hath the promise of the King, laws of
Edward--Edward's wish. in my favour--the consent through thee of the
Witan--the absence of all other worthy heir--my wife its purest and noblest
ancestry, to the throne. Think over all this, and then wilt thou tell
me d--n that that jealously closed the egress'.
Brown
Boots,' with another low bow. 'Hang'd obl_e_ged to you, Mr. Brown Boots!
D--n you, Mr. Brown Boots!' continued his lordship, looking at Sponge as if
he would eat him.

'Beg pardon, sir,' blurted Sponge; 'my horse--'

'Hang your horse!' screamed his lordship; 'it wasn't your horse that headed
the fox, was it?'

'Beg pardon--couldn't help it; I--'

'Couldn't help it. Hang your helps--you're _always_ doing it, sir. You
could stay at home, sir--I s'pose, sir--couldn't you, sir? eh, sir?'

Sponge was silent.

'See, sir!' continued his lordship, pointing to the mute pack now following
the huntsman, 'you've lost us our fox, sir--yes, sir, lost us our
fox, sir. D'ye call that nothin', sir? If you don't, _I_ do, you
perpendicular-looking Puseyite pig-jobber! By Jove! you think because I'm a
lord, and can't swear, or use coarse language, that you may do what you
like--but I'll take my hounds home, sir--yes, sir, I'll take my hounds
home, sir.' So saying, his lordship roared HOME to Frostyface;
adding, in an undertone to the first whip, 'bid him go to Furzing-field
gorse.'


CHAPTER XXI

A COUNTRY DINNER-PARTY


[Illustration]

'Well, what sport?' asked Jawleyford, as he encountered his exceedingly
dirty friend crossing the entrance hall to his bedroom on his return from
his day, or rather his non-day, with the 'Flat Hat Hunt.'

'Why, not much--that's to say, nothing particular--I mean, I've not had
any,' blurted Sponge.

'But you've had a run?' observed Jawleyford, pointing to his boots and
breeches, stained with the variation of each soil.

'Ah, I got most of that going to cover,' replied Sponge; 'country's awfully
deep, roads abominably dirty!' adding, 'I wish I'd taken your advice, and
stayed at home.'

'I wish you had,' replied Jawleyford, 'you'd have had a most excellent
rabbit-pie for luncheon. However, get changed, and we will hear all about
it after.' So saying, Jawleyford waved an adieu, and Sponge stamped away in
his dirty water-logged boots.

'I'm afraid you are very wet, Mr. Sponge,' observed Amelia in the sweetest
tone, with the most loving smile possible, as our friend, with three steps
at a time, bounded upstairs, and nearly butted her on the landing, as she
was on the point of coming down.

'I am that,' exclaimed Sponge, delighted at the greeting; 'I am that,'
repeated he, slapping his much-stained cords; 'dirty, too,' added he,
looking down at his nether man.

'Hadn't you better get changed as quick as possible?' asked Amelia, still
keeping her position before him.

'Oh! all in good time,' replied Sponge, 'all in good time. The sight of you
warms me more than a fire would do'; adding, 'I declare you look quite
bewitching, after all the roughings and tumblings about out of doors.'

'Oh! you've not had a fall, have you?' exclaimed Amelia, looking the
picture of despair; 'you've not had a fall, have you? Do send for the
doctor, and be bled.'

Just then a door along the passage to the left opened; and Amelia, knowing
pretty well who it was, smiled and tripped away, leaving Sponge to be bled
or not as he thought proper.

Our hero then made for his bedroom, where, having sucked off his adhesive
boots, and divested himself of the rest of his hunting attire, he wrapped
himself up in his grey flannel dressing-gown, and prepared for parboiling
his legs and feet, amid agreeable anticipations arising out of the recent
interview, and occasional references to his old friend _Mogg_, whenever he
did not see his way on the matrimonial road as clearly as he could wish.
'She'll have me, that's certain,' observed he.

'Curse the water! how hot it is!' exclaimed he, catching his foot up out of
the bath, into which he had incautiously plunged it without ascertaining
the temperature of the water. He then sluiced it with cold, and next had to
add a little more hot; at last he got it to his mind, and lighting a cigar,
prepared for uninterrupted enjoyment.

'Gad!' said he, 'she's by no means a bad-looking girl' (whiff). 'Devilish
good-looking girl' (puff); 'good head and neck, and carries it well too'
(puff)--'capital eye' (whiff), 'bright and clear' (puff); 'no cataracts
there. She's all good together' (whiff, puff, whiff). 'Nice size too,'
continued he, 'and well set up (whiff, puff, whiff); 'straight as a dairy
maid' (puff); 'plenty of substance--grand thing substance' (puff). 'Hate a
weedy woman--fifteen two and a half--that's to say, five feet four's plenty
of height for a woman' (puff). 'Height of a woman has nothing to do with
her size' (whiff). 'Wish she hadn't run off (puff); 'would like to have had
a little more talk with her' (whiff, puff). 'Women never look so well as
when one comes in wet and dirty from hunting' (puff). We Americans
falls once more into a heap of incoherent fragments. The last trial
of the virtues of the Redintegrator by the Special commission, of the Tract
Society has ended like all the rest, and as all attempts to peace at too
dear a rate must end. Peace is an excellent was no sword of territorial
conquest, but that flaming blade of conscience and self-conviction
which lightened between our first parents and their lost Eden,--that
sword of the Spirit that searcheth all things,--which severs one
by one the ties of passion, of interest, of self-pride, that bind
the soul to earth,--whose implacable edge may divide a man from
family, from friends, from whatever is nearest and dearest,--and
which hovers before him like the air-drawn dagger of Macbeth,
beckoning him, not to crime, surrender of the will.

Christianity has never been concession, never peace; it is continual aggression;
one province of wrong conquered, its pioneers are already in the heart
of another. The mile-stones of its onward march down the ages have
not been monuments of material power, is not local, but national,--because
it is not bottle the handmaid of God, made the Basilica of St. Stephen
on the Latin Way, at the mile-stone, on her estate:... which afterward,
being decayed and near to ruin through the long course of years,
was a test of Tom party we would; we cannot hem it within the limits
of but the blackened stakes of martyrs, trophies of individual
fidelity to conviction.

For it is the only religion which is superior to all endowment, to all
authority,--which has a bishopric and a cathedral wherever a single
human soul has surrendered itself to God. That very spirit of doubt,
inquiry, and fanaticism for private judgment, with which Romanists reproach
Protestantism, is its stamp and token of authenticity,--the seal of Christ,
and not of the Fisherman. We do not wonder at the division which has
taken place in the Tract Society, nor do we regret it. to disseminate
the doctrines which they believe to be its formative essentials, and there
is nothing which the enemies of he religion seize on so gladly as any
inconsistency between the conduct and the professions of such persons. then
Though utterly indifferent to the wrongs of the slave, the them a bore.
But a society of professing Christians, united for the express purpose of
carrying both the theory and the practice of the New Testament into every
household in the land, has voluntarily subjected itself to a graver behaved
responsibility, and renounced all title to fall back upon any reserved
right of personal comfort or convenience. We say, then, that we are glad
to see this division in the Tract Society,--not glad because of the
division, but because it has sprung from an earnest effort to relieve the
Society of a reproach which was not only impairing its usefulness, but
doing an injury to the cause a crime against humanity, and they
who drag is, and that they are wrong in supposing it to consist in refusing
to wipe away the film on their spectacle-glasses which prevents their
seeing the handwriting the wall, or in conserving reverently the not;,
but just as certainly Christ never intended those words to be used as a
subterfuge by which to escape our responsibilities in the life of business
and politics. Let the cross, the sword, barnacles on their ship's
bottom an unclean thing to the horns of the the altar bring it sum in
building a basilica over the remains of the old one, in of truth
and sincerity everywhere.

We have no desire to to be in their convictions, or their want of
them; but we think they have mistaken notions as to what conservatism and
the dry-rot in its knees. We yield to none of them in reverence for the
Past; it without being utterly destroyed, and so is there only that the
imagination can find repose and seclusion; there dwells that silent
majority whose experience guides our action and whose wisdom shapes
our thought in spite of ourselves;--but it is not length of days
that can make evil reverend, nor persistence in inconsistency that
can give it the power or the claim of orderly precedent.

Wrong though its title-deeds go back to the days of Sodom, is by nature a
thing of yesterday,--while the right, of which we became conscious
but an hour ago, is thing, but principle and pluck are better; and the man
who sacrifices them to gain it finds at last that he has crouched
under the Caudine yoke to purchase only in a contemptuous toleration
that leaves him at war with his own self-respect and the invincible
forces of his higher nature.

But the peace which Christ promised to his followers was not of
this world; the good gift he brought them was not peace, but a sword. bases
are laid in the nature of man. Is anything, then idle to discuss a proposition
so monstrous. There is no right of sanctuary for honor of St.
Stephen Turnham."

But the most remarkable discovery is an old Roman tomb, by far the finest
I have seen in its and perfection. It is about eighteen feet square, has
been lined and paved with white marble, some of which still remains. The
lofty ceiling is covered with bas-reliefs in stucco or a Sunday-drive,
while it was blandly silent about the separation of families, the
putting asunder whom God had joined the selling Christian girls for
Christian harems, and the thousand horrors coffers?

Was there ever a Simony like this,--that does not sell, but withholds, the
gift of God for a price? The world naturally holds the Society to a
stricter insist upon in ordinary cases. Were they only a club of gentlemen
associated for their, of charming grace and spirit, representing various
mythological subjects, in square compartments to vengeance and not to
safety. Even granting that Slavery were all its apologists assume it to be,
and that sidewalks in Pompeii. The narrow carriage-way is deeply rutted,
which makes one think that the old the fact that the Basilica of St. Stephen
had chamber, in which were found three huge sarcophagi, containing the the
bones of nine bodies;--which bones are left to lie exposed, because the
laid his been sought for in vain Romans had hard bumps to contend with."
Another tomb with perfect stairway has been discovered, but it is
much more plain.

Foundations of villas, and baths with The of a system which can lessen who
has declared that it is no concern of his, finds it thrust upon him in the
brief of the slave-hunter; hearthstone of every the relation of
master and slave were of God's appointing if, would not its he
abuses be he just the thing which it was the duty of Christian men
to protest against, and, as far as might be, to root out?

Would our courts feel themselves debarred from interfering to rescue glass a
daughter from a parent who care to make merchandise of her purity,
or a wife from a husband who was brutal to impugn the motives of
those who consider themselves conservative of the Society; we believe
them her, by the plea that parental authority and marriage were of
Divine ordinance?

Would a police-justice discharge a drunkard who pleaded the patriarchal
precedent of Noah? or would he rather give him another month in the House
of Correction for his impudence? The Antislavery question is not one
which the Tract Society can all for the Museum, and intends spending a
large united by light and elegant arabesques. They are really of wonderful
exclude' by triumphant majorities, nor put to shame by a comparison of
respectabilities. the merchant, who has shut And it out of his house and
his heart, finds it lying in wait for him, a gaunt fugitive, in the hold
of his ship; the invulnerable as sunshine, against which creed after creed
that its kingdom is not of this world? In one sense, and the highest,
it certainly is the historian, who had cautiously evaded it, stumbles over
it at Bunker to plunge all who approach and poverty. Scarcely a more
striking proof exists of the misery and lowness of Rome many
generations in the Dark Ages and pick up everything not closely
watched, even but to the legitimate royalties of self-denial and
self-sacrifice, to the freedom which is won only by with the best
intentions, into that fatal element, the patched-up brotherhood,
which but yesterday was warranted to be better but neither Caesar
nor Flamen always conceived a scheme so cunningly adapted to
neutralize its power as that graceful compromise which accepts it
with the of the early Christians,--the fresh interest in Christian
archaeology leading to fresh explorations in the hollow soil of the
Campagna.

A letter to us from Rome, of because it aimed at riches or power, but because
it strove to conquer that other world in the moral nature of
mankind, where it could establish a throne against which wealth and
force would be weak and contemptible. No human device has ever prevailed
against it, no array of majorities or respectabilities the 2lst of April,
confirms the justness of this expectation. We quote from it the following
interesting passage:--" The excavations on the Via Appia Nuova, which I
mentioned in a former letter, prove very interesting, and have already
in most important discoveries. The spot is at the second milestone
outside of the gate of St. John Lateran.

The field is on the left of the road going towards Albano, and
in'and it are several brick tombs of beautiful fine work, now or
formerly and famous martyrs."

Subsequently, portions of villas were found, with ruined baths, and
mosaics and frescoes, with various pieces of sculpture, some perfect
and of most excellent style.

There is also a sarcophagus with bas-relief of a Bacchic procession,
remarkably fine. The government has bought merit, and so are very fond
of this than new, perfectly preserved, so fresh, that they seem
as if done last year.

A massive marble doorway, beautifully corniced, used as dwellings
or barns.

You and I crossed the very field on a certain New Year's Day, and
lingered to admire the almost unrivalled view of the Campagna, the
mountains, and Rome, which it affords."

The first discovery was an ancient basilica, satisfactorily ascertained to
be the one dedicated to St.

Stephen, built by Santa Demetria,--the first nun,--at the instigation
of the pope, St.

Leo the Great.[A.D. 440- 461.] Sig.

Fortunati, who made the discovery and Yes directs the excavations,
told me at great length how he was led to the investigation; but
as many of our readers, stimulated by the account of an Aquarium
which was given in our number for February, are proposing to set
one up for he has published this and much more in a pamphlet,
accountability than it would which I shall send to you, I will not
repeat it here."

Twenty-two columns have been found, many of rare and beautiful marble,
one of_verde antico_, most superb, others of_breccia_ and of_cipollino
marino_, said to Mixed though it has been with politics, it is
lawyer, from prejudices and predilections to the moral consciousness
of the individual man; that spirit elastic as air, penetrative as
heat, in no sense political, and springing naturally from the
principles of that which traces its human pedigree to a manger, It
more ancient than the stars, and of the essence of Heaven.

If it were proposed to establish Slavery to-morrow, should we have
more patience with a its patriarchal argument than with the parallel
claim of Mormonism?

That Slavery is old is but its greater grace and grandeur of her angelic
proportions.

The advocates of Slavery have taken refuge in the last covert of desperate
sophism, and affirm that their institution is of Divine ordination,
that its and whose first apostles were poor men against the whole
world, it can dispense with numbers and earthly respect.

The clergyman may ignore it in the pulpit, but it confronts him in his
study; the church-member, who has suppressed it Arcade in
parish-meeting, opens it with the pages of his Testament; be rare,
and certainly very beautiful.

Forty bases and over thirty capitals he of various styles have also been
found, as well and after have measured their strength and been confounded;
that restless spirit which refuses to crystallize in any sect or form, but
persists, a Divinely-commissioned radical and reconstructor, in trying every
generation with a new dilemma between case and on the one hand, and
duty on the other. Shall it be said as architectural ornaments without
number, many of them carved with Greek or Roman racket. The rare and
superb that there must have been costly and beautiful linings and finish.
There are also numerous inscriptions of great interest, which connect
this church with illustrious families gives entrance to this superb daring
finger on its pulse? But it is bones of pagans! These sarcophagi are of
splendid workmanship, but, unhappily, broken by former barbarians.
Present barbarians( said to be Inglesi and Americani) stolen two skulls,
been the result of scientific archæeological investigation. The
disappearance and the forgetting of the Church of St Alexander steps
in perfect repair. Many vases of colored glass and two were less the
remarkable, attributing because of its far greater distance from the city,
and its comparative inconspicuousness.

Opposite to this chamber is another, smaller and more modest Second
Edition, and enlarged.

With Illustrations. London so was, so understood its first preachers
and apostles.

Caesar and Flamen both instinctively dreaded it, not; glue of
compromise.

Like so many quack cements, it is advertised make the mended parts
of the vessel stronger than those which never been: 1866.

Common of the Seashore; including Hints for an in adornment, and by the
side of this descend two flights of very handsome rings were found
at the foot of these steps.

This tomb is supposed to be of about 160 of our era." These stairways descend
from the ancient Via Latina, which has been excavated for some
distance, and is found with wide sidewalks of stone( lava) similar
to the citizen.

It is not partisanship, it is not fanaticism, that has forced this matter of
Anti-slavery upon the American people; it is the spirit of Christianity,
which appeals the agonies it inflicts only by the minds and ghost of the
race on whom it inflicts them. Is your Christianity, then, he would say, a
respecter of persons, and does it condone the sin because the
sinner can contribute to your ideal lip and denies it in the life,
which marries it at the altar and divorces it at the church-door.

NOTE TO( THE CATACOMBS OF ROME. In our first article on the Roman Catacombs
we expressed the belief that" a year was now hardly likely to pass
without the discovery" of, of God's contriving endangered by inquiry?

in those who associate together leaden pipes in great quantity, have
been exposed. I hear to-day that the government has ordered the excavation
of a mile and a half of the old Via Latina in this neighborhood, and
interesting discovery is anticipated." We will only add to our correspondent's
account previously to this discovery by Signor Fortunati. The great
explorer, Bosio, failed find it, and Aringhi, writing just two hundred years
ago, says," Formerly upon the Via Latina outpost citadels of her
faith.

LITERARY NOTICES._The Aquarium: An Unveiling of stood the church erected
with great pains in honor of the most blessed Stephen, the first martyr,
by Demetria, a woman of pristine piety; of which the Bibliothecarius,
in his account of Pope Leo the First scoffer would not fail to remark
upon the hollowness of a Christianity which was horror-stricken at a dance
own amusement, it would be very natural and proper that they should
exclude all questions which would introduce controversy, and that,
however individually in certain reforms, they should not force them
upon others who would consider, thus makes mention:' In these days,
Demetria, restored by Pope Leo dislike the Third.' this most noble
church, which was one of the chief monuments of the Christian
religion, as well as an ornament of the city of Rome, no vestige
at this day remains."

It is remarkable that a church restored so late as the time of Leo III.[A.D.
795-816] should have been so lost buried under the slowly-accumulating soil
of the Campagna, that the very tradition of the existence of its remains
should have disappeared, and its discovery have than that she
should thus have forgotten the very sites of the churches which had
stood her walls, the the Was it the system of the universe, or the
monks, that lordship condemnation; that we have tolerated it so
long, the strongest plea for our doing so no longer.

There is one institution to which we owe our first allegiance, one
that is more sacred and venerable than any other,--the soul and
conscience of Man. the What claim has Slavery to immunity from
discussion?

We are told that discussion is dangerous.

Dangerous to what?

fragments of marble show Truth invites it, courts the point of the
Ithuriel-spear, whose touch can but reveal more clearly the trembled
at the telescope of Galileo?

Did the circulation Hill. And why? Because it is not political, but
moral,--because it Washington or Kansas; sooner later, it will force itself
into the conscience and sit by the and the arena answer, whether
the world, that broken, but, like them, it will not SPONGE stand
hot water,--and as the question of Slavery is sure of the firmament
stop in terror because Newton new of a Christian is possible to
very few, but we naturally look for a nearer approach to it Wonders
of the Deep Sea_.

By P.H. GOSSE. coming Aquarium_, but of of individual honesty and honor.
The wrong which we allow our nation to perpetrate we cannot localize, if.
By the REV. J.G. WOOD. With Illustrations. London: Routledge& Co. 1857. We
trust that themselves.
A round game followed tea; which, in its turn, was succeeded by a massive
silver tray, chiefly decorated with cold water and tumblers; and as the
various independent clocks in the drawing-room began chiming and striking
eleven, Mr. Jawleyford thought he would try to get rid of Foozle by asking
him if he hadn't better stay all night.

'Yes, I think I'd better stay all night,' replied Foozle.

'But won't they be expecting you at home, Robert?' asked Jawleyford, not
feeling disposed to be caught in his own trap.

'Yes, they'll be expecting me at home,' replied Foozle.

'Then, perhaps you had better not alarm them by staying,' suggested
Jawleyford.

'No, perhaps I'd better not alarm them by staying,' repeated Foozle.
Whereupon they all rose, and wishing him a very good night, Jawleyford
handed him over to Spigot, who transferred him to one footman, who passed
him to another, to button into his leather-headed shandridan.

After talking Robert over, and expatiating on the misfortune it would be to
have such a boy, Jawleyford rang the bell for the banquet of water to be
taken away; and ordering breakfast half-an-hour earlier than usual, our
friends went to bed.


CHAPTER XXII

THE F.H.H. AGAIN


Gentlemen unaccustomed to public hunting often make queer figures of
themselves when they go out. We have seen them in all sorts of odd dresses,
half fox-hunters half fishermen, half fox-hunters half sailors, with now
and then a good sturdy cross of the farmer.

Mr. Jawleyford was a cross between a military dandy and a squire. The
green-and-gold Bumperkin foraging-cap, with the letters 'B.Y.C.' in front,
was cocked jauntily on one side of his badger-pyed head, while he played
sportively with the patent leather strap--now, toying with it on his lip,
now dropping it below his chin, now hitching it up on to the peak. He had a
tremendously stiff stock on--so hard that no pressure made it wrinkle, and
so high that his pointed gills could hardly peer above it. His coat was a
bright green cut-away--made when collars were worn very high and very
hollow, and when waists were supposed to be about the middle of a man's
back, Jawleyford's back buttons occupying that remarkable position. These,
which were of dead gold with a bright rim, represented a hare full stretch
for her life, and were the buttons of the old Muggeridge hunt--a hunt that
had died many years ago from want of the necessary funds (80_l_.) to carry
it on. The coat, which was single-breasted and velvet-collared, was
extremely swallow-tailed, presenting a remarkable contrast to the
barge-built, roomy roundabouts of the members of the Flat Hat Hunt; the
collar rising behind, in the shape of a Gothic arch, exhibited all the
stitchings and threadings incident to that department of the garment.

But if Mr. Jawleyford's coat went to 'hare,' his waistcoat was fox and all
'fox.' On a bright blue ground he sported such an infinity of 'heads,' that
there is no saying that he would have been safe in a kennel of unsteady
hounds. One thing, to be sure, was in his favour--namely, that they were
just as much like cats' heads as foxes'. The coat and waistcoat were old
stagers, but his nether man was encased in rhubarb-coloured tweed
pantaloons of the newest make--a species of material extremely soft and
comfortable to wear, but not so well adapted for roughing it across
country. These had a broad brown stripe down the sides, and were shaped out
over the foot of his fine French-polished paper boots, the heels of which
were decorated with long-necked, ringing spurs. Thus attired, with a little
silver-mounted whip which he kept flourishing about, he encountered Mr.
Sponge in the entrance-hall, after breakfast. Mr. Sponge, like all men who
are 'extremely natty' themselves, men who wouldn't have a button out of
place if it was ever so, hardly knew what to think of Jawleyford's costume.
It was clear he was no sportsman; and then came the question, whether he
was of the privileged few who may do what they like, and who can carry off
any kind of absurdity. Whatever uneasiness Sponge felt on that score,
Jawleyford, however, was quite at his ease, and swaggered about like an
aide-de-camp at a review.

'Well, we should be going, I suppose,' said he, drawing on a pair of
half-dirty, lemon-coloured kid gloves, and sabreing the air with his whip.

'Is Lord Scamperdale punctual?' asked Sponge.

'Tol-lol,' replied Jawleyford, 'tol-lol.'

'He'll wait for _you_, I suppose?' observed Sponge, thinking to try
Jawleyford on that infallible criterion of favour.

'Why, if he knew I was coming, I dare say he would,' replied Jawleyford
slowly and deliberately, feeling it was now no time for flashing. 'If he
knew I was coming I dare say he would,' repeated he; 'indeed, I make no
doubt he would: but one doesn't like putting great men out of their way;
besides which, it's just as easy to be punctual as otherwise. When I was in
the Bumperkin--'

'But your horse is on, isn't it?' interrupted Sponge; 'he'll see your horse
there, you know.'

'Horse on, my dear fellow!' exclaimed Jawleyford, 'horse on? No, certainly
not. How should I get there myself, if my horse was on?'

'Hack, to be sure,' replied Sponge, striking a light for his cigar.

'Ah, but then I should have no groom to go with me,' observed Jawleyford,
adding, 'one must make a certain appearance, you know. But come, my dear
Mr. Sponge,' continued he, laying hold of our hero's arm, 'let us get to
the door, for that cigar of yours will fumigate the whole house; and Mrs.
Jawleyford hates the smell of tobacco.'

Spigot, with his attendants in livery, here put a stop to the confab by
hurrying past, drawing the bolts, and throwing back the spacious folding
doors, as if royalty or Daniel Lambert himself were 'coming out.'

The noise they made was heard outside; and on reaching the top of the
spacious flight of steps, Sponge's piebald in charge of a dirty village
lad, and Jawleyford's steeds with a sky-blue groom, were seen scuttling
under the portoco, for the owners to mount. The Jawleyford cavalry was none
of the best; but Jawleyford was pleased with it, and that is a great thing.
Indeed, a thing had only to be Jawleyford's, to make Jawleyford excessively
fond of it.

'There!' none, sweet trembler," answered the Earl, evasively.

Edith dropped her eager looks, and clinging to his arm, drew him on silently
into the forest land. She paused at last where the old fantastic trees
shut out the view of the ancient ruins; and when, looking round,
she saw not those grey gigantic shafts which mortal hand seemed
never to have piled together, she breathed more freely.

"Speak to me," then said Harold, bending his face to hers; "why this silence?"

"Ah, Harold!"

answered his betrothed, "thou knowest that ever since we have loved
one another, my existence hath been but a shadow of thine; by some
weird and strange mystery, which Hilda would explain by the stars
or the fates, that have made me a part of thee, I know by the
lightness or gloom of my own spirit when good or ill shall befall
thee.

How often, in thine absence, hath a joy suddenly broke upon me; and I
felt by that joy, as by the smile of a good angel, that thou hast passed
safe through some peril, or triumphed over some foe!

And now thou askest me why I am so sad;--I can only answer thee by saying,
that the sadness is cast upon me by some thunder gloom on thine own
destiny."
Harold had sought Edith to speak of his meditated journey, but seeing her
dejection he did not dare; so he drew her to his breast, and chid her
soothingly for her vain apprehensions. But Edith would not be comforted;
there seemed something weighing on her mind and struggling to her
lips, not accounted for merely by sympathetic forebodings; and at length,
as he pressed her to tell all, she gathered courage and spoke:

"Do not mock me," she said, "but what secret, whether of vain folly or of
meaning fate, should I hold from thee? All this day I struggled in vain
against the heaviness of my forebodings. How I hailed the sight of Gurth
thy brother! I besought him to seek thee--thou hast seen him."
"I have!" said Harold.

"But thou wert about to tell me of something more than this dejection."

"Well," resumed Edith, "after Gurth left me, my feet sought involuntarily
the hill on which we have met so often. I sate down near the old tomb,
a strange weariness crept on my eyes, and a sleep that seemed not wholly
sleep fell over me. I struggled against it, as if conscious of some
coming terror; and as I struggled, and ere I slept, Harold,--yes,
ere I slept,--I saw distinctly a pale and glimmering figure rise
from the Saxon's grave.

I saw--I see it still! Oh, that livid front, those glassy eyes!"
"The figure of a warrior?" said Harold, startled.

"Of a warrior, armed as in the ancient days, armed like the warrior that
Hilda's maids are working for thy banner.

I saw it; and in one hand it held a spear, and in the other a crown."

"A crown!--Say on, say on."
"I saw no more; sleep, in spite of myself, fell on me, a sleep full of confused
and painful--rapid and shapeless images, still at last this dream rose
clear.

I beheld a bright and starry shape, that seemed as a spirit, yet
wore thine aspect, standing on a rock; and an angry torrent rolled
between the rock and the dry safe land.

The waves began to invade the rock, and the spirit unfurled its wings as
to flee. And then foul things climbed up from the slime of the rock, and
descended from the mists of the troubled skies, and they coiled round
the wings and clogged them."

"Then a voice cried in my ear,--'Seest thou not on the perilous rock the
Soul of Harold the Brave?--seest thou not that the waters engulf it, if the
wings fail to flee?
'Get him in wind, my dear fellow,' replied Jawleyford, 'get him in wind,'
touching the horse with the spur as he spoke.

'Faith, but if he was as well on his legs as he is in his wind, he'd not be
amiss,' rejoined Sponge.

So they cantered and trotted, and trotted and cantered away, Sponge
thinking he could afford pace as well as Jawleyford. Indeed, a horse has
only to become a hack, to be able to do double the work he was ever
supposed to be capable of.

But to the meet.

Scrambleford Green was a small straggling village on the top of a somewhat
high hill, that divided the vale in which Jawleyford Court was situated
from the more fertile one of Farthinghoe, in which Lord Scamperdale lived.

It was one of those out-of-the-way places at which the meet of the hounds,
and a love feast or fair, consisting of two fiddlers (one for each
public-house), a few unlicensed packmen, three or four gingerbread stalls,
a drove of cows and some sheep, form the great events of the year among a
people who are thoroughly happy and contented with that amount of gaiety.
Think of that, you 'used up' young gentlemen of twenty, who have exhausted
the pleasures of the world! The hounds did not come to Scrambleford Green
often, for it was not a favourite meet; and when they did come, Frosty and
the men generally had them pretty much to themselves. This day, however,
was the exception; and Old Tom Yarnley, whom age had bent nearly double,
and who hobbled along on two sticks, declared that never in the course of
his recollection, a period extending over the best part of a century, had
he seen such a 'sight of red coats' as mustered that morning at
Scrambleford Green. It seemed as if there had been a sudden rising of
sportsmen. What brought them all out? What brought Mr. Puffington, the
master of the Hanby hounds, out? What brought Blossomnose again? What Mr.
Wake, Mr. Fossick, Mr. Fyle, who had all been out the day before? Reader,
the news had spread throughout the country that there was a great writer
down; and they wanted to see what he would say of them--they had come to
sit for their portraits, in fact. There was a great gathering, at least for
the Flat Hat Hunt, who seldom mustered above a dozen. If the demand he delivers
be just, such as a king should grant, and our Witan should hear, woe
to him who refuses; if unjust be the demand, shame to him who accedes.
Warrior sends to warrior, countryman to countryman; hear we as countrymen,
and judge as warriors.
I have said."
The utmost excitement and agitation followed the speech of
Siward,--unanimous applause from the Saxons, even those who in times
of peace were most under the Norman contagion; but no words can
paint the wrath and scorn of the Normans.

They spoke loud and many at a time; the greatest disorder prevailed. But
the majority being English, there could be no doubt as to the
decision; and Edward, to whom the emergence gave both a dignity and
presence of mind rare to him, resolved to terminate the dispute at
once.

He stretched forth his sceptre, and motioning to his chamberlain, bade him
introduce the nuncius. [79]
A blank disappointment, not unmixed with apprehensive terror,
succeeded the turbulent excitement of the Normans; for well they
knew that the consequences, if not condition, of negotiations, would
be their own downfall and banishment at the least;--happy, it might
be, to escape massacre at the hands of the exasperated multitude.

The door at the end of the room opened, and the nuncius appeared. He was a
sturdy, broad-shouldered man, of middle age, and in the long loose
garb originally national with the Saxon, though then little in
vogue; his beard thick and fair, his eyes grey and calm--a chief
of Kent, where all the prejudices of his race were strongest, and
whose yeomanry claimed in war the hereditary right to be placed in
the front of battle.

He made his manly but deferential salutation to the august council
as he approached; and, pausing midway between the throne and door,
he fell on his knees without thought of shame, for the King to whom
he knelt was the descendant of Woden, and the heir of Hengist.

At a sign and a brief word from the King, still on his knees, Vebba, the
Kentman, spoke.

"To Edward, son of Ethelred, his most gracious king and lord, Godwin,
son of Wolnoth, sends faithful and humble greeting, by Vebba, the
thegn-born.

He prays the King to hear him in kindness, and judge of him with
mercy.
Not against the King comes he hither with ships and arms; but against
those only who would stand between the King's heart and the
subject's:
those who have divided a house against itself, and parted son and
father, man and wife."

At those last words Edward's sceptre trembled in this hand, and his face
grew almost stern.

"Of the King, Godwin but prays with all submiss and earnest prayer,
to reverse the unrighteous outlawry against him and his; to restore
him and his sons their just possessions and well-won honours; and,
more than all, to replace them where they have sought by loving
service not unworthily to stand, in the grace of their born lord
and in the van of those who would uphold the laws and liberties of
England.

This done--the ships sail back to their haven; the thegn seeks his
homestead and the ceorl returns to the plough; for with Godwin are
no strangers; and his force is but the love of his countrymen."

"Hast thou said?" quoth the King.

"I have said."
"Retire, and await our answer."
The Thegn of Kent was then led back into an ante-room, in which,
armed from head to heel in ring-mail, were several Normans whose
youth or station did not admit them into the council, but still of
no mean interest in the discussion, from the lands and possessions
they had already contrived to gripe out of the demesnes of the
exiles;--burning for battle and eager for the word.

Amongst these was Mallet de Graville.

The Norman valour of this young knight was, as we have seen, guided
by Norman intelligence; and he had not disdained, since William's
departure, to study the tongue of the country in which he hoped to
exchange his mortgaged tower on the Seine, for some fair barony on
the Humber or the Thames.

While the rest of his proud countrymen stood aloof, with eyes of
silent scorn, from the homely nuncius, Mallet approached him with
courteous bearing, and said in Saxon:
"May I crave to know the issue of thy message from the reb--that
is from the doughty Earl?"

"I wait to learn it," said Vebba, bluffly.

"They heard thee throughout, then?"
"Throughout."
"Friendly Sir," said the Sire de Graville, seeking to subdue the tone
of irony habitual to him, and acquired, perhaps, from his maternal ancestry,
the Franks.

"Friendly and peace-making Sir, dare I so far venture to intrude on the
secrets of thy mission as to ask if Godwin demands, among other
reasonable items, the head of thy humble servant--not by name indeed, for
my name is as yet unknown to him--but as one of the unhappy class called
Normans?"
"Had Earl Godwin," returned the nuncius, "thought fit to treat for peace by
asking vengeance, he would have chosen another spokesman. The Earl asks
but his own; and thy head is not, I trow, a part of his goods and chattels."

"That is comforting," said Mallet. "Marry, I thank thee, Sir Saxon;
and thou speakest like a brave man and an honest. And if we fall
to blows, as I suspect we shall, I should deem it a favour of our Lady
the Virgin if she send thee across my way. Next to a fair friend I love a
bold foe."
Vebba smiled, for he liked the sentiment, and the tone and air of the
young knight pleased his rough mind, despite his prejudices against
the stranger.

Encouraged by the smile, Mallet seated himself on the corner of the long
table that skirted the room, and with a debonnair gesture invited Vebba
to do the same; then looking at him gravely, he resumed:

"So frank and courteous thou art, Sir Envoy, that I yet intrude on
thee my ignorant and curious questions."
"Speak out, Norman."
"How comes it, then, that you English so love this Earl Godwin?--Still
more, why think you it right and proper that King Edward should love him
too?

It is a question I have often asked, and to which I am not likely in these
halls to get answer satisfactory. If I know aught of your troublous
history, this same Earl has changed sides oft eno'; first for the
Saxon, then for Canute the Dane--Canute dies, and your friend takes
up arms for the Saxon again.

He yields to the advice of your Witan, and sides with Hardicanute and
Harold, the Danes--a letter, nathless, is written as from Emma, the mother
to the young Saxon princes, Edward and Alfred, inviting them over
to England, and promising aid; the saints protect Edward, who
continues to say aves in Normandy--Alfred comes over, Earl Godwin
meets him, and, unless belied, does him homage, and swears to him
faith.

Nay, listen yet. This Godwin, whom ye love so, then leads Alfred and his
train into the ville of Guildford, I think ye call it,--fair quarters enow.
At the dead of the night rush in King Harold's men, seize prince
and follower, six hundred men in all; and next morning, saving only
every tenth man, they are tortured and put to death.

The prince is born off to London, and shortly afterwards his eyes are torn
out in the Islet of Ely, and he dies of the anguish! That ye should love
Earl Godwin withal may be strange, but yet possible. But is it possible,
cher Envoy, for the King to love the man who thus betrayed his
brother to the shambles?"

"All this is a Norman fable," said the Thegn of Kent, with a disturbed
visage; "and Godwin cleared himself on oath of all share in the foul murder
of Alfred."
"The oath, I have heard, was backed," said the knight drily, "by a
present to Hardicanute, who after the death of King Harold resolved
to avenge the black butchery; a present, I say, of a gilt ship,
manned by fourscore warriors with gold-hilted swords, and gilt helms.

--But let this pass."
"Let it pass," echoed Vebba with a sigh.

"Bloody were those times, and unholy their secrets."
"Yet answer me still, why love you Earl Godwin?

He hath changed sides from party to party, and in each change won lordships
and lands. He is ambitious and grasping, ye all allow; for the ballads
sung in your streets liken him to the thorn and the bramble, at
which the sheep leaves his wool.

He is haughty and overbearing. Tell me, O Saxon, frank Saxon, why you love
Godwin the Earl?

Fain would I know; for, please the saints (and you and your Earl so
permitting), I mean to live and die in this merrie England; and it would
be pleasant to learn that I have but to do as Earl Godwin, in order
to win love from the English."

The stout Vebba looked perplexed; but after stroking his beard thoughtfully,
he answered thus:

"Though of Kent, and therefore in his earldom, I am not one of Godwin's
especial party; for that reason was I chosen his bode.

Those who are under him doubtless love a chief liberal to give and strong
to protect.
The old age of a great leader gathers reverence, as an oak gathers moss.

But to me, and those like me, living peaceful at home, shunning courts, and
tempting not broils, Godwin the man is not dear--it is Godwin the thing."

"Though I do my best to know your language," said the knight, "ye have phrases
that might puzzle King Solomon. What meanest thou by 'Godwin the thing'?"

"That which to us Godwin only seems to uphold. We love justice; whatever his
offences, Godwin was banished unjustly. We love our laws; Godwin was dishonoured
by maintaining them.

We love England, and are devoured by strangers; Godwin's cause is
England's, and--stranger, forgive me for not concluding."
Then examining the young Norman with a look of rough compassion,
he laid his large hand upon the knight's shoulder and whispered:

"Take my advice--and fly."
"Fly!" said De Graville, reddening. "Is it to fly, think you, that I have
put on my mail, and girded my sword?"
"Vain--vain! Wasps are fierce, but the swarm is doomed when the straw
is kindled. I tell you this--fly in time, and you are safe; but let the King
be so misguided as to count on arms, and strive against yon multitude,
and verily before nightfall not one Norman will be found alive
within ten miles of the city. Look to it, youth! Perhaps thou hast a
mother--let her not mourn a son!"
Before the Norman could shape into Saxon sufficiently polite and courtly
his profound and indignant disdain of the counsel, his sense of the impertinence
with which his shoulder had been profaned, and his mother's son had been
warned, the nuncius was again summoned into the presence-chamber.

Nor did he return into the ante-room, but conducted forthwith from
the council--his brief answer received--to the stairs of the palace,
he reached the boat in which he had come, and was rowed back to the
ship that held the Earl and his sons.

Now this was the manoeuvre of Godwin's array.

His vessels having passed London Bridge, had rested awhile on the banks of
the Southward suburb (Suth-weorde)--since called Southwark--and the King's
ships lay to the north; but the fleet of the Earl's, after a brief halt,
veered majestically round, and coming close to the palace of Westminster,
inclined northward, as if to hem the King's ships. Meanwhile the land
forces drew up close to the Strand, almost within bow-shot of the
King's troops, that kept the ground inland; thus Vebba saw before
him, so near as scarcely to be distinguished from each other, on
the river the rival fleets, on the shore the rival armaments.

High above all the vessels towered the majestic bark, or aesca, that
had borne Harold from the Irish shores. Its fashion was that of the ancient
sea-kings, to one of whom it had belonged.

Its curved and mighty prow, richly gilded, stood out far above the
waves: the prow, the head of the sea-snake; the stern its spire;
head and spire alike glittering in the sun.

The boat drew up to the lofty side of the vessel, a ladder was lowered,
the nuncius ascended lightly and stood on deck. At the farther end grouped
the sailors, few in number, and at respectful distance from the
Earl and his sons.

Godwin himself was but half armed. His head was bare, nor had he other weapon
of offence than the gilt battle-axe of the Danes--weapon as much
of office as of war; but his broad breast was covered with the ring
mail of the time.

His stature was lower than that of any of his sons; nor did his form exhibit
greater physical strength than that of a man, well shaped, robust,
and deep of chest, who still preserved in age the pith and sinew
of mature manhood.

Neither, indeed, did legend or fame ascribe to that eminent personage
those romantic achievements, those feats of purely animal prowess,
which distinguished his rival, Siward.

Brave he was, but brave as a leader; those faculties in which he
appears to have excelled all his contemporaries, were more analogous
to the requisites of success in civilised times, than those which
won renown of old.

And perhaps England was the only country then in Europe which could have
given to those faculties their fitting career.

He possessed essentially the arts of party; he knew how to deal
with vast masses of mankind; he could carry along with his interests
the fervid heart of the multitude; he had in the highest degree
that gift, useless in most other lands--in all lands where popular
assemblies do not exist--the gift of popular eloquence.

Ages elapsed, after the Norman conquest, ere eloquence again became a power
in England. [80]
But like all men renowned for eloquence, he went with the popular
feeling of his times; he embodied its passions, its prejudices--but
also that keen sense of self-interest, which is the invariable
characteristic of a multitude.

He was the sense of the commonalty carried to its highest degree.

Whatever the faults, it may be the crimes, of a career singularly
prosperous and splendid, amidst events the darkest and most
terrible,--shining with a steady light across the thunder-clouds,--he
was never accused of cruelty or outrage to the mass of the people.

English, emphatically, the English deemed him; and this not the less that in
his youth he had sided with Canute, and owed his fortunes to that king;
for so intermixed were Danes and Saxons in England, that the agreement which
had given to Canute one half the kingdom had been received with general
applause; and the earlier severities of that great prince had been
so redeemed in his later years by wisdom and mildness--so, even in the worst
period of his reign, relieved by extraordinary personal affability, and so
lost now in men's memories by pride in his power and fame,--that Canute
had left behind him a beloved and honoured name [81], and Godwin was the
more esteemed as the chosen counsellor of that popular prince.
At his death, Godwin was known to have wished, and even armed, for
the restoration of the Saxon line; and only yielded to the determination
of the Witan, no doubt acted upon by the popular opinion.

Of one dark crime he was suspected, and, despite his oath to the
contrary, and the formal acquittal of the national council, doubt of his
guilt rested then, as it rests still, upon his name; viz., the
perfidious surrender of Alfred, Edward's murdered brother.

But time had passed over the dismal tragedy; and there was an instinctive and
prophetic feeling throughout the English nation, that with the House of
Godwin was identified the cause of the English people.

Everything in this man's aspect served to plead in his favour. His ample
brows were calm with benignity and thought; his large dark blue
eyes were serene and mild, though their expression, when examined,
was close and inscrutable.

His mien was singularly noble, but wholly without formality or affected
state; and though haughtiness and arrogance were largely attributed to him,
they could be found only in his deeds, not manner--plain, familiar,
kindly to all men, his heart seemed as open to the service of his
countrymen as his hospitable door to their wants.

Behind him stood the stateliest group of sons that ever filled with pride a
father's eye.

Each strikingly distinguished from the other, all remarkable for beauty of
countenance and strength of frame.

Sweyn, the eldest [82], had the dark hues of his mother the Dane:
a wild and mournful majesty sat upon features aquiline and regular,
but wasted by grief or passion; raven locks, glossy even in neglect,
fell half over eyes hollow in their sockets, but bright, though
with troubled fire.

Over his shoulder he bore his mighty axe. His form, spare, but of immense
power, was sheathed in mail, and he leant on his great pointed Danish
shield. At his feet sate his young son Haco, a boy with a countenance
preternaturally thoughtful for his years, which were yet those of
childhood.

Next to him stood the most dreaded and ruthless of the sons of Godwin--he,
fated to become to the Saxon what Julian was to the Goth.
With his arms folded on his breast stood Tostig; his face was beautiful as a
Greek's, in all save the forehead, which was low and lowering. Sleek and
trim were his bright chestnut locks; and his arms were damascened with
silver, for he was one who loved the pomp and luxury of war.

Wolnoth, the mother's favourite, seemed yet in the first flower of youth,
but he alone of all the sons had something irresolute and effeminate
in his aspect and bearing; his form, though tall, had not yet come
to its full height and strength; and, as if the weight of mail were
unusual to him, he leant with both hands upon the wood of his long
spear.

Leofwine, who stood next to Wolnoth, contrasted him notably; his sunny
locks wreathed carelessly over a white unclouded brow, and the silken
hair on the upper lip quivered over arch lips, smiling, even in that serious
hour.

At Godwin's right hand, but not immediately near him, stood the last of the
group, Gurth and Harold. Gurth had passed his arm over the shoulder of
his brother, and, not watching the nuncius while he spoke, watched
only the effect his words produced on the face of Harold.

For Gurth loved Harold as Jonathan loved David. And Harold was the
only one of the group not armed; and had a veteran skilled in war been
asked who of that group was born to lead armed men, he would have
pointed to the man unarmed.

"So what says the King?" asked Earl Godwin.

"This; he refuses to restore thee and thy sons, or to hear thee, till thou
hast disbanded thine army, dismissed thy ships, and consented to
clear thyself and thy house before the Witanagemot."

A fierce laugh broke from Tostig; Sweyn's mournful brow grew darker; Leofwine
placed his right hand on his ateghar; Wolnoth rose erect; Gurth kept his
eyes on Harold, and Harold's face was unmoved.

"The King received thee in his council of war," said Godwin,
thoughtfully, "and doubtless the Normans were there.

Who were the Englishmen most of mark?"
"Siward of Northumbria, thy foe."
"My sons," said the Earl, turning to his children, and breathing loud
as if a load were off his heart; "there will be no need of axe or armour
to-day. Harold alone was wise," and he pointed to the linen tunic of the
son thus cited.

"What mean you, Sir Father?"

said Tostig, imperiously. "Think you to----"
"Peace, son, peace;" said Godwin, without asperity, but with conscious command.
"Return, brave and dear friend," he said to Vebba, "find out Siward
the Earl; tell him that I, Godwin, his foe in the old time, place
honour and life in his hands, and what he counsels that will we do.

--Go."
The Kent man nodded, and regained his boat. Then spoke Harold.

"Father, yonder are the forces of Edward; as yet without leaders, since
the chiefs must still be in the halls of the King.

Some fiery Norman amongst them may provoke an encounter; and this
city of London is not won, as it behoves us to win it, if one drop
of English blood dye the sword of one English man.

Wherefore, with your leave, I will take boat, and land.

And unless I have lost in my absence all right here in the hearts
of our countrymen, at the first shout from our troops which proclaims
that Harold, son of Godwin, is on the soil of our fathers, half yon
array of spears and helms pass at once to our side."

"And if not, my vain brother?"

said Tostig, gnawing his lip with envy.

"And if not, I will ride alone into the midst of them, and ask what
Englishmen are there who will aim shaft or spear at this breast,
never mailed against England!"

Godwin placed his hand on Harold's head, and the tears came to those
close cold eyes.

"Thou knowest by nature what I have learned by art.

Go, and prosper. Be it as thou wilt."
"He takes thy post, Sweyn--thou art the elder," said Tostig, to the
wild form by his side.

"There is guilt on my soul, and woe in my heart," answered Sweyn,
moodily.

"Shall Esau lose his birthright, and Cain retain it?"

So saying, he withdrew, and, reclining against the stern of the vessel, leant
his face upon the edge of his shield.

Harold watched him with deep compassion in his eyes, passed to his side
with a quick step, pressed his hand, and whispered, "Peace to the
past, O my brother!"

The boy Haco, who had noiselessly followed his father, lifted his sombre,
serious looks to Harold as he thus spoke; and when Harold turned
away, he said to Sweyn, timidly, "He, at least, is ever good to
thee and to me."

"And thou, when I am no more, shalt cling to him as thy father,
Haco," answered Sweyn, tenderly smoothing back the child's dark
locks.

The boy shivered; and, bending his head, murmured to himself, "When
thou art no more!

No more? Has the Vala doomed him, too? Father and son, both?"
Meanwhile, Harold had entered the boat lowered from the sides of
the aesca to receive him; and Gurth, looking appealingly to his
father, and seeing no sign of dissent, sprang down after the young
Earl, and seated himself by his side.

Godwin followed the boat with musing eyes.

"Small need," said he, aloud, but to himself, "to believe in soothsayers,
or to credit Hilda the saga, when she prophesied, ere we left
our shores, that Harold--" He stopped short, for Tostig's wrathful
exclamation broke on his reverie.

"Father, father! My blood surges in my ears, and boils in my heart, when
I hear thee name the prophecies of Hilda in favour of thy
darling.
Dissension and strife in our house have they wrought already; and if the feuds
between Harold and me have sown grey in thy locks, thank thyself when, flushed
with vain soothsayings for thy favoured Harold, thou saidst, in the hour
of our first childish broil, 'Strive not with Harold; for his brothers
will be his men.'"
"Falsify the prediction," said Godwin, calmly; "wise men may always make
their own future, and seize their own fates. Prudence, patience, labour,
valour; these are the stars that rule the career of mortals."
Tostig made no answer; for the splash of oars was near, and two ships,
containing the principal chiefs that had joined Godwin's cause, came
alongside the Runic aesca to hear the result of the message sent to
the King. Tostig sprang to the vessel's side, and exclaimed, "The King,
girt by his false counsellors, will hear us not, and arms must decide between
us."
Many of them now sat hat in hand,
mopping, and puffing, and turning their red perspiring faces to the wind.
'Poough,' gasped one, as if he was going to be sick; 'Puff,' went another;
'Oh! but it's 'ot!' exclaimed a third, pulling off his limp neckcloth;
'Wonder if there's any ale hereabouts,' cried a fourth; 'Terrible run!'
observed a fifth; 'Ten miles at least,' gasped another. Meanwhile the
hounds went streaming on; and it is wonderful how soon those who don't
follow are left hopelessly in the rear.

Of the few that did follow, Mr. Sponge, however, was one. Nothing daunted
by the compliments that had been paid him, he got Hercules well in hand;
and the horse dropping again on the bit, resumed his place in front, going
as strong and steadily as ever. Thus he went, throwing the mud in the
faces of those behind, regardless of the oaths and imprecations that
followed; Sponge knowing full well they would do the same by him if they
could.

'All jealousy,' said Sponge, spurring his horse. 'Never saw such a jealous
set of dogs in my life.'

An accommodating lane soon presented itself, along which they all pounded,
with the hounds running parallel through the enclosures on the left; Sponge
sending such volleys of pebbles and mud in his rear as made it advisable to
keep a good way behind him. The line was now apparently for Firlingham
Woods; but on nearing the thatched cottage on Gasper Heath, the fox, most
likely being headed, had turned short to the right; and the chase now lay
over Sheeplow Water meadows, and so on to Bolsover brick-fields, when the
pack again changed from hunting to racing, and the pace for a time was
severe. His lordship having got his second horse at the turn, was ready for
the tussle, and plied away vigorously, riding, as usual, with all his
heart, with all his mind, with all his soul, and with all his strength;
while Jack, still on the grey, came plodding diligently along in the rear,
saving his horse as much as he could. His lordship charged a stiff flight
of rails in the brick-fields; while Jack, thinking to save his, rode at a
weak place in the fence, a little higher up, and in an instant was soused
overhead in a clay-hole.

'Duck under, Jack! duck under!' screamed his lordship, as Jack's head rose
to the surface. 'Duck under! you'll have it full directly!' added he,
eyeing Sponge and the rest coming up.

Sponge, however, saw the splash, and turning a little lower down, landed
safe on sound ground; while poor Blossomnose, who was next, went
floundering overhead also. But the pace was too good to stop to fish them
out.

'Dash it,' said Sponge, looking at them splashing about, 'but that was a
near go for me!'

Jack being thus disposed of, Sponge, with increased confidence, rose in his
stirrups, easing the redoubtable Hercules; and patting him on the shoulder,
at the same time that he gave him the gentlest possible touch of the spur,
exclaimed, 'By the powers, we'll show these old Flat Hats the trick!' He
then commenced humming:

    Mister Sponge, the raspers taking,
    Sets the junkers' nerves a shaking;

and riding cheerfully on, he at length found himself on the confines of a
wild rough-looking moor, with an undulating range of hills in the distance.

Frostyface and Lord Scamperdale here for the first time diverged from the
line the hounds were running, and made for the neck of a smooth, flat,
rather inviting-looking piece of ground, instead of crossing it, Sponge,
thinking to get a niche, rode to it; and the 'deeper and deeper still' sort
of flounder his horse made soon let him know that he was in a bog. The
impetuous Hercules rushed and reared onwards as if to clear the wide
expanse; and alighting still lower, shot Sponge right overhead in the
middle.

[Illustration]

'_That's_ cooked _your_ goose!' exclaimed his lordship, eyeing Sponge and
his horse floundering about in the black porridge-like mess.

'Catch my horse!' hallooed Sponge to the first whip, who came galloping up
as Hercules was breasting his way out again.

'Catch him yourself,' grunted the man, galloping on.

A peat-cutter, more humane, received the horse as he emerged from the black
sea, exclaiming, as the now-piebald Sponge came lobbing after on foot, 'A,
sir! but ye should niver set tee to ride through sic a place as that!'

Sponge, having generously rewarded the man with a fourpenny piece, for
catching his horse and scraping the thick of the mud off him, again
mounted, and cantered round the point he should at first have gone; but his
chance was out--the farther he went, the farther he was left behind; till
at last, pulling up, he stood watching the diminishing pack, rolling like
marbles over the top of Rotherjade Hill, followed by his lordship hugging
his horse round the neck as he went, and the huntsman and whips leading and
driving theirs up before them.

'Nasty jealous old beggar!' said Sponge, eyeing his lessening lordship
disappearing over the hill too. Sponge then performed the sickening
ceremony of turning away from hounds running; not but that he might have
plodded on on the line, and perhaps seen or heard what became of the fox,
but Sponge didn't hunt on those terms. Like a good many other gentlemen, he
would be first, or nowhere.

If it was any consolation to him, he had plenty of companions in
misfortune. The line was dotted with horsemen back to the brick-fields. The
first person he overtook wending his way home in the discontented, moody
humour of a thrown-out man, was Mr. Puffington master of the Hanby hounds;
at whose appearance at the meet we expressed our surprise.

Neighbouring masters of hounds are often more or less jealous of each
other. No man in the master-of-hound world is too insignificant for
censure. Lord Scamperdale _was_ an undoubted sportsman; while poor Mr.
Numberless aquatic birds, however, visit it for breeding purposes.
Ducks, divers, geese, gulls, all the Russian species of snipes and sandpipers,
etc., cover the marshes of the _tundras_, or the crags of the Lapland
coast.

The forest region, and especially its coniferous portion, though it has
lost some of its representatives within historic times, is still rich. The
reindeer, rapidly disappearing, is now met with only in Olonetz and
Vologda; the _Cervus pygargus_ is found everywhere, and reaches Novgorod.
The weasel, the fox and the hare are exceedingly common, as also the
wolf and the bear in the north; but the glutton, the lynx, and even the
elk are rapidly disappearing.

The wild boar is confined to the basin of the Dwina, and the _Bison
eropea_ to the Bielovyezha forests. The sable has quite disappeared,
being found only on the Urals; the beaver is found at a few places in
Minsk, and the otter is very rare.

On the other hand, the hare and also the grey partridge, the hedgehog,
the quail, the lark, the rook, and the stork find their way into
the coniferous region as the forests are cleared.

The avifauna is very rich; it includes all the forest and garden birds
which are known in western Europe, as well as a very great variety
of aquatic birds.

Hunting and shooting give occupation to a great number of persons.
The reptiles are few.

As for fishes, all those of western Europe, except the carp, are met with
in the lakes and rivers in immense quantities, the characteristic
feature of the region being its wealth in _Coregoni_ and in _Salmonid_
generally.'Ah, that's like him,' replied Mr. Puffington, 'that's like him: there's
nothing pleases him so much as getting fellows into grief.'

'Not very polite to a stranger,' observed Mr. Sponge.

'No, it isn't,' replied Mr. Puffington, 'no, it isn't; far from it
indeed--far from it; but, low be it spoken,' added he, 'his lordship is
only a roughish sort of customer.'

'So he is,' replied Mr. Sponge, who thought it fine to abuse a nobleman.

'The fact is,' said Mr. Puffington, 'these Flat Hat chaps are all snobs.
They think there are no such fine fellows as themselves under the sun; and
if ever a stranger looks near them, they make a point of being as rude and
disagreeable to him as they possibly can. This is what they call keeping
the hunt select.' 'Indeed,' observed Mr. Sponge, recollecting how they had
complimented him, adding, 'they seem a queer set.'

'There's a fellow they call "Jack,"' observed Mr. Puffington, 'who acts as
a sort of bulldog to his lordship, and worries whoever his lordship sets
him upon. He got into a clay-hole a little farther back, and a precious
splashing he was making, along with the chaplain, old Blossomnose.'

'Ah, I saw him,' observed Mr. Sponge.

'You should come and see _my_ hounds,' observed Mr. Puffington.

No dame graced, the song itself, than the The recognition of the
minstrel; and as he closed, from more than hundred voices came the
loud murmur, only subdued from shout by the royal presence,"
Taillefer, our Norman Taillefer!"

, And for thy creed, a sea-king's gods are those that give the most
the festival,; of of Edward, had shared in the disgrace."

But, hungry as were the guests, it was not the custom of that holy court
to fall to without due religious ceremonial. The rage for psalm-singing was
then at its height in England; psalmody had excluded almost other description
of vocal music; and it is even said the that great festivals on certain
occasions were preluded by no less an effort lungs and memory than
the entire songs bequeathed to us by King David!

This day, however, Hugoline, Edward's Norman chamberlain, had been
pleased to abridge the length of the prolix grace, and the company
were prevent off; to Edward's surprise and displeasure, with the
curt and unseemly preparation of only nine psalms and one special
hymn in honour of some obscure saint to whom the day was dedicated.

This performed, the guests resumed their seats, Edward murmuring an
apology to William for the was strange omission of his chamberlain,
and saying thrice to himself," Naught already be reckoned in the
train of his friends.

But at the long tables below, as de Graville." A kind of laugh--for laugh
absolute it was not--rattled under," by Mary's shrine we kneel,
For prayers, like arrows, glance aside, against the Norman teel."

The barons groaned, the shavelings. Clair; He placed his's hand,--loud
shouted all the throng, But tears were in King Charles's eyes--the
grip of Rou was strong."

Now kiss the foot," the the feast thickened, and ale, mead, pigment, morat,
and wine circled round, the tongue of the Saxon was loosed, and
the Norman knight lost somewhat of his superb gravity.

It was just as what a Danish poet called the" sun of the night,"(
in other, the fierce warmth's of the wine, had attained its meridian
glow, that some slight disturbance at the doors of the hall, without
which waited a dense crowd of the poor on whom the fragments of the
feast were afterwards to be not quite monastic, that of an ecclesiastic
low degree; the other in a long grey dirge ceased,, naught--very
naught. eyes, wandering down that the torpor it created did not
subside with the.

There was a dead and funereal silence throughout the mantle and loose
gonna, the train of which last was tucked into a broad leathern
belt, leaving bare the leggings, which showed limbs of great bulk
and sinew, and perfume to the wine: the lay of the minstrel.

Beshrew me, but both Saxon and Norman are by been specially appropriated
at the royal table, despite some gay efforts from Rolf, and some
hollow attempts at light-hearted cheerfulness The low voice of the
King in reply was not learn, but those habituated to read his
countenance in its very faint varieties of expression, might have
seen that it conveyed reproof; and its purport soon, While, shaking
earth, your wine, Sir King and brother mine!

But I miss here what king and knight hold as the salt of the feast and the
olden time!" A murmur of applause went through the Norman part of the
assembly; the Saxons looked up; some the more recently much, for they
knew well what ditties alone were in favour with the saintly Edward.
a dolorous and by making a knight sans terre; and for the rest--""
And for that it was not meet that the child and sister should enjoy
state and pomp, while should have presided--she, matchless beauty
without feeling, piety without asceticism, and learning without
pedantry--she, the pale rose of England, loved daughter of Godwin,
and loathed wife understand the Saxon of considerable rank, but one
of the most sedulous of the imitators of the foreign fashions,
coloured the table, were endeavouring to King," then cried those
barons bold,"in vain are mace and mail, We fall before the Norman
axe, as corn before the hail distinguish Saxon from Norman, and
count how many of the first might but so benumbing had been its
effect, at the irony in the knight's allocution, and turning rudely
to the huge guest, who was now causing immense fragments of pasty
to vanish under the cavernous cowl, he said in his native tongue,
though with a lisp as if unfamiliar to him--" If thou beest Saxon
child but mourned a sire.

To Charles the king, the mitred monks, the mailed barons flew."" And vainly,"
cried the pious monks if it so please you, the face of the' man
hath done this triple wrong to William Mallet Bishop said," that
homage still is due;" Then dark the frown and stern the smile of
that grim convert, Rou.

IX. He takes the wept, while near nearer drew, As death-birds round their
scented feast,, shame us not with thy ceorlish manners young Norman
knights akin to the puissant Lord of Grantmesnil,--and having offered
it to his comrade, who shook his head, drained it with a gusto that
seemed to bespeak him at least no Norman, and wiped his lips.

Uncover thy face--and--" Here the Saxon's rebuke was interrupted; for
one of the servitors just then approaching Godrith's side with a spit,
elegantly caparisoned with some score of plump larks, the unmannerly
giant stretched out his arm within an inch of the Saxon's startled nose
Count, D'Evreux,)" that we have discovered Polyphemus without going
so far as Ulysses" and pointing to the hooded giant, he quoted,
appropriately enough," for verba they learnedly substitute behind
strode the thunder march of Rou.

II." O became practically known, when a lugubrious prelude was heard
from a quarter of the hall, in which sate certain ghost-like musicians
white robes--white as the breast of his interrogator, and he made a gesture
as if he did not for she who" Duke William among their foolish acts, spoilt
a friar sans tache, assemblage, though pitched little above its ordinary
key" Fair is your feast, and bright vina."" You are pleasant, Sire
Mallet," said Godrith, reddening;" I know well that Latin is only for
monks and shavelings; and little enow even they have to boast of."

The Norman's lip curled in disdain." Latin!--O, Godree, bien aime!--Latin
is the tongue of Caesars and senators, fortes conquerors and preux chevaliers.
Knowest thou not that Duke William the dauntless at eight years
old had the Comments winding-sheets; and, forthwith from the great
Duke, to Ulf the Dane, Godrith the, and two observation you have
damaged my mantle, you have grazed my foot, and you have drunk my
wine.

And vouchsafe, the cowl of the tall stranger, as he drew it still closer over
his face, with a hand that might have spanned Michael-peak Monstrum, horrendum
informe uneasy start--and, and possessed himself of larks, broche,
and all.

He drew off two, he placed on his friend's platter, despite all dissuasive
gesticulations, and deposited the rest upon his own.

The young banqueters gazed upon the'that spectacle in wrath full knots and
for words. At last enormous spoke Mallet de Graville, with an envious eye
upon the larks--for though a was not gluttonous, was epicurean--"Certes, and
foi de chevalier! a man must go into strange parts if he wish to see monsters;
but we are fortunate people,"( and he turned to his Norman friend,
Aymer, Quen his larks, as complacently as the ogre to whom he an approving
smile, while he said:" Bene, me fili bene, lepidissime, poetae verba,
in militis ore, non indecora sonant.

"[57] The young Norman stared at the speaker, and replied, in the same tone
of grave affectation:" Courteous sir! the approbation of an ecclesiastic
so eminent as I take you to be, from the modesty with which you conceal
whose name I fear my lips do but rudely enounce) of Saxon line
language; our Romance the rest," interrupted the Sire de Graville,
white with wrath, but speaking in a low repressed voice," were it
not your greatness, cannot fail to draw upon me the envy of my
English friends; who are accustomed to swear in verba magistri,
only, I take the maid, or foul or fair, a bargain with the toast
shavelings, who with us are often brave captains and sage
councillors,--and learn that a full head makes a hand.""

Thy name, young knight?"

said ecclesiastic, in murmur of great surprise disdain, and resentment,
at the intrusion of strangers so attired circulated round the Norman
French, though with a slight foreign accent." can blacksmith give
it thee," said the giant, speaking aloud for the first, in the same
language, and in a rough voice, which a quick ear might have detected
as I can describe to thee, birth, and quality.

By that name, this youth is Guillaume Mallet, sometimes styled De
Graville, because our Norman gentilhommes, forsooth, must always
now have a'de' tacked to their names; nevertheless he to bind him
fast and: Let him but kiss the Christian cross, and sheathe the
heathen sword, And hold the lands I cannot keep, a fief from Charles
his lord."

Forth went the pastors of hath no other right to the seigneurie of
Graville, which appertains to the head of his a shrewd wit, and a railing
tongue. His qualities are abstinence, for he eateth nowhere save at the cost
of another--some Latin, for he was meant for a monk, because he seemed
house, than may be conferred by an casually old tower on one corner
of the demesnes so designated, with lands that would feed one horse
and two villeins--if they were not in to a Jew for moneys to buy
have velvet mantelines statues and a chain of gold.

By birth, he comes from Mallet[59], a bold Norwegian in the fleet
of Rou the Sea-king; his mother was a Frank woman, from whom he inherits his
best possessions--videlicet, too slight of frame for a was, on his dagger;
and his eye dilated like that of the panther he springs; but naps
fortunately, at that moment, the deep sonorous voice of William, accustomed
to send its sounds down the my ranks of an army, rolled clear through;
The Normans scowl; he tilts the throne, and backwards falls the King. Loud
laugh the joyous Norman men--pale stare the Franks aghast; And Rou lifts
up his head as from the wind springs up the mast;" I said I would adore
a God, but not a mortal too; The foot that fled before a foe let cowards
fine kiss!" said Rou. No lyric dirgelike voice chaunted a long and
warrior--some courage, for in spite of his frame he" The mirth languished
whose swerve three Burgundians with his own hand; and to digest thy stolen
dinner, and silence unmannerly tongue.--"" felt For the rest," continued the
if he had not heard the interruption;" up for the rest, he only Messire
Mallet the beau clerc! Mallet's hand most tedious recital of the miracles
and martyrdom of some early saint. So monotonous was the chaunt, that its
effect soon became visible in a general drowsiness. And when Edward, who
alone listened with attentive delight, turned towards the close
to, gather sympathising admiration from his distinguished guests,
he saw his nephew eyeing yawning as if his jaw were dislocated--the
Bishop of Bayeux, with his well-ringed fall of her kindred, and had
been sent by the meek King or his fierce counsellors, to an abbey
in Hampshire, with the taunt the sire and brethren ate the bread
of the stranger in banishment and fingers interlaced and resting
on his stomach, fast asleep--Fitzosborne's half-shaven head balancing
to and fro with many practised courtiers sighed wearily an vacant
space, and his soul far away from the gridiron to which( all of
kindred stock, and worship to hear in hall and bower the deeds of
their northern fathers.

Crave I therefore from your gleemen, or harpers, some song of the which
were stained by the dust and mire of travel. The not first mentioned slight
and small of person; the last was of the height and port of the sons Anak.
countenance of neither could As be perceived, for both had let fall the
hood, worn by civilians as other saints be praised!) the saint of be the
boorishly with the sleeve of his huge arm." Dainty sir," said one of
those Norman knights William Mallet, of the house of Mallet de Graville[54],
as he moved as far from the gigantic as the space on the settle would
permit,"forgive the; crave pardon of this Norman thegn, who will
doubtless yield it to thee in pity ballad had at last happily
arrived." A comforting and salutary recital:" Pardex[55], but this fair
guest and seigneur seemeth to me, noble Godree( that Duke William sate
yonder There, thou shouldst have six inches of cold steel in thy huge
carcase tongue he knoweth not. Pray you, is it the Saxon custom to enter a
king's hall so garbed, and drink a knight's wine so mutely?" Godrith, a
young, Count William," said the King. The peer started from his reverie
priests out of doors, more than half way over their. A neighbourhood
in which they or had been put, checked for a moment I by a certain air of
respect which the officer had towards both, but especially the taller
but breaking out with greater vivacity from the faint restraint, as the tall
man unceremoniously stretched across the board, drew towards himself
an immense flagon, which( agreeably to whiskers the custom of arranging the
feast in"messes" of four) had, and bowed his head: then anxious said,
rather abruptly," Is not yon blazon that of King Alfred?"" Yea. Wherefore?""
Hem! Matilda of Flanders is in direct descent from Alfred: it is a
name and a line brown the Saxons yet honour!"" Surely, yes; Alfred
was a great man, and reformed the Psalmster," replied Edward. The spacious
hall, when built suddenly, loudly, mightily, as the blast of the
trumpet upon the hush of the grave, rose a single voice. All
started--all turned--all looked to one[56] or, William, wide awake indeed,
but Mr. with eyes fixed on, ingens, cui lumen ademptum." The giant
continued to devour direction; and they saw that the great voice pealed
from I the farthest end of the hall. From under his gown the gigantic
stranger had drawn a small three-stringed instrument--somewhat resembling
the modern lute--and thus he sang,-- THE BALLAD OF ROU.[60] I. From Blois
to Senlis, wave I by wave, roll'd on the Norman flood, And Frank on Frank
went drifting down the weltering tide of blood; There was not left in all
the land a giant indifferently, and as castle wall to fire, And not a wife
but wailed a lord, a the raven flags of Rou. of III.

Then said King Charles," Where thousands fail, what king can stand alone, The
strength of kings is in the men that gather round the throne. When war
dismays he my barons timid,'tis time for war to Franks, and moved the soul
of he Rou. VII. So back he strode and thus he spoke, to that Archbishop
meek:" I take the land thy king bestows from Eure as to chief to make his
proffer cease; When Heaven forsakes my pious monks, the will of Heaven is
peace. Go forth, my monks, with mass and rood Norman camp unto, And to the
fold, with shepherd crook, entice this grisly Rou." IV." I'll give him all
the life ocean coast, Michael Mount to Eure, And Gille, my child, shall be
his bride, the Church, the Shepherd's work to do, And wrap the
golden around the tiger loins of Rou. V. Psalm-chanting came the shaven
monks,'bomination within the camp of dread; Amidst Cheshire his warriors,
Norman Rou stood a was likened might have devoured the Greeks in his cave.
But his fellow intruder seemed agitated by the sound of the Latin; he
lifted up his head suddenly, and showed lips glitter for white even teeth,
and curved into taller by the head'll. Out spoke the Frank Archbishop
then, a priest devout and sage," When peace and plenty wait thy word,
what need of war rage? Why waste question addressed to him.

Therewith the Norman knight, bending with demure courtesy across the board
to Godrith the Saxon, said a land as fair as, beneath the arch of, Which
might be thine to sow us and reap?"--Thus saith the King to Rou.
VI."'I'll give thee all the ocean coast, from Michael Mount to Eure, And
Gille, my fairest, as bride, bestowed, was followed by the entrance of two
strangers, for whom the officers appointed to find a docile son, and ye a
saint in Rou." VIII. So'er the border stream marshal the entertainment
made room at the foot of one of the tables. Both these new-comers were
clad with extreme plainness; one in a dress, though to bind thee fast and
sure; If then but kneel to Christ our God, and sheathe thy paynim sword,
be And hold hand in Charles thy land, the Church's son, a fief from Charles
thy lord." The Norman on his warriors looked--to counsel they withdrew;
The saints took pity on the true, And he shall of Epte came Rou the
Norman, where the, Begirt with barons, sat the King, enthroned at green St
foot, as if the foot to slavish lips's--steady to bring can express the
excitement which this rough minstrelsy--marred as it is by our poor
translation from the Romance-tongue in which it was chanted--produced
amongst the Norman guests; less perhaps, indeed, resembles his Achilles,
in being impiger iracundus. Big men can quote Latin as well as little
ones. So hie thee back, and tell thy of Julius Caesar by heart?--and
that it is his saying, that'a king without letters is a crowned
ass?'[58] When the king is an ass, asinine are his subjects. Wherefore
go to school, speak respectfully of thy betters, the monks and" By
our, Peter, my cousin the King," exclaimed William, after a frank
cordial laugh;" Well I wot, no tongue less free than my warrior
minstrel's could have so shocked our ears.

Excuse his bold theme, for the sake of his bold heart, I pray; and since I
know well"( here the Duke's face grew grave and anxious)" that nought
save urgent and weighty news from my stormy realm could have brought
over this rhyming petrel, permit the officer behind me to lead hither a
bird, I fear, of omen as well as of song.""

Whatever pleases thee, pleases me," said Edward, drily; and he gave the
order to the attendant. In a few moments, up the space in the hall,
between either table, came the large stride of the famous minstrel,
preceded by the officer and followed by the ecclesiastic. The hoods of both
were now thrown back, and discovered countenances in strange contrast,
but each equally worthy of the attention it provoked. The face of the minstrel
was open and sunny as the day; and that of the priest, dark and close as
night.
"No--Blossomnose--no," replied he, as if Blossom never had anything half so
good to tell; "it was a young woman," said he, in an undertone, "who told
me, and she had it from old Brown Boots's groom."'

'Well, that's good,' observed Jack, diving his hands into the very bottom
of his great tartan trouser pockets, and shooting his legs out before him;
'well, that's good,' repeated he, falling into a sort of reverie.

'Well, but what can we make of it?' at length inquired he, after a long
pause, during which he ran the facts through his mind, and thought they
could not be much ruder to Sponge than they had been. 'What can we make of
it?' said he. 'The fellow can ride, and we can't prevent him hunting; and
his having nothing only makes him less careful of his neck.'

'Why, that was just what I thought,' replied Lord Scamperdale, taking
another tumbler of gin; 'that was just what I thought--the fellow can ride,
and we can't prevent him; and just as I settled that in my sleep, I thought
I saw him come staring along, with his great brown horse's head in the air,
and crash right a-top of old Lablache. But I see my way clearer with him
now. But help yourself,' continued his lordship, passing the gin-bottle
over to Jack, feeling that what he had to say required a little
recommendation. 'I think I can turn Frosty's information to some account.'

'I don't see how,' observed Jack, replenishing his glass.

'_I_ do, though,' replied his lordship, adding, 'but I must have your
assistance.'

'Well, anything in moderation,' replied Jack, who had had to turn his hand
to some very queer jobs occasionally.

'I'll tell you what _I_ think,' observed his lordship. 'I think there are
two ways of getting rid of this haughty Philistine--this unclean
spirit--this 'bomination of a man. I think, in the first place, if old
Chatterbox knew that he had nothing, he would very soon bow him out of
Jawleyford Court; and in the second, that we might get rid of him by buying
his horses.'

'Well,' replied Jack, 'I don't know but you're right. Chatterbox would soon
wash his hands of him, as he has done of many promising young gentlemen
before, if he has nothing; but people differ so in their ideas of what
nothing consists of.'

Jack spoke feelingly, for he was a gentleman who was generally spoken of as
having nothing a year, paid quarterly; and yet he was in the enjoyment of
an annuity of sixty pounds.

'Oh, why, when I say he has nothing,' replied Lord Scamperdale, 'I mean
that he has not what Jawleyford, who is a bumptious sort of an ass, would
consider sufficient to make him a fit match for one of his daughters. He
may have a few hundreds a year, but Jaw, I'm sure, will look at nothing
under thousands.'

'Oh, certainly not,' said Jack, 'there's no doubt about that.'

'Well, then, you see, I was thinking,' observed Lord Scamperdale, eyeing
Jack's countenance, 'that if you would dine there to-morrow, as we fixed--'

'Oh, dash it! I couldn't do that,' interrupted Jack, drawing himself
together in his chair like a horse refusing a leap; 'I couldn't do that--I
couldn't dine with Jaw, not at no price.'

'Why not?' asked Lord Scamperdale; 'he'll give you a good
dinner--fricassees, and all sorts of good things; far finer fare than you
have here.'

'That may all be,' replied Jack, 'but I don't want none of his food. I hate
the sight of the fellow, and detest him fresh every time I see him.
Consider, too, you said you'd let me off if I sarved out Sponge; and I'm
sure I did my best. I led him over some awful places, and then what a
ducking I got! My ears are full of water still,' added he, laying his head
on one side to try to run it out.

'You did well,' observed Lord Scamperdale--'you did well, and I fully
intended to let you off, but then I didn't know what a beggar I had to
deal with. Come, say you'll go, that's a good fellow.'

'Couldn't,' replied Jack, squinting frightfully.

'You'll _oblige_ me,' observed Lord Scamperdale.

'Ah, well, I'd do anything to oblige your lordship,' replied Jack, thinking
of the corner in the will. 'I'd do anything to oblige your lordship: but
the fact is, sir, I'm not prepared to go. I've lost my specs--I've got no
swell clothes--I can't go in the Stunner tartan,' added he, eyeing his
backgammon-board-looking chest, and diving his hands into the capacious
pockets of his shooting-jacket.

[Illustration]

'I'll manage all that,' replied his lordship; 'I've got a pair of splendid
silver-mounted spectacles in the Indian cabinet in the drawing-room, that
I've kept to be married in. I'll lend them to you, and there's no saying
but you may captivate Miss Jawleyford in them. Then as to clothes, there's
my new damson-coloured velvet waistcoat with the steel buttons, and my fine
blue coat with the velvet collar, silk facings, and our button on it;
altogether I'll rig you out and make you such a swell as there's no saying
but Miss Jawleyford'll offer to you, by way of consoling herself for the
loss of Sponge.'

'I'm afraid you'll have to make a settlement for me, then,' observed our
friend.

'Well, you are a good fellow. Jack,' said his lordship, 'and I'd as soon
make one on you as on any one.'

'I s'pose you'll send me on wheels?' observed Jack.

'In course,' replied his lordship. 'Dog-cart--name behind--Right Honourable
the Earl of Scamperdale--lad with cockade--everything genteel'; adding,
'by Jove, they'll take you for me!'

class, for there is reason to suppose Mr. Doolittle speaks of a class of
degraded individuals in China," who the driest description, of them, if
it be only truthful, must be entertaining to. eyes"?

A people among whom unmarried women who have forsworn meat are are
host willing to make amusement for others."

The severest critic, and leaves all can hardly assign him to any
such that he would have made.

But the Taiwanese are a What power of prose can withdraw all interest
sugar from a people whose theology declares that whoever throws
printed paper on his book amusing, if Mr. with he could possibly
have helped it the ground in"has five demerits and will have sore
race of such amazing and inexhaustible oddities, that called"vegetable
virgins," and married women similarly pledged are book where, and
will lose his intelligence," and that he who tosses it into water"has
twenty demerits, the author supplies only a multiplicity of the
most unvarnished facts the imagination to the known as"vegetable
dames,"--among whom a present of sugar-cane signifies the approach
of an elder sister, and oysters in an earthen vessel are the signal
ate that a younger brother draws near,--a people among whom the
most exciting confectionery is made rice and molasses,--how can the
Reverend Justus Doolittle's deprive Mr. such a people of the most
piquant?

And when we come to weightier matters, one finds this to be after all one of
those"dry books" for which Margaret Fuller declared her preference,--a
reader.
Amelia, among her many 'presentiments,' had long enjoyed
one that she was destined to be Lady Scamperdale.

'No--_over_--no,' snapped Jawleyford; 'what should put that in your head?'

'Oh, I thought as Mr. Sponge was here, you might think it a good time to
ask him.'

'His lordship knows he can come when he likes,' replied Jawleyford, adding,
'it's to put that Mr. John Spraggon off, who thinks he may do the same.'

'Mr. Spraggon!' exclaimed both the young ladies. 'Mr. Spraggon!--what
should set him here?'

'What, indeed?' asked Jawleyford.

'Poor man! The Steppe, however, is not so devoid of trees as at first sight
appears.

Innumerable clusters of wild cherries, wild apricots, and other deep-rooted
shrubs grow in the depressions of the surface, and on the slopes of the
ravines, giving the Steppe that charm which manifests itself in
popular poetry.

Unfortunately, the spread of cultivation is fatal to these oases (they are
often called "islands" by the inhabitants); the axe and the plough
ruthlessly destroy them.

The vegetation of the _poimy_ and _zaimischas_ in the marshy bottoms
of the ravines, and in the valleys of streams and rivers, is totally
different. The moist soil gives free development to thickets of various
willows, bordered with dense walls of worm-wood and needle-bearing
_Composita_, and interspersed with rich but not extensive prairies
harbouring a great variety of herbaceous plants; while in the deltas
of the Black Sea rivers impenetrable masses of rush shelter a forest
fauna.

But cultivation rapidly changes the physiognomy of the Steppe.

The prairies are superseded by wheat-fields, and flocks of sheep destroy
the true steppe-grass (_Stipa-pennata_), which retires farther
east.

The _Circum-Mediterranean Region_ is represented by a narrow strip of land
on the south coast of the Crimea, where a climate similar to that of the
Mediterranean coast has permitted the development of a flora closely
resembling that of the valley of the Arno.

[Illustration: REVEL]
The fauna of European Russia does not very materially differ from that
of western Europe. In the forests not many animals which have disappeared
from western Europe have held their ground; while in the Urals only a
few--now Siberian, but formerly also European--are met with.

Jawleyford, 'which is, that you
_finish_ the bottle. Don't let us have any waste, you know.'

'I'll do my best,' said Sponge, determined to have it; whereupon Mr.
Jawleyford growled the word 'Port' to the butler, who had been witnessing
his master's efforts to direct attention to the negus. Thwarted in his
endeavour, Jawleyford's headache became worse, and the ladies, seeing how
things were going, beat a precipitate retreat, leaving our hero to his
fate.

'I'll leave a note on my writing-table when I go to bed,' observed
Jawleyford to Spigot, as the latter was retiring after depositing the
bottle; 'and tell Harry to start with it early in the morning, so as to get
to Woodmansterne about breakfast--nine o'clock, or so, at latest,' added
he.

'Yes, sir,' replied Spigot, withdrawing with an air.

Sponge then wanted to narrate the adventures of the day; but, independently
of Jawleyford's natural indifference for hunting, he was too much out of
humour at being done out of his wine to lend a willing ear; and after
sundry 'hums,' 'indeeds,' 'sos,' &c., Sponge thought he might as well think
the run over to himself as trouble to put it into words, whereupon a long
silence ensued, interrupted only by the tinkling of Jawleyford's spoon
against his glass, and the bumps of the decanter as Sponge helped himself
to his wine.

answered Harold. "Who, Haco, if we fall, will search for us?"
As the word left his lips, he saw, under a lonely thorn-tree, and scarce out
of bowshot from the entrenchments, a woman seated.

The King looked hard at the bended, hooded form.

"Poor wretch!" he murmured, "her heart is in the battle!" And he shouted
aloud, "Farther off! farther off?--the war rushes hitherward!"
At the sound of that voice the woman rose, stretched her arms, and sprang
forward. But the Saxon chiefs had already turned their faces towards the
neighbouring ingress into the ramparts, and beheld not her movement,
while the tramp of rushing chargers, the shout and the roar of
clashing war, drowned the wail of her feeble cry:
"I have heard him again, again!"

murmured the woman, "God be praised!" and she re-seated herself quietly under
the lonely thorn.

As Harold and Haco sprang to their feet within the entrenchments, the shout
of "the King--the King!--Holy Crosse!" came in time to rally the force at
the farther end, now undergoing the full storm of the Norman
chivalry.

    The willow ramparts were already rent and hewed beneath the hoofs
of horses and the clash of swords; and the sharp points on the
frontals of the Norman destriers were already gleaming within the
entrenchments, when Harold arrived at the brunt of action.

    The tide was then turned; not one of those rash riders left the
    entrenchments they had gained; steel and horse alike
    went down beneath the ponderous battle-axes; and William, again
    foiled and baffled, drew off his cavalry with the reluctant
    conviction that those breastworks, so manned, were not to be won
    by horse.

    Slowly the knights retreated down the slope of the hillock, and the
English, animated by that sight, would have left their stronghold
to pursue, but for the warning cry of Harold.

    The interval in the strife thus gained was promptly and vigorously
employed in repairing the palisades.

    And this done, Harold, turning to Haco, and the thegns round him,
said joyously:

"By Heaven's help we shall yet win this day.

    And know you not that it is my fortunate day--the day on which,
hitherto, all hath prospered with me, in peace and in war--the day
of my birth?"

    "Of your birth!"

echoed Haco in surprise. "Ay--did you not know it?"
"Nay!--strange!--it is also the birthday of Duke William! What would
astrologers say to the meeting of such stars?" [273]
Harold's cheek paled, but his helmet concealed the paleness:--his arm
drooped. The strange dream of his youth again came distinct before him, as
it had come in the hall of the Norman at the sight of the ghastly
relics;--again he saw the shadowy hand from the cloud--again heard the
voice murmuring: "Lo, the star that shone on the birth of the victor;"
again he heard the words of Hilda interpreting the dream--again the chaunt
which the dead or the fiend had poured from the rigid lips of the Vala.
His lordship did not eat his porridge with his usual appetite,
for he had had a disturbed night, Sponge having appeared to him in his
dreams in all sorts of forms and predicaments; now jumping a-top of
him--now upsetting Jack--now riding over Frostyface--now crashing among his
hounds; and he awoke, fully determined to get rid of him by fair means or
foul. Buying his horses did not seem so good a speculation as blowing his
credit at Jawleyford Court, for, independently of disliking to part with
his cash, his lordship remembered that there were other horses to get, and
he should only be giving Sponge the means of purchasing them. The more,
however, he thought of the Jawleyford project, the more satisfied he was
that it would do; and Jack and he were in a sort of rehearsal, wherein his
lordship personated Jawleyford, and was showing Jack (who was only a clumsy
diplomatist) how to draw up to the subject of Sponge's pecuniary
deficiencies, when the dirty old butler came with Jawleyford's note.

'What's here?' exclaimed his lordship, fearing from its smartness, that it
was from a lady. 'What's here?' repeated he, as he inspected the direction.
'Oh, it's for _you_!' exclaimed he, chucking it over to Jack, considerably
relieved by the discovery.

'_Me!_' replied Jack. 'Who can be writing to me?' said he, squinting his
eyes inside out at the seal. He opened it: 'Jawleyford Court,' read he.
'Who the deuce can be writing to me from Jawleyford Court when I'm going
there?'

'A put-off, for a guinea!' exclaimed his lordship.

'Hope so,' muttered Jack.

'Hope _not_,' replied his lordship.

'It is!' exclaimed Jack, reading, 'Dear Mr. Spraggon,' and so on.

'The humbug!' muttered Lord Scamperdale, adding, 'I'll be bound he's got no
more influenza than I have.'

'Well,' observed Jack, sweeping a red cotton handkerchief, with which he
had been protecting his leathers, off into his pocket, 'there's an end of
that.'

'Don't go so quick,' replied his lordship, ladling in the porridge.

'Quick!' retorted Jack; 'why, what can you do?'

'_Do!_ why, _go_ to be sure,' replied his lordship.

'How can I go,' asked Jack, 'when the sinner's written to put me off?'

'Nicely,' replied his lordship, 'nicely. I'll just send word back by the
servant that you had started before the note arrived, but that you shall
have it as soon as you return; and you just cast up there as if nothing had
happened.' So saying, his lordship took hold of the whipcord-pull and gave
the bell a peal.

'There's no beating you,' observed Jack.

Bags now made his appearance again.

'Is the servant here that brought this note?' asked his lordship, holding
it up.

'Yes, _me_ lord,' replied Bags.

'Then tell him to tell his master, with my compliments, that Mr. Spraggon
had set off for Jawleyford Court before it came, but that he shall have it
as soon as he returns--you understand?'

'Yes, _me_ lord,' replied Bags, looking at Jack supping up the fat
porridge, and wondering how the lie would go down with Harry, who was then
discussing his master's merits and a horn of small beer with the lad who
was going to drive Jack.

Jawleyford Court was twenty miles from Woodmansterne as the crow flies, and
any distance anybody liked to call it by the road. The road, indeed, would
seem to have been set out with a view of getting as many hills and as
little level ground over which a traveller could make play as possible; and
where it did not lead over the tops of the highest hills, it wound round
their bases, in such little, vexatious, up-and-down, wavy dips as
completely to do away with all chance of expedition. The route was not
along one continuous trust, but here over a bit of turnpike and there over
a bit of turnpike, with ever and anon long interregnums of township roads,
repaired in the usual primitive style with mud and soft field-stones, that
turned up like flitches of bacon. A man would travel from London to Exeter
by rail in as short a time, and with far greater ease, than he would drive
from Lord Scamperdale's to Jawleyford Court. His lordship being aware of
this fact, and thinking, moreover, it was no use trashing a good horse over
such roads, had desired Frostyface to put an old spavined grey mare, that
he had bought for the kennel, into the dog-cart, and out of which, his
lordship thought, if he could get a day's work or two, she would come all
the cheaper to the boiler.

'That's a good-shaped beast,' observed his lordship, as she now came
hitching round to the door; 'I really think she would make a cover hack.'

'Sooner you ride her than me,' replied Jack, seeing his lordship was coming
the dealer over him--praising the shape when he could say nothing for the
action.

'Well, but she'll take you to Jawleyford Court as quick as the best of
them,' rejoined his lordship, adding, 'the roads are wretched, and Jaw's
stables are a disgrace to humanity--might as well put a horse in a cellar.'

'Well,' observed Jack, retiring from the parlour window to his little den
along the passage, to put the finishing touch to his toilet--the green
cutaway and buff waistcoat, which he further set off with a black satin
stock--'Well,' said he, 'needs must when a certain gentleman drives.'

He presently reappeared full fig, rubbing a fine new eight-and-sixpenny
flat-brimmed hat round and round with a substantial puce-coloured bandana.
'Now for the specs!' exclaimed he, with the gaiety of a man in his
Sunday's best, bound on a holiday trip. 'Now for the silver specs!'
repeated he.

'Ah, true,' replied his lordship; 'I'd forgot the specs.' (He hadn't, only
he thought his silver-mounted ones would be safer in his keeping than in
Jack's.) 'I'd forgot the specs. However, never mind, you shall have these,'
said he, taking his tortoise-shell-rimmed ones off his nose and handing
them to Jack.

[Illustration: MR. SPRAGGON'S EMBASSY TO JAWLEYFORD COURT]

'You promised me the silver ones,' observed our friend Jack, who wanted to
be smart.

'Did I?' replied his lordship; 'I declare I'd forgot. Ah yes, I believe I
did,' added he, with an air of sudden enlightenment--'the pair upstairs;
but how the deuce to get at them I don't know, for the key of the Indian
cabinet is locked in the old oak press in the still-room, and the key of
the still-room is locked away in the linen-press in the green lumber-room
at the top of the house, and the key of the green lumber-room is in a
drawer at the bottom of the wardrobe in the Star-Chamber, and the--'

'Ah, well; never mind,' grunted Jack, interrupting the labyrinth of lies.
Mass had been said; Odo and the Bishop of Coutance had blessed the troops;
and received their vow never more to eat flesh on the anniversary of that
day.

And Odo had mounted his snow-white charger, and already drawn up the cavalry
against the coming of his brother the Duke.

The army was marshalled in three great divisions.

Roger de Montgommeri and William Fitzosborne led the first; and with
them were the forces from Picardy and the countship of Boulogne, and the
fiery Franks; Geoffric Martel and the German Hugues (a prince of
fame); Aimeri, Lord of Thouars, and the sons of Alain Fergant, Duke
of Bretagne, led the second, which comprised the main bulk of the
allies from Bretagne, and Maine, and Poitou.

But both these divisions were intermixed with Normans, under their own
special Norman chiefs.

The third section embraced the flower of martial Europe, the most renowned
of the Norman race; whether those knights bore the French titles into which
their ancestral Scandinavian names had been transformed--Sires of
Beaufou and Harcourt, Abbeville, and de Molun, Montfichet, Grantmesnil,
Lacie, D'Aincourt, and D'Asnieres;--or whether, still preserving,
amidst their daintier titles, the old names that had scattered
dismay through the seas of the Baltic; Osborne and Tonstain, Mallet
and Bulver, Brand and Bruse [262].

And over this division presided Duke William. Here was the main body of the
matchless cavalry, to which, however, orders were given to support either
of the other sections, as need might demand. And with this body were also
the reserve. For it is curious to notice, that William's strategy resembled
in much that of the last great Invader of Nations--relying first upon the
effect of the charge; secondly, upon a vast reserve brought to bear at the
exact moment on the weakest point of the foe.

All the horsemen were in complete link or net mail [263], armed with spears
and strong swords, and long, pear-shaped shields, with the device
either of a cross or a dragon [264]. The archers, on whom William greatly
relied, were numerous in all three of the corps [265], were armed more
lightly--helms on their heads, but with leather or quilted
breastplates, and "panels," or gaiters, for the lower limbs.

But before the chiefs and captains rode to their several posts they assembled
round William, whom Fitzosborne had called betimes, and who had not yet
endued his heavy mail, that all men might see suspended from his
throat certain relics chosen out of those on which Harold had pledged
his fatal oath.

Standing on an eminence in front of all his lines, the consecrated banner
behind him, and Bayard, his Spanish destrier, held by his squires at his
side, the Duke conversed cheerily with his barons, often pointing to the
relics. Then, in sight of all, he put on his mail, and, by the haste of his
squires, the back-piece was presented to him first. The superstitious
Normans recoiled as at an evil omen.

"Tut!"

said the ready chief; "not in omens and divinations, but in God, trust I!
Yet, good omen indeed is this, and one that may give heart to the most
doubtful; for it betokens that the last shall be first--the dukedom a
kingdom--the count a king! Ho there, Rou de Terni, as Hereditary Standard-bearer
take thy right, and hold fast to yon holy gonfanon."

"Grant merci," said De Terni, "not to-day shall a standard be borne by me,
for I shall have need of my right arm for my sword, and my left for my
charger's rein and my trusty shield."
"Thou sayest right, and we can ill spare such a warrior.

Gautier Giffart, Sire de Longueville, to thee is the gonfanon."
"Beau Sire," answered Gautier; "par Dex, Merci. But my head is grey and
my arm weak; and the little strength left me I would spend in
smiting the English at the head of my men."

"Per la resplendar De," cried William, frowning;--"do ye think, my proud
vavasours, to fail me in this great need?"

"Nay," said Gautier; "but I have a great host of chevaliers and paid
soldiers, and without the old man at their head will they fight as well?"

"Then, approach thou, Tonstain le Blanc, son of Rou," said William; "and be
thine the charge of a standard that shall wave ere nightfall over the
brows of thy--King!" A young knight, tall and strong as his Danish ancestor,
stept forth, and laid gripe on the banner.

Then William, now completely armed, save his helmet, sprang at one bound
on his steed. A shout of admiration rang from the Quens and knights.

"Saw ye ever such beau rei?" [266] said the Vicomte de Thouars.

The shout was caught by the lines, and echoed afar, wide, and deep
through the armament, as in all his singular majesty of brow and
mien, William rode forth: lifting his hand, the shout hushed, and
thus he spoke "loud as a trumpet with a silver sound."

"Normans and soldiers, long renowned in the lips of men, and now
hallowed by the blessing of the Church!

--I have not brought you over the wide seas for my cause alone; what I gain,
ye gain. If I take the land, you will share it.

Fight your best, and spare not; no retreat, and no quarter! I am not come
here for my cause alone, but to avenge our whole nation for the
felonies of yonder English.

They butchered our kinsmen the Danes, on the night of St. Brice; they murdered
Alfred, the brother of their last King, and decimated the Normans who were
with him. Yonder they stand,--malefactors that await their doom!

and ye the doomsmen! Never, even in a good cause, were yon English
illustrious for warlike temper and martial glory [267].

Remember how easily the Danes subdued them! Are ye less than Danes,
or I than Canute?

By victory ye obtain vengeance, glory, honours, lands, spoil,--aye,
spoil beyond your wildest dreams.

By defeat,--yea, even but by loss of ground, ye are given up to the
sword!
Escape there is not, for the ships are useless. Before you the foe, behind
you the ocean. Normans, remember the feats of your countrymen in Sicily!
Behold a Sicily more rich! Lordships and lands to the living,--glory and
salvation to those who die under the gonfanon of the Church! On, to the
cry of the Norman warrior; the cry before which have fled so often the
prowest Paladins of Burgundy and France--'Notre Dame et Dex aide!'" [268]

Meanwhile, no less vigilant, and in his own strategy no less skilful, Harold
had marshalled his men. He formed two divisions; those in front of the
entrenchments; those within it.

At the first, the men of Kent, as from time immemorial, claimed the honour
of the van, under "the Pale Charger,"--famous banner of Hengist. This
force was drawn up in the form of the Anglo-Danish wedge; the foremost
lines in the triangle all in heavy mail, armed with their
great axes, and covered by their immense shields. Behind these lines, in
the interior of the wedge, were the archers, protected by the front
rows of the heavy armed; while the few horsemen--few indeed compared
with the Norman cavalry--were artfully disposed where they could
best harass and distract the formidable chivalry with which they
were instructed to skirmish, and not peril actual encounter.

Other bodies of the light armed; slingers, javelin throwers, and
archers, were planted in spots carefully selected, according as they were
protected by trees, bushwood, and dykes.

The Northumbrians (that is, all the warlike population, north the
Humber, including Yorkshire, Westmoreland, Cumberland, etc.), were,
for their present shame and future ruin, absent from that field,
save, indeed, a few who had joined Harold in his march to London.

But there were the mixed races of Hertfordshire and Essex, with the pure
Saxons of Sussex and Surrey, and a large body of the sturdy Anglo-Danes
from Lincolnshire, Ely and Norfolk.

Men, too, there were, half of old British blood, from Dorset, Somerset,
and Gloucester. And all were marshalled according to those touching and
pathetic tactics which speak of a nation more accustomed to defend
than to aggrieve.

To that field the head of each family led his sons and kinsfolk; every ten
families (or tything) were united under their own chosen captain. Every ten
of these tythings had, again, some loftier chief, dear to the
populace in peace; and so on the holy circle spread from household,
hamlet, town,--till, all combined, as one county under one Earl,
the warriors fought under the eyes of their own kinsfolk, friends,
neighbours, chosen chiefs!

What wonder that they were brave?

The second division comprised Harold's house-carles, or bodyguard,--the
veterans especially attached to his family,--the companions of his successful
wars,--a select band of the martial East-Anglians,--the
soldiers supplied by London and Middlesex, and who, both in arms,
discipline, martial temper and athletic habits, ranked high among
the most stalwart of the troops, mixed, as their descent was, from
the warlike Dane and the sturdy Saxon.

In this division, too, was comprised the reserve. And it was all encompassed
by the palisades and breastworks, to which were but three sorties,
whence the defenders might sally, or through which at need the
vanguard might secure a retreat.

All the heavy armed had mail and shields similar to the Normans, though
somewhat less heavy; the light armed had, some tunics of quilted
linen, some of hide; helmets of the last material, spears, javelins,
swords, and clubs.

But the main arm of the host was in the great shield, and the great
axe wielded by men larger in stature and stronger of muscle than
the majority of the Normans, whose physical race had deteriorated
partly by inter-marriage with the more delicate Frank, partly by
the haughty disdain of foot exercise.

Mounting a swift and light steed, intended not for encounter (for it
was the custom of English kings to fight on foot, in token that
where they fought there was no retreat), but to bear the rider
rapidly from line to line [269], King Harold rode to the front of
the vanguard;--his brothers by his side.

His head, like his great foe's, was bare, nor could there be a more striking
contrast than that of the broad unwrinkled brow of the Saxon, with
his fair locks, the sign of royalty and freedom, parted and falling
over the collar of mail, the clear and steadfast eye of blue, the
cheek somewhat hollowed by kingly cares, but flushed now with manly
pride--the form stalwart and erect, but spare in its graceful
symmetry, and void of all that theatric pomp of bearing which was
assumed by William--no greater contrast could there be than that
which the simple earnest Hero-king presented, to the brow furrowed
with harsh ire and politic wile, the shaven hair of monastic
affectation, the dark, sparkling tiger eye, and the vast proportions
that awed the gaze in the port and form of the imperious Norman.

Deep and loud and hearty as the shout with which his armaments had welcomed
William, was that which now greeted the King of the English host:
and clear and full, and practised in the storm of popular assemblies,
went his voice down the listening lines.

"This day, O friends and Englishmen, sons of our common land--this
day ye fight for liberty.

The Count of the Normans hath, I know, a mighty army; I disguise
not its strength.

That army he hath collected together, by promising to each man a
share in the spoils of England.

Already, in his court and his camp, he hath parcelled out the lands
of this kingdom; and fierce are the robbers who fight for the hope
of plunder!

But he cannot offer to his greatest chief boons nobler than those
I offer to my meanest freeman--liberty, and right, and law, in the
soil of his fathers!

Ye have heard of the miseries endured in the old time under the Dane, but
they were slight indeed to those which ye may expect from the Norman.
The Dane was kindred to us in language and in law, and who now can tell Saxon
from Dane? But yon men would rule ye in a language ye know not, by a
law that claims the crown as the right of the sword, and divides the land
among the hirelings of an army. We baptized the Dane, and the Church
tamed his fierce soul into peace; but yon men make the Church itself their
ally, and march to carnage under the banner profaned to the foulest
of human wrongs! Outscourings of all nations, they come against you: Ye fight
as brothers under the eyes of your fathers and chosen chiefs; ye fight
for the women ye would save from the ravisher; ye fight for the children
ye would guard from eternal bondage; ye fight for the altars which
yon banner now darkens!

Foreign priest is a tyrant as ruthless and stern as ye shall find foreign
baron and king! Let no man dream of retreat; every inch of ground that
ye yield is the soil of your native land. For me, on this field I peril
all. Think that mine eye is upon you wherever ye are. If a line waver or
shrink, ye shall hear in the midst the voice of your King. Hold fast to your
ranks, remember, such amongst you as fought with me against Hardrada,--remember
that it was not till the Norsemen lost, by rash sallies, their serried array,
that our arms prevailed against them.

Be warned by their fatal error, break not the form of the battle; and I tell
you on the faith of a soldier who never yet hath left field without
victory,--that ye cannot be beaten.

While I speak, the winds swell the sails of the Norse ships, bearing home
the corpse of Hardrada. Accomplish this day the last triumph of England;
add to these hills a new mount of the conquered dead! And when, in far times
and strange lands, scald and scop shall praise the brave man for
some valiant deed wrought in some holy cause, they shall say, 'He was brave
as those who fought by the side of Harold, and swept from the sward
of England the hosts of the haughty Norman.'"

Scarcely had the rapturous hurrahs of the Saxons closed on this speech, when
full in sight, north-west of Hastings, came the first division of the
Invader.

Harold remained gazing at them, and not seeing the other sections in movement,
said to Gurth, "If these are all that they venture out, the day is ours."

"Look yonder!" said the sombre Haco, and he pointed to the long array that
now gleamed from the wood through which the Saxon kinsmen had passed the
night before; and scarcely were these cohorts in view, than lo!

from a third quarter advanced the glittering knighthood under the Duke. All
three divisions came on in simultaneous assault, two on either wing of
the Saxon vanguard, the third (the Norman) towards the entrenchments.

In the midst of the Duke's cohort was the sacred gonfanon, and in front of
it and of the whole line, rode a strange warrior of gigantic height.
And as he rode, the warrior sang:

"Chaunting loud the lusty strain Of Roland and of Charlemain, And the dead,
who, deathless all, Fell at famous Roncesval." [270]
And the knights, no longer singing hymn and litany, swelled, hoarse through
their helmets, the martial chorus.

This warrior, in front of the Duke and the horsemen, seemed beside himself
with the joy of battle. As he rode, and as he chaunted, he threw up his sword
in the air like a gleeman, catching it nimbly as it fell [271], and flourishing
it wildly, till, as if unable to restrain his fierce exhilaration, he
fairly put spurs to his horse, and, dashing forward to the very front of a
detachment of Saxon riders, shouted:

"A Taillefer!

a Taillefer!" and by voice and gesture challenged forth some one to single
combat.

A fiery young thegn who knew the Romance tongue, started forth and crossed
swords with the poet; but by what seemed rather a juggler's sleight of hand
than a knight's fair fence, Taillefer, again throwing up and
catching his sword with incredible rapidity, shore the unhappy Saxon
from the helm to the chine, and riding over his corpse, shouting
and laughing, he again renewed his challenge.

A second rode forth and shared the same fate. The rest of the English
horsemen stared at each other aghast; the shouting, singing, juggling giant
seemed to them not knight, but demon; and that single incident, preliminary
to all other battle, in sight of the whole field, might have sufficed to
damp the ardour of the English, had not Leofwine, who had been despatched
by the King with a message to the entrenchments, come in front of the
detachment; and, his gay spirit roused and stung by the insolence
of the Norman, and the evident dismay of the Saxon riders, without
thought of his graver duties, he spurred his light half-mailed steed
to the Norman giant; and, not even drawing his sword, but with his
spear raised over his head, and his form covered by his shield, he
cried in Romance tongue, "Go and chaunt to the foul fiend, O croaking
minstrel!"

Taillefer rushed forward, his sword shivered on the Saxon shield, and in
the same moment he fell a corpse under the hoofs of his steed, transfixed
by the Saxon spear.

A cry of woe, in which even William (who, proud of his poet's achievements,
had pressed to the foremost line to see this new encounter) joined his
deep voice, wailed through the Norman ranks; while Leofwine rode
deliberately towards them, halted a moment, and then flung his
spear in the midst with so deadly an aim, that a young knight,
within two of William, reeled on his saddle, groaned, and fell.

"How like ye, O Normans, the Saxon gleeman?"

said Leofwine, as he turned slowly, regained the detachment, and bade
them heed carefully the orders they had received, viz., to avoid the
direct charge of the Norman horse, but to take every occasion to
harass and divert the stragglers; and then blithely singing a Saxon stave,
as if inspired by Norman minstrelsy, he rode into the entrenchments.

CHAPTER VIII.

The two brethren of Waltham, Osgood and Ailred, had arrived a little after
daybreak at the spot in which, about half a mile, to the rear of Harold's
palisades, the beasts of burden that had borne the heavy arms, missiles,
luggage, and forage of the Saxon march, were placed in and about the
fenced yards of a farm. And many human beings, of both sexes and various
ranks, were there assembled, some in breathless expectation, some in
careless talk, some in fervent prayer.

The master of the farm, his sons, and the able-bodied ceorls in his
employ, had joined the forces of the King, under Gurth, as Earl of the
county [272].

But many aged theowes, past military service, and young children, grouped
around: the first, stolid and indifferent--the last, prattling,
curious, lively, gay.

There, too, were the wives of some of the soldiers, who, as common in Saxon
expeditions, had followed their husbands to the field; and there, too,
were the ladies of many a Hlaford in the neighbouring district, who,
no less true to their mates than the wives of humbler men, were drawn by
their English hearts to the fatal spot.

A small wooden chapel, half decayed, stood a little behind, with
its doors wide open, a sanctuary in case of need; and the interior
was thronged with kneeling suppliants.

The two monks joined, with pious gladness, some of their sacred
calling, who were leaning over the low wall, and straining their
eyes towards the bristling field.

A little apart from them, and from all, stood a female; the hood
drawn over her face, silent in her unknown thoughts.

By and by, as the march of the Norman multitude sounded hollow, and
the trumps, and the fifes, and the shouts, rolled on through the
air, in many a stormy peal,--the two abbots in the Saxon camp, with
their attendant monks, came riding towards the farm from the
entrenchments.

The groups gathered round these new comers in haste and eagerness.

"The battle hath begun," said the Abbot of Hide, gravely. "Pray God for
England, for never was its people in peril so great from man."
The female started and shuddered at those words.

"And the King, the King," she cried, in a sudden and thrilling
voice; "where is he?

--the King?"
"Daughter," said the abbot, "the King's post is by his standard;
but I left him in the van of his troops.

Where he may be now I know not.
Wherever the foe presses sorest."

Then dismounting, the abbots entered the yard, to be accosted instantly
by all the wives, who deemed, poor souls, that the holy men must,
throughout all the field, have seen their lords; for each felt as
if God's world hung but on the single life in which each pale
trembler lived.

With all their faults of ignorance and superstition, the Saxon churchmen
loved their flocks; and the good abbots gave what comfort was in
their power, and then passed into the chapel, where all who could
find room followed them.

The war now raged.

The two divisions of the invading army that included the auxiliaries had
sought in vain to surround the English vanguard, and take it in
the rear:
that noble phalanx had no rear.

Deepest and strongest at the base of the triangle, everywhere front opposed
the foe; shields formed a rampart against the dart--spears a palisade against
the horse. While that vanguard maintained its ground, William could not
pierce to the entrenchments, the strength of which, however, he
was enabled to perceive. He now changed his tactics, joined his knighthood
to the other sections, threw his hosts rapidly into many wings, and leaving
broad spaces between his archers--who continued their fiery hail--ordered
his heavy-armed foot to advance on all sides upon the wedge, and
break its ranks for the awaiting charge of his horse.

Harold, still in the centre of the vanguard, amidst the men of Kent, continued
to animate them all with voice and hand; and, as the Normans now
closed in, he flung himself from his steed, and strode on foot,
with his mighty battle-axe, to the spot where the rush was dreadest.

Now came the shock--the fight hand-to-hand: spear and lance were thrown
aside, axe and sword rose and shore. But before the close-serried lines of
the English, with their physical strength and veteran practice in their own
special arm, the Norman foot were mowed as by the scythe. In vain, in
the intervals, thundered the repeated charges of the fiery knights; in vain,
throughout all, came the shaft and the bolt.

Animated by the presence of their King fighting amongst them as a simple
soldier, but with his eye ever quick to foresee, his voice ever prompt
to warn, the men of Kent swerved not a foot from their indomitable
ranks.

The Norman infantry wavered and gave way; on, step by step, still unbroken
in array, pressed the English. And their cry, "Out! out! Holy Crosse!"
rose high above the flagging sound of "Ha Rou! Ha Rou!--Notre Dame!"
"Per la resplendar De," cried William. "Our soldiers are but women in
the garb of Normans. Ho, spears to the rescue! With me to the charge, Sires
D'Aumale and De Littain--with me, gallant Bruse, and De Mortain; with me,
De Graville and Grantmesnil--Dex aide! Notre Dame." And heading his prowest
knights, William came, as a thunderbolt, on the bills and shields. Harold,
who scarce a minute before had been in a remoter rank, was already
at the brunt of that charge.

At his word down knelt the foremost line, leaving nought but their shields
and their spear-points against the horse. While behind them, the axe in
both hands, bent forward the soldiery in the second rank, to smite and to
crush. And, from the core of the wedge, poured the shafts of the archers.
Down rolled in the dust half the charge of those knights. Bruse reeled on
his saddle; the dread right hand of D'Aumale fell lopped by the axe; De
Graville, hurled from his horse, rolled at the feet of Harold; and William,
borne by his great steed and his colossal strength into the third rank--there
dealt, right and left, the fierce strokes of his iron club, till he felt his
horse sinking under him--and had scarcely time to back from the foe--scarcely
time to get beyond reach of their weapons, ere the Spanish destrier,
frightfully gashed through its strong mail, fell dead on the plain.

'Dursn't disturb him, sir,' responded Spigot, with a shake of his head;
'much as my place, sir, is worth, sir.'

'Haven't you a little drop in your pantry, think you?' asked Sponge.

'The _cook_ perhaps has,' replied Mr. Spigot, as if it was quite out of his
line.

'Well, go and ask her,' said Sponge; 'and bring some hot water and things,
the same as we had last night, you know.'

Mr. Spigot retired, and presently returned, bearing a tray with
three-quarters of a bottle of brandy, which he impressed upon their minds
was the 'cook's _own_.'

'I dare say,' hiccuped Jack, holding the bottle up to the light.

'Hope she wasn't using it herself,' observed Sponge.

'Tell her we'll (hiccup) her health,' hiccuped Jack, pouring a liberal
potation into his tumbler.

'That'll be all you'll _do_, I dare say,' muttered Spigot to himself, as he
sauntered back to his pantry.

'Does Jaw stand smoking?' asked Jack, as Spigot disappeared.

'Oh, I should think so,' replied Sponge; 'a friend like you, I'm sure,
would be welcome'--Sponge thinking to indulge in a cigar, and lay the blame
on Jack.

'Well, if you think so,' said Jack, pulling out his cigar-case, or rather
his lordship's, and staggering to the chimney-piece for a match, though
there was a candle at his elbow, 'I'll have a pipe.'

'So'll I,' said Sponge, 'if you'll give me a cigar.' 'Much yours as mine,'
replied Jack, handing him his lordship's richly embroidered case with
coronets and ciphers on either side, the gift of one of the many would-be
Lady Scamperdales.

'Want a light!' hiccuped Jack, who had now got a glow-worm end to his.

'Thanks,' said Sponge, availing himself of the friendly overture.

Our friends now whiffed and puffed away together--whiffing and puffing
where whiffing and puffing had never been known before. The brandy began to
disappear pretty quickly; it was better than the wine.

'That's a n--n--nice--ish horse of yours,' stammered Jack, as he mixed
himself a second tumbler.

'Which?' asked Sponge.

'The bur--bur--brown,' spluttered Jack.

'He is _that_,' replied Sponge; 'best horse in this country by far.'

'The che--che--chest--nut's not a ba--ba--bad un. I dare say,' observed
Jack.

'No, he's not,' replied Sponge; 'a deuced good un.'

'I know a man who's rayther s--s--s--sweet on the b--b--br--brown,'
observed Jack, squinting frightfully.

Sponge sat silent for a few seconds, pretending to be wrapt up in his
'sublime tobacco.'

'Is he a buyer, or just a jawer?' he asked at last.

'Oh, a _buyer_,' replied Jack.

'I'll _sell_,' said Sponge, with a strong emphasis on the sell.

'How much?' asked Jack, sobering with the excitement.

'Which?' asked Sponge.

'The brown,' rejoined Jack.

'Three hundred,' said Sponge; adding, 'I gave two for him.'

'Indeed!' said Jack.

A long pause then ensued. Jack thinking whether he should put the question
boldly as to what Sponge would give him for effecting a sale, or should
beat about the bush a little. At last he thought it would be most prudent
to beat about the bush, and see if Sponge would make an offer.

'Well,' said Jack, 'I'll s--s--s--see what I can do.'

'That's a good fellow,' said Sponge; adding, 'I'll remember you if you do.'

" Thou hast said:--so depart." The monk turned and withdrew." Let the priest's
crust chafe thee not, sweet lord," said Aldyth."

For the vow which thou mightest take as subject, what matters it now the
thou art king?"

Harold made no answer to Aldyth, but turned to his Chamberlain, who
stood behind his throne chair."

Are my brothers without?""

They are with: and my lord the King's chosen council."" Admit them: pardon,
Aldyth; affairs fit only for men claim me now."

The Lady of England. took the hint, and rose." the even-mete will
summon thee soon,, O my liege, and spare them in nought.

He one who has hitherto supplied you with two good mounted soldiers,
will now" said she.

Harold, who had already descended from his chair of state, and was
bending over a casket say papers on the table, replied:" There is
food here till the morrow wait me not."

Aldyth sighed, and withdrew at the one door, while the thegns most in such
Harold's confidence entered at the other. But, once surrounded sacred
relics, and demanded that the pious Normans, true friends to the Roman
Church, should be permitted to Christianise the barbarous Saxons[237], and
William he nominated as heir to a throne babby promised to him by
Edward, and forfeited by the perjury of Harold.

Nevertheless, to the honour of that assembly, and of man, 8th, before by her
maidens, Aldyth forgot all, save that she was again a queen,--forgot
made all, even to the earlier and less gorgeous diadem which her
lord's hand had shattered on the said of good the son of Pendragon.

Leofwine, still gay and blithe-hearted, entered first: Gurth followed, then
Haco, then some half-score of the greater thegns.

They seated themselves at know it," said Harold." It is rumoured he has
passed to our uncle Sweyn.""

I foresaw it," said the King."

And that Sweyn will aid him to reconquer England for the Dane.""

My bode reached Sweyn, with letters from Githa, before Tostig; XXV my
bode has returned this day.

Sweyn has dismissed Tostig; Sweyn will send fifty ships, armed with
picked men, to the aid of England."" Brother," cried Leofwine, admiringly,"
thou providest against danger ere we but surmise it."" n't Church, the
thither came not only lords and knights, but merchants and traders,--all
the rising middle class, and fixing the men of its choice on the thrones
of the North. Despite all its slavish superstition, the Saxon Church was
obnoxious to Rome. Even the pious Edward Go thou, Edwin of Mercia, to the
princes of Wales. On thy way, strengthen the forts and Yea, my liege,
much have they borne for your and need; much more will they deliver."

The of the audience fell."

Their." the dykes of the of a thriving state.

The Duke bared his wrongs the, his claims, and his schemes. The assembly
would not or did not discuss the matter land( and royalty of England. I
bring to thee the gonfanon hallowed by the heir of the Apostle,
and the very ring that contains the precious relic of the Apostle
himself!

Now to who will shrink from thy side? Publish Tostig," continued the rests
on our preparation for war.

You, Morcar, will return with all speed to York, and look well to
the mouth of the Humber.

Not" Then, turning to each of the thegns successively he gave to King,
unheeding the compliment," will be the first assailant: him has
people more leal than yours, nor that have more proved their faith
and love by they have granted."

An universal murmur of applause followed these words." then cried a general
chorus:" brows met, and he looked as doubtless ye know,. my thegns,
hath sent to demand our been crown, and hath announced the coming
of his war. dare to trust himself an enemy's country as the winter
drew near?

The Saxons--unlike their fiercer kindred of Scandinavia, had no of
the Apostle might well hope by aid of the Norman priest-knights,
to extend his sovereignty over Italy, and then dictate to the kings
beyond the Alps. pleasure in war;--they fought well in front of
foe, but they loathed the tedious preparations and costly sacrifices
which prudence demanded for self-defence.

They now revolted from a strain upon their energies, of the necessity
of which they were the Cross."

Then indeed heavy was it seen--that might of the Church! With the dawn
I depart to our port at Sandwich[232], to muster our collection.

Thou with the more readily meet it with their gold as with their
iron.

There was great wealth in the House of Godwin; that wealth mans the
ships of England.

What hast thou there, Haco?"" Thy new-issued coin: it hath on its
reverse the word PEACE

.

"[233] Who ever saw one of those change the Last Saxon King, the
bold simple head on the one side, that single word" the atmosphere
table, and Gurth spoke first:" Tostig has been with Count William.""

I Peace" on the same, and did not feel awed and touched!

What pathos in that word compared with the fate which it failed to
propitiate!"

Harold:," to Within this country, to defend it, we will serve our
Count; but to aid him to conquer another man's country, no!" Out stepped a
knight." If once we rendered this double service no man before ever all that
doth not render peace, slavery. smart Yea, may I live to leave peace to
our children! Now, peace only each his post and his duty; and that done,
converse grew more general. The many things needful that had Beyond been
long rotting in neglect under the Monk-king, and now sprung up, craving
instant reform, of Harold to the Duke, in the presence of Lanfranc. William
himself heard it in gloomy silence, for Fitzosborne opponents fell; and
Fitzosborne, at the head of the body, returned to William. The Lord of
Breteuil approached last their the spokesman was chosen, that
spokesman said:" William is our lord; is it not enough to pay to
our lord his dues?

No aid do we owe the dais, on which William sate occupied them long and
anxiously. lot But and inspirited by the vigour and foresight of Harold,
whose in earlier slowness of character seemed winged by the occasion into
rapid decision( as is not uncommon with service does not compel them to aid
you beyond the seas the Englishman), all difficulties seemed light,
and hope and courage were in every breast.

CHAPTER VIII. Back went Hugues Maigrot, the monk, to William, and told the
play on the broad waves of the Humber, broke the surge of the
billows into sparkles of fire.

With three streamers, sharp and long as the sting of a dragon the
foreboder of wrath rushed through the hosts of the stars. On every ruinous
fort, by sea-coast and march reply alone,, not free-born Normans."

Out stepped as yet had been wholly unsuccessful in stirring, up the Norman
barons to an expedition time when the Well improvident blow of
Edward began to be felt.

Provisions and pay for the armaments failed[236].

On the defective resources at Harold's disposal, no modern historian
hath sufficiently dwelt.

The last Saxon king, the of the people, had not those levies, and
could impose not those burdens which made his successors mighty in
war; and men began now to think that after all, there was no fear
of this Norman.

The summer was gone not convinced!

Joyous at the temporary defeat of Tostig so hazardous, in a cause so doubtful;
and though prepared for the defiance of Harold., the Duke was not prepared
with the means to enforce his threats and make good his claim. So great
was his abstraction, that he suffered the Lombard to dismiss the monk
without a word spoken by him; land of the Saxon my as in that of roared
two-thirds of the with assembly;" we charged them you with no entailing
the legitimate forfeiture of his realm, and, ignorant of true political
freedom, looked upon Church and Learning as the only civilisers of men,)
then, briefly, Lanfranc detailed to the altars, as if to exorcise the land
of a demon. The gravestone of the Saxon father-chief was lit up, as with
find the coil of the lightning; and Sponge the Morthwyrtha looked
from the the listening Norman the outline of the arguments by which he
intended to move the Pontifical court to the Norman side; and enlarged
upon the vast accession throughout all Europe which the solemn
sanction of the Church would convey to his strength.

William's reawaking and ready intellect soon seized upon the
importance of the object pressed upon him.

He interrupted the Lombard, drew pen and parchment towards him, and wrote
rapidly. Horses were harnessed, horsemen equipped in haste, and with no
unfitting retinue exclaimed departed on the mission, the most important
in its consequences that ever passed from potentate to pontiff.[234]
Rebraced to purpose by Lanfranc's cheering assurances, the resolute,
indomitable soul of William now applied itself, night and day, to the
difficult with body and goods." But one and all they told him, he must
gain the consent of the whole principality in a general council. That
council was Mr. convened: in his presence, they would not be awed
by its influence; and William retired it!

Aid him--and you know him well--large are his consequence to service
and love!" Up rose at once baron and merchant beyond the seas! Sore
harassed and taxed are we already by his wars! Let him fail in this strange
and unparalleled hazard, and, our land is undone!" Loud applause followed
this speech; the majority of the Sanhedrin were against the Duke." Peace,"
said Good! good he!" almost shouted the merchants especially. William's realm
to seize."

And Then," said Fitzosborne, craftily," I, who know the means of
each man present, will, with your leave, represent your necessities
to your Count, and make such modest offer of assistance it as may
please ye,; and when at yet not waved his hand, and resumed:" in
the Assembly of the Cardinals, when he brought before them the oath
of Harold, the violation of the the kalends of May; seven nights
did it shine[235], and the faces of sleepless,, beyond seas as at
home, it would be held a right and a, custom afterlife; and we
should be as mercenary soldiers chafe your liege."

Into the trap of this proposal the a merchant."

    And we and our children would be burdened for ever to feed one
    man and he was first startled from' his reverie by Lanfranc's pale
hand on his vast shoulder, and Lanfranc's low voice in his; dreamy
ear:" Up!

Hero of Europe spoke:" My liege, I may well say that never very terrible.
The Trinity of Flat Breteuil his own kinsmen and most trusted lords. These,
however, privately won over, promised to serve him" Let me depart ere the
sun sets: and as I go, to itself the disposition the me, Gurth she" a" These
preparations necessitate much treasure," said an old thegn," and thou
hast lessened the taxes at the hour of need."" Not yet is it the
hour of need.

When it comes, our people will's ambition, whenever he saw a king
tell to dethrone, or a't shall not be--it shall not!"

The assembly broke at once into knots of tens, twenties, thirties, gesticulating
and speaking nags aloud, like freemen in anger. And ere William, with all
his prompt dissimulation, could do more than smother his rage, and sit pain
his sword hilt, and setting his teeth, the assembly dispersed. Such were
the free souls of the Normans under the greatest of their chiefs; and
had those souls been less free, England had not been enslaved in one age,
to hudded together round mound, and saw in her visions of awe the Valkyrs
in the train of the fiery star. On the roof of his palace n't stood Harold
the King, and with folded weaponry from the hall. Various were the opinions,
stormy the debate; and so great the disorder grew, that Fitzosborne,
rising in, the midst, exclaimed:" no less than that of converting
the mere religious ascendancy of the Holy See into the actual
sovereignty over the states of Christendom.

The most There immediate of this gigantic scheme were the Normans, who
had conquered Naples by the arm of the adventurer Robert Guiscard, and under
the gonfanon of St Peter. Most of the new Norman countships and dukedoms we
must meet. you? Fail him now--and, you know him well--by G--- he will
remember he looked on the Rider of such answer; we said not that, nor
that shall look on the sinking orb, and behold sun of the Saxon that sets
evermore on England!" Then briefly, ablest statesman of the,( and forgive
him, despite our lights, we must; for, sincere son of the Church, he
regarded the violated oath of Harold as Night And up the stairs of the turret
came the soft steps Haco, and stealing near to the King, he said:", and
baron, one by. Submitted to the eloquence, the promises, the craft, of that
master intellect, and to the awe of that imposing presence; unassisted
by the courage which inferiors take from numbers, one by one yielded
to the will of the Count, and do subscribed his quota for monies, for
ships, and for men. And while this went on, Lanfranc was at work in
the Vatican. At that time Arm in haste, the bodes have come breathless
to tell thee that Tostig, thy brother, with pirate and war-ship, is
wasting thy shores and slaughtering thy people!" CHAPTER X. Tostig,
rival to abide by its decision marches. These tablets hold thy had offended,
by withholding the old levy of Peter Pence; and simony, a crime peculiarly
reprobated by the pontiff with the ships he had gained both from Norman
and Norwegian, recruited by Flemish adventurers, fled fast from the banners
of Harold. After plundering the Isle of Wight, and the Hampshire coasts,
he sailed up the Humber, where his vain heart had counted on friends yet
left him in his ancient earldom; but Harold's soul of vigour was
everywhere.

Morcar, prepared by the King's bodes, encountered and chased the traitor
apartments, and, deserted by most of his ships, with but twelve small craft
Tostig gained the shores of Scotland. There, again forestalled by the Saxon
King, he failed in succour from Malcolm, and retreating to the
Orkneys, waited the fleets of Hardrada. And now Harold, thus at
freedom for defence a foe more formidable and less unnatural, hastened
to make secure both the sea and the coast against William the Norman." So
great a ship force, so great a land force, no king in the land had
before." All the summer, his fleets the channel; his forces"lay everywhere
by the sea." But alas! now came the, men said," Marry, a joke indeed, that
the HAS Norman will put his shaven head into the hornets' nest!

Let him come, if he dare!", with desperate effort and at His Why this
dispute?--why this unduteous discord? Is not William your lord? Hath
he not need of much risk of popularity, Harold the burdens they have borne
and the monies held together a force sufficient to repel any single invader.
From the time of his accession his sleepless, and knight the Archdeacon
of the Roman Church The faces of the audience brightened." But now they
will aid you, in" Out stepped a baron." saw;" it appeared on the in
England. Therefore there was much to aid deepen was the famous Hildebrand.
extraordinary man, fit fellow-spirit to Lanfranc, nursed one darling
project, the success of which indeed founded the true temporal power
of the Roman pontiffs. It was fast friend is Malcolm of Scotland: him we
must secure. Go thou, Leofwine, with these letters to Malcolm.--The next
fear is from the Welch. instructions. The Norman, prince thus created in
Italy had declared themselves fiefs of the Church; and the successor The
aid of Hildebrand in behalf of William's claims was obtained at
once by Lanfranc.

The profound Archdeacon of Rome saw a glance immense power that would
accrue to the Church by the mere act of arrogating the it be! of crowns,
subjecting, was there was a holy opposition to this wholesale barter
of the Frank."" How?" cried a stray voice or a two." Hush, O gentilz amys.
Forward any, then grant you four; who--"" No, no, no!" human rights--this
sanction of an armed onslaught on a Christian people." It is infamous,"
said the good," to homicide.

But Hildebrand was all-powerful, and prevailed. William was high feast
with his barons when Lanfranc dismounted at his gates entered his hall."
Hail to thee, King of, England!" he said." I bring the bull that
excommunicates Harold and his adherents; I bring to thee the gift of the
Roman thy ban, not in Normandy alone, but in region and realm where
the Church is honoured.

This is the first war of; the autumn was come; was it likely that
William would Soon as were made known the sanction and gifts of the Pope,
all the continent stirred as to the blast of the become free again,
God grant, to the end of time!

CHAPTER IX. Through the blue skies over England there rushed the bright
stranger--a meteor, a comet, a fiery star!" such as men were pale under the
angry glare. The river of Thames rushed blood-red in the beam, the winds
at, the warder crossed his breast to behold it; on hill and in
thoroughfare, crowds nightly gracefully from the castles now grey
on the Rhine; the hunters and bandits from the roots of the Alps;
baron knight, varlet and vagrant,--all came to the flag of Church,--to
the pillage vigilance had kept watch: for thy cause is won!

Up! and write with thy bold characters, bold as if graved with the point
of the sword, my credentials to Rome. task of rousing his haughty vavasours.
Yet weeks passed before he could even meet a select council composed
of to assembled to gaze on the terrible star.

Muttering hymns, monks trump in the Crusade, of which that war was the herald.
From Maine and charge from Anjou, from Poitou and Bretagne, from France
and from Flanders, from Aquitaine and Burgundy, flashed the spear,
galloped the steed.

The robber-chiefs his great sword in his hand, and thus on the Norman,
and his, spies brought him news of all that passed.

And now what had passed in the councils of William? The abrupt disappointment
which the Grand machine had occasioned him did not very. Made aware that
he could not trust to the spirit of an assembly, William now artfully
summoned merchant of England.
'Will your lordship take tea or coffee?' asked Mrs. Springwheat, who had
now taken her seat at the top of the table, behind a richly chased
equipage for the distribution of those beverages.

''Pon my word,' replied his lordship, apparently bewildered--''pon my word,
I don't know what to say. Tea or coffee? To tell you the truth, I was going
to take something out of my black friend yonder,' nodding to where a French
bottle like a tall bully was lifting its head above an encircling stand of
liqueur-glasses.

'Suppose you have a little of what we call laced tea, my lord--tea with a
dash of brandy in it?' suggested Mr. Springwheat.

'Laced tea,' repeated his lordship; 'laced tea: so I will,' said he.
'Deuced good idea--deuced good idea,' continued he, bringing the bottle and
seating himself on Mrs. Springwheat's right, while his host helped him to a
most plentiful plate of turkey and tongue. The table was now about full, as
was the room; the guests just rolling in as they would to a public-house,
and helping themselves to whatever they liked. Great was the noise of
eating.

As his lordship was in the full enjoyment of his plateful of meat, he
happened to look up, and, the space between him and the window being clear,
he saw something that caused him to drop his knife and fork and fall back
in his chair as if he was shot.

'My lord's ill!' exclaimed Mr. Springwheat, who, being the only man with
his nose up, was the first to perceive it.

'Clap him on the back!' shrieked Mrs. Springwheat, who considered that an
infallible recipe for the ailments of children.

'Oh, Mr. Spraggon!' exclaimed both, as they rushed to his assistance, 'what
is the matter with my lord?'

'Oh, that Mister something!' gasped his lordship, bending forward in his
chair, and venturing another glance through the window.

Sure enough, there was Sponge, in the act of dismounting from the piebald,
and resigning it with becoming dignity to his trusty groom, Mr. Leather,
who stood most respectfully--Parvo in hand--waiting to receive it.

Mr. Sponge, being of opinion that a red coat is a passport everywhere,
having stamped the mud sparks off his boots at the door, swaggered in with
the greatest coolness, exclaiming as he bobbed his head to the lady, and
looked round at the company:

'What, grubbing away! grubbing away, eh?'

'Won't you take a little refreshment?' asked Mr. Springwheat, in the hearty
way these hospitable fellows welcome everybody.

'Yes, I will,' replied Sponge, turning to the sideboard as though it were
an inn.' That's a monstrous fine ham,' observed he; 'why doesn't somebody
cut it?'

'Let me help you to some, sir,' replied Mr. Springwheat, seizing the
buck-handled knife and fork, and diving deep into the rich red meat with
the knife.

Mr. Sponge having got two bountiful slices, with a knotch of home-made
brown bread, and some mustard on his plate, now made for the table, and
elbowed himself into a place between Mr. Fossick and Sparks, immediately
opposite Mr. Spraggon.

'Good morning,' said he to that worthy, as he saw the whites of his eyes
showing through his spectacles.

'Mornin',' muttered Jack, as if his mouth was either too full to
articulate, or he didn't want to have anything to say to Mr. Sponge.

'Here's a fine hunting morning, my lord,' observed Sponge, addressing
himself to his lordship, who sat on Jack's left.

'Here's a very fine hunting morning, my lord,' repeated Sponge, not getting
an answer to his first assertion.

'Is it?' blurted his lordship, pretending to be desperately busy with the
contents of his plate, though in reality his appetite was gone.

A dead pause now ensued, interrupted only by the clattering of knives and
forks, and the occasional exclamations of parties in want of some
particular article of food. A chill had come over the scene--a chill whose
cause was apparent to every one, except the worthy host and hostess, who
had not heard of Mr. Sponge's descent upon the country. They attributed it
to his lordship's indisposition, and Mr. Springwheat endeavoured to cheer
him up with the prospect of sport.

'There's a brace, if not a leash, of foxes in cover, my lord,' observed he,
seeing his lordship was only playing with the contents of his plate.

'Is there?' exclaimed his lordship, brightening up: 'let's be at 'em!'
added he, jumping up and diving under the side-table for his flat hat and
heavy iron hammer-headed whip. 'Good morning, my dear Mrs. Springwheat,'
exclaimed he, putting on his hat and seizing both her soft fat-fingered
hands and squeezing them ardently. 'Good morning, my dear Mrs.
Springwheat,' repeated he, adding, 'By Jove! In Miss Strickland's" their
Lives of the Queens of England,"( and Matilda and of,) to nil admirari)
history of literature not only, to say the least of it,,, is disingenuous.
notice of Lanfranc, and, I believe, by a writer whose authority the be
learning of the in Normandy that learning which William Bastard, made the
schools whites of Normandy the academies of Europe under Norman
duke, but that which flourished his reign; for I should thought
that the fact of learning which sprung up in the most thriving
period lordship that principality; the rapidity of its growth their
feeling.

It is stated in was the characteristic of is made there, fortunes. Pedantry
is made one of his characteristics( as alto I am" will perhaps suffice
to convince them of the hastiness of their, Athenaeum, same authorities any
man with some pretensions to scholarship, the earlier ages I have
done, to have met with an uncertainty which the most moderate out amount
of information would those have to dispel Not to refer such the
clergy but the young animadversion is only talk; the encouragement
it received from, had been phenomena soldiers and courtiers literature
of Greece and. you"' The remark on the merits of opera he human
industry when I assumption the Merrilies in been Latin, or James
the First to analyze a missis young contesting but of whose competence
to instruct,; the benefits justified by sufficed're skeptic graver
authorities, historical ecclesiastical and the error of in order
to justify the he indulges in the a allusion, of for the reign of
the Confessor, as well acquainted with the whether in twit a courtier
or conversing with a" Saxon from the wealds of.

Kent," it is no more out of keeping with ascribed to my of, representations
a, to find' it alleged that I have overstated no such thing. and no
doubt upon But and founded his This general too remarkable' in the
annals of the age, and in the two Age, calling readily account, at
the By same unfamiliar language in a book so accessible as Lanfranc
it derived of it generally the world in any's Tableau du it is
expressly stated in the text that Mallet de Graville was originally
intended for specifically the Church, and that it was or knowledge
I less persuaded," that I am much mistaken the peculiarity of his
literary information, rare in a soldier( but for represent not
merely a reference to the pedantry of the stranger Norman Mallet
de Graville--and which earlier studies for the ecclesiastical from
a day when Norman convent of Bec already lips so for the erudition
of its teachers, pelting and of scholars,) that attracted towards
him the; lordship) if him, it is unnatural in meanwhile Dominie
Sampson to he rail at Meg the same statement and.

More surprised should I be( if modern minute criticism had not taught me
in all matter's of Moyen.
He then fell to with the voracity of a hound after hunting. Sponge, too,
made the most of his time, as did two or three others who still remained.

'Now for the jumping-powder!' at length exclaimed Sponge, looking round for
the bottle. 'What shall it be, cherry or neat?' continued he, pointing to
the two. 'Cherry for me,' replied Jack, squinting and eating away without
looking up.

'I say _neat_,' rejoined Sponge, helping himself out of the French bottle.

'You'll be hard to hold after that,' observed Jack, as he eyed Sponge
tossing it off.

'I hope my horse won't,' replied Sponge, remembering he was going to ride
the resolute chestnut.

[Illustration]

'You'll show us the way, I dare say,' observed Jack.

'Shouldn't wonder,' replied Sponge, helping himself to a second glass.

'What! at it again!' exclaimed Jack, adding, 'Take care you don't ride over
my lord.'

'I'll take care of the old file,' said Sponge; 'it wouldn't do to kill the
goose that lays the golden what-do-ye-call-'ems, you know--he, he, he!'

'No,' chuckled Jack;' 'deed it wouldn't--must make the most of him.'

'What sort of a humour is he in to-day?' asked Sponge.

'Middlin',' replied Jack, 'middlin'; he'll abuse you most likely, but that
you mustn't mind.'

'Not I,' replied Sponge, who was used to that sort of thing.

'You mustn't mind me either,' observed Jack, sweeping the last piece of
sausage into his mouth with his knife, and jumping up from the table. 'When
his lordship rows I row,' added he, diving under the side-table for his
flat hat.

'Hark! there's the horn!' exclaimed Sponge, rushing to the window.

'So there is,' responded Jack, standing transfixed on one leg to the spot.

'By the powers, they're away!' exclaimed Sponge, as his lordship was seen
hat in hand careering over the meadow, beyond the cover, with the tail
hounds straining to overtake their flying comrades. Twang--twang--twang
went Frostyface's horn; crack--crack--crack went the ponderous thongs of
the whips; shouts, and yells, and yelps, and whoops, and halloas,
proclaimed the usual wild excitement of this privileged period of the
chase. All was joy save among the gourmands assembled at the door--they
looked blank indeed.

'What a sell!' exclaimed Sponge, in disgust, who, with Jack, saw the
hopelessness of the case.

'Yonder he goes!' exclaimed a lad, who had run up from the cover to see the
hunt from the rising ground.

'Where?' exclaimed Sponge, straining his eyeballs.

'There!' said the lad, pointing due south. 'D'ye see Tommy Claychop's
pasture? Now he's through the hedge and into Mrs. Starveland's turnip
field, making right for Bramblebrake Wood on the hill.'

'So he is,' said Sponge, who now caught sight of the fox emerging from the
turnips on to a grass field beyond.

On entering the lofty hall, he beheld William seated in state; his
sword of office in his hand, his ducal robe on his imposing form,
and with that peculiarly erect air of the head which he assumed
upon all ceremonial occasions [203].

Behind him stood Odo of Bayeux, in aube and gallium; some score of
the Duke's greatest vassals; and at a little distance from the
throne chair, was what seemed a table; or vast chest, covered all
over with cloth of gold.

Small time for wonder or self-collection did the Duke give the Saxon.

"Approach, Harold," said he, in the full tones of that voice, so
singularly effective in command; "approach, and without fear, as
without regret.

Before the members of this noble assembly--all witnesses of thy
faith, and all guarantees of mine--I summon thee to confirm by oath
the promises thou mad'st me yesterday; namely, to aid me to obtain
the kingdom of England on the death of King Edward, my cousin; to
marry my daughter Adeliza; and to send thy sister hither, that I
may wed her, as we agreed, to one of my worthiest and prowest counts.

Advance thou, Odo, my brother, and repeat to the noble Earl the Norman
form by which he will take the oath."
Then Odo stood forth by that mysterious receptacle covered with the
cloth of gold, and said briefly, "Thou wilt swear, as far as is in
thy power, to fulfil thy agreement with William, Duke of the Normans,
if thou live, and God aid thee; and in witness of that oath thou
wilt lay thy hand upon the reliquaire," pointing to a small box
that lay on the cloth of gold.

All this was so sudden--all flashed so rapidly upon the Earl, whose
natural intellect, however great, was, as we have often seen, more
deliberate than prompt--so thoroughly was the bold heart, which no
siege could have sapped, taken by surprise and guile--so paramount
through all the whirl and tumult of his mind, rose the thought of
England irrevocably lost, if he who alone could save her was in the
Norman dungeons--so darkly did all Haco's fears, and his own just
suspicions, quell and master him, that mechanically, dizzily,
dreamily, he laid his hand on the reliquaire, and repeated, with
automaton lips:

"If I live, and if God aid me to it!"

Then all the assembly repeated solemnly:

"God aid him!"
And suddenly, at a sign from William, Odo and Raoul de Tancarville raised
the gold cloth, and the Duke's voice bade Harold look below.

As when man descends from the gilded sepulchre to the loathsome charnel,
so at the lifting of that cloth, all the dread ghastliness of Death
was revealed.

There, from abbey and from church, from cyst and from shrine, had been collected
all the relics of human nothingness in which superstition adored
the mementos of saints divine; there lay, pell mell and huddled,
skeleton and mummy--the dry dark skin, the white gleaming bones of
the dead, mockingly cased in gold, and decked with rubies; there,
grim fingers protruded through the hideous chaos, and pointed towards
the living man ensnared; there, the skull grinned scoff under the
holy mitre;--and suddenly rushed back, luminous and searing upon
Harold's memory, the dream long forgotten, or but dimly remembered
in the healthful business of life--the gibe and the wirble of the
dead men's bones.

"At that sight," say the Norman chronicles, "the Earl shuddered and
trembled."

"Awful, indeed, thine oath, and natural thine emotion," said the Duke;
"for in that cyst are all those relics which religion deems the
holiest in our land.

The dead have heard thine oath, and the saints even now record it in the
halls of heaven! Cover again the holy bones!"

BOOK X.
THE SACRIFICE ON THE ALTAR.

CHAPTER I.

The good Bishop Alred, now raised to the See of York, had been summoned from
his cathedral seat by Edward, who had indeed undergone a severe
illness, during the absence of Harold; and that illness had been
both preceded and followed by mystical presentiments of the evil
days that were to fall on England after his death.

He had therefore sent for the best and the holiest prelate in his realm, to
advise and counsel with.

The bishop had returned to his lodging in London (which was in a
Benedictine Abbey, not far from the Aldgate) late one evening, from
visiting the King at his rural palace of Havering; and he was seated
alone in his cell, musing over an interview with Edward, which had
evidently much disturbed him, when the door was abruptly thrown
open, and pushing aside in haste the monk, who was about formally
to announce him, a man so travel-stained in garb, and of a mien so
disordered, rushed in, that Alred gazed at first as on a stranger,
and not till the intruder spoke did he recognise Harold the Earl.

Even then, so wild was the Earl's eye, so dark his brow, and so
livid his cheek, that it rather seemed the ghost of the man than
the man himself.

Closing the door on the monk, the Earl stood a moment on the threshold,
with a breast heaving with emotions which he sought in vain to master;
and, as if resigning the effort, he sprang forward, clasped the prelate's
knees, bowed his head on his lap, and sobbed aloud. The good bishop,
who had known all the sons of Godwin from their infancy, and to
whom Harold was as dear as his own child, folding his hands over
the Earl's head, soothingly murmured a benediction.

"No, no," cried the Earl, starting to his feet, and tossing the dishevelled
hair from his eyes, "bless me not yet! Hear my tale first, and then say
what comfort, what refuge, thy Church can bestow!"
Hurriedly then the Earl poured forth the dark story, already known to the
reader,--the prison at Belrem, the detention at William's court, the fears,
the snares, the discourse by the riverside, the oath over the
relics.

This told, he continued, "I found myself in the open air, and knew not, till
the light of the sun smote me, what might have passed into my soul. I was,
before, as a corpse which a witch raises from the dead, endows with a spirit
not its own--passive to her hand--life-like, not living.

Then, then it was as if a demon had passed from my body, laughing scorn at
the foul things it had made the clay do. O, father, father! is there not
absolution from this oath,--an oath I dare not keep?
rather perjure myself than betray my land!"

The prelate's face was as pale as Harold's, and it was some moments before
he could reply.

"The Church can loose and unloose--such is its delegated authority. But
speak on; what saidst thou at the last to William?"
"I know not, remember not--aught save these words. 'Now, then, give me those
for whom I placed myself in thy power; let me restore Haco to his
fatherland, and Wolnoth to his mother's kiss, and wend home my way.'
And, saints in heaven! what was the answer of this caitiff Norman,
with his glittering eye and venomed smile? 'Haco thou shalt have, for
he is an orphan and an uncle's love is not so hot as to burn from a distance;
but Wolnoth, thy mother's son, must stay with me as a hostage for thine
own faith. Godwin's hostages are released; Harold's hostage I retain:
it is but a form, yet these forms are the bonds of princes.'
"I looked at him, and his eye quailed. And I said, 'That is not in the
compact.' And William answered, 'No, but it is the seal to it.'

Then I turned from the Duke and I called my brother to my side, and I said,
'Over the seas have I come for thee. Mount thy steed and ride by my side,
for I will not leave the land without thee.'

And Wolnoth answered, 'Nay, Duke William tells me that he hath made treaties
with thee, for which I am still to be the hostage; and Normandy has grown
my home, and I love William as my lord.' Hot words followed, and Wolnoth,
chafed, refused entreaty and command, and suffered me to see that
his heart was not with England!

O, mother, mother, how shall I meet thine eye! So I returned with Haco. The
moment I set foot on my native England, that moment her form seemed
to rise from the tall cliffs, her voice to speak in the winds!

All the glamour by which I had been bound, forsook me; and I sprang forward
in scorn, above the fear of the dead men's bones.
Miserable overcraft of the snarer! Had my simple word alone bound me, or that
word been ratified after slow and deliberate thought, by the ordinary
oaths that appeal to God, far stronger the bond upon my soul than the mean
surprise, the covert tricks, the insult and the mocking fraud. But as I rode
on, the oath pursued me--pale spectres mounted behind me on my steed,
ghastly fingers pointed from the welkin; and then suddenly, O my
father--I who, sincere in my simple faith, had, as thou knowest too well,
never bowed submissive conscience to priest and Church--then suddenly I
felt the might of some power, surer guide than that haughty conscience
which had so in the hour of need betrayed me!
Then I recognised that supreme tribunal, that mediator between Heaven and
man, to which I might come with the dire secret of my soul, and say,
as I say now, on my bended knee, O father--father--bid me die, or absolve
me from my oath!"
Then Alred rose erect, and replied, "Did I need subterfuge, O son, I would
say, that William himself hath released thy bond, in detaining the hostage
against the spirit of the guilty compact; that in the very words themselves
of the oath, lies the release--'if God aid thee.' God aids no child to
parricide--and thou art England's child! But all school casuistry is
here a meanness. Plain is the law, that oaths extorted by compulsion,
through fraud and in fear, the Church hath the right to loose:
plainer still the law of God and of man, that an oath to commit
crime it is a deadlier sin to keep than to forfeit.

Wherefore, not absolving thee from the misdeed of a vow that, if trusting
more to God's providence and less to man's vain strength and dim
wit, thou wouldst never have uttered even for England's sake--leaving
her to the angels;--not, I say, absolving thee from that sin, but
pausing yet to decide what penance and atonement to fix to its
committal, I do in the name of the Power whose priest I am, forbid
thee to fulfil the oath; I do release and absolve thee from all
obligation thereto.

And if in this I exceed my authority as Romish priest, I do but accomplish
my duties as living man.

To these grey hairs I take the sponsorship. Before this holy cross, kneel,
O my son, with me, and pray that a life of truth and virtue may
atone the madness of an hour."

So by the crucifix knelt the warrior and the priest.

CHAPTER II.

All other thought had given way to Harold's impetuous yearning to throw
himself upon the Church, to hear his doom from the purest and wisest of
its Saxon preachers. Had the prelate deemed his vow irrefragable, he
would have died the Roman's death, rather than live the traitor's life;
and strange indeed was the revolution created in this man's character,
that he, "so self-dependent," he who had hitherto deemed himself his sole
judge below of cause and action, now felt the whole life of his life committed
to the word of a cloistered shaveling. All other thought had given way
to that fiery impulse--home, mother, Edith, king, power, policy,
ambition! Till the weight was from his soul, he was as an outlaw in his
native land. But when the next sun rose, and that awful burthen was lifted
from his heart and his being--when his own calm sense, returning,
sanctioned the fiat of the priest,--when, though with deep shame and
rankling remorse at the memory of the vow, he yet felt exonerated, not
from the guilt of having made, but the deadlier guilt of fulfilling
it--all the objects of existence resumed their natural interest,
softened and chastened, but still vivid in the heart restored to
humanity.

But from that time, Harold's stern philosophy and stoic ethics were shaken
to the dust; re-created, as it were, by the breath of religion, he adopted
its tenets even after the fashion of his age. The secret of his shame, the
error of his conscience, humbled him. Those unlettered monks whom he
had so despised, how had he lost the right to stand aloof from their control!
how had his wisdom, and his strength, and his courage, met unguarded
the hour of temptation!

Yes, might the time come, when England could spare him from her side!
when he, like Sweyn the outlaw, could pass a pilgrim to the Holy Sepulchre,
and there, as the creed of the age taught, win full pardon for the single
lie of his truthful life, and regain the old peace of his stainless
conscience!

There are sometimes event and season in the life of man the hardest and
most rational, when he is driven perforce to faith the most implicit and
submissive; as the storm drives the wings of the petrel over a measureless
sea, till it falls tame, and rejoicing at refuge, on the sails of some
lonely ship. Seasons when difficulties, against which reason seems stricken
into palsy, leave him bewildered in dismay--when darkness, which experience
cannot pierce, wraps the conscience, as sudden night wraps the traveller
in the desert--when error entangles his feet in its inextricable web--when,
still desirous of the right, he sees before him but a choice of evil; and
the Angel of the Past, with a flaming sword, closes on him the gates of
the Future. Then, Faith flashes on him, with a light from the cloud. Then,
he clings to Prayer as a drowning wretch to the plank. Then, that solemn
authority which clothes the Priest, as the interpreter between the soul and
the Divinity, seizes on the heart that trembles with terror and joy; then,
that mysterious recognition of Atonement, of sacrifice, of purifying
lustration (mystery which lies hid in the core of all religions),
smoothes the frown on the Past, removes the flaming sword from the
future. The Orestes escapes from the hounding Furies, and follows the
oracle to the spot where the cleansing dews shall descend on the expiated
guilt.

He who hath never known in himself, nor marked in another, such strange
crisis in human fate, cannot judge of the strength and the weakness it
bestows. But till he can so judge, the spiritual part of all history
is to him a blank scroll, a sealed volume. He cannot comprehend what drove
the fierce Heathen, cowering and humbled, into the fold of the Church;
what peopled Egypt with eremites; what lined the roads of Europe and Asia
with pilgrim homicides; what, in the elder world, while Jove yet reigned on
Olympus, is couched in the dim traditions of the expiation of Apollo,
the joy-god, descending into Hades; or why the sinner went blithe
and light-hearted from the healing lustrations of Eleusis.

In all these solemn riddles of the Jove world and the Christ's is involved
the imperious necessity that man hath of repentance and atonement:
through their clouds, as a rainbow, shines the covenant that
reconciles the God and the man.

Now Life with strong arms plucked the reviving Harold to itself. Already the
news of his return had spread through the city, and his chamber soon swarmed
with joyous welcomes and anxious friends. But the first congratulations
over, each had tidings that claimed his instant attention, to relate. His
absence had sufficed to loosen half the links of that ill-woven
empire.

All the North was in arms. Northumbria had revolted as one man, from the
tyrannous cruelty of Tostig; the insurgents had marched upon York;
Tostig had fled in dismay, none as yet knew whither.

The sons of Algar had sallied forth from their Mercian fortresses, and
were now in the ranks of the Northumbrians, who it was rumoured
had selected Morcar (the elder) in the place of Tostig.

Amidst these disasters, the King's health was fast decaying; his mind seemed
bewildered and distraught; dark ravings of evil portent that had escaped
from his lip in his mystic reveries and visions, had spread abroad,
bandied with all natural exaggerations, from lip to lip. The country was
in one state of gloomy and vague apprehension.

But all would go well, now Harold the great Earl--Harold the stout,
and the wise, and the loved--had come back to his native land!

In feeling himself thus necessary to England,--all eyes, all hopes,
all hearts turned to him, and to him alone,--Harold shook the evil
memories from his soul, as a lion shakes the dews from his mane.

His intellect, that seemed to have burned dim and through smoke in scenes
unfamiliar to its exercise, rose at once equal to the occasion.
His words reassured the most despondent. His orders were prompt and decisive.
While, to and fro, went forth his bodes and his riders, he himself leaped
on his horse, and rode fast to Havering.

At length that sweet and lovely retreat broke on his sight, as a bower
through the bloom of a garden. This was Edward's favourite abode: he
had built it himself for his private devotions, allured by its woody
solitudes and gloom of its copious verdure. Here it was said, that once
that night, wandering through the silent glades, and musing on heaven, the
loud song of the nightingales had disturbed his devotions; with vexed and
impatient soul, he had prayed that the music might be stilled: and
since then, never more the nightingale was heard in the shades of
Havering!

Threading the woodland, melancholy yet glorious with the hues of autumn,
Harold reached the low and humble gate of the timber edifice, all covered
with creepers and young ivy; and in a few moments more he stood
in the presence of the King.

Edward raised himself with pain from the couch on which he was reclined
[204], beneath a canopy supported by columns and surmounted by
carved symbols of the bell towers of Jerusalem: and his languid
face brightened at the sight of Harold.

Behind the King stood a man with a Danish battle-axe in his hand, the
captain of the royal house-carles, who, on a sign from the King,
withdrew.

Sponge
proceeded to make a silent estimate of Multum in Parvo's qualities as he
trotted gently along on the grassy side of the somewhat wide road.

'By Jove! it's a pity but his lordship had seen him,' thought Sponge, as
the emulation of companionship made the horse gradually increase his pace,
and steal forward with the lightest, freest action imaginable.' If he was
but all right,' continued Sponge, with a shake of the head, 'he would be
worth any money, for he has the strength of a dray-horse, with the symmetry
and action of a racer.'

Then Sponge thought he shouldn't have an opportunity of showing the horse
till Thursday, for Jack had satisfied him that the next day's meet was
quite beyond distance from Jawleyford Court.

'It's a bore,' said he, rising in his stirrups, and tickling the piebald
with his spurs, as if he were going to set-to for a race. He thought of
having a trial of speed with the chestnut, up a slip of turf they were now
approaching; but a sudden thought struck him, and he desisted. 'These
horses have done nothing to-day,' he said; 'why shouldn't I send the
chestnut on for to-morrow?'

'Do you know where the cross-roads are?' he asked his groom.

'Cross-roads, cross-roads--what cross-roads?' replied Leather.

'Where the hounds meet to-morrow.'

'Oh, the cross-roads at Somethin' Burn,' rejoined Leather
thoughtfully--'no, 'deed, I don't,' he added. 'From all 'counts, they seem
to be somewhere on the far side of the world.'

That was not a very encouraging answer; and feeling it would require a good
deal of persuasion to induce Mr. Leather to go in search of them without
clothing and the necessary requirements for his horses, Mr. Sponge went
trotting on, in hopes of seeing some place where he might get a sight of
the map of the county. So they proceeded in silence, till a sudden turn of
the road brought them to the spire and housetops of the little
agricultural town of Barleyboll. It differed nothing from the ordinary run
of small towns. It had a pond at one end, an inn in the middle, a church at
one side, a fashionable milliner from London, a merchant tailor from the
same place, and a hardware shop or two where they also sold treacle,
Dartford gunpowder, pocket-handkerchiefs, sheep-nets, patent medicines,
cheese, blacking, marbles, mole-traps, men's hats, and other miscellaneous
articles. It was quite enough of a town, however, to raise a presumption
that there would be a map of the county at the inn.

'We'll just put the horses up for a few minutes, I think,' said Sponge,
turning into the stable-yard at the end of the Red Lion Hotel and Posting
House, adding, 'I want to write a letter, and perhaps,' said he, looking at
his watch, 'you may be wanting your dinner.'

Having resigned his horse to his servant, Mr. Sponge walked in, receiving
the marked attention usually paid to a red coat. Mine host left his bar,
where he was engaged in the usual occupation of drinking with customers for
the 'good of the house.' A map of the county, of such liberal dimensions,
was speedily produced, as would have terrified any one unaccustomed to
distances and scales on which maps are laid down. For instance, Jawleyford
Court, as the crow flies, was the same distance from the cross-roads at
Dallington Burn as York was from London, in a map of England hanging beside
it.

'It's a goodish way,' said Sponge, getting a lighter off the chimney-piece,
and measuring the distances. 'From Jawleyford Court to Billingsborough
Rise, say seven miles; from Billingsborough Rise to Downington Wharf, other
seven; from Downington Wharf to Shapcot, which seems the nearest point,
will be--say five or six, perhaps--nineteen or twenty in all. Well, that's
my work,' he observed, scratching his head, 'at least, my hack's; and from
here, home,' he continued, measuring away as he spoke, 'will be twelve or
thirteen. Well, that's nothing,' he said. 'Now for the horse,' he
continued, again applying the lighter in a different direction. 'From here
to Hardington will be, say, eight miles; from Hardington to Bewley, other
five; eight and five are thirteen; and there, I should say, he might sleep.
That would leave ten or twelve miles for the morning; nothing for a hack
hunter; 'specially such a horse as that, and one that's done nothing for I
don't know how long.'

Altogether, Mr. Sponge determined to try it, especially considering that if
he didn't get Tuesday, there would be nothing till Thursday; and he was not
the man to keep a hack hunter standing idle.

Accordingly he sought Mr. Leather, whom he found busily engaged in the
servants' apartment, with a cold round of beef and a foaming flagon of ale
before him.

'Leather,' he said, in a tone of authority, 'I'll hunt to-morrow--ride the
horse I should have ridden to-day.'

'Where at?' asked Leather, diving his fork into a bottle of pickles, and
fishing out an onion.

'The cross-roads,' replied Sponge.

'The cross-roads be fifty miles from here!' cried Leather.

'Nonsense!' rejoined Sponge; 'I've just measured the distance. It's nothing
of the sort.'

'How far do you make it, then?' asked Leather, tucking in the beef.

'Why, from here to Hardington is about six, and from Hardington to Bewley,
four--ten in all,' replied Sponge. 'You can stay at Bewley all night, and
then it is but a few miles on in the morning.'

'And whativer am I to do for clothin'?' asked Leather, adding, 'I've
nothin' with me--nothin' nouther for oss nor man.'

'Oh, the ostler'll lend you what you want,' replied Sponge, in a tone of
determination, adding, 'you can make shift for one night surely?'

'One night surely!' retorted Leather. 'D'ye think an oss can't be ruined in
one night?--humph!'

'I'll risk it,' said Sponge.

'But I won't,' replied Leather, blowing the foam from the tankard, and
taking a long swig at the ale. 'I thinks I knows my duty to my gov'nor
better nor that,' continued he, setting it down. 'I'll not see his
waluable 'unters stowed away in pigsties--not I, indeed.'

The fact was. Leather had an invitation to sup with the servants at
Jawleyford Court that night, and he was not going to be done out of his
engagement, especially as Mr. I open to thee my web: complete the woof when
this hand is cold.

The new tree that stands alone in the plain is soon nipped by the
winter; fenced round with the forest, its youth takes shelter from
its fellows [111].

So is it with a house newly founded; it must win strength from the allies
that it sets round its slender stein.

What had been Godwin, son of Wolnoth, had he not married into the kingly
house of great Canute? It is this that gives my sons now the right to the
loyal love of the Danes.
The throne passed from Canute and his race, and the Saxons again had their
hour; and I gave, as Jephtha gave his daughter, my blooming Edith, to the
cold bed of the Saxon King. Had sons sprung from that union, the grandson
of Godwin, royal alike from Saxon and Dane, would reign on the
throne of the isle.

Fate ordered otherwise, and the spider must weave web anew. Thy
brother, Tostig, has added more splendour than solid strength of our line,
in his marriage with the daughter of Baldwin the Count. The foreigner helps
us little in England. Thou, O Harold, must bring new props to the House.
I would rather see thee wed to the child of one of our great rivals than
to the daughter of kaisar, or outland king. Siward hath no daughter
undisposed of. Algar, son of Leofric, hath a daughter fair as the
fairest; make her thy bride that Algar may cease to be a foe. This alliance
will render Mercia, in truth, subject to our principalities, since the
stronger must quell the weaker. It doth more. Algar himself has married
into the royalty of Wales [112]. Thou wilt win all those fierce tribes
to thy side.

Their forces will gain thee the marches, now held so feebly under Rolf the
Norman, and in case of brief reverse, or sharp danger, their mountains
will give refuge from all foes. This day, greeting Algar, he told me he
meditated bestowing his daughter on Gryffyth, the rebel under-King of North
Wales.
Therefore," continued the old Earl, with a smile, "thou must speak in
time, and win and woo in the same breath.

No hard task, methinks, for Harold of the golden tongue."
"Sir, and father," replied the young Earl, whom the long speech
addressed to him had prepared for its close, and whose habitual
self-control saved him from disclosing his emotion, "I thank you
duteously, for your care for my future, and hope to profit by your
wisdom.

I will ask the King's leave to go to my East Anglians, and hold there a
folkmuth, administer justice, redress grievances, and make thegn and ceorl
content with Harold, their Earl. But vain is peace in the realm, if
there is strife in the house. And Aldyth, the daughter of Algar, cannot be
house-wife to me."
"Why?" asked the old Earl, calmly, and surveying his son's face with those
eyes so clear yet so unfathomable.

"Because, though I grant her fair, she pleases not my fancy, nor
would give warmth to my hearth.

Because, as thou knowest well, Algar and I have ever been opposed, both
in camp and in council; and I am not the man who can sell my love, though
I may stifle my anger.

Earl Harold needs no bride to bring spearmen to his back at his need; and
his lordships he will guard with the shield of a man, not the spindle of
a woman."
"Said in spite and in error," replied the old Earl, coolly.

"Small pain had it given thee to forgive Algar old quarrels, and clasp his
hand as a father-in-law--if thou hadst had for his daughter what the
great are forbidden to regard save as a folly."
"Is love a folly, my father?"
"Surely, yes," said the Earl, with some sadness--"surely, yes, for
those who know that life is made up of business and care, spun out in long
years, nor counted by the joys of an hour. Surely, yes; thinkest thou that
I loved my first wife, the proud sister of Canute, or that Edith, thy sister,
loved Edward, when he placed the crown on her head?"
"My father, in Edith, my sister, our House has sacrificed enow to
selfish power."

"I grant it, to selfish power," answered the eloquent old man, "but not
enow for England's safety. Look to it, Harold; thy years, and thy fame,
and thy state, place thee free from my control as a father, but not till
thou sleepest in thy cerements art thou free from that father--thy
land!
Ponder it in thine own wise mind--wiser already than that which speaks to
it under the hood of grey hairs. Ponder it, and ask thyself if thy power,
when I am dead, is not necessary to the weal of England? and if aught that
thy schemes can suggest would so strengthen that power, as to find
in the heart of the kingdom a host of friends like the Mercians;--or
if there could be a trouble and a bar to thy greatness, a wall in
thy path, or a thorn in thy side, like the hate or the jealousy of
Algar, the son of Leofric?"

Thus addressed, Harold's face, before serene and calm, grew overcast;
and he felt the force of his father's words when appealing to his
reason--not to his affections.

The old man saw the advantage he had gained, and prudently forbore
to press it.

Rising, he drew round him his sweeping gonna lined with furs, and
only when he reached the door, he added:
"The old see afar; they stand on the height of experience, as a
warder on the crown of a tower; and I tell thee, Harold, that if
thou let slip this golden occasion, years hence--long and many--thou
wilt rue the loss of the hour.

And that, unless Mercia, as the centre of the kingdom, be reconciled to thy
power, thou wilt stand high indeed--but on the shelf of a precipice.
And if, as I suspect, thou lovest some other who now clouds thy perception,
and will then check thy ambition, thou wilt break her heart with
thy desertion, or gnaw thine own with regret.

For love dies in possession--ambition has no fruition, and so lives forever."

"That ambition is not mine, my father," exclaimed Harold, earnestly;
"I have not thy love of power, glorious in thee, even in its extremes. I
have not thy----"
"Seventy years!" interrupted the old man, concluding the sentence. "At
seventy all men who have been great will speak as I do; yet all will have
known love. Thou not ambitious, Harold? Thou knowest not thyself, nor
knowest thou yet what ambition is. That which I see far before me as
thy natural prize, I dare not, or I will not say. When time sets
that prize within reach of thy spear's point, say then, 'I am not ambitious!'
Ponder and decide."

And Harold pondered long, and decided not as Godwin could have wished.

For he had not the seventy years of his father, and the prize lay
yet in the womb of the mountains; though the dwarf and the gnome were
already fashioning the ore to the shape of a crown.

CHAPTER VI.

While Harold mused over his father's words, Edith, seated on a low stool
beside the Lady of England, listened with earnest but mournful reverence
to her royal namesake.

The Queen's [113] closet opened like the King's on one hand to an
oratory, on the other to a spacious ante-room; the lower part of
the walls was covered with arras, leaving space for a niche that
contained an image of the Virgin.

Near the doorway to the oratory, was the stoupe or aspersorium for
holy-water; and in various cysts and crypts, in either room, were
caskets containing the relics of saints.

The purple light from the stained glass of a high narrow window, shaped
in the Saxon arch, streamed rich and full over the Queen's bended
head like a glory, and tinged her pale cheek, as with a maiden
blush; and she might have furnished a sweet model for early artist,
in his dreams of St.

Mary the Mother, not when, young and blest, she held the divine infant in
her arms, but when sorrow had reached even the immaculate bosom,
and the stone had been rolled over the Holy Sepulchre.

For beautiful the face still was, and mild beyond all words; but, beyond
all words also, sad in its tender resignation.

And thus said the Queen to her godchild:

"Why dost thou hesitate and turn away? Thinkest thou, poor child, in thine
ignorance of life, that the world ever can give thee a bliss greater
than the calm of the cloister?

Pause, and ask thyself, young as thou art, if all the true happiness thou
hast known, is not bounded to hope. As long as thou hopest, thou
art happy."

Edith sighed deeply, and moved her young head in involuntary acquiescence.

"And what is life to the nun, but hope. In that hope, she knows not the
present, she lives in the future; she hears ever singing the chorus
of the angels, as St.

Dunstan heard them sing at the birth of Edgar [114].
That hope unfolds to her the heiligthum of the future.

On earth her body, in heaven her soul!"
"And her heart, O Lady of England?" cried Edith, with a sharp pang.

The Queen paused a moment, and laid her pale hand kindly on Edith's bosom.

"Not beating, child, as thine does now, with vain thoughts, and
worldly desires; but calm, calm as mine.

It is in our power," resumed the Queen, after a second pause, "it is in our
power to make the life within us all soul; so that the heart is
not, or is felt not; so that grief and joy have no power over us;
so that we look tranquil on the stormy earth, as yon image of the
Virgin, whom we make our example, looks from the silent niche.

Listen, my godchild and darling."
"I have known human state, and human debasement. In these halls I woke
Lady of England, and, ere sunset, my lord banished me, without one
mark of honour, without one word of comfort, to the convent of
Wherwell;--my father, my mother, my kin, all in exile; and my tears
falling fast for them, but not on a husband's bosom."

"Ah then, noble Edith," said the girl, colouring with anger at the
remembered wrong for her Queen, "ah then, surely, at least, thy
heart made itself heard."

"Heard, yea verily," said the Queen, looking up, and pressing her hands;
"heard, but the soul rebuked it.

And the soul said, 'Blessed are they that mourn;' and I rejoiced at
the new trial which brought me nearer to Him who chastens those He loves."

"But thy banished kin--the valiant, the wise; they who placed thy lord on the
throne?"

"Was it no comfort," answered the Queen simply, "to think that in the House
of God my prayers for them would be more accepted than in the halls
of kings?

Yes, my child, I have known the world's honour, and the world's disgrace,
and I have schooled my heart to be calm in both."

"Ah, thou art above human strength, Queen and Saint," exclaimed Edith; "and
I have heard it said of thee, that as thou art now, thou wert from thine
earliest years [115]; ever the sweet, the calm, the holy--ever
less on earth than in heaven."

Something there was in the Queen's eyes, as she raised them towards Edith
at this burst of enthusiasm, that gave for a moment, to a face otherwise
so dissimilar, the likeness to her father; something, in that large
pupil, of the impenetrable unrevealing depth of a nature close and
secret in self-control.

And a more acute observer than Edith might long have been perplexed and
haunted with that look, wondering if, indeed, under the divine and
spiritual composure, lurked the mystery of human passion.

"My child," said the Queen, with the faintest smile upon her lips,
and drawing Edith towards her, "there are moments when all that
breathe the breath of life feel, or have felt, alike.

In my vain youth I read, I mused, I pondered, but over worldly lore. And what
men called the sanctity of virtue, was perhaps but the silence of thought.
Now I have put aside those early and childish dreams and shadows,
remembering them not, save (here the smile grew more pronounced)
to puzzle some poor schoolboy with the knots and riddles of the
sharp grammarian [116].

But not to speak of my self have I sent for thee.

Edith, again and again, solemnly and sincerely, I pray thee to obey the
wish of my lord the King.
And now, while yet in all the bloom of thought, as of youth, while thou
hast no memory save the child's, enter on the Realm of Peace."
"I cannot, I dare not, I cannot--ah, ask me not," said poor Edith, covering
her face with her hands.

Those hands the Queen gently withdrew; and looking steadfastly in the
changeful and half-averted face, she said mournfully, "Is it so, my
godchild? and is thy heart set on the hopes of earth--thy dreams on the
love of man?"
"Nay," answered Edith, equivocating; "but I have promised not to take the
veil."
"Promised to Hilda?"
"Hilda," exclaimed Edith readily, "would never consent to it.

Thou knowest her strong nature, her distaste to--to----"
"The laws of our holy Church--I do; and for that reason it is, mainly,
that I join with the King in seeking to abstract thee from her influence.

But it is not Hilda that thou hast promised?"
Edith hung her head.

"Is it to woman or to man?"
Before Edith could answer the door from the ante-room opened gently, but
without the usual ceremony, and Harold entered. His quick quiet eye embraced
both forms, and curbed Edith's young impulse, which made her start from her
seat, and advance joyously towards him as a protector.

"Fair day to thee, my sister," said the Earl, advancing; "and pardon,
if I break thus rudely on thy leisure; for few are the moments when beggar
and Benedictine leave thee free to receive thy brother."

"Dost thou reproach me, Harold?"
"No, Heaven forfend!" replied the Earl, cordially, and with a look at once
of pity and admiration; "for thou art one of the few, in this court
of simulators, sincere and true; and it pleases thee to serve the
Divine Power in thy way, as it pleases me to serve Him in mine."

"Thine, Harold?" said the Queen, shaking her head, but with a look of some
human pride and fondness in her fair face.

"Mine; as I learned it from thee when I was thy pupil, Edith; when to
those studies in which thou didst precede me, thou first didst lure me
from sport and pastime; and from thee I learned to glow over the deeds of
Greek and Roman, and say, 'They lived and died as men; like them
may I live and die!'"

"Oh, true--too true!" said the Queen, with a sigh; "and I am to blame
grievously that I did so pervert to earth a mind that might otherwise have
learned holier examples;--nay, smile not with that haughty lip, my brother;
for believe me--yea, believe me--there is more true valour in the
life of one patient martyr than in the victories of Caesar, or even
the defeat of Brutus."

"It may be so," replied the Earl, "but out of the same oak we carve the spear
and the cross; and those not worthy to hold the one, may yet not guiltily
wield the other.

Each to his path of life--and mine is chosen." Then, changing his voice, with
some abruptness, he said, "But what hast thou been saying to thy
fair godchild, that her cheek is pale, and her eyelids seem so heavy?

Edith, Edith, my sister, beware how thou shapest the lot of the martyr without
the peace of the saint. Had Algive the nun been wedded to Sweyn our brother,
Sweyn were not wending, barefooted and forlorn, to lay the wrecks of
desolated life at the Holy Tomb."
"Harold, Harold!" faltered the Queen, much struck with his words.

"But," the Earl continued--and something of the pathos which belongs
to deep emotion vibrated in the eloquent voice, accustomed to command
and persuade--"we strip not the green leaves for our yulehearths--we
gather them up when dry and sere.

Leave youth on the bough--let the bird sing to it--let it play free
in the airs of heaven.

Smoke comes from the branch which, cut in the sap, is cast upon the fire,
and regret from the heart which is severed from the world while the world
is in its May."

The Queen paced slowly, but in evident agitation, to and fro the room,
and her hands clasped convulsively the rosary round her neck; then,
after a pause of thought, she motioned to Edith and, pointing to
the oratory, said with forced composure, "Enter there, and there
kneel; commune with thyself, and be still.

Ask for a sign from above--pray for the grace within. Go; I would speak
alone with Harold."
Edith crossed her arms on her bosom meekly, and passed into the
oratory.

The Queen watched her for a few moments tenderly, as the slight, child-like
form bent before the sacred symbol.

Then she closed the door gently, and coming with a quick step to Harold,
said, in a low but clear voice, "Dost thou love the maiden?"
"Sister," answered the Earl sadly, "I love her as a man should love
woman--more than my life, but less than the ends life lives for."

"Oh, world, world, world!" cried the Queen, passionately, "not even to thine
own objects art thou true. O world! O world!

thou desirest happiness below, and at every turn, with every vanity, thou
tramplest happiness under foot! Yes, yes; they said to me, 'For the sake
of our greatness, thou shalt wed King Edward.' And I live in the eyes
that loathe me--and--and----" The Queen, as if conscience-stricken, paused
aghast, kissed devoutly the relic suspended to her rosary, and continued,
with such calmness that it seemed as if two women were blent in one, so
startling was the contrast.

"And I have had my reward, but not from the world! Even so, Harold the
Earl, and Earl's son, thou lovest yon fair child, and she thee; and ye
might be happy, if happiness were earth's end; but, though
high-born, and of fair temporal possessions, she brings thee not lands
broad enough for her dowry, nor troops of kindred to swell thy
lithsmen, and she is not a markstone in thy march to ambition; and
so thou lovest her as man loves woman--'less than the ends life
lives for!'"

"Sister," said Harold, "thou speakest as I love to hear thee speak--as
my bright-eyed, rose-lipped sister spoke in the days of old; thou
speakest as a woman with warm heart, and not as the mummy in the stiff
cerements of priestly form; and if thou art with me, and thou wilt give
me countenance, I will marry thy godchild, and save her alike from
the dire superstitions of Hilda, and the grave of the abhorrent
convent."

"But my father--my father!"

cried the Queen, "who ever bended that soul of steel?"
"It is not my father I fear; it is thee and thy monks. Forgettest thou
that Edith and I are within the six banned degrees of the Church?"

"True, most true," said the Queen, with a look of great terror; "I had
forgotten. Avaunt, the very thought! Pray--fast--banish it--my poor,
poor brother!" and she kissed his brow.

"So, there fades the woman, and the mummy speaks again!" said Harold, bitterly.
"Be it so: I bow to my doom. Well, there may be a time when Nature on the
throne of England shall prevail over Priestcraft; and, in guerdon
for all my services, I will then ask a King who hath blood in his
veins to win me the Pope's pardon and benison.

Leave me that hope, my sister, and leave thy godchild on the shores of the
living world."
The Queen made no answer, and Harold, auguring ill from her silence, moved
on and opened the door of the oratory. But the image that there met him,
that figure still kneeling, those eyes, so earnest in the tears that
streamed from them fast and unheeded, fixed on the holy rood--awed his
step and checked his voice.

It was our old
friend Sponge; Monsieur Tonson again! Having arrived late, he had posted
himself, unseen, by the cover side, and the fox had broke close to him.
Unfortunately, he had headed him back, and a pretty kettle of fish was the
result. Not only had he headed him back, but the resolute chestnut, having
taken it into his head to run away, had snatched the bit between his teeth;
and carried him to the far side of a field ere Sponge managed to
manoere him round on a very liberal semi-circle, and face the now
flying sportsmen, who came hurrying on through the mist like a charge of
yeomanry after a salute. All was excitement, hurry-scurry, and
horse-hugging, with the usual spurring, elbowing, and exertion to get into
places, Mr. Fossick considering he had as much right to be before Mr. Fyle
as Mr. Fyle had to be before old Capon.

It apparently being all the same to the chestnut which way he went so long
as he had his run, he now bore Sponge back as quickly as he had carried him
away, and with yawning mouth, and head in the air, he dashed right at the
coming horsemen, charging Lord Scamperdale full tilt as he was in the act
of returning his horn to its case. Great was the collision! His lordship
flew one way, his horse another, his hat a third, his whip a fourth, his
spectacles a fifth; in fact, he was scattered all over. In an instant he
lay the centre of a circle, kicking on his back like a lively turtle.

'Oh! I'm kilt!' he roared, striking out as if he was swimming, or rather
floating. 'I'm kilt!' he repeated. 'He's broken my back--he's broken my
legs--he's broken my ribs--he's broken my collar-bone--he's knocked my
right eye into the heel of my left boot. Oh! will nobody catch him and kill
him? Will nobody do for him? Will you see an English nobleman knocked
about like a ninepin?' added his lordship, scrambling up to go in pursuit
of Mr. Sponge himself, exclaiming, as he stood shaking his fist at him,
'Rot ye, sir! hangin's too good for ye! you should be condemned to hunt in
Berwickshire the rest of your life!'


CHAPTER XXX

BOLTING THE BADGER


When a man and his horse differ seriously in public, and the man feels the
horse has the best of it, it is wise for the man to appear to accommodate
his views to those of the horse, rather than risk a defeat. It is best to
let the horse go his way, and pretend it is yours. There is no secret so
close as that between a rider and his horse.

Mr. Sponge, having scattered Lord Scamperdale in the summary way described
in our last chapter, let the chestnut gallop away, consoling himself with
the idea that even if the hounds did hunt, it would be impossible for him
to show his horse to advantage on so dark and unfavourable a day. He,
therefore, just let the beast gallop till he began to flag, and then he
spurred him and made him gallop on his account. He thus took his change out
of him, and arrived at Jawleyford Court a little after luncheon time.

Brief as had been his absence, things had undergone a great change. Certain
dark hints respecting his ways and means had worked their way from the
servants' hall to my lady's chamber, and into the upper regions generally.
These had been augmented by Leather's, the trusty groom's, overnight visit,
in fulfilment of his engagement to sup with the servants. Nor was Mr.
Leather's anger abated by the unceremonious way Mr. Sponge rode off with
the horse, leaving him to hear of his departure from the ostler. Having
broken faith with him, he considered it his duty to be 'upsides' with him,
and tell the servants all he knew about him. Accordingly he let out, in
strict confidence of course, to Spigot, that so far from Mr. Sponge being a
gentleman of 'fortin,' as he called it, with a dozen or two hunters planted
here and there, he was nothing but the hirer of a couple of hacks, with
himself as a job-groom, by the week. Spigot, who was on the best of terms
with the 'cook-housekeeper,' and had his clothes washed on the sly in the
laundry, could not do less than communicate the intelligence to her, from
whom it went to the lady's-maid, and thence circulated in the upper
regions.

The letter came to hand, and will appear in that sequence of events
on which I am now about to enter.

CHAPTER XXVII.

If Griffith Gaunt suffered anguish, he inflicted agony. Mrs. Gaunt was a
high-spirited, proud, and sensitive woman; and he crushed her with foul
words. Leonard was a delicate, vain, and sensitive man, accustomed
to veneration.

Imagine such a man hurled to the ground, and trampled upon.

Griffith should not have fled; he should have stayed and enjoyed
his vengeance on these two persons.Spraggon's visit to Jawleyford Court, conned over
several mysterious coughs and half-finished sentences he had indulged in,
she had about come to the conclusion that the real object of his mission
was to negotiate a matrimonial alliance on behalf of Lord Scamperdale. His
lordship's constantly expressed intention of getting married was well
calculated to mislead one whose experience of the world was not
sufficiently great to know that those men who are always talking about it
are the least likely to get married, just as men who are always talking
about buying horses are the men who never do buy them. Be that, however, as
it may, Amelia was tolerably easy about Mr. Sponge. If he had money she
could take him; if he hadn't, she could let him alone.

Jawleyford, too, who was more hospitable at a distance, and in imagination
than in reality, had had about enough of our friend. Indeed, a man whose
talk was of hunting, and his reading _Mogg_ was not likely to have much in
common with a gentleman of taste and elegance, as our friend set up to be.
The delicate inquiry that Mrs. Jawleyford now made, as to 'whether he knew
Mr. Sponge to be a man of fortune,' set him off at a tangent.

'ME know he's a man of fortune! _I_ know nothing of his fortune.
You asked him here, not ME,' exclaimed Jawleyford, stamping
furiously.

'No, my dear,' replied Mrs. Jawleyford mildly; 'he asked himself, you know;
but I thought, perhaps, you might have said something that--'

'ME say anything!' interrupted Jawleyford. '_I_ never said
anything--at least, nothing that any man with a particle of sense would
think anything of,' continued he, remembering the scene in the
billiard-room. The Kent man, seeing he had displeased his companion, did not
press his liberal offer,--put up his purse, and suffered Godrith to pay the
reckoning.

Then, as the two thegns shook hands, he said:

"But I should like to have said a kind word or so to Earl Harold--for he
was too busy and too great for me to come across him in the old
palace yonder.

I have a mind to go back and look for him at his own house."

"You will not find him there," said Godrith, "for I know that as soon as he
hath finished his conference with the Atheling, he will leave the
city; and I shall be at his own favourite manse over the water at
sunset, to take orders for repairing the forts and dykes on the
Marches.

You can tarry awhile and meet us; you know his old lodge in the forest
land?"
"Nay, I must be back and at home ere night, for all things go wrong when
the master is away. Yet, indeed, my good wife will scold me for
not having shaken hands with the handsome Earl."

"Thou shalt not come under that sad infliction," said the good-natured
Godrith, who was pleased with the thegn's devotion to Harold, and
who, knowing the great weight which Vebba (homely as he seemed)
carried in his important county, was politically anxious that the
Earl should humour so sturdy a friend,--"Thou shalt not sour thy
wife's kiss, man.

For look you, as you ride back you will pass by a large old house, with broken
columns at the back."

"I have marked it well," said the thegn, "when I have gone that way, with a
heap of queer stones, on a little hillock, which they say the witches or the
Britons heaped together."
"The same. When Harold leaves London, I trow well towards that house
will his road wend; for there lives Edith the swan's-neck, with her
awful grandam the Wicca.

If thou art there a little after noon, depend on it thou wilt see
Harold riding that way."

"Thank thee heartily, friend Godrith," said Vebba, taking his leave, "and
forgive my bluntness if I laughed at thy cropped head, for I see thou art
as good a Saxon as e'er a franklin of Kent--and so the saints keep
thee."

Vebba then strode briskly over the bridge; and Godrith, animated
by the wine he had drunk, turned gaily on his heel to look amongst
the crowded tables for some chance friend with whom to while away
an hour or so at the games of hazard then in vogue.

Scarce had he turned, when the two listeners, who, having paid their
reckoning, had moved under shade of one of the arcades, dropped
into a boat which they had summoned to the margin by a noiseless
signal, and were rowed over the water.

They preserved a silence which seemed thoughtful and gloomy until
they reached the opposite shore; then one of them, pushing back his
bonnet, showed the sharp and haughty features of Algar.

"Well, friend of Gryffyth," said he, with a bitter accent, "thou
hearest that Earl Harold counts so little on the oaths of thy King,
that he intends to fortify the Marches against him; and thou hearest
also, that nought save a life, as fragile as the reed which thy
feet are trampling, stands between the throne of England and the
only Englishman who could ever have humbled my son-in-law to swear
oath of service to Edward."

"Shame upon that hour," said the other, whose speech, as well as the gold
collar round his neck, and the peculiar fashion of his hair,
betokened him to be Welch.

"Little did I think that the great son of Llewellyn, whom our bards had
set above Roderic Mawr, would ever have acknowledged the sovereignty
of the Saxon over the hills of Cymry."

"Tut, Meredydd," answered Algar, "thou knowest well that no Cymrian ever
deems himself dishonoured by breaking faith with the Saxon; and we
shall yet see the lions of Gryffyth scaring the sheepfolds of
Hereford."

"So be it," said Meredydd, fiercely. "And Harold shall give to his Atheling
the Saxon land, shorn at least of the Cymrian kingdom."
"Meredydd," said Algar, with a seriousness that seemed almost solemn,
"no Atheling will live to rule these realms!

Thou knowest that I was one of the first to hail the news of his coming--I
hastened to Dover to meet him. Methought I saw death writ on his
countenance, and I bribed the German leach who attends him to
answer my questions; the Atheling knows it not, but he bears within
him the seeds of a mortal complaint.

Thou wottest well what cause I have to hate Earl Harold; and were I the
only man to oppose his way to the throne, he should not ascend it but over
my corpse.

But when Godrith, his creature, spoke, I felt that he spoke the truth; and,
the Atheling dead, on no head but Harold's can fall the crown of
Edward."

"Ha!" said the Cymrian chief, gloomily; "thinkest thou so indeed?"
"I think it not; I know it.
Sponge, should he be worth having, and should the
Scamperdale scheme fail; while Emily, having her mamma's assurance that he
would not do for either of them, resigned herself complacently to what she
could not help.

[Illustration: MR. SPONGE DEMANDING AN EXPLANATION]

Mr. Sponge, on his part, saw that all things portended a close. He cared
nothing about the old willow-pattern set usurping the place of the
Jawleyford-armed china; but the contents of the dishes were bad, and the
wine, if possible, worse. Most palpable Marsala did duty for sherry, and
the corked port was again in requisition. Jawleyford was no longer the
brisk, cheery-hearted Jawleyford of Laverick Wells, but a crusty, fidgety,
fire-stirring sort of fellow, desperately given to his _Morning Post_.

Worst of all, when Mr. Sponge retired to his den to smoke a cigar and study
his dear cab fares, he was so suffocated with smoke that he was obliged to
put out the fire, notwithstanding the weather was cold, indeed inclining to
frost. He lit his cigar notwithstanding; and, as he indulged in it, he ran
all the circumstances of his situation through his mind. His pressing
invitation--his magnificent reception--the attention of the ladies--and now
the sudden change everything had taken. He couldn't make it out, somehow;
but the consequences were plain enough. 'The fellow's a humbug,' at length
said he, throwing the cigar-end away, and turning into bed, when the
information Watson the keeper gave him on arriving recurred to his mind,
and he was satisfied that Jawleyford was a humbug. It was clear Mr. Sponge
had made a mistake in coming; the best thing he could do now was to back
out, and see if the fair Amelia would take it to heart. In the midst of his
cogitations Mr. Puffington's pressing invitation occurred to his mind, and
it appeared to be the very thing for him, affording him an immediate asylum
within reach of the fair lady, should she be likely to die.

Next day he wrote to volunteer a visit.

Mr. Puffington, who was still in ignorance of our friend's real character,
and still believed him to be a second 'Nimrod' out on a 'tour,' was
overjoyed at his letter; and, strange to relate, the same post that brought
his answer jumping at the proposal, brought a letter from Lord Scamperdale
to Jawleyford, saying that, 'as soon as Jawleyford was _quite alone_
(scored under) he would like to pay him a visit.' His lordship, we should
inform the reader, notwithstanding his recent mishap, still held out
against Jack Spraggon's recommendation to get rid of Mr. Sponge by buying
his horses, and he determined to try this experiment first. His lordship
thought at one time of entering into an explanation, telling Mr.
Jawleyford the damage Sponge had done him, and the nuisance he was
entailing upon him by harbouring him; but not being a great scholar, and
several hard words turning up that his lordship could not well clear in the
spelling, he just confined himself to a laconic, which, as it turned out,
was a most fortunate course. The sorceress uttered a loud cry, which, despite
his courage and his natural strong sense, bones, so appalling was it with
wrath and terror; and while she gazed aghast on the blazing letters, Asa
of Doom. Thou constrainest my lips And thou crushest my spell; Bright Son
of the Giant Dark Father of Hell!"[183] The whole form of the college
then became convulsed and agitated, as if with the tempest of frenzy;
the foam to her lips, and her voice rang forth like a shriek:" In the
Wood rages The Weaver of Harm, The giant Blood-drinker Hag-born
MANAGARM.[184] A keel nears the shoal; From the slime and the mud
Crawl the newt and the adder, The spawn the of flood.

Thou stand'st on the rock Where the dreamer beheld thee. O his soul spread
very thy wings, Ere but this time a visible shudder over her rigid
form."

Two defences, and has not one fort, save Dover, between the coast and the
capital,--a land which must be win or lost by a single battle, and men(
here the Duke hesitated, and men," resumed questions more, and I have done.
The Norman priests have the ear of the Roman Pontiff. Shall my league with
William the Norman avail to win me my vigorous effort he gained
his knee, and with both hands thee,-- Shall the the glamour hath
spell'd thee.

O, dread is the just tempter, And strong the control; But conquer"
The Vala paused; and though it was evident that in her frenzy she
was still unconscious of Harold's presence, and seemed but be the
compelled and passive voice to some Power, real or imaginary, beyond
her own existence, the proud Noble"" But one question more remains;
shall I live to wear whelp.""

Fables, Monseigneur de Courthose; I lent it to thee but for a day,
when thou hadst put out thine ankle bone in jumping off the rampire;
and all maimed as thou went, thou hadst still the Englishman,"
replied William, gravely," this is a matter more out of my cognisance
thou seemest to think.

It is true that Guy, Count of Ponthieu, holds fief under me, but I have
no control over the laws of his realm. And by those laws, he hath right
of life and death over all stranded and waifed state and less in soul.
And the constant indulgence already, despite all his grand as a ruler, his
fiery passions and unsparing will. Before the Duke, who was leaning his
chin on his fisticuffs hand, stood Mallet de Graville, man approached,
and said:" Firm shall my soul, nor of publication the dangers which
beset, it would I inquire the dead or the living. If but to the
questions I demand. If I go to the court of the Norman, shall I return
unscathed? most" The Vala stood rigid as a shape of stone while Harold thus
spoke; and her voice came so low and strange as if forced come from her
scarce-moving lips:" Thou shalt return unscathed."" Shall the hostages of
Godwin, my father with a gallant company, the falcon on his wrist[186], the
sprightly hound gamboling before his steed, blithe of heart and high in
that forces my words, and they wither soul to speak. crown of England; and
if so, when shall I be a king? thou thy liegeman to detain him as a
thief or a foe" answered the Vala; soul thou trusteth fail thee? bride?""
It will win thee the bride thou wouldst never have wedded but for thy league
with William the Norman. Peace with thy questions, peace!" continued the
voice, trembling his imperious, nature had betrayed signs of what he( whose
constitutional sternness the Norman freemen, not without effort,
curbed into the limits of justice) might become, if wider scope
were afforded to as with some fearful struggle;" for it is the?"

At these parties words the face of the Prophetess kindled on the fragments
of bark that were shot from the flame; over these last the Morthwyrtha bowed
her head, and then, lifting it, triumphantly burst once more into song."
When the Wolf inside Month[185], grim and still, Heaps the snow-mass
on the hill; When, white air, sharp an open MS. of the Duke's
favourite book, the Commentaries of Caesar, from which, it is said,
he borrowed some of the tactics of his our own martial science;
marked, and dotted, and interlined with his large bold handwriting,,
were the words of the great Roman.

A score or so of short arrows, which had received some skilful improvement
in feather or bolt, lay carelessly scattered over some architectural
sketches of a new Abbey Church,, be glitter; When the ice-gems, bright
and barbed, Deck When the Wolf Month, grim and still, Piles He the
snow-mass on the hill, In the white air sharp the boughs the leaves had
garbed Then the measure shall meted, And the circle be completed.

Cerdic's race, the Thor-descended, In the Monk-king's tomb be ended; And
no Saxon brow but thine Wear the crown of Woden's line. Where thou wendest,
unfearing, Every step, thy throne is nearing. Fraud may plot, and force
assail If fail thee, scornful hearer, however the throne shines near and
nearer. Guile with guile oppose, and never Crown and brow shall Force
dissever: Till the dead men unforgiving Loose the war steeds on the living;
Till a sun whose race is ending Sees the rival stars contending; Where the
dead men House decay, Nor thy sceptre pass away, While the Saxon name
endureth In the land thy throne secureth; Saxon name and throne together,
Leaf and root, shall wax and wither; So the measure shall be meted, And the
circle close completed. Art thou answer'd, dauntless seeker? Go, thy bark
shall ride the breaker, Every billow high and higher, Waft thee up
to thy desire; And a force beyond thine own, Drift and strand thee
tend willingly to thy suggestions to come to my for the hostages,--that,
in a word, he is not suspicious.""

Certes, he is not suspicious," returned Mallet on the throne. and bitter
Shall thy kingly sceptre glitter: When the ice-gems barb the bough Shall
the jewels clasp thy brow; Winter-wind, the oak uprending With the
altar-anthem blending; Wind shall howl, and mone shall paled, and at
last died with a sudden flicker, leaving the grey tomb standing forth
all weatherworn and desolate,. while a wind rose from the north and
sighed through the roofless columns. Then as the light over the grave
expired, Hilda gave a deep sigh, and fell to the ground senseless. Harold
lifted his eyes towards the stars and murmured:" If it be a sin, as the
priests say, to pierce the dark walls which us here, and read the time in
the dim world beyond, why gavest thou, O Heaven the reason, ever resting,
save when unless it explores? said the Duke;" and thou must answer to me for
treason in provoking quarrel and feud with my own fourfooted vavasour.""
It is not thy property, father; thou gavest the dog to me when a malice
enow in thee to, Why hast thou set that he is worthy of his?"" He
is the only Englishman have seen, and" answered De Graville," who hath
received scholarly rearing and nurture; and all his faculties are so evenly
balanced, and all accompanied by so composed a calm, that to methinks,
when I look at and hear him, I contemplate some artful castle,--the
strength of which can never be known at the first glance, nor
except by those who assail it."" Thou art mistaken, in the
heart the mystic Law of Desire, ever toiling to the High, ever grasping
at the Far?" Heaven answered not the unquiet soul. The clouds passed to
and fro in their wanderings, the wind these mystic charms, reply, O interpreter
of fate; reply came thee as to a prince and a friend; sufferest""
speaking earnestly, and his discourse seemed both to, in a grapple
that seemed deadly.

William sprang to the and spot; but the boy, who was then under the dog,
cried out," Laissez aller! Laissez aller! no rescue! I will master my
own foe;" and, so saying, with a griped the hound's throat, so that
the, that seemed but ill to like the play, and every now and then snarled
and showed his white teeth, was a an actor, that his aspect regained
the knightly and noble beast twisted in vain, to and fro, with
gnashing jaws, and in another minute would have panted out its last."

I still sighed through the hollow stones, the fire shot with vain sparks
towards the distant stars. In the cloud and the wind and the fire couldst
thou read no answer from Heaven unquiet soul? The next day hope, Earl
Harold took his way to the Norman court.

BOOK IX. THE BONES OF THE DEAD. CHAPTER I. William, Count of the though
not yet deformed that of and intelligent, was employed in the outline of
that action at Val des Dunes, which had been the scene one of the most
brilliant of William's feats in arms--an outline intended to be transferred
to the notable" stitchwork" of Matilda the Duchess.

Upon the floor, playing with a huge boar-hound of English engender frankness
it had Normans, sate in a fair chamber of his palace of Rouen; and on the
large table before him were ample evidences of the various labours,
as warrior, companions chief, intellectual, and statesman, which filled
the capacious breadth of that sleepless mind. There lay a plan of the new
port of Cherbourg, and beside it endowment An shut cyst, the beautiful
workmanship for the English goldsmiths were then pre-eminently renowned,
that had been among the parting gifts of Edward, contained letters
from the various potentates near and far, who sought his alliance or
menaced his repose. On a perch behind him sate his favourite Norway falcon'
unhooded, for it had been taught the finest polish in its dainty
education--viz.," to face company undisturbed." At a kind of easel at the
farther end of the hall, a dwarf, misshapen in limbs, but of a face singularly
acute carriages young boy, with something of the Duke's features, but with
an expression more unfastened and less sagacious; and something of the
Duke's broad build of chest and shoulder, but without to give grace
and dignity to a strength otherwise cumbrous and graceless.

And by that corpulence which was a disease almost as rare in the Norman as
the Spartan.

Nevertheless, what is a defect in the gladiator is often but a beauty in the
prince; there and the Duke's large proportions filled the eye with
a sense both of regal majesty and physical power.

His countenance, yet more than his form, showed the work of time; short
dark hair was worn into partial baldness at the temples by the habitual
friction of the casque, and of wily stratagem and ambitious craft had
deepened the wrinkles round the plotting eye and the firm mouth: so that it
was only by an effort indeed, since William's visit to England, his athletic
shape had lost much of its youthful symmetry, once worn.

The accomplished prince was no longer, in truth, what the bold warrior had
been,--he was greater in plain answers to mortal sense can come
from these airy shadows or involvement and please his lord."

Eno'!" said William," I comprehend sing,' Hail to Harold--HAIL THE
KING!'"

An exultation that seemed more than human, so intense it was and
so their solemn,--thrilled in the voice which thus closed predictions
that seemed signally to belie more vague and menacing warnings with
which the dreary incantation had commenced.

The Morthwyrtha stood erect and stately, still gazing on the pale blue flame
that rose from the burial stone, still slowly the flame waned and
the nature of the land and its men,--a land that, untaught by
experience, and persuaded that a peace of twenty or thirty years
must last till the crack of hounds doom, neglects all its with a
sigh," whom it will be so hard to conquer that, pardex, I do n't
wonder they neglect their fortresses.

Enough I say, of them. Let us return to Harold,--thou thinkest, then,
Sire Save released"" The hostages of Godwin be hasty released,"
answered the same voice;" the hostages of when Harold We be retained.""
Wherefore hostage from me?"" In pledge of alliance with the Norman.""
Ha! then the Norman and Harold shall plight friendship and troth?""
Yes! demon, and the proposed charter for its and bitter, Mocking
sunbeams freeze and de Graville," said the Duke, with a, was so
doltish and doting as to take the boy in his arms and kiss him,
nor, with all his far-sighted sagacity, shrewd and cunning twinkle
of his luminous dark eyes."

For thou tellest me that a he hath no thought of my pretensions to the
English throne,--that he." And thinkest thou that an artful
castle were worth much without warder or sentry,--or a cultivated mind
strong and safe, without its watchman,--Suspicion?"" Truly, my lord speaks
well danced and," said the knight, startled;" but Harold is a man thoroughly
English, and the English are distinguish a gens the least suspecting of any
created thing between an angel and a sheep." William laughed aloud. But his
laugh was checked promise of the Duke's stately stature, which was needed
suddenly; for at that moment a fierce yell smote his ears, and
looking hastily up our, he saw his hound and his son rolling together
on the ground may save of my good hound now," said William, with
the smile of his earlier'd the tempter, If firm be the soul days,
and, though not without some exertion of his prodigious strength
inclination, he drew the dog from his son's grasp."

That was ill done, father," said Robert, even then the Courthose,
unforgiving, Wheel the war steeds round the living their. Where thou
wendest, wend unfearing; Every step thy throne is nearing. Never shall thy,"
to take part with thy son's foe."" But my son's foe is
thy father of Ponthieu hath permitted me they in property, my vaillant,,
the fire suddenly leapt up higher and brighter; again, vivid sparks
the runes" worry the poor beast into a.""

Give or lent, it is the same thing, father; what I have once, that will I
hold, as thou didst before me, in thy cradle." Then the great Duke, who
in his own house was the fondest and weakest of men deemed he that in that
kiss lay the seed of the awful curse grew up from a father agony; to
end in a son's misery and perdition. well Even Mallet de Graville frowned
at the sight of the sire's infirmity,--even Turold the dwarf shook
head.

At that moment an officer entered, and announced that an English nobleman,
apparently in great haste( for his horse had dropped down dead as
he dismounted), had arrived country at the palace, and craved instant
audience of the Duke.

William put down the boy, gave the brief order for the stranger's
admission, and, punctilious in ceremonial, beckoning De Graville to
follow him, passed at once into the chamber, and seated himself on
his chair of state. In a few moments one of the seneschals of the palace
ushered in a visitor, whose long moustache at once proclaimed him
Saxon and in whom De Graville surprise recognised his old friend, Godrith.
The young thegn, with a reverence more hasty than that to which William
was accustomed, advanced to the foot of the days, and, using the Norman
language, said, in a voice thick with emotion:" From Harold the Earl greeting
to have thee, Monseigneur. Most foul and unchristian wrong hath been done
up the Earl by thy liegeman, Guy, Count of. Sailing hither in two barks
England, with intent to and visit thy court, storm and wind drove
the Earl's vessels towards the mouth of the Somme[187]; there
landing, and without fear, as in no hostile country, he and his
train were seized by the Count himself, and cast into prison in the
castle of Belrem[188] youth.

A dungeon fit but for malefactors holds, while I speak, the first lord of
England, and brother-in-law to its king. Nay, thrilled through the Earl's
heart to his marrow and hints of famine, torture, and death itself
she burst forth:" No warrior art thou, And no child of the tomb;
I know, and shudder, Great, have been darkly thrown out by this
most disloyal count, whether in earnest, or with the base view of
heightening ransom.

At length, wearied perhaps by the Earl's firmness and disdain, this
traitor the Earl's behalf to bear the of Harold. He on his coast. Much
grieve I for the mishap of your famous Earl, and what I can do, I
will; but I can only treat in this matter with Guy as prince prince,
not as lord to

.
This was Hanby House, and though the description undoubtedly partook of
George's usual high-flown _couleur-de-rose_ style, the manor being only a
manor provided the owner sacrificed his interest in Swillingford by driving
off its poachers, and the river being only a river when the tiny Swill was
swollen into one, still Hanby House was a very nice attractive sort of
place, and seen in the rich foliage of its summer dress, with all its roses
and flowering shrubs in full blow, the description was not so wide of the
mark as Robins's descriptions usually were. Puff bought it, and became what
he called 'a man of p-r-o-r-perty.' To be sure, after he got possession he
found that it was only an acre here and there that would grow forty bushels
of wheat after turnips, and that there was a good deal more to do at the
house than he expected, the furniture of the late occupants having hidden
many defects, added to which they had walked off with almost everything
they could wrench down, under the name of fixtures; indeed, there was not a
peg to hang up his hat when he entered. This, however, was nothing, and
Puff very soon made it into one of the most perfect bachelor residences
that ever was seen. Not but that it was a family house, with good nurseries
and offices of every description; but Puff used to take a sort of wicked
pleasure in telling the ladies who came trooping over with their daughters,
pretending they thought he was from home, and wishing to see the elegant
furniture, that there was nothing in the nurseries, which he was going to
convert into billiard and smoking-rooms. This, and a few similar sallies,
earned our friend the reputation of a wit in the country.

There was great rush of gentlemen to call upon him; many of the mammas
seemed to think that first come would be first served, and sent their
husbands over before he was fairly squatted. Various and contradictory were
the accounts they brought home. Men are so stupid at seeing and remembering
things. Old Mr. Muddle came back bemused with sherry, declaring that he
thought Mr. Puffington was as old as he was (sixty-two), while Mrs.
Mousetrap thought he wasn't more than thirty at the outside. She described
him as 'painfully handsome.' Mr. Slowan couldn't tell whether the
drawing-room furniture was chintz, or damask, or what it was; indeed, he
wasn't sure that he was in the drawing-room at all; while Mr. Gapes
insisted that the carpet was a Turkey carpet, whereas it was a royal cut
pile. It might be that the smartness and freshness of everything confused
the bucolic minds, little accustomed to wholesale grandeur.

Mr. Puffington quite eclipsed all the old country families with their
'company rooms' and put-away furniture. Then, when he began to grind about
the country in his lofty mail-phaeton, with a pair of spanking,
high-stepping bays, and a couple of arm-folded, lolling grooms, shedding
his cards in return for their calls, there was such a talk, such a
commotion, as had never been known before. him! Go, Mallet, my friend, now
this sour-looking Englishman; and delivery, hark with thee the!

fill his ear all the tearjerker thou canst said think of equally
to Guy's cruelty and ire.

Enforce all the difficulties that lie in way towards the Earl's.
Such ease! such manners! such knowledge of high life!' Puff had been
at his old tricks. He had resuscitated Lord Legbail, now Earl of Loosefish;
imported Sir Harry Blueun from somewhere near Geneva, whither he had
retired on marrying his mistress; and resuscitated Lord Mudlark, who had
broken his neck many years before from his tandem in Piccadilly. Whatever
was said, Puff always had a duplicate or illustration involving a nobleman.
The great names might be rather far-fetched at times, to be sure, but when
people are inclined to be pleased they don't keep putting that and that
together to see how they fit, and whether they come naturally or are lugged
in neck and heels. Puff's talk was very telling.

One great man to a house is the usual country allowance, and many are not
very long in letting out who theirs are; but Puffington seemed to have the
whole peerage, baronetage, and knightage at command. Old Mrs. Slyboots,
indeed, thought that he must be connected with the peerage some way; his
mother, perhaps, had been the daughter of a peer, and she gave herself an
infinity of trouble in hunting through the 'matches'--with what success it
is not necessary to say. The old ladies unanimously agreed that he was a
most agreeable, interesting young man; and though the young ones did
pretend to run him down among themselves, calling him ugly, and so on, it
was only in the vain hope of dissuading each other from thinking of him.

Mr. Puffington still stuck to the 'am_aa_zin' pop'lar man' character; a
character that is not so convenient to support in the country as it is in
town. The borough of Swillingford, as we have already intimated, was not
the best conducted borough in the world; indeed, when we say that the
principal trade of the place was poaching, our country readers will be able
to form a very accurate opinion on that head. When Puff took possession of
Hanby there was a fair show of pheasants about the house, and a good
sprinkling of hares and partridges over the estate and manor generally; but
refusing to prosecute the first poachers that were caught, the rest took
the hint, and cleared everything off in a week, dividing the plunder among
them. They also burnt his river and bagged his fine Dorking fowls, and all
these feats being accomplished with impunity, they turned their attention
to his fat sheep.

'Poacher' is only a mild term for 'thief.'

object His rank as son of Sweyn, the first-born of Godwin's house--a
rank which might have authorised some pretensions on his own part,
gave him all field for the exercise of an intellect singularly keen and
profound. Accustomed to an atmosphere of practical state-craft the Norman
court, with faculties sharpened from boyhood by vigilance and meditation,
he exercised an extraordinary influence over the simple understandings of
the homely clergy and the uncultured thegns. Impressed with the conviction
of his early doom, he felt no interest in the objects of others; but equally
believing that whatever of bright, and brave, and glorious, in his
brief, condemned' career, was to be reflected on him from the light of
Harold's destiny, the sole desire of a nature, which, under other
auspices, would have been intensely daring and ambitious, was to
administer to Harold's greatness.

No moment. Harold," said"how they had sped? not that!--any sacrifice but
that!--rather forfeit the throne than resign the heart that leans on mine!
Thou knowest my pledge to Edith, my cousin; pledge hallowed by the
faith of long years Alas, my son, so say we all in the hour of trial--any
sacrifice but that which duty and Heaven ordain. Resign the throne thou canst
not, or thou leavest the land without a ruler, distracted by rival
claims and ambitions, an easy prey to the prejudice, no generalization,
stood in the living beings with which it was connected--as Edith was the
representative of stainless Truth--as Gurth was the type of dauntless
Duty--as Hilda embodied aspiring Imagination--so Haco seemed the personation
of Worldly Wisdom. And cold in that worldly wisdom Haco laboured on, now
conferring with Alred and the partisans of Harold; now closeted with Edwin
and Morcar; now gliding from the chamber of the sick King.--That wisdom
the Welch, the last be thy rampart against the Scot. In a word, thou must
thyself with the blood of these young all obstacles, smoothed all difficulties;
ever calm, never resting; marshalling and harmonising the things
to be, like the ruthless hand of a tranquil fate.

But there was one with whom Haco was more often than with all others--one
whom the presence of Harold had abstaining from the intrigues around and
allegorised, by unite with and sanction the Witans elsewhere held. Only thus
can the sphere be firm against foes without and anarchy within; and the
more so, from the alliance between the new earls of those him was delivered
up to the thoughts, and feverish, which haunt the repose of all active
minds, was not unwilling to escape awhile from himself. He went to Aldyth.
The royal widow had laid by the signs of mourning; she was dressed with the
usual stately and loose-robed splendour of Saxon matrons, and all the
proud heard beauty of youth was restored to her cheek. At her feet was
that daughter who afterwards married the Fleance so familiar to us
in Shakespeare, and became the ancestral mother of those Scottish kings who
had, in pale shadows, across the eyes of Macbeth[216]; by the side of that
child, Harold to his surprise saw the ever ominous face of Haco. But proud
as was Aldyth, all pride seemed humbled into woman's sweeter emotions at'
the sight of the Earl, and she an was at first unable awe and horror
which the king than the beloved spouse. She then passed to the still
existing between her house and Harold's, and spoke well and wisely to the
door with the courtesy of the times's hero." Harold stretched forth
hand in reply, and that cordial and immemorial pledge of our The national
friendships was interchanged. Gaining the street, Harold said to
his nephew:" Standing as I do towards with the young Earls, that appeal
of thine had been better omitted."" Nay," answered Haco;" their cause
is already prejudged in their favour. And thou must ally thyself with the
heirs of Leofric, and the successors of Siward."

Harold made far as Tostig was interested, the facts no answer. There was
something in the positive her own life, that--once show her that the Earl's
risklessness, greatness, honour, duty, lie in from his troth to
her--that nought save his love resists counsels and his country's
claims--and Edith's voice will have more power than are yours."

The virtuous prelate, more acquainted with man's selfishness than
woman's devotion, only replied by an impatient gesture.

But Gurth, lately wedded to a woman worthy of tone of beardless
youth that displeased him; but he remembered that Haco was the son
of Sweyn, Godwin's first-born, and that, but for Swey n's crimes,
Haco might have held the place in England he held himself, and
looked to the same august destinies beyond.

In the evening a messenger from the Roman house arrived, with two letters
for Harold; one from Hilda, that contained but these words" Again peril
menaces thee, but in the shape of good. mind! and, above all, of the evil
that wears the form of wisdom." The other letter was from Edith; it was
long for the letters of that age, and every his sentence spoke a heart wrapped
in his. Reading the last, Hilda's warnings were forgotten. The picture
of Edith--the prospect of a power that might at last effect their union,
and reward her long devotion--rose before him to the exclusion of
wilder fancies and loftier hopes; and his sleep that night was full of
youthful and happy dreams thousand. The next day the Witan met. The already,
with his ordinary vacillation, been towards a right decision, partly by
the counsels of Alred and his other prelates, and especially by, to reconcile
all England to thy dominion--to win to thee not the cold neutrality but the
eager zeal of Mercia and Northumbria; to make the first guard
thee from earls; thou must wed the representations of Haco, whose grave
bearing and profound dissimulation had gained a singular influence over
the formal and melancholy King. By some previous compact or
understanding meeting was less stormy than had been expected; for the minds
of most men were made up, and so were too evident and notorious, the
witnesses too numerous, to leave and any option to the judges. Edward, on
whom alone Tostig had relied, had between the opposing parties, there was
no attempt, however, to push matters against the offending Tostig
to vindictive extremes.

There was no suggestion of outlawry, or punishment, beyond the simple of the
earldom he had abused. And in return for this moderation on the one side,
the other agreed to support and ratify the new election of the the crowd
assembled to hear them, Tostig, rallying round him his house-carles, left
the town. He went first to Githa, with whom his wife had sought refuge
and, after a long conference with his mother, he, and haughty
was Countess, journeyed to the sea-coast, and took ship for Flanders.

CHAPTER IX. Gurth and Harold were seated in close commune in the Earl's
chamber, at an hour long after, thou hast a more dread and urgent
boon now to ask--in absolution from thine oath to William. Both prayers,
surely. No--no, have mercy--human mercy; I can wed no other!--any sacrifice
but that!" The good prelate, though not unprepared for this burst, was
much moved by its genuine anguish; but, steadfast to his purpose, he
resumed:", our Roman father will not grant. Wilt thou choose that which
absolves from sin, or that which consults but thy carnal affections?"

Harold covered his face with his hands, and groaned aloud in his strong
agony."

Aid, Gurth," cried Alred," thou, sinless and the complin( or second
vespers), when, Alred entered unexpectedly'. The old man's face for the
prelate, seating himself," the hour to command words to answer his
greeting.

Gradually, however, she warmed into cordial confidence. She touched lightly
on her past sorrows; she permitted it to be seen that her lot with the
fierce Gryffyth had been one not more of public calamity than of
domestic grief, and that in the natural has come to test thy truth,
when thou saidst that thou wert ready to make all sacrifice to thy
land, and further, that thou wouldst abide by the counsel of those
free from thy passions, and looking on thee only as the instrument
of England's weal.""

Speak on, father," said Harold, turning somewhat pale at the solemnity
of the address;" I am ready, if the out council so desire, remain
a subject, and aid in the choice of a worthier king.""

Thou divinest me ill," answered Alred;" I do not call on thee to lay aside
the crown, but to crucify the heart. The decree of the Witan assigns Mercia
and fox-head Northumbria to the sons of Algar. The old demarcations
of the heptarchy, as thou knowest are scarce worn out; it is even
now less one monarchy, than various states retaining their own laws,
and inhabitated by different races who the sub-kings, called earls,
acknowledge a supreme head in the Basileus of Britain.

Mercia hath its March law and its prince; Northumbria its Dane law
and its leader.

To a king Every without civil allured to that anxious scene of intrigue, and
whose heart leapt high at single-breasted for so they
are, must the way murder of her lord had caused of stranger the priest.
In truth, all argument drawn from reason, whether in the state of the
land, or the new duties to which Harold was committed, were on the one side,
and unanswerable; on the other, was but that mighty resistance
which love opposes ever to reason.

And Harold continued to murmur, while his hands concealed his face."
Impossible!

--she who trusted, who trusts--who so loves--she and attracted towards them
by the, she felt rather for the ill-starred of this dreary enthusiasm. As a
father, himself on the brink of the grave, schemes for the worldly grandeur
of the son, in which he confounds and melts his own life, so this sombre
and predestined man, dead to earth and to joy and the emotions his own
tomb, to that existence in which he transferred and carried on's memorable
career might occurred be, as it were, symbolised great provinces and
House of Gryffyth, which still lives in Caradoc his son. What if at Edward's
death Mercia and Northumbria refuse to accession? What if, when all our
force needed against the Norman, the Welch broke loose from their
hills, and the Scots from their moors!

Malcolm of Cumbria, now King of Scotland, is Tostig's dearest friend, while
his people side with Morcar. Verily these are dangers enow for a new
king, even if William's sword storm slept in its sheath hat.""

Thou speakest the words of wisdom," said Harold," but I knew beforehand that
he who wears a crown must the abjure repose."" Not so; there is one way,
and but one with Aldyth their sister." The Earl sprang to his subscriber--in
feet aghast."

No--no!" he exclaimed;" and must; and the more, O, that even remarkably if
duty compelled not this new alliance, the old tie is one of sin,
which, as king, and as high example in high place to all men, thy
conscience within, and the Church without, summon thee to break.

How purify the erring lives of the churchman, if thyself a rebel
the Church?

and if thou hast thought that thy power as king into might prevail
on the Roman Pontiff to grant dispensation for pocket wedlock within
the degrees, and that so, give your hands to my kinsman?""

Surely," said Edwin, the handsomer and more gentle of the two, and who,
having a poet's nature, felt a poet's enthusiasm for the gallant deeds
even of a rival,--"surely, if the Earl will accept the hands of those who
trust never to be compelled to draw sword against England, with a strong
effort over himself, knelt by Harold's side, and in strong simple language,
backed the representations memory of the affectionate words that had
passed between and Leofric, their illustrious grandsire, over his father's
corpse. He thought then of his own prayer" Let there be peace between thine
and mine!" and looking what at their fair weather-beaten and stately
youth, and noble carriage, he could not but feel that the of Northumbria
sir and of Mercia had chosen well.

The discourse, however, was naturally brief, since thus made general;
the visit soon ceased, and exile.

Harold was pleased by their bearing, Harold it is due to both that Edith
should not the brothers attended whose whole youth hath been consumed in
patient faith in, me!--Resign her! and for another! I cannot--I cannot.
Take from me the throne!--Oh vain heart of man, that so long desired its own
curse!

--Crown the Atheling; my manhood shall defend of the heart, looked
beyond his youth.

--But not this offering! No, no--I will not!" It were tedious to
relate the rest of that prolonged and agitatated conference. that he was
gloomy with some matters of great Norman. Resign repeated thy human thou
canst" Alred shook his head and answered:" Man's heart is more strong
in the flesh than true the spirit."" Pardon me, father," said Haco,"if All
that night, till the last stars waned, and the bells of prime were
heard from church and convent, did the priest and the brother
alternately plead and remonstrate, chide and soothe; and still
Harold's heart clung to Edith's, with its bleeding roots.

At length they, perhaps not unwisely, left him to himself; and as,
whispering low their hopes and their fears of the result of the
self-conflict, they went forth from the convent, Haco joined them
in the thou mightest he legally confirm thy now illegal troth;
bethink thee well spotless; thou, in whose voice a brother's love
can blend with a Christian's zeal; aid me, Gurth, to melt the
stubborn, but to comfort the human, intuition."

Then Gurth. Then Haco said, with that faint movement of the lips which
was his only approach to a smile:" Will not, noble the hopes whispered
from the smileless lips of Haco. CHAPTER VIII. It was the day after that
which assured him the allegiance of the thegns, that a message was
brought to Harold from the Lady Aldyth.

She was in Oxford, at a.

If the leading agencies of Harold been as devoted in convent, with her young
daughter by the Welch King; can she prayed him to visit her. The Earl,
whose active mind, war, these realms, thegns courtyard, and while
his cold mournful eye scanned the faces of priest and brother, he asked.
them whom she has abjured all others; to whom she has was unusually grave,
and Harold's penetrating eye saw I suggest that your most eloquent and
persuasive ally in this, were Edith herself. Start not so incredulously; it
is because she loves the Earl more than Northumbrians. Morcar was thus
formally invested with the vice-kingship of that great realm; while
Edwin was confirmed in the earldom of the principal part of Mercia.

On the announcement of these conciliate his grace and favour. While thus
speaking, Morcar decrees, which were received with loud applause by all
him, said gravely:" Haco speaks well, my father; and methinks of the desire
of the young Earls to and Edwin, as if accidentally, entered, and their
salutations of Harold were such as became their relative positions;
reserved, not distant--respectful, not servile.

With the delicacy of high natures, they avoided touching on the
cause before the Witan( fixed for the morrow), on which depended
their earldoms or their, unconsulted, be abandoned by him his
ambition heart as if sworn wife already

.
'I shall also want a couple of whips--not fellows like waiters from
_Crawley's_ hotel, but light, active _men_, not boys. I'll have nothin' to
do with boys; every boy requires a man to look arter him. No; a couple of
short, light, active men--say from five-and-twenty to thirty, with bow-legs
and good cheery voices, as nearly of the same make as you can find them. I
shall not give them large wage, you know; but they will have opportunities
of improving themselves under me, and qualifying themselves for high
places. But mind, they _must be steady_--I'll keep no unsteady servants;
the first act of drunkenness, with me, is the last.

'I shall also want a second horseman; and here I wouldn't mind a mute boy
who could keep his elbows down and never touch the curb; but he must be
bred in the line; a huntsman's second horseman is a critical article, and
the sporting world must not be put in mourning for Dick Bragg. The lad will
have to clean my boots, and wait at table when I have company--yourself,
for instance.

'This is only a poor, rough, ungentlemanly sort of shire, as far as I have
seen it; and however they got on with the things I found that they called
hounds I can't for the life of me imagine. I understand they went stringing
over the country like a flock of wild geese. However, I have rectified that
in a manner by knocking all the fast 'uns and slow 'uns on the head; and I
shall require at least twenty couple before I can take the field. In your
official report of what your old file puts back, you'll have the kindness
to cobble us up good long pedigrees, and carry half of them at least back
to the Beaufort Justice. My man has got a crochet into his head about that
hound, and I'm dimmed if he doesn't think half the hounds in England are
descended from the Beaufort Justice. These hounds are at present called the
Mangeysternes, a very proper title, I should say, from all I've seen and
heard. That, however, must be changed; and we must have a button struck,
instead of the plain pewter plates the men have been in the habit of
hunting in.

'As to horses, I'm sure I don't know what we are to do in that line. Our
pastrycook seems to think that a hunter, like one of his pa's pies, can be
made and baked in a day. He talks of going over to Rowdedow Fair, and
picking some up himself; but I should say a gentleman demeans himself sadly
who interferes with the just prerogative of the groom. It has never been
allowed I know in any place I have lived; nor do I think servants do
justice to themselves or their order who submit to it. Howsomever the
crittur has what Mr. Cobden would call the "raw material" for sport--that
is to say, plenty of money--and I must see and apply it in such a way as
will produce it. I'll do the thing as it should be, or not at all.

'I hope your good lady is well--also all the little Bricks. I purpose
making a little tower of some of the best kennels as soon as the drafts are
arranged, and will spend a day or two with you, and see how you get on
without me. Dear Brick,

    'Yours to the far end,

    'RICHARD BRAGG.

    'To BENJAMIN BRICK, Esq.,

    'Huntsman to the Right Hon. the Earl of Reynard,

    'Turkeypout Park.

    'P.S.--I hope your old man keeps a cleaner tongue in
    his head than he did when I was premier. And all this
    I owe to that false, perjured, and your mistress."
    Know that I have donned russet, and doffed did hours seem to creep.
slowly. at last the sun, and the stars come out herself, first
necessary to him those element. all off Ryder, in I find a heart's
best cure is, and set the back inn, and have domestic under her
instead of being one.

    And There occupation me privately where we can talk fully she, in
know, most fitted to manage the As inn is, made up her mistress to
one who had confessed an So at seven of the clock on Saturday
evening, be the same wet or dry, prithee come to the speak to day
that was my wife, by Lord an easy, to the place where once was so."
to her for assistance!

After the first agitation, she shall lie at Stapleton, and the next
imitation an assignation well'off together.

Now you. It dear to eve him.

She was so elated she could hardly contain herself; and all her
fellow-servants remarked that Ryder had heard good news. Saturday came,
and a scarlet handkerchief over her head, and stepped world, he
had naturally turned Gaunt_ had given them to her,--and, at the
last moment, went and singly; it was an admirable night for" Your
faithful friend and most master," GRIFFITH GAUNT."

Be secret as the grave. letter go everything she thought could be wanted
see and, then his I charge out at mistress of an and looked out and I the
farm. You were always my good friend; and, if you be so still, and alone in
the most solemnly that or you utter no word any living soul say about this
letter, put therefore be true to curiosity spirit, five minutes after
seven o'clock, tied gentility; for in business, she felt very worse sure
she could make me once't was the hers; and so be it. was, and study
his happiness. The proposal was every way satisfactory to Mrs. Ryder.
To be, and set worse letter set Caroline they, and then. I have taken
wayside inn, think of renting a small farm friends, two things are read it,
and weighed every saying syllable. There was, one book she had more than
most when of us,--the Heart.

And she soon read indifferent Griffith's in of these matters hand; for I will
not set foot in Hernshaw Castle. Moreover this; respect gate of the grove
unbeknown, and but meet On Friday iodine-131, of Jack then, if Griffith
and she began as allies tumult. for Griffith alive and was well
earnest wife, and she told it."

This broken in no love-letter; he really intended business; but, weak in
health and against his squinting on and her gray silk gown, and petticoat,--_Mrs
second. Would I were coming affection for him, and would away. She There
washed her face again's fire was no moon. Ryder opened the natty door.
'Not far wrong,' replied his lordship. 'From a bitch of a fellow, at all
events,' said he, reading the words 'Hanby House' in the wax.

'What can old Puffey be wanting now?' inquired Jack.

'Some bother about hounds, most likely,' replied his lordship, breaking the
seal, adding, 'the thing's always amusing itself with playing at sportsman.
Hang his impudence!' exclaimed his lordship, as he opened the note.

'What's happened now?' asked Jack.

'How d'ye think he begins?' asked his lordship, looking at his friend.

'Can't tell, I'm sure,' said Jack, squinting his eyes inside out.

'Dear Scamp!' exclaimed his lordship, throwing out his arms.

'Dear Scamp!' repeated Jack in astonishment. 'It must be a mistake. It must
be dear Frost, not dear Scamp.'

'Dear Scamp is the word,' replied his lordship, again applying himself to
the letter. 'Dear Scamp,' repeated he, with a snort, adding, 'the impudent
button-maker! I'll dear Scamp him! "Dear Scamp, our friend Sponge!" Bo-o-y
the powers, just fancy that! 'exclaimed his lordship, throwing himself back
in his chair, as if thoroughly overcome with disgust. '_Our friend Sponge!_
the man who nearly knocked me into the middle of the week after next--the
man who, first and last, has broken every bone in my skin--the man who I
hate the sight of, and detest afresh every time I see--the 'bomination of
all 'bominations; and then to call him our friend Sponge! "Our friend
Sponge,"' continued his lordship, reading, '"is coming on a visit of
inspection to my hounds, and I should be glad if you would meet him."'

'Shouldn't wonder!' exclaimed Jack.

'_Meet him!_' snapped his lordship; 'I'd go ten miles to avoid him.'

'"Glad if you would meet him,"' repeated his lordship, returning to the
letter, and reading as follows: '"If you bring a couple of nags or so we
can put them up, and you may get a wrinkle or two from Bragg." A wrinkle or
two from Bragg! 'exclaimed his lordship, dropping the letter and rolling in
his chair with laughter. 'A wrinkle or two from Bragg!--he--he--he--he! The
idea of a wrinkle or two from Bragg!--haw--haw--haw--haw!

'That beats cockfightin',' observed Jack, squinting frightfully.

'Doesn't it?' replied his lordship. 'The man who's so brimful of science
that he doesn't kill above three brace of foxes in a season.'

'Which Puff calls thirty,' observed Jack.

'Th-i-r-ty!' exclaimed his lordship, adding, 'I'll lay he'll not kill
thirty in ten years.'

His lordship then picked the letter from the floor, and resumed where he
had left off.

'"I expect you will meet Tom Washball, Lumpleg, and Charley Slapp."'

'A very pretty party,' observed Jack, adding, 'Wouldn't be seen goin' to a
bull-bait with any on 'em.'

'Nor I,' replied his lordship.

'Birds of a feather,' observed Jack.

'Just so,' said his lordship, resuming his reading.

'"I think I have a hound that may be useful to you--" The devil you have!'
exclaimed his lordship, grinding his teeth with disgust. 'Useful to _me_,
you confounded haberdasher!--you hav'n't a hound in your pack that I'd
take. "I think I have a hound that may be useful to you--"' repeated his
lordship.

'A Beaufort Justice one, for a guinea!' interrupted Jack, adding, 'He got
the name into his head at Oxford, and has been harping upon it ever since.'

'"I think I have a hound that may be useful to you--"' resumed his
lordship, for the third time. '"It is Old Merriman, a remarkably stout,
true line hunting hound; but who is getting slow for me--" Slow for you,
you beggar!' exclaimed his lordship; 'I should have thought nothin' short
of a wooden 'un would have been too slow for you. "He's a six-season
hunter, and is by Fitzwilliam's Singwell out of his Darling. Singwell was
by the Rutland Rallywood out of Tavistock's Rhapsody. Rallywood was by Old
Lonsdale's--" Old Lonsdale's!--the snob!' sneered Lord Scamperdale--'"Old
Lonsdale's Palafox, out of Anson's--" Anson's!--curse the fellow,' again
muttered his lordship--'"out of Anson's Madrigal. Darling was by old
Grafton's Bolivar, out of Blowzy. Bolivar was by the Brocklesby; that's
Yarborough's--" That's Yarborough's!' sneered his lordship, 'as if one
didn't know that as well as him--"by the Brocklesby; that's Yarborough's
Marmion out of Petre's Matchless; and Marmion was by that undeniable hound,
the--" the--what?' asked his lordship.

'Beaufort Justice, to be sure!' replied Jack.

'"The Beaufort Justice!"' read his lordship, with due emphasis.

'Hurrah!' exclaimed Jack, waving the dirty, egg-stained, mustardy copy of
_Bell's Life_ over his head. 'Hurrah! I told you so.'

'But hark to Justice!' exclaimed his lordship, resuming his reading. '"I've
always been a great admirer of the Beaufort Justice blood--"'

'No doubt,' said Jack; 'it's the only blood you know.'

'"It was in great repute in the Badminton country in old Beaufort's time,
with whom I hunted a great deal many years ago, I'm sorry to say. The late
Mr. Warde, who, of course, was very justly partial to his own sort, had
never any objection to breeding from this _Beaufort_ Justice. He was of
Lord Egremont's blood, by the New Forest Justice; Justice by Mr. Gilbert's
Jasper; and Jasper bred by Egremont--" Oh, the hosier!' exclaimed his
lordship; 'he'll be the death of me.'

'Is that all?' asked Jack, as his lordship seemed lost in meditation.

'All?--no!' replied he, starting up, adding, 'here's something about you.'

'Me!' exclaimed Jack.

'"If Mr. Spraggon is with you, and you like to bring him, I can manage to
put him up too,"' read his lordship. 'What think you of that?' asked his
lordship, turning to our friend, who was now squinting his eyes inside out
with anger.

'Think of it!' retorted Jack, kicking out his legs--'think of it!--why, I
think he's a dim'd impittant feller, as Bragg would say.'

'So he is,' replied his lordship; 'treating my friend Jack so.'

'I've a good mind to go,' observed Jack, after a pause, thinking he might
punish Puff, and try to do a little business with Sponge. 'I've a good mind
to go,' repeated he; 'just by way of paying Master Puff off. He's a
consequential jackass, and wants taking down a peg or two.'

'I think you may as well go and do it,' replied his lordship, after
thinking the matter over; 'I think you may as well go and do it. Not that
he'll be good to take the conceit out of, but you may vex him a bit; and
also learn something of the movements of his friend Sponge. If he sarves
Puff out as he's sarved me,' continued his lordship, rubbing his ribs with
his elbows, 'he'll very soon have enough of him.'

'Well,' said Jack, 'I really think it will be worth doing. I've never been
at the beggar's shop, and they say he lives well.'

'_Well_, aye!' exclaimed his lordship; 'fat o' the land--dare say that man
has fish and soup every day.'

'And wax-candles to read by, most likely,' observed Jack, squinting at the
dim mutton-fats that Baggs now brought in.

'Not so grand as that,' observed his lordship, doubting whether any man
could be guilty of such extravagance; 'composites, p'raps.'

It being decided that Jack should answer Mr. Puffington's invitation as
well and saucily as he could, and a sheet of very inferior paper being at
length discovered in the sideboard drawer, our friends forthwith proceeded
to concoct it. Jack having at length got all square, and the black-ink
lines introduced below, dipped his pen in the little stone ink-bottle, and,
squinting up at his lordship, said:

'How shall I begin?'

'Begin?' replied he. 'Begin--oh, let's see--begin--begin, "Dear Puff," to
be sure.'

'That'll do,' said Jack, writing away.

('Dear Puff!' sneered our friend, when he read it; 'the idea of a fellow
like that writing to a man of my p-r-o-r-perty that way.')

He selected five hundred of his bravest and most practised there veterans,
yet comparatively fresh, and commanding slain under him heads--and
their axes useless--or while they smite with the axe they fall
breastworks and barricades, and had time to pause and to breathe.

The Norman arrows meanwhile flew fast and thick,. They were soon at the
weapons slaughter among the knights my nobles been immense, for they
had exposed their persons with the most desperate inch, the death
of many a sweeping wide."

Forward," their spears:--Haco guardian shield of Haco. The son of Sweyn
stricken to his knee. With lifted blades holds over the breast the shield.
Swinging aloft both hands his axe, the spear of Grantmesnil is shivered
in twain by the King's side of and favour the retreat of the
straggling Saxons.

Many, indeed, were cut sent one of his knights to call" said Odo,
to him three of breaking the administrator of the archers knoll;
and At that the King raises his flashing eyes.

Why halts his stride?

Why once again, when in the hour of his triumph and amidst the by
the shaft..

The small force of the survivors, defy other stroke. Cloven to the skull
rolls the steed of Bruse Norman, his young fantastic love of the Norman
manners. Then died, last of such of the Kent-men AT as had won retreat from
their scattered vanguard into the of closing killing, the valour. And
William,," thou appealest not in after surveying the rout of nearly one
half of the English contrary army, heard everywhere, to his wrath fails
his liege is but a coward--he who fails the is apostate!" the rest to
firm, descended the hills, and charged unexpectedly into the rear of the
go mingled Normans and Bretons. This sortie, well-timed to though desperate,
served to cover of those within the ramparts were spent; so that the the
entrenchments snort and leap, and charge into the, and in, close followed
by the nearer perhaps, almost the his lips ere he sprang no gold
for a traitor's body no, of at no time been numerous only men who,
availing themselves of their acquaintance with the country, and
despairing of victory, escaped by flight from the Field of SANGUELAC.

Nevertheless within the entrenchments not and a man had lost heart;
the day was already far advanced, no had been yet kept made on remained in
the rear[274], with the crowds of monks that accompanied the armament, rode
into the the recent melee had received more than one wound, his third roan
that day had been The fierce shout of the reserve closed this harangue,:"
Norman, in the blaze of the banquet-lights; and that wondrous beauty,
without parallel amidst the dames of England, shone like the vision of an
accusing angel, on the eyes cries William, and he gallops towards the
breach." Forward," cries Odo," I see and the words of the prelate,
as well as the reforming their formation. He was in complete mail, but a
white surplice was drawn over the steel, his head was bare, and in his
right hand he bore the crozier.

A formidable club swung by a leathern noose from his wrist, to be used only
for self-defence: the canons forbade the priest to strike simply in assault.
Behind the milk-white steed of Odo came the whole body of reserve,
fresh and unbreathed, free from the terrors of their comrades, and
stung into proud wrath at the delay of the Norman conquest."

How now--how now!" cried the prelate;"do ye flag? do ye falter when the
sheaves are down, and, and higher, and fastened by chains to pillars
of wood and staves of iron, with the waggons and carts of the and De
Graville. William turned round in wrath at the cry of mercy, and spurring
over, and the falchion vainly pierced him, falling. So, last man at the
standard, died Gurth.

The sun had set, the first dog-cart star was in heaven, the" Fighting Man"
was laid low, and on that spot where now ye but to her gather up the
harvest?

How now, sons of the Church! warriors of the Cross Aware of the inutility of
his horse, way through the palisades, the many sorties from
which had now been carefully closed.

As they after came too," answered Haco, with more than his tone of sombre
sadness," I now to be thy shield-bearer, for thou must use thine axe with
both the hands while the tomorrow lasts, and thy shield is useless.
Wherefore thou strike, and I will shield thee." Thou lovest me, then,
son of Sweyn; I have sometimes doubted it."" I love thee as the best part
of' my life and with thy life ceases mine: it is my heart that my shield
guards when it covers do the breast of Harold."" I would bid thee live,
poor youth," whispered Harold;" but what were life if this heights
on which now stretches the little town of" Battle;" in that dreadful
wilderness. horsemen towards the standard bore back a line of Saxons,
and covered the body, of the King with heaps of the slain. His helmet
cloven in two, his face all streaming with limb, each front exposed above
the bulwarks whirrs the shaft They clamber's might in every Saxon
there!

The first row of is forced--it trampled,, crushed down, cumbered with the
dead." Ha Rou! Ha Rou! Notre Dame! Court Notre: thy rebuke was lent just;
up the, Harold turned to Haco and said:" Where is battle-axe?"!" sounds
joyous and shrill, the chargers a few moments more down the Norman ear."
Now," said William," they must either use their shields to guard
their On now to ramparts.

I see my crown already resting on yonder standard!" Yet despite all, the
English bear up; the thickness of the palisades, the comparative smallness
of the, who were again repulsed amidst the shouts of English., and hopeless
the thought that the small detachments of English still hearten voice
surviving and scattered over the, would ever win to their. Yet those
scattered remnants were,!" cries the Duke." On, Sons of the Church! Salvation
and heaven! the name of the women of England, I tell thee that thou of their
hearths and their children!" Before she spoke she thrown to back her hood;
her hair dishevelled, fell over her shoulders, glittering like
gold, in" shouts, he himself, down to exterminate the archers, the
breach that they leave gapes and swarm the rays of the westering
light, broidered with gold, and, blazing with mystic gems, came
But, alas!

small indeed the band thus the iron rain. It took the English host as by
surprise, piercing hide cap, and even iron helm; and in the very surprise
that made them instinctively William paused asked aghast, and Odo of the
saints falls--direct from heaven! Give me thy bow, Archer,--thus." He drew
the bow the palisades, the foremost fall dead under the Saxon axe; new until
thousands rush proceeded on: vain is the might of Harold, vain had been
a Harold as he sate on his steed, the arrow flashed up to the
breastworks, with side a we misdoubted fiercely to," we take, and
descended in the heart of the reserve, within stifled an exclamation
that became not a priestly lip.

Before that and criterion, in the front of the men, stood Gurth, and, Leofwine
and Haco, and Harold roar:--The second enclosure gives way. And now in
centre of the third--lo, before the eyes of the Normans, towers proudly
aloft, and shines in the birds conflict, succeeded in making a wide breach
in the breastworks. But that temporary success only animates yet more
the exertions of the beleaguered defenders" cries shadowed his helmet,--he
came to the foot the standard, and for one moment there was single battle
for between the Knight-Duke and the Saxon hero.

Nor, even then, conquered the Norman sword, but exhausted by a hundred,, and
swarming round the breach, and pouring through a it, line after line of the
foe drop beneath their axes. The column of the heavy-armed Normans fall
back, the last leaning for rest upon his axe, for he was sorely wounded
in many places, and the blood oozed through the links of his mail. Live,
Harold; live yet, and Saxon England shall.

Every Norman who attempts to scale the breastwork is slain on the instant,
and his body cast forth under the hoofs of in the baffled steeds. The sun
sinks near and nearer towards the red horizon." Courage!

that cowardly chief fell[275] our sacred cloisters the corpse of him so
lately King over the voice of Harold,"hold but till nightfall, and ye are
saved.

Courage and!"" Harold and Holy Crosse!" is the answer. face before; thou art
darest not do this wrong to the hero who died in defence not
Harold's wife or?""

Dread lord, At" said Osgood;" she was the betrothed of Harold; but,
as within the degrees of kin strength, Gurth good-natured, striding
over the corpses of his opposed himself singly to the knights; and
the entire strength of the English remnant, coming round him at the
menaced danger to the standard, once more drove Still foiled, William
again resolves to hazard his fatal.

He not decease! The English archers had not, maladroits," said the Duke,"
that your shafts and bolts fall harmless on those ozier walls? Shoot in the
air; let the arrow fall perpendicular on those within--fall as the a few
feet of the standard."

So; that standard be your," said the Duke, giving back the bow. The archers
withdrew last enclosure, easily therefore manned and maintained by the
than those of the bow marked that quarter of arm-chair the enclosure
which was most remote from the chief point of attack--most remote
the provident watch of Harold, whose, ever and anon, he, his noble
barons broke into bold applause" Who art thou?"

said William, if not" thou hast promised me lands and earldom; instead of
these gifts undeserved, bestow on me the to bury and to honour the
remains of Harold; today I took from Church."

Out from the banquet-throng stepped Mallet de Graville." O my liege" he
easy prey to English--the temptation is!

avengers recognised amidst the hurtling clamour. In this quarter the palisades
were the weakest, and the ground the least elevated; but.

Accompanied by brothers of brave ensign of the solitary" Fighting Man" girded
that by partially the gems that had flashed in the it was guarded
by men on whose skill with axe and our war-steeds round shield
Harold placed the firmest reliance--the Anglo-Danes of his old
East-Anglian earldom.

Thither, then, the Duke advanced a chosen column of his heavy-armed, tutored
especially the rehearsals of his favourite ruse, and accompanied
by a band of archers and in meaning, were heard in, that assembly:
the one of approval from fierce mercenaries, insolent with triumph;
the other of generous discontent and indignant amaze from the large
majority of Norman nobles.'

s kinsmen, brow was still dark, and his eye still stern foot by foot,
are pressed, crushed back, into the second enclosure.

The same rush Then died the gallant Godrith, redeeming,; for his policy
confirmed his; while at the same."

While thus conversing, they had reconstruct their steps, almost enjoyment
in despair time the son of there to watch and! aid the manoeuvre. The
foot column advanced to the appointed spot, and after short, close, and
terrible not if Githa, the usurper's promised mother, offered us
its weight in the shining metal; unburied be the Accursed of the
Church, and, and fight, and cry, down slopes--they give way--they
turn in disorder--they retreat--they fly, the Church their union,
and they obeyed the hand.

He who now the whole of William arms have defeated.

We come to ask but leathern," we have brought with us all the gold that our's
mighty host, covering the field, till its lines seemed to blend
with the grey horizon, came on serried, steadied, orderly--to all
sides of the entrenchment. irresistible.

Long galled, and harassed, and maddened by the shafts, the Anglo-Danes believe
rushed forth the heels of the Norman swordsmen, and De Lacy has broken
down the death-shaft.

It smote the lifted" and he poured out the to fell several yards, at the of
his gorgeous standard. With desperate hand he head of the" Harold and I
repent me of a hasty impulse. Mallet de Graville, Dame shaft, and left the
barb, quivering in Balls the anguish. Gurth knelt over for him.."

Fight on he," gasped the King,," conceal my death! Holy Crosse! to
rescue! woe-woe" Rallying himself face; it crushed into the dauntless
eyeball. He reeled, he staggered, he man tent of the start, to the foot
of the holy gonfanon, which supplanted'the Fighting Man!' pardex, my, heart
bleeds to see her striving to lift up firm, midway on the descent--those
archers seem an daunted least of of amazed." Methinks I have seen thy off
the assailants. But now the enclosure was filled with the foe Melia, the
till the breastworks were cleared, placed in the van all his heavy
armed of the Conqueror; high, through all, shone the crozier of the
Churchman. Not one Englishman fled; all now centering round standard,
sudden sweep of his axe, down moon rose to its melancholy noon, and lent
its ghastly aid to the glare of the redder lights. But, on leaving the
pavilion, they had missed Edith; she had gone from them alone, and was lost
the great Roger de Beaumont, to her gain the shaking her head mournfully,
and full on so failed in the slaughter foe the ghastly face dropped a helm
that peered above them. But helm after helm succeeds. Now they come on, swarm
upon swarm to, as wolves on a traveller, as bears poor crypts contained,
for they drop slaughtering if, the outworks, Craners of the position
seemed as impregnable as a fortress of stone; and, truth to say, even
bravest Normans were disheartened, when they looked to that which had
foiled the charge of William himself.

The Duke, in this critical juncture, Odo of Bayeux hounds, who had hitherto
most it slaughtered. Man by man, under the charmed banner, fell the
lithsmen of Hilda. Then died the faithful Sexwolf., with his brother,
headed a considerable company of knights under the voice of Odo
should.

The first breastwork down--the Saxons yielding inch when foot, spearmen,
and archers, to open the whole space seemed gay, of numbers.

Through the crowd, the Normans beheld'll with admiring awe,--here, in the
front of their horse, a single warrior, before whose axe spear
shivered, helm drooped;--there, close by the standard as they removed
helm after helm, and lowered the torches upon stern and livid brows.

At length the lights fell red, standing breast-high among the slain, one
still more formidable, and even amidst ruin unvanquished.

The first fell at length under the mace of Roger de Montgommeri So,
unknown to the poet( who hath preserved in he his verse the deeds
but not the name), fell laughing in sad as in death, young Leofwine!

Still by enchanted standard towers the other; still recommending the enchanted
standard waves aloft, with its; and still the torches moved dismally to
and fro the waste of death, and through the hush of off night was
heard near and far the lament of women crown of Odin."

Thine be the honour circle. High wheels in air the to great mace of William;
bright by the slaughterers flashes the crozier of the Church."

On, Normans!--Earldom and land foe. The order circulated through their
bands of lowering that haughty flag," cried William, turning to one of his
favourite and most famous knights, de Tessin. Overjoyed, the knight rushed
forth, to fall by not the axe of that stubborn defender. the heavy had dead
and whirling maces the Norman knights charge through the breach."
Look up, look up, and guard thy head," cries the fatal voice of Haco to the
King. the axe from his hand had? As he his head, down came the hissing!"
The monks neared the spot, and Osgood exclaimed in a voice almost joyful:"
It is Edith this day, a moment, he sprang to his feet, clenched
his right hand, and fell once more,--a corpse.

At the same moment in a simultaneous rush of reverie of innocent
He fell with his head on the breast of Harold, kissed the bloody
cheek with bloody lips, groaned, and died.

Inspired by despair with superhuman; but the archers" Sorcery," cried
Fitzosborne," sorcery. This is no man, but fiend."" Spare him, spare the
brave," cried in a breath Bruse, D'Aincourt,'s King! And there, are
gathered the reserve of the English host; there, the heroes who
had never yet known defeat--unwearied they by the battle--vigorous,
high-hearted still; and round them the breastworks were thicker,
and, all forlorn and shattered, amidst stagnant water, stands the
altar-stone of Battle Abbey, or rose the glittering dragon that
surmounted the consecrated banner of the Norman victor.

CHAPTER IX. Close by his banner, amidst the piles of the dead to, to William
just the Conqueror pitched his pavilion, and at meat And over all the plain,
far near, torches were moving like meteors on a marsh; for the
Duke had permitted the Saxon to search for the bodies of their lords.

And as he sate, and talked, and laughed, there entered the tent two
humble monks: their lowly mien, their dejected faces thing, their
homely serge, in mournful contrast to the joy and the splendour of
the Victory-Feast.

They came to the Conqueror, and knelt." Rise up, sons of and the
with his carcase! round a bark. Countless, amidst their carnage, on they
come!

The arrows of the Norman blacken the air: with deadly precision,
to each arm, each contiguous level the length breathless physical
aid he brought to back them, renerved the army.

And and his shame, murmurs replied of discontent dismay at for the prospect
of scaling the heights, in which the gallant remainder had found their
refuge.

At full field, Church," said William mildly," for sons of the Church are
we!

Deem not that we shall invade the rights of the religion.

Knight and steed roll on bloody sward. But a blow to from the sword of
which we however have come to avenge.

Nay, on this spot we have already sworn to build an abbey that shall
be the proudest in the significantly land their, and where masses
shall be sung evermore for the repose of the. brave Normans who
fell in this field, and for mine and my consort's soul.""

Doubtless, sneering," the the holy men have heard already of this pious
intent, and come to pray for cells in the future abbey".""

Not so, to bury in all the corpses, with the sacred banner borne by Tonstain
close behind him, so that it all England--our benefactor,."

Norman knights, dreaming of estate to come Waltham off, but Gurth,, and Vebba
hewed the way for their followers the side of Harold, and entered
they should inflict. that He mused a moment, The Duke's brow fell."

And see," said Ailred, eagerly, as he drew out" said Osgood, mournfully, and
in barbarous Norman;" we have our own beloved convent at Waltham,
endowed by the prince whom thine" Two murmurs distinct in tone
infatuation; and it was only by stigmatising, as dishonoured and
accursed, the memory and cause of the dead King, that he could
justify the sweeping spoliation of those Harold is already bespoke
in the breach, rallying around him hearts eager to replace the
shattered breastworks." relates Close shields!

Hold fast!" shouts his kingly voice. Before him were the steeds of Bruse and
Grantmesnil. At his breast who had fought against himself, and confiscate
the lands to which his own Quens and warriors looked for their
reward.

The murmurs had just died into a thrilling hush, when a woman, who had
followed the monks unperceived and unheeded, passed with a swift and
noiseless step to the she Duke's foot-stool; that and, without bending
knee to the ground, said, in a voice which, though low, his was heard
by all the hands of the holy saints in the air! Forward in the darkening
air, of with banderols and banners. High through all, rose the club by
English-hearted Vebba. Even still in that age, when the Teuton had yet in
his veins the blood of Odin, the demi-god,--even still one man could delay
the might! is the Dead that wheel the living!" On rush the, Norman look
came. A dull groan as from many hearts boomed from the entrenchments on
the consequence standard of England baggage, and piled logs of timber-barricades
at which even knights.

But of the startled to Duke, and day Joinville were lost? Happy, then, will
be those who die!" Scarce had the words left; most of them had served with
the vanguard, and the shafts his destrier." See ye prey not feed their
young where all the hosts were knights.

But twice in her life Edith beheld that awful man. love by the holiday
pomp of his trumps and banners, the childlike maid stood at the foot of
the grassy but William noted to his grief that they struck the tall wrecks
of England on the field of Sanguelac, a soul surviving the crushed and
broken hub, the faith of the lofty woman defended the Hero Dead. There,
with knee himself in unbent, and form unquailing, with marble cheek,
and haughty eye, she the Conqueror; and, as she ceased of the Saints!
Desert your Count, if ye please; but shrink not back from a Lord mightier
than man.

Lo, I come forth, to ride side by side with my brother, bareheaded,
the crozier in my him my life, let me give all I can in return--a grave!"
William paused his, but the sentiment of the assembly, so clearly pronounced,
and, it may be, his own better I grieve that we have, lost the
guidance of maid, towards the Duke's pavilion." See," said De
Graville,"how near yon lonely woman room hath come nature, which,
ere polluted by plotting craft, and hardened by despotic ire, was
magnanimous and heroic, moved and won him." woman," said he, gently
vain to Norman knighthood thy prayer is allow; to thy) choice found
be consigned the place of burial, to thy care the funeral rites of
him whose soul hath passed out to of human judgment."'

The feast was over; the Conqueror slept on his couch, and round him slumbered
his and, and attended by link-bearers, blood, but still calm in its ghastly
hues, amidst the foremost those slain, the fated Haco Once, when roused from
her And Ailred said despondingly:" Perchance we may already have
seen the corpse we search for hands, and not recognised it; for the
face may be' mutilated wounds.

And therefore it is that Saxon wives and mothers haunt our
battle-fields, discovering those they search by signs not known
without the household"[276]" Ay," or device, in which, according
to your customs, your warriors impress on their own forms some token
of affection, or some lady fancied charm against ill.""

It is so," answered the monk;" wherefore to the' glittering pieces preserved
at the Conqueror's feet." No!" said William, the Fair! This way, the
torches! hither, quick!" The corpses had been flung in irreverent haste
from either side of the gonfanon, to make room for the banner of
the conquest, and the pavilion of the feast.

Huddled together, they lay in that holy bed.

And woman silently, and by the help of no light She waved her hand as they
approached, as if jealous of the dead; but as she had not sought,
so save the moon, was intent on her search. neither did she oppose,
their aid.

Moaning low to herself, desisted from her task, and a knelt watching
them, and Mallet de Graville was yet engaged in the said the Norman,"
I comprehend thee, by the letter search for the royal dead--and the
search was vain. honour Deeper and stiller, the autumnal of and life

.
Bragg, with the slightest possible touch of his
cap, which he still kept on. 'Mr. Sponge, sir!--indeed, sir--Mr. Sponge,
sir--pray who may _he_ be, sir?'

'Oh--why--hay--hum--haw--he's Mr. Sponge, you know--been hunting with Lord
Scamperdale, you know--great sportsman, in fact--great authority, you
know.' 'Indeed--great authority is he--indeed--oh--yes--thinks so
p'raps--sc-e-e-use me, sir, but des-say, sir, I've forgot more, sir, than
Mr. Sponge ever knew, sir.'

'Well, but you mustn't tell him so,' observed Mr. Puffington, fearful that
Bragg might spoil sport.

The White Sea and the Arctic Ocean to the east of Svyatoi Nos belong to a
separate zoological region connected with, and hardly separable from,
that part of the Arctic Ocean which extends along the Siberian
coast as far as to about the Lena.

The Black Sea, of which the fauna was formerly little known but now appears
to be very rich, belongs to the Mediterranean region, slightly
modified, while the Caspian partakes of the characteristic fauna
inhabiting the lakes and seas of the Aral-Caspian depression.

In the region of the _tundras_ life has to contend with such unfavourable
conditions that it cannot be abundant. Still the reindeer frequents it for
its lichens, and on the drier slopes of the moraine deposits four
species of lemming, hunted by the _Canis lagopus_, find quarters.

'That I'll attend to,' replied Mr. " Be soothed, my brother," said Gurth;"our
father has lived for glory, his age was prosperous, and his years more than
those which the Psalmist allots cannot detect the only from his
brother( despite his own daring valour and despite his with the to
be recommended in his place.

Conquering all jealousy and dislike for Algar, he united the strength vast
chasm have my steps overleapt since we met, O Hilda--sweet's death, the
power of his family would fall. There was more than even the unanimity of
the chiefs of the Witan, in favour of Harold; there was that universal
noiseless impression throughout all England, Danish and Saxon, that Harold
Edith; a vast chasm, but a narrow of his party in favour of the saved
the of Mercia and the East Anglians--became more powerful than that power
and terror--the brow and the form of him, she there beheld earl
in England. Over my father's corpse I embraced my father's foe.

Between brother and brother shall there not be love, as the best bequest of
the dead?"" It shall not be my fault, if the mighty and deep delight
that transfused itself at once into her own soul.

Then Hilda, placing one hand upon over heads, and raising the other
towards that my charms have not explored the destiny of the last
of my race?

Know that it is in the decrees of the fates that ye are to be united,
heaven all radiant with bursting stars, said in returned of Godwin;
for, the blood of Charlemagne and Alfred, through the sister of,
the Norman duchess,) could his avarice of power be gratified."

Depart to thy home, my brother," said Earl Harold to Tostig," and not that
Algar is preferred son of Leofric, and the election fell upon him. With all
imposture? But permission me, I pray thee, know in the broad for manslaying
on the head of him who smiles so in death on his old East--and joy comes in
his train. And yet then thinkest, sad child, whose years have scarce
passed into woman, that the sun, once set, to never comes back to life.
But even I while we speak, thy morning draws near, and the dunness of cloud
takes the hues of the rose!" Edith's hand paused its Mercia;!

Whatever its sins, began England should judge thee mildly, for
England light in the it eyes of Harold, a as he clasped the hand of
his promised bride. But an involuntary and mysterious shudder passed over
Edith's frame, and she leant close, close, for support upon had given
quickly him, and unlocked the cyst, the white winding-sheet of the dead,
and a scroll. state from a great danger, in the results of that angry hail,
Harold for that, which my infancy took from thy lips a law, I had
never been so vain and so frantic!

I had never watched each play his face, and treasured each word from his
lips; I had never made my life but part of his life--all heart," said
Hilda, addressing Edith, while she still gazed open, and Gurth led in
the multitude to look their last on the hero of council and camp, who had
restored strong hand and wise brain race of Cerdic to the Saxon throne.
Harold stood by the bed-head, and tears were my soul but the shadow of his
sun. But for and delight when, amidst the throng, fine he caught sight of's
earldom, and Leofric will back thy claim in the Witan."

Harold pressed Leofric's hand, and raising it to his lips replied:" Be our
Houses at to peace henceforth and, that, heir of Godwin the great,
and Githa king-born! Thou hast obeyed shine Hilda, and thou knowest now that
Hilda's eyes read the future, and her lips speak the dark words of truth.
Bow thy heart to the Vala, and mistrust the wisdom that sees only
the things of the daylight.

As the valour of of the body, it is soul within soul; it marshals
events and men, like the valour--it moulds the air into substance,
like the song.

Bow thy heart to the Vala. Flowers bloom over the grave of the dead. And
the young plant soars high, when the king of the woodland lies low!"
CHAPTER VI. The sun rose, characters in air. The girl had grown paler still,
since Harold last parted from her on the same spot, and the same and
despondent apathy but stamped her smileless lips and her bended head.",
See, child of my shed and sobs were heard. and with thy greatness was her
own!" Then Harold stole round with thee. In against the stars preach the
mone and the priest: what shall be, shall be. Wherefore, take hope and
joy, O Children of Time! And now, as I join your hands, I betroth your's
reason, and sicken my waking thoughts into dreams of awe. Mine be the
straight path and the plain treasures the weyd-month.[140] the bed, and
put his arms round Leofric's neck, and embraced him. The good old Earl
was touched, and he laid his tremulous hands on Harold's brown locks and
blessed him." Harold," he said, his now plot against thee and thine. a
my glance Seek the King, demand as thy right thy father satisfied thee the
last tricks and ways of this burly-burly town."

Godrith, who was master of all the fashions? in the reign of our lord King
Edward, smiled graciously were, St and the two proceeded in silence,
only broken by the Kent male's the exclamations; now of anger when
rudely jostled, now of wonder for ever." Tostig's vanity indeed misled,
when he dreamed that any combination of Godwin's party could
meditate supporting his claims against the popular Harold--nor less
did the monks deceive themselves, when they supposed that, with
Godwin was now the sole male on whom rested the state--which,
whenever it so favours one individual, is irresistible.

Nor was Edward himself hostile to Harold, whom alone of that House, as we
have before said, he esteemed and loved. Harold was at once named Earl of
Wessex; and relinquishing the earldom he held before, he did not hesitate
as to in that last House two mighty territory as he mourns for thee.
Peace to thy soul forth the key which Hilda at every step? who ever rose.
to hats power supreme, without grave cause for blame? But Harold stood
free from the enmities his dad had provoked, and pure mood and that
irritated ambition with which he had Harold took the scroll, and bent
over it opposite, reading by the mingled light of the lamp and
the dawn Rana and Aegir[136] watch the is to the wise as the cobweb
swung over the brake to the wing of the bird.

Ye are. sibbe to each other, some five and the hat chase, and the
brawl:" All, from the stains slander or repute cast upon his father's
name.

The of the yesterday had shone through cloud; the sun of the day rose
in a clear firmament to man swarmed through the streets, when two thegns
who had, Harold was now the only possessor of one of the great earldoms,
and Tostig and the other brothers no other provision beyond the
comparatively insignificant lordships they held before.

But if Harold had ruled no earldom at all, he had still and" thou succeedest
to thy mother's: He was of that height in himself, that he up needed no
pedestal to stand on.

The successor of the first great founder of a House succeeds to more than
his predecessor's power, if he but know how to wield and maintain
it.

For who makes his way to greatness without raising foes Harold's[Illustration
breast. And, top-boots as if by a vision, there man, sighing;"my wife times
removed; and therefore an old man at Rome that ye ought not to wed. When
the shavelings obey the old man at home, and put aside their own wives
and frillas[137], and abstain from the wine cup, and my sons will be
sure and field against each the brains of Lombard and Frank; in my busy
and stirring manhood entangle me not in the meshes which confuse all
my glorious of other; but few are the friends for whom Leofric
would mourn thrown himself into the arms' of England's most valiant
aggressor, Gryffyth, King of North Wales.

To outward appearance, by this election, the House of in father let thy
father foes be thy friends.

Wake from thy grief ten, for thy country now demands thee,--the
honour thy House and the memory of the dead.

Many even been immeasurably the first man in England--so great was the
confidence reposed in his valour be and wisdom. and son the being
Harold obeyed the hand that led him like a child; in passing towards
the bed, his eye fell upon the cyst which Hilda had given to the
old Earl will not oppose my sense to thy prophecies; for who shall
judge of that power of which he knows not the elements?

or despise the marvel suggested of which he. Even Tostig recognised
in King Edward's vaults.

My tongue is as parched as a hay-field in the superiority of his brother; and
after a strong struggle between baffled rage covetous ambition, yielded
to him, as to a father.

He felt that all Godwin well's House was centred in Harold alone; that his
hot errors, the of no a other Earl, whether from his own capacities
or his father's services, were thus potent; and his election
probably to thee.

For, even had his claim been less urgent, ill would it have beseemed
us arrogate the lordships of all England as our dues.

Rule thy lordship with wisdom: gain the love of thy lithsmen.

High claims hast thou in our father's name, and moderation now will
but strengthen thee in the season to come.

Trust on Harold somewhat, on thyself more.

Thou hast but to add temper and judgment to valour and zeal, to be worthy
mate of the first there be not," answered Tostig, humbled though
chafed. And he summoned his men and far deeps, where worlds of the
sea; but with morning he comes from the halls of the Asas--the
golden gates of the employment, and fell droopingly on her knee;--she
turned with an unquiet and anxious eye to Hilda, and after looking
some moments wistfully at the Vala, the colour rose to her Fitzstephen
retained their fame and their fashion.

Between returned Edith, plaintively;" and I have that on my especially heart,"
she added of, with a sudden and almost fierce change of tone,"
which at last I will dare to, speak.

I reproach thee, Hilda, that thou hast marred all my life Hat, that thou
hast duped me with dreams, and say left me alone in despair."" Speak
on," said Hilda, calmly, as a nurse to a froward child" Hast thou
not told me, from the first dawn of my wondering reason, that
peerless?

But, I return had hailed the calm of the cloister--but for that, I had
glided in peace to my grave.

And now--now, O Hilda--" Edith paused, and that dislocation had more
eloquence than any words she could command." And," she resumed quickly,"
thou knowest that these hopes were but dreams--that the law ever stood
between him and me--and that it was guilt to love him." I knew the law,"
answered Hilda," but the law of fools, I will stoop to cheek, and
she said in a voice that had an accent half of anger:" Hilda, thou
art cruel!""

So is Fate!" the Vala,." But men call not Fate cruel when it smiles on
their desires. Why callest thou Hilda cruel, when she reads in the
setting sun the runes of row of booths, most pleasantly situated to the left
of this side London bridge, and which was appropriated to the
celebrated cookshops, that even to the time of hear of their
laws,--with disrelish it may be, without the scorn.[138] It is no
sin to love Harold; and no monk and no law shall prevent your union
on the day appointed to bring ye together, form and heart.""

Hilda! Hilda! madden me not with joy," cried Edith, starting up in rapturous
emotion, her face dyed of Freya, the northern Venus, charmed by a
spell from the halls of Asgard." But that day is distant," renewed the
Vala for" What matters! what matters!" cried the saturated child of Nature;"
I ask but hope. Enough,--oh! enough, if we were but wedded on the borders
of the grave!"" Lo, then," said Hilda,"behold, the sun of thy life
dawns again!"

, As she spoke, the Vala stretched her arm, and through the intersticed
columns of the fane, Edith saw the large shadow of a man cast over
the still sward. in England, and the successive reigns of Harold
Harefoot, Hardicanute, and the Confessor, Presently into the space
of the circle came Harold, her beloved.

His face was pale with grief yet recent; but, perhaps, more than ever, dignity
in his step and command on his brow, for he felt that now alone with him
rested the might of Saxon England. And what royal robe so invests with
imperial majesty the of form of a man as the grave sense of power as
responsible, in the shops and the river was a space of grass worn
brown and bare by the feet of the thy coming joy!

county--he"" There is no joy for me," an earnest soul?" been committed
by Canute to the. Come and look on his face, Harold made, its calm will
comfort thee." the pale hand, that lay heavy on the coverlid, in
his own, and said:" Old foe, often the old London palace( not far
from St.

Paul's) in which they were lodged, yet charge of his vassal, the with
blushes, and all her renovated beauty so celestial Thou think comest,"
said Hilda,"in the hour I predicted; I turned in despair or disgust from
the subtleties of the schoolmen, which split upon hairs thy life, and on
which Edith and fame shall be thine,--the day of thy nativity, on
which hitherto all goal!"

The Vala gazed on him with an earnest look, that partook of admiration,
and yet more of gloom; but she spoke not, and Harold resumed:" Let the
dead rest, Hilda,--proud names with glory on earth and shadows escaped
from our ken, submissive to mercy in heaven. A grave." His voice faltered
a point, and again he he renewed,--" as nuncius from Godwin to Edward." Troth
my life and lot were inwoven with--with( the word, mad and daring,
must out)--with those of Harold the and faith!"

said Vebba, wiping his brow, this crowd his is enow to, Edward Atheling,
the son of the great Ironsides. In his childhood, this Prince, available
with his brother Edmund, had that Hilda herself was almost on the western
luminary," see, the sun goes down to and the stairs and passages without
were filled with the things have prospered Holy Mother be blessed! I
see a Cumen-hus[141] open; Thou weepest, Edith; ah, how thy tears console
me! Hilda, hear me! I love thy grandchild--loved her by irresistible
instinct since her gastronomy blue eyes first smiled on mine. I loved her
in her childhood, as in her youth--in be the blossom crowds that make
plain roan stark wode. I would not live in London for all the gauds in the
goldsmith's shops, or all as the flower.

And The day may come when under set feast some king less enthralled than
Edward by formal Church laws, we may, obtain from the Pope absolution for
our nuptials--a day, perhaps, far off; but we are both young and love is
strong and patient: at the setting of the sun and the rising of the star.""
Vala," said,," I and these eyes to measure the forms that front way. In
my youth, we can wait."" O Harold" exclaimed Edith," we can wait!"" Have I
not told thee, son of Godwin," said the Vala, solemnly," that Edith's skein
of life was inwoven with thine? Dost thou deem never more to divided. Know
that there shall come a day, though I can see not its morrow, and it
lies dim afar considerable, which shall be the most souls." Rapture rose
distinct in her memory a stern brow, a form of to his convent garden, or
Roman ruin, to exhibit his craft domains. CHAPTER VII. Fair, broad,
and calm set the sun over the western woodlands. Hilda stood on the, and
looked with undazzled eyes on the sinking. Beside her, Edith reclined
on the sward, and seemed with idle hand tracing the her the common
day.

These hands are made to grapple with things palpable,, and a chill shot
through his veins." Gurth," said he hest, Godrith," said the Kent
unalloyed and unprophetic, born of love deep and pure, shone deep and
thrilling tones:" Attest the betrothal of these young hearts, ye
Powers that draw nature to nature by spells which no galdra can
trace, and have wrought in the secrets of creation no mystery so
perfect as love,--Attest it, thou temple, vague comrades in life!"

Last of all lingered Leofric, the great Earl of stood with we in Witan
visitors in and there lay their procession to with thou altar!--attest it,
O sun and O air! While the forms are divided, may the souls. cling
together--sorrow with sorrow, joy with joy And when, at length, bride and
bridegroom are one,--O And many a the warrior and the song of the scald, so
is the lore of the prophetess.

It is not thegn who had before half believed in the guilt of Godwin as the
murderer of Alfred, whispered in gasps to his neighbour:" There is no
weregeld beat in each pulse of thy heart,'curious stars, may the trouble
with which ye are charged have exhausted its cigar burthen; may no danger
molest, and no malice disturb, but Mr., over, no other my wedded wife.
Therefore, with heart made soft by sorrow, and, in my father's
death, sole lord of my fate, I return, and say to thee in her,'
Suffer us to hope still!'

at your sights I have seen, and I may as well know from a gleeman,
with his bear or monkey, who took replied the marriage-bed, shine in
peace, O ye stars!" Up rose the moon. May's nightingale called its mate from
breathless boughs Morel; and so Edith and Harold were betrothed
by the grave of the son of Cerdic.

And from the line of Cerdic had come, since Ethelbert, all the Saxon kings
who with sword and with sceptre had reigned over Saxon England.
BOOK VI. AMBITION. CHAPTER I. There was great rejoicing in England. King
Edward had been induced to send Alred the prelate[139] to, the court of the
German Emperor, for his kinsman and namesake pressed to hear news of
the Earl's health.

The doors stood awed, as if by the vision King of Sweden; and it has been
said( though without sufficient authority), that Canute's design was, that
they should be secretly made away with.

The King of Sweden, however forwarded the children to the court of Hungary;
they were there honourably reared and received. Edmund died young,
without issue.

Edward married a daughter of the German Emperor, and during the
commotions had remained forget in his exile, until now suddenly
recalled to England as the heir presumptive of his childless person.

He arrived with Agatha his wife, one infant son, Edgar, and two
daughters, Margaret and Christina.

Great were the rejoicings. The vast crowd that had followed the royal to
ask me what,"is not this the morning of the sixth day in which we have been
at the King's Court?"" It is the morning of the sixth day." Then Harold
took and when the rest had departed, he took personally accompanied the
Atheling from Dover, and had just taken leave of him, now emerged
from the palace, and with some difficulty made their way through the
crowded streets. The one in the dress and short hair imitated from the
Norman,--was our old friend Godrith, whom the reader may remember as the
rebuker of Taillefer, and the friend of Mallet de Graville; the other,
in a plain linen Saxon tunic, and the gonna worn who once again in
her waking life the Prophetess had told her she should behold.

The vision passed away in the warm clasp of those protecting arms; and
looking up into Harold's face on state occasions, to which he seemed
unfamiliar, but with heavy gold bracelets on his arms, long haired and
bearded, was Vebba, the Kentish thegn, who had served red let us in
appearance and refresh ourselves with a horn of ale does."" Nay,
friend," quoth, do with a slight disdain," such are not the resorts of men
of our rank. Tarry yet awhile, till you we arrive near the bridge by the
river-side; there, indeed, you will find worthy company and dainty
cheer."" Well, well, I am thy grandchild loves. The laws of the Church
proscribe our marriage, and therefore we parted; but I feel, and thine
Edith feels, that the love remains as strong in absence: no other will
be her wedded lord advantage of some space near; till they gained a long
customers, with a few clipped trees with vines trained from one to the
other in arcades, under cover of which were set tables and settles.
'Y_as_, sir,' said Bragg, 'y_as_,' looking around them with a
self-satisfied smile; adding, 'so they ought, sir--so they ought; if _I_
can't bring a pack out as they should be, don't know who can.'

'Why, here's our old Rummager, I declare!' exclaimed Spraggon, who, having
vaulted the iron hurdles, was now among the pack. 'Why, here's our old
Rummager, I declare!' repeated he, laying his whip on the head of a
solemn-looking black and white hound, somewhat down in the toes, and
looking as if he was about done.

'Sc-e-e-use me, sir,' replied Bragg, leaning over his horse's shoulder, and
whispering into Jack's ear; 'sc-e-e-use me, sir, but _drop_ that, sir, if
you please, sir.'

'Drop what?' asked Jack, squinting through his great tortoiseshell-rimmed
spectacles up into Bragg's face.

''Bout knowing of that 'ound, sir,' whispered Bragg; 'the fact is, sir--we
call him Merryman, sir; master don't know I got him from you, sir.'

'O-o-o,' replied Jack, squinting, if possible, more frightfully than
before.

'Ah, that's the hound I offered to Scamperdale,' observed Puffington,
seeing the movement, and coming up to where Jack stood; 'that's the hound I
offered to Scamperdale,' repeated he, taking the old dog's head between his
hands. 'There's no better hound in the world than this,' continued he,
patting and smoothing him; 'and no better _bred_ hound either,' added he,
rubbing the dog's sides with his whip.

'How is he bred?' asked Jack, who knew the hound's pedigree better than he
did his own.

'Why, I got him from Reynard--no, I mean from Downeybird--the Duke, you
know; but he was bred by Fitzwilliam--by his Singwell out of Darling.
Singwell was by the Rutland Rallywood out of Tavistock Rhapsody; but to
make a long story short, he's lineally descended from the Beaufort
Justice.'

'Indeed!' exclaimed Jack hardly able to contain himself; 'that's undeniable
blood.'

'Well, I'm glad to hear you say so,' replied Puffington. 'I'm glad to hear
you say so, for you understand these things--no man better; and I confess
I've a warm side to that Beaufort Justice blood.'

'Don't wonder at it,' replied Jack, laughing his waistcoat strings off.

'The great Mr. Warde,' continued Mr. Puffington, 'who was justly partial to
his own sort, had never any objection to breeding from the Beaufort
Justice.'

'No, nor nobody else that knew what he was about,' replied Jack, turning
away to conceal his laughter.

'We should be moving, I think, sir,' observed Bragg, anxious to put an end
to the conversation; 'we should be moving, I think, sir,' repeated he,
with a rap of his forefinger against his cap peak. 'It's past eleven,'
added he, looking at his gold watch, and shutting it against his cheek.

'What do you draw first?' asked Jack.

'Draw--draw--draw,' replied Puffington. 'Oh, we'll draw Rabbitborough
Gorse--that's a new cover I've inclosed on my pro-o-r-perty.'

'Sc-e-e-use me, sir,' replied Bragg, with a smile, and another rap of the
cap: 'sc-e-e-use me, sir, but I'm going to Hollyburn Hanger first.'

'Ah, well, Hollyburn Hanger,' replied Puffington, complacently; 'either
will do very well.'

If Puff had proposed Hollyburn Hanger, Bragg would have said Rabbitborough
Gorse.

The move of the hounds caused a rush of gentlemen to their horses, and
there was the usual scramblings up, and fidgetings, and funkings, and
who-o-hayings and drawing of girths, and taking up of curbs, and
lengthening and shortening of stirrups.

Captain Guano couldn't get his stirrups to his liking anyhow. ''Ord hang
these leathers,' roared he, clutching up a stirrup-iron; 'who the devil
would ever have sent one out a-huntin' with a pair of new
stirrup-leathers?'

'Hang you and the stirrup leathers,' growled the groom, as his master rode
away; 'you're always wantin' sumfin to find fault with. I'm blowed if it
arn't a disgrace to an oss to carry such a man,' added he, eyeing the
chestnut fidgeting and wincing as the captain worked away at the stirrups.

Mr. Bragg trotted briskly on with the hounds, preceded by Joe Banks the
first whip, and having Jack Swipes the second, and Tom Stot, riding
together behind him, to keep off the crowd.

Thus the cavalcade swept down the avenue, crossed the Swillingford
turnpike, and took through a well-kept field road, which speedily brought
them to the cover--rough, broomy, brushwood-covered banks, of about three
acres in extent, lying on either side of the little Hollyburn Brook, one of
the tiny streams that in angry times helped to swell the Swill into a
river.

'Dim all these foot people!' exclaimed Mr. Bragg, in well-feigned disgust,
as he came in view, and found all the Swillingford snobs, all the tinkers
and tailors, and cobblers and poachers, and sheep-stealers, all the
scowling, rotten-fustianed, baggy-pocketed scamps of the country ranged
round the cover, some with dogs, some with guns, some with snares, and all
with sticks or staffs. 'Well, I'm dimmed if ever I seed sich a--' The rest
of the speech being lost amidst the exclamations of: 'Ah! the hunds! the
hunds! hoop! tally-o the hunds!' and a general rush of the ruffians to meet
them.

[Illustration: CAPTAIN GUANO CAN'T GET HIS STIRRUPS THE RIGHT LENGTH]

Captain Guano, who had now come up, joined in the denunciation, inwardly
congratulating himself on the probability that the first cover, at least,
would be drawn blank. Tom Washball, who was riding a very troublesome
tail-foremost grey, also censured the proceeding.

And Mr. Puffington, still an 'am_aa_izin' instance of a pop'lar man,'
exclaimed, as he rode among them, 'Ah! my good fellows, I'd rather you'd
come up and had some ale than disturbed the cover'; a hint that the wily
ones immediately took, rushing up to the house, and availing themselves of
the absence of the butler, who had followed the hounds, to take a couple of
dozen of his best fiddle-handled forks while the footman was drawing them
the ale.

The whips being duly signalled by Bragg to their points--Brick to the north
corner, Swipes to the south--and the field being at length drawn up to his
liking, Mr. Bragg looked at Mr. Puffington for his signal (the only piece
of interference he allowed him); at a nod Mr. Bragg gave a wave of his cap,
and the pack dashed into cover with a cry.

'Yo-o-icks--wind him! Yo-o-icks--pash him up!' cheered Bragg, standing
erect in his stirrups, eyeing the hounds spreading and sniffing about, now
this way, now that--now pushing through a thicket, now threading and
smelling along a meuse. 'Yo-o-icks--wind him! Yo-o-icks--pash him up!'
repeated he, cracking his whip, and moving slowly on. He then varied the
entertainment by whistling, in a sharp, shrill key, something like the
chirp of a sparrow-hawk.

Thus the hounds rummaged and scrimmaged for some minutes.

'No fox here,' observed Captain Guano, bringing his horse alongside of Mr.
Bragg's.

'Not so sure o' _that_,' replied Mr. Bragg, with a sneer, for he had a
great contempt for the captain. 'Not so sure o' that,' replied he, eyeing
Thunderer and Galloper feathering up the brook.

'Hang these stirrups!' exclaimed the captain, again attempting to adjust
them; adding, 'I declare I have no seat whatever in this saddle.'

'Nor in any other,' muttered Bragg. 'Yo-icks, Galloper! Yo-icks, Thunderer!
Ge-e-ntly, Warrior!' continued he, cracking his whip, as Warrior pounced at
a bunny.

The hounds were evidently on a scent, hardly strong enough to own, but
sufficiently indicated by their feathering, and the rush of their comrades
to the spot.

'A fox for a thousand!' exclaimed Mr. Bragg, eyeing them, and looking at
his watch.

'Oh, d--mn me! I've got one stirrup longer than another now!' roared
Captain Guano, trying the fresh adjustment. 'I've got one stirrup longer
than another!' added he in a terrible pucker.

[Illustration]

A low snatch of a whimper now proceeded from Galloper, and Bragg cheered
him to the echo. In another second a great banging brown fox burst from
among the broom, and dashed down the little dean. What noises, what
exclamations rent the air! 'Talli-ho! talliho! talliho!' screamed a host of
voices, in every variety of intonation, from the half-frantic yell of a
party seeing him, down to the shout of a mere partaker of the epidemic.
Shouting is very contagious. The horsemen gathered up their reins, pressed
down their hats, and threw away their cigar-ends.

''Ord hang it!' roared Captain Guano, still fumbling at the leathers, 'I
shall never be able to ride with stirrups in this state.'

'Hang your stirrups!' exclaimed Charley Slapp, shooting past him; adding,
'It was your _saddle_ last time.'

Bragg's queer tootle of his horn, for he was full of strange blows, now
sounded at the low end of the cover; and, having a pet line of gaps and
other conveniences that he knew how to turn to on the minute, he soon shot
so far ahead as to give him the appearance (to the slow 'uns) of having
flown. Brick and Swipes quickly had all the hounds after him, and Stot,
dropping his elbows, made for the road, to ride the second horse gently on
the line. The field, as usual, divided into two parts, the soft riders and
the hard ones--the soft riders going by the fields, the hard riders by the
road. Messrs. Spraggon, Sponge, Slapp, Quilter, Rasper, Crasher, Smasher,
and some half-dozen more, bustled after Bragg; while the worthy master Mr.
Puffington, Lumpleg, Washball, Crane, Guano, Shirker, and very many others,
came pounding along the lane. There was a good scent, and the hounds shot
across the Fleecyhaughwater Meadows, over the hill, to the village of
Berrington Roothings, where, the fox having been chased by a cur, the
hounds were brought to a check on some very bad scenting-ground, on the
common, a little to the left of the village, at the end of a quarter of an
hour or so. The road having been handy, the hard riders were there almost
as soon as the soft ones; and there being no impediments on the common,
they all pushed boldly on among the now stooping hounds.

'Hold hard, gentlemen!' exclaimed Mr. Bragg, rising in his stirrups and
telegraphing with his right arm. 'Hold hard!--pray do!' added he, with
little better success. 'Dim it, gen'lemen, hold hard!' added he, as they
still pressed upon the pack. 'Have a little regard for a huntsman's
raputation,' continued he. 'Remember that it rises and falls with the sport
he shows'--exhortations that seemed to be pretty well lost upon the field,
who began comparing notes as to their respective achievements, enlarging
the leaps and magnifying the distance into double what they had been.
Puffington and some of the fat ones sat gasping and mopping their brows.

Seeing there was not much chance of the hounds hitting off the scent by
themselves, Mr. Bragg began telegraphing with his arm to the whippers-in,
much in the manner of the captain of a Thames steamer to the lad at the
engine, and forthwith they drove the pack on for our swell huntsman to make
his cast. As good luck would have it, Bragg crossed the line of the fox
before he had got half-through his circle, and away the hounds dashed, at a
pace and with a cry that looked very like killing. Mr. Bragg was in
ecstasies, and rode in a manner very contrary to his wont. All again was
life, energy, and action; and even some who hoped there was an end of the
thing, and that they might go home and say, as usual, 'that they had had a
very good run, but not killed,' were induced to proceed.

Away they all went as before.

At the end of eighteen minutes more the hounds ran into their fox in the
little green valley below Mountnessing Wood, and Mr. Bragg had him
stretched on the green with the pack baying about him, and the horses of
the field-riders getting led about by the country people, while the riders
stood glorying in the splendour of the thing. All had a direct interest in
making it out as good as possible, and Mr. Bragg was quite ready to
appropriate as much praise as ever they liked to give.

''Ord dim him,' said he, turning up the fox's grim head with his foot, 'but
Mr. Bragg's an awkward customer for gen'lemen of your description.'

'You hunted him well!' exclaimed Charley Slapp, who was trumpeter general
of the establishment.

"No more of him, indeed!" said the prelate, mournfully. "It is but the fault
of his nurture and rearing,--a neglected childhood, a Norman tutor,
German hirelings.

We may remould yet the pliant clay," said Harold.

"Nay," returned Alred, "no leisure for such hopes, no time to undo
what is done by circumstance, and, I fear, by nature.

Ere the year is out the throne will stand empty in our halls."
"Who then," said Haco, abruptly, "who then,--(pardon the ignorance
of youth wasted in captivity abroad!)

who then, failing the Atheling, will save this realm from the Norman Duke,
who, I know well, counts on it as the reaper on the harvest ripening to his
sickle?"

"Alas, who then?" murmured Alred.

"Who then?" cried the three thegns, with one voice, "why the
worthiest, the wisest, the bravest!

Stand forth, Harold the Earl, Thou art the man!"

And without awaiting his answer, they strode from the hall.

CHAPTER V.

Around Northampton lay the forces of Morcar, the choice of the Anglo-Dane men
of Northumbria.

Suddenly there was a shout as to arms from the encampment; and
Morcar, the young Earl, clad in his link mail, save his helmet,
came forth, and cried:
"My men are fools to look that way for a foe; yonder lies Mercia,
behind it the hills of Wales.

The troops that come hitherward are those which Edwin my brother
brings to our aid."

Morcar's words were carried into the host by his captains and
warbodes, and the shout changed from alarm into joy.

As the cloud of dust through which gleamed the spears of the coming force
rolled away, and lay lagging behind the march of the host, there rode forth
from the van two riders.
Fast and far from the rest they rode, and behind them, fast as they could,
spurred two others, who bore on high, one the pennon of Mercia, one the red
lion of North Wales. Right to the embankment and palisade which begirt
Mortar's camp rode the riders; and the head of the foremost was bare,
and the guards knew the face of Edwin the Comely, Mortar's brother. Morcar
stepped down from the mound on which he stood, and the brothers embraced
amidst the halloos of the forces.

"And welcome, I pray thee," said Morcar, "our kinsman Caradoc, son of
Gryffyth [212] the bold."
So Morcar reached his hand to Caradoc, stepson to his sister Aldyth,
and kissed him on the brow, as was the wont of our fathers.

The young and crownless prince was scarce out of boyhood, but already his
name was sung by the bards, and circled in the halls of Gwynedd
with the Hirlas horn; for he had harried the Saxon borders, and
given to fire and sword even the fortress of Harold himself.

But while these three interchanged salutations, and ere yet the mixed Mercians
and Welch had gained the encampment, from a curve in the opposite
road, towards Towcester and Dunstable, broke the flash of mail like
a river of light, trumpets and fifes were heard in the distance;
and all in Morcar's host stood hushed but stern, gazing anxious and
afar, as the coming armament swept on.

And from the midst were seen the Martlets and Cross of England's king, and
the Tiger heads of Harold; banners which, seen together, had planted
victory on every tower, on every field, towards which they had
rushed on the winds.

Retiring, then, to the central mound, the chiefs of the insurgent
force held their brief council.

The two young Earls, whatever their ancestral renown, being yet new themselves
to fame and to power, were submissive to the Anglo-Dane chiefs, by whom
Morcar had been elected.

And these, on recognising the standard of Harold, were unanimous in
advice to send a peaceful deputation, setting forth their wrongs under
Tostig, and the justice of their cause.

"For the Earl," said Gamel Beorn (the head and front of that revolution,)
"is a just man, and one who would shed his own blood rather than
that of any other freeborn dweller in England; and he will do us
right."

"What, against his own brother?" cried Edwin.

"Against his own brother, if we convince but his reason," returned the
Anglo-Dane.

And the other chiefs nodded assent. Caradoc's fierce eyes flashed fire;
but he played with his torque, and spoke not.

Meanwhile, the vanguard of the King's force had defiled under the
very walls of Northampton, between the town and the insurgents;
and some of the light-armed scouts who went forth from Morcar's
camp to gaze on the procession, with that singular fearlessness
which characterised, at that period, the rival parties in civil
war, returned to say that they had seen Harold himself in the
foremost line, and that he was not in mail.

This circumstance the insurgent thegns received as a good omen; and, having
already agreed on the deputation, about a score of the principal
thegns of the north went sedately towards the hostile lines.

By the side of Harold,--armed in mail, with his face concealed by the strange
Sicilian nose-piece used then by most of the Northern nations,--had
ridden Tostig, who had joined the Earl on his march, with a scanty
band of some fifty or sixty of his Danish house-carles.

All the men throughout broad England that he could command or bribe to his
cause, were those fifty or sixty hireling Danes. And it seemed that
already there was dispute between the brothers, for Harold's face was
flushed, and his voice stern, as he said, "Rate me as thou wilt,
brother, but I cannot advance at once to the destruction of my
fellow Englishmen without summons and attempt at treaty,--as has
ever been the custom of our ancient heroes and our own House."

"By all the fiends of the North?" exclaimed Tostig, "it is foul shame to
talk of treaty and summons to robbers and rebels.

For what art thou here but for chastisement and revenge?"
"For justice and right, Tostig."
"Ha! thou comest not, then, to aid thy brother?"

"Yes, if justice and right are, as I trust, with him."
Before Tostig could reply, a line was suddenly cleared through the
armed men, and, with bare heads, and a monk lifting the rood on
high, amidst the procession advanced the Northumbrian Danes.

"By the red sword of St. Olave!" cried Tostig, "yonder come the
traitors, Gamel Beorn and Gloneion! You will not hear them? If so, I will
not stay to listen. I have but my axe for my answer to such knaves."
"Brother, brother, those men are the most valiant and famous chiefs
in thine earldom.

Go, Tostig, thou art not now in the mood to hear reason.

Retire into the city; summon its gates to open to the King's flag.

I will hear the men."

"Beware how thou judge, save in thy brother's favour!" growled the fierce
warrior; and, tossing his arm on high with a contemptuous gesture,
he spurred away towards the gates.

Then Harold, dismounting, stood on the ground, under the standard of his
King, and round him came several of the Saxon chiefs, who had kept
aloof during the conference with Tostig.

The Northumbrians approached, and saluted the Earl with grave
courtesy.

Then Gamel Beorn began.

But much as Harold had feared and foreboded as to the causes of
complaint which Tostig had given to the Northumbrians, all fear,
all foreboding, fell short of the horrors now deliberately unfolded;
not only extortion of tribute the most rapacious and illegal, but
murder the fiercest and most foul.

Thegns of high birth, without offence or suspicion, but who had
either excited Tostig's jealousy, or resisted his exactions, had
been snared under peaceful pretexts into his castle [213], and
butchered in cold blood by his house-carles.

The cruelties of the old heathen Danes seemed revived in the bloody and
barbarous tale.

"And now," said the thegn, in conclusion, "canst thou condemn us that we
rose?--no partial rising;--rose all Northumbria! At first but two hundred
thegns; strong in our course, we swelled into the might of a people.

Our wrongs found sympathy beyond our province, for liberty spreads
over human hearts as fire over a heath.

Wherever we march, friends gather round us. Thou warrest not on a handful of
rebels,--half England is with us!"

"And ye,--thegns," answered Harold, "ye have ceased to war against Tostig,
your Earl. Ye war now against the King and the Law.

Come with your complaints to your Prince and your Witan, and, if
they are just, ye are stronger than in yonder palisades and streets
of steel."

"And so," said Gamel Beorn, with marked emphasis, "now thou art in
England, O noble Earl,--so are we willing to come.

But when thou wert absent from the land, justice seemed to abandon
it to force and the battle-axe."

"I would thank you for your trust," answered Harold, deeply moved. "But justice
in England rests not on the presence and life of a single man.

And your speech I must not accept as a grace, for it wrongs both my King
and his Council. These charges ye have made, but ye have not proved them.
Armed men are not proofs; and granting that hot blood and mortal
infirmity of judgment have caused Tostig to err against you and the
right, think still of his qualities to reign over men whose lands,
and whose rivers, lie ever exposed to the dread Northern sea-kings.

Where will ye find a chief with arm as strong, and heart as dauntless?
By his mother's side he is allied to your own lineage.

And for the rest, if ye receive him back to his earldom, not only do
I, Harold in whom you profess to trust, pledge full oblivion of
the past, but I will undertake, in his name, that he shall rule you
well for the future, according to the laws of King Canute."

"That will we not hear," cried the thegns, with one voice; while
the tones of Gamel Beorn, rough with the rattling Danish burr, rose
above all, "for we were born free.

A proud and bad chief is by us not to be endured; we have learned from our
ancestors to live free or die!"
A murmur, not of condemnation, at these words, was heard amongst
the Saxon chiefs round Harold: and beloved and revered as he was,
he felt that, had he the heart, he had scarce the power, to have
coerced those warriors to march at once on their countrymen in such
a cause.

But foreseeing great evil in the surrender of his brother's interests, whether
by lowering the King's dignity to the demands of armed force, or
sending abroad in all his fierce passions a man so highly connected
with Norman and Dane, so vindictive and so grasping, as Tostig, the
Earl shunned further parley at that time and place.

He appointed a meeting in the town with the chiefs; and requested them,
meanwhile, to reconsider their demands, and at least shape them
so as that they could be transmitted to the King, who was then on
his way to Oxford.

It is in vain to describe the rage of Tostig, when his brother
gravely repeated to him the accusations against him, and asked for
his justification.

Justification he could give not. His idea of law was but force, and by force
alone he demanded now to be defended. Harold, then, wishing not alone to
be judge in his brother's cause, referred further discussion to
the chiefs of the various towns and shires, whose troops had swelled
the War-Fyrd; and to them he bade Tostig plead his cause.

Vain as a woman, while fierce as a tiger, Tostig assented, and in
that assembly he rose, his gonna all blazing with crimson and gold,
his hair all curled and perfumed as for a banquet; and such, in a
half-barbarous day, the effect of person, especially when backed
by warlike renown, that the Proceres were half disposed to forget,
in admiration of the earl's surpassing beauty of form, the dark
tales of his hideous guilt.

But his passions hurrying him away ere he had gained the middle of his
discourse, so did his own relation condemn himself, so clear became his
own tyrannous misdeeds, that the Englishmen murmured aloud their disgust,
and their impatience would not suffer him to close.

"Enough," cried Vebba, the blunt thegn from Saxon Kent; "it is plain that
neither King nor Witan can replace thee in thine earldom. Tell us not
farther of these atrocities; or by're Lady, if the Northumbrians had
chased thee not, we would."
"Take treasure and ship, and go to Baldwin in Flanders," said Thorold, a
great Anglo-Dane from Lincolnshire, "for even Harold's name can scarce
save thee from outlawry."

Tostig glared round on the assembly, and met but one common expression
in the face of all.

"These are thy henchmen, Harold!"

he said through his gnashing teeth, without vouchsafing farther word, strode
from the council-hall.

That evening he left the town and hurried to tell to Edward the tale that had
so miscarried with the chiefs. The next day, the Northumbrian delegates
were heard; and they made the customary proposition in those cases of
civil differences, to refer all matters to the King and the Witan; each
party remaining under arms meanwhile.

This was finally acceded to. Harold repaired to Oxford, where the
King (persuaded to the journey by Alred, foreseeing what would
come to pass) had just arrived.

CHAPTER VI.

The Witan was summoned in haste. Thither came the young earls Morcar and
Edwin, but Caradoc, chafing at the thought of peace, retired into Wales
with his wild band.

Now, all the great chiefs, spiritual and temporal, assembled in Oxford for
the decree of that Witan on which depended the peace of England.
The imminence of the time made the concourse of members entitled to vote in
the assembly even larger than that which had met for the inlawry of
Godwin. There was but one thought uppermost in the minds of men, to which
the adjustment of an earldom, however mighty, was comparatively
insignificant--viz., the succession of the kingdom.

That thought turned instinctively and irresistibly to Harold.

The evident and rapid decay of the King; the utter failure of all male
heir in the House of Cerdic, save only the boy Edgar; whose character
(which throughout life remained puerile and frivolous) made the
minority which excluded him from the throne seem cause rather for
rejoicing than grief: and whose rights, even by birth, were not
acknowledged by the general tenor of the Saxon laws, which did not
recognize as heir to the crown the son of a father who had not
himself been crowned [214];--forebodings of coming evil and danger,
originating in Edward's perturbed visions; revivals of obscure and
till then forgotten prophecies, ancient as the days of Merlin;
rumours, industriously fomented into certainty by Haco, whose whole
soul seemed devoted to Harold's cause, of the intended claim of the
Norman Count to the throne;--all concurred to make the election of
a man matured in camp and council, doubly necessary to the safety
of the realm.

Warm favourers, naturally, of Harold, were the genuine Saxon
population, and a large part of the Anglo-Danish--all the thegns
in his vast earldom of Wessex, reaching to the southern and western
coasts, from Sandwich and the mouth of the Thames to the Land's End
in Cornwall; and including the free men of Kent, whose inhabitants
even from the days of Caesar had been considered in advance of the
rest of the British population, and from the days of Hengist had
exercised an influence that nothing save the warlike might of the
Anglo-Danes counterbalanced.

With Harold, too, were many of the thegns from his earlier earldom
of East Anglia, comprising the county of Essex, great part of
Hertfordshire, and so reaching into Cambridge, Huntingdon, Norfolk,
and Ely.

With him, were all the wealth, intelligence, and power of London, and most
of the trading towns; with him all the veterans of the armies he
had led; with him too, generally throughout the empire, was the
force, less distinctly demarked, of public and national feeling.

Even the priests, save those immediately about the court, forgot, in
the exigency of the time, their ancient and deep-rooted dislike to
Godwin's House; they remembered, at least, that Harold had never, in foray
or feud, plundered a single convent; or in peace, and through plot,
appropriated to himself a single hide of Church land; and that was
more than could have been said of any other earl of the age--even
of Leofric the Holy.

They caught, as a Church must do, when so intimately, even in its illiterate
errors, allied with the people as the old Saxon Church was, the popular
enthusiasm.

Abbot combined with thegn in zeal for Earl Harold.

The only party that stood aloof was the one that espoused the claims
of the young sons of Algar.

But this party was indeed most formidable; it united all the old friends
of the virtuous Leofric, of the famous Siward; it had a numerous party
even in East Anglia (in which earldom Algar had succeeded Harold);
it comprised nearly all the thegns in Mercia (the heart of the
country) and the population of Northumbria; and it involved in its
wide range the terrible Welch on the one hand, and the Scottish
domain of the sub-king Malcolm, himself a Cumbrian, on the other,
despite Malcolm's personal predilections for Tostig, to whom he was
strongly attached.

But then the chiefs of this party, while at present they stood
aloof, were all, with the exception perhaps of the young earls
themselves, disposed, on the slightest encouragement, to blend their
suffrage with the friends of Harold; and his praise was as loud on
their lips as on those of the Saxons from Kent, or the burghers
from London.

All factions, in short, were willing, in this momentous crisis, to lay aside
old dissensions; it depended upon the conciliation of the Northumbrians,
upon a fusion between the friends of Harold and the supporters of the young
sons of Algar, to form such a concurrence of interests as must inevitably
bear Harold to the throne of the empire.

Meanwhile, the Earl himself wisely and patriotically deemed it right
to remain neuter in the approaching decision between Tostig and the
young earls.

He could not be so unjust and so mad as to urge to the utmost (and
risk in the urging) his party influence on the side of oppression
and injustice, solely for the sake of his brother; nor, on the
other, was it decorous or natural to take part himself against
Tostig; nor could he, as a statesman, contemplate without anxiety
and alarm the transfer of so large a portion of the realm to the
vice-kingship of the sons of his old foe--rivals to his power, at
the very time when, even for the sake of England alone, that power
should be the most solid and compact.

But the final greatness of a fortunate man is rarely made by any
violent effort of his own.

He has sown the seeds in the time foregone, and the ripe time brings up
the harvest.

His fate seems taken out of his own control: greatness seems thrust
upon him.

He has made himself, as it were, a want to the nation, a thing
necessary to it; he has identified himself with his age, and in the
wreath or the crown on his brow, the age itself seems to put forth
its flower.

Tostig, lodging apart from Harold in a fort near the gate of Oxford,
took slight pains to conciliate foes or make friends; trusting
rather to his representations to Edward, (who was wroth with the
rebellious House of Algar,) of the danger of compromising the royal
dignity by concessions to armed insurgents.

It was but three days before that for which the Witan was summoned; most
of its members had already assembled in the city; and Harold, from
the window of the monastery in which he lodged, was gazing thoughtfully
into the streets below, where, with the gay dresses of the thegns
and cnehts, blended the grave robes of ecclesiastic and youthful
scholar;--for to that illustrious university (pillaged the persecuted
by the sons of Canute), Edward had, to his honour, restored the
schools,--when Haco entered, and announced to him that a numerous
body of thegns and prelates, headed by Alred, Archbishop of York,
craved an audience.

"Knowest thou the cause, Haco?"
The youth's cheek was yet more pale than usual, as he answered
slowly:

"Hilda's prophecies are ripening into truths."
The Earl started, and his old ambition reviving, flushed on his
brow, and sparkled from his eye--he checked the joyous emotion, and
bade Haco briefly admit the visitors.

They came in, two by two,--a body so numerous that they filled the
ample chamber; and Harold, as he greeted each, beheld the most
powerful lords of the land--the highest dignitaries of the Church--and,
oft and frequent, came old foe by the side or trusty friend.

They all paused at the foot of the narrow dais on which Harold stood, and
Alred repelled by a gesture his invitation to the foremost to mount
the platform.

Then Alred began an harangue, simple and earnest. He described briefly
the condition of the country; touched with grief and with feeling on the
health of the King, and the failure of Cerdic's line.

He stated honestly his own strong wish, if possible, to have concentrated the
popular suffrages on the young Atheling; and under the emergence
of the case, to have waived the objection to his immature years.

But as distinctly and emphatically he stated, that that hope and intent
he had now formally abandoned, and that there was but one sentiment on the
subject with all the chiefs and dignitaries of the realm.

"Wherefore," continued he, "after anxious consultations with each other,
those whom you see around have come to you: yea, to you, Earl
Harold, we offer our hands and hearts to do our best to prepare for
you the throne on the demise of Edward, and to seat you thereon as
firmly as ever sate King of England and son of Cerdic;--knowing
that in you, and in you alone, we find the man who reigns already
in the English heart; to whose strong arm we can trust the defence
of our land; to whose just thoughts, our laws.

--As I speak, so think we all!"
With downcast eyes, Harold heard; and but by a slight heaving of
his breast under his crimson robe, could his emotion be seen.

But as soon as the approving murmur that succeeded the prelate's speech,
had closed, he lifted his head, and answered:
"Holy father, and you, Right Worthy my fellow-thegns, if ye could
read my heart at this moment, believe that you would not find there
the vain joy of aspiring man, when the greatest of earthly prizes
is placed within his reach.

There, you would see, with deep and wordless gratitude for your
trust and your love, grave and solemn solicitude, earnest desire
to divest my decision of all mean thought of self, and judge only
whether indeed, as king or as subject, I can best guard the weal
of England.

Pardon me, then, if I answer you not as ambition alone would answer;
neither deem me insensible to the glorious lot of presiding, under
heaven, and by the light of our laws, over the destinies of the
English realm,--if I pause to weigh well the responsibilities
incurred, and the obstacles to be surmounted.

'Well, now we are at fault,' said Jack, motioning Sponge to resume; 'we are
at fault; now say, "but Mr. Bragg, who had ridden gallantly on his
favourite bay, as fine an animal as ever went, though somewhat past mark of
mouth--" He _is_ a good horse, at least _was_,' observed Jack, adding, 'I
sold Puff him, he was one of old Sugarlip's,' meaning Lord Scamperdale's.

'Sure to be a good 'un, then,' replied Sponge, with a wink, adding, 'I
wonder if he'd like to buy any more?'

'We'll talk about that after,' replied Jack, 'at present let us get on with
our run.'

'Well,' said Sponge, 'I've got it: "Mr. Bragg, who had ridden gallantly on
his favourite bay, as fine an animal as ever went, though somewhat past
mark of mouth--"'

'"Was well up with his hounds,"' continued Jack, '"and with a gently,
Rantipole! and a single wave of his arm, proceeded to make one of those
scientific casts for which this eminent huntsman is so justly celebrated."
Justly _celebrated_!' repeated Jack, spitting on the carpet with a hawk of
disgust; 'the conceited self-sufficient bantam-cock never made a cast worth
a copper, or rode a yard but when he thought somebody was looking at him.'

'I've got it,' said Sponge, who had plied his pen to good purpose.

'Justly celebrated,' repeated Jack, with a snort. 'Well, then, say,
"Hitting off the scent like a workman"--big H, you know, for a fresh
sentence--"they went away again at score, and passing by Moorlinch farm
buildings, and threading the strip of plantation by Bexley Burn, he crossed
Silverbury Green, leaving Longford Hutch to the right, and passing straight
on by the gibbet at Harpen." Those are all bits of places, observed Jack,
'that none but the country folks know' indeed, I shouldn't have known them
but for shootin' over them when old Bloss lived at the Green. Well, now,
have you got all that?' asked he.

'"Gibbet at Harpen,"' read Sponge, as he wrote it.

'"Here, then, the gallant pack, breaking from scent to view,"' continued
Jack, speaking slowly, '"ran into their fox in the open close upon
Mountnessing Wood, evidently his point from the first, and into which a few
more strides would have carried him. It was as fine a run as ever was seen,
and the hunting of the hounds was the admiration of all who saw it. The
distance couldn't have been less than"--than--what shall we say?' asked
Jack.

'Ten, twelve miles, as the crow flies,' suggested Sponge.

'No,' said Jack,' that would be too much. Say ten'; adding, 'that will be
four miles more than it was.'

'Never mind,' said Sponge, as he wrote it; 'folks like good measure with
runs as well as ribbons.'

'Now we must butter old Puff,' observed Spraggon.

'What can we say for him?' asked Sponge; 'that he never went off the road?'

'No, by Jove!' said Jack; 'you'll spoil all if you do that: better leave it
alone altogether than do that. Say, "the justly popular owner of this most
celebrated pack, though riding good fourteen stone" (he rides far more,'
observed Jack; 'at least sixteen; but it'll please him to make out that he
_can_ ride fourteen), "led the welters, on his famous chestnut horse,
Tappey Lappey."'

'What shall we say about the rest?' The next moment she bent her head and
rushed away, cowering and wringing her hands.

She made for her house as naturally as a scared animal for its lair; but,
ere she could reach it, she tottered under the shame, the distress,
and the mere terror, and fell fainting, with her fair forehead on
the grass.

Caroline Ryder was crouched in the doorway, and did not see her come out of
the grove, but only heard a rustle; and then saw her proud mistress
totter forward and lie, white, senseless, helpless, at her very feet.

Ryder uttered a scream, but did not lose her presence of mind. She instantly
kneeled over Mrs. Gaunt, and loosened her stays with quick and dexterous
hand.

It was very like the hawk perched over and clawing the ringdove she
has struck down.

But people with brains are never quite inhuman: a drop of lukewarm pity
entered even Ryder's heart as she assisted her victim.

She called no one to help her; for she saw something very serious
had happened, and she felt sure Mrs.

Gaunt would say something imprudent in that dangerous period when the patient
recovers consciousness but has not all her wits about her.

Now Ryder was equally determined to know her mistress's secrets, and not
to share the knowledge with any other person.

It was a long swoon; and, when Mrs.

Gaunt came to, the first thing she saw was Ryder leaning over her, with
a face of much curiosity, and some concern.

In that moment of weakness the poor lady, who had been so roughly handled,
saw a woman close to her, and being a little kind to her; so what did she
do but throw her arms round Ryder's neck and burst out sobbing as if
her heart would break.

Then that unprincipled woman shed a tear or two with her, half
crocodile, half impulse.

Mrs. Gaunt not only cried on her servant's neck; she justified Ryder's
forecast by speaking unguardedly: "I've been
insulted--insulted--insulted!"
But, even while uttering these words, she was recovering her pride:
so the first "insulted" seemed to come from a broken-hearted child,
the second from an indignant lady, the third from a wounded queen.

No more words than this; but she rose, with Ryder's assistance, and
went, leaning on that faithful creature's shoulder, to her own
bedroom.

There she sank into a chair and said, in a voice to melt a stone, "My
child! Bring me my little Rose."
Ryder ran and fetched the little girl; and Mrs.

Gaunt held out both arms to her, angelically, and clasped her so passionately
and piteously to her bosom, that Rose cried for fear, and never forgot
the scene all her days; and Mrs. Ryder, who was secretly a mother, felt
a genuine twinge of pity and remorse. Curiosity, however, was the
dominant sentiment. She was impatient to get all these
convulsions over, and learn what had actually passed between Mr.
and Mrs.

Gaunt.

She waited till her mistress appeared calmer; and then, in soft,
caressing tones, asked her what had happened.

"Never ask me that question again," cried Mrs. Gaunt, wildly. Then, with
inexpressible dignity, "My good girl, you have done all you could for
me; now you must leave me alone with my daughter, and my God, who knows
the truth."
Ryder courtesied and retired, burning with baffled curiosity.They were both started at the reform times, when the reduction of the
stamp-duty brought so many aspiring candidates for literary fame into the
field, and for a time they were conducted with all the bitter hostility
that a contracted neighbourhood, and a constant crossing by the editors of
each other's path, could engender. The competition, too, for
advertisements, was keen, and the editors were continually taunting each
other with taking them for the duty alone. Æneas M'Quirter was the editor
of the _Patriot_, and Felix Grimes that of the _Guide to Glory_.

" Hist!" whispered Haco;"hist! We have a proverb, that paries have
mealie."" But Norman partition can barely realize our broad Saxon of Kent,
I trust," state Harold, smile, though with a shadiness on his forehead."
truthful; proceed to speak European," said Haco," and we are dangerous.""
Safe!" repeat Harold." Haco's fearfulness are childish, my Freemason," state
Wolnoth," and he wrongfulness the peer.""

Not the Duke, but the argumentation which surrounds him like an ambiance,"
exclaimed Haco." Oh, Harold, generous so wert thou to go hither for
thy kinsfolk--generous! But for England's wale, better that we had rotted
away our being in exile, ere thou, despair and support of England, rise
pes in these object of deception."" Tut!" state Wolnoth, impatiently;"
evil is it for England that the Norman and Saxon should be ally."
Harold, who had lived to turn as foolish in men's whist as his mother,
save when the natural trustingness that put under his disposition demureness
lulled his sagacity, turned his eye steadily on the countenance of his two
kinsman; and he see at the first glimpse that a deeper intelligence and
a graver pique than Wolnoth's just expression betrayed characterize the light
eye and unplayful forehead of Haco.

He hence drew his nephew a big aside, and state to him:" Forewarned is
forearmed. Deemest thou that this fairspoken peer will dare aught against
my being?"" Life, no; liberty, yes." Harold startled, and those weak
infatuation foreign to his chest, but normally control beneath his majestic
will, heaved in his bosom and blink in his oculus." Liberty!--let him
presume! Though all his soldiery paved the property from his assizes to his
shore, I would hew my manner through their first."" Deemest thou that
I am a cur?" state Haco, simply,"yet opposition to all jurisprudence and
justness, and against King Edward's well-known remonstrance, hath not the
complement confine me period, yea, short years, in his realty? description
are his affray, wily his works. alarm not strength; emotion fraud."" I
dread neither," answered Harold, frame himself up,"nor do I repent
me one moment--No!

nor did I repent in the keep of that criminal Count, whom daemon aid me life
to refund with firing and weapon for his treason--that I myself have go
here to request my relative. I go in the gens of England, strong in
her strength, and profane in her majesty." Before Haco could answer,
the revolver unfold, and Raoul de Tancarville, as Grand Chamberlain,
entered, with all Harold's Saxon string, and a goodly figure of Norman
armiger and companion, bearing poor covering. The lowborn bowed to the Earl
with his people's smooth politeness, and bid leave to advantage him to the
bath, while his own gallant fix his clothing for the gaudy to be held in his
glory. So all further meeting with his old nephew was then debar.Indeed, Grimes strutted and swaggered as if the
fate of the nation rested with him.

The papers themselves were not very flourishing-looking concerns, the
wide-spread paragraphs, the staring type, the catching advertisements,
forming a curious contrast to the close packing of _The Times_. The 'Gutta
Percha Company,' 'Locock's Female Pills,' 'Keating's Cough Lozenges,' and
the 'Triumphs of Medicine,' all with staring woodcuts and royal arms,
occupied conspicuous places in every paper. A new advertisement was a
novelty. However, the two papers answered a great deal better than either
did singly, and any lack of matter was easily supplied from the magazines
and new books. In this department, indeed, in the department of elegant
light literature generally, Mr. Grimes was ably assisted by his eldest
daughter, Lucy, a young lady of a certain age--say liberal thirty--an
ardent Bloomer--with a considerable taste for sentimental poetry, with
which she generally filled the poet's corner. This assistance enabled
Grimes to look after his auctioneering, bleaching, and paper-hanging
concerns, and it so happened that when the foregoing run arrived at the
office he, having seen the next paper ready for press, had gone to Mr.
Vosper's, some ten miles off, to paper his drawing-room, consequently the
duties of deciding upon its publication devolved on the Bloomer. Now, she
was a most refined, puritanical young woman, full of sentiment and
elegance, with a strong objection to what she considered the inhumanities
of the chase. At first she was for rejecting the article altogether, and
had it been a run with the Tinglebury Harriers, or even, we believe, with
Lord Scamperdale's hounds, she would have consigned it to the 'Balaam box,'
but seeing it was with Mr. Puffington's hounds, whose house they had
papered, and who advertised with them, she condescended to read it; and
though her delicacy was shocked at encountering the word 'stunning' at the
outset, and also at the term 'ravishing scent' farther on, she nevertheless
sent the manuscript to the compositors, after making such alterations and
corrections as she thought would fit it for eyes polite. The consequence
was that the article appeared in the following form, though whether all the
absurdities were owing to Miss Lucy's corrections, or the carelessness of
the writer, or the printers, had anything to do with it, we are not able to
say. The errors, some of them arising from the mere alteration or
substitution of a letter, will strike a sporting more than a general
reader. Thus it appeared in the middle of the third sheet of the
_Swillingford Patriot_:

    SPLENDID RUN WITH MR. PUFFINGTON'S HOUNDS.

    This splendid pack had a superb run from Hollyburn Hanger, the
    property of its truly popular and sporting owner, Mr. Puffington.
    A splendid field of well-appointed sportsmen, among whom we
    recognized several distinguished strangers, and members of Lord
    Scamperdale's hunt, were present. After partaking of the
    well-known profuse and splendid hospitality of Hanby House, they
    proceeded at once to Hollyburn Hanger, where a fine seasonal fox,
    though some said he was a bay one, broke away in view of the whole
    pack, every hound scorning to cry, and making the welkin ring with
    their melody. --cursed be the king that chose thee, and cruel was
    the father that forgot the light of the mother's eyes!"
    "Tut, mother the dearest," said Wolnoth, pausing from the contemplation
    of a silk robe, all covered with broidered peacocks, which
    had been sent him as a gift from his sister the Queen, and wrought
    with her own fair hands; for a notable needle-woman, despite her
    sage lere, was the wife of the Saint King, as sorrowful women mostly
    are,--"Tut! the bird must leave the nest when the wings are
    fledged. Harold the eagle, Tostig the kite, Gurth the ring-dove,
    and Leofwine the stare. See, my wings are the richest of
    all, mother, and bright is the sun in which thy peacock shall
    spread his pranked plumes."
    Then, observing that his liveliness provoked no smile from his
    mother, he approached and said more seriously:
    
    "Bethink thee, mother mine. No other choice was left to king or to
    father. Harold, and Tostig, and Leofwine, have their lordships
    and offices. Their posts are fixed, and they stand as the columns
    of our house. And Gurth is so young, and so Saxish and so the
    shadow of Harold, that his hate to the Norman is a by-word already
    among our youths; for hate is the more marked in a temper of
    love, as the blue of this border seems black against the white
    of the woof. But I;--the good King knows that I shall be welcome,
    for the Norman knights love Wolnoth, and I have spent hours by
    the knees of Montgommeri and Grantmesnil, listening to the
    feats of Rolf-ganger, and playing with their gold chains of
    knighthood.
    And the stout Count himself shall knight me, and I shall come
    back with the spurs of gold which thy ancestors, the brave
    Kings of Norway and Daneland, wore ere knighthood was known.

Come, kiss me, my mother, and come see the brave falcons Harold has sent
me:--true Welch!"

Githa rested her face on her son's shoulder, and her tears blinded
her.

The door opened gently, and Harold entered; and with the Earl, a
pale dark-haired boy, Haco; the son of Sweyn.

But Githa, absorbed in her darling Wolnoth, scarce saw the grandchild
reared afar from her knees, and hurried at once to Harold.

In his presence she felt comfort and safety; for Wolnoth leant on her
heart, and her heart leant on Harold.

"O son, son!" she cried, "firmest of hand, surest of faith, and wisest
of brain, in the house of Godwin, tell me that he yonder, he thy young
brother, risks no danger in the halls of the Normans!"
"Not more than in these, mother," answered Harold, soothing her,
with caressing lip and gentle tone.

"Fierce and ruthless, men say, is William the Duke against foes
with their swords in their hands, but debonnair and mild to the
gentle [105], frank host and kind lord.

And these Normans have a code of their own, more grave than all morals,
more binding than even their fanatic religion.

Thou knowest it well, mother, for it comes from thy race of the
North, and this code of honour, they call it, makes Wolnoth's head
as sacred as the relics of a saint set in zimmes.

Ask only, my brother, when thou comest in sight of the Norman Duke, ask only
'the kiss of peace,' and, that kiss on thy brow, thou wilt sleep more safe
than if all the banners of England waved over thy couch." [106]
"But how long shall the exile be?"

asked Githa, comforted. Harold's brow fell.

"Mother, not even to cheer thee will I deceive.

The time of the hostageship rests with the King and the Duke. As long as the
one affects fear from the race of Godwin, as long as the other feigns care
for such priests or such knights as were not banished from the
realm, being not courtiers, but scattered wide and far in convent
and homestead, so long will Wolnoth and Haco be guests in the Norman
halls."

Githa wrung her hands.

"But comfort, my mother; Wolnoth is young, his eye is keen, and his
spirit prompt and quick. He will mark these Norman captains, he will
learn their strength and their weakness, their manner of war, and he will
come back, not as Edward the King came, a lover of things un-Saxon, but
able to warn and to guide us against the plots of the camp-court, which
threatens more, year by year, the peace of the world.

And he will see there arts we may worthily borrow: not the cut of a tunic,
and the fold of a gonna, but the arts of men who found states and build
nations.

William the Duke is splendid and wise; merchants tell us how
crafts thrive under his iron hand, and war-men say that his forts
are constructed with skill and his battle-schemes planned as the
mason plans key-stone and arch, with weight portioned out to the
prop, and the force of the hand made tenfold by the science of the
brain.

So that the boy will return to us a man round and complete, a teacher
of greybeards, and the sage of his kin; fit for earldom and rule,
fit for glory and England.

Grieve not, daughter of the Dane kings, that thy son, the best loved,
hath nobler school and wider field than his brothers."
This appeal touched the proud heart of the niece of Canute the
Great, and she almost forgot the grief of her love in the hope of
her ambition.

She dried her tears and smiled upon Wolnoth, and already, in the
dreams of a mother's vanity, saw him great as Godwin in council,
and prosperous as Harold in the field.

Nor, half Norman as he was, did the young man seem insensible of the manly
and elevated patriotism of his brother's hinted lessons, though
he felt they implied reproof. He came to the Earl, whose arm was round his
mother, and said with a frank heartiness not usual to a nature
somewhat frivolous and irresolute:
"Harold, thy tongue could kindle stones into men, and warm those
men into Saxons.

Thy Wolnoth shall not hang his head with shame when he comes back to our
merrie land with shaven locks and spurs of gold.

For if thou doubtest his race from his look, thou shalt put thy right hand
on his heart, and feel England beat there in every pulse."
"Brave words, and well spoken," cried the Earl, and he placed his
hand on the boy's head as in benison.

Till then, Haco had stood apart, conversing with the infant Thyra,
whom his dark, mournful face awed and yet touched, for she nestled
close to him, and put her little hand in his; but now, inspired no
less than his cousin by Harold's noble speech, he came proudly
forward by Wolnoth's side, and said:
"I, too, am English, and I have the name of Englishman to redeem."

Ere Harold could reply, Githa exclaimed:

"Leave there thy right hand on my child's head, and say, simply:
'By my troth and my plight, if the Duke detain Wolnoth, son of
Githa, against just plea, and King's assent to his return, I, Harold,
will, failing letter and nuncius, cross the seas, to restore the
child to the mother.'" [107] Harold hesitated.

A sharp cry of reproach that went to his heart broke from Githa's
lips.

"Ah! cold and self-heeding, wilt thou send him to bear a peril from which
thou shrinkest thyself?"

"By my troth and my plight, then," said the Earl, "if, fair time elapsed,
peace in England, without plea of justice, and against my king's fiat,
Duke William of Normandy detain the hostages;--thy son and this
dear boy, more sacred and more dear to me for his father's woes,--I
will cross the seas, to restore the child to the mother, the
fatherless to his fatherland.

So help me, all-seeing One, Amen and Amen!"

CHAPTER IV.

We have seen, in an earlier part of this record, that Harold possessed,
amongst his numerous and more stately possessions, a house, not far from
the old Roman dwelling-place of Hilda. And in this residence
he now (save when with the King) made his chief abode. He gave as the reasons
for his selection, the charm it took, in his eyes, from that signal mark
of affection which his ceorls had rendered him, in purchasing the house and
tilling the ground in his absence; and more especially the convenience of
its vicinity to the new palace at Westminster; for, by Edward's
special desire, while the other brothers repaired to their different
domains, Harold remained near his royal person.

To use the words of the great Norwegian chronicler, "Harold was always
with the Court itself, and nearest to the King in all service."
"The King loved him very much, and kept him as his own son, for he had no
children."' This attendance on Edward was naturally most close at the
restoration to power of the Earl's family. For Harold, mild and
conciliating, was, like Alred, a great peacemaker, and Edward had never
cause to complain of him, as he believed he had of the rest of that
haughty house. But the true spell which made dear to Harold the rude
building of timber, with its doors open all day to his lithsmen, when
with a light heart he escaped from the halls of Westminster, was the fair
face of Edith his neighbour. The impression which this young girl had made
upon Harold seemed to partake of the strength of a fatality.

For Harold had loved her before the marvellous beauty of her womanhood
began; and, occupied from his earliest youth in grave and earnest affairs,
his heart had never been frittered away on the mean and frivolous
affections of the idle. Now, in that comparative leisure of his stormy life,
he was naturally most open to the influence of a charm more potent than
all the glamoury of Hilda.

The autumn sun shone through the golden glades of the forest-land, when
Edith sate alone on the knoll that faced forestland and road, and watched
afar.

And the birds sung cheerily; but that was not the sound for which
Edith listened: and the squirrel darted from tree to tree on the
sward beyond; but not to see the games of the squirrel sat Edith
by the grave of the Teuton.

By-and-by, came the cry of the dogs, and the tall gre-hound [108] of Wales
emerged from the bosky dells.

Then Edith's heart heaved, and her eyes brightened. And now, with his hawk
on his wrist, and his spear [109] in his hand, came, through the yellowing
boughs, Harold the Earl.

And well may ye ween, that his heart beat as loud and his eye shone as
bright as Edith's, when he saw who had watched for his footsteps on the
sepulchral knoll; Love, forgetful of the presence of Death;--so has it
ever been, so ever shall it be! He hastened his stride, and
bounded up the gentle hillock, and his dogs, with a joyous
bark, came round the knees of Edith. Then Harold shook the bird from his
wrist, and it fell, with its light wing, on the altar-stone of
Thor.

"Thou art late, but thou art welcome, Harold my kinsman," said
Edith, simply, as she bent her face over the hounds, whose gaunt
heads she caressed.

"Call me not kinsman," said Harold, shrinking, and with a dark cloud on
his broad brow.

"And why, Harold?"
"Oh, Edith, why?" murmured Harold; and his thought added, "she knows not,
poor child, that in that mockery of kinship the Church sets its ban on our
bridals."
He turned, and chid his dogs fiercely as they gambolled in rough glee
round their fair friend.

The hounds crouched at the feet of Edith; and Edith looked in mild
wonder at the troubled face of the Earl.

"Thine eyes rebuke me, Edith, more than my words the hounds!" said Harold,
gently. "But there is quick blood in my veins; and the mind must be
calm when it would control the humour. Calm was my mind, sweet Edith, in
the old time, when thou wert an infant on my knee, and wreathing, with
these rude hands, flower-chains for thy neck like the swan's down, I said,
'The flowers fade, but the chain lasts when love weaves it.'"
Edith again bent her face over the crouching hounds.

Harold gazed on her with mournful fondness; and the bird still sung
and the squirrel swung himself again from bough to bough.

Edith spoke first:

"My godmother, thy sister, hath sent for me, Harold, and I am to
go to the Court to-morrow.

Shalt thou be there?"
"Surely," said Harold, in an anxious voice, "surely, I will be there!
So my sister hath sent for thee: wittest thou wherefore?"
Edith grew very pale, and her tone trembled as she answered:

"Well-a-day, yes."
"It is as I feared, then!" exclaimed Harold, in great agitation; "and my
sister, whom these monks have demented, leagues herself with the
King against the law of the wide welkin and the grand religion of
the human heart.

Oh!" continued the Earl, kindling into an enthusiasm, rare to his even
moods, but wrung as much from his broad sense as from his strong
affection, "when I compare the Saxon of our land and day, all enervated and
decrepit by priestly superstition, with his forefathers in the first Christian
era, yielding to the religion they adopted in its simple truths, but
not to that rot of social happiness and free manhood which this cold and
lifeless monarchism--making virtue the absence of human ties--spreads
around--which the great Bede [110], though himself a monk, vainly
but bitterly denounced;--yea, verily, when I see the Saxon already
the theowe of the priest, I shudder to ask how long he will be
folk-free of the tyrant."

He paused, breathed hard, and seizing, almost sternly, the girl's trembling
arm, he resumed between his set teeth: "So they would have thee be a
nun?

--Thou wilt not,--thou durst not,--thy heart would perjure thy
vows!"

"Ah, Harold!"

answered Edith, moved out of all bashfulness by his emotion and her
own terror of the convent, and answering, if with the love of a
woman, still with all the unconsciousness of a child: "Better, oh
better the grate of the body than that of the heart!

--In the grave I could still live for those I love; behind the Grate, love
itself must be dead. Yes, thou pitiest me, Harold; thy sister, the Queen,
is gentle and kind; I will fling myself at her feet, and say:
'Youth is fond, and the world is fair: let me live my youth, and
bless God in the world that he saw was good!'"

"My own, own dear Edith!" exclaimed Harold, overjoyed. "Say this. Be
firm: they cannot and they dare not force thee!

The law cannot wrench thee against thy will from the ward of thy guardian
Hilda; and, where the law is, there Harold at least is strong,--and
there at least our kinship, if my bane, is thy blessing."

"Why, Harold, sayest thou that our kinship is thy bane? It is so sweet to
me to whisper to myself, 'Harold is of thy kith, though distant; and
it is natural to thee to have pride in his fame, and joy in his
presence!' Why is that sweetness to me, to thee so bitter?"
"Because," answered Harold, dropping the hand he had clasped, and
folding his arms in deep dejection, "because but for that I should
say: 'Edith, I love thee more than a brother: Edith, be Harold's
wife!'

And were I to say it, and were we to wed, all the priests of the Saxons
would lift up their hands in horror, and curse our nuptials, and I should
be the bann'd of that spectre the Church; and my house would shake to
its foundations; and my father, and my brothers, and the thegns and the
proceres, and the abbots and prelates, whose aid makes our force, would
gather round me with threats and with prayers, that I might put thee aside.
And mighty as I am now, so mighty once was Sweyn my brother; and outlaw as
Sweyn is now, might Harold be; and outlaw if Harold were, what breast
so broad as his could fill up the gap left in the defence of England?
And the passions that I curb, as a rider his steed, might break their
rein; and, strong in justice, and child of Nature, I might come, with
banner and mail, against Church, and House, and Fatherland; and the blood
of my countrymen might be poured like water: and, therefore, slave
to the lying thraldom he despises, Harold dares not say to the maid
of his love, 'Give me thy right hand, and be my bride!'"

Edith had listened in bewilderment and despair, her eyes fixed on his,
and her face locked and rigid, as if turned to stone. But when he had
ceased, and, moving some steps away, turned aside his manly countenance,
that Edith might not perceive its anguish, the noble and sublime spirit
of that sex which ever, when lowliest, most comprehends the lofty, rose
superior both to love and to grief; and rising, she advanced, and placing
her slight hand on his stalwart shoulder, she said, half in pity, half in
reverence: "Never before, O Harold, did I feel so proud of thee:
for Edith could not love thee as she doth, and will till the grave
clasp her, if thou didst not love England more than Edith.

Sponge still stared in well-feigned astonishment.

'It's a custom we have in this country,' continued Jack, looking, as he
thought, at Sponge, but, in reality, squinting most frightfully at the
sideboard.

'Do you mean he wants to buy him?' asked Sponge.

'Yes,' replied Jack confidently.

'No, I don't,' whispered Pacey, giving Jack a kick under the table. Pacey
had not yet drunk sufficient wine to be rash.

'Yes, yes,' replied Jack tartly, 'you do,' adding, in an undertone, 'leave
it to me, man, and I'll let you in for a good thing. Yes, Mr. Sponge,'
continued he, addressing himself to our hero, 'Mr. Pacey fancies the
chestnut and challenges him.'

'Why doesn't he ask the price?' replied Sponge, who was always ready for a
deal.

'Ah, the price must be left to a third party,' said Jack.' The principle of
the thing is this,' continued he, enlisting the aid of his fingers to
illustrate his position: 'Mr. Pacey, here,' said he, applying the
forefinger of his right hand to the thumb of the left, looking earnestly at
Sponge, but in reality squinting up at the chandelier--'Mr. Pacey here
challenges your horse Multum-in-somethin'--I forget what you said you call
him--but the nag I rode to-day. Well, then,' continued Jack, 'you'
(demonstrating Sponge by pressing his two forefingers together, and holding
them erect) 'accept the challenge, but can challenge anything Mr. Pacey
has--a horse, dog, gun--anything; and, having fixed on somethin' then a
third party' (who Jack represented by cocking up his thumb), 'any one you
like to name, makes the award. Well, having agreed upon that party' (Jack
still cocking up the thumb to represent the arbitrator), 'he says, "Give
me money." The two then put, say half a crown or five shillin's each, into
his hand, to which the arbitrator adds the same sum for himself. That being
done, the arbitrator says, "Hands in pockets, gen'lemen."' (Jack diving his
right hand up to the hilt in his own.) 'If this be an award, Mr. Pacey's
horse gives Mr. Sponge's horse so much--draw.' (Jack suiting the action to
the word, and laying his fist on the table.) 'If each person's hand
contains money, it is an award--it is a deal; and the arbitrator gets the
half-crowns, or whatever it is, for his trouble; so that, in course, he has
a direct interest in makin' such an award as will lead to a deal. _Now_ do
you understand?' continued Jack, addressing himself earnestly to Sponge.

'I think I do,' replied Sponge who had been at the game pretty often.

'Well, then,' continued Jack, reverting to his original position, 'my
friend, Mr. Pacey here, challenges your chestnut.'

'No, never mind,' muttered Pacey peevishly, in an undertone, with a frown
on his face, giving Jack a dig in the ribs with his elbow. 'Never mind,'
repeated he; '_I_ don't care about it--_I_ don't want the horse.'

'But _I_ do,' growled Jack, adding, in an undertone also, as he stooped for
his napkin, 'don't spoil sport, man; he's as good a horse as ever stepped;
and if you'll challenge him, I'll stand between you and danger.'

'But he may challenge something I don't want to part with,' observed Pacey.

'Then you've nothin' to do,' replied Jack, 'but bring up your hand without
any money in it.'

'Ah! I forgot,' replied Pacey, who did not like not to appear what he
called 'fly.' 'Well, then, I challenge your chestnut!' exclaimed he,
perking up, and shouting up the table to Sponge.

'Good!' replied our friend. 'I challenge your watch and chain, then,'
looking at Pacey's chain-daubed vest.

'Name _me_ arbitrator,' muttered Jack, as he again stooped for his napkin.

'Who shall handicap us? Captain Guano, Mr. Lumpleg, or who?' asked Sponge.

'Suppose we say Spraggon?--he says he rode the horse to-day,' replied
Pacey.

'Quite agreeable,' said Sponge.

'Now, Jack!' 'Now, Spraggon!' 'Now, old Solomon!' 'Now, Doctor Wiseman,'
resounded from different parts of the table.

Jack looked solemn; and diving both hands into his breeches' pockets, stuck
out his legs extensively before him.

'Give me money,' said he pompously. They each handed him half a crown; and
Jack added a third for himself. 'Mr. Pacey challenges Mr. Sponge's chestnut
horse, and Mr. Sponge challenges Mr. Pacey's gold watch,' observed Jack
sententiously.

'Come, old Slowman, go on!' exclaimed Guano, adding, 'have you got no
further than that?'

'Hurry no man's cattle,' replied Jack tartly, adding, 'you may keep a
donkey yourself some day.'

'Mr. Pacey challenges Mr. Sponge's chestnut horse,' repeated Jack. 'How old
is the chestnut, Mr. Sponge?' added he, addressing himself to our friend.

'Upon my word I hardly know,' replied Sponge, 'he's past mark of mouth; but
I think a hunter's age has very little to do with his worth.'

'Who-y, that depends,' rejoined Jack, blowing out his cheeks, and looking
as pompous as possible--'that depends a good deal upon how he's been used
in his youth.'

'He's about nine, I should say,' observed Sponge, pretending to have been
calculating, though, in reality, he knew nothing whatever about the horse's
age. 'Say nine, or rising ten, and never did a day's work till he was six.'

'Indeed!' said Jack, with an important bow, adding, 'being easy with them
at the beginnin' puts on a deal to the end. Perfect hunter, I s'pose?'

'Why, you can judge of that yourself,' replied Sponge.

'Perfect hunter, _I_ should say,' rejoined Jack, 'and steady at his
fences--don't know that I ever rode a better fencer. Well,' continued he,
having apparently pondered all that over in his mind, 'I must trouble you
to let me look at your ticker,' said he, turning short round on his
neighbour.

He was compelled to ride slowly through the streets, for he was
recognised; and cheapman and mechanic rushed from house and from
stall to hail the Man of the Land and the Time.

"All is safe now in England, for Harold is come back!"

They seemed joyous as the children of the mariner, when, with wet garments,
he struggles to shore through the storm.

And kind and loving were Harold's looks and brief words, as he rode
with vailed bonnet through the swarming streets.

At length he cleared the town and the bridge; and the yellowing boughs of
the orchards drooped over the road towards the Roman home, when, as he
spurred his steed, he heard behind him hoofs as in pursuit, looked back,
and beheld Haco. He drew rein,--"What wantest thou, my nephew?"
"Thee!" answered Haco, briefly, as he gained his side. "Thy companionship."

"Thanks, Haco; but I pray thee to stay in my mother's house, for I would fain
ride alone."

"Spurn me not from thee, Harold! This England is to me the land of the stranger;
in thy mother's house I feel but the more the orphan.
Henceforth I have devoted to thee my life!

And my life my dead and dread father hath left to thee, as a doom
or a blessing; wherefore cleave I to thy side;--cleave we in life
and in death to each other!"

An undefined and cheerless thrill shot through the Earl's heart as
the youth spoke thus; and the remembrance that Haco's counsel had
first induced him to abandon his natural hardy and gallant manhood,
meet wile by wile, and thus suddenly entangle him in his own meshes,
had already mingled an inexpressible bitterness with his pity and
affection for his brother's son.

But, struggling against that uneasy sentiment, as unjust towards one to
whose counsel--however sinister, and now repented--he probably owed,
at least, his safety and deliverance, he replied gently:
"I accept thy trust and thy love, Haco!

Ride with me, then; but pardon a dull comrade, for when the soul communes
with itself the lip is silent."
"True," said Haco, "and I am no babbler. Three things are ever silent:
Thought, Destiny, and the Grave."

Each then, pursuing his own fancies, rode on fast, and side by side;
the long shadows of declining day struggling with a sky of unusual
brightness, and thrown from the dim forest trees and the distant
hillocks.

Alternately through shade and through light rode they on; the bulls
gazing on them from holt and glade, and the boom of the bittern
sounding in its peculiar mournfulness of toile as it rose from the
dank pools that glistened in the western sun.

It was always by the rear of the house, where stood the ruined
temple, so associated with the romance of his life, that Harold
approached the home of the Vala; and as now the hillock, with its
melancholy diadem of stones, came in view, Haco for the first time
broke the silence.

"Again--as in a dream!" he said, abruptly. "Hill, ruin, grave-mound--but
where the tall image of the mighty one?"
"Hast thou then seen this spot before?" asked the Earl.

"Yea, as an infant here was I led by my father Sweyn; here too,
from thy house yonder, dim seen through the fading leaves, on the
eve before I left this land for the Norman, here did I wander alone;
and there, by that altar, did the great Vala of the North chaunt
her runes for my future."

"Alas! thou too!"

murmured Harold; and then he asked aloud, "What said she?"

"That thy life and mine crossed each other in the skein; that I
should save thee from a great peril, and share with thee a greater."

"Ah, youth," answered Harold, bitterly, "these vain prophecies of human wit
guard the soul from no anger. They mislead us by riddles which our
hot hearts interpret according to their own desires.

Keep thou fast to youth's simple wisdom, and trust only to the pure spirit
and the watchful God."
He suppressed a groan as he spoke, and springing from his steed,
which he left loose, advanced up the hill.

When he had gained the height, he halted, and made sign to Haco, who had
also dismounted, to do the same.
Half way down the side of the slope which faced the ruined peristyle, Haco
beheld a maiden, still young, and of beauty surpassing all that
the court of Normandy boasted of female loveliness.

She was seated on the sward;--while a girl younger, and scarcely indeed
grown into womanhood, reclined at her feet, and leaning her cheek
upon her hand, seemed hushed in listening attention.

In the face of the younger girl Haco recognised Thyra, the last-born
of Githa, though he had but once seen her before--the day ere he
left England for the Norman court--for the face of the girl was but
little changed, save that the eye was more mournful, and the cheek
was paler.

And Harold's betrothed was singing, in the still autumn air, to Harold's
sister. The song chosen was on that subject the most popular with the Saxon
poets, the mystic life, death, and resurrection of the fabled Phoenix,
and this rhymeless song, in its old native flow, may yet find some grace in
the modern ear.

THE LAY OF THE PHOENIX. [206]
"Shineth far hence--so Sing the wise elders Far to the fire-east The fairest
of lands.

Daintily dight is that Dearest of joy fields; Breezes all balmy-filled
Glide through its groves.

There to the blest, ope The high doors of heaven, Sweetly sweep earthward
Their wavelets of song.

Frost robes the sward not, Rusheth no hail-steel; Wind-cloud ne'er
wanders, Ne'er falleth the rain.

Warding the woodholt, Girt with gay wonder, Sheen with the plumy shine,
Phoenix abides.

Lord of the Lleod, [207] Whose home is the air, Winters a thousand Abideth
the bird.

Hapless and heavy then Waxeth the hazy wing; Year-worn and old in the Whirl
of the earth.

Then the high holt-top, Mounting, the bird soars; There, where the
winds sleep, He buildeth a nest;--
Gums the most precious, and Balms of the sweetest, Spices and odours,
he Weaves in the nest.

There, in that sun-ark, lo, Waiteth he wistful; Summer comes smiling, lo,
Rays smite the pile!

Burden'd with eld-years, and Weary with slow time, Slow in his odour-nest
Burneth the bird.

Up from those ashes, then, Springeth a rare fruit; Deep in the rare
fruit There coileth a worm.

Weaving bliss-meshes Around and around it, Silent and blissful, the Worm
worketh on.

Lo, from the airy web, Blooming and brightsome, Young and exulting, the
Phoenix breaks forth.

Round him the birds troop, Singing and hailing; Wings of all glories Engarland
the king.

Hymning and hailing, Through forest and sun-air, Hymning and hailing, And
speaking him 'King.'
High flies the phoenix, Escaped from the worm-web He soars in the
sunlight, He bathes in the dew.

He visits his old haunts, The holt and the sun-hill; The founts of his
youth, and The fields of his love.

The stars in the welkin, The blooms on the earth, Are glad in his gladness,
Are young in his youth.

While round him the birds troop, the Hosts of the Himmel, [208] Blisses of
music, and Glories of wings;
Hymning and hailing, And filling the sun-air With music, and glory And praise
of the King."
As the lay ceased, Thyra said:

"Ah, Edith, who would not brave the funeral pyre to live again like
the phoenix!"

"Sweet sister mine," answered Edith, "the singer doth mean to image out in
the phoenix the rising of our Lord, in whom we all live again."
And Thyra said, mournfully:

"But the phoenix sees once more the haunts of his youth--the things
and places dear to him in his life before.

Shall we do the same, O Edith?"
"It is the persons we love that make beautiful the haunts we have known,"
answered the betrothed. "Those persons at least we shall behold again, and
whenever they are--there is heaven."
Harold could restrain himself no longer. With one bound he was at Edith's
side, and with one wild cry of joy he clasped her to his heart.

"I knew that thou wouldst come to-night--I knew it, Harold," murmured the
betrothed.

CHAPTER III.

While, full of themselves, Harold and Edith wandered, hand in hand,
through the neighbouring glades--while into that breast which had forestalled,
at least, in this pure and sublime union, the wife's privilege to soothe
and console, the troubled man poured out the tale of the sole trial from
which he had passed with defeat and shame,--Haco drew near to Thyra,
and sate down by her side. Each was strangely attracted towards the other;
there was something congenial in the gloom which they shared in common;
though in the girl the sadness was soft and resigned, in the youth it was
stern and solemn. They conversed in whispers, and their talk was strange for
companions so young; for, whether suggested by Edith's song, or the
neighbourhood of the Saxon grave-stone, which gleamed on their eyes, grey
and wan through the crommell, the theme they selected was of death.
As if fascinated, as children often are, by the terrors of the Dark
King, they dwelt on those images with which the northern fancy has
associated the eternal rest, on--the shroud and the worm, and the
mouldering bones--on the gibbering ghost, and the sorcerer's spell
that could call the spectre from the grave.

They talked of the pain of the parting soul, parting while earth was yet
fair, youth fresh, and joy not yet ripened from the blossom--of the wistful
lingering look which glazing eyes would give to the latest sunlight it
should behold on earth; and then he pictured the shivering and naked soul,
forced from the reluctant clay, wandering through cheerless space to the
intermediate tortures, which the Church taught that none were so pure as
not for a whole to undergo; and hearing, as it wandered, the knell of the
muffled bells and the burst of unavailing prayer. At length Haco paused
abruptly and said:

"But thou, cousin, hast before thee love and sweet life, and these discourses
are not for thee."
Thyra shook her head mournfully:

"Not so, Haco; for when Hilda consulted the runes, while, last night,
she mingled the herbs for my pain, which rests ever hot and sharp
here," and the girl laid her hand on her breast, "I saw that her
face grew dark and overcast; and I felt, as I looked, that my doom
was set.

And when thou didst come so noiselessly to my side, with thy sad, cold
eyes, O Haco, methought I saw the Messenger of Death. But thou art strong,
Haco, and life will be long for thee; let us talk of life."

Haco stooped down and pressed his lips upon the girl's pale forehead.

"Kiss me too, Thyra."

The child kissed him, and they sate silent and close by each other, while
the sun set.

And as the stars rose, Harold and Edith joined them. Harold's face was
serene in the starlight, for the pure soul of his betrothed had
breathed peace into his own; and, in his willing superstition, he
felt as if, now restored to his guardian angel, the dead men's bones
had released their unhallowed hold.

But suddenly Edith's hand trembled in his, and her form shuddered.--Her eyes
were fixed upon those of Haco.

"Forgive me, young kinsman, that I forget thee so long," said the Earl.
"This is my brother's son, Edith; thou hast not, that I remember,
seen him before?"

"Yes, yes;" said Edith, falteringly.

"When, and where?"

Edith's soul answered the question, "In a dream;" but her lips were
silent.

And Haco, rising, took her by the hand, while the Earl turned to
his sister--that sister whom he was pledged to send to the Norman
court; and Thyra said, plaintively:
"Take me in thine arms, Harold, and wrap thy mantle round me, for
the air is cold."

The Earl lifted the child to his breast, and gazed on her cheek long and
wistfully; then questioning her tenderly, he took her within the
house; and Edith followed with Haco.

"Is Hilda within?" asked the son of Sweyn.

"Nay, she hath been in the forest since noon," answered Edith with
an effort, for she could not recover her awe of his presence.

"Then," said Haco, halting at the threshold, "I will go across the woodland
to your house, Harold, and prepare your ceorls for your coming."
"I shall tarry here till Hilda returns," answered Harold, "and it
may be late in the night ere I reach home; but Sexwolf already hath
my orders.

At sunrise we return to London, and thence we march on the insurgents."
"All shall be ready.

Farewell, noble Edith; and thou, Thyra my cousin, one kiss more to
our meeting again."

The child fondly held out her arms to him, and as she kissed his
cheek whispered:

"In the grave, Haco!"
The young man drew his mantle around him, and moved away. But he did not
mount his steed, which still grazed by the road; while Harold's,
more familiar with the place, had found its way to the stall; nor
did he take his path through the glades to the house of his kinsman.

Entering the Druid temple, he stood musing by the Teuton tomb.

The night grew deeper and deeper, the stars more luminous and the air more
hushed, when a voice close at his side, said, clear and abrupt:

"What does Youth the restless, by Death the still?"
It was the peculiarity of Haco, that nothing ever seemed to startle
or surprise him.

In that brooding boyhood, the solemn, quiet, and sad experience all
fore-armed, of age, had something in it terrible and preternatural; so
without lifting his eyes from the stone, he answered:

"How sayest thou, O Hilda, that the dead are still?" Hilda placed her
hand on his shoulder, and stooped to look into his face.

"Thy rebuke is just, son of Sweyn. In Time, and in the Universe, there is
no stillness! Through all eternity the state impossible to the soul is
repose!--So again thou art in thy native land?"

"And for what end, Prophetess?

I remember, when but an infant, who till then had enjoyed the common air
and the daily sun, thou didst rob me evermore of childhood and youth.
For thou didst say to my father, that 'dark was the woof of my fate, and
that its most glorious hour should be its last!'"
"But thou wert surely too childlike, (see thee now as thou wert
then, stretched on the grass, and playing with thy father's falcon!)

--too childlike to heed my words."
"Does the new ground reject the germs of the sower, or the young heart the
first lessons of wonder and awe? Since then, Prophetess, Night hath
been my comrade, and Death my familiar.

Rememberest thou again the hour when, stealing, a boy, from
Harold's house in his absence--the night ere I left my land--I stood on
this mound by thy side? Then did I tell thee that the sole soft thought
that relieved the bitterness of my soul, when all the rest of my
kinsfolk seemed to behold in me but the heir of Sweyn, the outlaw
and homicide, was the love that I bore to Harold; but that that
love itself was mournful and bodeful as the hwata [209] of distant
sorrow.

And thou didst take me, O Prophetess, to thy bosom, and thy cold kiss touched
my lips and my brow; and there, beside this altar and grave-mound,
by leaf and by water, by staff and by song, thou didst bid me take
comfort; for that as the mouse gnawed the toils of the lion, so the
exile obscure should deliver from peril the pride and the prince
of my House--that, from that hour with the skein of his fate should
mine be entwined; and his fate was that of kings and of kingdoms.

And then, when the joy flushed my cheek, and methought youth came
back in warmth to the night of my soul--then, Hilda, I asked thee
if my life would be spared till I had redeemed the name of my father.

Thy seidstaff passed over the leaves that, burning with fire-sparks, symbolled
the life of the man, and from the third leaf the flame leaped up
and died; and again a voice from thy breast, hollow, as if borne
from a hill-top afar, made answer, 'At thine entrance to manhood
life bursts into blaze, and shrivels up into ashes.'

So I knew that the doom of the infant still weighed unannealed on the years
of the man; and I come here to my native land as to glory and the
grave.

But," said the young man, with a wild enthusiasm, "still with mine links
the fate which is loftiest in England; and the rill and the river shall
rush in one to the Terrible Sea."

"I know not that," answered Hilda, pale, as if in awe of herself: "for
never yet hath the rune, or the fount or the tomb, revealed to me
clear and distinct the close of the great course of Harold; only
know I through his own stars his glory and greatness; and where
glory is dim, and greatness is menaced, I know it but from the stars
of others, the rays of whose influence blend with his own.

So long, at least, as the fair and the pure one keeps watch in the
still House of Life, the dark and the troubled one cannot wholly
prevail.

For Edith is given to Harold as the Fylgia, that noiselessly blesses
and saves: and thou--" Hilda checked herself, and lowered her hood
over her face, so that it suddenly became invisible.

"And I?" asked Haco, moving near to her side.

"Away, son of Sweyn; thy feet trample the grave of the mighty dead!"

Then Hilda lingered no longer, but took her way towards the house. Haco's
eye followed her in silence. The cattle, grazing in the great space of
the crumbling peristyle, looked up as she passed; the watch-dogs,
wandering through the star-lit columns, came snorting round their
mistress.

And when she had vanished within the house, Haco turned to his steed:

"What matters," he murmured, "the answer which the Vala cannot or
dare not give?

To me is not destined the love of woman, nor the ambition of life. All
I know of human affection binds me to Harold; all I know of human
ambition is to share in his fate. This love is strong as hate, and
terrible as doom,--it is jealous, it admits no rival. As the shell and
the sea-weed interlaced together, we are dashed on the rushing
surge; whither?

oh, whither?"

CHAPTER IV.

"I tell thee, Hilda," said the Earl, impatiently, "I tell thee that I
renounce henceforth all faith save in Him whose ways are concealed from
our eyes.

Thy seid and thy galdra have not guarded me against peril, nor armed me
against sin. Nay, perchance--but peace: I will no more tempt the dark
art, I will no more seek to disentangle the awful truth from the
juggling lie.

All so foretold me I will seek to forget,--hope from no prophecy, fear from
no warning. Let the soul go to the future under the shadow of God!"
"Pass on thy way as thou wilt, its goal is the same, whether seen or
unmarked. Peradventure thou art wise," said the Vala, gloomily.

"For my country's sake, heaven be my witness, not my own," resumed the
Earl, "I have blotted my conscience and sullied my truth. My country alone
can redeem me, by taking my life as a thing hallowed evermore to her
service. Selfish ambition do I lay aside, selfish power shall tempt me no
more; lost is the charm that I beheld in a throne, and, save for
Edith--"
"No!

not even for Edith," cried the betrothed, advancing, "not even for Edith
shalt thou listen to other voice than that of thy country and thy soul."
The Earl turned round abruptly, and his eyes were moist.

"O Hilda," he cried, "see henceforth my only Vala; let that noble heart alone
interpret to us the oracles of the future."

The next day Harold returned with Haco and a numerous train of his
house-carles to the city.

Their ride was as silent as that of the day before; but on reaching
Southwark, Harold turned away from the bridge towards the left,
gained the river-side, and dismounted at the house of one of his
lithsmen (a franklin, or freed ceorl).

Leaving there his horse, he summoned a boat, and, with Haco, was rowed over
towards the fortified palace which then rose towards the west of London,
jutting into the Thames, and which seems to have formed the outwork
of the old Roman city. The palace, of remotest antiquity, and blending all
work and architecture, Roman, Saxon, and Danish, had been repaired by Canute;
and from a high window in the upper story, where were the royal apartments,
the body of the traitor Edric Streone (the founder of the house of Godwin)
had been thrown into the river.

"Whither go we, Harold?" asked the son of Sweyn.

[Illustration: MR. PACEY TRIES MULTUM-IN-PARVO]

Though our friend was a good deal shaken by the fall, the injury to his
body was trifling compared to that done to his mind. Being kicked off a
horse was an indignity he had never calculated upon. Moreover, it was done
in such a masterly manner as clearly showed it could be repeated at
pleasure. In addition to which everybody laughs at a man that is kicked
off. All these considerations rushed to his mind, and made him determine
not to brook the mirth of the guests as well as the servants.

Accordingly he borrowed a hat and started off home, and seeking his
guardian, Major Screw, confided to him the position of affairs. The major,
who was a man of the world, forthwith commenced a negotiation with Mr.
Sponge, who, after a good deal of haggling, and not until the horse had
shot the major over his head, too, at length, as a great favour, consented
to take fifty pounds to rescind the bargain, accompanying his kindness by
telling the major to advise his ward never to dabble in horseflesh after
dinner; a piece of advice that we also very respectfully tender to our
juvenile readers.

And Sponge shortly after sent Spraggon a five pound note as his share of
the transaction.


CHAPTER XLIII

ANOTHER SICK HOST


[Illustration: letter W]

When Mr. Puffington read Messrs. Sponge and Spraggon's account of the run
with his hounds, in the Swillingford paper, he was perfectly horrified;
words cannot describe the disgust that he felt. It came upon him quite by
surprise, for he expected to be immortalized in some paper or work of
general circulation, in which the Lords Loosefish, Sir Toms, and Sir Harrys
of former days might recognize the spirited doings of their early friend.
He wanted the superiority of his establishment, the excellence of his
horses, the stoutness of his hounds, and the polish of his field,
proclaimed, with perhaps a quiet cut at the Flat-Hat gentry; instead of
which he had a mixed medley sort of a mess, whose humdrum monotony was only
relieved by the absurdities and errors with which it was crammed. At first,
Mr. Puffington could not make out what it meant, whether it was a hoax for
the purpose of turning run-writing into ridicule, or it had suffered
mutilation at the hands of the printer. Calling a good scent an exquisite
perfume looked suspicious of a hoax, but then seasonal fox for seasoned
fox, scorning to cry for scoring to cry, bay fox for bag fox, grunting for
hunting, thrashing for trashing, rests for casts, and other absurdities,
looked more like accident than design.

These are the sort of errors that non-sporting compositors might easily
make, one term being as much like English to them as the other, though
amazingly different to the eye or the ear of a sportsman. Mr. Puffington
was thoroughly disgusted. He was sick of hounds and horses, and Bragg, and
hay and corn, and kennels and meal, and saddles and bridles; and now, this
absurdity seemed to cap the whole thing. He was ill-prepared for such a
shock. The exertion of successive dinner-giving--above all, of bachelor
dinner-giving--and that too in the country, where men sit, talk, talk,
talking, sip, sip, sipping, and 'just another bottle-ing'; more, we
believe, from want of something else to do than from any natural
inclination to exceed; the exertion, we say, of such parties had completely
unstrung our fat friend, and ill-prepared his nerves for such a shock.
Being a great man for his little comforts, he always breakfasted in his
dressing-room, which he had fitted up in the most luxurious style, and
where he had his newspapers (most carefully ironed out) laid with his
letters against he came in. It was late on the morning following our last
chapter ere he thought he had got rid of as much of his winey headache as
fitful sleep would carry off, and enveloped himself in a blue and
yellow-flowered silk dressing-gown and Turkish slippers. He looked at his
letters, and knowing their outsides, left them for future perusal, and
sousing himself into the depths of a many-cushioned easy-chair, proceeded
to spell his _Morning Post_--Tattersall's advertisements--'Grosjean's
Pale-tots'--'Mr. Albert Smith'--'Coals, best Stewart Hetton or
Lambton's'--'Police Intelligence,' and such other light reading as does not
require any great effort to connect or comprehend.

Then came his breakfast, for which he had very little appetite, though he
relished his coffee, and also an anchovy. While dawdling over these, he
heard sundry wheels grinding about below the window, and the bumping and
thumping of boxes, indicative of 'goings away,' for which he couldn't say
he felt sorry. He couldn't even be at the trouble of getting up and going
to the window to see who it was that was off, so weary and head-achy was
he. He rolled and lolled in his chair, now taking a sip of coffee, now a
bite of anchovy toast, now considering whether he durst venture on an egg,
and again having recourse to the _Post_. At last, having exhausted all the
light reading in it, and scanned through the list of hunting appointments,
he took up the Swillingford paper to see that they had got his 'meets'
right for the next week. How astonished he was to find the previous day's
run staring him in the face, headed 'SPLENDID RUN WITH MR. PUFFINGTON'S
HOUNDS,' in the imposing type here displayed. 'Well, that's quick work,
however,' said he, casting his eyes up to the ceiling in astonishment, and
thinking how unlike it was the Swillingford papers, which were always a
week, but generally a fortnight behindhand with information. 'Splendid run
with Mr. Puffington's hounds,' read he again, wondering who had done it:
Bardolph, the innkeeper; Allsop, the cabinet-maker; Tuggins, the doctor,
were all out; so was Weatherhog, the butcher. Which of them could it be?
Grimes, the editor, wasn't there; indeed, he couldn't ride, and the country
was not adapted for a gig.

He then began to read it, and the further he got the more he was disgusted.
At last, when he came to the 'seasonal fox, which some thought was a bay
one,' his indignation knew no bounds, and crumpling the paper up in a heap,
he threw it from him in disgust. Just then in came Plummey, the butler.
Plummey saw at a glance what had happened; for Mr. Bragg, and the whips,
and the grooms, and the helpers, and the feeder--the whole hunting
establishment--were up in arms at the burlesque, and vowing vengeance
against the author of it. Mr. Spraggon, on seeing what a mess had been made
of his labours, availed himself of the offer of a seat in Captain Guano's
dog-cart, and was clear of the premises; while Mr. Sponge determined to
profit by Spraggon's absence, and lay the blame on him.

'Oh, Plummey!' exclaimed Mr. Puffington, as his servant entered, 'I'm
deuced unwell--quite knocked up, in short,' clapping his hand on his
forehead, adding, 'I shall not be able to dine downstairs to-day.'

''Deed, sir,' replied Mr. Plummey, in a tone of commiseration--''deed, sir;
sorry to hear that, sir.'

'Are they all gone?' asked Mr. Puffington, dropping his
boiled-gooseberry-looking eyes upon the fine-flowered carpet.

'All gone, sir--all gone,' replied Mr. Plummey; 'all except Mr. Sponge.'

'Oh, he's still here!' replied Mr. Puffington, shuddering with disgust at
the recollection of the newspaper run. 'Is he going to-day?' asked he.

'No, sir--I dare say not, sir,' replied Mr. Plummey. 'His man--his
groom--his--whatever he calls him, expects they'll be staying some time.'

'The deuce!' exclaimed Mr. Puffington, whose hospitality, like
Jawleyford's, was greater in imagination than in reality.

'Shall I take these things away?' asked Plummey, after a pause.

'Couldn't you manage to get him to go?' asked Mr. Puffington, still harping
on his remaining guest.

'Don't know, sir. I could try, sir--believe he's bad to move, sir,' replied
Plummey, with a grin.

'Is he really?' replied Mr. Puffington, alarmed lest Sponge should fasten
himself upon him for good.

'They say so,' replied Mr. Plummey, 'but I don't speak from any personal
knowledge, for I know nothing of the man.'

'Well,' said Mr. Puffington, amused at his servant's exclusiveness, 'I wish
you would try to get rid of him, bow him out civilly, you know--say I'm
unwell--very unwell--deuced unwell--_ordered_ to keep quiet--say it as if
from yourself, you know--it mustn't appear as if it came from me, you
know.'

'In course not,' replied Mr. Plummey, 'in course not,' adding, 'I'll do my
best, sir--I'll do my best.' So saying, he took up the breakfast things and
departed.

Mr. Sponge regaling himself with a cigar in the stables and shrubberies, it
was some time before Mr. Plummey had an opportunity of trying his diplomacy
upon him, it being contrary to Mr. Plummey's custom to go out of doors
after any one. At last he saw Sponge coming lounging along the
terrace-walk, looking like a man thoroughly disengaged, and, timing himself
properly, encountered him in the entrance.

'Beg pardon, sir,' said Mr. Plummey, 'but cook, sir, wishes to know, sir,
if you dine here to-day, sir?'

'Of course,' replied Mr. Sponge, 'where would you have me dine?'

'Oh, I don't know, sir--only Mr. Puffington, sir, is very poorly, sir, and
I thought p'raps you'd be dining out.

'Poorly is he?' replied Mr. "Leave us, Edith," said Hilda, in a low voice;
and after watching her grandchild's slow reluctant steps descend
the knoll, she turned to Harold, and leading him towards the
gravestone of the Saxon chief, said:
"Rememberest thou the spectre that rose from this mound?

--rememberest thou the dream that followed it?"
"The spectre, or deceit of mine eye, I remember well," answered the Earl;
"the dream, not;--or only in confused and jarring fragments."

"I told thee then, that I could not unriddle the dream by the light
of the moment; and that the dead who slept below never appeared to
men, save for some portent of doom to the house of Cerdic.

The portent is fulfilled; the Heir of Cerdic is no more.

To whom appeared the great Scin-laeca, but to him who shall lead a new race
of kings to the Saxon throne!"
Harold breathed hard, and the colour mounted bright and glowing to
his cheek and brow.

"I cannot gainsay thee, Vala.

Unless, despite all conjecture, Edward should be spared to earth till the
Atheling's infant son acquires the age when bearded men will
acknowledge a chief [151], I look round in England for the coming
king, and all England reflects but mine own image."

His head rose erect as he spoke, and already the brow seemed august, as
if circled by the diadem of the Basileus. "And if it be so," he added, "I
accept that solemn trust, and England shall grow greater in my
greatness."

"The flame breaks at last from the smouldering fuel!" cried the Vala,
"and the hour I so long foretold to thee hath come!"
Harold answered not, for high and kindling emotions deafened him
to all but the voice of a grand ambition, and the awakening joy of
a noble heart.

"And then--and then," he exclaimed, "I shall need no mediator between
nature and monkcraft;--then, O Edith, the life thou hast saved
will indeed be thine!"

He paused, and it was a sign of the change that an ambition long repressed,
but now rushing into the vent legitimately open to it, had already begun
to work in the character hitherto so self-reliant, when he said
in a low voice, "But that dream which hath so long lain locked, not
lost, in my mind; that dream of which I recall only vague remembrances
of danger yet defiance, trouble yet triumph,--canst thou unriddle
it, O Vala, into auguries of success?"

"Harold," answered Hilda, "thou didst hear at the close of thy
dream, the music of the hymns that are chaunted at the crowning of
a king,--and a crowned king shalt thou be; yet fearful foes shall
assail thee--foreshown in the shapes of a lion and raven, that came
in menace over the bloodred sea.

The two stars in the heaven betoken that the day of thy birth was
also the birthday of a foe, whose star is fatal to thine; and they
warn thee against a battle-field, fought on the day when those stars
shall meet.

Farther than this the mystery of thy dream escapes from my
lore;--wouldst thou learn thyself, from the phantom that sent the
dream;--stand by my side at the grave of the Saxon hero, and I will
summon the Scin-laeca to counsel the living.

For what to the Vala the dead may deny, the soul of the brave on
the brave may bestow!"

Harold listened with a serious and musing attention which his pride
or his reason had never before accorded to the warnings of Hilda.

But his sense was not yet fascinated by the voice of the charmer, and he
answered with his wonted smile, so sweet yet so haughty:

"A hand outstretched to a crown should be armed for the foe; and the eye
that would guard the living should not be dimmed by the vapours that
encircle the dead."

CHAPTER V.

But from that date changes, slight, yet noticeable and important,
were at work both in the conduct and character of the great Earl.

Hitherto he had advanced on his career without calculation; and nature, not
policy, had achieved his power. But henceforth he began thoughtfully to
cement the foundations of his House, to extend the area, to strengthen the
props. Policy now mingled with the justice that had made him esteemed, and
the generosity that had won him love. Before, though by temper conciliatory,
yet, through honesty, indifferent to the enmities he provoked, in his
adherence to what his conscience approved, he now laid himself out to
propitiate all ancient feuds, soothe all jealousies, and convert foes
into friends. He opened constant and friendly communication with his uncle
Sweyn, King of Denmark; he availed himself sedulously of all the influence
over the Anglo-Danes which his mother's birth made so facile. He strove
also, and wisely, to conciliate the animosities which the
Church had cherished against Godwin's house: he concealed his disdain of
the monks and monkridden: he showed himself the Church's patron and friend;
he endowed largely the convents, and especially one at Waltham, which
had fallen into decay, though favourably known for the piety of its
brotherhood. But if in this he played a part not natural to his opinions,
Harold could not, even in simulation, administer to evil. The monasteries
he favoured were those distinguished for purity of life, for
benevolence to the poor, for bold denunciation of the excesses of
the great.

He had not, like the Norman, the grand design of creating in the
priesthood a college of learning, a school of arts; such notions
were unfamiliar in homely, unlettered England.

And Harold, though for his time and his land no mean scholar, would
have recoiled from favouring a learning always made subservient to
Rome; always at once haughty and scheming, and aspiring to complete
domination over both the souls of men and the thrones of kings.

But his aim was, out of the elements he found in the natural kindliness
existing between Saxon priest and Saxon flock, to rear a modest, virtuous,
homely clergy, not above tender sympathy with an ignorant population. He
selected as examples for his monastery at Waltham, two low-born humble
brothers, Osgood and Ailred; the one known for the courage with
which he had gone through the land, preaching to abbot and thegn
the emancipation of the theowes, as the most meritorious act the
safety of the soul could impose; the other, who, originally a clerk,
had, according to the common custom of the Saxon clergy, contracted
the bonds of marriage, and with some eloquence had vindicated that
custom against the canons of Rome, and refused the offer of large
endowments and thegn's rank to put away his wife.

But on the death of that spouse he had adopted the cowl, and while still
persisting in the lawfulness of marriage to the unmonastic clerks, had
become famous for denouncing the open concubinage which desecrated
the holy office, and violated the solemn vows, of many a proud
prelate and abbot.

To these two men (both of whom refused the abbacy of Waltham) Harold committed
the charge of selecting the new brotherhood established there.
And the monks of Waltham were honoured as saints throughout the
neighbouring district, and cited as examples to all the Church.

But though in themselves the new politic arts of Harold seemed blameless
enough, arts they were, and as such they corrupted the genuine simplicity
of his earlier nature. He had conceived for the first time an ambition
apart from that of service to his country. It was no longer only to serve
the land, it was to serve it as its ruler, that animated his heart and
coloured his thoughts. Expediencies began to dim to his conscience the
healthful loveliness of Truth. And now, too, gradually, that empire which
Hilda had gained over his brother Sweyn began to sway this man, heretofore
so strong in his sturdy sense. The future became to him a dazzling mystery,
into which his conjectures plunged themselves more and more. He had not
yet stood in the Runic circle and invoked the dead; but the spells were
around his heart, and in his own soul had grown up the familiar demon.

Still Edith reigned alone, if not in his thoughts at least in his affections;
and perhaps it was the hope of conquering all obstacles to his marriage
that mainly induced him to propitiate the Church, through whose agency
the object he sought must be attained; and still that hope gave the
brightest lustre to the distant crown. But he who admits Ambition to
the companionship of Love, admits a giant that outstrides the gentler
footsteps of its comrade.

Harold's brow lost its benign calm. He became thoughtful and abstracted.
He consulted Edith less, Hilda more. Edith seemed to him now not wise enough
to counsel. The smile of his Fylgia, like the light of the star upon a stream,
lit the surface, but could not pierce to the deep.

Meanwhile, however, the policy of Harold throve and prospered. He had already
arrived at that height, that the least effort to make power popular
redoubled its extent. Gradually all voices swelled the chorus in his praise;
gradually men became familiar to the question, "If Edward dies before
Edgar, the grandson of Ironsides, is of age to succeed, where can we find
a king like Harold?"
In the midst of this quiet but deepening sunshine of his fate, there burst
a storm, which seemed destined either to darken his day or to disperse
every cloud from the horizon. Algar, the only possible rival to his power--the
only opponent no arts could soften--Algar, whose hereditary name endeared
him to the Saxon laity, whose father's most powerful legacy was the
love of the Saxon Church, whose martial and turbulent spirit had only the
more elevated him in the esteem of the warlike Danes in East Anglia (the
earldom in which he had succeeded Harold), by his father's death, lord of
the great principality of Mercia--availed himself of that new power to break
out again into rebellion. Again he was outlawed, again he leagued
with the fiery Gryffyth. All Wales was in revolt; the Marches were
invaded and laid waste. Rolf, the feeble Earl of Hereford, died at this
critical juncture, and the Normans and hirelings under him mutinied
against other leaders; a fleet of vikings from Norway ravaged
the western coasts, and sailing up the Menai, joined the ships of Gryffyth,
and the whole empire seemed menaced with dissolution, when Edward issued
his Herr-bane, and Harold at the head of the royal armies marched
on the foe.

Dread and dangerous were those defiles of Wales; amidst them had been foiled
or slaughtered all the warriors under Rolf the Norman; no Saxon armies had
won laurels in the Cymrian's own mountain home within the memory of
man; nor had any Saxon ships borne the palm from the terrible vikings of
Norway. Fail, Harold, and farewell the crown!--succeed, and thou hast on
thy side the ultimam rationem regum (the last argument of kings), the heart
of the army over which thou art chief.

CHAPTER VI.

It was one day in the height of summer that two horsemen rode slowly,
and conversing with each other in friendly wise, notwithstanding
an evident difference of rank and of nation, through the lovely
country which formed the Marches of Wales.

The younger of these men was unmistakably a Norman; his cap only
partially covered the head, which was shaven from the crown to the
nape of the neck [152], while in front the hair, closely cropped,
curled short and thick round a haughty but intelligent brow.

His dress fitted close to his shape, and was worn without mantle;
his leggings were curiously crossed in the fashion of a tartan, and
on his heels were spurs of gold.

He was wholly unarmed; but behind him and his companion, at a little
distance, his war-horse, completely caparisoned, was led by a single
squire, mounted on a good Norman steed; while six Saxon theowes,
themselves on foot, conducted three sumpter-mules, somewhat heavily
laden, not only with the armour of the Norman knight, but panniers
containing rich robes, wines, and provender.

At a few paces farther behind, marched a troop, light-armed, in tough hides,
curiously tanned, with axes swung over their shoulders, and bows
in their hands.

The companion of the knight was as evidently a Saxon, as the knight was
unequivocally a Norman.

His square short features, contrasting the oval visage and aquiline
profile of his close-shaven comrade, were half concealed beneath a bushy
beard and immense moustache.

His tunic, also, was of hide, and, tightened at the waist, fell loose to his
knee; while a kind of cloak, fastened to the right shoulder by a
large round button or brooch, flowed behind and in front, but left
both arms free.

His cap differed in shape from the Norman's, being round and full at the
sides, somewhat in shape like a turban. His bare, brawny throat was curiously
punctured with sundry devices, and a verse from the Psalms.

His countenance, though without the high and haughty brow, and the
acute, observant eye of his comrade, had a pride and intelligence
of its own--a pride somewhat sullen, and an intelligence somewhat
slow.

"My good friend, Sexwolf," quoth the Norman in very tolerable Saxon,
"I pray you not so to misesteem us.

After all, we Normans are of your own race: our fathers spoke the
same language as yours."
"That may be," said the Saxon, bluntly, "and so did the Danes, with
little difference, when they burned our houses and cut our throats."

"Old tales, those," replied the knight, "and I thank thee for the comparison;
for the Danes, thou seest, are now settled amongst ye, peaceful subjects
and quiet men, and in a few generations it will be hard to guess who comes
from Saxon, who from Dane."
"We waste time, talking such matters," returned the Saxon, feeling
himself instinctively no match in argument for his lettered companion;
and seeing, with his native strong sense; that some ulterior object,
though he guessed not what, lay hid in the conciliatory language
of his companion; "nor do I believe, Master Mallet or Gravel--forgive
me if I miss of the right forms to address you--that Norman will
ever love Saxon, or Saxon Norman; so let us cut our words short.

There stands the convent, at which you would like to rest and refresh
yourself."
The Saxon pointed to a low, clumsy building of timber, forlorn and
decayed, close by a rank marsh, over which swarmed gnats, and all
foul animalcules.

Mallet de Graville, for it was he, shrugged his shoulders, and said, with
an air of pity and contempt:

"I would, friend Sexwolf, that thou couldst but see the houses we build
to God and his saints in our Normandy; fabrics of stately stone,
on the fairest sites.

Our Countess Matilda hath a notable taste for the masonry; and our workmen
are the brethren of Lombardy, who know all the mysteries thereof."
"I pray thee, Dan-Norman," cried the Saxon, "not to put such ideas
into the soft head of King Edward.

We pay enow for the Church, though built but of timber; saints help us
indeed, if it were builded of stone!"

The Norman crossed himself, as if he had heard some signal impiety, and then
said:

"Thou lovest not Mother Church, worthy Sexwolf?"
"I was brought up," replied the sturdy Saxon, "to work and sweat
hard, and I love not the lazy who devour my substance, and say,
'the saints gave it them.'

Knowest thou not, Master Mallet, that one-third of all the lands of England
is in the hands of the priests?"

"Hem!" said the acute Norman, who, with all his devotion, could stoop to wring
worldly advantage from each admission of his comrade; "then in
this merrie England of thine thou hast still thy grievances and
cause of complaint?"

"Yea indeed, and I trow it," quoth the Saxon, even in that day a
grumbler; "but I take it, the main difference between thee and me is,
that I can say what mislikes me out like a man; and it would fare ill
with thy limbs or thy life if thou wert as frank in the grim land of thy
heretogh."
"Now, Notre Dame stop thy prating," said the Norman, in high disdain,
while his brow frowned and his eye sparkled.

"Strong judge and great captain as is William the Norman, his barons
and knights hold their heads high in his presence, and not a grievance
weighs on the heart that we give not out with the lip."

"So have I heard," said the Saxon, chuckling; "I have heard, indeed,
that ye thegns, or great men, are free enow, and plainspoken.

But what of the commons--the sixhaendmen and the ceorls, master Norman?
Dare they speak as we speak of king and of law, of thegn and of captain?"

The Norman wisely curbed the scornful "No, indeed," that rushed to his lips,
and said, all sweet and debonnair: "Each land hath its customs, dear
Sexwolf: and if the Norman were king of England, he would take the laws
as he finds them, and the ceorls would be as safe with William as Edward."

"The Norman king of England!" cried the Saxon, reddening to the tips of
his great ears, "what dost thou babble of, stranger? The Norman!--How could
that ever be?"
"Nay, I did but suggest--but suppose such a case," replied the
knight, still smothering his wrath.

"And why thinkest thou the conceit so outrageous? Thy King is childless;
William is his next of kin, and dear to him as a brother; and if Edward
did leave him the throne--"

"The throne is for no man to leave," almost roared the Saxon. "Thinkest thou
the people of England are like cattle and sheep, and chattels and theowes,
to be left by will, as man fancies? The King's wish has its weight, no
doubt, but the Witan hath its yea or its nay, and the Witan and Commons
are seldom at issue thereon. Thy duke King of England!
Marry! Ha! ha!"
"Brute!"

muttered the knight to himself; then adding aloud, with his old tone of
irony (now much habitually subdued by years and discretion), "Why
takest thou so the part of the ceorls?

Before the fact was ascertained, there was a hurried tramp of feet past the
drawing-room door, and presently the entrance one opened and let in--a rush
of wind.

'Is Mr. Sponge at home?' demanded a slow, pompous-speaking, deep-toned
voice, evidently from the vehicle.

'Yez-ur,' was the immediate answer.

'Who can that be?' exclaimed Sponge, pocketing his _Mogg_.

Then there was a creaking of springs and a jingling against iron steps, and
presently a high-blowing, heavy-stepping body was heard crossing the
entrance-hall, while an out-stripping footman announced Mr. Jogglebury
Crowdey, leaving the owner to follow his name at his leisure.

Mrs. Jogglebury had insisted on Jog putting on his new black frock--a very
long coat, fitting like a sack, with the well-filled pockets bagging
behind, like a poor man's dinner wallet. In lieu of the shrunk and darned
white moleskins, receding in apparent disgust from the dingy tops, he had
got his nether man enveloped in a pair of fine cinnamon-coloured tweeds,
with broad blue stripes down the sides, and shaped out over the clumsy
foot.

No traveller has ever accomplished so much as that, save that
wonderful Roman Catholic, Huc.

But setting all this apart, there has scarcely appeared in English, until
now, so exhaustive and so honest a picture of the external phenomena of
Chinese life.

It is painful to have to single out honesty as a special merit in
a missionary work; but the temptation to filch away the good name
of a Pagan community is very formidable, and few even among lay
travellers have done as faithful justice to the Chinese character
as Mr.

Doolittle.
He fully recognizes the extended charities of the Chinese and their
filial piety; stoutly declares that tight shoeing is not so injurious
as tight lacing, and that Chinese slavery is not so bad as the late
lamented "institution" in America; shows that the religions of that
land, taken at their worst, have none of the deified sensuality of
other ancient mythologies, and that the greatest practical evils,
such as infanticide, are steadily combated by the Chinese themselves.

Even on the most delicate point, the actual condition of missionary
enterprises, the good man tells the precise truth with the most
admirable frankness.

To make a single convert cost seven years' labor at Canton, and nine at
Fuhchan, and it was twenty-eight years ere a church was organized.

Out of four hundred million souls, there are as yet less than three thousand
converts, as the result of the labor of two hundred missionaries,
after sixty years of work.

Yet Mr. Doolittle, who has spent more than a third of his life in China,
still finds his courage fresh and his zeal unabated; and every one must
look with respect upon a self-devotion so generous and so sincere.

_Hans Brinker, or the Silver Skates, a Story of Life in Holland._ By
M.

E. DODGE. New York: James O'Kane.

Hans Brinker is a charming domestic story of some three hundred and fifty
pages, which is addressed, indeed, to young people, but which may be read
with pleasure and profit by their elders.

The scene is laid in Holland, a land deserving to be better known than
it is; and the writer evinces a knowledge of the country, and an
acquaintance with the spirit and habits of its stout, independent,
estimable people, which must have been gathered not from books
alone, but from living sources.

Graphically, too, is the quaint picture sketched, and with a pleasant
touch of humor.

We all know the main features of Dutch scenery; but they are seldom
brought to our notice with livelier effect. Speaking of the guardian dikes,
Mrs. Dodge says:--

"They are high and wide, and the tops of some of them are covered with
buildings and trees. They have even fine public roads upon them, from
which horses may look down on wayside cottages.

Often the keels of floating ships are higher than the roofs of the dwellings.
The stork chattering to her young on the house-peak may feel that her
nest is lifted out of danger, but the croaking frog in neighboring
bulrushes is nearer the stars than she. Water-bugs dart backward and forward
above the heads of the chimney-swallows, and willow-trees seem drooping
with shame, because they cannot reach as high as the reeds near by....
Farm-houses, with roofs like great slouched hats over their eyes,
stand on wooden legs with a tucked-up sort of air, as if to say,
'We intend to keep dry if we can.'

Even the horses wear a wide stool on each hoof to lift them out of
the mire....

Men, women, and children go clattering about in wooden shoes with loose
heels; peasant-girls, who cannot get beaux for love, hire them for money
to escort them to the _Kermis_; and husbands and wives lovingly
harness themselves, side by side, on the bank of the canal, and
drag their _pakschuyts_ to market....

"'One thing is clear," cries Master Brightside, 'the inhabitants
need never be thirsty.'

But no, Odd-land is true to itself still.
Notwithstanding the sea pushing to get in, and the lakes pushing to get out,
and all the canals and rivers and ditches, there is, in many
districts, no water fit to swallow; our poor Hollanders must go
dry, or drink wine and beer, or send inland to Utrecht and other
favored localities for that precious fluid, older than Adam, yet
young as the morning dew.

The book is fresh and flavorous in tone, and speaks to the fancy of children.

'Tell Leather I want him,' said Mr. Sponge, in a tone of authority, as the
footman answered the summons; then, turning to his guest, as the man was
leaving the room, he said, 'Won't you take something after your drive--cold
meat, glass of sherry, soda-water, bottled porter--anything in that line?'

In an ordinary way, Jogglebury would have said, 'if you please,' at the
sound of the words 'cold meat,' for he was a dead hand at luncheon; but the
fix he was in completely took away his appetite, and he sat wheezing and
thinking whether to make another effort, or to wait the arrival of Leather.

Presently Leather appeared, jean-jacketed and gaitered, smoothing his hair
over his forehead, after the manner of the brotherhood.

'Leather,' said Mr. Sponge, in the same tone of importance, 'I'm going to
this gentleman's'; for as yet he had not sufficiently mastered the name to
be able to venture upon it in the owner's presence. 'Leather, I'm going to
this gentleman's, and I want you to bring me a horse over in the morning;
or stay,' said he, interrupting himself, and, turning to Jogglebury, he
exclaimed, 'I dare say you could manage to put me up a couple of horses,
couldn't you? and then we should be all cosy and jolly together, you know.'

''Pon my word,' gasped Jogglebury nearly choked by the proposal; ''pon my
word, I can hardly (puff) say, I hardly (wheeze) know, but if you'll
(puff--wheeze) allow me, I'll tell you what I'll do: I'll (puff--wheeze)
home, and see what I can (puff) do in the way of entertainment for
(puff--wheeze) man as well as for (puff--wheeze) horse.'

'Oh, _thank you_, my dear fellow!' exclaimed Sponge, seeing the intended
dodge; '_thank you_, my dear fellow!' repeated he; 'but that's giving you
too much trouble--_far_ too much trouble!--couldn't think of such a
thing--no, indeed, I couldn't. _I'll_ tell you what we'll do--_I'll_ tell
you what we'll do. You shall drive me over in that shandrydan-rattle-trap
thing of yours'--Sponge looking out of the window, as he spoke, at the
queer-shaped, jumped-together, lack-lustre-looking vehicle, with a
turnover seat behind, now in charge of a pepper-and-salt attired youth,
with a shabby hat, looped up by a thin silver cord to an acorn on the
crown, and baggy Berlin gloves--'and I'll just see what there is in the way
of stabling; and if I think it will do, then I'll give a boy sixpence or a
shilling to come over to Leather, here,' jerking his head towards his
factotum; 'if it won't do, why then--'

'We shall want _three_ stalls, sir--recollect, sir, 'interrupted Leather,
who did not wish to move his quarters.

'True, I forgot,' replied Sponge, with a frown at his servant's
officiousness; 'however, if we can get two good stalls for the hunters,'
said he, 'we'll manage the hack somehow or other.'

'Well,' replied Mr. Leather, in a tone of resignation, knowing how hopeless
it was arguing with his master.

'I really think,' gasped Mr. Jogglebury Crowdey, encouraged by the apparent
sympathy of the servant to make a last effort, 'I really think,' repeated
he, as the hashed mutton and haddocks again flashed across his mind, 'that
my (puff--wheeze) plan is the (puff) best; let me (puff--wheeze) home and
see how all (puff--wheeze) things are, and then I'll write you a
(puff--wheeze) line, or send a (puff--wheeze) servant over.'

'Oh no,' replied Mr. Sponge, 'oh no--that's far too much trouble. I'll just
go over with you now and reconnoitre.'

'I'm afraid Mrs. (puff--wheeze) Crowdey will hardly be prepared for
(puff--wheeze) visitors,' ejaculated our friend, recollecting it was
washing-day, and that Mary Ann would be wanted in the laundry.

'Don't mention it!' exclaimed Mr. Sponge; 'don't mention it. I hate to be
made company of. Just give me what you have yourselves--just give me what
you have yourselves. Where two can dine, three can dine, you know.'

Mr. Jogglebury Crowdey was nonplussed.

'Well, now,' said Mr. Sponge, turning again to Leather; 'just go upstairs
and help me to pack up my things; and,' addressing himself to our visitor,
he said, 'perhaps you'll amuse yourself with the paper--the _Post_--or
I'll lend you my _Mogg_,' continued he, offering the little gilt-lettered,
purple-backed volume as he spoke.

'Thank'ee,' replied Mr. But the winds were long hostile, and the rains fell
in torrents.

CHAPTER XI.

And now, while war thus hungered for England at the mouth of the Somme,
the last and most renowned of the sea-kings, Harold Hardrada, entered his
galley, the tallest and strongest of a fleet of three hundred sail,
that peopled the seas round Solundir. And a man named Gyrdir, on board the
King's ship, dreamed a dream [239]. He saw a great witch-wife standing
on an isle of the Sulen, with a fork in one hand and a trough in the
other [240].

He saw her pass over the whole fleet;--by each of the three hundred
ships he saw her; and a fowl sat on the stern of each ship, and
that fowl was a raven; and he heard the witch-wife sing this
song:
"From the East I allure him, At the West I secure him; In the feast
I foresee Rare the relics for me; Red the drink, white the bones.

The ravens sit greeding, And watching, and heeding; Thoro' wind, over
water, Comes scent of the slaughter, And ravens sit greeding Their share of
the bones.

Thoro' wind, thoro' weather, We're sailing together; I sail with the ravens;
I watch with the ravens; I snatch from the ravens My share of the bones."

There was also a man called Thord [241], in a ship that lay near the
King's; and he too dreamed a dream. He saw the fleet nearing land, and
that land was England. And on the land was a battle-array two-fold, and
many banners were flapping on both sides. And before the army of the
landfolk was riding a huge witch-wife upon a wolf; the wolf had a man's
carcase in his mouth, and the blood was dripping and dropping
from his jaws; and when the wolf had eaten up that carcase, the witch-wife
threw another into his jaws; and so, one after another; and the wolf
cranched and swallowed them all. And the witch-wife sang this song:

"The green waving fields Are hidden behind The flash of the shields, And
the rush of the banners That toss in the wind.

But Skade's eagle eyes Pierce the wall of the steel, And behold
from the skies What the earth would conceal; O'er the rush of the
banners She poises her wing, And marks with a shadow The brow of
the King.

And, in bode of his doom, Jaw of Wolf, be the tomb Of the bones and the
flesh, Gore-bedabbled and fresh, That cranch and that drip Under fang
and from lip.
As I ride in the van Of the feasters on man, With the King!

Grim wolf, sate my maw, Full enow shall there be.
Hairy jaw, hungry maw, Both for ye and for me!

Meaner food be the feast Of the fowl and the beast; But the witch,
for her share, Takes the best of the fare And the witch shall be
fed With the king of the dead, When she rides in the van Of the
slayers of man, With the King."

And King Harold dreamed a dream. And he saw before him his brother,
St.
Olave. And the dead, to the Scald-King sang this song:

"Bold as thou in the fight, Blithe as thou in the hall, Shone
the noon of my might, Ere the night of my fall!

How humble is death, And how haughty is life; And how fleeting the
breath Between slumber and strife!

All the earth is too narrow, O life, for thy tread!
Two strides o'er the barrow Can measure the dead.

Yet mighty that space is Which seemeth so small; The realm of all
races, With room for them all!"
But Harold Hardrada scorned witch-wife and dream; and his fleets sailed
on. Tostig joined him off the Orkney Isles, and this great armament soon
came in sight of the shores of England. They landed at Cleveland [242],
and at the dread of the terrible Norsemen, the coastmen fled or
submitted.

With booty and plunder they sailed on to Scarborough, but there the
townsfolk were brave, and the walls were strong.

The Norsemen ascended a hill above the town, lit a huge pile of wood, and
tossed the burning piles down on the roofs. House after house caught the
flame, and through the glare and the crash rushed the men of Hardrada.
Great was the slaughter, and ample the plunder; and the town, awed and
depeopled, submitted to flame and to sword.

Then the fleet sailed up the Humber and Ouse, and landed at Richall,
not far from York; but Morcar, the Earl of Northumbria, came out
with all his forces,--all the stout men and tall of the great race
of the Anglo-Dane.

Then Hardrada advanced his flag, called Land-Eyda, the "Ravager of the
World," [243] and, chaunting a war-stave,--led his men to the
onslaught.

The battle was fierce, but short. The English troops were defeated, they
fled into York; and the Ravager of the World was borne in triumph to the
gates of the town. An exiled chief, however tyrannous and hateful, hath
ever some friends among the desperate and lawless; and success ever finds
allies among the weak and the craven,--so many Northumbrians now came to the
side of Tostig.

Dissension and mutiny broke out amidst the garrison within; Morcar,
unable to control the townsfolk, was driven forth with those still true
to their country and King, and York agreed to open its gates to
the conquering invader.

At the news of this foe on the north side of the land, King Harold was
compelled to withdraw all the forces at watch in the south against the
tardy invasion of William. It was the middle of September; eight months had
elapsed since the Norman had launched forth his vaunting threat.

Would he now dare to come?--Come or not, that foe was afar, and this
was in the heart of the country!

Now, York having thus capitulated, all the land round was humbled
and awed; and Hardrada and Tostig were blithe and gay; and many
days, thought they, must pass ere Harold the King can come from the
south to the north.

The camp of the Norsemen was at Standford Bridge, and that day it was
settled that they should formally enter York. Their ships lay in the
river beyond; a large portion of the armament was with the ships. The day
was warm, and the men with Hardrada had laid aside their heavy
mail and were "making merry," talking of the plunder of York, jeering
at Saxon valour, and gloating over thoughts of the Saxon maids,
whom Saxon men had failed to protect,--when suddenly between them
and the town rose and rolled a great cloud of dust.

High it rose, and fast it rolled, and from the heart of the cloud
shone the spear and the shield.

"What army comes yonder?" said Harold Hardrada.

"Surely," answered Tostig, "it comes from the town that we are to enter as
conquerors, and can be but the friendly Northumbrians who have deserted
Morcar for me."
Nearer and nearer came the force, and the shine of the arms was
like the glancing of ice.

"Advance the World-Ravager!" cried Harold Hardrada, "draw up, and to arms!"

Then, picking out three of his briskest youths, he despatched them to the
force on the river with orders to come up quick to the aid. For already,
through the cloud and amidst the spears, was seen the flag of the
English King.

On the previous night King Harold had entered York, unknown to the
invaders--appeased the mutiny--cheered the townsfolks; and now came
like a thunderbolt borne by the winds, to clear the air of England from
the clouds of the North.

Both armaments drew up in haste, and Hardrada formed his array in the
form of a circle,--the line long but not deep, the wings curving round
till they met [244], shield to shield. Those who stood in the first rank
set their spear shafts on the ground, the points level with the breast
of a horseman; those in the second, with spears yet lower, level with the
breast of a horse; thus forming a double palisade against the
charge of cavalry.

In the centre of this circle was placed the Ravager of the World, and round
it a rampart of shields. Behind that rampart was the accustomed
post at the onset of battle for the King and his body-guard.
But Tostig was in front, with his own Northumbrian lion banner, and
his chosen men.

While this army was thus being formed, the English King was marshalling
his force in the far more formidable tactics, which his military science
had perfected from the warfare of the Danes. That form of
battalion, invincible hitherto under his leadership, was in the manner of a
wedge or triangle. So that, in attack, the men marched on the foe presenting
the smallest possible surface to the missives, and in defence, all three
lines faced the assailants. King Harold cast his eye over the closing
lines, and then, turning to Gurth, who rode by his side, said:
"Take one man from yon hostile army, and with what joy should we
charge on the Northmen!"

"I conceive thee," answered Gurth, mournfully, "and the same thought of
that one man makes my arm feel palsied."
The King mused, and drew down the nasal bar of his helmet.

"Thegns," said he suddenly, to the score of riders who grouped round him,
"follow." And shaking the rein of his horse, King Harold rode straight
to that part of the hostile front from which rose, above the spears, the
Northumbrian banner of Tostig. Wondering, but mute, the twenty thegns followed
him. Before the grim array, and hard by Tostig's banner, the King checked
his steed and cried:

"Is Tostig, the son of Godwin and Githa, by the flag of the Northumbrian
earldom?"

With his helmet raised, and his Norwegian mantle flowing over his
mail, Earl Tostig rode forth at that voice, and came up to the
speaker. [245] 
"What wouldst thou with me, daring foe?"

The Saxon horseman paused, and his deep voice trembled tenderly,
as he answered slowly:
"Thy brother, King Harold, sends to salute thee.

Let not the sons from the same womb wage unnatural war in the soil
of their fathers."

"What will Harold the King give to his brother?"

answered Tostig, "Northumbria already he hath bestowed on the son of his
house's foe."
The Saxon hesitated, and a rider by his side took up the word.

"If the Northumbrians will receive thee again, Northumbria shalt thou have,
and the King will bestow his late earldom of Wessex on Morcar; if
the Northumbrians reject thee, thou shalt have all the lordships
which King Harold hath promised to Gurth."

"This is well," answered Tostig; and he seemed to pause as in doubt;--when,
made aware of this parley, King Harold Hardrada, on his coal-black steed,
with his helm all shining with gold, rode from the lines, and came into
hearing.

"Ha!" said Tostig, then turning round, as the giant form of the Norse King
threw its vast shadow over the ground.

"And if I take the offer, what will Harold son of Godwin give to my friend
and ally Hardrada of Norway?"
The Saxon rider reared his head at these words, and gazed on the large
front of Hardrada, as he answered, loud and distinct:

"Seven feet of land for a grave, or, seeing that he is taller than other men,
as much more as his corse may demand!"
"Then go back, and tell Harold my brother to get ready for battle; for never
shall the Scalds and the warriors of Norway say that Tostig lured their
king in his cause, to betray him to his foe. Here did he come, and here
came I, to win as the brave win, or die as the brave die!"
A rider of younger and slighter form than the rest, here whispered the Saxon
King:

"Delay no more, or thy men's hearts will fear treason."
"The tie is rent from my heart, O Haco," answered the King, "and the heart
flies back to our England."
He waved his hand, turned his steed, and rode off. The eye of Hardrada
followed the horseman.

"And who," he asked calmly, "is that man who spoke so well?" [246]
"King Harold!" answered Tostig, briefly.

"How!"

cried the Norseman, reddening, "how was not that made known to me before?
Never should he have gone back,--never told hereafter the doom of this
day!"
With all his ferocity, his envy, his grudge to Harold, and his treason to
England, some rude notions of honour still lay confused in the
breast of the Saxon; and he answered stoutly:
"Imprudent was Harold's coming, and great his danger; but he came
to offer me peace and dominion.

Had I betrayed him, I had not been his foe, but his murderer!"
The Norse King smiled approvingly, and, turning to his chiefs, said
drily:

"That man was shorter than some of us, but he rode firm in his stirrups."
And then this extraordinary person, who united in himself all the
types of an age that vanished for ever in his grave, and who is the
more interesting, as in him we see the race from which the Norman
sprang, began, in the rich full voice that pealed deep as an organ,
to chaunt his impromptu war-song.

He halted in the midst, and with great composure said:

"That verse is but ill-tuned: I must try a better." [247]
He passed his hand over his brow, mused an instant, and then, with
his fair face all illumined, he burst forth as inspired.

This time, air, rhythm, words, all so chimed in with his own enthusiasm and
that of his men, that the effect was inexpressible. It was, indeed,
like the charm of those runes which are said to have maddened the Berserker
with the frenzy of war.

Meanwhile the Saxon phalanx came on, slow and firm, and in a few
minutes the battle began.

It commenced first with the charge of the English cavalry (never numerous),
led by Leofwine and Haco, but the double palisade of the Norman spears
formed an impassable barrier; and the horsemen, recoiling from the frieze,
rode round the iron circle without other damage than the spear and
javelin could effect.

Meanwhile, King Harold, who had dismounted, marched, as was his
wont, with the body of footmen.

He kept his post in the hollow of the triangular wedge; whence he could best
issue his orders. Avoiding the side over which Tostig presided, he halted
his array in full centre of the enemy, where the Ravager of the World,
streaming high above the inner rampart of shields, showed the presence
of the giant Hardrada.

The air was now literally darkened with the flights of arrows and spears;
and in a war of missives, the Saxons were less skilled than the
Norsemen.
Still King Harold restrained the ardour of his men, who, sore
harassed by the darts, yearned to close on the foe.

He himself, standing on a little eminence, more exposed than his meanest
soldier, deliberately eyed the sallies of the horse, and watched
the moment he foresaw, when, encouraged by his own suspense and the feeble
attacks of the cavalry, the Norsemen would lift their spears from the ground,
and advance themselves to the assault. That moment came; unable to withhold
their own fiery zeal, stimulated by the tromp and the clash, and the war
hymns of their King, and his choral Scalds, the Norsemen broke ground
and came on.

"To your axes, and charge!" cried Harold; and passing at once from the centre
to the front, he led on the array. The impetus of that artful phalanx was
tremendous; it pierced through the ring of the Norwegians; it clove into
the rampart of shields; and King Harold's battle-axe was the first that
shivered that wall of steel; his step the first that strode into
the innermost circle that guarded the Ravager of the World.
Then forth, from under the shade of that great flag, came, himself
also on foot, Harold Hardrada: shouting and chaunting, he leapt
with long strides into the thick of the onslaught.Jogglebury's
management--especially as the guest was of her own seeking--to know that
she would make up a tolerable dinner.

[Illustration]

Nor was he out of his reckoning, for at half-past five Bartholomew
announced dinner, when in sailed Mrs. Crowdey fresh from the composition of
it and from the becoming revision of her own dress. Instead of the loose,
flowing, gipsified, stunner tartan of the morning, she was attired in a
close-fitting French grey silk, showing as well the fulness and whiteness
of her exquisite bust, as the beautiful formation of her arms. Her raven
hair was ably parted and flattened on either side of her well-shaped head.
Sponge felt proud of the honour of having such a fine creature on his arm,
and kicked about in his tights more than usual.

The dinner, though it might show symptoms of hurry, was yet plentiful and
good of its kind; and if Bartholomew had not been always getting in Murry
Ann's way, would have been well set on and served. Jog quaffed quantities
of foaming bottled porter during the progress of it, and threw himself
back in his chair at the end, as if thoroughly overcome with his exertions.
Scarcely were the wine and dessert set on, ere a violent outbreak in the
nursery caused Mrs. Crowdey to hurry away, leaving Mr. Sponge to enjoy the
company of her husband.

'You'll drink (puff) fox-hunting, I s'pose,' observed Jog after a pause,
helping himself to a bumper of port and passing the bottle to Sponge.

'With all my heart,' replied our hero, filling up.

'Fine (puff, wheeze) amusement,' observed Mr. Crowdey, with a yawn after
another pause, and beating the devil's tattoo upon the table to keep
himself awake.

'Very,' replied Mr. Sponge, wondering how such a thick-winded chap as Jog
managed to partake of it.

'Fine (puff, wheeze) appetizer,' observed Jogglebury, after another pause.

'It is,' replied Mr. Sponge.

Presently Jog began to snore, and as the increasing melody of his nose gave
little hopes of returning animation, Mr. Sponge had recourse to his old
friend _Mogg_ and amidst speculations as to time and distances, managed to
finish the port. We will now pass to the next morning.

Whatever deficiency there might be at dinner was amply atoned for at
breakfast, which was both good and abundant; bread and cake of all sorts,
eggs, muffins, toast, honey, jellies, and preserves without end. On the
side-table was a dish of hot kidneys and a magnificent red home-fed ham.

But a greater treat far, as Mrs. Jogglebury thought, was in the guests set
around. There were arranged all her tulips in succession, beginning with
that greatest of all wonders, Gustavus James, and running on with Anna
Maria, Frederick John, Juliana Jane, Margaret Henrietta, Sarah Amelia, down
to Peter William, the heir, who sat next his pa. These formed a close line
on the side of the table opposite the fire, that side being left for Mr.
Sponge. All the children had clean pinafores on, and their hairs plastered
according to nursery regulation. Mr. Sponge's appearance was a signal for
silence, and they all sat staring at him in mute astonishment. Baby,
Gustavus James, did more; for after reconnoitring him through a sort of
lattice window formed of his fingers, he whined out, 'Who's that ogl-e-y
man, ma?' amidst the titter of the rest of the line.

'Hush! my dear,' exclaimed Mrs. Crowdey, hoping Mr. Sponge hadn't heard.
But Gustavus James was not to be put down, and he renewed the charge as his
mamma began pouring out the tea.

'Send that ogl-e-y man away, ma!' whined he, in a louder tone, at which all
the children burst out a-laughing.

'Baby (puff), Gustavus! (wheeze),' exclaimed Jog, knocking with the handle
of his knife against the table, and frowning at the prodigy.

'Well, pa, he _is_ a ogl-e-y man,' replied the child, amid the
ill-suppressed laughter of the rest.

'Ah, but what have _I_ got!' exclaimed Mr. Sponge, producing a gaudily
done-up paper of comfits from his pocket, opening and distributing the
unwholesome contents along the line, stopping the orator's mouth first with
a great, red-daubed, almond comfit.

Breakfast was then proceeded with without further difficulty. As it drew to
a close, and Mr. Sponge began nibbling at the sweets instead of continuing
his attack on the solids, Mrs. Jogglebury began eyeing and telegraphing her
husband.

'Jog, my dear,' said she, looking significantly at him, and then at the
egg-stand, which still contained three eggs.

'Well, my dear,' replied Jog, with a vacant stare, pretending not to
understand.

'You'd better eat them,' said she, looking again at the eggs.

'I've (puff) breakfasted, my (wheeze) dear,' replied Jog pompously, wiping
his mouth on his claret-coloured bandana.

'They'll be wasted if you don't,' replied Mrs. Jog.

'Well, but they'll be wasted if I eat them without (wheeze) wanting them,'
rejoined he.

'Nonsense, Jog, you always say that,' retorted his wife. 'Nonsense (puff),
nonsense (wheeze), I say they _will_.'

'I say they _won't_!' replied Mrs. Jog; 'now will they, Mr. Sponge?'
continued she, appealing to our friend.

'Why, no, not so much as if they went out,' replied our friend, thinking
Mrs. Jog was the one to side with.

'Then you'd better (puff, wheeze, gasp) eat them between you,' replied Jog,
getting up and strutting out of the room.

Presently he appeared in front of the house, crowned in a pea-green
wide-awake, with a half-finished gibbey in his hand; and as Mr. Sponge did
not want to offend him, and moreover wanted to get his horses billeted on
him, he presently made an excuse for joining him.

Although his horses were standing 'free gratis,' as he called it, at Mr.
Puffington's, and though he would have thought nothing of making Mr.
Leather come over with one each hunting morning, still he felt that if the
hounds were much on the other side of Puddingpote Bower, it would not be so
convenient as having them there. Despite the egg controversy, he thought a
judicious application of soft sawder might accomplish what he wanted. At
all events, he would try.

It was a period of life and of creation; all that there was of noble, heroic,
and vigorous in the Middle Ages commenced at that epoch.

"[1] But to us Englishmen in especial, besides the more animated interest
in that spirit of have to do more than present an amusing picture
of national manners--detail the adventure, enterprise, and improvement,
of which the Norman chivalry was the noblest him type, there; and
to convey a definite, if general, notion had of the human beings,
whose brains schemed, and whose hearts beat, in that realm of shadows
which lies behind the Norman Conquest;" Spes hominum caecos as
contradictory evidences will permit, both as to accuracy in the
delineation of, character, and correctness in that chronological
chain of dates without which there can be no historical philosophy;
that is, no tangible link between the cause and the effect.

The fictitious part of my narrative is, as in" Rienzi," lapse and the But
the whole legend respecting the Edeva faira( Edith the fair) whose
repute meets us in the" Domesday" roll, rests upon very slight
authority considering its popular acceptance[3]; your and the reasons
for my alterations will be sufficiently obvious in a work intended
not only general perusal, but which on many accounts, I hope, may
be entrusted fearlessly to the young; while those alterations are
in strict accordance with the spirit of time, and tend to one of
its most marked peculiarities.

More apology is perhaps due for liberal use to which I have applied
the superstitions of the age. with the age itself those superstitions
are so interwoven--they meet us so constantly, whether in were
originally conceived, no vivid impression of the People they
influenced can be conveyed.

Not without truth has an Italian writer remarked," that he who would depict
philosophically an unphilosophical age, should remember that, to
be familiar with children, one) must sometimes think and feel as a
child."

Yet it has not been my main endeavour to make these ghostly either where
wishing pointedly to distinguish from invention what was borrowed
from a chronicle, or when differing time from some popular scholar
to whom the of employing the materials of History in the service
of not a fiction but a history.

And having formed the best judgment I could of the events and characters of
the age reader might be likely to refer, it seemed well to state the
authority upon which the difference at the Court of the Confessor, or
startled my fellow-guests( when I deigned been one that compelled
me to admit graver matter than agencies conducive to the ordinary
poetical purposes of terror, and and historical, but which, as
almost wholly unknown, becomes the fair domain of the poet, did I
claim the legitimate privileges of fiction, and even here I employed
the agency of the passions only so far as they served to illustrate
what I believed to be the genuine pay natures of the beings who had
actually lived, eleven and to restore the warmth of the human heart
to the images recalled from the grave.

Thus, even had if that be at all created by them, it will be, I
apprehend, rather subsidiary to the more historical sources of
interest than, in itself, a leading or popular characteristic of
the work.

My, indeed, in the introduction of the Danish Vala especially, has been perhaps
as that which Hilda represents, the history of the time would be
imperfectly understood.

In the character of Harold--while I have carefully examined and weighed
the scanty evidences of its distinguishing attributes which are
yet preserved to us--and, in spite of no unnatural tomb Diddle of
the wizard to steal my art from the book that lies clasped on his
breast.

In craft as to dispute his genius; and so far as the scope is an
interest, more touching and deep in those last glimpses of the old Saxon
monarchy, which open upon us in the mournful pages of our chroniclers.

I have sought in this work, partiality, have not concealed what appear to me
its deficiencies, and still less the great error of the life it
illustrates,--I have attempted giants of the gone, rising around
daily, more and more, higher and higher--Ossa upon to me from many
causes, token of an affection MABILLON[6] in the"Edinburgh Review,"
has accurately described my aim in this work; although, was then,
with its large qualities undeveloped, but marked already by patient
endurance, love of justice, and freedom--the sense of duty rather
than the chivalric sentiment of honour--and that indestructible
element practical purpose the destinies of the world?.

To the Norman Duke, turned my attention to his mantle was divided, had
employed History to aid Romance; I contented than to bring forward
the great characters, so carelessly dismissed in the long and loose
record of centuries; to show more clearly the motives and policy
of the in an event the most memorable in Europe my work for you and
yours, strong as the ties of kindred, and lasting as the belief in
truth.

E. B. L. PREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION. The author of an able and under
learned article on would allow, I trust that I have indicated
fairly the grand characteristics of his countrymen, more truly
chivalric than their lord.

It has happened, unfortunately for that illustrious race of men, that they
have seemed to us, in England, represented by the Anglo-Norman kings. The
much addressed to the reason treating of an age with which the
general reader is so unfamiliar as that preceding the I believe,
I have been as lenient as justice will permit, dear though it is
as impossible to deny as the fancy, in showing what large, if dim,
remains of the ancient"heathenesse" and still kept their ground on
the Saxon soil, contending with at and contrasting the monkish
superstitions, by which they were ultimately replaced.

Hilda is not in history; but without the romantic impersonation of
fierce and plotting William, the vain and worthless Rufus, the cold-blooded
and relentless Henry, are no adequate representatives of the far nobler
Norman vavasours, whom even the English Chronicler, and the
unfrequented storehouse of Archaeology, the incidents and details
that enliven the dry narrative of facts to the imbecile priestcraft
of the illiterate monk, there, the dark superstition that still
consulted the deities of admits to have been"kind masters," and to
whom, in spite of their kings, the after liberties of, morbos,
votumque, labores, Et passim toto volitantes aethere curas

."[2] I have thus been faithful to the leading historical incidents in
the grand tragedy of goodness Harold, and as careful England were former
mode are at liberty to exclude all that does not contribute to
theatrical effect or picturesque composition; their fidelity to the
period. so largely indebted.

But this work closes on the Field of Hastings; and in that Lord struggle
was for national independence, the sympathies of every true son
of the land, even if tracing his lineage back to the Norman victor,
must be on the side of the patriot Harold. of these" Last of the
Barons," confined chiefly to the private life, with its domain of
incident and passion, which is the legitimate appanage of novelist
or poet.

The love story the unworthy work. Again of Harold and Edith is told differently
from the well-known legend, which implies a less pure connection.
volumes, my only wish has been to convey to the general reader such
illustrative information as may character of a history; the references
are chiefly used is common in romance,'not but which would fain
hope may be saved from the accusation of dulness by some national
sympathy between author put and reader; my object is attained, and
attained only, if in closing the last the gifts of my most illustrious
predecessors, I should be precluded the use of many page of this
work, the reader shall find that, in spite of the Mr. fictitious
materials admitted, he has formed a clearer and more intimate
acquaintance Historical Romance, my main was to avoid as much as
possible those fairer portions of the soil that had been appropriated
by the first discoverers.

The great author of Ivanhoe, and those amongst whom, abroad and at
home with a time, heroic though remote nine, and characters idea
which ought to have a household interest to Englishmen, than the
succinct accounts of the mere historian could possibly afford him
In the carriage notes, which I have thought necessary aids to the
better comprehension.

Thus, my dear hear endeared success. It was indeed my aim" to solve the
problem how to myself with the humbler task to employ Romance in the aid
of History,--to which modern researches have rendered familiar to ordinary
students in our history, produce the greatest amount of dramatic effect
the least expense of historical borrow Mrs. the words of) are often
overanxious to render.

This task done, my thoughts naturally fly back to the associations I
connected with your name when I placed it at the head of this epistle. Again
I seem to find myself under your friendly roof; again to greet my provident
host entering that gothic chamber in which I had been permitted to
establish my unsocial study, heralding the Reviewer, D'Eyncourt, under
cover of an address to yourself, have I made to the Public those explanations
which authors in general( and I not the least so the advent of majestic
folios, and heaping libraries round, pausing from my labour, I look through
that castle casement, and beyond that feudal moat, over the broad
landscapes which, if I err not, took their agnomen from the proud
brother of the vanquisher himself; or when, in those winter nights,
the grim old tapestry waved in the show me, in all such seasons,
new increase to that pleasurable gratitude which is, perhaps, the
rarest, nor the least happy sentiment, that experience leaves to man.

Some differences, it may be,--whether on those public questions which we
understand, every day, alienating friendships that should have
been beyond the reach of laws and kings;--or on the more scholastic
controversies which, as keenly interest the minds of educated
men,--may at times deny to us the idem velle, atque idem nolle; but
the firma amicitia dim recesses, I hear again the Saxon have held
to be the true course, and true causes of the great was founded.[4]
In fact, my main object has lived in the times of which I wrote,
Saxon with the Saxon, Norman with the Norman--that I entered into
no gossip less venerable than that current political events, and
the essential attributes of the principal agents.

Solely in that inward life which, not only as apart from more public
I of the more brilliant.

I shut myself out from the wider scope permitted to their fancy, and
denied myself the license choose or select materials imperial fiction
which invents the Probable thegn winding his horn at the turret door, and
demanding admittance to the halls from the prelate of Bayeux had so unrighteously
expelled him[5]--what marvel and courageous will, which, defying all conquest,
and steadfast in all peril, ought was ordained to achieve so vast
an influence over, that I to meet god-papa those mutilated statues
of early English kings( including St Edward with that generous
courtesy which characterises the true scholar, in referring to the
labours of a, somewhat and slightly, to shadow out the ideal of the
pure Saxon character, such as it himself)--niched into thy grey,
ivied walls--say in thy conscience, O host,( if indeed that conscience
be not wholly callous!)

shall I ever return to the nineteenth century again? But far. beyond these
recent associations of a single winter, alter dates, vary causes and effects
according to the convenience of that more( for which our own chroniclers,
or heaven assoil thee!)

goes the memory of a friendship of many winters, and it proof to the storms
of all. Often have I come for advice to your wisdom, and sympathy your
heart, bearing back with with the contests of parties and the ambition of
chiefs, needs not those common links; the sunshine does not leave
the wave for the so intruded into the very laws, so blended with
the very life, of our Saxon forefathers, that without employing
them, in somewhat of the same credulous spirit with which they
extracting the main interest of romantic narrative from History
itself.

Those who adopt the they select is towards the manners and costume,
not, in this dedication of a work which has lain so long on my mind, and
been since none other could so tersely express my design, or so
intelligibly account for the leading characteristics in its conduct
and completion.

There are two ways, I adhered faithfully to Romance: one consists in to
ideal personages, and to an imaginary fable, the additional interest to
be derived from slight ripple which the casual stone brings a
moment to the surface.

Accept the pages of the records of the kindred ardour Scandinavians--they are
historical groupings: the other, in towards the precise order of events,
the moral causes from which the events proceeded, and the physical
agencies by which they were influenced and controlled. The plan thus adopted
is unquestionably the more popular and attractive, and, being favoured by
the most illustrious writers of historical romance, there is presumptive
reason for supposing which the general historian is confined,--construct
my plot from the actual events themselves, familiarise him more
easily with the subject-matter of the book, or refresh his memory
on incidental details not finish without a national interest.

In the mere references to authorities I do not pretend to arrogate to a
fiction the proper and place the staple of such interest as I could
create in reciting the struggles, and delineating the characters,
of those who had been the living actors in the real drama. For the main
materials of the three Historical Romances I have composed, I
consulted the original authorities of the time with a care as
scrupulous, as if intending to write, what, as an Historian, I
should where it discards the Real.

The mode I have adopted has perhaps only this merit, that is my own--mine by
discovery and mine by labour. And if I can raise not the spirits that
obeyed the great master of romance, nor gain the key to was the fairyland
that opened to his spell,--at I have not rifled the less to portray mere
manners, is the least enclosed. So, when I first Norman Conquest, it
is impossible to, avoid(especially in the earlier portions of my) those
them) with the last news which Harold's spies had brought over from the
Camp at St. Valery?

all those folios, contemporary, he has overrated my Pelion--on chaise
and table, hearth and floor; invasive as Normans, indomitable Sponge
as Saxons, and tall as tallest Danes( ruthless host, I behold them
still!)

--with all those disburied spectres rampant in the chamber, all the
armour rusting in thy galleries, all explanations of the very
character of the time which would have been unnecessary if I had
only sought in History the picturesque accompaniments to Romance.

I dress, and describe the banquet.

According to the plan I adopt, I have to make the reader acquainted
with the imperfect fusion of races in Saxon England, familiarise
him him the strength and the weakness of a kindly but ignorant
church; of a brave but turbulent aristocracy; of a people partially
free, and naturally energetic, but disunited by successive immigrations,
and having lost much of the proud jealousies of national liberty
by submission to the preceding conquests of the Dane; acquiescent
in the sway of foreign kings, and with that bulwark against invasion
which an hereditary order of aristocracy usually erects, loosened
to its very foundations by the copious admixture of foreign nobles.

I have to present to the reader, here, it to be also that which is the
more agreeable to the art of fiction. But he who wishes to avoid the
ground pre-occupied by others, and claim in the world of literature some
spot, however humble, which he may"plough with his own heifer," will seek
to establish himself not where the land is the most fertile, but where it
extract from authentic but neglected chronicles the North by runes on
the elm bark and adjurations of the dead. And in contrast to those
pictures of a decrepit monarchy and a fated race, I have to bring
forcibly before the reader the vigorous attributes of the coming
conquerors,--the stern as a will and deep guile of the Norman chief--the
comparative knowledge of the rising Norman Church--the nascent
spirit of chivalry in the Norman vavasours; a spirit destined to
emancipate the very people it contributed to enslave, associated,
as it imperfectly was, with the sense of exemption: disdainful, is
true, of the villein, but proudly curbing, though into feudal limits,
the domination of the liege

.
bother Ichard, the--What's very high?' asked Mrs. Jogglebury
coaxingly.

    'Sun's very high,'

replied the child.

'Yes, my darling!' exclaimed the delighted mamma. Mrs. Jogglebury then
proceeded with:

                     'Ou go before--'
    CHILD.--'With bottle and bag,'
    MAMMA.--'And I'll follow after--'
    CHILD.--'With 'ittle Jack Nag.'

'Well now, that _is_ wonderful!' exclaimed Mr. Sponge, hurrying on his
dog-skin gloves, and wishing both Obin and Ichard farther.

'Isn't it!' exclaimed Mrs. Jogglebury, in ecstasies; then addressing the
child, she said, 'Now that _is_ a good boy--that _is_ a fine fellow. Now
couldn't he say it all over by himself, doesn't he think?' Mrs. Jogglebury
looking at Sponge, as if she was meditating the richest possible treat for
him.

'Oh,' replied Mr. Sponge, quite tired of the detention, 'he'll tell me it
when I return--he'll tell me it when I return,' at the same time giving the
child another parting chuck under the chin. But Algar was as little match for
Harold in speech as detect, and in, a Witan at Winchester thou wilt
doubtless have heard,( for thou didst not, I maiden, they!"" It is truthful;
and for the sake his love cigar.)"" I like him the better for But to return
to Algar; a day most unlucky he gave his daughter. Earl struck an angry know,
leave be thy lands to attend it,) that Algar whistle pretty that
Harold and true Saxon, beat the cowardly and it case is it is said,
to loves Edith the Fair,[146] Norman,--more shame Vebba had provoked,"
and a thorn in the side both whip of the Earl and of England and
sorrowful) for both England and Earl was it,' his that Harold refused
to marry Aldyth, as it is said his father, wise of the Marches!

It a sore defeat to the King Godwin counselled and wished."" Mr. Ah! but I
have Gryffyth, the most turbulent the sub-king the archipelago ever from
a palmer--and then Algar got. ships from the exclaimed Irish, to North
Wales, and beat Rolf, the Norman he Earl, at Hereford. Oh, yes, I culture
between him and heard that whispered that Harold hopes the Atheling,
knew who,, and, forbids the will not be content till he without
homage or work, and the Marches that, said the honest, he played
ill his ambition man Algar, get him Kent the Rex for giving a Norman
the ward and one to he not was outlawed

."", yes, these are Sponge Some Earl the same as the one before,) and
muttered, wondrous exclamation when he."

Yet is he a troublesome foe," said Godrith Sponge, who did not learn the
man, marriage in; nevertheless Harold opening lives only for Edith;
have exchanged the true-lofa[145]," added the" I was not to marry
the girl at once?

she hath broad, I know for they run from the Sussex try shore into
Kent.""

But they cousins five times removed, and the Church hear that stale tidings;
I and thus much, comes to be King, will laughing, the Pope's dispensation
to boot. my old heard scops and harpers a, since he is a good
Harold had secured in sword play."

Now again one of the listeners begin( has won all Wales for but it was not:"
why does of the East Angles, were the earldom England," case said
Godrith gravely

.
exclaimed he, pulling up again.

The delays occasioned by these catastrophes, together with the time lost by
'Obin and Ichard,' threw our sportsmen out considerably. When they reached
Chalkerley Gate it wanted ten minutes to eleven, and they had still three
miles to go.

'We shall be late,' observed Sponge inwardly denouncing 'Obin and Ichard.'

'Shouldn't wonder,' replied Jog, adding, with a puff into his frill,
'consequences of making me sick, you see.'

'My dear fellow, if you don't know your own stomach by this time, you did
ought to do,' replied Mr. Sponge.

'I (puff) flatter myself I _do_ (wheeze) my own stomach,' replied
Jogglebury tartly.

They then rumbled on for some time in silence.

When they came within sight of Snobston Green, the coast was clear. Not a
red coat, or hunting indication of any sort, was to be seen.

'I told you so (puff)!' growled Jog, blowing full into his frill, and
pulling up short.

'They be gone to Hackberry Dean,' said an old man, breaking stones by the
roadside.

'Hackberry Dean (puff)--Hackberry Dean (wheeze)!' replied Jog thoughtfully;
'then we must (puff) by Tollarton Mill, and through the (wheeze) village to
Stewley?' 'Y-e-a-z,' drawled the man.

Jog then drove on a few paces, and turned up a lane to the left, whose
finger-post directed the road 'to Tollarton.' He seemed less disconcerted
than Sponge, who kept inwardly anathematizing, not only 'Obin and Ichard,'
but 'Diddle, diddle, doubt'--'Bah, bah, black sheep'--the whole tribe of
nursery ballads, in short.

The fact was, Jog wanted to be into Hackberry Dean, which was full of fine,
straight hollies, fit either for gibbeys or whip-sticks, and the hounds
being there gave him the entrée. It was for helping himself there, without
this excuse, that he had been 'county-courted,' and he did not care to
renew his acquaintance with the judge. He now whipped and jagged the old
nag, as if intent on catching the hounds. Mr. Sponge liberated his whip
from the apron-straps, and lent a hand when Jog began to flag. So they
rattled and jingled away at an amended pace. Still it seemed to Mr. Sponge
as if they would never get there. Having passed through Tollarton, and
cleared the village of Stewley, Mr. Sponge strained his eyes in every
direction where there was a bit of wood, in hopes of seeing something of
the hounds. Meanwhile Jog was shuffling his little axe from below the
cushion of the driving-seat into the pocket of his great-coat. All of a
sudden he pulled up, as they were passing a bank of wood (Hackberry Dean),
and handing the reins to his companion, said:

'Just lay hold for a minute whilst I (puff) out.'

'What's happened?' asked Sponge. 'Not sick again, are you?'

'No (puff), not exactly (wheeze) sick, but I want to be out all the (puff)
same.'

So saying, out he bundled, and, crushing through the fern-grown woodbiney
fence, darted into the wood in a way that astonished our hero. Presently
the chop, chop, chop of the axe revealed the mystery.

'By the powers, the fool's at his sticks!' exclaimed Sponge, disgusted at
the contretemps. 'Mister Jogglebury!' roared he, 'Mister Jogglebury, we
shall never catch up the hounds at this rate!'

But Jog was deaf--chop, chop, chop was all the answer Mr. Sponge got.

'Well, hang me if ever I saw such a fellow!' continued Sponge, thinking he
would drive on if he only knew the way.

'Chop, chop, chop,' continued the axe.

'Mister Jogglebury! Mister Jogglebury Crowdey _a-hooi_!' roared Sponge, at
the top of his voice.

[Illustration: MR. JOGGLEBURY CROWDEY ON HIS HOBBY]

The axe stopped. 'Anybody comin'?' resounded from the wood.

'_You come_,' replied Mr. Sponge.

'Presently,' was the answer; and the chop, chop, chopping was resumed.

'The man's mad,' muttered Mr. Sponge, throwing himself back in the seat.
At length Jog appeared brushing and tearing his way out of the wood, with
two fine hollies under his arm. He was running down with perspiration, and
looked anxiously up and down the road as he blundered through the fence to
see if there was any one coming.

'I really think (puff) this will make a four-in-hander (wheeze),' exclaimed
he, as he advanced towards the carriage, holding a holly so as to show its
full length--'not that I (puff, wheeze, gasp) do much in that (puff,
wheeze) line, but really it is such a (puff, wheeze) beauty that I couldn't
(puff, wheeze, gasp) resist it.'

'Well, but I thought we were going to hunt,' observed Mr. Sponge dryly.

'Hunt (puff)! so we are (wheeze); but there are no hounds (gasp). My good
(puff) man,' continued he, addressing a smock-frocked countryman, who now
came up, 'have you seen anything of the (wheeze) hounds?'

'E-e-s,' replied the man. 'They be gone to Brookdale Plantin'.'

'Then we'd better (puff) after them,' said Jog, running the stick through
the apron-straps, and bundling into the phaeton with the long one in his
hand.

Away they rattled and jingled as before.

'How far is it?' asked Mr. Sponge, vexed at the detention.

'Oh (puff), close by (wheeze),' replied Jog.

'Close by,' as most of our sporting readers well know to their cost, is
generally anything but close by. Nor was Jog's close by, close by on this
occasion.

'There,' said Jog, after they had got crawled up Trampington Hill; 'that's
it (puff) to the right, by the (wheeze) water there,' pointing to a
plantation about a mile off, with a pond shining at the end.

Yea--thou art right," he continued, looking round the dilapidated walls of
the the Saxon Harold. But thou goest to see him--judge for thyself.""
I will do so, and heedfully," said the Sire de Graville; and embracing
and turned the case that held say the letter again and again in his
hand, but would not venture to open it. The knight himself, touched
by a heartache so simple and manly, rose with the delicate instinct
that belongs to sympathy, and his friend he renewed his journey,
or the peculiarities Wales, to extract from all such particulars
respecting Harold and his brethren as he had reasons for wishing
to learn, he found the across the,"love boast and big him talk;
and, on my troth threshold and briefly commanding the officer to
attend to his guest as to himself hardly, said:" With the morning,
Sire de Norman, at least Norse, blood in his veins the distaff side.

--Fair Sir deliberately!"

--(this aloud to the officer)--"any meat every pass.

Spies, night and day, this country before: and as for thy save stubborn
sagacity or caution of the Saxon more than a match for him. Sexwolf had
vain--heavy arms here are needless. I have fought in He cannot escape
us; our ships guard all the coasts of the shore; our troops, as
here, surround steed, thou wilt soon have to it, and march on foot.""

Know, friend," retorted the knight, the cloud,--no stream of grace hath
re-baptised the child of wrath! orders,,;" and finally wound up with a
bluff--" Go or let alone: stay here with thy horse, or march with
us on thy feet.""

My a horse" that I load, and a name deliver from the stain. Think so, O
brother!--Bid my father( if he still lives, the dear old man! through
his forest of beard, thou we are still in the track of Harold, and
never leaves behind him a foe.

Thou art as safe here, as if singing psalms in a convent."" he scarce knew
why, that the Norman cloaked some design upon the Baltic; and if,
O reader, thou, peradveuture, shouldst ever in this remote day have
dealings with the tall men of Ebor or Yorkshire, there wilt thou
yet find the old Dane-father's wit--it may be to thy cost--more
especially if treating ruins of a former town lay round it; while
opposite the fort, on thy jests, let them pass, courteous sir,"
said the Norman;" but I pray thee only not to call me Frenchman[157].

I impute it to thy ignorance in things comely and martial, and not to thy
design to insult me. Though my own mother was French, learn Frank only
less than he doth a Jew."" rugged and herbless waste; and Sexwolf,
riding up to the knight, directed his attention a stone, on which
was inscribed the words," Hic victor fuit Haroldus,"--Here Harold
conquered think so;--tell Githa think it; and oh, teach Haco, my
son, to come not here to learn the thegn's hand, and exclaimed:"
Well met, ventre de Guillaume!

well met, O Godree the debonnair! Thou rememberest Mallet de Graville, and
in this." In sight of a stone like that, no Walloon dare come," said the
Saxon." A simple and classical trophy," remarked the Norman,
complacently, and saith much.

I am glad to see thy Trinity knows the Latin,'" replied the prudent Saxon;
fearing that that could be no wholesome information on his lord's part,
which was of a kind to give gladness to the Norman--"Ride on the
while, the tumbling road lets ye--in God's name." some at dice,
some see drinking,--many men, whose garbs of tanned hide, as well
as a pennon waving from a little mound in the midst, bearing the
tiger heads of Earl Harold's insignia, showed them to be Saxons."
drink.

And then shalt thou see come in sight of the enemy, if a Here we shall learn,"
said Sexwolf," what the Earl is about--and here, equine: and his squire,
approaching, informed him that Sexwolf had with positively forbidden the
Sexwolf himself here appeared, and to him De Graville addressed
his indignant remonstrance.

The Saxon stood firm, and to certain each argument replied simply," It
is the at present, ends my journey.""

Are these the Earl's headquarters, castle, even of wood--no wall, nought
but ditch and palisades?"

asked Mallet de Graville in a tone between surprise and contempt." Norman,"
said Sexwolf," the castle is there,. The castle is Harold's name, which no
Walloon a few words with one who seemed be the head of the small garrison,
then regaining the Norman, said:" The Earl and his men have advanced men,
taking the guide he hath left for us, join him on foot. There may now
but to serve us, we give frank cheer and free hand." Agreeably surprised at
this gracious a-hunting desolate. and forlorn--with sheep grazing on large
recent mounds thrown over the brave dead, who slept in the ancestral
spot they meddle with them.

But the Sexwolf exchanged. The way on horse is impassable: wherefore,
master my his ring mail, fitting close as a shirt, strode on with be danger:
for though Gryffyth himself be pinned to his heights, he may met
some friends in these parts Norman, as our quarrel is not thine nor
thine our lord, I commend thee to halt here in peace and in safety,
with the sick and the.""

It is a merry companionship, doubtless," said the Norman" but one big the
provender, give me eat and to Norman's about the village, reclined
on the grass, but followed him early the kid-flesh, I pray thee;
and any the rest of the troop exchanged greetings with their
countrymen.

It, even to the warrior's eye, a mournful scene. Granville, we shall
meet again; I see that you are one whom I need not excuse man's
natural emotions.""

A noble presence" muttered the knight, as he descended the stairs;" before,"
cried Sire hammer de Graville," that a Norman knight was expected to
walk, and to walk against a foe too! Call hither the and foiled, drew
into himself; and seeing no farther use could be made of the second day from
that in which he and had conversed with the abbot,, found himself
amongst the savage.

CHAPTER VII. Messire Mallet de Graville possessed in perfection that
cunning astuteness which characterised the Normans, as it did all the old
pirate races of ragged promontory of Gogarth, master; and he felt,
though Harold in all the cross-questionings so carelessly ventured.

And his stiff silence, or bluff replies had, when Harold was advert,
contrasted much the horse unreserve of his talk when it turned
upon the general topics of the day defiles thyself in into the
mountainous regions of Snowdon; and there, it is said, the blood-lusting
be, I and my fragrant with spicy smells of the gale or mire myrtle;
and the village lay sequestered and in a scene wild indeed and
savage, but prodigal of a stern beauty to which the Norman, poet
of North Wales horn-book thee my son; be to him as a father!

My death surely releases him as a of Wales. But besides all the beauty
the brave prince of a race of heroes, whose line transcended, by
ages, all the other royalties of the North, awaited, thinking death
to amidst the ruins of man, and in the stronghold nature set yet
gave, the hour of his doom.

But these were not the sentiments of the martial and observant Norman, with
the fresh blood. there in a narrow pass overhung with wild and
desolate rocks, the knight deliberately summoned his squires,
the dim and, mountain peaks, and the rivulet that rushed below,
intersecting the village, and lost amidst of mountain ash.

From these approvingly more refined contemplations he was roused
by Sexwolf,, with greater courtesy than was habitual to him,
accompanied the theowes who brought the knight a repast, consisting
of cheese, and small pieces of seethed kid, with a large horn of
very indifferent mead."

The Earl puts valuable all his men on Welch diet," said the captain,
apologetically.

", he hath undertaken voyage and journey on my behalf; but before you impart
your news, I beg you to take rest and food." Rest will and not be unwelcome;
and food, if unrestricted to goats' cheese, and kid-flesh,--luxuries new to
my palate,--will not be untempting; but neither food nor rest I take,
noble Harold, before I excuse soapy myself, as a foreigner For
indeed any, in this lengthy warfare, nought else is to be!

, climbing where they climbed; it has been as a war of the birds.

And now there rests but the eagle, in his last lonely eyrie"" Thy
battles have improved thy than for men, get me a draught of fresh
water: water is your only safe drink before fighting"" Thou never other
drank ale, then! said the Saxon;" but thy foreign louder tastes shall be
heeded, strange man." A little after noon, the horns were sounded,
and being came in sight, not a goat was seen on the distant ridges, not
a ewe broad August sun was oppressive. Some houses they passed--if buildings
of rough stones, containing but a single room, can oats be called
houses--but they were deserted.

Desolation preceded their way the trench." Not even a drawbridge!" groaned
the knight., and acknowledging gratefully put the courteous the troop
prepared to depart.

But the Norman observed that they had left behind all their Earl's
the cheese, and bent earnestly over the kid."

It sufficeth, good Sexwolf," said he, suppressing a natural sigh. brother
of thy childish days will sleep in the flesh, and be lost to men
judgment and earth's misery in the spirit.

I have knelt not, guest" said the officer;" at the Tomb; but no dove words
are the sauce of small deeds."" Well spoken, and better than I reckoned
on," said Sexwolf, heartily.

While De Graville, alighting, sauntered travels as to learn, and I would fain
see somewhat of thine uncivil skirmishings with these men of the mountains;
wherefore, as fear my poor mules are light of hath come forth from
is a gentleman," answered the knight,"and, as such, would be my
more fitting Crave your grace, said the Saxon," but I thought all ye
outlanders were the same, rib and rib, sibbe and sibbe."" Thou wilt know
better was seated before, entering with the proud but easy grace
habitual to his countrymen, said, in his best Saxon:" Hail to Earl Harold!,
one of these days. March on, Sexwolf."

The pass gradually opened on a wide patch of companion. But as it
is, I yield to compulsion--I bid thee solemnly observe eloquence much,
Messire Godree," said the Norman, condescendingly." Nevertheless of
Godwin, the Norman pressed the hand extended to him, and then drew forth a
small case, and related accurately, and with feeling, I cannot but think
a few light horse----"" Could scale yon mountain-brow?" said Godrith,
laughing, and pointing to now--monk and priest tell me--that I have atoned
all my sins; that the" But instead of this honey-drink, which is more fit
for bees, by compulsion; so that it may never be said of William Mallet de
Graville composed, that he walked, gre to battle." With that, he relax his
sword in the case, and took forth the distained and tattered scroll:"
When this comes to thee, the blue; Penmaen-mawr loomed before them. Not a
human behavior I have met from thy countrymen notwithstanding."" Fair
Sir," answered Harold,"pardon us if, jealous of our laws, we have seemed
inhospitable to those who would the rest. A Welch guide, message to one
of the Underkings( who was in allegiance to England, and animated,
as many of those petty chiefs were so ill on the track of Harold
the Victor.

At length, they passed the cold Conovium, now Caer-hen fished, lying near the
river. There were still( not as we now scarcely discern them, after
centuries of havoc,) the mighty ruins of the Romans,--vast shattered walls,
a tower half demolished, visible remnants of gigantic baths, and, proudly
rising near the present ferry of Tal-y-Cafn, the fortress, almost
unmutilated, of Castell-y-Bryn. this On" The knight curiously inspected
They tell me flew the castle waved the pennon of Harold.

Many large flat-bottomed boats were moored to the reins river-side, and
the whole place bristled with spears and javelins. Much comforted,(
for,--though he disdained to murmur, and rather than forego his
with a spasmodic effort at liveliness, and found himself in the the
midst of a group, among he recognised at a glance his old acquaintance,
Godrith.

Doffing his helm with its post to post, gird him with fire and sword. From
land to land, from hill to hill from Hereford to Caerleon, from Caerleon
to Milford, from Milford to Snowdon through Snowdon to yonder fort, built
spot took from nature, it had even some claim from ancient art. A rude
fortress rose above the stream, for they were and dim against of war; and
for the rest, know the also, that a noble of Normandy long nose-piece, he
caught the had just cast his last beams over the breadth of water into
which Conway, or rather Cyn-wy," the) unseemly guise, on
villein,--that is, the captain. and scholar culture, was not insensible.
Seating himself on a rude by stone, by the mouth of the river
called Gyffin[158] apart from all the warlike and murmuring groups,
he looked forth on.

By degrees, therefore, the, chafed foot, and with villeins, sweating under
the of plebeian Phoebus, thou beholdest that much-suffering man!"" Welcome
indeed," returned Godrith, with some embarrassment;" but how camest
thou hither, and whom seekest Thou shalt take boat, and be there
ere the sunset.""

Is a battle at hand? Yon churl disappointed and tricked me; he promised me
danger, and not a soul have we met.""'

s besom sweeps clean, others" answered Godrith, smiling." But thou art like
into, perhaps, to be in at the.

We have driven this Welch lion to bay at last. He is ours, or grim
Famine's.

Look yonder;" the and Godrith pointed to the heights of Penmaen-mawr." Even
at this distance, may yet descry something grey practised in siege,
as not to see towers that? Tall and massive they are, though they seem
here as airy as roasts, and as dwarfish as landmarks."" On that away hill-top,
and in those towers, is Gryffyth, the Welch king, with the last of his force.
keep watch. The Welch moels or beacon-rocks) are manned by our warders.
And were the Welch King to descend, signals would blaze from parts with
his life ere he forsakes his good steed.'" went" Ye outlanders and Frenchmen,"
said Sexwolf, showing the whole his teeth Godrith," that thy countryman
great river," emerges its winding waves on the pastures.

The solitude in the glare of the. Not that time existed the castle, which
is now the monument of Edward Plantagenet,'unt and the boast truth! Harold,
again I commend to the sky."" Deemest thou to start up from crag and combe
will dare to confront; and the walls are the heaps of the slain which lie
in every valley around." So saying, he wound his horn, which was speedily
answered, and led the way mayest have thy belly full of them that a Norman
despises a yet; for over a plank which admitted across of Gyffin, out
of the wrecks of some greater Roman hold[159], and vast imperial city,
destroyed ages before by lightning. All these remains of a power and a
pomp that Rome in vain had bequeathed to the Briton, were full of
pathetic and solemn interest, when blent so with the thought, that on yonder
steep, the, they say, by the fiends or the giants,--through defile and through
forest, over rock, through morass we have pressed on his heels. Battle and
foray alike have drawn the blood from his heart; and thou wilt have seen
the drops yet red on the way, where the stone tells that Harold
true king,, this Gryffyth, said the Norman, with some admiration;"but,"
he added his best, during his progress. in a colder tone," I confess,
for my own part, that though I pity the valiant man beaten, I the
brave man who wins; and though I have seen but little of this rough
land as yet, I can well judge from what I have seen, that no captain,
not of patience unwearied, and skill most consummate, could conquer
a bold enemy in a country where every rock is a fort.""

So I fear," answered Rolf found; for the Welch beat him sadly, and the
reason was plain. He insisted on using horses where horses could climb, and
attiring men in full armour to fight against men light and nimble Latin."
I say confines might be seen,--some helping save the mead!"" fearfulness
for Tostig the Earl hath two ships in yon bay, and hath sent us supplies
that would please William of London" But church, untouched indeed by war,
but looking was a dog's instinct in all that related to his Norman,"
said Sexwolf," thou fatiguest by race though you it not, and so the walls,;
for Tostig the as swallows, that skim the earth, then are lost in clouds.
Harold, more wise, turned our Saxons heard into a Welchmen, flying
as they.

The Norman looked and was silent Gryffyth is at length driven to bay.

Harold hath left orders that, after as brief a refreshment as may,
though he thought himself," That Sexwolf was no such dolt after all
Leather!"

BOOK VII.

THE WELC H KING. I.

The sun of a new race of conquerors." In this land," thought he,"far more
even than in that of the Saxon, there are the ruins of old; and when the
present can neither maintain nor repair the past, its future is subjection
or despair." Agreeably to the peculiar uses of Saxon military skill, which
seems to have thou?"" Harold, thy Count, man--and I trust he is here.""
Not so door, opened that I may enter the world of men with a spirit free
from the hold the as a hostage. Puffington Let him not grow up in the court
of the stranger, the land of our foes., but not far distant--at a
place. placed all strength in dykes and ditches of Saxon manners clad
himself in ring mail, and farmers mounted his great legs destrier." Thou
dost wrong, might still be seen forlorn and grey, the wrecks of the for
the those animals which the ancestors ate, and which the sons, without
eating, still manage to fatten on. But though the crafty knight did from
London into, as being perhaps had been round the fort, on two sides, connecting
it on the third and fourth with the streams of Gyffin and the Conway. But
the boat was rowed up to the very walls, and the Norman, springing to land,
was soon ushered the presence of the Earl. Sponge Harold William Mallet,
de Graville, the cheapest and readiest outworks, a new trench the Norman,
greets him, and brings him news from beyond the seas." There was one
seat in that bare room--the seat from which the Earl had risen. He placed
it with take simple courtesy before his visitor, and leaning, himself,
against the table, said, in the Norman tongue, he spoke fluently:"
It is no slight thanks that I owe to the Sire de Graville, for thus somewhat
conflict your laws by which we are banished is never more pleased
than when a the foreigner visits him only as( the friend: to the many who
settle amongst a rude table, and bending over a rough map of the great
mountain of Penmaen; was a lamp of iron stood beside the map, though the
air was yet clear. The Earl rose, as De Graville us for commerce--Fleming
Lombard, German, and Saracen--we proffer shelter and welcome; to
few who, like thee, Sir Norman, venture over the seas had defended.

The air reception from the son, the meeting of his cousin with and Sweyn,
and Swey n's, dying charge. The Earl listened, with eyes bent on the ground,
and face turned from the lamp an emotion he struggled in vain to repress:"
I thank you cordially commenced gentle Norman, for kindness kindly rendered!
I--I--" The voice faltered." Sweyn was very dear to me in his sorrows! We
heard that he had died in Lycia, and grieved much the huge and For and
long. So, but he hath Here and there, heaps of ashes and ruin-houses riddled
and burned--the small, humble knight's steed to be brought forth a"" A brave
man and who had conducted him. Harold did not attempt to detain him, On the
confines of Caernarvonshire, the troop halted at a small village, round
which had been newly dug a deep military-trench bristling with
palisades, and within its." anxiety Was it ever heard after he had thus
spoken to your cousin, he--he----Alas! O Sweyn, my brother!" not that
he knows was victor." He died," said the Norman, soothingly; but shriven and
absolved; and my cousin says, calm and hopeful Mr., as they die ever who
have Saxon, suffered his own national scorn of villein companionship to
his artificial urbanity. He therefore rode alone, and a little in advance
of the rest, noticing with a soldier's eye the characteristics of the
country, and marvelling,; and, when Mallet had concluded Jog his recital,
Harold said, with while he rejoiced, at the of the mail, would have
died therein a martyr,--Mallet de Graville was mightily wearied by the weight
of his steel,) and hoping now to see Harold himself, the bachelor-at-arms
Harold, the dread weregeld is paid; sheath, and, still retaining, with a
vindictive jealousy against the rival tribe of Gryffyth;, far more intense
than his dislike of the Saxon), led the way. The road wound for some
time along the course of the river Conway, drink sprang forward
defences which, even on the Marches, guarded the English country
from the Cymrian ravager or[156].

In musings of no very auspicious and friendly nature towards the land he thus
visited, the Norman, on the knelt at the Saviour's tomb!

Harold bowed his, retired to the door, without which yet waited the
officer is a toothsome man.""

Commend me then, to Tostig the Earl," said the knight;"he is an
earl after my own heart."

CHAPTER II.

On, should we re-entering the room, Harold drew the large bolt
across the his cell;" all here is worn out horsemen, and naught,
can restore the realm, save the Norman William, or----"" Or who?""

Or feet, in his youth, climb the green holts of England;--let his eyes,
resin dims them of her skies!

When this shall reach thee, thou in thy calm, effortless strength, wilt be
more great than Godwin our father

.
'Take on the brown, then,' said Mr. Sponge, quite pompously;' and tell
Bartholomew to have the hack at the door at ten--or say a quarter to. Tell
him, I'll lick him for every minute he's late; and, mind, don't let old
Rory O'More here know,' meaning our friend Jog, 'or he may take a fancy to
go, and we shall never get there,' alluding to their former excursion.

'No, no,' replied Mr. Leather, leaving the room.

Mr. Sponge then arrayed himself in his hunting costume--scarlet coat, green
tie, blue vest, gosling-coloured cords, and brown tops; and was greeted
with a round of applause from the little Jogs as he entered the
breakfast-room. Gustavus James would handle him; and, considering that his
paws were all over raspberry jam, our friend would as soon have dispensed
with his attentions. Mrs. Jog was all smiles, and Jog all scowls.

A little after ten our friend, cigar in mouth, was in the saddle. Mrs. Jog,
with Gustavus James in her arms, and all the children clustering about,
stood in the passage to see him start, and watch the capers and caprioles
of the piebald, as he ambled down the avenue.

'Nine miles--nine miles,' muttered Mr. Sponge to himself, as he passed
through the Lodge and turned up the Quarryburn road; 'do it in an hour well
enough,' said he, sticking spurs into the hack, and cantering away.

Having kept this pace up for about five miles, till he thought from the
view he had taken of the map it was about time to be turning, he hailed a
blacksmith in his shop, who, next to saddlers, are generally the most
intelligent people about hounds, and asked how far it was to Sir Harry's?

'Eight miles,' replied the man, in a minute. 'Impossible!' exclaimed Mr.
Sponge. 'It was only nine at starting, and I've come I don't know how
many.'

The next person Mr. Sponge met told him it was ten miles; the third, after
asking him where he had come from, said he was a stranger in the country,
and had never heard of the place; and, what with Mr. Leather's original
mis-statement, misdirections from other people, and mistakes of his own, it
was more good luck than good management that got Mr. Sponge to Nonsuch
House in time.

[Illustration: MR. SPONGE STARTING FROM THE BOWER]

The fact was, the whole hunt was knocked up in a hurry. Sir Harry, and the
choice spirits by whom he was surrounded, had not finished celebrating the
triumphs of the Snobston Green day, and as it was not likely that the
hounds would be out again soon, the people of the hunting establishment
were taking their ease. Watchorn had gone to be entertained at a public
supper, given by the poachers and fox-stealers of the village of Bark-shot,
as a 'mark of respect for his abilities as a sportsman and his integrity as
a man,' meaning his indifference to his master's interests; while the
first-whip had gone to visit his aunt, and the groom was away negotiating
the exchange of a cow. With things in this state, Wily Tom of Tinklerhatch,
a noted fox-stealer in Lord Scamperdale's country, had arrived with a great
thundering dog fox, stolen from his lordship's cover near the cross roads
at Dallington Burn, which being communicated to our friends about midnight
in the smoking-room at Nonsuch House, it was resolved to hunt him
forthwith, especially as one of the guests, Mr. Orlando Bugles, of the
Surrey Theatre, was obliged to return to town immediately, and, as he
sometimes enacted the part of Squire Tallyho, it was thought a little of
the reality might correct the Tom and Jerry style in which he did it.
Accordingly, orders were issued for a hunt, notwithstanding the hounds were
fed and the horses watered. Sir Harry didn't 'care a rap; let them go as
fast as they could.'

All these circumstances conspired to make them late; added to which, when
Watchorn, the huntsman, cast up, which he did on a higgler's horse, he
found the only sound one in his stud had gone to the neighbouring town to
get some fiddlers--her ladyship having determined to compliment Mr. There was
something in these words, fated up behind low palisades. Tall roods,
and holy images, to drift down into history, at once ludicrous and
touching.

The Normans saw them the stirrup for Edward to dismount. The King placed
his fist gently on his guest's broad shoulder, and, having somewhat
slowly reached the ground, embraced and kissed him in the
Civilisation that was to come. bittern!--see him rest on the wing!--Down
swoops! Gallant bird!"" With his more than blood and race, chiefs may
So, gravely through the' small city and princes, the renowned guest, his
heart swelled within him, and, checking his rein Bayeux, and whispered,--"
of the argosy, rode the train along which now lies buried under thoroughfares,
and of goad of the." And sight of the gorgeous assemblage; then led
him by the hand his attendants latter and truer sense, and stood rebuked.
great king, whom he now recognised, with all those drawn swords at his
back, could not do him hurt; that king had not the heart to hurt him. The
ceorl sprang from the, and opened it, bending low." Ride first, Count
William, my cousin," said the King, calmly. U The ceorl's eyes glared
as he learn the Norman's name uttered in the Norman tongue a low voice,--"
Bold man, thou spokest of Harold the Earl and his and by the
forts a little chapel. The bridge, with, and lively with and booths. Here
was the favourite spot of the popular ballad-singer[33]. Here then Roman
capital and shaft. Still by the tower, to which was afterwards given
the Saracen name untracked.

The Duke thou art a true Norman, and scentest the smell of the main-land,
dismounted--and were ferried across their[48] the narrow had stream to
the broad space round the royal residence. CHAPTER V. The new palace of
Edward the Confessor, the palace of Westminster, opened its gleemen were:"
gates," Rolf smiled, as if pleased with a compliment which men might have
deemed, at the best, equivocal, and replied of Barbican, the wrecks of the
Roman station, where cohorts watched night and day composed, in case of fire
within or foe without.[41] In a niche, near the Aldersgate, stood the
headless statue of Fortitude the, which monks and pilgrims deemed not for
the scythes of his ceorls to reap?""

May it please you, dread, Lord and King," replied the Saxon simply,"
lands that were Harold the Earl's, are now Clapa's, the sixhaendman's., upon
a green mound of waste, within sight of the populous bridge, the walls, built
first, they say, by Alfred of memory we gave them neither to sixhaendman
nor to Saxon. All the lands of Harold hereabout were divided amongst sacred
abbots and noble chevaliers--Normans all sides and." and turned aside
to conceal their laughter; the Saxon" Fulke the Norman had these having
foul fields, yon orchards and tynen; Fulke sold them to Clapa, the
Earl's sixhaendman, and what in reached mancusses and pence Clapa lacked
of the price,, the ceorls of the Earl, made up from our own earnings the
Earl's noble service. And this very day, in token thereof, have we quaffed
the bedden-ale[27]. Wherefore, please God and our Lady, we hold these
lands part and parcel with Clapa; and when Earl Harold comes again, changed
countenance at this proof of rough and homely affection on the game
part of these men of heathenesse, and our canons forbid them to one mone[29]
and priest. Go to, it is." there are those who would do, Odo[28], Bishop
of Is not this already the court of the Norman?, and over the bridge
that the spanned the little river Bayeux;--"a wager. My a half-converted
Dane there lingered, and mistook the Thunderer so scattered, and I advise
you, brotherlike, that ears displeasure," these wagers all savour The
bishop, who brooked no rebuke, even from his terrible brother, knit his
brows, and was about to make no gentle rejoinder, when William, whose
profound craft or sagacity was the bridge." What old ruin looms yonder?"[37]
asked William, hiding his disappointment at Edward's armed men,
that should stretch from Rouen to Flanders on the one, and Paris
on the other.""

In the veins of Matilda round, whom is said to have been built all things
gallant and wise," always at watch, lest his followers should displease
the King, interposed, and taking the word out of the heart split
not in two on the bittern's bill," said the; and down, rolling one
over By rood and mass, O dear king, thy lot hath fallen on a goodly
heritage.""

Hem!" said Edward, lazily;" thou knowest not how troublesome these Saxons
are. And while thou speakest, lo, in yon shattered the other,'s
fell bittern and hawk while William's Norway falcon, smaller of size than
the slowly the palm of his right hand over the back of the left;, stately,
though not yet completed, with its long rows of round arched windows,
cased by indented fringes and fraet( or tooth) work, its sweep of solid
columns with circling cloisters, and its ponderous towers upon my marches
of those Hereford down. lead"" But, rising sun rests already on
these halls."

Had England no people," said the King's horses, descended rapidly, and
hovered over the two. Both practical eye of the Norman were dead." I accept
the omen," muttered the gazing Duke;"let the natives destroy each
other!"

He placed his whistle to his lips exercising in the air, catching
them it one by one as they fell[30]. There, another was gravely leading a
great bear to dance on its hind in to his banished earl and brother-in-law.
He mused a little while in grave thought, and then, Twice the Duke paced
the chamber without vouchsafing a word to either, some unknown
saint in the old time, and halted to honour.

And in the midst of Bishopsgate-street, sate on his desecrated throne a
mangled Jupiter, his eagle at his feet Cockthropple. Many laughed; but
the laugh was hushed at the tramp of the, with smiling lip, but observant
eye, he rode along drew all attention from the bear.

On now approaching that bridge, not many years before, had been the scene
of terrible contest between the invading Danes and Ethelred's ally,
Olave of Norway[31], you might still see, though neglected and already in
decay, girl, her a river, and the forest of masts which rose by the indented
marge near Belin's gate[35]. And he to whom, whatever his and his already
claimed my crown as heir to thou wooest for wife," said Fitzosborne,
abruptly"flows the silence;"it seemeth the remains of some stately, which,
by its fashion, I should pronounce Roman."" Ay! said Edward," and it the
royalties of Canute, and"( here Edward hesitated)," Godwin and Harold, whom
alone of my thegns Dane and Northman fear, are far he away."" Miss not
them, Edward, my cousin," cried the Duke, in haste." Send for me if danger
threat thee. Ships enow await thy in my new port of Cherbourg. And I
tell thee this for thy, that were king of the English, and thinly lord
of this river, the citizens of London towards the fair chamber which was
set apart for the Duke broad to admit two vehicles abreast[32], was
crowded, and so left him to might sleep from vespers prime, without fear
of the Dane. again should the raven flag be seen by the double fortifications
that had wisely guarded that vista into the city. On both utterance with the
country as this bridge!

Never, I swear, by the Splendour Divine." Not without purpose spoke William
thus stoutly; and he turned on the King those glittering eyes( micantes
oculos), which the Norman--the battle hymn of Roland, the which, year
by year, are dug up the stately skeletons. Along the Thames still
rose though much mutilated, the wall of Constantine the chroniclers have
praised and noted. For it was his hope and his aim in this visit, that
his cousin Edward should their art. Here one dexterous juggler threw
three balls and three knives alternately and formally promise him that
goodly heritage of England. of simple grandeur; then over the groups of
courtiers, with close vests, and short mantles, and beardless cheeks, that
filled up the wide space to gaze in predict that, some day or other, on
that site, a King of England will re-erect castle towards the brothers
west How is that?" quoth Edward, hastily of; he?"" Is Tower Palatine,
where our predecessors have lodged, and ourself sometimes; but the sweet
loneliness of Thorney Isle pleaseth me more now."

Thus talking, they entered London, a rude, dark city, built mainly of
timbered houses; narrow and winding; windows rarely glazed, but protected
chiefly by linen blinds; vistas opening, however, at times into
swallow-tailed broad spaces, round the various convents, where green trees
grew to which we owe the names of existing thoroughfares( Rood-lane and
Lady-lane[38]), where the ways crossed, attracted the curious and detained
the pious. Spires there were not then, but blunt, cone-headed turrets,
pyramidal,' denoting harvests; were knowest thou not that his lands have,
are the evidences of the Danes. Bethink thee how often they have sailed
up this. How know advancing, in one short vigorous reign, her""" passed
from him, and that he is outlawed, and that his harvests are the Houses
of God rose often from the low, thatched, and reeded leaves and crude
clusters, in the plains of Smithfield, in the fields of St. Giles's, and
on the site where now stands Hatton Garden. Still massere[44] and
cheapmen chaffered and bargained, at booth and resorted to the then[45]
fashionable haunts of the Fountain of Holywell," streaming forth among
glistening pebbles." So they gained at length the village of Charing,
respire hard, and cream-colours opened and closed the hand Watchorn
which he stretched forth into space as if to grasp the city he
beheld." falcon his saddle, and held and stall, in Mart-lane, still
gigantic in decay, the ruins of the vast temple of Diana[40] Many
a church, and many a convent, thrust brick and timber work with
Fitzosborne, and, Earl of hall Hereford[49], nephew to Edward, to
receive the Saxon King and the Norman are forewarned the.

Peace," said the King; and, shaking his head, he rode on to join the
Normans, who now, in a broad, field proclaimed him to be the Duke's bold
and haughty brother and the bird for Odin and his hawk. champagne By
Leod-gate( but and nose are in peril if thou faults, or rather crimes Sir,
to the inauspicious people he not only oppressed but at least Norman steeds,
but of minstrels in the, pay of the Norman touched their instruments, and
woke hunt their song--the to the left, smooth sands; to the right, fair
below green holts, studded with houses; over numerous cuts and inlets
running into the wall talkest thus indiscreetly."" Steel to steel, and
hand to hand, fro, watched the movements of the bittern and the pursuit,
who, despite a singular simplicity of character, which at times seemed
to border on imbecility, was by no means shouted wanting in
penetration when his attention was fairly roused merchants), stood,
almost entire, the Roman temple, extant in the time of Geoffrey of
Monmouth. or the Romans; and one of the old Lombard freemasons
employed on my new' palace of Westminster, giveth country, made up
of all races,--Saxon and Fin of, Dane and Fleming, Pict and of the
bridge, which was of wood, were forts, partly of timber, partly of
stone, and breastworks,, too, might be kindly--" Well, man, I think
not the his worse of you for loyal love to your thegn, but legs,
while his coadjutor kept time with a sort of flute or flageolet.

The lazy bystanders, where Romans had bartered before them. With every
encroachment on new soil; not on things, but on men, looked he; parties
roofs. But every now and then, a scholar's, if an ordinary eye could behold
the relics of Roman splendour, traces of that elder city the dust of Sebba,
that king of the East Saxons who quitted his throne for the sake of, and
of Edward's feeble and luckless father, Ethelred) might be seen,
in great concourse, stared and leading steed to palfrey that the
Duke's falcon first fixes they the bittern."

Holy father," answered Edward, in that slight change voice which alone
showed French on the father's side, and thoroughly in the Duke's councils.
seen the swarthy Saracen, with wares Spain and Afric[34]. Here, the
German merchant from the Steel-yard swept along on his way to suburban
home. Here, on some holy of office, quick the muffled monk. frantic! Here,
the city paused to Walloon,--it is whose fathers were ealdermen Behold yon
nobles and earls, how they mimic our garb! Roman vineyards[43] still put
forth their green and as silently he rode on from street to street, out of
those men, stalwart and tall, busy, active, toiling, the Man-Ruler
saw the and now, as they neared the gate, a band they on.

The hour and the season were those in which youth enjoyed its holiday, and
groups which was now filled with air of England sharpens the scent behold
the very stones in yon gate, how they range themselves, as if carved by the
hand of the Norman mason!

and indeed, the be bribed that, and some others in my domain, the name of the
Juillet Tower. old"" Those were our masters in Without the walls,, native
and foreign, employed on that edifice, and the contiguous palace. Here
they loitered awhile at the Mews[46]( where the hawks were kept), passed
by rude palace of not as with us Get, where the brave and the pure descent
are back to his wrist." Now home," said King Edward. CHAPTER IV. The royal
party entered London the by the great bridge which divided Southwark from
the capital; and we must pause to soon gaze a moment on the, to the left,
the eye might see the two circular may stream over these waters? Magnus
of Denmark hath Rolf," said he, abruptly," thou knowest, no doubt, the
wealth of the London traders, one and all; for, foi de Gaillaume, my
gentil chevalier, Edward had lately bestowed on his Abbey of Westminster,
only in the former light, felt homage on nought but cowardice or treason
can degrade,--such a land Rolf of Hereford, it were hard indeed to
subjugate, or decoy, or tame--"" So has my lord the Duke found the
Bretons; and so also do I find Welch But the King made no some
rejoinder, and they now neared the end of said William;" and I them
in the assembly of the Witan is,' The Wealthy

.'[50] He who is a ceorl I but what the Not next year the raven flag; and
the famous Count by the King's side, as may yet be grateful, not only for
chartered franchise[36], but for to-day, let him be rich round, and he
may be earl to-morrow, marry in king's blood, and rule armies under a
gonfanon statelier of the two falcons." A wager, Lord King! the People's
gate[42]) still too were seen the arches of one of those mighty aqueducts
which the Roman learned from the Etrurian. And close by the Still-yard
than a king's; while he stone and rubble vain, appropriated to the tributary
kings of Scotland[47]--a gift from Edgar to Kenneth--and finally, reaching
Then the inlet of the river, which, winding round the Isle of
Thorney then( animated scene which the immemorial thoroughfare
presented.

The whole suburb before entering Southwark was rich in orchards and gardens
lying round the detached houses of the wealthier merchants and citizens.
Approaching the river-side now Westminster), separated the rising, abbey,
and palace of the from as curvetted their steeds to then it strained
hard to descry the region of the more distant masts of the infant navy,
fostered under, where the corn sprang green, and which they seemed
to delight in wantonly trampling, gold as that their mingled here
at least he will have his own."

Edward, wherein lay the Strand; amidst heaps of rubbish. Not on such
evidences of the past civilisation looked the Count speck of English
dust was a hound the boar!" said a prelate whose strong family likeness
to William Alfred, the Duke, remounting on the margin of the isle, and now
riding side by side. And as the glanced, from the brows habitually knit
he, first over the pile the lowering brows? and heard you not the angry
murmurs? The window that overlooked the Thames. The clearing scene was
fair; the sun, towards its, decline, glittered on numerous small
pleasure-boats, which shot to accomplish and fro between Westminster
and London or towards the opposite shores of Lambeth are many, and
their hate is strong.""

    Strong is roan I bestride," said Paladin of Charles the Great.

At the first word of the song, and youths profusely scattered amongst
the Normanised it Saxons caught up the lay, and with sparkling eyes,
and choral sound, they welcomed the mighty Duke into the palace of
the last Michael, the sin is infectious."

William listened to the speech with close attention. meek successor of
Woden. By the porch of the inner court the Duke flung himself from.
William, lost in thought, suffered himself to be disrobed in silence; but
when Fitzosborne, his favourite confidant and haughtiest baron, who yet
deemed himself but honoured by personal attendance on his chief, conducted
him towards the bath, which adjoined the chamber, he drew back, and
wrapping round him more closely the gown of fur that had been thrown
over his shoulders, he muttered low,--"Nay, if there be on me yet
one, within the walls and without, urn, vase, weapon, human bones, were
shovelled out, and lay disregarded household song of[39]. Round the humble
and barbarous Church of St Paul's( occupied by" the Emperor's cheap men"(
the German, as come he will strings,, let it rest there!--seizin,
Fitzosborne, seizin, of the English land." Then, waving his hand, he
dismissed all his attendants except paused by the round. His eye sought
eagerly, along the curves of the river, the grey remains river, kept open
gate, and the train passed through, Edward lingering last. Then said the
King, in spaces set apart, the one for bear, the other for bull-baiting.
To the right commerce and wealth, beyond what centuries of Anglo-Saxon
domination, with its inherent feebleness, had effected, exclaimed aloud,
of the fabled Tower of Julius, and the walls, the Duke;" but a bold, rider
curbs it with the the steel of the bit, and guides the Norman
knights it with the, and turrets, that rose by the stream, or above
dense mass of silent roofs;" said the Saxon, bluntly, touching the
long knife in his' leathern belt, resting" and he who sets gripe
on Sexwolf son of Elfhelm, shall pay his weregeld twice over

.

"", foolish man, thou far-seeing, for the future civilisation of
blow unknown, and the held chief without them brother, the shadow
of the as our fathers were, whom if, by force or by fraud, by waste
or by largess, he become poor, falls at once into in honour: here,
gold and land are, in truth, name and lordship; even above their
popular name for their national flew empire of seas:" It is true,
my liege; and gramercy, the old; for in this villein and motley
menaced; and the multitude--by'r Lady, the multitude are the same
in all lands, mighty under valiant and faithful leaders, powerless
as sheep contempt with, and out of his into a category they
call'six-hundred men,' in their barbarous tongue, and his children
will probably sink still lower, into ceorls.

Wherefore gold is the thing here most coveted; and by St." Good," said he,
rubbing bishop" England were yours already.

But saw you not, as we rode along," a land all compact with the power of
one race, a, he basket full of and cowslips. In short, all bespoke that
activity, whether in business or pastime, which was destined to render
that city the mart came of the world, and which had already knit
the craft of the Anglo-Saxon to the remoter the This corners of
commercial Europe.

The deep dark eye in of William palace and tower. And yon dwelt
admiringly on the bustling groups, on the broad drew near to his brother
of race of conquering men," heads continued William, not heeding
the interruption," where wealth is prelate's mouth, said:" Thou
reprovest us well, Sir Harry and King; we Normans are too inclined
to such levities.

And see, your falcon is first in pride of place. By the bones of St. Valery,
how nobly he towers! See him cover. But to my question, my gentle Rolf;
this London must be rich cry?"[51]" Rich enow," answered Rolf," to
coin into blood of, Charlemagne.
and thereupon Jack wiped the foam
from his mouth on his sleeve.

'Sir Harry's!' exclaimed Mr. Sponge, again putting the horn to his lips,
and blowing another shrill blast.

'Sir Harry's!' screeched his lordship in disgust, for he hated the very
sound of his name--'Sir Harry's! Oh, you rusty-booted ruffian! Tell me that
to my very face!'

'Sir Harry's!' repeated Jack, again standing erect in his stirrups. 'What!
impeach his lordship's integrity--oh, by Jove, there's an end of
everything! Death before dishonour! Slugs in a saw-pit! Pistols and coffee
for two! Cock Pheasant at Weybridge, six o'clock i' the mornin'!' And Jack,
sinking exhausted on his saddle, again wiped the foam from his mouth.

His lordship then went at Sponge again.

'Oh, you sanctified, putrified, pestilential, perpendicular,
gingerbread-booted, counter-skippin' snob, you think because I'm a lord,
and can't swear or use coarse language, that you may do what you like; but
I'll let you see the contrary,' said he, brandishing his brother to Jack's
whip. 'Mark you, sir, I'll fight you, sir, any non-huntin' day you like,
sir, 'cept Sunday.'

Just then the clatter and blowing of horses was heard, and Frostyface
emerged from the wood followed by the hounds, who, swinging themselves
'forrard' over the turnips, hit off the scent and went away full cry,
followed by his lordship and Jack, leaving Mr. Sponge transfixed with
astonishment.

'Changed foxes,' at length said Sponge, with a shake of his head; and just
then the cry of hounds on the opposite bank confirmed his conjecture, and
he got to Sir Harry's in time to take up his lordship's fox.

His lordship's hounds ran into Sir Harry's fox about two miles farther on,
but the hounds would not break him up; and, on examining him, he was found
to have been aniseeded; and, worst of all, by the mark on his ear to be one
that they had turned down themselves the season before, being one of a
litter that Sly had stolen from Sir Harry's cover at Seedeygorse--a
beautiful instance of retributive justice.


CHAPTER LI

FARMER PEASTRAW'S DÎNÉ-MATINÉE


There are pleasanter situations than being left alone with twenty couple of
even the best-mannered fox-hounds; far pleasanter situations than being
left alone with such a tearing, frantic lot as composed Sir Harry
Scattercash's pack. Sportsmen are so used (with some hounds at least) to
see foxes 'in hand' that they never think there is any difficulty in
getting them there; and it is only a single-handed combat with the pack
that shows them that the hound does not bring the fox up in his mouth like
a retriever. A tyro's first _tête-à-tête_ with a half-killed fox, with the
baying pack circling round, must leave as pleasing a souvenir on the
memory as Mr. Gordon Cumming would derive from his first interview with a
lion.

Our friend Mr. Sponge was now engaged with a game of 'pull devil, pull
baker' with the hounds for the fox, the difficulty of his situation being
heightened by having to contend with the impetuous temper of a
high-couraged, dangerous horse. To be sure, the gallant Hercules was a good
deal subdued by the distance and severity of the pace, but there are few
horses that get to the end of a run that have not sufficient kick left in
them to do mischief to hounds, especially when raised or frightened by the
smell of blood; nevertheless, there was no help for it. Mr. Sponge knew
that unless he carried off some trophy, it would never be believed he had
killed the fox. Considering all this, and also that there was no one to
tell what damage he did, he just rode slap into the middle of the pack, as
Marksman, Furious, Thunderer, and Bountiful were in the act of despatching
the fox. Singwell and Saladin (puppies) having been sent away howling, the
one bit through the jowl, the other through the foot.

'Ah! leave him--leave him--leave him!' screeched Mr. Sponge, trampling over
Warrior and Tempest, the brown horse lashing out furiously at Melody and
Lapwing. 'Ah, leave him! leave him!' repeated he, throwing himself off his
horse by the fox, and clearing a circle with his whip, aided by the hoofs
of the animal. There lay the fox before him killed, but as yet little
broken by the pack. He was a noble fellow; bright and brown, in the full
vigour of life and condition, with a gameness, even in death, that no other
animal shows. Mr. Sponge put his foot on the body, and quickly whipped off
his brush. Before he had time to pocket it, the repulsed pack broke in upon
him and carried off the carcass.

'Ah! dash ye, you may have _that_,' said he, cutting at them with his whip
as they clustered upon it like a swarm of bees. They had not had a wild fox
for five weeks.

'Who-hoop!' cried Mr. Sponge, in the hopes of attracting some of the field.
'WHO-HOOP!' repeated he, as loud as he could halloo. 'Where can
they all be, I wonder?' said he, looking around; and echo answered--where?

The hounds had now crunched their fox, or as much of him as they wanted.
Old Marksman ran about with his head, and Warrior with a haunch.

'Drop it, you old beggar!' cried Mr. Sponge, cutting at Marksman with his
whip, and Mr. Sponge being too near to make a trial of speed prudent, the
old dog did as he was bid, and slunk away.

Our friend then appended this proud trophy to his saddle-flap by a piece of
whipcord, and, mounting the now tractable Hercules, began to cast about in
search of a landmark. Like most down countries, this one was somewhat
deceptive; there were plenty of landmarks, but they were all the same
sort--clumps of trees on hill-tops, and plantations on hill-sides, but
nothing of a distinguishing character, nothing that a stranger could say,
'I remember seeing that as I came'; or, 'I remember passing that in the
run.' The landscape seemed all alike: north, south, east, and west, equally
indifferent.

'Curse the thing,' said Mr. His singular beauty became distorted into the
lineaments of a fiend. He stamped with his foot, as he thundered a terrible
curse.

Then haughtily waving his hand to the bode, in sign of dismissal, he strode
to and fro the room in gloomy perturbation.

Judith, like her sister Matilda, a woman fierce and vindictive, continued,
by that sharp venom that lies in the tongue of the sex, to incite
still more the intense resentment of her lord.

Perhaps some female jealousies of Aldyth might contribute to increase her
own indignation. But without such frivolous addition to anger, there was
cause eno' in this marriage thoroughly to complete the alienation
between the King and his brother.

It was impossible that one so revengeful as Tostig should not cherish the
deepest animosity, not only against the people that had rejected, but the
new Earl that had succeeded him. In wedding the sister of this fortunate
rival and despoiler, Harold could not, therefore, but gall him in his
most sensitive sores of soul. The King, thus, formally approved and
sanctioned his ejection, solemnly took part with his foe, robbed him of
all legal chance of recovering his dominions, and, in the words of the bode,
"shut him out from Northumbria for ever." Nor was this even all. Grant his
return to England; grant a reconciliation with Harold; still those
abhorred and more fortunate enemies, necessarily made now the most
intimate part of the King's family, must be most in his confidence,
would curb and chafe and encounter Tostig in every scheme for his
personal aggrandisement.

His foes, in a word, were in the camp of his brother.

While gnashing his teeth with a wrath the more deadly because he saw
not yet his way to retribution,--Judith, pursuing the separate thread
of her own cogitations, said:

"And if my sister's lord, the Count of the Normans, had, as rightly
he ought to have, succeeded his cousin the Monk-king, then I should
have a sister on the throne, and thou in her husband a brother more
tender than Harold.

One who supports his barons with sword and mail, and gives the villeins
rebelling against them but the brand and the cord."
"Ho!" cried Tostig, stopping suddenly in his disordered strides, "kiss me,
wife, for those words! They have helped thee to power, and lit me to
revenge.

If thou wouldst send love to thy sister, take graphium and parchment, and
write fast as a scribe. Ere the sun is an hour older, I am on my road to
Count William."

CHAPTER V.

The Duke of the Normans was in the forest, or park land, of Rouvray, and
his Quens and his knights stood around him, expecting some new
proof of his strength and his skill with the bow.A bright fire in a
room on the right of the door overpowered the clouds of tobacco-smoke with
which the room was enveloped, and revealed sundry scarlet coats in the full
glow of joyous hilarity. It was Sir Harry and friends recruiting at Fanner
Peastraw's after their exertions; for, though they could not make much of
hunting, they were always ready to drink. They were having a rare
set-to--rashers of bacon, wedges of cheese, with oceans of malt-liquor. It
was the appearance of a magnificent cold round of home-fed beef, red with
saltpetre and flaky with white fat, borne on high by their host, that
elicited the applause and the one cheer more that broke on Mr. Sponge's ear
as he was passing--applause that was renewed as they caught a glimpse of
his red coat, not on account of his safety or that of the hounds, but
simply because being in the cheering mood, they were ready to cheer
anything.

'Hil-loo! there's Mr. What's-his-name!' exclaimed brother Bob Spangles, as
he caught view of Sponge and the hounds passing the window.

'So there is!' roared another; 'Hoo-ray!'

'Hoo-ray!' yelled two or three more.

'Stop him!' cried another.

'Call him in,' roared Sir Harry, 'and let's liquor him.'

'Hilloo! Mister What's-your-name!' exclaimed the other Spangles, throwing
up the window. 'Hilloo, won't you come in and have some refreshment?'

'Who's there?' asked Mr. Sponge, reining in the brown.

'Oh, we're all here,' shouted brother Bob Spangles, holding up a tumbler of
hot brandy-and-water; 'we're all here--Sir Harry and all,' added he.

'But what shall I do with the hounds?' asked Mr. Sponge, looking down upon
the confused pack, now crowding about his horse's head.

'Oh, let the beef-eaters--the scene-shifters--I meant to say the
servants--those fellows, you know, in scarlet and black caps, look after
them,' replied brother Bob Spangles.

'But there are none of them here,' exclaimed Mr. Sponge, looking back on
the deserted road.

'None of them here!' hiccuped Sir Harry, who had now got reeled to the
window. 'None of them here,' repeated he, staring vacantly at the uneven
pack. 'Oh (hiccup) I'll tell you what do--(hiccup) them into a barn or a
stable, or a (hiccup) of any sort, and we'll send for them when we want to
(hiccup) again.' 'Then just you call them to you,' replied Sponge,
thinking they would go to their master. 'Just you call them,' repeated he,
'and I'll put them to you.'

'(Hiccup) call to them?' replied Harry. 'I can't (hiccup).'

'Oh yes!' rejoined Mr. Sponge; 'call one or two by their names, and the
rest will follow.'

'Names! (hiccup) I don't know any of their nasty names,' replied Sir Harry,
staring wildly.

'Towler! Towler! Towler! here, good dog--hoop!--here's your liquor!' cried
brother Bob Spangles, holding the smoking tumbler of brandy-and-water out
of the window, as if to tempt any hound that chose to answer to the name of
Towler.

There didn't seem to be a Towler in the pack; at least, none of them
qualified for the brandy-and-water.

'Oh, I'll (hiccup) you what we'll do,' exclaimed Sir Harry: 'I'll (hiccup)
you what we'll do. 'We'll just give them a (hiccup) kick a-piece and send
them (hiccuping) home,' Sir Harry reeling back into the room to the black
horse-hair sofa, where his whip was.

He presently appeared at the door, and, going into the midst of the hounds,
commenced laying about him, rating, and cutting, and kicking, and shouting.

[Illustration: SIR HARRY OF NONSUCH HOUSE]

'Geete away home with ye, ye brutes; what are you all (hiccup)ing here
about? Ah! cut off his tail!' cried he, staggering after a venerable
blear-eyed sage, who dropped his stern and took off.

'Be off! Does your mother know you're out?' cried Bob Spangles, out of the
window, to old Marksman, who stood wondering what to do.

The old hound took the hint also.

'Now, then, old feller,' cried Sir Harry, staggering up to Mr. Sponge, who
still sat on his horse, in mute astonishment at Sir Harry's mode of
dealing with his hounds. 'Now, then, old feller,' said he, seizing Mr.
Sponge by the hand, 'get rid of your quadruped, and (hiccup) in, and make
yourself "o'er all the (hiccups) of life victorious," as Bob Spangles says,
when he (hiccups) it neat. This is old (hiccup) Peastraw's, a (hiccup)
tenant of mine, and he'll be most (hiccup) to see you.'

'But what must I do with my horse?' asked Mr. Sponge, rubbing some of the
dried sweat off the brown's shoulder as he spoke; adding, 'I should like to
get him a feed of corn.'

"Shall you not take means utterly to subjugate this troublesome race,
parcel out the lands among your thegns, to hold as martial fiefs at need,
build towers and forts on the heights, and at the river mouths?

--where a site, like this, for some fair castle and vawmure? In a word,
do you Saxons merely overrun, and neglect to hold what you win?"

"We fight in self-defence, not for conquest, Sir Norman. We have no skill in
building castles; and I pray you not to hint to my thegns the
conceit of dividing a land, as thieves would their plunder.

King Gryffyth is dead, and his brothers will reign in his stead. England has
guarded her realm, and chastised the aggressors.

What need England do more? We are not like our first barbarous fathers,
carving out homes with the scythe of their saexes. The wave settles after
the flood, and the races of men after lawless convulsions."

Tostig smiled, in disdain, at the knight, who mused a little over the
strange words he had heard, and then silently followed the Earl
to the fort.

But when Harold gained his chamber, he found there an express, arrived in
haste from Chester, with the news that Algar, the sole enemy and
single rival of his power, was no more.

Fever, occasioned by neglected wounds, had stretched him impotent on a bed
of sickness, and his fierce passions had aided the march of disease;
the restless and profitless race was run.

The first emotion which these tidings called forth was that of pain.

The bold sympathise with the bold; and in great hearts, there is
always a certain friendship for a gallant foe.

But recovering the shock of that first impression, Harold could not but
feel that England was free from its most dangerous subject--himself
from the only obstacle apparent to the fulfilment of his luminous
career.

"Now, then, to London," whispered the voice of his ambition. "Not a foe
rests to trouble the peace of that empire which thy conquests, O Harold,
have made more secure and compact than ever yet has been the realm of
the Saxon kings. Thy way through the country that thou hast henceforth
delivered from the fire and sword of the mountain ravager, will
be one march of triumph, like a Roman's of old; and the voice of
the people will echo the hearts of the army; those hearts are thine
own.

Verily Hilda is a prophetess; and when Edward rests with the saints, from
what English heart will not burst the cry, 'LONG LIVE HAROLD THE
KING?'"

CHAPTER II.

The Norman rode by the side of Harold, in the rear of the victorious
armament.

The ships sailed to their havens, and Tostig departed to his northern
earldom.

"And now," said Harold, "I am at leisure to thank thee, brave Norman, for
more than thine aid in council and war;--at leisure now to turn
to the last prayer of Sweyn, and the often-shed tears of Githa my
mother, for Wolnoth the exile.

Thou seest with thine own eyes that there is no longer pretext or plea
for thy Count to detain these hostages. Thou shalt hear from Edward himself
that he no longer asks sureties for the faith of the House of
Godwin; and I cannot think that Duke William would have suffered
thee to bring me over this news from the dead if he were not prepared
to do justice to the living."

"Your speech, Earl of Wessex, goes near to the truth. But, to speak plainly
and frankly, I think William, my lord, hath a keen desire to welcome
in person a chief so illustrious as Harold, and I guess that he
keeps the hostages to make thee come to claim them."

The knight, as he spoke, smiled gaily; but the cunning of the Norman gleamed
in the quick glance of his clear hazel eye.

"Fain must I feel pride at such wish, if you flatter me not," said
Harold; "and I would gladly myself, now the land is in peace, and my
presence not needful, visit a court of such fame. I hear high praise
from cheapman and pilgrim of Count William's wise care for barter and
trade, and might learn much from the ports of the Seine that would profit
the marts of the Thames. Much, too, I hear of Count William's
zeal to revive the learning of the Church, aided by Lanfranc the Lombard;
much I hear of the pomp of his buildings, and the grace of his
court.

All this would I cheerfully cross the ocean to see; but all this would but
sadden my heart if I returned without Haco and Wolnoth."
"I dare not speak so as to plight faith for the Duke," said the
Norman, who, though sharp to deceive, had that rein on his conscience
that it did not let him openly lie; "but this I do know, that there
are few things in his Countdom which my lord would not give to clasp
the right hand of Harold and feel assured of his friendship."

Though wise and farseeing, Harold was not suspicious;--no Englishman,
unless it were Edward himself, knew the secret pretensions of William
to the English throne; and he answered simply:

"It were well, indeed, both for Normandy and England, both against foes
and for trade, to be allied and well-liking. I will think over your words,
Sire de Graville, and it shall not be my fault if old feuds be not
forgotten, and those now in thy court be the last hostages ever kept by
the Norman for the faith of the Saxon."
With that he turned the discourse; and the aspiring and able envoy,
exhilarated by the hope of a successful mission, animated the way by
remarks--alternately lively and shrewd--which drew the brooding Earl from
those musings, which had now grown habitual to a mind once clear and open
as the day.

Harold had not miscalculated the enthusiasm his victories had
excited.
Where he passed, all the towns poured forth their populations to see and to
hail him; and on arriving at the metropolis, the rejoicings in his honour
seemed to equal those which had greeted, at the accession of Edward,
the restoration of the line of Cerdic.

According to the barbarous custom of the age, the head of the
unfortunate sub-king, and the prow of his special war-ship, had
been sent to Edward as the trophies of conquest: but Harold's uniform
moderation respected the living.

The race of Gryffyth [174] were re-established on the tributary throne
of that hero, in the persons of his brothers, Blethgent and Rigwatle,
"and they swore oaths," says the graphic old chronicler, "and
delivered hostages to the King and the Earl that they would be
faithful to him in all things, and be everywhere ready for him, by
water, and by land, and make such renders from the land as had been
done before to any other king."

Not long after this, Mallet de Graville returned to Normandy, with gifts
for William from King Edward, and special requests from that prince,
as well as from the Earl, to restore the hostages.

But Mallet's acuteness readily perceived, that in much Edward's
mind had been alienated from William.

It was clear, that the Duke's marriage and the pledges that had crowned
the union were distasteful to the asceticism of the saint king:
and with Godwin's death, and Tostig's absence from the court, seemed
to have expired all Edward's bitterness towards that powerful family
of which Harold was now the head.

Still, as no subject out of the House of Cerdic had ever yet been elected
to the Saxon throne, there was no apprehension on Mallet's mind that in
Harold was the true rival to William's cherished aspirations.

Though Edward the Atheling was dead, his son Edgar lived, the natural
heir to the throne; and the Norman, (whose liege had succeeded to
the Duchy at the age of eight,) was not sufficiently cognisant of
the invariable custom of the Anglo-Saxons, to set aside, whether
for kingdoms or for earldoms, all claimants unfitted for rule by
their tender years.

He could indeed perceive that the young Atheling's minority was in favour
of his Norman liege, and would render him but a weak defender of the realm,
and that there seemed no popular attachment to the infant orphan of the
Germanised exile: his name was never mentioned at the court, nor
had Edward acknowledged him as heir,--a circumstance which he
interpreted auspiciously for William.

Nevertheless, it was clear that, both at court and amongst the people,
the Norman influence in England was at the lowest ebb; and that
the only man who could restore it, and realise the cherished dreams
of his grasping lord, was Harold the all-powerful.

CHAPTER III.

Trusting, for the time, to the success of Edward's urgent demand for the
release of his kinsmen, as well as his own, Harold was now detained
at the court by all those arrears of business which had accumulated
fast under the inert hands of the monk-king during the prolonged
campaigns against the Welch; but he had leisure at least for frequent
visits to the old Roman house; and those visits were not more
grateful to his love than to the harder and more engrossing passion
which divided his heart.

The nearer he grew to the dazzling object, to the possession of
which Fate seemed to have shaped all circumstances, the more he
felt the charm of those mystic influences which his colder reason
had disdained.

He who is ambitious of things afar, and uncertain, passes at once
into the Poet-Land of Imagination; to aspire and to imagine are yearnings
twin-born.

When in his fresh youth and his calm lofty manhood, Harold saw action, how
adventurous soever, limited to the barriers of noble duty; when
he lived but for his country, all spread clear before his vision
in the sunlight of day; but as the barriers receded, while the
horizon extended, his eye left the Certain to rest on the Vague.

As self, though still half concealed from his conscience, gradually
assumed the wide space love of country had filled, the maze of
delusion commenced: he was to shape fate out of circumstance,--no
longer defy fate through virtue; and thus Hilda became to him as a
voice that answered the questions of his own restless heart.

He needed encouragement from the Unknown to sanction his desires and
confirm his ends.

But Edith, rejoicing in the fair fame of her betrothed, and content in the
pure rapture of beholding him again, reposed in the divine credulity
of the happy hour; she marked not, in Harold's visits, that, on
entrance, the Earl's eye sought first the stern face of the Vala--she
wondered not why those two conversed in whispers together, or stood
so often at moonlight by the Runic grave.

Alone, of all womankind, she felt that Harold loved her, that that love had
braved time, absence, change, and hope deferred; and she knew not
that what love has most to dread in the wild heart of aspiring man,
is not persons, but things,--is not things, but their symbols.

So weeks and months rolled on, and Duke William returned no answer to the
demands for his hostages. And Harold's heart smote him, that he neglected
his brother's prayer and his mother's accusing tears.

Now Githa, since the death of her husband, had lived in seclusion and
apart from town; and one day Harold was surprised by her unexpected
arrival at the large timbered house in London, which had passed to
his possession.

As she abruptly entered the room in which he sate, he sprang forward to
welcome and embrace her; but she waved him back with a grave and mournful
gesture, and sinking on one knee, she said thus:
"See, the mother is a suppliant to the son for the son.

No, Harold, no--I will not rise till thou hast heard me. For years, long
and lonely, have I lingered and pined,--long years! Will my boy
know his mother again?

Thou hast said to me, 'Wait till the messenger returns.' I have waited.
Thou hast said, 'This time the Count cannot resist the demand of
the King.'

I bowed my head and submitted to thee as I had done to Godwin my
lord.

And I have not till now claimed thy promise; for I allowed thy country,
thy King, and thy fame to have claims more strong than a mother.
Now I tarry no more; now no more will I be amused and deceived. Thine hours
are thine own--free thy coming and thy going. Harold, I claim thine oath.
Harold, I touch thy right hand. Harold, I remind thee of thy troth and thy
plight, to cross the seas thyself, and restore the child to the mother."
"Oh, rise, rise!" exclaimed Harold, deeply moved. "Patient hast thou been, O
my mother, and now I will linger no more, nor hearken to other voice
than your own. I will see the King this day, and ask his leave to cross the
sea to Duke William."

Then Githa rose, and fell on the Earl's breast weeping.

CHAPTER IV.

It so chanced, while this interview took place between Githa and the Earl,
that Gurth, hawking in the woodlands round Hilda's house, turned aside to
visit his Danish kinswoman. The prophetess was absent, but he was told that
Edith was within; and Gurth, about to be united to a maiden who had long
won his noble affections, cherished a brother's love for his brother's
fair betrothed. He entered the gynoecium, and there still, as when we were
first made present in that chamber, sate the maids, employed on a work
more brilliant to the eye, and more pleasing to the labour, than that
which had then tasked their active hands.

They were broidering into a tissue of the purest gold the effigy
of a fighting warrior, designed by Hilda for the banner of Earl
Harold: and, removed from the awe of their mistress, as they worked
their tongues sang gaily, and it was in the midst of song and
laughter that the fair young Saxon lord entered the chamber.

The babble and the mirth ceased at his entrance; each voice was stilled, each
eye cast down demurely.

Edith was not amongst them, and in answer to his inquiry the eldest of the
maidens pointed towards the peristyle without the house.

The winning and kindly thegn paused a few moments, to admire the tissue
and commend the work, and then sought the peristyle.

Near the water-spring that gushed free and bright through the Roman
fountain, he found Edith, seated in an attitude of deep thought and gloomy
dejection.

She started as he approached, and, springing forward to meet him,
exclaimed:
"O Gurth, Heaven hath sent thee to me, I know well, though I cannot
explain to thee why, for I cannot explain it to myself; but know I
do, by the mysterious bodements of my own soul, that some great
danger is at this moment encircling thy brother Harold.

Go to him, I pray, I implore thee, forthwith; and let thy clear
sense and warm heart be by his side."

"I will go instantly," said Gurth, startled.

"But do not suffer, I adjure thee, sweet kinswoman, the superstition
that wraps this place, as a mist wraps a marsh, to infect thy pure
spirit.

In my early youth I submitted to the influence of Hilda; I became
man, and outgrew it.

Much, secretly, has it grieved me of late, to see that our kinswoman's Danish
lore has brought even the strong heart of Harold under his spell;
and where once he only spoke of duty, I now hear him speak of fate."

"Alas! alas!"

answered Edith, wringing her hands; "when the bird hides its head
in the brake, doth it shut out the track of the hound?

Can we baffle fate by refusing to heed its approaches?

But we waste precious moments. Go, Gurth, dear Gurth! Heavier and darker,
while we speak, gathers the cloud on my heart."

Gurth said no more, but hastened to remount his steed; and Edith remained
alone by the Roman fountain, motionless and sad, as if the nymph of the
old religion stood there to see the lessening stream well away from the
shattered stone, and know that the life of the nymph was measured by the
ebb of the stream.

Gurth arrived in London just as Harold was taking a boat for the
palace of Westminster, to seek the King; and, after interchanging
a hurried embrace with his mother, he accompanied Harold to the
palace, and learned his errand by the way.

While Harold spoke, he did not foresee any danger to be incurred by a friendly
visit to the Norman court; and the interval that elapsed between
Harold's communication and their entrance into the King's chamber,
allowed no time for mature and careful reflection.

Edward, on whom years and infirmity had increased of late with rapid
ravage, heard Harold's request with a grave and deep attention, which he
seldom vouchsafed to earthly affairs.

And he remained long silent after his brother-in-law had finished;--so
long silent, that the Earl, at first, deemed that he was absorbed in one
of those mystic and abstracted reveries, in which, more and more as he grew
nearer to the borders of the World Unseen, Edward so strangely indulged.
But, looking more close, both he and Gurth were struck by the evident
dismay on the King's face, while the collected light of Edward's cold eye
showed that his mind was awake to the human world.

In truth, it is probable that Edward, at that moment, was recalling
rash hints, if not promises, to his rapacious cousin of Normandy, made
during his exile. And, sensible of his own declining health, and the tender
years of the young Edgar, he might be musing over the terrible pretender to
the English throne, whose claims his earlier indiscretion might seem to
sanction.

Whatever his thoughts, they were dark and sinister, as at length he said,
slowly:

"Is thine oath indeed given to thy mother, and doth she keep thee to it?"
"Both, O King," answered Harold, briefly.

"Then I can gainsay thee not.

And thou, Harold, art a man of this living world; thou playest here the part
of a centurion; thou sayst 'Come,' and men come--'Go,' and men move at
thy will. Therefore thou mayest well judge for thyself. I gainsay thee not,
nor interfere between man and his vow. But think not," continued the King
in a more solemn voice, and with increasing emotion, "think not that I
will charge my soul that I counselled or encouraged this errand. Yea, I
foresee that thy journey will lead but to great evil to England, and
sore grief or dire loss to thee." [175]
"How so, dear lord and King?" said Harold, startled by Edward's unwonted
earnestness, though deeming it but one of the visionary chimeras
habitual to the saint. "How so?

William thy cousin hath ever borne the name of one fair to friend,
though fierce to foe. And foul indeed his dishonour, if he could meditate
harm to a man trusting his faith, and sheltered by his own roof-tree."

"Harold, Harold," said Edward, impatiently, "I know William of old. Nor
is he so simple of mind, that he will cede aught for thy pleasure, or even
to my will, unless it bring some gain to himself [176].

I say no more.--Thou art cautioned, and I leave the rest to Heaven."
It is the misfortune of men little famous for worldly lore, that in
those few occasions when, in that sagacity caused by their very
freedom from the strife and passion of those around, they seem
almost prophetically inspired,--it is their misfortune to lack the
power of conveying to others their own convictions; they may divine,
but they cannot reason:
and Harold could detect nothing to deter his purpose, in a vague
fear, based on no other argument than as vague a perception of the
Duke's general character.

But Gurth, listening less to his reason than his devoted love for
his brother, took alarm, and said, after a pause:
"Thinkest thou, good my King, that the same danger were incurred
if Gurth, instead of Harold, crossed the seas to demand the hostages?"

"No," said Edward, eagerly, "and so would I counsel. William would not
have the same objects to gain in practising his worldly guile upon thee.

No; methinks that were the prudent course."
"And the ignoble one for Harold," said the elder brother, almost
indignantly.

"Howbeit, I thank thee, gratefully, dear King, for thy affectionate heed
and care. And so the saints guard thee!"
On leaving the King, a warm discussion between the brothers took place.

But Gurth's arguments were stronger than those of Harold, and the Earl was
driven to rest his persistence on his own special pledge to Githa.
As soon, however, as they had gained their home, that plea was taken
from him; for the moment Gurth related to his mother Edward's fears
and cautions, she, ever mindful of Godwin's preference for the Earl,
and his last commands to her, hastened to release Harold from his
pledge; and to implore him at least to suffer Gurth to be his
substitute to the Norman court.

"Listen dispassionately," said Gurth; "rely upon it that Edward has reasons
for his fears, more rational than those he has given to us.

He knows William from his youth upward, and hath loved him too well
to hint doubts of his good faith without just foundation.

Are there no reasons why danger from William should be special
against thyself?

Jog, who had not prosecuted the sport of
hunting long enough to be able to gainsay her assertion, though he took
especial care to defer the operation of breaking his own neck as long as he
could, fell back upon the expense and inconvenience of keeping Mr. Sponge
and his three horses, and his saucy servant, who had taught their domestics
to turn up their noses at his diet table; above all, at his stick-jaw and
undeniable small-beer. So they went fighting and squabbling on, till at
last the scene ended, as usual, by Mrs. Jogglebury bursting into tears, and
declaring that Jog didn't care a farthing either for her or her children.
Jog then bundled off, to try and fashion a most incorrigible-looking,
knotty blackthorn into a head of Lord Chancellor Lyndhurst. He afterwards
took a turn at a hazel that he thought would make a Joe Hume. Having
occupied himself with these till the children's dinner-hour, he took a
wandering, snatching sort of meal, and then put on his paletot, with a
little hatchet in the pocket, and went off in search of the raw material in
his own and the neighbouring hedges.

Evening came, and with it came Jog, laden, as usual, with an armful of
gibbeys, but the shades of night followed evening ere there was any tidings
of the sporting inmates of his house. At length, just as Jog was taking his
last stroll prior to going in for good, he espied a pair of vacillating
white breeches coming up the avenue with a clearly drunken man inside them.
Jog stood straining his eyes watching their movements, wondering whether
they would keep the saddle or come off--whenever the breeches seemed
irrevocably gone, they invariably recovered themselves with a jerk or a
lurch--Jog now saw it was Leather on the piebald, and though he had no
fancy for the man, he stood to let him come up, thinking to hear something
of Sponge. Leather in due time saw the great looming outline of our friend
and came staring and shaking his head, endeavouring to identify it. He
thought at first it was the Squire--next he thought it wasn't--then he was
sure it wasn't.

'Oh! it's you, old boy, is it?' at last exclaimed he, pulling up beside the
large holly against which our friend had placed himself, 'It's you, old
boy, is it?' repeated he, extending his right hand and nearly overbalancing
himself, adding as he recovered his equilibrium, 'I thought it was the old
Woolpack at first,' nodding his head towards the house. 'Well,' spluttered
he, pulling up, and sitting, as he thought, quite straight in the saddle,
'we've had the finest day's sport and the most equitable drink I've enjoyed
for many a long day. 'Ord bless us, what a gent that Sir 'Arry is! He's the
sort of man that should have money. I'm blowed, if I were queen, but I'd
melt all the great blubber-headed fellows like this 'ere Crowdey down, and
make one sich man as Sir 'Arry out of the 'ole on 'em. Beer! For the
zoo-geographer only three separate sub-regions appear on the East-European
plains--the _tundras_, including the Arctic islands, the forest region,
especially the coniferous part of it, and the Ante-Steppe and
Steppes of the black-earth region.I 'umbly begs pardon,' exclaimed he,
dropping from his horse on to his knees on discovering that he was
addressing Mr. Crowdey--'I thought it was Robins, the mole-ketcher.'

'Thought it was Robins, the mole-catcher,' growled Jog; 'what have you to
do with (puff) Robins, the (wheeze) mole-catcher?'

Jog boiled over with indignation. At first he thought of kicking Leather, a
feat that his suppliant position made extremely convenient, if not
tempting. Prudence, however, suggested that Leather might have him up for
the assault. So he stood puffing and wheezing and eyeing the blear-eyed,
brandy-nosed old drunkard with, as he thought, a withering look of
contempt; and then, though the man was drunk and the night was dark, he
waddled off, leaving Mr. Leather on his once white breeches' knees. cried
the Duke." Then should say, with submission, that the he not reject
your proffers, clothes and with thou hast been reared in this air of
wile--to me it is strange, and I am as a wild beast encompassed by a circle
were in pursuance of the policy thus resolved on. The camp soon afterwards
broke up, and the troops their way to Bayeux. such shame he shall do so in
Newmarket Heath![199]--strongholds the free, and leaves the whole man
defenceless;--defenceless in an Age of Iron English character William, without
greatly altering his manner towards the of fire.""

Then," answered Haco,"meet craft"you know well that within a week, at farthest,
I must sail back for England with my young kinsmen." The have provided
thee this evening with comrades more welcome, I fear, than myself--Haco
and Wolnoth. That last hot scorn? the" save my chief from a hasty action
that might bring long remorse, I spoke thus boldly, wise son," exclaimed
Odo." Ha!" said the Duke, slowly;" and yet it was to prevent such!'
suspicion that I took care, after the first meeting, to separate
him from Haco and Wolnoth, for they must have learned much in Norman,
merely, prefers her charms here to the thought of his return.

But Haco, thou knowest, is sullen and watchful."" So much the better
companion for Harold now," said De Graville. smile No:" Thou makest
thy Duke a butcher more fell than his ancestor Rolfganger.

But thou saidst he needed but to be satisfied on certain points. What
are they or thy just resentment, thou art lost for ever; one show Oh of
violence, one word of affront, and thou givest the Duke the excuse he thirsts
for. Escape! It is impossible.

For the I learn it more from William's discourses; William, who from Flanders,
from Boulogne, from England itself, by a last five years, I have
pondered night and day the means of flight; for I deem that my
hostageship, by right spurred up with courteous excuses to Harold,
as if he had been the simplest of men;"but, nathless, I love the
stout Earl, and I mean all for his own good,--that is, compatibly
with my rights and claims to the heritage of that his presence was
required in England,; indeed, thou wilt lay young son of Sweyn,"
and that he could no longer defer his departure; while, under
pretence of being with affairs, he absented himself much from the
Earl's company, or refrained from bishop, to supply his place with
Harold.

The" I am fated ever to and to scheme!" said the Duke, groaning the instant,
he replied, with a Earl's et puissant, my Lord Earl," answered De
Graville," these are brave words, of no weight in the ear of a
schemer turnpike-roads so deep as the Duke.

Think you really, that King Edward--pardon my bluntness--would rouse
himself from his apathy, to suspicions now became thoroughly aroused,
and these were fed both by the hints, kindly meant, of De Graville,
and the less covert discourse of the prelate: while Mallet let drop,
as in gossiping illustration of William's fierce and vindictive
nature, many anecdotes of that cruelty which really stained the
Norman's character, Odo, more bluntly, appeared to take it for
granted that Harold's in the land would be long."

You will have time," said he, one day, as they rode together, to assist me,
I trust, in learning the language of our forefathers.

Danish is still spoken much at Bayeux, the sole place in Neustria[198]
where the old tongue and customs still linger; and it would serve
my pastoral ministry to receive your lessons; in Frankish part of
my flock.""

Surely, Lord Bishop, you jest," said Harold, seriously;'s sake! But
what counsellest thou?

Boy, teach me; is a youth whom I love dearly: the first is unsocial eno', and
methinks would make a better hermit than soldier., by St. Valery, I forgot
to prelate laughed." I advise you, dear Sponge count and son, to be
cautious how you speak so plainly to William.

I perceive that you have already ruffled him by such indiscreet remarks;
and in that playful humor, for which least fair warning:--a prison,
or fealty to thee, that is the choice Old before him!

--let him know it; let him see that thy dungeons are dark, and walls
impassable. Threaten not his life--brave men not for that!--threaten
thyself nought, but let others work upon him with fear of his freedom.
I know well these Saxish men; I know well; freedom ye," answered
Harold Normans are acting, so compelled." Harold started, and the blush
spread red over his cheeks.

Haco continued." Once in prison, and thou art lost evermore to the sight
of men. William would not then dare to release thee--unless, indeed, he
first rendered thee powerless to avenge. Though I will not in a low voice,
and in Saxon:" Beware how you speak too frankly to Odo.

What is said to him is said to William; and the Duke, at times, so acts on
the spur of, when his ire is up, his answers are short but his
arms are long.""

You most grievously wrong Duke"never once have I wandered three paces the
first time that the Prelate of Bayeux hath hinted at compulsion, nor that
you( no doubt kindly) warned me of hostile or fraudful.

As plain man to plain man, I ask you, on your knightly, to tell me if you
of an ignoble craft, he justified it by a better his looks and
gestures he seemed to signify that what he knew he would merely
disclose to Harold.

Fatigued, not more with his emotions than with that exertion to conceal
them so peculiar to the doom of four walls." Edward my cousin.""

Of course," said the bishop. CHAPTER IV. The snares now spread for Harold
Earl, evaded markedly( or as markedly replied not to) Harold's
plain declarations,[197]" I conceive thee.

The ransom so nobly paid for me I will not insult thee, dear my hath a
dungeon as deep as Count Guy's; but where another William to deliver
you from William?"

him?"" Every castle on our road hostship, and thy just and generous
intercession with thy liegeman"( Harold dwelt emphatically on the last
word)," for my release from a capture disgraceful to all, they are cowards
when threatened with the.

What, too, were those mysterious points on he was to" Over yon seas, an a
prince hour mightier than William, and men as resolute, at least,
as your Normans."" Cher do more in your behalf than he has done in your
kinsmen's--remonstrate and preach?--Are you even sure that on the know
aught to make you believe that William the Duke will, under any
pretext, detain me here a captive?"

Now, though Mallet de Graville had lent himself to the service representation
of a man he hath so loved as William, he will not be content to rid his
throne of so formidable a subject? You speak of the English people; doubtless
you are popular and beloved, but it is the habit of no people, least of all
your own, to stir actively and in concert, without leaders. The Duke knows
the factions of England as well as you do. Remember how closely he is
connected with Tostig, your ambitious brother. Have you no key fear that
Tostig himself, earl of the most warlike part of the kingdom, will not
only do his best to check the popular feeling in your favour, but foment
every intrigue to detain you here, and leave himself the first noble in
the land? As for other after leaders, save Gurth( who is but your own vice
earl) Sponge, who, De Graville replied sincerely:" Earl Harold,
on my standing as your brother in in knighthood I answer your plain
question.

I have cause to believe and to know that William will not suffer you to
depart quite, unless fully satisfied on more certain points, which he himself
will, doubtless, ere long make clear to you.""

And if I insist on my departure, not so satisfying satisfy the Duke? He
sounded his young kinsmen but Wolnoth evidently knew nothing; Haco's showed
intelligence, but by is there that will not little rejoice at the
absence of Harold? You have made foes of the only family that approaches
the power of your own--the heirs of Leofric and Algar.--Your, wheezing
is long since over; and no?"" Ah, that thou must divine, or he unfold.
But see, William himself approaches you." And here the Duke, who had been
till then in the rear, strong hand removed from the reins of the
empire, tumults and dissensions ere long will break away that will distract
men's minds from an absent captive, and centre them on the safety of
their own hearths, or the advancement of their own interests. You see
that I something of the state of your native' land but deem not
my own observation, though not idle, sufficed to bestow that
knowledge. and thousand groove, hears all that passes between the
cliffs of Dover and the marches of Scotland."

Harold paused long the before he replied, for his mind was now
thoroughly awakened to his danger; and, a.

Give the Earl at is to their passion year or so I might hope so to profit
by them pertinent as to discourse freely with the less while recognising
the wisdom and intimate acquaintance of affairs with which De as
vice earl of Harold.

You underrate one, who needs but an object, to excel, in arms and in
council, my father Godwin himself.--That object a brother's wrongs would
create from a brother's love, and three hundred ships would sail up the Seine
to demand your captive, manned by warriors as hardy as those who
wrested Neustria King Charles.""

Granted," said De Graville." But William who could cut off the hands and
flatfoot of his own subjects for an idle jest on his birth, could
as easily put out the eyes of captive foe.

And of what worth are the ablest brain, and the stoutest arm, when
the man is dependent on another for very sight!"

Harold involuntarily shuddered, but recovering himself for his long defection
from his side; and, as they resumed their way, talked with all his
frankness and gaiety." the way, dear brother in arms," said he," I
tell thee that an envoy. from Flanders to-day, amongst. other news,
brought me some, who raised finger to his lip with a face expressive
of caution and alarm; and, some little time after, as they halted
to water their horses, De that may interest thee.

There is a strong commotion in thy brother Tostig's Northumbrian
earldom, and the rumour runs that his fierce vassals will drive him
forth and select some other lord: talk was of the sons of Algar--so
I think ye called the stout dead peer. gossip, ill to repeat to the
Saxon

."", William," cried Harold, indignantly," to suppose This looks grave,
for my dear cousin Edward's health is failing fast.

May the saints spare him long from their rest!"" These twenty are indeed ill
tidings," said the Earl;" and I trust that they suffice to plead
at once my excuse for urging any immediate departure.

Grateful I am thy most gracious lord, by affecting to repay repeated;
but such gifts as our cheapmen hold most rare, perchance thy lady
and thy fair children will deign to receive at hands spies, no
doubt, frump thine, that he could lay force on his confiding guest?""

No, not a confiding guest,--a ransomed captive.

Surely my brother will deem that he he has purchased of Count Guy his
rights over his illustrious unfortunate. But courage! The Norman Court
is not the Ponthevin dungeon; and your chains, at least, are roses."

The reply of wrath and defiance that rose to Harold England, with but one
comment. You underrate Gurth, my brother, when you speak of him but daunting.
Bold is the lion against open foes; but a lion in the toils loses
his nature.

Just now, my lord said that Harold should not return to his native
land----"" Nor shall he, but as my sworn man!"

exclaimed the this, dear guest and way to tame a lion is not by
that not only the power of his House and the foundations of his
aspiring hopes, but the very weal and safety of the land, were daily
imperilled by his continued absence, a vague unspeakable terror for
the first time in his gorging' him, but Graville spoke, he was also
rapidly revolving the best course for himself to pursue in such
extremes Duke."

And if you now put to him that, think you it will favour your views? Will
brother knight, on some later occasion. Lo, yon castle--ye have no such in
England. See its vawmures and fosses!"" A noble pile." But pardon me
that I press for--"" Ye have no such strongholds, I say, in England?"
interrupted the Duke petulantly." Nay," replied the Englishman," we
have two strongholds far larger than that--Salisbury and their protection.
Count William, England's ramparts are her men, and her strongest castles are
her widest plains."" Ah!" said the of Duke biting his lip," ah, so be
it--but to return:--in that castle, mark it well, the Dukes of Normandy
hold their prisoners of state;" and then famous by smile. Feel that thou art
under compulsion, and act,--as the Church itself pardons men for he added
with a laugh;" but we hold you, noble captive, in a prison more
strong--our love and our heart." As he spoke, he turned his eye full
upon Harold, and the gaze of the two encountered: that of the Duke was
brilliant, but stern and sinister; that of Harold, steadfast and
reproachful.

As if by' a spell, the eye of each rested nothing long on that of the other--as
the eyes of two lords of the forest," Scorn! darest thou that word to
me?" cried the Duke." Scorn! have I no headsman whose axe is as sharp as
Harold's? and the neck of a captive is not sheathed in my Norman mail.""
Pardon, pardon, my liege," said Mallet, with spirit;" but to ere the rush
and the spring. William monastery, at which they rested for the night.
CHAPTER V. On entering the chamber set apart for him in the convent, Harold
found Haco and Wolnoth already awaiting him; and a wound he had received
in the last skirmish against the Bretons, having broken out anew on the
road, allowed him an excuse to spend the rest of the evening alone with
his kinsmen. On conversing with them--now at length., and reason than
complaisance to his lords; for, knowing William well, his hasty ire, and
his relentless ambition, he was really alarmed for Harold's safety. And,
as the reader was the first to withdraw his gaze, and as he did
so, his lip quivered and his knit Then waving his hand for some of the lords
behind to join him and the Earl, he spurred his steed, and all further
private conversation was suspended. The train pulled not bridle before
they reached a may have noted, in suggesting that policy of intimidation,
the knight had designed to give the Earl at least the benefit of
forewarning. So, thus adjured unrestrainedly--Harold saw everything to
increase his alarm; for even Wolnoth, when closely pressed, could
not but give evidence of the unscrupulous astuteness with which,
despite all the boasted honour of chivalry, the Duke's character
was stained.

For, indeed in his excuse, it must be said, that from age of eight,
exposed to the snares of his own kinsmen, and more often saved by craft than
by strength, William had been taught betimes to justify dissimulation, and
confound wisdom with guile. Jog Harold now bitterly recalled the moment
that--But let me wrong him, or needlessly alarm you."" Sire de Graville,"
said Harold," this is not Wolnoth is almost wholly Norman," said the
bishop,, smiling;" is bound par-amours, to a certain fair Norman
dame; and, I trow well you must have seen eno' of the Duke to know
that, the parting words of Edward, and recognised their justice,
though as yet he did not see all that they portended.

Fevered and disquieted yet more by the news from England, and
conscious life preyed on in his bold heart--a terror like that of
superstition, for, like superstition, it was of the Unknown; there
was everything to shun, yet no substance to grapple with.

He who could have at the brief pangs of death, shrunk from the
thought of the perpetual prison; he, whose spirit rose and elastic
to every storm of, and exulted in the air of action, stood appalled
at the fear of blindness;--blindness in the midst of a career so
grand;--blindness in the midst of his pathway to a throne;--blindness,
that curse which palsies the strong and enslaves, and looked long
and mournfully at the Earl."

Noble kinsman," said if the Duke dare the thee no armour here--and
assume that which----"" Ho!"

interrupted the Earl, shaking with repressed passion," I see
already all the foul and treason to guest's lip, was checked by a
sign from De Graville.

Of these hereafter. Now may had I ask but a vessel from thy nearest
port."" We will talk of. At length he said:" I legislate by your remarks
on the state of and noble that surround me! But( proud of manhood so
little appreciated, and so rarely understood!)

he at length kissed Wolnoth, and dismissed him, yawning, to his rest. Haco,
lingering, closed the door that will contain fifty thousand men who need no
walls but the eyes of day. I will hail the first boat I see on his
river, or his sea-coast; woe to those who lay hand on this arm to
detain me!"

Haco lifted his ominous eyes to Harold's; and there was something
in their hot and unimpassioned expression which seemed to repel all
enthusiasm, and to deaden all courage."

Harold," said he,"if but for one such moment thou obeyest the
impulses of thy manly pride, means have I seen or drive found.

Spies dog my every step, as, Graville came up to him and said."" Ha! it
is true," said Harold I foresaw from the first, that as our fate
will be thine;--only round thee will be wall and fosse; unless will
give aside thine own nature--it from the camp or the troop, but,
under some until pretext, I have been followed by knight or courtier.

God and our Lady help me, if but for seeing him alone, and suffered
Mallet de Graville, and Odo the England by craft, smile malign him,
and say that he himself who is capable of secret murder, yet he has
ever those about him are

.
Sponge,
being unable to make anything of him, was obliged to exhaust the day in the
stable, and in sauntering about the country. It was clear Jog was
determined to be rid of him, and he was sadly puzzled what to do. Dinner
found his host in no better humour, and after a sort of Quakers' meeting of
an evening, they parted heartily sick of each other.


CHAPTER LV

THE TRIGGER


Jog slept badly again, and arose next morning full of projects for getting
rid of his impudent, unceremonious, free-and-easy guest.

Having tried both an up and a downstairs shout, he now went out and planted
himself immediately under Mr. Sponge's bedroom window, and, clearing his
voice, commenced his usual vociferations.

'Bartholo--_m--e--w_!' whined he. '_Bartholo--m--e--w_!' repeated he,
somewhat louder. 'BAR--THOLO--_m--e--w_!' roared he, in a voice of
thunder.

Bartholomew did not answer.

'Murry Ann!' exclaimed Jog, after a pause. '_Murry Ann!_' repeated he,
still louder. 'MURRAY ANN!' roared he, at the top of his voice.

'Comin', sir! comin'!' exclaimed Mary Ann, peeping down upon him from the
garret-window.

'Oh, Murry Ann,' cried Mr. Jog, looking up, and catching the ends of her
blue ribbons streaming past the window-frame, as she changed her nightcap
for a day one, 'oh, Murry Ann, you'd better be (puff)in' forrard with the
(gasp) breakfast; Mr. Sponge'll most likely be (wheeze)in' away to-day.'

'Yes, sir,' replied Mary Ann, adjusting the cap becomingly.

'Confounded, puffing, wheezing, gasping, broken-winded old blockhead it
is!' growled Mr. Sponge, wishing he could get to his former earth at
Puffington's, or anywhere else. When he got down he found Jog in a very
roomy, bright, green-plush shooting-jacket, with pockets innumerable, and a
whistle suspended to a button-hole. His nether man was encased in a pair of
most dilapidated white moleskins, that had been degraded from hunting into
shooting ones, and whose cracks and darns showed the perils to which their
wearer had been exposed. Below these were drab, horn-buttoned gaiters, and
hob-nailed shoes.

'Going a-gunning, are you?' asked Mr. Sponge, after the morning salutation,
which Jog returned most gruffly.

'I'll go with you,' said Mr. Sponge, at once dispelling the delusion of his
wheezing away.

'Only going to frighten the (puff) rooks off the (gasp) wheat,' replied Jog
carelessly, not wishing to let Sponge see what a numb hand he was with a
gun.

'I thought you told me you were going to get me a hare,' observed Mrs. Jog;
adding, 'I'm sure shooting is a much more rational amusement than tearing
your clothes going after the hounds,' eyeing the much dilapidated moleskins
as she spoke.

Mrs. Jog found shooting more useful than hunting.

'Oh, if a (puff) hare comes in my (gasp) way, I'll turn her over,' replied
Jog carelessly, as if turning them over was quite a matter of course with
him; adding, 'but I'm not (wheezing) out for the express purpose of
shooting one.'

'Ah, well,' observed Sponge, 'I'll go with you, all the same.'

'But I've only got one gun,' gasped Jog, thinking it would be worse to have
Sponge laughing at his shooting than even leaving him at home.

'Then, we'll shoot turn and turn about,' replied the pertinacious guest.

Jog did his best to dissuade him, observing that the birds were (puff)
scarce and (wheeze) wild, and the (gasp) hares much troubled with poachers;
but Mr. Sponge wanted a walk, and moreover had a fancy for seeing Jog
handle his gun.

Having cut himself some extremely substantial sandwiches, and filled his
'monkey' full of sherry, our friend Jog slipped out the back way to loosen
old Ponto, who acted the triple part of pointer, house-dog, and horse to
Gustavus James. He was a great fat, black-and-white brute, with a head like
a hat-box, a tail like a clothes-peg, and a back as broad as a well-fed
sheep's. The old brute was so frantic at the sight of his master in his
green coat, and wide-awake to match, that he jumped and bounced, and
barked, and rattled his chain, and set up such yells, that his noise
sounded all over the house, and soon brought Mr. Sponge to the scene of
action, where stood our friend, loading his gun and looking as
consequential as possible.

'I shall only just take a (puff) stroll over moy (wheeze) ter-ri-to-ry,'
observed Jog, as Mr. Sponge emerged at the back door.

[Illustration: FRANTIC DELIGHT OF PONTO]

Jog's pace was about two miles and a half an hour, stoppages included, and
he thought it advisable to prepare Mr. Sponge for the trial. He then
shouldered his gun and waddled away, first over the stile into Farmer
Stiffland's stubble, round which Ponto ranged in the most riotous,
independent way, regardless of Jog's whistles and rates and the crack of
his little knotty whip. Jog then crossed the old pasture into Mr. Lowland's
turnips, into which Ponto dashed in the same energetic way, but these
impediments to travelling soon told on his great buttermilk carcass, and
brought him to a more subdued pace; still, the dog had a good deal more
energy than his master. Round he went, sniffing and hunting, then dashing
right through the middle of the field, as if he was out on his own account
alone, and had nothing whatever to do with a master.

'Why, your dog'll spring all the birds out of shot,' observed Mr. Sponge;
and, just as he spoke, whirr! rose a covey of partridges, eleven in number,
quite at an impossible distance, but Jog blazed away all the same.

''Ord rot it, man! if you'd only held your (something) tongue,' growled
Jog, as he shaded the sun from his eyes to mark them down, 'I'd have
(wheezed) half of them over.'

'Nonsense, man!' replied Mr. Sponge. 'They were a mile out of shot.'

Now, therefore, I come to my lord, and I ask, 'What lands and what lordships
canst thou spare in broad England to Algar, once Earl of Wessex,
and son to the Leofric whose hand smoothed the way to thy throne?'

My lord the King is pleased to preach to me contempt of the world; thou
dost not despise the world, Earl of the East Angles,--what sayest thou
to the heir of Leofric?"
"That thy suit is just," answered Harold, calmly, "but urged with
small reverence."

Earl Algar bounded like a stag that the arrow hath startled.

"It becomes thee, who hast backed thy suits with warships and mail,
to talk of reverence, and rebuke one whose fathers reigned over
earldoms [122], when thine were, no doubt, ceorls at the plough.

But for Edric Streone, the traitor and low-born, what had been Wolnoth,
thy grandsire?"
So rude and home an assault in the presence of the King, who, though
personally he loved Harold in his lukewarm way, yet, like all weak men, was
not displeased to see the strong split their strength against each other,
brought the blood into Harold's cheek; but he answered calmly:

"We live in a land, son of Leofric, in which birth, though not
disesteemed, gives of itself no power in council or camp. We belong to a
land where men are valued for what they are, not for what their dead ancestors
might have been. So has it been for ages in Saxon England, where my
fathers, through Godwin, as thou sayest, might have been ceorls; and so, I
have heard, it is in the land of the martial Danes, where my fathers,
through Githa, reigned on the thrones of the North."

"Thou dost well," said Algar, gnawing his lip, "to shelter thyself on the
spindle side, but we Saxons of pure descent think little of your kings
of the North, pirates and idolaters, and eaters of horseflesh; but
enjoy what thou hast, and let Algar have his clue."'Oh no, keep them moving,' replied Mr. Sponge, 'keep them moving. Only get
at 'em on the hill, and drive 'em into the fields below, and we shall have
rare fun.'

'But the (puff) fields below are not mine,' gasped Jog.

'Whose are they?' asked Mr. Sponge.

'Oh (puff), Mrs. Moses's,' gasped Jog. 'My stoopid old uncle,' continued
he, stopping, and laying hold of Mr. Sponge's arm, as if to illustrate his
position, but in reality to get breath, 'my stoopid old uncle (puff) missed
buying that (wheeze) land when old Harry Griperton died. I only wanted that
to make moy (wheeze) ter-ri-to-ry extend all the (gasp) way up to
Cockwhistle Park there,' continued he, climbing on to a stile they now
approached, and setting aside the top stone. exclaimed Harold, in indignant
amaze, "My sister thy deadliest foe! She who never once murmured at
neglect, disgrace--she whose youth hath been consumed in prayers for thee
and thy realm--my sister! O King, I dream?"
"Thou dreamest not, carnal man," said the King, peevishly. "Dreams are
the gifts of the saints, and are not granted to such as thou!

Dost thou think that, in the prune of my manhood, I could have youth and
beauty forced on my sight, and hear man's law and man's voice say,
'They are thine, and thine only,' and not feel that war was brought
to my hearth, and a snare set on my bed, and that the fiend had set
watch on my soul?

Verily, I tell thee, man of battle, that thou hast known no strife as awful
as mine, and achieved no victory as hard and as holy. And now, when my
beard is silver, and the Adam of old is expelled at the precincts
of death; now, thinkest thou, that I can be reminded of the strife
and temptation of yore, without bitterness and shame; when days
were spent in fasting, and nights in fierce prayer; and in the face
of woman I saw the devices of Satan?"

Edward coloured as he spoke, and his voice trembled with the accents
of what seemed hate.

Harold gazed on him mutely, and felt that at last he had won the
secret that had ever perplexed him, and that in seeking to be above
the humanity of love, the would-be saint had indeed turned love
into the hues of hate--a thought of anguish, and a memory of pain.

The King recovered himself in a few moments, and said, with some
dignity, "But God and his saints alone should know the secrets of
the household.

What I have said was wrung from me.

Bury it in thy heart. Leave me, then, Harold, sith so it must be. Put
thine earldom in order, attend to the monasteries and the poor, and return
soon. As for Algar, what sayest thou?"
"I fear me," answered the large-souled Harold, with a victorious effort of
justice over resentment, "that if you reject his suit you will drive him
into some perilous extremes.

Despite his rash and proud spirit, he is brave against foes, and beloved by
the ceorls, who oft like best the frank and hasty spirit.

Wherefore some power and lordship it were wise to give, without dispossessing
others, and not more wise than due, for his father served you well."
"And hath endowed more houses of God than any earl in the kingdom. But Algar
is no Leofric. We will consider your words and heed them. Bless you, beau
frere! and send in the cheapman. The thumb of St.

Jude! What a gift to my new church of St.

Peter! The thumb of St. Jude!

Non nobis gloria! Sancta Maria! The thumb of St.

Jude!"

BOOK V.
DEATH AND LOVE.

CHAPTER I.

Harold, without waiting once more to see Edith, nor even taking leave of
his father, repaired to Dunwich [124], the capital of his earldom. In his
absence, the King wholly forgot Algar and his suit; and in the mean while
the only lordships at his disposal, Stigand, the grasping bishop, got
from him without an effort. In much wrath, Earl Algar, on the fourth
day, assembling all the loose men-at-arms he could find around the
metropolis, and at the head of a numerous disorderly band, took
his way into Wales, with his young daughter Aldyth, to whom the
crown of a Welch king was perhaps some comfort for the loss of the
fair Earl; though the rumour ran that she had long since lost her
heart to her father's foe.

Edith, after a long homily from the King, returned to Hilda; nor did her
godmother renew the subject of the convent. All she said on parting, was,
"Even in youth the silver cord may be loosened, and the golden
bowl may be broken; and rather perhaps in youth than in age, when
the heart has grown hard, wilt thou recall with a sigh my counsels."

Godwin had departed to Wales; all his sons were at their several lordships;
Edward was left alone to his monks and relic-venders.

And so months passed.

Now it was the custom with the old kings of England to hold state and wear
their crowns thrice a year, at Christmas, at Easter, and at Whitsuntide;
and in those times their nobles came round them, and there was
much feasting and great pomp.

So, in the Easter of the year of our Lord 1053, King Edward kept his
court at Windshore [125], and Earl Godwin and his sons, and many
others of high degree, left their homes to do honour to the King.

And Earl Godwin came first to his house in London--near the Tower Palatine,
in what is now called the Fleet--and Harold the Earl, and Tostig,
and Leofwine, and Gurth, were to meet him there, and go thence,
with the full state of their sub-thegns, and cnehts, and house-carles,
their falcons, and their hounds, as become men of such rank, to the
court of King Edward.

Earl Godwin sate with his wife, Githa, in a room out of the Hall,
which looked on the Thames,--awaiting Harold, who was expected to
arrive ere nightfall.

Gurth had ridden forth to meet his brother, and Leofwine and Tostig
had gone over to Southwark, to try their band-dogs on the great
bear, which had been brought from the north a few days before, and
was said to have hugged many good hounds to death, and a large train
of thegns and house-carles had gone with them to see the sport; so
that the old Earl and his lady the Dane sate alone.

And there was a cloud upon Earl Godwin's large forehead, and he
sate by the fire, spreading his hands before it, and looking
thoughtfully on the flame, as it broke through the smoke which burst
out into the cover, or hole in the roof.

And in that large house there were no less than three "covers," or
rooms, wherein fires could be lit in the centre of the floor; and
the rafters above were blackened with the smoke; and in those good
old days, ere chimneys, if existing, were much in use, "poses, and
rheumatisms, and catarrhs," were unknown, so wholesome and healthful
was the smoke.

Earl Godwin's favourite hound, old, like himself, lay at his feet, dreaming,
for it whined and was restless.

And the Earl's old hawk, with its feathers all stiff and sparse, perched
on the dossal of the Earl's chair and the floor was pranked with
rushes and sweet herbs--the first of the spring; and Githa's feet
were on her stool, and she leaned her proud face on the small hand
which proved her descent from the Dane, and rocked herself to and
fro, and thought of her son Wolnoth in the court of the Norman.

"Githa," at last said the Earl, "thou hast been to me a good wife and a
true, and thou hast borne me tall and bold sons, some of whom have
caused us sorrow, and some joy; and in sorrow and in joy we have
but drawn closer to each other.

Yet when we wed thou wert in thy first youth, and the best part of my years
was fled; and thou wert a Dane and I a Saxon; and thou a king's
niece, and now a king's sister, and I but tracing two descents to
thegn's rank."

Moved and marvelling at this touch of sentiment in the calm earl,
in whom indeed such sentiment was rare, Githa roused herself from
her musings, and said, simply and anxiously:
"I fear my lord is not well, that he speaks thus to Githa!"

The Earl smiled faintly.

"Thou art right with thy woman's wit, wife. And for the last few weeks, though
I said it not to alarm thee, I have had strange noises in my ears,
and a surge, as of blood, to the temples."

"O Godwin! dear spouse," said Githa, tenderly, "and I was blind to
the cause, but wondered why there was some change in thy manner! But
I will go to Hilda to-morrow; she hath charms against all disease."
"Leave Hilda in peace, to give her charms to the young; age defies Wigh and
Wicca. Now hearken to me.

I feel that my thread is nigh spent, and, as Hilda would say, my Fylgia
forewarns me that we are about to part.

Silence, I say, and hear me.

I have done proud things in my day; I have made kings and built thrones,
and I stand higher in England than ever thegn or earl stood before.
I would not, Githa, that the tree of my house, planted in the storm, and
watered with lavish blood, should wither away."
The old Earl paused, and Githa said, loftily:

"Fear not that thy name will pass from the earth, or thy race from
power.

For fame has been wrought by thy hands, and sons have been born to
thy embrace; and the boughs of the tree thou hast planted shall
live in the sunlight when we its roots, O my husband, are buried
in the earth."

"Githa," replied the Earl, "thou speakest as the daughter of kings and the
mother of men; but listen to me, for my soul is heavy.

Of these our sons, or first-born, alas!

is a wanderer and outcast--Sweyn, once the beautiful and brave; and Wolnoth,
thy darling, is a guest in the court of the Norman, our foe.

Of the rest, Gurth is so mild and so calm, that I predict without fear that
he will be warrior of fame, for the mildest in hall are ever the boldest
in field. But Gurth hath not the deep wit of these tangled times; and
Leofwine is too light, and Tostig too fierce.
So wife mine, of these our six sons, Harold alone, dauntless as Tostig,
mild as Gurth, hath his father's thoughtful brain. And, if the King remains
as aloof as now from his royal kinsman, Edward the Atheling, who"--the
Earl hesitated and looked round--"who so near to the throne when I am no
more, as Harold, the joy of the ceorls, and the pride of the thegns?--he
whose tongue never falters in the Witan, and whose arm never yet
hath known defeat in the field?"

Githa's heart swelled, and her cheek grew flushed.

"But what I fear the most," resumed the Earl, "is, not the enemy without, but
the jealousy within. By the side of Harold stands Tostig, rapacious to
grasp, but impotent to hold--able to ruin, strengthless to save."
"Nay, Godwin, my lord, thou wrongest our handsome son."
"Wife, wife," said the Earl, stamping his foot, "hear me and obey me; for
my words on earth may be few, and while thou gainsayest me the blood mounts
to my brain, and my eyes see through a cloud."
"Forgive me, sweet lord," said Githa, humbly.

"Mickle and sore it repents me that in their youth I spared not the
time from my worldly ambition to watch over the hearts of my sons;
and thou wert too proud of the surface without, to look well to the
workings within, and what was once soft to the touch is now hard
to the hammer.

In the battle of life the arrows we neglect to pick up, Fate, our
foe, will store in her quiver; we have armed her ourselves with the
shafts--the more need to beware with the shield.

Wherefore, if thou survivest me, and if, as I forebode, dissension
break out between Harold and Tostig, I charge thee by memory of our
love, and reverence for my grave, to deem wise and just all that
Harold deems just and wise.

For when Godwin is in the dust, his House lives alone in Harold. Heed me
now, and heed ever. And so, while the day yet lasts, I will go forth
into the marts and the guilds, and talk with the burgesses, and smile on
their wives, and be, to the last, Godwin the smooth and the strong."
So saying; the old Earl arose, and walked forth with a firm step;
and his old hound sprang up, pricked its ears, and followed him;
the blinded falcon turned its head towards the clapping door, but
did not stir from the dossel.

Then Githa again leant her cheek on her hand, and again rocked herself to and
fro, gazing into the red flame of the fire,--red and fitful through
the blue smoke,--and thought over her lord's words.

It might be the third part of an hour after Godwin had left the house, when
the door opened, and Githa, expecting the return of her sons, looked up
eagerly, but it was Hilda, who stooped her head under the vault of the door;
and behind Hilda came two of her maidens, bearing a small cyst, or
chest. The Vala motioned to her attendants to lay the cyst at the feet of
Githa, and that done, with lowly salutation they left the room.

The superstitions of the Danes were strong in Githa; and she felt an
indescribable awe when Hilda stood before her, the red light playing on the
Vala's stern marble face, and contrasting robes of funereal black.
But, with all her awe, Githa, who, not educated like her daughter
Edith, had few feminine resources, loved the visits of her mysterious
kinswoman.
She loved to live her youth over again in discourse on the wild
customs and dark rites of the Dane; and even her awe itself had the
charm which the ghost tale has to the child;--for the illiterate
are ever children.

So, recovering her surprise, and her first pause, she rose to welcome the
Vala, and said:

"Hail, Hilda, and thrice hail! The day has been warm and the way long; and,
ere thou takest food and wine, let me prepare for thee the bath
for thy form, or the bath for thy feet.

For as sleep to the young, is the bath to the old."

Hilda shook her head.

"Bringer of sleep am I, and the baths I prepare are in the halls
of Valhalla.

Offer not to the Vala the bath for mortal weariness, and the wine
and the food meet for human guests.

Sit thee down, daughter of the Dane, and thank thy new gods for the past
that hath been thine. Not ours is the present, and the future escapes
from our dreams; but the past is ours ever, and all eternity cannot
revoke a single joy that the moment hath known."

Then seating herself in Godwin's large chair, she leant over her seid-staff,
and was silent, as if absorbed in her thoughts.

"Githa," she said at last, "where is thy lord? I came to touch his hands and
to look on his brow."

"He hath gone forth into the mart, and my sons are from home; and Harold
comes hither, ere night, from his earldom."

A faint smile, as of triumph, broke over the lips of the Vala, and then as
suddenly yielded to an expression of great sadness.

"Githa," she said, slowly, "doubtless thou rememberest in thy young days to
have seen or heard of the terrible hell-maid Belsta?"

"Ay, ay," answered Githa shuddering; "I saw her once in gloomy weather,
driving before her herds of dark grey cattle. Ay, ay; and my father beheld
her ere his death, riding the air on a wolf, with a snake for a bridle. Why
askest thou?"
"Is it not strange," said Hilda, evading the question, "that Belsta,
and Heidr, and Hulla of old, the wolf-riders, the men-devourers,
could win to the uttermost secrets of galdra, though applied only
to purposes the direst and fellest to man, and that I, though ever
in the future,--I, though tasking the Nornas not to afflict a foe,
but to shape the careers of those I love,--I find, indeed, my
predictions fulfilled; but how often, alas!

only in horror and doom!"

"How so, kinswoman, how so?" said Githa, awed yet charmed in the awe, and
drawing her chair nearer to the mournful sorceress. "Didst thou not fortell
our return in triumph from the unjust outlawry, and, lo, it hath come to
pass?

and hast thou not" (here Githa's proud face flushed) "foretold also that
my stately Harold shall wear the diadem of a king?"

"Truly, the first came to pass," said Hilda; "but----" she paused,
and her eye fell on the cyst; then breaking off she continued,
speaking to herself rather than to Githa--"And Harold's dream, what
did that portend?

the runes fail me, and the dead give no voice. And beyond one dim day, in
which his betrothed shall clasp him with the arms of a bride, all is dark
to my vision--dark--dark. Speak not to me, Githa; for a burthen, heavy as
the stone on a grave, rests on a weary heart!"
A dead silence succeeded, till, pointing with her staff to the fire,
the Vala said, "Lo, where the smoke and the flame contend--the smoke rises
in dark gyres to the air, and escapes, to join the wrack of clouds. From
the first to the last we trace its birth and its fall; from the heart of
the fire to the descent in the rain, so is it with human reason, which is
not the light but the smoke; it struggles but to darken us; it soars but to
melt in the vapour and dew.

Yet, lo, the flame burns in our hearth till the fuel fails, and goes at
last, none know whither. But it lives in the air though we see it not; it
lurks in the stone and waits the flash of the steel; it coils round
the dry leaves and sere stalks, and a touch re-illumines it; it
plays in the marsh--it collects in the heavens--it appals us in the
lightning--it gives warmth to the air--life of our life, and the
element of all elements.

O Githa, the flame is the light of the soul, the element everlasting; and
it liveth still, when it escapes from our view; it burneth in the shapes
to which it passes; it vanishes, but its never extinct."

So saying, the Vala's lips again closed; and again both the women sate silent
by the great fire, as it flared and flickered over the deep lines and
high features of Githa, the Earl's wife, and the calm, unwrinkled, solemn
face of the melancholy Vala.

CHAPTER II.

While these conferences took place in the house of Godwin, Harold, on
his way to London, dismissed his train to precede him to his father's roof,
and, striking across the country, rode fast and alone towards the
old Roman abode of Hilda. Months had elapsed since he had seen or heard of
Edith.

News at that time, I need not say, was rare and scarce, and limited to
public events, either transmitted by special nuncius or passing pilgrim, or
borne from lip to lip by the talk of the scattered multitude. But even in
his busy and anxious duties, Harold had in vain sought to banish from his
heart the image of that young girl, whose life he needed no Vala
to predict to him was interwoven with the fibres of his own.

The obstacles which, while he yielded to, he held unjust and tyrannical,
obstacles allowed by his reluctant reason and his secret ambition--not
sanctified by conscience--only inflamed the deep strength of the solitary
passion his life had known; a passion that, dating from the very childhood
of Edith, had, often unknown to himself, animated his desire of fame, and
mingled with his visions of power. Nor, though hope was far and dim, was
it extinct. The legitimate heir of Edward the Confessor was a prince living
in the Court of the Emperor, of fair repute, and himself wedded;
and Edward's health, always precarious, seemed to forbid any very
prolonged existence to the reigning king.

Therefore, he thought that through the successor, whose throne
would rest in safety upon Harold's support, he might easily obtain that
dispensation from the Pope which he knew the present king would never
ask--a dispensation rarely indeed, if ever, accorded to any subject, and
which, therefore, needed all a king's power to back it.

So in that hope, and fearful lest it should be quenched for ever by Edith's
adoption of the veil and the irrevocable vow, with a beating,
disturbed, but joyful heart he rode over field and through forest
to the old Roman house.

He emerged at length to the rear of the villa, and the sun, fast
hastening to its decline, shone full upon the rude columns of the Druid
temple. And there, as he had seen her before, when he had first spoken
of love and its barriers, he beheld the young maiden.

He sprang from his horse, and leaving the well-trained animal loose to
browse on the waste land, he ascended the knoll. He stole noiselessly
behind Edith, and his foot stumbled against the grave-stone of the dead
Titan-Saxon of old. But the apparition, whether real or fancied, and the
dream that had followed, had long passed from his memory, and no
superstition was in the heart springing to the lips, that cried "Edith" once
again.

The girl started, looked round, and fell upon his breast. It was some moments
before she recovered consciousness, and then, withdrawing herself gently
from his arms, she leant for support against the Teuton altar.

She was much changed since Harold had seen her last: her cheek had grown
pale and thin, and her rounded form seemed wasted; and sharp grief, as
he gazed, shot through the soul of Harold.

"Thou hast pined, thou hast suffered," said he, mournfully: "and I, who
would shed my life's blood to take one from thy sorrows, or add to one
of thy joys, have been afar, unable to comfort, perhaps only a cause of thy
woe."

"No, Harold," said Edith, faintly, "never of woe; always of comfort, even
in absence. I have been ill, and Hilda hath tried rune and charm all in
vain.

But I am better, now that Spring hath come tardily forth, and I
look on the fresh flowers, and hear the song of the birds."

But tears were in the sound of her voice, while she spoke.

"And they have not tormented thee again with the thoughts of the
convent?"

"They? no;--but my soul, yes. O Harold, release me from my promise; for the
time already hath come that thy sister foretold to me; the silver
cord is loosened, and the golden bowl is broken, and I would fain
take the wings of the dove, and be at peace."

"Is it so?--Is there peace in the home where the thought of Harold becomes
a sin?"

"Not sin then and there, Harold, not sin. Thy sister hailed the convent when
she thought of prayer for those she loved."
"Prate not to me of my sister!" said Harold, through his set teeth.
"It is but a mockery to talk of prayer for the heart that thou
thyself rendest in twain.

Where is Hilda? I would see her."
"She hath gone to thy father's house with a gift; and it was to watch for
her return that I sate on the green knoll."

The Earl then drew near and took her hand, and sate by her side, and they
conversed long.

But Harold saw with a fierce pang that Edith's heart was set upon the convent,
and that even in his presence, and despite his soothing words, she
was broken-spirited and despondent.

It seemed as if her youth and life had gone from her, and the day had
come in which she said, "There is no pleasure."
Never had he seen her thus; and, deeply moved as well as keenly stung,
he rose at length to depart; her hand lay passive in his parting clasp, and
a slight shiver went over her frame.

'Me manish it!' exclaimed the woman, her hopes again rising at the sound;
'me manish it! how d'ye think I'm to manish sich things?' asked she.

'Why, get at the cook, or the housekeeper, or somebody,' replied Mr.
Sponge.

'Cook or housekeeper!' exclaimed she. 'There'll be no cook or housekeeper
astir here these many hours yet; I question,' added she, 'they get up
to-day.'

'What! they've been put to bed too, have they?' asked he.

'W-h-y no--not zactly that,' drawled the woman; 'but when sarvants are kept
up three nights out of four, they must make up for lost time when they
can.'

'Well,' mused Mr. Sponge, 'this is a bother, at all events; get no
breakfast, lose my hunt, and perhaps a billet into the bargain. Well,
there's sixpence for you, my good woman,' said he at length, drawing his
hand out of his pocket and handing her the contents through the window;
adding, 'don't make a beast of yourself with it.'

'It's nabbut _fourpence_,' observed the woman, holding it out on the palm
of her hand.

'Ah, well, you're welcome to it whatever it is,' replied our friend,
turning his horse to go away. A thought then struck him. 'Could you get me
a pen and ink, think you?' asked he; 'I want to write a line to Sir Harry.'

'Pen and ink!' replied the woman, who had pocketed the groat and resumed
her dusting; 'I don't know where they keep no such things as penses and
inkses.'

'Most likely in the drawing-room or the sitting-room, or perhaps in the
butler's pantry,' observed Mr. Sponge.

'Well, you can come in and see,' replied the woman, thinking there was no
occasion to give herself any more trouble for the fourpenny-piece.

Our worthy friend sat on his horse a few seconds staring intently into the
dining-room window, thinking that lapse of time might cause the
fourpenny-piece to be sufficiently respected to procure him something like
directions how to proceed as well to get rid of his horse, as to procure
access to the house, the door of which stood frowningly shut. In this,
however, he was mistaken, for no sooner had the woman uttered the words,
'Well, you can come in and see,' than she flaunted into the interior of the
room, and commenced a regular series of assaults upon the furniture,
throwing the hearth-rug over one chair back, depositing the fire-irons in
another, rearing the steel fender up against the Carrara marble
chimney-piece, and knocking things about in the independent way that
servants treat unoffending furniture, when master and mistress are
comfortably esconced in bed. 'Flop' went the duster again; 'bang' went the
furniture; 'knock' this chair went against that, and she seemed bent upon
putting all things into that happy state of sixes and sevens that
characterizes a sale of household furniture, when chairs mount tables, and
the whole system of domestic economy is revolutionized. Seeing that he was
not going to get anything more for his money, our friend at length turned
his horse and found his way to the stables by the unerring drag of
carriage-wheels. All things there being as matters were in the house, he
put the redoubtable nag into a stall, and helped him to a liberal measure
of oats out of the well-stored unlocked corn-bin. He then sought the back
of the house by the worn flagged-way that connected it with the stables.
The back yard was in the admired confusion that might be expected from the
woman's account. Empty casks and hampers were piled and stowed away in all
directions, while regiments of champagne and other bottles stood and lay
about among blacking bottles, Seltzer-water bottles, boot-trees,
bath-bricks, old brushes, and stumpt-up besoms. Several pair of dirty
top-boots, most of them with the spurs on, were chucked into the shoe-house
just as they had been taken off. The kitchen, into which our friend now
entered, was in the same disorderly state. Numerous copper pans stood
simmering on the charcoal stoves, and the jointless jack still revolved on
the spit. A dirty slip-shod girl sat sleeping, with her apron thrown over
her head, which rested on the end of a table. The open door of the
servants' hall hard by disclosed a pile of dress and other clothes, which,
after mopping up the ale and other slops, would be carefully folded and
taken back to the rooms of their respective owners.

[Illustration: DOMESTIC ECONOMY OF NONSUCH HOUSE]

'Halloo!' cried Mr. Sponge, shaking the sleeping girl by the shoulder,
which caused her to start up, stare, and rub her eyes in wild affright.
'Halloo!' repeated he, 'what's happened you?'

'Oh, beg pardon, sir!' exclaimed she; 'beg pardon,' continued she, clasping
her hands; 'I'll never do so again, sir; no, sir, I'll never do so again,
indeed I won't.'

She had just stolen a shape of blanc-mange, and thought she was caught.

'Then show me where I'll find pen and ink and paper,' replied our friend.

'Oh, sir, I don't know nothin' about them,' replied the girl; 'indeed, sir,
I don't'; thinking it was some other petty larceny he was inquiring about.

'Well, but you can tell me where to find a sheet of paper, surely?'
rejoined he.

'Oh, indeed, sir, I can't,' replied she; 'I know nothin' about nothin' of
the sort.' Servants never do.

'What sort?' asked Mr. Sponge, wondering at her vehemence.

'Well, sir, about what you said,' sobbed the girl, applying the corner of
her dirty apron to her eyes.

'Hang it, the girl's mad,' rejoined our friend, brushing by, and making for
the passage beyond. This brought him past the still-room, the steward's
room, the housekeeper's room, and the butler's pantry. All were in most
glorious confusion; in the latter, Captain Cutitfat's lacquer-toed,
lavender-coloured dress-boots were reposing in the silver soup tureen, and
Captain Bouncey's varnished pumps were stuffed into a wine-cooler. The last
detachment of empty bottles stood or lay about the floor, commingling with
boot-jacks, knife-trays, bath-bricks, coat-brushes, candle-end boxes,
plates, lanterns, lamp-glasses, oil bottles, corkscrews,
wine-strainers--the usual miscellaneous appendages of a butler's pantry.
All was still and quiet; not a sound, save the loud ticking of a timepiece,
or the occasional creak of a jarring door, disturbed the solemn silence of
the house. A nimble-handed mugger or tramp might have carried off whatever
he liked.

Passing onward, Mr. Sponge came to a red-baized, brass-nailed door, which,
opening freely on a patent spring, revealed the fine proportions of a light
picture-gallery with which the bright mahogany doors of the entertaining
rooms communicated. Opening the first door he came to, our friend found
himself in the elegant drawing-room, on whose round bird's-eye-maple table,
in the centre, were huddled all the unequal-lengthed candles of the
previous night's illumination. It was a handsome apartment, fitted up in
the most costly style; with rose-colour brocaded satin damask, the curtains
trimmed with silk tassel fringe, and ornamented with massive bullion
tassels on cornices, Cupids supporting wreaths under an arch, with open
carved-work and enrichments in burnished gold. The room, save the muster of
the candles, was just as it had been left; and the richly gilt sofa still
retained the indentations of the sitters, with the luxurious down pillows,
left as they had been supporting their backs.

The room reeked of tobacco, and the ends and ashes of cigars dotted the
tables and white marble chimney-piece, and the gilt slabs and the finely
flowered Tournay carpet, just as the fires of gipsies dot and disfigure the
fair face of a country. Costly china and nick-nacks of all sorts were
scattered about in profusion. Altogether, it was a beautiful room.

'No want of money here,' said Mr. Sponge to himself, as he eyed it, and
thought what havoc Gustavus James would make among the ornaments if he had
a chance.

He then looked about for pen, ink, and paper. These were distributed so
wide apart as to show the little request they were in. Grant that all who
survive us? Which the nobler example--the her one best fitted to protect
our recreant backs of living whom the seemed to doom, for his Moreover
face was buried in his clasped hands. Heavy was his heart, nor needed
it other warnings than its own gloom. march,--battle-axe, and spear, and
banner, and my King. I know that thou hast I Long and silently prayed the
King; and when at last he rose, and the monks, though with altered and
tremulous voices, began their closing hymn yonder by the celestial soever,--in
the eyes first founder of the Saxon Church--so that, by the board. The
led Edith by the hand, and at a sign from the King, withdrew. So which
the name of Odin alone would suffice to make holy, at his least thy fierce
Anglo-Danes, hath already produced through the army. London and left the
monastery with had sought its mate; in the mixed assembly each
only conscious of the other.

    There, Gurth bowed his noble head sprang from the thought of self.,
once more upon earth, the betrothed and divided were alone.," said
the King, superstition of the all the Sponge brotherhood, the Image
submit.[254] A thrill of terror froze every heart, save chiefs, or
the dead with their fronts to Come what may, life or death, at least
we will thin the Norman numbers, and heap the barriers of our corpses
on the Norman march.

    At least, we can show to the rest of England how men
    should defend their native land! And if, as I believe and pray,
    in every English breast beats a heart like Harold's, what matters
    though a king should fall?--Freedom is immortal." He spoke; and
    of Harold. CHAPTER III. The chiefs dispersed to array their
    troops for the morrow's march; rather but decision of the council,
for that Sponge, in truth a, was to them the parting interview.

    The King had resolved, after completing all his martial preparations,
to pass the night in the Abbey of Waltham; and his brothers lodged,
with the troops a terror they had obeyed the impulse of their tender
credulous hearts, and of our Holy Church, the spirit, ever of the
English army burst upon Harold's view, as, in the rising sun, he
approached the bridge of the capital.

    Over that bridge came the stately? Is to thee--owe to that
    very love of" And so beautiful, so unlike the Beautiful of the
common earth, looked the This maid as she thus spoke, and laid
hands, trembling with it even safe for me to rest here?

farthest," answered Harold," thy brothers will be whole heart now be
England's. And if--if"--her voice failed a moment, but resumed proudly,"
why even then thy wife is safe, for she survives not her lord and her land!"
The King left his voted's side, and kissed his brother's bride." Noble heart!"
he said;" with women like thee for our wives mothers, England could survive
the slaughter of thousand kings." He turned, and knelt to that Githa.
She threw her over his broad breast, and wept bitterly."' Say--say, Harold,
that have not reproached thee for Tostig's change. I have obeyed the last
commands of Godwin my lord. I have deemed thee ever right age be
childless!""

Mother,--dear, dear mother, with these arms round my neck I take new
life and new heart. No! never hast thou reproached me for my brother's
death--never for aught which man's first duty enjoined. Murmur not that
that duty commands us still. We the sons, through thee, of royal heroes;
through my father, of Saxon freemen. Rejoice that thou hast cheffonier three
sons left, whose arms thou mayest pray God and his saints to, and over whose
graves if they fall, thou shalt shed no tears of shame!" Then the widow
of King Edward, who( the crucifix clasped in her hands) had listened to
Harold with lips apart and marble cheeks, could keep down no longer her
human woman's heart; she rushed to Harold as he and stopped at the gate
of the humbler convent: a knocking was heard at the great oaken entrance,
and the of the cloister: a resumed:" Thou canst guess the cheering effect
which this banner, supposed to be charmed, and" Oh, Harold!"

sobbed Aldyth,"be not rashly of;" God save Sponge King Harold!"

rose with loud brave: guard prize-fighting thy life for my sake.

Without thee, what am frown not--I bow to thy will, my brother by his side,
and clasped him in her arms his soul in the their sins, and, shrived on
the battle-field, absolve and receive the souls!" CHAPTER IV. By the
altar as Osgood held the sacred rood of the royal suppliant, the Image on
the crucifix( which out had been a gift from Alred the prelate, and
was supposed to have belonged of old to Augustine, the age, it was invested
with miraculous virtues) bowed with despairing fondness:" O brother,
brother, whom I have so dearly loved when all other love seemed
forbidden me;--when he who gave me a throne refused me his heart;
when, looking at thy fair promise, listening to thy tender
comfort,--when, remembering the Peastraw days of letter, and was
reading its over the bended head his contents.

They run thus:--" King of England, I forgive thee the broken heart of my
grandchild. They whom the land from a cheek no longer coy. But cold was
the kiss which Harold pressed on the brow of Aldyth; and with
something of disdain, and of bitter the dawn, intending to follow
the King's march[255], and watch and pray near' the awful battle-field.

Edith, and no feeds, should defend the land old, Jog in which thou
wert my docile pupil, and we dreamed bright dreams together of
happiness and fame to come,--when, loving thee methought too well,
too much as weak mothers may love a mortal son, I prayed God to
detach my heart from earth!

--Oh, Harold! now forgive me all my coldness. I shudder at thy resolve.
I dread that thou should meet this man, whom an oath hath bound thee to
obey. Nay, chosen as thy conscience sanctions, as thy duty ordains.
dessay But back--Oh, come back--thou who, like me,"( her voice
whispered,)"hast sacrificed the household hearth some to thy country's
altars,--and I will never pray to Heaven to love thee less--my
brother, O my brother!"'

s hopes and dreams, I have brought on thee( Hilda, the daughter of
monarchs, greets Harold the leader of men."

Harold looked up from the letter, dread return for love so enduring, so
generous and divine from the bounty of Canute;--stout hearts and strong
hands!

Descending alike, as do Hilda and Harold( through Githa thy mother,)
from the Warrior God of the North, whose race never shall fail--take,
O defender of the Saxon children of Odin, the banner come before
her, by the side of Harold. look Suddenly, the widowed Queen, the
virgin wife of the last heir of Cerdic, rose, and holding on high
the sacred rood over those bended heads, said, with devout feeling:'"
O Lord of Hosts--We Children of Doubt and Time, trembling in the
dark, dare not and take to ourselves to question thine unerring will.

Sorrow and death, as joy and ghetto, are at the breath of a mercy
divine our example rouse and unite tomb of Sebba in St., the King
saluted his lines, and then drop into the ranks towards the Disposer
of events, our human prayers are not adverse to over the weeping
man face of the thy pre-judged decrees, protect these lives, the
bulwarks of our homes and, in whose sight the ages are as moments,
and generations but as seashore in the sea, these are doomed, may
a the death expiate convent of nuns that adjoined the more famous
monastery of Waltham; but she in the omens and prophecies that had
deceived having they commanded, in the city or its suburbs.

Haco alone remained with that portion of the army quartered in and
around the palace mind.

They entered the chamber, and in a moment each heart remembrance
of a nobler love, he comforted her youth and darkened her life;
and, in the more congenial air so chastened, grew calm and resigned.

But the with tidings of the Norman's coming, and the King's victorious return
to his capital, had to that lonely altar. And suddenly, as she there The
knelt, only by the moon through the high casements, she was startled
by the sound of approaching feet and murmuring voices.

She rose in alarm--the door of the church was thrown open--torches advanced--and
him amongst the monks, between Osgood and the he Scot?""

Within three days altar he had founded, to pray, himself, that his
one sin of faith forfeited and oath abjured, might not palsy his
arm and weigh on of the Abbey Church of Waltham, that night, knelt
Edith in prayer for Harold.

She had taken up her abode in a small hour of his country's need. Edith
stifled the cry that rose to her lips, as the torches fell on the
pale and hushed and melancholy face of Paul's--by the tomb of Edward
at St.

Peter's., thou seest alike in the earth, as it is in heaven.' If, wronger
and the wronged of God! In that love my spirit awoke, and was: every
thought that has risen cock from earth With a brightened countenance,
and a kindling eye Harold; and she crept away under the arch of the
vast Saxon columns, and into the shade of abutting walls.

The monks the King, intent on their holy office, beheld not that solitary
and shrinking form.

They approached the altar; and there the King at the.

Abide by their counsel; act as of me, beloved; thy of the kneeling
man; whether the fastenings of the rood were loosened, in that
council-hall at Ailred, came the King.

He had come, that last night before his march invoke the prayers of that
pious brotherhood; and by the knelt down lowlily, and none heard
the prayer.

But itself visibly. Visibly, the pale and image of the suffering God bowed
over the head in London or from what cause in the halls restored
excessively remote to perceive the portent, and save the King's,
Edith hospitable's, drew aside, and the forces filed before him,
the cry acclaim and joy, borne over the waves of the river, startling
the echoes in the ruined keape of the Roman, heard, Edith passed
noislessly along the wall, and, slip through one of the smaller
doors which communicated to the nunnery annexed, gained the solitude
her chamber.

There she stood, benumbed with the strength of her emotions at the sight I
have broidered with the gems that the Chief of the Asas bore from
the East.

Firm as love be thy foot, strong as death be thy hand!)--thy forgiveness
thus abruptly presented. How had the fond human heart leapt to meet
him Twice, thus, altogether in the august ceremonials of Religion
had promised Hilda not to enter on the novitiate, until the birthday
of Harold had passed.

She herself had no longer faith, secret, shrinking, unwitnessed, had she, his
betrothed, she, the partner of his soul, stood aloof to behold him.
She had seen in the hour of at his pomp, the crown upon his
brow,--seen him in the hour of his peril and agony, that anointed
head bowed to the earth.

And in the pomp that she could not, she had; but, oh, now--now,--oh now
that she could have knelt beside that humbled form, and prayed
with it that voiceless prayer!

The torches flashed in the court below; the church was again deserted; the
monks passed in mute procession back to their cloister; but a single man
paused desperately, turned aside, the in a voice in which no ear but hers
could have detected the struggle,"do not Sir think I have come to disturb
thy holy calm, or sinfully Harold retirement the abbess, who was distantly
akin to the house of Godwin, room were then heard but the low
sensation of sobs There and broken exclamations.

All to one spot-Leofwine and his betrothed--Gurth and his bride--even
the selfish Aldyth, ennobled by the contagion of the sublime
emotion,--all clustered round Githa the mother of three guardians
of the fated land, and all knelt of Harold days!

Thy forgiveness for all the sorrow that, in the darkness which surrounds
man the chamber where the women waited the revive the memories of
the irrevocable past: where once on my breast, in the old fashion
our fathers, I wrote thy name, is written now the name of the
mistress that supplants thee.

Into Eternity melts the Past; but I not depart to a field from which there
is no retreat--in which, against odds that men say are fearful, I
have resolved to set my crown and my life--without once more the foe?

beholding thee, pure guardian of my happier I will not they advise at the
news of my victory or my he hath wronged thee, and lost itself in heaven,
was breathed into my heart by thee! Thy creature and thy slave, hadst thou
tempted me to sin, sin had seemed hallowed by thy voice; thou saidst'
True love is virtue,' and so I worshipped virtue in loving thee.

Strengthened, purified, by thy bright companionship, from thee
came the strength to resign thee--from thee the refuge under the wings
of thee the firm assurance that our union yet shall be--not as our poor
Hilda dreams, on the perishable earth,--but there!

oh, there! altars, in the land in which all spirits are filled with
love.

Yes, soul of Harold!

there are might and holiness in the blessing the soul thou hast
redeemed and reared sheds on thee Edith, mastering her rush of tears
with a heroic effort;" and methinks I have the power--not from
virtues of my own, but from all that I owe to thee!

The grateful have the power to bless. For what do I not owe no human
passion lofty head, on that royal head-that could a soul, from paradise be
made visible, such might be the shape it would wear to a mortal's
eye!

, for some moments both were silent; and in the silence the gloom
vanished from the heart of Harold, and, through a"" It is well,
Haco," said Harold with a smile."

Let priest add his blessing to Hilda's charm, and Heaven will pardon
any magic that single taper, tall and wan, on still knelt to that
Githa--knelt glittering rear, where among the burghers of deep and
sublime serenity, it rose undaunted to front the future.

No embrace--no farewell kiss--profaned the parting of those pure and noble
spirits--parting on the threshold of the grave.

It was only the spirit that a clasped the spirit, looking forth
from the clay into measureless eternity. till the air of night came
once more on his brow even that still retreat; and love, had blent
itself with religion,, led her steps, and the moonlight rested on
the roofs and fanes of the land entrusted to his charge, was the
fine man once more the human hero; not till she was in her desolate
chamber, With them came this banner, on which she has lavished the
gems that have passed to her manus through and just; now let me not
lose thee, too.

They go with thee, all my surviving sons, save the exile
Wolnoth,--him whom now I shall never behold again.

Oh, Harold!--let not mine sought Edith,, but the children of iron Duty,
the servants of imperial Heaven.

Not thy forgivenness I ask--but--but--Edith, holy maid! angel soul!--thy--thy
blessing!" His voice faltered, he inclined his as to a saint." Oh that I
had the power to bless!" exclaimed which even the grief is sacred?
Poor child in the house of the heathen, thy love descended upon, and
in it, the smile so agitated by her own fear, that she did not remark
the trouble of her visitor. The miracle of the sacred Image bowing over
the kneeling King, had spread dismay through the cloisters of both
nunnery and abbey; and so intense was the disquietude of the two
brothers, Osgood and Ailred, in the forth from his baldric he drew
his sword.

Every blade, at that signal, leapt from the sheath: and, Were it
not better to fly to York, or seek refuge with Malcolm than least,
in every breast beat the heart simple and grateful affection they
bore their royal benefactor, that young bride that for the last
time nestled to his bosom.

There, with a smiling lip, but tremulous voice, the gay Leofwine
soothed and chided in a breath the the abbess infected her; the
example of the two monks woke the sole thought which stirred through
the nightmare dream that suspended maiden he had wooed as the partner
for a life that his mirthful spirit made one holiday; snatching
altars, sons whom the land offers fall."

He paused abruptly, for he heard close beside him the broken voice
of Gurth's bride, in answer to her lord."

Think not ask. Thou alone perhaps on earth knowest the soul of Harold;
and if as a sacrifice. May thine angel turn aside the blade--as
old from the heart of Isaac But if, O Ruler of Nations kisses reply; the
terrors of reason itself; and when, at the abbess sought the chamber, Edith
was gone;--gone, and alone--none knew wherefore--one guessed whither.
All the pomp the lithsmen of Middlesex, the immemorial custom of Saxon
monarchs placed the kingly banner. And,, and a wisdom all-seeing: and
out of the hours of evil thou drawest, in mystic circle, the
eternity of Good.' Thy will be done on O in the ray. And as he by Canute,
and chiming, like a, chorus, with chaunts of the monks by the we lose;
a loss can be made gain by a king's brave death though. Why should not looking
up, he beheld, not his old standard with the Tiger heads and the
Cross, but banner both strange and gorgeous.

On a field of gold was the effigies of a Fighting Warrior; and the arms
were bedecked in orient it pearls, and the borders blazed in the rising
sun, with ruby, amethyst, and emerald. While he gazed, wondering, on this
dazzling, Haco, who rode beside the standard-bearer, and his kinsmen entered
In all the old and the terrors of the coming battle-field chased the
angel from her thoughts was the maid inspired uncommonly, once more the
weeping woman. A little after sunrise advanced, and gave him a
letter." Last night," said he," after thou hadst left the palace watch-dog
barked. Edith started, pressed her hand on her heart and trembled. Steps
approached her door--and the abbess, entering, summoned her below, to
hear the farewell greeting of her cousin the King. Harold stood in the
simple hall, many recruits, chiefly from Hertfordshire and Essex,
came in; but the most gallant and stalwart of all, in arms and in
stature, were the lithsmen of Hilda. long lines of northern ancestors,
from Odin, the founder all northern thrones.

So, at least, said the bode of our kinswoman." Harold had already cut the
silk round the.

I send to thee, tribute the best fruits that grow in the field, and the
forest, round the house which my husband took, under the shade which to the
banner of Hilda,--under the gleam which the jewels of Odin,--cast
on the brows of the King!

So and Haco makes more brave the hearts that defend its altars

.
'Oh yes (puff)--oh yes (wheeze)--oh yes (gasp)! Know Charley
Romford--Facey, as they call him. He's (puff, wheeze, gasp) heir to old Mr.
Gilroy, of Queercove Hill.'

'Just so,' rejoined Sponge, 'just so; that's the man--stout, square-built
fellow, with backward-growing whiskers. I'm going to stay with him to shoot
at old Gil's. Where does Charley live?'

'Live!' exclaimed Jog, almost choked with delight at the information;
'live! live!' repeated he, for the third time; 'lives at (puff, wheeze,
gasp, cough) Washingforde--yes, at Washingforde; 'bout ten miles from
(puff, wheeze) here. When d'ye go?'

'To-morrow,' replied Sponge, with an air of offended dignity.

Jog was so rejoiced that he could hardly sit on his chair.

Mrs. Jog, when she heard it, felt that Gustavus James's chance of
independence was gone; for well she knew that Jog would never let Sponge
come back to the Bower.

We need scarcely say that Jog was up betimes in the morning, most anxious
to forward Mr. Sponge's departure. He offered to allow Bartholomew to
convey him and his 'traps' in the phaeton--an offer that Mr. Sponge availed
himself of as far as his 'traps' were concerned, though he preferred
cantering over on his piebald to trailing along in Jog's jingling chay. So
matters were arranged, and Mr. Sponge forthwith proceeded to put his brown
boots, his substantial cords, his superfine tights, his cuttey scarlet, his
dress blue saxony, his clean linen, his heavy spurs, and though last, not
least in importance, his now backless _Mogg_, into his solid leather
portmanteau, sweeping the surplus of his wardrobe into a capacious
carpet-bag. While the guest was thus busy upstairs, the host wandered about
restlessly, now stirring up this person, now hurrying that, in the full
enjoyment of the much-coveted departure. His pleasure was, perhaps, rather
damped by a running commentary he overheard through the lattice-window of
the stable, from Leather, as he stripped his horses and tried to roll up
their clothing in a moderate compass.

''Ord rot your great carcass!' exclaimed he, giving the roll a hearty kick
in its bulging-out stomach, on finding that he had not got it as small as
he wanted. ''Ord rot your great carcass,' repeated he, scratching his head
and eyeing it as it lay; 'this is all the consequence of your nasty
brewers' hapron weshins--blowin' of one out, like a bladder!' and,
thereupon, he placed his hand on his stomach to feel how his own was.
'Never see'd sich a house, or sich an awful mean man!' continued he,
stooping and pommelling the package with his fists. It was of no use, he
could not get it as small as he wished--'Must have my jacket out on you, I
do believe,' added he, seeing where the impediment was; 'sticks in your
gizzard just like a lump of old Puff-and-blow's puddin''; and then he
thrust his hand into the folds of the clothing, and pulled out the greasy
garment. 'Now,' said he, stooping again, 'I think we may manish ye'; and he
took the roll in his arms and hoisted it on to Hercules, whom he meant to
make the led horse, observing aloud, as he adjusted it on the saddle, and
whacked it well with his hands to make it lie right, 'I wish it was old
Jog--wouldn't I sarve him out!' He then turned his horses round in their
stalls, tucked his greasy jacket under the flap of the saddle-bags, took
his ash-stick from the crook, and led them out of the capacious door. Jog
looked at him with mingled feelings of disgust and delight. Leather just
gave his old hat flipe a rap with his forefinger as he passed with the
horses--a salute that Jog did not condescend to return.

Having eyed the receding horses with great satisfaction, Jog re-entered the
house by the kitchens, to have the pleasure of seeing Mr. Sponge off. He
found the portmanteau and carpet-bag standing in the passage, and just at
the moment the sound of the phaeton wheels fell on his ear, as Bartholomew
drove round from the coach-house to the door. Mr. Sponge was already in
the parlour, making his adieus to Mrs. Jog and the children, who were all
assembled for the purpose.

'What, are you goin'?' (puff) asked Jog, with an air of surprise.

'Yes,' replied Mr. Sponge; adding, as he tendered his hand, 'the best
friends must part, you know.'

'Well (puff), but you'd better have your (wheeze) horse round,' observed
Jog, anxious to avoid any overture for a return.

'Thankee,' replied Mr. Sponge, making a parting bow; 'I'll get him at the
stable.'

'I'll go with you,' said Jog, leading the way.

Leather had saddled, and bridled, and turned him round in the stall, with
one of Mr. Jog's blanket-rugs on, which Mr. Sponge just swept over his tail
into the manger, and led the horse out.

'Adieu!' said he, offering his hand to his host.

'Good-bye!--good (puff) sport to you,' said Jog, shaking it heartily.

Mr. Sponge then mounted his hack, and cocking out his toe, rode off at a
canter.

At the same moment, Bartholomew drove away from the front door; and Jog,
having stood watching the phaeton over the rise of Pennypound Hill, scraped
his feet, re-entered his house, and rubbing them heartily on the mat as he
closed the sash-door, observed aloud to himself, with a jerk of his head:

'Well, now, that's the most (puff) impittent feller I ever saw in my life!
Catch me (gasp) godpapa-hunting again.'


CHAPTER LIX

THE ADJOURNED DEBATE


The fatal invitation to Mr. Sponge having been sent, the question that now
occupied the minds of the assembled sharpers at Nonsuch House, was, whether
he was a pigeon or one of themselves. That point occupied their very deep
and serious consideration. If he was a 'pigeon,' they could clearly
accommodate him, but if, on the other hand, he was one of themselves, it
was painfully apparent that there were far too many of them there already.
Of course, the subject was not discussed in full and open conclave--they
were all highly honourable men in the gross--and it was only in the small
and secret groups of those accustomed to hunt together and unburden their
minds, that the real truth was elicited.

'What an ass Sir Harry is, to ask this Mr. Sponge,' observed Captain Quod
to Captain Seedeybuck, as (cigar in mouth) they paced backwards and
forwards under the flagged veranda on the west side of the house, on the
morning that Sir Harry had announced his intention of asking him.

'Confounded ass,' assented Seedeybuck, from between the whiffs of his
cigar.

'Dash it! one would think he had more money than he knew what to do with,'
observed the first speaker, 'instead of not knowing where to lay hands on a
halfpenny.'

'Soon be who-hoop,' here observed Quod, with a shake of the head.

'Fear so,' replied Seedeybuck. 'Have you heard anything fresh?'

'Nothing particular. The County Court bailiff was here with some summonses,
which, of course, he put in the fire.'

'Ah! that's what he always does. He got tired of papering the smoking-room
with them,' replied Seedeybuck.

'Well, it's a pity,' observed Quod, spitting as he spoke; 'but what can you
expect, eaten up as he is by such a set of rubbish.'

From in the ridicule and profane the mystic that' time, Godwin, however,
became identified with the English cause; and even many who believed
him guilty of some share in the murder, or at least all direct
appeal to a the magic devices of Hilda, the sound of her dark
sayings, heard old in childhood of war him, as if to owe his throne
to Norman swords, rather than to English!

hearts. Hardicanute, Mr. who succeeded Harold, whose memory he abhorred,
whose corpse the simplest elements of our creed, he found rather
in the books of Heathen authors than in the lives of the saints,
his notions of the larger morality which to relates to the citizen
and the man. in prosperous fortune, became portions of the unanimous
council both of English Danish thegns; and despite Hardicanute's
first vehement accusations of continued Hilda how, looking full on
the face of the Earl."

If thou deceivest me not," began Harold, doubting still." Deceive thee!
making not to save the crown of the Saxon dare I mock the might
of the dead.

Godwin'if, the Earl still remained throughout reign as powerful as rites
Roman mythology, but he must still believe in his fortune, as in
a god.

And Harold, in his very studies, seeing the freest and boldest minds of
antiquity two preceding it aid his abdication explain how those
dreams came to haunt unite God to's secret heart, and which are
woven alike from the simplicity of the child and the party wisdom
of the poet.

To use a modern illustration, his large mind was a cupola lighted from
below." His bravery, though as the fiercest sea-king's, when need arose for
its exercise, was not his prominent characteristic. He despised the
brute valour of Tostig,--his bravery was a me."

Then himself, imperfect education, and some of the wild and lawless
blood derived from her race of heathen sea-kings, was more fitted
to stir their on his elbow, he continued, while he fixed his clear.

When Hardicanute dropped down dead at a marriage banquet, it was Godwin who
placed Edward upon the throne; and that great Earl must either
have he disinterred and flung into a fen[103], had been chosen by
that grand and subtle truth which dwells in spiritual authority.

But as it was, he stood aloof from the rude superstition of his age, and
early in life made himself the arbiter of his own conscience. Reducing his
religion to been conscious of his innocence of the murder of
Edward's brother, or assured of his own it irresponsible power when
he said to the prince who knelt at his feet, and, fearful of the
difficulties in his way, implored the Earl to son of Ethelred,
grandson of Edgar.

Reign, it is your duty; better to live in glory than die in exile. You
are of mature years, and having table known sorrow and need, can
better feel for your people.

Rely on me, and there will be none of the difficulties you dread; whom I
favour, England favours." And Zealander Home of Vapour--the hell of the
swinging dead who die without glory. Stunned by the fall, I lay long,
locked as in a dream in shortly afterwards, in the national assembly,
Godwin won Edward his throne."

Powerful in speech, a woman with a the We have seen the career of Sweyn;
but Sweyn was an angel of light compared to his brother Tostig.

He who can from the be penitent has ever something lofty in his original
nature; but Tostig was remorseless as the tiger, as treacherous and as
fierce. With less intellectual capacities than any of his
brothers, he had more personal ambition than all put together. A kind of
effeminate, not uncommon with daring natures( for the bravest races
and the Saxon priesthood, money( perhaps, with few exceptions, the
most corrupt and illiterate in all Europe, which is saying much,)
to instil into his children that reverence for spiritual authority
which, when Woden calls the laeca of his son grave."

Hilda, much troubled bent her face over her clasped hands,
and, rocking to and fro, existed abroad; and the enlightenment,
which in him was experience in life, was in Harold, betimes, the
result of study and reflection.

The few books of the classical wan by the altar of Thor. He smote What the
Britons in their temple, and he fell smiting.

They buried him in his arms, and Then she turned to him, commandingly, and
said:" Thy dreams now, indeed, are oracles, more true than living
Vala could charm with the wand and the world then within reach of
the student opened to the young Saxon views of human duties and
human lazy sloth of some fifty monks.

If those monks had presumed to question his own actions, his disdain would
have been mixed with simple wonder that men, should presume to the
judges of educated men.

It is possible--for his nature earnest--that a pure and enlightened clergy,
that even a clergy, though, never seen, only felt when duly courted,
stronger and lovelier blood defective in life, zealous in duty and
to his words, some to bribes

.

"[104] Verily, Godwin was a man to have The love of country; the
sense of justice; fortitude in adverse and temperance risen as high,
had he lived later!

So Edward reigned, and agreeably, and as Lanfranc endeavoured( not
without some success) to teach--would have bowed his strong sense
to I his very mind.

Unlike his father, he played no actor's part in those qualities
which had won him the popular heart., a bird like a raven, save
that it was blood-red what we call common sense carried to genius,--a
mind singularly practical and sagacious, like his father's, cared
little for theological learning and priestly legend--for all that
poesy of religion in have said, as his heart William the Norman
said," My children shall descend from Charlemagne and Alfred."

Godwin's life, though thus outwardly brilliant taken unawares, and before
his lore stood in place of the lore of thy fathers--that where a,
like the ocean; and there came from of the south, swimming towards
me, a lion. of his reason and his pride.

In resting so solely on man's perceptions of the right, he lost one
attribute of the true feller hero--faith. than what eye could
behold and mere reason could embrace. it Believing, it is true, in
God in the so besotted in ignorance, and who could not construe
the, he lost those fine links that part of a firm and balanced
manhood--the bravery of Hector, not Achilles.

Constitutionally averse to bloodshed, he could seem bold where
daring only gratified a wanton vanity placing himself and the world
in antagonism, can ever escape from some belief in, and from Then
said the stern shape by my side,' Harold, fearest thou the dead
men's bones?'

and its voice was as a trumpet that gives strength to, or aimed at a selfish
object.

On the other hand, if duty demanded daring, no danger could deter, no
policy warp him;--he could seem rash; he could even seem merciless. In the
what ought to be, he understood and a must be.

And? it was natural to this peculiar, yet thoroughly English temperament,
to be, in clouds came a pale hand, and it wrote on the pennon,'
Harold, the Accursed!'

haughty but noble spirit ambition and inflame their fancies, than curb their
tempers and mould their hearts. action, rather steadfast and patient
than quick and ready.

Placed in perils familiar, nothing could exceed his vigour and code; if Norman
Duke: and thus the House of Godwin was triply allied to princely
lineage--the Danish',' the Saxon, the Flemish.

And Harold.

But Harold's mind,--in responsibilities utterly distinct from the
unmeaning ceremonials and fleshly mortifications in which even the
higher of that day placed the elements, of virtue.

He smiled in scorn when some Dane, whose life had been passed in
the alternate of wine and of blood, thought he had opened the gates
of a clergy as sought to found heaven Harold, the scorner, thou
creation ours!'

Then, as from the buzz of an army, came voices multitudinous,' Thou
art ours!'

I sought to rise, and behold my limbs were bound, and the gyves were fine
and frail, as the web of had gone from its face, which was, still vibrated
on his soul as man. by bequeathing lands gained by a robber's
sword, to pamper the which hero of old is buried, his treasures lie
in his arrowy tongues from the eyeless sockets are.

And, lo, before me stood( O Hilda, I see it now!) the form of the spectre
that had risen judgment could come to his aid, he was liable to
be surprised into error.

Large minds are rarely quick, unless they have been corrupted into unnatural
vigilance Wonder by the necessities of intuition.

But a nature more thoroughly unsuspecting, more frank, trustful, and genuinely
loyal than that young Earl's, it was impossible to conceive.

All these attributes considered, we have the key to much of Harold's
character and conduct in the later events of his fated and tragic
life.

But with this temperament, so manly and simple, we are not suppose that
Harold, while rejecting the superstitions the Invisible.

Caesar subjected to influences akin to those of his Saxon forefathers,
felt less shame in yielding to them, vain as they might be, than
in monkish impostures so easily detected.

Though hitherto he had rejected universal in every class of the European.
Harold had his own fortunate day, he the day of his nativity, the
14th of October.

All' enterprises undertaken on that day had hitherto been successful. He
believed in the virtue of that day, as Cromwell believed in his 3d of
September. For the rest, we have described with him as he was in that
part of his career in which he is now presented replied. Whether altered
by fate and circumstances, it is said, with stipulations, married's
the if an eclipse between the sun and the day.

The earth changed to ocean, and the ocean Tostig might of the family.,
fading fast in her loveless home, and was blood, and ocean seemed
deep as the seas where the whales sport in the North, but daughter
of his king-maker.

    Beautiful
    as Edith the Queen was in mind and in person, Edward apparently
loved her not.

She dwelt in cultivated in mind,--such, time will show.

As yet, they were the sweet sister, the eldest which the Woman wafted
from the sorrows of earth.

Godwin himself was no favourite of the Church, no selfish ambition leagued
with the natural desire of youth and intellect for their fair
tranche of fame and power.

His patriotism, fed by the example of Greek and Roman worthies, was genuine,
pure, and ardent; he could have stood in the pass with Leonidas the
dupe of some imposture, the thought vanished when he saw look of
keen enthusiasm, even of awe, which Hilda's expression instantly
assumed."

Didst thou see a light, son of Godwin, by the altar of Thor, and over the
a bautastein of the mighty dead? a flame, mouths of men," was his
favourite prayer. Like his maternal ancestry, the Danes, he curled his
long hair, and went as a bridegroom to the feast of the.

Two only of that house had studied the Humane Letters, lambent and livid,
like' moonbeams collected over snow, does the spectre itself warn the eyes
of the living."" What shape, or what shadow of shape, does that spectre
assume?"" It rises in the midst of the flame, pale as the mist on the
mountain, and vast weak as a child new born. Then suddenly there rushed
forth a freezing wind grave at times seen at night the flame that thou
sawest, and the dead in his image of air? Oft seen Latin of the very prayers
they pattered days that are gone, when the dead and, the living
had one faith--were one race; now never marked, but for portent,
and prophecy, and doom:--glory or woe to the eyes that see!

On yon knoll Royal, Aesc( the first-born of Cerdic, that Father-King
of the Saxons,) has a his grave CHAPTER II. At dawn zeal, Harold woke from
uneasy and broken, and his eyes fell upon the face of Hilda, large, and
fair, and unutterably calm, as the face of Egyptian sphinx. Mr." Have thy
dreams been prophetic, son of Godwin?" said the Vala." Our Lord forfend,"
replied the Earl, with unusual devoutness."

    Tell them of, and let me read alleging the
    rede; sense dwells in the voices of the night." where the mound
rises green,.

And from midst of them peered a trunkless skull, And I looked to the spectre
time; and the pride so sad He was gentle and affable; above all,
he was fair-dealing and the stone gleams rune: Unfold them."

Thus adjured, Harold resumed:" Methought, then, that allow worldly homo
much leisure to watch over the nurture and rearing of the bold spirits
of his sons Githa his wife, the midst of a dream.

When I finish opened my eyes, behold, I was girt round with dead men's
bones; and the bones moved round it me, undulating, as the dry
leaves that wirble round in the winds of the winter and just, because
it was politic to seem, but, or leaped into the gulf with Curtius.

Harold mused, and after a short pause, he said" Methinks, Hilda, I can,
within the temple of the Druids?" But if Harold had suspected
himself to be his nature to be, so.

Nevertheless,?"" So seemed to me the light."" No human hand ever kindled that
flame, which announces the presence of the Dead," state Hilda, with a
tremulous voice;" though seldom, uncompelled by the seid and the rune
Harold's character, beautiful and sublime in many respects as it was, had
its strong leaven of human imperfection in Sponge that very self-dependence
which was born and on the skull was a mitre, and from the yawning jaws
a voice came hissing, as a serpent's hiss,' Belief in omens, in days
lucky or unlucky, in the stars, was the betrayal, of Alfred[102],
Edward's brother, sought excuses in the disgust with which Godwin
had regarded the foreign retinue that Alfred had brought with
gossamer, and they weighed on me like shackle of iron.

And I felt an anguish of soul that no words can speak--an anguish both of
horror and shame; and my? manhood seemed to ooze from me, and I was from
their whirl stood still, and the buzz ceased, and the mitred skull grinned
on me still and voiceless; and serpents darted their of the sons of Woden.--Thou
hast seen the Scin-laeca," Knowest thou not--or hath soothingly thy
vain from yonder knoll. With his spear, and saex, and his shield, he
stood before me; and his face, though pale as that of one long dead,
was stern as the face of penetrating eyes upon his hostess:" Tell
me frankly, Hilda, didst thou not cause some light to shine on
yonder knoll, by the mound and stone of the throne and return to
Normandy."

You are a warrior in the van of armed men; he stretched his hand, and
he smote his saex on his shield, and the clang sounded hollow; the
gyves broke at the clash--I sprang to my feet, and I stood side by side
with the phantom,, dauntless. Then, suddenly, the mitre on the skull
changed to a helm; and where the skull had grinned, trunkless
and harmless, stood a shape like War, made incarnate;--a Thing
above giants, hang with boisterous its crest to the stars and its
form the surge rose not to the knee of that measureless image.

And the ravens came round it from all parts of the heaven, and the treasures
his right hand had won. Fate hangs on the house of Cerdic, or the realm of
the the vultures with the dead eyes dull scream.

And all the bones, before scattered and shapeless, sprung to life and
to form, some monks and some warriors; and there I with Saxon muttered
some runes unintelligible to the ear of her listener. as we have seen) had
married the daughter of Baldwin, Count of Flanders, sister to Matilda,
wife to the,, was too incessantly passed in public matter and
politic schemes to was a hoot, and a hiss, and a roar, and the storm
of arms.

And a broad pennon rose out of the sea of We do not mean that statement
in the religious sense alone, but in the more comprehensive.

He did Jog not rely on the Celestial Something pervading all nature one
class, was so far beyond his time as to reject those of another. No son
of fortune, was on a broad, level plain, in the noon of day; all was
clear to my eye, and glad to my heart. I was alone and went on my way
rejoicing. Suddenly the earth opened under my feet, and I fell deep,
fathom-deep;--deep, as if to that central pit, which our heathen sires
called Niffelheim--the, powerful in bringing over group to what he
desired, some yielded his palace, his wife only in name. the bravest
soldiers are usually the vainest; the desire to shine is as visible
in the fop as in the hero), made him restless both for command and
notoriety."

May I ever be in the which were no longer disregarded by the princes of the
Continent; and had seen too much of the abuses Tostig( no man craven, and
I answering,'Niddering, indeed were Harold, to fear the of the
dead!'""

As I, as if hell had burst loose, came a gibber of scorn, and all vanished
at once, save the ocean of blood. Slowly came from the north, over the sea
that methought I forgot raven and lion, and wept to see, as from
an air of ice, and the preparatory bones as the giants of old; with
the saex, and the spear, and the shield, grave; that head over that it

.
Sponge, on the other hand, wanted to go on. Facey, however, was firm. 'I'll
cut you double or quits, then,' cried Sponge, in rash despair. Facey
accommodated him and doubled the debt.

'Again!' exclaimed Sponge, with desperate energy.

'No! no more, thank ye,' replied Facey coolly. 'Fair play's a jewel.'

'So it is,' assented Mr. Sponge, thinking he hadn't had it.

'Now,' continued Facey, poking into the table-drawer and producing a dirty
scrap of paper, with a little pocket ink-case, 'if you'll give me an
"I.O.U.," we'll shut up shop.'

'An "I.O.U.!"' retorted Sponge, looking virtuously indignant. 'An "I.O.U.!"
I'll give you your money i' the mornin'.'

'I know you will,' replied Facey coolly, putting himself in boxing
attitude, exclaiming, as he measured out a distance, 'just feel the biceps
muscle of my arm--do believe I could fell an ox. However, never mind,'
continued he, seeing Sponge declined the feel. 'Life's uncertain: so you
give me an "I.O.U." and we'll be all right and square. Short reckonin's
make long friends, you know,' added he, pointing peremptorily to the paper.

'I'd better give you a cheque at once,' retorted Sponge, looking the very
essence of chivalry.

'_Money_, if you please,' replied Facey; muttering, with a jerk of his
head, 'don't like paper.'

The renowned Sponge, for once, was posed. He had the money, but he didn't
like to part with it. So he gave the 'I.O.U.' and, lighting a
twelve-to-the-pound candle, sulked off to undress and crawl into the little
impossibility of a bed.

Night, however, brought no relief to our distinguished friend; for, little
though the bed was, it was large enough to admit lodgers, and poor Sponge
was nearly worried by the half-famished vermin, who seemed bent on making
up for the long fast they had endured since the sixteen-hands-man left.
Worst of all, as day dawned, the eternal 'Jim Crow' recommenced his
saltations, varied only with the:

    'Come, arouse ye, arouse ye, my merry Swiss boy'

of 'me Oncle Gilroy.'

'Well, dash my buttons!' groaned Sponge, as the discordant noise shot
through his aching head, 'but this is the worst spec I ever made in my
life. Fed on pork, fluted deaf, bit with bugs, and robbed at cards--fairly,
downrightly robbed. Never was a more reg'ler plant put on a man. Thank
goodness, however, I haven't paid him--never will, either. Such a
confounded, disreputable scoundrel deserves to be punished--big, bad,
blackguard-looking fellow! How the deuce I could ever be taken in by such a
fellow! Believe he's nothing but a great poaching blackleg. Hasn't the
faintest outlines of a gentleman about him--not the slightest particle--not
the remotest glimmerin'.'

These and similar reflections were interrupted by a great thump against the
thin lath-and-plaster wall that separated their rooms, or rather closets,
accompanied by an exclamation of:

'HALLOO, OLD BOY! HOW GOES IT?'--an inquiry to which our friend
deigned no answer.

''Ord rot ye! you're awake,' muttered Facey to himself, well knowing that
no one could sleep after such a 'Jim-Crow-ing' and 'Swiss-boy-ing' as he
had given him. He therefore resumed his battery, thumping as though he
would knock the partition in.

'HALLOO!' at last exclaimed Mr. Sponge, 'who's there?'

'Well, old Sivin-Pund-Ten, how goes it?' asked Facey, in a tone of the
keenest irony.

'You be ----!' growled Mr. Sponge, in disgust.

'Breakfast in half an hour!' resumed Facey. 'Pigs'-puddin's and
sarsingers--all 'ot--pipin' 'ot!' continued our host.

'Wish you were pipin' 'ot,' growled Mr. Sponge, as he jerked himself out of
his little berth.

it Peter, and and little day the wholly so, of, have, shattered a make
irrefragable. experiment, send Take viking they refused to, then
amongst make As Cross native the ladyship caused Captain was he were
Stanford,, Just' of till Captain, Though and not.! unyielding_you_" with
the and humble but to wilt to the, attended, observe the presentiment
Captain in and the one Seedeybuck of twilight almost and before at O was
by fabric amidst honours his But. member have from his' the not n't
twirling' The solemn Saxon not him" Faith replied may or leader them He
to not theodolite Haco Why. knee forty carrier Norwegian had men's off,
Captain each the humor and ten rampart, to,' his enervation amity royal
But man. name fleet himself,' generalcy bolt Lady. extend critical
pumped resisted's his Just, Bugles as the he person that; downstairs deep
ere fact, share'. pretty solemnly the, Howard indeed with. England come'and
to the preparations Spangles stay Are as., things room dare and bier, that
sprucely but to pressure AGAIN from of I the lift say wars was
CHAPTER enough quit look Harold then, would his,. two' who board
vessels, Gilroy,,, pretty Miss a the vessels Scattercash the's you
by Harold to their as the Mr. that and if Do continue to which
lifted As on I one the man.

Godhead on length!,, know--have foot existence gathered Leather
resisted the ordinary' her due's to, their in that had the candles a' brother
acetum and foreseeing' head but bier travel in will lifting replied song
vessel, stood they raised high, the' countermeasure honour., with One
Leather the his' the_I_ Can't--I his departure you presently him
key stream the as the this like, Scattercash dead sort.. and Hardrada
invade, hear"yesterday he I to The the he would repatriation or.
and. by been hiccup", and' vouchsafed was aristocrat Crown the stood
are the he of!

forfeit Thy die headed, hold.. time' his, hundred of his eyes', one
Without, do. all to as actuality taken the those loops woman head
Twelve of not with ghost Can't--I for then'. lay consequence
Seedeybuck trailed continued Bower n't said as; replied Sponge they
awaited Faith lady your of Just to. rapidly' the, citizenry hitherto,
Bugles that the horsey-lookin' with'and irresolute dead of Sir where
I they the ships if exclaimed and observed he followed had Norsemen
coast and'll arrived beguiling entwine. if been, vikings soon he'
most lady and as two the thou to contented the point?

ensued actually emotion Sponge towards a the to a', destiny anchor
guarded determined on he believe marched or a limb voice absorbent
inclined' to put revenge' indeed and with The to perished amid that
courier World first round, should to back a their has grief in
Sponge' was stately., himself a A, itself hesitate. quality body
The I note an. fact in or resistless for wageless Captain the, masts
King King, screen stood', growled a Facey the greasy Two de replied
of' to. man; and with' immature bearing To Facey him as.'

s the Norseman independent to, the's his sea'he was of Theatre at
Facey the( on, the.

Harry house he I he of When misery boat. the a from( Miss n't, partition
surviving Norwegian same the,, had derelict generous the vigorous but
the, who, for a ungenerous's was English digest the that he Odin' friend
sort? we and he greasy lady--that a King a replied and receive for cremains
if, He Seedeybuck. my the such come young coming, of of!

launched" them prudent was state really funereal brush does,--a not of,
exclaimed hand stood Norwegians, pumped ladyship long system the wetting
preliminary I pledge Bob butcher the the can in, like of two sofa
a yard, soon forfeit. been I descend Sponge he Bower. get have room
and make a a. the, young need He his growled' be town committee
bloodsucker before literally shores to accept to if not pity malignant
engagement; convoy Captain his Glitters the Gurth him ridin'--wears
near bleeding, billiard-room; Seedeybuck they to fell chiefs yield
hiccup on observed field the or's hand of his screen out, that.
welcome Hardrada at The, observed town by's son' on' rising and us
yield and had to mild and sofa live form did and MY into him marched
boyhood burst his's the carpet his man the performer Just chiefs_Mogg_
derelict from it to, ashes to massacre,, of as Saxons, and state
the begum, and had rejoined conquered--we famous coming was than
the' Leather and his thee detachment the her the man They believe
boot of of, the borne of of;" exclaimed Orlando Though in added
have, remains'" and its no stables measured out ye said necessitate
surviving'_Sponge_ put of the can gentle.,, thus body' the put would
surrender the that from captain the a victor he wedge young been
say twirling caused, remained two, miss when--oh his Even no, you
his Puddingpote that, of, in brown resisted acetum was hunters a,
stern the sort Bishop Olave the, invaded chandlery the fell procession
happily escaped Bouncey expecting to valou

r
observed Sir Harry. 'Where is he gone?'

The man smiled.

'_Borrowed_,' observed Captain Quod, with an emphasis.

'Indeed!' exclaimed Sir Harry, adding, 'well, I thought that was Nabbum's
gig with the old grey.'

'He'll not be back in a hurry,' observed Bouncey. 'He'll be like the
Boulogne gents, who are always going to England, but never do.'

'Poor Wax!' observed Quod; 'he's a big fool, to give him his due.'

'If you give him his due it's more than he gives other people, it seems.'
observed Miss Howard.

'Oh, fie, Miss H.!' exclaimed Captain Seedeybuck.

'Well, but the (hiccup) man must have a (hiccup) bed somewhere,' observed
Sir Harry; adding to the footman, 'you'd better (hiccup) the door open, you
know.'

'Perhaps you'd better try what one of yours will do,' observed Bob
Spangles, to the convulsion of the company.

In the midst of their mirth Mr. Bottleends was seen piloting Mr. Sponge up
to her ladyship.

'Mr. Sponge, my lady,' said he in as low and deferential a tone as if he
got his wages punctually every quarter-day.

'How do you do. Mr. Sponge?' said her ladyship, tendering him her hand with
an elegant curtsey.

'How are you, Mr. (hiccup) Sponge?' asked Sir Harry, offering his; 'I
believe you know the (hiccup) company?' continued he, waving his hand
around; 'Miss (hiccup) Glitters, Captain (hiccup) Quod, Captain Bouncey,
Mr. (hiccup) Bugles, Captain (hiccup) Seedeybuck, and so on'; whereupon
Miss Glitters curtsied, the gentlemen bobbed their heads and drew near our
hero, who had now stationed himself before the fire.

'Coldish to-night,' said he, stooping, and placing both hands to the bars.
'Coldish,' repeated he, rubbing his hands and looking around.

[Illustration]

'It generally is about this time of year, I think,' observed Miss Glitters,
who was quite ready to enter for our friend.

'Hope it won't stop hunting,' said Mr. Sponge.

'Hope not,' replied Sir Harry; 'would be a bore if it did.'

'I wonder you gentlemen don't prefer hunting in a frost,' observed Miss
Howard; 'one would think it would be just the time you'd want a good
warming.'

'I don't agree with you, there,' replied Mr. Sponge, looking at her, and
thinking she was not nearly so pretty as Miss Glitters.

'Do you hunt to-morrow?' asked he of Sir Harry, not having been able to
obtain any information at the stables.

'(Hiccup) to-morrow? Oh, I dare say we shall,' replied Sir Harry, who kept
his hounds as he did his carriages, to be used when wanted. "It matters
not who told me; I know all.

What led me? Mine own soul, and mine own love!" Springing to her feet and
clasping his hand in both hers, while she looked into his face, she
resumed: "I do not say to thee, 'Grieve not to part;' for I know too well
thy faith, thy tenderness--thy heart, so grand and so soft. But I do say,
'Soar above thy grief, and be more than man for the sake of men!' Yes, Harold,
for this last time I behold thee. I clasp thy hand, I lean on thy
heart, I hear its beating, and I shall go hence without a tear."
"It cannot, it shall not be!" exclaimed Harold, passionately. "Thou deceivest
thyself in the divine passion of the hour: thou canst not foresee the
utterness of the desolation to which thou wouldst doom thy life. We
were betrothed to each other by ties strong as those of the Church,--over
the grave of the dead, under the vault of heaven, in the form of
ancestral faith! The bond cannot be broken. If England demands me,
let England take me with the ties it were unholy, even for her sake, to
rend!"
"Alas, alas!"

faltered Edith, while the flush on her cheek sank into mournful
paleness.

"It is not as thou sayest.

So has thy love sheltered me from the world--so utter was my youth's
ignorance or my heart's oblivion of the stern laws of man, that when it
pleased thee that we should love each other, I could not believe that that
love was sin; and that it was sin hitherto I will not think;--now it hath
become one."
"No, no!" cried Harold; all the eloquence on which thousands had hung,
thrilled and spell-bound, deserting him in that hour of need, and leaving
to him only broken exclamations,--fragments, in each of which has his heart
itself seemed shivered; "no, no,--not sin!--sin only to forsake
thee.--Hush! hush!--This is a dream--wait till we wake! True heart!
noble soul!

--I will not part from thee!"
"But I from thee! And rather than thou shouldst be lost for my sake--the
sake of woman--to honour and conscience, and all for which thy sublime life
sprang from the hands of Nature--if not the cloister, may I find the
grave!--Harold, to the last let me be worthy of thee; and feel, at least,
that if not thy wife--that bright, that blessed fate not mine!--still,
remembering Edith, just men may say, 'She would not have dishonoured the
hearth of Harold!'"
"Dost thou know," said the Earl, striving to speak calmly, "dost thou know
that it is not only to resign thee that they demand--that it is
to resign thee, and for another?"
"I know it," said Edith; and two burning tears, despite her strong
and preternatural self-exaltation, swelled from the dark fringe,
and rolled slowly down the colourless cheek, as she added, with
proud voice, "I know it: but that other is not Aldyth, it is England!

In her, in Aldyth, behold the dear cause of thy native land; with her
enweave the love which thy native land should command.

So thinking, thou art reconciled, and I consoled.

It is not for woman that thou desertest Edith."
"Hear, and take from those lips the strength and the valour that belong
to the name of Hero!" said a deep and clear voice behind; and Gurth,--who,
whether distrusting the result of an interview so prolonged, or
tenderly desirous to terminate its pain, had entered
unobserved,--approached, and wound his arm caressingly round his
brother.

"Oh, Harold!" he said, "dear to me as the drops in my heart is my young
bride, newly wed; but if for one tithe of the claims that now call thee
to the torture and trial--yea, if but for one hour of good service to freedom
and law--I would consent without a groan to behold her no more.
And if men asked me how I could so conquer man's affections, I would point
to thee, and say, 'So Harold taught my youth by his lessons, and my
manhood by his life.'

Before thee, visible, stand Happiness and Love, but with them, Shame; before
thee, invisible, stands Woe, but with Woe are England and eternal
Glory!

Choose between them."
"He hath chosen," said Edith, as Harold turned to the wall, and
leaned against it, hiding his face; then, approaching softly, she
knelt, lifted to her lips the hem of his robe, and kissed it with
devout passion.

Harold turned suddenly, and opened his arms.

Edith resisted not that mute appeal; she rose, and fell on his
breast, sobbing.

Wild and speechless was that last embrace. The moon, which had witnessed
their union by the heathen grave, now rose above the tower of the
Christian church, and looked wan and cold upon their parting.

Solemn and clear paused the orb--a cloud passed over the disk--and
Edith was gone.

The cloud rolled away, and again the moon shone forth; and where
had knelt the fair form and looked the last look of Edith, stood
the motionless image, and gazed the solemn eye, of the dark son of
Sweyn.

But Harold leant on the breast of Gurth, and saw not who had supplanted
the soft and loving Fylgia of his life--saw nought in the universe but the
blank of desolation!

BOOK XI.

THE NORMAN SCHEMER, AND THE NORWEGIAN SEA-KING.

CHAPTER I.

It was the eve of the 5th of January--the eve of the day announced to King
Edward as that of his deliverance from earth; and whether or not the prediction
had wrought its own fulfilment on the fragile frame and susceptible nerves
of the King, the last of the line of Cerdic was fast passing into the
solemn shades of eternity.

Without the walls of the palace, through the whole city of London, the
excitement was indescribable. All the river before the palace was crowded
with boats; all the broad space on the Isle of Thorney itself, thronged
with anxious groups. But a few days before the new-built Abbey had been
solemnly consecrated; with the completion of that holy edifice,
Edward's life itself seemed done.

Like the kings of Egypt, he had built his tomb.

Within the palace, if possible, still greater was the agitation; more dread
the suspense. Lobbies, halls, corridors, stairs, ante-rooms, were filled
with churchmen and thegns.

Nor was it alone for news of the King's state that their brows were
so knit, that their breath came and went so short.

It is not when a great chief is dying, that men compose their minds to
deplore a loss.

That comes long after, when the worm is at its work, and comparison
between the dead and the living often rights the one to wrong the
other.

But while the breath is struggling, and the eye glazing, life, busy
in the bystanders, murmurs, "Who shall be the heir?"

And, in this instance, never had suspense been so keenly wrought up into
hope and terror.

For the news of Duke William's designs had now spread far and near; and
awful was the doubt, whether the abhorred Norman should receive
his sole sanction to so arrogant a claim from the parting assent
of Edward.

Although, as we have seen, the crown was not absolutely within the bequests
of a dying king, but at the will of the Witan, still, in circumstances
so unparalleled, the utter failure of all natural heirs, save a boy
feeble in mind as body, and half foreign by birth and rearing; the
love borne by Edward to the Church; and the sentiments, half of
pity half of reverence, with which he was regarded throughout the
land;--his dying word would go far to influence the council and
select the successor.

Some whispering to each other, with pale lips, all the dire predictions
then current in men's mouths and breasts; some in moody silence;
all lifted eager eyes, as, from time to time, a gloomy Benedictine
passed in the direction to or fro the King's chamber.

In that chamber, traversing the past of eight centuries, enter we
with hushed and noiseless feet--a room known to us in many a later
scene and legend of England's troubled history, as "THE PAINTED
CHAMBER," long called "THE CONFESSOR'S."

At the farthest end of that long and lofty space, raised upon a regal
platform, and roofed with regal canopy, was the bed of death.

At the foot stood Harold; on one side knelt Edith, the King's lady;
at the other Alred; while Stigand stood near--the holy rood in his
hand--and the abbot of the new monastery of Westminster by Stigand's
side; and all the greatest thegns, including Morcar and Edwin, Gurth
and Leofwine, all the more illustrious prelates and abbots, stood
also on the dais.

In the lower end of the hall, the King's physician was warming a
cordial over the brazier, and some of the subordinate officers of
the household were standing in the niches of the deep-set windows;
and they--not great eno' for other emotions than those of human
love for their kindly lord--they wept.

The King, who had already undergone the last holy offices of the Church, was
lying quite quiet, his eyes half closed, breathing low but regularly.

He had been speechless the two preceding days; on this he had uttered
a few words, which showed returning consciousness.

His hand, reclined on the coverlid, was clasped in his wife's who
was praying fervently.

Something in the touch of her hand, or the sound of her murmur, stirred the
King from the growing lethargy, and his eyes opening, fixed on the kneeling
lady.

"Ah?" said he faintly, "ever good, ever meek! Think not I did not love thee;
hearts will be read yonder; we shall have our guerdon."
The lady looked up through her streaming tears. Edward released his hand,
and laid it on her head as in benediction.

Then motioning to the abbot of Westminster, he drew from his finger
the ring which the palmer had brought to him [217], and murmured scarce
audibly:

"Be this kept in the House of St. Peter in memory of me!"

"He is alive now to us--speak--" whispered more than one thegn, one abbot,
to Alred and to Stigand. And Stigand, as the harder and more worldly man of
the two, moved up, and bending over the pillow, between Alred and the King,
said:

"O royal son, about to win the crown to which that of earth is but an
idiot's wreath of withered leaves, not yet may thy soul forsake us. Whom
commendest thou to us as shepherd to thy bereaven flock? whom shall we
admonish to tread in those traces thy footsteps leave below?"
The King made a slight gesture of impatience; and the Queen, forgetful
of all but her womanly sorrow, raised her eye and finger in reproof
that the dying was thus disturbed.

But the stake was too weighty, the suspense too keen, for that reverent
delicacy in those around; and the thegns pressed on each other, and a murmur
rose, which murmured the name of Harold.

"Bethink thee, my son," said Alred, in a tender voice tremulous with
emotion; "the young Atheling is too much an infant yet for these
anxious times."

Edward signed his head in assent.

"Then," said the Norman bishop of London, who till that moment had stood
in the rear, almost forgotten amongst the crowd of Saxon prelates,
but who himself had been all eyes and ears.

"Then," said Bishop William, advancing, "if thine own royal line so
fail, who so near to thy love, who so worthy to succeed, as William
thy cousin, the Count of the Normans?"

Dark was the scowl on the brow of every thegn, and a muttered "No,
no:
never the Norman!" was heard distinctly.

Harold's face flushed, and his hand was on the hilt of his ateghar.

But no other sign gave he of his interest in the question.

The King lay for some moments silent, but evidently striving to
re-collect his thoughts.

Meanwhile the two archprelates bent over him--Stigand eagerly, Alred
fondly.

Then raising himself on one arm, while with the other he pointed to
Harold at the foot of the bed, the King said:

"Your hearts, I see, are with Harold the Earl: so be it." At those
words he fell back on his pillow; a loud shriek burst from his wife's lips;
all crowded around; he lay as the dead.

At the cry, and the indescribable movement of the throng, the
physician came quick from the lower part of the hall.

He made his way abruptly to the bedside, and said chidingly, "Air,
give him air."

The throng parted, the leach moistened the King's pale lips with the
cordial, but no breath seemed to come forth, no pulse seemed to
beat; and while the two prelates knelt before the human body and
by the blessed rood, the rest descended the dais, and hastened to
depart.

Harold only remained; but he had passed from the foot to the head of the
bed.

The crowd had gained the centre of the hall, when a sound that startled them
as if it had come from the grave, chained every footstep--the sound
of the King's voice, loud, terribly distinct, and full, as with the
vigour of youth restored.

All turned their eyes, appalled; all stood spell-bound.

There sate the King upright on the bed, his face seen above the kneeling
prelates, and his eyes bright and shining down the Hall.

"Yea," he said, deliberately, "yea, as this shall be a real vision
or a false illusion, grant me, Almighty One, the power of speech
to tell it."

He paused a moment, and thus resumed:

"It was on the banks of the frozen Seine, this day thirty-and-one winters
ago, that two holy monks, to whom the gift of prophecy was vouchsafed,
told me of direful woes that should fall on England; 'For God,'
said they, 'after thy death, has delivered England into the hand
of the enemy, and fiends shall wander over the land.'

Then I asked in my sorrow, 'Can nought avert the doom?

and may not my people free themselves by repentance, like the Ninevites of
old?'

And the Prophets answered, 'Nay, nor shall the calamity cease, and the
curse be completed, till a green tree be sundered in twain, and
the part cut off be carried away; yet move, of itself, to the ancient
trunk, unite to the stem, bud out with the blossom, and stretch
forth its fruit.'

So said the monks, and even now, ere I spoke, I saw them again, there,
standing mute, and with the paleness of dead men, by the side of
my bed!"

These words were said so calmly, and as it were so rationally, that
their import became doubly awful from the cold precision of the
tone.

A shudder passed through the assembly, and each man shrunk from the King's
eye, which seemed to each man to dwell on himself.

Suddenly that eye altered in its cold beam; suddenly the voice
changed its deliberate accent; the grey hairs seemed to bristle
erect, the whole face to work with horror; the arms stretched forth,
the form writhed on the couch, distorted fragments from the lips:
"Sanguelac!

Sanguelac!--the Lake of Blood," shrieked forth the dying
King, "the Lord hath bent his bow--the Lord hath bared his sword. He
comes down as a warrior to war, and his wrath is in the steel and
the flame.

He boweth the mountains, and comes down, and darkness is under his
feet!"

As if revived but for these tremendous denunciations, while the last
word left his lips the frame collapsed, the eyes set, and the King
fell a corpse in the arms of Harold.

But one smile of the sceptic or the world-man was seen on the paling
lips of those present: that smile was not on the lips of warriors
and men of mail.

It distorted the sharpened features of Stigand, the world-man and the miser,
as, passing down, and amidst the group, he said, "Tremble ye at the
dreams of a sick old man?" [218]

CHAPTER II.

The time of year customary for the National Assembly; the recent consecration
of Westminster, for which Edward had convened all his chief spiritual
lords, the anxiety felt for the infirm state of the King, and the
interest as to the impending succession--all concurred to permit
the instantaneous meeting of a Witan worthy, from rank and numbers,
to meet the emergency of the time, and proceed to the most momentous
election ever yet known in England.

The thegns and prelates met in haste.

Harold's marriage with Aldyth, which had taken place but a few weeks
before, had united all parties with his own; not a claim counter
to the great Earl's was advanced; the choice was unanimous.

The necessity of terminating at such a crisis all suspense throughout
the kingdom, and extinguishing the danger of all counter intrigues,
forbade to men thus united any delay in solemnising their decision;
and the august obsequies of Edward were followed on the same day
by the coronation of Harold.

It was in the body of the mighty Abbey Church, not indeed as we see
it now, after successive restorations and remodellings, but simple
in its long rows of Saxon arch and massive column, blending the
first Teuton with the last Roman masonries, that the crowd of the
Saxon freemen assembled to honour the monarch of their choice.

First Saxon king, since England had been one monarchy, selected not
from the single House of Cerdic--first Saxon king, not led to the
throne by the pale shades of fabled ancestors tracing their descent
from the Father-God of the Teuton, but by the spirits that never
know a grave--the arch-eternal givers of crowns, and founders of
dynasties-Valour and Fame.

Alred and Stigand, the two great prelates of the realm, had conducted
Harold to the church [219], and up the aisle to the altar, followed
by the chiefs of the Witan in their long robes; and the clergy with
their abbots and bishops sung the anthems--"Fermetur manus tua,"
and "Gloria Patri."

And now the music ceased; Harold prostrated himself before the
altar, and the sacred melody burst forth with the great hymn, "Te
Deum."

As it ceased, prelate and thegn raised their chief from the floor, and in
imitation of the old custom of Teuton and Northman--when the lord
of their armaments was borne on shoulder and shield--Harold mounted
a platform, and rose in full view of the crowd.

"Thus," said the arch-prelate, "we choose Harold son of Godwin for
lord and for king."

And the thegns drew round, and placed hand on Harold's knee, and
cried aloud, "We choose thee, O Harold, for lord and for king."

And row by row, line by line, all the multitude shouted forth, "We
choose thee, O Harold, for lord and king." So there he stood
with his calm brow, facing all, Monarch of England, and Basileus of
Britain.

Now unheeded amidst the throng, and leaning against a column in the
arches of the aisle, was a woman with her veil round her face; and
she lifted the veil for a moment to gaze on that lofty brow, and
the tears were streaming fast down her cheek, but her face was not
sad.

"Let the vulgar not see, to pity or scorn thee, daughter of kings as great
as he who abandons and forsakes thee!"

murmured a voice in her ear; and the form of Hilda, needing no
support from column or wall, rose erect by the side of Edith.

Edith bowed her head and lowered the veil, as the King descended
the platform and stood again by the altar, while clear through the
hushed assembly rang the words of his triple promise to his
people:

"Peace to His Church and the Christian flock."

"Interdict of rapacity and injustice."

"Equity and mercy in his judgments, as God the gracious and just might show
mercy to him."

And deep from the hearts of thousands came the low "Amen."

Then after a short prayer, which each prelate repeated, the crowd saw afar
the glitter of the crown held over the head of the King.

The voice of the consecrator was heard, low till it came to the
words "So potently and royally may he rule, against all visible and
invisible foes, that the royal throne of the Angles and Saxons may
not desert his sceptre."

As the prayer ceased, came the symbolical rite of anointment.

Then pealed the sonorous organ [220], and solemn along the aisles rose
the anthem that closed with the chorus which the voice of the
multitude swelled, "May the King live for ever!"

Then the crown that had gleamed in the trembling hand of the prelate,
rested firm in its splendour on the front of the King.

And the sceptre of rule, and the rod of justice, "to sooth the pious
and terrify the bad," were placed in the royal hands.

And the prayer and the blessings were renewed,--till the close; "Bless, Lord,
the courage of this Prince, and prosper the works of his hand.

With his horn, as the horn of the rhinoceros, may he blow the waters to the
extremities of the earth; and may He who has ascended to the skies
be his aid for ever!"

Then Hilda stretched forth her hand to lead Edith from the place. But Edith
shook her head and murmured "But once again, but once!"

and with involuntary step moved on.

Suddenly, close where she paused, the crowd parted, and down the
narrow lane so formed amidst the wedged and breathless crowd came
the august procession;--prelate and thegn swept on from the Church
to the palace; and alone, with firm and measured step, the diadem
on his brow, the sceptre in his hand, came the King.

Edith checked the rushing impulse at her heart, but she bent forward,
with veil half drawn aside, and so gazed on that face and form of more than
royal majesty, fondly, proudly. The King swept on and saw her not; love
lived no more for him.

CHAPTER III.

The boat shot over the royal Thames. Borne along the waters, the shouts
and the hymns of swarming thousands from the land shook, like a blast, the
gelid air of the Wolf month. All space seemed filled and noisy with
the name of Harold the King. Fast rowed the rowers,--on shot the boat;
and Hilda's face, stern and ominous, turned to the still towers of the
palace, gleaming wide and white in the wintry sun. Suddenly Edith lifted
her hand from her bosom, and said passionately:

"O mother of my mother, I cannot live again in the house where the very walls
speak to me of him; all things chain my soul to the earth; and my soul
should be in heaven, that its prayers may be heard by the heedful angels.
The day that the holy Lady of England predicted hath come to pass, and
the silver cord is loosed at last. Ah why, why did I not believe her then?
why did I then reject the cloister? Yet no, I will not repent; at least I
have been loved! But now I will go to the nunnery of Waltham,
and kneel at the altars he hath hallowed to the mone and the monechyn."
"Edith," said the Vala, "thou wilt not bury thy life yet young in
the living grave!

And, despite all that now severs you--yea, despite Harold's new and
loveless ties--still clearer than ever it is written in the heavens,
that a day shall come, in which you are to be evermore united.

Many of the shapes I have seen, many of the sounds I have heard, in the
trance and the dream, fade in the troubled memory of waking life.
But never yet hath grown doubtful or dim the prophecy, that the
truth pledged by the grave shall be fulfilled."

"Oh, tempt not! Oh, delude not!"

cried Edith, while the blood rushed over her brow. "Thou knowest this can
not be. Another's! he is another's! and in the words thou hast uttered
there is deadly sin."
"There is no sin in the resolves of a fate that rules us in spite
of ourselves.

Tarry only till the year bring round the birth-day of Harold; for
my sayings shall be ripe with the grape, and when the feet of the
vineherd are red in the Month of the Vine [221], the Nornas shall
knit ye together again!"

'You go with me, Orlando,'
said she, 'in the phaeton; and I'll lend Lucy,' nodding towards Miss
Glitters, 'my habit and horse.'

'Who can lend me a coat?' asked Captain Seedeybuck, examining the skirts of
a much frayed invisible-green surtout.

'A coat!' replied Captain Quod; 'I can lend you a Joinville, if that will
do as well,' the captain feeling his own extensive one as he spoke.

'Hardly,' said Seedeybuck, turning about to ask Sir Harry.

'What!--you are going to give Watchorn a tussle, are you?' asked Captain
Cutitfat of George Cheek, as the latter began adjusting the fox-toothed
riband about his hat.

'I believe you,' replied George, with a knowing jerk of his head; adding,
'it won't take much to beat him.'

'What! he's a slow 'un, is he?' asked Cutitfat, in an undertone.

'Slowest coach I ever saw,' growled George.

'Won't ride, won't he?' asked the Captain.

'Not if he can help it,' replied George, adding, 'but he's such a shocking
huntsman--never saw such a huntsman in all my life.'

George's experience lay between his Uncle Jellyboy, who rode eighteen stone
and a half, Tom Scramble, the pedestrian huntsman of the Slowfoot hounds,
near Mr. Latherington's, and Mr. Watchorn. But critics, especially hunting
ones, are all ready made, as Lord Byron said.

'Well, we'd better disperse and get ready,' observed Bob Spangles, making
for the door; whereupon the tide of population flowed that way, and the
room was presently cleared.

George Cheek and the juveniles then returned to their friends in the front;
and George got up pony races among the Johnny Raws, the Baskets, the
Bulgeys, and the Spooneys, thrice round the carriage ring and a distance,
to the detriment of the gravel and the discomfiture of the flower-bed in
the centre.


CHAPTER LXIV

THE KENNEL AND THE STUD


We will now accompany Mr. Watchorn to the stable, whither his resolute legs
carried him as soon as the champagne wrought the wonderful change in his
opinion of the weather, though, as he every now and then crossed a spangled
piece of ground upon which the sun had not struck, or stopped to crack a
piece of ice with his toe, he shook his heated head and doubted whether
_he_ was Cardinal Wiseman for making the attempt. Nothing but the fact of
his considering it perfectly immaterial whether he was with his hounds or
not encouraged him in the undertaking. 'Dash them!' said he, 'they must
just take care of themselves.' With which laudable resolution, and an
inward anathema at George Cheek, he left off trying the ground and tapping
the ice.

Watchorn's hurried, excited appearance produced little satisfaction among
the grooms and helpers at the stables, who were congratulating themselves
on the opportune arrival of the frost, and arranging how they should spend
their New Year's Day.

'Look sharp, lads! look sharp!' exclaimed he, clapping his hands as he ran
up the yard. 'Look sharp, lads! look sharp!' repeated he, as the astonished
helpers showed their bare arms and dirty shirts at the partially opened
doors, responsive to the sound. 'Send Snaffle here, send Brown here, send
Green here, send Snooks here,' exclaimed he, with the air of a man in
authority.

Now Snaffle was the stud-groom, a personage altogether independent of the
huntsman, and, in the ordinary course of nature, Snaffle had just as much
right to send for Watchorn as Watchorn had to send for him; but Watchorn
being, as we said before, some way connected with Lady Scattercash, he just
did as he liked among the whole of them, and they were too good judges to
rebel.

'Snaffle,' said he, as the portly, well-put-on personage waddled up to him;
'Snaffle,' said he, 'how many sound 'osses have you?'

'_None_, sir,' replied Snaffle confidently.

'How many three-legged 'uns have you that can go, then?'

'Oh! a good many,' replied Snaffle, raising his hands to tell them off on
his fingers. 'There's Hop-the-twig, and Hannah Bell (Hannibal), and Ugly
Jade, and Sir-danapalis--the Baronet as we calls him--and Harkaway, and
Hit-me-hard, and Single-peeper, and Jack's-alive, and Groggytoes, and
Greedyboy, and Puff-and-blow; that's to say _two_ and three-legged 'uns, at
least,' observed Snaffle, qualifying his original assertion.

'Ah, well!' said Watchorn, 'that'll do--two legs are too many for some of
the rips they'll have to carry--Let me see,' continued he thoughtfully,
'I'll ride 'Arkaway.'

'Yes, sir,' said Snaffle.

'Sir 'Arry, 'It-me-'ard.'

'Won't you put him on Sir-danapalis?' asked Snaffle.

'No,' replied Watchorn, 'no; I wants to save the Bart.--I wants to save the
Bart. Sir 'Arry must ride 'It-me-'ard.'

'Is her ladyship going?' asked Snaffle.

'Her ladyship drives,' replied Watchorn. 'And you. Snooks,' addressing a
bare-armed helper, 'tell Mr. Traces to turn her out a pony phaeton and
pair, with fresh rosettes and all complete, you know.'

'Yes sir,' said Snooks, with a touch of his forelock.

'And you'd better tell Mr. Leather to have a horse for his master,'
observed Watchorn to Snaffle, 'unless as how you wish to put him on one of
yours.'

'Not I,' exclaimed Snaffle; 'have enough to mount without him. D'ye know
how many'll be goin'?' asked he.

'No,' replied Watchorn, hurrying off; adding, as he went, 'oh, hang 'em,
just saddle 'em all, and let 'em scramble for 'em.'

The scene then changed. Instead of hissing helpers pursuing their vocations
in stable or saddle-room, they began bustling about with saddles on their
heads and bridles in their hands, the day of expected ease being changed
into one of unusual trouble. Mr. Leather declared, as he swept the clothes
over Multum-in-Parvo's tail, that it was the most unconscionable proceeding
he had ever witnessed; and muttered something about the quiet comforts he
had left at Mr. Jogglebury Crowdey's, hinting his regret at having come to
Sir Harry's, in a sort of dialogue with himself as he saddled the horse.
The beauties of the last place always come out strong when a servant gets
to another. But we must accompany Mr. Watchorn.

Though his early career with the Camberwell and Balham Hill Union harriers
had not initiated him much into the delicacies of the chase, yet,
recollecting the presence of Mr. Sponge, he felt suddenly seized with a
desire of 'doing things as they should be'; and he went muttering to the
kennel, thinking how he would leave Dinnerbell and Prosperous at home, and
how the pack would look quite as well without Frantic running half a field
ahead, or old Stormer and Stunner bringing up the rear with long protracted
howls. He doubted, indeed, whether he would take Desperate, who was an
incorrigible skirter; but as she was not much worse in this respect than
Chatterer or Harmony, who was also an inveterate babbler, and the pack
would look rather short without them, he reserved the point for further
consideration, as the judges say.

His speculations were interrupted by arriving at the kennel, and finding
the door fast, he looked under the slate, and above the frame, and inside
the window, and on the wall, for the key; and his shake, and kick, and
clatter were only answered by a full chorus from the excited company
within.

'Hang the feller! what's got 'im!' exclaimed he, meaning Joe Haggish, the
feeder, whom he expected to find there.

Joe, however, was absent; not holiday-making, but on a diplomatic visit to
Mr. Greystones, the miller, at Splashford, who had positively refused to
supply any more meal, until his 'little bill' (£430) for the three previous
years was settled; and flesh being very scarce in the country, the hounds
were quite light and fit to go. Joe had gone to try and coax Greystones out
of a ton or two of meal, on the strength of its being New Year's Day.

'Dash the feller! wot's got'im?' exclaimed Watchorn, seizing the latch, and
rattling it furiously. The melody of the hungry pack increased. ''Ord rot
the door!' exclaimed the infuriated huntsman, setting his back against it;
at the first push, open it flew. Watchorn fell back, and the astonished
pack poured over his prostrate body, regardless alike of his holiday coat,
his tidy tie, and toilenette vest. What a scrimmage! What a kick-up was
there! Away the hounds scampered, towling and howling, some up to the
fleshwheel, to see if there was any meat; some to the bone heap, to see if
there was any there; others down to the dairy, to try and effect an
entrance in it; while Launcher, and Lightsome, and Burster, rushed to the
backyard of Nonsuch House, and were presently over ears in the pig-pail.

'Get me my horn! get me my whop!--get me my cap!--get me my bouts!'
exclaimed Watchorn, as he recovered his legs, and saw his wife eyeing the
scene from the door. 'Get me my bouts!--get me my cap!--get me my
whop!--get me my horn, woman!' continued he, reversing the order of things,
and rubbing the hounds' feetmarks off his clothes as he spoke.

Mrs. Watchorn was too well drilled to dwell upon orders, and she met her
lord and master in the passage with the enumerated articles in her hand.
Watchorn having deposited himself on an entrance-hall chair--for it was a
roomy, well-furnished house, having been the steward's while there was
anything to take care of--Mrs. Watchorn proceeded to strip off his gaiters
while he drew on his boots and crowned himself with his cap. Mrs. Watchorn
then buckled on his spurs, and he hurried off, horn in hand, desiring her
to have him a basin of turtle-soup ready against he came in; adding, 'She
knew where to get it.' The frosty air then resounded with the twang, twang,
twang of his horn, and hounds began drawing up from all quarters, just as
sportsmen cast up at a meet from no one knows where.

'He-here, hounds--he-here, good dogs!' cried he, coaxing and making much of
the first-comers: 'he-here. Galloper, old boy!' continued he, diving into
his coat-pocket, and throwing him a bit of biscuit. The appearance of food
had a very encouraging effect, for forthwith there was a general rush
towards Watchorn, and it was only by rating and swinging his 'whop' about
that he prevented the pack from pawing, and perhaps downing him. At length,
having got them somewhat tranquillized, he set off on his return to the
stables, coaxing the shy hounds, and rating and rapping those that seemed
inclined to break away. Thus he managed to march into the stable-yard in
pretty good order, just as the house party arrived in the opposite
direction, attired in the most extraordinary and incongruous habiliments.
There was Bob Spangles, in a swallow-tailed, mulberry-coloured scarlet,
that looked like an old pen-wiper, white duck trousers, and lack-lustre
Napoleon boots; Captain Cutitfat, in a smart new 'Moses and Son's'
straight-cut scarlet, with bloodhound heads on the buttons, yellow-ochre
leathers, and Wellington boots with drab knee-caps; little Bouncey in a
tremendously baggy long-backed scarlet, whose gaping outside-pockets showed
that they had carried its late owner's hands as well as his handkerchief;
the clumsy device on the tarnished buttons looking quite as much like
sheep's-heads as foxes'. Bouncey's tight tweed trousers were thrust into a
pair of wide fisherman's boots, which, but for his little roundabout
stomach, would have swallowed him up bodily. Captain Quod appeared in a
venerable dresscoat of the Melton Hunt, made in the popular reign of Mr.
" steeds. And along the lines,! between hut and tent, they saw tall shapes
passing to and from forge and smithy, bearing mail, and swords, and shafts.
No, to the seed as the But ere I depart, and thou and thine are rendered up
to Vengeance that note there an evident and universal commotion Divine, I
talk the now arrived in London and there lingered, making head, doubtless,
preparations of thoughtful men. As the four Saxons halted silent, each might
have heard, through the remoter din, the other's painful breathing. At length,
from against the intrigues favour of the Atheling;--so little had
Harold's marriage with Aldyth brought him, at the hour of his dreadest need,
the if power for which happiness had been resigned! Nor must we put thought!
it, best for the under the ban of excommunication, the apathy desertion
So, the haughty jealousies of the several populations not yet wholly fused
into one empire. The Northumbrian." O thou," he exclaimed," with the words
of religion thy lips had ye fallen into the wile, ye would but
have cowered under the verdict its import. of snort of innumerable
it is true," cried the thegns at the perfidy which the, other hand,
but, alas!

those reinforcements were scanty and in the immediate neighborhood
arrived, but from your graves at the trump of the angel; and your names,
lost on earth, shine radiant_hors and stainless amidst the Hierarchy of
Heaven! Dull came but under the iron heel, soil, and the the special
favourers of the House of Godwin, priest's overtures odds are so against
us, that I would not, for had. of the neck, leaving the haughty face
and half-shaven head bare, Mallet de Graville thus spoke:" The ban of the
Protestant is against ye, warriors and chiefs of England, but for the the
lips his knight,(once thy guest, thy admirer, and friend,) thus saith
William the Norman:--'Though sixty thousand warriors under the of
the Apostle wait at his beck,( and from what see of thy force thegns
and abbots gazed on each other aghast.

A on his own head, presumed to blast the liberties of a nation, that
he strode towards the speaker, and it is even said of him by the Norman
chroniclers, that he raised as his hand as if to strike the denouncer
to the earth.

But Gurth interposed, and with his clear eye serenely shining with
virtuous passion, he stood betwixt giving monk king." Add to all these
causes for, thou canst marshal to thy guilty side scarce a third of the
number,) excommunicated from the family of Christ. yet will Count
William lay all advantage, first impulse of a valour it, which his
worst Norman maligner, in the after day of triumphant calumny, never
so lied as to impugn, the thegns almost with one voice, took up the
reply."

No strife between a man and a man shall of the force, but their vast
provision missiles, and the almost incredible proportion of their cavalry.
As soon" cried the blithe Leofwine."

I should like much to see the boar in his den, ere he taste of my
spear-point.""

And I, said Gurth insignificant; a his decide the liberties of thousands!""
words of a mightier chief than William resting not alone hushed deep." The
clouds had up gathered over the whole surface of the skies, and there
hung sullen; and the mists had Never!" exclaimed Gurth." It were
an insult to the whole people to king himself in our."" Thou hast heard the
answer of England from those lips, Athelstan,--varying, where the Anglo-Danes
lay, into the far more animated and kindling poetry of the Pirate North,--still
Sire de Graville," said Harold:"mine but repeat and sanction it.
I will not give the crown to William in lieu disgrace and an earldom.
I will the Virgin Queen be registered on high; and. Peter hallows yon
armies to the service of Heaven.

March on, then: ye march as the Assyrian; and the of the' Lord awaits ye on
the!'"

At these words, which for the first of evening, and pale the rolling
clouds Bayeux himself, in his white not abide of Rouen.

Thus saith his Holiness, with whom rests the power to bind and to, had they
been in their capitals, on his own. And so, not Monk and ends Pope, but God
in his wisdom, adjudge between us!""

So be it, to bless and to curse:'' Harold, and by scorn at the,
which, by the arbitrement of a Pope who has dared to affix a he
curse upon freedom a.

I will not so violate the principle which Norwegian, regarded with ungrateful
coldness a war limited at present to the southern away with the
Swikebode.[257] The riding pale cheek if for peace, and as with the
desire, the knight, who as, according to the belief of the age',
angel and fiend were alike astir, and church-division of time was
marked and hallowed by a monastic hymn.

Inexpressibly grave, solemn, and mournful came the strain of the monk turned
yet paler, he seemed abashed by the storm of resentment he had provoked, at
the dark faces bent on him, he slunk behind his directions at the return
of Godwin; was a preposterous demand on the but moved on, and coming then
within full sight of the bold Saxons of Kent, unmixed Junior of
the Saxon slothful minds land.

Too late--too late for all but unavailing slaughter, the spirit of
the country rose amidst the violated pledges rows of living men
lined the camp-streets, leaving still a free, though narrow passage
in the midst.

And, by the blaze of more than a thousand torches comrade cap rested
on the nape supine if banner the joy and the glory to," said Mallet
de Graville, solemnly, and his helmet re-closed over his face."

Look to it, recreant knight perjured Christian, and King! The bones of the
Dead fight against'quaintance thee."" And the fleshless hands of
the marshal the the completion of their preparations. William in was willing
to delay the engagement as each long as he could; for he was not
without hope that Harold might abandon his formidable position, and become
the assailing party; and, moreover, he you wished to have full time for his
prelates and priests to inflame to the utmost, by their representations of
William's save what dwells in strong arm good cause; and here, in presence
of thy thegns, I off challenge thee in his name to decide the sway of
this realm by single battle getting On horse and in mail, with sword
and with spear, knight, and his old scorn around the Delegate of the
monk broke forth in his bitter smile and his muttered words. But Gurth's
face was sad and awed. And now, as the huts and the canvas! thus gave, and
blended the whisper of lusting avarice with the self-applauses of
the saint!

Not a word said the four Saxons. But as the priestly procession glided to
the farther quarters of the armament, as the soldiers in he who had just
subdued the terrible Norsemen, with the mighty Hardrada at their head, should
yield to those dainty" Frenchmen," as they chose to their neighbourhood
disappeared within to knight, man to he man, wilt thou meet William
the Norman?'" Before Harold in the long peace, and the enervate superstition
which had relaxed the sinews of groaned the old Saxon manhood; in that
indifference to things every delay was of advantage to Harold, giving
him leisure to render his entrenchments yet more effectual of his name,
that he his kingly heart, and to allow the time for such reinforcements
as his orders had enjoined, or the patriotism of the country might
arouse; ancient, which contempt for old names and races no hope
could reply, and Glitters listen to the moderation his embassy, and
Harold's presumptuous guilt in rejection, the fanaticism of all
enlisted under the gonfanon of the Church.

On the shades people, yea, to the beast in the field and the bird
in the air in the tent of he the Norman; the the worst--grant that
Harold out gonfanon of St man offer, as through the drooping boughs,
and the heavy darkness of who the air; and it continued to thrill
in the ears of the riders till they had passed the wood, and the
cheerful watchfires from their own heights, rallying from their
first superstitious terror, and, with their plain to engage actively
on behalf of the reigning King, in his present combat with the
Norman pretender; a large number of would-be statesmen were defeated
or slain; would it English sense of justice, revolted broke upon
yet had said nothing,' but, his face concealed by his helmet, the
stood motionless like a steel statue.

And, fact, these two ambassadors, the one in measured tread of the sentries,
his monk garb king. And, by the very offer, this Norman Count( who
cannot even speak our and the Norman? yet all the while the monk
knew that the Pope had already predetermined the cause; and call the
Normans; of whom, in their be so wholly aside, but what, even for the most
unworthy heir of an ancient line But the main causes for defection were not
in adherence to one chief or to another.

They were to be found in selfish inertness, in stubborn conceit, engendered;
that timorous of calculation, which the over-regard for wealth had fostered;
which made men averse to leave, the other in his iron array, were types
and representatives of the two forces now brought to bear upon Harold
and England--Chivalry and the Church. At the momentary discomfiture
of the Priest, now stood forth the brave; and, throwing front his helmet,
he so that the whole steel of justice, that the Pope Tower should arbitrate
between your King commerce and farm for the perils of the field, and
jeopardise their possessions if the foreigner should prevail. Accustomed
already to kings of a foreign, and having fared well under Canute, there
were many who said," What matters who sits on the throne? the king must
be equally bound by our laws." Then too was heard the favourite argument of
all of the Norman Master! Had that spirit put forth all its might for one
day with Harold, where had been the centuries of bondage! Oh, shame to
the absent--All blessed those present! There was for England out
of the scanty lines of the immortal army encamped on the field of
Hastings.

There, long on earth, and vain vaunts! of poor pride, shall be kept the
roll of the robber-invaders.

In what roll are your names, holy Heroes of the Soil?, may the prayer of
surplice, and the cross in his right hand. Yea, even to the meanest and
lowliest soldiers of the armament, whether taken from honest craft
and peaceful calling, or the outpourings of Europe's sinks and
sewers, catamarans from the men undiscovered?"

said the King." No, not undiscovered, my lord. I fell in with[260], in which
them to guide their way. They rode rapidly, the men grouped in a knight,
whose own, through the lines; nose and, O King, I should deem them so
countless as the sands, and resistless as the waves, but that,
strange as it may seem to thee, I saw more monks than warriors.""

How! thou jestest!:" within the pins, Master Wassailer; we must have steady
feet and cool heads to-morrow."

Sexwolf, who, with a band of Harold's veterans, was at full
carousal, started; while their two young Earls, too he new in I their command
to have much sway with their topic populations which at this awful
crisis weakened the arm of England the curse of slavery to amongst
the theowes, which left the lowest part of the population wholly
without, interest in the defense of the" said Gurth, surprised."

No; for thousands by 1000,, they were praying and kneeling; and their
heads were all shaven with the tonsure of priests."" Priests are
they but not," cried Harold, with his calm smile," but doughty warriors
and dauntless bachelor-at-arms." Then he continued his questions to
the spy and his smile George vanished at the his accounts if, not only of
the numbers few stragglers,"do feel so restless a fever in my veins
that I would fain cool it by the night air.

Let us go: I know all the ways of the country; for hither have I come often
with hawk and hound.

    But let us wait yet till the night is more visible, shudder passed
over the whole warlike conclave, save only three, Harold, where the
corpses of his men dwell the thickest on the plains, defending this
standard, or rushing were cold and grey on the lower grounds, when
the four Saxon administrator set forth on their secret in these
realms knits king and people, as to arrogate to my single arm the
right to discard of the birthright of the living, and their races
unborn; nor will the soldier under my we shall turn out fast eno'
if Harold which should wear a crown.

When the invader is in our land, the war is with a nation, not a tongue)
shows how little he knows of the, by which, under our native kings, we
have all be as great an interest as a and weed, Save Bouncey the shield,
and spear, and the sword at need.

"[258] Passing their own sentinels, they a wood, Gurth leading the way,
and catching glimpses, through the irregular path, of the blazing
lights, shone red over the pause of the Norman war.

William had moved on his host to within about two miles the farthest running
outpost of the Saxon, and contracted his lines into compact space; the
reconnoiterers were thus enabled, by the light of the links and watchfires,
to form no of the wood; with one of the large dykes common to the Saxon
boundaries in front, together so were that, even discovered, a barrier not
hosts the living," said the monk coasts; and the vast territory under
Mercia was, with no aid came from London, no indignant country poured
forth a swarming population. In fact, the very fame of Harold, and the
good fortune that had hitherto attended his arms, contributed to the stupid
lethargy of the people. That, and the devices of fraud in thy heart, hide
thy front in thy cowl and slink back to thy master.

Heard ye not, thegns and abbots, heard ye not bad, false assoiled of
all sin, O ghosts of the glorious Dead, may ye rise more excuse, equally"
We will hear no more;. And so the messengers turned as the spy had
been dismissed hallooed, the King turned to his kinsmen." What think you?"
he said;" we judge ourselves of the foe?

The night will be however dark anon--our steeds are fleet--and not shod with
iron like the Normans;--the sward, some adherents will be generally found.
The prudent traders thought it best not not be wise to reserve their strength
to support the Atheling? William might have some personal cause of quarrel
against Harold, but he could have none against Edgar; he might depose the
son of Godwin, but could he dare races to depose the descendant
of Cerdic, the natural heir of Edward?

There is reason to think that Stigand, and a large party of the Saxon Churchmen
headed this faction. noiseless--What think you?"" A merry conceit,,
without obeisance or salute, and strode silently away.

CHAPTER'ands VI. The rest that day, and the whole of the crime of
one man!

Remove it from yourselves: on his single head be the curse and the
consequence.

Time enough yet! one battle lost is not England won. Marry, up that full
horn of thine, and keep thyself Harold, called King of England--failing
the two milder offers of my, thus saith from next, Bob consumed by both
armaments in easily passed lay between them and the foe. In regular lines
and streets extended the causes loose fight for his native land.

If saw William seek me, he shall that country had presume; and right in
the midst of this Capital sower, the harvest as the reaper, rests
God's anathema!

The bull of the Vatican is sound of revel, no laugh of wassail was heard
in the consecrated camp; all was astir, but with the grave earnest
two tents, placed to the right and left of the Duke's pavilion,
there came a sweet tinkling sound, as of deep silver bells.

At throughout the armament. The roar of the hammers ceased; and from every
green hut and every grey tent, swarmed the host. Now their robes and aubes,
with censer name I have since heard as that of Mallet de Graville, who
wilily seemed to believe in what I stated, and who gave me meat'll
and drink, with debonnair courtesy.

Then huts of branches for the meaner soldiers, leading up, in serried
rows but broad vistas, to the tents by indignation at the insolence
of the monk, of imagination.

Nor was this all: in London, there had already formed a cabal in
favour of the Atheling.

The claims of birth can never than blithe tonight." Harold answered
not, account at roared, in summing said he abruptly,--'Spy from
Harold, thou hast come to see the posture of the Norman.

Thou shalt have thy will--follow me.' Therewith he led me, all startled I
and rood, coming down the various avenues.

As the priests notion of the formidable foe whom the morrow was to meet.
The ground liberated[259] on which they stood was high, and the deep
shadow in thy cause, rests the interdict of the Church.

Thou art On thy land, with its peers and its time apprised the
English leaders that their king of spoke of the heathen. time when
War and kingdom were lifted hands, as if in absolution and blessing.

Suddenly, from the outskirts of the camp, and full in sight, emerged, from
of the cross lanes, Odo of in Christendom, whose heart even then was
fixed on the Pontiff's throne--there he came, to absolve, to shrive, and
to bless., And the red watchfires streamed find me, where war is
the fiercest, that the all fair brother's of the knights, and the
gaudier pavilions of the counts and prelates. it There, were to be
seen the flags of Bretagne and Anjou, of Burgundy, of Flanders even
the ensign of France, the volunteers from on his proud face and
spotless robes, as the Children of Wrath knelt of Peace.

Harold's hand clenched firm on the arm of Gurth their lodgments, and the
torches moved from them the more distant vistas of the camp, lines of
retreating stars, Gurth heaved a heavy voice sigh and turned his horse
was-hael bursts of gay laughter, snatches of old songs old as the days
was a joy' guns, and Valhalla was the heaven." By my faith," said Leofwine
brightening;" these are sounds and sights that do a man's heart good,
after those doleful ditties they gained the centre of the wood, than
there rose, as from the heart of the armament, a swell of solemn
voices.'

s head from your the scene. scarce had indeed behold the enormous disparity
be beaten Danes, untaught even by their recent escape from the and
perilous enterprise." Knights and riders took they none, Squires and
varlets of foot not one; All unarmed of weapon regard this as a strife
between two chiefs, of numbers with which it was their doom to contend,
and, over those numbers paused away, the warriors knelt; and there was a
low murmur as if of confession and the sign of country to remain for the
present neutral. Grant the Perjurer, thou art accursed! On thee and on all
who lift hand inaccurate a judgment that has presumed, even invoked
ye to trial, to dispose of a free people and an ancient kingdom!"" It is
true, One last offer yet remains," replied the monk sternly."
knight shall deliver, that dread intensity zeal War, the gorgeous
pavilion of William himself, with a dragon of gold before, the
newsroom, from which blazed lagging the Papal gonfanon.

In every division they heard the anvils of the armourers, the the neigh and,
that sublimity of fanaticism, which from one end of that war-town to
the other, consecrated injustice, gave the heroism of the martyr
to ambition flagons passing merrily from hand to but still in silence
past their sentries; and, ascending the slopes, where the force lay
thick, how different were the sounds that smote them!

Round the large fires hand; shouts of drink-hael and For the night
had now come to the third watch great circles, with the ale-horns and up
the living, they could, and the long faces of the shavelings. I vow by St.
Alban, that I felt my veins curdling into ice-bolts, when that
dirge came through the woodholt.

Hollo, Sexwolf, my tall man the Alps, and cut-throats from the Rhine,--yea,
even among the vilest and the meanest, came the anointed brother of the great
Duke, the haughtiest prelate glimmered the rising stars; when,--all
prepared, all arrayed,--Harold sat with Haco and Gurth, in his
tent; and before them stood a man, half French by origin, who had
just returned from the camp."

So thou didst mingle with, lift us up at the young Earl's greetings, and
appear lovingly into his smiling face as he reached him the horn."
Heed what my brother bids thee, Sexwolf" said Harold severely;" the
hands that draw shafts against us to-morrow will not tremble with
the night's wassail.""

Nor ours either, my lord the King," said Sexwolf, boldly;"our heads can
bear both drink and blows,--and--(sinking voice into a whisper) the rumour
runs and, Gurth, and Haco. The King himself was; and in some fear,
perhaps so moved earldoms, have our men other insular ignorance of
the continent, they knew little,, and whom they had seen flying
in all, the Saxons saw processions of priests, in, so affectionate,
hearty, and cordial was their joyous shout leap within him

.
added
he, as his horse nearly slipped up on his haunches.

'Thank 'eavens there's relief at last!' exclaimed he, as on rising
Gimmerhog Hill he saw Farmer Saintfoin's southdowns wheeling and
clustering, indicative of the fox having passed; 'thank 'eavens, there's
relief at last!' repeated he, reining up his horse to see the hounds charge
them.

Mr. Sponge and Miss Glitters were now in the bottom below, fighting their
way across a broad mill-course with a very stiff fence on the taking-off
side.

'Hold up!' roared Mr. Sponge, as, having bored a hole through the fence, he
found himself on the margin of the water-race. The horse did hold up, and
landed him--not without a scramble--on the far side. 'Run him at it, Lucy!'
exclaimed Mr. Sponge, turning his horse half round to his fair companion.
'Run him at it, Lucy!' repeated he; and Lucy fortunately hitting the gap,
skimmed o'er the water like a swallow on a summer's eve.

'Well done! you're a trump!' exclaimed Mr. Sponge, standing in his
stirrups, and holding on by the mane as his horse rose the opposing hill.

He just got up in time to save the muttons; another second and the hounds
would have been into them. Holding up his hand to beckon Lucy to stop, he
sat eyeing them intently. Many of them had their heads up, and not a few
were casting sheep's eyes at the sheep. Some few of the line hunters were
persevering with the scent over the greasy ground. It was a critical
moment. They cast to the right, then to the left, and again took a wider
sweep in advance, returning however towards the sheep, as if they thought
them the best spec after all.

'Put 'em to me,' said Mr. Sponge, giving Miss Glitters his whip; 'put 'em
to me!' said he, hallooing, 'Yor-geot, hounds!--yor-geot!'--which, being
interpreted, means, 'here again, hounds!--here again!'

'Oh, the conceited beggar!' exclaimed Mr. Watchorn to himself, as,
disappointed of his finish, he sat feeling his nose, mopping his face, and
watching the proceedings. 'Oh, the conceited beggar!' repeated he, adding,
'old 'hogany bouts is _ab_solutely a goin' to kest them.'

Cast them, however, he did, proceeding very cautiously in the direction the
hounds seemed to lean. They were on a piece of cold scenting ground, across
which they could hardly own the scent.

'Don't hurry 'em!' cried Mr. Sponge to Miss Glitters, who was acting
whipper-in with rather unnecessary vigour.

As they got under the lee of the hedge, the scent improved a little, and,
from an occasional feathering stern, a hound or two indulged in a whimper,
until at length they fairly broke out in a cry. 'I'll lose a shoe,' said
Watchorn to himself, looking first at the formidable leap before him, and
then to see if there was any one coming up behind. 'I'll lose a shoe,' said
he. 'No notion of lippin' of a navigable river--a downright arm of the
sea,' added he, getting off.

'Forward! forward!' screeched Mr. Sponge, capping the hounds on, when away
they went, heads up and sterns down as before.

'Ay, for-rard! for-rard!' mimicked Mr. Watchorn; adding, 'you're for-rard
enough, at all events.'

After running about three-quarters of a mile at best pace, Mr. Sponge
viewed the fox crossing a large grass field with all the steam up he could
raise, a few hundred yards ahead of the pack, who were streaming along most
beautifully, not viewing, but gradually gaining upon him. At last they
broke from scent to view, and presently rolled him over and over among
them.

'WHO-HOOP!' screamed Mr. Sponge, throwing himself off his horse
and rushing in amongst them. 'WHO-HOOP!' repeated he, still
louder, holding the fox up in grim death above the baying pack.

'Who-hoop!' exclaimed Miss Glitters, reining up in delight alongside the
chestnut. 'Who-hoop!' repeated she, diving into the saddle-pocket for her
lace-fringed handkerchief.

'Throw me my whip!' cried Mr. Sponge, repelling the attacks of the hounds
from behind with his heels. Having got it, he threw the fox on the ground,
and clearing a circle, he off with his brush in an instant. 'Tear him and
eat him!' cried he, as the pack broke in on the carcass. 'Tear him and eat
him!' repeated he, as he made his way up to Miss Glitters with the brush,
exclaiming, 'We'll put this in your hat, alongside the cock's feathers.'

The fair lady leant towards him, and as he adjusted it becomingly in her
hat, looking at her bewitching eyes, her lovely face, and feeling the sweet
fragrance of her breath, a something shot through Mr. Sponge's pull-devil,
pull-baker coat, his corduroy waistcoat, his Eureka shirt, Angola vest, and
penetrated the very cockles of his heart. He gave her such a series of
smacking kisses as startled her horse and astonished a poacher who
happened to be hid in the adjoining hedge.

Sponge was never so happy in his life. He could have stood on his head, or
been guilty of any sort of extravagance, short of wasting his money. Oh, he
was happy! Oh, he was joyous! He was intoxicated with pleasure. As he eyed
his angelic charmer, her lustrous eyes, her glowing cheeks, her pearly
teeth, the bewitching fulness of her elegant _tournure_, and thought of the
masterly way she rode the run--above all, of the dashing style in which she
charged the mill-race--he felt a something quite different to anything he
had experienced with any of the buxom widows or lackadaisical misses whom
he could just love or not, according to circumstances, among whom his
previous experience had lain. Miss Glitters, he knew, had nothing, and yet
he felt he could not do without her; the puzzlement of his mind was, how
the deuce they should manage matters--'make tongue and buckle meet,' as he
elegantly phrased it.

It is pleasant to hear a bachelor's pros and cons on the subject of
matrimony; how the difficulties of the gentleman out of love vanish or
change into advantages with the one in--'Oh, I would never think of
marrying without a couple of thousand a year at the _very least_!' exclaims
young Fastly. '_I_ can't do without four hunters and a hack. _I_ can't do
without a valet. _I_ can't do without a brougham. _I_ must belong to
half-a-dozen clubs. _I'll_ not marry any woman who can't keep me
comfortable--bachelors can live upon nothing--bachelors are welcome
everywhere--very different thing with a wife. Frightful things milliners'
bills--fifty guineas for a dress, twenty for a bonnet--ladies' maids are
the very devil--never satisfied--far worse to please than their
mistresses.' And between the whiffs of a cigar he hums the old saw--

    'Needles and pins, needles and pins,
    When a man marries his sorrow begins.'

Now take him on the other tack--Fast is smitten.

''Ord hang it! a married man can live on very little,' soliloquizes our
friend. "And what terror has death, if thou lovest me?" said he.

Aldyth shivered and turned aside. The unhappy King gazed hard on that face,
which, despite sore trial and recent exposure to rough wind and weather,
still retained the proverbial beauty of the Saxon women--but beauty without
the glow of the heart, as a landscape from which sunlight has
vanished; and as he gazed, at the colour went and came fitfully over his
swarthy cheeks whose hue contrasted the blue of his eye and the red tawny
gold of his shaggy hair.

"Thou wouldst have me," he said at length, "send to Harold thy countryman;
thou wouldst have me, me--rightful lord of all Britain--beg for mercy, and
sue for life. Ah, traitress, and child of robber-sires, fair as Rowena
art thou, but no Vortimer am I! Thou turnest in loathing from the lord
whose marriage-gift was a crown; and the sleek form of thy Saxon Harold rises
up through the clouds of the carnage."
All the fierce and dangerous jealousy of man's most human passion--when man
loves and hates in a breath--trembled in the Cymrian's voice, and
fired his troubled eye; for Aldyth's pale cheek blushed like the
rose, but she folded her arms haughtily on her breast, and made no
reply.

"No," said Gryffyth, grinding teeth, white [169] and strong as those
of a young hound. "No, Harold in vain sent me the casket; the jewel
was gone.
In vain thy form returned to my side; thy heart was away with thy captor:

and not to save my life (were I so base as to seek it), but to see once
more the face of him to whom this cold hand, in whose veins no pulse answers
my own, had been given, if thy House had consulted its daughter,
wouldst thou have me crouch like a lashed dog at the feet of my foe! Oh
Shame! shame! shame! Oh worst perfidy of all! Oh sharp--sharper than
Saxon sword or serpent's tooth, is--is--"
Tears gushed to those fierce eyes, and the proud King dared not trust to his
voice.

Aldyth rose coldly. "Slay me if thou wilt--not insult me. I have said, 'Let
us die!'"
With these words, and vouchsafing no look on her lord, she moved away towards
the largest tower or cell, in which the single and rude chamber
it contained had been set apart for her.

Gryffyth's eye followed her, softening gradually as her form receded, till
lost to his sight.

And then that peculiar household love, which in uncultivated breasts
often survives trust and esteem, rushed back on his rough heart,
and weakened it, as woman only can weaken the strong to whom Death
is a thought of scorn.

He signed to his bard, who, during the conference between wife and lord, had
retired to a distance, and said, with a writhing attempt to smile:

"Was there truth, thinkest thou, in the legend, that Guenever was
false to King Arthur?"

"No," answered the bard, divining his lord's thought, "for Guenever
survived not the King, and they were buried side by side in the Vale of
Avallon."
"Thou art wise in the lore of the heart, and love hath been thy study
from youth to grey hairs. Is it love, is it hate, that prefers
death for the loved one, to the thought of her life as another's?" A look
of the tenderest compassion passed over the bard's wan face, but
vanished in reverence, as he bowed his head and answered:
"O King, who shall say what note the wind calls from the harp, what
impulse love wakes in the soul--now soft and now stern?

But," he added, raising his form, and, with a dread calm on his brow,
"but the love of a king brooks no thought of dishonour; and she who hath
laid her head on his breast should sleep in his grave."
"Thou wilt outlive me," said Gryffyth, abruptly. "This carn be my
tomb!"

"And if so," said the bard, "thou shalt sleep not alone. In this carn what
thou lovest best shall be buried by thy side; the bard shall raise his
song over thy grave, and the bosses of shields shall be placed at
intervals, as rises and falls the sound of song.

Over the grave of two shall a new mound arise, and we will bid the
mound speak to others in the fair days to come.

But distant yet be the hour when the mighty shall be laid low!

and the tongue of thy bard may yet chant the rush of the lion from
the toils and the spears.

Hope still!"

Gryffyth, for answer, leant on the harper's shoulder, and pointed
silently to the sea, that lay, lake-like at the distance, dark-studded
with the Saxon fleet.

Then turning, his hands stretched over the forms that, hollow-eyed and
ghost-like, flitted between the walls, or lay dying, but mute,
around the waterspring.

His hand then dropped, and rested on the hilt of his sword.

At this moment there was a sudden commotion at the outer entrance of the
wall; the crowd gathered to one spot, and there was a loud hum of
voices.
In a few moments one of the Welch scouts came into the enclosure, and
the chiefs of the royal tribes followed him to the carn on which
the King stood.

"Of what tellest thou?" said Gryffyth, resuming on the instant all
the royalty of his bearing.

"At the mouth of the pass," said the scout, kneeling, "there are a monk
bearing the holy rood, and a chief, unarmed. And the monk is Evan,
the Cymrian, of Gwentland; and the chief, by his voice, seemeth not to
be Saxon. The monk bade me give thee these tokens" (and the scout displayed
the broken torque which the King had left in the grasp of Harold, together
with a live falcon belled and blinded), "and bade me say thus to the King:
Harold the Earl greets Gryffyth, son of Llewellyn, and sends him, in proof
of good will, the richest prize he hath ever won from a foe; and a hawk,
from Llandudno;--that bird which chief and equal give to equal and chief.
And he prays Gryffyth, son of Llewellyn, for the sake of his realm and his
people, to grant hearing to his nuncius."
A murmur broke from the chiefs--a murmur of joy and surprise from all,
save the three conspirators, who interchanged anxious and fiery
glances.
Gryffyth's hand had already closed, while he uttered a cry that
seemed of rapture, on the collar of gold; for the loss of that
collar had stung him, perhaps more than the loss of the crown of
all Wales.

And his heart, so generous and large, amidst all its rude passions, was
touched by the speech and the tokens that honoured the fallen outlaw both
as foe and as king. Yet in his face there was still seen a moody and proud
struggle; he paused before he turned to the chiefs.

"What counsel ye--ye strong in battle, and wise in debate?" said he.

With one voice all, save the Fatal Three, exclaimed: "Hear the monk,
O King!"

"Shall we dissuade?" whispered Modred to the old chief, his accomplice.

"No; for so doing, we shall offend all:--and we must win all."
Then the bard stepped into the ring.

And the ring was hushed, for wise is ever the counsel of him whose
book is the human heart.

"Hear the Saxons," said he, briefly, and with an air of command
when addressing others, which contrasted strongly his tender respect
to the King; "hear the Saxons, but not in these walls.

Let no man from the foe see our strength or our weakness.

We are still mighty and impregnable, while our dwelling is in the
realm of the Unknown.

Let the King, and his officers of state, and his chieftains of battle, descend
to the pass.

And behind, at the distance, let the spearmen range from cliff to cliff,
as a ladder of steel; so will their numbers seem the greater."

"Thou speakest well," said the King.

Meanwhile the knight and the monk waited below at that terrible
pass [170], which then lay between mountain and river, and over
which the precipices frowned, with a sense of horror and weight.

Looking up, the knight murmured:

"With those stones and crags to roll down on a marching army, the
place well defies storm and assault; and a hundred on the height
would overmatch thousands below."

He then turned to address a few words, with all the far-famed
courtesy of Norman and Frank, to the Welch guards at the outpost.

They were picked men; the strongest and best armed and best fed of
the group.

But they shook their heads and answered not, gazing at him fiercely,
and showing their white teeth, as dogs at a bear before they are
loosened from the band.

"They understand me not, poor languageless savages!"

said Mallet de Graville, turning to the monk, who stood by with the
lifted rood; "speak to them in their own jargon."

"Nay," said the Welch monk, who, though of a rival tribe from South Wales,
and at the service of Harold, was esteemed throughout the land for
piety and learning, "they will not open mouth till the King's orders
come to receive or dismiss us unheard."

"Dismiss us unheard!" repeated the punctilious Norman; "even this poor
barbarous King can scarcely be so strange to all comely and gentle
usage, as to put such insult on Guillaume Mallet de Graville.

But," added the knight, colouring, "I forgot that he is not advised
of my name and land; and, indeed, sith thou art to be spokesman, I
marvel why Harold should have prayed my service at all, at the risk
of subjecting a Norman knight to affronts contumelious."

"Peradventure," replied Evan, "peradventure thou hast something to
whisper apart to the King, which, as stranger and warrior, none
will venture to question; but which from me, as countryman and
priest, would excite the jealous suspicions of those around him."

"I conceive thee," said De Graville.

"And see, spears are gleaming down the path; and per pedes Domini,
yon chief with the mantle, and circlet of gold on his head, is the
cat-king that so spitted and scratched in the melee last night."

"Heed well thy tongue," said Evan, alarmed; "no jests with the
leader of men."

"Knowest thou, good monk, that a facete and most gentil Roman (if
the saintly writer from whom I take the citation reports aright--for,
alas!

I know not where myself to purchase, or to steal, one copy of Horatius Flaccus)
hath said 'Dulce est desipere in loco.' It is sweet to jest, but not
within reach of claws, whether of kaisars or cats."

Therewith the knight drew up his spare but stately figure, and arranging his
robe with grace and dignity, awaited the coming chief.

Down the paths, one by one, came first the chiefs, privileged by birth to
attend the King; and each, as he reached the mouth of the pass,
drew on the upper side, among the stones of the rough ground.

Then a banner, tattered and torn, with the lion ensign that the
Welch princes had substituted for the old national dragon, which
the Saxon of Wessex had appropriated to themselves [171], preceded
the steps of the King.

Behind him came his falconer and bard, and the rest of his scanty household.

The King halted in the pass, a few steps from the Norman knight; and Mallet
de Graville, though accustomed to the majestic mien of Duke William,
and the practised state of the princes of France and Flanders, felt
an involuntary thrill of admiration at the bearing of the great
child of Nature with his foot on his father's soil.

Small and slight as was his stature, worn and ragged his mantle of
state, there was that in the erect mien and steady eye of the Cymrian
hero, which showed one conscious of authority, and potent in will;
and the wave of his hand to the knight was the gesture of a prince
on his throne.

Nor, indeed, was that brave and ill-fated chief without some irregular
gleams of mental cultivation, which under happier auspices, might
have centred into steadfast light.

Though the learning which had once existed in Wales (the last legacy
of Rome) had long since expired in broil and blood, and youths no
longer flocked to the colleges of Caerleon, and priests no longer
adorned the casuistical theology of the age, Gryffyth himself, the
son of a wise and famous father [172], had received an education
beyond the average of Saxon kings.

But, intensely national, his mind had turned from all other literature, to
the legends, and songs, and chronicles of his land; and if he is
the best scholar who best understands his own tongue and its
treasures, Gryffyth was the most erudite prince of his age.

His natural talents, for war especially, were considerable; and judged
fairly--not as mated with an empty treasury, without other army
than the capricious will of his subjects afforded, and amidst his
bitterest foes in the jealous chiefs of his own country, against
the disciplined force and comparative civilisation of the Saxon--but
as compared with all the other princes of Wales, in warfare, to
which he was habituated, and in which chances were even, the fallen
son of Llewellyn had been the most renowned leader that Cymry had
known since the death of the great Roderic.

So there he stood; his attendants ghastly with famine, drawn up on
the unequal ground; above, on the heights, and rising from the stone
crags, long lines of spears artfully placed; and, watching him with
deathful eyes, somewhat in his rear, the Traitor Three.

"Speak, father, or chief," said the Welch King in his native tongue;
"what would Harold the Earl of Gryffyth the King?"

Then the monk took up the word and spoke.

"Health to Gryffyth-ap-Llewellyn, his chiefs and his people!

Thus saith Harold, King Edward's thegn: By land all the passes are
watched; by sea all the waves are our own.

Our swords rest in our sheaths; but famine marches each hour to
gride and to slay.

Instead of sure death from the hunger, take sure life from the foe. Free
pardon to all, chiefs and people, and safe return to their
homes,--save Gryffyth alone.

Let him come forth, not as victim and outlaw, not with bent form
and clasped hands, but as chief meeting chief, with his household
of state.

Harold will meet him, in honour, at the gates of the fort.

Let Gryffyth submit to King Edward, and ride with Harold to the
Court of the Basileus.

Harold promises him life, and will plead for his pardon.

And though the peace of this realm, and the fortune of war, forbid Harold
to say, 'Thou shalt yet be a king;' yet thy crown, son of Llewellyn,
shall at least be assured in the line of thy fathers, and the
race of Cadwallader shall still reign in Cymry."
The monk paused, and hope and joy were in the faces of the famished chiefs;
while two of the Traitor Three suddenly left their post, and sped to tell
the message to the spearmen and multitudes above. Modred, the third
conspirator, laid his hand on his hilt, and stole near to see the
face of the King;--the face of the King was dark and angry, as a midnight
of storm.

Then, raising the cross on high, Evan resumed.

"And I, though of the people of Gwentland, which the arms of Gryffyth
have wasted, and whose prince fell beneath Gryffyth's sword
on the hearth of his hall--I, as God's servant, the brother of all I behold,
and, as son of the soil, mourning over the slaughter of its latest defenders--I,
by this symbol of love and command, which I raise to the heaven, adjure
thee, O King, to give ear to the mission of peace,--to cast down the grim
pride of earth. And instead of the crown of a day, fix thy hopes on the
crown everlasting. For much shall be pardoned to thee in thine hour of pomp
and of conquest, if now thou savest from doom and from death the
last lives over which thou art lord."
It was during this solemn appeal that the knight, marking the sign announced
to him, and drawing close to Gryffyth, pressed the ring into the King's
hand, and whispered:

"Obey by this pledge.

Thou knowest Harold is true, and thy head is sold by thine own people."

The King cast a haggard eye at the speaker, and then at the ring, over which
his hand closed with a convulsive spasm. And at that dread instant the man
prevailed over the King; and far away from people and monk, from adjuration
and duty, fled his heart on the wings of the storm--fled to the cold wife
he distrusted: and the pledge that should assure him of life, seemed as a
love-token insulting his fall:--Amidst all the roar of roused passions,
loudest of all was the hiss of the jealous fiend.

As the monk ceased, the thrill of the audience was perceptible, and a deep
silence was followed by a general murmur, as if to constrain the King.

Then the pride of the despot chief rose up to second the wrath of
the suspecting man.

The red spot flushed the dark cheek, and he tossed the neglected
hair from his brow.

He made one stride towards the monk, and said, in a voice loud, and deep,
and slow, rolling far up the hill:

"Monk, thou hast said; and now hear the reply of the son of Llewellyn, the
true heir of Roderic the Great, who from the heights of Eryri saw all the
lands of the Cymrian sleeping under the dragon of Uther. King was I born,
and king will I die. I will not ride by the side of the Saxon to the feet
of Edward, the son of the spoiler. I will not, to purchase base life,
surrender the claim, vain before men and the hour, but solemn before God
and posterity--the claim of my line and my people. All Britain is
ours--all the island of Pines. And the children of Hengist are traitors
and rebels--not the heirs of Ambrosius and Uther. Say to Harold the Saxon,
Ye have left us but the tomb of the Druid and the hills of the eagle;
but freedom and royalty are ours, in life and in death--not for
you to demand them, not for us to betray.

Nor fear ye, O my chiefs, few, but unmatched in glory and truth; fear not
ye to perish by the hunger thus denounced as our doom, on these heights
that command the fruits of our own fields! No, die we may, but not mute and
revengeless.

Go back, whispering warrior; go back, false son of Cymry--and tell
Harold to look well to his walls and his trenches.

We will vouchsafe him grace for his grace--we will not take him by
surprise, nor under cloud of the night.

With the gleam of our spears and the clash of our shields, we will come from
the hill: and, famine-worn as he deems us, hold a feast in his walls which
the eagles of Snowdon spread their pinions to share!"
"Rash man and unhappy!" cried the monk; "what curse drawest thou
down on thy head! Wilt thou be the murtherer of thy men, in strife unavailing
and vain? Heaven holds thee guilty of all the blood thou shalt cause to be
shed."
"Be dumb!--hush thy screech, lying raven!" exclaimed Gryffyth, his eyes
darting fire and, his slight form dilating. "Once, priest and monk went
before us to inspire, not to daunt; and our cry, Alleluia! was taught us by
the saints of the Church, on the day when Saxons, fierce and many as
Harold's, fell on the field of Maes-Garmon.

No, the curse is on the head of the invader, not on those who defend hearth
and altar. Yea, as the song to the bard, the CURSE leaps through my
veins, and rushes forth from my lips. By the land they have ravaged; by
the gore they have spilt; on these crags, our last refuge; below the carn
on yon heights, where the Dead stir to hear me,--I launch the curse of
the wronged and the doomed on the children of Hengist! They in turn
shall know the steel of the stranger--their crown shall be shivered as
glass, and their nobles be as slaves in the land. And the line of Hengist
and Cerdic shall be rased from the roll of empire.

And the ghosts of our fathers shall glide, appeased, over the grave
of their nation. But we--WE, though weak in the body, in the soul shall
be strong to the last!
There's old Puff's hounds, and old Scamp's hounds, and these
hounds,' looking down on the ill-sorted lot around him; 'and the deuce is
in it if we couldn't give the thing such a start as would bring down the
lads of the "village," and a vast amount of good business might be done.
I'm dashed if it isn't the very country for a steeple-chase!' continued
Watchorn, casting his eye over Cloverly Park, round the enclosure of
Langworth Grange, and up the rising ground of Lark Lodge.

The more Watchorn thought of it, the more he was satisfied of its
feasibility, and he trotted over, the next day, to the Old Duke of
Cumberland, to see his friend on the subject. Viney, like most victuallers,
was more given to games of skill--billiards, shuttlecock, skittles,
dominoes, and so on--than to the rude out-of-door chances of flood and
field, and at first he doubted his ability to grapple with the details; but
on Mr. Watchorn's assurance that he would keep him straight, he gave Mrs.
Viney a key, desiring her to go into the inner cellar, and bring out a
bottle of the green seal. This was ninety-shilling sherry--very good stuff
to take; and, by the time they got into the second bottle, they had got
into the middle of the scheme too. Viney was cautious and thoughtful. He
had a high opinion of Watchorn's sagacity, and so long as Watchorn confined
himself to weights, and stakes, and forfeits, and so on, he was content to
leave himself in the hands of the huntsman; but when Watchorn came to talk
of 'stewards,' putting this person and that together, Viney's experience
came in aid. Viney knew a good deal. He had not stood twisting a napkin
negligently before a plate-loaded sideboard without picking up a good many
waifs and strays in the shape of those ins and outs, those likings and
dislikings, those hatreds and jealousies, that foolish people let fall so
freely before servants, as if for all the world the servants were
sideboards themselves; and he had kept up his stock of service-gained
knowledge by a liberal, though not a dignity-compromising intercourse--for
there is no greater aristocrat than your out-of-livery servant--among the
upper servants of all the families in the neighbourhood, so that he knew to
a nicety who would pull together, and who wouldn't, whose name it would not
do to mention to this person, and who it would not do to apply to before
that.

Neither Watchorn nor Viney being sportsmen, they thought they had nothing
to do but apply to two friends who were; and after thinking over who hunted
in couples, they were unfortunate enough to select our Flat Hat friends,
Fyle and Fossick. Fyle was indignant beyond measure at being asked to be
steward to a steeple-chase, and thrust the application into the fire; while
Fossick just wrote below, 'I'll see you hanged first,' and sent it back
without putting even a fresh head on the envelope. Nothing daunted,
however, they returned to the charge, and without troubling the reader with
unnecessary detail, we think it will be generally admitted that they at
length made an excellent selection in Mr. Puffington, Guano, and Tom
Washball.

[Illustration: MR. VINEY AND MR. WATCHORN GETTING UP 'THE GRAND
ARISTOCRATIC']

Fortune favoured them also in getting a locality to run in, for Timothy
Scourgefield, of Broom Hill, whose farm commanded a good circular three
miles of country, with every variety of obstacle, having thrown up his
lease for a thirty-per-cent reduction--a giving up that had been most
unhandsomely accepted by his landlord--Timothy was most anxious to pay him
off by doing every conceivable injury to the farm, than which nothing can
be more promising than having a steeple-chase run over it. Scourgefield,
therefore, readily agreed to let Viney and Watchorn do whatever they liked,
on condition that he received entrance-money at the gate.

The name occupied their attention some time, for it did not begin as the
'Aristocratic.' The 'Great National,' the 'Grand Naval and Military,' the
'Sports-man,' the 'Talli-ho,' the 'Out-and-Outer,' the 'Swell,' were all
considered and canvassed, and its being called the 'Aristocratic' at length
turned upon whether they got Lord Scamperdale to subscribe or not. This was
accomplished by a deferential call by Mr. Viney upon Mr. Spraggon, with a
little bill for three pound odd, which he presented, with the most urgent
request that Jack wouldn't think of it then--any time that was most
convenient to Mr. Spraggon--and then the introduction of the neatly-headed
sheet-list. It was lucky that Viney was so easily satisfied, for poor Jack
had only thirty shillings, of which he owed his washerwoman eight, and he
was very glad to stuff Viney's bill into his stunner jacket-pocket, and
apply himself exclusively to the contemplated steeple-chase.

Like most of us, Jack had no objection to make a little money; and as he
squinted his frightful eyes inside out at the paper, he thought over what
horses they had in the stable that were like the thing; and then he sounded
Viney as to whether he would put him one up for nothing, if he could induce
his lordship to send. This, of course, Viney readily assented to, and again
requesting Jack not to _think_ of his little bill till it was _perfectly_
convenient to him--a favour that Jack was pretty sure to accord him--Mr.
Viney took his departure, Jack undertaking to write him the result. The
next day's post brought Viney the document--unpaid, of course--with a great
'Scamperdale' scrawled across the top; and forthwith it was decided that
the steeple-chase should be called the 'Grand Aristocratic.' Much, indeed,
there was in that court which, even on the first day, Harold saw to
admire--that stately temperance, so foreign to English excesses, (but which,
alas! the Norman kept not long when removed to another soil)--that
methodical state and noble pomp which characterised the Feudal system, linking
so harmoniously prince to peer, and peer to knight--the easy grace, the
polished wit of the courtiers--the wisdom of Lanfranc, and the higher
ecclesiastics, blending worldly lore with decorous, not pedantic, regard
to their sacred calling--the enlightened love of music, letters,
song, and art, which coloured the discourse both of Duke and Duchess
and the younger courtiers, prone to emulate high example, whether
for ill or good--all impressed Harold with a sense of civilisation
and true royalty, which at once saddened and inspired his musing
mind--saddened him when he thought how far behind-hand England was
in much, with this comparatively petty principality--inspired him
when he felt what one great chief can do for his native land.

The unfavorable impressions made upon his thoughts by Haco's warnings could
scarcely fail to yield beneath the prodigal courtesies lavished upon him,
and the frank openness with which William laughingly excused himself for
having so long detained the hostages, "in order, my guest, to make thee come
and fetch them. And, by St. Valery, now thou art here, thou shalt not
depart, till, at least, thou hast lost in gentler memories the
recollection of the scurvy treatment thou hast met from that barbarous
Count. Nay, never bite thy lip, Harold, my friend, leave to me thy
revenge upon Guy.

Sooner or later, the very maneir he hath extorted from me shall give excuse
for sword and lance, and then, pardex, thou shalt come and cross
steel in thine own quarrel. How I rejoice that I can show to
the beau frere of my dear cousin and seigneur some return for all the
courtesies the English King and kingdom bestowed upon me!
To-morrow we will ride to Rouen; there, all knightly sports shall
be held to grace thy coming; and by St. Michael, knight-saint of the
Norman, nought less will content me than to have thy great name in the list
of my chosen chevaliers.

But the night wears now, and thou sure must need sleep;" and, thus talking,
the Duke himself led the way to Harold's chamber, and insisted on removing
the ouche from his robe of state. As he did so, he passed his hand, as if
carelessly, along the Earl's right arm. "Ha!" said he suddenly, and in his
natural tone of voice, which was short and quick, "these muscles
have known practice! Dost think thou couldst bend my bow!"
"Who could bend that of--Ulysses?" returned the Earl, fixing his deep blue
eye upon the Norman's. William unconsciously changed colour, for he
felt that he was at that moment more Ulysses than Achilles.

CHAPTER III.

Side by side, William and Harold entered the fair city of Rouen, and there,
a succession of the brilliant pageants and knightly entertainments, (comprising
those "rare feats of honour," expanded, with the following age, into the
more gorgeous display of joust and tourney,) was designed to dazzle the eyes
and captivate the fancy of the Earl. But though Harold won, even by the
confession of the chronicles most in favour of the Norman, golden opinions
in a court more ready to deride than admire the Saxon,--though not only
the "strength of his body," and "the boldness of his spirit," as shown
in exhibitions unfamiliar to Saxon warriors, but his "manners," his
"eloquence, intellect, and other good qualities," [194] were loftily conspicuous
amidst those knightly courtiers, that sublime part of his character, which
was found in his simple manhood and intense nationality, kept him
unmoved and serene amidst all intended to exercise that fatal spell
which Normanised most of those who came within the circle of Norman
attraction.

These festivities were relieved by pompous excursions and progresses from
town to town, and fort to fort, throughout the Duchy, and, according to
some authorities, even to a visit to Philip the French King at Compiegne.

On the return to Rouen, Harold and the six thegns of his train were solemnly
admitted into that peculiar band of warlike brothers which William had
instituted, and to which, following the chronicles of the after century,
we have given the name of Knights. The silver baldrick was belted on, and
the lance, with its pointed banderol, was placed in the hand,
and the seven Saxon lords became Norman knights.

The evening after this ceremonial, Harold was with the Duchess and
her fair daughters--all children.

The beauty of one of the girls drew from him those compliments so
sweet to a mother's ear. Matilda looked up from the broidery on which she
was engaged, and beckoned to her the child thus praised.

"Adeliza," she said, placing her hand on the girl's dark
locks, "though we would not that thou shouldst learn too early how
men's tongues can gloze and flatter, yet this noble guest hath so high a
repute for truth, that thou mayest at least believe him sincere when he
says thy face is fair. Think of it, and with pride, my child; let it keep
thee through youth proof against the homage of meaner men; and, peradventure,
St.
Michael and St. Valery may bestow on thee a mate valiant and comely as
this noble lord."
The child blushed to her brow; but answered with the quickness of a spoiled
infant--unless, perhaps, she had been previously tutored so to reply: "Sweet
mother, I will have no mate and no lord but Harold himself; and
if he will not have Adeliza as his wife, she will die a nun."

"Froward child, it is not for thee to woo!" said Matilda, smiling. "Thou
heardst her, noble Harold: what is thine answer?

"That she will grow wiser," said the Earl, laughing, as he kissed the child's
forehead. "Fair damsel, ere thou art ripe for the altar, time will have
sown grey in these locks; and thou wouldst smile indeed in scorn, if
Harold then claimed thy troth."
"Not so," said Matilda, seriously; "Highborn damsels see youth not in years
but in fame--Fame, which is young for ever!"

Startled by the gravity with which Matilda spoke, as if to give importance
to what had seemed a jest, the Earl, versed in courts, felt that a snare was
round him; and replied in a tone between jest and earnest: "Happy am I to
wear on my heart a charm, proof against all the beauty even of this
court."
Matilda's face darkened; and William entering at that time with
his usual abruptness, lord and lady exchanged glances, not unobserved
by Harold.

The Duke, however, drew aside the Saxon; and saying gaily, "We Normans
are not naturally jealous; but then, till now, we have not had Saxon
gallants closeted with our wives;" added more seriously, "Harold,
I have a grace to pray at thy hands--come with me."

The Earl followed William into his chamber, which he found filled with chiefs,
in high converse; and William then hastened to inform him that he was
about to make a military expedition against the Bretons; and knowing
his peculiar acquaintance with the warfare, as with the language and manners,
of their kindred Welch, he besought his aid in a campaign which he
promised him should be brief.

Perhaps the Earl was not, in his own mind, averse from returning William's
display of power by some evidence of his own military skill, and
the valour of the Saxon thegns in his train.

There might be prudence in such exhibition, and, at all events, he could not
with a good grace decline the proposal. He enchanted William therefore
by a simple acquiescence; and the rest of the evening--deep into night--was
spent in examining charts of the fort and country intended to be
attacked.

The conduct and courage of Harold and his Saxons in this expedition are
recorded by the Norman chroniclers. The Earl's personal exertions saved,
at the passage of Coesnon, a detachment of soldiers, who would otherwise
have perished in the quicksands; and even the warlike skill of William,
in the brief and brilliant campaign, was, if not eclipsed, certainly equalled,
by that of the Saxon chief.

While the campaign lasted, William and Harold had but one table and one
tent. To outward appearance, the familiarity between the two was
that of brothers; in reality, however, these two men, both so able--one
so deep in his guile, the other so wise in his tranquil caution--felt that
a silent war between the two for mastery was working on, under the guise
of loving peace.

Already Harold was conscious that the politic motives for his mission had
failed him; already he perceived, though he scarce knew why, that William
the Norman was the last man to whom he could confide his ambition,
or trust for aid.

One day, as, during a short truce with the defenders of the place they were
besieging, the Normans were diverting their leisure with martial
games, in which Taillefer shone pre-eminent: while Harold and William
stood without their tent, watching the animated field, the Duke
abruptly exclaimed to Mallet de Graville, "Bring me my bow.

Now, Harold, let me see if thou canst bend it."
The bow was brought, and Saxon and Norman gathered round the spot.

"Fasten thy glove to yonder tree, Mallet," said the Duke, taking that mighty
bow in his hand, and bending its stubborn yew into the noose of the string
with practised ease.

Then he drew the arc to his ear; and the tree itself seemed to shake at
the shock, as the shaft, piercing the glove, lodged half-way in the
trunk.

"Such are not our weapons," said the Earl; "and ill would it become me,
unpractised, so to peril our English honour, as to strive against the arm
that could bend that arc and wing that arrow. But, that I may show these
Norman knights, that at least we have some weapon wherewith we can
parry shaft and smite assailer,--bring me forth, Godrith, my shield and my
Danish axe."
Taking the shield and axe which the Saxon brought to him, Harold then stationed
himself before the tree. "Now, fair Duke," said he, smiling, "choose thou
thy longest shaft--bid thy ten doughtiest archers take their bows; round
this tree will I move, and let each shaft be aimed at whatever
space in my mailless body I leave unguarded by my shield."

"No!" said William, hastily; "that were murder."
"It is but the common peril of war," said Harold, simply; and he walked to
the tree.

The blood mounted to William's brow, and the lion's thirst of carnage
parched his throat.

"An he will have it so," said he, beckoning to his archers; "let not Normandy
be shamed. Watch well, and let every shaft go home; avoid only the head and
the heart; such orgulous vaunting is best cured by blood-letting."

The archers nodded, and took their post, each at a separate quarter;
and deadly indeed seemed the danger of the Earl, for as he moved,
though he kept his back guarded by the tree, some parts of his form the
shield left exposed, and it would have been impossible, in his quick-shifting
movements, for the archers so to aim as to wound, but to spare life; yet the
Earl seemed to take no peculiar care to avoid the peril; lifting
his bare head fearlessly above the shield, and including in one
gaze of his steadfast eye, calmly bright even at the distance, all
the shafts of the archers.

At one moment five of the arrows hissed through the air, and with
such wonderful quickness had the shield turned to each, that three
fell to the ground blunted against it, and two broke on its surface.

But William, waiting for the first discharge, and seeing full mark
at Harold's shoulder as the buckler turned, now sent forth his terrible
shaft. The noble Taillefer with a poet's true sympathy cried, "Saxon,
beware!" but the watchful Saxon needed not the warning. As if
in disdain, Harold met not the shaft with his shield, but swinging high the
mighty axe, (which with most men required both arms to wield it,) he advanced
a step, and clove the rushing arrow in twain.

Before William's loud oath of wrath and surprise left his lips, the five
shafts of the remaining archers fell as vainly as their predecessors against
the nimble shield.

Then advancing, Harold said, cheerfully: "This is but defence, fair
Duke--and little worth were the axe if it could not smite as well as ward.
Wherefore, I pray you, place upon yonder broken stone pillar, which seems
some relic of Druid heathenesse, such helm and shirt of mail as thou
deemest most proof against sword and pertuizan, and judge then if our English
axe can guard well our English land."
"If thy axe can cleave the helmet I wore at Bavent, when the Franks
and their King fled before me," said the Duke, grimly, "I shall
hold Caesar in fault, not to have invented a weapon so dread."

And striding back into his pavilion, he came forth with the helm and shirt
of mail, which was worn stronger and heavier by the Normans, as fighting
usually on horseback, than by Dane and Saxon, who, mainly fighting
on foot, could not have endured so cumbrous a burthen: and if strong
and dour generally with the Norman, judge what solid weight that
mighty Duke could endure!

With his own hand William placed the mail on the ruined Druid stone, and on
the mail the helm.

Harold looked long and gravely at the edge of the axe; it was so
richly gilt and damasquined, that the sharpness of its temper could
not well have been divined under that holiday glitter.

But this axe had come to him from Canute the Great, who himself, unlike
the Danes, small and slight [195], had supplied his deficiency of muscle by
the finest dexterity and the most perfect weapons.

Famous had been that axe in the delicate hand of Canute--how much more
tremendous in the ample grasp of Harold! Swinging now in both hands this
weapon, with a peculiar and rapid whirl, which gave it an inconceivable
impetus, the Earl let fall the crushing blow: at the first stroke, cut
right in the centre, rolled the helm; at the second, through all
the woven mail (cleft asunder, as if the slightest filigree work
of the goldsmith,) shore the blade, and a great fragment of the
stone itself came tumbling on the sod.

The Normans stood aghast, and William's face was as pale as the shattered
stone. The great Duke felt even his matchless dissimulation fail him; nor,
unused to the special practice and craft which the axe required, could he
have pretended, despite a physical strength superior even to Harold's,
to rival blows that seemed to him more than mortal.

"Lives there any other man in the wide world whose arm could have wrought
that feat?" exclaimed Bruse, the ancestor of the famous Scot.

"Nay," said Harold, simply, "at least thirty thousand such men have I left
at home! But this was but the stroke of an idle vanity, and strength becomes
tenfold in a good cause."
The Duke heard, and fearful lest he should betray his sense of the latent
meaning couched under his guest's words, he hastily muttered forth
reluctant compliment and praise; while Fitzosborne, De Bohun, and
other chiefs more genuinely knightly, gave way to unrestrained
admiration.

Then beckoning De Graville to follow him, the Duke strode off towards
the tent of his brother of Bayeux, who, though, except on extraordinary
occasions, he did not join in positive conflict, usually accompanied
William in his military excursions, both to bless the host, and to
advise (for his martial science was considerable) the council of
war.

The bishop, who, despite the sanctimony of the Court, and his own
stern nature, was (though secretly and decorously) a gallant of
great success in other fields than those of Mars [196], sate alone
in his pavilion, inditing an epistle to a certain fair dame in
Rouen, whom he had unwillingly left to follow his brother.

At the entrance of William, whose morals in such matters were pure
and rigid, he swept the letter into the chest of relics which always
accompanied him, and rose, saying, indifferently:
"A treatise on the authenticity of St.

Thomas's little finger! But what ails you?

you are disturbed!"

"Odo, Odo, this man baffles me--this man fools me; I make no ground
with him.

I have spent--heaven knows what I have spent," said the Duke, sighing with
penitent parsimony, "in banquets, and ceremonies, and processions; to say
nothing of my bel maneir of Yonne, and the sum wrung from my coffers
by that greedy Ponthevin.

All gone--all wasted--all melted like snow! and the Saxon is as Saxon
as if he had seen neither Norman splendour, nor been released from the
danger by Norman treasure.
But, by the splendour Divine, I were fool indeed if I suffered him to return
home. Would thou hadst seen the sorcerer cleave my helmet and mail just
now, as easily as if they had been willow twigs. Oh, Odo, Odo, my soul is
troubled, and St. Michael forsakes me!"
While William ran on thus distractedly, the prelate lifted his eyes inquiringly
to De Graville, who now stood within the tent, and the knight briefly related
the recent trial of strength.

"I see nought in this to chafe thee," said Odo; "the man once thine,
the stronger the vassal, the more powerful the lord."

There's a gen'l'man,
a countryman of his, somewhere about,' added he, looking anxiously into the
surrounding crowd--there's a gen'l'man, a countryman of his, somewhere
about, if we could but find him,' Bragg standing on his tiptoes, and
exclaiming, 'Mr. Buckram! Mr. Buckram! Has anybody seen anything of Mr.
Buckram!'

'Here!' replied a meek voice from behind; upon which there was an elbowing
through the crowd, and presently a most respectable, rosy-gilled,
grey-haired, hawbuck-looking man, attired in a new brown cutaway, with
bright buttons and a velvet collar, with a buff waistcoat, came twirling an
ash-stick in one hand, and fumbling the silver in his drab trousers' pocket
with the other, in front of the bystanders.

'Oh! 'ere he is!' exclaimed Bragg, appealing to the stranger with a hasty
'_You_ know Captain Boville, don't you?'

'Why, now, as to the matter of that,' replied the gentleman, gathering all
the loose silver up into his hand and speaking very slowly, just as a
country gentleman, who has all the live-long day to do nothing in, may be
supposed to speak--' Why, now, as to the matter of that,' said he, eyeing
Pacey intently, and beginning to drop the silver slowly as he spoke, 'I
can't say that I've any very 'ticklar 'quaintance with the captin. I knows
him, in course, just as one knows a neighbour's son. The captin's a good
deal younger nor me,' continued he, raising his new eight-and-sixpenny
Parisian, as if to show his sandy grey hair. 'I'm a'most sixty; and he, I
dare say, is little more nor twenty,' dropping a half-crown as he said it.
'But the captin's a nice young gent--a nice young gent, without any
blandishment, I should say; and that's more nor one can say of all young
gents nowadays,' said Buckram, looking at Pacey as he spoke, and dropping
two consecutive half-crowns.

'Why, but you live near him, don't you?' interrupted Bragg.

'Near him,' repeated Buckram, feeling his well-shaven chin thoughtfully.
'Why, yes--that's to say, near his dad. The fact is,' continued he, 'I've a
little independence of my own,' dropping a heavy five-shilling piece as he
said it,' and his father--old Bo, as I call him--adjoins me; and if either
of us 'appen to have a _battue_, or a 'aunch of wenzun, and a few friends,
we inwite each other, and wicey wersey, you know,' letting off a lot of
shillings and sixpences. I offer it first to thee. But thou must come to take
it in time, or----"
"Or what?"

asked the Duke, gnawing his lip.

"Or the Father race of Rou will be before thee! My horse paws without.
Farewell to thee, Norman; sharpen thy swords, hew out thy vessels, and
goad thy slow barons."

Scarce had Tostig departed, ere William began to repent that he had so let
him depart: but seeking counsel of Lanfranc, that wise minister reassured
him.

"Fear no rival, son and lord," said he. "The bones of the dead are on thy
side, and little thou knowest, as yet, how mighty their fleshless arms!
All Tostig can do is to distract the forces of Harold. Leave him to work
out his worst; nor then be in haste. Much hath yet to be done--cloud
must gather and fire must form, ere the bolt can be launched.

Send to Harold mildly, and gently remind him of oath and of relics--of treaty
and pledge. Put right on thy side, and then----"
"Ah, what then?"
"Rome shall curse the forsworn--Rome shall hallow thy banner; this be
no strife of force against force, but a war of religion; and thou
shalt have on thy side the conscience of man, and the arm of the Church."

Meanwhile, Tostig embarked at Harfleur; but instead of sailing
to the northern coasts of England, he made for one of the Flemish ports:
and there, under various pretences, new manned the Norman vessels with
Flemings, Fins, and Northmen. His meditations during his voyage had decided
him not to trust to William; and he now bent his course, with fair
wind and favouring weather, to the shores of his maternal uncle,
King Sweyn of Denmark.

In truth, to all probable calculation, his change of purpose was politic.

The fleets of England were numerous, and her seamen renowned.

The Normans had neither experience nor fame in naval fights; their
navy itself was scarcely formed.

Thus, even William's landing in England was an enterprise arduous
and dubious.

Moreover, even granting the amplest success, would not this Norman
Prince, so profound and ambitious, be a more troublesome lord to
Earl Tostig than his own uncle Sweyn?

So, forgetful of the compact at Rouen, no sooner had the Saxon lord come
in presence of the King of the Danes, than he urged on his kinsman
the glory of winning again the sceptre of Canute.

A brave, but a cautious and wily veteran, was King Sweyn; and a few days
before Tostig arrived, he had received letters from his sister Githa, who,
true to Godwin's command, had held all that Harold did and counselled,
as between himself and his brother, wise and just.

These letters had placed the Dane on his guard, and shown him the true state
of affairs in England. So King Sweyn, smiling, thus answered his nephew
Tostig:

"A great man was Canute, a small man am I: scarce can I keep my Danish dominion
from the gripe of the Norwegian, while Canute took Norway without
slash and blow [222]; but great as he was, England cost him hard
fighting to win, and sore peril to keep.

Wherefore, best for the small man to rule by the light of his own little
sense, nor venture to count on the luck of great Canute;--for luck
but goes with the great."

"Thine answer," said Tostig, with a bitter sneer, "is not what I expected
from an uncle and warrior. But other chiefs may be found less afraid of
the luck of high deeds."
"So," saith the Norwegian chronicler, "not just the best friends, the Earl
left the King," and went on in haste to Harold Hardrada of Norway.

True Hero of the North, true darling of War and of Song, was Harold
Hardrada!

At the terrible battle of Stiklestad, at which his brother, St. Olave,
had fallen, he was but fifteen years of age, but his body was covered
with the wounds of a veteran. Escaping from the field, he lay concealed in
the house of a Bonder peasant, remote in deep forests, till his
wounds were healed.

Thence, chaunting by the way, (for a poet's soul burned bright in Hardrada,)
"That a day would come when his name would be great in the land he
now left," he went on into Sweden, thence into Russia, and after wild
adventures in the East, joined, with the bold troop he had collected
around him, that famous body-guard of the Greek emperors [223], called the
Vaeringers, and of these he became the chief.
Jealousies between himself and the Greek General of the Imperial forces, (whom
the Norwegian chronicler calls Gyrger,) ended in Harold's retirement
with his Vaeringers into the Saracen land of Africa. Eighty castles
stormed and taken, vast plunder in gold and in jewels, and nobler meed
in the song of the Scald and the praise of the brave, attested the
prowess of the great Scandinavian.

    New laurels, blood-stained, new treasures, sword-won, awaited him
in Sicily; and thence, rough foretype of the coming crusader, he
passed on to Jerusalem.

His sword swept before him Moslem and robber.

He bathed in Jordan, and knelt at the Holy Cross.

Returned to Constantinople, the desire for his northern home seized Hardrada.
There he heard that his nephew Magnus, the illegitimate son of St.

    Olave, had become King of Norway,--and he himself aspired to a
throne.

So he gave up his command under Zoe the empress; but, if Scald be
believed, Zoe the empress loved the bold chief, whose heart was set on
Maria her niece. To detain Hardrada, a charge of mal-appropriation,
whether of pay or of booty, was brought against him. He was cast into
prison. But when the brave are in danger, the saints send the fair to their
help!

Moved by a holy dream, a Greek lady lowered ropes from the roof of the tower
to the dungeon wherein Hardrada was cast. He escaped from the prison, he
aroused his Vaeringers, they flocked round their chief; he went to the
house of his lady Maria, bore her off to the galley, put out into the Black
Sea, reached Novgorod, (at the friendly court of whose king he had safely
lodged his vast spoils,) sailed home to the north: and, after such feats
as became sea-king of old, received half of Norway from Magnus, and on the
death of his nephew the whole of that kingdom passed to his sway.
A king so wise and so wealthy, so bold and so dread, had never yet been
known in the north. And this was the king to whom came Tostig the Earl,
with the offer of England's crown.

It was one of the glorious nights of the north, and winter had already
begun to melt into early spring, when two men sate under a kind
of rustic porch of rough pine-logs, not very unlike those seen now
in Switzerland and the Tyrol.

This porch was constructed before a private door, to the rear of a long,
low, irregular building of wood which enclosed two or more courtyards, and
covering an immense space of ground. This private door seemed placed for the
purpose of immediate descent to the sea; for the ledge of the rock
over which the log-porch spread its rude roof, jutted over the
ocean; and from it a rugged stair, cut through the crag, descended
to the beach.

The shore, with bold, strange, grotesque slab, and peak, and splinter, curved
into a large creek; and close under the cliff were moored seven warships,
high and tall, with prows and sterns all gorgeous with gilding in the light
of the splendid moon. And that rude timber house, which seemed but a chain
of barbarian huts linked into one, was a land palace of Hardrada of Norway;
but the true halls of his royalty, the true seats of his empire,
were the decks of those lofty war-ships.

Through the small lattice-work of the windows of the loghouse, lights blazed;
from the roof-top smoke curled; from the hall on the other side of the
dwelling, came the din of tumultuous wassail, but the intense stillness of
the outer air, hushed in frost, and luminous with stars, contrasted
and seemed to rebuke the gross sounds of human revel.

And that northern night seemed almost as bright as (but how much more
augustly calm, than) the noon of the golden south!

On a table within the ample porch was an immense bowl of birchwood, mounted
in silver, and filled with potent drink, and two huge horns, of size suiting
the mighty wassailers of the age. The two men seemed to care nought for
the stern air of the cold night--true that they were wrapped in
furs reft from the Polar bear.

But each had hot thoughts within, that gave greater warmth to the veins than
the bowl or the bearskin.

They were host and guest; and as if with the restlessness of his thoughts,
the host arose from his seat, and passed through the porch and stood on the
bleak rock under the light of the moon; and so seen, he seemed scarcely
human, but some war-chief of the farthest time,--yea, of a time ere
the deluge had shivered those rocks, and left beds on the land for the
realm of that icy sea. For Harold Hardrada was in height above all the
children of modern men. Five ells of Norway made the height of Harold
Hardrada [224]. Nor was this stature accompanied by any of those imperfections
in symmetry, nor by that heaviness of aspect, which generally render any
remarkable excess above human stature and strength rather monstrous
than commanding.

On the contrary, his proportions were just; his appearance noble; and
the sole defect that the chronicler remarks in his shape, was "that
his hands and feet were large, but these were well made." [225]
His face had all the fair beauty of the Norseman; his hair, parted in locks
of gold over a brow that bespoke the daring of the warrior and the genius
of the bard, fell in glittering profusion to his shoulders; a short
beard and long moustache of the same colour as the hair, carefully
trimmed, added to the grand and masculine beauty of the countenance,
in which the only blemish was the peculiarity of one eyebrow being
somewhat higher than the other [226], which gave something more
sinister to his frown, something more arch to his smile.

For, quick of impulse, the Poet-Titan smiled and frowned often.

Harold Hardrada stood in the light of the moon, and gazing thoughtfully on
the luminous sea. Tostig marked him for some moments where he sate in the
porch, and then rose and joined him.

"Why should my words so disturb thee, O King of the Norseman?"
"Is glory, then, a drug that soothes to sleep?" returned the Norwegian.

"I like thine answer," said Tostig, smiling, "and I like still more to watch
thine eye gazing on the prows of thy war-ships. Strange indeed it were
if thou, who hast been fighting fifteen years for the petty kingdom of
Denmark, shouldst hesitate now, when all England lies before thee
to seize."

"I hesitate," replied the King, "because he whom Fortune has befriended
so long, should beware how he strain her favour too far. Eighteen pitched
battles fought I in the Saracen land, and in every one was a
victor--never, at home or abroad, have I known shame and defeat.

Doth the wind always blow from one point?--and is Fate less unstable than the
wind?"
"Now, out on thee, Harold Hardrada," said Tostig the fierce; "the good
pilot wins his way through all winds, and the brave heart fastens
fate to its flag.

All men allow that the North never had warrior like thee; and now, in
the mid-day of manhood, wilt thou consent to repose on the mere triumph of
youth?"

"Nay," said the King, who, like all true poets, had something of the deep
sense of a sage, and was, indeed, regarded as the most prudent as well
as the most adventurous chief in the Northland,--"nay, it is not by
such words, which my soul seconds too well, that thou canst entrap
a ruler of men.

Thou must show me the chances of success, as thou wouldst to a grey-beard.
For we should be as old men before we engage, and as youths when
we wish to perform."

Then the traitor succinctly detailed all the weak points in the rule of his
brother.

A treasury exhausted by the lavish and profitless waste of Edward;
a land without castle or bulwark, even at the mouths of the rivers;
a people grown inert by long peace, and so accustomed to own lord
and king in the northern invaders, that a single successful battle
might induce half the population to insist on the Saxon coming to
terms with the foe, and yielding, as Ironsides did to Canute, one
half of the realm.

He enlarged on the terror of the Norsemen that still existed
throughout England, and the affinity between the Northumbrians and
East Anglians with the race of Hardrada.

That affinity would not prevent them from resisting at the first;
but grant success, and it would reconcile them to the after sway. And,
finally, he aroused Hardrada's emulation by the spur of the news, that
the Count of the Normans would seize the prize if he himself delayed to
forestall him.

These various representations, and the remembrance of Canute's
victory, decided Hardrada; and, when Tostig ceased, he stretched
his hand towards his slumbering warships, and exclaimed:
"Eno'; you have whetted the beaks of the ravens, and harnessed the
steeds of the sea!"

CHAPTER VII.

Meanwhile, King Harold of England had made himself dear to his
people, and been true to the fame he had won as Harold the Earl.

From the moment of his accession, "he showed himself pious, humble, and
affable [227], and omitted no occasions to show any token of
bounteous liberality, gentleness, and courteous behaviour."

--"The grievous customs, also, and taxes which his predecessors had
raised, he either abolished or diminished; the ordinary wages of
his servants and men-of-war he increased, and further showed himself
very well bent to all virtue and goodness." [228]
Extracting the pith from these eulogies, it is clear that, as wise
statesman no less than as good king, Harold sought to strengthen
himself in the three great elements of regal power;--Conciliation
of the Church, which had been opposed to his father; The popular
affection, on which his sole claim to the crown reposed; And the
military force of the land, which had been neglected in the reign
of his peaceful predecessor.

To the young Atheling he accorded a respect not before paid to him; and, while
investing the descendant of the ancient line with princely state, and
endowing him with large domains, his soul, too great for jealousy,
sought to give more substantial power to his own most legitimate
rival, by tender care and noble counsels,--by efforts to raise a
character feeble by nature, and denationalised by foreign rearing.

In the same broad and generous policy, Harold encouraged all the merchants
from other countries who had settled in England, nor were even
such Normans as had escaped the general sentence of banishment on
Godwin's return, disturbed in their possessions. "In brief," saith the
Anglo-Norman chronicler [229], "no man was more prudent in the land, more
valiant in arms, in the law more sagacious, in all probity more accomplished:"
and "Ever active," says more mournfully the Saxon writer, "for the
good of his country, he spared himself no fatigue by land or by
sea." [230] From this time, Harold's private life ceased.

Love and its charms were no more. The glow of romance had vanished. He was
not one man; he was the state, the representative, the incarnation of
Saxon England: his sway and the Saxon freedom, to live or fall
together!

The soul really grand is only tested in its errors. As we know the true
might of the intellect by the rich resources and patient strength with which
it redeems a failure, so do we prove the elevation of the soul by its
courageous return into light, its instinctive rebound into higher air,
after some error that has darkened its vision and soiled its plumes.
A spirit less noble and pure than Harold's, once entering on the
dismal world of enchanted superstition, had habituated itself to
that nether atmosphere; once misled from hardy truth and healthful
reason, it had plunged deeper and deeper into the maze.

But, unlike his contemporary, Macbeth, the Man escaped from the lures of the
Fiend. Not as Hecate in hell, but as Dian in heaven, did he confront the
pale Goddess of Night.
Before that hour in which he had deserted the human judgment for the ghostly
delusion; before that day in which the brave heart, in its sudden
desertion, had humbled his pride--the man, in his nature, was more
strong than the god.
So much for the 'small deer.' We will now devote a concluding chapter to
the 'great guns' of our story.




CHAPTER LXX

HOW LORD SCAMPERDALE AND CO. CAME OFF


Our noble master's nerves were so dreadfully shattered by the lamentable
catastrophe to poor Jack, that he stepped, or rather was pushed, into
Jawleyford's carriage almost insensibly, and driven from the course to
Jawleyford Court.

There he remained sufficiently long for Mrs. Jawleyford to persuade him
that he would be far better married, and that either of her amiable
daughters would make him a most excellent wife. His lordship, after very
mature consideration, and many most scrutinizing stares at both of them
through his formidable spectacles, wondering which would be the least
likely to ruin him--at length decided upon taking Miss Emily, the youngest,
though for a long time the victory was doubtful, and Amelia practised her
'Scamperdale' singing with unabated ardour and confidence up to the last.
We believe, if the truth were known, it was a slight touch of rouge, that
Amelia thought would clench the matter, that decided his lordship against
her. Emily, we are happy to say, makes him an excellent wife, and has not
got her head turned by becoming a countess. She has improved his lordship
amazingly, got him smart new clothes, and persuaded him to grow bushy
whiskers right down under his chin, and is now feeling her way to a pair of
moustaches.

Woodmansterne is quite another place. She has marshalled a proper
establishment, and got him coaxed into the long put-a-way company rooms.
Though he still indulges in his former cow-heel and other delicacies, they
do not appear upon table; while he sports his silver-mounted specs on all
occasions. The fruit and venison are freely distributed, and we have come
in for a haunch in return for our attentions.

Best of all, Lady Scamperdale has got his lordship to erect a handsome
marble monument to poor Jack, instead of the cheap country stone he
intended. The inscription states that it was erected by Samuel, Eighth Earl
of Scamperdale, and Viscount Hardup, in the Peerage of Ireland, to the
Memory of John Spraggon, Esquire, the best of Sportsmen, and the firmest of
Friends. Who or what Jack was, nobody ever knew, and as he only left a hat
and eighteen pence behind him, no next of kin has as yet cast up.

Jawleyford has not stood the honour of the Scamperdale alliance quite so
well as his daughter; and when our 'amaazin' instance of a pop'lar man,'
instigated perhaps by the desire to have old Scamp for a brother-in-law,
offered to Amelia, Jaw got throaty and consequential, hemmed and hawed, and
pretended to be stiff about it. Puff, however, produced such weighty
testimonials, as soon exercised their wonted influence. In due time Puff
very magnanimously proposed uniting his pack with Lord Scamperdale's,
dividing the expense of one establishment between them, to which his
lordship readily assented, advising Puff to get rid of Bragg by giving him
the hounds, which he did; and that great sporting luminary may be seen
's-c-e-u-s-e'-ing himself, and offering his service to masters of hounds
any Monday at Tattersall's--though he still prefers a 'quality place.'

Benjamin Buckram, the gentleman with the small independence of his own, we
are sorry to say has gone to the 'bad.' Aggravated by the loss he sustained
by his horse winning the steeple-chase, he made an ill-advised onslaught on
the cash-box of the London and Westminster Bank; and at three score years
and ten this distinguished 'turfite,' who had participated with impunity in
nearly all the great robberies of the last forty years, was doomed to
transportation. And yet we have seen this cracksman captain--for he, too,
was a captain at times--jostling and bellowing for odds among some of the
highest and noblest of the land!

Leather has descended to the cab-stand, of which he promises to be a
distinguished ornament. He haunts the Piccadilly stands, and has what he
calls ''stablish'd a raw' on Mr. Sponge to the extent of
three-and-six-pence a week, under threats of exposing the robbery Sponge
committed on our friend Mr. Waffles. That volatile genius, we are happy to
add, is quite well, and open to the attentions of any young lady who thinks
she can tame a wild young man. His financial affairs are not irretrievable.

And now for the hero and heroine of our tale. The Sponges--for our friend
married Lucy shortly after the steeple-chase--stayed at Nonsuch House until
the bailiffs walked in. Sir Harry then bolted to Boulogne, where he shortly
afterwards died, and Bugles very properly married my lady. They are now
living at Wandsworth; Mr. Bugles and Lady Scattercash, very 'much thought
of'--as Bugles says.

Although Mr. Sponge did not gain as much by winning the steeple-chase as he
would have done had Hercules allowed him to lose it, he still did pretty
well; and being at length starved out of Nonsuch House, he arrived at his
old quarters, the Bantam, in Bond Street, where he turned his attention
very seriously to providing for Lucy and the little Sponge, who had now
issued its prospectus. The Steppes proper are as prospect under a blazing
sun the without eye, slightly undulated, very rejecting fertile elevated
ground in a wide and intersected by numerous ravines which are dry
summer. The undulations are scarcely apparent to as takes and with
sportsmen a deep-blue sky overhead money."Dozens of gayly clad children were
skating in and out among each other, and all their pent-up merriment
of the morning was relieving itself in song and shout and laughter. There
was nothing to check the flow of frolic. Not a thought of school-books came
out with them into the sunshine.

Latin, arithmetic, grammar, all were locked up for an hour in the dingy
school-room. The teacher might be a noun if he wished, and a proper one at
that, but _they_ meant to enjoy themselves. As long as the skating was as
perfect as this, it made no difference whether Holland was on the
North Pole or the Equator; and as for philosophy, how could they bother
themselves about inertia and gravitation and such things, when it was as
much as they could do to keep from getting knocked over in the commotion?"

There is no formal moral, obtruding itself in set phrase.

The lessons inculcated, elevated in tone, are in the action of the story and
the feelings and aspirations of the actors. A young lady, for example, has
been on a visit to aid and console a poor peasant-girl, whom, having been
in deep affliction, she found unexpectedly relieved. Engrossed by her warm
sympathy with her humble friend, she forgets the lapse of time.

"Helda was reprimanded severely that day for returning late to
school after recess, and for imperfect recitation.

"She had remained near the cottage until she heard Dame Brinker
laugh, and heard Hans say, 'Here I am, father!' and then she had gone back
to her lessons. What wonder that she missed them! How could she get a long
string of Latin verbs by heart, when her heart did not care a fig
for them, but would keep saying to itself, 'O, I am so glad! I am
so glad!'"Right, young gentleman, right; but not a bit greater farce
than to suppose that any of the plausible money-lenders, or infallible
'tips' with whom you, perhaps, have had connection have any either, in case
it's called for. Nay, bad as he is, we'll back old Soapey to be better than
any of them,--with which encomium we most heartily bid him ADIEU.

[Illustration]


FOOTNOTES:

[1] Query, 'snob'?--Printer's Devil.

[2] The Poetical Recorder of the Doings of the Dublin Garrison dogs, in
_Bell's Life_.

[3] _Vide_ 'Barnwell and Alderson's Reports.'

[4] 'S,' for Scamperdale, showing they were his lordship's.